















CYCLOPAEDIA 


BIBLICAL, 

THEOLOGICAL. AND ECCLESIASTICAL 
LITERATURE. 

PREPARED BY 

THE REV. JOHN M'CLINTOCK, D.D., 

AND 

JAMES STRONG, S.T.D. 

Vol. VIII.— PET-RE. 

PRIVATE library 

RICHARD C. HALVERSON 

NEW YORK: 

HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 

FRANKLIN SQUARE. 

1883 . 


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1879, by 
HARPER & BROTHERS, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 


PREFACE TO VOL. VIII. 


This volume has been executed without any retrenchment or material modi- 
fication in plan, although, for the sake of uniformity in this respect, its size 
has been considerably increased beyond the amount promised; for it is the pur- 
pose of the editor to complete the alphabet within the compass of ten vol- 
umes. A Supplement will follow, containing the necrology and other items 
that have accrued during the progress of the work. Circumstances not likely 
to recur have required a somewhat longer time than usual for the preparation 
of the present volume ; but this will cause no postponement in the eventual 
completion of the work, as about one half of Yol. IX is already in type, and the 
tenth volume may therefore be looked for in two years from the present issue. 

Useful, accurate, and full information, rather than novelty or an affectation of 
originality, has constantly been the aim of the editor. It has accordingly been 
repeatedly avowed in the several prefaces that the present work is intended to 
embrace the substance of all the best books of the kind hitherto produced. It 
is believed that nothing of value to American readers contained in any of them 
will be found to have been omitted. This is especially true with regard to two 
of the latest, and in many respects most important, works — namely, Smith’s Dic- 
tionary of the Bible and Herzog’s JReal-Encyklopadie , which have constantly been 
consulted in the preparation of the articles. At the same time, no servile system 
of copying from them or from any other source of information has been adopted. 
In the extracts used, the habitual redundancies have been eliminated, the occa- 
sional errors and extravagances have been corrected, and the frequent omissions 
have been supplied ; in short, their whole form, bearing, and contents have largely 
been modified, and their language and conclusions for the most part recast. So 
^numerous and extensive have these changes usually been, even where one or the 
other of the great works named has substantially been the basis of an article, 
that in many cases nothing more than this general acknowledgment ought, or 
could, be made. The present work contains at least twice as many distinct ar- 
ticles as both those dictionaries put together, and includes thousands of subjects 
not mentioned in either of them. Many of these additional topics are of the 
gravest importance and the highest interest in religions literature. 

Occasional corrections have kindly been furnished by readers of the Cyclopaedia. 
Notice of any errors or omissions will be thankfully received, if sent either through 
the publishers or directly to the editor, Dr. Strong, at Madison, New Jersey. 


IV 


PREFACE TO VOL. VIII. 


The following arc the full names of the writers of wholly original articles in 
this volume, exclusive of those by the editor, who has furnished nearly half the 
matter, and carefully revised the rest: 

It. B. A.— Professor It. II. Anderson, A.M., Ph.D., of the University of Wisconsin. 

L. C. — Professor Lv.m an Coleman, I >.!>., of Lafayette College. 

I). I).— The Itev. Da.mkl Dkvinnk, Morrisania, N. V. 

E. II. (h— The late Professor E. II. (Hllktt, D.I)., of the University of the City of New York, 

1). V. II. The Itev. I>. Y. IIeisler, Mont Alto, Pa. 

<1. F. II. - Professor (I. I-'. Holmes, LL.D., of the University of Virginia. 

K. H.— The Itev. It. Hutcheson, Washington, la. 

(J. (’. J.— The Itev. (I. C. Joni-is, Mansfield, Pa. 

D. P. K.— Professor D. P. Kidder, I ).!)., of the Drew Theological Seminary. 

J. P. 1*— Professor J. P. Lacroix, Ph.D., of the Ohio Wesleyan University. 

B. P.— The Itev. B. I’ick, Ph.D., ltochcster, N. Y. 

S. II. I’.— The Itev. S. II. Pi.att, of the N. V. Fast Conference. 

J. P. The Itev. James Pouter, D.I)., Brooklyn, X. Y. 

A. J. S. — Professor A. J. Sen i-:m, A.M., West Hoboken, N. J. 

K. de S.— The Light Itev. E. pk Sciiwkimtz, D.D., editor of The Moravian , Bethlehem, Pa. 

J. II. S.— The Itev. J. Howard Smith, D.D., Newark, N. J. 

J. L. S.— The Itev. J. L. Sooy, Lexington, Ky. 

J. C. S.— Tlie Itev. J. C. Stockrripgk, D.I)., Providence, It. I. 

W. P. Sw— The Itev. W. P. Stuicklam), D.I)., New York city. 

W. J. It. T. The Itev. W. J. It. Taylor, D.D., Newark, N. J. 

A. W. Professor Alexander Winchell, LL.D., of the Syracuse University. 

T. D. W. The Itev. T. D. Woolsev, D.I)., LL.D., New Haven, Conn. 

J. II. W.— Professor J. II. Worm an, A.M., Brooklyn, N. Y. 


LIST OF WOOD-CUTS IX YOL. VIII. 


Jerome Savonarola as St. Peter 

Martyr Page 

St. Peter Nolasco 

Map of Petra 

The “Khnzneh” in Petra 

The Theatre at Petra 

Rock-hewn Temple at Petra 

Interior of a Tomb at Petra 

Tomb of Petrarch 

Pew at Headiugton 

Pew at Steeple Aston 

Philadelphia in Asia Minor 

Coin of Philip V of Macedon 

Coin of the Roman emperor Philip 

Coiu of Herod Philip 

Coin of Philippi , 

Plan of Philippi and its Vicinity. . 
Philistine Ship attacked by Egyp- 
tians 

Philistine Wagons attacked by 

Egyptians 

Heads of Philistine Prisoners 

Map of the Coast near Lutro 

Coin of Tyre, Autiochus IV 

Lid of Phoenician Sarcophagus. . . . 

Phoenician Tablet 

Phoenician Inscription 

Antique Representations of the 

Phoenix 

Phylactery for the Arm 

Phylactery for the Head 

Phylactery on the Arm 

Ancient Egyptian Doctors (or Bar- 
bers?) and Patients 

Coin of Judaea struck under Pon- 
tius Pilate 

Solitary Pillar in the Wilderness.. 
Pillar in St. Peter’s, Northampton . 

Sections of Pillars 

Druidical Pillars 

Pillar at Wei ford 

Section of Pillar 

Pillar at Ortou-on-the-llill 

Pillar at Stogumber 

Ancient Egyptian Wooden Pillow. 

Ancient Egyptian Toilet-pins 

Stone-Pine Cone and Nuts 

Pinnacle of Battle Church 

Pinnacle of Peterborough Cathe- 
dral 

Pinnacle at Lincoln 

Pious Worker 

Ancient Egyptian Pipes 

Ancient Egyptian Reed-pipes 

The Oriental Nay , or Flute, with 

Case 

Modern Egyptian Pipes 

Monk of the Piqnepuz Order 

Piscina at Crowmarsh 

Piscina at Warmingtou 

Piscina at Cuinnor 

Piscina at Tackley 

View westward from the summit 

of Mount Pisgah 

Map of Mount Pisgah 

Coin of Antioch in Pisidia 

Egyptian Pitchers 


Antique Bust of Plato Page 

30 Ancient Egyptians Playing at 

32 Draughts and Mora 

39 Ancient Egyptian Plough 

4h Plough of Asia Minor 

41 Plonghiug in Palestine 

41 Birthplace ofPollok 

42 The Pomegrauate 

44 Pool of Hezekiah 

49 Regalia of the Pope of Rome 

49 1 The Pope Seated in the Pontifical 

78 Chair 

86 Sty rax officinale 

86 Ordinary Poppie 

S9,Poppie at Kidliugton 

93 1 Porch at Bicester, Oxfordshire. . . . 
94 [Porch at Great Addington 

Tomb of Bishop Porteus, at Tun- 

103 bridge, Kent 

Temple of Vesta 

103 A Tartar Courier. 

105 1 Holy-water Pot 

148 Potent 

155 [Name of Pot-pherah, Pet-phre, or 

162 Pet -re 

162Aucieut Egyptian Potters 

163 Modern Egyptian Potters 

[Figure of Powtai 

164 Premonstrant Monk 

175[Ancient Egyptian Drawers and 

3 7G I Girdle 

176 Ancient Egyptian Tunic 

Aucieut Egyptian Tunic and Gir- 

178 die 

Ancient Egyptian Priestly Robe, 

200 1 Ephod, and Girdle 

209,Ancieut Egyptian Priestly Breast- 
2101 plate 1 

210 Ancient Egyptian Priestly Mitres. 
210 [ Habit of a Roman Catholic Priest. 

211 Processional Cross, and Part of its 

211 1 Staff 

211 Triangular Musical Instrument 

211 ! from Herculaneum 

213 Miscellaneous Aucieut Stringed In- 

2141 struments 

216[Pentadrachm of Ptolemy I 

217;Octodrachm of Ptolemy II. .A...., 

[Octodrachm of Ptolemy 111 ‘ 

21S Tetradrachm of Ptolemy IV 

218 Tetradrachm of Ptolemy V 

222[Tetradrachm of Ptolemy VI 

222jFac-simile of the Pudeus Iuscrip- 

222 tion at Chichester 

|Coin ofPulcheria 

223 Figure of Pulear 

223 Pulpit at Fotheringay 

224 Pulpit at Beaulieu, Hants 

231 The Feast of Pnnm in a Modern 

231 1 Synagogue 

231 [Tyrian Rock-shell — Mur ex truncu- 

231 lus 

,Dog- whelk — Purpura lapillus . . . . 

232 Specimen of the Codex Pvrpurcm. 

233 Map of the Bay of Puteoli 

235 Mole of Puteoli 

239[Addax Antelope 

VIII.— A 


2S2[ General View of the Pyramids 

Page S22 

2S9; Hieroglyph of Memphis 822 

300 Plan of the Pyramids of Gizeh. . . 823 

300[ Hieroglyph of Cheops S23 

300 Entrance of the Great Pyramid. . S23 
359, Section of the Great Pyramid of 

384 [ Gizeh S24 

399 Hieroglyph of Chephren S24 

404 Hieroglyph of Mycerinus S24 

: Pyx, Ashmolean Museum, Oxford S31 

405 Sand-grouse 832 

416 Common Quail 833 

416 Enormous Stone in the Quarry 

4161 near Baalbek 835 

417 Ancient, Egyptian Queen 838 

41S, Phoenician Coiu with Head of As- 

tarte S39 

430[Ancient Persian with Bow aud 

430 j Quiver S50 

443i Assyrian Warrior with Quiver... S50 

44Sj Assyrian Chariot with Quiver S50 

448 Ancient Egyptian Archer and 

Quiver 850 

450 Quivers on Greek Sculptures S50 

451 Coin of Philadelphia 864 

452 Ruins of Rabbath-Ammon S64 

462 Amman, as seen from the South. S65 
509 Modern Jewish Rabbi, attired for 

I Prayer S07 

570 The Stadium at Ephesus 873 

571 Ancient Greek Horse-race 874 

[Ancient Greek Chariot-race S74 

571 Aucieut Greek Foot-race 874 

Ancient Greek Torch-race on Foot 874 

572[ Ancient Greek Torch -race on 
| Horseback S75 

572 Medal Commemorating an lsth- 

573 miau Victory 875 

582 Rachel’s Tomb S76 

Ramoth-gilead 902 

612 The Original Kauhe Haus 927 

Raven .' 930 

759 Ancient Egyptians Reapiug 943 

A Recollet 957 

759 The Red Sea and Jebei Atakah, 

762 near Suez 962 

763 Map of the Region between the 

763 Nile and the Red Sea 965 

763 MapoftheHeadoftheGulfofSuez 968 

764 Map of the Bay of Suez 969 

764 Ay uu Musa 970 

Redemptorist 974 

772 Andropogon schopnanthus .'. 975 

777 Portrait of Rehoboam 1022 

777 Hieroglyph of Rehoboam 1022 

779 Ancient Portable Reliquaries 1034 

779 Modern Stationary Reliquaries... 1034 
Babylonian Cylinders, with fig- 

803 ures of gods and stars 1037 

Central Pavilion of the Tuileries. 103S 

814 Reredos of Altar, Eustoue 1047 

S14 Respond, Fotheringay, North 

S14 Hants 1049 

819 Ressaunt, Redcliffe Church, Bris- 

819 tol 1050 

S21 Map of the Tribe of Reuben 1060 







CYCLOPAEDIA 


OF 


BIBLICAL, THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL LITERATURE, 


PET. 


Petach. See Pethach. 

Petachia(s), Moses bex-Jacob, a learned rabbi 
who flourished towards the latter half of the 12th cen- 
tury (Regensburg), is the author of the 2*120, 

also called PPHrs S 2*120, in which he relates his 
travels, made between 1075 and 1090 through Poland, 
Russia, Tartary, Syria, Mesopotamia, ancient Syria, 
Persia, etc., and wherein he describes the manners and 
usages of his co-religionists. It was first printed at 
Prague (1595), and reprinted by Wagenseil, entitled 
Itinerarium cum versione Wagenseilii, in his Sex exerci- 
tationes varii argumenti (Altorf, 1G87 ; Zolkiew, 1792). 
It has been translated into French, with notes, by E. Car- 
moly, Tour de Monde de Petachia de Ratisbonne , traduit 
en Frangais et accompagne du texte et des notes historioues , 
geographiques, et litteraires (Paris, 1831) ; into German 
by D. Ottensosser, with a Hebrew commentary (Fiirth, 
1844) ; into English by Dr. A. Benisch. See Fiirst, 
Bibl. Jud. iii, 79 sq. ; AVolf, Bibl. Hebr. i, 888 ; iii, 956 ; 
Basnage, Histoire d s Juifs, p. 655 (Taylor’s English 
transl.); Gratz, Gesch. der Juden, vi, 259, 424; Zunz, 
Znr Geschichte u. Literatur , p. 166 ; the same author in 
Asher’s edition of Tudela’s Itinerary , vol. ii, No. 40, 
43, 44, 47 ; Etheridge, Introd. to Ilebr. Lit. p. 214 ; Da 
Costa, Israel and the Gentiles , p. 187. (B. P.) 

Petani, a sort of cakes used anciently in Athens in 
making libations to the gods. They were substituted 
for animal sacrifices by the command of Cecrops.— Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, ii, 642. 

Petavel, Alfred F., a Swiss Protestant clergy- 
man of note, was born near the close of the last centnry. 

' He studied at the university in Berlin, and was the 
first recipient from that high school of the doctorate in 
philosophy. He was greatly instrumental in the es- 
tablishment of the Swiss Missionary Society, and sub- 
sequently took no inconsiderable share in the doings 
of the Evangelical Alliance. The principal work, how- 
ever, to which he devoted his best time, his talents, his 
energies, and his whole heart, was to bring the Jewish 
people into a more intimate personal contact with the 
Christians, and it is especialty in this respect that his 
influence has extended beyond his little country. He 
w r as a zealous member of the Universal Israelitish Al- 
liance and of the Evangelical Alliance. He did not, at 
first, impress one as a pastor, a missionary, an apostle, a 
father of the Church, but rather as one of those individ- 
uals described in the book of Genesis, who walked with 
God, who communed with him, like a patriarch or a 
seer. He died at the age of eighty. The addresses 
which he delivered were collected under the title of 
Discourses on Education. His Daughter of Zion , his 
Latter to the Synagogues of France, and many other 
writings, will always remain as imperishable records 
of the zeal which animated him for the re-establish- 
ment of the Jew r s as a people. 

Petavius, Dioxysius (also called Dexis Petal), 


i one of the most celebrated of French scholars, and in- 
1 fluential in the councils of the Jesuits, to whose order 
j he belonged, was born at Orleans Aug. 21, 1583. His 
father, who was a man of learning, seeing strong parts 
1 and a genius for letters in his son, took all possible 
| means to improve them to the utmost. He used to 
I tell his son that he ought to qualify himself so as to be 
i able to attack and confound “the giant of the Allo- 
phylae;” meaning the redoubtable Joseph Scaliger, 
whose abilities and learning were supposed to have 
done such service to the Reformed. Young Petavius 
seems to have entered into his father’s views ; for he 
studied very intensely, and afterwards levelled much 
of his erudition against Scaliger. He joined the study 
of mathematics with that of belles-lettres ; and then 
applied himself to a course in philosophy, which he 
began in the College of Orleans, and finished at 
Paris. After this he maintained theses in Greek 
and in Latin, which he is said to have understood as 
well as his native language, the French. In ma- 
turer years he had free access to the king’s library, 
which he often visited in order to consult Latin and 
Greek manuscripts. Among other advantages which 
accompanied his literary pursuits was the friendship 
of Isaac Casaubon, whom Henry IV called to Paris 
in 1600. It was at his instigation that Petavius, 
young as he was, undertook an edition of The lUo/'A's 
of Synesius ; that is, to correct the Greek from the man- 
uscripts, to translate that part which yet remained to 
be translated into Latin, and to write notes upon the 
whole. He was but nineteen when he was made pro- 
fessor of philosophy in the University of Bourges ; and 
spent the two following yerf^s in studying the ancient 
philosophers and mathematRians. In 1604, when Morel, 
professor of Greek at Paris, published The Works of 
Chrysostom, some part of Petavius’s labors on Synesius 
was added to them. (From the title of this work we 
learn that he then Latinized his name Patus, which he 
afterwards changed into Petai'ius. His own edition of 
The Works of Synetius did not appear till 1612.) He 
entered the Society of the Jesuits in 1605, and did 
great honor to it afterwards by his vast and profound 
erudition. He became zealous for the Roman Catholic 
Church ; and there was no way of serving it more 
agreeable to his humor than by criticising and abus- 
ing its adversaries. Scaliger was the person he was 
most bitter against; but he did not spare his friend 
Casaubon whenever he came in his way. There is 
no occasion to enter into detail about a man whose 
whole life was spent in reading and writing books, 
and in performing the several offices of his order. 
The history of a learned man is the history of his 
works; and by far the greater part of Petavius’s 
writings were to support popish doctrines and disci- 
pline. But it must be confessed that in order to per- 
form his task well he made himself a universal scholar. 
He died at Paris Dec. 11, 1652. In 1633 he published 
an excellent work entitled Rationale Temporum; it is 


PET El 


4 


PETEK 


an abridgment of universal history, from the earliest 
times down to 1632, digested in chronological order, 
mid sup|*orted all the way by references to proper au- 
thorities. It went through several editions ; many 
additions and improvements have been made to it, both 
by Petavius himself, and by Pcrizoiiins and others 
after his death; and Lc (,'lerc published an abridg- 
ment ( f it as far down as to *00, under the title of 
t ' //lst»riit Tuiv t rtnlis , in 101*7 (J2nio). Pcta- 

vius's cluf-d auvre is his "Opus <h Tfnviogiris D< gmn- 
tibus, nunc primmn septein voluininibus eomprehen- 
Mim, in inoliorem ordineni redaetum, anetoris ipsius 
vita, ae libris ipiibusdam iiumi|uam in hoc opere editis 
]( enpletatum, Fraiudsei Antunii Zacbariae ex eadem 
Sncict.de desu extensium principtim Bibliothecae Prae- 
f.-.-ti dissertationibus, uc notis ulierrimis illustratnm 
(Veil. 1757, 7 vols. fid.). It is full of choice erudition, 
but unfortunately his death cut it short, and it lacks 
e mphteness. Besides other services, Petavius de- 
serves to be acknowledged as the first theologian 
who brought into proper relations history and dog- 
matics. Muratori regards him as the restorer of dog- 
matic theology. In the opinion of tiassendus (IV/. 
J\n»chii) Petavius was the most consummate scholar 
the Jesuits ever had; and indeed we cannot suppose 
him to have been inferior to the first scholars of any 
or<1< r, while we consider him waging war, as he did 
frequently with success, against Scaliger, Salmasins, 
and other like chiefs in the republic of letters. His 
judgment, as may easily be conceived, was inferior to 
his learning; and his controversial writings are full 
of that sourness ancl spleen which appears so manifest 
in all the prints of his countenance. Baylc has ob- 
served that Petavius did the Sucinians great service, 
though unawares and against his intentions. The 
Jesuit’s original design, in the second volume of his 
IhKpwitii Throluyint , was to represent ingenuously the 
doctrine of the lirst three centuries. Having no par- 
t 1 ulur system to defend, he did not carefully state the 
opinions of the fathers, but only gave a general account 
of them. My this means lie unawares led the public to 
believe that the fathers entertained false and absurd no- 
tions concerning the mystery of the Three Persons; 
and, against his intentions, furnished arguments and 
authorities to the Antitrinit-iriaiis. When made aware 
of this, and being willing to prevent the evil conse- 
quences which he had not foreseen, lie wrote his Pref- 
ace. in which lie labored solely to assert the orthodox}’ 
of the father;., and thus was forced to contradict what 
he had advanced in the Dogmntu. (Comp. Hull, On 
thr Trinity .) Sec Werner, tnsrh. <ltr apologet. t mil 
ji l m. Lit. veil, iv ; idem, Gvsvh. drr kathof. T/u-ol. 
(M unicli. 1*00); I hi pin, Xourii't Hibliothique ties A u- 
tm s f<. 'I s. s. v. ; Sinmn, Hist. cnt. ihs primipciux 
r i t< t urs ; Alzog, Kirrhenyesch. ii, *135 ; Christian 
l: m# nj,r. 1 v, 1*1. (.1. H. W.) 

Pe'ter Ibrpor, a rock, for the Aram. orig- 

inallv Simon (see Iw low), the leader among the per- 
sonal disciples of rhri«t. and afterwards the special 
np> tie to the Jews. W. shall treat this important 
character first in the light of definite information from 
tin- New '1 ot-taim lit ami early ( ’liiirch hi-torians (using 
in this portion largely tin* article in Smith’s liictioii- 
"'.ib and relegate all disputed questions to a subse- 
quent head discussing them chic fly as in Winer, ii, 

I sq. . 

I. t nthrntir History. 1. H,s Turfy Life. — The 
S ripture notices c ii this point are few, but not miiin- 
l*ort-nt. and enable us to form some estimate of the 
cireimi't Hires unde r which the aposth-’s character was 
formed, and how he was prepared for his great work. 
Pet< r was tin* son of a man named Jonas Matt, xvi, 
1 1 ; John i, 13; xxi, Id', mid was brought up in his fa- 
ther’s occupation, a tidicriimn on the sea of Tiberias. 
The occupation was of course an humble one, but not, 
as is often assumed, mean or servile, or incompatible 


with some degree of mental culture. Ilis familv were 
probably in easy circumstances (see below), lie and 
ins brother Andrew were partners of John and James, 
the sons of Zcbedee, who had hired servants ; and from 
various indications in the sacred narrative we are led 
to the conclusion that their social position brought 
them into contact with men of education. In fact the 
trade of fishermen, supplying some of the important 
cities on the coasts of that inland lake, may have been 
tolerably remunerative, while all the necessaries of life 
were cheap and abundant in the singularly rich and 
fertile distiict where the apostle resided, lie did not 
live, us a mere laboring man, in a hut by the sea-side, 
but tir.-t at Bethsaida, and afterwards in a house at 
( aperuauni belonging to himself or his mother-in-law, 
which must have been rather a large one, since he re- 
ceived in it not only our Lord and his fellow-disciples, 
hut multitudes who were attracted by the miracles and 
preaching of Jesus. It is certain that when he left 
all to follow Christ, he made what he regarded, and 
what seems to have been admitted by his Master, as 
being a considerable sacrifice (Matt, xix, 27). The 
habits of such a life were by no means unfavorable to 
the development of a vigorous, earnest, and practical 
character, such as he displayed in after-years. The 
labors, the privations, and the perils of an existence 
passed in great part upon the waters of that beautiful 
but stormy lake, the long and anxious watching through 
the nights, were calculated to test and increase his 
natural powers, his fortitude, energy, and persever- 
ance. In the city he must have been brought into 
contact with men engaged in traffic, with soldiers and 
foreigners, and may have thus acquired somewhat of 
the flexibility and geniality of temperament all hut in- 
dispensable to the attainment of such personal influ- 
ence as he exercised in after-life. It is not probable 
that he and his brother were wholly uneducated. The 
Jews regarded instruction as a necessity, and legal en- 
actments enforced the attendance of youths in schools 
maintained by the community. See Education. The 
statement in Acts iv, 13, that “the council perceived 
they (i. e. Peter and John) were unlearned and igno- 
rant men,” is not incompatible with this assumption. 
The translation of the passage in the A. V. is rather 
exaggerated, the word rendered “unlearned” (iiiuirai) 
being nearly equivalent to laymen,” i. e. men of or- 
dinary education, as contrasted with those who were 
specially trained in the schools of the rabbins. A man 
might be thoroughly conversant with the Scriptures, 
and yet be considered ignorant and unlearned by the 
rabbins, among whom the opinion was already preva- 
lent that “the letter of Scripture was the mere shell, 
an earthen vessel containing heaven!}' treasures, w hich 
could only be discovered by those who had been taught 
to search for the hidden cabalistic meaning.” Peter 
and his kinsmen were probably taught to read the 
Scriptures in childhood. The history of their country, 
especially of the great events of early days, must have 
been familiar to them as attendants at the synagogue, 
and their attention was there directed to those portions 
of Holy Writ from which the Jews derived their an- 
ticipations of the Messiah. 

The language of the apostles was of course the form 
of Aramaic spoken in Northern Palestine, a sort of 
patois, partly Hebrew, but more nearly allied to the 
Syriac. Hebrew, even in its debased form, was then 
spoken only by men of learning, t lie leaders of the 
Pharisees and Scribes. The men of Galilee were, 
however, noted for rough and inaccurate language, 
mid especially for vulgarities of pronunciation (Matt, 
xxvi, 73). It is doubtful whether our apostle was ac- 
quainted with Greek in early life. It is certain, how- 
ever, that there was more intercourse with foreigners 
in Galilee than in any district of Palestine, and Greek 
appears to have been a common, if not the principal, 
medium of communication. Within a few years after 
his call Peter seems to have conversed fluently in Greek 


PETER 


5 


PETER 


with Cornelius, at least there is no intimation that an 
interpreter was employed, while it is highly improbable 
that Cornelius, a Roman soldier, should have used the 
language of Palestine. The style of both of Peter’s epis- 
tles indicates a considerable knowledge of Greek ; it is 
pure and accurate, and in grammatical structure equal 
to that of Paul. That may, however, be accounted 
for by the fact, for which there is very ancient author- 
ity, that Peter employed an interpreter in the compo- 
sition of his epistles, if not in his ordinary intercourse 
with foreigners. There are no traces of acquaintance 
with Greek authors, or of the influence of Greek lit- 
erature upon his mind, such as we find in Paul, nor 
could we expect it in a person of his station, even had 
Greek been his mother- tongue. It is on the -whole 
probable that he had some rudimental knowledge of 
Greek in early life, which may have afterwards been 
extended when the need was felt, but not more than 
would enable him to discourse intelligibly' on practical 
and devotional subjects. That he was an affectionate 
husband, married in early life to a wife w r ho accom- 
panied him in his apostolic journeys, are facts inferred 
from Scripture, 'while very ancient traditions, recorded 
by Clement of Alexandria (whose connection with the 
Church founded by Mark gives a peculiar value to his 
testimony), and by other early but less trustworthy ! 
writers, inform us that her name was Perpetna, that 
she bore a daughter, and perhaps other children, and 
suffered martyrdom. (See below.) 

2. As a Disciple merely.— \t is uncertain at what age j 
Peter w r as called by our Lord. The general impression 
of the fathers is that he was an old man at the date of 
his death, A.D. 61, but this need not imply that he was 
much older than our Lord. He was probably between 
thirty and forty years of age at the date of his first call, 
A.D. 26. That call was preceded by a special prep- 
aration. He and his brother Andrew, together with 
their partners, James and John, the sons of Zebedee, 
were disciples of John the Baptist (John i, 35). They 
were in attendance upon him when they were first 
called to the service of Christ. From the circum- i 
stances of that call, which are recorded with graphic 
minuteness by St. John, we learn some important facts 
touching their state of mind and the personal character 
of our apostle. Two disciples, one named by the evan- 
gelist Andrew, the other in all probability St. John 
himself, w r ere standing with the Baptist at Bethany on 
the Jordan, when he pointed out Jesus as he walked, 
and said, Behold the Lamb of God! that is, the anti- 
type of the victims whose blood (as all true Israelites, 
and they more distinctly under the teaching of John, 
believed) prefigured the atonement for sin. The twro 
at once followed Jesus, and upon his invitation abode 
with him that da}'. Andrew then went to his brother 
Simon, and said to him, We have found the Messias, 
the Anointed One, of whom they had read in the proph- 
ets. Simon went at once, and when Jesus looked on 
him he said, “Thou art Simon the son of Jona ; thou 
shalt be called Cephas .” The change of name is of 
course deeply significant. As son of Jona (a name of 
doubtful meaning, according to Lampe equivalent to 
Johinan or John, i. e. grace of the Lord; according to 
Lange, who has some striking but fanciful observa- 
tions, signifying dove) he bore as a disciple the name 
Simon, i.e. hearer; but as an apostle, one of the twelve 
on whom the Church w r as to be erected, he was here- 
after (kt\?j37/<t 0) to be called Rock or Stone. It seems 
a natural impression that the words refer primarily to 
the original character of Simon : that our Lord saw in 
him a man firm, steadfast, not to be overthrown, though 
severely tried ; and snch was generally the view taken 
by the fathers. But it is perhaps a deeper and truer in- 
ference that Jesus thus describes Simon, not as what 
he was, but as w r hat he would become under his influ- 
ence — a man with predispositions and capabilities not 
unfitted for the office he w*as to hold, but one whose 
permanence and stability would depend upon union 


with the living Rock. Thus we may expect to find 
Simon, as the natural man, at once rough, stubborn, 
and mutable, wdiereas Peter, identified %vith the Rock, 
will remain firm and immovable to the end. (See 
below.) 

This first call led to no immediate change in Peter’s 
external position. He and his fellow-disciples looked 
henceforth upon our Lord as their teacher, but were 
not commanded to follow him as regular disciples. 
There were several grades of disciples among the Jews, 
from the occasional hearer to the follower who gave up 
all other pursuits in order to serve a master. At the 
time a recognition of his Person and office sufficed. 
They returned to Capernaum, where they pursued 
their usual business, waiting for a further "intimation 
of his will. 

The second call is recorded by the other three evan- 
gelists. It took place on the Sea of Galilee near Caper- 
naum, where the four disciples, Peter and Andrew, James 
and John, were fishing. A.D. 27. Peter and Andrew 
were first called. Our Lord then entered Simon Peter’s 
boat, and addressed the multitude on the shore ; after 
the conclusion of the discourse he wrought the miracle 
by which he foreshadowed the success of the apostles 
in the new but analogous occupation which was to be 
theirs — that of fishers of men. The call of James and 
John followed. From that time the four w T ere certainly 
enrolled formally among his disciples, and although as 
yet invested with no official character, accompanied him 
in his journeys, those especially in the north of Pales- 
tine. 

Immediately after that call our Lord went to the 
house of Peter, where he wrought the miracle of heal- 
ing on Peter’s wife’s mother, a miracle succeeded by 
other manifestations of divine power which produced a 
deep impression upon the people. Some time was passed 
afterwards in attendance upon our Lord’s public minis- 
trations in Galilee, Decapolis,Pera?a,and Judjea — though 
at intervals the disciples returned to their own city, 
and w r ere witnesses of many miracles, of the call of Levi, 
and of their Master’s reception of outcasts, whom they 
in common with their zealous but prejudiced country- 
meu had despised and shunned. It was a period of 
training, of mental and spiritual discipline preparatory 
to their admission to the higher office to which they 
were destined. Even then Peter received some marks 
of distinction. He was selected, together with the two 
sons of Zebedee, to witness the raising of Jarius’s daugh- 
ter. 

The special designation of Peter and his eleven fel- 
low-disciples took place some time afterwards, when they 
were set apart as our Lord’s immediate attendants, and 
as his delegates to go forth wherever he might send 
them, as apostles, announcers of his kingdom, gifted 
with supernatural powers as credentials of their super- 
natural mission (see Matt, x, 2-4 ; Mark iii, 13-19, the 
most detailed account; Luke vi, 13). They appear 
then first to have formally received the name of Apos- 
tles, and from that time Simon bore publicly, and as it 
would seem all but exclusively, the name Peter, which 
had hitherto been used rather as a characteristic appel- 
lation than as a proper name. 

From this time there can be no doubt that Peter held 
the first place among the apostles, to whatever cause his 
precedence is to be attributed. There was certainly 
much in his character which marked him as a repre- 
sentative man ; both in his strength and in his weak- 
ness, in his excellences and his defects he exemplified 
the changes which the natural man undergoes in the 
gradual transformation into the spiritual man under the 
personal influence of the Saviour. The precedence did 
not depend upon priority of call, or it w r ould have de- 
volved upon his brother Andrew, or that other disciple 
who first followed Jesus. It seems scarcely probable 
that it depended upon seniority, even supposing, which 
is a mere conjecture, that he w r as older than his fellow- 
disciples. The special designation by Christ alone ac- 


FETER G 

counts in a satisfactory way for t lie faet3 that lie is 
named first in every list of the apostles, is generally ad- 
dressed by our Lord as their representative, and on the 
most solemn occasions speaks in their name. Thus 
when the first great secession took place in consequence 
of the ofleiicc given by our Lord's mystic discourse at 
Capernaum («e«* John vi, *10-00). “Jesus said unto the 
twelve. Will ye also go away V Then Simon l’eter an- 
swered him, Ixird, to whom shall we go? Thou hast 
the words of eternal life: and we believe and are sure 
that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living Cod" 
Thus again at (Vsarea Philippi, soon after the return 
of the twelve from their first missionary tour, 1‘eter 
(speaking as before in the name of the twelve, though, 
as appears from our lord’s words, with n peculiar dis- 
tinctness of personal conviction) repeated that declara- 
tion, “Thou art tin* Christ, the Sou of the living Cod. 
The confirmation of our apostle in his special position 
in the Church, bis identification with (he rock on which 
that Church is founded, the ratification of the powers 
and duties attached to the apostolic office, and the prom- 
ise of permanence to the Church, followed as a reward 
of that confession. The early Church regarded I’eter 
generally, and most especially on this occasion, as the 
representative of the apostolic body —a very distinct 
theory from that which makes him their head or gov- 
ernor in Christ's stead. 1C ven in the time of Cyprian, 
when connect inn with the bishop of Home as Peter’s 
successor for the first time was held to be indispensable, 
no powers of jurisdiction or supremacy were supposed 
to lie attached to the admitted precedency of rank, 
/Vi hum inter pans I’eter held no distinct office, and 
certainly never claimed any powers which did not be- 
long equally to all liis fellow-apostles. (See below.) 

This gn at triumph of Peter, however, brought other 
points of his character into strong relief. The distinc- 
tion which be then received, and it may be his con- 
sciousness of ability, energy, zeal, and absolute devo- 
tion to Christ's person, seem to have developed a natu- 
ral tendency to rashness and forwardness bordering upon 
presumption. On this occasion the exhibition of such 
feelings brought upon him the strongest reproof ever 
addressed to a dUciple by our Lord. In his affection 
and self-confidence Peter ventured to reject as impos- 
sible the announcement of the sufferings and humilia- 
tion which .Icsiis predicted ; and he heard the sharp words 
“l let thee behind me. Satan, thou art an offence unto 
me for thou savorcst not the things that be of (iod, 
but those that be of men." That was Peter's first fall; 
a very ominous one: m»i a rock, hut a stumbling-stone; 
tv t a defender, hut an antagonist and deadly enemy of 
the faith, when the spiritual should give place to the 
lower nature in dealing with the things of Cod. It is 
r< markable thnt on other occasions when Peter signal- 
ized his faith and devotion he displayed at the time, or 
immediately afterwards, a more than usual deficiency 
in spiritual discernment and consistency. Thus a lew- 
days nftcr that fall he was selected together with John 
and .Innies to witness the transfiguration of Christ, hut 
the words which lie then lit tercel prove that he was 
eomphtedv be-w ildert el, and unable* at the time to com- 
prehend the meaning of the transaction. Thus again, 
when his ze-nl mid courage prompted him to leave the 
ship and walk on (he* water to go to Jesus (Matt, xiv, 
-l*'. a sudden failure* of faith withdrew the sustaining 
|m>\\ e-r ; he* was alx.ut to sink when he* was at once re- 
| rove*»l and saved by his Ma»te*r. Such traits, which 
eiccnr not iinfr* qmully. prepare ns f,,r his last great fall, 
ns well ns f..r Ins eamducl after the* resurrection, when 
his natural gifts we re* pcrfccteil ami his deficiencies sup- 
plies! bv “the* |*ower fre/in on bigli." We* find a mix- 
ture* e>f zeal nn<l weakness in bis e'onchict when calle*el 
upon t » > pnv trihule-nieuiev for huiise-lf and his Leirel, 
hut faith hail the nppe*r hnnel. and was rewarded by a 
significant miracle iMitt xui. 21 27). The <|iie.stinu 
which alHint the same* lime Peter asked enir Lord as to 
the extent tei which forgiveness e.f sins sluml I Ik* car- 


PETER 

ried, indicated a great advance in spirituality from the 
Jewish standpoint, while it showed how far as yet he 
and his fellow - disciples were from understanding the 
true principle of Christian kivc (Matt, xviii, 21). We 
find a similar blending of opposite qualities in the dec- 
laration recorded by the synoptical evangelists (Matt, 
xix, 27 ; Mark x, 2* ; Luke xviii, 2K), “Lo, we have left 
all and followed thee.” It certainly bespeaks a con- 
sciousness of sincerity, a spirit of self-devotion and self- 
sacrifice, though it conveys an impression of something 
like ambition; but in that instance the good undoubt- 
edly predominated, as is shown by our Lord’s answer. 
He does not reprove Peter, who spoke, as usual, in the 
name of the twelve, but takes the opportunity of ut- 
tering the strongest prediction touching the future dig- 
nity and paramount authority of the apostles, a predic- 
tion recorded by Matthew only. 

Towards the close of our Lord’s ministry (A.I). 29) 
Peter’s characteristics become especially prominent. 
Together with his brother and the two sons of Zcbedee 
he listened to the last awful predictions and warnings 
delivered to the disciples in reference to the second ad- 
vent (Matt, xxiv.3; Mark xiii, 3, who alone mentions 
these names; Luke xxi, 7). At the last supper I’eter 
seems to have been particularly earnest in the request 
that the traitor might be pointed out, expressing of 
course a general feeling, to which some inward con- 
sciousness of infirmity may have added force. After 
the supper his words drew out the meaning of the sig- 
nificant, almost sacramental act of our Lord in w ashing 
his disciples’ feet — an occasion on which we find the 
same mixture of goodness and frailty, humility and 
deep affection, with a certain taint of self-will, which 
was at once hushed into submissive reverence by the 
voice of Jesus. Then too it was that he made those re- 
peated protestations of unalterable fidelity, so soon to be 
falsified by his miserable fall. That event is. how ever, 
of such critical import in its bearings upon the charac- 
ter and position of the apostle, that it cannot be dis- 
missed without a careful, if not an exhaustive discus- 
sion. Judas had left the guest-chamber when Peter 
put the question, Lord, whither goest thou ? words 
which modern theologians generally represent as savor- 
ing of idle curiosity or presumption, but in which the 
early fathers (as Chrysostom and Augustine) recognised 
the utterance of love and devotion. The answer was a 
promise that Peter should follow his Master, but accom- 
panied with an intimation of present unfitness in the 
disciple. Then came the first protestation, which elicited 
the sharp and stern rebuke, and distinct prediction of 
Peter’s denial (John xiii, 8G-3S). From comparing this 
account with those of the other evangelists (Matt, xxvi, 
33-35; Mark xiv, 29-31; Luke xxii, 33, 31), it seems 
evident that with some diversity of circumstances both 
the protestation and warning were thrice repeated. 
The tempter was to silt all the disciples, our apostle’s 
faith was to he preserved from failing by the special in- 
tercession of Christ, he being thus singled out either as 
the representative of the whole body, or, as seems more 
probable, because his character was one which had spe- 
cial need of supernatural aid. Mark, as usual, records 
two points which enhance the force of the warning and 
the guilt of Peter, viz. that the cock would crow r twice, 
and thnt after such warning he repeated his protesta- 
tion with greater vehemence. Chrysostom, who judges 
the apostle with fairness ami candor, attributes this ve- 
hemence to his great love, and more particularly to the 
delight which lie felt when assured that he was not the 
traitor, yet not without a certain admixture of forward- 
ness and ambition such as had previously been shown 
in the dis; utc for pre-eminence. The fiery trial soon 
catm*. Alter the agony of ( Jcthsemano. when the three, 
Peter. James, and John, wore, as on former occasions, se- 
lected to 1«* with our Lord, the only witnesses of his 
passion, where also all three had alike failed to prepare 
themselves by prayer and watching, the arrest of Jesus 
took place. Peter did not shrink from the danger. In 


PETER 


7 


PETER 


the same spirit which had dictated his promise he drew 
his sword, alone against the armed throng, and wounded 
the servant (rov £ot/\ov, not a servant) of the high- 
priest, probably the leader of the band. When this 
bold but unauthorized attempt at rescue was reproved, 
he did not yet forsake his Master, but followed him 
with John into the focus of danger, the house of the high- 
priest. There he sat in the outer hall. He must have 
been in a state of utter confusion : his faith, which from 
first to last was bound up with hope, his special charac- 
teristic, was for the time powerless against temptation. 
The danger found him unarmed. Thrice, each time 
with greater vehemence, the last time with blasphemous 
asseveration, he denied his Master. The triumph of 
Satan seemed complete. Yet it is evident that it was 
an obscuration of faith, not an extinction. It needed 
but a glance of his Lord’s eye to bring him to himself. 
His repentance was instantaneous and effectual. The 
light iu which he himself regarded his conduct is clear- 
ly shown by the terms in which it is related by Mark, 
who in some sense may be regarded as his reporter. 
The inferences are weighty as regards his personal 
character, which represents more completely perhaps 
than any in the New Testament the weakness of the 
natural and the strength of the spiritual man — still 
more weighty as bearing upon his relations to the apos- 
tolic body, and the claims resting upon the assumption 
that he stood to them in the place of Christ. 

On the morning of the resurrection we have proof 
that Peter, thongh humbled, was not crushed by his 
fall. He and John were the first to visit the sepulchre ; 
he was the first who entered it. We are told by Luke 
(iu words still used by the Eastern Church as the first 
salutation on Easter Sunday) and by Paul that Christ 
appeared to him first among the apostles — he who most 
needed the comfort was the first who received it, and 
with it, as may be assumed, an assurance of forgiveness. 
It is observable, however, that on that occasion he is 
called by his original name, Simou,not Peter; the high- 
er designation was not restored until he had been pub- 
licly reinstituted, so to speak, by his Master. That re- 
institution took place at the Sea of Galilee (John xxi), 
an event of the very highest import. We have there 
indications of his best natural qualities, practical good- 
sense, promptness, and energy; slower than John to 
recognise their Lord, Peter was the first to reach him : 
he brought the net to land. The thrice-repeated ques- 
tion of Christ, referring doubtless to the three protesta- 
tions and denials, was thrice met by answers full of 
love and faith, and utterly devoid of his hitherto charac- 
teristic failing, presumption, of which not a trace is to 
be discerned in his later history. He then received the 
formal commission to feed Christ’s sheep; not certainly 
as one endued with exclusive or paramount authority, 
or as distinguished from his fellow-disciples, whose fall 
had been marked by far less aggravating circumstances; 
rather as one who had forfeited his place, and could not 
resume it without such an authorization. Then followed 
the prediction of his martyrdom, in which he was to find 
the fulfilment of his request to be permitted to follow 
the Lord. 

With this event closes the first part of Peter’s history. 
It was a period of transition, during which the fish- 
erman of Galilee had been trained, first by the Baptist, 
then by our Lord, for the great work of his life. He 
had learned to know the person and appreciate the 
offices of Christ; while his own character had been 
chastened and elevated by special privileges and hu- 
miliations, both reaching their climax in the last re- 
corded transactions. Henceforth he with his colleagues 
were to establish and govern the Church founded by 
their Lord, without the support of his presence. 

3. A postolical Career . — The first part of the Acts of 
the Apostles is occupied by the record of transactions 
in nearly all of which Peter stands forth as the recog- 
nised leader of the apostles; it heing, however, equally 
clear that he neither exercises nor claims any authority 


apart from them, much less over them. In the first 
chapter it is Peter who points out to the disciples (as 
in all his discourses and writings drawing his arguments 
from prophecy) the necessity of supplying the place of 
Judas. He states the qualifications of an apostle, but 
takes no special part in the election. The candidates 
are selected by the disciples, while the decision is left 
to the searcher of hearts. The extent and limits of 
Peter’s primacy might be inferred with tolerable ac- 
curacy from this transaction alone. To have one 
spokesman, or foreman, seems to accord with the spirit 
of order aud humility which ruled the Church, while 
the assumption of power or supremacy would be incom- 
patible with the express command of Christ (see Matt, 
xxiii, 10). In the second chapter again, Peter is the 
most prominent person in the greatest event after the 
resurrection, when on the day of Pentecost the Church 
was first invested with the plentitude of gifts and pow- 
ers. Then Peter, not speaking in his own name, but 
with the eleven (see ver. 14), explained the meaning 
of the miraculous gifts, and showed the fulfilment of 
prophecies (accepted at that time by all Hebrews as 
Messianic) both in the outpouring of the Holy Ghost 
and in the resurrection and death of our Lord. This 
discourse, which bears all the marks of Peter’s individu- 
ality, both of character and doctrinal views, ends with 
an appeal of remarkable boldness. It is the model upon 
which the apologetic discourses of the primitive Chris- 
tians were generally constructed. The conversion and 
baptism of three thousand persons, who continued stead- 
fast in the apostle’s doctrine and fellowship, attested 
the power of the Spirit which spake by Peter on that 
occasion. 

The first miracle after Pentecost was wrought by 
Peter (Acts iii) ; and John was joined with him in that, 
as in most important acts of his ministry; but it was 
Peter who took the cripple by the hand, and bade him 
“in the name of Jesus of Nazareth rise up and walk,” 
and when the people ran together to Solomon’s porch, 
where the apostles, following their Master’s example, 
were wont to teach, Peter was the speaker : he convinces 
the people of their sin, warns them of their danger, 
points out the fulfilment of prophecy, and the special 
objects for which God sent his Son first to the children 
of the old covenant. This speech is at once strikingly 
characteristic of Peter and a proof of the fundamental 
harmony between his teaching and the more developed 
and systematic doctrines of Paul ; differing in form, to 
an extent utterly incompatible with the theory of Baur 
and Schwegler touching the object of the writer of the 
Acts ; identical in spirit, as issuing from the same source. 
The boldness of the two apostles, of Peter more espe- 
cially as the spokesman, when “filled with the Holy 
Ghost” he confronted the full assembly headed by An- 
nas and Caiaphas, produced a deep impression upon 
those cruel and unscrupulous hypocrites : an impression 
enhanced by the fact that the words came from com- 
paratively ignorant and unlearned men. The words 
spoken by both apostles, when commanded not to speak 
at all nor teach in the name of Jesus, have ever since 
been the watchwords of martyrs (iv, 19, 20). 

This first miracle of healing was soon followed by the 
first miracle of judgment. The first open and deliber- 
ate sin against the Holy Ghost— a sin combining ambi- 
tion, fraud, hypocrisy, and blasphemy — was visited by 
death, sudden and awful as under the old dispensation. 
Peter was the minister in that transaction. As he had 
first opened the gate to penitents (Acts ii, 37, 38), he 
now closed it to hypocrites. The act stands alone, with- 
out a precedent or parallel in the Gospel; but Peter 
acted simply as an instrument, not pronouncing the sen- 
tence, but denouncing the sin, and that in the name of 
his fellow-apostles and of the Holy Ghost. Penalties 
similar in kind, though far different in degree, were in- 
flicted or commanded on various occasions by Paul. 
Peter appears, perhaps in consequence of that act, to 
have become the object of a reverence bordering, as it 


PETEI 


8 


PETER 


would seem, on superstition (Acts v, 15), while the no- 1 
merous miracles of healing wrought about the same 
time, showing the true character of the power dwelling 
in the apostles, gave occasion to the second persecution. 
Peter then came in contact with the noblest and most 
interesting character among the Jews, the learned and 
liberal tutor of Paul, Gamaliel, whose caution, gentle- 
ness, and dispassionate candor stand out in strong relief 
contrasted with his colleagues, but make a faint im- 
pression compared with the steadfast and uncompromis- 
ing principles of the apostles, who, after undergoing an 
illegal scourging, went forth rejoicing that they were 
counted worthy to suffer shame for the name of Jesus. 
Peter is not specially named in connection with the ap- 
pointment of deacons, an important step in the organi- 
zation of the Church; but when the (iospel was first 
preached beyond the precincts of Juda*a, he and John 
were at once sent by the apostles to confirm the con- 
verts at Samaria, a very important statement at this 
critical point, proving clearly his subordination to the 
whole bod}', of which he was the most active and able 
member. 

Up to this time it may be said that the apostles had 
one great work, viz, to convince the Jews that Jesus 
was the Messiah; in that work Peter was the master 
builder, the whole structure rested upon the doctrines 
of which he was the principal teacher; hitherto no 
words but his are specially recorded by the writer of the 
Acts. Henceforth he remains prominent, but not ex- 
clusively prominent, among the propagators of the Gos- 1 
pel. At Samaria he and John established the precedent 
for the most important rite not expressly enjoined in 
Holy Writ, viz. confirmation, which the Western Church 
has always held to belong exclusively to the functions 
of bishops as successors to the ordinary powers of the 
apostolate. Then also Peter was confronted with Simon 
Magus, the first teacher of heresy. See Simox M.ujis. 
As in the case of Ananias he had denounced the first 
sin against holiness, so in this ease he first declared the 
penalty due to the sin called after Simon’s name. About 
three years later (comp. Acts ix, 2G and Gal. i. 17, IS) 
we have two accounts of the first meeting of Peter and 
Paul. In the Acts it is stated generally that Saul was 
at first distrusted by the disciples, and received by the 
apostles upon the recommendation of Barnabas. From 
the Galatians we learn that Paul went to Jerusalem 
especially to sec Peter; that he abode with him fifteen 
days, and that James was the only other apostle present 
at the time. It is important to note that this account, 
which, while it establishes the independence of Paul, 
marks the position of Peter as the most eminent of the 
apostles, rests not on the authority of the writer of the 
Acts, but on that of Paul as if it were intended to ob- 
viate all possible misconceptions touching the mutual 
relations of the apostles of the Hebrews and the Gentiles. 
This interview was preceded by other events marking 
Peter’s position — a general apostolical tour of visitation 
to the churches hitherto established (tifp\6fuvov tut 
7rdvTojr, Acts ix,32), in the course of which two great 
miracles were wrought on ..Eneas and Tabithn, and in 
connection with which the most signal transaction after 
the day of Pentecost is recorded, (he baptism of Corne- 
lius. A. I >.32. That was the crown and consummation 
of Peter’s ministry. Peter, who had first preached the 
resurrection to the Jews, baptized the first converts, 
confirmed the first Samaritans, now, without the advice 
or co-operation of any of his colleagues, under direct 
communication from heaven, first threw down the bar- 
rier which separated proselytes of the gate from Israel- 
ites, thus establishing principles which in their gradual 
application and full development issued in the complete 
fusion of the Gentile and Hebrew elements in the 
Church. The narrative of this event, which stands 
alone in minute circumstantiality of incidents and ac- 
cumulation of supernatural agency, is twice recorded by 
Luke. The chief points to bo noted are, first, the pe- 
culiar fitness of Cornelius, both as a representative of 


Boman force and nationality, and as a devout and liber- 
al worshipper, to be a recipient of such privileges; and, 
secondly, the state of the apostle’s own mind. What- 
ever may have been his hopes or fears touching the 
heathen, the idea had certainly not yet crossed him that 
they could become Christians without first becoming 
Jews. As a loyal and believing Hebrew, he could not 
contemplate the removal of Gentile disqualifications 
without a distinct assurance that the enactments of the 
law which concerned them were abrogated by the divine 
Legislator. The vision could not therefore have been 
the product of a subjective impression. It was, strictly 
speaking, objective, presented to his mind by an external 
influence. Yet the will of the apostle was not controlled, 
it was simply enlightened. The intimation iu the state 
of (ranee did not at once overcome his reluctance. It 
was not until his consciousness was fully restored, and 
he had well considered the meaning of the vision, that 
he learned that the distinction of cleanness and unclcan- 
ncss in outward things belonged to a temporary dispen- 
sation. It was no mere acquiescence in a positive com- 
mand, but the development of a spirit full of generous 
impulses, which found utterance in the words spoken by 
Peter on that occasion — both in the presence of Corne- 
lius, and afterwards at Jerusalem. 11 is conduct gave 
great offence to all his countrymen (Acts xi, 2), and 
it needed all his authority, corroborated by a special 
manifestation of the Holy Ghost, to induce his fellow- 
apostles to recognise the propriety of this great act, in 
which both he and they saw an earnest of the admis- 
sion of Gentiles into the Church on the single condition 
of spiritual repentance. The establishment of a Church, 
in great part of Gentile origin, at Antioch, and the mis- 
sion of Barnabas, between whose family and Peter 
there were the bonds of near intimacy, set the seal 
upon the work thus inaugurated by Peter. 

This transaction was followed, after an interval of 
several years, by the imprisonment of our apostle. A.D. 
44. Herod Agrippa. having first tested the state of feel- 
ing at Jerusalem by the execution of James, one of the 
most eminent apostles, arrested Peter. The hatred 
which at that time first showed itself as a popular feel- 
ing may most probably be attributed chiefly to the 
offence given hv Peter’s conduct towards Cornelius. 
His miraculous deliverance marks the close of this 
second great period of his ministry. The special work 
assigned to him was completed, lie had founded the 
Church, opened its gates to Jews and Gentiles, and 
distinctly laid down the conditions of admission. From 
that time we have no continuous history of Peter. 
It is quite clear that he retained his rank as the 
chief apostle, equally so that he neither exercised nor 
claimed any right to control their proceedings. At 
Jerusalem the government of the Church devolved 
upon James the brother of our Lord. In other places 
Peter seems to have confined his ministrations to his 
countrymen — as apostle of the circumcision. lie left 
Jerusalem, but it is not said where he went. Certain- 
ly not to Rome, where there are no traces of his pres- 
ence before the last years of his life; he probably re- 
mained in Judavi. visiting and confirming the churches; 
some old but not trustworthy traditions represent him 
as preaching in Csesarea and other cities on the western 
coast of Palestine; three years later we find him once 
more at Jerusalem when the apostles and elders came 
together to consider the question whether converts 
should be circumcised. Peter took the lead in that 
discussion, and urged with remarkable cogency the 
principles settled in the case of Cornelius. Purifying 
faith and saving grace (xv, 9 and 11) remove all dis- 
tinctions between believers. 1 1 is arguments, adopted 
and enforced by James, decided that question at once 
and forever. It is, however, to be remarked that on 
that occasion lie exercised no one power which Roman- 
ists hold to be inalienably attached to the chair of Pe- 
ter. Ho did not preside at the meeting; he neither 
summoned nor dismissed it ; he neither collected the 


PETER 


9 


PETER 


suffrages nor pronounced the decision. It is a dis- 
puted point whether the meeting between Paul and 
Peter of which we have an account in the Galatians 
(ii, 1-10) took place at this time. The great major- 
ity of critics believe that it did, but this hypothesis 
has serious difficulties. Lange ( Das apostolische Zeit- 
alter , ii, 378) fixes the date about three j^ears after 
the council. Wieseler has a long excursus to show' 
that it must have occurred after Paul’s second apos- 
tolic journey. He gives some weighty reasons, but 
■wholly fails in the attempt to account for the presence 
of Barnabas, a fatal objection to his theory. (See 
Der Brief an die Galater , Excursus , p. 579.) On the 
other side are Theodoret, Pearson, Eichhorn, Olshausen, 
Meyer, Neander, Howson, Schaff, etc. The only point 
of real importance was certainly determined before the 
apostles separated, the work of converting the Gentiles 
being henceforth specially intrusted to Paul and Bar- 
nabas, while the charge of preaching to the circumcis- 
ion w r as assigned to the elder apostles, and more par- 
ticularly to Peter (Gal. ii, 7-9). This arrangement can- 
not, how'ever, have been an exclusive one. Paul al- 
w'aj's addressed himself first to the Jews in every city; 
Peter and his colleagues undoubtedly admitted and 
sought to make converts among the Gentiles. It may 
have been in full force only when the old and new 
apostles resided in the same city. Such at least was 
the case at Antioch, where Peter went soon afterwards. 
There the painful collision took place between the two 
apostles ; the most remarkable, and, in its bearings 
upon controversies at critical periods, one of the most 
important events in the history of the Church. Peter 
at first applied the principles which he had lately de- 
fended, carrying with him the whole apostolic body, 
and on his arrival at Antioch ate with the Gentiles, 
thus showing that he believed all ceremonial distinc- 
tions to be abolished by the Gospel— in that he went 
far beyond the strict letter of the injunctions issued by 
the council. That step was marked and condemned 
by certain members of the Church of Jerusalem sent 
by James. It appeared to them one thing to recognise 
Gentiles as fellow-Christians, another to admit them 
to social intercourse, whereby ceremonial defilement 
would be contracted under the law r to which all the 
apostles, Barnabas and Paul included, acknowledged 
allegiance. Peter, as the apostle of the circumcision, 
fearing to give offence to those who were his special 
charge, at once gave up the point, suppressed or dis- 
guised his feelings, and separated himself not from com- 
mijnion, but from social intercourse with the Gentiles. 
Paul, as the apostle of the Gentiles, saw clearly the 
consequences likely to ensue, and could ill brook the 
misapplication of a rule often laid down in his own 
writings concerning compliance with the prejudices of 
weak brethren. He held that Peter was infringing a 
great principle, withstood him to the face, and, using 
the same arguments which Peter had urged at the 
council, pronounced his conduct to be indefensible. 
The statement that Peter compelled the Gentiles to 
Judaize probably means, not that he enjoined circum- 
cision, but that his conduct, if persevered in, would 
have that effect, since they would naturally take any 
steps which might remove the barriers to familiar in- 
tercourse with the first apostles of Christ. Peter was 
wrong, but it was an error of judgment : an act con- 
trary to his own feelings and wishes, in deference to 
those whom he looked upon as representing the mind 
of the Church; that he was actuated by selfishness, 
national pride, or any remains of superstition, is nei- 
ther asserted nor implied in the strong censure of Paul. 
Nor, much as we must admire the earnestness and wis- 
dom of Paul, whose clear and vigorous intellect was 
in this case stimulated by anxiety for his own special 
charge, the Gentile Church, should we overlook Peter’s 
singular humility in submitting to public reproof from 
one so much his junior, or his magnanimity both in 
adopting Paul’s conclusions (as we must infer that he 


did from the absence of all trace of continued resist- 
ance) and in remaining on terms of brotherly com- 
munion (as is testified by his own written words) to 
the end of his life (1 Pet. v, 10 ; 2 Pet. iii, 15, 16). See 
Paul. 

From this time until the date of his Epistles we have 
no distinct notices in Scripture of Peter's abode or work. 
The silence may be accounted for by the fact that from 
that time the great work of propagating the Gospel was 
committed to the marvellous energies of Paul. Peter 
was probably employed for the most part in building 
up and completing the organization of Christian com- 
munities in Palestine and the adjoining districts. There 
is, however, strong reason to believe that he visited Cor- 
inth at an early period ; this seems to be implied in sev- 
eral passages of Paul’s first epistle to that Church, and 
it is a natural inference from the statements of Clem- 
ent of Rome ( [First Epistle to the Corinthians , c. 4). The 
fact is positively asserted by Dionysius, bishop of Cor- 
inth (A. I). 180 at the latest), a man of excellent judg- 
ment, who was not likely to be misinformed, nor to 
make such an assertion lightly in an epistle addressed 
to the bishop and Church of Rome. The reference to 
collision between parties who claimed Peter, Apollos, 
Paul, and even Christ for their chiefs, involves no op- 
position between the apostles themselves, such as the 
fabulous Clementines and modern infidelity assume. 
The name of Peter as founder, or joint founder, is not 
associated with any local Church save those of Corinth, 
Antioch, and Rome, by early ecclesiastical tradition. 
That of Alexandria may have been established by 
Mark after Peter’s death. That Peter preached the 
Gospel in the countries of Asia mentioned in his First 
Epistle appears from Origen’s own words (icticijpvKtvai 
t oucfi') to be a mere conjecture (Origen, ap. Euseb. iii, 1, 
adopted by Epiphanius, liar, xxvii, and Jerome, Catal. 
c. 1), not in itself improbable, but of little weight in the 
absence of all positive evidence, and of all personal rem- 
iniscences in the Epistle itself. From that Epistle, how'- 
ever, it is to be inferred that towards the end of his life 
Peter either visited or resided for some time at Baby- 
lon, which at that time, and for some hundreds of j'ears 
afterwards, was a chief seat of Jewish culture. This 
of course depends upon the assumption, w hich on the 
whole seems most probable, that the word Babylon is 
not used as a mystic designation of Rome, but as a 
proper name, and that not of an obscure city iu Egypt, 
but of the ancient capital of the East. There were 
many inducements for such a choice of abode. The 
Jewish families formed there a separate community; 
they were rich, prosperous, and had established settle- 
ments in many districts of Asia Minor. Their lan- 
guage, probably a mixture of Hebrew and Nabathae- 
an, must have borne a near affinity to the Galiliean 
dialect. They were on far more familiar terms with 
their heathen neighbors than in other countries, while 
their intercourse with Judaea was carried on without 
intermission. Christianity certainly made considera- 
ble progress at an early time in that and the adjoining 
districts ; the great Christian schools at Edessa and 
Nisibis probably owed their origin to the influence of 
Peter ; the general tone of the writers of that school is 
what is now commonly designated as Petrine. It is 
no unreasonable supposition that the establishment of 
Christianity in those districts may have been specially 
connected with the residence of Peter at Babylon. At 
that time there must have been some communication 
betw'een the two great apostles, Peter and Paul, thus 
stationed at the two extremities of the Christian world. 
Mark, who was certainly employed about that time by 
Paul, w T as with Peter when he wrote the Epistle. Sil- 
vanns, Paul’s chosen companion, was the bearer, prob- 
ably the amanuensis of Peter’s Epistle — not improbably 
sent to Peter from Rome, and charged by him to deliver 
that epistle, written to support Paul’s authority, to the 
churches founded by that apostle on his return. See 
Peter, Epistles of. 


PETER 


10 


PETE I 


More important in its bearings upon later contro- ; 
versies is the question of Peter’s connection with Pome. 
It may be considered as a settled point that he did not 
visit Pome before the last year of his life. Too much 
stress may perhaps be laid on the fact that there is 
no notice of Peter’s labors or presence in that city in 
the Epistle to the Pomans; but that negative evidence 
is not counterbalanced by any statement of undoubted 
antiquity. The date given by Eusebius rests upon a 
miscalculation, ami is irreconcilable with the notices of 
Peter in the Acts of the Apostles. He gives A.D. 42 in 
the Chronicon (i. e. in the Armenian text), and says that 
Peter remained at Pome twenty years. In this he is 
followed by Jerome, Catal. c. 1 (who gives twenty-five 
years), and by most Poman Catholic writers. Protes- 
tant critics, with scarcely one exception, arc unani- 
mous upon this point, and Poman controversialists are 
far from being agreed in their attempts to remove the 
difficulty. The most ingenious effort is that of Win- 
dischmann (Vindiciee Petnnce , p. 112 sq.). lie assumes 
that Peter went to Pome immediately after his deliv- 
erance from prison (Acts xii), i. e. A.I). 44, and left in 
consequence of the Claudian persecution between A.D. 
49 and 51. (See below.) 

The fact, however, of Peter’s martyrdom at Rome 
rests upon very different grounds. The evidence for 
it is complete, while there is a total absence of any 
contrary statement in the writings of the early fathers. 
AYe have in the first place the certainty of his martyr- 
dom in our Lord's own prediction (John xxi, 18, 19). 
Clement of Pome, writing before the end of the first 
century, speaks of it, but does not mention the place , 
that being of course well known to his readers. Igna- 
tius, in the undoubtedly genuine Epistle to the Romans 
(ch. iv), speaks of Peter in terms which imply a special 
connection with their Church. Other early notices of 
less weight coincide with this, as that of Papias (Euseb. 
ii, 15), and the apocryphal Pradicatio Petri , quoted by 
Cyprian. In the second century, Dionysius of Corinth, 
in the Epistle to Soter, bishop of Pome (ap. Euseb. II. 
E. ii, 25), states, as a fact universally known, and ac- 
counting for the intimate relations between Corinth 
and Pome, that Peter and Paul both taught in Italy, 
and suffered martyrdom about the same time. Irenae- 
us, who was connected with the apostle John, being a 
disciple of Polycarp, a hearer of that apostle, and thor- 
oughly conversant with Poman matters, bears distinct 
witness to Peter’s presence at Rome (Adv. Iltrr. iii, 1 
and 3). It is incredible that he should have been mis- 
informed. In the next century there is the testimony 
of Caius, the liberal and learned Poman presbyter 
(who speaks of Peter’s tomb in the Vatican), that of 
Origen, Tertullinn, and of the ante- and post-Nicene 
fathers, without a single exception. In short, the 
churches most nearly connected with Pome, and those 
least affected by its influence, which was as yet but in- 
considerable in the East, concur in the statement that 
Peter was a joint founder of that Church, and suffered 
death in that city. AYliat the earl}' fathers do not as- 
sert, and indeed implicitly deny, is that Peter was the 
sole founder or resident head of that Church, or that 
the See of Pome derived from him any claim to su- 
premacy: at the utmost they place him on a footing of 
equality with Paul. That fact is sufficient for all pur- 
poses of fair controversy. The denial of the state- 
ments resting on such evidence seems almost to in- 
dicate an uneasy consciousness, truly remarkable in 
those who believe that the}' have, and who in fact real- 
ly have, irrefragable grounds for rejecting the preten- 
sions of the papacy. Coteler has collected a large 
number of passages from the early fathers, in which 
the name of Paul precedes that of Peter (Pat. A post, i, 
414 ; see also Yalcsius, Euseb. II. E. iii, 21). l’abricius 
observes that this is the general usage of the Greek 
fathers. It is also to be remarked that when the fa- 
thers of the 4th and 5th centimes — for instance, Chry- 
sostom and Augustin — use the words u ’A -uoroXor, or 


Apostolus, they mean Paul, not Peter— a very weighty 
fact. 

The time and manner of the apostle’s martyrdom are 
less certain. The early writers imply, or distinctly state, 
that lie suffered at or about the same time (Dionysius, 
Kara rbv avrbv Kaipov) with Paul, and in the Neroni- 
an persecution. All agree that he was crucified, a point 
sufficiently determined by our Lord’s prophecy. Origen 
(ap. Euseb. iii, l),who could easily ascertain the fact, and, 
though fanciful in speculation, is not inaccurate in his- 
torical matters, says that at his own request he was cru- 
cified Kora k«J>u\i)£ ; probably meaning by the head, 
and not, as generally understood, with, his head down- 
ivards. (See below.) This statement was generally 
received by Christian antiquity; nor does it seem in- 
consistent with the fervent temperament and deep hu- 
mility of the apostle to have chosen such a death — one, 
moreover, not unlikely to have been inflicted in mockery 
by the instruments of Nero’s wanton and ingenious cru- 
elty. The legend found in St. Ambrose is interesting, 
and may have some foundation in fact. When the 
persecution began, the Christians at Pome, anxious to 
preserve their great teacher, persuaded him to flee, a 
course which they had scriptural warrant to recommend 
and lie to follow ; but at the gate lie met our Lord. 
“ Lord, whither goest thou ?” asked the apostle. “ I go 
to Pome,” was the answer, “ there once more to be cru- 
cified.” Peter well understood the meaning of those 
words, returned at once and was crucified. See Tille- 
mont, Mem. i, 187,555. lie shows that the account of 
Ambrose (which is not to be found in the Uened. edit.) 
is contrary to the apocryphal legend. Later writers 
rather value it as reflecting upon Peter’s want of cour- 
age or constancy. That Peter, like all good men. val- 
ued his life and suffered reluctantly, may he inferred 
from our Lord’s words (John xxi); but his flight is 
more in harmony with the principles of a Christian 
than wilful exposure to persecution. Origen refers to 
the words then said to have been spoken by our Lord, 
but quotes an apocryphal work (On St. John, tom. ii). 

Thus closes the apostle’s life. {Some additional facts, 
not perhaps unimportant, may be accepted on early tes- 
timony. From Paul’s words it may be inferred with 
certainty that he did not give up the ties of family life 
when he forsook his temporal calling, llis wife ac- 
companied him in his wanderings. Clement of Alex- 
andria, a writer well informed in matters of ecclesiasti- 
cal interest, and thoroughly trustworthy, says (Strom. 
iii, p. 448) that “ Peter and Philip had children, and 
that both took about their wives, who acted as their co- 
adjutors in ministering to women at their own homes; 
by their means the doctrine of the Lord penetrated with- 
out scandal into the privacy of women’s apartments.” 
Peter’s wife is believed, on the same authority, to have 
suffered martyrdom, and to have been supported in the 
hour of trial bv her husband’s exhortation. Some crit- 
ics believe that she is referred to in the salutation at 
the end of the First Epistle of Peter. The apostle is 
said to have employed interpreters. Ilasilides, an early 
Gnostic, professed to have derived his system from Glau- 
cias. one of these interpreters. This shows at least the 
impression that the apostle did not understand Greek, 
or did not speak it with fluency. Of far more impor- 
tance is the statement that St. Mark wrote his Gospel 
under the teaching of Peter, or that lie embodied in 
that Gospel the substance of our apostle’s oral instruc- 
tions. This statement rests upon such an amount of 
external evidence, and is corroborated by so many in- 
ternal indications, that they would scarcely be ques- 
tioned in the absence of a strong theological bias. (Pa- 
pias and Clem. Alex., referred to by Eusebius, //. E. ii, 
15; Tertullian. c. Marc, iv, c. 5; Irenieus. iii, 1 ; iv, 9. 
Pctaviim [on Epiphanius, p. 428] observes that Papias 
derived his information from John the Presbyter. I’or 
other passages, see Eabricius [h'ibl. Gr. iii, 132]. The 
slight discrepancy between Eusebius and Papias indi- 
cates independent sources of information.) The fact 


PETER 


11 


PETER 


is doubly important, in its bearings upon the Gospel, 
and upon the character of our apostle. Chrysostom, 
•who is followed by the most judicious commentators, 
seems first to have drawn attention to the fact that in 
Mark’s Gospel every defect in Peter’s character and con- 
duct is brought out clearly, without the slighest extenu- 
ation, while many noble acts and peculiar marks oi fa- 
vor are either omitted or stated with far less force than 
by any other evangelist. Indications of Peter’s influ- 
ence, even in Mark’s style, much less pure than that of 
Luke, are traced by modern criticism (Gieseler, quoted 
by Davidson). 

II. Discussion of Particular Points. — \v'e subjoin a 
closer examination of certain special questions touched 
upon in the above history. 

1. Peter's Name. — His original appellation Cephas 
(K*j <pug) occurs in the following passages: John i, 42; 
1 Cor. i, 12; iii, 22; ix, -; xv, 5; Gal. ii, 0; i, 18; ii, 
10, 14 (the last three according to the text of Lachmann 
and Tischendorf). Cephas is the Chaldee word Keyphu , 
SO n 3, itself a corruption of or derivation from the He- 
brew Keph, W|3, “a rock,” a rare word, found only in 
Job xxx, 6 and Jer. iv, 29. It must have been the 
word actually pronounced by our Lord in Matt, xvi, 18, 
and on subsequent occasions when the apostle was ad- 
dressed by him or other Hebrews by his new name. 
By it he was known to the Corinthian Christians. In 
the ancient Syriac version of the N. T. (Peshito), it is 
uniformly found where the Greek has UtTpog. When 
we consider that our Lord and the apostles spoke Chal- 
dee, and that therefore (as already remarked) the apos- 
tle must always have been addressed as Cephas, it is 
certainly remarkable that throughout the Gospels, no 
less than ninety-seven times, with oue exception only, 
the name should be given in the Greek form, which 
was of later introduction, and unintelligible to Hebrews, 
though intelligible to the far wider Gentile world among 
which the Gospel was about to begin its course. Even 
in Mark, where more Chaldee words and phrases are re- 
tained than in all the other Gospels put together, this 
is the case. It is as if in our English Bibles the name 
were uniformly given, not Peter, but Bock; and it sug- 
gests that the meaning contained in the appellation is 
of more vital importance, and intended to be more care- 
fully seized at each recurrence, than we are apt to recol- 
lect. The commencement of the change from the Chal- 
dee name to its Greek synonym is well marked in the 
interchange of the two in Gal. ii, 7, 8, 9 (Stanley, Apos- 
tolic Aye, p. 116). The apostle in his companionship 
with Christ, and np to the time of the Lord’s ascension, 
seems to have borne the name of Simon ; at least he is 
always so called by Jesus himself (Matt, xvii, 25; Mark 
xiv, 37 ; Luke xxii, 31 ; John xxi, 15), and apparently 
also by the disciples (Luke xxiv, 34 ; Acts xv, 14). But 
after the extension of the apostolic circle and its rela- 
tions (comp. Acts x,5, 18), the apostle began to be known, 
in order to distinguish him from others called Simon, as 
Simon Peter ; the name of Peter, which had at first been 
given him as a special mark of esteem, being added, as 
that of a father often was in other cases; and, in the 
course of time, it seems that the latter name supersed- 
ed the former. Hence the evangelists call the apostle 
Peter oftener than Simon Peter. As to the epistles of 
Paul, he is always called Cephas in 1 Cor., but in the 
other epistles often Peter. As above suggested, the 
appellation thus bestowed seems to have had reference 
to the disciple individually and personally. Attaching 
himself to Christ, he would partake of that blessed spir- 
itual influence whereby he would be enabled, in spite of 
the vacillations of his naturally impulsive character, to 
hold with persevering grasp the faith he now embraced. 
He would become rooted and grounded in the truth, 
and not be carried away to destruction by the various 
winds of false doctrine and the crafty assaults of Satan. 
The name imposed was continually to remind him of 
what he ought to be as a follower of Christ. Compare 


Wieseler, Chronoloyie des A postolischen Zeitalters, p. 
581. 

2. Peter s Domestic Circumstances. — Of the family 
and connections of our apostle we know but little. Iiis 
father is named in the Gospel history, and his mother’s 
name seems to have been Joanna (see Coteler, Ad Const. 
Apostol. ii, 63). It appears from John xxi that he did 
not entirely give up his occupation as a fisherman on 
his entrance into the body of Christ’s disciples. Luke 
iv, 38 and 1 Cor. ix, 5 seem to show that he was mar- 
ried, and so the Church fathers often affirm (comp. Co- 
teler ad Clem. Recogn. vii, 25 ; Grabe, A d Spicil. Patr. 
§ i, p. 330). But the tradition of the name of his wife 
varies between Concordia and Perpetua (see Meyer, De 
Petri Conjugio, Viteb. 1684). It is said that she suffered 
martyrdom before Peter (Clem. Alex. Strom, vii, p. 312). 
Some affirm that he left children (ibid, iii, p. 192 ; Euseb. 
iii, 30), among whom a daughter, Petronilla, is named 
(comp. .4 eta Sanct. 30 ; Mai, vii, 420 sq.). More recent- 
ly Bauch ( Neues hrit. Journ.f. Theol. viii, 401) strives 
to find a son of Peter mentioned in 1 Pet. v, 13, and 
Neander (Pflunz. ii, 520) follows him, supposing that 
the “elected together with you” (the w r ord church in 
the English version is not in the original) refers to 
the wife of the apostle. The personal appearance of 
Peter at the time of his martyrdom is described in Ma- 
lal:e Chronogr. x, p. 256, in an absurd passage, of which 
the sense appears to be this: He was an old man, two 
thirds of a century old; bald in front, knob -haired 
(? KovCoSpiZ), with gray hair and beard ; of clear com- 
plexion, somewhat pale, with dark eyes, a large beard, 
long nose, joined eyebrows, upright in posture; intelli- 
gent, impulsive, and timid. Comp, the description in 
Niceph. II. E. ii, 37, p. 165; and Faggini, De Rom. P. 
Pin. Exerc. xx, p. 453 sq. 

3. Peter's Prominence as an Apostle. — From such pas- 
sages as Matt, xvii, 1 ; Mark ix, 1 ; xiv, 33, there can be 
no doubt that Teter was among the most beloved of 
Christ’s disciples ; and his eminence among the apostles 
depended partly on the fact that he had been one of the 
first of them, and partly on his own peculiar traits. 
Sometimes he speaks in the name of the twelve (Matt, 
xixj 27 ; Luke xii, 41). Sometimes he answers when 
questions are addressed to them all (Matt, xvi, 16; Mark 
viii, 29"); sometimes Jesus addresses him in the place 
of all (Matt. xxvi. 40). But that he passed, out of the 
circle of the apostles, as their representative, cannot be 
certainly inferred from Matt, xvii, 24, even if it be snp- 
posable in itself. This position of Peter becomes more 
decided after the ascension of Jesus, and perhaps in con- 
sequence of the saying in John xxi, 15 sq. Peter now 
becomes the organ of the company of apostles (Acts ii, 
15; ii, 14 sq. ; iv, 8 sq. ; v, 27 sq.), his word is decisive 
(Acts xv, 7 sq.), and he is named with “ the other apos- 
tles” (Acts ii, 37 ; v, 29. Comp. Chrysost. on John, Ilom. 
lxxxviii, p. 525). The early Protestant polemic divines 
should not have blinded themselves to this observation. 
(See Baumgartcn, Polem. iii, 370 sq.) The case is a 
natural one, when we compare Peter's character with 
that of the other apostles, and contributes nothing at all 
to fixing the primacy in him, after the view of the Bo- 
man Church. It may even be granted that the custom 
of looking upon Peter as the chief of the apostles was 
the cause of his always having the first place in the 
company of apostles in the Chnrch traditions. The 
old account that Peter alone of the apostles was bap- 
tized by Jesus himself agrees well with this view. 
(Comp. Coteler, .4 c? Ilerm. Past, iii, 16.) 

As to the meaning of the passage Matt, xvi, 18, 
there is much dispute. The accounts which have 
been given of the precise import of this declaration 
may be summed up under these heads: 1. That our 
Lord spoke of himself, and not of Peter, as the rock 
on -which the Church was to be founded. This inter- 
pretation expresses a great truth, but it is irreconcil- 
able with the context, and could scarcely have oc- 
curred to an unbiassed reader, and certainly does not 


PETE! 


12 


PETER 


give the primary and literal meaning of our Lord’s | 
words. It has been defended, however, by candid and 
learned critics, as Glass and Dathe. 2. That our Lord 
addresses Peter as the type or representative of the 
Church, in bis capacity of chief disciple. This is Au- 
gustine’s view, and it was widely adopted in the early 
Church. It is hardly borne out by the context, and 
seems to involve a false metaphor. The Church would 
in that case be founded on itself in its type. 3. That 
the rock was not the person of Peter, but his confession 
of faith. This rests on much better authority, and is 
supported by stronger arguments. Our Lord’s ques- 
tion was put to the disciples generally. Although the 
answer came through the month of Peter, always ready 
to be the spokesman, it did not the less express the be- 
lief of the whole body. So in other passages (noted 
below) the apostles generally, not Peter by himself, 
are spoken of as foundations of the Church. Every 
one will acknowledge that Christ, as before suggested, 
is pre-eminently the first foundation, the Hock, on 
which every true disciple, on which Peter himself, 
must be built. It was by his faithful confession that 
he showed be was upon the rock. lie was then Peter 
indeed, exhibiting that personal characteristic in the 
view of which Christ bad long before given him the 
name. Such an interpretation may seem to accord 
best with our Lord’s address, “ Thou art Peter” — the 
firm maintainer of essential truth, a truth by the faith- 
ful grasping of which men become Christ’s real disci- 
ples, living stones of his Church (John xvii, 3; Horn, 
x, 9 ; 1 Cor. iii, 11). Thus it was not the personal 
rock Peter, but the material rock of Gospel truth, tho 
adherence to which was the test of discipleship. This 
view, that it was Peter’s confession on which Christ 
would build bis Church, has been held by many able 
expositors. For instance, Hilary says, “Super banc 
igitur eonfessionis petram eeclesiae ajdifieatio est” ( De 
Trlti. lib. vi, 3G, Op. [Par. 1693], col. 903 ; comp. lib. ii, 
23, col. K10). See also Cyril of Alexandria (I)e Sunct. 
Trin. dial, iv, Op. [Lilt. 1638], tom. v, pars i, p. 507) ; 
Chrysostom (In Mutt. bom. liv, Op. [Par. 1718-38], vii, 
54S) ; and the writer under the name of N}'ssen (Test, 
de Advent. Dom. adv. Jud. in Greg. Nyssen. Op. [Par. 
163s], ii, 162), Yet it seems to have been originally 
suggested as an explanation, rather than an interpre- 
tation, which it certainly is not in a literal sense. 4. 
That Peter himself was the rock on which the Church 
would be built, as the representative of the apostles, 
as professing in their name the true faith, and as 
intrusted specially with the duty of preaching it, 
and thereby laying the foundation of the Church. 
Many learned and candid Protestant divines have ac- 
quiesced in this view (e. g. Pearson, Hammond, Ben- 
gal, Hosenmuller, Schleusner, Kuinol, Bloomfield, 
etc.). It is borne out by the facts that Peter on the 
day of Pentecost, and during the whole period of the 
establishment of the Church, was the chief agent in 
all the work of the ministry, in preaching, in admit- 
ting both Jews and Gentiles, and laying down the 
terms of communion. This view is wholly incompat- 
ible with the Homan theory, which makes him the 
representative of Christ, not personally, but in virtue 
of an office essential to the permanent existence and 
authority of the Church. Passaglia, the latest and 
ablest controversialist, takes more pains to refute this 
than any other view; but wholly without success: it 
is clear that Peter did not retain, even admitting 
that he did at first hold, any primacy of rank after 
completing his own special work ; that lie never ex- 
ercised any authority over or independently of the 
other apostles ; that he certainly did not transmit 
whatever jiosition he ever held to ain' of his col- 
leagues after his decease. At Jerusalem, even dur- 
ing liis residence there, the chief authority rested with 
St. James; nor is there any trace of a central power 
or jurisdiction for centuries after the foundation of the 
Church. The same arguments, mututis mutandis , ap- 


ply to the kej-s. The promise was literally fulfilled 
when Peter preached at Pentecost, admitted the first 
converts to baptism, confirmed the Samaritans, and 
received Cornelius, the representative of the Gentiles, 
into the Church. Whatever privileges may have be- 
longed to him personally died with him. The author- 
ity required for the permanent government of the 
Church was believed by the fathers to he deposited 
in the episcopate, as representing the apostolic body, 
and succeeding to its claims. See Hock. 

The passage is connected with another in the claims 
of the papacy, namely, “Unto thee will I give the keys 
of the kingdom of heaven,” etc. (Matt, xvi, 19). The 
force of both these passages is greatly impaired for the 
purpose for which Catholics produce them, by the cir- 
cumstance that whatever of power or authority they 
may he supposed to confer upon Peter must he re- 
garded as shared by him with the other apostles, inas- 
much as to them also are ascribed in other passages 
the same qualities and powers which are promised to 
Peter in those under consideration. If by the former 
of these passages we are to understand that the Church 
is built upon Peter, the apostle Paul informs us that 
it is not on him alone that it is built, hut upon uU the 
apostles (Ephes. ii, 20); and in the hook of Revelation 
we are told that on the twelve foundations of the New 
Jerusalem (the Christian Church) are inscribed “ the 
names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb ” (xxi, 14). 
As for the declaration in the latter of these passages, 
it was in all its essential parts repeated by our Lord 
to the other disciples immediately before his passion, 
as announcing a privilege which, as his apostles, they 
were to possess in common (Matt, xviii, 18 ; John xx, 
23). It is, moreover, uncertain in what sense our 
Lord used the language in question. In both cases 
his words are metaphorical ; and nothing can be 
more unsafe than to build a theological dogma upon 
language of which the meaning is not clear, and to 
which, from the earliest ages, different interpretations 
have been affixed. Finally, even granting the cor- 
rectness of the interpretation which Catholics put 
upon these verses, it will not hear out the conclusion 
they would deduce from them, inasmuch as the judi- 
cial supremacy of Peter over the other apostles does 
not necessarily follow from his possessing authority 
over the Church. On the other side, it is certain that 
there is no instance on record of the apostle’s having 
ever claimed or exercised this supposed power ; but, 
on the contrary, he is more than once represented 
as submitting to an exercise of power upon the part of 
others, ns when, for instance, he went forth as a mes- 
senger from the apostles assembled in Jerusalem to 
the Christians in Samaria (Acts viii, 14), and when 
he received a rebuke from Paul, as already noticed. 
This circumstance is so fatal, indeed, to the preten- 
sions which have been urged in favor of his suprem- 
acy over the other apostles, that from a very early age 
attempts have been made to set aside its force by the 
hypothesis that it is not of Peter the apostle, but of 
another person of the same name, that Paul speaks in 
the passage referred to (Euseb. Hist. Ecclts. i, 18). 
This hypothesis, however, is so plainly contradicted 
by the words of Paul, who explicitly ascribes apostle- 
ship to the Peter of whom lie writes, that it is aston- 
ishing how it could have been admitted even by the 
most blinded zealot (vers. 8, 9). While, however, it 
is pretty well established that Peter enjoyed no judi- 
cial suprcmac)- over the other apostles, it would, per- 
haps, he going too far to affirm that no dignity or 
primacy whatsoever was conceded to him on the part 
of his brethren. Ilis superiority in point of age, his 
distinguished personal excellence, his reputation and 
success as a teacher of Christianity, and the prominent 
part which lie had ever taken in his Master’s a flairs, 
both before his death and after his ascension, furnished 
sufficient grounds for his being raised to a position 
of respect and of moral influence in the Church and 


PETER 


13 


PETER 


among his brother apostles. To this some counte- 
nance is given by the circumstances that he is called 
“ the first” (7T| owrot.) by Matthew (x, 2), and this ap- 
parently not merely as a numerical, but as an honora- 
ry distinction ; that when the apostles are mentioned 
as a body, it is frequently by the phrase “ Peter and 
the eleven,” or “Peter and the rest of the apostles,” 
or something similar; and that when Paul went up 
to Jerusalem by divine revelation, it was to Peter par- 
ticularly that the visit was paid. These circumstances, 
taken in connection with the prevalent voice of Chris- 
tian antiquity, would seem to authorize the opinion 
that Peter occupied some such position as that of 7rpo- 
t (TTutg, or president in the apostolical college, but with- 
out any power or authority of a judicial kind over his 
brother apostles (Campbell, Eccles. Ilist. lect. v and 
xii ; Barrow, ubi sup., etc. ; Eichhorn, Einleit. iii, 599 ; 
Hug, Introd. p. 635, Fordick’s transl. ; Horne, Introd. 
iv, 432; Lardner, Works, vol. iv, v, vi, ed. 1788; Cave, 
Antiquitates Apostolicce, etc.). See Primacy. 

4. Peter's Character. — However difficult it might be 
to present a complete sketch of the apostle’s temper 
of mind, there is no dispute as to some of the leading 
features ; devotion to his Master’s person (John xiii, 
37), which even led him into extravagance (John xiii, 
9), and an energetic disposition, which showed itself 
sometimes as resolution, sometimes as boldness (Matt, 
xiv, 29), and temper (John xviii, 10). His tempera- 
ment was choleric, and he easily passed from one ex- 
treme to another (John xiii, 8. For a parallel be- 
tween Peter and John, see Chrysost. in Johan, horn, 
lxvii, 522). But how could such a man fall into a re- 
peated denial of his Lord ? This will always remain a 
difficult psychological problem ; but it is not necessary 
on this account to refer to Satan’s power (Olshausen, 
Bibl. Comment, ii, 482 sq.). When Jesus predicted to 
Peter his coining fall, the apostle may have thought 
only of a formal inquiry; and the arrest of Christ 
drove from his mind all recollection of Christ’s warn- 
ing words. The first denial was the hasty repulse of 
a troublesome and curious question. Peter thought 
it not worth while to converse with a girl at such a 
moment, when all his thoughts were taken up with the 
fate of his Master ; and his repulse would be the more 
resolute, the more he wished to avoid being driven by 
the curious and pressing crowd out of the vicinity of 
the beloved Saviour. The second and third questions 
compelled him still to deny, unless he would confess 
or leave the place ; but the nearness of the Lord held 
him fast. Besides they are the questions only of 
curious servants, and he is in danger, if he acknowl- 
edges his Lord, of becoming himself the butt of ridi- 
cule to the coarse multitude, and thus of failing in his 
purpose. Thus again and again, with increasing hesi- 
tation, he utters his denial. Now the cock-crowing 
reminds him of his Master’s warning, and now at length 
he reflects that a denial, even before such unauthorized 
inquiries, is yet really a denial. In this view some 
think that Peter’s thoughts were continually on his 
Master, and that possibly the fear of personal danger 
had no part in influencing his course. The expression 
fall of Peter, often used, is in any case rather strong. 
For various views of this occurrence, see Luther, on 
John a viii ; Niemeyer, Charakkr, i, 586 sq.; Rau, Prce- 
terita ad narration. Evang. de summa P. tementate (Er- 
langen, 1781); Paulus, Comment, iii, 647 sq. ; Henne- 
berg, Leidensgescli. p. 159 sq. ; Miscellen eines Land- 
predigers (Glogau, 1799), p. 3 sq. ; Greiling, Leben Jesu, 
p. 381 sq. ; Rudolph, in Winer’s Zeitschr. f. wissensch. 
Theol. i, 109 sq. ; and Bellarmine, Controv. de Benit. ii, 
16 ; Martin, Biss, de Petri Denegatione (Monaster, 1835). 

5. Paul's Dispute with Peter. — With reference to the 
occurrence mentioned in Gal. ii, 11, from which some 
have inferred that Peter was not wholly free from the 
servile fear of men, we may remark that the case is 
altogether different from the preceding, and has much 
to do with the apostle’s dogmatic convictions. It is 


known that the admission of the heathen to the Church 
was strange to Peter at first, and that he could only be 
induced to preach to them by a miraculous vision 
(Acts x, 10; xi, 4 sq.). Then he was the first to bap- 
tize heathen, and announced in unmistakable language 
that the yoke of the Mosaic law must not be placed 
on the Gentile converts (Acts xv, 7 sq.). But it is 
quite supposable that he w r as still anxious for Chris- 
tianity to be first firmly rooted among the Jews, and 
thus he seems after this occurrence to have turned his' 
preaching exclusively to the Jews (comp. Gal. ii, 7), 
his first epistle also being intended only for Jewish 
readers. The affair at Antioch (Gal. ii, 12) seems to 
show that he still wavered somewhat in the conviction 
expressed in Acts xv, 7 sq. ; if, indeed, as appears to 
be the case, it was later than the latter. For even if 
Peter found it necessary to respect the prejudices of 
the party of James, still the necessity of firmness and 
consistency cannot be denied ; although, on the other 
hand, we must not confound Peter’s position with that 
of Paul. It is known (comp. Euseb. i, 12, 1) that in 
the early Church many referred the entire statement 
to another Cephas, one of the seventy disciples, who 
afterwards became bishop of Iconium, and nearly all 
the Catholic interpreters adopt this expedient. See 
Molkenbuhr, Quod Cephas Gal. ii, 11 non sit Petrus 
Ap. (Monaster, 1803). See against this view Deyling, 
Observatt. ii, 520 sq. On another view of the church 
fathers, see Neander, Pjlanz. i, 292, note. It appears 
from the fact that at Corinth a party of Judaizing 
Christians called themselves by his name, that Peter 
was afterwards recognised as head of this class, in dis- 
tinction from the Pauline Christians. 

6. As to the time of Peter’s journey to Rome, the 
Church fathers do not quite agree. Eusebius says in 
his Chron. (i, 42) that Peter went to Rome in the 
second year of Claudius Caesar, after founding the first 
Church in Antioch; and Jerome, in his version, adds 
that he remained there twenty-five years, preaching 
the Gospel, and acting as bishop of the city (comp, also 
Jerome, ticript.. Eccl. p. 1). Yet this statement ap- 
pears very doubtful, for three reasons : (1) Because, 
although we learn from Acts xii, 17 that Peter left 
Jerusalem for a time after the death of James the el- 
der, yet he certainly cannot have left Palestine before 
the events recorded in Acts xv. (2) Because the 
mention of the origin of the Church in Antioch, con- 
nected by the fathers with Peter’s journey to Rome, 
cannot easily be reconciled with Acts xi, 19 sq. (3) 
Because, if Peter had been bishop in Rome when Paul 
wrote his Epistle to the Romans, and afterwards when 
he was prisoner in Rome, we should expect the former 
to contain words of greeting to Peter, and the epistles 
written from Rome similar messages from Peter ; the 
more as these epistles are very rich in such messages ; 
but nothing of the kind appears. We may well doubt, 
too, whether, if Peter had been bishop or even founder 
of the Roman Church, Paul’s principles and method (see 
Rom. xv, 20, 23 sq. ; xxviii, 2 ; 2 Cor. x, 16) would 
have allowed him to write this epistle to Rome at all. 
Eusebius seems to have drawn his account from Clem- 
ens Alexandrinus and Eusebius (Euseb. II. E. ii, 15), 
the former of whom quoted from a remark of Justin 
Martyr (Apol. ii, 69), which rests upon an accidental 
error of language; this father referring to Simon the 
Magician an inscription which belonged to the Sabine- 
Romish deity Semo (Hug, Einleit. ii, 69 sq. ; Credner, 
Einleit. i, 529 sq. Comp. Schulrich, De Simonis M.fa- 
tis Roman. Misen. 1844). Now Peter had once pub- 
licly rebuked this Simon (Acts viii, 18 sq.) ; this fact, 
connected with the inscription, gave rise to the story 
of Peter’s residence in Rome under Claudius, in whose 
reign the inscription originated. After this detection 
of the occasion which produced the record in Eusebius, 
it is truly wonderful that Bertholdt (Einleit. v, 2685) 
should defend the account, and found a critical con- 
jecture upon it. Further, the Armenian Chronicle of 


PETEIi 


14 


PETER 


Eusebius refers this statement to the third year of 
Caius Caligula. 

But the account found in Ircnaeus ( liar . iii, 1) dif- 
fers materially from that above noticed. He tells us 
that Peter and Paul were in Rome, and there founded 
a Church in company ; and Eusebius (ii, 25, in a quota- 
tion from Dionysius, bishop of Corinth) adds that they 
suffered martyrdom together (Peter being crucified, 
according to Origen, in Euseb. iii, 1 ; Nicepli. ii, 26). 
Eusebius in his Chronicle places their martyrdoiji, ac- 
cording to his reckoning of twenty-live years for Pe- 
ter’s episcopacy, in the fourteenth year of Nero's reign, 
which extended from the middle of October, A. I). 67, 
to the same time in A. I). 68. This joint martyrdom 
of Paul and Peter (without however any special men- 
tion of the manner of Peter’s crucifixion, comp. Nean- 
der, Pjlanz. ii, 514) is also mentioned by Tertullian 
( Prescript . Heeret. 36) and Lactantius (Mart. Persec. 
2; Institut. Div. iv, 21). The graves of both apostles 
were pointed out in Rome as early as the close of the 
second century (Euseb. ii, 25). Yet the whole story 
rests ultimately on the testimony of Dionysius alone, 
who must have died about A.D. 176. (The passages 
in Clemens Roman us, 1 to Cor. v, and Ignatius, to the 
Romans , v, settle nothing.) Thus, on the one hand, we 
are not at liberty to reject all doubt as to the truth of 
this account with Bertholdt (/or. cit.) as hypercritical, 
or with Gicseler ( C'h . Hist, i, 92 sq. 3d ed.) as partisan 
polemics ; nor, on the other, can we suppose it to have 
sprung from the interpretation of 1 Peter v, 13, where 
at an early day Babylon was understood to stand for 
Rome (Euseb. xv, 2; Nicepli. //. K. ii, 15. Comp. 
Baur, p. 215). The genetic development of the whole 
story attempted by Baur (in the 'I ubingen Zeitschrift. 
f. fkeol. 1831, iv, 162 sq. Comp, his Paalus , p. 214 
sq., 671 sq.) deserves close attention. But compare 
Ncander, Pjlanz. ii, 519 sq. ; and further against any 
visit to Rome by Peter, see M. Velenus, Lib. quo Pe- 
trnm Romam non venisse asseritur (15*20); Vedelius, 
De tempore u/riusque Episcopatus Petri (Geneva, 1624) ; 
Spanheim, ])e jicta profeelione Petri Ap. in urban 
Rom. (Lug. Bat. 1679; also in his Opera , ii, 331 sq.) ; 
also an anonymous waiter in the Bib.'ioth. fur theol. 
Schrifkunde, vol. iv, No. 1 (extract in the Leipz. Lit.- 
Zeit. 1808, No. 130) ; Mnyerhoff, Einh in d. Petrin. Schrij- 
ten, p. 73 sq. ; Reiche, Erkfcir. des Brief is an d. Romer , 
i, 39 sq. ; Von Ammon, Fortbild. iv, 322 sq. ; Ellen- 
dorf, 1st Petrus in Rom. u. Bischqf d. Rom. Kirche gewc- 
sen? (Darmstadt, 1841; translated in the Bibliotheca 
Sacra, July, 1858; Jan. 1859; answered by Binterim, 
Dusseldorf, 1842). On the other side of the question, 
the older writings are enumerated by Fabricius, Lux 
Evany, p. 97 sq. The usual arguments of the Catho- 
lics are given by Bellarminc, Controv. de Rom. Pont if. 
lib. ii. But the chief work on that side is still that 
of Cortesins, De Romano itinere gestisque princip. Apos- 
tol. MU. ii (Venice, 1573; revised by Constantinus, 
Rom. 1770). Comp. esp. Foggiui, De Romano Petri 
itinere , etc. (l’lor. 1741). On the same side in general, 
though with many modifications, are the following 
later writers: Mynster, Klrine theoi. Schrifen, p. 141 
sq., who holds that Peter was in Rome twice. See 
contra, Baur, Op. cit. p. 181 sq. ; Herhst, in the Tubing.- r 
Kathol. -theoi. Quartalschr. 1>20, iv, 1, who places Pe- 
ter iu Rome at least during the last years of Nero’s 
reign, though but for a short time. See, however, Baur, 
Op. cit. p. 161 sq. ; Olshausen, Stndicn n. Krit. 1838, p. 
940 sq., in answer to Baur; Stenglein, in the Tubingcr 
Quartalschr. 1810, 2d and 3d parts, who makes Peter 
to have visited Rome in the second year of Claudius ; 
to have been driven away by the well-known edict of 
that emperor; and at length to have returned under 
Nero. Comp, also llaidm, Ik itinere I\ Romano 
(Prag. 1761), and Windisclmiaim, I indicia' Petri 
(Ratisb. 1836). It is not in the least necessary for 
those who oppose the Romish Church, which makes 
Peter first bishop of Rome (see Van Til, De Pctro 


Roma’ martyre non pontifice [Lug. Bat. 1710]), and 
grounds on this the primacy of the pope (Matthaeucci, 
Opus dogmat. adversus Hetherodox [sie !], p. 212 sq. ; Bel- 
larmine, Controv. de Rom. Pontif. ii, 3, and elsewhere), 
to be influenced in the question of Peter’s journey by 
these views, inasmuch as this primacy, when all the 
historical evidences claimed are allowed, remains, In 
spite of every effort to defend it, without foundation 
(Butscliang, Untcrsueh.der Yorzuge des Ap. P. [llamb. 
1788]; Baumgarten, Polem. iii, 370 sq. ; Paulus, in 
Sophroniz. iii, 131 sq.). The first intimation that 
Peter had a share in founding the Roman Church, 
and that he spent twenty-five years there as bishop, 
appears in Eusebius ( [Ckron . ad secund. ann. Claud.) 
and Jerome ( Script . Eccl. i) ; while Eusebius (//. E. 
iii, 2) tells us that after the martyrdom of Peter and 
Paul, Linus was made the first bishop of the Church 
of the Romans; a most remarkable statement, if Peter 
had been bishop before him (comp. iii. 4). Epiphanius 
(xxvii, C) even calls Paul the bishop (iirioKOTroc) of 
Christianity in Rome. 

7. Moile of Peter's Death. — The tradition of this 
apostle’s being crucified with his head downwards is 
probably to be relegated to the regions of the fabulous. 
Tertullian, who is the first to mention Peter’s cruci- 
fixion, says simply {De Prceser. Harts. 26), “ Petrus 
passioni Dominica? adsequatur which would rather 
lead to the conclusion that he w*as crucified in the 
usual way, as our Lord was. The next witness is 
Origen, whose words are, lirtijKoXoirioZi] Kara KMj>u- 
Xpg ovrtug at' rug d^iuiaag iraSetr (ap. Euseb. H. E. 
iii, 1); and these arc generally cited as intimating the 
peculiarity traditionally ascribed to the mode of Peter's 
crucifixion. But do the words real!}* intimate this? 
Allowing that the verb may mean “was crucified,” 
can Kara KHj,uXijg mean “ with the head downwards?” 
No instance, we believe, can be adduced which would 
justify such a translation. The combination Kara 
KttpiiXijg occurs both in classical and Biblical Greek 
(see Plato, Rep. iii, 398; Pint. Apoph. de Scipione Jun. 
13; Mark xiv, 3; 1 Cor. xi, 4), but in ever}* case it 
means “ upon the head” (comp. Kara Koppijg iraraSai, 
Lucian, Call. c. 30, and Kara Kvppijg iraitir, Cutapl. c. 
12). According to analogy, therefore, Origen’s words 
should mean that the apostle was impaled, or fastened 
to the cross upon, i. e. by, the head. When Eusebius 
has to mention the crucifying of martyrs with the 
head downwards, he says distinctly oi e't avemaXtv 
KaruiKeipa 7rponqXw$ii>Ttg (//. E. viii, 8). It is proba- 
bly to a misunderstanding of Origen’s words that this 
story is to be traced and it is curious to see how it 
grows as it advances. First, we have Origen’s vague 
and doubtful statement above quoted ; then we have 
Eusebius’s more precise statement : Dtrpoc Kara Ktepu- 
Xtjg orarpovrai {Dtm. Ei\ iii, 116, c.); and at length, 
in the hands of Jerome, it expands into “ Atfixus cruci 
martyrio coronatus est capite ad terram verso et in 
sublime pedilms elevatis, asserens se indignuin qui sic 
crucifigeretur ut Dominus suus” {Catal. Script. Eccles. 
i). See Guucify. 

8. Spurious Writings attributed to Peter. — Some apoc- 
ryphal works of very early date obtained currency in 
the Church as containing the substance of the apostle’s 
teaching. The fragments which remain are not of much 
importance, but they demand a brief notice. Sec Ai’oo 

KYl’ll A. 

(1.) The Preaching (Kt)pvypa') or Doctrine (£ifa\>j) of 
Peter, probably identical with a work called the Pn ach- 
ing of Paul, or of Paul and Peter, quoted by Lactantius, 
may have contained some traces of the apostle’s teach- 
ing, if, as Grabe. Ziegler, and others supposed, it was 
published soon after liis death. The passages, however, 
quoted by Clement of Alexandria are for the most part 
wholly unlike Peter’s mode of treating doctrinal or prac- 
tical subjects. Rufinus and Jerome allude to a work 
which they call “Judicium Petri;” for which Cave ac- 
counts by a happy conjecture, adopted by Niusche, 


PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 15 PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 


Maverhoff, Reuss, and Schliemann, that Rufinus found 
Kpflct for iciipvypa, and read icpipa. Epiphanins also 
names Ilfpioeoi lUrpov as a book among the Ebionites 
( H cures, xxx, 15). It is probably only a different name 
for the foregoing (Schwegler, Nach-apost. Zeitalt. ii,30). 
See Gospels, Spurious. 

(2.) Another work, called the Revelation of Peter 
(d 7 roKa\vif/tg Ilerpov), was held in much esteem for 
centuries. It was commented on by Clement of Alex- 
andria, quoted by Theodotus in the Eclugce, named to- 
gether with the Revelation of John in the Fragment on 
the Canon published by Muratori (but with the rema r k, 
“Quam quidam ex nostris legi in Ecclesia nolunt”), and 
according to Sozomen {Hist. Eccles. vii, 19) was read 
once a year in some churches of Palestine. It is said, 
but not on good authority, to have been preserved among 
the Coptic Christians. Eusebius looked on it as spuri- 
ous, but not of heretical origin. From the fragments and 
notices it appears to have consisted chiefly of denuncia- 
tions against the Jews, and predictions of the fall of 
Jerusalem, and to have been of a wild, fanatical charac- 
ter. The most complete account of this curious work 
is given by Liicke in his general introduction to the 
Revelation of John, p. 47. See Revelations, Spuri- 
ous. 

There are traces in ancient writers of a few other 
writings attributed to the apostle Peter, but they seem 
to have wholly perished (see Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. 
iii, 221 sq.). See Acts, Spurious. 

The legends of the Clementines are wholly devoid 
of historical worth ; but from those fictions, originating 
with an obscure and heretical sect, have been derived 
some of the most mischievous speculations of modern 
rationalists, especially as regards the assumed antago- 
nism between St. Paul and the earlier apostles. It is im- 
portant to observe, however, that in none of these spu- 
rious documents, which belong undoubtedly to the first 
two centuries, are there any indications that our apostle 
was regarded as in any peculiar sense connected with 
the Church or see of Rome, or that he exercised or 
claimed any authority over the apostolic body of which 
he was the recognised leader or representative (Schlie- 
mann, Die Clementinen nebsi den vericandten Schriften, 
1814). See Clementines. 

Among other legends which have come down to us 
concerning Peter is that relating to his contention at 
Rome with Simon Magus. This seems to have no better 
foundation than a misunderstanding of an inscription on 
the part of Justin Martyr {Apol. i, 26). See Simon 
Magus. 

III. Literature. — In addition to the works copiously 
cited above, we may here name the following on this 
apostle personally, reserving for the following articles 
those on his writings specially. Blunt, Lectures on the 
l list . of Peter (Lond. 1833, 1860, 2 vols. 12mo) ; Thomp- 
son, Life-Work of Peter the Apostle (ibid. 1870, 8vo) ; 
Green, Peter's Life and Letters (ibid. 1873, 8vo) ; Morich, 
Leben und Lehre Petri (Braunsch. 1873, 8vo). Among 
the old monographs we may name Meyer, Xum Christus 
Petrum buptizaverit (Leips. 1672) ; Walch, L)e Claudo 
a Petro sanato (Jen. 1755); and on his denials of his 
Master, those cited by Volbeding, Index Programmatum, 
p. 58; and in Hase, Leben Jesu, p. 202; also the Jour, 
of Sac. Lit. July, 1862; on his dispute with Paul, Vol- 
beding, p. 85. See Apostle. 

PETER, First Epistle of, the first of the seven 
Catholic Epistles of the N. T. In the following account 
of both epistles of Peter, we chiefly depend upon the 
articles in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia , with large additions from 
other sources. See Peter. 

I. Genuineness and Canonicity. — This epistle found an 
early place in the canon by universal consent, ranking 
among the bpoXoyovptva, or those generally received. 
The other epistle, by calling itself StvTtpa, refers to it 
as an earlier document (2 Pet. iii, 1). Polycarp, in his 
Epistle to the Philippians, often uses it, quoting many 
clauses, and some whole verses, as 1 Peter i, 13, 21, in 


chap, ii; iii, 9, in chap, v; ii, 11, in chap, vi; iv, 7, in 
chap, vi ; and ii, 21-24, in chap, viii, etc. It is to be ob- 
served, however, that in no case does this father refer 
to Peter bj r name, but he simply cites the places as from 
some document of acknowledged authority ; so that 
Eusebius notes it as characteristic of his epistle that 
Polycarp used those citations from the First Epistle of 
Peter as paprvptat {Hist. Eccles. iv, 14). The same 
historian relates of Papias that in his AoyiW Kvptaiewv 
iXgyr]otit: lie in a similar way used papropicu from this 
epistle {Hist. Eccles. iii, 39). Ireiueus quotes it express- 
ly and by name, with the common formula, “Et Petrus 
ait” {Hceres. iv, 9, 2), citing 1 Pet. i, 8; using the same 
quotation similarly introduced in ibid, v, 7, 2 ; and again, 
“ Et propter hoc Petrus ait,” citing 1 Pet. ii, 16 ; ibid. 
iv, 16, 5. Other quotations, without mention of the 
apostle’s name, may be found, ibid, iii, 16, 9, and iv, 20, 
2, etc. Quotations abound in Clement of Alexandria, 
headed with o Iltrpoe Xtyii or tpqoiv 6 HirpoQ. These 
occur both in his Stromata and Paedag., and need not be 
specified. Quotations are abundant also in Origen, cer- 
tifying the authorship by the words irapa rip Ilf 
and, according to Eusebius, he calls this epistle piav 
tTrt(fTo\i)v bpoXoyovptvrjv (Euseb. Hist. Eccles. vi, 25). 
The quotations in Origen’s works need not be dwelt 
upon. In the letter of the churches of Vienne and Ly- 
ons, A.D. 177, there is distinct use made of 1 Pet. v, 6. 
Theophilus of Antioch, A.D. 181, ‘quotes these terms of 
1 Pet. iv, 3 — dStpiraig tt’SwXoXarpftatg. Tertullian’s 
testimony is quite as distinct. In the short tract Scor- 
piace this epistle is quoted nine times, the preface in 
one place being “ Petrus quidem ad Politicos” {Scorp. c. 
xii), quoting 1 Pet. ii, 20. Eusebius himself says of it, 
II erpov . . . dviopoXoyrjrai {Hist. Eccles. iii, 25). It is 
also found in the Pesliito, which admitted only three of 
the catholic epistles. See Maverhoff, Einleitung in die 
Petrin. Schriften, p. 139, etc. 

In the canon published by Muratori this epistle is not 
found. In this fragment occurs the clause, “Apoca- 
lypses etiam Johannis et Petri tantum recipimus.” 
Wieseler, laying stress on etiam, would bring out this 
meaning — in addition to the epistles of Peter and John, 
w T e also receive their Revelations; or also of Peter we 
receive as much as of John, two epistles and an apoca- 
lypse. But the interpretation is not admissible. Rath- 
er with Bleek may the omission be ascribed to the frag- 
mentary character of the document {Einleit. in das X. T. 
p. 613; llilgenfeld, Der Canon und die Kritik des X. T. 
[Halle, 1833], p. 43). Other modes of reading and ex- 
plaining the obscure sentence have been proposed. 
Hug alters the punctuation, “Apocalvpsis etiam Johan- 
nis. Et Petri tantum recipimus;” certainly the tantum 
gives some plausibility to the emendation. Believing 
that the barbarous Latin is but a version from the Greek, 
he thus restores the original, icai Ylhpov pavov irapaSe- 
Xop&a, and then asks povov to be changed into povi\v 
— an alteration which of course brings out the conclusion 
wanted ( Einleit . § 19). Guericke’s effort is not more sat- 
isfactory. Thiersch, with more violence, changes tantum 
into tinam epistolam, and quam quidem in the following 
clause into alteram quidem. This document, so imper- 
fect in form and barbarous in style, is probably indeed a 
translation from the Greek, and it can have no authority 
against decided and general testimony (see the canon in 
Routh’s Reliquiae Sacrcr, i, 396, edited with notes from 
Freindaller’s Commentatio [Lond. 1862]). Nor is it of 
any importance whether the words of Leontius imply 
that this epistle was repudiated by Theodore of Mop- 
suestia, and if the Paulicians rejected it, Petrus Siculus 
gives the true reason — they were “pessime adeersus ilium 
affecti" — personal prejudice being implied in their very 
name {Hist. Munich, p. 17). 

The internal evidence is equalh" complete. The au- 
thor calls himself the apostle Peter (i, 1), and the whole 
character of the epistle shows that it proceeds from a 
writer who possessed great authority among those whom 
he addresses. The writer describes himself as “ an el- 


PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 


16 


PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 


der.” and “a witness of Christ’s sufferings” (v, 1). The 
vehemence ami energy of the style are altogether appro- 
priate to the warmth and zeal of Peter’s character, and 
every succeeding critic, who has entered into its spirit, 
lias felt impressed with the truth of the observation of 
Erasmus, “ that this epistle is full of apostolical dignity 
and authority, and worthy of the prince of the apostles.” 

Jn later times the genuineness of the epistle has been 
impugned, as by Cludius in bis Umnsichten des Chris- 
tenthnms, p. 29G* (Altona, 1808). lie imagined the au- 
thor to have been a Jewish Christian of Asia Elinor, and 
his general objection was that the similarity in doctrine 
and style to Paul was too great to warrant the belief of 
independent authorship, llis objections were exposed 
and answered by August! (in a program, Jena, 1808) 
and by Bertholdt (Kiulait. vol. vi, § GG7). Eichhorn, 
however, took up the theory of Cludius so far as to 
maintain that as to material Peter is the author, but 
that Mark is the actual writer. De Wetto also throws 
out similar objections, hinting that the author may 
have been a follower of Paul who had been brought 
into close attendance upon Peter. The question has 
been thoroughly discussed by Hug, Ewald, Ilertholdt, 
Weiss, and other critics. The most striking resem- 
blances arc perhaps 1 Pet. i, 3 with Eph. i, 3 ; ii, 18 with 
Eph. vi, 5; iii, 1 with Eph. v, 22; and v, 5 with Eph. 
v, 21 ; but allusions nearly as distinct are found to the 
other Pauline epistles (comp, especially 1 Pet. ii, 13 with 
1 Tim. ii, 2-4; 1 Pet. i, 1 with Eph. i, 4-7 ; i, 14 with 
Horn, xii, 2; ii, 1 with Col. iii, 8 and Horn, xii, 1; ii, 
6-10 with Pom. ix, 32; ii. 13 with Pom. xiii, 1-4; ii, 1G 
with Gal. v, 13; iii, 9 with Pom. xii, 17; iv, 9 with 
Phil, ii, 14; iv, 10 with Pom. xii, G, etc.; v, 1 with 
Pom. viii, 18; v, 8 with 1 Tliess. v, G; v, 14 with 1 Cor. 
xvi, 20). While, however, there is a similarity between 
the thoughts and style of Peter and Paul, there is at the 
same time a iparked individuality, and there are also 
many special characteristics in this first epistle. 

First, as proof of its genuineness, there is a peculiar 
ami natural similarity between this epistle and the 
speeches of Peter as given in the Acts of the Apostles. 
Not to mention similarity in mould of doctrine and ar- 
ray of facts, there is resemblance in style. Thus Acts 
v, 30, x, 39, 1 Pet. ii, 24, in the allusion to the cruci- 
fixion and the use of %uXov, the tree or cross; Acts ii, 
32, iii, 15, 1 Pet. v, 1, in the peculiar use of / uiprvg ; 
Acts iii, 18, x, 43, 1 Pet. i, 10, in the special connection 
of the old prophets with Christ and his work; Acts x, 
42, 1 Pet. iv, 5, in the striking phrase “judge quick and 
dead;” Acts iii, 1G, 1 Pet. i, 21, in the clauses i) Triartg 
i) Si' aiiTOii — roi'Q Si avrov morovg; and in the mode 
of quotation (Acts iv, 2; 1 Pet. ii, 7). Certain favorite 
terms occur also — dvaarpotyi), and dyoS'07roi{ir’ with its 
cognates and opposites. There are over fifty words pe- 
culiar to Peter in this brief document, nearly all of them 
compounds, as if in his profound anxiety to express his 
thoughts as he felt them, he had employed the first, and 
to him at the moment the fittest terms which occurred, 
lie has such phrases as iXirig £ waa, i, 3; ovvtiSiioig 
Sfor, ii, 19; noipvtg Si uvoiac, i, 13; <piXi/pa ctya7ri)g, v, 
14. The nouns S6£at, i, 11. and dpirai, ii, 9, occur in 
the plural, lie uses lig before a personal accusative no 
less than four times in the first chapter. The article is 
often separated from its noun, iii, 2, 3, 19; iv, 2, 5, 8. 12. 
Peter has also a greater proneness than Paul to repeti- 
tion to reproduce the same idea in somewhat similar 
terms — as if he had felt it needless to search for a mere 
change of words when a similar thought was waiting 
for immediate utterance (comp, i, G-9 with iv, 12, 13; 
ii, 12 with iii, 10, iv, 4; iv, 7 with v, 8). There are 
also in the epistle distinct and original thoughts — special 
exhibitions of the great facts and truths of the Gospel 
which the apostle looked at from his own point of view, 
ami applied as he deemed best to a practical purpose. 
Tims the visit of Christ “to the spirits in prison” (iii, 
19); the typical connection of the Deluge with baptism; 
the desire of the old prophets to study and know the 


times and the blessings of the Gospel — are not only Pe- 
trine in form, but are solitary statements in Scripture. 
Thus, too, the apostle brings out into peculiar relief re- 
generation by the “Word of God,” the “royal priest- 
hood” of believers, and the qualities of the future “in- 
heritance,” etc. 

Again, in phrases and ideas which in the main are 
similar to those of Paul, there is in Peter usually some 
mark of difference. Where there might have been 
sameness, the result of imitation, there is only simi- 
larity, the token of original thought. For example, 
Paul says (Horn. vi, 10, 11), Zijv rip Slip ; Peter says (ii, 
24), £i) v ry StKaiotrvi’y. The former writes (Hon), vi, 
2), curoSinjirKtiv ry apaprtqi. ; the latter (ii, 24), raig 
apapriaig d7royirf<r3*n. Besides, as Briickner remarks, 
the representation in these last clauses is different — 
death to sin in the passage from Homans being the re- 
sult of union with the sufferings and death of Christ, 
while in Peter it is the result of Christ’s doing away 
sin (De Wette, Erkliirung, ed. Briickner, p. 9). So, too, 
the common contrast in Paul is erdpl and Trvivpa, but 
iu Peter m ivpa and i/.i'XO i irXoyi} is connected in 
Paul with x«pic, or it stands absolutely; but in Peter 
it is joined to Trpoyvinoig ; government is with the first 
ron .jrov Suirayi) (Horn, xiii, 2) ; but with the second it 
is drSpwTrtvi) uriatg (ii, 13); the expression with the 
one is icaivbg dvSpunrog (Eph. iv, 24); but with the 
other d Kpi'rrrdg dvSpwirog (iii, 4); what is called 
uipoppi / in Gal. v, 13 is named iiriKciXvppa in 1 Pet. ii, 
1G, etc. Now, not to insist longer on this similarity 
with variance, it may be remarked that for many of 
the terms employed by them, both apostles had a com- 
mon source iu the Septuagint. The words found there 
and already hallowed by religious use were free to both 
of them, and their acquaintance with the Sept, must 
have tended to produce some resemblance in their own 
style. Among such terms are ayvwuia, itowria, u<- 
inrXayxvog, KaraXaXta, vmpixuv, tppovptiv, / \opi/y£7i' 
(comp. Mayerhoff, I/istor.-Krit, Einlcituny in d. Eetrin. 
SchriJ'ten , p. 107 sq.). That two apostles, in teaching 
the same system of divine truth, should agree in many 
of their representations, and even in their words, is not 
to be wondered at, since the terminology must soon have 
acquired a definite form, and certain expressions must 
have become current through constant usage. But in 
cases where such similarity between Peter and Paul 
occurs, there is ever a difference of view or of connec- 
tion; and though both may refer to ideas so common 
as are named by viranoi], S6£a, or jcXi/poi'o/ua, there is 
always something to show Peter's independent use of 
the terms. One with his “beloved brother Paul” in 
the general view of the truth, he has something pecul- 
iar to himself in the introduction and illustration of 
it. The Petrine type is as distinct as the Pauline — it 
bears its own unmistakable style and character. The 
i Galilean fisherman has an individuality quite as recog- 
nizable as the pupil of Gamaliel. 

| Once more, to show how baseless is the objection 
I drawn from Peter’s supposed dependence on Paul, it 
may be added that similarity in some eases niav be 
traced between Peter and John. In many respects 
Paul and John are utterly unlike, yet Peter occasion- 
ally resembles both, though it is not surmised that he 
was an imitator of the beloved disciple. Such acci- 
dental resemblance to two styles of thought so unlike 
in themselves is surely proof of his independence of 
both, for he stands midway, as it were, between the ob- 
jectivity of Paid and the subjectivity of John; inclin- 
ing sometimes to the one side and sometimes to the 
other, and occasionally combining both peculiarities of 
thought. Thus one may compare 1 l’ct. i, 22 with 1 John 
iii, 3 in the use of ayri^to; 1 Pet. i, 23 with 1 John i iv 
9 in the similar use of airopctg and oiri ppa, denoting 
the vital germ out of which regeneration springs; 1 
Pet. v, 2 with John x, 1G in the use of iroipiiv ; 1 Pet. 
iii, 18 and 1 John iii, 7 in the application of the epithet 
, SiKcuog to Christ ; 1 Pet. iii, 18, John i, 29, in calling 


PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 1 

him ajivoQ. Such similarities only prove independent 
authorship. In the resemblances to James, which arc 
sometimes adduced, the chief similarity consists in the 
use of Old-Test, quotations. Thus compare 1 Pet. i, G, 
7 with James i, 2, 3; i, 24 with James i, 10; ii, 1 with 
James i, 21; ii, 5 with James iv, 6, 10; iv,8with James 
v, 20 ; and v, 5 with James iv, G. What, then, do these 
more frequent resemblances to Paul, and the fewer to 
John and James, prove? not, with De Wette, the de- 
pendence of Peter on Paul ; nor, with Weiss, the depend- 
ence of Paul on Peter (Der Petrin. Lehrbegrijf, p. 374); 
but that Peter, in teaching similar truths, occasionally 
employs similar terms ; while the surrounding illustra- 
tion is so various and significant that such similarity can 
be called neither tame reiteration nor unconscious rem- 
iniscence. With much that is common in creed, there 
is more that is distinctive in utterance, originating in 
difference of spiritual temperament, or moulded by the 
adaptation of truth to the inner or outer condition of 
the churches fur whom this epistle was designed. 

On the other hand, the harmony of such teaching 
with that of Paul is sufficiently obvious. Peter, indeed, 
dwells more frequently than Paul upon the future man- 
ifestation of Christ, upon which he bases nearly all his 
exhortations to patience, self-control, and the discharge 
of all Christian duties. Yet there is not a shadow of 
opposition here; the topic is not neglected by Paul, nor 
does Peter omit the Pauline argument from Christ’s 
sufferings; still what the Germans call the eschato- 
logical element predominates over all others. The 
apostle’s mind is full of one thought, the realization of 
Messianic hopes. While Paul dwells with most earnest- 
ness upon justification by our Lord’s death and merits, 
and concentrates his energies upon the Christian’s pres- 
ent struggles, Peter fixes his eye constantly upon the 
future coming of Christ, the fulfilment of prophecy, the 
manifestation of the promised kingdom. In this he is 
the true representative of Israel, moved by those feel- 
ings which were best calculated to enable him to do 
his work as the apostle of the circumcision. Of the 
three Christian graces, hope is his special theme, lie 
dwells much on good works, but not so much because 
he sees in them necessary results of faith, or the com- 
plement of faith, or outward manifestations of the spirit 
of love, aspects most prominent in Paul, James, and 
John, as because he holds them to be tests of the sound- 
ness and stabilit}' of a faith which rests on the fact of 
the resurrection, and is directed to the future in the 
developed form of hope. 

But while Peter thus shows himself a genuine Israel- 
ite, his teaching, like that of Paul, is directly opposed 
to Judaizing tendencies. lie belongs to the school, or, 
to speak more correctly, is the leader of the school, which 
at once vindicates the unity of the Law and the Gos- 
pel, and puts the superiority of the latter on its true 
basis, that of spiritual development. All his practical 
injunctions are drawn from Christian, not Jewish prin- 
ciples, from the precepts, example, life, death, resurrec- 
tion, and future coining of Christ. The apostle of the 
circumcision says not a word in this epistle of the per- 
petual obligation, the dignity, or even the bearings of 
the Mosaic law. lie is full of the Old Testament; his 
style and thoughts are charged with its imagery, but 
he contemplates and applies its teaching in the light 
of the Gospel; lie regards the privileges and glory of 
the ancient people of God entirely in their spiritual de- 
velopment in the Church of Christ. Only one who 
had been brought up as a Jew could have had his spirit 
so impregnated with these thoughts; only one who 
had been thoroughly emancipated bv the Spirit of 
Christ could have risen so completely above the preju- 
dices of his age and country. This is a point of great 
importance, showing how utterly opposed the teaching 
of the original apostles, whom Peter certainly repre- 
sents, was to that Judaistic narrowness which specula- 
tive rationalism has imputed to all the early followers 
of Christ, with the exception of Paul. There are in 

VIII.— B 


7 PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 

fact more traces of what are called Judaizing views, 
more of sympathy with national hopes, not to say prej- 
udices, in the Epistles to the Romans and Galatians, 
than in this work. In this we see the Jew who has 
been born again, and exchanged what Peter himself 
calls the unbearable yoke of the law for the liberty 
which is in Christ. At the same time it must be ad- 
mitted that our apostle is far from tracing his principles 
to their origin, and from drawing out their consequences 
with the vigor, spiritual discernment, internal sequence 
of reasoning, and systematic completeness which are 
characteristic of Paul. A few r great facts, broad solid 
principles on which faith and hope may rest securely, 
with a spirit of patience, confidence, and love, suffice for 
his unspcculative mind. To him objective truth was 
the main thing; subjective struggles between the in- 
tellect and spiritual consciousness, such as we find in 
Paul, and the intuitions of a spirit absorbed in contem- 
plation like that of John, though not by any means 
alien to Peter, were in him wholly subordinated to the 
practical tendencies of a simple and energetic charac- 
ter. It has been observed with truth that both in tone 
and in form the teaching of Peter bears a peculiarly 
strong resemblance to that of our Lord, in discourses 
bearing directly upon practical duties. The great value 
of the epistle to believers consists in this resemblance; 
they feel themselves in the hands of a safe guide, of 
one who will help them to trace the hand of their Mas- 
ter in both dispensations, and to confirm and expand 
their faith. 

But apart from the style and language of the epistle, 
objections have been brought against it by Schwegler, 
who alleges the want of special occasion for writing it, 
and the consequent generality of the contents ( Das 
Naeh-aposfol. Zeitalt. ii, 7). The reply is t hat the epistle 
bears upon its front such a purpose as well suits the vo- 
cation of an apostle. Nor is there in it, as we have 
seen, that want of individuality which Schvegler next 
alleges. It bears upon it the stamp of its author’s fer- 
vent spirit; nor does its use of Old-Test, imagery and 
allusions belie his functions as the apostle of the cir- 
cumcision (Wiesinger, Einl. p. 21). If there be the 
want of close connection of thought, as Schweglcr also 
asserts, is not this want of logical sequence and sym- 
metry quite in keeping with the antecedents of him 
who had been trained in no school of human learning? 
Nor is it any real difficulty to say that Peter in the 
East could not have become acquainted with the later 
epistles of Paul. For in various ways Peter might 
have known Paul’s epistles; and granting that there is 
a resemblance to some of the earlier of them, there is 
little or none to the latest of them. Schweglcr holds 
that the epistle alludes to the persecution under Nero, 
during which Peter suffered, and that therefore his 
writing it at Babylon is inconsistent with his martyr- 
dom at the same period at Rome. The objection, how- 
ever, takes for granted w hat is denied. It is a sufficient 
reply to say that the persecution referred to was not, or 
may not have been, the Neronian persecution, and that 
the" apostle was not put to death at the supposed period 
of Nero’s reign. There is not in the epistle any direct 
allusion to actual persecution; the d7ro\oyi« (iii, 15) is 
not a formal answer to a public accusation, for it is to 
be given to every one asking it (llnther, Krifisch-ex- 
egetisches Handbuch fiber den 1. Brief des Petrus , Einleit. 
p. 27). The epistle in all its leading features is in uni- 
son with what it professes to be— an earnest and prac- 
tical letter from one whose heart was set on the well- 
being of the churches, one who may have read many 
of Paul’s letters and thanked God for them, and who, 
in addressing the churches himself, clothes his thoughts 
in language the readiest and most natural to him, with- 
out any timid selection or refusal of words and phrases 
which others may have used before him. 

II. Place and time. — The place is indicated in v, 13, in 
the clause ciand^iTai vgdc >/ tv B a(3u\iori avveicXeKri]. 
Babylon is named as the place where the apostle was 


PETEK (FIRST EPISTLE OF) IS PETEK (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 


when lie wrote the epistle, as he sends this salutation 
from it, on the part of a woman, as Mayerhoff, Neander, 
Alford, and others .suppose; or on the part of a Church, 
as is the opinion of the majority. It is remarkable, how- 
ever, that from early times liabylon has here been taken 
to signify Home. This opinion is ascribed by Eusebius 
on report to Tapias and Clement of Alexandria (Hist. 
Pedes. ii, 15). Jerome and (Kcnmenius also held it. 
In later times it has been espoused by Grotius, Cave, 
Larduer, Ilengstcnborg,\Vindiselimann,\Viesinger, Baur, 
Thiersch, Schott (Dec 1. Jirief Pet. erklart , p. 340, Er- 
langen, 1*01), and Hofmann ( Schriflb . i, 2H1). But 
why discover a mystical sense in a name set down as 
the" place of writing an epistle? There is no more rea- 
son for doing this than for assigning a like significance 
to the geographical names in i. 1. IIow could his read- 
ers discover the Church at Home to be meant bv »} 
(jiivocXocti'i in Babylon? And if Babylon do signify a 
hostile spiritual power, as in the Apocalypse (xviii. 21), 
then it is strange that Catholic critics as a body should 
adopt such a meaning here, and admit by implication 
the ascription of this character to their spiritual me- 
tropolis. Dr. Brown, of Edinburgh, puts a somewhat 
parallel case — “ Our own city is sometimes called Athens 
from its situation, and from its being a scat of learning; 
but it would not do to argue that a letter came from 
Edinburgh because it is dated from Athens" (/: ixposi - 
lory Discourses on 1 st Peter, i, 548). 

Some, again, think that Babylon may mean a place 
of that name in Egypt. Of this opinion are Lc Clorc, 
31 ill. Pearson, Tott, Burton, Greswell, and Hug. Strabo 
(G ’eoy. xvii, 1, 30) calls it not a town, but a strong for- 
tress built by refugees from Babylon, and a garrison for 
one of the three legions guarding Egypt. The opinion 
that this small encampment is the Babylon of onr epis- 
tle has certainly little plausibility. It is equally strange 
to suppose it to be Ctesiphon or Scleucis; and stranger 
still to imagine that Babylon represents Jerusalem, as 
is maintained by Cnppcllus, Spauheim, llardouin, and 
Sender. The natural interpretation is to take Babylon 
as the name of the well-known city. We have indeed 
no record of any missionary journey of 1'eter into Chal- 
d:ea, for but little of Peters later life is given us in the 
New Test. But we know that many Jews inhabited 
Babvlon ui> yap oXiyoi prpu'idfc, according to Jose- 
phus — and was not such a spot, to a great extent a 
Jewish colony or settlement, likely to attract the apos- 
tle of the circumcision? Lardner’s principal argument, 
that the terms of the injunction to loyal obedience (ii, 
13, 14) imply that Peter was within the bounds of the 
Homan empire, proves nothing; for as Davidson re- 
marks— “The phrase ‘the king,’ in a letter written by 
a person in one country to a person in another, may 
mean the king either of the person writing, or of him 
to whom the letter is written.” Granting that the 
Parthian empire had its own government, he is writing 
to persons in other provinces under Homan jurisdiction, 
and he enjoins them to obey the emperor as supreme, 
and the various governors sent by him for purposes of 
local administration. Moreover, as has often been ob- 
served. the countries of the persons addressed in the 
epistle (i, 1) arc enumerated in the order in which a 
person writing from Babylon would naturally arrange 
them, beginning with those lying nearest to him, and 
passing in circuit to those in the west and the south, 
at the greatest distance from him. The natural mean- 
ing of the designation Babylon is held by Erasmus, 
Calvin, Beza. Light foot, Wicscler, Mayerhoff. Benge], 
De Wettc, Block, and perhaps the majority of modern 
critics. 

But if Peter wrote from Babylon on the Euphrates, 
at what period was the epistle written? The epistle 
itself contains no materials for fixing a precise date. It 
does not by its allusions clearly point to the Neronian 
persecution ; it rather speaks of evil and danger suffer- 
ed now, but with more in prospect. Suffering was en- 
dured and was also impending, and yet those who lived 


a quiet and blameless life might escape it, though cer- 
tainly trials for righteousness’ sake are implied and virtu- 
ally predicted. About the year GO the dark elements of 
Nero’s character began to develop themselves, and after 
this epoch the epistle was written. The churches ad- 
dressed in it were mostly planted by Paul, and it is 
therefore thought by some that Paul must have been 
deceased ere Peter would find it his duty to address 
them. Paul was put to death about A.D. 64 ; but such 
a date would be too late for onr epistle, as time would 
not, on such a hypothesis, be left for the apostle's going 
to Home, according to old tradition, and for his martyr- 
dom in that city. It may be admitted that Peter 
would not have intruded into Paul's sphere had Paul 
been free to write to or labor in the provinces specified. 
Still it may be supposed that Paul may have withdrawn 
to some more distant field of labor, or may have been 
suffering imprisonment at Home. Davidson places the 
date in 63; Alford between 63 and G7. If the Mark of 
v, 13 be he of whom Paul speaks as being with him in 
Home (Col. iv, 10). then we know that he was purposing 
an immediate journey to Asia Minor; and we learn 
from 2 Tim. iv, 11 that he had not returned when this 
last of Paul's epistles was written. It is surely not im- 
possible for him to have gone in this interval to Peter 
at Babylon ; and as he must have personally known the 
churches addressed by Peter, his salutation was natu- 
rally included by the apostle. Silvanus, by whom 
the epistle was sent— if the same with the Silvanus 
mentioned in the greetings 1 Tlicss. i, 1 ; 2 Thcss. i, 1 — 
seems to have left Taul before the epistles to Corinth 
were written, lie may have in some way become con- 
nected with Peter, and, as the .Silas of the Acts, he was 
acquainted with many of the churches to whom this 
epistle was sent. The terms “a faithful brother as I 
suppose” ( the faithful brother as I reckon ) do not im- 
ply any doubt of his character, but are only an addi- 
tional recommendation to one whose companionship 
with Paul must have been known in the provinces 
enumerated by Peter. 

But Schwegler ascribes the epistle to a later period — 
to the age of Trajan; and of course denies its apostolic 
authorship (X a ch-a postal, Zeiiulter , ii, 22). The argu- 
ments, however, for so late, a date are very inconclusive. 
He first of all assumes that its language does not tally 
with the facts of the Neronian persecution, and that the 
tone is unimpassioned — that Christians were charged 
with definite crime under Nero— that his persecution 
did not extend beyond Home — that it was tumultuary, 
and not, as this epistle supposes, conducted by regular 
processes, and that the general condition of believers in 
Asia Minor, as depicted in the epistle, suits the age of 
Trajan better than that of Nero. The reply is obvious 
—that the tranquillity of tone in this epistle would be 
remarkable under any persecution, for it is that of calm, 
heroic endurance, which trusts in an unseen arm, and 
has hopes undimmed by death ; that the persecution of 
Christians simply for the name which they bore was 
not an irrational ferocity peculiar to Trajan's time; that 
in the provinces Christians were always exposed to pop- 
ular fury ami irregular magisterial condemnation; that 
there is no allusion to judicial trial in the epistle. f«>r 
the word nVoAoyirt does not imply it; and that the 
sufferings of Christians in Asia Minor as re. erred to or 
predicted do not agree with the recorded facts in Pliny’s 
letter, for according to it they were by a formal inves- 
tigation and sentence doomed to death (11 other, Kinh it. 
p. 28). The persecutions referred to in this epistle are 
rather such as Christians have always to encounter in 
heathen countries from an ignorant mob easily stirred 
to violence, and where the civil power, though inclined 
to toleration in theory, is yet swayed by strong preju- 
dices, and prone, from position and policy, to favor and 
protect the dominant superstition. 

Supposing this epistle to have been written at Baby- 
lon, it is a probable conjecture that Silvanus. by whom 
it was transmitted to those churches, had joined Peter 


PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 1 

after a tour of visitation, either in pursuance of instruc- 
tions from Paul, then a prisoner at Rome, or in the ca- 
pacity of a minister of high authority in the Church, 
and that his account of the condition of the Christians 
in those districts determined the apostle to write the 
epistle. From the absence of personal salutations, and 
other indications, it may perhaps be inferred that Peter 
had not hitherto visited the churches; but it is certain 
that he was thoroughly acquainted both with their ex- 
ternal circumstances aud spiritual state. It is clear 
that Silvanus is not regarded by Peter as one of his own 
coadjutors, but as one whose personal character he had 
sufficient opportunity of appreciating (v, 12). Such a 
testimonial as the apostle gives to the soundness of his 
faith would of eourse have the greatest weight with 
the Asiatic Christians, to whom the epistle appears to 
have been specially, though not exclusively addressed. 
The assumption that Silvanus was employed in the 
composition of the epistle is not borne out by the ex- 
pression “by Silvanus I have written unto you,” such 
words, according to ancient usage, applying rather to 
the bearer than to the writer or amanuensis. Still it is 
highly probable that Silvanus, considering his rank, 
character, and special connection with those churches, 
and with their great apostle and founder, would be con- 
sulted by Peter throughout, and that they would to- 
gether read the epistles of Paul, especially those ad- 
dressed to the churches in those districts : thus, partly 
with direet intention, partly it may be unconsciously, a 
Pauline coloring, amounting in passages to something 
like a studied imitation of Paul’s representations of 
Christian truth, may have been introduced into the 
epistle. It has been observed above [see Petek] that 
there is good reason to suppose that Peter was in the 
habit of employing an interpreter; nor is there any- 
thing inconsistent with his position or character in the 
supposition that Silvanus, perhaps also Mark, may have 
assisted him in giving expression to the thoughts sug- 
gested to him by the Holy Spirit. We have thus, at 
any rate, a not unsatisfactory solution of the difficulty 
arising from correspondences both of style and modes 
of thought in the writings of two apostles who differed 
so widely in gifts and acquirements. 

III. Persons for whom, the Epistle was intended. — 
It was addressed to the churches of Asia Minor, which 
had for the most part been founded by Paul and his 
companions. From some expressions in the epistle 
many have thought that it was meant for Jewish Chris- 
tians. The words of the salutation are — tuXcKTolg 
TrciptTridi'ifioie ciaonopcig ndi'rou, etc. — “to the elect 
strangers of the dispersion,” etc. Viewed by themselves 
the words seem to refer to Jews — diaawopd being often 
employed to designate Jews living out of Palestine. 
This opinion is held by many of the fathers, as Euse- 
bius, Jerome, and Theophylact, and by Erasmus, Cal- 
vin, Beza, Grotins, Bengel, Hug, and Pott. A modifica- 
tion of this extreme view is maintained by Gerhard, 
Wolf, Jachmann, and Weiss, viz. that Jewish converts 
were chiefly regarded in the mass of Gentile believers. 
The arguments of Weiss need not be repeated, and they 
are well met by Hutlier ( Einleit . p. 21). But there are 
many things in the epistle quite irreconcilable with the 
idea of its being meant either solely or principally for 
Jewish believers. He tells his readers that “ sufficient 
was the past for them to have wrought out the will of 
the Gentiles — as indeed ye walked in lasciviousness, 
wine-bibbing, revellings, drinking-bouts, and forbidden 
idolatries” — sins all of them, and the last particularly, 
which specially characterized the heathen world. Sim- 
ilarly does he speak (i, 14) of “ former lusts in your ig- 
norance;” (iii, G), of Sarah, “whose daughters ye have i 
become” — — they being not so by birth or 
blood. In ii, 9, 10, they are said to be “called out of 
darkness,” to have been “ in time past not a people, but 
now the people of God.” The last words, referring orig- 
inally to Israel, had already been applied by Paul to 
Gentile believers in Rom. ix, 25. The terra diacnropd 


d PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 

may be used in a spiritual sense, and such a use is war- 
ranted by other clauses of the epistle — i, 17, “the time 
of your sojourning;” ii, 11, “strangers and pilgrims.” 
Peter, whose prepossessions had been so Jewish, and 
whose soul moved so much in the sphere of Jewish 
ideas from his very function as the apostle of the cir- 
cumcision, instinctively employs national terms in that 
new and enlarged spiritual meaning which, through 
their connection with Christianity, they had come to 
bear. Besides, the history of the origin of these churches ' 
in Asia Minor shows that they were composed to a large 
extent of Gentile believers. Many of them may have 
been proselytes, though, as Wieseler has shown, it is 
wrong in Michaelis, Credner, and Nendecker to apply 
to sueh exclusively the terms in the address of this epis- 
tle. Nor is it at all a likely thing that Peter should 
have selected one portion of these churches and written 
alone or mainly to them. The provinces (i, 1) included 
the churches in Galatia which are not named in Acts, 
as Ancyra and Pessinus, and the other communities in 
Iconium, Lystra, the Pisidian Antioch, Miletus, Colos- 
sie, Laodieea, Philadelphia, Thyatira, Ephesus, Smyrna, 
Pergamus, Troas, etc. (Steiger, Einleit. sec. 6). That 
the persons addressed in the epistle were Gentiles is the 
view of Augustine, Luther, Wetstein, Steiger, Bruckner, 
Mayerhoff, Wiesinger, Xeander, Reuss, Schaff, and II u- 
ther. Reuss (p. 133) takes TfdpoiKoi and naptiricppei 
as^D* 1 *!}, Israelites by faith, not by ceremonial observ- 
ance. See also Weiss, Der Petriniscke LehrbegriJ] p. 
28, n. 2. 

IV. Design, Contents, and Characteristics. — The ob- 
jects of the epistle, as deduced from its contents, coin- 
cide with the above assumptions. They were: 1. To 
comfort and strengthen the Christians in a season of 
severe trial. 2. To enforce the practical and spiritual 
duties involved in their calling. 3. To warn them 
against special temptations attached to their position. 
4. To remove all doubt as to the soundness and com- 
pleteness of the religious system which they had already 
received. Such an attestation was especially needed 
by the Hebrew Christians, who were wont to appeal 
from Paul’s authority to that of the elder apostles, aud 
above all to that of Peter. The last, which is perhaps 
the very principal object, is kept in view throughout 
the epistle, and is distinctly stated (v, 12). 

These objects may come out more elearly in a brief 
analysis. The epistle begins with salutations and a 
general description of Christians (i, 1, 2), followed by a 
statement of their present privileges and future inherit- 
ance (ver. 3-5); the bearings of that statement upon 
their conduct under persecution (ver. 6-9) ; reference, 
according to the apostle’s wont, to prophecies concern- 
ing both the sufferings of Christ and the salvation of his 
people (ver. 10-12); and exhortations based upon those 
promises to earnestness, sobriety, hope, obedience, and 
holiness, as results of knowledge of redemption, of atone- 
ment by the blood of Jesus, and of the resurrection, and 
as proofs of spiritual regeneration by the Word of God. 
Peculiar stress is laid upon the cardinal graces of faith, 
hope, and brotherly love, each connected with and rest- 
ing upon the fundamental doctrines of the Gospel (ver. 
13-25). Abstinence from the spiritual sins most directly 
opposed to those graces is then enforced (ii, 1); spirit- 
ual growth is represented as dependent upon the nour- 
ishment supplied by the same Word which was the in- 
strument of regeneration (ver. 2, 3) ; and then, by a 
change of metaphor, Christians are represented as a 
spiritual house, collectively and individually as living 
stones, and royal priests, elect, and brought out of dark- 
ness into light (ver. 4-10). This portion of the epistle 
is singularly rich in thought and expression, and bears 
the peculiar impress of the apostle’s mind, in which Ju- 
daism is spiritualized, and finds its full development in 
Christ. From this condition of Christians, and more 
directly from the fact that they are thus separated from 
the world, pilgrims and sojourners, Feter deduces an en- 


PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 20 PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 


tire system of practical and relative duties, self-control, 
care of reputation, especially for the sake of Gentiles; 
submission to all constituted authorities; obligations of 
slaves, urged with remarkable earnestness, and founded 
upon the example of Christ and his atoning death (ver. 
11-25); and duties of wives and husbands (iii, 1-7). 
Then generally all Christian graces are commended, 
those which pertain to Christian brotherhood, and those 
which are especially needed in times of persecution, 
gentleness, forbearance, and submission to injury (ver. 
8 17) : all the precepts being based on imitation of 
Christ, with warnings from the history of the deluge, 
and with special reference to the baptismal covenant. 
In the following chapter (iv, 1, 2) the analogy between 
the death of Christ and spiritual mortification, a topic 
much dwelt upon by Paul, is urged with special refer- 
ence to the sins committed by Christians before conver- 
sion, and habitual to the Gentiles. The doctrine of a 
future judgment is inculcated, both with reference to 
their heathen persecutors as a motive for endurance, 
and to their own conduct as an incentive to sobriety, 
watchfulness, fervent charity, liberality in all external 
acts of kindness, and diligent discharge of all spiritual 
duties, with a view to the glory of God through Jesus 
Christ (ver. 3-11). This epistle appears at the first 
draught to have terminated here with the doxology, 
but the thought of (be fiery trial to which the Chris- 
tians were exposed stirs the apostle's heart, and sug- 
gests additional exhortations. Christians are taught to 
rejoice in partaking of Christ’s sufferings, being thereby 
assured of sharing his glory, which even in this life 
rests upon them, and is especially manifested in their 
innocence and endurance of persecution : judgment 
must come first to cleanse the house of God, then to 
reach the disobedient: suffering according to the will 
of God, they may commit their souls to him in well- 
doing as unto a faithful Creator. Faith and hope are 
equally conspicuous in these exhortations. The apostle 
then (v, 1-4) addresses the presbyters of the churches, 
warning them as one of their own body, as a witness 
(pdprvr) of Christ’s sufferings, and partaker of future 
glory, against negligence, covetousness, and love of 
power; the younger members he exhorts to submission 
and humility, and concludes this part with a warning 
against their spiritual enemy, and a solemn and most 
beautiful prayer to the God of all grace. Lastly, he 
mentions Silvanus with special commendation, and 
states very distinctly what we have seen reason to be- 
lieve was a principal object of the epistle, viz. that the 
principles inculcated by their former teachers were 
sound, the true grace of God, to which they are ex- 
horted to adhere. A salutation from the Church in 
Babylon and from Mark, with a parting benediction, 
closes the epistle. 

A few characteristic features may he more distinctly 
looked at. The churches addressed were in trials — 
such trials as the spirit of that age must necessarily 
have brought upon them (iii, 17; iv, 12-1!)). Those 
trials originated to some extent in their separation from 
the heathen amusements and dissoluteness in which 
they had mingled prior to their conversion (iv, 4, 5), 
They are exhorted to bear suffering patiently, and ever 
to remember the example, and endure in the spirit, of 
the Suffering One t he Righteous One who had suf- 
fered for them. While afflict ion wotdd come upon them 
in the present time, they are ever encouraged to look 
with joyous anticipation to the future. Peter indeed 
might be called the apostle of hope. 1 toctrinc and con- 
solation alike assume this form. The ‘•inheritance” is 
future, hut. its heirs are begotten to a “living hope” (i, 
3, 4). Their tried faith is found unto glory “at the ap- 
pearance of Jesus Christ” (i, 7). The “end” of their 
faith is “salvation” (i, !» t, and they are to “ hope to the 
end for the grace to be brought at the revelation of Je- 
sus Christ” (i. 13). Their ruling emotion is therefore 
“the hope that is in them” (iii. 15); so much lying 
over in reserve for them in the future, their time here 


is only a “sojourning” (i, 17); they were merely 
“strangers and pilgrims” (ii, 11); nay, “the end of all 
things is at hand” (iv, 7). Suffering was now, but joy 
was to come when ltis “glory shall be revealed” (v, ]). 
In Christ’s own experience as Prototype suffering led to 
glory (i, 11; iv, 13); the same connection the apostle 
applies to himself, and to faithful ministers (v, 1-4). 
There are also allusions to Christ’s words, or. rather, rem- 
iniscences of tliem mingle with the apostle’s thoughts. 
Comp, i, 4 with Matt, xxv, 34; i, 8 with John xx, 23; 

i, 10 with Luke x, 21; i, 13 with Luke xii, 35; ii, P2 
with Matt, v, 10; iii, 13-15 with Matt, v, 1G, x, 2*; v, G 
with 3Iatt. xxxiii, 12, etc. 

There were apparently some tendencies in those 
churches that required reproof — some temptations 
against which they needed to be warned, as “former 
lusts,” “fleshly lusts” (i, 14. 11) ; dark and envious feel- 
ings (ii, 1 ; iii, 8, 9); love of adornment on the part of 
women (iii, 3); and ambition and worldliness on the 
part of Christian teachers (v, 1-4). God’s gracious and 
tender relationship to his people was a special feature 
of the old covenant, and Peter reproduces it under the 
new in its closer and more spiritual aspects (ii, 9,10; 
iv, 17; v, 2). The old economy is neither eulogized 
nor disparaged, and no remark is made on its abolition, 
the reasons of it, or the good to the world springing out 
of it. The disturbing question of its relation to Gentile 
believers is not even glanced at. In the apostle’s view 
it had passed away by its development into another and 
grander system, one with it in spirit, and at the same 
time the realization of its oracles and types. His mind 
is saturated with O.-T. imagery and allusions, but they 
are freely applied to the spiritual Israel, which, having 
always existed within the theocracy, had now burst the 
national barriers, and was to be found in all the believ- 
ing communities, whatever their lineage or country. To 
him the Jewish economy was neither supplanted by a 
rival faith nor superseded by a sudden revolution ; Israel 
bad only put off its ceremonial, the badge of its imma- 
turity ami servitude, and now rejoiced in freedom and 
predicted blessing. What was said of the typical Israel 
may now be asserted with deeper truth of the spiritual 
Israel. But the change is neither argued from premises 
laid down nor vindicated against Jews or Judaizers, and 
the results of the new condition are not held up as mat- 
ter of formal congratulation; they arc only seized and 
put forward as recognised grounds of joy, patience, and 
hope. The Redeemer stood out to Jewish hope as the 
Messiah; so Peter rejoices in that appellation, calling 
him usually Jesus Christ, and often simply Christ (i, 1 1 ; 

ii, 21 ; iii, 16-18; iv, 1, 13, 14); and it is remarkable 
that in nearly all those places the simple name Christ 
is used in connection with his sufferings, to the idea of 
which the Jewish mind had been so hostile. The cen- 
tre of the apostle’s theology is the Redeemer, the me- 
dium of all spiritual blessing. The relation of his ex- 
piatory work to sinners is described by t'irtp (ii, 12; iii, 
18); or it is said be bore our sins — rdc trpapriac di i- 
vtyKfv; or died 7rtpi dpapnwv. “The sprinkling of 
blood” and the “Lamb without spot" were the fulfil- 
ment of the old economy, and the grace and salvation 
now enjoyed wore familiar to the prophets (i, 10). 
Christ who suffered is now in glory, and is still keeping 
and blessing his people. 

In fine, the object, as told by the author (v. 12\ is 
essentially twofold. “ I have written briefly, exhorting” 
(irapaKoXiuv) ; and the epistle is hortatory — not didac- 
tic or polemical; “and testifying (tin ftaprvpiov") that 
this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand.” The 
true grace of God — a\ij3»}c \dpuj — could not be doc- 
trine imparted through the apostle’s personal teaching. 
Some of the fathers, indeed, afflrm that Peter visited 
the provinces specified in this epistle. ( )rigen gives it 
as a probable conjecture; ami Kusobius says that the 
countries in which Peter preached the doctrine of Christ 
appear from his own writings, and may be seen from 
this epistle. The assertion has thus no basis, save in 


PETER (FIRST EPISTLE OF) 21 PETER (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 


the idea that Peter must have preached in the churches 
to which he sent an epistle. Jerome repeats the state- 
ment, and Epiphanius, as his wont is, intensifies it ; but 
it has no foundation. Nay, the apostle, by a change of 
person, distinguishes himself from “them that have 
preached the Gospel unto you” (i, 12). So that the 
“true grace” in which those churches stood was the 
Gospel which they had heard from others, and espe- 
cially from Paul, by whom so many of them had been 
founded. The epistle, then, becomes a voucher for the 
genuineness of the Gospel preached in Asia Minor by 
the apostle of the uncircumcision. Not that, as Schweg- 
ler supposes, it attempts to mediate between James and 
Paul; for it proclaims the same truths, touching the 
peculiar aspects common to the two, without any dilu- 
tion of Paul’s distinctive forms, or any modification of 
Peter’s as given in his oral addresses — both being in 
inner harmony, and differing only in mode of presenta- 
tion, caused by mental diversity, or suggested by the 
peculiar circumstances, tendencies, or dangers of the 
churches which were warned or addressed. 

V. Stgle .—' The epistle is characterized by its fervor. 
The soul of the writer stamped its image on his thoughts 
and words — o 7 ravTa\ov Stppog is the eulogy of Chry- 
sostom. The epistle bears his living impress in his pro- 
found emotions, earnest convictions, and zealous thor- 
oughness. lie was never languid or half-hearted in 
what he said or did, though the old impulsiveness is 
chastened; and the fire which often flashed up so sud- 
denly is more equable and tranquil in its glow. He is 
vivid without vehemence, and hurries on without im- 
petuosity or abruptness. The epistle is throughout 
hortative, doctrine and quotation being introduced as 
forming the basis or warrant, or as showing the neces- 
sity and value of practical counsel or warning. There 
is in it little that is local or temporary; it is suited to 
the Church of all lands and ages; for believers are al- 
ways in the present time “strangers and sojourners,” 
with their gaze fixed on the future, exposed to trial and 
borne through by hope. The apostle infuses himself 
into the epistle, portrays the emotions which swayed 1 
and cheered him, as he reveals his own experience, 
which had been shaped by his past and present fellow- 
ship with a suffering and glorified Lord. What he un- 
folds or describes never stands apart as a theme by itself 
to be wrought out and argued; nor is it lifted as if to a 
lofty eminence that it may be admired from afar: but 
all is kept within familiar grasp, and inwrought into 
the relations, duties, and dangers of everyday Christian 
existence. The truths brought forward are treated not 
in themselves, but in their immediate bearing on duty, 
trial, and hope; are handled quite in the way which 
one would describe air and food in their essential con- 
nection with life. 

The language, though not rugged, is not without 
embarrassment. Ideas are often linked together by a 
relative pronoun. There is no formal development of 
thought, though the order is lucid and logical. Some 
word employed in the previous sentence so dwells in the : 
writer’s mind that it suggests the sentiment of the fol- | 
lowing one. The logieal formulas are wanting — 01 V not 
preceding an inference, but introducing a practical im- 
perative, and ort and -yap not rendering a reason, but 
prefacing a motive conveyed in some fact or quotation 
from Scripture. Thoughts are reintroduced, and in 
terms not dissimilar. What the apostle has to say, he 
must say in words that come the soonest to an unprac- 
ticed pen. In short, we ma)’ well suppose that he wrote 
under the pressure of the injunction long ago given to 
him — “ When thou art converted, strengthen thy breth- 
ren;” and this divine mandate might be prefixed to the 
epistle as its motto. 

Y. Commentaries . — The following are special exeget- 
ical helps on both epistles: Didymus Alexandrians, In 
Ep. Petri (in Bill. Max Patr. v; and Galland. Bill, 
ratr. vi); Bede, Expositio (in Opp. v) ; Luther, Aitsle- 
gung (1st Ep., Yitemb. 1523, 4to ; with 2d Ep., ibid. 1524, , 


4to and 8vo, and later ; also in Lat. and Germ. eds. of his 
works; in English, Loud. 158], 4to) ; Bibliander, Com- 
ment arii (Basil. 1530, 8vo) ; Laurence, Scholia (Amst. 
1540; Genev. 1669, 4to) ; Foleng, Commentaria [includ. 
James and 1 John] (Lugd. 1555, 8vo); Weller, Enar- 
ratio (Lcips. 1557, 8vo); Selnecker, Commentaria (Jen. 
1507, 8vo); Feuardent, Commentarius (Bar, 1000, 8vo); 
Winckelmann, Commentarius (Giess. 1008, 8vo) ; Tur- 
nemann, Meditationes (Frankf. 1625. 4to) ; Ames, Expli- 
cate (Amst. 1635, 1643, 8vo; in English, Lond. 1041, 
8vo); Byfield, Sermons [on i-iii] (Lond. 1637, fol.) ; Ger- 
hard, Commentarius (ed. til. Jen. 1041, 4to, and later); 
Nisbet, Exposition (Edinb. 1058, 8vo); Goltz, Verkla- 
ringe (Amst. 1089, 1690, 1721,2 vols. 4to) ; Antonio, Ver- 
klaringe (Amst. 1093-7. 2 vols. 4to; also in Germ., Brem. 
1700, fol.); Anon, Untersucliung (Amsterd. 1702, 8vo); 
Lange, Exegesis (Halle, 1712, 4to, and later); Streso, 
Meditationes (Amst. 1717, 4to) ; Boyson, Erklar. (Halle, 
1775, 8vo); Sehirmer, Erklar. (Bresl. and Leips. 1778, 
4to); Sender, Paraphrasis [includ. Jude] (Hal. 1783-4, 
2 vols. 8vo); Baumgiirtcl, Anmerk. (Leips. 1788, 8vo); 
Morus, Preelectiones [includ. James], ed. Douat (Leips. 
1794, 8vo); Hottinger, Commentaria [includ. 1 Bet.] 
(Leips. 1815, 8vo) ; Eisenschmid, Erlaut. (lJonneb. 1824, 
8vo) ; Mayerhoff, Eiuleitung (llamb. 1835, 8vo); Win- 
dischmann (Bom. Catb.), 1 'indicue (Batisb. 1830, 8vo); 
Sehlichthorst, Entvcickelung (Stuttg. 1830 sq., 2 pts. 
8vo) ; Demarest, Exposition (N. V. 1851-05, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Wiesinger, Erklar. [includ. Jude] (Konigsb. 1856-62, 
2 vols. 8vo) ; Besser, .4 usleg. (2d ed. llalle, 1857, 12mo) ; 
Schott, Erklar. [includ. Jude] (Erlang. 1801-3, 2 vols. 
8vo); Lillie, Lectures (Lond. and New York, 1809, 8vo). 
There are also articles on the authorship of the two 
epistles by Bauch, in Winer’s Krit. Journ. 1828, p. 385 
sq.; by Sevier, in the Theol. Stud. u. Krit. 1832, p. 44 
sq. ; by Bleek, ibid. 1836, p. 1021 sq. ; by J. Q., in Kitto’s 
Journ. of Sac. Lit., Jan. and July, 1801 ; by Baur, in the 
Theol. juhrb. 1850, p. 193 sq.; by Weiss, ibid. 1805, p. 
619; and 1865, p.255. See Epistle. 

The following are on the first epistle exclusively: 
Hessels, Commentarius (Lovan. 1508, 8vo); Schotan, 
Commentarius (Franek. 1644, 4to); Bogers, Exposition 
(Lond. 1650, fol.) ; Leighton, Commentary (Lond. 1693, 
2 vols. 8vo, and later); Yan Alphen, 1 ’erklar. (Utr. 
1734, 4to); Ivlemm, Anacrisis (Tub. 1748, 4to); Wal- 
ther, Erklar. (Ilanov. 1750, 4to) ; Moldenhauer, Erklar. 
llamb. n. d. 8vo) ; Ilensler, Commentar (Sulzb. 1813, 
8vo); Steiger, A usleg. (Berlin, 1832, 8 vo; in English, 
Edinb. 1836, 2 vols. 8vo); Lccoultre, Prcm. Ep. de P. 
(Genev. 1839, 8vo); Brown, Discourses (2d ed. Edinb. 

1849, 2 vols. Svo, ibid. I860, 3 vols. 8vo, N. Y. 1850, 
8 vo) ; lvohlbriigge, Predigten [on ch. ii and iii] (Leips. 

1850, Svo; iu English, Lond. 1854, Svo). See Com- 
mentary. 

PETEB, Second Epistle of, follows immediately 
the other, but it presents questions of far greater diftl- 
eulty than the former. See Amtlegoiikna. 

I. Canonical .4 uthority. — The genuineness of this sec- 
ond epistle has long been disputed, though its author 
calls himself “Simon Peter,” Sov\oc rai «7ru<rro/\oc, 
“ a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ.” 

1. History of Opinion. — It is hard to say whether the 
alleged quotations from it by the fathers are really quo- 
tations, or are. only, on the one hand, allusions to the 

0. T., or, on the other, the employment of sueh phrases 
as had grown into familiar Christian commonplaces. 
Thus Clement of Borne, in his First Epistle to the Co- 
rinthians (ch. vii), says of Noah, ii tijpvZe ptravotav, and 
of those who obeyed him, loioSgcrav, language not un- 
like 2 Pet. ii, 5 ; but the words can scarcely be called a 
quotation. The allusion in the same epistle to Lot (ch. 
xi) is of a similar nature, and cannot warrant the alle- 
gation of any proof from it. A third instance is usually 
taken from ch. xxiii, in which Clement, says, “Miserable 
are the double-minded,” a seeming reminiscence of Jas. 

1, 5 ; but he adds, “ We are grown old, and none of those 
things have happened to us” (ytygpcimptv mi oviiv 


PETEK (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 22 PETEK (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 


ijpTv tovtwv irvpftifiijKtv), as if in allusion to 2 Pot. iii, 
4. The appeal to llcrmas is as doubtful; in lib. i, 1 'is. 
iii, 7. the words rtliqnerunt riam veruml lave a slight 
resemblance to 2 Pet. ii, 15; in another place (I, iv, 3) 
the clause qui effnyistis sacidum hoc is not a citation 
of diTotpvyovTtQ Tti iu(t<TftitTCt tov Koapov, 2 Pet. ii, 20. 
Justin Martyr says, “A day with the Lord is as a thou- 
sand years” (/Jialoy. cum Tryph. cap. 81 ; Optra, ii, 278, 
ed. Otto, Jen;e, 1843), but the clause may as well be 
taken from Psa. xc, 4 as from 2 Pet. iii, 8. Similar 
statements occur twice in Irenanis, and have probably 
a similar origin, as citations from the O. T. The epistle 
is not (pioted bv Tcrtnllian, the Alexandrian Clement, 
nor Cyprian, who speaks only of one epistle. A passage 
in llippolytus ( l)c A ntichristo, ii), in asserting of the 
prophets that they did not speak “by their own power” 
(t£ iStag Svvaptug), but uttered things which Cod 
had revealed, appears to be a paraphrase of 2 Pet. i, 21. 
Another statement made by Theophilus (.1 d Autoly- 
cum, lib. ii, p. 87), in which he describes the prophets 
as Tn'evparo^opot irvtvpaTog ay tov, is not unlike 2 
Pet. i, 20, i'ijto 7rvtvparog uyiov iptpop evoi. Theophilus 
again describes the word shining as a lamp in a house 
— (paivtov uanrtp \v\vog iv oiKi'ifiari ; but the figure 
is different from that in 2 Pet. i, 19, \v\vnj tpaivovn 
iv ai’xpilf»ti rump — “ as a light shining in a dark place.” 
Clement of Alexandria commented, we are told by Eu- 
sebius and Cassiodorus, on all the canonical Scriptures, 
Eusebius specifying among them “Jude and the other 
Catholic epistles” — ku i rag \onrdg KciSoXatiig hnaTo- 
\dg ( Wist . Kccles. vi, 11). But a second statement of 
Cassiodorus mentions expressly the first epistle of Peter, 
as if the second had been excluded, and adds, “1 and 2 
John and James,” thereby also excluding Jude, which 
Eusebius, however, had distinctly named (De Institut. 
cap. viii). The testimony of ( trigen is no less liable to 
doubt, for it seems to vary. In the translation of liu- 
finus, who certainly was not a literal versionist, we find 
the epistle at least three times referred to, one of them 
being the assertion, “ Petrus enim duabus epistolarnm 
suarum personat tubis” ( Horn . iv, on Joshua). In J/oni. 
iv on Leviticus, 2 Pet. i, 4 is quoted, and in Horn, xiii 
on Numbers, 2 Pet. ii, 16 is quoted. Somewhat in op- 
position to this, Origen, in his extant works in Greek, 
speaks of the first epistle as iv tij KaSoXan) it:. ; nay, 
as cjuoted by Eusebius (Hist. Kccles. vi, 25), he adds 
that “ Peter left one acknowledged epistle,” adding — 
tiJToj Se Kai PtvTtpav' dptfnfiaXXtTai yap. This is not 
a formal denial of its genuineness, but is tantamount to 
it. Nor can the words of Firmilian be trusted in their 
Latin version. Yet in his letter to Cyprian he seems 
to allude to 2 Peter, and the warnings in it against her- 
etics (Cypriani Optra, p. 126. ed. Paris, 18.36). In a 
Latin translation of a commentary of Didymns on the 
epistle it is called falsata, non in canane. Now falsa cc, 
according to Du Fresne in his Glassar. mid. it itifim. 
Latinitut., does not mean to interpolate, hut to pro- 
nounce spurious. Eusebius has placed this epistle 
among the dvrtXtyo/uva (//inf. Kccles. iii, 25), and 
more fully he declares, “ That called his second epistle 
we have been told has not been received, one ivctaSe- 
tov ; but yet appearing to many to be useful it has been 
diligently studied with the other Scriptures.” Jerome 
says explicitly, “Scripsit duns epistolas . . . quarnm 
sccunda a plcrisquc cjns esse negatur;” adding as the 
reason, “propter styli cum prion* dissonant iam,” and as- 
cribing this difference to a change of amanuensis, diver- 
si * interpret ibits (De Script. Kccles. cap. i, epist. exx, ad 
1 ledih. cap. xi). Methodius of Tyre makes two distinct 
allusions to a peculiar portion of the epistle (iii, 6, 7, 
12, 13), the conflagration and purification of the world 
(Epiphau. Harts, lxiv, 31, tom. i. pars post. p. 298, ed. 
Odder, 186(1). Wcsteott (On the Canon, p. 57) points 
out a reference in the martyrdom of Ignatius, in which 
(cap. ii) the father is compared to “a divine lamp illu- 
minating the hearts of the faithful by his exposition of 
the llolv Scriptures” (2 Pet. i, 19). The epistle is not 


found in the Feshito, though the Philoxenian version 
has it, and Ephrem Syrus accepted it. The canon of 
Muratori has it not, and Theodore of Mopsuestia reject- 
ed it. But it was received by Athanasius, Philastrius, 
Cyril, Butinus, and Augustine. Gregory of Naziaimim, 
in his Carmen 33, refers to the seven catholic epistles. 
It was adopted by the Council of Laodicea, 367. and by 
the Council of Carthage, 397. From that period till the 
Reformation it was acknowledged by the Church. Not 
to refer to other quotations often given, it may suffice 
to say that, though the epistle was doubted, it usually 
had a place in the canon; that the objections against 
it were not historical, but critical in nature, and had 
their origin apparently among the Alexandrian schol- 
ars; and that in one case at least, that of Cosmas In- 
dicoplcnstes, doctrinal prepossessions led to its rejection. 
Gregory, at the end of the 6th century, seems to allude 
to others whose hostility to it had a similar origin, add- 
ing, “Si ejusdem epistoke verba pensare voluissent, lon- 
ge aliter sentirc potuorant.” (See Olshausen, Opuscu- 
la, where the citations arc given at length.) The old 
doubts about the epistle were revived at the time of 
the Reformation, and not a few modern critics question 
or deny its genuineness. In earlier times strong dis- 
belief was expressed by Calvin, Erasmus, Grot ins, and 
Salmasius. Scaliger, Semler, Credner, De Wette, Nc- 
ander, and Maverhoff deny its Petrine origin. Pott, 
Windischmann, Dahl, Gaussen, and Bonnet, on the oth- 
er hand, make light of many objections to it. But the 
proofs adduced on its behalf by Dietlein ( Die 2. Kp. 
Petri, 1851) are many of them unsatisfactory, the re- 
sult of a dextrous and unscrupulous ingenuity on behalf 
of a foregone conclusion. Yet amid early doubts and 
modern objections we are inclined to accept this epistle, 
and to agree with the verdict of the early churches, 
which were not without the means of ample investiga- 
tion, and to whom satisfactory credentials must have 
been presented. 

The objections, as Jerome remarks, were based on dif- 
ference of style, and we admit that there is ground for 
suspicion on the point. Still no doubter or impugmr 
who placed the epistle among the ttvTiXtyojitva gives 
any historical ground for his hostility. No one of old 
is ever brought forward as having denied it in his own 
name, or in the name of any early Church, to be Peter's. 
If the apostolic fathers do not quote it, it can only be 
inferred either that it was not in universal circulation, 
or that they had no occasion to make any use of it. We 
observe that it was not likely to be quoted frequently; 
it was addressed to a portion of the Church not at that 
time much in intercourse with the rest of Christendom : 
the documents of the primitive Church are far too scan- 
ty to give weight to the argument (generally a ques- 
tionable one) from omission. Their silence would not 
warrant the assertion that the epistle was not in the 
canon during their period, and for half a century after- 
wards. The earliest impugners never speak of it as a 
book recently admitted into the canon, or admitted on 
insufficient evidence or authority. One objection of this 
nature would have been palpable and decisive. The si- 
lence of the fathers is accounted for more easily than 
its admission into the canon after the question as to its 
genuineness had been raised. It is not conceivable that 
it should have been received without positive attesta- 
tion from the churches to which it was first addressed. 
We know that the autographs of apostolic writings were 
preserved with care. It may be added that there n|>- 
pears to be no probable motive for a forgery. Neither 
personal ambition nor ecclesiastical pretensions are in 
any way forwarded by the epistle. There is nothing 
in it that an apostle might not have written, nothing 
that comes into direct conflict with Peter’s modes of 
thought, either as recorded in the Acts or as found in 
the first epistle. No little circumstantial evidence can 
be adduced in its favor, and its early appearance in the 
canon is an element of proof which cauuot easily be 
turned aside. 


PETER (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 2: 

The doubts as to its genuineness appear to have orig- 
inated with the critics of Alexandria, where, nevertheless, 
the epistle itself was formally recognised at a very ear- 
ly period. Those doubts, however, were not quite so 
strong as they are now generally represented. The 
three greatest names of that school may be quoted on 
either side. On the one band there were evidently ex- 
ternal credentials, without which it could never have ' 
obtained circulation; on the other, strong subjective im- I 
pressions, to which these erities attached scarcely less ! 
weight than some modern inquirers. They rested en- 
tirely, so far as can be ascertained, on the difference of 
style. The opinions of modern commentators may be 
summed up under three heads. Many, as we have seen, 
reject the epistle altogether as spurious, supposing it to 
have been directed against forms of Gnosticism preva- 
lent in the early part of the 2d century. A few consider 
that the first and last chapters were written by Peter 
or under his dictation, but that the second chapter was 
interpolated. So far, however, is either of these views 
from representing the general results of the latest in- 
vestigations, that a majority of names, including- nearly 
all the writers of Germany opposed to Rationalism, who 
in point of learning and ability are at least upon a par 
with their opponents, may be quoted in support of the 
genuineness and authenticity of this epistle. The state- 
ment that all erities of eminence and impartiality eon- 
cur in rejecting it is simply untrue, unless it be admit- 
ted that a belief in the reality of objective revelation is 
incompatible with critical impartiality, that belief be- 
ing the only common point between the numerous de- 
fenders of the eanonieity of this document. If it were 
a question now to be decided for the first time upon the 
external or internal evidences still accessible, it may be 
admitted that it would be far more difficult to maintain 
this than any other document in the New Testament ; 1 
but the judgment of the early Church is not to be re- 
versed without far stronger arguments than have been 
adduced, more especially as the epistle is entirely free 
from objections which might be brought, with more 
show of reason, against others now all but universally 
received: it inculcates no new doctrine, bears on no 
controversies of post - apostolical origin, supports no ' 
hierarchical innovations, but is simple, earnest, devout, 
and eminently practical, full of the characteristic graces 
of the apostle, who, as we believe, bequeathed this last 
proof of faith and hope to the Church. Olshausen’s de- 
liberate conclusion is — il 1. That our epistle, as far as w-e 
can ascertain from history, was used by the Church, and 
was generally read, along with the other catholic epis- 
tles; 2. There w r ere those who denied that Peter was 
the author of this epistle, but they were influenced par- 
ticularly by critical and, perhaps, by doctrinal reasons ; 
3. That there were historical considerations which led 
them to assail our epistle is not probable ; certainly it 
cannot be demonstrated. History , then, avails scarcely 
anything in overthrowing the authority of our epistle ” 

( Integr . and Authent. of Second Epistle of Peter, transl. 
in Amer. Bibl. Repos. July, 1836, p. 123-131). 

2. Internal Evidence. — There are points of similarity 
in style between it and the first epistle. The salutation 
in both epistles is the same, and there are peculiar words 
common to both, though found also in other parts of 
the N. T. Roth epistles refer to ancient prophecy (1 
Fet. i, 16 ; 2 Pet. i, 20, 21) ; both use dptri) as applicable 
to God (1 Pet. ii, 9; 2 Pet. i, 3), and both have aVdS-j- 
<rig (1 Pet. iii, 21; 2 Pet. i, 14), which occurs nowhere 
else in the N. T. ; ava<jTpo<pi\ is a favorite term (1 Pet. 
i, 15, 17, 18; ii, 12; iii, 1, 2, 16; 2 Pet.ii,7-lS; iii, 11); 
the verb iiroirrevuv in 1 Pet. ii, 12; iii, 20, corresponds 
to the noun f 7ro7rr/;c (2 Pet. i, 16) ; the peculiar colloca- 
tion daniXog xai cipwpag (1 Pet. i, 19) has an echo of 
itself (2 Pet. ii, 13 ; iii, 14) ; —iiravrai dpapriag (1 Pet. 
iv, 1) is not unlike dKa-cnravtT-org ctpaprtac, etc. (2 
Pet. ii, 14). We have also, as in the first epistle, the 
intervention of several words between the artiele and 
its substantive (2 Pet. i, 4; ii, 7 j iii, 2). The frequent 


5 PETER (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 

use of iv in a qualifying clause is eommon to both epis- 
tles (2 Pet. i, 4; ii, 3; iii, 10). The recurrence of sim- 
ilar terms marks the second epistle, but it is not without 
all parallel in the first. Thus 2 Pet. i, 3, 4, ctcwpgp't- 
rgg, dtc<npr]Tai\ ii, 7, 8, dixaiog, three times; ii, 12, 
<pzopdv, iv ry <p$op(ji Kara<p5apiiffovrai. So, too, in 1 
Pet. iii, 1, 2, dvaarpotyiig, dvaorpoipt ) ; and ii, 17, npij- 
onTt, ripdri,ete. Then too, as in the first epistle, there 
are resemblances to the speeches of Peter as given in 
the Acts. Comp, gp'tpa xvpiav (iii, 10) with Aets ii, 
20 — the phrase occurring elsewhere only in 1 Thess. v. 
24; Xaxoi’oiv (i, 1) with fXayf (Aets i, 17); tvotfit'tav 
(i, 6) with Acts iii, 12; and ivotfitig (ii, 9) with Aets 
x, 2-7 : KoXaZoptvoug (ib.) with Aets iv, 21 — an account 
which Peter probably furnished. We have likewise an 
apparent characteristic in the double genitives (2 Pet. 
iii, 2 ; Aets v, 32). 

It is also to be borne in mind that the epistle asserts 
itself to have been written by the apostle Peter, and 
distinctly identifies its writer with the author of the 
first epistle — “ This epistle now, a second, I write unto 
you, in both which I stir up” — averring also to some 
extent identity of purpose. Tt is not anonymous, like 
the epistle to the Hebrews, but definitely claims as its 
author Peter the apostle. Nay, the writer affirms that 
he was an eye-witness of the transfiguration, and heard 
“ the voice from the excellent glory.” He uses, more- 
over, two terms in speaking of that event which belong 
to the account of it in the Gospels; comp, i, 13, oxy rw- 
part, with his own words oxyi'dg Tptig ; also in 15, ?£o- 
<W, in reference to his own death — the same word 
being employed to denote Christ’s death, rt)v tZoIov 
ovtov, this being the theme of conversation on the part 
of Moses and Elias (Luke ix, 31). Ullmann supposes 
the reference in the words lixaiov Ii yyorpai laytiptiv 
(i, 13) to be to Mark’s Gospel said to have been com- 
posed on Peter’s authority; but the allusion seems to 
be to the paragraph immediately under his hand. It 
would have been a profane and daring imposture for any 
one to personate an apostle, and deliver to the churches 
a letter in his name, with so marked a reference to one 
of the most memorable circumstances and glories in the 
apostle’s life. A forgery so glaring eould make no pre- 
tence to inspiration — to be a produet of the Spirit of 
Truth. The inspiration of the epistle is thus bound up 
with the question of its authorship, so that if it is not 
the work of Peter it must be rejected altogether from 
the canon. The opinion of erities of what is called the 
liberal school, including all shades from Ltieke to Raur, 
has been decidedly unfavorable, and that opinion has 
been adopted by some able writers in England. There 
are, however, very strong reasons why this verdict should 
be reconsidered. No one ground on which it rests is un- 
assailable. The rejection of this book affects the au- 
thority of the whole eanon, which, in the opinion of one 
of the keenest and least scrupulous critics (Reuss) of 
modern Germany, is free from any other error. It is 
not a question as to the possible authorship of a work 
like that of the Hebrew's, which does not bear the writ- 
er’s name. The Church, ivhich for more than fourteen 
centuries has received it, has either been imposed upon 
by what must in that case be regarded as a Satanic de- 
vice, or derived from it spiritual instruction of the high- 
est importance. If received, it bears attestation to some 
of the most important facts in our Lord’s history, easts 
light upon the feelings of the apostolic body in relation 
to the elder Chureh and to eaeh other, and, while it 
confirms many doctrines generally inculcated, is the 
chief, if not the only, voucher for eseliatologieal views 
touching the destruction of the framework of creation, 
which from au early period have been prevalent iu the 
Chureh. 

3. Objections. — There are serious difficulties, however, 
in the way of its reception ; ami these are usually said 
to be difference of style, difference of doctrine, and the 
marked correspondence of portions of the epistle with 
, that of Jude. Yet Gaussen makes the astounding state- 


PETER (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 2 

mcnt — “The two epistles when carefully compared re- 
veal more points of agreement than difference," but he 
has not taken the trouble of noting them (On the Canon, 
p. 351)). The employment of tor is different in the sec- 
ond epistle from the first. There, though it occurs 
otherwise, it is generally employed in comparisons, and 
its frequency makes it a characteristic of the style; but 
it occurs much more rarely in the second epistle, and 
usually, though not always, with a different meaning 
and purpose. The use of dXXd after a negative clause 
and introducing a positive one is common in the first 
epistle, and but rare in the second. There are many 
uTraZ Xtyoptva in the second epistle. The first and 
second epistles differ also in the use of Xpioro^. In 
the lirst epistle X. stands in the majority of instances 
without the article and bv itself, either simply 1. X. or 
X. I.; but in the second epistle it has usually some 
predicate attached to it (i, 1, 2, 8; ii, 14- lb). The 
name Stog occurs nearly forty times in the first epistle, 
but only seven times in the second. Again, KvptoQ is 
applied to Christ only once in the first epistle (i, 3), but 
in the second epistle it is a common adjunct to other 
names of the Saviour. In the first epistle it means the 
Father in all eases but one (ii, 3), but in the second 
epistle it denotes the Son, in harmony with Peter’s own 
declaration (Acts ii,3G; x,36). The epithet awTt'ip, so 
often applied to Christ in the second epistle, is not found 
in the lirst. The second coming of our Lord is also ex- 
pressed differently in the two epistles. diroKaXv^/ig, or 
its verb, being used in the lirst epistle (i, 5, 7, 13; iv, 
13; v, 1); or it is called ro riXog irdi’Tuiv (v, 7); or 
Xpovot f(Tx ar01 (b 20). But in the second epistle it is 
called 7) pi pa tepiotut; (ii, 9), irapovaia (iii, 4), ijpipa 
nvpiov (iii, 10), 7 } pi pa S’ton (iii, 12). These are cer- 
tainly marked diversities, and it is difficult to offer a sat- 
isfactory explanation of them. It may, however, be re- 
plied that with the sacred writers the divine names are 
not used, as with ns, without any prominent or distinc- 
tive application. In the first epistle the Ilcdeemer’s 
names are his common ones, the familiar ones in the 
mouths of all believers— for the writer brings into prom- 
inence the oneness of believers with him in suffering and 
glory; with him still as Jesus wearing his human name 
and his human nature with all its sympathies; or as the 
Christ who, as the Father’s servant, obeyed, suffered, 
and was crowned, the Spirit that anointed him still be- 
ing “the unction from the Holy One” to all his people. 
In the second epistle the writer has in view persons 
who are heretics, rebellious, dissolute, false teachers; 
and in warning them his mind naturally looks to the 
authority and lordship of the Saviour, which it was so 
awful to contemn and so vain to oppose. If the last 
day be set in different colors in the two epistles, the 
difference may be accounted for on the same principle; 
for to those suffering under trial it shines afar as the 
hope that sustains them, but to those who are perverse 
it presents itself as the time of reckoning which should 
alarm them into believing submission. 

The aspects under which the Gospel is represented in 
this second epistle differ from those in the first. The 
writer lays stress on iTriyvwoir, or ynwatr (i, 2, 3, 5, 8; 
ii. 20, 11 ; iii, is). In this epistle the Gospel is gener- 
ally Xpttrroi' <V'i rnpig teat naporaia (i, Hi), utot; ri jt; 
ftKcitoori tp; (ii, 21), iiyta irroXi), etc.; whereas the first 
epistle throws into prominence iXwic, (Tio-t)pia, pavrt- 
npiig aiparoi ; I. X., \upuj (i, 10) dXifitia (i, 22), \6yoc 
(ii, 8), 7r«(Tric, etc. The reason niav lie ventured that 
the persons addressed in the second epistle were in 
danger of being tempted into error; and that a definite 
and progressive knowledge of Christianity was the safe- 
guard against those loose speculations which were float- 
ing around them. On this account, too, we have ad- 
monition suggested and pointed by their perilous cir- 
cumstances, “ to make their calling and election sure” 
(i, 10; iii, 11); nay, the purpose of the epistle seems to 
be given in iii, 17 ; “Ye therefore, beloved, knowing 
beforehand, take heed lest, being led away with the er- 


: PETER (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 

ror of the lawless, ye fall away from your own steadfast- 
ness; but grow in grace, ami in the knowledge of our 
Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.” The iiriyvinoi f is the 
grand theme of counsel and the real prophylactic pre- 
sented, for it embodies itself in that diKmotrvvi) on the 
possession of which so much depends, as is seen in the 
allusions to Noah and Lot, and to the want of which are 
traced in contrast the judgment of the flood and the fate 
of Sodom, the selfish character of Balaam, and the dark 
and deceitful ways and works of the false teachers. 

There is also a characteristic difference in the mode 
of quotation from the (>. T. Quotations are abundant 
in the lirst epistle, either formally introduced by ftdn 
' yiypaTTTui (i, Iff), or by Cidri jrfpii\fi iv ry ypa<pi) (ii, 
<5), or are woven into the discourse without any prefa- 
tory statement, ns if writer and readers were equally 
familiar with them (i, 24; ii, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9. It), 22, 21, 25; 
iii, 9, 10, II, 15). But in the second epistle quotations 
are unfrequent, though we have Psa. xc, 4 in iii, *, and 
Isa. Ixv, 17 in iii, 13. Of a different kind are the allu- 
sions to Noah and the flood, to Lot and Sodom, and to 
Balaam. But we may still explain that the modes of 
handling and applying the O. T. may differ according 
to the purpose which any writer has in view. In a 
longer and fuller epistle there may be quotations at 
length, but in a shorter one only apposite allusions to 
facts and incidents. The objection would have been 
stronger if in an epistle ascribing itself to Peter there 
had been no use made of the (). T. at all; but a third 
of this epistle consists of references to the O. T. or to 
warnings drawn from it. 

The peculiar similarity of a large portion of this 
epistle to that of Jude has often been commented on. 
The second chapter and a portion of the third are so like 
Jude that the resemblance cannot be accidental, for it is 
found in words as well as in thoughts. It has been con- 
jectured by some that both borrowed from a common 
source. Bishop Sherlock supposed that this source was 
some ancient Hebrew author who had portrayed the 
false teachers, Jude having used the epistle of Peter as 
well as this old authority ( Use uml Intent of Propheci /, 
Dissert, i, 200, Loud. 1725). Herder and Hassc, hold- 
ing this theory, conjecture the document common to 
both writers to be the Zendavesta. This opinion has 
no foundation, and relieves us of 110 difficulty. Others 
imagine that Jude followed Peter, and several reasons 
have been alleged in favor of this opinion by Mill, 
jMichaelis, Storr, Dahl, Wordsworth, Thiersch, lleyden- 
reich, llengstenberg, and Gausscn. Their general ar- 
gument is that Peter predicts what Jude describes as 
actually existing (Jude 18), and that Jude refers to 
prophecies which arc found only in Peter. But it is 
really doubtful if both epistles refer to the same class of 
errorists. Those described by Peter are rather specu- 
lators, though their immoral practices are also noted, 
while those branded by Jude are specially marked as 
libertines and sensualists, whose life has perverted and 
undermined their creed. Others again hold that Peter 
took from Jude; such is the view of Hug, Kiclihorn, 
Creditor, Xeandcr, Maverhoff, Dc Wette, Guericke, and 
Block. One argument of no small force is that the style 
of Jude is the simpler and briefer, and Peter's the more 
ornate and amplified; that Jude's is more pointed and 
Peter’s more indefinite; and that some allusions in Peter 
are so vague that they can be understood only by a com- 
parison with Jude (comp. 2 Pct.ii, 4 with Jude f> ; 2 Pet. 
ii, 1 1 with J ude 9). Thus Peter says, generally, “ Angels 
bring not railing accusations Jude gives the special in- 
stance, Michael and Satan. Peter speaks of the “ angels 
that sinned;” Jude says more precisely, they “kept not 
their first estate, blit left their own habitation." Olshau- 
son and August! in part think that the similarity may 
be accounted for by a previous correspondence between 
the writers; that Jude may have described to Peter 
the character and practices of t lie false teachers, and 
that Peter, relying 011 the truthfulness of the statement, 
made his own use of it without hesitation when lie had 


PETER, (SECOND EPISTLE OF) ‘25 PETER (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 


occasion to refer to the same or a similar class of perni- 
cious subverters of truth anil purity. This hypothesis 
is scarcely probable, and it is more likely that Peter had 
read the epistle of Jude, and reproduced in his own 
epistle and in his own way its distinctive clauses, which 
must have deepty impressed him, but with such differ- 
ences at the same time as show that he was no mere 
copyist. Is it tinworthy of an apostle to use another 
writing divinely authorized, and can Peter’s appropria- 
tion of so much of Jude’s language be stigmatized, as by 
Reuss, as “ a palpable plagiarism ?” Thus Jude uses the 
phrase “clouds without water,” but Peter “ wells with- 
out water,” this figure being more suited to his imme- 
diate purpose. The am \dStg of Jude 12 was from rem- 
iniscence of sound before Peter’s mind, but it is changed 
of purpose into otti \ ot; and Jude’s phrase iv tchq ayd- 
TtaiQ vpuiv becomes in the same connection in Peter tv 
rciig d7rdraig avrCjv. 2 Pet. ii, 17 shows a like similar- 
ity and difference compared with Jude 13. The claim 
of originality thus lies on the side of Jude, while original 
thinking characterizes Peter’s use of Jude’s terser and 
minuter diction. There is no ground for Bertholdt’s 
suggestion to reject the second chapter as spurious; or 
for Ullmann’s, to refer both second and third chapters 
to a post-apostolic period; or for Lange to brand as spu- 
rious the whole of the second chapter with the last two 
verses of the first chapter, and the first ten verses of the 
third — that is, from the first rouro irpioTov yiviooicovTtg 
to the other; or for Bunsen to receive only the first 
twelve verses and the concluding doxology (Bertholilt, 
Einleil. in d. N. T. vol. vi; Ullmann, Der zweite Brief 
Petri; Lange, A postal. Zeit alter, i, 152; and in Herzog’s 
Eneyhlop. s. v. ; Bunsen, Ignatius von Antiocliien. p. 175). 

Other more specific objections against the epistle may 
be briefly alluded to. According to Mayerhoff ( Einleit . 
p. 187), the writer in iii, 2 separates himself from the 
apostles; Bleek ( Einleit . p. 57 G) and others supposing 
that he intended to characterize himself as an apostle, 
and having before him the somewhat parallel expression 
of Jude, he so far altered it, but in the alteration has 
failed to give lucid utterance to his purpose. The 
phrase, with the double genitive kcA rijg ru>v aTrooru- 
vpwv ivro\i)g rov Kvpiov, naturally means, “and 
the commandment of the Lord given by your apostles.” 
The pronoun vpdv is the best-sustained reading, and 
the English version does violence to the position of the 
words. As Olshausen and Windischmann have shown, 
the use of vpwv does not exclude Peter, even though it 
be rendered “ the commandments of your apostles of the 
Lord Jesus.” In fact, it neither denies nor affirms his 
apostleship; though if i)pwv had been employed, and 
the phrase rendered “our apostles,” the conclusion 
against its genuineness would certainly have some 
weight. But this objection that the writer excludes 
himself from the apostles neutralizes another, to wit, 
that the waiter betrays too great anxiety to show him- 
self as the apostle Peter. He could not certainly do 
both in the same document without stultifying himself. 
Does not the apostle Paul when it serves his object use 
pointedly the first person singular, refer to himself, and 
assert his apostolic office as Peter does in i, 12, 13, 14, 
15? The use of the name Xuptiov in i, 1 can neither 
tell for the genuineness, as Dietlein supposes, nor against 
it, as Mayerhoff argues. The reference in iii, 1 to a 
former epistle is not for the purpose of identifying him- 
self with the author of that epistle, but naturally comes 
in as a proof of his anxiety for his readers that they 
should bear in memory the lessons already imparted to 
them. 

It is said that the first epistle ivas addressed to a par- 
ticular circle of churches (1 Pet. i, 1), while the second 
was to Christians in general (2 Pet. i, 1), yet it assumed 
(iii, 1) that the readers were in both cases the same, the 
confusion being increased by the fact that in ch. i, 1G 
the writer speaks as if he had been their personal in- 
structor, whereas in iii, 15 he treats them as the disci- 
ples of Taul. But we may well suppose that the first 


epistle, directed to a large enough circle at first, must 
soon have taken its place as a general epistle. The in- 
spired penmen knew well that, though there was a par- 
ticular occasion for their writing and special counsels to 
be given, yet their teachings were to be for the guidance 
of the whole Church. Hence we sometimes find them 
directing that their letters should be read beyond the 
first community to which they came (Col. iv, 16; 1 
Thess. v, 27). Peter might therefore properly write a 
second time to Christians without express limitation of 
country, and still regard his readers as those whom he 
had admonished before. It is not necessary to sup- 
pose that by his expression in i, 1G he means personal 
instruction : the reference was to what he had said in 
his former letter. We must consider too the circum- 
stances under which he wrote at all. There was a spu- 
rious kind of wisdom corrupting the Church (Col. ii, 8, 
1G-23). Jewish traditions had their influence; and sen- 
sual indulgence was sure to follow. Paul, who had care- 
fully watched the churches he had planted, had been 
long a prisoner, and was thus withdrawn from active 
superintendence of them. Very fitting therefore it was 
that Peter, the apostle of the circumcision, should write 
as he did at first, to confirm the doctrine learned of 
Paul, and to inculcate the holy principles and unblem- 
ished conduct which could alone fortify believers against 
impending persecution. Yet he anticipates in the first 
letter a further declension, and a greater necessity for 
faithful resistance of error (1 Pet. iv, 1 -4). Now we 
know that the evil did increase; and Tanl in the pas- 
toral epistles speaks of serious depravation of doctrine, 
and more open lawlessness of conduct (1 Tim. i, 19, 20; 
iv, 1 ; 2 Tim. ii, 17, 18; iii, 1-7). The second epistle of 
Peter w r as called for, then, to check the progress of false 
teaching and of unbecoming conduct: it takes up the 
matter at a point historically later than the first ; but it 
handles the same topics, and so is a proper supplement 
to it. Thus, as Schott says (p. 102), “That which pre- 
sented itself in the first epistle we see also in the second; 
the same uncertainty respecting the gospel -standing 
of Gentile Christians, and the gospel-teaching of Paul 
(i, 1, 10, 12; iii, 2, 15, etc.); the same questionings about 
the revelation of Christ, the resurrection of the body, 
and the final judgment (i, 4, etc., 11, 12, etc., 1G, etc. ; ii, 
9 ; iii, 2, 8, etc., 10, etc., 18) ; the same tendency to relax 
in the work of Christian sanctification (i, 5-12, etc.; 
iii, 11, etc., 14, 17).” Other noteworthy traces he be- 
lieves he can detect of a relationship between the two. 
Some of these are a debased state of religious knowledge 
grounded on Jewish writings alien from the true teach- 
ing of Scripture, and an affected spirituality which fos- 
tered sensual indulgence. Evidence that such evils ex- 
isted at the time of writing may be found more clearly 
in the second, more faintly, but yet noticeably, in the 
first epistie. 

Three arguments have been adduced to prove that 
the epistle must belong to post-apostolic times. 1. It is 
alleged that the doubts about Christ’s second coming, 
referred to in iii, 3, 4, could not have arisen in apostolic 
times, when the belief in it was so firm and glowing ; and 
a period of some length must have elapsed ere it could 
be said that the “fathers had fallen asleep.” But the 
scoffers referred to were probably Gnostics who never 
believed that event, or at all events spiritualized the 
truth of it away ; and after one generation had passed 
they might .use the language imputed to them ; or “ the 
fathers” may denote the Jewish patriarchs, since whose 
decease uniformity had characterized all the processes 
and laws of nature. The Gnostic spiritualism which 
treated the resurrection as past early troubled the 
Church, and its disciples might cast ridicule on the 
faith and hopes of others in the challenge v. hich Peter 
quotes. 2. It is said that the allusion to Paul's epistles 
indicates a late date, as it supposes them to be collected 
in part at least, and calls them by the saered name of 
ypa^ai (iii, 15, 16). But surely it may be granted that 
towards the close of Peter’s life several epistles of Taul 


PETER (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 2 

may have been brought together and placed in point 
of authority on the same level as the O. T. ; and that 
other documents also — rdf Xojjrwt; ypaftuj — already 
occupied a similar place. Whatever exegesis be adopt- 
ed, this is the general result. The writings of Paul, so I 
well known to the readers of this epistle, are mentioned 
not as a completed whole; the phrase iv ? rdaair, etc., is 
not to be taken absolutely, but relatively, as if denoting 
“in all his epistles which he writes.” The “things” 
referred to as discussed in these epistles (irtpi roerwi') 
are not their general contents, but the coming of our 
Lord and the end of the world, and in these discussions 
“are some things hard to be understood.” The allusion 
certainl}’ presupposes a late age, and the writer, as he 
informs ns, was very near bis death. The date of Peter’s 
death is not precisely known, and the common traditions 
concerning it may therefore be modified. As Alford 
says, a later date than the usual one may be assigned 
to it. 3. Again, it is held, as by Neander, that the epi- 
thet “holy mount," as applied to the hill of transfigura- 
tion, indicates a late period, for Zion only was so desig- 
nated ; and Maycrhoff affirms that the epithet suits 
Mount Zion alone. Hut the scene on which the glory 
of Jesus had been so displayed might many years after- 
wards be well called “holy” by one who was an eye- 
witness, when he referred to it as a proof and symbol of 
“the power and coming of the Lord Jesus.” 

Still, while a partial reply may be given to objec- 
tions based on difference of style and of doctrinal rep- 
resentation, it must in honesty be added that these dif- 
ferences are not all of them wholly accounted for. The 
style and matter, as a whole, are so unlike the first 
epistle, that one lias considerable difficulty in ascrib- 
ing both epistles to the same author. While there is 
similarity in some words or phrases, the spirit, tone, 
and manner of the whole epistle are widely diverse. 
Minute criticism may discover Hi r«£ Xeyoptva, and ar- 
range them in proof parallel to similar usage in the 
first epistle; but such minuthe do not hide the general 
dissimilitude. It may be argued, and the argument 
is not without weight, that a forger would have imi- 
tated the salient peculiarities of the first epistle. No 
one of ordinary critical discernment would have failed 
to attempt the reproduction of its characteristic feat- 
ures of style and thought. But the absence of such 
studied likeness is surely in favor of the genuineness. 
It may be added also that, as there are in the first 
epistle statements so peculiar to it as to be found no- 
where else, the same specialty in what seems to be 
undesigned coincidence marks the second epistle in 
the declarations of its third chapter. It would have 
been difficult in the second century to impose on the 
churches a second epistle forged in Peter’s name, and 
so unlike in many points to his first. A direct imi- 
tation of his style might have deceived some of the 
churches by its obvious features of similitude, but the 
case is widely different when a writing so obviously 
unlike the first epistle won its way into circulation 
unchallenged in its origin and history, and was not 
doubted save at length by scholars and mainly on crit- 
ical grounds. Why did not Origen and others tell ns 
of the time of its first appearance, and how and by 
whom it was placed in the canon? Possibly on such 
points they were ignorant, or at least they knew noth- 
ing that warranted suspicion. Still the difference of 
manner between the two epistles remains, and perhaps 
one might account for it, as Jerome has hinted and 
Calvin has supposed, by the supposition that Peter 
dictated the epistle in Aramaic, and that the amanu- 
ensis was left to express the thoughts in his own forms 
and phrases. Difference of condition and purpose may 
account for difference of topic, and the change of style 
may be ascribed to the Creek copyist and translator. 
If, moreover, we admit that some time intervened be- 
tween the composition of the two works; that in writ- 
ing the first the apostle was aided by Silvanus, and in 
the second by another, perhaps Mark; that the circum- 


0 PETER (SECOND EPISTLE OF) 

stances of the churches addressed by him were consid- 
erably changed, and that the second was written in 
greater baste, not to speak of a possible decay of facul- 
ties, the differences may be regarded as insufficient to 
justify more than hesitation in admitting its genuine- 
ness. The authenticity of the epistle has been main- 
tained more or less decidedly by Michaeli®, Nitzsehe, 
Flatt, Augusti, Storr, Dalil, ling, Ileydenreicli, Lard- 
ner, Windischmann, Guericke, Thiersch, Stier, Diet- 
lcin, Hofmann, Luthardt, Bruckner, and Olshausen. 
Feilmoscr and Davidson incline to the same side. 
These are great names; yet, though we agree with 
their opinion, we cannot venture to say, with Bonnet, 
that “ of all the books of the N. T. which have been 
controverted at certain times, there is not one whose 
authenticity is so certain as that of the second epistle 
of Peter” (Aowiv Test., Introd., ii, 701, Genl've, 1*52). 

II. Time, Place, Design , and Persons addressed . — 
When and where the epistle was written cannot be 
definitely known. The place was Pome in all proba- 
bility ; for Peter, after coming to Home, did not, so far 
as we know, leave that city till his death. II is death 
is usually placed in Gi, but it may have been later, 
and this epistle was written just before it. Mayerlioff 
ascribes it to a Jewish Christian of Alexandria about 
the middle of the second century. Iluther places it in 
the last quarter of the first century or the beginning 
of the second. 

The persons for whom the epistle is intended are 
“those who have obtained like precious faith Avith 
us ;” and iii, 1 identifies them with those addressed in 
the first epistle. It is objected that this epistle as- 
serts that Peter had taught them in person — such not 
being the ease with those addressed in the first epistle. 
But the phrase adduced — iyvuipioaptv opiv (i,16), “we 
made known unto you” — seems to refer not to oral dis- 
course, but to various portions of the first epistle in 
Avhich the coming and glory of Christ are dAvelt on. 
The object of the epistle is to Avam against “ false 
teachers,” “bringing in damnable heresies,” “deny- 
ing the Lord that bought them,” holding a peculiar 
dajinonologA’ — coA'etous, sensual, and imperious apos- 
tates, the A'ictims and propagators of Antinomian delu- 
sion. Probably they taught some early form of Gnos- 
tic error, Avhich, denying the Lord’s humanity and 
atoning death, ridiculed his second advent in man’s 
nature, set aside the authority of law, and by this ef- 
frontery justified itself in licentious impurity. The 
false teachers were like the “false prophets,” perhaps 
claiming divine basis for their teachings, and therefore 
the more able to shake the faith of others, and seduce 
them into perilous apostasy. Thus, in brief, as the 
Avriter himself describes it (iii, 17), his object is, first, 
Avarning, or to caution his readers against seduction : 
“ Beware lest ye also, being led aAvav with the error of 
the wicked, fall from your oAvn steadfastness” — -poye- 
yrwaKovTte — “as ye knoAV those things beforehand,” 
that is, from his descriptive accounts; and, secondly, 
counsel, or to urge on them, as the best of all antidotes 
to apostasy, to “grow in grace, and in the knowledge 
of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.” For this ylptf 
and yvCjrrtq Avonld fortify them and make them invin- 
cible against those assaults Avhich so often succeeded 
Avith the unwary avIio fell in their hcedlcssncss, the 
graceless avIio trusted in their oavh strength, and the 
ignorant or half-informed, so liable from tlicii partial 
knowledge to be imposed upon by any system that 
dealt in novel speculations, professed to unfold mys- 
teries, or give license and AA’arrant for hnvless practices, 
'file supposition of Grotins, that it Avas Avrittcn in the 
reign of Trajan against the Carpocratians, and bv Sim- 
eon, bishop of Jerusalem, is Avithout any probability, 
as Bertliuldt lias more than sufficiently shown. The 
arguments of Schwegler for its place as Home, its date 
the end of the second century, and its purpose as an 
effort to conciliate Petrine and Pauline theological dif- 
ferences, are ansAvcred conclusively by Iluther. 


PETER 


PETER 


III. The contents of tlie epistle seem quite in accord- i 
ance with its asserted origin. The customary opening ^ 
salutation is followed by- an enumeration of Christian 
blessings and exhortation to Christian duties, with 
special reference to the maintenance of the truth 
which had already been communicated to the Church 
(i, 1-13). Referring then to his approaching death, 
the apostle assigns as grounds of assurance for believ- 
ers his own personal testimony as an eye-witness of the 
transfiguration, and the sure word of prophecy, that is 
the testimony of the Holy Ghost (14-21). The danger 
of being misled by false prophets is dwelt upon with 
great earnestness throughout the second chapter ; their 
covetousness and gross sensuality, combined with pre- 
tences to spiritualism, in short all the permanent and 
fundamental characteristics of Antinomianism, are de- 
scribed; while the overthrow" of all opponents of Chris- 
tian truth is predicted (ii, 1-29) in connection with 
prophecies touching the second advent of Christ, the 
destruction of the world by fire, and the promise of 
new heavens and a new earth wherein dwellcth right- 
eousness. After an exhortation to attend to Paul’s 
teaching, in accordance with the less explicit admoni- 
tion in the previous epistle, and an emphatic warning, 
the epistle closes with the customary ascription of glo- 
ry to our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. 

IV. Commentaries. — Exegetical helps on the whole 
of this epistle exclusively are the following: Sirason, 
Commentary (Lond. 1632, 4to); Adams, Commentary 
(ibid. 1633, fol.) ; Smith, Commentaries (ibid. 1690, 4to) ; 
Deurhof, Erklaringe (Arast. 1713, 4to); Nitzsclie, 17 m- 
dicaiio (Lips. 1785, 8vo) ; Flatt, Defensio (Tub. 1806, 
8vo); Dahl, De avStvriq., etc. [includ. Jude] (Rost. 
1807, 4to) ; Richter, De Oriyine, etc. [includ. Jude] 
(Tit. 1810, 8vo) ; Ullmann, .4 uslegimg (Lips. 1322, 8vo) ; 
Olshausen, De Integ. et Authent. etc. (Regiom. 1822-3, 
4to ; in English in the Bibl. Repos. July and Oct. 1863) ; 
Picot, Recherches, etc. (Genev. 1829, 8vo) ; Moutier, .4 u- 
thentie , etc. [includ. Jude] (Strasb. 1829, 8vo); Delille, 
A uthentie, etc. (ibid. 1835, 8vo) ; Magnus, id. (ibid. 1835, 
8vo) ; Heydenreich, Aechtheit, etc. (Herb. 1837, 8vo); 
Audemars, La 2 d Ep. de P. (Genev. 1838, 8vo); Dau- 
mas, Introduction critique (Strasb. 1845, 8vo) ; Brown, 
Discourses [on ch. i] (Edinb. 1856, 8vo) ; Smith, Lectures 
(Lond. 1878, 8vo). See Peter, First Epistle of. 

Peter of Alcantara, St., was born in the place 
after which he is surnamed in 1499, studied at the uni- 
versity in Salamanca, and when sixteen years old be- 
came a Franciscan monk. In 1519 he became prior at 
Badajoz, and in 1524 priest. For several years he lived 
in retirement, but in 1538 he was made general-superior 
of his order in Estremadura. In 1555 he founded, with 
the consent of pope Julius III, a separate reformed con- 
gregation, called the Observantists (q. v.), and assisted 
St. Theresa in her reforms of the Carmelites. He died 
in 1562, and was canonized in 1569. His work T)e ora- 
tioue et meditatione was long and widely circulated. The 
De animi pace seu tranquillitate is not genuine. Ac- 
cording to the legend, Peter walked on the sea by faith. 
In a picture in the Munich gallery, he not only lvalks 
himself, but a lay brother goes with him, whom Peter 
seems to encourage by pointing to heaven. See Acta 
Sanctorum , vol. viii. 

Peter of Alexandria (1), the first of that name 
in the list of bishops, and noted for the part he took 
against the Meletian schism, was born in the 3d cen- 
tury. He was placed over the see of Alexandria after 
the death of Theonas, which occurred April 9, 300. Pe- 
ter had not occupied the position quite three years when 
the persecution commenced by the emperor Diocletian, 
and continued by his successors, broke out in 304. Peter 
was obliged to hide himself, and fied from one place to 
another, as we learn from a discourse said to have been 
delivered by him in prison, in which he states that 
he found shelter at different times in Mesopotamia, in 
Phoenicia, in Palestine, and in various islands. Cave 


I conjectures that he was imprisoned during the reign of 
j Diocletian or Maximian Galerius, but, if so, Peter must 
have obtained his release before the schism in the 
Egyptian churches. In 306 he assembled a council, 
which passed upon the misdemeanors of Meletius, bish- 
op of Lycopolis. This prelate, in publishing calum- 
nies against Peter and his council, finally created a 
schism in the Church of Alexandria, which lasted 150 
years. Peter was obliged to seek his safety in flight.. 
In the ninth year of the persecution he was, suddenly 
and contrary to all expectation, again arrested by order 
of Maximin Daza, and, without any distinct charge be- 
ing brought against him, was beheaded Nov. 25, 311. 
Eusebius speaks with the highest admiration of his pi- 
ety and his attainments in sacred literature, and he is 
revered as a saint and martyr both in the Eastern and 
Western churches. His memory is now celebrated by 
the Latin and Greek churches on the 26th, except in 
Russia, w'bere the more ancient computation, which 
placed it on the 25tli, is still followed. Peter wrote 
several w'orks, of which there are very scanty remains : 
(1.) Sermo de Pcenitentia: — (2.) Sermo in Sanctum Pas- 
cha. These discourses are not extant in their original 
form, but fifteen canons relating to the lapsi, or those 
who in time of persecution had fallen away— fourteen 
of them from the Sermo de Pcenitentia (\dyo£ tt tpi yt- 
ravoiag'), the fifteenth from the Sermo in Sanctum 
Puscha— are contained in all the Canonum Collectiones. 
They were published in a Latin version in the Micro- 
presbyticon (Basle, 1550); in the Orthodoxographa of 
lleroldus (ibid. 1555), and of Grymens (ibid. 1569); in 
the first and second editions of De la Bigne’s Bibliotheca 
Patrum (Paris, 1575 and 1589), and in the Cologne edi- 
tion (1618). They are given also in the Concilia. It 
is only in some MSS. and editions that the separate 
source of the fifteenth canon is pointed out: — (3.) Liber 
de Divinitate s. Deitate. There is a citation from this 
treatise in the Acta Concilii Ephcsini; it occurs in the 
Actio prima, and a part of it is again cited in the De- 
fensio Cyrilli, which is given in the sequel of the .4 eta : 
— (4.) Ilomilia de Adventu Salvatoris s. Christi. A 
short citation from this occurs in the Latin version of 
the work of Leontius of Byzantium, Contra Kestorianos 
et Eutychianos, lib. i : — (5, 6.) Two fragments, one de- 
scribed, Ex primo Sermone , de eo quod nec prceexistit 
Anima, nec cum peccasset propterea in Corpus missa est, 
the other as Ex Mystagogia quam fecit ad Ecclesiam 
cum J lartyrii Coronam suscepturus esset, are cited by 
the emperor Justinian in his Epistola ad Mennam 
CPolitanum adversus Origenem, given in the Acta Con- 
cilia CPolitani II s. tEcumeniei V ( Concilia , vol. v, 
col. 652, ed. Labbe ; vol. iii, col. 256, 257, ed. Hardouin), 
Another fragment of the same discourse is contained in 
the compilation Leontii et Joannis Rerum Sacrarum 
lib. ii, published by Mai in the above-cited Collectio , 

vii, 85: — (7.) Epistola S. Petri Episcopi ad Ecclesiam 
Alexandrinam, noticing some irregular proceedings of 
the schismatic Meletius. This letter, which is very 
short, was published in a Latin version by Scipio Maffei 
in the third volume of his Obserrazione Letterarie (Ve- 
rona?, 1737-40, 6 vols. 12mo): — (8.) Doctrina. A frag- 
ment of this work is cited by Leontius and Joannes, and 
was published by Mai (ibid. p. 96). The published 
fragments of Peter’s works, with few exceptions, ara 
given in the fourth volume of Galland’s Bibliotheca Pa- 
trum , p. 91, etc. See Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. vii, 32; 

viii, 13; ix, 6, cum notis Valesii; Athanasius, Apolog. 
contra Arianos, c. 59; Epiphanius, l. c.; Concilia, 1. c. ; 
Cave, Hist. Lift, ad ann. 301, i, 160 (Oxford ed. 1740-43) ; 
Tillemont, Memoires , v, 436, etc.; Fabricius, Biblioth. 
Grcec. ix, 316, etc.; Ceillier, Hist, des Auteurs sacres et 
ecclesiastiques, iv, 17 sq. ; Dupin. Biblioth'eqne des Au- 
teurs eccles. ; Galland, Biblioth. Patrum, proleg. ad vol. 
iv, c. 6. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. andMythol. 
iii, 219. Comp. Hoefer, .Ybwi\ Biog. Generate, xl, 138; 
Dorner, Christologie, i, 810; Hefele, Concilkngesch. i, 
327 sq. ; Schaff, Church Hist. vol. i. 


PETEli 


PETEIi 


Peter of Alexandria (2), another patriarch of 
that see, was born near the beginning of the 4th cen- 
tury, during the life of A than a. -ins, whom he for many 
years accompanied, sharing his variable fortunes, as 
presbyter of the Church at Alexandria, lie was des- 
ignated by Athanasius as his successor, and upon the 
death of that celebrated Church father (A. I). 373) was 
appointed to the place, to the great satisfaction of the 
orthodox among the people, and with the approval of 
the neighboring bishops. The Arians, however, who 
had, either from fear or reverence, conceded quiet pos- 
session to Athanasius, were by no means disposed to 
acquiesce in the appointment of an orthodox successor; 
and Peter was at once deposed and imprisoned. Mak- 
ing his escape, he lied to Home, where he was kindly 
received l»v pope Damasus I, leaving his Arian compet- 
itor, Lucius, in possession of the Church of Alexan- 
dria. After five years’ absence. Peter returned with 
letters from the pope confirming his title to the see, and 
regained possession of the church by favor of the peo- 
ple, who deposed Lucius, and forced him to lice to Con- 
stantinople. l’ctcr enjoyed the highest esteem of his 
contemporaries, but survived his restoration only a 
short time. lie died Feb. 14, 38], and was succeeded 
by his brother Timothy. Valosius speaks of him as the 
abettor of Maximus the Cynic in his usurpation of the 
see of Constantinople in place of St. Gregory (Xazian- 
zen), but this is scarcely probable, since Gregory him- 
self eulogizes him. Theodoret ascribes this act to Tim- 
othy. Of the writings of I’eter, parts of two letters 
have been preserved to us by Theodoret and Facundns; 
the first giving an account of the persecutions and acts 
of violence perpetrated by Lucius and the Arians; the 
second, Fpistola ad Fpiscopos et Presbyteros atqne Dia- 
conos pro rent Fide in exsilio constitutor, s. ad Fpiscopos, 
Presbyteros, atque Diaconos qui sub Valente Imperatore 
Dioeatsareum fuerant exudes missi. Sec Ceillier, Hist, des 
Auteurs sacres et eccles. viii, 404 sq. ; lloefer, A 'our, 
Biog. Generate, xl. 138; Smith, Diet, of (Jr. and Itom. 
Biog. and Mythol. iii, 220. 

Peter of Amiens. See Peter tiie Hermit. 

Peter ( Pierre ) of Sr. Andre (known also as Jean- 
Antoine Rampalhi), a French ecclesiastic, was born in ' 
1(524 at L'lsle (comte Venaissin). After having taken 
in 1040 the garb of the barefoot Carmelites under the 
name of Pierre do St. Andre, he taught philosophy and 
theology; became about 1007 general definitor of his 
order, and died at Home, in the exercise of these duties, 
Nov. 20. 1071. Although he left only some odes in 
praise of St. Theresa, father Cosmo dc Villiers claims 
that lie had so much facility in Latin poetry that he 
was regarded as a second Baptiste Mantouan. We 
have of his works, Jlistoria generalis Fratrum Dis- 
calcea forum ord. de Monte-Cannelo (Home, 10(58 1071, 

2 vols. fol.) ; this history is the continuation of that 
undertaken by father Isidore de St. .Joseph, who died 
in 1000: — Lc Religkux dans la Solitude (Lyons, 1008, 
12mo): — 1m Vie du B.Jeande la Croix (Aix, 1075, 8vo). 
lie has translated into French the Voyage a V Orient 
(10.0(1, Xvo), and the Vie du Fere Dominique de Je.sus- 
Marie, two works of Ksprit Julicn, as well as the Made- 
leine peuil < nte et ennrertie, and the Ahxis of father Brig- ! 
nole-Sale, A Traite de la Physionomie nnturelle and two 
sacred tragedies are also attributed to him, which, in all 
probability, are by an homonymous poet, Antoine Ham- 
palle, known by a verse from the .1 et Poetiqne of Boileau 
(eh. iv, vor. 35). See De Villiers, Biblinth. t 'annelitana, 
ii, 515; Achard, Diet. Hist, de la Provence; Barjavel, 
Hint), du I ‘and use, ii, 295. — lloefer, Four. Ring, Gene- 
rale, xl, 198. 

Peter of Axolo, a Swiss theologian of the 15th 
century, tlourished at Basle as doctor and professor of 
canon law. lie wrote about 1 1(50. Ribellus de Casa mm 
Monarchal ad Fridericum, etc. (under the title l)e lm- 
perio Romano, edited by Faber, Strasburg, 1(5(13; \u- 
remb. 1G57). The work takes the ground that the Ger- 


man empire is the continuance of the Homan imperium 
(a view in very recent times espoused by Freeman in his 
Comparative Politics). All princes are subordinate to 
the emperor ; the emperor is the subordinate of the pope, 
who has received his authority from God. 

Peter of Antioch (1). See Peter Fi i.lo. 

Peter of Antioch (2). the third patriarch of that 
name in the current tables of the occupants of that see, 
which commence with the apostle Peter, was born near 
the beginning of the 11th century. Contemporary 
with Michael ( Vrularius, patriarch of Constantinople, 
and Leo of Aehridia, he united with them in hostility 
to the Latin Church. According to Cave, Peter bitterly 
inveighed against the lives and doctrines of the Latin 
clergy, and especially against the addition of the word 
Jilioque to the creed; while, according to Le Quie»,he 
preserved a more impartial tone, and showed every- 
where “a disposition averse to schism.” Peter obtained 
the patriarchate in the year 1053, and in the same year 
he sent synodical letters to the patriarchs of Alexan- 
dria, Jerusalem, and Constantinople, and to pope Leo 
IX, signifying his accession. Cave states that he sent 
to the pope “a profession of his faith,” but it is probable 
that he has applied this term to the synodical letter, 
of which a Latin version appears among the letters of 
Leo IX. Lc (juieu, who had in his possession the 
Greek text of these synodical letters, complains of the 
great discrepancy between the Greek text and the 
Latin version. Two letters of Peter appear in Greek, 
with a Latin version, in the Monument a. Feelesice Griecee 
of Cotelerius (ii, 1 12, 145). The first is entitled Fpistola 
ad Dominicum Cradensem, and is an answer to Domin- 
ions Gradensis s. Venetus, patriarch of Venice or Aqui- 
leia, whose letter, in the collection of Cotelerius. pre- 
cedes that of Peter; the second is addressed to Michael 
Cerularius (Fpistola ad Mickaelem Cerularinni), and 
is preceded by a letter of Michael to Peter, to which it 
is the answer. A considerable part of this letter had 
previously been published by Leo Allatius, in his De 
Consensu Fcclesiurum Orient, et Occident, lib. iii, c. 12, 
§ 4. There is extant in MS. at Vienna another letter 
of Peter, Petri Fpistola ad Joannem Tranensem in .1 pu- 
lia Fpiscopum, relating to the matters in dispute be- 
tween the Eastern and Western churches. See Cave, 
Hist. Lift, ad ann. 1040, ii, 132; Gudin, Comment, de 
Scripforib. et Scriptis Fccles. ii, (505; Lambec, Comment, 
de, Bibliuth. Ccesartca ; Le Quien, Oriens Christian, ii, 
754. — Smith, Did. of Class. Biog. and Mythol. iii, 221. 

Peter ( Pierre ) of Bai me (Lat. Petrus de Palma), 
general of the Dominicans, was born at Baume (county 
of Bourgogne) in the latter part of the 13th century. 
Having early embraced the rule of St. Dominic, he was 
sent in 1321 to Paris, and there gave public lessons 
upon the I Acre des Sentences of Pierre Lombard. In 
1343 he was elected general of his order by a unanimity 
of votes, lie died in Paris March 1, 1345. lie wrote 
Postillip in quatuor Frangelia, some copies of which are 
preserved at Basle and at Tours, and two Retires l'.ncy- 
cliques, which have not been printed. See Quetif et 
ISchard, Script, ord. Pro 1 die. i, GIL — lloefer, Four. Biog. 
Gene rale, xl, 198. 

Peter (Pierre), son of Bec hin, was a French histo- 
rian, who died in the 12th century. It is supposed that 
he was canon of St. Martin of Tours, lie left a Chro- 
nique, which begins with the creation of the world and 
ends with 1 137. For ancient times, it is a compilation 
from Eusebius, from St. Jerome, Isidore of Seville, Grcg- 
ory of Tours; for modern times, from Fredegaire, St. 
(Mon, etc. However, some passages from this Chro- 
tiique, relative to St. Martin of Tours, to the abbey of 
Cormory, and to the counts of Anjou, are not without 
interest. It has never been published entire. Short 
fragments of it may be found in the Recueil of Duchesne 
(iii, 3155-372), and in that of Bouquet (iii, v, vi, viii, x, 
xi, xii); but M. Salmon has recently published the best 
part of it in his Chroniqucs de Touraine, after three 


PETEIi 


29 


PETER 


MSS., one from the Imperial Library, two from the Vat- 
ican. See Hist. Lilt, de la France, xii, 80 ; xiii, 57 ; 
Andre Salmon, Notices sur les Chroniques de Touraiue. 
— Hoefcr, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xl, 191. 

Peter Bernardinus, an Italian reformer, the in- 
timate companion of Savonarola, was a Florentine by 
birth and of humble descent. He was attracted by the 
teaching of the great Italian reformer, and after the 
execution of Savonarola frequently met his followers 
secretly, and encouraged them in steadfastness to the 
faith. He finally became a leader among the Italian 
reformed, and as such forbade all participation in the 
sacraments of the Church of Home, favored communistic 
life, diligence in prayer, and simplicity in dress. Fur- 
sued by the Church and by the State, he fled with all 
his family to the home of count Ficus de Mirandola, 
but on the way he was captured and, after a hasty trial, 
was condemned to be burned. 

Peter of Blois ( Petrus Blesensis), so called from 
the place of his birth, a learned ecclesiastical writer, 
flourished in the 12th century. He studied at Faris, 
Bologna, and Oxford, and there was so interested in 
scholastic pursuits that he became a student of John of 
Salisbury. In 1167 he was appointed the teacher and 
secretary of young king William II of Sicily. Fear of 
assassination, prompted by jealousy of his success, made 
him leave Italy, and he remained for a while in France. 
In 1168 he was invited to England by Henry II; was 
nominated archdeacon of Bath, and afterwards became 
chancellor of Canterbury and archdeacon of London. 
For the space of fourteen years he was one of the most 
influential men in England, both as a politician and a 
churchman. He died in 1200. He is said to have first 
used the word transubstantiation. His letters arevery 
intcrcsting; they are admired for their elegance and 
perspicuity of language. Besides, Peter of Blois de- 
serves to be pointed out as one of those ecclesiastics of 
the Middle Ages who dared to speak out against the 
abuses in school, Church, and State. He complains 
bitterly of the superficial ways of the clergy, who Avere 
then the educators of the world. He reproaches those 
who moot questions respecting time and space, and the 
nature of universals ( universalia ), before they had learned 
the elements of science. These charlatans strove after 
high things, and neglected the doctrines of salvation. 
Peter of Blois’s writings have been collected under the 
title, Opera omnia , mine primum in Anglia ope eodicum 
mamtscriptonim ediiiomtmque optimarum, edidit J. A. 
Giles, LL.D. (4 vols. 8vo). See Wright, Biog. Brit. 
Litter, ii, 366 sq. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliogr. vol. ii, s. v. ; 
Baur, Dogmengesch. ; Hardwick, Ch. Hist, of the Middle 
Ages ; Neander, Hist, of Christian Dogmas. (J. H.W.) 

Peter of Bruys ( Pierre de Brois), a French eccle- 
siastic of the 12th century, is noted as the representa- 
tive of those anti-hierarchical tendencies which so gen- 
erally prevailed in Southern France. He was a priest, 
but resigned his orders, preferring to become a leader 
of the people against the corruptions of the Church, 
about 1104. Peter of Clugny, whose pastoral epistles 
to the bishops of the south of France are the principal 
source of information concerning Peter of Bruys, re- 
proaches him with heretical opinions; and, although 
the account of an enemy is always to be read with sus- 
picion, the high and disinterested character of the abbot 
of Clugny gives more than ordinary value to his narra- 
tive. The time of the composition of the preface to the 
refutation (the body of which was of early date) was 
shortly after the death of De Brin's, which took place 
about A. I). 1125. At this time, the author tells us, the 
heresy had been flourishing for twenty years. Feter of 
Bruys seems to have rejected infant baptism, because 
he felt that baptism without faith was of no avail, and 
with Abelard he rebaptized adults. lie also rejected 
all public divine service, for God, he argued, “ante 
altare vel ante stabulum invocatus” — is heard as well 
in the inn as in the church. The crosses he would 


burn, and not honor, for that is a reproach to the suffer- 
ings of the Saviour. Peter of Bruys even maintained 
that the Supper was not instituted by Christ as a rite 
of perpetual observation; that he only once distributed 
his body and blood among his disciples. This expres- 
sion is obscure: perhaps he meant to say that Christ 
had observed this rite once for all. He also rejected 
the mass and sacrifices for the dead. He found many 
followers, known as the Peirohrusians (q. v.). Peter of 
Bruvs was burned at St. Gilles on Still Friday, in 1 124, 
in the Arelatensia diocese, by a mob, in an entente 
caused by his preaching, and probably instigated hv the 
Iiomish ecclesiastics. See Giesckr,' Kirch engesch. vol. 
ii, pt. ii, p. 536; Engelhardt, Dogmengesch. vol. ii, ch. iii, 
p. 51 sq. ; Miinscher, Dogmengesch. (edit, bv Colin), p. 
209,210. (J. H.W.) 

Peter or Cell.e ( Petrus Cellensis ), a French prel- 
ate of some note, flourished in the second half of the 
12th century. He was abbot at Moutier la Celle from 
1150; in 1162 he filled a like office at St. Remis, near 
Rheints; and in 1181 Avas made bishop of Chartres. 
He died in 1183. Peter of Celke left mystical inter- 
pretations of the Scriptures, and letters to the popes 
and bishops and many princes, avIio highly esteemed 
him. He had reformatory ideas, and did not hesitate 
to express them. II is Avorks haA'e been collected and 
published seA-eral times. One edition is bv Sirmond 
(Par. 1613; Veil. 1728). 

Peter ( Pierre ) of Chartres, a French ecclesiastic 
who flourished in the first half of the 10th century, died 
about 1039. The authors of the Histoire Litteraire de 
la France attribute to him several Avorks. We men- 
tion only Manuale Ecclesiasticum, Manuale de Myste- 
riis Ecclesue, and Speculum Ecclesice. This last treat- 
ise, Avhich offers us curious details upon the origin or 
meaning of liturgical usages, is unpublished; but AA'e 
indicate three manuscript copies in the Imperial Li- 
brary of Saint -Victor, under the numbers 513, 724, 923. 
Number 923 has one chapter more than the other tAvo. 
Jean Garet, canon of Lom r ain, Gesner, Possevin, and 
after them the authors of the Histoire Litteraire, desig- 
nate also among the Avorks of our chancellor a Para- 
phrase of the Psalms, likeAvise unpublished. There is, 
finally, in the library of Mont-Saint-Michel, Glossce in 
Job, secundum Petrum, cancellarium Carnutensem. See 
Gesner, Bibl. Universalis, p. 669; Possevin, Apparatus, 
ii, 246 ; Ilist. Lift, de la France, vii, 341. — lloefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, xl, 184. 

Peter Chrysolaxus, an Italian prelate, AA’as born in 
the latter part of the lltli century. He AA’as raised to 
the archbishopric of Milan in 1110, having previously 
held some less important see. lie AA’as sent by pope 
Paschal II on a mission to the emperor Alexius I Com- 
nenus, and engaged eagerly in the controA-ersy on the 
procession of the Holy Spirit, llis principal Avork is, 
Ad Imperatorem Domimim Alexinm Comnennm O ratio, 
etc., designed to prove the procession of the Holy Spirit 
from the Son as Avell as from the Father, published in 
the Greecia Orthodoxa of Allatius, i, 379, etc. (Rome, 
1652, 4to), and given in a Latin version by Baronins, 
.1 mini. Ecrles. ad ann. 1116, vol. vii i, etc. — Smith, Diet, 
of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. iii, 222. 

Peter Ciirysologus, St., an Italian prelate, AA’as 
born at Imola, in the northern part of Italy, tOAvards the 
close of the 4th century. He Avas educated by Corne- 
lius, a bishop, and received ordination as deacon from 
the same prelate. In 433 he Avas consecrated archbishop 
of Ravenna by pope Sixtus III, Avho kneAV all his merit. 
He labored to reform several abuses Avliich had been 
introduced into his diocese, and to extirpate the rem- 
nants of pagan superstition. In A.D. 448 St. Germain 
d’Auxerre having come to Ravenna, Peter received him 
AA’ith marks of the most profound A’encration. Shortly 
aftemards the heresiarch Eutvehes Avrote to him com- 
plaining of the condemnation passed on him by Flavi- 
anus of Constantinople, and Peter replied to him in 


PETE I i 


30 


PETE! 


June, 419, expressing his grief to see that the disputes 
upon the mystery of t lie incarnation were not ended. 1 
lie died Dec. 2, 150. 1 1 is zeal for the instruction of his 

flock is shown by one hundred and seventy-six Senno- 
nes, collected in 708 by Felix, archbishop of 11a veil na, 
under the title, Did Petri Chrysologi urchitpiscojn Ra- 
rennatis , dri eruditissimi a/rpte sanctissimi, insigne et 
pervetustum opus II ontiliarum nunc primum in lucem 
edition (Far. 1511, 12mo), which have frequently been 
reprinted. They appear in the seventh volume of the 
Lyons edition of the Bibliotheca Pat mm (1G77, fob): — 
Ppistola Petri Ravennatis P pisco pi ad Kutgchem A bba- 
tem. This letter was published by Gerard Vossius in 
the original Greek, with a Latin version, at the end of 
the works of Gregory Thaumaturgus (Mayence, 1G04, 
4to). It is reprinted in the Concilia (vol. iv, col. 3G, ed. 
Labbe ; vol. ii, col. 21, ed. 1 Iardouin). See Smith, Diet, 
of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and .1/ ythol. iii, 222; Hoofer, 
Nun v. Jiiog. Getter ale, xl, 138. 

Peter Coi.uvac ' ix us (also called Morra). an ecclesi- 
astical character of the 13th century, flourished as teach- 
er of canonical law at Bologna ; was then secretary to 
Innocent III, by whose order he collected the decretals 
of that pope during the lirst eleven years of his reign, 
and published them in 1210 by the help of the so-called 
Compilatio Ilomuna of Bernhard of Compostella. This 
collection was approved by the University of Bologna, 
anil received the name Compilatio tertia. (The so- 
called Compilatio secunda is younger, but contains older 
material. See Bidder, Kirchenrecht , § 74.) Later, Pe- 
ter was cardinal legate, and as such labored to restore 
order to the Church of South France, in his day so 
greatly broken up by the wars of the Albigenses (q. v.). 

Peter the Deacon (I) flourished near the begin- 
ning of the Gth century. In the controversy excited 
by the monks whom ecclesiastical writers call Scythee , 
who came from the diocese of Torni, on the south bank 
of the Danube, Peter took a prominent part. lie had 
accompanied the delegates sent to Borne by the monks, 
and while in the Eternal City united with his colleagues 
in addressing to Fulgentius, and the other African bish- 
ops who were then in exile in Sardinia, a work entitled 
De. 1 ncarnatione et Gratia Domini nostri Jesu Christ i 
Liber. To this Fulgentius and his companions replied 
in another treatise on the same subject. The work of 
Peter, which is in Latin, was published in the .1 fonu- 
menta SS. Pat rum Orthodoxograpka of Grymeus (Basle, 
15G9), and has been reprinted in various editions of 
the Bibliotheca Patnnn. It is in the ninth volume of 

the Lyons edition of Galland (Ven. 177G, fol.) Smith, 

Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mgthol. iii, 223. 

Peter tiie Deacon (2), a learned Benedictine of 
Monte-Cassino, of a Homan patrician family, was born 
about the close of the 11th century, in the reign of 
Alexius I Comnenus. In the Jus Greeco-llonnuium of 
Lcunclavius (lib. vi, 393-397) are given Jnlerroga Hones 
fjnas soldi renrendissimus Churtularins, Dominus 1\~ 
tms. idemrpie Diaconus Majoris Bcclesite (sc. of St. So- 
phia at Constantinople), A.M. GG00 = A.D. 1092. We 
learn from this title when the author lived, and that he 
held the offices described. lie seems to have been ad- 
mitted into the Benedictine Order at the very early age 
of lifted). In a controversy of his convent with pope 
Innocent II. he defended the monastic interests to great 
advantage before the emperor Lothaire in 1 138, while lie 
was in South Italy. So well pleased was the emperor 
with Peter that he was made ehartularius and chaplain 
of the Boman realm. Later he was intrusted by pope 
Alexander with the management of the convent of 
Monte-Cassino, where he died after the middle of the 
12th century. The following of his writings arc in- 
structive for the contemporaneous history of the Church. 
De vita et obitu Justorum Canobii Casimnsis; — Lib. 
illuslrium rirorttm Cashiensis Archisterii: — Lib. de 
locis sanctis; and De Xodssimis tnnporlbus. There 
are, or were, extant in MS. in the king's library at 


Paris, retrus Diaconus et Philosophus de Cyclo et /«- 
dictiune, and Petri JJiaeoni et Philosophi Tractutus de 
Sole, Lana, et Suleribus (Codd. CMXXIX, No. 7, and 
MMMLXXXV), but whether this Petrus Diaconus is 
the canonist is not clear. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. 
Biog. and M ythol. iii, 223; Potthnst, Bibl. Med. did, 
p. 490; Fabricius, Bib. Gntea, xi, 334 sq.; Cave, Hist. 
Lift, ii, 101. 

Peter tiie Dominican. See Peter Martyr. 

Peter ( Pierre ) ok Dresden, a German reformer, 
was born at Dresden in the latter part of the 14th cen- 
tury. Driven from that city for having spread the doc- 
trines of the Vaudois, Pierre sought refuge in Prague, 
where, in order to subsist, he opened a small school for 
children. Some time after he attracted to himself one 
of his friends called Jacobel, with whom he published 
his opinions. Pierre inveighed especially against the 
communion in one kind. “To his influence,” says Gil- 
lett, “is to be attributed in large measure the origin of 
that discussion in respect to the communion of the cup 
which almost revolutionized Bohemia, and brought 
down upon it the energies of crusading Christendom.” 
lie was evidently a man of superior talent, and one 
who possessed great power over the minds of others. 
At Prague, among the thousands congregated at its 
university, he had large opportunity for insinuating his 
peculiar views. The very fact that he was instrumen- 
tal in shaping the enlarged views of Jacobel suffices to 
rescue his name and memory from oblivion. He after- 
wards united with the Hussites against the primacy of 
the pope, and propagated their ideas upon the nature of 
the Church. To establish his doctrines he wrote several 
works now completely forgotten, lie died at Prague in 
1440. See Eneas Sylvius, Bohem. cli.5; Bonftnius, Hist. 
Boh. ; More’ri, Diet. Hist . ; J ocher, .4 llg. Gelt hrten- Lex. ; 
Gillett, JJuss and the Hussites, i, 38, 483, 519. (J. II. W.) 

Peter of Edessa, a Syrian by birth, and a presby- 
ter of the Church at Edessa, and an eminent preacher, 
wrote Tractatus variorum Causarum, treatises on vari- 
ous subjects, and composed Psalms in metre like those 
of Ephrem the Syrian. Trithemius ascribes to him 
Commentani in Psulmos, and says that lie wrote in 
Syriac. All his works have p*rished. — Smith, Diet, of 
Gr. and Horn. Biog. and Mgthol. iii, 224. 

Peter (St.) Exorcist a and MABCELLIXUS (It. 
SS. Pietro e Marcellino), two Burnish saints always rep- 
resented together, flourished during the last persecutions 
under Diocletian, about the opening of the 4th century. 
Their religious convictions, openly avowed, brought 
them to jail, and it so happened that even there they 
were sorely tried. Their jailer, Artemius, had a daugh- 
ter, Paulina, who was sick. Peter promised to restore 
her to health if Artemius would believe in God. Then 
the jailer ridiculed him, saying, “ If I put thee into the 
deepest dungeon, and load thee with heavier chains, will 
thy God then deliver thee?” To this Peter replied that 
it mattered little to God whether he believed or not. hut 
that Christ might he glorified he desired that it should 
be done. And it was so; and in the night Peter and 
Mareellinus, dressed in shining white garments, came to 
Artemius in his own chamber. Then lie believed, and 
was baptized with all his family, and three hundred 
others. When they were to die, it was ordered that the 
executioner should take them to a forest three miles 
from Borne, in order that the Christians should not 
know of their burial-place. So when they were come 
to a solitary place, and the executioner pointed it out 
as the spot where they were to die, they themselves 
I cleared a space and dug their grave, and died encour- 
aging each other. In the paintings of the churches 
they are represented in priestly habits hearing palms. 
They arc commemorated hv the Burnish Church on 
June 2. 

Peter Eit.lo (also called Cnaphtus, i. e. the Fuller), 
a patriarch of Antioch, was born near the commence- 


PETER 


31 


PETEli 


ment of the 5th century. He was abbot of a monastery 
at or near Constantinople, but various accusations (in- 
cluding heresy) being made against him, he fled to An- 
tioch, accompanying Zeno, son-in-law of the emperor 
Leo I, who was sent thither. Peter appears to have 
held the doctrine of the Monophvsites, the controversy 
concerning which was at that time agitating the entire 
Eastern Church. On his arrival at Antioch, the patri- 
archate of which city was held by Martyrius, a support- 
er of the Council of Chalcedon, he determined to attempt 
the usurpation of that office, engaging Zeno and a num- 
ber of those who favored the Monophysite doctrine in 
the enterprise. Great tumult and confusion ensued, one 
cause of which was that Peter added to the sacred hymn 
called the Trisagion the words “ who wast crucified for 
us ” — which constituted one of the tests of the Monophv- 
sites — and anathematized all who did not sanction the 
alteration. Martyrius, unable to maintain order, went 
to Constantinople, where he was kindly received by 
Leo I, throngh whose influence he hoped to be able, on 
his return to Antioch, to quell the disturbance. Failing ' 
in this, and disgusted with his failure, he abdicated the 
patriarchate, which was immediately assumed by Peter. 
Leo, however, at the instigation of Gennadius, patri- 
arch of Constantinople, promptly expelled the intruder, 
in whose place Julian was elected, with general ap- 
proval. Peter was banished to Upper Egypt, but, con- 
triving to escape from his exile, he returned to Con- 
stantinople and obtained refuge in a monastery, where 
he remained until the revolt of Basiliscus against Zeno, 
having bound himself by oath to abstain from exciting 
further troubles. The revolt succeeding, and Zeno being 
driven from Constantinople, Basiliscus exerted himself 
to gain the Monophvsites, and issued an encyclical let- 
ter to the various prelates of the Church, anathematiz- 
ing the decrees of the Synod of Chalcedon. Peter gave 
formal assent to this letter, and was immediately re- 
stored to the patriarchate of Antioch (A.D. 476). Jul- 
ian soon after died of grief, and Peter, resuming au- 
thority, restored the obnoxious clause “ who wast cru- 
cified for us;” and by repeating his anathemas excited 
fresh tumults, which resulted in plunder and murder. 
Zeno, however, recovering the imperial power, a synod 
was assembled and Peter was deposed, chiefly through 
the agency of one of his own partisans, John Codonatus, 
whom he had made a bishop. He was banished to 
Pity us, from whence he escaped, and, going to Euclia'ita, 
obtained refuge in the church of St. Theodore. After 
a period of nine years, during which time numerous 
changes had been made in the patriarchate, the Mon- 
ophysites, again in the ascendant, persuaded Zeno to 
consent to the restoration of Peter upon his signing the 
emperor’s “ Henoticon,” or decree for the unity of the 
Church. This event is placed by Theophanes in A.D. 
485. The Western Church, which had maintained its 
allegiance to the Council of Chalcedon, assembled in 
council at Rome, and hurled its anathemas at Peter, but 
to no purpose. Protected by Zeno and the strength of 
his party, he retained the patriarchate during the re- 
mainder of his life. Theophanes charges him with 
various offences against ecclesiastical rule, and with 
many acts of oppression after his restoration; which 
charges are, unfortunately, corroborated by the previ- 
ous character of the man. One of the latest manifesta- 
tions of his ambition was the attempt to add the island 
of Cyprus to his patriarchate. He was succeeded by 
Palladios, a presbyter of Seleueia. His death is vari- 
ously stated to have occurred in A.D. 488, 490, 491. See 
Smith, Bid. of Or. and Rom. Biog. and Jfythol. iii, 224. 

Peter the Hermit, an ecclesiastical character of 
the Ilth century, is of very little significance except as 
the monks of the Church of Rome have given him im- 
portance by crediting him with the movement of the 
Christian Church against the Saracens, known as the 
First Crusade, for which the credit is by most compe- 
tent critics awarded to pope Urban II. Von Sybel, in 
his Geschichte ties ersten Kreuzzuges (Diisseldorf, 1841), 


examines the history of the first crusaders, and in con- 
sequence of a most searching review of all the records 
pronounces Peter of Amiens an apocryphal character, 
and his reputed efforts for the first crusade the inven- 
tion of Greek legendaries of the 12th century. Even 
William of Tyre, who is the principal source of the his- 
tory of the Crusades of all the Middle-Age historians, 
knows (in his Belli sacri historic about 1188) of Peter 
of Amiens only that he is a persona contemptibilis, whose 
fate was that of the other crusaders. The Jesuit (El- 
treman has made the life of Peter of Amiens the subject 
of a sacred romance, which is often mistaken for history. 
The whole scheme is intended to wrest the honor of the 
first Crusade from the papacy and to give it to the 
monks. 

According to these questionable sources, Peter the 
Hermit was a native of Amiens, where he was born 
about the middle of the 11th century. He was edu- 
cated first at Paris, and afterwards in Italy, and then 
became a soldier. After serving in Flanders without 
much distinction, he retired from the army, married, 
and had several children ; but on the death of his wife 
he became religious, and exhausted, without satisfying 
the cravings of his religious zeal, all the ordinary excite- 
ments— the studies, the austerities and mortifications, 
the fasts and prayers — of a devout life. Still yearning 
for more powerful emotions, he retired into the solitude 
of the strictest and severest cloister. Not even content 
with this life of a recluse, he ultimately became a her- 
mit. But even this failed to satisfy him, and he would 
not rest contented with himself until he had projected 
a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. For this he set out 
about 1093. On his visit to the East he saw with a 
bleeding heart that the Holy Sepulchre was in the 
hands of the infidel, and beheld the oppressed condition 
of the Christian residents or pilgrims under the Moslem 
rule : “ his blood turned to fire.” and the hermit made his 
vow that with the help of God these things should 
cease. In an interview with the patriarch Simeon he de- 
clared that the natives of the West should take up arms 
in the Christian cause. On bis return to the West he 
spoke so earnestly on the subject to pope Urban II that 
■ the pontiff warmly adopted his views, and, however 
! selfish may have been the promptings of his zeal in the 
cause — he foreseeing probably that, whatever might be 
j the result to the warriors of the cross, his own power 
1 would thenceforth rest on more solid foundations — 

' Urban eagerly bestowed his blessing on the fervent 
1 enthusiast, and commissioned him to preach through- 
out the West an armed confederation of Christians for 
the deliverance of the Holy City. Mean in figure 
and diminutive in stature, and gifted only with an el- 
oquence that was as rude as it was ready, his deficien- 
cies were more than made up by tbe earnestness which 
gave even to the glance of his eye a force more pow- 
erful than speech. His enthusiasm lent him a power 
which no external advantages of form could have com- 
manded. He was filled with a fire which would not 
stay, and the horrors which were burnt in upon his soul 
were those which would most surely stir the conscience 
and rouse the wrath of his hearers. His fiery appeals 
carried everything before them. “ He traversed Italy,” 
writes the historian of Latin Christianity, “ crossed the 
Alps, from province to province, from city to city. He 
I rode on a mule, with a crucifix in his hand, his head 
' and feet bare: his dress was a long robe, girt with a 
cord, and a hermit’s cloak of the eoarsest stuff. He 
preached in the pulpits, on the roads, in the market- 
places. His eloquence was that which stirs the heart 
of the people, for it came from his own— brief, figura- 
tive, full of bold apostrophes ; it was mingled wjth his 
own tears, with his own groans; he beat liis breast : the 
contagion spread throughout his audience. His preach- 
ing appealed to every passion— to valor and shame, to 
indignation and pity, to the pride of the warrior, to the 
compassion of the man, the religion of the Christian, to 
the love of the brethren, to the hatred of the unbeliever 


PETE I 


32 


PETEIi 


aggravated by his insulting tyranny, to reverence for 
the Redeemer and the saints, to the desire of expiating 
sin, to the hope of eternal life.” The results are well 
known as among those moral marvels of enthusiasm 
of which history presents occasional examples. All 
France especially was stirred from its very depths; 
and just at the Jme when the enthusiasm of that coun- 
try had been enkindled to its full fervor, it received 
a sacredness and an authority from the decree of a 
council held at Clermont, in which Urban himself was 
present, and in which his celebrated harangue was 
but the signal for the outpouring, through all Western 
Christendom, of the same chivalrous emotions by which 
France had been borne away under the rude eloquence 
of the Ilermit. To understand this success, we must 
take into account the poverty of the masses, and the 
alluring prospect of a residence in Eastern lands, the 
scenes of which were painted in glowing colors by the 
apostle of the holy war. Thousands of outcasts had 
always been ready to follow the princes in their maraud- 
ing expeditions or political wars, and how much more 
in a war which enlisted the highest sympathies of their 
nature in its behalf, which received the sanction of the 
ministers of religion, and was regarded as the will of 
Cod! For the details of the expedition, we must refer 
to the article Ckusadks, our sole present concern being 
with the personal history of Peter. ( >f the enormous 
but undisciplined army which assembled from all parts 
of Europe, one portion was committed to his conduct; 
the other being under the command of a far more skilful 
leader, Walter (q. v.) the Penniless. Peter, mounted 
upon an ass, with his coarse woollen mantle and his 
rude sandals, placed himself at the head of his followers. 
On the march through Hungary they became involved 
in hostilities with the Hungarians, and suffered a severe 
defeat at Semlin, whence they proceeded with much dif- 
ficulty to Constantinople. There the emperor Alexius, 
filled with dismay at the want of discipline which they 
exhibited, was but too happy to give them supplies for 
their onward march ; and near Nice they encountered 
the army of the sultan Soliman, from whom they suf- 
fered a terrible defeat. Peter accompanied the subse- 
quent expedition under Oodfrey; but worn out by the 
delays and ditliculties of the siege of Antioch, he was 
about to withdraw from the expedition, and was only 
retained in it by the influence of the other leaders, who 
foresaw the worst results from his departure. Accord- 
ingly ho had a share, although not marked by any sig- 
nal distinction, in the siege and capture of the Holy City 
in 1090, and the closing incident of his history as a cru- 
sader was an address to the victorious army delivered 
on the Mount of Olives, lie returned to Europe, and 
founded a monastery at liny, in the diocese of Liege, 
where he died, July 7, 1115. The movement which had 
been inaugurated continued to agitate Europe for nearly 
two centuries, and its general effect upon the march of 
civilization may well be pronounced incalculable. See 
Milinan, Hist, of I Ait. Christianity, iv, 25 sq. ; Cox, The 
Crusades (N. V. 1871, 18mo), p. 26 sq. ; (libbou, Decline 
and Fall of the Roman Empire , ch. xxxiii. 

Peter the Lomuakd. See Lomisaiu>, Petek. 

Peter ( Pierre ) oi Maii.lkzais, a French chronicler 
of the II th century, was, according to Dorn Pi vet, a man 
of talent, of merit, and learning, lie embraced the mo- 
nastic rule in the early part of the 1 1 th century, and 
flourished under (loderauiie, abbe of Maillezais, in llas- 
Poitou. Wc have an interesting article of his upon the 
history of his time, particularly that of the counts de 
Poitiers and file abbe of Maillezais. Father Lahhe 
has comprised it (Mullearense C hroniron ) in ihc monu- 
ments that he collected for the history of Aquitaine. 
What concerns the translation of Saint Riyomrr has 
been detached from it and published again by Mabillon 
and the Bollandists. See Hist. Lift, dela France, v, 599. 
—H offer, Xouv. Dior/. Generate, xl. 187. 

Peter (St.) M utrvn (I), a Human Catholic saint 


of the Dominican order, is greatly beloved in the Donn- 
ish fold, and in his own order ranks next to the found- 
er himself, lie was born at Verona about 1 205. His 
parents were Catharists, but Peter early became ortho- 
dox in sentiment, and sought his education at the 
conventual schools of the Church. At the age of 
fifteen he united with the order by the persuasion of 
Dominic. He soon became a public character by reason 
of his piety and oratorical power. He turned against 
his own sect, and so severely persecuted the Catharists 
that he was universally regarded as intolerant. When 
the Inquisition needed an uncompromising head, Peter 
was made its general by approval of pope llonorius III. 
1 1 is high-handed disposal of the lives and property of 
people under him made him a general object of hatred. 
Two Veronian noblemen whom he had accused, and 
whose property was confiscated, resolved to be revenged 
on him. They hired assassins, who watched that they 
might kill him in a forest where they knew he would 
pass unaccompanied save by a single monk. When he 
appeared one of the murderers struck him down with 
an axe. They then pursued and killed his attendant. 
When they returned to Peter he was reciting the Apos- 
tles’ Creed, or, as others say, was writing it on the 
ground with his blood, when the assassins completed 
their cruel work. This event occurred on April 28, A.D. 
1252. In the various paintings of this saint he is rep- 
resented in the habit of his order, and bears the crucifix 
and palm. His more peculiar attribute is either the 
axe stuck in his head or a gash from which the blood 
trickles. Fra Bartolomeo painted the head of his be- 
loved Jerome Savonarola as St. Peter Martyr. lie is 
also known as St. Peter of Verona. (J. II. W.) 



Jerome Savonarola as St. Peter Martyr (by Fra Barto- 
lomeo). 

Peter (.9/.) Maktyk (2), a Romish saint of the 
15th century, was born at Arona in 1-155, and was prob- 
ably educated at the university in Salamanca, where he 
taught for many years with great success. He had a 
part in the wars against the Moors, and in 1505 took 
holy orders. As prior of (iranada he was frequently 
employed in very important missions by queen Isabella 
the Catholic. Ilis travels in diplomatic interests he 
described in De leyatione Iiabylonica. He died in 1525. 
His Fpistola de rebus Hispanicis was published at Al- 
cala in 1530, and at Amsterdam in 1670. 

Peter, Matiuth/s. See Petek the Ykxkkaule. 

Peter Mocji.as. Sec Mocjii.as. 

Peter Moxrsrs, a Monophysite, flourished as patri- 
arch of Alexandria in the 5th century. Libcratus gives 


PETER 


3 


PETE1 


him also the surname of the Stammerer . He was or- 
dained deacon by Dioscorus, successor of Cyril, ivlio held 
the patriarchate for seven years (A.D. 444-451). Peter 
was the ready participator in the violences of Dioscorus, 
and earnestly embraced his cause when he was deposed 
by the Council of Chalcedon, withdrawing from the 
communion of the successor of Dioscorus, Proterius, who 
supported the cause of the council, and uniting in the 
opposition raised by Timothy yElnrus and others. Peter 
was consequently sentenced, apparently by Proterius, to 
deposition and excommunication. Whether he was 
banished, as well as Timothy yElurus, is not clear, but 
he seems to have accompanied Timothy to Alexandria, 
and to have been his chief supporter when, after the 
death of the emperor Marcian, he returned, and either 
murdered Proterius or excited the tumults that led to 
his death, A.D.457. Timothy ^Elurus was immediately 
raised to the patriarchate by his partisans, but was short- 
ly after banished by the emperor Leo I, the Thracian, 
who had succeeded Marcian. Peter also was obliged to 
flee. Another Timothy, surnamed Salofaciolus, a sup- 
porter of the Council of Chalcedon, was appointed to 
succeed Proterius in the patriarchate. When, in the fol- 
lowing reign of Zeno, or rather during the short usurpa- 
tion of Basiliscus, Timothy yElurus was recalled from 
exile (A.D. 475), and was sent from Constantinople to 
Alexandria to re-occupy that see, he was Joined by Pe- 
ter and his party, and with their support drove out his 
competitor Salofaciolus, who took refuge in a monastery 
at Canopus. On the downfall of Basiliscus and the res- 
toration of Zeno, Timothy JElurus was allowed, through 
the emperor’s compassion for his great age, to retain his 
see; but when on his death (A.D. 477) the Monopliysite 
bishops of Egypt, without waiting for the emperor’s di- 
rections, elected Peter (who had previously obtained the 
rank of archdeacon) as his successor, the emperor’s in- 
dignation was so far aroused that he determined to put 
the new prelate to death. His anger, however, some- 
what abated, and Peter was allowed to live, hut was de- 
prived of the patriarchate, to which Timothy Salofaci- 
olus was restored. On the death of Salofaciolus, which 
occurred soon after, John of Tabenna, surnamed Talaia, 
was appointed to succeed him ; but he was very shortly 
deposed by order of Zeno, on some account not clearly 
ascertained, and Peter Mongus was unexpectedly re- 
called from Eucha'ita in Pontus, whither he had been 
banished, and was (A.D. 482) restored to his see. His 
restoration appears to have been part of the policy of 
Zeno to unite, if possible, all parties; a policy which 
Peter, whose age and misfortunes appear to have abated 
the fierceness of his party spirit, was ready to adopt. He 
consequently subscribed the Henoticon of the emperor, 
and readmitted the Proterian party to communion on 
their doing the same. John of Tabenna had meanwhile 
fled to Borne, where the pope, Simplicius, who, with the 
Western Church, steadily supported the Council of 
Chalcedon, embraced his cause, and wrote to the emper- 
or in his behalf. Felix II or HI, who succeeded Sim- 
plicius (A.D. 483), was equally zealous on the same side. 
Peter had some difficulty in maintaining his position. 
In order to recover the favor of his Monophvsite friends, 
whom his subservience to Zeno’s policy had alienated, 
he anathematized the Council of Chalcedon ; and then, 
to avert the displeasure of Acacius of Constantinople 
and of the court, to whose temporizing course this de- 
cisive step was adverse, he denied that he had done so. 
Evagrins has preserved the letter he wrote to Acacius 
on this occasion, which is the only writing of Peter now 
extant. By this tergiversation he preserved his see, 
and was enabled to brave the repeated anathemas of 
the Western Church. When, however, to recover the 
attachment of the Monophvsites, he again anathema- 
tized the Council of Chalcedon, and Euphemius, the 
newly elected patriarch of Constantinople, forsaking the 
policy of his predecessors, took part with the Western 
Church against him, his difficulties became more seri- 
ous. What result this combination against him might 
VII I. — C 


have produced cannot now be known ; death removed 
him from the scene of strife A.D. 490, shortly before 
the death of Zeno, lie was succeeded in the see of 
Alexandria by another Monophvsite, Athanasius II. 
See Cave, Hist. Lift, i, 455; Fabrieius, Bill. Grceca , xi, 
336 ; Le Quien, Oriens Christianus , vol. ii, col. 416, etc.; 
Tillemont, Memoir es Ecclesiastiques, vol. xvi. — Smith, 
Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. iii, 225. 

F©-ter (Pierre), archbishop of Xarbonnf., the son 
of Ameli, was born in the last half of the 12th century. 
He was at first clerk of Saint-Xazaire of Beziers; canon, 
chamberlain, grand archdeacon ofXarbonne; then elect- 
ed archbishop in the month of March, 1226. The ex- 
termination of the Albigenses having ended the war so 
long prosecuted against these people, Peter used all his 
efforts to pacify his diocese. But observing the method 
practiced in his time, he seized, according to that cus- 
tom, all the goods which had belonged to the heretics, 
made all the inhabitants of Narbonne take oath to 
massacre any one who should dare in the future to 
separate himself from the Roman orthodoxy, and in or- 
der to watch over, discover, and point out all the dis- 
senters, introduced in 1231 into the city ofXarbonne 
the St. Dominican friars. But the Albigenses were 
conquered, not subdued. An occasion having offered 
in 1234, the inhabitants rose in insurrection, and drove 
out their archbishop. Vainly he excommunicated them. 
In order to return to his metropolis, after about a year’s 
exile, Peter was obliged to descend to conditions. The 
insurgents imposed upon him, among others, that of ex- 
pelling from their city the Brother Preachers, and un- 
der his eyes, for greater safety, they invaded the convent 
of these brothers and put them (to flight. Peter dared 
not recall them. Yet he was a prelate energetic in his 
designs, courageous in his conduct, who had the tem- 
perament of a man of arms, and who oftener faced perils 
than turned his back upon them. In 1238 he made a 
campaign against the Moors with Jayme I, king of Ara- 
gon, and, according to the Chronique of Albe'ric, he took 
an active part in the battles fought under the walls of 
Valence. The following year he raised other troops, 
and at their head went to drive from Carcassonne Ray- 
mond de Tancarvel and some other lords in revolt 
against the king of France. He was less fortunate in 
his attempt against Aimeric ; the latter drove him from 
Xarbonne in 1242. Finally, in 1243, we see the arch- 
bishop Peter making the siege of the chateau of Mont- 
segur, and taking it from the heretics. This was the 
last exploit of this belligerent prelate. He died at Xar- 
bonne May 20, 1245. See Gallia Christiana, vol. vi, col. 
65 ; 1 list. Lift, de la France, xviii, 331 ; Vaisscttc, Ilist. 
du Languedoc, iii, 352 ; Alberic, Chronicon , ad aim. 1239 ; 
Gulielmus de Podio, Hist, bettor, adversus Albigenses, c. 
39, 40 sq. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 195. 

Peter OF Xicomedta, an Eastern ecclesiastic, was 
born in the early part of the 7th century. He was one 
of the prelates who, with certain deacons and monks, had 
to clear themselves in the third Constantinopolitan, or 
sixth oecumenical, council (A.D. 680), from the suspicion 
of holding the Monothelite heresy, by oath and solemn 
written confessions of their belief in the orthodox doc- 
trine of two wills in Christ. The confessions were of 
considerable length, and all exactly alike, and are given 
in the original Greek with a considerable hiatus; but 
completely in a Latin version in the A eta Concilii CPoli- 
tani III, Actio x ; or, according to one of the Latin ver- 
sions of the Acta given by Hardouin, in Actio ix. See 
Concilia, vol. vi, col. 784, 842, ed. Labbe ; vol. iii, col. 
1202, 124S, 1537, 1561, ed. Hardouin; Cave, Ilist. Lift, ad 
ann. 680, i, 595. — Smith, Diet. ofGr. and Rom. Biog. and 
Mythol. iii. 226. 

Peter (St.) Xolasco (Sp. San Pedro Xolasco), a 
Romish saint, noted as the founder of “the Order of 
Our Lady of Mercy,” flourished in the first half of the 
13th century. He was the son of a noble of Languedoc, 
and became 'a convert of St. John de Matha. He was 


PET El 


34 


PETE1 


much cultivated, and greatly esteemed for his learning the orders of Justinian, demanded reparation for it, and 
and application, and was made a tutor of t lie young declared war against Theodotus. The latter, terrified, 
king Janies of Aragon. As the needs of the crusaders commissioned him to convey to Justinian the most hum- 
called for help from various directions, Peter brought hie propositions of peace, and even, if necessary, the 
about the formation of the order above referred to. At offer of his abdication. The last offer only was accept- 
first it was military, and consisted of knights and gentle- ed ; but when Peter returned to communicate the will 
men. The king himself was placed at the head, and his of the emperor to Theodotus, the latter was not disposed 


arms served as a device or badge. Soon, however, the 
order became very popular, and extended itself on all 
sides. Peter Nolaseo was the superior, and spent his 


to accept it. The king of the Ostrogoths even violated 
the law of nations hv imprisoning the Byzantine am- 
bassadors. Peter and his colleague remained in cap- 


life in expeditions to the provinces under the Moors, tivity until Belisarius, by detaining some Ostrogothic 


from which he brought back hundreds of redeemed 
captives. In time the order changed its character from 
that of a military to that of a religious institution, and 
as such exerted a wide influence. Peter himself, when 
lie was old, was taken from his cell by angels, so the 
legend goes, and borne to and from the altar, where he 


ambassadors, compelled Yitigos, who had succeeded 
Theodotus, to release him about the end of A.D. 538. 
On his return Peter received, as Procopius intimates, by 
Theodora's interest, and as a reward lor his participa- 
tion in procuring Amalasuutha's death, the high ap- 
pointment of magister ojjiciurum , hut incurred general 


received the holy Eucharist. In the paintings of the ! odium by the part he had acted. lie exercised his au- 
saints he is represented as old, with a white habit, and thority with the most unbridled rapacity; for although 
the shield of king James on his breast. His death is he was, according to Procopius, naturally of a mild tern- 


said to have occurred Jan. 15, 1258, (J. II. W.) 



eter Nolaseo (by Claude dc Median). 


Peter tiik Patkh ian (I) was a Byzantine histo- 
rian of the tit li century. He was born at Thessalonica, 
in the province of Macedonia, then included in the pre- 
fecture of lllyricum. lie settled at Constantinople, 
where lie acquired distinction as a rhetor or advocate, 
a profession for which liis cultivated mind, agreeable 
address, and natural powers of persuasion were admira- 
bly adapted. These qualifications pointed biin out to 
the discernment of the emperor Justinian I as suited for 
diplomatic life, and he was sent by him (A.D. 534) as 
ambassador to Amalnsuutlia, regent of the kingdom of 
the Ostrogoths. Before arriving in Italy Peter learned 
the death of the young king Allialarie, the marriage of 
Ainalasimtha and Theodotus, one of the principal chiefs 
of the Ostrogoths, their exaltation to the throne of 
Italy, and of their subsequent dissensions and the im- 
prisonment of Amalasnntha. Peter then received in- 
structions to vindicate the cause of the imprisoned 
queen; hut his arrival at Ravenna was speedily fol- 
lowed by the murder of Amalasnntha. Procopius 
charges Peter with instigating Theodotus to commit 
the murder, being secretly commissioned to do so by the 
jealousy of Theodora. Justinian's wife, who held out to 
him as an inducement to comply with her desire the 
hop 


of great advancement. Whether he 
abetter to the crime or not, Peter, in conformity to who began to reign A.D. tSSG, a copy of Theodora’ 


per, and by no means insolent, he was at the same time 
the most dishonest of all mankind, k\(—- 
rirrraTog vt av5p(07ru»' uirdvnov. Sev- 
eral years afterwards (about A.D. 55*)) 
Peter, who retained his post of magister 
officio rum, and had in addition acquired 
t lie dignity of patrician, was sent by Jus- 
tinian to negotiate a peace with Chosrocs 
1, king of Persia. Some negotiations 
with pope Vigilius (552), and a new mis- 
sion into Persia (502), arc the last events 
known of the career of Peter the Patri- 
cian. He died soon after his return from 
Persia, leaving one son, who succeeded 
him in his olHee of m agister officiorum . 
According to Suiilas, Peter composed two 
works. Hist or Ur and De Statu Peipubli- 
ccr. The //istoria > began with Augustus, 
or rather with the second triumvirate, 
and continued to a period a little later 
than the time of Constantine the Great. 
Considerable portions of it are preserved 
in the Krcerpta dc Legatiouibns , made by 
order of the emperor Constantine Por- 
phyrogenitus. The treatise De Statu Pe- 
ipublicee is lost, although Alai thinks he 
recognises it in l)e Ilcpublieu. from which 
lie lias deciphered and published long 
passages in his Scriptorum I 'etc rum A 'ora 
CoUcctio . Authentic fragments from the 
treatise of Peter are found in the De Ca>~ 
remonils Aula 1 Hgzantince of Constantine Porphyrogen- 
itus. Peter the Patrician lias given a relation of his 
negotiations with Chosrocs, which is quoted by Menan- 
der. All the remains of this historian are given in t he 
Bonn edition of t lie Kxcerpta de Legatiouibns. See 
Fabricius, Bibliotheca draco, vi. 135; vii. 538; viii. 33; 
Rorske, Prafatia , c. ii, to the Dc Ctrremouiis of Con- 
stantine Porphyrogenitus; Niebuhr, J>e //islands quo- 
rum llclUptUc hoc 1 'o hi mine continent ur, iu the Fjrcerpta 
de Leguf. ed. of Bonn; Mai, De Fragment is Pol it ids Pe- 
tri M agist ri. in the Script. Yeterum Sara Caller, ii. 571 
sq. ; Smith, Diet, of Or. and Pom. /Hog. and Mytlwl. iii, 
220; Hoofer, A our. Biog. Oenerule , xl, l M2. 

Peter tiik Patuician (2) was a Creek saint who 
lived early in the 9th century. lie had fought in the 
battle (A.D. 811) against t he Bulgarians in which l lie 
emperor Nicepbortis I was defeated and slain. A life 
of Peter, taken from the Mttura of the Creeks, is given 
in the original Creek, with a Latin version, and a C<m- 
mcntariolns Prarius by Joannes Pinins, in the .1 eta 
Sanctorum (July), i, 289, 290. 

Peter tiik Patuician (3), a Creek, different from 
the foregoing, and belonging to a somewhat later pe- 
riod. lie presented to the emperor l/*o VI Sapiens, 


PETER 


35 


PETEli 


Curaiio Grcecarum Adfectionum, to which he prefixed 
an Epigramma , which is printed at length by Lam- 
becius in his Commentarius de Biblioth. Ccesanea. 

Peter ( Pierre ) of Poitiers, was a modern Latin 
poet, who died after 1141. All that we learn of his life 
is that, having made a profession of the rale of St. 
Benedict in a monastery of Aquitaine, he was chosen 
by Peter the Venerable as secretary, and accompanied 
him first to Clugny, in 1134, then to Spain in 1141. II is 
principal works are poems in elegiac verse, which, for 
verses of the 12th century, lack neither fluency nor ele- 
gance. Yet Peter the Venerable surpasses even the 
limit of hyperbole when he compares these verses with 
those of Horace and Virgil. The poems of Peter of 
Poitiers have been collected by the editors of the Bib- 
lioth. de Cluni. YYe find in the same collection, among 
the letters of Peter the Venerable, three letters written 
to this abbe by his secretary. A fourth letter from 
Peter of Poitiers to Peter the Venerable, published by 
Martene in his Amplissima Collectio (ii, 11), contains 
this curious information, that Peter of Poitiers, being 
in Spain, contributed some part to the translation of 
the Koran demanded by the abbe of Clugny. See /list. 
Lift, de la France, xii, 349. — Hoefer, Xouv.Biog. Gene- 
rale, xl, 187. 

Peter Bf.gui.ato (St.), a mediaeval saint, appears 
in the later Italian and Spanish paintings of the Fran- 
ciscans, to whose order he belonged. He is noted in 
ecclesiastical annals for his ‘'sublime gift of prayer.” 
lie died March 30, 1456. 


380, as Tillemont judges, that Peter was raised to the 
bishopric of Sebaste (now Siwas), in the Lesser Armenia. 
His elevation preceded the second general council, that 
of Constantinople, A.D. 380-381, in which he took part. 
In what year he died is not known, but it was probably 
after A.D. 391, and certainly before the death of his 
brother, Gregory of Nvssa (who survived till A.D. 394, 
or later), for Gregory v r as present at Sebaste at the first 
celebration of his brother’s memory, i. e. the anniversary 
of his death, which occurred in hot weather, and there- 
fore could not have been in January or March, where 
the martyrologies place it. The only extant writing of 
Peter is a letter prefixed to the Contra Eunominm Libri 
of Gregory of Nyssa, and published with the works of 
that father. It is entitled Sancti Patris nostri Petri 
Episcopi Sebasteni ad S. Gregorium Xyssenum snum 
Epistola. Peter does not appear to have been ambi- 
tious of authorship, and probably felt the disqualification 
arising from his restricted education. Some of the works 
of his brother Gregory were, however, written at his de- 
sire, such as the above-mentioned treatises against Eu- 
nomius and the Explieatio Apologetica in Ilexaemeron. 
The De Jlominis Opificio is also addressed to him by 
Gregory, who, both in this treatise and in the Explica- 
tio in Ilexaemeron, speaks of him in the highest terms. 
See Greg. Nyssen. De Vita S. Macrhue ; Basil, Mari- 
fimis Episcopis Epistola, ceiii, ed. Bencd. ; Tillemont, 
j Memoires, ix, 572 ; Le Quien, Oriens Christianus, vol. i, 
col. 424; Cave, Hist. Lift, ad aim. 370, i, 246. — Smith, 
Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. iii, 227. 


Peter of Bemigius, also known as Petrus Cellensis, 
flourished in the fourth quarter of the 12th century as 
abbot of St. Bemigius, and afterwards as bishop of Char- 
tres. He published his Opera, containing Sermones, 
Liber de panibus, Mosaici tabernaculi mystica et moralis 
expositio, De conscieniia, De diseiplina claustredi, Epis- 
tolarum libri ix (in Bibl. Max. Patr. xxiii, 636), Trac- 
tatus de diseiplina claustrali (D’Acliery, Spied, i, 452), 
Epistoktrum libri ix (Sirmondi Opera Varia, iii, G59). 

Peter of Sebaste, an Eastern prelate, was born at. 
Caesarea, in Cappadocia, before A.D. 349. He was the 
youngest of the ten children of Basil and Emmelia. who 
numbered among their children those eminent fathers 
of the Church, Basil the Great and Gregory of Nyssa. 
Peter's early education was conducted by his sister, St. 
Macrina, who, in the emphatic phrase of Gregory of 
Nyssa. “was everything to him — father, teacher, at- 
tendant, and mother.” The quickness of the boy en- 
abled him readily to acquire anything to which his at- 
tention was directed; but his education appears to have 
been conducted on a very narrow system, profane learn- 
ing being disregarded. If, however, his literary culture 
was thus narrowed, his morals were preserved pure ; and 
if he fell short of his more eminent brothers in variety 
of attainments, he equalled them in holiness of life. 
The place of his education appears to have been a nun- 
nery at Annesi, or Annesa, on the river Iris, in rontus, 
established by his mother and sister; and with them, or 
in the monastery which his brother Basil had estab- 
lished on the other side of the river, much of his life 
was passed. In a season of scarcity (A.D. 367, 368 ?), 
such was his benevolent exertion to provide for the 
destitute, that they Hocked to him from all parts, and 
gave to the thinly peopled neighborhood in which he 
resided the appearance of a populous town. His moth- 
er’s death appears to have occurred about the time of 
Basil’s elevation to the bishopric of the Cappadocian 
Caesarea, about A.D. 370 ; soon after which, apparently, 
Peter received from Basil ordination to the office of 
presbyter, probably of the Church of Caesarea; for Basil 
appears to have employed his brother as his confidential 
agent in some affairs. A passage of Theodoret (II. E. 
iv, 30) shows that he took an active part in the struggle 
carried on during the reign of Yalens by the bishops of 
the orthodox party against Arianism. It was probably 
after the death both of Basil and Macrina, about the year 


Peter (Pierre), prior of St.John of Sens, was born 
in the latter part of the 11th century. In 111 1, Stephen, 
provost of the church of Sens, having resolved to restore 
the ancient monastery of Saint-Jean, called to it some 
regular canons, and confided the government of this 
house to our Peter. The authors of the Gallia Chris- 
tiana give the highest praise to the knowledge and pi- 
ety of this prior. He died after 1144. We have several 
of his Letters, published by Du Saussay in his Annales 
de VEglise d' Orleans, and by Severt, in his Chronique 
des A rcheveques de Lyon. Peter is, besides, considered 
the author of several letters of kings, princes, and bish- 
ops, who had required, in delicate affairs, the aid of his 
experienced pen. See Gallia Christ, xii, col. 195 ; Hist. 
Lift, de la France, xii, 230. — lloefer, A 'our. Biog. Gene- 
rate, xl, 188. 

Peter the Sicilian, an Italian prelate, was born in 
Sicily near the beginning of the 9th century. In order 
to escape the persecution of the Saracens, who ruled in 
Sicily, he went to Byzantium in 830, and there spent a 
large part of his life. He gained the friendship of the 
emperor Basil, and the princes Constantine and Leo, his 
sons, who provided him with ecclesiastical benefices. 
He was sent by the emperor to Tabrica, in the district 
or on the frontier of Mclitene, near the Euphrates, to 
negotiate an exchange of Christian prisoners, apparently 
with the chiefs of the Paulicians, a purpose which, after 
a residence of nine months, he effected. We have of his 
works, Petri Sieuli, humillimi Argirorum Episcopi, Fu - 
nebris O ratio in B. Athanasinm, Methanes Episcopum. 
It is given in the Latin version of the Jesuit Franciseus 
Blanditius, in the Acta Sanctorum of the Bollandists 
(January), ii, 1125, etc.: — Petri Sieuli Historia de vana 
et stolida Manicheeorum Ihrresi tanquam A rchiepiscopo 
Bulgarorum nuncupata. This account of the Paulicians 
was translated into Latin, and published by Matthaeus 
Baderus (Ingoldstadt, 1604, 4to), and has been reprinted 
in various editions of the Bibliotheca Patrum. 

There was another bishop of Argos of the name of 
Peter, author of Eulogium Cosnne et Damiana SS. .4«- 
argyrorum in Asia s. Oratio in sancius et gloriosos An- 
ar gyros et Thuumaturgos Cosmum et Damiamnn, which 
has never been printed. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. 
Biog. and Mythol. iii, 222; Iloeler, A ’our. Biog. Gene- 
rate, xl, 183. 

Peter the Singer (Pierre le Chanteur), a French 


PETE I 


3G 


PETEH-PEXCE 


theologian, was born in Beauvoisis near the beginning' 
of the 12th century. The place of his birth is strongly 
controverted, and certain authors assert that he was 
born in Paris or Rheims. It is probable that, educated 
by the care of Henry of Prance, brother of the king 
Louis le Jenne, and bishop of Beauvais in 1141), he fol- 
lowed him to Rheims when he was raised to that seat in 
1 162. Peter went afterwards to Paris, where he taught 
theology, and became grand chorister of the cathedral, 
a dignity which gained him the surname under which 
lie was known (1184). Elected in 1 191 bishop of Tour- 
nay, he saw his election broken for want of form, and 
was in 1196 called to the episcopal seat of Paris, but 
without being more fortunate this time. lie was sup- 
planted by Kudes de Sully. The pope charged him to 
preach the crusade in Prance; but Peter, weakened by 
disease, confided this care to Poulques, cure' of Xeuilly- 
sur-Marne, his disciple, and died in the garb of a monk 
at Longpont, Sept. 22, 1197, when he had just been 
elected dean of Rheims. Of his numerous writings a 
single one has been published under the title of Verbum 
abbreviatum, because it commences with these words 
(Mons, 1039, 4to). See Hist. Lilt. xv. 283-303; Mul- 
drac, Hist, de VA bb. de Lonypont ; Dupin, .1 u tears Eccles. 
du Treizieme Si'ecle. — Iloeler, X our. Jiiog. Gen. xl, 192. 

Peter the Stammerer. See Petek Mosers. 

Peter (St.) ok Takextaisk, a Prench prelate, was 
born in 1102 at Saint-Maurior de 1’Exile, diocese of Vi- 
enne. He was one of the first monks of the abbey 
founded in 1117 at Bonnevanx by Gui de Bourgogne, 
archbishop of Vienne. The abbe Jean, his superior, 
sent him in 1 132 to found in Savoy the abbey of Tamie, 
which he governed for ten years, at the end of which 
he was called, by the advice of St. Bernard, to the bish- 
opric of Tarentaise, now Mouticrs (1 142). After having 
worked thirteen years to repress grave disorders in this 
diocese, Peter went in 1155 to conceal himself in a mon- 
astery of his order in Germany, where he hoped to live 
unknown ; but lie was soon discovered, and constrained 
to return to his Church. He employed himself fortu- 
nately in extinguishing tire war which had arisen be- 
tween Humbert IH, count of Savoy, and Alphonse Tail- 
lefer, son of Alphonse Jonrdain, count of Toulouse; and, 
although a vassal of the emperor Prederick, he sustained 
the part of pope Alexander III without quarrelling with 
that prince. This pope brought him to Italy, where he 
acquired great influence, and employed him to nego- 
tiate peace between the young Henry, crowned king of 
England, and king Henry his father. Peter died May 
3, 1174, at Bcllcveaux, diocese of Besan^on. The Church 
honors his memory May 8, Celcstin HI having canon- 
ized him in 1191. See Pontenay, Hist, de VEglise Gallic. 
vol. i x ; Acta Sanctorum, May; llaillct, Vies des Saints, 
8 Mai; Lenain, Hist, de Citeaux, ii, 83.— Hoofer, Xouv. 
Jiiog. Generate, xl, 139. 

Peter (Pierre) Trm:p.om:, a French chronicler, was 
born at L’ivray (Poitou) near the beginning of the 11th 
century. Like so many other priests who engaged in 
the first crusade, he departed in 1090 with Ungues de 
Lusignan, lord of Civrav; his two brothers, llerve and 
Arnaud, chevaliers (optimi militcs), took the cross at the 
same time with himself, and were both killed in the East. 
Peter was present at the siege of Nice, and followed 
Bohemond when the crusaders were divided into three 
different bodies, lie shared equally the fatigues that 
the long siege of Antioch cost the Christians, and as- 
sisted at the taking of Jerusalem. After that period 
no more mention is made of him. He died at the close 
of the year 1099. “The history of the first crusade 
which he has left,” says Horn Rivet, “carries with it 
all the characteristics of an authentic, true, and sincere 
writing, lie had been present at almost all that he re- 
lates, and seems to have written it upon the spot. . . . 
Raimond d’Agiles has made use of it. There is found 
so much conformity between these two historians that 
one can scarcely believe that they did not communi- 


1 cate their productions to each other.” This narrative is 
given in a simple but rude style; it is divided into five 
books (1096-1099), and is entitled I list aria de Hicroso- 
lymitano itinere ; the most correct edition is that by Du- 
chesne, in vol. iv of the Historiens de France. See Hist. 
Lift, de la France, viii, G29-640. — Iloefer, Xouv. Jiiog. 
Generate, xl, 187. 

Peter THE Venerable, also called Mauritius, a 
mediaeval character of note, was born in 1092 or 1094. 
He was educated at the Cistercian abbey at Souci- 
langes, and soon after the completion of his theologi- 
cal training was made prior of the convent at Vezelay, 
then at Domeine, and in 1122 abbot of Clugny. Pe- 
trus Venerabilis was more or less mixed with all the 
important ecclesiastical transactions of the 12th century. 
He took in the schism of 1130 the side of pope Inno- 
cent XI; and especially played a great part in the dis- 
cussions between Bernard of Clairvaux and Abelard. 
1 1 is works, written with more ease than talent, have not 
yet been published in a collected form. He died, at 
Christmas, in 1157 (see Jiibl. Patr. Despont, vol. xxii). 
His publications are, Sermones (in Martene et Durand, 
Thesaur. Nov. 5, 1419) :• — Xucleus de saadjicio misses 
(Hittorpius, 1091): — Lihri ii adrersus nefariam sectam 
Saracenorum (in Martene et Durand, Golkctio, ix, 
1120). His life was written by the monk Rudolph, his 
disciple: Vita Petri Venerabilis, abbatis Cluuiacensis (ibid. 
vi, 1187). See Hook, Eccles. Jiiog. viii, 59; Schrbckh, 
Kirchengesch. vol. xxvii ; Wilkins, Peter der Ehru'ur - 
dige (Leipsic, 1857). (J. II. W.) 

PeterfS, Charles 1 , a Hungarian Jesuit, was born 
towards the close of the 17th century, lie was de- 
scended from a noble family. Admitted among the 
Jesuits in 1715, he taught belles-lettres at Tyrnau and 
philosophy at Vienna. He died Aug. 10, 1746. -He 
made himself known by a valuable collection, Sacra 
concilia in regno Hungarian celebrata, ab a. 1016 usque 
ad a. 1715 (Vienna, 1742, fob), in which a good method 
and the variety of research are to be admired. Sec 
Feller, Diet. Hist. — Iloefer, Xouv. Jiiog. Generate, 
xxxix, 691. 

Peter-Low, Christian, a convert from Judaism, 
flourished in the first half of the 18th century for sev- 
eral years as professor of Oriental languages at the Uni- 
versity of Dpsala. He wrote, in the Swedish language, 
Speculum religionis Judaicce, which, in fifty-eight chap- 
ters, treats of the Jewish festivals, rites, circumcision, 
dogmas, resurrection, etc. — Fiirst, Jiibl. .Jud. iii, 80; 
Wolf, Jiibl. Hebr. iv, 966 ; Xiedersdchsische Xackrichten 
(Hamburg, 17311, p. 666 sq. ; and lxipziger Gelelirte 
Zeitung (Leips. 1731), p. 884, where a full index to all 
the chapters is given. (B. P.) 

Peter-pence is the annual tribute of one penny 
from every Roman Catholic family, paid at Rome at a 
festival of the apostle Peter. It is offered to the Roman 
pontiff in reverence of the memory of St. Peter, of whom 
that bishop is believed to be the successor. Prom an 
early period the Roman see had been richly endowed; 
and although its first endowments were chiefly local, 
yet as early as the days of Gregory the Groat large es- 
tates were held by the Roman bishops in Campania, in 
Calabria, and even in the island of Sicily. The flrst 
idea, however, of an annual tribute appears to have 
come from England, and is by some ascribed to Ina 
(A.D. 721), king of the West Saxons, who went as a 
pilgrim to Rome, and there founded a hospice for Anglo- 
Saxon pilgrims, to be maintained by an annual contribu- 
tion from England; by others, to Dll a and Ethelwulf, 
at least in the sense of their having extended it to the 
whole of the Saxon territory. But this seems very un- 
certain; and although the usage was certainly long an- 
terior to the Norman conquest, Dr. Lingard is disposed 
not to place it earlier than the time of Alfred. The 
tribute consisted in the payment of a silver penny by 
every family possessing land or cattle of the yearly value 
of thirty pence, and was collected in the five weeks be- 


PETER’S DAY 


37 


PETERS 


tween St. Peter’s and St. Paul’s Day and Aug. 1. In 
the time of king John, the total annual payment was 
£199 8s., contributed by the several dioceses in propor- 
tion. an account of which will be found in Lingard’s 
Ilistoiy of England, ii, 330. The tax called Romescot , 
with some variation, continued to be paid till the reign 
of Henry VIII, when it was abolished. Pope Gregory 
VII sought to establish the Pcter-pence for France: and 
other partial or transient tributes are recorded from Den- 
mark, Sweden, Norway, and Poland. This tribute, how- 
ever, is quite different from the payments made annu- 
ally to Home by the kingdoms which were held to be 
feudatory to the Roman see — as Naples, Aragon, Eng- 
land under the reign of John, and several other king- 
doms, at least for a time.” — Chambers. The pope having 
suffered a considerable diminution of his own revenue 
since the revolution of 1848, an effort has been made in 
several parts of Europe to revive this practice. In some 
countries it has been very successfully carried out, and 
the proceeds have been among the chief of the resources 
of Pius IX, as he has steadfastly refused to accept any 
support from the new kingdom of Italy, since his tem- 
poralities were merged in it. See Thompson, Papal 
Power (N. Y. 1877, 12mo) ; Riddle, Ilist. of the Papacy; 
Ilefele, Conciliengesch. vol. v ; Ranke, Hist, of the Pa- 
pacy in the 16 th and 17 th Centuries , i, 21, 37, 230 ; Inett, 
Ch. Hist, of England (see Index). 

Peter’s (St.) Day (June 29) is a festival observed 
in the Roman Catholic Church. Its origin has been 
traced back to the 3d century. In 348 Prudentins men- 
tions that the pope celebrated the Holy Communion in 
both St. Peter’s and St. Paul’s churches at Rome on this 
festival, which in the 6tli century was observed at Con- 
stantinople, and was kept, until the Reformation, asso- 
ciated with the name of St. Paul, whose conversion was 
not generally commemorated on Jan. 25 until the 12th 
century. Cathedra Sancti Petri is a commemoration 
virtually of SS. Peter and Paul, but its title is the Chair 
of St. Peter, wherein he first sat at Rome, Jan. 18. On 
Feb. 22 his chair at Antioch is commemorated. 

Peters, Absalom, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Wentworth, N. H., Sept. 19, 1793, and 
was educated at Dartmouth College, class of 1816, and 
for the ministry at Princeton Seminary, class of 1819. 
He was the son of general Absalom Peters, a descendant 
of William, of Boston, brother of the noted Hugh Peters. 
In 1819 he was made a missionary in Northern New York, 
but in the following year became pastor of the First 
Church, Bennington, Vt., where he remained until Dec. 
14, 1825. After this he was successively secretary of 
the Home Missionary Society until 1837, and editor of 
the Home Missionary and Pastor's Journal; and in 
1838 began to edit the American Biblical Repository. 
He was professor of pastoral theology and homiletics in 
the Union 'rheological Seminary, New York, from 1842 
to 1844, and pastor of the First Church, Williamstown, 
Mass., from 1844 to 1857. Here he originated and ed- 
ited the American Eclectic and the American Journal 
of Education, which was afterwards merged in that of 
Dr. Henry Barnard. AVhen past seventy he published 
a volume of poems. lie died at New York May IS, 
1869. During his long life he was never ill. He is the 
author of .4 Plea for Voluntary Societies: — Sprinkling 
the only Mode of Baptism, etc. : — Sermon against Horse- 
racing (1822): — Sacred Music (1823): — Colleges, Relig- 
ious Institutions (1851). — Drake, Diet, of Amer. Biog. 
s. v. 

Peters, Charles, a learned English divine, was 
born in Cornwall near the close of the 17 th century, and 
was educated at Exeter College, Oxford. On entering 
into orders he obtained the living of Boconoc. In 1727 
he was made rector of St. Mabyn, Cornwall, where he 
died, at a very advanced age, in 1777. In his disserta- 
tion on the book of Job he displayed a deep knowledge 
of Hebrew, and great power of argument against War- 
burton. The work, which is valuable, is entitled A 


critical Dissertation on the Book of Job, wherein the Ac - 
count given of that Book by the Author of the Divine Le- 
gation of Moses demonstrated [AYarburton] is particu- 
larly considered, the Antiquity of the Book vindicated, 
the great Text fix, 25) explained, and a future State 
shown to have been the popular Belief of the undent Jews 
(2d ed. corrected, Loud. 1757, 8vo):— An Appendix to 
the critical Dissertation on the Book of Job, giving a 
further Account of the Book of Ecclesiastes ; to which 
is added a Reply to some Notes of the late D — n of B— l, 
in his new Edition of the Divine Legation , vol. ii, pt. ii, 
by the Author of the Critical Dissertation (Lond. 1760). 
There are also extant Sermons, published from his MSS. 
by his nephew, Jon. Peters, M.A., vicar of St. Clement’s, 
near Truro, Cornwall (Lond. 1776, 8vo). (J. II. W.) 

Peters, Hugh, an English divine, who came to 
this country in the colonial days, and is noted both as a 
preacher and politician, was born at Fowev, Cornwall, 
Eng., in 1599. He was educated at Trinity College, 
Cambridge, where he graduated in 1622; then entered 
the ministry', and preached successfully at St. Sepul- 
chre’s, London, until he was silenced for nonconformity, 
and imprisoned. As soon as liberated he went to Rot- 
terdam, and became pastor of the Independent Church 
in that place. In 1635 he resigned and sailed for New 
England, where he arrived Oct. 6, and was installed 
Dec. 21, 1636, pastor of the First Church, Salem, as suc- 
cessor to Roger Williams, whose doctrines he disclaimed 
and whose adherents he excommunicated. He was 
also active in civil and mercantile affairs, suggesting 
coasting and foreign voyages, and the plan of the fish- 
eries. In March, 1638, he w r as appointed by the Gen*- 
I eral Court to assist in collecting and revising the colo- 
nial laws, and having been chosen to “represent the 
sense of the colony upon the laws of excise and trade,” 
he sailed for England Aug. 3, 1641. He became in 
1643 a preacher in the Parliamentary army, in which 
capacity he was present at the siege of Lynn and the 
capture of Bridgewater. For his services he was largely 
rewarded, and in 1653 was one of the committee of 
legal reform appointed by Parliament. In 1658 he was 
chaplain to the garrison at Dunkirk. After the Res- 
toration Peters, being suspected of some complied}' 
with the death of the king, was committed to the Tow- 
er, and indicted for high -treason Oct. 13, 1660. He 
was convicted and executed Oct. 16, 1660. During his 
imprisonment he wrote several letters of advice to his 
daughter, subsequently (1717) published under the title 
of .4 dying Eatker's last Legacy to an only Child. His 
private character has been the subject of much discus- 
sion both in England and America. He uas charged 
by his enemies with gross immorality, and the most 
bitter epithets were applied to him by bishops Burnet, 
Rennet, and others; but of late years he has been es- 
timated more favorably. He published also God's Do- 
ings and Man's Duty, opened in a Sermon preached be- 
fore the House of Commons, the Lord Mayor, and the 
Assembly of Divines (1646) : — Peters's last Report of the 
English IFurs, occasioned by the Importunity of a Friend 
pressing an Answer to some Queries (1646): — A Word 
for the Army and Two Words for the Kingdom, to Clear 
the One and Cure the Other, forced in much Plainness 
and Brevity from their faithful Servant, Hugh Peters 
(1647): — A Good Work for a Good Magistrate, or a 
Short Cut to a Great Quiet (1651): — Some Notes oj' a 
Sermon preached on the 14 th of October, 1660, in the 
Prison of Newgate, after his Condemnation (1660). .See 
Sprague, A nnals of the .4 mer. Pulpit, i, 70 ; Drake, Diet, 
of A mer. Biogr. s. v. (J. II. AY.) 

Peters, Richard, D.D., a Protestant Episcopal 
clergyman of colonial days, was bom at Liverpool, Eng- 
land, where he was educated as a clergyman of the 
Church of England, and came to Philadelphia in 1735. 
His services were soon engaged at Christ’s Church, for 
w'hich he was licensed by the bishop of London. He 
shortly resigned, and then held an important Church 


PETERS 


38 


PETERSEN 


agency, and also became secretary to a succession of gov- 
ernors. In May, 1719, lie became a member of the pro- 
vincial council, but in 1762 he resigned all civil offices and 
was made one of the ministers of the United Church; 
was afterwards chosen their rector, and in 176-1 went to 
England to receive his license in due form. On his 
return he resumed his duties. He resigned in 1775, and 
died July 10, 1776. He published a Sermon on Educa- 
tion (1751), See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , 
v, 88; Dorr, Hist, of the Christ, Church, vol. i. (J. II. \Y.) 

Peters, Samuel Andrew, D.I)., LL.T)., an ec- 
centric Protestant Episcopal clergyman, was born at 
Hebron, Conn., Nov. 20, 1735, and passed A. 15. in Yale, 
1757, when he went to England for ordination. He re- 
turned in 1759, and in 1762 took charge of the Church 
at Hebron, where he continued for many years. Dur- 
ing the Revolution, being a Tory, he retired lirst to 
Huston, and soon sailed to England, as his imprudence 
and loyalty to the English cause made him very ob- 
noxious. Of course his royal master rewarded his fidel- 
ity by a pension and a grant of confiscated lands. In 
1781 he published a general history of Connecticut, 
which has been called “the most, unscrupulous and ma- 
licious of lying narratives.” Its narrations are inde- 
pendent of time, place, and probability. In 1794 he 
was chosen bishop of Vermont, but he was never con- 
secrated. After being struck off the pension roll by 
William Pitt, he returned home in 1805, and spent his 
years in useless petitions to Congress for lands granted 
to Jonathan Carver, the Indian traveller. In 1317 lie 
journeyed westward, and in 1813 returned to New 
York, where he lived in obscurity and poverty until his 
death, April 19, 1826. He is the “ Parson Peter” of 
Trumbull's M'Fine/af. Peters published, .1 General 
History of Connecticut, by a Gentleman of the Province 
(Loud. 1781): — .1 Letter on the Possibility of Eternal 
Punishments, etc. (ibid. 1785) : — and The History of Iter. 
J/nt/h Peters, etc. (ibid. 1807). See Sprague, Annals of 
the A mer. Pulpit, v, 191. (J. II. W.) 

Peters, William, an English clergyman, who 
flourished in the latter part of the ISth century, dis- 
tinguished himself especially as a painter. lie was a 
man of wit, and possessed a lively imagination and great 
conversational powers, which made him a favorite. 
Having a passion for painting, he practiced it first as 
an amusement, and, by associating much with the em- 
inent artists of the time, he greatly improved his man- 
ner. and produced many beautiful works which were 
greatly admired. He painted for the Shakespeare Gal- 
lery scenes from that author’s dramatic works; also sev- 
eral pictures for Macklin’s Gallery, as the Resurrection of 
a Pious Family ; the Guardian Ant/els and the Spirit of 
a Child; the Cherubs, etc., all of which were very pop- 
ular. lie executed many fancy subjects from his own 
imagination, which are pleasingly sentimental. He 
was much patronized hv the nobility, and he sometimes 
painted subjects not strictly in accordance with just 
notions of propriety. Ilis pictures are well composed, 
and his coloring rich and harmonious, with an admira- 
ble impasto, in which he imitated Reynolds. Many of 
his works were engraved by Hartolozzi, Thcw. Simon. 
Smith, Marcuard, and others, lie is generally called 
the Rev. W. Peters. The duke of Rutland was his 
chief patron, and presented him with a valuable living, 
'flic bishop of Lincoln gave him a prehcndal stall in his 
cathedral. He died in 1814. See Spooner, liioy, Hist, 
of the Fine Arts, ii, 68 1. 

Petersen, Joiiann Wiliielm, a German writer 
noted for his theological studies, and his heresies in 
certain branches of Christian doctrine, was horn July 1, 
1619. at t tsiiahrilck, was educated at Lubeck in the pre- 
paratory branches, and studied theology at the univer- 
sities of ( iicssen, Rostock. Lcipsic. Wittenberg, and Jena, 
lie. then lectured for a while at Giessen, preached at Lu- 
beck. ami finally accepted a professorship at the univer- 
sity in Rostock. He had written a poem satirizing the 


Jesuits; they in turn had made it so uncomfortable for 
him at Lubeck that he went to Rostock, but also bore, 
and at Hanover later, they followed him with their op- 
position and invectives, and in 1678 he gladly accept- 
ed the superintemleney of the churches at Eutin. In 
1688 he became superintendent at Limchiirg, but did 
not remain long, as differences sprang up between him 
and the pastors. In 1692 he was deposed, oil the ground 
that he espoused ehiliastic ideas. He now purchased a 
farm near Zerbst, and died in retirement, Jan. 31, 1727. 
His last years were spent in the advocacy of cliiliasiico- 
pictistic opinions, and he wrote much for that purpose. 
A list of all his writings is given in his autobiography 
(1717). This book is valuable, as it indicates the 
sources whence the pietism ofSpencr and Franclte drew 
its strength. We must not be understood, however, to 
sav that Spencr’s pietism depended on Hetcrsen, but 
simply that Petersen and Spencr had much in common, 
and that the former, by his inlhionce and acceptance 
of pietistic views, strengthened Spelter’s hands. Peter- 
sen seems to have misapprehended Spencr, and to have 
gone farther than he. Thus, for example, Petersen, 
misunderstanding Spcner’s doctrine concerning ‘'better 
times to come” [see Eschatology; Spkxkk], awl the 
realization of God’s kingdom on earth, announced the 
speedy approach of the millennial reign, and, for the 
sake of accommodation, even adopted the final resto- 
ration theories of Origcn (q. v.), with which lie became 
acquainted, as lie tells us, in the writings of the English 
fanatic Jane Leade (q. v.). His wife adopted these 
views also, and became a propagator of this heresy and 
the notion of a universal apocatastasis. Hut the doc- 
trine, though it pleased many by limiting the eternity 
of punishment, and some who had almost strayed from 
the Church beyond hope of regaining their former hold 
on Christ and his Church, vet met with almost univer- 
sal rejection, because it obliged its advocates to em- 
brace a physical process of redemption, or at least one 
which was not brought about by the Word of Christ. 
A train of thought which was the germ of the Termi - 
nistic controversy of 1698-1710 might well lead farther. 
It had been usual so to identify the day of grace with tbe 
duration of earthly life as to allow no hope beyond it, and 
also to regard the term of grace as unexpired while life 
lasted. Though the original foundation of this opinion 
was a serious view of the importance of earthly life, it was 
yet capable of being made the basis of that levity which 
would delay repentance till the approach of death. To 
put a stop to this notion. Hose, with whom Rcchenberg 
(q. v.) agreed, upheld the tenet that there is. even in 
this life, a peremptory termination of grace. This can- 
not depend upon so external a matter as time, hut upon 
the inward maturity of the decision for or against Christ. 
Grace is taken from those who have repeatedly refused 
it, and the justification formerly pronounced is with- 
drawn. Sec, however, the art. Gkai'ic. To Petersen's 
adoption of a millennium and a universal restoration, he 
added, thirdly, faith in the continuation of supernatural 
inspiration. lie was led to this step by a Miss 1,’osa- 
muuda Juliana Von Aruburg, who professed, after her 
seventh year, to sec miraculous visions, especially dur- 
ing prayer, and to experience extraordinary divine rev- 
elations. Petersen was acquainted with her after 1691. 
He boasts that his house had been blessed by her pres- 
ence as the bouse of Obed-Edom. lie then busied 
himself with the matter, and composed a work in favor 
of the lady, in which he sought to establish the divine 
character of her revelations against all doubt. Hesidcs. 
Petersen and his wife also claimed to he themselves fa- 
vored with such illuminations and revelations, and they 
not (infrequently entertained their superstitious age with 
extraordinary experienees of a disorganized and infatu- 
ated brain. Hut notwithstanding all his peculiar views, 
and his too ready credulity. Petersen must be pronounced 
a noble and pious man. He wrote many hymns, some 
of which arc preserved in German collections to this day. 
Dippcl (q.v.) and Edelmaun joined Petersen, though they 


PETERZANO 


39 


PETITOT 


differed from him much on doctrinal point?. See Hurst’s 
Hagenbach, Ch. Hist. 18 th and 19fA Cent, i, 159 sq.; Ha- 
genbaeh, Ilist. of Doctrines, ii, 370 ; Domer, Hist, of 
Protestant Theology, ii, 154; Lebensbesclireibung (1719). 
(J.II.W.) 

Peterzano (or Preterazzano), Simone, an Ital- 
ian painter, was, according to Lomazzo, a pupil of Titian, 
and flourished at Milan in 1591, where he executed some 
works for the churches, both in oil and fresco. Lanzi 
says : “ On his Pieti i in S. Fidela he inscribed himself 
‘Titiani Discipulns;’ and his close imitation seems to 
confirm the truth, lie produced several works in fresco, 
particularly several histories of St. Paul in S. Barnaba. 
lie there seems to have aimed at uniting the expres- 
sion. the foreshortening, and the perspective of the Mi- 
lanese to the rich coloring of Venetian artists, noble 
works if they were thoroughly correct, and if the author 
had been as excellent in fresco as in oil painting.” 
There is a fine picture by this master of the Assumption 
of the Virgin in the Cliiesa di Brera. See Spooner, 
Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, ii, 684. 

Pethach Debaray (*H3 , n nrE) is the title of 
an excellent Hebrew grammar written in rabbinic char- 
acters by an anonymous Spanish author, the first edition 
of which appeared at Naples in 1492, and not, as is 
generally believed, at Pesaro in 1507. Another edition, 
with additions, appeared at Constantinople in 1515, and 
the same, with corrections by Elias Levita (q. v.), at 
Venice in 1545. Of the first edition of this valuable 
grammar only two copies, one at the Vatican Library, 
and one at Parma, are extant. The Pethach Debaray 
has been edited with Ibn- Ezra’s J loynaim (Venice, 
1546), and together with llaja ben-Sherira’s work on 
dreams, ni-^n ■jVHtlS (Constantinople, 1515, and 
often) ; and, lastly, with Moses Kimehi’s (q. v.) gram- 
matical work, The Journey on the Paths of Knowledge, 
r2*in See De Rossi, Dizionario sto- 

rico degli autori Ehrei, p. 262 (Germ, transl. by Ham- 
burger) ; Wolf, Bibl. Hebr. ii, 1412 sq. ; Steinsehneider, 
Bibliographisches Ilandbuck, p. 8, No. 75 sq. (Berlin, 
1859). (B. P.) 

Pethahi'all (Heb. Pethachyah', n“"rs, freed of 
Jehovah ; Sept. <i>t$fia, Ezra x, 23; tpermiat;, Neh. ix, 
5; <PaSata, xi, 24; <Pt$elac, 1 Cliron. xxiv, 16). The 
name of three men. 

1. The head of the nineteenth course in David’s di- 
vision of the priests (1 Chron. xxiv, 16). B.C. cir. 1020. 

2 . A Levite, who put away an idolatrous wife at the 
injunction of Ezra (Ezra x, 23), and joined in the hymn 
of praise and the covenant with Nehemiah (Neh. ix, 
5). B.C. cir. 458. 

3 . A Hebrew, son of Meshezabeel, of the tribe of Ju- 
dah, who acted as counsellor of Artaxerxes in matters 
concerning the Jews (Neh. xi, 24). B.C. cir. 446. 

Pe'thcr (Heb. Pethor ’, 'vrs, opened; Sept. d>a- 
S'ovpd ; but in Dent, xxiii, 6 Sept, omits), the name of 
a place in Mesopotamia, on the Euphrates, the native 
country of Balaam, to which Balak sent for him to 
come and curse Israel (Numb, xxii, 5; Deut. xxiii, 5). 
It is supposed to have been near Tiphsah, on the Eu- 
phrates, but this is altogether uncertain. See Balaam. 
The name occurs in the cuneiform inscriptions (q. v.). 

Pethu'el (Ileb. PetkueT, bx'TE, stamp or engrav- 
ing of God; but according to others, i. q. blS^T'E, Me- 
tliueV, i. e.folk of God; Sept. B«3oin)/\), the father of 
the prophet Joel (Joel i, 1). B.C. ante 800. 

Petillianists, those who adhered to the party of 
Petillian, the Donatist bishop of Carthage, in his con- 
troversy with St. Augustine. 

Petit, Samuel, a celebrated French scholar, was 
born at Nismes in 1594. lie studied at Geneva with 
such success that at the age of seventeen he was ad- 
mitted to the sacred ministry. Soon after he was 
raised to the professorship of theology, and of Greek 


and Hebrew, in that city, lie died in 1645. He was 
a man of vast and profound erudition, lie published 
| Varire lectiones in S. Scripturam (in the Critici Bar. 
vol. viii). 11 is other works are, Miscellaneorum libri 
; ix : —Eclogce Chronologies: — Diatribe de Jure, Princi- 
pum Edictis, etc.: — Diatribe de Dissidiorum Causis, 
Effect is et Remediis. 

Petit-Didier, Matthew, a learned French prel- 
ate of note, was horn in Lorraine in 1659. He very 
early in life entered the Order of the Benedictines, anil 
later became abbot of Senones, and finally bishop of 
Macra (in partibus infidelium). He died in 1728. lie 
is the author of several valuable works, among them, 
Trait e theologique sur Vuutorite et I'infallibilite des Papes 
(Avign. 1726, sm. 8vo). This work, asserting the infal- 
libility of the pope, has been attacked by various writ- 
ers, Romanist as well as Protestant, especially by Len- 
fant at the end of his Hist, of the Council of Constance. 
lie also published several critical, historical, and chro- 
nological dissertations on the Scriptures (1689-1728). 
His brother, Jean Joseph, who was a Jesuit, flourished 
from 1664 to 1756. See Darling, Cyclop. Bibliogr. s. v. ; 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uth. s. v. (j. H. W.) 

Petition, according to Dr. Watts, is the fourth part 
of prayer, and includes a desire of deliverauee from evil, 
and a request of good things to be bestowed. On both 
these accounts petitions are to be offered up to God, not 
only for ourselves, but for our fellow -creatures also. 
This part of prayer is frequently called intercession. 
See Prayer. 

Petitot, Jean, an eminent French painter in en- 
amel, is noted especially as a Huguenot who spurned 
all efforts for his conversion, and, notwithstanding the 
personal intercession for his recall to Romanism on the 
part of king Louis XIV, died as he lived, a pious Prot- 
estant. Petitot was the son of a sculptor and architect, 
and was born at Geneva in 1607. Being designed for 
the trade of a jeweller, he was placed under the direc- 
tion of Bordier, and in this occupation was engaged in 
the preparation of enamels for the jewelry business. 
He was so successful in the production of colors that he 
was advised by Bordier to attempt portraits. They 
conjointly made several trials, and though they still 
wanted many colors which they knew not how to pre- 
pare for the fire, their attempts had great success. After 
some time they went to Italy, where they consulted the 
most eminent chemists, and made considerable progress 
in their art, but it was in England, whither they re- 
moved after a few years, that they perfected it. In 
London they became acquainted with Sir Theodore 
Mayern, first physician to Charles I, and an intelligent 
l chemist, who had by his experiments discovered the 
principal colors proper to be used in enamel, and the 
means of vitrifying them, so that they surpassed the 
boasted enamelling of Venice and Limoges. Petitot 
was introduced by Mayern to the king, who retained 
him in his service and gave him apartments in White- 
hall. lie painted the portraits of Charles and the royal 
family several limes, and copied many pictures, after 
Vandvck, which are considered his finest works. That 
painter greatly assisted him by his advice, and the 
king frequently went to see him paint. On the death 
of Charles, Petitot retired to France with the exiled 
family. He was greatly noticed by Charles II, who in- 
troduced him to Louis XIAL Louis appointed him his 
painter in enamel, and granted him a pension and apart- 
ments in the Louvre. lie painted the French king 
many times, and, among a vast number of portraits, 
those of the queens Anne of Austria and Maria Theresa. 
He also ocenpied himself in making copies from the 
most celebrated pictures of Mignard and Lebrun. Pe- 
titot, dreading the effects of the revocation of the Edict 
of Nantes, solicited leave, but for a long time in vain, 
to return to Geneva. Finally the king, determined to 
save his painter, employed Bossuet to endeavor to con- 
vert him to Romanism ; in this effort, however, that elo- 


PETIT-PIED 


40 


PETRA 


quent prelate was wholly unsuccessful. At length Louis 
permitted him to depart, and, leaving his wife and chil- 
dren in Laris, Lctitot proceeded to his native place, where 
he was soon after joiuetl by his family. Arrived now 
at eighty years of age, he was sought by such numbers 
of friends and admirers that he was forced to remove 
from Geneva, and retire to Yevav, a small town in the 
canton of Vaud, where he continued to labor till 1 GO t , 
in which year, while painting a portrait of his wife, he 
was suddenly attacked by apoplexy, of which he died.— 
English Cyclop, s. v. For his works of art, see Spooner, 
Biog. Ilist. of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Petit-Pied, Nicolas (1), a French canonist, was 
born in Paris Dec. "24, 1G27. lie was made doctor of 
the Sorbonne in 1658, and counsellor-clerk in the Cha- 
telet in 1GG2. lie was provided shortly after with the. 
curacy of Saint-Martial in Laris, united later to that of 
Saint-Pierre-des-Arcis, and finally became undcr-choris- 
ter and canon of the metropolitan church. In 1678, hav- 
ing wished, as dean of the counsellors, to preside in the 
Chatelet in the absence of the lieutenants, he found a 
violent opposition among the lay-counsellors, who pre- 
tended that the clergy had not the right to preside and 
to decanker. Upon the complaint of Letit-Lied, March 
17, 1682, the authorities interposed a decree which 
gained for him the cause. The researches which he 
was obliged to make for the pursuit of this affair fur- 
nished him the occasion for composing an excellent 
Trait 6 dit droit et des prerogatives des ecclesiastir/ues 
dans l' ad min 1st rat ion dc la justice seculiere (Paris, 1705, 
4to). Sec Journ. des Savans , 1705; Moreri. Diet. Hist . ; 
Descript. Hist, de I'Eglise dc Paris. — Iloefcr, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate, xxxix, 710. 

Petit-Pied, Nicolas (2), a French theologian, 
nephew of the preceding, was born in Paris Aug. 4, 1GG5. 
After having finished with distinction his ecclesiastical 
studies, he was received doctor of the Sorbonne in 1692, 
and his reputation caused him to be chosen in 1701 to 
teach the Holy Scriptures in that celebrated school. 
Having signed, July 20, 1702, with thirty-nine other 
doctors, the famous Cas dc conscience , which was con- 
demned at Rome Feb. 15, 1703, he would not retract, 
and was therefore exiled to Beaune and deprived of 
his pulpit. lie hastened to join in Holland his friend 
Quesnei, and remained in that country until 1718, pro- 
ducing each year, for the support of Jansenism, new 
articles upon the formulary, upon respectful silence, and 
upon other analogous matters now forgotten. The bull 
Unigenitus found in him a formidable adversary : he 
fought it in pamphlets, in memoirs, and in more ex- 
tended works. On his return to France, Letit-Lied 
passed some time at Troyes, and afterwards went to 
Paris, where, June 1 and G, 1719, the faculty of theology 
and the Sorbonne established him again in his rights as 
doctor. On the 15th of the same month he was again 
exiled, and on the 21st a lettre de cachet ordered the 
cancelling of the conclusion of the faculty in his favor. 
Petit-I’ied had established his home and a new kind of 
Protestant Church in the village of Asnifcrfcs, near Laris. 
There he made a trial of the regulations and all the lit- 
urgy practiced by the Jausenists in Holland. Renown 
published astonishing things of him; people hastened 
there in crowds from the capital, and Asnieres soon be- 
came another Charenton. Letit-Lied showed himself 
from that time a more obstinate appellant. M. de Lor- 
raine, bishop of Bayeux, selected him shortly after for 
his theologian, but on the death of that prelate, June 9, 
1728, he retired again to Holland, whence he returned 
only in 1731. llis zeal for Jansenism and the fertility 
of his pen were not inconsistent in this new exile; but 
from his return to Laris he led a more tranquil life, and 
contented himself with composing several works to de- 
fend the missal given to his diocese by Bossuet, bishop 
of Troyes. Letit-Lied died in Laris Jan. 7, 1717. The 
list of all his works would he too long ; M< >reri incut ions 
cighty-one. We quote of his works, Exumen thct.lv- 


gique dc Vinstruetion pastorale approuvee dans V assem- 
ble du clerge . . . pour l acceptation de la bulk (Paris, 
1713, 3 vols. 12mo) : — Exumen des faussetes sur le culte 
Chinois avancees par le P. Jourency (ibid. 1714, 12mo) : 
— a.ul Lettres touchant la matiere de Vusure, par rap- 
port aux contrats des rentes rachetables des deux cotes 
(Lille, 1731, 4to). lie also labored upon the work of 
Legros, Dogma Ecclesiee circa usuram expositum et vin- 
dicate m (Utrecht, 1731, 4to). Sarcastic in his works, 
Petit-Pied was of a mild, sociable character. See Diet, 
hist, des Auteurs Eccles. vol. iii; Journal de Dorsunne, 
Calendrierccclesiastiepie (ibid. 1757, 12mo); Xouv. cedes. 
passim ; Morcri, Diet. Hist . — Iloefcr, Xouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, xxxix, 719. 

Petoslris (ITtn'ffioic), an Egyptian priest and as- 
trologer, who is generally named along with Nechepsos, 
an Egyptian king. The two are said to be the found- 
ers of astrology, and of the art of casting nativities. 
Snidas states that Lctosiris wrote on the right mode 
of worshipping the gods, astrological maxims, tK twv 
itpibv fitfiXiioi' (which are often referred to in con- 
nection with astrology), and a work on the Egyptian 
mysteries. But we may infer from a statement made 
by Vetius Valens, of which the substance is given by 
Marsham ( Canon Chronicus [ed. Lips. 1G7G], p. 479), 
that Suidas assigns to Petosiris what others attributed 
partly to him and partly to Nechepsos. For his "Opya- 
vov ’Aarpoi’optKov, or A'i/tp of otXiji’iaKtj, containing 
astrological principles for predicting the event of dis- 
eases, and for his other writings, Fahricius (Bibl. Gnre. 
iv. 1G0) may be consulted. To the list given by him 
may be added a translation into Latin by Bede of the 
astrological letter of Petosiris to Nechepsos, entitled 
De Divinatione Mortis et Yitte (Bed. Opera [ed. Col. 
Agripp. 1612], ii, 233, 234). His name, as connected 
with astrology, was in high repute early in Greece, and 
in Rome in her degenerate days. This we learn from 
the praises bestowed on him by Manetho (v, 10\ who, 
indeed, in the prologue to the first and fifth books of 
his Apotelcsmatica, professes only to expand in Greek 
the prose rules of Petosiris and Nechepsos (“divini illi 
viri atquc omni admiratione digni"), and from the refer- 
ences of Pliny {Hist. X at. i, 23 ; vii, 19). But the best 
proof is the fact that, like our own Lilly, Petosiris became 
the common name for an astrologer, as we find in Aris- 
tophanes, quoted by Athcnams (iii, 114, c) in the forty- 
sixth epigram of Lucilius (Jacobs, Ant hoi. Grccc. iii, 
38), whence we learn the quantity, and in Juvenal (vi, 
580). Marsham has a full dissertation on Nechepsos 
and Lctosiris in the work above quoted (p. 474-481). — 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mgthol. iii, 213. 

Petra (ill the earlier Greek writers Uirpo or // II«- 
roa , but in the later ai lGrpui) was the capital of the 
Nabath.-ean Arabs in the land of Edom, and seems to 
have given name to the kingdom and region of Arabia 
Petreea. As there is mention in the Old Testament of 
a stronghold which successively belonged to the Amor- 
ites (Jndg. i. 36), the Edomites (2 Kings xiv, 7). and 
the Moabites (Isa. xvi, 1; comp, in lleb. ch. xlii, 11), 
and bore in Hebrew the name of Bela, which has 
the same meaning as Petra in Greek, viz. “ a rock,” 
that circumstance has led to the conjecture that the 
l’ctra of the Nabathieans had been the Sc-la of Edom. 
See Ski.au. This latter name seems, however, to have 
passed away with t he Hebrew rule over Edom, for no 
further trace of it is to be found; although it is still 
called Sola bv Isaiah (xvi, 1). These are all the certain 
notices of the place in Scripture. A rce is said by Jose- 
phus to have been a name of Petra {Ant. iv, 4, 7) ; but 
probably we should read Wprijp for 'Apia) (yet see 
Amer. Bib. Rep. for 1833, p. 536, note). See Aukitk. 

1. History. The earliest notice of this place under 
the name Petra by the Greek writers is connected with 
the fact that Antigonus, one of Alexander’s successors, 
sent two expeditions against the Nabatlneans in Petra 
(Diod. Sic. xix, 91 98). The first of these, commanded 


PETRA 


41 


PETRA 


by Atlienaens, and the second by Demetrius, changed the | mausoleums were made, the remains of which still arrest 
habits of the Nabathaeans, who had hitherto been essen- the attention of the traveller ; for, though the predomi- 
tially nomadic, and led them to engage in commerce, nant style of architecture is Egyptian, it is mixed with 
In this way, during the following centuries, they grew up florid and overloaded Homan -Greek specimens, which 
into the kingdom of Arabia Petraa, occupying very | are but slightly modified by the native artists. In the 
nearly the same territory which was comprised within the 4th century Petra is several times mentioned by Euse- 
limits of ancient Edom. In the first expedition, Athe- bius and Jerome ; and in the Greek ecclesiastical Xotitiaa 
naeus took the city by surprise while the men were absent of the 5th and 6tli centuries it appears as the mctropoli- 
at a neighboring mart or fair, and carried offa large booty tan see of the third Palestine (Reland, Palcest. p. 215, 
of silver and merchandise. But the Xabathieans quickly 217); the last named of the bishops is Theodorus, who 
pursued him to the number of 8000 men, and, falling was present at the Council of Jerusalem in A.D. 536 
upon his camp by night, destroyed the greater part of ( Oriens Christ, iii, 725). From that time not the slight- 
his army. Of the second expedition, under the com. est notice of Petra is to be found in any quarter; and as 
maud of Demetrius, the Nabathieans had previous in- no trace of it as an inhabited site is to be met with in the 
telligence; end prepared themselves for an attack by Arabian writers, the probability seems to be that it was 
driving their flocks into the deserts, and placing their destroyed in some unrecorded incursion of the desert 
wealth under the protection of a strong garrison in Pe- hordes, and was afterwards left unpeopled. It is true 
tra ; to which, according to Diodorus, there was but a that Petra occurs in the writers of the aera of the Cru- 
single approach, and that made by hand. In this way sades; but they applied this name to Kerak, and thus 
they succeeded in baffling the whole design of Derne- introduced a confusion as to the true Petra which is not 
trius. For points of history not immediately connected l even now entirely removed. It was not until the re- 
with the city, see Edomites; Nabatii.eaxs. Strabo, ports concerning the wonderful remains in Wady Musa 
writing of the Nabatliteans in the time of Augustus, I had been verified by Burckhardt that the latter travel- 
thus describes their capital: “The metropolis of the ' ler first ventured to assume the identity of the site with 
Nabathasans is Petra, so called; for it lies in a place in ! that of the ancient capital of Arabia Petnea. lie ex- 
other respects plain and level, but shut in by rocks ‘ presses this opinion in a letter dated at Cairo, Sept. 12, 
round about, yet within having copious fountains for : 1812, published in 1819, in the preface to his Travels in 
the supply of water and the irrigation of gardens. Be- Nubia ; but before its appearance the eminent geogra- 
yond the enclosure the region is mostly a desert, espe- 1 pher Carl Ritter had suggested the same conclusion on 
ciallv towards Judrea” ( Geog . xvi, p. 906). At this • the strength of Seetzen’s intimations (Erdkunde, ii, 217). 
time the town had become a place of transit for the pro- ; Burckhardt’s view was more amply developed in his 
ductions of the East, and was much resorted to by for- ! Travels in Syria, p. 431, published in 1822, and received 
eigners (Diod. Sic. xix, 95; Strabo, l. c.). Pliny more the high sanction of his editor, Col. Leake, who pro- 
definitely describes Petra as situated in a valley less duces in support of it all the arguments which have 
than two miles (Roman) in amplitude, surrounded by since been relied upon, namely, the agreement of the 
inaccessible mountains, with a stream flowing through ancient descriptions with this site, and their inapplica- 
it (Hist. Nat. vi, 28). About the same period it is often bility to Kerak ; the coincidence of the ancient specifi- 
named by Josephus as the capital of Arabia Petriea cations of the distances of Petra from the Elanitic gulf 
(ir«r, i, 6, 2; 13, 8; etc.). Petra was situated in the and from the Dead Sea, which all point to Wady Musa, 
eastern part of Arabia Petnea, in the district called un- and not to Kerak ; that Josephus, Eusebius, and Jerome 
dcr the Christian emperors of Rome Pakestina Tertia testify that the Mount Hot where Aaron died was in 
( Vet. Rom. I tin. p. 7 4, ed. Wessel ; Malala, Chronogr. xvi, 1 the vicinity of Petra; and that to this day the moun- 
400, ed. Bonn). According to the division of the an- tain which tradition and circumstances point out as the 
cient geographers, it lay in the northern district, Geba- same still rears its lonely head above the vale of Wady 
lene; while the modern ones place it in the southern Musa, while in all the district of Kerak there is not a 
portion, Esh-Sherah, the Mount Seir of the Bible. Pe- | single mountain which could in itself be regarded as 
tra was subdued by A. Cornelius Palma, a lieutenant of Mount Hor; and even if there were, its position would 
Trajan (Dion Cass, lxviii, 14). Hadrian seems to have * be incompatible with the recorded journeyings of the 
bestowed on it some advantage, which led the inhabit- Israelites (Leake’s Preface to Burckhardt’s Travels in 
ants to give his name to the city upon coins; several Syria, p. vii-ix; Robinson’s Palestine, ii, 576-579, 
of these are still extant (Mionnet, Med. A ntiques, v, 587 ; 653-659). 

Eckhel, Doctr. Num. ii, 503). It remained under the 2. Description of the present Site. — The ruined city 
Roman dominion a considerable period, as we hear of the lies in a narrow valley, surrounded by lofty and, for 
province of Arabia being enlarged by Septimius Sevc- the most part, perfectly precipitous mountains. Those 
rus, A.D. 195 (ibid, lxxv, 1, 2 ; Eutrop. viii, 18). It must which form its southern limit are not so steep as to be 
have been during this period that those temples and impassable; and it is over these, or rather through 



PETRA 


42 


PETRA 



them, along an abrupt and difficult ravine, that 
travellers from Sinai or Egypt usually wind 
their laborious way into the scene of magnifi- 
cent desolation. The ancient and more inter- 
esting entrance is on the eastern side, through 
the deep narrow gorge called the Sik. It is not 
easy to determine the precise limits of the an- 
cient. city, though the precipitous mountains 
by which the site is encompassed mark with 
perfect distinctness the boundaries beyond 
which it never could have extended. These 
natural barriers seem to have constituted the 
real limits of the city; and they give an extent 
of more than a mile in length, nearly from 
north to south, by a variable breadth of about 
half a mile. Several spurs from the surround- 
ing mountains encroach upon this area; but, 
with inconsiderable exceptions, tin? whole is tit 
for building on. The sides of the valley are 
walled up by perpendicular rocks from four 
hundred to six or seven hundred feet high. 

The northern and southern barriers are neither 
so lofty nor so steep, and they both admit of 
the passage of camels. A great many small 
recesses or side valleys open into the principal 
one. thus enlarging as well as varying almost 
infinitely the outline. With only one or two 
exceptions, however, they have no outlet, but 
come to a speedy and abrupt termination among 
the overhanging cliffs, as precipitous as the 
natural bulwark that bounds t he principal val- 
ley. Including these irregularities, the whole 
circumference of Petra may be four miles or 
inure. The length of this irregular outline, 
though it gives no idea of the extent of the 
area within its embrace, is perhaps the best 
measure of the extent of the excavations. 

The valley of Wady M Asa, which leads to the 
ruins, in a general westerly direction, is about 
one hundred and lilty feet broad at its entrance, 
and is shut in by cliffs t f red sandstone, which 
gradually increase from a height of forty or 
fifty feet to two hundred or two hundred and 
fifty feet. The valley gradually contracts till at one 
spot it becomes only twelve foot broad, and is so over- 
lapped by the perpendicular cliffs that the light of day 
is almost excluded. This is the ravine or Sik of Wady 
Musa, which extends, with many windings, for a good 
English mile. This valley contains a wonderful necrop- 
olis hewn in the rocky walls, 'l'lie tombs, which adjoin 
or surmount one another, exhibit now a front with six 
Ionic columns, now with four slender pyramids, and bv 
their mixture of Creek, Homan, and Oriental architect- 
ure remind the spectator of the remains found in the 
valley of Jrhoshaphnt near Jerusalem. The entrance 
of the ravine is spanned by a bold arch, perhaps a tri- 
umphal one, with lincly sculptured niches evidently in- 
tended for statues. This, like the other remains of 
this extraordinary spot, is ascribed by the natives either 
to the Pharaohs or to the Jins, i. e. evil genii. Along 
the bottom of the valley, in which it almost vanishes, 
winds the stream. In ancient times its bed seems to 
have been paved; and it appears to have been, in many 
places at least, covered in, so that the street passed 
above it. in other wider portions of the ravine, espe- 
cially where it opens out into the city, it was spanned 
by frequent bridges, its sides strengthened with stone 
walls or quays, and numerous small canals derived from 
it supplied the inhabitants with water. Hut now its 
banks are overspread with hyacinths, oleanders, anil 
other shrubs, and the upper portions of it are overshad- 
owed by lofty trees. 

Opposite ( lie termination of die Sik, or narrow part 
of the ravine, just where it turns at its junction with a 
second ravine-like but broader valley, stands the chief 
attraction of the whole place, the finest monument in 
fact in all Syria. This is the Khur.tuh — well preserved, 


The “Klmzneh” in Petra. (From a photograph by the editor.) 


' considering its age and site, and still exhibiting its del- 
icate chiselled work, and all the freshness and beauty of 
its coloring. Like all the other wonders of the place, it 
is carved out of the face of the perpendicular cliff, which 
| here rises about 150 feet high. It has two rows of six 
I columns over one another (one of the lower ones has 
I fallen), with statues between, surmounted by capitals 
| and a sculptured pediment, the latter divided l>v a little 
round temple crowned with an urn. The Arabs imagine 
I that this urn contained treasure (khuzmh. hence the name 
of the entire structure), which they ascribe to Pharaoh. 

, The interior does not correspond with the magnificence 
i of the facade, being a plain, lofty hall, with a chamber 
adjoining each of its three sides. It was either a man- 
I solcu m or, more probably, a temple. 

From this spot the cliffs on both sides of the valley 
j are pierced with numerous excavations, the chambers 
| of which are usually small, though the fronts are occa- 
sionally of some size and magnificence : scarcely two, 
however, are exactly alike. After a gentle curve the 
valley expands still more, and here on its left side lies 
the tiieatre, entirely hewn out of the rock. Its diame- 
ter at the bottom is one hundred and twenty feet, and it 
lias thirty-throe rows of seats, capable of accommodat- 
ing three thousand spectators. Strangely enough, it is 
entirely surrounded by tombs. One of the more north- 
erly of these is inscribed with the name of (>. Pnefeetus 
Florentinus, probably the governor of Arabia Petnva 
under Hadrian or Antoninus Pius. Another has a 
Creek inscription not yet deciphered. Travellers are 
agreed that these excavations, some of the most strik- 
ing of which are in the cliff directly opposite the thea- 
tre, were mostly tombs, though some think they may 
originally have served as dwellings. Indeed several 



PETRA 


43 


PETRA 


of them have loculi sunk in the floor as if for burial- 
places. A few were doubtless temples for the worship 
of Baal, but subsequently converted into Christian 
churches. They extend all along the eastern cliffs. 



Proceeding still down the stream, at about one hun- 
dred and fifty paces from the theatre the cliffs expand 
rapidly, and soon recede so far as to give place to a 
plain about a mile square, surrounded by gentle emi- 
nences. The brook, which now turns again to the west, 
traverses the middle of this plain till it reaches a ledge 
of sandstone cliffs, through which it pierces, and is lost 
in the sands of the Arabah. This little plain was the 
site of the city of Petra, and it is still covered with heaps 
of hewn stones, traces of paved streets, and foundations 
of houses. 

The chief public buildings occupied the banks of the 
river and the high ground, especially on the south, as 
their ruins sufficiently show. One sumptuous edifice 
remains standing, though in an imperfect and dilapi- 
dated state. It is on the south side of the river, near 
the western side of the valley, and seems to have been 
a palace rather than a temple. It is called Kasr Furun , 
or Pharaoh’s palace, and is thirty-four paces square. 
The walls are nearly entire, and on the eastern side 
they are still surmounted by a handsome cornice. The 
front, which looks towards the north, was ornamented 
with a row of columns, four of which are standing. An 
open piazza behind the colonnade extended the whole 
length of the building. In the rear of this piazza are 
three apartments, the principal of which is entered under 
a noble arch, apparently thirty-five or forty feet high. 
It is an imposing ruin, though not of the purest style of 
architecture, and is the more striking as being the only 
proper edifice now standing in Petra. 

A little east of this, and in a range with some of the 
most beautiful excavations in the mountain on the east 
side of the valley, are the remains of what appears to 
have been another triumphal arch. Under it were 
three passages, and a number of pedestals of columns, 
as well as other fragments, would lead to the belief that 
a magnificent colonnade was connected with it. In the 
same vicinity are the abutments of a massive bridge. 

On an eminence south of this is a single column 
(ol scenely called Zab Farun, i. e. hasta virilis Phara- 
onis) connected with the foundation walls of a temple, 
whose pillars lie scattered around in broken fragments, 
some of them five feet in diameter. Twelve of these, 
whose pedestals still remain in their places, adorned 
either side of this stately edifice. There were also 
four columns in front and six in the rear of the tem- 
ple. They are prostrate on the ground, and Dr. Olin 
counted thiriy-seven massive frusta of which one of 
them was composed. 

Still farther south are other piles of ruins — columns 
and hewn stones — parts, no doubt, of impoitant public 
buildings. The same traveller counted not less than 
fourteen similar heaps of ruins, having columns and 
fragments of columns intermingled with blocks of 
stone, in this part of the site of ancient Petra. They 
indicate the great wealth and magnificence of this an- 
cient capital, as well as its unparalleled calamities. 


These sumptuous edifices occupied what may be called 
the central parts of Petra. A large surface on the 
north side of the river is covered with substructions, 
which probably belonged to private habitations. An 
extensive region still farther north retains no vestiges 
of the buildings which once covered it. Public wealth 
was lavished on palaces and temples, while the houses 
of the common people were slightly and meanly built, 
of such materials as a few years, or at most a few cen- 
turies, were sufficient to dissolve. 

The acropolis is thought to have occupied an iso- 
lated hill on the west. The whole ascent of the hills 
on the south, up which the toilsome passage-way out of 
this museum of wonders winds, is elaborately’pierced 
with tombs, temples, or dwellings. At the north-west 
extremity of the cliff surrounding the plain is the Deh- 
or cloister, the second most remarkable sculpture of 
the entire place, hewn likewise out of the face of the 
rock. A ravine somewhat like the Sik, with many 
windings, leads to the base, and the approach up to it 
is in places by a path five or six feet broad, cut with 
immense labor in the precipitous rock. Its facade is 
larger than that of the Khuzneb ; but, as in that build- 
ing (if such we may call it), the interior does not cor- 
respond, being merely a large square chamber, with a 
recess resembling the niche for the altar in Greek ec- 
clesiastical architecture, and bearing evident signs of 
having been converted from a heathen into a Christian 
temple. The cliffs on the north-east side of the basin, 
which here extends up a considerable valley, are in 
like manner cut into temples, tombs, or other archi- 
tectural forms of great variety. 

Laborde and Linant also thought that they traced 
the outline of a naumaehia or theatre for sea-fights, 
which would he flooded from cisterns in which the 
water of the torrents in the wet season had been re- 
served — a remarkable proof, if the hypothesis he cor- 
rect, of the copiousness of the water-supply, if properly 
husbanded, and a confirmation of what we are told of 
the exuberant fertility of the region, and its contrast 
to the barren Arabah on its immediate west (Robinson, 
ii, 1G9). Stanley (Syr. and Pal. p. 95) leaves little 
doubt that Petra was the seat of a primeval sanctuary, 
which he fixes at the spot now called the “ Deir” or 
“Convent,” and with which fact the choice of the site 
of Aaron’s tomb may, he thinks, have been connected 
(p. 96). As regards the question of its identity with 
Kadesh, see Kadesu; and, for the general subject, 
see Ritter, xiv, 69, 997 sq. 



The mountain torrents which at times sweep over 
the lower parts of the ancient site have undermined 
many foundations, and carried away many a chiselled 
ston°, and worn many a finished specimen of sculpt- 
ure into unshapely masses. The soft texture of the 
rock seconds the destructive agencies of the elements. 


PETRA 


Even the accumulations of rubbish which mark the 
site of all other decayed cities have mostly disap- 
peared ; and the extent which was covered with hu- 
man habitations can only be determined by the broken 
pottery scattered over the surface or mingled with the 
sand — the universal, and, it would seem, an imperish- 
able memorial of populous cities that exist no longer. 
These vestiges, the extent of which Dr. Olin took 
great pains to trace, cover an area one third as large 
as that of Cairo, excluding its large gardens from the 
estimate, and very sufficient, he thinks, to contain the 
whole population of Athens in its prosperous days. 

The attention of travellers has, however, been chief- 
lj' engaged by the above-noted excavations, which, 
having more successfully resisted the ravages of time, 
constitute at present the great and peculiar attraction 
of the place. These excavations, whether formed for 
temples, tombs, or the dwellings of living men, sur- 
prise the visitor by their incredible number and ex- 
tent. They not only occupy the front of the entire 
mountain by which the valley is encompassed, but of 
the numerous ravines and recesses which radiate on 
all sides from this enclosed area. The}' exist, too, in 
great numbers in the precipitous rocks which shoot 
out from the principal mountains into the southern, 
and still more into the northern part of the site, and 
they are seen along all the approaches to the place, 
which, in the days of its prosperity, were perhaps the 
suburbs of the overpeopled valley. Some of the most 
peculiar are found in the valley above the entrance of 
the Silt. Were these excavations, instead of follow- 
ing all the sinuosities of the mountain and its numer- 
ous gorges, ranged in regular order, they probably 
would form a street not less than tive or six miles in 
length. They are often seen rising one above another 
in the face of the cliff - , and convenient steps, now much 
worn, cut in the rock, lead in all directions through 
the fissures and along the sides of the mountains, to 
the various tombs that occupy these lofty positions. 
Some of them are apparently not less than from two 
hundred to three or four hundred feet above the level 
of the valley. Conspicuous situations, visible from be- 
low, were generally chosen ; but sometimes the oppo- 
site taste prevailed, and the most secluded cliffs, front- 
ing towards some dark ravine, and quite hidden from 
the gaze of the multitude, were preferred. The flights 
of steps, all cut in the solid rock, are almost innumer- 
able, and they ascend to great heights, as well as in 
all directions. Sometimes the connection with the 
city is interrupted, and one sees in a gorge, or upon 
the face of a cliff, fifty or a hundred feet above him, a 
long series of steps rising from the edge of an inacces- 
sible precipice. The action of winter torrents and 
other agencies have worn the easy ascent into a chan- 
nel for the waters, and thus interrupted the communi- 
cation. 

The situations of these excavations are not more 
various than their forms and dimensions. Mere niches 
are sometimes cut in the face of the rock, of little depth 
and of various sizes and forms, of which it is difficult 
to conjecture the object, unless they had some connec- 
tion with votive offerings and religious rites, By far 
the largest number of excavations were manifestly de- 
signed as places for the interment of the dead; and 
thus exhibit a variety in form and size, of interior ar- 
rangement and external decorations, adapted to the 
different fortunes of their occupants, and conformable 
to the prevailing tastes of the times in which they 
were made. There are many tombs consisting of a 
single chamber, ten, fifteen, or twenty feet square by 
t m or twelve in height, containing a recess in the wail 
large enough to receive one or a few deposits ; some- 
times on a level with the floor, at others one or two 
feet above it, and not nnfreqiientlv near the ceiling, 
at the height of eight or ten feet. Occasionally, us 
above mentioned, oblong pits or graves are sunk in 
the recesses, or in the floor of the principal apartment. 


PETRA 



Some of these are of considerable depth, but they are 
mostly choked with stones and rubbish, so that it is 
impossible to ascertain it. In these plebeian tombs 
there is commonly a door of small dimensions, and an 
absence of all architectural decorations; in some of 
larger dimensions there are several recesses occupy- 
ing two or three sides of the apartment. These seem 
to have been formed for family tombs. Besides these 
unadorned habitations of the humble dead, there is a 
vast number of excavations enriched with various ar- 
chitectural ornaments. To these unique and sumptu- 
ous monuments of the t aste of one of the most ancient 
races of men with whom history has made us acquaint- 
ed, Petra is indebted for its great and peculiar attrac- 
tions. This ornamental architecture is wholly confined 
to the front, while the interior is quite plain and des- 
titute of all decoration. Pass the threshold, and noth- 
ing is seen but perpendicular walls, bearing the marks 
of the chisel, without mouldings, columns, or any spe- 
cies of ornament. But the exteriors of these primitive 
and even rude apartments exhibit some of the most 
beautiful and imposing results of ancient taste and 
skill which have remained to our times. The front 
of the mountain is wrought into facades of splendid 
temples, rivalling in their aspect and symmetry the 
most celebrated monuments of Grecian art. Columns 
of various orders, graceful pediments, broad, rich en- 
tablatures, and sometimes statuary, all hewn out of 
the solid rock, and still forming part of the native 
mass, transform the base of the mountain into a vast 
splendid pile of architecture, while the overhanging 
cliffs, towering above in shapes as rugged and wild as 
any on which the eye ever rested, form the most strik- 
ing and curious of contrasts. In most instances it is 
impossible to assign these beautiful facades to any 
particular style of architecture. Many of the columns 
resemble those of the Corinthian order; blit they de- 
viate so far, both in their forms and ornaments, from 
this elegant model, that it would be impossible to rank 
them in the class. A few are Doric, which are pre- 
cisely those that have suffered most from the ravages 
of time, and are probably very ancient. 

Put nothing contributes so much to the almost mag- 
ical effect of some of these monuments as the rich and 
various colors of the rock out of which, or more prop- 
erly in which, they are formed. The mountains that 
encompass the vale of Petra are of sandstone, of which 
red is the predominant hue. Their surface is a good 
deal burned and faded by the elements, and is of a dull 
brick color, and most of the sandstone formations in 
this vicinity", as well as a number of the excavations 
of Petra, exhibit nothing remarkable ill their coloring 
which does not belong to the same species of rock 
throughout a considerable region of Arabia Pctrai.i. 
Many of them, however, are adorned with such a pro- 
fusion of the most lovely and brilliant colors as it is 
scarcely possible to describe. Bed, purple, yellow, 
azure or sky-blue, black and white, are seen in the 
same mass distinctly in successive layers, or blended 
so as to form every shade and hue of which they are 


PET]? A 4 

capable — as brilliant and as soft as they ever appear 
in flowers, or in the plumage of birds, or in the sky 
when illuminated by the most glorious sunset. The 
red perpetually shades into pale, or deep rose or flesh 
color, and again approaches the hue of the lilac or vio- 
let. The white, which is often as pure as snow, is oc- 
casionally just dashed with blue or red. The blue is 
usually the pale azure of the clear sky or of the ocean, 
but sometimes has the deep and peculiar shade of the 
clouds in summer when agitated by a tempest. Yel- 
low is an epithet often applied to sand and sandstone. 
The yellow of the rocks of Petra is as bright as that 
of saffron. It is more easy to imagine than to describe 
the effect of tall, graceful columns exhibiting these 
exquisite colors in their succession of regular horizon- 
tal strata. They are displayed to still greater advan- 
tage in the walls and ceilings of some of the excava- 
tions where there is a slight dip in the strata. 

See Irby and Mangles, Travels , ch. viii ; Robinson, 
Bill. Research, ii, 512 sq. ; Laborde, Voyage (Par. 1830- 
33), p. 55 sq. (this work is chiefly valued for its engrav- 
ings) ; Bartlett, Forty Days in the Desert, p. 12G sq. ; 
Roberts, Sketches (Lond. 1842-48), vol. iii ; Olin, Trav- 
els, ii, 1 sq. ; Palmer, Desert of the Ext dies, p. 366 sq. ; 
Ridgawav, The Lord's Land, p. 139 sq. ; Porter, in Mur- 
ray’s Handbook for Sinai and Pal. p. 81 sq. ; Biideeker, 
Paldstina und Syrien , p. 304 sq. See Idlm.ea. 

Petra, Vicknzo, an Italian cardinal, was born at 
Naples Nov. 13, 1662. He occupied at the court of 
Rome several considerable positions, and was created 
cardinal in 1724, then bishop of Prameste. He enjoyed 
great influence with popes Innocent XII and Benedict 
XI II, who often consulted him upon grave affairs. He 
died at Rome March 24, 1747. lie published De saci-a 
Patniteniiara Apostolica (Rome, 1712, 4to), and Com- 
ment aria ad Constitutions Apostolicas (Yen. 1729, 4 
vols. fob). See Nomini illustri del Regno di Napoli . — 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxxix, 730. 

Petrarch (Ital. Petrarca ), Francesco, one of the 
most celebrated of Italian writers of prose and poetry, 
deserves a place here because he was for many years a 
devout and consistent ecclesiastic, and exerted a far- 
reaching influence on the classical culture of Italy in 
the later mediaeval period known as the Renaissance 
(q. v.). Petrarch was born at Arezzo, in Tuscany, in 
1304. llis father, a Florentine notary, had been exiled 
two years before, in the same disturbance which drove 
out the poet Dante; and he soon left Italy for Avignon, 
where the papal court then resided. The son was ed- 
ucated in this French city washed by the Rhone, and 
at Montpellier, and then sent to study law at Bologna. 
Though Petrarch certainly loved the ./Eneid more than 
the Pandects, and copied ancient manuscripts more will- 
ingly than law papers, yet the subsequent course of his 
public life proves that he did not neglect professional 
pursuits, and that he prepared himself for being a use- 
ful man of business. Returning to Avignon soon after 
he became of age, he found himself in possession of a 
small inheritance, and indulged for some years in an al- 
ternation of classical studies and political composition, 
with such gavety (sombre, perhaps, but not the more 
pure on that account) as the clerical court offered. In 
the year 1327 he conceived an attachment to an Avig- 
nonese lady, young but already married. Some slight 
obscurity still hangs over his relation to this lady, but 
it is almost certain that she was no less a paragon of 
virtue than of loveliness. He met her on April 6, 1327, 
in the church of St. Clara in Avignon, and at once and 
forever fell deeply in love with her. The lady was 
then nineteen, and had been married for two years to a 
gentleman of Avignon, named Hugnes dc Sade. For 
ten years Petrarch lived near her in the papal city, and 
frequently met her at church, in society, at festivities, 
etc. He sang her beauty and his love, under the name 
of his “ Laura,” in those sonnets whose mellifluous con- 
ceits ravished the ears of his contemporaries, and have 


5 PETRARCII 

not yet ceased to charm. The lad}', whoever she was, 
knew how to keep Petrarch at a respectful distance, and 
for using the only opportunity he had of avowing his 
love in her presence she so severely reproved him that 
he never repeated the offence. About 1338 he retired for 
two or three years to dwell in the beautiful valley of 
Vaucluse, near Avignon. He himself said that his with- 
drawal to the retreat which he immortalized was caused 
by no reason more sentimental or poetic than his dis- 
gust with the licentiousness of the papal court, and the 
disappointment of the hopes of preferment which the 
pope had held out to him. Long before this time Pe- 
trarch’s talents and accomplishments had procured for 
him not only distinguished patronage, but frequent and 
active employment. A most brilliant honor awaited 
him at Rome in 1341, where, on Eastcr-day, he was 
crowned in the Capitol with the laurel-wreath of the 
poet. The ceremonies which marked this coronation 
were a grotesque medley of pagan and Christian repro 
sentations. Petrarch was, however, as ardent a scholai 
as he was a poet ; and throughout his whole life he was 
occupied in the collection of Latin MSS., even copying 
some with his own hand. To obtain these, he trav- 
elled frequently throughout France, Germany, Italy 
and Spain. In 1353 Petrarch returned to Italy, and 
soon became the trusted counsellor and diplomatic agent 
of several of his country’s rulers. He was sent on mis- 
sions at home and abroad. He flnallv settled at Milan, 
where he spent ten years, and lived for a season also at 
Parma, Mantua, Padua, Verona, Venice, and Rome. 
Though he had never entered holy orders, he was re- 
warded for his faithful services to the state by ecclesias- 
tic beneflecs in the north of Italy. He might have risen 
to positions of great influence and rich returns if he had 
chosen, but he preferred the quiet life of a recluse. In 
1370 Petrarch removed to Arqua, a little village prettily 
situated among the Euganean hills, where he spent his 
closing years in hard scholarly work, much annoyed by 
visitors, troubled with epileptic fits, not over rich, but 
serene in heart, and displaying in his life and corre- 
spondence a rational and beautiful piety. He died July 
18, 1374. Petrarch was not only far beyond his age in 
learning, but had risen above many of its prejudices and 
superstitions. lie despised astrology, and the childish 
medicine of his times; but, on the other hand, he had 
no liking for the conceited scepticism of the medkeval 
savans; and in his De sui ipsius et multorum aliorum 
Tgnorantia he sharply attacked the irreligious specula- 
tions of those who had acquired a shallow', free- think- 
ing habit from the study of the Arabico- Aristotelian 
sebool of writers, such as Averroes. Petrarch’s Latin 
works were the first in modern times in which the lan- 
guage was classically written. The principal are his 
Epistolce, consisting of letters to his numerous friends 
and acquaintances, and which rank as the best of his 
prose works: De Vitis Virorum Illustrium: — De Reme- 
diis utriusque Fortnna; : — De Vita Solitaria: — Rerum 
Memorandarum libri iv : — De Contemptu J fundi, etc. 
Besides his prose epistles, he wrote numerous epistles in 
Latin verse, eclogues, and an epic poem called Africa, 
on the subject of the Second Punic War. It was this last 
production which obtained for him the laurel-wreath at 
Rome. Petrarch, whose life was thus active, is immor- 
tal in history by reason of more claims than one. He 
is placed as one of the most celebrated of poets in right 
of his “Rime,” that is, verses in the modern Italian 
tongue, of which he was one of the earliest cultivators 
and refiners. Celebrating in these his visionary love, 
he modelled the Italian sonnet, and gave to it, and to 
other forms of lyrical poetry, not only an admirable pol- 
ish of diction and melody, but a delicacy of poetie feel- 
ing which has hardly ever been equalled, and a play 
of rich fancy which, if it often degenerates into false 
wit, is as often delightfully and purely beautiful. But 
though Petrarch’s sonnets and canzoni and “triumphs” 
could all be forgotten, he would still be honored as one 
of the benefactors of European civilization. No one but 


PETKAZZI 


46 


PETlil 


Boccaccio shares with him the glory of having been 
the chief restorer of classical learning. 1 1 is greatest 
merit lay in his having recalled attention to the higher 
and more correct classical authors; in his having been 
an enthusiastic and successful agent in reviving the 
study of the Greek tongue, and in his having been, in 
his travels and otherwise, an indefatigable collector and 
preserver of ancient manuscripts. To his care we owe 
copies of several classical works which, but for him, 
would, in all likelihood, have perished. Collective edi- 
tions of his whole works have been repeatedly pub- 
lished (Basle, 1495. 1551, and 1581 sq.). His life has em- 
ployed many writers, among whom may be mentioned 
Bellutello, Beccadelti, Tomasini, I>c la Bastie, De Sadcs, 
Tiraboschi, Bahlelli, Cgo Foscolo, Campbell, and Geiger. 
In July, 1874, a Petrarch festival was held at J‘adua, 
and a statue of the great poet by Ceccon was erected. 
The eulogy on this occasion was pronounced by Alcardi, 
in the aula magna of the university. See, besides the 


to employ the time left him from the duties of his pro- 
fession in composing or translating different works Ibr 
the defence of the Catholic faith. lie died at Cologne 
April *20, 1010. We quote from him, Confessio t ire- 
go riana (Cologne, 1501) or 10U5, 12mo); in the same 
manner he made similar compilations for the collec- 
tion of passages extracted from Tertullian and St. Cyp- 
rian (1003), from Leo the Great (1011), and from St. 
Bernard (1007): — Bibliotheca Cmiusiuua (ibid. 1000, 
12 mo); Moroti greatly profited from this in preparing his 
Thealrum S'. Cartusiensis uni. (ibid. 1080, fol.) : — i ' hrono - 
lor/ia, tain Romanorum pontificum quam imperatorum , 
historiea (ibid. 1020, 4 to) : — Catalogus hirreticorum ( ibid. 
1620, 4 to) ; not very exact, lie translated into Latin 
I two theological works from fathers Coster and Jean Da- 
vid, and he edited the Opera omnia of St. Bruno (ibid. 
1640, 3 vols. fol.). See Niceron, Memoires. vol. xl; l’a- 
quot, Memoires, vol. ii. — lloefcr, .Y our. Iiivg. Generate, 
xxxix, 752. 


complete biographies, Longfellow, Poets and Poetnj of 
Europe ; Gibbon, Decline ami Fall of the Roman Empire. 
eh. Ixx ; Prescott, Miscellanies, p. GIG; For. Qu. Rev. 
July, 1843; Contemp. Rer. July, 1874; Revue des Deux 
Mondes , July 15, 1874 ; Ceberweg, /list, of Phil, ii, 7, 8, 
402; Revue Chretienne , 1800, p. 143. 



Tomb of Petrarch. 


Petrazzi, Astoi.ko, a painter of Siena, was born 
about 1500. lie studied successively under Francesco 
Vanni, the younger Salimbcni, and Pietro Somi. He 
acquired distinction, and executed many works for the 
churches and public edifices of his native city, as well 
as for the private collections, lie also opened an acad- 
emy there, which was much frequented bv the artists 
of Siena, aiul honored by the attendance of Borgognone, 
who stopped some months with Petrazzi before lie pro- 
ceeded to Home. Lanzi says that Petrazzi seemed to 
have adhered more to the manner of Vanni than any 
other master. He frequently aims at pleasing, and licit 
(infrequently chose his models from the schools of 1 "pper 
Italy. 1 1 is Marriage Feast at Cana brings Paul the 
Veronese strongly to our recollection. IVtrazzi’s Com- 
munion of St. Jerome, at the Agostiuinni.is painted much 
after the manner of Caracci. Petrazzi excelled in paint- 
ing children, and his pictures are generally adorned with 
choirs of angels. His cabinet pictures are ingeniously 
composed, and have a lively and pleasing effect. Hi's 
pictures of the Four Seasons, at Volte, a seat of the no- 
ble family of Chigi, are admired for the playfulness ami 
elegance of the groups of Cupids introduced. He died in 
1003. See Spooner, Blog. Hist, of the Fine .4 rts, ii, 0x5. 

Petreius (Lat. for Peelers), Tui-.oiionrs, a learned 
Dutchman, was horn April 17, 1507, at Kcinpcn (Over- 
Issel). After having been received as master of arts in 
Cologne, he entered the Carthusian convent of that city 
(1587), and was prior of Dolmen, in the bishopric of 
Munster; in this capacity lie twice assisted at. the gen- 
eral chapter of his order. 1 1 is taste for study led him 


Petreolo, Andhra, a painter of Vcnzone. who, ac- 
cording to Hcnaldis, was employed in the cathedral of 
his native city about 1586, where he “decorated the 
panels of the organ with very beautiful histories of S. 
Geronimo and S. Eustaehio, together with the parable 
of tlie wise ami foolish virgins, surrounded with fine ar- 
chitecture.” See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts, 
ii, 085. 

Petri (Lat. for Peeters ), Barthelemi, a Belgian 
theologian, was born about 1517 at ( >p-Lintcr, near Tirle- 
mont. After having taught philosophy for ten years at 
Louvain, in order to escape the miseries of war he was 
obliged to retire to Douni (1580). where he was provid- 
ed with a canonicate and a theological chair. A zeal- 
ous Thomist, he bequeathed all his wealth to the Do- 
minicans. He died at Douni Feb. 20, 1030. II is works 
are mostly scholastic, with some ecclesiastical history 
borrowed from Baronins; the most carefully written are 
a commentary upon the Acts of the Apostles (Douni, 
1622, lio), and some Pra>ceptiones logicte (ibid. 162.5, 
12mo). He prepared a good edition of the. Summa of 
St. Thomas (ibid. 1614, fol.), and published the com- 
mentaries of Estius upon the epistles of St. Haul and St. 
John (ibid. 1014-1610, 2 vols. fol.). See Foppeus, Bibl. 
Delgica ; l’aquot, Memoires, vol. viii. — lloeler, Four. 
Diog. Generate, xxxix, 757. 

Petri, Laurent, one of the three principal Swed- 
ish Reformers, a brother of the following, was born at 
(Erebro in 1499. After having followed at Wittenberg 
the teaching of Luther and Melanethon, on his return to 
Sweden he spread the principles of Reform in that coun- 
try. Appointed by Gustavos Vasa professor of theology 
in the University of Upsala, of which he became rector 
in 1527, he was elevated in 1531 to the archiepiscopal 
chair of that city. He then undertook, with the aid of 
his brother Olaiis and of Laurent Amlreii, a Swedish 
translation of the Bible, based principally upon Luther's 
version, which was printed in 1541: it is known under 
the name of Gnstarus's Bible, and it has contributed 
greatly to the development of the Swedish language. 
Sent in 1534 as ambassador to t he czar of Russia, he 
held, in the presence of that prince, a conference upon 
religion with t he patriarch of the Russian Church; the 
discussion took place in Greek ; hut the interpreter em- 
ployed by the czar to translate into Russian the words 
of the interlocutors often did not understand the ab- 
stract terms used by lVtri, and then told what passed 
through his head, until one of t ho assistants, who un- 
derstood Russian ami Greek, disclosed the fraud by 
bursts of laughter. Petri, during the rest of his life, 
was occupied in consolidating Lutheranism in his own 
country, and in organizing the new Church, of which 
lie was one of the principal founders, lie was very be- 
neficent. and distinguished himself advantageously over 
his brother hy his conciliatory spirit, which did not pre- 
vent him from addressing to Eric XIV, in 1567. a severe 
reprimand on the subject of the murder of the Store. 


PETRI 


47 


Petri (lieil in 1573. We have of liis works. Verce ac 
justa: rationes quare regnum Sueeicc Christierno captivo, 
Danur olim regi ac ejus heredibus nihil debeat (Stock- 
holm, 1547, 4to) : — Postille sur les Evangiles (ibid. 1555, 
1641, 8vo) : — Refutatio I). Beurei pertinens ad articulum 
de Cana Domini (Upsala, 1563): — Discipline de VEylise 
Suedoise (Stockholm, 1571, 4to); a work which, by a de- 
cision of the Diet of 1572, obtained the force of law: — 
Sermons sur la Passion (ibid. 1573, 8vo) : — several 
other Sermons, and liturgic, polemical, and dogmatical 
works. See Sehinmeier, Lebensbeschreibung der drei 
Schwedischen Reformatoren, Andrea, Olaiis mid Laurent 
Petri (Lnbeck, 1783, 4to); Hallman, Lefvernes beskri- 
fing ofrer Olaiis och Lars Petri ; Biograpkisk-Lexikon ; 
Alaux, La Suede sous Gustave IFiasa (Paris, 1861). — 
lloefer, jYouv. Biog. Generate, xxxix, 755. Comp. 
Fisher, IHst. of the Ref. p. 176 sq.; Gieseler, Eccles. 
Ilisf. iv, 276. 

Petri, Olaiis-Pliase, a Swedish theologian, was 
born at (F.rebro, in 1497 : the son of a blacksmith, he 
received his early education among the Carmelites of 
his native town, together with his brother Laurent, 
with whom he attended the University of Wittenberg, 
where they embraced the doctrines of Luther. On 
their return to Sweden, in 1519, they began, after hav- 
ing as by a miracle escaped from the executioners of 
Christian II, to propagate the ideas of the Reformer. 
Appointed in 1523 rector of the school of Strengniis, 
Olaiis won to his opinions the archdeacon Laurent An- 
dreii, and, through the mediation of the latter, Gusta- 
vus Vasa appointed Peter preacher at Stockholm. In 
his sermons and in divers conferences he attacked the 
old religion with an increasing ardor. The first among 
all Protestant ecclesiastics in Sweden, he was publicly 
married in 1525. After having assisted at the Diet of 
Westerns in 1527, where he had a dispute upon religion 
with the professor of Upsala, Pierre Galle, whom Gus- 
tavus declared to have been conquered, he entered more 
and more into the favor of the king, who consulted him 
upon the most important affairs, and finally appointed 
him his chancellor. In 1539 Petri, tired of business, 
exchanged his duties for those of first pastor of the cap- 
ital. The following year he was condemned to death 
for not having revealed, in 1536, the conspiracy formed 
against the life of the king by some citizens of the Han- 
seatic villages, one of whom had confessed to him. lie 
purchased his pardon for a large sum. Three years 
after the king reinstated him in his office of pastor, and 
he kept it until his death, which occurred at Stockholm 
in 1552. He joined to quite extensive and varied learn- 
ing great activity and a captivating eloquence, but he 
never spared his adversary, and often degenerated into 
abuse of a bold and rash character. lie may be called 
the Luther of Sweden, while his brother Laurent, milder 
and more moderate, was the Melancthon. We have of 
Petri’s works, in Swedish, treatises on Marriage of Ec- 
clesiastics (Stockholm, 1524, 1528, 4to) : — the Difference 
between the Evangelical Faith and the Roman (ibid. 
1527, 1605, 4to): — on the Duties of the Clergy and the 
Laity (ibid. 1528, 4to): — on the Inconveniences of the 
Monastic Life (ibid. 1528, 4to) : — Postills on all the 
Evangelists (ibid. 1 530) : — Introduction to Sacred Scrip- 
ture (ibid. 1538, 4to) :— some Sermons, Odes that are still 
sung in Sweden, and several other theological writings. 
Petri has left in manuscript some Memoirs upon the 
history of his country, which remained unpublished 
because Gustavus found them written with too much 
independence ; one copy of which, preserved in the Royal 
Library of Paris, has been analyzed by lveralio in the 
Notices et Extraits des M amt serifs, vol. i. — lloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, xxxix, 754. See also the references 
under the preceding article. 

Petri, Pietro de 1 , an Italian painter, was born in 
Premia, a district of Novara, in 1671. He studied under 
Carlo Maratti at Rome, and painted some works for the 
churches in that metropolis. Lanzi says he formed a 


PETROCORIUS 

style of his own by engrafting on that of Maratti a por- 
tion of the manner of Cortona, lie did not, however, 
obtain the reputation which his merits deserved, on ac- 
count of his infirm health and extreme modesty. His 
best works are a picture of The Crucifixion, in the church 
of SS. Vincento e Anastasio, and some frescos in the 
tribune of S. Clemente. He was called at Rome de ’ 
rietri. Orlandi calls him a Roman, others a Spaniard ; 
but Lanzi says he was a native of Premia. He died at 
Rome in 1716, in the prime of life. There are a few 
etchings heretofore attributed to him, but Hartsch gives 
them to another artist of the same name. See Spooner, 
Biog. Ilist. of the Fine Aits, ii, 686. 

Petrobrnsians. The sect of the Petrobrusians, 
or. as they are commonly but less correctly called, Pe- 
trobussians, was the earliest of the anti-sacerdotal com- 
munities which the profound discontent inspired bv the 
tyranny of Rome called into existence at the beginning 
of the 12th century. They were the followers of the 
eloquent Peter of Bruys, who about the year 1100 be- 
gan to declaim against the corruptions of the Church 
and the vices of the clergy. He continued the battlo 
for twenty years most successfully, especially in Lan- 
guedoc and Provence, and made many converts to his 
own opinions. What these really were it is difficult to 
state here, as there is no record among his friends. 
From Peter of Clugny, who replied to Peter of Bruys, 
we gather that his principal doctrines — which, with 
one exception (his repugnance to the cross), were more 
ably extended by his more powerful successor, Henry 
the Deacon — were, though somewhat rationalistic, yet 
upon the whole rather evangelical. At first the preach- 
ing of Teter seems to have been confined to the inculca- 
tion of a system of general morality; but time and im- 
punity so favored him that he attacked the seeds of dog- 
matic errors “ per xx fere annos sata et aueta quinque 
prjecipue et venenata virgulta.” The capital charges 
upon which he is arraigned are: (1) He rejected infant 
baptism, alleging that no miraculous gifts were possible 
in that ceremony, which he declared to be wholly void 
when performed on the person of an irresponsible infant. 
(2) lie denied that any special sanctity resided in con- 
secrated buildings; forbidding the erection of churches, 
and directing that such churches as did exist should be 
pulled down. (3) In particular he objected to the 
worship of the cross, alleging that the accursed tree 
should be held in horror by all Christians as the instru- 
ment of the torture and death of the Redeemer. (4) lie 
denied all sort of real presence in the Eucharist. Wheth- 
er or not he retained the office of the communion as a 
memorial rite is not known. (5) He was bitterly" op- 
posed to prayers, oblations, alms, and other good deeds 
done on behalf of the dead. To these five capital 
tenets, which form the subject of the Clugniac abbot’s 
refutation, must be added a total prohibition of chant- 
ing and all use of sacred music. Puritanical as some 
of these tenets seem, Peter of Bruys was no lover of 
asceticism. He inculcated marriage, even of priests, as 
a high religious usage. The deleterious effects which 
the Romanists claim to have come from his teachings 
are thus summed up by Peter of Clugny: ‘‘The people 
are rebaptized, churches profaned, altars overturned, 
crosses are burned, meat eaten openly on the day of 
the Lord’s passion, priests scourged, monks cast into 
dungeons, and by terror or torture constrained to marry.’’ 
His followers continued until the end of the loth cen- 
tury. — Blunt, Diet, cf Sects, s. v. See Milman, Ilist. of 
Lat. Christianity, v, 412 ; Hardwick, Ch. Hist, of the M. 
A.; Baur, Dogmevgesch. vol. ii ; Piper, Monumental The- 
ol. § 140; Jortin, Eccles. Rev. iii, 323 ; Alzog, Kirchen- 
gesch. ii, 72; Ilagenbach, Ilist. of Doctr. (see Index). 
See Peter of Bruys. 

Petrccorius, Paulinus, sometimes confounded 
with Paulinus of Nola (q. v.), was an Eastern ecclesi- 
astic, and, according to his own reports, flourished in the 
Western empire in the 5th century. He was intimate 


PETKO- J Oil AX X ITES 


48 


PETTEX GILL 


with Perpetuus, who was bishop of Tours from A.D. 101 
to 401, and whom he calls his patron. It was at the 
desire of Perpetuus that he put into verse the life of 
St. Martin of Tours; and in an epistle addressed to that 
prelate he humbly tells him, with an amusing reference 
to the history of Balaam, that, in giving him conlidence 
to speak, he had repeated the miracle of opening the 
month of the ass. lie afterwards supplied, at the desire 
of the bishop, some verses to be inscribed on the walls 
of the new church which Perpetuus finished about A.D. 
473 (or, according to Gudin, A.D. 1*2). and to which the 
body of St. Martin was transferred, lie sent with them 
some verses, De Visitatione Xepotuli sui, on occasion of 
the cure, supposed to be miraculous, which his grand- 
son, and the young lady to whom he was married or be- 
trothed, had experienced through the efficacy of a doc- 
ument, apparently the account of the miracles of St. 
Martin, written by the hand of the bishop. We gather 
that this poem was written when the author was old, 
from the circumstance of his having a grandson of mar- 
riageable age. Of the death of Paulinus wc have no 
account. The works of Paulinus Petrocorius are, De 
Vita S. Mini ini, a poem in hexameter verse, divided 
into six books. It has not much poetical or other merit. 
The first three books are little else than a versified 
abridgment of the De Bead Martini Vita Liber of Sul- 
picius Scverus; and the fourth and fifth comprehend 
the incidents mentioned in the Dialogi 11 et 111 tie 17?- 
tutibus Bead Martini of the same author. The sixth 
book comprises a description of the miracles which had 
been wrought at the tomb of St. Martin under the eyes 
of Perpetuus, who had sent an account of them to Pau- 
linus:— lie I 'isitatione Xepotuli sui, a description of the 
miraculous cure of his grandson already mentioned, also 
written in hexameter verse: — l)e Orantibus (an inap- 
propriate title, which should rather be Orantibus simply, 
or Ad Orantes), apparently a portion of the hexameter 
verses designed to be inscribed on the avails of the new 
church built by Perpetuus:— Perpetuo Episeopo Epistola. 
This letter was sent to Perpetuus with the verses I)e 
Visitadone and l>e Orantibus . The works of Paulinus 
Petrocorius /were, first printed by Franciscus Jurctus 
(Par. 17)85). After the first publication of the works 
they were inserted in several collections of the Chris- 
tian poets, and in some editions of the Bibliotheca Pa- 
trum, generally, however, under the name of Paulinus 
of Nola. In the Lyons edition of the Bibliotheca Pa- 
trum (1677. fob), vi, 207, etc., they are ascribed to their 
right author. They were again published by Christ i- 
anus Daumius (Leips. 1686, 8 vo), with ample notes of 
.luretus, liarthius, Gronovius, and Daumius. To the 
works of our Paulinus were subjoined in this edition 
the Eucharisticon of Paulinus the Penitent, or Paulinus 
of Pella, and the poem on Jonah and the Ninevites, as- 
cribed to Tertullian. Sec Hist. Litteraire ile la France, 

ii, 469, etc.; Cave, Ilist. Lift, ad ann. 461 (Oxon. 1710- 
1743, fid.), i, 440; I abrieius, lliblioth. Med . et Inf. La- 
tinitat. v. 206, ed. Mansi ; Tillemont, Menwires, xvi, 404; 
Gudin, l)e Scriptoribus et Script is Eccles. vol. i. col. 1288, 
1280. — Smith, Diet, of (Jr. and Rom. Biog. and Mgthol. 

iii, 21 1. 

Petro-Johannites, a name given lo the parti- 
sans of Peter John Oliri (A.D. 1270 1207), a monk of 
Bczieres, the founder of the Fraticelli schism among 
the Franciscans, and a disciple of the abbot Joachim. 
Ile followed in the steps of his master, and wrote a 
commentary on the Revelation, containing interpreta- 
tions of a similar character to the prophecies of Joa- 
chim. From his birthplace he is called Peter of Se rig- 
nan, and from his monastery Petrus Bit< rr< nsis. When 
pope Nicholas III issued a new interpretation of the 
rule of St. Francis (A.D. 1270), with t lie view of sup- 
pressing the fanaticism which was rising among the 
“spirituals" of that order, a party was formed to resist 
it under the leadership of Glivi, and this party of Petro- 
Johannites, or strict Franciscans, became after his death 
the party out of which the Fraticelli took their rise. 


See Wadding, Annul. Min. Fratr.; Gudin, Be Sciiptor. 
Eccl. iii, 584 ; Baluze, Miscellan. i, 213.— Blunt, Did. of 
Sects, s. v. 

Petronilla, St., a Romish saint, ; s reputed to have 
been the daughter of the apostle Peter, and to have 
been at Home with him. As the presence of the apos- 
tle himself at the Eternal City is still questioned, wc 
need hardly discuss the presence of his daughter in that 
place. She is reputed to have become deprived of the 
use of her limbs by sickness. One day when some of 
his disciples sat at dinner with the apostle, they asked 
why it was that when he healed others his own child 
remained helpless. Peter replied that it was good for 
her to be ill, but, that his power might be shown, he 
commanded her to rise and serve them. This she did, 
and when the dinner was over lay down helpless as be- 
fore. Years after, when she had become perfected by 
suffering, she was made well in answer to her earnest 
prayers. Now Petronilla was very beautiful, and a 
young noble, Valerius Flaccus, desired to marry her. 
She was afraid to refuse him. and promised that if he 
returned in three days he should then carry her home. 
She then earnestly prayed to be delivered from this 
marriage, and when the lover came with his friends to 
celebrate the marriage he found her dead. Flaccus la- 
mented sorely. The attendant nobles bore her to her 
grave, in which they placed her crowned with roses. 
She is commemorated in the Roman Church May 31. 

Petronius, the name of two Romans somewhat in- 
volved in Jewish history. 

1. C.urs Pktkonius succeeded Aulius Callus in the 
government of Egypt, and carried on a war in B.C. 22 
against the Ethiopians, who had invaded Egypt under 
their queen Candace (q, v.). He was a friend of Herod, 
and sent corn to Judiea during a famine (Josephus. .1 nt. 
xv, 0, 2). 

2. IThlius PiiTKONirs was sent by Caligula to Syria 
as the successor of Vi telli us (A.D. 40), in the capacity of 
governor, with orders to erect the emperor’s statue in the 
Temple at Jerusalem ; but at the intercession of the Jews 
he was prevailed upon to disobey the imperial command, 
and escaped punishment by the opportune death of the 
emperor (Josephus, .1 nt. xviii, 0, 2 ; !F<?r, ii, 10). 

Petronius (St.) ok Holooxa, a Roman Catholic 
prelate sainted for his piety, nourished in the first half 
of the 5th century, lie was a Roman by birth, and de- 
scended of a noble family, lie early entered the ser- 
vice of the Church, and soon rose to positions of influ- 
ence and distinction. lie finally became bishop of 
Bologna, and distinguished himself by banishing the 
Arians from that city. He died A.D. 430. In the 
paintings of the Romish saints he is represented in 
episcopal robes, with mitre and crosier, lie has a thick 
black beard in an ancient representation, but generally 
is without it. His attribute is a model of Bologna, 
which he holds in his hand. His pictures are confined 
to Bologna; and there is in that city a beauiifid church 
dedicated to his memory. (J. II. AY.) 

Petrus. See Pictkr. 

Petrus HispAxrs. See John NX. 

Pettengill, Ehastts, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Newport. N. H„ .lulv 7, 

| 1805; was converted in Orford in 1824, and was bap- 
tized by Rev. Nathan Howe and joined the Methodist 
Episcopal Church. lie received license to preach in 
1835, and labored that year on the Bethlehem charge 
under the direction of the presiding elder. He joined 
the New Hampshire Conference in 1836, and was sta- 
tioned at Bristol. His subsequent appointments were 
ns follows: in 1837, Androscoggin Mission; 1838, Strat- 
ford; 1830. Bethlehem ; 18 10-4 1, l,unenbnrgh,Vt. : 1812- 
43. St. Jolnislmry ; 1811 45, Barton; 1816, Newbury ; 
1817-48. Londonderry; 1840 7)0, Hart land ; 1851-52, 
East Barnard; 1853-54, Norwich and Hartford; 1857), 
Union Village ; 187>3, Bellows Falls; 187)7-58, Hardwick ; 
1850-60, Irasburgh; 1861, Corinth ; F k 62-63, Williams- 


PETTIBONE 


49 


PETURSSON 


town; 1864-66, Union Village ; 1867-6S, Barnard. While 
laboring faithfully and with great acceptance on this 
last appointment he was stricken with a fatal disease, 
and after weeks of suffering, borne with great patience 
and Christian fortitude, he died March 8, 1869, relying 
upon the divine promise and trusting solely to the mer- 
i ts of Christ. Sec 31 inutes of A nn. Coif. 1 87 0. (J. I i.W.) 

Pettibone, Roswell,, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Orwell, Yt., Aug. 26, 1796. He had limited fa- 
cilities for an early education, entered Middleburv Col- 
lege in 1817, graduated in 1820, taught in the academy 
there in 1821, studied divinity with Dr. Hopkins, and 
was licensed by the Addison County Association in 
1822. He commenced preaching in Hopkinton, St. 
Lawrence County, N. Y., in 1823, and was ordained 
July 22, 1824 ; here he labored with great acceptability 
and sueeess till poor health induced him to seek a milder 
climate, and in September, 1830, he went West, and 
preached at Ann Harbor, Mich., through the winter, 
and in the spring received a unanimous call to take 
charge of the Church, but ill-health prevented his do- 
ing so. During 1831 he was invited to the Chureh in 
Evans’ Mills, Jefferson County, N. Y., which he served 
with great fidelity and success until, in November, 1837, 
he w r as called to Canton, St. Lawrence County, N. Y., 
and installed Feb. 14. 1838. Here he labored until 
April 1, 1854, when be became chaplain of Clinton State 
Prison, where he died, Aug. 15, 1854. Mr. Pettibone 
was pre-eminent in every relation and in the discharge 
of every duty; in spirit and conduct a progressive con- 
servative, and strongly attached to the Calvinistic doc- 
trines of grace; very active in organizing different 
benevolent societies and churches in his own and sister 
counties. See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. Almanac, 1864, p. 
310. (J. L. S.) 

Pettigrew, Chai:les, a prelate of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, was born about 1755, in Ireland, 
whence his father immigrated about 1770. The family 
w'as of Scottish origin, and possessed those marked char- 
acteristics of Scotch genius which have distinguished 
so many of the Presbyterian brethren who have come 
to this country from Scotland. In 1773 Pettigrew be- 
came a teacher at Edenton, but two years later he took 
holy orders, and was ordained pastor of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church at Loudon. In May, 1794, at a con- 
vention held at Tarborough, he was elected bishop. He 
died at Bonaron, Lake Scuppernong, where he settled in 
1774. Pettigrew took a leading part in founding the 
University of North Carolina. (J. II. W.) 

Petto (or Pepto), Samuel, an English Noncon- 
formist divine, the date of whose birth is not known, 
flourished near the close of the 17th century. He was 
educated for the Church Establishment at Catharine 
Hall, Cambridge, and afterwards became rector of 
Sancroft, in Suffolk. When the Act of Uniformity was 
passed in 1662 he was ejected from his living as a Non- 
conformist. Afterwards he became pastor in a Dissent- 
ing Chureh at Sudbury, where he passed the remainder 
of his life. lie died probably about 1708, at an advanced 
age. His work entitled The Revelation Unr tiled (1693) 
dealt with Scripture prophecies. The plan of the work 
was to inquire : 1. When many Seripture prophecies had 
their accomplishment. 2. What are now in proeess of 
fulfilment. 3. What are still to be fulfilled. His other 
works were, The Difference beticeen the Old and the New 
Covenant (the preface of this work was written by Dr. 
Owen): — The Voice of the Spirit: — Infant Baptism 
Appointed by Christ: — Scripture Catechism: — Narra- 
tive of the Wonderful and Extraordinary Fits of Thom. 
Ipatchel under the Influence of Witchcraft. 

Petty, John, an eminent minister of the Primitive 
Methodist Connection in England, was born in 1807, 
and died in 1868. His ability, piety, and devotedness 
won for him some of the most important and responsi- 
ble positions in the connection. For seven years he 
was editor of the Primitive Methodist magazines, “and 
VIII.— D 


did good service in sustaining the efficiency and useful- 
ness of these periodicals throughout the connection.’' 
He was the author of several works having a large cir- 
culation, of which the most important was The History 
of the Primitive Methodist Connection, a work performed 
by request of the Conference, and with great thorough- 
ness and ability. During the last three years of his 
life he was governor of Elmfield School, the principal 
educational establishment among the Primitive Meth- 
odists. In that position he was especially useful in 
moulding the character and promoting the scholarship 
of the students for the ministry. As a Christian, Air. 
Petty aimed with strong faith and blessed success at 
eminent personal holiness. As a scholar, “ his learning 
was varied, accurate, profound, sanctified.” As a preach- 
er, he evinced a deep insight into Christian life and 
experience, and his style combined elegant simplicity 
with intense earnestness. Among his last words werp, 
“ O ! what boundless stores of fulness there are in Jesus.” 
(G.C.J.) 

Petursson, Hali.giumur, a noted psalmist, was 
born in Iceland in 1614. While Hallgrimur w r as yet a 
boy, his father was appointed chorister at the cathedral 
in Hole (the old northern episcopal residence in Iceland), 
having been called thither by bishop Gudbraml Tlior- 
laksson, who is known as the first translator of the Bible 
into Icelandic, and as the real founder of Protestantism 
in Iceland. Hallgrimur got his elementary education 
in the school at Hole; but for some unknown reason he 
was expelled from this school, whereupon he, aided by 
some of his friends, went abroad, first to Glnekstad, in 
Sleswick, and later to Copenhagen. In Copenhagen he 
worked for a blacksmith until Brvnjolf Sveinsson (af- 
terwards bishop of Skalholt, in Iceland), about the year 
1632, got him a place in the school of Our Virgin. Here 
Hallgrimur made rapid progress, and in 1636 we find 
him studying the so-called “master’s lesson.” In the year 
1627 Iceland was visited by Mohammedan pirates from 
Algeria, in the northern part of Africa, who at that time 
extended their tyrannical rule of the sea from the shores 
of the Mediterranean to the most western and northern 
islands of the Atlantic. A number of Icelanders were 
slain by them, while others were carried away as slaves. 
By the interference of the Danish king, Christian IV, 
some of the prisoners who had not already perished in 
the land of the barbarians were ransomed, and in 1636 
thirty-eight Icelanders were brought from Algeria to 
Copenhagen, where they had to remain a few months 
until merehant-ships in the spring of 1637 could take 
them back to Iceland. While prisoners in Algeria they 
had imbibed various Mohammedan ideas, and hence it 
was thought necessary during their stay in Copenha- 
gen to instruct them in the principles of Christianity ; 
but, not understanding Danish, an Icelandic teacher had 
to be found for them. Hallgrimur Petursson was se- 
lected. Among those set free was a woman by name 
Gudrid, who had formerly been the wife of an Icelander 
in the West maun Isles. Hallgrimur fell in love with this 
woman so much that when the people were sent back 
to Iceland in the spring, he left the sehool and returned 
home with his beloved. The ship which carried them 
landed at Keflavik, in the southern part of Iceland, and 
here Hallgrimur remained through the summer, doing 
the work of a common laborer for the Danes. Gudrid 
got a place to work on the farm Njardvik, not far from 
Keflavik, and here she gave birth to a son, whose father 
was Hallgrimur. Soon afterwards he married Gudrid, 
and lived for some time in the most abject poverty in a 
lonely cottage at Suderness, until the above-mentioned 
Brvnjolf Sveinsson, who meanwhile had become bishop 
of Skalholt, persuaded him to enter the serviee of the 
Church, ordained him for the ministry, and gave him 
the poor parish of Hvalness, in Guldbringe Syssel. He 
entered the ministry in 1644, and remained in Hvalness 
until 1651, when he was removed to Saurbar, in Bor- 
garfjord. At Saurbjer he found some relief from his 
poverty until Aug. 15, 1662, when the parsonage and all 


TETZKLIAXS 


50 


PEW 


its contents were consumed by fire. The people were 
all saved, however, excepting an old stranger, who had 
found his lodgings there for the night. Though llall- 
grimnr heretofore had suffered much abuse and ridicule, 
he now found that he also had some friends, who assisted 
him in rebuilding the parsonage and furnishing him 
with the necessaries of life. A few years later (IGG3) 
Hallgrimnr first noticed the symptoms of the disease 
(leprosy) which finally laid him on his death-hed. lie 
performed his ministerial duties alone until 1GG7, when 
liis illness made it necessary to get an assistant. lie 
was compelled to resign his position in 1GG0, moved to 
a neighboring farm, Kalastad, where he remained two 
years, and then moved to another farm close by, Fer- 
stikla. where, amid constantly increasing sufferings, he 
at last, found a welcome death, Oct. 27, 1G74, not having 
left his bed the last year of his life. He was buried 
near the entrance of the church at Saurbar. In 1.S21 a 
small monument was raised on the spot beneath which 
Ins bones rest. By bis wife, who died in 1 079, be bad 
several children, but the most of them died very voting. 
We have given this detailed account of this man’s life 
because of the prominent position lie bolds in the relig- 
ious history of Iceland. He was an eloquent preacher, 
a thoroughly classical writer, and one of the most gifted 
psalmists that ever lived. His religious poems give 
evidence of a Christian courage that reminds one of the 
martyrs during the first, century after Christ, llallgri- 
miir Petnrsson's works are the following: (a) in prose — 
1. Diurium Christiunum, consisting of religious medita- 
tions for every day in the week: — 2. .1 Christian's So- 
liloquy every Marniny and Evening: — 3. A Collection of 
Prayers: — 4. Commentaries on some of the Songs in the 
Sagas, especially in Olttf Tryggveson's Saga, (b) In po- 
etry— 1. Psulterium Passionate , fifty psalms on the suf- 
ferings of Christ for singing at family devotions during 
Lent, an unsurpassed masterpiece, whether we regard it 
from a poetical or Christian standpoint. This work has 
passed through twenty-seven large editions in Iceland, 
and is found in every Icelander’s house. The funeral 
psalm found in this collection, and beginning “ AUt cin- 
sog blomstrid cilia,” lias found its way into many of the 
Continental languages, and the whole collection has 
twice been translated into Latin: — 2. A poetical treat- 
ment of the first and second books of Samuel, which be 
left unfinished, but which was completed hv the minis- 
ters Sigurd Cislesson and Jon Kvulfsson : — 3. Some epic- 
romantic poems (the so-called rimur), of which all ages 
of Icelandic literature have furnished a large number: 
— 4. Finally, we have from Hallgrimnr Petnrsson a col- 
lection of all bis psalms and poems that are not found 
in the above-named works, and of which the majority 
were not published until long after his death. This 
last collection is almost as great a favorite with the Ice- 
landic people as the Psulterium Pttssionalc. In it is 
found a cycle of Ilible poems, morning and evening 
hymns, ami other songs, but the best portion of it is a 
number of psalms, in which the poet has expressed his 
thoughts upon death ami eternity. Some of them were 
composed on his death-hed. They bear testimony to 
the fervent love of the Saviour wherein lie lived and 
died. His beautiful funeral hymn, which lie doses by 
greeting the angel of death welcome, cheerful in the 
consciousness that bis Saviour lives, lias its heathen 
prototype in Kagnar Lodhrok’s dying words: “The 
hours of life have glided by; 1 fall, hut smiling shall I 
die.” In Petnrsson’s religions poetry the old heathen 
courage is regenerated into Christian life, and the pa- 
gan coldness has yielded to the genial warmth of a ce- 
lestial faith. No mail has exercised a greater influence 
upon t he Christian character of the Icelandic people 
than Hallgrimnr Petnrsson. — Jon Bjarnasoii, Ilusbiblio- 
thek, ii. Os 103. (]{. B. A.) 

Fetzelians or Foesclielians, a modern sect of 
a politico-religious character, who derived their name 
from a priest of Brennan, called I’et/.el or Pcescliel. 
They held the natural and legal equality of all human 


beings, ami maintained that they had a continual and 
inalienable property in the earth and its natural produc- 
tions. Their enemies charged them with offering hu- 
man sacrifices, particularly on Good Friday. They ap- 
pear to have adopted the political principles of the 
Spcneeans, and probably their infidelity. Congrega- 
tions belonging to this sect are said to have existed in 
Upper Austria, hut by the interference of the public au- 
thorities they have been dispersed. A similar sect 
seems to have taken start ami spread somewhat in 
Switzerland, who are charged with the like enormities. 
See Gardner, Faiths of the World, ii, 051. G52. 

Peucer, Kasiwr, a German theologian of the Inf- 
ormation period, was horn Jan. G, 1525, at Bautzen, and 
studied at the school in Goldberg and the University of 
Wittenberg, where he was the table and house com- 
panion of the Ilelbrmer Melanct lion, who afterwards be- 
came his father-in-law. Well educated and remarkably 
talented, lie became in 1545 a magister, in 1554 ordinary 
professor of mathematics, in 15G0 professor of medicine. 
Some time after this he was introduced to the personal 
attention of the elector Augustus of Saxony, who was so 
pleased with Peucer that he put him in charge of the 
Saxon high school. I’encer, greatly interested in the 
theological controversies of his day, avowed Philippism 
(q. v.), and used his inlhiciice for its propagation in 
Saxony, ami thus arrayed the strongly Lutheran elector 
against him. Peucer was imprisoned from 1575 until 
158G. He died Sept. 25, 1G02. lie left a large number 
of medical, mathematical, historical, theological, and 
philological writings. Sec lleukc, Kaspar Peucer u. Sic. 
Krell (Marb. 1SG5); Calinich, Kampf «. Cntergang des 
M elanchihonismus in Kursachsen (Leips. 1XGG) ; also the 
art. Cryi*to-Cai.vixistic Uontuovkijsy. 

PeuUthai (Ileb. Peulletlunf , ““1^2, my wages; 
Sept. d>o\\o3<), son of Obed-edom, the last named of 
eight (1 Cliron. xxvi, 5); he belonged to the family of 
Asaph of the tribe of Levi, and was one of the porters 
of the tabernacle in the reign of David. B.C. cir. 1020. 

Feutinger, Konrad, a German writer noted for 
his antiquarian labors, was born at Augsburg in 14G5; 
studied in German and Italian universities, ami was em- 
ployed in his native city by the authorities of the place 
and by the emperor as counsellor. He was a many- 
sided, educated man, ami is celebrated not only as a writ- 
er, hut also as a humanist, ami was greatly interested in 
Luther when he first appeared against the Humanists. 
See Hagen, Deutschland's literurische Zustiinde im Zeit- 
alter tier Reformation , vul. i. (J. 11. W.) 

Feveinage, Axnr.i*:. a Belgian writer, was horn 
in 1541 at Courtray. At first music teacher in the 
collegiate church at Courtray, lie abandoned this place 
to settle in Antwerp, where he passed the last ten or 
twelve years of his life in the capacity of simple mu- 
sician of the cathedral, lie established in his house 
weekly concerts, and there was heard the most beauti- 
ful music of the composers then in repute. He died at 
Antwerp July 30, 1589. We have of his works. Con- 
dones sacree (Antwerp, 1574-1501, 5 pts. 4to); some 
masses, religious fragments, ami a collection compiled 
from different authors under the title of Ilurmouie ie- 
leste (ibid. 1583, 1503. 4to). See Paquot, Me /not ns . — 
H offer, A our. Piog. C one rule, xxxix, 77G. 

Few (anciently pue ; Old Yr.puy; Dutch .puye; Lat. 
podium, “ anything on which to lean;” s'appuyer), an 
enclosed seat in churches. The old French word pnie 
meant a balcony, a gallery built on hulks or posts of 
timber; ami it has been unnecessarily suggested that 
pew may only hi* a form of podium, a hook -desk, or the 
crutch used by monks before sitting was permitted. In 
the early days of the Anglo-Saxon and some of the Nor- 
man churches, a stone bench afforded the only sitting 
accommodation for members or visitors. In the year 
13PJ the people are spoken of as sitting on the ground 
or standing. At a later period tlu* people introduced 


PEW 


51 


PEW 


low, three-legged stools, and they were placed in no or- 
der in the church. Directly after the Norman conquest 
seats came in fashion. Church-seats were in use in Eng- 
land some time before the Reformation, as is proved by 
numerous examples still extant, the carving on some of 
which is as early as the Decorated Period, i. e. before 
A.D. 1400, and records as old as 1450 speak of such seats 
by the name of pues. They were originally plain fixed 
benches, all facing east, with partitions of wainscoting 
about three feet high. 



Headingtou, Oxfordshire. 


After the Reformation seats were more appropriated, 
a crowbar guarded the entrance, bearing the initial of 
the owner. It was in 1508 that galleries were thought 
of. As early as 1G14 pews were arranged to afford com- 
fort by being baized or cushioned, while the sides around 
were so high as to hide the occupants; probably under 
the influence of the Puritans, who, objecting to some 
parts of the service which they were compelled to attend, 
sought means to conceal their nonconformity. An early 
specimen of a pew of this kind exists in Cnxton Church, 
Kent. Up to a period some time after the Reformation 
the naves of churches, which were occupied by the con- 
gregation, were usually fitted with fixed seats, as they 
had been from the 14th century downwards, at the least : 
these seats varied in height from about two feet and a 
half to three feet, and were partially enclosed at the 
ends next the passages, sometimes with what are called 
bench -ends: sometimes these rose considerably above 
the wainscoting, and were terminated with carved fin- 
ials or poppies, but they are more frequently ranged 



Steeple Aston, c. 15C0. 


with the rest of the work, and were often straight at 
the top and finished with the same capping-moulding; 
these end enclosures occupied about the width of the 
seat, and the remainder of the space was left entirely 
open. The partitions sometimes reached down to the 
floor, and sometimes only to a little below the seats: 
they were usually perfectly plain, but the wainscoting 
next the cross passages was generally ornamented with 
panellings, tracery, small buttresses, etc.: opposite to 
the seat at the back of each division or pew a board 
was frequently fixed, considerably narrower, intended 
to support the arms when kneeling. This mode of 
fitting the naves of churches was certainly very general, 
but it is difficult to ascertain when it was first introduced, 
the great majority of specimens that exist being of the 
Perpendicular style. See Standard. 

In England pews were assigned at first only to the 
patrons of churches. A canon made at Exeter, in 1287, 
rebukes quarrelling for a seat in church, and decrees 
that none shall claim a seat as his own except noblemen 
and the patrons. Gradually, however, the system of 
appropriation was extended to other inhabitants of the 
parish, to the injury of the poor, and the multiplication 
of disputes. The law of pews in England is briefly this : 
All church-scats are at the disposal of the bishop, and 
may be assigned by him cither (1) directly by faculty 
to the holders of any property in the parish; or (2) 
through the churchwardens, whose duty it is, as officers 
under the bishop, to “seat the parishioners according to 
their degree.” In the former case the right descends 
with the property, if the faculty can be shown, or im- 
memorial occupation proved. In the latter, the right 
can at any time be recalled, and lapses on the part} 1 ' 
ceasing to be a regular occupant of the scat. It ap- 
pears that by common law every parishioner has a right 
to a scat in the church, and the churchwardens are 
bound to place each one as best they can. The prac- 
tice of letting pews, except under the cluirch-bnilding 
acts, or special local acts of Parliament, and, much more, 
of selling them, has been declared illegal, except for the 
chapels of the Dissenters, who need the income of the 
pews for the payment of the pastor’s salary. In Scot- 
land pews in the parish churches are assigned by 
the heritors to the parishioners, who have accord- 
ingly the preferable claim on them ; but when not so 
occupied they are legally open to all. As is well 
known, pews in dissenting churches are rented as a 
means of revenue to sustain general charges. In some 
parts of the United States pews in churches are a mat- 
ter of annual competition, and bring large sums. Lat- 
terly in England there has been some discussion as to 
the injuriously exclusive character of the “ pew system,” 
and a disposition has been manifested to abolish pews 
altogether, and substitute movable seats available by all 
indiscriminately. Several pamphlets have appeared on 
the subject. The Times remarks that in dealing with 
this subject the first question is not the letting of 
pews, but the appropriation of seats. In most country 
churches the seats are more or less appropriated, but 
the pews are seldom rented. When we consider the 
matter from this point of view, does it not seem reason- 
able, as a matter of mere order and decency, that those 
who regularly attend a church should have their appro- 
priated places within it? If the churches are thrown 
completely open, they are thrown open not only to the 
parish, but to the whole world. In one of the best 
known of the London churches the incumbent lately 
j complained from the pulpit that his parishioners could 
not obtain seats in the church which had been expressly 
built for them, and he announced his intention of alter- 
ing the system. Another church, in Wells Street, which 
was especially built for the accommodation of a poor 
district, and in which all the seats are free, is usurped 
every Sunday by an aesthetic congregation of well- 
dressed people, who come to enjoy the excellent per- 
formance of the choir. Such a result would always 
I take place where the preacher was popular or the ser- 


PE YU ERE 


52 


PEZROX 


vice attractive. Again, the existing churches would 
not hold more than a certain number of persons, and 
they are filled as it is. If more were invited to come, it 
would be only driving out the rich to make way for the 
poor, and then we should want another national associa- 
tion for preaching the flospel to the rich, or, rather, we 
should see the rich building proprietary chapels for 
themselves, in which the scats would be appropriated 
as before. Ilut docs any one suppose that the poor 
would thus force their way into the churches, and dis- 
possess their present occupants? Whether the seats are 
free or not, the result would be much the same. When 
the question of the appropriation of seats is decided, 
that of pew rents is comparatively simple. If the rich 
arc to have a certain number of seats appropriated to 
them, what can be more natural and convenient than 
that they should pay a certain sum in respect of them? 
In the Itoman Catholic churches on the Continent pews 
arc seldom to be seen. 

The reading pue, first mentioned in the rubric of 
1GG2, was the reader’s stall in the chancel. It had two 
desks — one on the west for the Holy Bible, and the 
other for the Prayer-book facing eastwards, as in Hook- 
er’s Church at Drayton Beauchamp. In 1571 Grimlel 
called it “the pulpit, where prayers arc said.” Calamy 
applies the word to designate an open-air pulpit. 
George Herbert made his pulpit and reading puc of 
equal height, so as to be of equal honor and estimation, 
and agree like brethren. See Walcott, Sacred Arch wol. 
s. v.*, Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. ; Parker, Glossary of Ar- 
chitecture, s. v. 

Peyiere, Isaac, a French Protestant writer, was 
born at Bordeaux in 1502. He fitted himself for mili- 
tary and diplomatic service, and at one time served the 
prince of Cotide, whom he pleased by the singularity of 
liis humor. Peyrerc finally turned pious. He was at 
the time a Protestant. lie claimed that it had been re- 
vealed to him by St. Paul that Adam was not the first 
man created, and he undertook to prove his theory by 
publishing in Holland, in 1G55, a book entitled Prread- 
amitee,sire exercitatio super rersibus 12, 13, 1 4, capitis xv 
Epistolce Pauli ad Romanos, which work was consigned 
to the flames, and he himself imprisoned at Brussels. 
Upon recantation and the interference of the prince of 
Condii lie was released, and went to Home in 1G55, 
where he published the reasons for his recantation, and 
abjured Calvinism and Pneadamitism before pope Alex- 
ander VII. lie was not believed sincere by the people, 
and doubtless public opinion was just. The pontiff en- 
deavored to detain him at Borne, but he finally returned 
to Paris, and again entered the service of the prince of 
Conde, acting as his librarian. He was not thought to 
be attached to any particular Church, notwithstanding 
that he had joined the Romanists, lie, however, sub- 
mitted to receive the sacrament. Some time after his 
return to Paris he retired to the ■* Semiuaire des Vertus,” 
where he died in 1G7G. lie wrote, besides the above- 
mentioned articles, works upon tJrcenland and Iceland; 
also one upon the Restoration of the Jews, etc. 

Peyton, Yhi.vkuton T.. a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church, was born in Stafford County, Va., 
1737; was converted in 1X15; entered the Baltimore 
Conference in 181X ; and after tilling some of the most 
important stations in the Conference, died in Baltimore 
•bin. 15, 1X31. He was a devoted pastor, a faithful min- 
ister, and a very useful preacher. See Minutes of Ann. 
Conferences, ii, 118. 

Pez, Bernard, a learned German Benedictine, was 
born in 10X3 at Ips. He early entered the monastery 
of Mdlk. For several years he, with his brother Jerome, 
collected chronicles, charters, and other documents of 
the Middle Ages, in Austria, Bavaria, and other parts 
of Germany. After having spent some time in France, 
where he was associated with count Zinzendorf, he re- 
turned to his convent, whose library was confided to his 
care. He died March 27, 1735. We have of his works, 


. 1 eta et vita Wilburgis viryinis cum not is (Atigsb. 1715, 
4to) : — Bibliotheca Benedictino- Muuriuna, seu de ritis 
et script is Putrum e conyregutione S. Mauri (ibid. 171 G, 
Xvo) : — Thesaurus unecdotorum norissimus, seu Yetervm 
monumentorum pnecipue ecclesiusticorum collect io (1721— 
1723, 5 vols. fol.): — Bibliotheca ascetica antirjuo-nora 
(Batisb. 1723-1740, 12 vols. Xvo): — .4 eta S. Trupcrti 
martyris (Vienna, 1731, 4to) : — some Xotes it I' A nonymus 
Mellicensis de scriptoribus eccles last ids, published by Fa- 
bricius; several articles in different collections, etc. See 
.1 i>cher, A Ugemeines Geleh rten- Lexikon ; Kropf, Biblioth. 
Mellicensis. — Iloefcr, Xouv. Biog. Generate , xxxix, 7X9, 

Pez, Hieronymus, a learned German Benedictine, 
brother of the preceding, w'as born at Ips in 10x5. After 
having taken the Benedictine habit in the monastery 
of Miilk, he began, with his brother, the search lbr un- 
published historical documents concealed in the archives 
and libraries of Austria and Bavaria. Placed later at 
the head of the library of his convent, he passed the 
last fifteen years of his life in the most profound retreat. 
He died Oct. 14, 17G2. We have of his works, .4 eta S. 
Colomani, Scotiie regis (Ivrems, 1713, 4to) : — Scriptoies 
rerum .1 ustriacarum veteres, cum nods et obserrationibus 
(Leips. 1720-1725, 2 vols. fob), followed by a third vol- 
ume. published in 1745 at Batisbon ; a very precious col- 
lection: — Ilistoria S. J.eopoldi, Austria; marchionis, id 
nominis iv, ex diplomatibus adomata (Vienna, 1747, fob). 
See Mcusel, Lexikon; Schrdckh, Leben r. Pez (in the 
Leipziger Gelehrte Zeitung for 17G2, p. 737). — Heeler, 
Xour, Biog. Generate, xxxix, 789. 

Pezel, Christoph, a German theologian, was born 
March 5, 1539, at Plauen ; studied at Wittenberg: was 
then three years cantor in his native place, ami in 15G7 
became court-preacher and professor of theology at Wit- 
tenberg. An ardent advocate of Philippism (q.v.). he 
was deposed after the condemnation ofCrypto-t 'a Ivin ism 
in 1574; in 1576 was sent out of the country; in 1577 
went to Sicgen, where he taught for a while, and then 
became pastor at llerborn. In 15XU he was called to 
Bremen as pastor, and in 1584 was made professor of 
theology at the newlv founded Gymnasium illustre. In 
1589 he again assumed the pastorate, and became also 
superintendent, and as such contributed to the strength- 
ening and development of Lutheranism, lie died Feb. 
25. 1604. Besides theological controversial writings, and 
the so-called Wittenberg Catechism entitled Catechesis 
continens explicatiouem decalogi, symboli, orationis domi- 
nica>, doctriner de peenitentia et sucramentis (Wittenberg, 
1571), lie wrote also Meliificium Historicnm, a much- 
used handbook of history, and edited Melancthon’s let- 
ters to I'Jardenberg. (.1.11. W.) 

Pezron, Pal i., a Human Catholic monastic of much 
celebrity, was born at Ilennebon, in Bretagne, in P : 39. 
He embraced the monastic life in the Cistercian abbey 
de Prieres in 1GG1 ; was appointed master of the novices 
and sub-prior in 1G72; sub-prior of the college of the 
Bernardins at. Paris in 1G77 ; vicar-general of his order in 
1690, and obtained the abbey of Cbarmoye in 1 097. He 
resigned it finally to give himself entirely to his studios, 
and became a doctor of the Sorbonnc. Ho died in 17U0. 
His most important publication is IXintiquite des temps 
retablie et defendue, emit re lesJuifs et les noureaux chro- 
nologistes (Amst. 1687, 12mo). in this work the author 
maintains the authority of the Scptuagint chronology 
against that of the Hebrew Bible. Pezron \s hook was 
extremely admired for the ingenuity and learning of it; 
yet created, as was natural, no small alarm among the 
religions. Martianay, a Benedictine, and l.e <)uicn, a 
Dominican, wrote against this new system, an«l under- 
took the defence of the Hebrew text; Martianay with 
great zeal and heat, Lc Qnicn with more judgment and 
knowledge. Pezron published Ihfense de I'autiquite des 
temps in 1691 (4 to), which, like the work itself, abounded 
with curious and learned researches. Lc Quien replied, 
Imt Martianay brought the affair into another court; 
an 1, in 1693, laid the books and principles of Pezron 


PFAFF 


53 


PFEFFER KORN 


before M. de Harlai, archbishop of Paris. TTarlai com- 
municated the representation of this adversary to Pez- 
ron, who, finding no difficulty in supporting an opinion 
common to all the fathers before Jerome, rendered the 
accusation of no effect. Other works of his are, Es- 
sai (Tun Commentaire Litteral et llistoriqne sur les Pro- 
phetes (1G93, 12mo) : — L'llistoire Evangelique Confirmee 
par la Judaique et la Romaine (1696.2 vols. 12mo):— 
Antiquite de la Nation et de la Langue des Celtes (1703, 
12mo, etc.). See Niceron, Memoircs, vol. i; Diet. Hist, 
des A vteurs Eccles. s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliogr. s. v.; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog, Generate, s. v. 

Pfaff, Christoph Matthaus, D.D., a German 
Protestant theologian, son of Johann Christoph Pfaff 
(q. v.), was horn Dec. 25, 1G86. at Stuttgard. At the 
age of thirteen he was admitted to the university, and 
after having finished his theological studies, he re- 
ceived the means from the duke of Wiirtemberg, in 
170G, to go to other universities to perfect himself in 
the knowledge of the Oriental tongues. He visited 
with this design several universities of Germany, Hol- 
land, and England. Upon his return to Stuttgard in 
1709, he was employed to accompany the hereditary 
prince Charles-Alexandre to Italy, with whom he re- 
mained three years in Turin, occupied especially in cop- 
ying from the libraries the unpublished fragments of 
ancient ecclesiastical authors. 11c afterwards went with 
the prince to Holland, where he spent two years, and 
to Paris, continuing his researches in the libraries, and 
placing himself in connection with the most renowned 
learned men. Appointed in 171G professor of theology 
at Tubingen, he became in 1720 dean of the faculty and 
chancellor of the university; he also received several 
high ecclesiastical positions, and became among others, 
in 1727, abbe' of Loch, which gave him the entree to the 
states of Wiirtemberg. In 1724 he was gratified with 
the title of count-palatine, and was elected in 1731 mem- 
ber of the Academy of Berlin. In 1756 he became chan- 
cellor of the University of Giessen, dean of the faculty 
of theology, and general superintendent of the churches. 
Possessing extensive and varied knowledge, he care- 
fully avoided the bitter tone of the theologians of his 
confession, and he even made, but without the least suc- 
cess, several attempts to unite the Lutheran and Cal- 
vinistic churches. He died at Giessen Nov. 19, 17G0. 
PfaflTs erudition ivas immense, and his works so numer- 
ous that they fill a whole sheet of the German bibliogra- 
phies. Among his numerous works and dissertations 
we mention, De genuinis Librorum Novi Testamenii lec- 
tionibus (Amst. 1709, 8vo) : — Demonstrations solides de 
la rente de la Religion Protestante contre la Religion 
pretendue Catholique (Tiib. 1713, 1719) : — De Evangeliis 
sub Anastatio imperatore non corruptis (Tubing. 1717, 
4to): reprinted, with several other dissertations of Pfaff, 
in his Pr inis tier Tubingenses (ibid. 1718, 4to) : — De litur- 
giis,missalibus,agendis et libris ecclesiasticis Ecclesice ori- 
entalis et occidentalis veteris et modenue (ibid. 1718, 4to) : 
— De origine juris ecclesiastici veraque ejus indole (ibid. 
1719, 1720, 1756, 4to): — Dissert ationes Anti - Baliance 
tres (ibid. 1719, 1720, 4to): — Institutiones theologiee doq- 
maticce et morulis (ibid. 1719, 8vo; Frankf. 1721, 8vo); 
one of the first theological works written in Germany in 
which the rationalistic tendency is recognised: — lntro- 
duetio in historiam theologiee litterariam (ibid. 1720, 8vo ; 
ibid. 1724-172G, 3 vols. 4to) : — De variationibus ecclesia- 
rum Protestantium, adversus Bossuetum (ibid. 1720, 4to) : 
— Gesammelte Schriften so zur Vereinigung tier protesti- 
renden Kirchen abzielen (Halle, 1723, 2 vols. 4to) ; a col- 
lection of writings tending to the reunion of the Protes- 
tant churches : — De titulopcit rict rch ee cecumenici (Tubing. 
1735, 4to): — De ecclesia sanguinem non sitiente (ibid. 
1740, 4to) : — De sterconanistis medii cevi (ibid. 1750, 
4to) : — De aureolis virginum, doctorum et martyrum (ibid. 
1753, 4to). As an editor, Pfaff published Epitome In- 
stitutionum divinarum Laetantii (Paris, 1712, 8vo), first 
edition complete : — S. Irencei fragmenta anecdvta (La 
Have, 1715, 8vo) ; a publication followed by a dispute 


with Scip. Maffci, who had cast some doubt upon the 
authenticity of these fragments: — Ecclesice ecangeh'cie 
libri symbokei (Tubingen, 1730, 8vo). Finally, Pfaff di- 
rected the publication of the new German translation 
of the Bible, which appeared at Tubingen (1729, fol.), a 
work on which, in connection with others, he actively 
labored. Pfaff was a learned man of the very first rank, 
but of doubtful moral character. He is the real found- 
er of the so-called collegial system, which regards the 
Church as a collegium: as a corporation possessing cor- 
porate rights, the Church can make her own statutes 
and laws, and can insist upon their observance. The 
attitude of the state towards her is but incidental, or 
similar to the position it occupies with respect to any 
other association. The magistratus politicus does not 
belong to her; the Church consisting solely of teachers 
and taught. It is only by transference, by virtue of 
silent or express compact, that the magistracy can re- 
| ceive rights originally inherent in the Church. Results 
were, however, at first, and till after the commencement 
of the 19th century, in favor of the territorial system. 
The Bible known among the German Protestants as 
“ the Bible of Tubingen” was published under Pfaff’s di- 
rection in one folio volume in 1727. See Strieder, Jles- 
sische Gelelirtengeseh. ; Rathlef, Gesch, jetztlebender Gc- 
lehrten , pt. i; Sehrockh, Unparteiische Kirchengescb. iv, 
787 ; Sax, Onomasticon , vi, 138, G48 ; Bauer, Gallerie, vol. 
v; Doring, Die Gelehrten Theologen Deutscldands, vol. 
iii, s. v. ; Ilirsehing, Hundbuch ; Meusel, Lexikon, s. v. — 
Iloefer, Now, Biog. Generate, xxxix, 794 ; comp. Hurst’s 
Hagenbach, Ch. Hist. 1 8th and 19 th Centuries , i, 110 sq., 
410; Ebrard, Kirchen- u. Dogmengesch. iv, 131. (J. II. W.) 

Pfaff, Johann Christoph, a German Lutheran 
theologian, was born at Pfullingen in 1G31, and was ed- 
ucated at the university in Tubingen, where he after- 
wards flourished as professor of theology. He was also 
for a time pastor at St. Leonhard’s Church in Stuttgard. 
He died in 1720. He was the author of about forty 
works and exegetical and dogmatical dissertations, but 
none of them are of much value in our day. A list of 
them may be found in Winer’s Theol. Literatur, s. v. 
See also Bdckh, Gesch. der Universitdt Tubingen; Le- 
poin, Leben der Gelehrten , and Bibliotheca Brenunsis 
(1720). (J. H.W.) 

Ffauser (Phauser), Johann Sebastian, a Ger- 
man Roman Catholic divine, was born at Constance in 
1520. He came by recommendation of the bishop of 
Trent to Vienna as court-preaeher of emperor Ferdi- 
nand I, but ivas obliged to quit that place on account of 
his anti-Roman tendency, lie was thereafter employed 
as confessor and preacher by the emperor’s son, Maxi- 
milian, and all efforts to supplant him here were unsuc- 
cessful until the Bohemian crown question arose, and it 
became necessary for the court to have the favor of all 
Ultramontane prelates, in 1560 Pfanser became pastor 
at Lauingen. He died in 1569. To the last Maximil- 
ian kept up a friendlv correspondence with this good 
man. (J. H. W.) 

Pfefferkorn, Johann (originally Joseph'), a noted 
Jewish convert to Christianity, was born in Moravia in 
1469. He embraced Christianity, and was publicly bap- 
tized at Cologne with his wife and children in 1506, 
when thirty-six years old. All the efforts of this man, 
who, with many faults, was certainly not wanting in 
merit, were early directed to the conversion of his breth- 
ren according to the flesh. The means he first made 
use of were highly laudable ; for he treated them with 
gentleness, and even defended his former co-rcligionists 
against the calumny of their enemies. But fanatical 
and misguided, his zeal afterwards was less well ad- 
vised when he began to forbid and condemn the read- 
ing of any Hebrew book excepting the Old Testament. 
With the aid of the Dominican monks, he prevailed on 
the emperor Maximilian to adopt his views, and in 1509 
an edict was published which enjoined that all writings 
emanating from the Jews against the Christian religion 


PFEFFEHKOliN 


54 


PFEIFFEIi 


should be suppressed and condemned to the flames ; this 
edict was soon succeeded by another, July 0, 1510, en- 
joining the destruction of every Hebrew book with the 
sole exception of the Old Testament. The execution 
of this edict was, however, suspended until the opinion 
of the electoral archbishop Uriel of Mayence had been 
obtained, lly reason of this delay, I’rof. John Kcuchlin, 
whose opinion in this matter was sought for, was en- 
abled to publish a voluminous treatise, in which he di- 
vided the Jewish works into seven different classes, and 
afterwards proved which of these classes might be con- 
sidered dangerous or injurious to the Christian religion. 
Among the books which he thinks in part harmless and 
in part useful, and even valuable to theology, and which 
he would in consequence preserve, were not only the 
commentaries of Kashi, the Kimchis, Ibn-Ezra, Gerson- 
idcs, Xacbmanides, etc., but the Talmud and the cab- 
alistic book Sohar (q. v.). On the other hand, Keuch- 
lin maintained that those only should be destroyed 
which contained blasphemies against Christ, such as 
the Xizzachon and Toledoth Jeshu. lie further pointed 
out the impossibility of suppressing books by an imperi- 
al decree which were dispersed in all parts of the world, 
and might easily be reprinted in other places. The 
contest soon grew warm between the adversaries of the 
books and their defenders; the former consisting of the 
Dominicans and their partisans, and the latter of all 
moderate and enlightened theologians. The affair was 
finally left by an appeal to pope Leo X. llochstraaten, 
an inquisitor, and a man fully qualified for that cruel 
office, repaired to Home, supported with remonstrances 
from several princes to bias, with money to bribe, and 
menaces to intimidate. He even threatened the pope 
with rejecting his authority and separating from the 
Church, unless Kcuchlin, and the Jews whom he defend- 
ed, were condemned. But all his efforts were in vain, 
and he was obliged to return, mortified and disgraced. 
The victory which his opponent had gained exposed 
him to the enmity of the monkish party. But he in- 
formed them ‘"he was persuaded that Martin Luther, 
who then began to make a figure in Germany, would 
find them so much employment that they would permit 
him to end his days in peace” (Villers on the Refor- 
mation , p. 107). Soon, indeed (by reason apparently 
of the Deformation movement), an end was put to the 
whole dispute. When and where Pfefterkorn died is 
difficult to say. Of his works, which obtained such 
unenviable notoriety, we mention, l)er Judenspiegel, or 
Speculum adhortaiionis Judaic <r ad Uhristum (Xiirnb. 
1507): — Die J itdenbcichte, or Libellus de Judaica confes- 
sione sire Subbate ajflictionis cum jiguris (Colog. 150*) : 
— Das Osterbuch, or Xarratio de rat tone J'ascha cele- 
brandi inter Judteos receptti (Colog. and Angsb. 1509): 

Der Judenfeind, or J last is Judtvorum (ibid. 1509) : — 
Jit Lob und Ehren deni Kaiser Maximilian , or In laudem 
et Iwnorem illnstrissimi imperatoris M aximiliuni , etc. 
(Colog. 1510): — Kin Brief an Geistlicke und Weltlicht 
in Get ref des Kaiserlichen Mandats die jiidischen Sc/irif- 
tvn zit rertilgen : — /Jer JJandspiegel , against Kcuchlin 
(Mayence, lull): — I)er Brandspiegel (ibid. 1513) : — 
J)ie Stnrmglocke , against Kcuchlin (Cologne, 1514): — 
Streitbiichleiu wider Jleuchlin u. s . J Huger , or Defen- 
sio contra famosas el criminales obscurorum rerorum 
epistolas, dedicated to the* pope and the college of 
cardinals (Cologne, 1510) : Eiue mitleidige ('lag' gegen 
den vngliiubigen Jleuchlin (1521). (Where the Latin 
title is given, the work was also translated into Latin.) 
Comp. Cilrst, Iiibl. Jud. iii, *2 ; Wolf, Dill. J/ehr. i, 9*3 
sq. ; iii, 940 sq. ; iv, 950 sq. ; Meiners, Debt nshesehreihnng 
der M (inner aits den Zeitcn der Wiederherstelluug der 117.*- 
senschaften (Zurich, 1795), i, 99 sq. ; M overboil", Jleuch- 
lin u. s. /t it ; Erhard, Geschichte des \Y iederanfblii- 
hens der wissenschaftl. Bildung , vol. ii ; Lamey, Jleuchlin 
u. s. Zeit ; Strauss, Ulrich r. /fatten , vol. i ; t iriitz, tiesch. 
d. Jnden , ix, 9*. 101 sq., 103, 1 10 sq., 1 15 sq., 130 sq., 110, 
112, 15* sq., 10* sq., 209, 21 1, 21*. and Appendix, note 2, 
p. vii so.; L. Geiger, Das Stadium der hebr. Sgrache in 


Deutschland, p. 3S sq. (Breslau, 1870); Kalkar. Israel u. 
d. Kirche, p. 90 sq. : Basnage. JJistoire des Juijs, p. 730 
(Taylor’s transl.) ; II. Adams, JJist. of the Jews, ii, 47 
sq. (Boston, 1*12); Da Costa, Israel and the tlentiles, 
p. 404 sq. ; Johannes Iff Jer horn, in Geiger’s Zeitschri/l 
fur Wissenschuft v. l.eben (1*09), p. 293-309; Akten- 
stiicke zur Confscation der jiidischen SchriJ'ten in Frank- 
furt a. M. unter Kaiser Maximilian durch Jfejerkorn's 
A ngeberti, in Frankcl-Griitz’s Monatsschr. (July, 1*7.5), 
p. 2*9 sq. ; Weyden, (Jesch. d. Juden in Koln am Rhein 
(Cologne, 1*07), p. 259 sq. ; Calmer. JJist. of the Jewish 
Motion (Loud. 1 *74), p. 2**. (B. P.) 

Pfefferkorn, S. Michael M.. a German theolo- 
gian, was born in the year 1040 at Iffta. near Eisenach, 
and was the son of a minister. Having received his 
preparatory education at Crciitzburg and t iotha, he went 
to Jena, where in 1006 he was created magister. From 
Jena he went to Leipsic, and after having completed his 
studies, he was appointed professor at the Altenburg 
gymnasium. Having occupied several stations as an 
educator, he was called in 1070 to the pastorate of Frie- 
mar, near Gotha. For fifty years he faithfully dis- 
charged his ministerial functions. He died March 3, 
1732. Besides other works, he is the author of some 
very fine hymns, which found their way into our hymn- 
books, as “ Was frag’ ieh naeb tier Welt und alien ihren 
Schiitz.cn” (Engl, transl. by Mills, “Can I this world es- 
teem,” in lignins from the German, HU). See Briiek- 
ner, Kirchen- und Schulenstaat im llcrzogthum Gotha 
(Gotha, 1700, 3 pts.), iv, *tl-*2 ; Koch, Gesch. d. deutschen 
Kirchenliedes, iv, 03 sq. (B. I*.) 

Pfeiffer, Augustus, D.D., a learned German Lu- 
theran divine, noted as an Orientalist, was born at Lau- 
cnbnrg Oct. 30, 1040. and was educated at Wittenberg. 
In 1073 he entered the ministry, and thereafter held 
several important pastorates. In 10*1 he became arch- 
deacon to the church of St. Thomas at Leipsic, in which 
city he also held a chair in theology at the university. 
In 1089 he was made superintendent of the churches at 
Lubeck, and died there Jan. 1 1, 109*. Pfeiffer was one 
of the most skilful philologists of his time. lie is said 
to have known seventy languages. His librarv was 
rich in Hebrew, Arabic, Coptic, Armenian, Persian, and 
Chinese MSS., and he left many learned writings. His 
philological works were all collected under the title Opera 
omnia philologim (Utrecht, 1704, 2 vols. 4to). His other 
publications were, Theulogia Judaica alque Mohammc- 
dica (Lips. 10*7. 12mo): — A ntiquitates selecter, ab Ugo- 
lino nolis illustratee (in Ugolino, iv, 1173): — Exercitado 
de Theraphim (ibid, xxiii, 549): — Diatribe de poesi 
JJebr. recognita (ibid, xxxi, *99; transl. into Engl, by 
I). A. Taylor, with additions, in the Bill. Repos, vols. 
vi-ix): — Manuductio nova ct facilis ad accent imtionem, 
etc. (Ugol. xxxi, 927): — Specimen de monialibus Yet. 
Test. (ibid, xxxii, 657) : — Specimen de roce vexata r.70 
(ibid, xxxii, 7 1.3) : — Specimen de Psalmis Gra<l>tuni (ibid, 
xxxii, 075). See Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. ; Koter- 
m u nd’s Suppl. to J ocher, Gelehrten-l.exikon. s. v. Pip- 
ping: Manor hr theologorum, s. v. (J. II. IV.) 

Pfeiffer, Christoph, a German divine, noted as a 
hymriologist, was born at t >els in t lie year 10*9. For 
two years he was assistant-preacher at Dirsdorf, when 
he was called, March 2*. 1719. by the duke 11. (’hr. von 
Landskron to the pastorate at Dittnuinsdorf. near Fran- 
kenstein, in the principality of Munsterburg. Having 
occupied this position for twenty-seven years, lie was 
called to Stolz, where be spent the remainder of bis life, 
and died Dec. 23, 175*. 1 1 is picture in the church there 

has the motto, “ Mea Christus Portio,” and the fol- 
lowing epigraph: “Mors tun vita mea cst, tuaque, O 
duleissime. Jesu, viilnera sunt aniline Pliarmaca certa 
mew." Pfeiffer is the author of many hymns, several 
of which are found in our modern hymn-books. See 
Wezcl, f/gmnop. (llerrustadt, 172*), iv, 397 sq. ; Koch, 
Gesch. d. deutschen Kirc/uuUcdts, v, 742 sq. (B. P.) 


PFEIFFEE 


PHJEDO 


Pfeiffer, Madame Ida, a German lady, whose maid- 
en name was Reige, is noted as a traveller in the East, 
and as a valuable contributor to Palestinian topogra- 
phy. She was born in Vienna about the year 1795. 
From her very childhood she longed to see the world, 
and ever read with delight books of travel. In her 
girlhood she travelled to some extent with her parents, 
and subsequently with her husband. After the death 
of her husband and the maturity of her sons she deter- 
mined to undertake a journey to Palestine, that she 
might have the ineffable delight of treading those spots 
which our Saviour had hallowed by his presence. With 
the accumulated wealth of twenty years, she left Vienna 
in March, 1842. Her journey ineludcd Constantinople, 
Broussa, Beirut, Jaffa, Jerusalem, the river Jordan and 
the Dead Sea, Nazareth, Damascus, Balbec, the Liba- 
nus, Alexandria, Cairo, and the Desert to the Bed Sea; 
then back by Malta, Sicily, Naples, Borne, etc., to A'icnna, 
where she arrived in December of the same year. Upon 
her return she published anonymously the diary she had 
kept during her trip, under the title of Reise einer Wie- 
nerin in das Ileilige Land (Journey of a Vienna Woman 
in the Holy Land). In 1845 Madame Pfeiffer visited 
Sweden, Norway, and Iceland. In 1846 she made her 
first journey round the world. In 1851 she made a sec- 
ond expedition, visiting the United States, and upon 
her return published an account of all her travels. But 
of all her descriptions those of the Holy Land are far 
more interesting than any of the others; owing doubt- 
less to having been less hurried then than while making 
her trips round the world. Throughout the whole of 
her arduous journeys Madame Pfeiffer displayed great 
courage, perseverance, and womanly tact. The mere 
fact of her having accomplished what no male traveller 
ever has done is conclusive evidence that she was pos- 
sessed of great endurance and fortitude. She died in 
1 858. 

Pfeil, Christoph Cart. Ludwig von, a descendant 
of an old knightly family, was born Jan. 20, 1712, at 
Griinstadt, not far from Worms. When ten years of 
age he was left an orphan, and his uncle, the Bev. Jus- 
tus S. von Pfeil, of Magdeburg, took him into his house. 
Here he remained for six years, when, at the age of six- 
teen, he entered the University of Halle for the study 
of jurisprudence. In the year 1729 he went to Tubin- 
gen to continue there his studies, where lie became a 
faithful follower of Christ. In 1732, at the age of 
twenty, he was appointed secretary of legation of the 
Wiirtemberg government at Begensburg, and in 1737 
he was appointed counsellor of law at Stuttgard. For 
thirty years he held the highest honors in Wiirtemberg, 
until, in the year 1763, he removed to Prussia, when 
Frederick the Great awarded to him new honors. Pfeil 
died Feb. 14, 1784. He was a very pious man, and the 
different stages of his life are best marked in his poeti- 
cal productions and hymns, which number about 940. 
Not all of his hymns have found their way into hymn- 
books, especially as most of them are influenced by 
Zinzeiulorf and Bengel, whose ideas are more or less 
reproduced in them. Those, however, which are found 
in our hymn-books are really jewels of German hym- 
nologv. A collection of his hymns has been published 
by the Bev. G. Knack, of Berlin (1850, 1853), under the 
title Evangel. IJerzensgesange. Besides his hymns, Pfeil 
Ji lt in MS. a rhymed translation of Job, Proverbs, Ec- 
clesiastes, Song of Songs, the Lord’s Prayer, the apos- 
tolic epistles, etc. See Teichmann’s biography in the 
preface to his Christl. Ilamschatz (Stuttgard, 1852); 
Merz, Das Leben des ehrisllichen Dichters and Ministers 
C. C. L. von Pfeil (ibid. 1863); Koch, Gesckichte des 
deutschen Kirckenliedes, v, 176 sq. (B. P.) 

Pfenninger, Johann Conrad, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Zurich, Switzerland, in 1747 ; studied 
theology at the university of his native place; in 177c 
was made dean of the Orphans’ Church, and later was 
appointed the successor of his friend Lavater (q. v.) is. 


the pastorate, and was also made the dean of St. Peter’s 
Church. lie died in 1792. Pfenninger was a volumi- 
nous writer and much involved in controversy with the 
nationalists, who then so very generally abounded in 
Germany. He was in close harmony with the theolog- 
ical views of Lavater, and with him attempted to give 
to his period a secure Christian impress, so as to lift 
Christianity from its Oriental vestments, and plaee it 
upon the ground of universal humanity. While the 
sceptics, and even Spalding among them, regarded 
modern Christianity rather as a purely comprehensible 
and abstract fact, and excluded every contribution of 
the imagination, Lavater and Pfenninger, like Klop- 
stock (q. v.), thought it best to render aid by the West- 
ern imagination. They made Christianity not only ac- 
cessible to the modern understanding, but to the modern 
feeling. Most valuable of all of I’fenninger’s publica- 
tions are his Jiidisehe Brief e aus der Zeit Jesu v. A aza- 
retk (1783-92), which have been freely used by Stier in 
his Words of Jesus (transl. by Strong and Smith, N. Y. 
3 vols. 8vo). These Jewish letters furnish a sort of 
Christian romance, in which the men and women of the 
time of Jesus write letters to each other, just as senti- 
mental men and women of the last century would have 
written, and Christianity was thus modernized to make 
it attractive and plain to the masses, and relieve it of 
the Oriental garb it wears in the Bible. (J. II. W.) 

Pflug, Julius, a German theologian, noted in the 
Beformation history of his country’s Church, was born 
at Merseburg near the opening of the 16th century. He 
was the son of a nobleman, and a favorite of the em- 
peror Charles V, who sent him in 1541 as one of the col- 
locutors to the synod at Begensburg (q. v.), which re- 
sulted in the adoption of the Augsburg Interim (q. v.). 
Pflug was selected by the emperor as president of the 
approaching synod at Begensburg. About that time 
the-chapter of the cathedral at Naumburg-Zeitz elected 
him bishop, but he was unable to assume his episcopal 
duties until after the battle at Miihlberg. In 1557 he 
presided at the Synod of Worms, and died in 1564. 
Pflug was a moderate Komanist, and though associated 
with Eck, shared none of his extravagant and extreme 
ideas. He earnestly desired peace, and though he may 
here and there have consented to measures rather equiv- 
ocal and questionable, he probably sought only the peace 
and union of the Church. See Banke, Ilist. of the Pa- 
pacy, i, 1 17 sq.; Planck, Gesch. der protest. Theol. vol. 
vi ; Alzog, Kirehengesck. ii, 309 sq. (J. II. AY.) 

Pha'ath-Mo'ab (<bad3' Mwd/3 v. r. 4>^oXji AIw- 
afittg), a Gra?cized form (1 Esdr. v, 1 1) of the Ileb. name 
(Ezra ii, 6; Neh. vii, 11) Faiiatii-Moad (q. v.). 

Phac'areth (<PaicaptS v. r. «l>axof(0*3-), a corrupt 
Gmecized form (1 Esdr. v, 34) of the Hcb. name (Ezra 
ii, 57 ; Neh. vii, 59) Pochereth (q. v.). 

Phcedo(n') of Elis, a noted ancient Grecian phi- 
losopher, was a native of Elis, and of high birth. He 
was taken prisoner in his youth, and passed into the 
hands of an Athenian slave-dealer; and being of con- 
siderable personal beauty was compelled to prostitute 
himself. It was in the summer of B.C. 400 that Fluedo 
was brought to Athens. A year would thus remain for 
his acquaintance with Socrates, to whom he attached 
himself. According to Diogenes Laertius he ran away 
from his master to Socrates, and was ransomed by one 
of the friends of the latter. Suidas says that he was 
accidentally present at a conversation with Socrates, 
and besought him to effect his liberation. A^arious ac- 
counts mentioned Alcibiades, Crito, or Cebes as the 
person who ransomed him. Cebes is stated to have 
been on terms of intimate friendship with Fhajdo, and 
to have instructed him in philosophy. Phsedo was 
present at the death of Socrates, while he was still quite 
a youth. From the mention of his long hair it would 
seem that he was not eighteen years of age at the time, 
as at that age it was customary to cease wearing the 
hair long (Becker, Charikles, ii, 382). That Phtedo was 


PHJ2DIIUS 


56 


PIIALEAS 


on terms of friendship with Tlato appears likely from 
the mode in which he is introduced in the dialogue 
which takes its name from him. Other stories that were 
current in the schools spoke of their relation as being 
that of enmity rather than friendship. Several philos- 
ophers were ungenerous enough to reproach Plrnlo 
with his previous condition, but vKschines named one 
of his dialogues after l’lncdo. Phtedo appears to have 
lived in Athens some time after the death of Socra- 
tes. lie then returned to Elis, where he became the 
founder of a school of philosophy, which appears to 
have resembled in tendency and character the AIc- 
garic school. Anchipylus and Mosel) us are mentioned 
among liis disciples, lie was succeeded by Plcistanus, 
after whom the Elcan school was merged in the Ere- 
trian. 

( >f the doctrines of Phtedo nothing is known, except 
as they made their appearance in the philosophy of 
Menedemus. Nothing can safely be inferred respecting 
them from the Pluedo of Plato. None of Pluvdo’s writ- 
ings have come down to us. They were in the form of 
dialogues. There was some doubt in antiquity as to 
which were genuine, ami which were not. Pamvtius 
attempted a critical separation of the two classes, and 
the Zo» 7 rt'poc and the Sipiov were acknowledged to be 
genuine. Besides these, Diogenes Laertius (ii, 105) 
mentions as of doubtful authenticity the N nciar, Mt)- 
fior, ’Ai>TtfJta\ot; i) Tipe cr/3irm, and SuvSucoi Xuyoi. 
In addition to these Suidas mentions the Zipping, ’AX- 
ki/3i«c#/c, and KptrdXaot,’. It was probably from the 
Zopvrus that the incident alluded to by Cicero ( De. 
Falo , 5; Tusc. Disp. iv, 37, § 80), Maximus Tyr. (xxxi, 
3), and others, was derived. Seneca ( I'p . 04, 41) has a 
translation of a short passage from one of his pieces. 
See Eabrieius, Jiibl. (line, ii, 717; Scholl, Gescli. der 
Griech. Lit. i, 475; Prcller,in Ersch and timber's Ency- 
Hop. s. v.— Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v. ; comp, Prel- 
ler, Phe don's /. ebensscli icksale v. Schrijlten in the Rhein. 
Museum f. Philos. 1*46, p. 391 sq., now in his Kltine 
Schrijlten , ed. by II. Kiihler. 

Pliaedrus, an Epicurean philosopher, and contem- 
porary' of Cicero, became acquainted with the great or- 
ator in his youth at Home, and during his residence in 
Athens (B.C. 80) Cicero renewed his acquaintance with 
him. Phtedrns was at that time an old man, and was 
president of the Epicurean school, lie was also on 
terms of friendship with Velleius, whom Cicero intro- 
duces as the defender of the Epicurean tenets in the De 
Nat. l)eor. (i, 21, § 58). He occupied the position of 
head of the Epicurean school till B.C. 70, and was suc- 
ceeded by Patron. Cicero (.4 d -4 tt. xiii, 39) mentions, 
according to the common reading, two treatises by 
Phaulrus, <\>ai£pov 7rtpioowv et 'EXXricof. The first 
title is corrected on MS. authority to I Dpi Some 

critics (as Petersen) suppose that only one treatise is 
spoken of, n«pi Stwv kcu IlaXXdco?. Others (among 
whom is Orelli, Onom. Tull. s. v. Plmlrus) adopt the 
reading et ‘EXXii<5oc, or, at least, suppose that two treat- 
ises are spoken of. An interesting fragment of the 
former work was discovered at Herculaneum in 1806, 
and was first published, though not recognised as the 
work of Phicdrus, in a work entitled I/erculanensia , or 
Archeological and Philological J )isscr tat ions ; contain- 
ing a Manuscript found among the Ruins of Herculane- 
um (Loud. 1810). A better edition was published by 
Petersen ( Phtedri Epicurei, rulgo Aunvgmi Jlcrculunen- 
sis, de Nat. J)eor. Fragm. I lamb. 1833). Cicero was 
largely indebted to this work of Pluvdrus for the mate- 
rials of the first book of his De Xutura Deorum. Not 
only is the development of the Epicurean doctrine (c. 16, 
etc.) taken from it, but the erudite account of the doc- 
trines of earlier philosophers put in the mouth of Vel- 
leius is a mere translation from Phsedrus. See Fabri- 
cius, Bill, Greec. i ii, 608; Krisclie. Porsche ngen auf'dem 
Gebiele der alien J'hil. i. 27, etc.; Prcller, in Krseh and 
timber's KncgH. — Smith, Diet, of Or. and Rom. Biog. 
and Mythol. s. v. 


Phaenolium (4>mv6Xioi'). See Cn.\st ble. 

Pbsenomenon (tpaivopevov, from Qairopat, to ap- 
pear ) is that which has appeared. It is generally ap- 
plied to some sensible appearance, some occurrence in 
the course of nature. But in mental philosophy it is 
applied to the various and changing states o! mind. 
“How pitiful and ridiculous are the grounds upon which 
such men pretend to account for the very lowest and 
commonest phenomena of nature without recurring to a 
Cod and Providence !” “Among the various phauomena 
which the human mind presents to our view, there is 
none more calculated to excite our curiosity and our 
wonder than the communication which is carried on 
between the sentient, thinking, and active principle 
within us and the material objects with which we are 
surrounded” (Stewart, Elements, ch. i, sect. 1). I n the 
philosophy of Kant, phenomenon means an object such 
as we represent it to ourselves or conceive of it, in op- 
position to noumenon, or a thing as it is in itself. “Ac- 
cording to Kant, the facts of consciousness, in their sub- 
jective character, are produced partly from the nature 
of the things of which it is conscious; and hence, in 
their objective character, they are phenomena, or objects 
as they appear in relation to us, not things in them- 
selves, noumena, or realities in their absolute nature, as 
they may be out of relation to the mind. The subjec- 
tive elements which the mind itself contributes to the 
consciousness of every object arc to he found, as regards 
intuition, in the forms of space and time; and as regards 
thought, in the categories, unity, plurality, and the rest. 
To perceive a thing in itself would be to perceive it 
neither in space nor it) time; for these are furnished by 
the constitution of our perceptive faculties, and consti- 
tute an element of the pheettomenal object of intuition 
only. To think of a thing in itself would be to think 
of it neither as one nor as many, nor under any other 
category; for these, again, depend upon the constitution 
of our understanding, and constitute an element of the 
pher.nomenal object of thought. The phenomenal is the 
product of the inherent laws of our own mental consti- 
tution, and, as such, is the sum and limit of all the 
knowledge to which we can attain” (Mansel, lACt. on 
Phil, of Kant, p. 21, 22). The definition of pha-nomenou 
is, “ that which can be known only along with something 
else” (Ferrier, lust, tf Metaphys. p. 319). See Me t ’osli, 
Intuition ; .Jour. Specul. Philos, vol. ii, No. 2, art. iii and 
iv; vol. iii, No. 2, art. iv; June, 1872, art. v. See Not> 

.\I KNOX. 

Phcenos, the capital of Traelionitis, in the north- 
east of Palestine; the sEnos of the Peutinger Table; 
one of the episcopal cities of Arabia (S. Paulo. Geogr. 
Sacr. p. 297), twenty-seven Homan miles from Damas- 
cus, thirty-seven from Kenath. It is now the village 
of Musmeih. on the northern edge of the Lejah, as was 
proved by an inscription (Burckliardt, Trarels, p. 117 
sq. ; Hurtcr, Damascus , ii, 112 sq.). — Van de Velde, Me- 
moir, p. 339. 

Phagiphania. The name by which the Epiphany 
(q. v.) was sometimes called in the ancient Church ; and 
it arose from connecting our Saviour's miracle of feeding 
live thousand men with the first miracle at Cana, as a 
manifestation of divine power to be celebrated on this 
day. See Hiddle, Christian Antiquities; Siegel, Christl. 
A Iterthiimer. 

Phagopliania. Sec PitAumiANiA. 

Phagor. See Pi. on. 

Phai'sur [rather Pheesnr~\ (<hoirro>y> v. r. thmrroi'), 
a corrupt Cneeized form (1 Esdr. ix, 44) of the lltb. 
name (Ezra x, 22) Basiuk (q. v.). 

Phalaeus. See Pmaekis. 

Fhaldai'us [rather J 'hald<rus~\ (<I>oXfn7or), n cor- 
rupt Creek form (1 Esdr. ix, 44) of the Deb. name (Nt h. 
viii, 4) Pi.i>.\iAli (q. v.). 

Pliale'as [rather Phalaus] (<hnXn<or), an incorrect 


PIIALEC 


57 


PHALLUS 


■Gra'cisra (I Esdr. v, 29) of the Heb. name (Ezra ii, 44; 
Nch. vii, 47) Padon (q. v.). 

Pha'lec (<E>aM/c), a Gracized form (Luke iii, 35) of 
the name of the patriarch Feleg (q. v.). 

Phallicism, or Phallic Worship. See Phal- 
lus. 

PhaPlu (Gen. xlvi, 9). See Pallu. 

Phallus (gpctWog, membrum virile), a representation 
of the male generative organ, as the symbol of the fer- 
tility of nature, was carried among the ancient Greeks 
in the processions of the Dionysia, and men disguised as 
women, called Ithyphalloi , followed immediately behind 
it. The phallus, which was called among the Romans 
fascimm , was often used by that people as an amulet 
hung around the necks of children to avert evil influ- 
ences. The Scttyrica signa of Pliny probably referred to 
the phallus, and he says that these were placed in gardens 
and on hearths to protect against the fascinations of the 
envious. From Pollux, also, we learn that smiths were 
accustomed to place figures of the phallus before their 
forges for the same purpose. This symbol, which dis- 
gusts us by its indecency, conveyed to the ancient 
heathens, as the Linga (q.v.) does to the modern Hin- 
dus, a profound and sacred meaning. Diodorus Siculus, 
referring to the veneration in which the phallus was 
held among the Greeks, tells ns that by this they would 
signify their gratitude to God for the populousness of 
their country. “It was an object of common worship 
throughout the nature-religion of the East, and was 
called by manifold names, such as Lingo, Joni, rollear, 
etc. Originally it had no other meaning than the alle- 
gorical one of that mysterious union between the male 
and female which throughout nature seems to be the 
sole condition of the continuation of the existence of 
animated beings ; but at a later period, more particular- 
ly when ancient Rome had become the hot-bed of all 
natural and unnatural vices, its worship became an in- 
tolerable nuisance, and was put down by the senate on 
account of the more than usual immorality to which it 
gave rise. Its origin has caused much speculation, 
but no certainty has been arrived at by investiga- 
tors. The Phoenicians traced its introduction into their 
worship to Adonis, the Egyptians to Osiris, the Phry- 
gians to Attys, the Greeks to Dionysus. The common 
myth concerning it was the story of some god deprived 
of his powers of generation — an allusion to the sun, 
which in autumn loses its fructifying influence. The 
procession in which it was carried about was called 
Phallagogia, or Feriphallia, and a certain hymn was 
sung on that occasion, called the (paWiKov fis\og. The 
bearers of the phallus, which generallj' consisted of red 
leather, and was attached to an enormous pole, were the 
Phallophoroi. Phalli were on those occasions worn as 
ornaments' around the neck, or attached to the body. 
Aristotle traces the origin of comedy to the ribaldry 
and the improvised jokes customary on these festivals. 
Phalli were often attached to statues, and of a prodig- 
ious size ; sometimes they were even movable. At a 
procession of Ptolemy Philadelphns a phallus was car- 
ried about made of gold, and one hundred and twenty 
yards long. Before the temple of Venus at Hicrapolis 
there stood two phalli, one hundred and eighty feet 
high, upon which a priest mounted annually, and re- 
mained there in prayer for seven days. The phallus 
was an attribute of Pan, Priapus, and to a certain extent 
also of Hermes” (Chambers). The believers in the de- 
velopment theory of course have a way of their own in 
accounting for the origin and progress of phallic wor- 
ship. They teach that it is the most ancient and uni- 
versal of the beliefs of the human race, and that it has 
prevailed among all known nations of antiquity, and 
has been handed down in both dead and living forms 
to the present day. They claim to see evidences of its 
existence not only in Egypt, Greece, and Rome, but 
also in Syria, Persia, Asia Minor, Italy, Spain, Ger- 
many, France, Ireland, and Scandinavia, among the 


mound-builders of North America, in Mexico, Central 
America, Peru, and Hayti, and in the islands of the 
Pacific Ocean, and in Africa. They even see its traces 
among the Jews, and in the use of certain symbols in 
Christianity. Thus, e. g., Westropp teaches: “ The or- 
igin of the idea is coeval among primitive nations with 
that of the family, and rests in part upon the natural 
veneration of the father as the generator, the priest, and 
the ruler. Marriage derived much of its importance 
from a veneration of the principles at the foundation of 
the phallic worship. Its ceremony was attended with 
rites which marked their significance, and one of its 
symbols, the wedding-ring, is employed at the present 
day. Circumcision was in its inception a purely phallic 
ordinance. Although the O.-T. narrative relates that 
it was instituted as a covenant between Jehovah and 
Abraham, the rite had been practiced by the Egyptians 
and Phoenicians long before the birth of the Hebrew 
patriarch. Serpent symbolism was associated with the 
phallic emblems, but that there was an identity in their 
signification has not been clearly established. The ser- 
pent was used among most archaic nations as a symbol 
of wisdom and health, and yet its meaning often includ- 
ed the notion of life and an embodiment of the spirit.” 
Mr. Wake, another essayist of the same school, treats 
the Mosaic account of the fall of man as a phallic le- 
gend, which was borrowed by the compiler of the Pen- 
tateuch from some foreign source, probably from the 
mysteries of Mithra, a Persian deity. The tree of the 
knowledge of good and evil he identifies with the fig- 
tree, which was highly venerated by many primitive 
peoples. Its leaves, it will be remembered, were sewed 
into aprons by Adam and Eve after their transgression. 
The kerub which guarded the tree of life is interpreted 
as a symbol of the Deity himself, in the form of the sa- 
cred bull of antiquity — a form under which the kerub is 
described by Ezekiel (ch. i and x). The story of the 
Deluge is also regarded as a myth, with decided evi- 
dences of a phallic character. In many of the incidents 
interwoven into the history of the Hebrews, and in 
many of their religious observances, Mr. Wake discov- 
ers testimony of the influence of the phallic superstition. 
Abraham was a Chaldsean, and by tradition declared to 
have been learned in astronomy, and to have taught the 
science to the Phoenicians. “ lie had higher notions of 
the relation of man to the Divine than his ancestors,” 
says the writer, but there was no fundamental differ- 
ence between his religious faith and that of his Syrian 
neighbors. The Jewish patriarchs erected pillars and 
planted groves, both of which were customs connected 
with phallic worship. Throughout the rule of the 
judges, and especially after the establishment of the 
monarchy, the Hebrews were given to derelictions from 
the purer religion of their nation to the idolatrous prac- 
tices of their neighbors, which involved worship of phal- 
lic statues and omphalic emblems in “high places.” The 
religion of Baal, openly denounced by the prophets, was 
a sort of phallism, and was conducted with lewd and 
abominable ceremonies, which the Jews too often im- 
itated. Mr. Wake even holds that the basis of Chris- 
tianity is more purely phallic than that of any other 
religion. “In the recognition of God as the universal 
Father, the great Parent of mankind, there is a devel- 
opment of the fundamental idea of phallism. In the 
position assigned to Mary as the mother of God the 
paramount principle of the primitive belief is again 
predominant. The nimbus, the aureole, the cross, the 
fish, and even the spires of churches, are symbols re- 
I tained from the old phallic worship.” The May-pole 
festival is cited as having a phallic origin, and, in the 
beginning, a reference to some event connected with 
the occurrences in the Garden of Eden. In fact, says 
Dr. Wilder, also of this class of writers, “There is not a 
fast or festival, procession or sacrament, social custom or 
religious symbol, existing at the present day which has 
not been taken bodily from phallism, or from some suc- 
cessive system of paganism” (comp. A ncient Symbol )Vor- 


PIIALTI 


58 


PIIARAOII 


ship: Influence of the Phallic Idea in the /?< Unions of A n- 
tiquity , by Westropp and Wake; with lutrnd., etc., by 
Wilder [ X. Y. 1871, «vn]). 'riu.se theorists lose sight 
altogether of tbe possibility that in tbe retrogression to 
which tbe nations cited became subject they must nec- 
essarily have manifested sensual tendencies of the very 
nature of phallicism, and that only in their lowest estate 
such worship was extensively indulged in. Absurd it 
is to point to circumcision as in anywise connected with 
phallic worship. The Jew practiced it as a rite of ad- 
mission to the fold to distinguish him. and also as a 
sanitary precaution which physicians approve of in our 
daw Wc do not wonder that such ridiculous and ex- 
travagant hypotheses lead to the proposition recently 
made by one of the same school of thinkers as those 
quoted, that “there would also now appear good ground 
for believing that the ark of the covenant, held so sacred 
by the Jews, contained nothing more nor less than a 
phallus, the ark being the type of the Argha or Yoni 
(Linga worship) of India” (Sellon, in Anthropol. Society 
of London, 18G3-4, p. 327 sq., 12th paper). (J. 11. W.) 

PhaTti (Ileh. Paltt', m, J deliverance; Sept. 

d>«Xri), the son of Laish of (iallim, to whom Saul gave 
Michal in marriage after his mad jealousy had driven 
David forth as an outlaw (I Sam. xxv, 41). IJ.C. cir. 
1001. In 2 Sam. iii, 15 he is called Pualtiel. Ewald 
(tiesch, iii, 120) suggests that this forced marriage was 
a piece of policy on the part of Saul to attach Phalti to 
his house. With the exception of this brief mention 
of his name, and the touching little episode in 2 Sam. 
iii, 1G, nothing more is heard of Phalti. AI iclial is there 
restored to David. “ Her husband went with her along 
weeping behind her to Ilahurim,” and there, in obe- 
dience to Abner'sabrupt command, "(Jo, return,’’ he turns 
and disappears from the scene.— Smith. Sec David. 

There was another person of the same II eb. name 
(Numb, xiii, 9, A. V. “ Haiti” [q. v.]). 

Plial'tiel (Ileb. PaltieV , deliverance of 

God; Sept. Saul’s son-in-law (2 Sam. iii, 

15) ; elsewhere called Phalti (q. v.). 

Pliaimias (dvn'riVii;), son-of Samuel, “of the vil- 
lage of Aphtha," raised by lot to the Jewish high-priest- 
hood by the faction of John during the final siege by 
the Homans, A.D. 70. lie was totally unlit for the po- 
sition, ami was compelled to go through its duties (Jo- 
sephus, I Pur, iv, 3, 8j. lie doubtless perished in the 
sack of the Temple. 

Pliantasiacts is a name given to the Docctee 
(q. v.), and of the same import with that term. 

Pliantasiodocetce is a term used by Theophylaet 
in his commentary on the 4tli chapter of Juhu. See 

Pit AXT ASIA STS. 

Fhanton of Pm.irs, a Pythagorean philosopher, 
one of the last of that school, was a disciple of Philnlaus 
and Kurytns, and probably in his old age contemporary 
with Aristoxenus the Peripatetic. Jl.C. 320. 

Phanu'el (‘haroo/X, probably a (»ra*cized form of 
the same Ileb, name with Penuel, face of God), a de- 
scendant of the tribe of Asher, and father of the proph- 
etess Anna (Luke ii, 30). I».C. cir. 80. 

Phar'acim (d fapanip v. r. <I>rromcn'/i), a name men- 
tioned in the Apocrypha (1 Ksdr. v. 31) as that of a 
Hebrew whose, “sons” returned among the servants of 
the Temple from the captivity with Zerubhabel ; but it 
does not occur in the parallel lists of Ezra and Xehc- 
miah. 

PhaTaoll [vulgarly pron. Phar'oh~\ (Ileh. Parold, 
Pi»“2, Sept.. New Test., and Josephus Autfiadi, but sel- 
dom in classical writers), the common title of the an- 
cient kings of Egypt, as Ptolemy of its later kings, and 
(J;esar of the emperors of Home. (The following ac- 
count is based upon that in Fairbairn’s Piet ionary, with 
modi ticat ions and additions from other sources.) 


The name is derived from the Egyptian word Pice, 
or Pint-, signifying the sun (Wilkinson, .1 nc. Eyyptiuus, 
i, 43). This identification, respecting which there can 
be no doubt, is due to the duke of Northumberland and 
general Felix ( Hawliuson’s Ilerod . ii, 293). It has been 
supposed that the original was the same as the Coptic 
(Jura, "the king,” with the article, Pi-ouro, P-ouro ; 
but this word appears not to have been written, judg- 
ing from the evidence of the Egyptian inscriptions and 
writings, in the times to which the Scriptures refer. 
The conjecture arose from the idea that Pharaoh must 
signify, instead of merely implying, “king.” a mistake 
occasioned by a too implicit confidence in the exactness 
of ancient writers (Joseph. Ant. viii. G. 2; Euscb. ed. 
Seal. p. 20, v, I), llnnsen approves of this derivation 
of Josephus ( Eyypfs Place, i, 191, Loud, 184* i, but Wil- 
kinson in the passage above quoted shows reasons for 
rejecting it. The name was probably given in the 
earliest times lo the Egyptian kings as being the chief 
on earth, as the sun was the chief among the heavenly 
bodies, and afterwards, when this luminary became the 
object of idolatrous worship, as the representation or 
incarnation of their sun-god, Phra or lie (Wilkinson, 
A nc. Ef/ypt. iv, 2G7 ; Kosellini, i, 115; Trevor, Ef/ypt, p. 
124-1311). Hegarding the sun at tirst as the greatest 
of the divine works and a main element in the produc- 
tion of Egypt’s marvellous fertility, they readily used 
it as signiticant of their ir.ouarchs. to whose wise laws 
in the infancy of their stale Egypt is supposed to be 
greatly indebted for the permanence and prosperity of 
her institutions. “Son of the sun” was the title of 
every Pharaoh, and the usual comparison made bv the 
priesthood of their monarchs when returning from a 
successful war was that his power was exalted in the 
world as the sun was in the heavens (Wilkinson, i, 400; 
iv, 2*8). in the hieroglyphics the hawk was the em- 
blem of the king as Pharaoh (id. iii, 2*7), and it is per- 
haps of consequence to note that in the rt presentations 
of, apparently, two different kings ruling contempora- 
neously over I’pper and Lower Egypt, the hawk occurs 
only in connection with one of them (id. iii. 2*2). 

Headers of Scripture will remark that Pharaoh often 
stands simply like a proper name (den. xii, 15; xxxvii, 
3G: xl, 2 sq. ; xliv, 1 sip; and so generally throughout 
the Pentateuch, and also in Cant, i, 9; Isa. xix, 11; 
xxx, 2). “ King of Egypt” is sometimes subjoined to 

i t ( 1 Kings iii. 1 ; 2 Kings xvii, 7; xviii, 21): and some- 
times also the more specific designation, or real proper 
name of the monarch is indicated, as Pharaoh Nocho 
(2 Kings xxiii, 33), Pharaoh llophra (.Jer. xliv, 30). 
Josephus (.!«/. viii, G, 2) says that while every king of 
Egypt, from Mones to the time of Solomon took this 
title, no king of Egypt used it afterwards, and affirms 
the latter fact to be apparent from the sacred writings. 
This, however, is not quite correct. Several Egyptian 
kings were after the period in question called hy for - 
eiyners Pharaoh, sometimes simply, sometimes in con- 
nection with a second name (2 Kings xviii, 21 ; xxiii, 
29); hut the alteration from the time of Solomon which 
undoubtedly took place is remarkable, and probably 
points to an important change in the dynastic history 
of Egypt. 

Some writers suppose Pharaoh to have been the name 
given in the Iii bio to the native kings of Egypt. There 
were, however, probably before Solomon’s time several 
introductions of foreign dynasties, and some of them, if 
we accept the usual period ascribed to the rule of the 
Shepherds, of long duration; yet Scripture gives the 
title to all alike before this period, and Josephus states 
that all without exception assumed it. Wilkinson sup- 
poses that it was the tide of such kings as had the sole 
direction of affairs while Egypt was an independent 
state, and that the title of “molok," or king, marked 
such as ruled conjointly with other kings of ICgypt, or 
who governed as viceroys under a foreign ruler, as was 
the case after the Persian conquest (i, 1 18, 179). This 
is very probably a satisfactory explanation for the long 


PIIARAOII 


59 


PIIARAOII 


period down to the reign of Solomon. Most likely 
throughout it “ Pharaoh” marks the monarch who ruled 
alone in Egypt, or over its inferior and tributary kings 
when there were such. This may seem intimated in 
the speech of one of them to Joseph : “ I am Pharaoh, 
and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot 
in all the land of Egypt” (Gen. xii, 44). Wilkinson’s 
explanation, however, scarcely accounts for the period 
subsequent to the Pharaoh who gave his daughter to 
Solomon. Shishak, who seems to have succeeded him, 
was evidently the supreme ruler of Egypt, and not only 
independent of foreigners, but able to extend Egyptian 
power far beyond the limits of Egypt. A change of 
dynasty seems here to have caused the change of title, 
and was probably more or less connected with such 
changes in after periods. The Persian monarchs dually, 
administering the affairs of Egypt through tributary 
native kings, took the title of Pharaoh as indicative of 
their sovereignty (Trevor, Egypt, p. 331). With them 
this ancient name of royalty passed away forever. 

The political position of the Pharaohs in Egypt is of 
great moment in understanding the history of that 
country. If it were the exclusive title of the supreme 
ruler, it marks the general unity of Egypt under a 
single monarch. If it were given indifferently to every 
king of Egypt at those times, which seem unques- 
tionably to have recurred, and may have been of long 
duration and early date, when several kings ruled over 
various divisions of the country, the occurrence ol the 
title does not necessarily mark the political unity of 
the land. According to the first view, for instance, 
the Pharaoh of Abraham or Joseph would be the su- 
preme ruler of the whole of Egypt, with, it might hap- 
pen, various dynasties of subordinate kings under him; 
according to the latter, he might be only king of a por- 
tion of Egypt, with other dynasties of equal rank ruling 
contemporaneously elsewhere. To us the former view 
appears the preferable one for many reasons. The 
unity of Egypt under a single supreme monarch is, we 
think, unquestionably the view according to which the 
Scriptures lead us to think that foreigners regarded that 
country. Whatever may have been the internal ad- 
ministration of the government, into which Scripture 
does not enter at all, the general view given us of Egypt 
in the Bible is that of a country united under one mon- 
arch. The earliest apparent reference to a different 
state of things occurs in 2 Kings vii, 6, where we read 
of “kings of Egypt,” apparently of equal authority. 
Isaiah predicts great troubles arising probably from a 
similar dissolution of any central authority (ch. xix, 3; 
Wilkinson, Egypt, i, 178; Bawlinson’s Herodotus, i, 51, 
note 4, and 391). All ancient history with which we 
are acquainted (Herodotus, Diodorus, and Manetho) as- 
sumes the political unity of Egypt. The titles of the 
Pharaohs seem to establish it. They are always called 
on the monuments “ Lords of Upper and Lower Egypt” 
(Wilkinson, ii, 73 ; 2d ser. i, 2G1). This unity of Egypt 
from the earliest times is now generally acknowledged 
(Ilengstenberg, Egypt, p. 84). The power and great- 
ness of Egypt from the remotest times point to such a 
unity. Its high civilization and peaceful internal con- 
dition are a similar indication. If divided into several 
independent kingdoms Egypt would have exhibited the 
same condition which all the petty states of antiquity 
did, in which every man was of necessity a soldier 
(llume, Essays, ii, xi). Whereas in Egypt soldiers ] 
formed a different class from the rest of the community, 
never wore arms except in actual service, while private 
citizens at no time carried offensive weapons (Wilkin- 
son, i, 402). Indeed, it is impossible to imagine any 
country less suited by geographical configuration for 
divided rule than Egypt from the Cataracts to the sea. 
One level valley, only divided east and west by its river, 
shut in from the rest of the world by the Libyan and 
Arabian mountains and the Syrian deserts, it must of 
necessity form a single state. 

This view of the political position of the Pharaohs is 


not inconsistent with the theory, for which there is 
very strong proof from Manetho and elsewhere, that for 
long periods of Egyptian history there may have been 
subordinate dynasties of kings ruling throughout Egypt. 
There may also have been, but probably for much short- 
er periods, a total overthrow of the central power, or a 
practical disregard of it even while acknowledging its 
nominal authority. There is a passage of Manetho pre- 
served by Josephus which seems to point strongly to 
the view that the ancient internal constitution of Egypt 
was its government by subordinate kings under a su- 
preme ruler (Josephus, Con. Ap. i, 14). Such, lie ex- 
pressly tells us, was its state during the oppression of 
the Shepherds : “ These tyrannized over the kings of 
Thebais and of the other parts of Egypt.” The gen- 
eral idea of ancient government was that of a supreme 
monarch over tributary kings ; and the great probability 
is that the Shepherds followed this analogy, and, merely 
deposing the ruling Pharaoh, left the minor dynasties 
undisturbed. The Pharaohs are supposed to have been 
at all times invested with the highest sacerdotal dig- 
nity (Ilengstenberg, Egypt, p. 35; Wilkinson, i, 245). 
From the circumstance that in the earliest names en- 
closed in ovals the title priest precedes that of king, 
and for other reasons, Wilkinson argues, as we think 
inconclusively, that Egypt was originally governed by 
hierarchical and not regal power (i, 1G). See Egypt. 

1. The Pharaoh of Abraham . — The first mention of 
a Pharaoh in the Bible is on the occasion of Abram’s 
visit to Egypt during a famine in Canaan (Gen. xii, 10). 
Which of the ancient kings of Egypt is to be under- 
stood hv this Pharaoh it is perhaps impossible to de- 
termine with certainty. Wilkinson supposes him to 
have been A pappus; Africauus calls him Ramesseme- 
}ies; and some have taken him to be one of the Shep- 
herd kings. We have, in truth, no materials in .Scrip- 
ture or elsewhere for fixing the name and place of this 
king in the dynasties of Egypt. In regard to the date 
also of Abraham’s intercourse with him there is great 
uncertainty. But as the investigation of the point 
would involve us in a discussion on the somewhat per- 
plexed chronology of the earlier parts of Old-Test, his- 
tory, and the still more perplexed chronology of ancient 
Egypt, we can here only touch upon it ; but sec for the 
refutation of extreme views on the part of the Egyptol- 
ogists, I Iengstenberg’s Egypt and the* Books of Moses, 
and Sir C. Lewis’s Astronomy of the Ancients. At the 
time at which the patriarch went into Egypt, according 
to Hales's as well as Usher’s chronology, it is generally 
held that the country, or at least Lower Egypt, was 
ruled by the Shepherd kings, of whom the first and 
most powerful line was the fifteenth dynasty, the un- 
doubted territories of which would be first entered by 
one coming from the east. Manetho relates that Sala- 
tis, the head of this line, established at Avaris, perhaps 
the Zoan of the Bible, on the eastern frontier, what ap- 
pears to have, been a great permanent camp, at which 
lie resided for part of each year. See Zoan. It is 
noticeable that Sarah seems to have been taken to 
Pharaoh’s house immediately after the coming of Abra- 
ham; and if this were not so, yet, on account of his 
flocks and herds, the patriarch could scarcely have gone 
beyond the part of the country which was always more 
or less occupied by nomad tribes. It is also possible 
that Pharaoh gave Abraham camels, for we read that 
Pharaoh “entreated Abram well for Sarah’s sake: and 
he had sheep, and oxen, and lie-asses, and men-servants, 
and maid-servants, and she-asse.s, and camels” (Gen. xii, 
16), where it appears that this property was the gift of 
Pharaoh, and the circumstance that the patriarch after- 
wards held an Egyptian bondwoman, Hagar, confirms 
the inference. If so, the present of camels would argue 
that this Pharaoh was a Shepherd king, for no evidence 
has been found in the sculptures, paintings, and inscrip- 
tions of Egypt that in the Pharaonic ages the camel 
was used, or even known there, and this omission can 
be best explained by the supposition that the animal 


PHARAOH 


GO 


PIIARAOII 




was hateful to the Egyptians as of great value to their 
enemies the Shepherds. ( >» the other hand, Abraham’s 
possessions, especially the camels, may have been pur- 
chased by him from the nomad tribes with the proceeds 
of Pharaoh’s liberality, and the fact that llagar was of 
this Arab race hardly consists with her having been 
reduced to bondage while they were in the ascendant. 
Indeed, it appears that the Shepherd kings (<]. v.) were 
not on good terms with the Hebrews, as their interests 
were rival. The date -at which Abraham visited Egypt 
(according to the chronology which we hold most prob- 
able) was about B.G. 2081, which would not accord 
with the time of Salatis, the head of the fifteenth dy- 
nasty. B.C. 2006, according to our reckoning, hut rather 
with that of IVmothris of the second (Thinitic) dynasty, 
and that of Othoes of the sixth (Memphitic) dynasty, 
as well as with that of Tancheres of the fifth (Elc- 
phantinitie) dynasty, but anteriur to all the other dy- 
nasties. 

2. The rharark of Joseph. — Between the Pharaoh 
of Abraham and the Pharaoh of Joseph there was an 
interval of two hundred years. During this period 
there may have been various changes of dynasty, art, 
and religion in Egypt of which we derive no informa- 
tion from Scripture; while the notice of the former 
king and of the state of the country in his time is so 
brief that we cannot by comparison arrive at any con- 
clusion upon this point. Of the political position and 
character of the latter, and the condition of Egypt in 
his time, Scripture gives us very important informa- 
tion from his intimate connection with Joseph and the 
chosen people of God. 

Wilkinson identifies this Pharaoh with Osirtesen I, 
one of the kings of his sixteenth dynasty of Tanites, 
whose reign he supposes to have exceeded forty-three 
years (Egypt, i, 42, 43). Bunsen prefers to identify 
him with Osirteen III , of the seventeenth dynasty of 
Memphites, who is. according to him, the Sesostris of 
classical writers (Trevor, Egypt, p. 254). Oshurn 
thinks him to have been Apophis (ibid. p. 21(1), as Eu- 
sebius states, changing the date so as to lit. The 
identification obviously depends simply upon a com- 
parison of the Hebrew and Egyptian chronologies. 
Whether he was of one of the dynasties of the Shepherd 
kings is a question on which authorities differ, accord- 
ing to their vie^ of the date of the Shepherd rule, and 
their interpretation of the scriptural account of this 
king. Wilkinson is decidedly of opinion that he was 
not a Shepherd king, an opinion with which Trevor 
agrees. Josephus says that he was a Shepherd. We 
are decidedly of opinion from the incidental notices of 
Scripture that he was not of a Shepherd dynasty. If 
we are to accept Manetho’s account, we must suppose 
that these Shepherds conquered the most of Egypt, 
ruled with the greatest tyranny and cruelty over the 
Egyptians, disregarded the old laws of the country, 
and demolished its temples (Josephus, Ap. i, 14). 
Their rule was not one of policy and conciliation, but 
of brute force and terror, an idea strongly corroborated 
by the abomination in which the Bible tells us all 
shepherds were held in Egypt, and liy the testimony 
which the monuments hear to the detestation and 
scorn in which tlioy were universally held (Wilkin- 
son, ii, Iff; iv, 120). The Shepherds being such, it 
seems to us quite inconsistent with the Biblical narra- 
tive to suppose that Joseph’s Pharaoh was a Shepherd 
king. Thus wo find that the Egyptian prejudice 
against shepherds was carefully and jealously respect- 
ed by this king. The Israelites on coming into Egypt 
were hv him located in the border-land (Ilengsten- 
berg, Egypt, p. 42) of Goshen, where they would serve 
as a barrier against the shepherd-hating Egyptians 
(Gen. xlvi, 34). We cannot supjMjse a Shepherd king 
to act thus. He would not thus consult a native prej- 
udice hostile to his own dynasty, while Ills own Shep- 
herd garrisons occupied the strongholds of Egypt. 
Again, Pharaoh’s court and household, so far as we 


know them, were composed of native Egyptians. 
Such was Potiphar, the captain of the king’s body- 
guard, probably the most trusted officer of Pharaoh 
(Gen. xxxix, 1); while the chief butler and baker of 
his court are the well-known officers of the native 
court of the Pharaohs (Trevor, p. 256). The officials 
of Pharaoh’s prime minister, Joseph, are also native 
Egyptians, whose feelings of caste towards foreigners 
were carefully consulted (Gen. xliii. 32; see llawlin- 
son's Hero ' otus , bk. ii, e. 41, note 0). In t he midst of 
universal destitution, when all others were reduced to 
serfdom, and the lands of Egypt passed into the pos- 
session of Pharaoh, the property of the native Egyp- 
tian priests alone was religiously respected, and they 
received, without any return, an ample maintenance 
from Pharaoh’s stores for themselves and their fam- 
ilies (Gen. xlvii, 22). When Pharaoh sought to be- 
stow upon Joseph marks of the highest honor for his 
preservation of the country, one of these marks was 
the bestowal on him in marriage of Ascnath, the 
daughter of Potipherali, priest of On or Heliopolis, 
who is thus distinguished as one of the highest and 
most honored personages in the land (Gen. xli, 45). 
These considerations lead us to conclude that this 
Pharaoh was a native Egyptian, not a Shepherd king, 
and that lie ruled after the expulsion of the Shepherds, 
or during their supremacy, while the memory of their 
tyranny was still vivid in the national mind. Baw- 
linson (Herod. I k. ii, c. 108, note 2) seems to think 
that horses were unknown in Egypt till the time of 
Amosis (B.C. 1510). and would thus give a low date for 
this monarch, in whose time horses were in use for 
ordinary purposes as well as for war (Gen. xlvii, 17). 
The testimony* of Herodotus on which he comments 
seems, however, opposed to this view. According to 
the chronology which we adopt, the period of Joseph’s 
deliverance from prison was B.C. 1883, which will fall, 
according to our view of the Egyptian dynasties, under 
the reign of Apliobis, the fourth king of the fifteenth 
(Shepherd) dynasty. But as the .Shepherd kings do 
not seem to have been friendly to the lleb: 2 \vs, and 
for the other reasons enumerated above, we presume 
that these foreigners were not at this time (if indeed 
they ever were) in possession of the whole of Egypt. 
We therefore incline to identify the Pharaoh in ques- 
tion with one of the eighth (Memphitic) dynasty, whose 
names are unrecorded, but who were contemporaneous 
with the twelfth (Diospolitic) as well as with the 
fifteenth (Shepherd) dynasty. There is one indica- 
tion in Scripture which seems to attribute a very con- 
siderable antiquity to this period. In Joseph's time 
the territory allocated to the Israelites was called 
Goshen (Gen. xlv, 10). In the time of Moses this 
ancient name appears to have been almost forgotten, 
and to have yielded to that of the land of llameses 
(Gen. xlvii, 11). 

The religion of Egypt during the reign of this Pha- 
raoh appears to have been far less corrupt than it sub- 
sequently presents itself in the time of Moses. The 
Scriptures give ns several indications of this; and 
these of no indistinct kind. Thus Joseph speaks to 
his master's wife as if she recognised the same God 
that he did (Gen. xxxix, 0). Ilis language to the chief 
Imtier and baker in t he prison conveys a similar idea 
(xl, 8), as does his address to Pharaoh when called be- 
fore him (xli, 16 32). Pharaoh in his speech to his 
servants and to Joseph speaks of God precisely as 
Joseph had done, and as if he recognised but me 
God (xli, 38,30). Joseph, without any fear of inju- 
rious consequences to himself, and as if it were no ex- 
traordinary tiling, allows the identity of his religion 
with that of the sons of Jacob (xlii, 18). Joseph’s 
steward, probably a native Egyptian, evidently recog- 
nises their God (xliii, 23). No doubt corruption had 
now been introduced into the pure religion derived 
from Noah. In the magicians and wise men (xli, 8) 
of Egypt we see probably a caste who had already 


PHARAOH 


G1 


PHARAOH 


giveu a superstitious coloring to religion, introduced 
new rites of worship, and paved the way for a total de- 
clension from theism to gross polytheism. But this 
latter condition does not appear to have been reached 
in th'e time of Joseph. Symbolic worship, if now, as 
is most likely, in common use, had still to a very great 
extent left undestroyed the notion of one supreme God 
ruling over all the nations ; nor have we reason to 
suppose that Potipherah, the father-in-law of Joseph, 
and priest of On, was an upholder of the idolatry of a 
later time. The sun, now introduced into Egyptian 
worship, was by him in all likelihood explained as the 
sign and symbol of deity, but not as partaking of deity 
itself. No doubt we see from this the danger of any 
alteration by man of the worship ordained by God, but 
at the same time the religion of Egypt may have been 
comparatively true and pure, though it had now intro- 
duced that symbolism which quickly degenerated into 
the grossest idolatry the world has ever seen. Sym- 
bolic worship was now probably regarded as a high 
proof of religious wisdom (Rom. i, 22) ; a short time 
proved it to be utter folly. 

The government of Pharaoh seems to have been of 
an absolute kind (Gen. xli, 40-43; see Wilkinson, i, 
45). The suppositioji that at this time Egypt was 
governed by several independent dynasties seems in- 
consistent with the language and conduct of Pharaoh 
in making by his own mere will Joseph to be ruler 
“ over all the land of Egypt,” onty inferior to himself 
throughout its whole extent. But this language is 
evidently that of courtly assumption, and may very 
naturally be applied only to that region over which he 
ruled. The evidence is very strong from the monu- 
ments and other sources that even under the Shepherd 
rule there were kings in other parts of Egypt largely 
if not wholly independent of them. The appointment 
of coregents decorated with royal titles is thought to 
have been characteristic of this dynasty (Trevor, Egypt, 
p. 258). This Pharaoh’s personal character seems to 
have been that of a wise and prudent monarch, anxious 
for the welfare of his people, and superior to popular 
prejudice against strangers. Wilkinson thinks he 
was pacific in his policy, and his conduct in receiving a 
blessing from the aged Jacob shows a humility of mind 
and a respect for worth which contrasts very favor- 
ably with the conduct of other despotic kings. The 
situation of his capital was near the land of Goshen 
(Gen. xlv, 10), and the civilization and flourishing 
condition of Egypt during his reign were very great 
(Wilkinson, i, 43). Whether he were the same mon- 
arch whom we find ruling Egypt at the time of Jacob’s 
death, seventeen years subsequently to his removal 
into Goshen, has been differently viewed (Gen. 1, 4). 
It has been thought by some that Joseph’s using the 
intercession of Pharaoh’s household to procure a favor 
from the king indicates a less intimate acquaintance 
than we should expect between him and that king who 
ruled at the time of the famine. But local customs, 
probably connected with the habits of Egyptian mourn- 
ing, may account for this, without supposing a different 
king (Hengstenberg, Egypt , p. 71). 

3. The Pharaoh of th‘ First Persecution of the Israel- 
ites . — The interval which elapsed between the Pharaoh 
ot Joseph’s time and the Pharaoh who commenced the 
persecution of Israel is much affected by opinion as to 
the length of the sojourn in Egypt. See Chronol- 
ogy. According to our view, the interval between 
Jacob’s removal into Egypt and the birth of Moses 
was a little over one hundred and thirty-five years. 
The unknown quantity is the period from the com- 
mencement of the persecution to the birth of Moses. 
It was the same Pharaoh that began to afflict Israel 
who reigned when Moses was born (Acts vii, 20), and 
the persecution must have continued a considerable 
time previous to allow for the events mentioned in 
the first chapter of Exodus. These included the build- ! 
ing of two considerable cities and other labor, for which 


| a period of several years seems to be required. The 
name and dynasty of this king have been differently 
given (Jour, of Sac. Lit. [new ser.] i, 491). Wilkinson 
! supposes him to have been Amosis or Ames, the first 
of the eighteenth dynasty of Theban or Diospoiitan 
kings, and supports his view of the change of dynasty 
at this time, and the accession of kings from the distant 
province of Thebes, from the scriptural account of him 
as “a new king that knew not Joseph”(i, 47, 7G). Lord 
I’rudhoe, in an able paper given by Wilkinson (i, 78), 
argues that the new king was Rameses /, who was also, 
according to him, the head of a new dynasty, and as 
such ignorant of the history of Joseph, while it was 
for Rameses II that the Israelites built the treasure 
cities. According to the fragment of Manctho pre- 
served by Theophilus, the new king was TUhmosis 
(Bunsen, Egypt , i, 655). He is very commonly sup- 
posed to have been the king who crushed the power 
of the Shepherds in Egypt. From a picture on the 
walls of a very interesting tomb of Roshere, “super- 
intendent of the great buildings” to king Thotbmcs 
III, Trevor (Egypt, p. 72) thinks it likely that it was 
during his dynasty, the eighteenth, that the oppression 
of Israel occurred, and that most likely Amosis, the 
first king, was the originator of it (p. 275). Josephus 
(Ant. ii, 9, 1) considers him to have been of a new 
family called to the throne; but Hengstenberg (Egypt, 
p. 252) argues that the appellation of “new king,” in 
the Bible, which is vety often referred to in proof of a 
change of dynasty, indicates only a disregard of the 
services of Joseph, and a forgetfulness of the old affec- 
tion that used to be entertained in Egypt and by its 
kings for the great preserver of their country. Ac- 
cording to Manetho’s story of the Exodus— a story so 
contradictory to historical truth as scarcely to be wor- 
thy of mention — the Israelites left Egypt in the reign 
of Meneptah, who was great-grandson of the first Ra- 
meses, and son and successor of the second. This king 
is held by some Egyptologists to have reigned about 
the time of the rabbinical date of the Exodus, which 
is virtually the same as that which has been supposed 
to be obtainable from the genealogies. There is, how- 
ever, good reason to place these kings much later; in 
which case Rameses I would be the oppressor; but 
then the building of Rameses could not be placed in 
lits reign without a disregard of Hebrew chronology. 
But the argument that there is no earlier known king 
Rameses loses much of its weight when we bear in 
mind that one of the sons of Aahiues, head of the eight- 
eenth dynasty, who reigned about two hundred years 
before Rameses I, bore the same name, besides that 
very many names of kings of the Shepherd period, per- 
haps of two whole dynasties, are unknown. Against 
this one fact, which is certainly not to be disregarded, 
we must weigh the general evidence of the history, 
which shows us a king apparently governing a part 
of Egypt, with subjects inferior to the Israelites, and 
fearing" a war in the country. Like the Pharaoli of 
the Exodus, he seems to have dwelt in Lower Egypt, 
probably at Avaris. (When Moses went to see his 
people, and slew the Egyptian, he does not seem to 
have made any journey, and the burying in sand 
shows that the place was in a part of Egypt, like 
Goshen, encompassed by sandy deserts.) Compare 
this condition with the power of the kings of the latter 
part of the eighteenth and of the nineteenth dynasties : 
rulers of an empire, governing a united country from 
which the head of their line had driven the Shepherds. 
The view that this Pharaoh was of the beginning or 
middle of the eighteenth dynasty seems at first sight 
extremely probable, especially if it be supposed that 
the Pharaoh of Joseph was a Shepherd king. The ex- 
pulsion of the Shepherds at the commencement of this 
dynasty would have naturally caused an immediate or 
gradual oppression of the Israelites. But it must be 
remembered that what we have just said of the power 
of some kings of this dynasty is almost as true of their 


PHARAOII 


02 


PHARAOH 


predecessors. The silence of the historical monuments 
is also to be weighed, when we bear in mind how nu- 
merous the gaps itrc.and that we might expect many of 
the events of the oppression to be recorded even if the 
exodus were not noticed. If we assign this Pharaoh to 
the age before the eighteenth dynasty, which our view 
of Hebrew chronology would probably oblige ns to do, 
we have still to determine whether he were a Shepherd 
or an Egyptian. If a Shepherd, he must have been of 
the sixteenth or the seventeenth dynasty; and that 
he was Egyptiunized does not afford any argument 
against this supposition, since it appears that foreign 
kings, who can only he assigned to one of these two 
lines, had Egyptian names. In corroboration of this 
view we quote a remarkable par sage that does not 
seem otherwise explicable: “My people went down 
aforetime into Egypt to sojourn there ; and the Assyr- 
ian oppressed them without cause” (Isa. lii, 4): w hich 
may he compared with the allusions to the exodns in 
a prediction of the same prophet respecting Assyria 
(x, 24, 2d). Our inference is strengthened by the dis- 
covery that kings hearing a name almost certainly an 
Egyptian translation of an Assyrian or Babylonian re- 
gal title are among those apparently of the Shepherd 
age in the Turin Papyrus (Pepsins, KOnigsbuch , Tafel 
xviii, xix, 275, 285). According to our view of the 
Hebrew chronology, the birth of Moses occurred 11 . 0. 
1738. The scheme of Egyptian chronology which we 
have adopted places the beginning of the sixteenth 
(Shepherd) dynasty in B.C. 1755, and it would there- 
fore be under the reign of one of the first kings of this 
dynasty, whose names are unknown, that the persecution 
oft lie Israelites began. 

4 . The Pharaoh of Moses's Exile. — It is often sup- 
posed that the Pharaoh who ruled Egvpt at the birth 
of Moses is the same Pharaoh who ruled it when Mo- 
ses fled into Midinn (Exod. ii, 15). There is nothing 
in the narrative of Scripture to lead us to this conclu- 
sion, though it may possibly have been the case. The 
probabilities, however, seem to point the other way. 
We have allowed about eight years of bis reign to 
have elapsed prior to the birth of Moses, who at the 
period of flight was forty years of age (Acts vii, 23). 
The monarch, therefore, if the same, must have reigned 
forty-eight years, which is an unusual length. (The 
entire lbtli dynasty of thirty-two kings seems to have 
lasted but 112 years.) The jealous}' also with which 
Moses was regarded by this Pharaoh seems to indicate 
that he did not stand towards him in the relation of 
bis grandfather bv adoption. The view is further 
continued by the intimation in Exod. iv, 19, which 
seems to tell us that the Pharaoh who sought Moses’s 
life lived nearly to the time of his return into Egypt, 
a period of forty years. If this were so, it is impossi- 
ble for this king to have been the monarch who began 
the persecution of Israel. We prefer, therefore, to re- 
gard him as different, and as probably chosen by adop- 
tion, to continue the succession of a childless family. 
We would make the year during his reign at the flight 
of Moses to have been 15.C. 1398, and his attempt upon 
the life of the great lawgiver is the only event of his 
reign recorded in Scripture. 

5 . The Pharaoh of the Erode. — The Pharaoh in 
whose reign the deliverance of the Israelites was 
achieved would appear to have succeeded to the throne 
not very long before the return of Moses to Egypt af- 
ter his forty years’ sojourn in Midian (Exod. iv, 19). 
Ilis relationship to his predecessor is not told ns, but 
be was probably of the same dynasty, and carried on 
the traditional policy of a grinding oppression of the 
Israelites. Wc do not read of any effort of his to re- 
duce the numbers of that nation: he seems rather to 
have looked on their numbers as an additional source 
of grandeur and power to Egypt by an enforced sys- 
tem of labor. The name of this Pharaoh is very vari- 
ously related. Wilkinson supposes him to have been 
Thotkmes III , the fourth or fifth monarch, according 


to him, of the eighteenth dynasty of Theban or Dios- 
politan kings; while Manetho, according to Africanus, 
makes him to have been Amo*. the first of that line of 
monarchs; and lord Prudhoe would have him to have 
been Pthahmen , the last of that dynasty (Wilkinson, 
Egypt, i, 31,41, 81). Ptolemy, the priest of Mendis, 
agrees in opinion with Manetho (Punsen, Egypt, i, 90). 
Various reasons are given in the Journal of £acr<d 
Literature (new ser. i, 490) for supposing him to have 
been Sethos II. Inspecting the time of this king, we 
can only be sure that he was reigning for about a vear 
or more before the exodus, which we place H.('. 1958. 

His acts show us a man at once impious and super- 
stitious, alternately rebelling and submitting. At first 
he seems to have thought that his magicians could 
work the same wonders as Moses and Aaron, yet even 
then he begged that the frogs might he taken away, 
and to the end he prayed that a plague might be re- 
moved, promising a concession to the Israelites, ond 
as soon as he was respited failed to keep his word. 
This is not strange in a character principally influ- 
enced by fear, and history abounds in parallels to Pha- 
raoh. Ilis vacillation only ended when he lost his 
army in the lied Sea, and the Israelites were finally 
delivered out of his hand. Whether he himself was 
drowned has been considered matter of uncertainty, as 
it is not so stated in the account of the exodus. An- 
other passage, however, appears to affirm it (Psa. 
cxxxvi, 15). It seems to be too great a latitude of 
criticism either to argue that the expression in this 
passage indicates the overthrow, but r.ot the death of 
the king, especially as the Hebrew expression “shock 
off” or “threw in” is very literal, or that it is only 
a strong Shcmitic expression. Besides, throughout 
the preceding history his end is foreshadowed, and is, 
perhaps, positively foretold in Excd. ix, 15; though 
this passage may be rendered, “For now I might have 
stretched out my hand, and might have smitten tl.ee 
and thy people with pestilence; and thou wouldest 
have been cut off from t lie earth,” as I v Kalisch {Com- 
mentary, ad loo.), instead of as in the A. V. 

Although we have already stated our reasons for 
abandoning the theory that places the exodus under 
the nineteenth dynasty, it may be well to notice an 
additional and conclusive argument for rejecting as 
unhistorieal the tale preserved by Manetho, which 
makes Meneptah , the son of Humeses II, the Pharaoh 
in whose reign the Israelites left Egypt. This tale 
was commonly current in Egypt, but it must be re- 
marked that the historian gives it only on the author- 
ity of tradition. M. Mariette’s recent discoveries have 
added to the evidence we already had on the subject. 
In this story the secret of the success of the rebels w as 
that they had allotted to them hv Amenophis, or 
Meneptah, the city of Avaris, formerly held by the 
Shepherds, but then in ruins. That the people to 
whom this place was given were working in the quar- 
ries east of the Nile is enough of itself to throw a doubt, 
on the narrative, for then* appear to have hern no q»u.r- 
ries north of those opposite Memphis, from which Ava- 
ris was distant nearly the whole length of the Delta ; 
but when it is found t bat this very king, as well as his 
father, adorned the great temple of Avaris. the story 
is seen to be essentially false. Yet it is not ini] relia- 
ble that some calamity occurred about this time, with 
which the Egyptians wilfully or ignorantly confounded 
the exodus : if they did so ignorantly, there would be 
an argument that this event took place during the 
Shepherd period, which was probably in after-times 
an obscure part of the annals of Egypt. The charac- 
ter of this Pharaoh finds its parallel among the Assyr- 
ians rather than the Egyptians. The impiety of the 
oppressor and that of Sennacherib are remarkably 
similar, though Sennacherib seems to have been more 
resolute in his resistance than Pharaoh. This resem- 
blance is not to he overlooked, especially as it seems 
to indicate an idiosyncrasy of the Assyrians and kin- 


PHARAOII 


63 


PHARAOH 


dred nations, for national character was more marked 
in antiquity than it is now in most peoples, doubtless 
because isolation was then general and is now special. 
Thus, the Egyptian monuments show us a people 
highly reverencing their gods, and even those of other 
nations, the most powerful kings appearing as suppli- 
ants in the representations of the temples and tombs. 
In the Assyrian sculptures, on the contrary, the kings 
are seen rather as protected by the gods than as wor- 
shipping them ; so that we understand how in such a 
country the famous decree of Darius, which Daniel 
disobeyed, could be enacted. Again, the Egyptians 
do not seem to have supposed that their enemies were 
supported by gods hostile to those of Egypt, whereas 
the Assyrians considered their gods as more powerful 
than those of the nations they subdued. This is im- 
portant in connection with the idea that at least one 
of the Pharaohs of the oppression was an Assyrian. 

The idolatry of Egypt appears to have arrived at its 
height in the time of this monarch. We see evidences 
of a great difference between the religions system of 
this period and of the time of Joseph’s Pharaoh. 
At both periods indeed we read of the “magician 
and wise men of Egypt,” but it by no means follows 
that because the names are the same the part dis- 
charged by them was identical in the two periods. 
Besides, we read in the later period (Exod. vii, 11) of 
an order of men (sorcerers, apparently un- 

known in the earlier. These men supported their au- 
thority and doctrine by claims to miraculous power 
(ver. 11), whether we suppose them to have executed 
their feats merely by a skilful system of jugglery 
and sleight of hand, or, as many think, by diabolical 
aid. The authority of the God of Israel, acknowl- 
edged by the earlier Pharaoh, is by this king scorn- 
fully renounced, and a vast system of polytheism, em- 
bracing the famous w r orship of sacred animals, is firmly 
established as the religion of Egypt (v, 2; xii, 12; 
viii, 26). This was the suitable time chosen by God, 
when a great monarch ruled over the greatest empire 
of its time, which had brought to full development the 
idolatry by it widely propagated, to read a lesson to 
the Gentile world on the feebleness of idols as com- 
pared to him. 

Before speaking of the later Pharaohs we may men- 
tion a point of weight in reference to the identification 
of these earlier ones. The accounts of the campaigns 
of the Pharaohs of the eighteenth, nineteenth, and 
twentieth dynasties have not been found to contain 
any reference to the Israelites. Hence it might he 
supposed that in their days, or at least during the 
greater part of the time, the Israelites were not yet in 
the Promised Land. There is, however, an almost 
equal silence as to the Canaanitish nations. The land 
itself, Kitnana or Kanaan, is indeed mentioned as in- 
vaded, as well as those of Kheta and A mar, referring 
to the Ilittites and Amorites; but the latter two must 
have been branches of those nations seated in the val- 
ley of the Orontes. A recently discovered record of 
r I hothmes 111, published by 31. de Bouge in the Revue 
Archeologique (Nov. 1861, p. 344 sq.), contains many 
names of Canaanitish towns conquered by that king, 
but not one recognised as Israelitish. These Canaan- 
itish names are, moreover, on the Israelitish borders, 
not in the heart of the country. It is interesting that 
a great battle is shown to have been won by this king 
at 3regiddo. It seems probable that the Egyptians 
either abstained from attacking the Israelites from a 
recollection of the calamities of the exodus, or that 
they were on friendly terms. It is very remarkable 
that the Egyptians were granted privileges in the law 
(Deut. xxiii, 7), and that Shishak, the first king of 
Egypt after the exodus whom we know to have in- 
vaded the Hebrew territories, was of foreign extrac- 
tion, if not actually a foreigner. 

6. Pharaoh , the Father-in-law of Mered. — In the 


genealogies of the tribe of Judah, mention is made of 
the daughter of a Pharaoh married to an Israelite : 
“ Bithiah, the daughter of Pharaoh, which 31cred took” 
(1 Chron. iv, 18). That the name Pharaoh here prob- 
ably designates an Egyptian king we have already 
shown, and observed that the date of 3Iered is doubt- 
ful, although it is likely that he lived before, or not 
much after, the exodus. See Bituiaii. It may be 
added that the name, 31iriam, of one of the family of 
3Iered (ver. 17), apparently his sister, or perhaps a 
daughter by Bithiah, suggests that this part of the 
genealogies may refer to about the time of the exodus. 
This marriage may tend to aid us in determining the 
! age of the sojourn in Egypt. It is perhaps less probable 
that an Egyptian Pharaoh would have given his daugh- 
ter in marriage to an Israelite, than that a Shepherd 
king would have done so, before the oppression. But 
Bithiah may have been taken in war after the exodus, 
by the surprise of a caravan, or in a foray. Others, 
however, bring down this event to the times of or near 
those of David. It was then the policy of the Pha- 
raohs to ally themselves with the great families whose 
power lay between Egypt and Assyria, as we know 
from the intermarriages of Hadad and Solomon with 
the Egyptian dynasty. The most interesting feature 
connected with this transaction is the name, Bithiah 
(daughter of Jehovah), given to the daughter of Pha- 
raoh. It exhibits the true faith of Israel as exerting 
its influence abroad, and gaining proselytes even in 
the royal house of idolatrous Egypt. See 3Iered. 

7 . Pharaoh , the Protector of Hadad. — With the ex- 
ception of the preceding Pharaoh, whose date is doubt- 
ful, there is a long silence in Jewish history as to the 
kings of Egypt. During the period of the judges, and 
throughout the reigns of Saul and David, they had 
apparently neither entered into alliance nor made w r ar 
with the Israelites. If such an event had happened, it 
is probable that some mention would have been made 
of it. It does not follow from this that during this pe- 
riod they had made no wars nor effected any conquests 
to the east of Egypt, for the seaboard of Canaan, which 
Israel did not during this time occupy, seems to have 
been a usual passage for the Egyptian armies in their 
eastern wars. But the silence of Scripture points to 
the probability that for this long period Egypt did not 
occupy the commanding position of the earlier or the 
later Pharaohs. Intestine divisions and dynastic quar- 
rels may during a great portion of it have retained the 
Egyptians within their proper borders, satisfied if they 
were not assailed by foreign nations. In the reign of 
David we incidentally find notice of a Pharaoh who 
received with distinction Hadad the Edomite fleeing 
from Joab, and gave him his sister-in-law for wife (1 
Kings xi, 15-22). We find this Pharaoh ruling from 
about the tw entieth year of David’s reign to its close, 
i. e. from about B.C. 1033 to B.C. 1013. His reign per- 
haps came to an end soon after David’s death, as Sol- 
; onion’s father-in-law is thought to have been another 
Pharaoh. His treatment of Hadad, a hitter enemy 
of David, and with strong reason so, was certainly an 
unfriendly act towards the latter, but it does not seem 
to have been attended by an}' ulterior consequences. 
No war ensued between Egypt and Israel, and Pha- 
raoh made no attempt to restore Hadad to the throne 
of Edom. When this latter, upon David’s death, 
sought to return home, evidently with the intention of 
disturbing the reign of Solomon in its commencement, 
j Pharaoh w'as apparently opposed to his return, very 
! probably from a disinclination to favor any step which 
might involve him in unpleasant relations with the 
, powerful kingdom of Israel, then at the height of its 
! greatness. Probably in the first part of this account 
the fugitives took refuge in an Egyptian mining-sta- 
tion in the peninsula of Sinai, and so obtained guides 
to conduct them into Egypt. There they were re- 
ceived in accordance with the Egyptian policy, but 
with the especial f^vor that seems to have been shown 


PIIARAOII 


G4 


PIIARAOII 


about this time towards the eastern neighbors of the 
l'haraohs, which may reasonably be supposed to have 
led to the establishment of the twenty-second, dynasty 
of foreign extraction. For the identification of this 
Pharaoh we have chronological indications, and the 
name of his wife. Unfortunately, however, the his- 
tory of Egypt at this time is extremely obscure, nei- 
ther the monuments nor Manetho giving us clear in- 
formation as to the kings. It appears that towards 
the latter part of the twentietli dynasty the high- 
priests of Amen, the god of Thebes, gained great pow- 
er, and at last supplanted the Baineses family, at least 
in Upper Egypt. At the same time a line of Tanitic 
kings. Manetho’s twenty-first dynasty, seems to have 
ruled in Lower Egypt. The feeble twentieth dynasty 
was probably soon extinguished, but the priest-rulers 
and the Tanites appear to have reigned contemporane- 
ously, until they were both succeeded by the Bubastites 
of the twenty-second dynasty, of whom Sheshonk I, the 
Shiskak of the Bible, was the first. The monuments 
have preserved the names of several of the high- 
priests, perhaps all, and probably of some of the Ta- 
nites; but it is a question whether Manetho's Tanitic 
line does not include some of the former, and we have 
no means of testing the accuracy of its numbers. It 
may be reasonably supposed that the Pharaoh or Pha- 
raohs spoken of in the Bible as ruling in the time of 
David and .Solomon were Tanites, as Tanis was near- 
est to the Israelitish territory. We have therefore to 
compare the chronological indications of Scripture 
with the list of this dynasty. Shishak must have be- 
gun to reign in the twenty-fifth year of Solomon (B.C. 
989). The conquest of Edom probably took place 
some fifty years earlier. It may therefore be inferred 
that lladad fled to a king of Egypt who may have 
ruled at least twenty-five years, probably ceasing to 
govern before Solomon married the daughter of a Pha- 
raoh early in his reign ; for it seems unlikely that the 
protector of David's enemy would have given his 
daughter to Solomon, unless he were a powerless king, 
which it appears was not the case with Solomon’s fa- 
ther-in-law. This would give a reign of twenty-five 
years, or 25 -j-x separated from the close of the dynasty 
by a period of twenty-four or twenty-five years. Ac- 
cording toAfricanns, the list of the twenty-first dynasty 
is as follows: Smendes, 26 years ; Psusennes, 46; Nepli- 
elcheres, 1 ; Amenothis, 9 ; Osochor, 6; Psinaches, 9; 
Psusennes, 14 ; but Eusebius gives the second king 41, 
and the last 35 years, and his numbers make up the 
sum of 130 years, which Africanus and he agree in as- 
signing to the dynasty, although the true sum seems 
to be 109 years. If we take the numbers of Eusebius, 
Osochor would probably be the Pharaoh to whom lla- 
dad fled, and Psusennes II the father-in-law of Solo- 
mon ; but the numbers of Africanus would substitute 
Psusennes I, and probably Psinaches. We cannot, 
however, be sure that the reigns did not overlap, or 
were not separated by intervals, and the numbers are 
not to be considered trustworthy until tested by the 
monuments. The royal names of the period have 
been searched in vain for any one resembling Tahpe- 
nes. If the Egyptian equivalent to the similar geo- 
graphical name Tahpanhes, etc., were known, wc 
might have some clew to that of this queen. See 
TaIIIWXIIKS ; T.V II PENES. 

8. Pharaoh, the Father-in-law of Solomon. — In t lie 
narrative of the beginning of . Solomon’s reign, alter the 
account of the deaths of Adonijah, Joab, and Shimci, 
and the deprivation of Abiathar, we read : “And the 
kingdom was established in the band of Solomon. And 
Solomon made affinity with Pharaoh king of Egypt, 
and took Pharaoh's daughter, and brought her into the 
city of David, until he had made an end of building his 
own house, and the house of the Lord, and the wall of 
Jerusalem round about” (1 Kings ii, 46; iii, 1). The 
events mentioned before the marriage belong altogether 
to the very commencement of Solomon’s reign, except- 


ing the matter of Shimci, which, extending through 
three years, is carried on to its completion. The men- 
tion that the queen was brought into the city of David 
while Solomon’s house, and the Temple, and the city- 
wall were building, shows that the marriage took place 
not later than the eleventh year of the king, when the 
Temple was finished, having been commenced in the 
fourth year (vi, 1,37, 38). It is also evident that this 
alliance was before Solomon’s falling away into idolatry 
(iii, 3), of which the Egyptian queen does not seem to 
have been one of the causes. From this chronological 
indication it appears that the marriage must have taken 
place between about twenty-four and eleven years be- 
fore Shishak’s accession. It must be recollected that it 
seems certain that Solomon's father-in-law was not the 
Pharaoh who was reigning when lladad left Egypt. 
Both Pharaohs, as already shown, cannot yet he identi- 
fied in Manetho’s list. See Piiakaoii’s Daughter. 

This Pharaoh led an expedition into Palestine, which 
is thus incidentally mentioned, where the building of 
Gezer by Solomon is recorded : “ Pharaoh king of Egypt 
had gone up, and taken Gezer, and burnt it with fire, 
and slain the Canaanites that dwelt in the city, ami 
given it [for] a present unto his daughter, Solomon’s 
wife" (ix, 16). This is a very curious historical cir- 
cumstance, for it shows that in the reign of David or 
Solomon, more probably the latter, an Egyptian king, 
apparently on terms of friendship with the Israelitish 
monarch, conducted an expedition into Palestine, ami 
besieged and captured a Canaanitish city. This oc- 
currence warns ns against the supposition that similar 
expeditions could not have occurred in earlier times 
without a war with the Israelites. Its incidental men- 
tion also shows the danger of inferring, from the silence 
of Scripture as to any such earlier expedition, that noth- 
ing of the kind took place. 

This Pharaoh we suppose to have reigned over all 
Egypt, but lie does not appear to have had any posses- 
sions in Asia. The kingdom of Israel, we are told, 
stretched to the land of the Philistines and the border 
of Egypt (1 Kings iv, 21), so that Egypt seems to have 
been strictly eonrined on the eastward by Philistia ami 
Canaan. His expedition to and capture of Gezer was 
the capture of a city hitherto independent both of him 
and Solomon, and over which he retained no authority 
(1 Kings ix, 15, 16). The kingdom of Israel was at this 
time of greater extent and power than that of Egypt, 
so that the alliance with Solomon would be courted by 
Pharaoh, and seems to have been productive of great 
commercial advantages both to Egypt and Israel (1 
Kings x, 28, 29 ; 2 Chron. i, 16, 17). It is the first direct 
intercourse of which we are with certainty informed be- 
tween these two kingdoms since the time of the exodus. 
It is most likely that Pharaoh’s daughter, married to 
Solomon in the opening of his reign, ami when his zeal 
for Jehovah and his worship was at its height, was her- 
self a convert to the faith of Solomon (l Kings iii, 1-3). 
He would scarcely at this period of his life have mar- 
ried an idolatress, and in the Bithiah of an uncertain 
date we have already seen some evidence of the influ- 
ence of true religion on the royal house of Pharaoh. 
Nor can we readily suppose that the Song of Solomon, 
emblematic of the union of Christ and his Church, was 
founded on any other than the marriage of Solomon 
! with a daughter of the true faith. To what extent this 
good influence may have spread in the family of Pha- 
raoh can be only matter of conjecture. If it had pre- 
1 vailed to any great extent it may have partly led to 
the change of dynasty which we have reason to believe 
took place in Egypt during the reign of Solomon. Any 
| tendency towards truth, if it existed in the royal house, 

, was not shared by the priesthood or people of Egypt, 
who were firmly wedded to their debased system of 
idolatry. 

This Egyptian alliance is the first indication, how- 
i ever, after the days of Moses, of that leaning to Egypt 
which was distinctly forbidden in the law, and produced 


PHARAOH 


G5 


PHARAOH 


the most disastrous consequences in later times. The I 
native kings uf Egypt and the Ethiopians readily sup- 
ported the Hebrews, and were unwilling to make war 
upon them, but they rendered them mere tributaries, and 
exposed them to the enmity of the kings of Assyria. If 
the Hebrews did not incur a direct punishment for their 
leaning to Egypt, still this act must have weakened their 
trust in the divine favor, and paralyzed their efforts to 
defend the country against the Assyrians and their party. 

The next kings of Egypt mentioned in the Bible are 
Shishak, probably Zerah, and So. The first and second 
of these were of the twenty-second dynasty, if the iden- 
tification of Zerah with Userken be accepted, and the 
third was doubtless one of the two Shebeks of the twen- 
ty-fifth dynasty, which was of Ethiopians. The twen- 
ty-second dynasty was a line of kings of foreign ori- 
gin, who retained foreign names, and it is noticeable 
that Zerah is called a Cushite in the Bible (2 Chron. 
xiv, 9 ; comp, xvi, 8). Sliebek was probably also a for- 
eign name. The title ‘‘Pharaoh” is probably not once 
given to these kings in the Bible, because they were 
not Egyptians, and did not bear Egyptian names. The 
Shepherd kings, it must be remarked, adopted Egyp- 
tian names, and therefore some of the earlier sovereigns 
called Pharaohs in the Bible may be conjectured to have 
been Shepherds notwithstanding that they bear this ti- 
tle. See Shisiiak; So; Zkhaii. 

9 . Pharaoh, the Opponent of Sennacherib. — It is not 
at all certain that the name used for so many centuries 
for the supreme ruler of Egypt was ever again correct- 
ly used by itself to designate a particular king of Egypt. 
The Pharaoh of whom we read in the reign of Heze- 
kiah as the rival of the Assyrian Sennacherib (2 Kings 
xviii, 21 ; Isa. xxxvi, 9), is, indeed, simply called Pha- 
raoh, but this title is not given him by the sacred his- 
torian, but by the Assyrian general Rabshakeh. Pha- 
raoh is still, indeed, used as the generic title of Egyp- 
tian royalty (Isa. xix, II), when no individual king 
is intended, hut when particular kings are meant the 
Scriptures join to Pharaoh a second title, as Pharaoh- 
Necho, Pharaoh-Hophra. This may have been Jose- 
phus’s reason for his statement (A nt. viii, 6, 2) that 
after the father-in-law of Solomon no king of Egypt 
used this name. The Jewish historian w r as too well 
acquainted with Scripture not to have known of the 
title in connection with a second name, ami he therefore 
meant probably that it was never again used by itself 
as the title of Egyptian royalty. The king of whom 
we are now speaking reigned in the fourteenth year of 
Ilezekiah, i. e. about B.C. 713, and was the contempo- 
rary of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, and of Sennacherib 
king of Assyria. This latter synchronism depends, 
however, on the correctness of the present Hebrew 
text, which some suppose to have been corrupted, and 
that it was Sargon and not Sennacherib who invaded 
Judtea in the fourteenth year of Ilezekiah ( Journ . of 
Sacr. Lit. Oct. 1858; Jan. 1863). The comparison of 
Pharaoh in the above passages to a broken reed is re- 
markable, as the common hieroglyphics for “king,” re- 
stricted to Egyptian sovereigns, Su-ten, strictly a title 
of the ruler of Upper Egypt, commence with a bent 
reed, which is an ideographic symbolical sign proper to 
this word, and is sometimes used alone without any 
phonetic complement. This Pharaoh can only he the 
Sethos whom Herodotus mentions as the opponent of 
Sennacherib, and who may reasonably be supposed to 
be the Zet of Manetho, the last king of his twenty-third 
dynasty. Tirhakah, as an Ethiopian, whether then 
ruling in Egypt or not, is, like So, apparently not called 
Pharaoh. See Tirhakah. 

10 . Pkaraoh-Xeeho. — He was king of Egypt during 
the reigns of Josiah, Jehoahaz, and Jehoiakim, kings 
of Judah (2 Kings xxiii, 29-34). We do not read of 
him in Scripture until the last year of Josiah’s reign, 
B.C. 609. How long before this he may have been king 
of Egypt the Bible gives us no help in ascertaining. 
It mentions him as still reigning in the fourth rear of 

VIII. — E 


king Jehoiakim, i. e. B.C. 606 (Jer. xlvi, 2), and from 2 
Kings xxiv, 7 it seems probable that he continued to 
reign for a considerable time after this. In the Bible 
his name is written Xeko, 123, and Nekoh, S123, and 
in hieroglyphics Kektt. This king was of the Sa'itic 
twenty-sixth dynasty, of which Manetho makes him 
either the fifth ruler (Afrieanus) or the sixth (Eusebi- 
us). Herodotus calls him Xekvs, and assigns to him a 
reign of sixteen years, which is confirmed by the mon- 
uments. According to this historian, he was the son of 
Psammetichus I ; this the monuments do not corrobo- 
rate. Dr. Brugsch says that he married Nit-Akert, 
Nitocris, daughter of Psammetichus I and queen She- 
puntepet, who appears, like her mother, to have been 
the heiress of an Egyptian royal line, and supposes that 
he was the son of Psammetichus by another wife (see 
Hist. d'Eyypte, p. 252 ; comp. 248). If he married Nito- 
cris, he may have been called by Herodotus by mistake 
the son of Psammetichus. 

The father of Necho had already distinguished him- 
self by the siege and capture from the Assyrians of the 
strong town of Ashdod, which had been taken from the 
Egyptians in the reign of Sargon (Herod, ii, 157 ; Isa. 
xx, 1). In the decline of the Assyrian empire Egypt 
ventured once more beyond her eastern confines, and 
indulged in the hope of universal domination. Necho 
in the commencement of his reign prepared to carry out 
to completion his father’s ambitious designs, and it was 
in this endeavor that he came into contact with the 
kingdom of Judah, and so finds a place in Scripture 
history. Claiming an oracle from the true God, he ad- 
vanced an Egyptian army against the town of Carche- 
mish on the Euphrates, then apparently under the do- 
minion of the king of Assyria (2 Chron. xxxv, 21 ; 2 
Kings xxiii, 29). There seems to be no doubt that 
Necho’s claim to this oracle was sincere, and that he real- 
ly thought himself commissioned to go to war with Assy- 
ria. IIow far this may indicate a true knowledge of God 
on Necho’s part it is difficult to determine. Yet it can 
scarcely be understood as more than a conviction that the 
war was predestined, for it ended in the destruction of 
Necho’^ army and the curtailment of his empire. Jo- 
siah, however, influenced perhaps by an alliance with 
Assyria, or dreading the rising ambition of Egypt, dis- 
puted the march of Pharaoh’s army. In vain the lat- 
ter, evidently most unwilling to come into collision with 
Josiah, entreated him not to oppose him, and pleaded 
the oracle of him whom he would appear, in common 
with Josiah, to have recognised as the true God. At 
Megiddo (now Lejjun), a town not far from the coast-line 
of Palestine, so frequently the passage of great armies in 
the old wars of Asia, Josiah encountered the armies of 
Egypt, and his death on this occasion formed the sub- 
ject of lamentations among his people long after it took 
place. "Without pausing upon his march, or returning 
back to attack Jerusalem, Pharaoh seems to have passed 
on with all haste to accomplish his original design of 
capturing Carchemish, which commanded one of the 
ordinary fords of the Euphrates, and thus of meeting 
and conquering the king of Assyria in his own domin- 
ions. In this great expedition he was entirely success- 
ful. He took Carchemish, and retained possession of 
the countries between Egypt and the Euphrates until 
the rising power of Babylon under the great Nebuchad- 
nezzar met and overthrew the Egyptian army four 
years afterwards at Carchemish, and forced them back 
into their own land. Beturning from the Euphrates, 
he treated Judaea as a conquered country, and exercised 
over it the same absolute authority which the Babylo- 
nians did immediately after him. Sending for Jehoa- 
haz to Riblah in the land of Hamath, on the Orontes, a 
favorite camping-ground for the great armies of that 
period (Robinson, Bibl. Res. iii. 545), he placed him there 
in bonds for a time after a brief reign of three months. 
This he seems to have done because he was not con- 
sulted in the choice of a king. On his farther march 


PHARAOH 


G6 


PHARAOH 


homeward, Xecho entered as a conqueror into Jerusa- 
lem, placed the brother of Jehoahaz on the throne, and 
put the laud to tribute, lie then seems to have re- 
turned to Egypt, carrying with him the dethroned king 
of Judah, who died in the land of his captivity. The 
expedition of Xecho. which Scripture describes as hav- 
ing been made against the king of Assyria, Josephus 
says was directed against the Mcdcs and Babylonians, 
w'ho had at this time, according to him, captured Niu- 
evch („4«f. x, 5; see Hawlinson’s Herod. i. 418. He- 
rodotus mentions this battle, relating that Xecho made 
war against the Syrians, and defeated them at Magdo- 
lus, after which he took Cady tis, “ a large city of Syria” 
(ii, 159). There can be no reasonable doubt that Mag- 
dolus is Megiddo, and not the Egyptian town of that 
name [sec MiGDOl.],but the identification of Cady tis is 
difficult. It has been conjectured to be Jerusalem, and 
its name has been supposed to correspond to the ancient 
title, “the lloly," iT-'Hpn, but it is elsewhere men- 
tioned by Herodotus as a great coast-town of Palestine 
near Egypt (iii, 5), and it has therefore been supposed 
to be Gaza. The difficulty that Gaza is not beyond 
Megiddo would perhaps be removed if Herodotus be 
thought to have confounded Megiddo with the Egyp- 
tian Magdolus, or we may understand the term “coast” 
here used in a wide sense. (See Sir Gardner Wilkin- 
son’s note to Herod, ii, 159, ed. Rawlinson.) It seems 
possible that Cadvtis is the Ilittite city Ketesli, on the 
( Ironies, which was the chief stronghold in Syria of 
those captured by the kings of the eighteenth and nine- 
teenth dynasties. The Greek historian adds that Xe- 
cho dedicated the dress he wore on these occasions to 
Apollo at the temple of BranchidiR (/. c.). 

The power of Egypt under Xecho at this period of 
his reign was very great. From the composition of the 
army which he led to Carchemish and left there in gar- 
rison (Jer. xlvi, 9), we gather that Ethiopia and Libya 
were at this time a part of his dominions. Eastward 
of Egypt bis power extended to the Great River, and 
the Lydians, if not his subjects, were in strict league 
with him. This was the period of the fall of Assyria, 
and Egypt for a time succeeded to its rule on the west 
of the Euphrates (Wilkinson, i, 157). This was that 
time of boasting in its military successes which Jere- 
miah describes in cli. xlvi, and he takes occasion from it 
to predict the approaching overthrow' of Egypt. When 
this land “rose up like a Hood, and he said, I will go 
up, and will cover the earth,” the prophet in plain words 
spoke of approaching defeat in battle and utter humilia- 
tion as a nation. The power of Xecho to the east of 
Egypt only lasted about four years. In the fourth 
year of Jehoiakim, Xebuchadnezzar, having conquered 
Nineveh, had leisure to turn his arms against Egypt. 
At Carchemish, which Xecho had wrested from the As- 
syrians, the Babylonian army conquered that of Egypt. 
Whether Xecho was present, at this contest does not 
appear. Its issue w r as that he was driven out of Asia 
and came into it no more (2 Kings xxiv, 7). It would 
seem to have been at a later period, however, that the 
utter humiliation of Egypt described by Jeremiah took 
place, though the battle of Carchemish was one of those 
decisive contlicts which changed for a period the his- 
tory of the world. The strength of Nccho’s armies 
seems not to have lain in the native Egyptians, but in 
foreigners, whether subjects, allies, or me rcenaries. They 
were Ethiopians, Libyans, and Lydians who fought with 
Nebuchadnezzar. Wilkinson places the death of Xecho 
shortly before the captivity of Jehoiakim (i, 1G7). It 
is not certain, however, that Jehoiakim was carried 
away captive by Xebuchadnezzar. The book of Kings 
makes no mention of such an occurrence. Josephus 
states that lie was put to death at Jerusalem (.4 nt. x, G, 
3). The second book of Chronicles only says (xxxvi, 
G) that he was put into fetters for the purpose of being 
brought to Babylon. If Josephus’s account, is true, this 
purpose was not put into execution. Xecho is famous 


I in history for other besides his military exploits. The 
celebrated canal of Suez, according to Herodotus (ii, 
158; see Wilkinson, i, 70), was completed by this king. 
He is also stated bv this historian to have circumuavi- 
' gated Africa, a performance the credibility of which is 
disputed by him for the very reason that makes it to 
modern readers all but certainly true (Herod, iv, G2; 
see Wilkinson, i, 1G0; Sir C. Lewis, Astronomy of the 
- 1 ncients, p. 3 1 7). See X kci to. 

11 . Pharuoh-llophra. — This is the last of the Pha- 
raohs of whom mention is made in the Bible, lie is 
introduced to our notice in connection with the closing 
period of the Jewish monarchy, as attempting to ward 
oft’ from God’s people the judgments brought upon them 
for their sins at the hand of Nebuchadnezzar (Jer. 
xxxvii, 7). He was on the throne of Egypt in the 
ninth year of the reign of Zedekiah (2 Kings xxv. 1), 
i. e. about B.C. 590, continued to reign when Jerusalem 
had been taken by the Babylonians, B.C. 588. and was 
to continue reigning until a signal destruction should 
fall upon him, and he was to suffer the loss of life at the 
hand of his enemies (Jer. xliv. 30), a prediction fullilled 
about five years subsequently in the invasion of Egypt 
by Xebuchadnezzar, about B.C. 582 (Josephus, Ant. x. 
9, 7). lie ascended the throne about B.C. 589, ami 
reigned for a period of nineteen years; but Eusebius, 
according to Syncellus, makes his reign to have lasted 
twenty-five years (Bunsen. F.yypt , i, G40). 

This Pharaoh is generally considered to have been 
the A pries or Vophres (in hieroglyphic lEt/A - [/)]ra- 
hali) of whom an account is given in Herodotus and 
Diodorus (Wilkinson, i, 1G8; Lewis, Astronomy of the 
Ancients, p. 317). lie was, according to the former 
historian, the son of I’sammis, and the grandson of 
Pharaoh-Necho, and enjoyed a fortunate reign of twen- 
ty-five years (ii. clxi). Wilkinson (i. 179) is doubtful 
whether he is the same person as lVammetichus III. 
Bunsen considers him to have bent the fourth king of 
the twenty-sixth dynasty ( F.yypt , i. 1G-1). ( )f Pharaoh- 
Xecho we are told that after his defeat by Xebuchad- 
nezzar he came forth out of Egypt no more; but Pha- 
raoh-1 lophra had recovered strength sufficient to enable 
him to meet the armies of Babylon out of his own coun- 
try. At the time we read of him in Scripture he was 
in intimate alliance with Zedekiah, and it was doubtless 
in great part owing to his reliance upon Egypt that the 
infatuated king of Judah ventured to enter upon that 
contest with Xebuchadnezzar which terminated in the 
famous captivity of seventy years iu Babylon. The 
pride of this Pharaoh was excessive. Ezekiel (xxix, 
3) compares him to a great dragon lying in the midst 
of his rivers, and saying, “My river is mine own, and 1 
have made it for myself,” much as his successful antag- 
onist Xebuchadnezzar gloried in the contemplation of 
Babylon. Influenced by an opinion of Pharaoh’s power, 
and stimulated in all likelihood by promises of aid, Zed- 
ekiah rebelled against the Babylonians, and drew on that 
siege of Jerusalem which after two years resulted in its 
capture. (2 Kings xxv, 1-3). The narrative of this 
event in Kings is very concise, hut the fuller accounts 
in Jeremiah bring before ns a temporary suspension of 
the siege caused by the advance of Pliaraoh-I lophra 
with an Egyptian army to relieve Zedekiah (Jer. 
xxxvii, 5-12). It is quite plain from Jeremiah that 
the siege was abandoned for a time and the Babylonian 
army withdrawn from Jerusalem, so as to allow free in- 
tercourse between the city and the surrounding coun- 
try; but whether the Chahkean army withdrew before 
the advancing army of Egypt or advanced against it is 
not agreed on. Josephus (.1 nt. x, 7, 3) expressly states 
that Xebuchadnezzar on bearing of the march of the 
Egyptians broke up from before Jerusalem, met the 
Egyptians on their advance, conquered them iu battle, 
drove them out of Syria, ami then returned to the siege 
of Jerusalem. Some, however, think that the Baby- 
lonians retreated from before the Egyptians, who on 
, this occasion took Gaza, Sidon, and Tyre (Trevor, 


PIIARAOII 


67 


PI-1 All ATIION I 


Egypt , p. 821). Looking simply to the scriptural ac- 
count, the case appears to stand thus: On hearing of the 
rebellion of Zedekiah, Nebuchadnezzar despatched a 
force against Jerusalem, but without accompanying it 
himself. This force was sufficient to shut up Zedekiah 
within the city, but was not able to meet the Egyptian 
army in the field. This is the partial siege which is 
spoken of in Jer. xxxvii, 5-11, in which nothing is said 
of Nebuchadnezzar’s presence. On the approach of 
Pharaoh -Iloplira the Chaldiean army, unequal to the 
conflict, retired before him, and he advanced unopposed. 
This was probably in the eighth year of Zedekiah. 
That Pharaoh came to Jerusalem we are not told. 
Probably on hearing of the raising of the siege he 
judged it unnecessary, and took the easier coast- line 
towards Syria (Jer. xlvii, 1). Nebuchadnezzar, made 
aware of the retreat of his army, now advanced with 
his entire force (Jer. xxxix, 1), laid siege to Jerusalem 
in the ninth year of Zedekiah, and took it in the elev- 
enth year. That the Egyptians and Babylonians met 
on this occasion in battle is not stated in the Bible. 
We think it probable from Jer. xxxvii, 7, that on hear- 
ing of Nebuchadnezzar’s approach with the entire army 
of Babylon, the Egyptians retired without a contest and 
left Jerusalem to its fate (see Ilawlinson’s Herodotus , i, 
423). Pharaoh-Hophra continued to be king of Egypt 
after the overthrow of Zedekiah (Jer. xliv, 80), and he 
and his land were the refuge of those Jews who, con- 
trary to God’s command to remain in their own land 
after the general captivity, preferred a course of their 
own. They expected peace beneath the shadow of 
Egypt, trusting in the power of Pharaoh, who seems 
till then to have enjoyed great prosperity. But in this 
they were to be disappointed. Pharaoh was himself to 
be delivered “into the hands of those who sought his 
life,” of which Herodotus gives an account (ii, 169); 
at the very’ entry of Pharaoh’s palace in Taphanes the 
Babylonian Nebuchadnezzar was to set his throne and 
spread his pavilion (Jer. xliii, 10) ; and henceforth 
Eg.vpt was to descend in the scale of nations, and to 
become the meanest among kingdoms. Herodotus re- 
lates how he attacked Sidon, and fought a battle at sea 
with the king of Tyre, until at length an army’ which 
he had despatched to conquer Cyrene was routed, and 
the Egyptians, thinking he had purposely caused its 
overthrow to gain entire power, no doubt by substi- 
tuting mercenaries for native troops, revolted, and set 
up Amasis as king. Apries, only’ supported by the Ca- 
rian and Ionian mercenaries, was routed in a pitched 
battle. Herodotus remarks in narrating this, “It is 
said that Apries believed that, there was not a god who 
could cast him down from his eminence, so tirmly’ did 
he think that he had established himself in his king- 
dom.” He was taken prisoner, and Amasis for a while 
treated him with kindness, but when the Egyptians 
blamed him, “ he gave Apries over into the hands of his 
former subjects, to deal with as they’ chose. Then the 
Egyptians t«ok him and strangled him” (Herod, ii, 161- 
169). The Scripture passages, which entirely agree 
with the account Herodotus gives of the death of Apries, 
make it not improbable that the invasion of Nebuchad- 
nezzar was the cause of that disaffection of his subjects 
which ended in the overthrow and death of this Pha- 
raoh. The invasion is not spoken of by any’ trustworthy’ 
profane historian excepting Berosus (Cory’, Anc. Frag. 
2d ed. p. 87, 38), but the silence of Herodotus and others 
can no longer be a matter of surprise, as we now know 
from the Assyrian records in cuneiform of conquests of 
Egypt either unrecorded elsewhere or only mentioned 
by second-rate annalists. See Hoimira. 

Pharaoh-Hophra was succeeded by two independent 
monarchs, the tirst of whom, Amasis, had a very’ pros- 
perous reign ; but in the reign of his son, Psammetichus, 
or Psammenitns, according to the Greeks, the Persian 
invasion took place, when Egy’pt was reduced to insig- 
nificance, and the ancient title of Pharaoh was transferred 
from the kings of Egypt to their conquerors (Trevor, 


Egypt, p. 331 ; Wilkinson, Egypt, i, 169-198). No sub- 
sequent Pharaoh is mentioned in Scripture, but there 
are predictions doubtless referring to the misfortunes of 
later princes until the second Persian conquest, when the 
prophecy “There shall be no more a prince of the land 
of Egypt” (Ezck. xxx, 13) was fulfilled. See Egypt. 

Pharaoh’s Daughter. Three Egyptian prin- 
cesses, daughters of Pharaohs, are mentioned in the Bi- 
ble. (Our account of them is taken from Smith’s Diet, 
of the Bible.') 

1. The preserver of Moses, daughter of the Pharaoh 
who first oppressed the Israelites. She appears from 
her conduct towards Moses to have been heiress to the 
throne, something more than ordinary’ adoption seem- 
ing to be expressed in the passage in Hebrews respect- 
ing the faith of Moses (xi, 28-26), and the designation 
“ Pharaoh’s daughter” perhaps here indicating that she 
was the only daughter. She probably lived for at least 
forty y’ears after she saved Moses, for it seems to be im- 
plied in the above passage of Hebrews that she was liv- 
ing when he fled to Midian. Artapanus, or Artabanus, 
a historian of uncertain date, who appears to have pre- 
served traditions current among the Egyptian Jews, 
calls this princess Merrhis, and her father, the oppressor, 
Palmanotlies, and relates that she was married to Che- 
nephres, who ruled in the country’ above Memphis, for 
that at that time there were many kings of Egy’pt, but 
that this one, as it seems, became sovereign of the 
whole country (Frag. IFist. Grtec. iii, 220 sq.). Palma- 
nothes may be supposed to be a corruption of Ameno- 
phis, the equivalent of Amen-hept, the Egy-ptian name 
of four kings of the eighteenth dynasty’, and also, but 
incorrectly’, applieil to one of the nineteenth, whose 
Egyptian name, Meneptah, is wholly different from that 
of the others. No one of these, however, had, as far as 
we know, a daughter with a name resembling Merrhis, 
nor is there any king with a name like Chenephres of 
this time. These kings Amenophis, moreover, do not 
belong to the period of contemporary’ dynasties. The 
tradition is apparently’ of little value, excepting as 
showing that one quite different from that given by 
Mauetho and others was anciently current. .See Pha- 
raoh, 4. 

2. Bithiah , wife of Mered, an Israelite, daughter of a 
Pharaoh of an uncertain age, probably about the time 
of the exodus. See Bithiah; Pharaoh, 6. 

3. A wife of Solomon, most probably daughter of a 
king of the twenty-first dynasty’. She was married to 
Solomon early' in his reign, and apparently treated with 
distinction. It has been supposed that the Song of Sol- 
omon was written on the occasion of this marriage; and 
the idea is, we think, sustained by sound criticism. 
She was at first brought into the city of David (1 Kings 
iii, 1), and afterwards a house was built for her (vii, 8; 
ix, 24), because Solomon would not have her dwell in 
the house of David, which had been rendered holy by 
the ark having been there (2 Chron. vii, 11). See Ph a- 
raoh, 8. 

Pharaoh’s Wife. The wife of one Pharaoh, the 
king who received I lad ad the Edomite, is mentioned in 
Scripture. She is called “ queen,” and her name, Tah- 
penes, is given. Her husband was most probably of the 
twenty-first dynasty. See Pharaoh, 7, Taiipenes. 

Pharatho'm (<Papa3 f tori v. r. Jose- 

phus, <Pctpct$(b , Peshito, Pherath; Vulg. Pham), one 
of the cities of Judaea fortified by Bacchides during Ins 
contests with Jonathan Maccabams (1 Macc. ix, 50). In 
both MSS. of the Sept, the name is joined to the pre- 
ceding — Thamnatha-Pharathon ; but in Josephus, the 
Sy’riac, and Vulgate, the two are separated. Ewald 
(Gesehichte, iv, 373) adheres to the former. Pharathon 
doubtless represents an ancient Pirathon , though hardly 
that of the Judges, since that was in Mount Ephraim, 
probably at Ferata, a few miles west of Nablus, too far 
north to be included in Judtea properly so called.— 
Smith. 


PIIARES 


08 


PHARISEE 


Pha'res (^apif), a Gnveized form (Matt. i, 8 ; Luke 
iii, 38) of the name of I’hakkz (q.v.), the son of Judah. 

Pha'rez, the name of two persons. 

1 . (lleb. IV ret s , a breach, as explained Gen. 

xxxviii, 29; Sept, and N. T. <l>api(;; A. V. “ Herez,” 1 
t'hron. xxvii, 3; “ Pharos,” Matt, i, 3; Luke iii, 33; 1 
Esdr. v, 5), twin son with Zarah, or Zerah, of Judah 
by Tamar liis daughter-in-law. I».t'. cir. 1890. The 
circumstances of his birth arc detailed in Gen. xxxviii. * 
I’harez seems to have kept the right of primogeniture 
over his brother, as, in the genealogical lists, his name 
comes first. The house also which lie founded was far 
more numerous and illustrious than that of the Zar- 
hites. Its remarkable fertility is alluded to in Huth iv, 
12 : “ Let thy house be like the house of Pliarez, whom 
Tamar bare unto Judah.” Of Pharez’s personal history 
or character nothing is known. We can only speak of 
him therefore as a demarch, and exhibit his genealogi- 
cal relations. At the time of the sojourn in the wilder- 
ness “the families of the tribe of Judah were : of Slielah, 
the family of the Shelanites, or Shilonitcs; of Pliarez, 
the family of the Pharzitcs; of Zerah, the family of the ! 
Zarhites. And the sons of Pharez were, of llozron, the 
family of the llezronites, of Ilamul, the family of the 
Ilamulites” (Numb. xxvi, 20, 21). After the death, 
therefore, of Er and Onan without children, Pharez oc- 
cupied the rank of Judah’s second son, and, moreover, 
from two of his sons sprang two new chief houses, those 
of the llezronites and Ilamulites. From llezron’s sec- 
ond son Ham, or Aram, sprang David and the kings of 
Judah, and eventually Jesus Christ. Sec Genealogy 
of Jests Christ. The house of Caleb was also incor- 
porated into the house of Ilczron [see Caleb], and so 
were reckoned among the descendants of Pharez. An- 
other line of I’harez’s descendants were reckoned as sons 
of Manasseh bv the second marriage of llezron with 
the daughter of Maehir (1 Chron. ii, 21, 22). In the 
census of the house of .Judah contained in 1 Chron. iv, 
drawn up apparently in the reign of Ilezekiah (iv, -11), 
the houses enumerated in ver. 1 are Tliarez, llezron, 
Carmi, llur, ami Sliobal. Of these all but Carmi (who 
was a Zarhite, Josh, vii, 1) were descendants of Pharez. 
Hence it is not unlikely that, as is suggested in the 
margin of the A.V., “Carmi” is an error for “ Chelubai.” 
Some, of the sons of Slielah are mentioned separately at 
ver. 21,22. See Paiiatii-Moab, In the reign of Da- 
vid the house of Pharez seems to have been eminently 
distinguished. The chief of all the captains of the host, 
for the first month, Jashobeam, the son of Zabdicl (1 
Chron. xxvii, 2, 3), so famous for his prowess (xi, 11), 
and called “the chief among the captains” (ibid, and 2 
Sam. xxiii, 8), was of the sons of Perez, or Pharez. A 
considerable number of the other mighty men seem 
also, from their patronymic or gentile names, to have 
been of the same house, those, namely, who are called 
Iicthleliemites, Paltites (1 Chron. ii, 33, 47), Tekoites, 
Netophat bites, and Itlirites (ii, 53; iv, 7), Zabad, 
the son of Alilai, and Joab and liis brothers, Abishai 
and Asaliel, we know were Pharzitcs (ii, 31, 3tl, 54; xi, 
41). The royal house itself was the head of the family. 
We have no means of assigning to their respective fam- 
ilies those members of the tribe of Judah who are inci- 
dentally mentioned after David's reign, as Adnali, the 
chief captain of Judah in Jehoshapliat’s reign, and Je- 
hnhanau and Amasiah, his companions (2 Chron. xvii. 
11 10); but that the family of Pharez continued to 
thrive and multiply we may conclude from the num- 
bers who returned from captivity. At Jerusalem alone 
4fi8 of the sons of Perez, with Athaiah, or Cthai, at 
their head, were dwelling in the days of Zcrubbabcl (1 
Chron. ix, 4; Nell, xi, 1 -IV), Zerubbabel himself of 
course being of the family (1 Esdr. v, 5). Ofihe lists 
of returned captives in Ezra ii, Neh. vii, in Nchemiah’s 
time, the following seem to have been of the sons of 
Pharez, judging as before from the names of their an- 
cestors, or the towns to which they belonged: the chil- 


dren of Bani (Ezra ii, 10; comp. 1 Chron. ix, 4); of 
Bigvai (ii, 14; comp. Ezra viii, 14); of Ater (ii, 16; 
comp. 1 Chron. ii, 26, 54); of Jorah, or Ilariph (ii, 18; 
Neh. vii, 24; comp. 1 Chron. ii, 51); of Bethlehem and 
Netophah (ii.21,22; comp. 1 Chron. ii, 54); of Kirjatl - 
arira (ii, 25; comp. 1 Chron. ii, 50,53); of llarim (ii, 
32; comp. 1 Chron. iv, N); and, judging from their po- 
sition, many of the intermediate ones also (comp, also 
the lists in Ezra x, 25-13; Neh. x, 11-27). Of the 
builders of the wall named in Neh. iii the following 
were of the house of Pharez: Zaccnr, the son of Imri 
(ver. 2, hv comparison with 1 Chron. ix. 4, and Ezra 
viii, 14, whore we ought, with many MSS., to read 
“ Zaccur” for “ Zabbud”) ; Zadok, the sou of Baana (ver. 
4, by comparison with 2 Sam. xxiii, 29. where we lind 
that Baanah was a Nctophathite, which agrees with 
Zaduk's place here next to the Tekoites, since Beth- 
lehem, Netophah, and Tekoa are often in close juxta- 
position, comp. 1 Chron. ii, 54; iv, 4, 5; Ezra ii, 21, 22; 
Neh. vii, 26, and the situation of the Nctophathites 
close to Jerusalem, among the Benjamites, Neh. xii, 28, 
29, compared with the mixture of Benjamites with 
Pharzitcs and Zarhites in Neh. iii, 2-7); the Tekoites 
(ver. 5 and 27, comp, with 1 Chron. ii, 24: iv, 5); Je- 
hoiada, the son of Pascah (ver. l>, comp, with 1 Chron. 
iv, 12, where Pascah, a Chelubite, is apparently de- 
scended from Ashur, the father of Tekoa); Hephaiah, 
the son of llur (ver. 9, comp, with 1 Chron. ii, 20, 50; 
iv, 4, 12, Beth-liaphah) ; llamm (ver. 13 and 30), with 
the inhabitants of Zanoah (comp, with 1 Chron. iv, 18) ; 
perhaps Maleliiah, the son of Bechab (ver. 14. comp, 
with 1 Chron. ii, 55); Nehetniah, son of Azbuk, ruler 
of Beth-zur (ver. 16, comp, with 1 Chron. ii, 45); and 
peril. Baruch, son of Zabha, or Zaecai (ver. 20), if for 
Zaceai \vc read Zaccur as the mention of “the other, or 
second, piece,'' makes probable, as well as his proximity 
to Meremotb in this second piece, as Zaccur was to Mc- 
remoth in their lirst pieces (ver. 2, 4). — Smith. 

2. (Sept. «l*rtpf£ v. r. «I»(»poc.) A Gneeized form (1 
Esdr. viii, 30) fur the Parosu (q.v.) of the lleb. text 
(Ezra viii, 3). 

Phaii'ra (<l>nptpd v. r. hapten), a corrupt form (1 
Esdr. v, 33) of the name Peuida (q. v.) of the lleb. 
text (Neh. vii, 57). 

Phar'isee, a designation (in the N. T. and Jose- 
phus) of one of the three sects or orders of Judaism in 
the time of Christ, the other two being the Psseues and 
the Sadriucees. (The following account of them is based 
upon that of Ginsburg, in Kittu’s Cyclopedia, with 
modifications and additions.) 

I. Name of the Sect, and its Signification. — The name 
4>apioaioc~ Pharisee is the Greek form of the Hebrew 
T*")2 (par Ash, passive participle of 1L‘~E, to separate , 
plur. E^'L ,! PE. Aramaic and properly denotes 

one who is separated, i. e. by special practices ; or, as the 
dictionary called .1 mch (s. v.) defines it. “one who sep- 
arated himself from Ecvitieal impurity and Levitieallv 
impure food” (comp, also Talmud, Chuyiyah, IS b; Sab- 
bath, 13 a), 'file derivation of it from w"2. in the 
sense of unfold hip, expla in i //;/, and the assertion that the 
followers of this sect were called J'harisees = interpreters 
of the Pihle, in contradistinction to the Saddncees, who 
adhered to the letter of the Scriptures, as well as the 
more generally received notion that they were so called 
because they separated from the rest of the people, be- 
lieving themselves to he more holy, are at variance 
with the most ancient and most trustwnrtl y authorities 
upon this subject. Besides, to take U,’*"2 as meaning 
interpreter is contrary to its grammatical form, which, 
if transitive, ought to he < >f course the separa- 

tion from that which was Levitieallv impure necessa- 
rily implied separation from those who were defiled by 
Levitieallv inquire objects. It must he observed that 
the name Pharisee s is given to them in the Mislnia 
(.hbamoth, iv. 6, etc.) by their opponents the Sadducees , 


PHARISEE 


G9 


PHARISEE 


ami that the names by which they were designated 
among themselves are sages, or, more modestly 

disciples of the suges, but more gen- 
erally G““Cn, associates. By the term Pharisees , 
or its equivalent Chaberim, a , '^Zin, i. e. asso- 
ciates, is therefore meant all those Jews who separated 
themselves from every kind of Levitical impurity, and 
united together to keep the Mosaic laws of purity. As 
it was natural that all the students of the law would, as 
a matter of course, he the first to join this association, 
the appellation Chaber , ‘Cn, member, associate, or U ! HS, 
Pharisee , became synonymous with student, disciple, 
lawyer, scribe, while those who refused to unite to keep 
the laws were regarded as G5, country people, 

common people, illiterates, irreligious . 

II. The Qualifications for Membership of the Pharisaic 
Association. — The most essential conditions which were 
enacted from every one who wished to become a Chaber 
or member of the Pharisaic association were trvo. Each 
candidate was required to promise in the presence of 
three members that — (i) He would set apart all the sa- 
cred tithes on the produce of the land, and refrain from 
eating anything which had not been tithed, or about 
the tithing of which there was any doubt; and (ii) He 
would scrupulously observe the most essential laws of 
purity which so materially affected the eating of food 
and all family affairs. 

To understand these laws, which may seem trivial 
and arbitrary, as well as to see the extraordinary influ- 
ence which they exercised upon the whole religious and 
social life of the Jewish nation in all its ramifications, 
the following facts must be borne in mind: The Mosaic 
law enjoins that besides the priestly heave -offering 
(ITCI^FI) every Israelite is annually to give to the 
Levites a tithe of all the produce (Numb, xviii, 21-24). 
which the Jewish canons call the first tithe (“ibi"/? 

; that a second tithe ("Tj “I wit’ “9), as it is 
termed in the same canons, is to be taken annually from 
the produce to Jerusalem, either in kind or specie, and 
consumed by the owner in the metropolis in festive cel- 
ebration (Dent, xii, 5-1#), and that every third year 
this second tithe is to be given to the poor (Dent, xiv, 
28, 29), whence it is denominated the poor tithe (“I'-i”? 
“>3G?) in the ancient canons. Moreover, as each seventh 
year was a Sabbatic or fallow year, which yielded no 
harvest, it was fixed that in the first, second, fourth, 
and fifth years of the septennial cycle the second tithe 
is to be eaten by the owner in Jerusalem, while in the 
third and sixth years it is to be distributed among the 
poor, and be the poor tithe. When it is remembered 
that these tithal laws, which were originally enacted 
for Palestine, were in the post-exilian period extended 
to Egypt, Ammon, Moab, and to every laud in which 
the Jews had possessions, that they had more of a relig- 
ious than civil import, that the portion of produce re- 
served as tithes was holy, that the eating of holy things 
was a deadly sin, and that the non -separation of the 
tithes rendered the whole produce unlawful, thus affect- 
ing every article of food, the paramount importance of 
the first condition which the Pharisees, who were the 
conservators of the divine law, exacted from the candi- 
dates for fellowship will readily be understood (comp. 
Mishna, Bekoroth, 30 b). 

Of equal importance, and equally affecting the whole 
fabric of social and religious life, are the Mosaic laws 
upon the strength of which the second condition was 
exacted. These laws, which so rigidly enforce the 
eschewing of unclean food and defiling objects, even 
without the amplifications and expansion which ob- 
tained in the course of time, extend to and affect almost 
every action in public life and ever}' movement in fam- 
ily intercourse. Thus not only are numbers of animals 
proscribed as food, but their very carcasses are branded 


as unclean, and he who touches them is temporarily de- 
filed, and pollutes every one and everything wherewith 
he comes in contact (Lev. v, 2 ; xi). A man that has 
an issue not only defiles everything upon which he lies, 
sits, or which he touches, but his very spittle is pollut- 
ing (xv, 1-13). The same is the case with a man who 
comes in contact with a corpse (Numb. xix, 14-22), 
with a woman in menstruum and childbirth (Lev. xii, 

I 1-8; xv, 19-31), and with a husband after conjugal in- 
j tercourse (xv, 18). Individuals thus defiled were for- 
j bidden to come into the sanctuary (Numb, xix, 20), and 
| were visited with the severe punishment of excision if 
the}' ate the flesh of peace-offering (Lev. vii, 20, 21). 
j Now the slightest reflection upon the workings of these 
laws will show that thousands upon thousands were 
daily unclean according to the Mosaic institutions, that 
these thousands of unclean men and women legally de- 
filed myriads of people and things by contact with them, 
either wittingly or unwittingly, and that it therefore 
became absolutely necessary for those who were con- 
scientiously desirous of discharging their religious du- 
ties in a state of legal purity to adopt such precaution- 
ary measures as would preclude the possibility of vio- 
lating these laws. Hence the Jewish canons ordained 
that since one does not know whether he has been de- 
filed by contact with any unclean person or thing, every 
Chaber or member of the Pharisaic association is ‘*to 
wash liis hands before eating his ordinary food, second 
tithes, or the heave -offering ; to immerse his whole 
body before he eats the portions of holy sacrifices; and 
to bathe his whole body before touching the water ab- 
solving from sin, even if it is only his hands which are 
unclean. If one immersed himself for ordinary food, 
and designed it only for ordinary food, he could not eat 
second tithes; if he immersed for second tithes, and 
meant it only for second tithes, he could not eat of the 
heave-offering; if he immersed for the heave-offering, 
and meant by it the heave-offering, lie was not allowed 
to eat the portions of the holy sacrifice ; if he immersed 
for the holy sacrifice, and meant it for the holy sacri- 
fice, he could not as yet touch the water absolving from 
sin ; but he who immersed for the more important could 
share in the less important” (Mishna, Chagigah, ii, 5, G). 
This gave rise to four degrees of purity, and to four 
| divisions in the Pharisaic associations, so that every 
Chaber or member belonged to that rank whose pre- 
] scriptions of purity he practiced. Each degree of purity 
required a greater separation from the above-named 
Mosaic defilements. The impure subjects themselves 
were termed the fathers of impurity, that which was 
touched by them was designated the first generation of 
impurity, what was touched by this again was called 
the second generation of impurity, and so on. Now or- 
dinary food, the first degree of holiness, became impure 
when touched by the second generation; heave-offer- 
ing, the second degree of holiness, became defiled when 
touched by the third generation; the flesh of sacrifices, 
the third degree of holiness, when coming in contact 
with the fourth generation, and so on. These degrees 
of purity had even to be separated from each other, as 
the lower degree was impure in respect to the higher 
one. The same removal, both from defilement without 
and the different gradations within, was required of 
each member of the Pharisaic order corresponding to 
the degree to which he belonged. Hence “the gar- 
ments of an cr, Am hu-Aretz [‘man of earth,’ 

or a publican, a sinner, as he is termed in the N. T., 
who neglected to pay the tithes and observe the laws 
of Mosaic purity], defile the Pharisee [i. e. him who 
lived according to the first degree of purity], the gar- 
ments of a Pharisee defile those who eat of the heave- 
offering [i. e. the second degree], the garments of those 
who eat the heave-offering defile those who eat the sa- 
cred sacrifices [i. e. the third degree], and the garments 
of those who eat the sacred sacrilices defile those who 
touch the water absolving from sin [i. e. the fourth de- 


PHARISEE 


PHARISEE V 

gree]” (comp. Mishna, Chayiyah, ii, 7, with Taharoih , 
vii, 5). 

The above-mentioned two conditions exacted from 
candidates for membership of the Pharisaic association 
are thus expressed in the Mishna : “ lie who takes upon 
liimself to be conscientious, tithes whatever he oats, 
and whatever he sells, and whatever he buys, and does 
not become the guest of an . I m htt-A retz [i. e. a non- 
PhariseeJ; . . . and he who takes upon himself to be- 
come a member of t he Pharisaic association must nei- 
ther sell to an .1 m ha- A retz moist or dry fruit, nor buy 
of him moist fruit, nor become the guest of an An ha- 
Aretz, nor receive him as guest, in his garments, into 
his house” ( JJemui , ii, 2, 3 ; comp. Matt, xxiii, 23 ; Luke 
xvii, 12). It is in accordance with this regulation that 
Christ enjoins that an offender is to be regarded “ as a 
heathen man and publican” (Matt, xviii, 17), that the 
apostle Paul commands “not to cat” with a sinner (1 
Cor. v, 1 1), and it is for this reason that Christ was up- 
braided by the Pharisees for associating and eating with 
publicans and sinners (Matt, ix, 9-11; xi, 19; Mark ii, 
10; Luke v, 30; vii, 34), with the neglecters of tithes 
and the transgressors of the laws of purity, which was 
not only in violation of the then prevailing Pharisaic 
and national law, but contrary to the Mosaic enact- 
ments. Put he came to teach that “not that which 
goeth into the mouth [i. e. untithed food or edibles 
handled by Levitically unclean persons] defileth a man, 
but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a 
man” (Matt, xv, 11); and that it is not outward wash- 
ing but inward purity which is acceptable. For this 
reason “he sat down to meat with a Pharisee, and did 
not first wash before dinner” (Luke xi, 37-40); which, 
as we have seen, was in contravention of the very first 
degree of purity among the association. It must, how- 
ever, be remarked that the Jews were not peculiar in 
their laws of purity and defilement. Other nations of 
antiquity had similar statutes. Thus, among the an- 
cient Indians, one who had an issue was obliged to bathe 
and pray to the sun {Manu, ii, PM); among the llicra- 
polytans in Syria every inmate of the house in which a 
death took place was thirty days unclean, and could not 
go to the temple during that time (Lucian, lie, Syr. flea. 
53); the (Jreeks, too, were defiled by contact with a 
corpse, and could not resort to the temple (Theophrast. 
Charact. 16; Eurip. Jphig. Taur. 3G7 ; Ding. Laer. viii, 
33) ; both the Parsecs and the < 1 recks regarded a woman 
in childbirth as unclean (Kleuker, Zend-Avesta , iii, 222, 
223 ; Eurip. Jphig. Taur. 3G7) ; and “ no Egyptian would 
salute a (I reek with a kiss, nor use a (Jreek knife, spits, 
caldrons, nor taste the meat of an ox which had been 
cut bv a (Jreek knife. They drank out of bronze ves- 
sels, rinsing them perpetually. And if any one acci- 
dentally touched a pig he would plunge into tlie Nile 
without stopping to undress” (llerodot. ii, 37, 41, 47). 

111. The Tenets and J ‘radices of the I‘harisees. — To 
state the. doctrines and statutes of the Pharisees is to 
give a history of orthodox Judaism; since Pharisaism 
was after the return from the Ilahyloiiian captivity, and 
is to the present day, the national faith of the orthodox 
Jews, developing itself with and adapting itself to the 
ever-shifting circumstances of the nation. See lL\n- 
iii x ism. Of the other two sects, viz. the Kssenes and 
the Sadducces, the former represented simply an inten- 
sified form of Pharisaism [sec Essknks], while the lat- 
ter were a very small minority. See S.\ni>rcnKs. The 
Pharisees, as the erudite < leiger has conclusively shown, 
were the democratic party, t lie true representatives of 
the people, whose high vocation they endeavored to 
develop by making them realize, both in their prac- 
tices and lives, that “(Jod has given to all alike the 
kingdom, priesthood, and holiness” (2 Mace, ii, 17); in 
opposition to the small caste of the priestly aristocracy 
of Sadduceea, who set. the highest value upon their spir- 
itual office, and who, by virtue of their hereditary 
rights, tried to arrogate everything to themselves, and 
manifested little sympathy with the people at large. 


Hence the Pharisaic enactments were such as to make 
the people realize that they were a people of priests, a 
holy nation; that by becoming a diligent student of the 
law, and by preparing one’s self for the otliee of a rabbi 
or teacher, every such person, though not literally of 
the priestly caste, may be a priest in spirit, and occupy 
quite as important and useful a position as if he were 
actually of the Aaronie order, and even arrange bis 
mode of life according to the example of those who 
minister in holy things. Thus the very name “2”, 
iratpia , which in olden times denotes a priestly frater- 
nity (llos. iv, 17 ; vi, 9), and was so used hv the Jews 
on the Maceabtvan coins (E"'"Trn "HI), was adopted 
by the Pharisees for their lay association. Their social 
meals were invested with a solemn character to resem- 
ble the social meals of the priests, made up from the 
sacrifices in the Temple. If the priests took care that 
the sacrifices which they offered up, and portions of 
which constituted their social meal, especially on the 
Sabbath and festivals, should he clean and without 
blemish, the Pharisees also took the utmost precaution 
that their meals should he free from the different de- 
grees of defilement : they washed before partaking 
thereof, recited prayers before and after the repast, had 
a cup of blessing, and offered incense. It is only from 
this point of view that some of the differences between 
the Pharisees and the Saddueecs can he explained: as, 
for instance, the ideal connection of places for Sabbatic 
purposes, called mixture, adopted by the former 

and rejected l>v the latter. In consequence of the rig- 
orous laws about the observance of the Sabbath (Exod. 
xvi, 29; Jer. xvii, 21, with Xeh. xiii. 15, etc.), it was 
enacted that no Israelite is to walk on the Sabbath be- 
yond a certain distance, called a Sabbath-day’s journey, 
nor carry anything from one house to another. The 
Sadducces, or priestly party, who celebrated their meals 
on the Sabbath in different places, could go from one 
place to another, and carry to and fro anything they 
liked, because they regarded these meals as constituting 
part of their priestly and sacrificial service, which set 
aside the sanctity of the Sabbath. Ihit the Pharisees, 
who made their Sabbatic repast resemble the priestly 
social meals, had to encounter difficulties arising from 
the rigorous Sabbatic laws. The distance which they 
had sometimes to walk to join a company in the social 
meal was more than a Sabbath-day's journey ; the carry- 
ing from one place to another of the things requisite for 
the solemnities was contrary to the enactments about 
the sanctity of the day. Hence they contrived the 
ideal connection of places (11""?), which was effected 
as follows: Peforc the Sabbath commenced (i. e. Friday 
afternoon), an article of food was deposited by each 
member in the court selected for the social gathering, 
so that it might thereby become the common place for 
all ; the streets were made to form one large dwelling- 
place with different gates, by moans of beams laid across 
on the tops of the houses, and doors or gates put in the 
front; and meals were put in a house at the end of the 
distance permitted to walk, in order to constitute it a 
domicile, and thus another Sabbath-day's journey could 
lie undertaken from the first terminus. Py this means 
the Pharisees could evade the law, and, like the priests, 
meet together in any place to celebrate their social 
meals on the Sabbath, and carry anything that was 
wanted for its sacred festival, as they had three common 
meals on the Sabbath (J *”*'-). On the I’ri- 

day eve the entrance of the Sabbath was greeted with 
a cup of wine, or the cup of blessing, over which every 
member recited benedict ions ', expressing the 

holiness of the day as well as the holiness of Israel, 
whom (Jod sanctified to himself and made a people of 
priests, a royal nation; and tlnn the sacred and social 
meal was eaten. The second meal was eaten on noon 
of the Sabbath, and the third began with the setting 
sun, and in the middle of it the Sabbath departed 


PHARISEE 


11 


PHARISEE 


When lights were kindled a blessing was again pro- 
nounced over a cup of wine (“bri-fl), and burning in- 
cense was offered up to accompany the exit of the holy 
day, which was regarded as a departing friend. The 
paschal meal was the model for these social and sacred 
repasts. But the light in which this very model sacri- 
fice is to be viewed was a point of dispute between the 
priestly party or the Sadducees and the Pharisees. Be- 
cause the paschal lamb formed the social meal of the 
laity, the priestly party maintained that it is not to be 
regarded as a sacrifice for the congregation, urging in 
support of their notion the fact that the lambs were not 
numerically fixed like the other sacrifices in the Tem- 
ple, but were regulated according to the number of 
families, and that they must therefore be viewed simply 
as family sacrifices, to be eaten by the respective own- 
ers, and must not set aside the sanctity of the Sabbath, 
i. e. ought not to be offered on the 14th of Nisan, if the 
first day of the Passover falls on the Sabbath, llillel, 
however, or the Pharisaic party whom he represented, 
succeeded in carrying their point, and in putting the 
sacred but private offerings of the Passover on an equal- 
ity with the Temple sacrifices, and it was ordained, in op- ; 
position to the priestly party, that they are to set aside 
the sanctity of the Sabbath ; thus making the social 
family meal of the laity, which the Passover constituted, 
as sacred as the fraternal meal of the priests, consisting 
of the sacred sacrifices offered in the Temple ( Jerusalem 
Pesachim , cap. vi; Babylon Pesachim, 6(5 a; Geiger, Jit- ■ 
dische Zeitschrift [Breslau, 1863], ii, 42 scp). Having 
carried this point, the Pharisees also gave to their meals 
of the Sabbath and other holy days a sacrificial charac- 
ter after the model of the Passover. 

As a people of priests and kings, the Pharisees con- 
sidered themselves the guardians of the divine law and 
the ancestral customs, trusting implicitly that he who 
selected them to be his peculiar people would protect 
and shield them and theirs from all outward dangers 
which threatened the state. They were firmly pene- 
trated by the conviction that as long as they were 
faithful to their God no power on earth, however for- 
midable, would be permitted successfully to ravish his 
holy heritage. 1 Ience they repudiated the time-serving 
policy of the aristocratic Sadducees, who maintained 
that a man’s destiny was in his own hands, and that 
human ingenuity and state-craft ought to be resorted to 
in political matters. 

Practically, Josephus represents the Pharisees as lead- 
ing a temperate life, renouncing both excessive riches 
and immoderate pleasure, and striving above all to ac- 
quire a knowledge of that law and to practice those 
precepts which would fit them for the life to come (.4?<<. 
xviii, 1, 3); the same may be seen from the following 
declaration of the Talmud: “The more flesh on the 
body the more worms [when it is dead], the more riches 
the more cares, the more wives the more witches, the 
more handmaids the more uuehastitv, the more man- 
servants the more robbery; but the more meditation in 
the divine law the better the life, the more schooling 
the more knowledge, the more counsel the more intel- 
ligence, the more benevolence the more satisfaction ; he 
who acquires a good name acquires it for himself in 
this world, but he who acquires a knowledge of the di- 
vine law acquires for himself life in the world to come” 
(.4 both, ii, 17). In aiding the people to realize their 
high vocation, and to prepare themselves for the king- 
dom of heaven by obedience to the divine law, the 
Pharisees endeavored to facilitate that obedience by 
putting a mild interpretation upon some of the rigorous 
Mosaic enactments, and to adapt them to ever-changing 
circumstances. Thus they explain the expression n^33, 
carcass, in Lev. vii, 24, literally, and maintain that the 
statute in the verse in question only declares the Jlesh 
of an animal which was torn and died a natural death 
to be defiling by contact, but not the skin, bones, etc.; 
and that, except the human corpse and the dead bodies 


of a few reptiles in which the skin and flesh are to a 
certain extent identical, the skin and bones of all ani- 
mals, whether clean and legally slaughtered for meat, or 
unclean and dying accidentally, do not defile, but may 
be made up into parehment, different utensils, etc. The 
haughty and aristocratic Sadducees, on the other hand, 
who stood on their priestly dignity, and cared little for 
the comforts of the people, took the term flbi: in the 
unnatural sense of an animal approaching the condition 
of becoming a carcass, i. e. being so weak that it must 
soon expire, and maintained that an animal in such a 
condition may be slaughtered before it breathes its last ; 
that its flesh must then be considered as a carcass, and is 
defiling, while the fat, skin, bones, etc., may be used for 
divers purposes ( Jerusalem Alegilla, i,9; Babylon Sab- 
bath, 108 «). It requires but little reflection to perceive 
how materially and divergently these different views 
must have affected the whole state of society, when it 
is remembered that according to the Sadducees the 
touching of any book written upon the parchment made 
from the skin of an unclean animal, or contact with one 
of the numerous utensils made from the leather, bones, 
veins, etc., of animals not Leviticallv clean and not 
legally slaughtered, imparted defilement. Again, the 
Pharisees, with a due regard for the interests of the 
people, and following the requirements of the time, ex- 
plained the right of retaliation, “eye for eye, tooth for 
tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,” etc. (Exud. xxi, 23, 
etc.'), as requiring pecuniary compensation, while the 
Sadducees took it literally (Baba Kama, 83 b; 84 a, b; 
Megillath Taanifh, cap. iv, Tosephta). The same con- 
sideration for the spiritual and temporal well-being of 
the people led the Pharisees to enact that in eases of 
danger, when the prescribed prayers cannot be offered, 
they are to offer a short prayer as follows: “Do thy 
will in heaven above, and give peace of mind to those 
who fear thee on earth, and whatsoever pleaseth thee 
do. Blessed art thou, O Lord, who hearest prayer!” 
(Bent both, 29 b). What a striking resemblance be- 
tween this and some parts of the Lord's prayer! It was 
this humane and pious care for the interests of the peo- 
ple that made the Pharisees so popular and beloved, and 
accounts for the remark of Josephus that they had such 
influence with the multitude that if they said anything 
against a king or a high-priest they were at once be- 
lieved (.1 nt. xiii, 10, 5). 

On a few leading theological points the Pharisees 
were decidedly pronounced, ami to these we particularly 
call attention, as they were largely influential under the 
Christian economy. 

a. In regard to a future state , Josephus presents the 
ideas of the Pharisees in such a light to his Greek read- 
ers that, whatever interpretation his ambiguous lan- 
guage might possibly admit, he obviously would have 
produced the impression on Greeks that the Pharisees 
believed in the transmigration of souls. Thus his state- 
ment respecting them is, “They say that every soul is 
imperishable, but that the souls of good men only pass 
over (or transmigrate) into another body — pfrajiuivfiv 
ttg e repot' mop a — while the souls of bad men are chas- 
tised by eternal punishment” ( IPw, ii, 8, 14; comp, iii, 8, 
5 ; A nt. xviii, 1,3; and Biittcher, De Inferis, p. 519, 552). 
There are two passages in the Gospels which might 
countenance this idea : one in Matt, xiv, 2, where Herod 
the tetrarch is represented as thinking that Jesus was 
John the I>aptist risen from the dead (though a differ- 
ent color is given to Herod’s thoughts in the corre- 
sponding passage, Luke ix, 7-9); and another in John 
ix, 2, where the question is put to Jesus whether the 
blind man himself had sinned, or his parents, that he 
was born blind ? Notwithstanding these passages, how- 
ever, there does not appear to he sufficient reason for 
doubting that the Pharisees believed in a resurrection 
of the dead very much in the same sense as the early 
Christians. This is most in accordance with Paiil’s 
[ statement to the chief priests and council (Acts xxiii, 


PHARISEE 


PHARISEE 


6) that he was a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee, and 
that he was called in question for the hope and resur- 
rection of the dead — a statement which would have 
been peculiarly disingenuous if the Pharisees had merely 
believed in the transmigration of souls; and it is like- 
wise almost implied in Christ’s teaching, which does not 
insist on the doctrine of a future life as anything new. 
but assumes it as already adopted by his hearers, ex- 
cept bv the Sadducees, although he condemns some un- 
spiritual conceptions of its nature as erroneous (Matt, 
xxii, 30; Mark xii, 25; Luke xx, 34-315). On this 
head the Mishua is an illustration of the ideas in the 
Gospels, as distinguished from any mere transmigration 
of souls; and the peculiar phrase “the world to come,” 
of which o alujv 6 ip\ofitvo£ was undoubtedly only 
the translation, frequently occurs in it (S2J1 E?"*!"!, 
Aboth, ii, 7 ; iv, 1 G ; comp. Mark x, 30 ; Luke xviii, 30). 
This phrase of Christians, which is anterior to Chris- 
tianity, hut which does not occur in the O. T., though 
fully justified by certain passages to be found in some 
of its latest books, is essentially different from Greek 
conceptions on the same subject; and generally, in con- 
tradistinction to the purely temporal blessings of the 
Mosaic legislation, the Christian ideas that this world 
is a state of probation, and that every one after death 
will have to render a strict account of his actions, were 
expressed by Pharisees in language which it is impos- 
sible to misunderstand: “This world may be likened to 
a court-yard in comparison of the world to come ; there- 
fore prepare thyself in the antechamber that thou may- 
est enter into the dining-room” (A both, iv, 10). “Ev- 
erything is given to man on security, and a net is 
spread over every living creature; the shop is open, 
and the merchant credits; the book is open, and the 
hand records; and whosoever chooses to borrow' may 
come and borrow: for the collectors are continually go- 
ing around daily, and obtain payment of man, whether 
with his consent or without it; and the judgment is 
true justice; and all arc prepared for the feast” (iii, 1 G ). 
“Those who are born are doomed to die, the dead to 
live, and t lie quick to be judged: to make us know, 
understand, and he informed that he is God: he is the 
Former, Creator, Intelligent Ueing, Judge, Witness, and 
suing party, and will judge thee hereafter. Messed be 
he; for in his presence there is no unrighteousness, for- 
getfulness, respect of persons, nor acceptance of a bribe; 
for everything is his. Know also that everything is 
done according to the account, and let not thine evil 
imagination persuade thee that the grav.e is a place of 
refuge Ibr thee: for against thy will wast thou formed, 
and against thy will wast thou horn ; and against thy 
will dost thou live, and against thy will wilt thou die; 
and against thy will must thou hereafter render an ac- 
count, and receive judgment, in the presence of the Su- 
preme King of kings, the Holy God, blessed is In*” (iv, 
22). Still it must be borne in mind that the actions of 
which such a strict account was to be rendered were 
not merely those referred to by the spiritual prophets 
Isaiah and Micah (Isa. i, 1G, 17; Mic. vi, «), nor even 
those enjoined in the Pentateuch, but included those 
fabulously supposed to have been orally transmitted by 
Moses on Mount Sinai, and the whole body of the tra- 
ditions of t he elders. They included, in fact, all those 
ceremonial “works," against the efficacy of which, in 
the deliverance of the human soul, Paul so emphatically 
protested. See Kknckkkctjox. 

b. In reference to the opinions of the Pharisees con- 
cerning the freedom of the will, a difficulty arises from 
the very prominent position which they occupy in the 
accounts of Josenlms. whereas nothing vitally essential 
to the peculiar doctrines of the Pharisees seems to de- 
pend on those opinions, and some of his expressions are 
Greek, rather than Hebrew. “There were three sects 
of the Jews,” he says, “which had dillerent conceptions 
respecting human affairs, of which one was called Phar- 
isees, the second Sadducees, and the third Ksscncs. The 


Pharisees say that some things, and not all things, arc 
the work of fate; but that some things are-in our own 
power to be and not to be. But the Essenes declare 
that fate rules all things, and that nothing happens to 
man except by its decree. The Sadducees, on the other 
hand, take away fate, holding that it is a thing of 
naught, and that human affairs do not depend upon it ; 
but in their estimate all things are in the power of our- 
selves, as being ourselves the causes of our good things, 
and meeting with evils through our own inconsiderate- 
ness” {Ant. xviii, ], 3; comp. MW, ii, K, 14). On read- 
ing this passage, and the others which hear on the 
same subject in Josephus's works, the suspicion natu- 
rally arises that he was biassed by a desire to make the 
Greeks believe that, like the Greeks, the Jews had phil- 
osophical sects among themselves. At any rate his 
words do not represent the opinions as they were really 
held by the three religious parties. We may feel cer- 
tain that the influence ol 'fate was not the point on 
which discussions respecting free-will turned, though 
there may have been differences as to the way in which 
the interposition of (lod in human affairs was to be 
regarded. Thus the ideas of the Essenes arc likely 
to have been expressed in language approaching the 
words of Christ (Matt, x, 29, 30; vi, 23, 34), and it is 
very difficult to believe that the .Sadducees, who ac- 
cepted the authority of the Pentateuch and other books 
of the O. T., excluded God, in their conception, from all 
influence on human actions. On the whole, in reference 
to this point, the opinion of Griitz ((Jeschichte der .Juden, 
iii, 509) seems not improbable, that the real difference 
between the Pharisees and Sadducees was at first prac- 
tical and political, lie conjectures that the wealthy 
and aristocrat ical Sadducees in their wars and negotia- 
tions with the Syrians entered into matters of policy 
and calculations of prudence, while the zealous Phari- 
sees, disdaining worldly wisdom, laid stress on doing 
what seemed right, and on leaving the event to God; 
and thaL this led to differences in formal theories and 
metaphysical statements. The precise nature of those 
differences we do not certainly know, as no writing of a 
Sadducee on the subject has l>cen preserved by the Jews, 
and on matters of this kind it is unsafe to trust unre- 
servedly the statements of an adversary. 

<\ In reference to the spirit of proselytism among the 
Pharisees, there is indisputable authority for the state- 
ment that it prevailed to a very great extent at the 
time of Christ (Alatt. xxiii. 15) ; and attention is now 
called to it on account of its probable importance in 
having paved the way for the early diffusion of Chris- 
tianity. The district of Palestine, which was long in 
proportion to its breadth, and which yet, from Dan to 
Beersheba. was only 1(50 Boman miles, or not quite l-l« 
English miles long, and which is represented as having 
been civilized, wealthy, and populous 1000 years before 
Christ, would under any circumstances have been too 
small to continue maintaining the whole growing popu- 
lation of its children. But, through kidnapping (Joel 
iii, »!), through leading into captivity l>v military in- 
cursions and victorious enemies (2 Kings xvii, G; xviii, 
11 ; xxiv, 15; Amos i, G, 9), through flight (Jer. xliii, 
1-7), through commerce (Josephus, .4??/. xx, 2, 3), and 
probably through ordinary emigration, Jews at the time 
of t 'hrist. had become scattered over the fairest portions 
of the civilized world. On the day of Pentecost, that 
great festival on which the Jews suppose Moses to have 
brought the perfect law down from heaven {Festival 
Prayers for Pentecost, p. G), Jews are said to have been 
assembled with one accord in one place in Jerusalem, 
“from every region under heaven.” Admitting that 
this was an Oriental hyperbole (comp. John xsi, 25), 

1 there must have been some foundation for it in fact ; 
and the enumeration of the various countries from which 
Jews are said to have been present gives a vivid idea 
of the widely-spread existence of Jewish communities. 
Now it is not unlikely, though it cannot be proved from 
Josephus (.1 nt. xx, 2, 3), that missions and organized 


PHARISEE 


73 


PHARISEE 


attempts to produce conversions, although unknown to 
Greek philosophers, existed among the Pharisees (De 
Wette, Exegetisches Ilandbuch , Matt, xxiii, 15). But, 
at any rate, the then existing regulations or customs of 
synagogues afforded facilities which do not exist now 
either in synagogues or Christian churches for present- 
ing new views to a congregation (Acts xvii, 2; Luke 
iv, 1G). Under such auspices the proselytizing spirit 
of the Pharisees inevitably stimulated a thirst for in- 
quiry, and accustomed the Jews to theological contro- 
versies. Thus there existed precedents ami favoring 
circumstances for efforts to make proselytes, when the 
greatest of all missionaries, a Jew by race, a Pharisee by 
education, a Greek by language, and a Roman citizen 
by birth, preaching the resurrection of Jesus to those 
who for the most part already believed in the resurrec- 
tion of the dead, confronted the elaborate ritual-system 
of the written and oral law by a pure spiritual religion; 
and thus obtained the co-operation of many Jews them- 
selves in breaking down every barrier between Jew, 
Pharisee, Greek, and Roman, and in endeavoring to 
unite all mankind by the brotherhood of a common 
Christianity. Sec Phoselytk. 

IV. Origin, Development, Classes, and general Char- 
acter of the Pharisees . — The name does not occur either 
in the O. T. or in the Apocrypha; but it is usually con- 
sidered that the Pharisees were essentially the same 
with the Assidaeans (i. e. chasidim “ godly men, saints) 
mentioned in 1 Macc. ii, 42; vii, 13-17 ; and in 2 Macc. 
xiv, G. Those who admit the existence of Maccabtean 
Psalms find allusion to the Assidieans in Psa. Ixxix, 2; 
xcvii, 10; cxxxii, 0, 1G; cxlix, 9. where chasidim is 
translated “saints” in the A.V. (see FUrst, Ilandiovrfer- 
buch, i, 420 6). After the return from the Babylonian 
captivity the priesthood formed the centre of the new 
religious life, and the pious in Israel who were anxious 
to practice the commandments of the Lord naturally 
attached themselves to the divinely -appointed and 
time-honored tribe of Levi. Besides the keeping pure 
from intermarriage with heathen, great and vital im- 
portance was attached to the setting aside of the soil 
and Temple taxes (Neh. x, 33, 36, etc.; Eeclus. vii, 31 ; 
xlv, 20; Tobit i, 6; v, 13; Judith xi, 13; 1 Macc. iii, 
49), to the due observance of the Sabbath (Neh. x, 31 ; 
xiii, 19), the three pilgrim festivals, viz. the Passover 
(2 Chron. xxx; xxxv; Ezra vi, 19-22), Pentecost (To- 
bit ii, 1), and Tabernacles (Neh. viii, 14), as well as the 
Sabbatic year (Neh. x, 31 ; l Macc. vi, 49, 53), and to the 
abstinence from unclean food. He who allied himself 
to the national party with the solemn resolve to keep 
those ancestral laws divinely given to the nation was 
called “one who had separated himself unto them from 
the impurity of the country people” (Ezra vi, 21), or 
“one who had separated himself for the law of the Lord 
from the country people” (ix. 1 ; x, 1 1 ; Neh. ix, 2; x, 
28). Hence the phrase ■ ( , 3 ^23, “separated from,” 
obtained during this period a party signification. This 
name became the standing appellation for those who 
had thus separated themselves for the service of God, 
and continued to be the conservators of their ancestral 
religion, as may be seen from the taunt of the anti- 
national party, who w r arned them to join the Greek 
party, telling them in the days of the Maccabees that 
“since we have separated from them ( ixejpiaxgntv dir’ 
avrwv, the translation of b^723) many evils have come 
upon us” (1 Macc. i, 11). Those wdio yielded to the 
temptation, and. relinquishing the national party, joined 
the antinational portion, were denominated (2^2r!i) 
the mixed (Ezra ix, 1), or (2 j2) the mixture (Neh. xiii, 
3). Hence the period before Alcimus was afterwards 
regarded as the non-mixtu?'e (a/ui-ia), while his own 
was looked upon as the mixture (iiripiZ,, 2 .Macc. xiv, 3, 
38). Afterwards, when the priestly party, or the Kad- 
ducees, who w r ere at first the centre of the national 
movement, assumed a haughty position, stood upon 
their sacerdotal dignity, cared little for the real spirit- 


ual and temporal wants of the people, but only sought 
their own aggrandizement and preservation, allying 
themselves for this purpose with foreign nations, and 
espousing antinational sentiments, the real national 
portion of the people united themselves more firmly 
than ever, independently of the priests, to keep the law, 
and to practice their ancestral customs; and it is this 
party whom the opposite section called by the Aramaic 
name ‘j' r 33 : PS — <t>0|0<<7CMoi, instead of its original He- 
brew equivalent 2"b'723, the separated (Ezra vi, 21 ; ix, 
1 ; x, 1 1 : Neh. ix, 2 ; x, 28). 

In the time of queen Alexandra (q. v.) the Pharisees 
attained almost supreme power. By the appearance of 
piety and thorough knowledge of the law, which they 
well knew how to affect (set as even to pass lor prophets, 
Josephus, Ant. xvii, 2, 4), the Pharisees at an early day 
secured the popular favor (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 10, 5; 
xiii, 15, 5; xviii, 1,3; 1 Var, i, 5,2; comp. Luke xi, 43), 
and that of the women (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 2,4, where, 
however, only the w'ives of king Herod are spoken of; 
but comp. Lightfoot, Ilor. Hebr. p. 230 sq.), and thereby 
acquired considerable political influence, which became 
very manifest even during the history of the Jewish 
dynasty (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 10, 6; xiii, 16, 2; War, t, 
5, 2). This influence became greatly increased by the 
extension of the Pharisees over the whole land ( Luke v, 
17), and the majority which they composed in the San- 
hedrim (comp. Acts v, 34; xxiii, G sq.). In political 
conflicts they generally followed democratic principles, 
and sometimes carried them to an extreme, trusting to 
their combined influence for success. (Their number 
reached more than six thousand under the Ilerods, Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xvii, 2, 4.) Many of them must have suf- 
fered death for political agitation (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 
2, 4). In the time of Christ they were divided doetri- 
nally into several schools, among which those of llillel 
and Shammai were most noted, the former being more 
moderate, the latter more strict, in their observances. 
Of the history of the Pharisees after the resurrection of 
Christ and the foundation of the Christian Church little 
need be said. Their opposition to the Gospel continued 
as eager as before, and, though they are seldom men- 
tioned by name in the Acts of the Apostles, that opposi- 
tion is frequently brought before us when “the council” 
is spoken of (Acts iv, 15 ; v, 27 ; vi. 12; xxii, 30; comp, 
xxiii, 6). That “council” is the Sanhedrim, and of the 
seveutv-two doctors of which it was composed, the more 
influential part appears to have consisted of Pharisees. 
We see then the same spirit of enmity to Christian truth 
manifested by it as had been displayed during the life 
of the Redeemer; and the history of Paul before his con- 
version is only a more marked illustration than ordinary 
of the manner in which the whole body would have 
“persecuted the Church of God and wasted it.” It is 
not to be imagined that this enmity would abate as the 
infant Church grew stronger. Everything that we 
know of human nature and religious bigotry leads to 
the opposite conclusion; and in the terrible fanaticism 
with which, when Titus besieged Jerusalem, the Jewish 
people rushed upon their fate, in the unflinching zeal 
which they displayed, in the desperate efforts which 
they made to avert the destruction which was “the 
wrath come upon them to the uttermost,” and in the 
awful frenzy with which they sacrificed themselves amid 
their falling palaces and burning Temple, it is impossi- 
ble not to recognise the last convulsive outburst of Phar- 
isaic heroism and despair. 

With the definitions and explanations of such an ex- 
tensive and gorgeous ritual as that of the Mosaic law, 
with the application and adaptation thereof to all the 
vicissitudes of the commonwealth, with the different 
degrees of holiness ami uncleanness attached to the per- 
formance or neglect of each precept and rite, with the 
diverse dispositions and idiosyncrasies of the multitude 
about the respective merits of outward observances and 
a corresponding inward feeling, the Pharisees would 


PHARISEE 


74 


PHARISEE 


have been superhuman if they had escaped the ex- | 
travagances which in the course of time have more or I 
less developed themselves in the established religions J 
based upon a more spiritual code and a less formal rit- j 
ual. Thus the enactment that “the flesh of quadra- j 
peds must not be cooked or in any way mixed with | 
milk for food,” deduced from injunctions in Exod. xxiii, 
If); xxxiv, 2«i; Dent, xiv, 21 ; or the enactment about 
“the compulsory recitation of the Schema twice a day,” , 
i. e. the declaration about the unity of t he Deity (I)eut. 
vi, 1 9), at a stated time; or the discussion on “the 
lighting of caudles on the eve of the Sabbath,” which is 
the duty of every Jew ; or “ the interdict to eat an egg 
which iiad been laid oil any feast-day, whether sucli 
da}' was or was not the day after the Sabbath,” has its 
parallel in other and later systems. The Christian 
Church, without any basis for it in the N. T., lias at 
times employed a casuistry which may fairly compete 
with that of the Pharisees, who had to define an in- 
spired code of minute rites and ceremonies. From Pe- 
ter Lombard to tlabriel Biel the question was warmly 
discussed among all the Christian casuists, What is to 
he done with a mouse which has eaten of the conse- 
crated wafer? The Established Church of England has 
deduced from the words “ Let all things be done de- 
cently and according to order” (1 Cor. xv, 40) the petty 
regulation that “no man shall cover his head in the 
church or chapel in the time of divine service, except 
he have some infirmity, in which case let him wear a 
nightcap or coif” (Constitutions and Canons Pcclesiasti- 
cuf, xviii) ; has enacted that “ no minister, when he col- , 
ebrateth the communion, shall wittingly administer the 
same to any but to such as kneel, under pain of suspen- 
sion” (iZuV/.xxvii) ; that” upon Wednesdays and Fridays 
weekly, though they be not holy-days, the minister, at 
the accustomed hours of service, shall resort to the 
church or chapel, and, warning being given to the peo- 
ple by tolling of a bell, shall say the litany prescribed 
in the Book of Common Prayer: w hereunto we wish 
every householder dwelling within half a mile of the 
church to come or send one at, the least of his household 
fit to join with the minister in prayers” (xv); and that 
“no ecclesiastical person shall wear any coif or wrought 
nightcap, but only plain nightcaps of black silk, satin, 
or velvet; ... in private houses and in their studies 
the said persons ecclesiastical may use any comely and 
scholar-like apparel, provided that it be not cut or 
pinkt; and that in public they go not in their doublet 
and hose, without coats or cassocks; and that they wear 
not any light-colored stockings” (lxxiv). This, how- 
ever, only sliows the tendency of all ritualism to degrade 
the human, intellect by minute requisitions. That the 
multitudinous ami detailed rites ami ceremonies imposed 
by the .Mosaic law, and amplified by the requirements 
of time, should have given rise among many Phar- 
isees to formalism, outward religiousness, self-compla- 
cency, ostentation, superstition, and hypocrisy, was to 
be expected, judging from the general tendency of gor- 
geous ritualism in more modern days. A learned Jew 
charges against them rather the holiness of works than 
hypocritical holiness (“ Werkheiligkeit, nicht Seheiu- 
heiligkeit,” llcrzfeld, (ieschichte des Voltes Israel, iii, 
359). At any rate they must be regarded as having 
been some of the most intense formalists whom the 
world has ever seen ; and, looking at the average stand- 
ard of excellence among mankind, it is nearly certain 
that men whose lives were spent in the ceremonial ob- 
servances of the Mislina would cherish feelings of self- 
complacency ami spiritual pride not justified by intrinsic 
moral excellence. The supercilious contempt towards 
the poor publican. and towards the tender penitential love 
that bathed Christ's feet with tears, would he the natu- 
ral result of such a system of life. We are therefore 
not surprised that our Saviour saw these pernicious 
features in tiie ranks of Pharisaism, and that lie found 
occasion to expose and to reprove most unsparingly 
their externalism (Matt, xxiii, 27; Luke vii, 39) aud 


hypocrisy (Matt, xxiii, 13). But to conclude from this 
that all the Pharisees were cither self-righteous and su- 
perstitious, or a set of hypocrites, is as unjust as it 
would he to brand every section in modern churches 
with the infirmities and extravagances of which indi- 
vidual members are guilty, and which are either de- 
nounced hv their own more enlightened and spirit uallv- 
mimled brethren, or exposed by the opposing sections. 
The language which the Pharisees themselves em- 
ployed to denounce the proud, the formalists, the self- 
righteous, and the hypocrites in their own sect, is, to 
say the least, quite as strong as that which our Sav- 
iour used. In continuation of this, we need only give 
the poignant Talmudic classification of the Pharisees. 
“ There are seven kinds of Pharisees,” says the Talmud : 
“ 1. The Sheehemite Pharisee ("'ll— who sim- 

ply keeps the law for what lie can profit thereby, just 
as Shcchem submitted to the rite of circumcision that 
lie might thereby obtain Dinah, the daughter of Jacob 
(den. xxxiv, 19); 2. The Tumbling Pharisee (-'" 
"'Spi), who, in order to appear humble before men, 
always hangs down his head, and scarcely lifts up his 
feet when he walks, so that he constantly tumbles; 
3. The Bleeding Pharisee ("X*'p who, in 

order not to look at a woman, walks about with his 
eyes closed, and hence injures bis head frequently, 
so that he has bleeding wounds ; 4. The Mortar 
Pharisee (X"r”7~ -’“D, who wears a cap in the 
form of a mortar to cover his eyes, that he may not sec 
any impurities and indecencies; 5. The. \\'hat-um-J-yet- 
to-do Pharisee (T Z,T. I"!~ f! ” N w'*2), who, not 
knowing much about tbc law, as soon as he has done 
one thing, asks, ‘What is my duty now? and I will do it’ 
(comp. Mark x, 17-22); G. The Pharisee from Pear 
(Hit— - who keeps the law because he is afraid 

of a future judgment; and 7. The Pharisee from Lore 
(n-nxi —I" 2), who obeys the Lord because lie loves 
him with all his heart” (Babylon Botn, 22 b; comp. Je- 
rusalem Berachoth, cap. ix). It must also be admitted 
that it was among the Pharisees the glorious ideas were 
developed about the Messiah, the kingdom of heaven, 
the immortality of the soul, the world to come, etc. It 
was the Pharisees who, to some extent at least, trained 
such men as the immortal Ilillel, “ the just and devout 
Simeon, who waited for the consolation of Israel,” ami 
who, taking up the infant Saviour into his arms, offered 
up thanks to (iod (Luke ii, 25-35 V. Zacliarias. “who 
was righteous before (Iod” (i, G): (lamalicl. the teach- 
er of Saul of Tarsus; Paul, the great apostle of the 
(lentiles, etc. Our Saviour himself occupied Pharisaic 
ground, and used the arguments of t lie Pharisees in 
vindication of his conduct, and doctrines. Thus, when 
Jesus was charged by the Pharisees with allowing his 
disciples to break the Sabbath by plucking ears of corn 
in the field on this holy day. lie quoted the very maxim 
of the Pharisees that “the Sabbath is made for man, 
and not man for the Sabbath” (Mark ii, 27 ; comp. 
Jomu, S5 h) ; ami his proof is deduced according to the 
Pharisaic exegetical rule denominated n~T5, anal- 
ogy. When David was hungry, lie ate of the priestly 
bread, ami also gave some to those who were with him. 
Accordingly one who is hungry may satisfy his hunger 
with that which is otherwise only allowed to the priests. 
Now the priests perform all manner of work on the 
Sabbath without incurring the guilt of transgression; 
why, then, should one who is hungry not be allowed to 
do the same? (Matt, xii, 1 7). We only add that the 
apostle Paul, who must have known all the demmeia- 
t ions of Christ against the Pharisees, never uttered a 
disrespectful word against this sect, hut, on the contra- 
ry,' made it a matter of Imast that lie belonged to them 
(Acts xxiii, 6; xxvi, 5; Phil. iii. 5\ Yet candor must 
acknowledge that great moral derelictions in practice 
often coexist with much that is beautiful in theory; 


PHARISEE 


75 


PHARISEE 


and the uneontradieted rebukes of our Saviour against 
the Pharisees of his time prove an enormous depravity 
on their part. He denounced them in the bitterest, lan- 
guage ; and in the sweeping charges of hypocrisy which 
he made against them as a class, he might even, at first 
sight, seem to have departed from that spirit of meek- 
ness, of gentleness in judging others, and of abstinence 
from the imputation of improper motives, which is one 
of the most characteristic and original charms of his 
own precepts. See Matt. xv, 7, 8; xxiii, 5, 13-15, 23; 
Mark vii, G; Luke xi, 42-44; and comp. Matt, vii, 1-5; 
xi, 29; xii, 19, 20; Luke vi, 28, 37-42. Indeed, it is 
difficult to avoid the conclusion that his repeated de- 
nunciations of the Pharisees mainly exasperated them 
into taking measures for causing his death ; so that in 
one sense he may be said to have shed his blood, and to 
have laid down his life in protesting against their prac- 
tice and spirit. (See especially verses 53 and 54 in the 
11th chapter of Luke, which follow immediately upon 
the narration of what he said while dining with a Phar- 
isee.) Hence to understand the Pharisees is, by con- 
trast, an aid towards understanding the spirit of uncor- 
rupted Christianity. This divergence is so wide and 
fundamental that we shall best apprehend the genius of 
Phariseeism by developing the contrast somewhat in de- 
tail (see Delitzsch, Jesus und II illd [Erlangen, 18G6]). 

(1.) In relation to the O.-T. dispensation, it was the 
Saviour’s great effort to unfold the principles which 
had lain at the bottom of that dispensation, and, carry- 
ing them out to their legitimate conclusions, to “fulfil 
the law” (7r/\?/pw(mi, Matt, v, 17, to “ fulfil,” not, as too 
often supposed to mean, to “confirm”). But, in con- 
trast to this, the Pharisees taught such a servile ad- 
herence to the letter of the law, that its remarkable 
character as a pointing forward to something higher 
than its letter was completely overlooked, and that its 
moral preeepts, intended to elevate men, and to lead 
them on to the thought of a moral stage more glorious 
than that at which they then stood, were made rather 
the instruments of contracting and debasing their ideas 
of morality. Thus, strictly adhering to the letter, “Thou 
shalt not kill,” they regarded anger and all hasty passion 
as legitimate (Matt, v, 21,22). Adhering with equal 
strietness to the words *• Thou shalt not commit adul- 
tery,” all impure thoughts and deeds which fell short 
of this were considered by them to be allowable (Matt, 
v, 27, 28). And, once more, acquiescing in the letter, 
“Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her 
a letter of divorcement,” they so interpreted the precept 
that, if only a letter of divorcement were given, a wife 
might be put away for any cause however trifling 
(Matt, v, 31, 32). Thus, the whole spirit of the O.-T. 
dispensation was misunderstood by them. They did 
not see that it was adapted to a particular stage in the 
history of man; that its merit consisted, not in being 
perfeet, but in being better than what would have 
existed without it; and that it contained in itself the 
pledge that it must one day yield, as a system, to the 
full evolution of those principles at which it aimed, and 
to which, from time to time, it gave expression. When 
accordingly lie came, whose great effort it was to break 
through the letter, in order that he might set free the 
spirit, which the circumstances of men had rendered it 
necessary to enclose and confine for a season, their 
hearts were steeled from the first against him, and they 
attacked him as a blasphemer against the God of Israel 
and his law. 

(2.) While it was the aim of Jesus to call men to the 
law of God itself as the supreme guide of life, the Phar- 
isees multiplied minute precepts and distinctions to 
such an extent, upon the pretence of maintaining it in- 
tact, that the whole life of the Israelite was hemmed in 
and burdened on every side by instructions so numer- 
ous and trifling that the law was almost, if not whol- 
ly, lost sight of. These “ traditions,” as they were 
called, had long been gradually accumulating. Their 
objeet may in the first instance have been a good one. 


The law had been given under circumstances very dif- 
ferent from those in which the Jewish people found 
themselves more and more placed as the Christian a;ra 
approached. The relations of life had been far simpler; 
the influence exerted over Israel by neighboring nations 
less refined; while the national authorities, except in 
times when the worship of the true God was altogether 
thrown aside, had united in keeping all admixture of 
foreign elements at a distance. That was no longer 
possible, and it became almost necessary therefore to 
explain the application of the law to the changed and 
ever-changing condition of the people (comp. Bollinger, 
Christ enf hum und Judenthum, p. 750). Commenting 
upon the law therefore was unavoidable ; and many of 
the comments given were no doubt really what they 
w’ere designed to be, “a fenee to the law'." But these 
“fences” too soon assumed, as indeed it was natural 
that they should, an importance superior to that of the 
law itself, while at the same time they were continually 
increasing in number, till at last a complete system of 
easuistry was formed, in which the most minute inci- 
dents of life were embraced, and which rendered the 
very eoneeption of broad and general principles of duty 
an impossibility. Of the trifling character of these 
regulations innumerable instances are to be found in 
the Mishna, but, as it is not quite clear that the Tal- 
mudieal was the same as the Pharisaic theology, we 
omit these, and remind our readers only of some of 
those mentioned in the N. T. Such, then, were their 
washings before they would eat bread, and the special 
minuteness with which the forms of this washing were 
prescribed; their bathing when they returned from the 
market , their w'ashing of cups and pots, brazen vessels, 
and couches (Mark vii, 2-4); such were their fastings 
not only at the seasons which the law prescribed, but 
twice in the w’eek (Luke xviii, 12) — on Thursday, when, 
according to their tradition, Moses had ascended Mount 
Sinai, and on Monday, w'lien he had come down from it 
(Eisenmenger, Entdecktes Judenthum , i, 311); such were 
their tithiugs, not only of the property wdiich the law 
provided should be tithed, but even of the most insig- 
nificant herbs — mint and anise and eummin (Matt, 
xxiii, 23;' comp. Luke xviii, 12); and sneh, finally, 
w’ere those minute and vexatious extensions of the law 
of the Sabbath, which must have converted God’s gra- 
cious ordinance of the Sabbath’s rest into a burden and 
a pain (Matt, xii, 1-13, Mark iii, 1-G; Luke xiii, 10-17, 
etc.). 

(3.) It was a leading aim of the Redeemer to teach 
men that true piety consisted not in forms, but in sub- 
stance; not in outward observances, but in an inward 
spirit; not in small details, but in great rules of life. 
The whole system of Pharisaic piety led to exactly op- 
posite conclusions. Under its influence “ the weightier 
matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith,” were 
undervalued and neglected (Matt, xxiii, 23; Luke xi, 
42) , the idea of religion as that which should have its 
seat in the heart disappeared (Luke xi, 38-41); the most 
sacred obligations were evaded (Mark vii, 11); vain and 
trifling questions took the place of serious inquiry into 
the great principles of duty (Matt, xix, 3, etc.) ; and even 
the most solemn truths were handled as mere matters 
of curious speculation or means to entrap an adversary 
(Matt, xxii, 35, etc., Luke xvii, 20, etc.). 

(4.) The lowliness of piety was, according to the 
teaching of Jesus, an inseparable concomitant of its re- 
ality, but the Pharisees sought mainly to attract the 
attention and to excite the admiration of men. They 
gave alms in the most ostentatious manner ; they often 
prayed standing at the corners of the streets; they dis- 
figured their faces when they fasted (Matt, vi, 2, (5, 1G). 
To draw attention to their religions zeal they made 
broad their phylacteries and enlarged the borders of 
their garments (Matt, xxiii, 5). Blind to the true 
glory of ministering to others rather than being minis- 
tered to, they sought their glory in obtaining the chief 
seats in the synagogues, the tir*t places at the tables to 


PHARMACY 


PIIARPAli 


76 


which they were invited, greetings of honor in the mar- 
kets, and the title of Uabbi, L’abbi (Matt, xxiii, 6; Luke 
xiv, 7). Indeed, the whole spirit of their religion was 
summed up, not in confession of sin and humility, but in 
a proud self-righteousness at variance with any true 
conception of man’s relation either to God or his fellow- 
creatures— t iod, I thank thee that I am not as other 
men arc, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this 
publican” (Luke xviii, 11). 

(5.) It was a natural consequence of all this, that 
with such views of the principles and spirit of religion 
its practical graces should be overthrown, and it was so. 
Christ inculcated compassion for the degraded, helpful- 
ness to the friendless, liberality to the poor, holiness of 
heart, universal love, a mind open to the truth. The 
Pharisees regarded the degraded classes of society as 
classes to be shunned, not to be won over to tbe right 
(Luke vii, 311; xv, 2; xviii, 11), and frowned from 
them such as the Iledeemer would fain have gathered 
within his fold (John vii, 4b). Instead of having com- 
passion on tbe friendless, they made them a prey (Matt, 
xxiii. 13). With all their pretences to piety, they were 
in reality avaricious, sensual, and dissolute (Matt, xxiii, 
25; John viii, 7). They looked with contempt upon 
every nation but their own (Luke x, 29). Finally, in- 
stead of endeavoring to fultil the great end of the dis- 
pensation whose truths they professed to teach, and 
thus bringing men to the Hope of Israel, they devoted 
their energies to making converts to their own narrow 
views, who, with all the zeal of proselytes, were more 
exclusive and more bitterly opposed to the truth than 
they were themselves (Matt, xxii, 15). 

In view of these facts, while acknowledging much 
that was just and commendable in their doctrines (Matt, 
xxiii, 2, 3), we arc compelled to acquiesce in that gen- 
eral judgment which has made the name of u Pharisee” 
a proverb of ecclesiastical reproach — a character too 
often reproduced under Christianity itself. 

V. Literature. — Besides the Mishna, the Talmud, and 
the Midrashitn, which embody the sentiments of the 
Pharisees, we refer to Britcker, Hist, Crit. Philosophic, 
ii, 744 759; Milman, Hist, of the Jetrs, ii. 71; Kwald, 
(ieschiehte des 1 ’olkes Israel, iv, 415-419; Biedermann, 
Pharisder vnd Sadduciier (Zur. 1854); Wellhausen, Die 
Pkurisiier mil die Saddueder (Greifsw. 1874); and the 
Jahrhuudert des Heils , p. 5, etc., of Gfrbrer, who has in- 
sisted strongly on the importance of the Mishna, and 
has made great use of the Talmud generally. Gross- 
mann has endeavored to present a harmony of the Jew- 
ish-Alcxandrine doctrines with those of the Palestine 
Pharisees in his work, JJe I'htiris. Jnd. Alexand. (Ilal. 
18IG), ii, 4; but it is very improbable that the Phari- 
sees of Palestine agreed with the Jewish philosophers 
of Alexandria in their principles, when the latter were 
adherents of Plato, and diligent students of Homer and 
Hesiod (t Irossmann, De Philos. Sadduc. iii, 8). See also 
the following works by modern learned Jews: llerz- 
feld, (jieschivhte des Volkes Israel (Xordhnusen, 1857), ii, 
258, etc.; .lost, (Ieschiehte des Judenthums uud seiner 
Merten (Leipsie, 1857), i, 197, etc.; Griitz, Cesrhiehte der 
Jnden (2d ed. ibid. 180$), iii, 72, etc., 454, etc.; and, 
above all, Geiger, Vrschrift und I’ebersetzungen der Di- 
bit (Breslau, 1857), p. 103. etc.; also in the Zeitsehrift 
der deutsrhen morgenldndischen < iesellschaft (Leipsie, 
1802), xvi, 711. etc.; and in his Jiidische Zeitsehriftfiir 
Wisscnschuft und Leben (Breslau, 1803). ii, 1 1, etc.; and 
reprinted separately (Breslau, 1803). See Ski ts, J kw- 
isii. 

Pharmacy, a name applied to the arts of the magi- 
cian and enchanter in the early ages of the Uiristian 
t’hurch. The Council of Ancvra forbade pharmacy, 
that is, the magical art of inventing and preparing 
medicaments to do mischief; and appointed live years’ 
penance for any one that receives a magician into his 
house for that purpose. Basil’s canons condemn such 
arts under the same character of pharmacy and witch- 
craft, and assigns thirty years’ penance to them. Tcr- 


tullian plainly asserts that never did a magician or en- 
chanter escape unpunished in the t’hurch. Those who 
practiced the magical art were sometimes termed phar- 
muci, and their magical potions pharmaca. See Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, ii, 054. 

Fha'rosh (Ezra viii, 3). See Parosii. 

Phar'par (Ileb. Parpad, “5“|, swift; Sept. <Pap- 
<pdp v. r. <bup<j>apd, 'A ijtapibd ; Vulg. Pharpar), one of 
the two rivers of I tamascus mentioned in the well- 
known exclamation of Xaaman, ‘‘Are not Abana and 
Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters 
of Israel?” (2 Kings v, 12). The name does not occur 
elsewhere in Scripture, nor is it found in ancient classic 
authors. Eusebius and Jerome merely state that it is a 
river of Damascus (Onomast. «. v. Farfar). Plinv savs 
that “Damascus was a place fertilized by the river 
Chrysorrlioas, which is drawn off into its meadows and 
eagerly imbibed” (v, 10); and Strabo says of this river 
that ‘‘it commences from the city and territory of Da- 
mascus, and is almost entirely drained by watercourses; 
for it supplies with water a large tract of country” (xvi, 
755). But none of these writers speak of any second 
river. Various opinions have been entertained regard- 
ing the Pharpar. Benjamin of Tudela states that, while 
the Abana runs through the city, the Pharpar runs be- 
tween the gardens and the orchards in the outskirts 
( Karli / Travels, Bohn, p. 90). He evidently refers to 
the two branches of the same river. The river Barada 
takes its rise in the upland plain of Zebdanv, at the 
base of the loftiest peak of Anti-Lebanon. Its principal 
source is a fountain called Ain Barada. It cuts through 
the central chain in a sublime gorge, and flows in a 
] deep wild glen down the eastern declivities. Its vol- 
ume is more than doubled by a large fountain called 
j Fijeh, which gushes from a cave in the side of the glen. 
The river leaves the mountains and enters the great 
plain of Damascus about three miles west of the city. 
! The main stream flows though the city; but no fewer 
than seven large canals are taken from it at different 
elevations to irrigate the surrounding orchards and gar- 
dens. The largest of those is called Sahr Taura, “the 
river Taura,” and is probably that which Benjamin of 
Tudela identified with the Pharpar (/. r.). The Arabic 
version of the Bible reads Taura for Pharpar in 2 
Kings v, 12; but the words of Xaaman manifestly im- 
ply the existence of two distinct rivers. Some have 
supposed that because the Barada has two great foun- 
tains, Xaaman alluded to these; and Dr. Wilson would 
identify the Barada with the Pharpar, and Ain Fijeh 
! with the Abana (Lands of the Bible, ii. 371, 373); but 
in reply we say that Xaaman speaks of two “rivers,” 
and not “ fountains.” See Abana. 

A short distance south of the city of Damascus flows 
the river A iraj. It has two principal sources one high 
up on the eastern side of llcrmon.just beneath the cen- 
tral peak; the other in a wild glen a few miles south- 
ward, near the romantic village of Beit Jann. The 
streams unite near Sasa, and the river flows eastward 
in a deep rocky channel, and falls into a lake, or rather 
large marsh, called Baliret Ilijaneh, about four miles 
south of the lake into which the Barada falls. Although 
the Awaj is eight miles distant from the city, yet it 
flows across the whole plain of Damascus; and large 
ancient canals drawn from it irrigate the fields and gar- 
dens almost up to the walls. The total length of tbe 
Awaj is nearly forty miles; and in volume it is about 
one fourth that of the Barada. The Barada and Awaj 
are the only rivers of any importance in the district of 
Damascus; and there can be little doubt that the for- 
mer is the Abana, and the latter the Pharpar. The 
identity of the Awaj and Pharpar was suggested by 
Munro in 1833 ( Summer Humble, ii, 54), and confirmed 
by Dr. Pobinson ( Bibliotheca Sacra. May, 1819. p. 371); 
but its sources, course, and t lie lake into which it falls, 
were first explored by Dr. Porter in the year 1852 (ibid. 
Jan. 1854, and April, 1854, p. 329). He then heard, for 


PHARE 


77 


PHASIRON 


the first time, tlie name Barbcir applied to a glen on 
the east side of Hermon, which sends a small tributary 
to the Awaj; and it seems highly probable that we 
have in this name a relic of the ancient Pharpar. The 
Arabic may be regarded as equivalent to the Hebrew 
(see Five Years in Damascus, i, 299 ; Biblioth. Sac. 1. c. 
p. 54). The mountain region round the sources of the 
river was occupied in a remote age by the warlike Ma- 
acliathites (1 Chron. xix, G, 7 ; Josh, xii, 5). Subse- 
quently it formed part of the tetrarchy of Abilene (Luke 

iii, 1 ; Josephus, Ant. xix, 5, 1). Farther down, the 
river Pharpar divided the territory of Damascus from 
Burma (q. v.). The whole district through which the 
river flows is now called Wady el-Ajam, “ the valley of 
the Persians;” the scenery is bare and mountainous, but 
some parts of it are extremely fertile, and it contains 
upwards of fifty villages, with a population of IS, 000 
souls (see Jour, of Sac. Lit. 1853 ; Fi tter, Pal. und Syr. 

iv, 132 sq.).— Kitto. See Damascus. 

. The tradition of the Jews of Damascus, as reported 
by Schwarz ( Palest . p. 54, also p. 20, 27), is curiously 
subversive of our ordinary ideas regarding these streams. 
They call the river Fijeh (that is, the Barada) the Phar- 
par, and give the name Amana or lvarmion (an old Tal- 
mudic name) to a stream which Schwarz describes as 
running from a fountain called el-Barady , a mile and a 
half from Beth Djana (Beit Jenn), in a north-east di- 
rection, to Damascus (see also the reference to the Nu- 
bian geographer by Gesenius, Thesaur, p. 1132 a). — 
Smith. 

Pharr, Walter Smiley, a Presbyterian minister, j 
was born in Cabarras County, N. C., April 28, 1790. He 
was educated at Hampden Sidney College, Prince Ed- 
ward Co., Va. ; studied theology under the care of Moses 
Iloge, D.D.; was licensed by Hanover Presbytery, and 
ordained by Concord Presbytery Nov. 18, 1820. His \ 
first charge was Waxhaw Church, S. C., and he subse- 
quently preached for Prospect, Kama, and Mall ml Creek 
churches, in North Carolina, all within the bounds of 
Concord Presbytery. He died Dec. 27, 18G6. 31 r. ' 
Pharr was a sound theologian, a plain and successful 
preacher and pastor, much beloved and confided in by 
all who knew him. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 
18G7, p. 450. (J. L. S.) 

Fliar'zite (Heb.with the art. hap-Partsi', "-£“2n ; 
Sept, o fpaptai v. r. (fraptg), the patronymic of a family 
among the Hebrews (Numb, xxvi, 20), the descendants 
of Pharez (q. v.). 

Phasaelis ( <t>arrai]\ig , Josephus, , Ptole- 

my, v, 16, 7 ; Phase! is, Pliny, xiii, 4, 19; xxi, 5, 11), a 
city in the plain of the Jordan, built by Herod the Great 
in honor of his brother Phasaelus (Josephus, .1 ni. xvi, 5, 
2; xvii, 8, 1 ; xviii, 3, 2; War, ii, 9, 1). It is now Tell 
Fusail, a small hill with ruins at its base. The site is 
inhabited by a few people who cultivate their gardens. 
These are irrigated by a brook, the fountain of which 
is an hour more to the west, hidden as it were under the 
high cliffs below Daumeh, and under the shade of a dense 
jungle (see Robinson, Researches, ii. 305). Brocardus 
and Mar. Samedo (Seer. Fidel. Cruc. IIl,xiv, 3) identify 
this little stream, now called Ain Fusail, with the brook 
Cherith (see Belaud, Pulcest. p. 953; Bachiene, Ileil. 
Geogr. I, i, 126-130).— Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 339. 

Phase'ah [some Pha'seah ] (Neh. vii, 51). See 
Paseaii. 

Phase'lis (•Paffi/Xig), a town on the coast of Asia 
Minor, on the confines of Lycia and Pamphylia, and 
consequently ascribed by the ancient writers sometimes 
to one and sometimes to the other. It was one of the 
towns to which the Romans wrote commanding all 
Jewish exiles who had taken refuge there to be given 
up to Simon the high -priest (1 Macc. x%', 23). Its 
commerce was considerable in the 6th century B.C., for 
in the reign of Amasis it was one of a number of Greek 
towns which carried on trade somewhat in the manner 


| of the Hanseatic confederacy in the Middle Ages. They 
had a common temple, the Ilellenium, at Naucratis, in 
Egypt, and nominated 7rpocrruT(u for the regulation of 
commercial questions and the decision of disputes arising 
out of contracts, like the preuddiomtnes of the Middle 
Ages, who presided over the courts of piepoudre (pieds 
poudres, pedlers) at the different staples. In later times 
i Phaselis was distinguished as a resort of the Pamphylian 
[ and Cilieian pirates. Its port was a convenient one to 
J make, for the lofty mountain of Solyma (now Takhtalu), 
which backed it at a distance of only five miles, is nearly 
eight thousand feet in height, and constitutes an admi- 
rable landmark for a great distance. Phaselis itself 
stood on a rock of fifty or one hundred feet elevation 
above the sea, and was joined to the mainland by a low 
isthmus, in the middle of which was a lake, now a pes- 
tiferous marsh. On the eastern side of this were a closed 
port and a roadstead, and on the western a larger artifi- 
cial harbor, formed by a mole run out into the sea. 'flic 
remains of this may still be traced to a considerable ex- 
tent below the surface of the water. The masonry of 
the pier which protected the small eastern port is nearly 
perfect. In this sheltered position the pirates could lie 
safely while they sold their booty, and also refit, the 
whole region having been anciently so thickly covered 
with wood as to give the name of Pityusa to the town. 
For a time the Phaselites confined their relations with 
the Pamphylians to the purposes just mentioned; but 
they subsequently joined the piratical league, and suf- 
fered in consequence the loss of their independence and 
their town lands in the war which was waged by the 
Roman consul Publius Servilius Isatiricus in the years 
B.C. 77-75. But at the outset the Romans had to a 
great extent fostered the pirates, by the demand which 
sprang up for domestic slaves upon the change of man- 
ners brought about by the spoliation of Carthage and 
Corinth. It is said that at this time many thousand 
slaves were passed through Delos — which was the mart 
between Asia and Europe — in a single day; and the 
proverb grew up there, "Ep7rop(, KaTccn\tvoov' t£f Aov' 
■Karra KtKparai. But when the Cilicians had acquired 
such power and audacity as to sweep the seas as far as 
the Italian coast, and interrupt the supplies of corn, it 
became time to interfere, and the expedition of Servilius 
commenced the work which was afterwards completed 
by Pompey the Great (see Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. 
s. v.). 

It is in the interval between the growth of the Cili- 
cian piracy and the Servilian expedition that the inci- 
dents related in the First Book of Maccabees occurred. 
After naming Ptolemy, Demetrius (king of Syria), At- 
tains (king of Pergamus), Ariarathes (of Pont us), and 
Arsaces (of Parthia) as recipients of these missives, the 
author adds that the consul also wrote: tic Kaaag rat; 
\ibpag sat 'S.apibdpy (Grotius conjectures \ap<ldKtp, 
and one MS. has M toavieray) Kai 2 Kap-idraii ; teat tig 
AijAov Kai tig Mvi'Cor cat tig SiKVwva Kai tic ri)v K«- 
piav Kai tig 'S.dpov Kai tig rt)v Hap<f>u\iav ku'i tig ryv 
Avtziav Kai tig 'AAtKapvacr'Toi', Kai tig ‘Po<W Kai tig 
‘Piari/Mia Kai tig kw Kai tig —iciin Kai tig”Apacor Kai 
tig rdprvrav Kai KeicW, Kai Ki'—pov Kai Ki’pi'ivtjv 
(1 Mace, xv, 23). It will be observed that all the places 
named, with the exception of Cyprus and Cvrene, lie on 
the highway of marine traffic between Syria and Italy. 
The Jewish slaves, whether kidnapped by their own 
countrymen (Exod. xxi, 16), or obtained by raids (2 
Kings v, 2), appear in early times to have been trans- 
mitted to the west coast of Asia Minor by this route 
(see Ezek. xxvii, 13; Joel iii, 6). 

The existence of the mountain Solyma, and a town 
of the same name, in the immediate neighborhood of 
Phaselis, renders it probable that the descendants of 
some of these Israelites formed a population of some 
importance in the time of Strabo ^Herod. ii, 178; St rah. 
xiv, c. 3; Livy, xxxvii, 23; Mela, i, 14; see Beaufort, 
Karamnnia, p. 53-56), — Smith. 

Phas'iron (<Pa<npwv, Vulg. Phaseron v. r. Pasi- 


PIIASSAROX 


PIIERECYDES 


ron), the name of the head of an Aral) tribe, “the chil- 
dren of Phasiron” (1 Mace, ix, GG). defeated by Jona- 
than, blit of whom nothing more is known. — Smith. 

Plias'saroil (•I’aaaapoi', v. r. ^arrcrof'por and 
aopoc; Vulg. Phasurius), a Ortecized form (I Esdr. v, 
25) of tlic lleb. name Pasiilu (q. v.). 

Plie'be. See PiiacnE. 

Phelan, Wii.li.vm, D.D., a somewhat noted Irish 
divine of the Protestant establishment, was born at 
Clonmel in 1781*. and was educated at Trinity College, 
Dublin, where he was admitted sizar in 1806. In 1814 
lie was made second master of the endowed school of 
Derry; in 1817 he was elected fellow of his college, and 
in 1819 Donellan lecturer. In 1824 he became rector 
of Killymau, Armagh, and in 1825 of Ardtrea. lie died 
in 1830. 1 1 is Remains were published, with a biograph- 
ical memoir, by the bishop of Limerick (2d ed. Loud. 
1832, 2 vols. 8vo). See Darling, Cyclop, liibliogr. s. v. 

Plielet. See BiiTtt-riiELKT. 


Episcopal Church, was born in Anne Arundel County, 
Md., Sept. 21, 1818; was converted at sixteen, and in 
1840 became a member of the Baltimore Conference, 
and for eighteen years travelled in Maryland. Virginia, 
and Pennsylvania. 1 1 is last appointment in the Balti- 
more Conference was Harper's Perry. In 1858 he took 
a supernumerary relation, and moved to < >hio. At the 
ensuing Conference he was, at his own request, located. 
In 18G0-G1 he was employed by the presiding elder on 
Clarksfield Circuit, and in 1803 he was admitted into 
the North Ohio Conference, and travelled the following 
circuits: Sullivan, one year ; llepnblie, two years: Per- 
kins, two years; and Centerton, one year. His last ap- 
pointment was Uepublic. “He was a man of general 
intelligence, of goodly presence, and unassuming man- 
ners. lie was a very good and acceptable preacher, a 
true Christian gentleman, and success attended his min- 
isterial labors.” lie died near llepnblie, Seneca County, 
Ohio, April 23, 1870. See ( lateral Minutes of the Ann. 
Conferences. 


Phelipeaux, Jean, a French theologian, was born 
at Angiers in the 17th century, lie studied in Paris, 
and there took his degrees in theology even to the doc- 
torship. Bossuet. having heard him dispute in the Sor- 
bonne, formed so favorable an opinion of bim t hat he 
placed him in the position of preceptor to his nephew, 
the abbe Bossuet. the future bishop of Troyes. Both 
were in Pome in 1G97, when the affair of Quietism was 
agitated ; they followed it with singular ardor, and with 
a kind of passion the expression of which Bossuet was 
more than once obliged to moderate. Phelipeaux wrote, 
June 24, 1G9H, “No better and more persuasive piece of 
news can be sent us than that of the disgrace of the rel- 
atives and friends of M. de Cambray.” Ilis pupil showed 
no less animosity. “ lie is a wild beast,” said he, Nov. 
25, in speaking of Fenelon — “he is a wild beast, that must 
be pursued until he is overthrown and unable to do any 
harm.” Phelipeaux, entirely occupied with this affair, 
wrote numerous . memoirs, and besieged the court of 
Home with solicitations, at the same time carrying on a 
secret correspondence with M. de Noailles, archbishop 
of Paris. On his return to France (1099) he became 
canon, official, and grand-vicar of Meaux. He died at 
Meaux July 3, 1708. After his death was published 
the Relation fie Voriyine (In proyres et (le la conda infla- 
tion du Quietisme repandu en France, avec plusieitrs an- 
ecdotes curicuses (s. 1. 1732-1733, 2 pt. 1 2mo). All that 
is said in it against the manners of Madame (Juyon is 
corroborated by no proof, and was refuted in 1733 by the 
abbe of La Bletterie. As for Fenelon, one cannot doubt 
that the design of the author was to injure his reputa- 
tion; “his work,” says De Bansset, “reveals the most 
marked partiality and the most odious rage.” Besides, 
it was suppressed by a decree of the council. See 
Moreri, Grand Dirt, /list.; De Bansset, Hist, de Fene- 
lon; Barbior, Dirt, des Anonymes, 2d edit., No. 16,089.— 
lloofer, A our. Rioy. Generate , xxxix, 821. 

Fhelcnium (^Aonor), a cloak, which in the 
Creek Church corresponds to the chasuble in the Latin 
Church. This ecclesiastical vestment is worn by the 
priests, and that worn by the patriarch is embellished 
with triangles and crosses. This is supposed to have 
been the .sort of garment which Paul left at Troas, and 
his anxiety for its restoration is to Ik* attributed, we are 
told, to its sanctity as an ecclesiastical robe. See (»ard- 
uer, Faiths of the World, ii, G54. 

Phelps, Elizabeth Stuart, an American lady, 
noted as the author of a number of moral and religious 
story-books, was born at Andover, Mass., in 1815. She 
was the daughter of Dr. Moses Stuart, the celebrated 
professor of O.-T. exegesis at the Andover divinity 
School, and wife of Dr. Austen Phelps. She died at 
Boston Nov. 30. 1852. We have not space here for a 
list, of her writings, hut those interested will find it in 
Allibonc, Diet, of Frit, and . I nier. A uthors, s. v. 

Phelps, Joseph T., a minister of the Methodist 


Phelps, Servis W„ a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in 1 M 145. After completing 
his studies at Lowville Academy, where he was con- 
verted, he joined the New York Conference in 18G8. He 
was first appointed to New Bremen, and then to Barnes's 
Corners, where, under his ministrations, more than tiftv 
persons were added to the Church. Ilis health suddenly 
failed him, and at the Conference of 1870 he was com- 
pelled to take a supernumerary relation. lie died in 
Martinsbnrgh, N. Y.. Feb. 28, 1871. Phelps was natu- 
rally kind and benevolent, and possessed many excel- 
lent qualities as a minister. lie had high opinions of 
the ministerial office, and aimed to exemplify them in 
his entire life and iuthience. See Minutes of the A mi. 
Conferences. 

Phelps, Thomas, a Wesleyan preacher and mis- 
sionary, was born at Kudford. (iloucestershire, England, 
in 1817. lie was of humble parentage, and did not en- 
joy more than tbe usual advantages of a common-school 
education. In 1849 he was selected as a laborer in the 
Jamaica mission, lie promptly accepted the work, and 
though more or less disabled by severe attacks of trop- 
ical lever, he yet continued faithful in the discharge of 
his duties, lie died peacefully at Port Morant, Aug. 13, 
1852. “ Phelps’s amiable disposition, and his habits of 

industry and punctuality, secured for him the love and 
esteem of the brethren with whom he was associated, 
and his brief ministry was not without fruit. Ilis pulpit 
labors were acceptable; and liis diligent attention to 
other pastoral duties obtained fur him the love of the 
people among whom he was stationed.” See Wesleyan 
Magazine (Sept. 1 853), p. 8G9. 

Fhelypeaux, ( i houghs- Lous, a French prelate, 
was born in 1729 in tbe chateau d'llerbaut, diocese of 
Orleans, lie entered holy orders, became commenda- 
tory abbe of the royal abbey of Thonroncl. and was ap- 
pointed in 1757 archbishop of Bourges, and in 1770 
chancellor of the Order of (lie llolv (Ihost. lie distin- 
guished himself as much by the activity of his pastoral 
zeal as by bis inexhaustible beneficence, lie founded 
several colleges in the principal cities of bis diocese, in- 
stituted bureaus of charity, and succeeded in consider- 
ably diminishing mendicity. See Blin de Sain more, 
Kluge /list, de < /.- A. Phelypeaux (1778, 8vo) Fanchct, 
Oraison Funtbre de (l.-l.. Phtlypeaux. llocfer, your. 
Rioy. Generate, xxxix. 824. 

Fheni'ce [ some /'he' nice] : a. (Aetsxxvii, 12). See 
Pikenix. b. (Acts xi, 19; xv, ID. Sec PiMKNU lA. 

Fheni'cia. See Piukmua. 

Fhenolion. See Pit. ex or. list. 

Phenomenon. See Pile some non. 

Pherecydes (•PfoiKoet/c). an ancient Creek phi- 
losopher, was a native of the island of Syros, one of the 
Cyclades, and flourished in the Gth century B.C. He 
is said by Diogenes Laertius to have been a rival of 


PHILADELPHIA 


PHERESITE 

Thales, ami to have learned his wisdom from the sacred 
books of the Phoenicians, or from the Egyptians and 
Chaldteans. lie is also reputed to have been a disciple 
of l’ittacus, and to have taught Pythagoras. He wrote 
a cosmogony in a kind of prose much resembling poe- 
trv, under the title 'E 7 rra/myof, the meaning of which 
is doubtful. In a manner rather poetic than philosophic, 
he endeavored in this work to show the origin of all 
things from three eternal principles: Time , or Kronos; 
Earth , as the formless and passive mass; and J Ether , 
or Zeus, as the formative principle. He taught the 
doctrine of the existence of the human soul after death; 
but it is uncertain whether he held the doctrine of the 
transmigration of souls, afterwards promulgated by his 
disciple Pythagoras. Of his work only fragments are 
extant, which have been collected and elucidated by 
Sturtz (Gera, 1798; 2d ed. Leips. 1824).— Chambers. 
See Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Blog, and Mythol. 
s. v. ; Butler, Hist, of Anc. Phil. vol. ii; Cud worth, I li- 
fe ll. System of the Universe (see Index in vol. iii). 

Pher'esite (1 Esdr. viii, G9) or Pher'ezite (Ju- 
dith v, 19; 2 Esdr. i, 21), different modes of rendering 
(fytptiaiof) the name Peuizitk (q. v.). 

Plliala (<hid\?/), Lake, a small body of water de- 
scribed by Josephus, and believed by him to supply the 
fountain at Banias {War, iii, 10, 7). It is the present 
Birket er-Rdm, east of Banias; first examined by Irby 
and Mangles (1818, Travels, p. 287); identified by 
Thomson (Biblioth. Sacra, iii, 189-192). See also Bit- 
ter, Erdkunde, xv, 154 sq., 174 sq. ; Wilson, Lands of the 
Bible, ii, 180; Lynch, Official Report, p. 110; Ilobinson, 
Later Bibl. Res. p. 399. — Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 340. 

Phibionitae is a local name of the Gnostics (q.v.), 
and is probably a corruption of Phrebionike, which was 
acquired from Valentinus, the founder of the sect, who 
was a native of Phrebonitis, on the coast of Egypt (see 
Epiplianius, Ilceres. xxvi, 3 ; xxxi, 2). 

Phi'chol (Heb. PikoT, of doubtful meaning 

[see below]; Sept. duywA v. r. du/coA; Josephus dmew- 
Xoc), the proper, or, more probably, the titular name of 
the commander of the troops of Abimelech, the Philis- 
tine king of Gerar in the patriarchal period. See Abim- 
elecii. If the Abimelech of the time of Isaac was 
the son of the Abimelech of the time of Abraham, we 
may conclude that the Phichol who attended on the 
second Abimelech (Gen. xxi, 22) was the successor of 
the one who was present with the first at the interview 
with Abraham (Gen. xxvi, 26). Josephus mentions 
him 011 the second occasion only. On the other hand 
the Sept, introduces Ahuzzath, Abimelech’s other com- 
panion, on the first also. By Gesenius the name is 
treated as Hebrew, and as meaning the “mouth of all.” 
By Fiirst (Heb. Lex. s. v.) it is derived from a root. 522, 
to be strong. But Hitzig ( Philistder , § 57) refers it to 
the Sanscrit pitshula, a tamarisk, pointing out that 
Abraham had planted a tamarisk in Beersheba, and 
comparing the name with Elah, Berosns, Tappuaeh, 
and other names of persons and places signifying differ- 
ent kinds of trees; and with the name d>ry«Aoc, a vil- 
lage of Palestine (Josephus, Ant. xii, 4, 2), and <I>iy«A/n 
in Greece. Stark (Gaza, etc. p. 96) more cautiously 
avoids such speculations. The natural conclusion from 
these mere conjectures is that Phichol is a Philistine 
name, the derivation and meaning of which are lost to 
us. — Smith. 

Philadelphia [strictly Philadelphia] (duXoofA- 
<ptia, brotherly love), one of the seven cities of Asia Mi- 
nor to which the admonitions in the Apocalypse were 
addressed (Iiev. i, 11; ii, 7). The town stood about 
twenty-five miles south-east from Sardis, in X. lat. 32° 
28', E. long. 28° 30', in the plain of Hermus. about 
midway between the river of that name and the termi- 
nation of Mount Tmolus. It was the second in Lydia 
(Ptolemy, v, 2; Pliny, Hist. Xat. v, 30), and was built 
by king Attains Philadelphus, from whom it took its 


9 

name. In B.C. 133 the place passed, with the dominion 
in which it lay, to the Bomans. The soil was ex- 
tremely favorable to the growth of vines, celebrated by 
Virgil (Georg, ii, 98) for the soundness of the wine they 
produced; and in all probability Philadelphia was built 
by Attains as a mart for the great wine-producing re- 
. gion, extending for 500 stadia in length by 400 in 
j breadth. Its coins have on them the head of Bacchus 
or a female Bacchant. Strabo compares the soil with 
that in the neighborhood of Catana, in Sicily; and mod- 
ern travellers describe the appearance of the country as 
' resembling a billowy sea of disintegrated lava, with here 
and there vast trap-dikes protruding. The original 
population of Philadelphia seems to have been Macedo- 
nian, and the national character to have been retained 
even in the time of Pliny. There was, however, as ap- 
pears from Bev. iii, 9, a synagogue of Ilellenizing Jews 
there, as well as a Christian Church — a circumstance to 
be expected when we recollect that Antioehus the Great 
introduced into Phrygia 2000 families of Jews, remov- 
^ ing them from Babylon and Mesopotamia, for the pur- 
pose of counteracting the seditious temper of the Phryg- 
ians; and that he gave them lands and provisions, and 
exempted them from taxes (Josephus, Ant. xii, 3, 4). 
The locality continued to be subject to constant earth- 
quakes, which in the time of Strabp (xiii, 628) rendered 
even the town-walls of Philadelphia unsafe; but its in- 
habitants held pertinaciously to the spot, perhaps from 
the profit which naturally accrued to them from their 
city being the staple of the great wine-district. But 
the expense of reparation was constant, and hence per- 
haps the poverty of the members of the Christian 
Church (oida . . . on pacpiiv t 'vvapiv, Bev. iii, 

8), who no doubt were a portion of the urban popula- 
tion, and heavily taxed for public purposes, as well as 
subject to private loss by the destruction of their own 
property. Philadelphia was not of sufficient importance 
in the Roman times to have law-courts of its own, but 
belonged to a jurisdiction of which Sardis was the cen- 
tre. It continued to be a place of importance and of 
strength down to the Byzantine age; and of all the 
towns in Asia Minor it withstood the Turks the longest. 
It was taken by Bajazet I in A.D. 1392. Furious at the 
resistance which he had met with, Bajazet put to death 
the defenders of the city, and many of the inhabitants 
besides (see G. Pachym. p. 290 ; Mich. Due. p. 70 ; Clial- 
cond. p. 33). 

Philadelphia still exists as a Turkish town, under 
the name of Allah-shehr, “city of God,” i. e. Iligh- 
town. The region around is highly volcanic, and, geo- 
logically speaking, belongs to the district of Phrygia 
Catacecaumene, on the western edge of which it lies. 
The situation of Philadelphia is highly picturesque, es- 
pecially when viewed from the north-east, for it is prin- 
cipally built on four or five hills, extremely regular in 
| figure, and having the appearance of truncated pvra- 
! mids. At the back of these, which are all of nearly the 
J same height, rise the lofty ridges of Tmolus; and 
though the country around is barren and desolate, the 
city itself is wanting neither in wood nor verdure. The 
climate of Philadelphia is pleasant and healthy. It is 
elevated 952 feet above the level of the sea, and is open 
to the salutary breezes from the Catacecaumene — a 
wild desert tract of highly volcanic country extending 
as far to the east as Peltse. This district is even yet fa- 
mous for the growth of the vine, which delights in a 
light sandy soil; and, though incapable of extensive 
cultivation, has a few fertile oases. Close to Philadel- 
phia the soil is rich, and fruits as well as corn are abun- 
dant. The Cogamos abounds in fresh -water turtle, 
which are considered delicacies, and highly prized ac- 
I cordingly. The revenues of the eity depend on its 
j corn, cotton, and tobacco. The cotton grows in small 
pods about the size of a medlar, and not unlike it in 
form. The town itself, although spacious, is miserably 
built and kept, the dwellings being remarkably mean, 

; and the streets exceedingly filthy. Across the summits 


PHILADELPHIANS 


80 


PHILANTHROPY 



etv and divine philosophy.” 
It originated with Jane 
Leade (q.v.) and John l’ord- 
agc (q. v.). Another of the 
Philadelphians was the learn- 
ed physician Francis Lee, who 
edited the “ Theosophieal 


Philadelphia, 

of the hill behind the town and the small valleys be- 
tween them runs the town-wall, strengthened by circu- 
lar and square towers, and forming also an extensive 
and long quadrangle in the plain below. The ancient 
walls arc partly standing and partly in mins; hut it is 
easy to trace the circuit which they mice enclosed, and 
within which are to be found innumerable fragments of 
pillars and other remains of antiquity. The missiona- 
ries Fisk and Parsons, in 1822. were informed bv the 
Greek bishop that the town contained 3000 houses, of 
which lie assigned 230 to the Greeks, and the rest to 
the Turks. On the same authority it is stated that 
there are five churches in the town, besides twenty 
others which were too old or too small for use. Six 
minarets, indicating as many mosques, are seen in the 
town; and one of tho*e mosques is believed by the na- 
tive Christians to have been the church in which as- 
sembled the primitive Christians addressed in the Apoc- 
alypse. There are few ruins; but in one part there are 
still found four strong marble pillars, which supported 
the dome of a church. The dome itself has fallen down, 
but its remains may be observed, and it. is seen that the 
arch was of brick. On the sides of the pillars arc in- 
scriptions, and some architectural ornaments in the form 
of tlie figures of saints. One solitary pillar of high an- 
tiquity has often been noticed as reminding beholders 
of the remarkable words in the Apocalyptic message to 
the Philadelphia Church: ‘‘Him that overcome!!) will 
I make a pillar in the temple of my God; and he shall 
go no more out” (Few iii, 12). It is believed that the 
Christian inhabitants of Philadelphia are on the in- 
crease. 'flic city is the seat of a Creek bishop, and the 
last incumbent of the see did much to spread among his 
clergy a desire for theological learning; hut education 
is in a very low state, ami Mr. Arundell states that the 
children had been allowed to tear up some ancient cop- 
ies of the < lospels. See Smith, Sipf. Keel fain rum ,1 sire, 
p. 138; Arundell. Seven Churches; Bichtor, Wahlfahr - 
ten, p. 313; Sehnbert, Moryeidand, i. 333-337; Mis- 
sionary Herald, 1821, p. 233; 1831). p. 210 212; Chand- 
ler, Trunk , p. 31b. 

It has been supposed by some that Philadelphia oc- 
cupied the site of another town named Callatebus, of 
which Herodotus speaks, in bis account of Xerxes’s 
march; but the position and fertility of that, spot do 
not correspond. At the same time the Persian king, in 
his two days’ march from Cydrara to Sardis, must have 
passed very near the site of the future Philadelphia 
(Strabo, xii. c. 8; Herod, vii. 31). See Asia Mixon. 

Philadelphians, or "■the Phihahlphiun Smutty*' 
is the name of a sect which was founded in Iti'33, and 
claimed to have for its object “the advancement of pi- 


iransactions ol the socie- 
ty. Another eminent mem- 
ber was Hr. Lot Fisher, who 
caused all the works of Jane 
Leade and her associates to 
he translated into lhitch. A 
fourth principal coadjutor was 
'1 homas Bromley, author of 
The Sabbath of ] lest, and of 
some works on Biblical sub- 
jects. The Philadelphian So- 
ciety contributed largely to 
the spread of that mystical 
piety which is so conspicuous 
in the works of the good and 
learned William Law. and 
which affected in no small 
degree the early stages of 
Methodism. Mrs. Leade herself, however, combined 
much fanaticism with her pietism, professing (like Swe- 
denborg in a later generation) to hold intercourse with 
spirits. This fanaticism imparted itself to many mem- 
bers of the Philadelphian Society, and imaginary appa- 
ritions of good ami evil angels became for a time a 
prominent feature of their religions life. In other re- 
spects their mysticism was that of the ordinary charac- 
ter, making the contemplative life the basis of religious 
knowledge and practice. A small work entitled The 
Principles of the Philadelphians , published in 1(537, 
gives a curious exposition of their mysticism. See Kb- 
rard, Kirchen - u. I togmengesch. iv, 1(>3 ; Mosheim, Kccles. 
/list. vol. iii; Meth. Jlev. April, 1803, p. 303; Ulgen, 
Zeitsrh. fur hist. Theol. 18(53, ii, 171 ; A mer. Presb . Pec. 
Jan. 1800, p. 10 1. (J. 1I.W.) 

Philalethes, or lovers o f truth, as their name im- 
plies, were a sect of intidels which arose at Kiel, in Ger- 
many, about 1847. and who wished to ignore Chris- 
tianity altogether, and to use only the general forms of 
piety. See Uationausts. 

Philanthropy (<j>i\avZpioTria.a term compounded 
of <pi\oc, loving , and ui&pwTroc, man), signifies the lore 
of mankind. It differs from benevolence only in this — 
that benevolence extends to every being that has life 
and sense, and is of course susceptible of pain and pleas- 
ure; whereas philanthropy cannot comprehend more 
than the human race. It differs from friendship, as this 
affection subsists only between a few individuals, while 
philanthropy comprehends the whole human species. 
It is a calm sentiment, which perhaps hardly ever rises 
to the warmth of affection, ami certainly not to the heat 
of passion. 

Christian philanthropy is universally admitted to he 
superior to that of any other ethical or religious system ; 
and if we inquire what are the causes of this superior 
prominence given to active benevolence in the Christian 
scheme of ethics, we shall find, as in other instances, 
that the peculiar character of the ethical fruit depends 
on the root of religion by which the plant is nourished, 
and the theological soil in which it was planted. For 
surely it requires very little thought to perceive that 
the root of all that surpassing love of the human broth- 
erhood lies iu tin* well-known opening words of the 
most catholic of prayers — “Our Father, which art in 
heaven;" the aspect also of sin as a contumacy, and a 
rebellion, and a guilt, drawing down a curse, necessarily 
leads to a more aggressive philanthropy, with the view 
of achieving deliverance from that curse; hut. above 
all, the doctrine of the immortality of the soul, and the 
terrible consequences necessarily involved in the idea 


PIIILAKCIIES 


81 


PllILAliET 


of an eternal banishment from the sunshine of the di- 
vine presence, has created an amount of social benevo- | 
lence and missionary zeal which under any less potent 
stimulus would have been impossible. The miseries of 
the more neglected and outcast part of humanity pre- 
sent an entirely different aspect to the calm Epicurean 
and to the zealous Christian. To the Christian the soul 
of the meanest savage and of the most degraded crimi- 
nal is still an immortal soul. Christian ethics requires 
us to love our enemies without betraying our rights, 
and this will become more and more practicable in the 
degree that international recognition becomes more 
common, and a large Christian philanthropy more dif- 
fused. 

In the history of education philanthropy has ac- 
quired a special meaning. The influence exercised by 
Rousseau was not less great on education than on poli- 
tics, and was as visible in the pedagogues of Germany 
and Switzerland as in the men of the French Revolu- 
tion. It is to the brilliant and one-sided advocacy, by 
the author of Emile , of a return to nature in social life 
and in the training of the young, that Basedow owed 
his novel and enthusiastic educationalism, which he put 
to the practical test in the institution which was opened 
under his auspices at Dessau in 1774, and which was 
called Philanthropina. Other establishments of the 
same kind were founded in different parts of Germany, 
but the only one which still survives is Salzmann’s Insti- 
tute atSchnepfenthal,near Gotha, opened in 1784. These 
philanthropina are of interest to us because they sought 
the religious and moral training of the young on an en- 
tirely original plan. Until the days of these Philan- 
thropists the Church had had the sole educational 
care of the rising generation, but these came forward to 
assume this responsibility, and to treat the child in a 
peculiar and altogether novel manner. The religious 
fervor was to be developed like love for any given 
study, and, instead of influencing the heart, religion be- 
came an intellectual acquisition. As philanthropism 
agreed no less with the absolutism of Russia than with 
the liberty of Switzerland, so, in the general private de- 
votional exercises, nothing should be done which woidd 
not be approved of by every worshipper of God, whether 
he were a Christian, Jew, Mohammedan, or a deist. 
“ In the temple of the Father of all, crowds of dissenting 
fellow-citizens will worship as brethren, and afterwards 
they will, with the same fraternal disposition, go, one 
to hear the holy mass, the other to pray with real 
brethren, ‘Our Father,’ the third to pray with real 
brethren, ‘Father of us.’ While the former education 
had viewed the minds of children as vessels into which 
a certain amount of knowledge and faith was to be 
infused, whether it was easy or difficult, philanthro- 
pism viewed these vessels as the chief thing, and the 
amount of knowledge as only secondary. In other 
words, knowledge was regarded merely as a means of 
training the human mind; and the aim was the nat- 
ural development of all man's powers and faculties" 
(Kahilis, /list, of Germ. Prof. p. 47). See the Quart. 
Per. .Jan. 1875, art. vi ; Blackie, Hist, of Ettrop. Morals, 
p. 236, 2G3; Wuttke, Christian Ethics (see Index in vol. 
vii). (J.H.W.) 

Philar'ches. This word occurs as a proper name 
in the A. V. at 2 Macc. viii. 32, where it is really the 
name of an office, phi/ larch (o (pv\dp\i]g=o <bv\ap\oc, 
“the commander of the cavalry”). The Greek text 
seems to be decisive as to the true rendering; but the 
Latin version (“et Philarchen qui cum Timotheo erat 
. . .”) might easily give rise to the error, which is very 
strangely supported by Grimm, ad loe. — Smith. 

Phil are t of Moscow, a modern Russian prelate 
of much celebrity, was born of pious parentage at 
Ivolouma in 1782. His lay name was Yasifj Ifrosdotr. 
He received his education in the Theological Seminary 
of Moscow. He commenced his pnblic career as tutor 
ol the Greek and Latin languages. His oratorical gifts 
VIII,— F 


being soon observed, he was appointed preacher in 1806 
at the Scrgian monastery of Troizka, and after having 
removed to St. Petersburg, entered the monastic life, 
in order to open to himself the higher avenues of the 
Church, which only the white clergy can enter. In 
1810 he was translated to the Academy of Alexander 
Newskj as bachelor of theological science ; in 181 1 he was 
made archimandrite, and in 1812 became rector of the 
St. Petersburg 'rheological Academy. In 1817 he was 
raised to the bishopric, and was appointed successively 
bishop of Twer, laroslaw, and Moscow. In the episco- 
pal see of Moscow, to which he was appointed in 1821, 
lie remained until his death, Nov. 19, 1867. As the sen- 
ior Russian prelate, the eminent orator and professor, 
the theologian justly renowned in the Christian world, 
the strict supporter of the Church, and the true states- 
man, Philaret, from his tenderest youth until the last 
day of his prolonged life, was animated by a burning 
and constant love for Russia. In the fulfilment of the 
mission which fell to his lot, he elevated himself by his 
spirit above the time, and did not allow himself to be 
captivated by any narrowness of mind. All that knew 
him know likewise that in the height of his intelligence 
he considered the relative importance of all the mani- 
festations in the Christian world, whether within or 
without the orthodox Church. lie would not permit 
the appellation of heretics to such of the Christian dis- 
senters as had come into existence since the oecumeni- 
cal councils, and consequently had not been condemned 
by them. He was exempt from fanaticism in his ad- 
ministrations, and yet he knew the limits and measures 
of that which stood below. His inexhaustible intellect, 
sound counsels, and thorough acquaintance with the re- 
ligious and social life of the people made him the friend 
of the crowned heads of Russia; and he was by them 
selected as confidential adviser in all important ques- 
tions concerning the good of the empire. Alexander 
I even told him who was to be the successor to his 
throne before the future emperor knew of it. In the 
late Crimean war his words and sacrificing example re- 
vived a patriotic feeling throughout the land; and to 
him is ascribed the manifesto which led to the abolish- 
ment of the anti-Christian serfdom. For over twenty- 
five years he was not present at the Holy Synod, yet all 
important documents concerning spiritual affairs were 
submitted to him; and his vivid words called out sym- 
pathy with the poor co-religionists in the island of 
Crete. In 1813 Philaret received a decoration from the 
emperor Alexander I for liis oratory. Sermons, lect- 
ures, etc., of his have been printed in large numbers 
and translated into foreign languages. The synodial 
printing establishment at Moscow alone printed 360 of 
liis compositions to the number of 2,000.223 copies. 
Metropolitan Philaret was really one of the greatest 
scholars of his Church. Almost all the now living 
communicants of the orthodox Russo -Greek Church 
have learned its doctrines from the Catechism arranged 
by him. His greatest work is his History of the Rus- 
sian Church , of which a German translation was brought 
out in 1872. This history was really the first work of 
importance in Russian ecclesiastical annals. It was 
published from 1850 to 1859, and, by order of the Holy 
Synod, was introduced into the ecclesiastical seminaries 
(institutions ranking between the ecclesiastical schools 
and ecclesiastical academies). Within ten years four 
editions were published. The author divides the his- 
tory of the Russian Church into five periods: the first 
closes with the inroads of the Mongolians in 1237 ; the 
second embraces the time of the subjection of Russia bv 
the Mongolians, 1238 to 1409; the third extends to the 
establishment of a patriarchate, 1587 ; the fourth to the 
abolition of the patriarchate in 1719;. the fifth com- 
prises the administration of the Church of the Holy 
Synod. (The value of the German translation is con- 
siderably enhanced by an appendix containing Phila- 
ret’s treatise on the Liturgy of the Oriental Greek Church 
and the Catechism of the Orthodox Christian Doctrine.) 


PIIILAliET 


PHILEMON 


Rliilaret published, besides this history of the Russian 
Church, the following works: .1 System of Christ inn 
Doctrines (2 vols.): — .1 IKw/t on the Maoris of Russia : 
— Cyril and Methodius, the Apostles of the Shirt: — The 
Lituryy of the Russian Church before the Invasion of the 
Mongolians : A Work on the Church Fathers (3 vols., 
and an extract from it as a text-book) : — .1 Commen- 
tary to the Epistle to the Calatians: — An tint line of the 
Theological Literature of Russia (2 vols.) : — Sermons. 
Homilies, and Addresses (\ vols.), of which a detailed ac- 
count is given by t It to in his Russian Literature. < If his 
personal appearance and kindness of heart dean Stanley 
makes mention in his East. Ch. Lectures, p. 525. As a 
preacher, t he dean describes Rliilaret as one of the first 
of the present Church of Russia, “whose striking man- 
ner renders his sermons impressive even to those who 
cannot follow the language.” See Meth. tin. Rev. July, 
1873, p. 498 sq. : I ’nion Rer. March. 1869; Appleton's 
A annul Cyclop. 1667, art. Moscow ; Theologisches Litera- 
turblatt (Bonn, 1*73, Jan. and April); Zion's Herald i 
(Boston), April 2, INI!*; Otto, Russian Literature, p. 
324 sq.: I )i.\on, Free Russia, p. 2'J sq, (J. H.W.) 

Philaret, Tm:oi>onrs Romanoff, third patriarch 
of Russia, a near relative by his mother of the last czar 
of the blood of Rurik, was born in the 16th century. 
This relationship caused him, in 1590, to be made a 
monk by Boris (iodounof. Elevated in 1605 to the 
episcopal chair of Host of by Dmitri, lie was in 1610 sent 
on an embassy to l’olaud, where he was retained, against 
the law of nations, a prisoner for nine years. < In his re- 
turn to Moscow, in 1619, he found his son czar, who ap- 
pointed him, June 21, of this year, patriarch, and shared 
with him his sovereignty, so that all the ukases were 
given in their name, and in all solemnities each had a 
throne, one as high as the other. This interference of 
the patriarch in political affairs was fatal to Russia. 
Michael Romanoff had been called to the throne on the 
express condition of reigning with the concurrence of 
the chamber of the bayards and of the states-general, 
which, from 1613 to 1619, had come to be regarded as 
a legislative assembly. Rhilaret exiled the most dis- 
tinguished boyards, and reduced the states-general to a 
merely consultative relation. Into spiritual affairs he 
carried the same retrograde spirit. Without caring for 
the advice of Oriental patriarchs, he ordained, in 1620, 
that every member of a Christian confession who should 
embrace tlie Russian religion must be baptized again, a 
regulation which is still in force, lie died at Moscow 
Oct. 1, 1633. 1 1 is pastoral epistles have been collected 

in the Ancienne Jiiblioth'eque Russe, vol. xvi. Sec Chro- 
nique de A’ ikon ; Hist, of the Patriarch Philarete (in Rus- 
sian) (Moscow, l«st)2, 8vo); Satiehtchef et Solovief. His- 
tory of Russia ; Eugene. Dirt. Hist. s. v. ; Rhilarctc, 
archl). of Kharkof, Hist, de I'EgUse Russe ; I lolgoroukow. 
La 1 ’erite stir la Russie, ch. vi. Hoofer, Xouc. liioy. 
Generate, xxxix, 638. 

Philaster (Riiii.astuii s), a noted haercsiologist of 
the ancient Latin ( Imrch. nourished in the lirst quar- 
ter of the 1th century, lie was prohahlv a native of 
Italy, and came on the stage of theological activity 
when the Arian controversy was waxing hot, and he 
was soon interested in it as a most ardent, orthodox 
presbyter seeking the conversion of strayed sheep of 
the thick, lie travelled far and near, seeking every- 
where the conversion of the Arians, both high and low. 
Thus, e. g.. he went to Milan to convince bishop Auxen- 
t ins of the error of his ways, lie was so well liked by 
the clergy that he. was dually elected bishop of Brescia 
(Brixial, and as such took part in the Council of Aqui- 
leia in 361. 11c died July 16, 367. Rhilastcr’s great- 

est work is his Liber de hteresibns (in 156 chapters) (ed- 
ited liv Eabricius, Hand). 1726; by Gnllnud. L'ibliofhe- 
ca, v it. 175 521 ; and by t Elder in vol. i of bis Corpus 
hiereseoloy. p. 5 1651. Then* is an nihility of l'liilas- 
ter with Epiphanies, but it is usually accounted for on 
the ground of the dependence of the former on the lat- 


ter. This seems to have been the opinion of Augustine 
( Fpistola 222 ad Quodrultdeum). lint Lipsius derives 
both from a common older source, viz. the work of Hip- 
polytus against thirty-two heresies, and explains the 
silence of Epiphanius (who mentions Hippoivtus only 
once) by the uiiscrupiilousness of the authorship of the 
age. which had no hesitation in decking itself with bor- 
rowed plumes. Rliilaster was very liberal with the 
name of heresy, extending it to 156 systems. 26 before 
Christ, and 126 after, lie includes peculiar opinions 
on all sorts of subjects: llierosis de stcllis erelo af- 
lixis, h.-eresis de pcccato Cain, lucresis de Rsaltcrii in- 
eipialitate, lucresis de animalilnis quatuor in prophetis, 
lucresis de Septnaginta interpret ibns, ha-rcsis de Mcl- 
cliisedech saecrdote. lucresis <le uxorihns et concubinis 
Salomonis !” Rhilastcr’s writings lirst appeared in print 
at Basle in 1526. edited by Sichardus; they were re- 
printed in 1539 at Basle, and at other places. In 1677 
they were inserted in the Jiibliotheca Put rum Maxima, 
v. 701 sq. But the best edition is by Eabricius (llamb. 
1721), with a 1 ’it a Rhilastri. See Sell nick h, Kirchen- 
gesch. ix. 363-362; Sehaff, Ch. Hist, iii, 931 sq. ; Alzog, 
Putro/ogie, § 63. (J. ll.W.) 

Pbileas of Tiiumit.k, an Eastern prelate, flour- 
ished in the 3d century as bishop of Thuniitic, in Egypt. 

1 le was of noble family, and in bis native place tilled the 
highest offices, ami was distinguished for his piety and 
learning. < In account of his faith, lie was persecuted 
at Alexandria, and died as a martyr about 307 or 311. 
lie left a work in praise of martyrdom. See Eabricius, 
Hibl. tlrtrca, vii. 306; M biller, Patrologie, i, 678 sq. ; 
Routh, Rel. Sac. iii, 361 sq. 

Phile'mon (&i\gpu)r, affectionate), a Christian to 
whom Raul addressed his epistle in behalf of Oiiesimus. 
A. I). 57. lie was a native probably of Colossa?, or at 
all events lived in that city when the apostle wrote to 
him ; first, because < Inesimus was a Colossian (Col. iv, 
9): and, secondly, because Archippus was a Colossian 
(ver. 17). whom Raul associates with Rliileinon at the 
beginning of bis letter (Rhilem. I, 2). Wieselor {Chro- 
nologic, p. 4,52) argues, indeed, from Col. iv, 17, that Ar- 
chippus was a Laodicean; but the eiirart in that pas- 
sage on which the point turns refers evidently to the 
Colossians (of whom Archippus was one therefore), and 
not to the Church at Laodieea spoken of in the previous 
verse, as Wieselor inadvertently supposes. Thcodorot 
(Protein, in Fpist.ad Phil.) states the ancient opinion in 
saying that Rhilemon was a citizen of Colossa*. and that 
his house was pointed out there as late as the 5th cen- 
tury. The legendary history supplies nothing on which 
we can rely. It is related that Rhilemon became bishop 
of Colossa* ( Const it . A post, vii, 46), and died as a martyr 
under Nero. From the title of “ fellow-workman” (fri»r- 
tpy (if) given him in the lirst verse, some (Micbaelis, 
Finteit. ii, 1274) make him a deacon, but without proof. 
But, according to Rseudo-Dorotheus, he hail been bishop 
in Gaza (see Witsius, Miscel. Leidens. p. 193 sq.). The 
Apphia mentioned in the epistle was nearly connected 
with Rhilemon. lmt whether or not she was his wife 
there are no means of determining (comp. csp. Hof- 
mann, Infrod. in F.pist. ad Colas, p. 52 sq. ; Bertholdt, 
Finteit. vi. 3631 sq.). It is appaieut from t lie letter to 
him that Rhilemon was a man of property and influence, 
since he is represented as the head of a numerous 
household, and ns exercising an expensive liberality to- 
wards his friends and the poor in general. He was in- 
debted to the apostle Raul ns the medium of bis per- 
sonal participation in tin* Gospel. AH interpreters agree 
in assigning that significance to ntavriv pm 
\ tit; in l’hilem. 19. It is not certain under what cir- 
cumstances they became known to each otlu r. If Raul 
visited Colossa) when he passed through l’lirvgia on his 
second missionary journey (Acts xvi. 6). it was un- 
doubtedly there, and at that time, that Rhilemon heard 
I the Gospel and attached himself to the Christian party, 
j On the contrary, if Raul never visited that city in per 


PHILEMON, EPISTLE TO 83 PHILEMON, EPISTLE TO 


son, as many critics infer from Col. ii, i, then the best | 
view is that he was converted during Paul’s protracted 
stay at Ephesus (Acts xix, 10), A.D. 51-54. That eitv 
was the religious and commercial capital of Western 
Asia Minor. " The apostle labored there with such suc- 
cess that “ all they who dwelt in Asia heard the word 
of the Lord Jesus.” Phrygia was a neighboring prov- 
ince, and among the strangers who repaired to Ephesus, 
and had an opportunity to hear the preaching of Paul, 
may have been the Colossian Philemon. It is evident 
that on becoming a disciple, he gave no common proof 
of the sincerity and power of his faith. His character, 
as shadowed forth in the epistle to him, is one of the 
noblest which the sacred record makes known to ns. 
He was full of faith and good works, was docile, confid- 
ing, grateful, was forgiving, sympathizing, charitable, 
and a man who on a question of simple justice needed 
only a hint of his duty to prompt him to go even be- 
yond it (v 7 rip o Asyw ivoir\otiQ ). Any one who studies 
the epistle will perceive that it ascribes to him these 
varied qualities; it bestows on him a measure of com- 
mendation which forms a striking contrast with the or- 
dinary reserve of the sacred writers. It was through 
such believers that the primitive Christianity evinced 
its divine origin, and spread so rapidly among the na- 
tions. — Smith ; Winer. See Paul. 

PIIILEMOX, Epistle to. This is the shortest and 
(with the exception of Hebrews) the last of Paul’s let- 
ters as arranged in most editions of the X. T. (In the 
following treatment of it we rely chiefly upon the state- 
ments in Ivitto’s and Smith’s Dictionaries.') 

I. Authorship . — That this epistle was written by the 
apostle Paul is the constant tradition of the ancient 
Church. It is expressly cited as such by Origen 
( Ifomil. 19 in Jercm. i, 185, ed. Huet.) ; it is referred to 
as such by Tertullian (Abe. v, 21); and both 

Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. iii, 25) and Jerome ( Procem . in 
Ep. ad Philem. iv, 442) attest its universal reception as 
such in the Christian world. The latter, indeed, in- 
forms us that some in his day deemed it unworthy of 
a place in the canon, in consequence of its being occu- 
pied with subjects which, in their estimation, it did not 
become an apostle to write about, save as a mere private 
individual; but this he, at the same time, shows to be a 
mistake, and repudiates the legitimacy of such a stand- 
ard for estimating the genuineness or authority of any 
book. That this epistle should not have been quoted 
by several of the fathers who have quoted largely from 
the other Pauline epistles (e. g. Irenams, Clement of Al- 
exandria, and Cyprian), may be accounted for partly by 
the brevity of the epistle, and partly by their not hav- 
ing occasion to refer to the subjects of which it treats. 
We need not urge the expressions in Ignatius, cited as 
evidence of that apostolic father’s knowledge and use 
of the epistle; though it is difficult to regard the simi- 
larity between them and the language in v, 20 as alto- 
gether accidental (see Kirchliofer, Quellensammlung, p. 
205). The Canon of Muratori, which comes to us from 
the 2d century (Credner, Geschichte des Kanons , p. G6), 
enumerates this as one of Paul’s epistles. Tertullian says 
that Marcion admitted it into his collection. Sinope, in 
Pontus, the birthplace of Marcion, was not far from Co- 
lossae where Philemon lived, and the letter would find 
its way to the neighboring churches at an early period. 
It is so well attested historically, that, as De Wette says 
(Einleitung his A ’em Testament), its genuineness on that 
ground is beyond doubt. 

Xor does the epistle itself offer anything to conflict 
with this decision. It is impossible to conceive of a 
composition more strongly marked within the same 
limits by those unstudied assonances of thought, senti- 
ment, and expression, which indicate an author’s hand, 
than this short epistle as compared with Paul’s other 
productions. Palev has adduced the undesigned coin- 
cidences between this epistle and that to the Colossians 
with great force, as evincing the authenticity of both 
(Hone Paulince, e. 14) ; and Eiehhorn has ingeniously 


shown how a person attempting, with the Epistle to the 
Colossians before him, to forge such an epistle as this in 
the name of Paul, would have been naturally led to a 
very different arrangement of the historical circum- 
stances and persons from what we find in the epistle 
which is extant (Einleit. ins N. T. iii, 802). 

Baur ( Paulas , p. 475) would divest the epistle of its 
historical character, and make it the personified illus- 
tration from some later writer of the idea that Chris- 
tianity unites and equalizes in a higher sense those 
whom outward circumstances have separated. He does 
not impugn the external evidence. But, not to leave 
his theory wholly unsupported, he suggests some lin- 
guistic objections to Paul’s authorship of the letter, 
which must be pronounced unfounded and frivolous. 
He finds, for example, certain words in the epistle 
which are alleged to be not Pauline; but, to justify that 
assertion, he must deny the genuineness of such other 
letters of Paul as happen to contain these words. He 
admits that the apostle could have said OTr\ciy\va 
twice, but thinks it suspicious that he should say it 
three times. A few terms he adduces which are not 
used elsewhere in the epistles; but to argue from these 
that they disprove the apostolic origin of the epistle 
is to assume the absurd- principle that a writer, after 
having produced two or three compositions, must for 
the future confine himself to an unvarying circle of 
words, whatever may be the subject he discusses, or 
whatever the interval of time between his different 
writings. The arbitrary and purely subjective charac- 
ter of such criticisms can have no weight against the 
varied testimony admitted as decisive by Christian 
scholars for so many ages, upon which the canonical 
authority of the Epistle to Philemon is founded. They 
are worth repeating only as illustrating Baur’s own re- 
mark that modern criticism in assailing this particular 
book runs a greater risk of exposing itself to the impu- 
tation of an excessive distrust, a morbid sensibility to 
doubt and denial, than in questioning the claims of any 
other epistle ascribed to Paul. See Paul. 

II. Person Addressed. — The epistle is inscribed to 
Philemon ; and with him are joined Appliia (probably 
his wife), Arehippus (his son or brother), and the Church 
which is in their house, though throughout the epistle 
it is Philemon alone who is addressed. Philemon was a 
personal friend and apparently a convert of the apostle 
(ver. 13, 19) ; one who had exerted himself for the cause 
of the (lospel and the comfort of those who had em- 
braced it (ver. 2-7). His residence was probably at Co- 
lossie (comp. Col. iv, 9, 17); but whether he held any 
office in the Church there remains uncertain. In the 
Apostolical Constitutions (vii, 4G) he is said to have 
been ordained bishop of the Church, but this is not sus- 
tained by any other testimony, and is expressly denied 
by the author of the commentary on St. Paul’s epistles 
ascribed to Hilary. See Philemon. 

Wieseler is of opinion that Philemon was a Laodi- 
I eean ; and that this epistle is that mentioned (Col. iv, 
16) as sent by the apostle to the Church in Laodicea. 
His ground for this is that the epistle is addressed to 
Arehippus as well as Philemon, and he assumes that 
Arehippus was bishop of the Church at Laodicea; partly 
on the authority of Theodoret, w r ho says he resided at 
Laodicea; partly on that of the Apostolical Constitutions 
(vii, 46), which say he was bishop of the Church there; 
and partly on the connection in which the reference to 
him in Col. iv, 17 stands with the reference to the Chureh 
at Laodicea, and the injunction given to the Colossians 
to convey a message to him concerning fidelity to his 
office, which it is argued would have been sent to him- 
self had he been at Colossse. But the authorities cited 
have no weight in a matter of this sort; nor can the 
mere juxtaposition of the reference to Arehippus with 
the reference to the Church at Laodicea prove anything 
as to the residence of the former; and as for the injunc- 
tion to counsel Arehippus, it is more likely that it would 
I be given by the apostle in a letter to the Chureh to 


84 


rillLEMOX, EPISTLE TO 


PHILEMON, EPISTLE TO 


which he belonged than to another Church. On the ' 
other hand, supposing Philemon to have been at Laodi- 
cea, it is not credible that the apostle would have re- 
quested the Colossiaus to send to Laodicea tor a letter 
addressed so exclusively to him personally, and relating 
to matters in which they had no immediate interest, 
without at least giving Philemon some hint that he 
intended the letter to he so used. The letter to the 
Church at Laodicea was doubtless one of more general 
character and interest than this. Sec Laodiceans, 
Epistle to. 

III. Time and Place of Writing . — This is generally held 
to be one of the letters ( t lie others are Ephesians, Colos- 
sians, Philippians, and Hebrews) which the apostle wrote 
during his first captivity at Koine. The arguments which 
show that he wrote the Epistle to the Colossiaus in that 
city and at that period involve the same conclusion in 
regard to this; for it is evident from Col. iv, 7, 0, as 
compared with the contents of this epistle, that Paul 
wrote the two letters at the same time, and forwarded 
them to their destination by the hands of Tyehicus and 
Onesimus, who accompanied each other to Colosssv. A 
few modern critics, as Schulz, Schott, Udttger, Mever, 
maintain that this letter and the others assigned usually 
to the first Homan captivity were written during the 
two years that Paul was imprisoned at Ciesarea (Acts 
xxiii, 35; xxiv, 27). Hut this opinion, though sup- 
ported by some plausible arguments, can be demonstra- 
ted with reasonable certainty to be incorrect. See Co- 
lossiaxA, Epistle to the. 

The time when Paul wrote may be fixed with much 
precision. The apostle at the close of the letter ex- 
presses a hope of liis speedy liberation. lie speaks in 
like manner of his approaching deliverance in his Epis- 
tle to the Philippians (ii, 23, 24), which was written 
during the same imprisonment. Presuming, therefore, 
that he had good reasons for such an expectation, and 
that he was not disappointed in the result, we may con- 
clude that this letter was written by him earl\ p in the 
year A.l). 58. 

IV. Design and Effect. — Our knowledge respecting 
the occasion and object of the letter we must derive from 
declarations or inferences furnished by the letter itself. 
Eor the relation of Philemon and Onesimus to each 
other, the reader will sec the articles on those names. 
Paul, so intimately connected with the master and the 
servant, was anxious naturally to effect a reconciliation 
between them. lie wished also (waiving the di'i/Kor. 
the matter of duty or right) to give Philemon an oppor- 
tunity of manifesting bis t 'hristian love in the treatment 
of Onesimus, and bis regard, at the same time, for the 
personal convenience and wishes, not to say otlicial au- 
thority, of his spiritual teacher and guide. Paul used 
his inllucnce with Onesimus (didTripipa, in ver. 12) to 
induce him to return to Colossa?, and ] dace himself again 
at the disposal of his master. Whether Onesimus as- 
sented merely to the proposal of the apostle, or had a 
desire at the same time to revisit his former home, the 
epistle does not enable us to determine. On his depart- 
ure Paul put into his hand this letter as evidence that 
Onesiimis was a true and approved disciple of Christ, 
and entitled as such to he received, not as a servant, but 
above a servant, as a brother in the faith, as the repre- 
sentative and equal in that respect of the apostle him- 
self, and worthy of the same consideration and love. It 
is instructive to observe how entirely Paul identities 
himself with Onesimus, and pleads his cause as if it 
were his own. He intercedes for him as his own child, 
promises reparation if lie had done any wrong, demands 
for him not only a remission of all penalties, hut the re- 
ception of sympathy, affection, Christian brotherhood; 
and, while he solicits these favors for another, consents 
to receive them with the same gratitude and sense of 
obligation as if they were bestowed on himself. See 
OXKSIMES. 

The result of the appeal cannot be doubted. It may 
he assumed from the character of Philemon that the 


apostle’s intercession for Onesimus was not unavailing. 
There can he no doubt that, agreeably to the express 
instructions of the letter, the past was forgiven; the 
master and t he servant were reconciled to each other; 
and if the liberty which Onesimus had asserted in a 
spirit of independence was not conceded as a boon or 
right, it was enjoyed at all events under a form of ser- 
vitude which henceforth was such in name only. ,*o 
much must he regarded as certain ; or it follows that the 
apostle was mistaken in his opinion of Philemon’s char- 
acter, and his efforts for the welfare of Onesimus wore 
frustrated. Chrysostom declares, in his impassioned 
style, that Philemon must have been less than a man, 
must have been alike destitute of sensibility and reason 
(7ToTo£ \i$oc, 7roiop 37/p(on), not to he moved by the 
arguments and spirit of such a letter to fulfil even’ wish 
and intimation of the apostle. Surely no fitting response 
to his pleadings for Onoimus could involve less than a 
cessation of everything oppressive and harsh in his civil 
condition, as far as it depended on Philemon to mitigate 
or neutralize the evils of a legalized system of bondage, 
as well as a cessation of everything violative of his 
rights as a Christian. Ilow much farther than this an 
impartial explanation of the epistle obliges ns or author- 
izes us to go has not yet been settled by any very gen- 
eral consent of interpreters. Many of the best critics 
construe certain expressions (ro ayaSur in ver. 14, and 
i)7 rip o A tyw in ver. 21) as conveying a distinct expec- 
tation on the part of Paul that Philemon would liberate 
( hiesimus. Nearly all agree that he could hardly have 
failed to confer on him that favor, even if it was not re- 
quested in so many words, after such an appeal to his 
sentiments of humanity and justice. Thus it was. ns 
l)r. Wordsworth remarks (.S7. Paul's Epistles , p. 32K\ 
“by Christianizing the master that the Hospel enfran- 
chised the slave. It did not legislate about mere names 
and forms, but it went to the root of the evil, it spoke to 
the heart of man. When the heart of the master was 
filled with divine grace, and was warmed with the love 
of Christ, the rest would soon follow. The lips would 
speak kind words, the hands would do liberal things. 
Every Onesimus would he treated by every Philemon 
as a beloved brother in Christ.” See Slavery. 

V. Contents . — 'The epistle commences with the apos- 
tle’s usual salutation to those to whom he wrote; after 
which he affectionately alludes to the good reputation 
which Philemon, as a Christian, enjoyed, and to the joy 
which the knowledge of this afforded him (ver. 1-7). 
He then gently and gracefully introduces the main sub- 
ject of his epistle by a reference to the spiritual obliga- 
tions under which Philemon lay to him, and on the 
ground of which he might utter as a command what lie 
preferred urging as a request. Onesimus is then intro- 
duced; the change of mind and character he had expe- 
rienced is stated; his offence in deserting his master is 
not palliated; his increased worth and usefulness are 
dwelt upon, and his former master is entreated to re- 
ceive him back, not only without severity, but with the 
feeling due from one Christian to another (ver. 8-1(1). 
The apostle then delicately refers to the matter of com- 
pensation for any loss which Philemon might have sus- 
tained, either through the dishonesty of Onesimus or 
simply through the want of his service; and though he 
reminds his friend that he might justly hold the hitter 
his debtor for a much larger amount (seeing he. owed to 
the apostle his own self), he pledges himself, under his 
own hand, to make good that loss (ver. 17 P.D. 'The 
epistle concludes with some additional expressions of 
friendly solicitude; a request that Philemon would pre- 
pare the apostle a lodging, as he trusted soon to visit 
him ; and the salutations of the apostle and some of 
the Christians by whom he was surrounded at the time 
(ver. 20 25). 

Yl. Character.— The Epistle to Philemon has one pe- 
culiar feature— its <rslheticuf character it may he termed 

which distinguishes it from all the other epistles, and 
demands a special notice at our hands. It has been dc- 


85 


PHILIP 


PHILEMON, EPISTLE TO 


servedly admired as a model of delicacy and skill m the 
department of composition to which it belongs. The 
writer had peculiar difficulties to overcome, lie was 
the common friend of the parties at variance, lie must 
conciliate a man who supposed that he had good reason 
to he offended. Me must commend the offender, and 
vet neither deny nor aggravate the imputed fault, lie 
must assert the new ideas of Christian equality in the 
face ofa system which hardly recognised the humanity 
of the enslaved. He could have placed the question on 
the ground of his own personal rights, and yet must 
waive them in order to secure an act of spontaneous 
kindness. Mis success must be a triumph of love, and 
nothing be demanded for the sake of the justice which 
could have claimed everything. He limits his request 
to a forgiveness of the alleged wrong, and a restoration 
to favor and the enjoyment of future sympathy and af- 
fection, and yet would so guard his words as to leave 
scope for all the generosity which benevolence might 
prompt towards one. whose condition admitted of so 
much alleviation. These are contrarieties not easy to 
harmonize; but Paul, it is confessed, has shown a degree 
of self-denial and a tact in dealing with them which, in 
being equal to the occasion, could hardly be greater. 
This letter, says Eichhorn, is a voucher for the apostle’s 
urbanity, politeness, and knowledge of the world. Mis 
advocacy of Onesimus is of the most insinuating and 
persuasive character, and yet without the slightest per- 
version or concealment of any fact. The errors of Ones- 
imus are admitted, as was necessary, lest the just indig- 
nation of his master against him should be roused anew; 
but they are alluded to in the most admirable manner : 
the good side of Onesimus is brought to view, but in 
such a way as to facilitate the friendly reception of him 
by his master, as a consequence of Christianity, to which 
he had, during his absence, been converted ; and his fut- 
ure fidelity is vouched for by the noble principles of Chris- 
tianity to which he had been converted. The apostle 
addresses Philemon on the softest side : who would wil- 
fully refuse to an aged, a suffering, and an unjustly im- 
prisoned friend a request? And such was he who thus 
pleaded for Onesimus. The person recommended is a 
Christian, a dear friend of the apostle’s, and one who 
had personally served him : if Philemon will receive 
him kindly, it will afford the apostle a proof of his love, 
and yield him joy. What need, then, for long urgency? 
The apostle is certain that Philemon will, of his own 
accord, do even more than he is asked. More cogently 
and more courteously no man could plead ( Einleit . ins 
X. T. iii, 300). 

There is a letter extant of the younger Pliny ( Epist . 
ix, 21) which he wrote to a friend whose servant had 
deserted him. in which he intercedes for the fugitive, 
who was anxious to return to his master, but dreaded 
the effects of his anger. Thus the occasion of the cor- 
respondence was similar to that between the apostle and 
Philemon. It has occurred to scholars to compare this 
celebrated letter with that of Paul in behalf of Ones- 
imus; and as the result they hesitate not to say that, 
not only in the spirit of Christian love, of which Pliny 
was ignorant, but in dignity of thought, argument, pa- 
thos, beauty of style, eloquence, the communication of 
the apostle is vastly superior to that of the polished Ho- 
man writer. 

YM. Commentaries . — The following are the special 
cxegetical helps on this epistle: Jerome, Commentarii 
(in Opp. vii, 741); also Pseudo-Micron, id. (ibid, xi); 
Chrysostom, I/omilice (in Opp. xi, 838; also ed. Raphe- 
lius, in the latter’s .4 nnotationes, ii); Alcuin, Explanatio 
(in Opp. I, ii); Calvin, Commentarius (in Opp.; also in 
English, by Pringle, in the latter’s Comment, on Tim.; 
and by Edwards, in t lie Bib. Repos. 183G) ; Brentz, Com- 
ment arii (in Opp. vii); Pamelius, Commentariolus (Ra- 
baui Mauri, Opp.x); Major, Enarratio (Vitemb. 1565, 
8vo) ; Danajus, Commentarius (Genev. 1579, 8vo); lly- 
perius, Commentarius [includ. Tim. and Tit.] (Tigur. 
1582, fol.) ; Feuardent (R. C.), Commentarius (Paris, 


1583, 8vo); Rollock, Commentarius (Genev. 1602, 8vo) ; 
Attersoll, Commentary (Lond. 1612, 1633, fol.); Genti- 
lis, Commentarius (Norib. 1618, 4to); Dyke, Exposition 
, (Lond. 1618, 4to; also in Dutch, in his 1 Verclce, Ainst. 
1670, p. 703); Rapine (R. C.), Exposition [French] 

I (Par. 1632, 8vo); Jones, Commentary [includ. lleb.J 
(Lond. 1635, fob); Himmel, Commentarius (Jen. 1641, 
4to) ; Vincent (Ii. C.), Explicatio (Par. 1647, 8vo) ; Cru- 
I cius, Yerkluuriny (Harlem, 1649, 8vo) ; Habert (li. C.), 
Expositio [includ. Tim. and Tit.] (Par. 1656, 8vo) ; 
Franckenstein, Observationes (Hal. 1657, 4to; Lips. 16G5, 
12mo); Taylor, Commentarius (Loud. 1650, fol.); Hum- 
mel, Explanatio (Tigur. 1670, fol.); Feclit, Expositio 
(Rost. 1696. 4to) ; Schmid, Paraphrasis (Hamb. 1704, 
4to, and later); Smalridge, Sermon (in Sermons, Oxf. 
1724. fol.); Lavater, Predigt. (St. Gall, 1785 sq., 2 vols. 
8vo) ; Klotzseh, De occasioue, etc. (Yitcb. 1792, 4to) ; Nie- 
meyer, Program. (Hal. 1802, 4to) ; Wildsehut, De die- 
tione, etc. (Tr. ad Rh. 1809, 8vo); Buckminster, Sermon 
(in Sermons , Bost. 1815) ; Hagen bach, Interpretatio 
(Basil. 1829, 4to) ; Parry. Exposition (Lond. 1834, 12mo); 
Rothe, Interpretatio (Brem. 1844, 8vo) ; Koch, Commen- 
tar (Zi'tr. 1846, 8vo) ; Kilhne, Auslegung (Leips. 1856, 
8vo) ; Ellieott, Commentary (Lond. 1857, 8vo) ; Ilaekett, 
Revised Translation (Amer. Bible Union, 1860, 12mo) ; 
Bleek, Vorlesungen [includ. Ephes. and Coloss.] (Berl. 
1865, 8vo); Lightfoot, Notes [includ. Coloss.] (Lond. 
1875, 8vo). See Epistle. 

Phile'tus (4>tX?/roc‘, beloved), an apostate Chris- 
tian, possibly a disciple of Hymenauis, with whom he is 
associated in 2 Tim. ii, 17, and who is named without 
him in an earlier epistle (l Tim. i, 20). A.D. 58-64. 
Waterland ( Importance of the Doctrine of the Holy Trin- 
ity, eh. iv, in his lUorfo, iii, 459) condenses in a few 
lines the substance of many dissertations which have 
been written concerning their opinions, and the sen- 
tence which was inflicted upon at least one of them. 
“They appear to have been persons who believed the 
Scriptures of the O. T., but misinterpreted them, alle- 
gorizing away the doctrine of the resurrection, and re- 
solving it all into figure and metaphor. The delivering 
over unto Satan seems to have been a form of excom- 
munication declaring the person reduced to the state of 
a heathen; and in the apostolical age it was accompa- 
nied with supernatural or miraculous effects upon the 
bodies of the persons so delivered.” Walch is of opin- 
ion that they were of Jewish origin; Hammond con- 
nects them with the Gnostics; Vitringa (with less prob- 
ability) with the Saddueees. They understood the res- 
urrection to signify the knowledge and profession of 
the Christian religion, or regeneration and conversion, 
according to Walch, whose dissertation, De IIymena>o 
et Phileto, in his Miscellanea Sacra, 1744, p. 81-121, 
seems to exhaust the subject. Among writers who 
preceded him may be named Vitringa. Observ, Suer. 
iv, 9, p. 922-930; Buddasus, Ecclesia A postnliea, v, 297- 
305. See also, on the heresy, Burton, Hampton Lectures, 
and dean Ellicott’s notes on the pastoral epistles; and 
Potter on Church Government, ch. v, with reference to 
the sentence. The names of Philetus and Hymenauis 
occur separately among those of Ctesar’s household 
whose relics have been found in the Columbaria at 
Rome.— Smith. See IJy.menveus. 

PhiUip (<h/A/— ttoc, lover of horses), the. name of 
several men mentioned in the Apocrypha and Josephus. 
Those named in the N.T. will be noticed separately below. 

1. The father of Alexander the Great (1 Maee. i. 1; 
vi, 2), king of Macedonia, B.C. 359-336. See Alexan- 
der ( the Great). 

2. A Phrygian, left by Antiochus Epiplianes as gov- 
ernor at Jerusalem (B.C. cir. 170), where he behaved 
with great cruelty (2 Maec. v, 22), burning the fugitive 
Jews in caves (vi, 11), and taking the earliest meisures 
to cheek the growing power of Judas Maccalueus (viii, 
8). He is commonly (but it would seem incorrectly) 
identified with, 


puiLir 


86 


PHILIP TIIE APOSTLE 


3. The foster-brother (a ovrpoQoc, ix, 20) of Antio- 
chus Epiphanes, whom tlie king upon his death-bed 
appointed regent of Syria ami guardian of his son Anti- , 
ochus V, to the exclusion of Lysias (B.C. 1 04 ; 1 Mace, 
vi, 14, 15, 55). lie returned with the royal forces from ! 
Persia (vi, 50) to assume the government, and occupied 
Antioch. Hut Lysias, who was at the time besieging 
“the Sanctuary” at Jerusalem, hastily made terms with 
Judas, and marched against him. Lysias stormed An- 
tioch, and, according to Josephus (Ant. xii, 0, 7), put 
Philip to death. In 2 Macc. Philip is said to have tied 
to Ptol. Philomctor on the death of Antiochus (2 Macc. 
ix. 2!h, though the book contains traces of the other 
account (xiii, 23). See A.vriot iirs (Kpiphanes). 

4. Philip V, king of Macedonia, B.C. 220-171*. II is 
wide and successful endeavors to strengthen and enlarge 
the Macedonian dominion brought him into conflict 
with the Ilomans when they were engaged in the crit- 
ical war with Carthage. Desultory warfare followed by 
hollow peace lasted till the victory of Zama left the 
Homans free for more vigorous measures. Meanwhile 
Philip had consolidated his power, though he had de- 
generated into an unscrupulous tyrant. The lirst cam- 
paigns of the Homans on the declaration of war (B.C. 
200) were not attended by any decisive result, but the 
arrival of Flaminimis (B.C. 193) changed the aspect of 
affairs. Philip was driven from his commanding posi- 
tion, and made unsuccessful overtures for peace. In 
the next year lie lost the fatal battle of Cynosccphalic, 
ami was obliged to accede to the terms dictated by his 
conquerors. The remainder of his life was spent in 
vain endeavors to regain something of his former 
power, and was imbittcred by cruelty and remorse. 

Ju 1 Macc. viii, 5 the defeat of Philip is coupled with 
that of Perseus as one of the noblest triumphs of the f 
Homans. — .Smith. // 



Philip (M. Jri.Tfs Pintim's), emperor of Rome, 
a native of Rostra, in Traclionitis, according to some au- 
thorities, after serving with distinction in the Homan 
armies, was promoted by the later Gordian to the com- 
mand of the imperial guards after the death of Mi- 
sitheus, A.l). 213. In the following year he accompa- 
nied (Iordian in his expedition into Persia, where he 
contrived to excite a mutiny among the soldiers by 
complaining that the emperor was too young to lead an 
army in such a ditlicult undertaking. The mutineers 
obliged (iordian to acknowledge Philip as his colleague; 
and in a short time Philip, wishing to reign alone, 
caused (iordian to he murdered. In a letter to the 
senate he ascribed the death of (iordian to illness, and 
the senate acknowledged him as emperor. Having 
made peace with the Persians, he led the army back 
into Syria, and arrived at Antioch for the Master solem- 
nities. Eusebius, who with other Christian writers 
maintains that Philip was a Christian, states as a re- 
port that he went, with his wife to attend the Christian 
worship at Antioch, but that Babila, bishop of that city, 
refused to permit him to enter the church, as being 
guilty of murder, upon which Philip acknowledged his 
guilt, and placed himself in the ranks of the penitents. 
This circumstance is also stated by John Chrysostom. 
From Antioch Philip came to Home, and the following 
year, 245, assumed the consulship with T. F. Tit bums, 
and marched against the Carpi, who had invaded Mu> 


sia, and defeated them. In 247 Philip was again con- 
sul, with his son of the same name as himself, and their 
consulship was continued to the following year, when 
Philip celebrated with great splendor the thousandth 
anniversary of the building of Home. An immense 
number of wild beasts were brought forth and slaugh- 
tered in the amphitheatre and circus. In the next year, 
under the consulship of .Emilianus and Aqitilinns. a re- 
volt broke out among the legions on the Danube, who pro- 
claimed emperor a centurion named Carviliiis Marin us, 
whom, however, the soldiers killed shortly after, Phil- 
ip, alarmed at the state of these provinces, sent thither 
Dccius as commander, but Decius had no sooner arrived 
at his post than the soldiers proclaimed him emperor. 
Philip marched against Decius, leaving his son at 
Home. The two armies met near Verona, where Philip 
was defeated and killed, as some say by his own troops. 
On the news reaching Home, the praetorians killed his 
son also, and Decius was acknowledged emperor in 249. 
Eutropius states that both Philips, father and son, were 
numbered among the gods. It is doubtful whether 
Philip was really a Christian, but it seems certain, as 
stated by Eusebius and Dionysius of Alexandria, that 
under his reign the Christians enjoyed full toleration, 
and were allowed to preach publicly. ( Iregory of Xyssa 
states that during that period all the inhabitants of Neo- 
Ca\sarea,in Pontus, embraced Christianity, overthrew the 
idols, and raised temples to the God of the Christians. 
It appears that Philip during his live years’ reign gov- 
erned with mildness and justice, and was generally popu- 
lar . — English Cyclop, s. v. 



Fhil'ip Tin-: Apostle (duXiTr— oc o riTnioroXoc), one 
of the twelve originally appointed by Jesus. JSee Apos- 
tle. 

1. Authentic History .— The Gospels contain compara- 
tively scanty notices of this disciple. A.D. 25-23. He 
is mentioned as being of Bethsaida. the city of Andrew 
and Peter (John i, 44), and apparently was among the 
Galihean peasants of that district who flocked to hear 
the preaching of the Baptist. The manner in which 
John speaks of him, the repetition by him of the self- 
same words with which Andrew had brought to Peter 
the good news that the Christ had at last appeared, all 
indicate a previous friendship with the sons of Jonah 
and of Zebedee, and a consequent participation in their 
Messianic hopes. The close union of the two in John 
vi and xii suggests that he may have owed to Andrew 
the first tidings that the hope had been fulfilled. The 
statement that Jesus J'otwd him (John i, 43) implies a 
previous seeking. To him first in the whole circle of 
the disciples were spoken the words so full of meaning, 
li Follow me” ( ibid .). Philip was thus the fourth of the 
apostles who attached themselves to the person of Je- 
sus — of those who “left all and followed him.” As soon 
as he has learned to know his Master, he is eager to 
communicate his discovery to another who had also 
shared the same expectations. 11c speaks to Nathan- 
ael, probuhly on his arrival in Cana (see John xxi, 2; 
Comp, Kwald, (Sesch. v, 251), as if they had not sel- 
dom communed together of the intimations of a better 
time, of a divine kingdom, which they found in their 
sacred books. We may well believe that he, like his 
friend, was an “Israelite indeed in whom there was no 
guile.” In the lists of the twelve apostles in the sy- 


PHILIP TIIE APOSTLE 


87 


PHILIP THE APOSTLE 


noptic Gospels, Ins name is as uniformly at the head of 
the second group of four as the name of Peter is at that 
of the first (Matt, x, 3; Mark iii, IS; Luke vi, 14); and 
the facts recorded by John give the reason of this pri- 
ority, In those lists again ive find his name uniformly 
coupled with that of Bartholomew, and this has led to 
the hypothesis that the latter is identical with the Na- 
thanael of John i, 45, the one being the personal name, 
the other, like Barjonah or Bart imams, a patronymic. 
Donaldson ( Jushar , p. 9) looks on the two as brothers, 
but the precise mention of tu\> idiov dStXfpov in v, 41, 
and its omission here, is, as Alford remarks (on Matt, x, 
3), against this hypothesis. 

Philip apparently was among the first company of 
disciples who were with the Lord at the commencement 
of his ministry, at the marriage of Cana, on his first 
appearance as a prophet in Jerusalem (John ii). When 
John was cast into prison, and the work of declaring 
the glad tidings of the kingdom required a new com- 
pany of preachers, we may believe that he, like his 
companions and friends, received a new call to a more 
constant discipleship (Matt, iv, 18-22). When the 
Twelve were specially set apart to their office, he was 
numbered among them. The first three Gospels tell us 
nothing more of him individually. John, with his 
characteristic fulness of personal reminiscences, records 
a few significant utterances. The earnest, simple-hearted 
faith which showed itself in his first conversion, required, 
it would seem, an education; one stage of this may be 
traced, according to Clement of Alexandria (Strom, iii, 
25), in the history of Matt, viii, 21. That Church fa- 
ther assumes that Philip was the disciple who urged 
the plea, “ Suffer me first to go and bury my father,” 
and who was reminded of a higher duty by the com- 
mand, “Let the dead bury their dead; follow thou me.” 
When the Galiliean crowds had halted on their way to 
Jerusalem to hear the preaching of Jesus (John vi, 5-9), 
and were faint with hunger, it was to Philip that the 
question was put, “Whence shall we buy bread that 
these may eat?” “And this he said,” John adds, “to 
prove him, for he himself knew what he would do.” 
The answer, “Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not 
sufficient for them that every one may take a little,” 
shows how little he was prepared for the work of divine 
power that followed. It is noticeable that here, as in 
John i, he appears in close connection with Andrew. 
Bengel and others suppose that this was because the 
charge of providing food had been committed to Philip, 
while Chrysostom and Theodore of Mopsuestia rather 
suppose it was because this apostle was weak in faith. 

Another incident is brought before us in John xii, 
20-22. Among the pilgrims who had come to keep the 
Passover at Jerusalem were some Gentile proselytes 
(Hellenes) who had heard of Jesus, and desired to see 
him. The Greek name of Philip may have attracted 
them. The zealous love which he had shown in the 
case of Nathanael may have made him prompt to offer 
himself as their guide. But it is characteristic of him 
that he does not take them at once to the presence of 
his Master. “Philip cometh and telleth Andrew, and 
again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus.” The friend and 
fellow-townsman to whom probably he owed his own 
introduction to Jesus of Nazareth is to introduce these 
strangers also. 

There is a connection not difficult to be traced be- 
tween this fact and that which follows on the last re- 
currence of Philip’s name in the history of the Gospels. 
The desire to see Jesus gave occasion to the utterance 
of words in which the Lord spoke more distinctly than 
ever of the presence of his Father with him, in the voice 
from heaven which manifested the Father’s will (ver. 
28). The words appear to have sunk into the heart of 
at least one of the disciples, and he brooded over them. 
The strong cravings of a passionate but unenlightened 
faith led him to feel that one thing was yet wanting. 
They heard their Lord speak of his Father and their 
Father. He was going to his Father’s house. They 


were to follow him there. But why should they not 
have even now a vision of the divine glory? It was 
part of the childlike simplicity of his nature that no 
reserve should hinder the expression of the craving, 
“ Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us” (xiv, 8). 
And the answer to that desire belonged also specially 
to him. He had all along been eager to lead others to 
see Jesus. lie had been with him, looking on him from 
the ven- commencement of his ministry, and yet he had 
not known him. lie had thought of the glory of the 
Father as consisting in something else than the Truth, 
Bighteousness, Love that he had witnessed in the Son. 
“ Have 1 been so long time with you, and yet hast thou 
not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath 
seen the Father; and how sayest thou, then, Show us the 
Father?” (John xiv, 9). No other fact connected with 
the name of Philip is recorded in the Gospels. The 
close relation in which we have seen him standing to 
the sons of Zebedee and Nathanael might lead us to 
think of him as one of the two unnamed disciples in the 
list of fishermen on the Sea of Tiberias who meet us in 
John xxi. He is among the company of disciples at 
Jerusalem after the ascension (Acts i, 13) and on the 
day of Pentecost. 

2. Traditionary Notices. — Besides the above all is 
uncertain and apocryphal. Philip is mentioned by Clem- 
ent of Alexandria as having had a wife and children, 
and as having sanctioned the marriage of his daughters 
instead of binding them to vows of chastity (Strom, iii, 
52; Euseb. If. E. iii, 30) ; and he is included in the list 
of those who had borne witness of Christ in their lives, 
but had not died what was commonly looked on as a 
martyr’s death (Strom, iv, 73). There is nothing im- 
probable in the statement that he preached the Gospel 
in Phrygia (Theodoret, in Psa. cxvi; Niccph. II. E. ii, 
36). Polycrates (in Euseb. II. E. iii, 31), bishop of 
Ephesus, speaks of him as having fallen asleep in the 
Phrygian Hierapolis, as having had two daughters who 
had grown old unmarried, and a third, with special gifts 
of inspiration (iv 'Ayiii> ni'£i'/um 7roXiTtvoaptri]), who 
had died at Ephesus. There seems, however, in this 
mention of the daughters of Philip, to be some confu- 
sion between the apostle and the evangelist. Eusebius 
in the same chapter quotes a passage from Cains, in 
which the four daughters of Philip, prophetesses, are 
mentioned as living with their father at Hierapolis, and 
as buried there with him, and himself connects this fact 
with Acts xxi, 8, as if they referred to one and the same 
person. Polyerates in like manner refers to him in the 
Easter Controversy, as an authority for the Quartodeci- 
man practice (Euseb. II. E. v, 24). It is noticeable that 
even Augustine (Serin. 266) speaks with some uncer- 
tainty as to the distinctness of the two Philips. 

Epiphanius (xxvi, 13) mentions a Gospel of Philip 
as in use among the Gnostics. See Gospels, Spuri- 
ous. The apocryphal 11 Acta Philippi ” are utterly wild 
and fantastic, and if there is any grain of truth in them, 
it is probably the bare fact that the apostle or the evan- 
gelist labored in Phrygia, and died at Hierapolis. He 
arrives in that city with his sister Mariamne and his 
friend Bartholomew. The wife of the proconsul is con- 
verted. The people are drawn away from the worship 
of a great serpent. The priests and the proconsul seize 
on the apostles and put them to the torture. John 
suddenly appears with words of counsel and encourage- 
ment. Philip, in spite of the warning of the Apostle of 
Love reminding him that he should return good for 
evil, curses the city, and the earth opens and swallows 
it up. Then his Lord appears and reproves him for his 
vindictive anger, and those who had descended to the 
abyss are raised out of it again. The tortures which 
Philip had suffered end in his death, but, as a punish- 
ment for his offence, he is to remain for forty days ex- 
cluded from Paradise. After his death a vine springs 
up on the spot where his blood had fallen, and the juice 
of the grapes is used for the Eucharistic cup (Tisehen- 
dorf, .1 eta Apocrypha, p. 75-94), The book which con- 


piiilip 


88 


piiilip 


tains this narrative is apparently only the last chapter 
of a larger history, and it fixes t lie journey and the 
death as after the eighth year of Trajan. It is uncer- 
tain whether the other apocryphal fragment professing 
to give an account of his labors in Greece is part of the 
same work, but it is at least equally legendary, lie ar- 
rives in Athens clothed, like the other apostles, as Christ 
had commanded, in an outer cloak and a linen tunic. 
Three hundred philosophers dispute with him. They 
find themselves bathed, and send for assistance to Ana- 
nias, the high-priest at Jerusalem, lie puts on his 
pontifical robes, and goes to Athens at the head of live 
hundred warriors. They attempt to seize on the apos- 
tle, and are all smitten with blindness. The heavens 
open; the form of ihe Son of Man appears, and all the 
idols of Athens fall to the ground; and so on through 
a succession of marvels, ending with his remaining two 
years in the city, establishing a Church there, and then 
going to preach the (iospel in Parthia (ibid. p. 05-104). 

Another tradition represents Scythia as the scene of 
his labors (Abdias. I fist. A post, in Kabricius, Cod. Ajtoc. 
X. T. i. 739), and throws the guilt of his death upon 
the Khionites (.1 ctn Sanctorum , May 1 ), — Smith. 

In pictorial art Philip is represented as a man of 
middle age, scanty beard, and benevolent face. 1 1 is 
attribute is a cross which varies in form— sometimes a 
small cross in his hand; again, a high cross in the form 
of a T, or a staff with a small cross at the top. It has 
three significations: it may represent the power of the 
cross which he held before the dragon; or his martyr- 
dom; or his mission as preacher of the cross of Christ. 
He is the patron-saint of Brabant and Luxembourg. 
His anniversary is May 1. 

Phil'ip tiik Kv.wcki.ist (dmWTrof « et>ayyt\t- 
ffrfc), one of the original seven deacons in the Christian 
Church. A.D. 20. The first mention of this name occurs 
in the account of the dispute between the Hebrew and 
Hellenistic disciples in Acts vi. He was one of the seven 
appointed to superintend the daily distribution of food 
and alms, and so to remove all suspicion of partiality. 
The fact that all the seven names are (4 reek, makes it 
at least very probable that they were chosen as belong- 
ing to the Hellenistic section of the Church, represent- 
atives of the class which had appeared before the apos- 
tles in the attitude of complaint. The name of Philip 
stands next to that of Stephen ; and this, together with 
the fact that these are the only two names (unless Nic- 
olas be an exception; comp. Nicoi.as) of which we 
hear again, tends to the conclusion that he was among 
the most prominent of those so chosen. He was, at anv 
rate, well reported of as “full of the Holy Ghost, and 
wisdom,” and had so won the affections of the great 
body of believers as to be among the objects of their 
free election, possibly (assuming the votes of the con- 
gregation to have been taken for the different candi- 
dates) gaining all but the highest number of suffrages. 
Whether the office to which he was thus appointed 
gave him the position and the title of a deacon of the 
Church, or was special and extraordinary in its charac- 
ter, must remain uncertain ((ioulburn, Acte of the Dea- 
cons, Loud. 1#G6). See Dkacon. 

'I he after-history of Philip warrants the belief, in any 
case, that his office was not simply that of the later Di- 
neonate. It is no great presumption to think of him as 
contributing hardly less than Stephen to the great in- 
crease of disciples which followed on this fresh organi- 
zation, as sharing in that wider, more expansive teach- 
ing which shows itself for the first time in the oration 
of the protomartyr, and in which lie was the forerunner 
of Paul. We should expect the man who had been his 
companion and fellow-worker to go on with the work 
which he had left unfinished, and to break through the 
barriers of a simply national Judaism. So according- 
ly wc find him in the next stage of his history. 'I he 
persecution of which Saul was the leader must have 
stopped the “daily ministrations" of the Church. The 
teachers who had been most prominent were compelled 


' to take to flight, and Philip was among them. The 
cessation of one form of activity, however, only threw 
him forward into another. It is noticeable that the city 
of Samaria is the first scene of his activity (Acts viii). 
He is the precursor of Paul in his work, as Stephen had 
been in his teaching. It falls to his lot. rather than to 
that of an apostle, to take that first stop in the victory 
over Jewish prejudice and the expansion of the Church, 
according to its Lord’s command. As a preparation li»r 
that work there may have been the Messianic hopes 
which were cherished by the Samaritans no less than 
by t lie Jews (John iv, 25). the recollection of the two 
days which had witnessed the presence there of Christ 
ami his disciples (ver. 40), even perhaps the craving 
for spiritual powers which had been roused by the 
strange influence of Simon the Sorcerer. The scene 
which brings the two into contact with each other, in 
which the magician has to acknowledge a power over 
nature greater than his own, is interesting rather as be- 
longing to the life of the heresiarch than to that of the 
evangelist. See Simon Maocs. It suggests the in- 
quiry whether we can trace through the distortions and 
perversions of the “hero of the romance of heresy,” the 
influence of that phase of Christian truth which was 
likely to be presented by the preaching of the Helle- 
nistic evangelist. 

'l’his step is followed by another, lie is directed by 
an angel of the Lord to take the road that led down 
from Jerusalem to (!aza on the way to Egypt. See 
Gaza. A chariot passes by in which there is a man of 
another race, whose complexion or whose dress showed 
him to be a native of Ethiopia. From the time of Psam- 
metichns there had been a large body of Jews settled in 
that region, and the eunuch or chamberlain at the court 
of Candace might easily have come across them and 
their sacred books, might have embraced their faith, 
and become by circumcision a proselyte of righteousness. 
He had been on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. He may 
have heard there of the new sect. The history that 
follows is interesting as one of the fe\v records in the 
X. T. of the process of individual conversion, and one 
which we may believe Luke obtained, during his resi- 
dence at Caesarea, from the evangelist himself. The 
devout proselyte reciting the prophecy which he does 
not understand the evangelist-preacher running at full 
speed till he overtakes the chariot — the abrupt question 
— the simple-hearted answer — the unfolding, from the 
starting-point of the prophecy, of the glad tidings of 
Jesus — the craving for the means of admission to the 
blessing of fellowship with the new society— the simple 
baptism in the first stream or spring— the instantaneous, 
abrupt departure of the missionary-preacher, as of one 
carried away hv a divine impulse these help us to rep- 
resent to ourselves much of the life and work of that 
remote past. On the hypothesis which has just been 
suggested, we may think of it as being the incident to 
which the mind of Philip himself recurred with most 
satisfaction. A brief sentence tells us that lie continued 
his work as a preacher at Azotus (Ashdod), and among 
the other cities which had formerly belonged to the Phi- 
listines, and, following the coast-line, came to Csvsarca. 

Here for a long period we lose sight of him. He may 
have been there when the new convert Saul passed 
through on his way to Tarsus (Acts ix. 30). lie may 
have contributed by his labors to the eager desire to he 
guided farther into the Truth which led to the conver- 
sion of Cornelius, We can hardly think of him as giv- 
ing up all at once Ihe missionary habits of his life. t)e- 
sarca. however, appears to have been the centre of his 
activity. The last glimpse of him in the X. T. is in the 
account of Paul’s journey to Jerusalem. It is to his 
house, as to one well known to them, that Paid and 
his companions turn for shelter. He is still known as 
“one of the Seven.” His work has gained for him the 
yet higher title of Evangelist. See Kvax<;kust. lie 
has four daughters, who possess the gift of prophetic 
utterance, and who apparently give themselves to the 


PHILIP 


89 PHILIP 


work of teaching instead of entering on the life of home 
(xxi, 8, 9). He is visited by the prophets and elders 
of Jerusalem. At such a place as Cwsarea the work 
of such a man must have helped to bridge over the ever- 
widening gap which threatened to separate the Jewish 
and the Gentile churches. One who had preached 
Christ to the hated Samaritan, the swarthy African, the 
despised Philistine, the men of all nations who passed 
through the seaport of Palestine, might well welcome 
the arrival of the apostle of the Gentiles. A.D. 55. 

The traditions in which the evangelist and the apos- 
tle who bore the same name are more or less confounded 
have been given under Philip the Apostle. Accord- 
ing to another, relating more distinctly to him, lie died 
bishop of Tralles (,4et« Sand. J une 6). The house in 
which he and his daughters had lived was pointed out 
to travellers in the time of Jerome ( Epit . Paula’, § 8). 
(Comp. Ewald, Geschichte, vi, 175,208-214: Baumgar- 
ten, Apostelyeschichte, § 15, 16.) — Smith. The later 
martyrologies, on the contrary, make him end his days 
in Ctesarea (.4 eta Sand. June 0). 

Phil'ip Herod (<biAr7T7roc; 'H j/paJ^/c), a son of Her- 
od the Great by Mariamne, the daughter of Simon the 
high-priest. He was the first husband of Herodias, 
who was taken from him by his brother Herod Antipas 
(Matt, xiv, 8; Mark, vi, 17; Luke iii, 19). A.L). ante 

25. Having been disinherited by his father, Philip ap- 
pears to have lived a private life. He is called Herod 
by Josephus {Ant. xvii, I, 2; 4, 2; xviii, 5, 1 ; War, i, 
28, 4 ; 30, 7). See Herod. 

Phil'ip the Tetrarcij (^iXtinrog b rtrpdpxiig), 
tetrareli of Batanaea, Traehonitis, and Auranitis (Luke 
iii, 1); the two latter appear to have been regarded by 
Luke as included in Ituriea. Philip was the son of Her- 
od the Great by his wife Cleopatra, and own brother of 
Herod Antipas ; at his death his tetrarehy was annexed 
to Syria. From him the city Caesarea Pliilippi took its 
name (Josephus, .4 nt. xvii, 1, 3 ; xi,4; xviii, 4, 6; IPr/r, 
i, 28, 4 ; ii, 6, 3). Philip ruled from B.C. 4 to A.D. 34. 
Sec Herod. 



Coin of Herod Philip the Tetrareli. 


Philip ( St .) Bexozzi ( San Filippo Beniti, or JJe- 
nizzi) stands at the head of the Order of the Servi, or 
Serviti. at Florence. He was not the founder of the 
order, having joined it fifteen years after its establish- 
ment, but he is their principal saint. See Serviti. 

Philip of C.esarea is a pseudo-name of one The- 
ophilus of Ctesarea, who nourished in the second half of 
the 2d century, and kept the account of the council held 
in the city after which he is named in A.L). 196. Sec 
TtiEomiLUS. 

Philip of Gortyna, a Christian writer of the 2d 
century, nourished as bishop of the Church at Gortyna, 
in Crete, and was spoken of in the highest terms by 
Dionysius of Corinth in a letter to the Church at Gor- 
tyna and the other churches in Crete (apud Euseb. 
Ilist. Fccles. iv, 23), as having inspired his thick with 
manly courage, apparently during the persecutions of 
Marcus Aurelius. Philip wrote a book against Mar- 
cion (q. v.), which was highly esteemed by the ancients, 
but is now lost; Trithemius speaks of it as extant in his 
day, but his exactness as to whether books were in ex- 
istence or not is not great. He also states that Philip 
wrote .4 d Divcrsos Epistolm and Varii Tractatus, but 
these are not mentioned by the ancients. See Eusebius, 
Hist. Fccles. iv, 21, 23, 25; Jerome, I)e Yiris lllnstr. e. 
30; Trithemius, Be Scriptor. Fccles. c. 19; Cave, Hist . ! 
I -iii. ad ann. 172 (ed. Oxford, 1740-1743), i, 74 ; Lardner, 


ICoj-Z-s (see Index).— Smith; Did. of Gr. and Rom. 
Bioy. s. v. 

Philip of Moscow, a Ihissian prelate of much dis- 
tinction, nourished in the second half of the 16th cen- 
tury. ( )f his early history we know scarcely anything, 
lie held several of the most important ecclesiastical 
trusts of Russia to the satisfaction of both clergy and 
government, and was finally, during tile reign of Ivan 
the Terrible, made primate of the Busso-Greek Church. 
Philip soon came into collision with his royal master 
because of the personal eruelties in which the czar in- 
dulged, and for his honesty of purpose and frankness of 
i declaration, Philip suffered martyrdom. “It is a true 
I glory of the Russian Church, and an example to the 
j hierarchy of all churches, that its one martyred prelate 
i should have suffered, not for any high ecclesiastical pre- 
tensions, but in the simple cause of justice and mercy. 
* >Silenee,’ he said, as he rebuked the czar, ‘lays sin upon 
! the soul, and brings death to the whole people. ... I 
am a stranger and a pilgrim upon earth, as all my fa- 
thers were, and 1 am ready to suffer for the truth. Where 
would my faith be if I kept silence? . . . Here we are 
offering up the bloodless sacrifice io the Lord ; while 
behind the altar flows the innocent blood of Christian 
men.’ As he was dragged away from the cathedral, his 
one word was ‘Pray.’ As he received his executioner 
in the narrow cell of his prison in the convent of Luer, 
he only said, ‘Perform thy mission.”’ See Stanley, 
Hist, of the Eastern Church, p. 437. (J. II. W.) 

Philip (St.) of Neri. See Nkri, Ft nr no. 

Philip ok Opus. Suidas (s. v. teiXoaoipoc') has this 

remarkable passage: “ •, a philosopher who divided 

the Leyes (s. De Leyihus ) of Plato into twelve books (for 
he is said to have added the thirteenth himself), and 
was a hearer of Socrates and of Plato himself; devoting 
i himself to the contemplation of the heavens (GxoXaGag 
\ ro~tg piTfiopoic). He lived in the days of Philip of Mac- 
edon.” Suidas then gives a long list of works written 
bv Philip. It is evident that the passage as it stands in 
Suidas is imperfect, and that the name of the author of 
the numerous works whieli he mentions has been lost 
from the commencement of the passage. It appears, 
however, from the extract occupying its proper place in 
the Lexicon according to its present heading, that the 
defect existed in the source from which Suidas bor- 
rowed. Kuster, the editor of Suidas (not. in loc.), after 
long investigation, was enabled to supply the omission 
by comparing a passage in Diogenes Laertius (iii, 37), 
and to identify “the philosopher” of Suidas with Philip 
of the Loerian town of Opus, near the channel which 
separates Euboea from the mainland. The passage in 
Laertius is as follows: “ Some say that Philip the Opun- 
tian transcribed his (Plato’s) work, De Leyihus, which 
was written in wax (i. e, on wooden tablets covered with 
a coat of wax). They say also that the ’Emropic (the 
thirteenth book of the De Leyihus ) is his,” i. e. Philip’s. 
The Fpinomis, whether written by Philip or by Plato, 
is usually included among the works of the latter. Di- 
j ogenes Laertius elsewhere (iii, 46) enumerates Philip 
! among the disciples of Plato. See Fabricius, Bill. Grcec. 

| iii, 104.— Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Bioy. s. v. 

Philip the Presbyter, an Eastern ecclesiastic of 
the 5th century, was, according to Gennadius (De Yiris 
lllustr. e. 62), a disciple of Jerome, and died in the 
reign of Marcian and Avitus over the Eastern and 
Western empires respectively, i. e. A.D. 456. Philip 
wrote, 1. Commentarins inJobum; 2. Familiares Epis- 
tola’, of which Gennadius, who had read them, speaks 
highly. These Epistohe have perished : but a Commen- 
t (irius in Johum addressed to Neetarius has been several 
times printed, sometimes separately under the name of 
Philip (Basle, 1527, two edit. fol. and 4tn), and some- 
times under the name and among the works of the Ven- 
erable Bede and of Jerome. Yallarsi and the Benedictine 
editors of Jerome give the Commentarius in their edi- 
tions of that father (v, 678, ete., ed. Benedict. ; vol. xi, 



PHILIP 


90 


pniLir 


col. 5G5, etc., ed. Vallarsi), but not as his. The Prolotjus 
or J'rafutio ad Xectarium are omitted, ami the text 
differs very widely from that given in the Cologne edi- 
tion of Bede (1012, lol. iv, 447. etc.), in which the work 
is given as Bede’s, without any intimation of its doubt- 
ful authorship. Cave. < >udin. and Vallarsi agree in as- 
cribing the work to Philip, though Vallarsi is not so 
decided in his opinion as the other two. See Oon- 
nadius. 1. e, ; Cave. Jlist. Lift, ad ann. 440, i, 434 ; (Judin, 
De Rcriptor. JCccles. vol. i, col. 11 Go; Vallarsi, Opera 
Huron, vol. iii, col. *25, etc.; vol. xi, col, olio. oGG; Fa- 
bricius, Jiiblioth. Med. et Jtifim. Latin, v, 295, ed. Mansi. 
— Smith, Diet, of Hr. and Rom. Iiiotj . iii, 290. 

Philip ok Snui (6 Eiom/r, or d Xicir/jc, or d «7rd 
iho/c), a Christian writer of the first half of the 5th 
century, was born probably in the latter part of the 4th 
century. He was a native of Side, in Pamphylia, and 
according to his own account in the fragment published 
bv Dodwell (see below), when Bhodon, who succeeded 
Didymns in charge of the catechetical school of Al- 
exandria, transferred that school to Side, Philip be- 
came one of his pupils. If we suppose Didymns to have 
retained the charge of the school till his death, A.l). 
31X5, at the advanced age of eightv-six, the removal of 
the school cannot have taken place long before the close 
of the century, and we may infer that Philip’s birth 
could scarcely have been earlier than A.l). 3*0. lie 
was a kinsman of Troilus of Side, the rhetorician, who 
was tutor to Socrates the ecclesiastical historian, and 
was indeed so eminent that Philip regarded his relation- 
ship to him as a subject of exultation (Socrates, Hint. 
Ecclts. vii, 27). Having entered the Church, he was 
ordained deacon, and had much intercourse with Chry- 
sostom ; in the titles of some MSS. he is styled his Svn- 
cellus, or personal attendant, which makes it probable 
that he was, from the early part of his ecclesiastical 
career, connected with the Church at Constantinople. 
Liberatus (Jireviar. c. 7) says he was ordained deacon 
by Chrysostom; but Socrates, when speaking of his in- 
timacy with that eminent man, does not say he was or- 
dained by him. Philip devoted himself to literary pur- 
suits, and collected a large library. He cultivated the 
Asiatic or diffuse style of composition, ami became a 
voluminous writer. At what period of his life his 
different works were produced is not known, llis Ec- 
clesiastical History was. as we shall see, written after 
his disappointment in obtaining the patriarchate; but 
as his being a candidate for that high office seems to 
imply some previous celebrity, it may be inferred that 
his work or works in reply to the emperor Julian’s at- 
tacks on Christianity were written at an earlier period. 
On the death of Atticus, patriarch of Constantinople, 
A.l). 425. Philip, then a presbyter, apparently of the 
great Church of Constantinople, and Proclus, another 
presbyter, were proposed, each by his own partisans, as 
candidates for the. vacant see ; but the whole people were 
bent upon the election of Sisinuius, also a presbyter, 
though not of Constantinople, but of a Church in Khca. 
one of the suburbs (Socrates, Hint, Cedes. vii, 2G). The 
statement of Socrates as to the unanimity of the popular 
wish leads to the inference that the supporters of Philip 
and Proclus were among the clergy. Sisinuius was the 
successful candidate; and Philip, mortified at his defeat, 
made in his Ecclesiastical History such severe strictures 
oti the election of his more fortunate rival that Socrates 
could not venture to transcribe bis remarks; and has ex- 
pressed his strong disapproval of his headstrong temper. 
On the death of .Sisinuius (A.l). 42*) the supporters of 
Philip were again desirous of his appointment, hut the 
emperor, to prevent disturbances, determined that no 
ecclesiastic of Constantinople should succeed to the. va- 
cancy; and the ill-fated heresiarch Xestorins, from An- 
tioch, was consequently chosen. After the deposition 
of Nestorius at the Council of Ephesus (A.D. 431), 
Philip was a third time candidate lor the patriarchate, 
but, was again unsuccessful. Nothing is known of him 
after this. It has been conjectured that he was dead 


before the next vacancy in the patriarchate, A.D. 434, 
when his old competitor Proclus was chosen. Certainly 
there is no notice that Philip was again a candidate; 
but the prompt decision of the emperor Theodosius iu 
Proclus’s favor prevented all competition, so that no in- 
ference can be drawn from Philip's quiescence. 

Philip wrote, Malta volumina contra I mperatorem 
Julia mint A post at am (Liberatus. lireviar. c. 7; comp. 
Socrat. //. vii, 27). It is not clear from the expres- 
sion of Liberatus, which we have given as the title, 
whether Philip wrote many works, or, as is more likely, 
one work in many parts, in reply to Julian : — ‘lorupia 
XpioTtuviKi), Histotia Christiana. The work was very 
large, consisting of thirty-six B i/SXoi or Libri , 

each subdivided into twenty-four ropoi or Atiyoi, i. e. 
sections. This voluminous work seems to have com- 
prehended both sacred and ecclesiastical history, begin- 
ning from the creation, and coming down to Philip’s 
own day, as appears by his record of the election of 
Sisinuius, already noticed. It appears to have been 
finished not very long after that event. Theophanes 
places its completion in A.M. 5922, Alex, tvra "A.D. 430 ; 
which, according to him, was the year before the death 
of Sisinuius. That the work was completed before the 
death of Sisinuius is probable from the apparent silence 
of Philip as to his subsequent disappointments iu ob- 
taining the patriarchate; but as Sisinuius, according to 
a more exact chronology, died A.D. 42*. we may con- 
clude that the work was Mulshed in or before that year, 
and, consequently, that the date assigned by Theophanes 
is rather too late. The style was verbose and weari- 
some, neither polished nor agreeable: and the matter 
such as to display ostentatiously the knowledge of the 
writer rather than to conduce to the improvement of 
the reader. It was. in fact, crammed with matter of 
every kind, relevant and irrelevant : questions of geom- 
etry, astronomy, arithmetic, and music; descriptions of 
islands, mountains, and trees, rendered it cumbersome 
and unreadable. Chronological arrangement was disre- 
garded. 'I'lie work is lost, with the exception of three 
fragments. One of these, Jk j Schulte Cat eclat icie . I lex- 
andrinre S access ione, on the succession of teachers in the 
catechetical school of Alexandria, was published from 
a MS. iu the Bodleian Library at Oxford, by Dodwell, 
with his Jkssertationes in I rente urn (< )xf. 10*9, Svo), anti 
has been repeatedly reprinted. It is given in the ninth 
volume of the Hihlio theca Pat rum of Oakland, p. 401. 
Another fragment iu the same MS.. Ik Constantino Max- 
iminno, et Licinio A ur/ustis, was prepared for publication 
by Crusius, but has never, we believe, been actually pub- 
lished. The third fragment, Td ytvaptva iv Iltpmfr 
fi tragi' XfjKT-iav*in> ‘FAX ijwtv re Kin ’lot'Cmwi', A eta 
Dispntatiouis de Christo , in Perside, inter Christianas, 
Gentiles , et J adieus hahitcr. is (or was) in the Imperial 
Library at Vicuna. Philip was present at the disputa- 
tion. See Socrates. //. E. vii, 2G, 27, 29, 35 ; Liberatus, 
/. c . ; Phot. Hihl. cod. 35; Theophan. Chroma], p. 75, ed. 
Paris; p. GO, ed. Venice : i, 135, ed. Bonn ; Tillcmont, Hist, 
des Empereurs. vi, 130; Cave. Hist. Lift, ad ann. 41*. i, 
395; Outlin, Jte Hcriptor. Eccles. vol. i. col. 997; Fa- 
bricitis, Eihl. flrtec. vi, 739, 747, 749; vii, 41*; x, G91 ; 
(lallaud, Ribliofh. /'at nan, vol. ix. /Vo/, e. 11 ; Lamlie- 
cius. Continental', de Jiiblioth. Ciesartea, lib. s. vol. v. col. 
281); vol. vi. pars ii. col. 4t»G, ed. Kollnr. — Smith, Diet, 
of Gr. and Rom. Jiioy. s. v, 

Philip Tin-: Sot.iTAKY. a Creek monk, nourished in 
the time of the emperor Alexius I. Conmenus. Nothing 
further seems to be known than what may be gleaned 
from the titles ami introductions of his extant works. 
He wrote, Aiinr-pu, Hioptra, s, Amnssis J'idti it J7/te 
Christiana', wrilten iu the kind of measure called *■ ver- 
sus polilici,” and iu the form of a dialogue between t he 
soul and the hotly. It is addressed to another monk, 
Callinieus, and begins with these two lines: 

tliT.1 KttZtj; nG-r u/ic/>0<t£w; uucXctr, tJit'X’t 

'll <rot> wewX/pwrut ‘ tfeX^t Toi; ffapKiov. 


PHILIP 


91 


pniLir 


The work, in its complete state, consisted of five books; j 
but most of the MSS. are mutilated or otherwise defec- 
tive, and want the first book. Some of them have been 
interpolated by a later hand. Michael Psellus, not the 
older writer of that name, who died about A.D. 1078, 
but one of later date, wrote a preface and notes to the 
Dioptra of Philip. A Latin prose translation of the 
Dioptra by the Jesuit Jacobus Pontanus, with notes by 
another Jesuit, Jacobus Gretserus, was published (I 11 - 
golstadt, 1604, 4to) ; but it was made from a mutilated 
copy, and consisted of only four books, and these, as the 
translator admits in his Pnefatio ad Lectorem, interpo- 
lated ami transposed ad libitum. Philip wrote also, T<y 
/card rrvtvpa vug icai itpu Kwraravviing wtpi irpta- 
fitiaq Kai TzpoGTaaiaq UTruXoyoc, Epistola Apoloyetica 
ad Const antinum Filium Spiritualem et Sacerdotem, de 
Differentia inter Intereessionem et A uxilium Sanctorum : 
— Versus Politici, in the beginning of which he states 
with great exactness the time of his finishing the Di- 
optra , 12th May, A.M. 6603, sera Constantinop. in the 
third indiction, in the tenth year of the lunar cycle = 
A.D. 1095, not 1105, as has been incorrectly stated. 
Cave has, without sufficient authority, ascribed to our 
Philip two other works, which are indeed given in a 
Vienna MS. (Codex 213, apud Lambee.) as Appendices \ 
to the Dioptra. One of these works ( Appendix secun- 
du),"On ovtc ttyays ri) vopu civ Ti‘u(j\a bXptarbq i v Tty 
Stiwvqt, d\\d to dXifiivbr, Demonst ratio quod Christus 
in Sami Ccena non legale sed rerum comederit Pascha, 
may have been written by Philip. Its arguments are 
derived from Scripture and Epiphanius. The other 
work, consisting of five chapters, De Fide et Cceremoniis 
Armeniorum, J acobitarum, Ckatzitza riorum el Roma- 
norum seu Francorum , was published, with a Latin ver- 
sion, but without an author’s name, in the Auetarium 
Novum of Combefis (Par. 1648, vol. ii, col. 261, etc.), 
but was, on the authority of MSS., assigned by Combe- 
fis, in a note, to Demetrius of Cyzicus, to whom it ap- 
pears rightly to belong (comp. Cave, Hint. Lift. Disser- 
tatio I, p. 6 ; Fabrieius, Dili. Grwc. xi, 414). The Chai- 
zitzarii (Xav^tT^dptot) were a sect who paid religious 
homage to the image of the cross, but employed no 
other images in their worship. The work of Demetrius 
appears under the name of Philip in the fourteenth 
(posthumous) volume of the Bibliotheca Patvum of Gal- 
land; but the editors, in their Prolegomena to the vol- 
ume, c. 15, observe that they knew not on what author- 
ity Galland had assigned it to Philip. Among the 
pieces given as Appendices to the Dioptra , are some 
verses in praise of the work and its author, by one Con- 
stantine, perhaps the person addressed in No. 2, and by 
Bestus, or Vestus, a grammarian, ot Kvpiov kam- 
OTavTivov iced Bta-ou rov ypappariKov, 1 ersus Do- 
mini Constantini et Vesti Grammutici. See Lambeeius, 
Commentin', de Biblioth. Ciesanea, lib. s. vol. v. col. 76- 
97, and 141,codd.213, 214,215, and 232, ed.Kollar; Cave, 
Hist. Lift, ad ann. 1095, ii, 163; Gudin, De Scriptor. 
Fccles. vol. ii, col. 851. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. 
Biog. s. v. 

Philip of the (Most Holy) Tiunity, a famous 
missionary to Persia and the Indies, was born at Avig- 
non in 1603, and died in 1671. 

Philip, John, D.D., a missionary to Africa, was born 
at Kirkcaldy, Fifeshire, Scotland, April 14, 1775. 1 1 is 

father, who was teacher of an English school, gave him 
his elementary education; and his mother, who is de- 
scribed as “ a woman of earnest and devoted piety,” en- 
deavored, with all the powerful insinuating influence of 
maternal persuasion, to imbue his infant mind with the 
fear of God and a reverence for his Word. Circumstances 
occasioned his removal while yet a boy to reside in the 
house of an uncle at Leven ; and there his character 
rapidly developed itself in the leading features of intel- 
lectual and moral individuality that distinguished him 
through life. In his nineteenth year he removed to 
Dundee, win re, having completed his term of appren- 


ticeship to a linen-manufacturer, he relinquished that 
trade for the office of clerk in a factory, an office which, 
without regard to salary, he preferred, from the greater 
opportunities it afforded him for mental improvement. 
The Congregational minister with whose Church he 
connected himself conceived a strong attachment for 
him, and through his influence Philip was introduced 
to the theological college at Hoxton. After having 
completed the regular term of three years’ study, he 
was licensed as a preacher and ordained in 1804. In 
the course of Providence he was led to visit Aberdeen, 
where his pulpit ministrations proved so useful that he 
received an invitation, which he accepted, to undertake 
the pastoral charge of a Congregational Church recently 
formed in that town, llis heart had for many years 
been strongly set on the missionary work, when the 
London Missionary Society proposed to him to under- 
take the superintendence of their numerous missions in 
South Africa. The proposal, though at first strenuously 
opposed by his attached congregation, to whom he had 
then ministered for fourteen years, was at length ac- 
cepted by both as the will of God, and in 1820 Dr. 
Philip sailed for Africa. He there assumed charge of 
the Church in Union Chapel, Cape Town, and for thirty 
years besides held the office of superintendent of the 
society’s missions. By his labors in this field he is 
principally known. But besides these direct evangeli- 
cal labors, Dr. Philip made most persevering and success- 
ful efforts on behalf of the down-trodden tribes of South 
Africa. By his intercourse with the natives he obtained 
evidence of the disastrous effects of the prevailing sys- 
tem, and ere long the strong arm of British power was 
stretched out for the defence of those who had so long 
been the white man’s prey. These labors gained for 
him the title of “ Liberator of Africa.” Dr. Philip died 
in 1850, as became a missionary, amid the people to 
whose spiritual and temporal welfare the energies of 
his life had been devoted, lie published a work en- 
titled Researches in A frica , which was received with 
I great interest by the English government. JSee Jamie- 
! son’s Cyclop, of Relig. Biog. s. v. 

Philip, Robert, D.D.,an English dissenting divine, 
was born in 1791, and was educated at Owen College, 
Manchester, and after ordination preached to several In- 
dependent congregations, until at last he was called to 
the pastorate of Maberlev Chapel, London, where he 
died in 1858. He wrote, Christian Experience , Guide to 
the Perplexed -Communion with God , Guide to the De- 
votional: — Eternity Realized , Guide to the Thoughtful : 
— The God of Glory. Guide to the Doubting: — On Pleas- 
ing God, Guide to the Conscientious : — Redemption, or the 
New Song in Heaven. Rev. Albert Barnes wrote an in- 
troduction to these six works, and they were published 
t under the title of Devotional Guides (N. Y. 1867, 2 vols. 
12mo). Dr. Philip also published, Sacramentul Expe- 
rience, a Guide to Communicants (new ed. Loud. 1844, 
18mo): — The Marys, or Beauty of Female Holiness 
(1840, rov. 18mo): — The JI art has, or Varieties of Fe- 
male Piety (1840, sm. 18mo) : — The Lydias, or Develop- 
ment of Female Character (1841, rov. 18mo): — The 
Hannahs, or Maternal Influence on Sons (1841, 12mo). 
These were published collectively as the “Lady’s Closet 
Library” (4 vols. 18mo) : — Manly Piety in its Principles 
(1837, 18mo): — Manly Piety in its Realizations (1837, 
18mo), were published in 1 vol. 12mo, under t he title 
of the “Young Man’s Closet Library — The Comforter, 
or the Lore of the Spirit (Loud. 1836, 18mo) : — The Eter- 
nal, or the A ttrilmtes of Jehovah, etc. (1846, fcp. 8vo) ; — 
The Elijah of South Africa (1852, Jcp. 8vo) : — Life, 
Times, etc., of John Banyan (1838, l2mo) : — Banyan's 
Pilgrim's Progress (Loud. 1843, roy. 18mo); — Life and 
Times of the Rev, Samuel Whitrfudd (1838, 8vo): — 
Life and Opinions of the Rev. William Milne (1839, 
post 8vo) : — Life and Times of the Rev. John Camp- 
bell ( Loud. 1841, 8 vo) : — Introductory Essay to the Prac- 
tical 1 1 ’nrks of the lltc. Richard Baxter (1838, 4 vols.). 
(J.H.W.) 


PH I LI POFTSC 1 1 1 XS 


PHILIPPI 


oo 


Philipoftschins or Philiponians. See Pm- 

LIIUTNS. 

Pllilip'pi (4>(\\r7T7ro<. plnr. of Philip), a celebrated 
city of Macedonia, visited by the apostle Paul, and the 
seat of the earliest Christian t ’hnreh formally established 
in Europe. The double miracle wrought there, and the 
fact that "to the saints in Philippi’’ the great apostle 
of the Gentiles addressed one of his epistles, must ever 
make this city holy ground. (The following account 
of it is based upon that of Dr. Porter in Kitto’s Cgclu- 
jnedia, with large additions from other sources.) 

1. .1 postolic . I ssocin fiotis. — St. Paul, when, on his first 
visit to .Macedonia in company with Silas, he embarked 
at Troas, made a straight run to Samothrace, and from 
thence to Xeapolis, which he reached on the second dav 
( Acts xvi, 1 1). The Philippi of Paul’s day was situated 
in a plain, on the banks of a deep and rapid stream called 
Gangites (now Angista). The ancient walls followed the 
course of the stream for some distance; and in this sec- 
tion of the wall the site of a gate is seen, with the ruins 
of a bridge nearly opposite. In the narrative of Paul’s 
visit it is said : “ On the Sabbath ire vent out of (he pate 
by (he river (fi'/pVr optv Ti'ig -vXijg irapa worapov). 
where a meeting for prayer was accustomed to be" 
(ver. 13). It was doubtless by this gate they went 
out, and by the side of this river the prayer- meeting 
was held. As Philippi was a military colony, it is prob- 
able that the Jews had no synagogue, and were not 
permitted to hold their worship within the walls. P»e- 
himl the city, on the north-east, rose lofty mountains; 
but on the opposite side a vast and rich plain stretched 
out. reaching on the south-west to the sea, and on the 
north-west far away among the ranges of Macedonia. 
On the south-east a rocky ridge, some sixteen hundred 
feet in height, separated the plain from the bay and 
town of Xeapolis. Over it ran a paved road connecting 
Philippi with Xeapolis. Though the distance between 
the two was nine miles, yet Xeapolis was to Philippi 
what the Pinvus was to Athens; and hence Paul is said, 
when journeying from Greece to Syria, to have “sailed 
away from Philippi;” that is, from Xeapolis, its port 
(xx, 15). 

Philippi was in the province of Macedonia, while 
Xeapolis was in Thrace. Paul, on his first journey, 
landed at the latter, and proceeded across the mountain- 
road to the former, which Luke calls “the first city of 
the division of Macedonia” (iTpMTif rtjg ptpicog' Tijg 
Mare Coving -h\tg, Acts xvi, 12). The word 7 rpwj-»; 
does not, as represented in the A. V., signify “chief.” 
Thcssaloiiica was the chief city of all Macedonia, and 
Amphipolis of that division (ptpig) of it in which Phi- 
lippi was situated (see Wieselcr, Chron. des Aposf. Zeif. 
p. 37). 11 pto-p simply means that Philippi was the 

“ first” city of Macedonia to which Paul came (Alford, ad 
loc. ; Couyheare and llowson, Life of St. Paid, i, 311, 
note). In descending the mountain-path towards Phi- 
lippi the apostle had before him a vast and beautiful 
panorama. The whole plain, with its green meadows, 
and chimps of trees, and wide reaches of marsh, and 
winding streams, lay at his feet ; ami away bevoud ii 
the dark ridges of Macedonia, 

The missionary visit of Paul and Silas to Philippi 
was successful. They found an eager audience in the 
few Jews and proselytes who frequented the prayer- 
place on the banks of the < iangites. Lydia, a trader 
from Tlivnlira, was the first convert. Her whole house 
followed her example. It was when going and return- 
ing from Lydia’s house that "the damsel possessed with 
a spirit of divination” met the apostles. Paul east out 
the spirit, and then those who had made a trade of the 
poor girl’s misfortune rose against them, and took them 
before the magistrates, who. with all thehasteand rough- 
ness of martial law, ordered them to he scourged and 
thrown into prison. Even this gross act of injustice 
redounded in the end to the glory of God: for the jailer 
au<l his whole house were converted, and the very mag- 
istrates were compelled to make a public apology to the 


apostles, and to set them at liberty, thus declaring their 
innocence. The scene in the prison of Philippi was one 
of the most cheering, as it was one of the most remark- 
able incidents in the history of the apostolic Church. 

Paul visited Philippi twice more, once immediately 
after the disturbances which arose at Ephesus out of the 
jealousy of the manufacturers of silver shrines for Arte- 
mis. IJy this time the hostile relation in which the 
Christian ductrine necessarily stood to all purelv cere- 
monial religions was perfectly manifest; and wherever 
its teachers appeared, popular tumults were to be ex- 
pected, and the jealousy of (lie Homan authorities, who 
dreaded civil disorder above everything else, to be 
feared. It seems not unlikely that the second visit of 
the apostle to Philippi was made specially with the 
view of counteracting this particular danger. He ap- 
pears to have remained in the city and surrounding 
country a considerable time (Acts xx, i. 2). 

X\ hen Paul passed through Philippi a third time he 
does not appear to have made any considerable stay 
there (ver. (!). lie and his companion are somewhat 
loosely spoken of as sailing from Philippi; but this is 
because in the common apprehension of travellers the 
city and its port were regarded as one. Whoever em- 
barked at the Pineus might in the same way be said to 
set out on a voyage from Athens. On this occasion 
the voyage to Troas took the apostle live days, the ves- 
sel being probably obliged to coast in order to avoid the 
contrary wind, until coming off the headland of Sarpe- 
don, whence she would be able to stand across to Troas 
with an E. or E.X.E. breeze, which at that time of year 
(after Easter) might be looked for. 

The Christian community at Philippi distinguished 
itself in liberality. On the apostle’s first visit he was 
hospitably entertained by Lydia, and when he after- 
wards went to Thcssaloiiica, where his reception appears 
to have been of a very mixed character, the Philippiaus 
sent him supplies more than once, and were the only 
Christian community that did so (Phil, iv, 15). They 
also contributed readily to the collection made for the 
relief of the poor at Jerusalem, which Paul conveyed 
to them at his last visit (2 Cor. viii, I d). It would 
seem as if they sent further supplies to the apostle after 
his arrival at Home. The necessity for these appears to 
have been urgent, and some delay to have taken place 
in collecting the requisite funds: so that Epaphroditus, 
who carried them, risked his life in the endeavor to 
make up for lost time (fit \>it cardro v pyytotv iretpa- 
fiovXtvtrdifiti-oc rt) i l>i'\{i, if a dvmrXiffjihay to ifnl i> 
i'aripiffia ~ijr —pig pt Xtirovpyiag, Phil. ii. 30). The 
delay, however, seems to have somewhat stung the 
apostle at the time, who fancied his beloved dock had 
forgotten him (see iv, It!- 17). Epaphroditus fell ill 
with fever from his efforts, and nearly died. On recov- 
ering he became homesick, and wandering in mind 
(deppoviov) from the weakness which is the sequel of 
fever; and Paul, although intending soon to send Tim- 
othy to the Philippian Church, thought it desirable to 
let Hpapliroditns go without delay to them, who had 
already heard of his sickness, and carry with him the 
letter which is included in the canon — one which was 
written after the apostle's imprisonment at Home had 
lasted a considerable time. Some domestic troubles 
connected with religion had already broken out in the 
community. Kuodins and Svntyche, who appear to lie 
husband and wife, arc exhorted to agree with one an- 
other in the matter of their common faith; and the for- 
mer is implored to extend his sympathy to certain fe- 
males (obviously familiar both to Paul and to him) who 
did good service to the apostle in his trials at Philippi, 
and who in some way or other appear to lie the occasion 
of the disagreement between the pair. Possibly a claim 
on the part of these females to superior insight in spir- 
itual matters may have caused some irritation; for the 
apostle immediately goes on to remind his readers that 
the peace of (hid is something superior to the highest 
intelligence (iiirtpi\ovoa irdrTa voi'v). 


PHILIPPI 


93 


PHILIPPI 


It would seem, as Alford says, that the cruel treat- ' 
ment of the apostle at l’hilippi had combined with the 
charm of his personal fervor of affection to knit up a 
bond of more than ordinary love between him and the 
Thilippian Church. They alone, of all churches, sent 
subsidies to relieve his temporal necessities"’ (Phil. iv. 
10, 15, 18; 2 Cor. xi, 9; 1 Thess. ii, 2; Alford, Greek 
Test., Prol. iii, 29). The apostle felt their kindness; 
and during bis imprisonment at Home wrote to them 
that epistle which is still in our canon. This epistle 
indicates that at that time some of the Christians there 
were in the custody of the military authorities as sedi- 
tious persons, through some proceedings or other con- 
nected with their faith (17111/ t\api(r^t) to {'Trip \ptarov, 
oi> pui'ov to tig avTov TiOTTtvttv aXXa Kai to in rip at— 
tov TTcia\ttV tov avTov uyihva i\ovTtg oioi> tivtTt iv 
ipoi Kai vvv atcovtrt iv ipoi, Phil, i, 29). The reports 
of the provincial magistrates to Koine would of course 
describe Paul’s first visit to Philippi as the origin of the 
troubles there; and if this were believed, it would be 
put together with the charge against him by the Jews 
at Jerusalem which induced him to appeal to Caesar, and 
%vith the disturbances at Ephesus and elsewhere; and 
the general conclusion at which the government would 
arrive might not improbably be that he was a danger- 
ous person and should be got rid of. This will explain 
the strong exhortation of the first eighteen verses of 
chapter ii, and the peculiar way in which it winds up. 
The Philippian Christians, who are at the same time 
suffering for their profession, are exhorted in the most 
earnest manner, not to firmness (as one might have ex- 
pected), but to moderation, to abstinence from all prov- 
ocation and ostentation of their own sentiments (pyciv 
Kara iptStiav pipe KtvoSo^iav, ver. 3), to humility, and 
consideration for the interests of others. They are to 
achieve their salvation with fear and trembling, and 
without quarrelling and disputing, in order to escape all 
blame — from such charges, that is, as the Homan colo- 
nists would bring against them. If with all this pru- 
dence and temperance in ihe profession of their faith, 
their religion is still made a penal offence, the apostle is 
well content to take the consequence — to precede them 
in martyrdom for it — to be the libation poured out upon 
them the victims (ti Kai mrtvdopai t7rl ry Svoia Kai 
Xtirovpyia ryg Triartiog i<pwv, \aipu) Kai avy\aipu) 
iraatv i'piv, ver. 17). Of course the Jewish formalists 
in Philippi were the parties most likely to misrepresent 
the conduct of the new converts; and hence (after a di- 
gression on the subject of Epaphroditus) the apostle re- 
verts to cautions against them, such precisely as he had 
given before — consequently by word of mouth : Beware 
of those dogs” — (for they will not be children at the ta- 
ble, but eat the crumbs underneath) — “ those doers (and 
bad doers too) of the law — those flesh -manglers (for 
circumcised I won’t call them, we being the true circum- 
cision, etc.”) (iii, 2, 3). Some of these euemies Paul 
found at Home, who 11 told the story of Christ insincerely'’ 

( Kari/yyttXav ooy dyi'wc, i, 17) in the hope of increasing 
the severity of his imprisonment by exciting the jealousy 
of the court. These he opposes to such as *• preached 
Christ” (tKi/pv^av) loyally, and consoles himself with 
•the reflection that, at all events, the story circulated, 
whatever the motives of those who circulated it. See 
Walch, A eta Pauli Philippensia (Jen. 172G); Todd, The 
Church at Philippi (Loud. 18G4). See PmLiriuAxs. 
Epistle to. 

2. Ancient History . — Strabo tells us that the old name 
of Philippi was Krenides (vii, 331); and Appian adds 
that it was so called from the number of 44 li ttle fountains” 
(Kpyvidtc) around the site. lie also says that it had 
another name, Datus ; but that Philip of Maeedon, hav- 
ing taken it from the Thracians, made it a frontier for- 
tress, and gave it bis own name (Be Bell. Civ. iv, 105). 
Philip’s city stood upon a bill, probably that seen a little 
to the south of the present ruins, which may have al- 
ways formed the citadel, but was in all probability in its 
origin a factory of the Phoenicians, who were the first 


that worked the gold-mines in the mountains here, as 
in the neighboring Thasos. Appian says that those 
were in a bill (Xorpog) not far from Philippi, that the 
hill was sacred to Dionysus, and that the mines went 
by the name of “ the sanctuary” (r « eiavXa). But he 
shows himself quite ignorant of the locality, to the ex- 
tent of believing the plain of Philippi to be open to the 
river Strymon, whereas the. massive wall of Pangaens is 
really interposed between them. In all probability the 
“hill of Dionysus” and the “ sanctuary” are the temple 
of Dionysus high up the mountains among the Satra*, 
who preserved their independence against all invaders 
down to the time of Herodotus at least. It is more 
likely that the gold-mines coveted by Philip were the 
same as those at Scapte Hyle, which was certainly in 
this immediate neighborhood. Before the great expe- 
dition of Xerxes, the Thasians had a number of settle- 
ments on the main, and this among the number, which 
produced them eighty talents a year as rent to the state. 
In the year B.C. 4G3 they ceded their possessions on the 
continent to the Athenians: but the colonists, 10,000 in 
number, who had settled on the Strymon and pushed 
their encroachments eastward as far as this point, were 
crushed by a simultaneous effort of the Thracian tribes 
(Thucydides, i, 100 ; iv, 102; Herodotus, ix, 75; Pausa- 
nias, i, 29, 4). From that time until the rise of the 
Macedonian power, the mines seem to have remained 
in the hands of native chiefs; but when the affairs of 
Southern Greece became thoroughly embroiled by the 
policy of Philip, the Thasians made an attempt to re- 
possess themselves of this valuable territory, and sent a 
colony to the site, then going hy the name of “ the 
Springs” (Kpi/vi^tr). Philip, however, aware of the 
importance of the position, expelled them and founded 
Philippi, the last of all his creations. The mines at 
that time, as was not wonderful under the circumstances, 
had become almost insignificant in their produce; but 
their new owner contrived to extract more than a 
thousand talents a year from them, with which he 
minted the gold coinage called by his name. The 
proximity of the gold-mines was of course the origin of 
so large a city as Philippi, but the plain in which it lies 
is one of extraordinary fertility. The position too was 
on the main road from Borne to Asia, the Via Egnatia, 
which from Thcssalonica to Constantinople followed the 
same course as the existing post-road. The usual course 
was to take ship at Brundisium and land at Dyrracliinni, 
from whence a route led across Epirus to Thessalonica. 
Ignatius was carried to Italy by this route, when sent to 
Koine to be cast to wild beasts. Sec Strabo, Fragment. 
lib. vii: Thncyd. i, 100; iv, 102; Herod, .ix, 75; Diod. 
Sic. xvi, 3 sq.; Appian, Bell. Civ. iv, 101 sq. ; Pausan. 
i, 28, 4. 

The famous battle of Philippi, in which the Roman 
republic was overthrown, was fought on this plain in 
the year B.C. 42 (Dio. Cass, xlvi; Appian, l. c.). In 
honor, and as a memorial of his great victor}', Augustus 
made Philippi a Roman colony,” and its coins bear the 
legend Colonia Augusta Jul. Philippensis (Conybcare 
and Ilowson, i, 312). The emperor appears to have 
founded the new quarter in the plain along the banks 
of the Gangites. As a colony (koXuivIo, Acts xvi, 12) 
it enjoyed peculiar privileges. Its inhabitants were 



Coin of Philippi. 


OSrerse ; Mend r{ Augustus, with tbe legend “ Ca>s. Aug. P. M. Tr. P.” fi. e. 
Ca-s-ir Augustus. Pontilex Maximus, Tribnnitin Potestas]. Reverse : Fig- 
ures <>f Julius Ca;snr and Augustus, with the legend "Col. Aug. [Jill.] 
rhilii>.” 


rmuiTi 


04 


Philippi 


Roman citizens, most of them being the families and 
descendants of veteran soldiers, who had originally set- 
tled in the place to guard the city and province. They 
were governed by their own magistrates, called Duum- 
viri or Praetors (in Greek arpartjyoi; ver. 20). who ex- 
ercised a kind of military authority, and were indepen- 
dent of the provincial governor. 

3. Present Site .— Philippi (now called by the Turks 
1'rlibejik') is cut off from the interior by a steep line of 
hills, anciently called Symbolum, connected towards the 
N.E. with the western extremity of lhemus, and to- 
wards the SAW, less continuously, with the eastern ex- 
tremity of Pangauis. Between the foot of Symbolum 
and the site of Philippi two Tm.cish cemeteries are 
passed, the gravestones of which are all derived from 
the ruins of the ancient city, and in the immediate 
neighborhood of the one first reached is the modern 
'Turkish village Perefcetli. This is the nearest village 
to the ancient ruins. Near the second cemetery are 
some ruins on a slight eminence, and also a khan, kept 
by a Greek family. Here is a large monumental block 
of marble, twelve feet high and seven feet square, ap- 
parently the pedestal of a statue, as on the top a hole 
exists whicli was obviously intended for its reception. 
This hole is pointed out by local tradition as the crib 
out of which Alexander’s horse, Bucephalus, was accus- 
tomed to eat his oafs. On two sides of the block is a 
mutilated Latin inscription, in which the names of Cains 
Vibius and Cornelius Quart us may be deciphered. A 
stream employed in turning a mill bursts out from a 
sedgy pool in the neighborhood, and probably finds its 
way to the marshy ground mentioned as existing in the 
SAW portion of the plain. After about twenty min- 
utes’ ride from the khan, over ground thickly strewed 
with fragments of marble columns, and slabs that have 
been employed in building, a river-bed sixtv-six feet 
wide is crossed, through which the stream rushes with 
great force, and immediately on the other side the walls 
of the ancient Philippi may he traced. 'Their direction 
is adjusted to the course of the stream; and at only 
three hundred and fifty feet from its margin there ap- 
pears a gap in their circuit, indicating the former exist- 
ence of a gate. 'This is. no doubt, as above seen, the 
gate out of which the apostle and his companion passed 
to the “prayer-meeting” on the hanks of a river, where 
they made the acquaintance of Lydia, the Thyatiran 
seller of purple. 'The locality, just outside the walls, 
and with a plentiful supply of water for their animals, 


is exactly the one which would be appropriated as a 
market for itinerant traders, “ quorum cophinus feenum- 
que supellex,” as will appear from the parallel ease of 
the Lgerian fountain near Rome, of whose desecration 
.luvenal complains (Sat. iii, 13). Lydia had an estab- 
lishment in Philippi for the reception of the dyed goods 
which were imported from Thyatira and the neighbor- 
ing towns of Asia, and were dispersed bv means of pack- 
animals among the mountain elans of the llsem us and 
Pangauis, the agents being doubtless in many instances 
her own coreligionists. High up in lhemus lay the 
tribe of the Satne, where was the oracle of Dionysus — 
not the rustic deity of the Attic vinedressers, hut the 
prophet-god of the Thracians (« OpyZ't /idv~<r. Eurip. 
lie cub. 1207). ’The “damsel with the spirit of divi- 
nation” (waiciotcif t\ov«ra rri'tvfia irvSwva) may prob- 
ably be regarded as one of the hierodulcs of this estab- 
lishment, hired by Philippian citizens, and frequenting 
the country-market to practice her art upon the vil- 
lagers who brought produce for the consumption of the 
town. 'The fierce character of the mountaineers would 
render it imprudent to admit them within the walls of 
the city; just as in some of the towns of North Africa 
the Kahvles are not allowed to enter, but have a market 
allotted to them outside the walls for the sale of the 
produce they bring. Over such an assemblage only a 
summary jurisdiction can be exercised; and hence the 
proprietors of the slave, when they considered them- 
selves injured, and hurried Paul and Silas into the 
town, to th ejif/ora — the civic market where the magis- 
trates ( dp\orrec ) sat— were at once turned over to the 
military authorities (arparpyoi), and these, naturally 
assuming that a stranger frequenting the extra-mural 
market must he a Thracian mountaineer or an itinerant 
trailer, proceeded to inllict upon the ostensible cause of 
a riot (the merits of which they would not attempt to 
understand) the usual treatment in such eases. The 
idea of the apostle possessing the Roman franchise, and 
consequently an exemption from corporal outrage, never 
occurred to the rough soldier who ordered him to be 
scourged; and the whole transaction seems to have 
passed so rapidly that he had no time to plead his citi- 
zenship, of which the military authorities first heard 
the next day. But the illegal treatment (i'/Jpic) obvi- 
ously made a deep impression on the mind of its victim, 
as is evident not only from his refusal to take his dis- 
charge from prison the next morning (Acts xvi. 37), but 
from a passage in the Epistle to the Church at Thcssa- 



(GtuantfrAl 


* Aratoiol* ^ -■ \ 


Ancient ((uarrieA 

"PniLippi 


, " Uatnlct of 

Let Jlajiar-tepe toM/.jiAB.TCHiFLnc W 


Plan of Philippi aud its Vicinity. 


PHILIPPIAN 


95 PHILIPPIAN S, EPISTLE TO THE 


lonica (1 Thess. ii, 2), in which he reminds them of the 
circumstances under which he first preached the Gospel 
to them (Trpo7ra$6i'T(g Kai vfipiaSevrtg, teaming oiSart, 
t V (piXiirirotg). Subsequently at Jerusalem, under par- 
allel circumstances of tumult, he warns the officer (to 
the great surprise of the latter) of his privilege (Acts 
xxii, 55). 

Philippi is now an uninhabited ruin. The remains 
are very extensive, but present no striking feature ex- 
cept two gateways, which are considered to belong to 
the time of Claudius. The foundations of a theatre can 
be traced; also the walls, gates, some tombs, and nu- 
merous broken columns and heaps of rubbish. The ru- 
ins of private dwellings are visible on every part of the 
site; and at one place is a mound covered with columns 
and broken fragments of white marble, where a palace, 
temple, or perhaps a forum once stood. Inscriptions 
both in the Latin and Greek languages, but more gen- 
erally in the former, are found. See Clarke, Travels, 
vol. iii; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii; Cousin eTy, 
Voyage dans la Maced.; and especially Hacket, Journey 
to Philippi in the Bible Union Quarterly, August, 1860; 
Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v. ; Lewin, St. Paul, i, 
206 sq. See Macedonia. 

Pllilip'pian ( &i\nnn’iaiog ), the patrial title of an 
inhabitant of Philippi (Phil, iv, 15). 

PHILIPPIANS, Epistle to the, the sixth in order 
of the Pauline letters in the N. T. (The following ar- 
ticle is chiefly based upon that in Smith's Dictionary 
of the Bible.') 

F. The canonical authority, Pauline authorship, and 
integrity of this epistle were unanimously acknowledged 
up to the end of the 18th eentury. Marcion (A.D. 140), 
in the earliest known canon, held common ground with 
the Church touching the authority of this epistle (Ter- 
tullian, Adv. Marcion, iv, 5; v, 20) : it appears in the 
Muratorian Fragment (Routli, Reliquia Sacra, i, 395); 
among the “acknowledged” books in Eusebius (//. E. 
iii, 25); in the lists of the Council of Laodicea, A.D. 
365, and the Synod of Hippo, 393; and in all subse- 
quent lists, as well as in the Peshitn and later versions. 
Even contemporary evidence may be claimed for it. 
Philippian Christians who had contributed to the col- 
lections for Paul's support at Rome, who had been eye 
and ear witnesses of the return of Epaphroditus and the 
first reading of Paul’s epistle, may have been still alive 
at Philippi when Polvcarp wrote (A.D. 107) his letter 
to them, in which (ch. ii, iii) he refers to Paul’s epistle 
as a well-known distinction belonging to the Philippian 
Church. It is quoted as Paul’s by several of the early 
Church fathers (Iremeus, iv, 18, § 4; Clem. Alex. Pa- 
dug. i, 6, § 52, and elsewhere; Tertullian, Adv. Mar. v, 
20, De Res. Cam. ch. xxiii). A quotation from it (Phil, 
ii, 6) is found in the Epistle of the Churches of Lyons 
and Vienne, A.D. 177 (Eusebius, II. E. v, 2). The tes- 
timonies of later writers are innumerable. See Canon. 

It is only in very recent times that any doubt has 
been suggested as to the genuineness of this epistle. 
Schrader ( Der A p. Paulus, v, 233) first insinuated that 
the passage iii, 1-iv, 9 is an interpolation; but he ad- 
duces no reason for this but the purely gratuitous one 
that the connection between ii, 30 and iv, 10 is disturbed 
by this intervening section, and that by the excision of 
this the epistle beeomes “more rounded off, and more a 
genuine occasional letter” — as if any sound critic would 
reject a passage from an ancient author because in his 
opinion the author’s composition would be improved 
thereby! Baur goes farther than this, and would re- 
ject the whole epistle as a Gnostic composition of a 
later age ( Paulus , p. 458 sq.). But when he comes to 
point out “ the Gnostic ideas and expressions” by which 
the epistle is marked, they will be found to exist only 
in his own imagination, and can only by a perverse in- 
genuity be forced upon the words of the apostle. Thus, 
in the statement that Christ iv pop<f>y Sreov i<7ruo\wv 
oi>x dpiraypov yyijaaro to tirat icu (ii, 5, 6), 


Baur finds an allusion to the Gnostic jeon Sophia, in 
which “existed the outgoing desire with all power to 
penetrate into the essence of the supreme Father.” But 
not only is this to give the apostle’s words a meaning 
which they do not bear (for however we translate ap- 
iraypbv iiyyaaTo, it evidently expresses an act in the 
past, not an aim for the future), but it is manifest that the 
entire drift of the passage is not to set forth any specu- 
lative doctrine, but to adduce a moral inference. This 
is so manifest that even Baur himself admits it, and by 
so doing overturns his own position ; for it is only on 
the supposition that what the apostle refers to is a fact, 
and not a mere speculative fancy, that any moral con- 
clusion can.be drawn from it. Equally futile is the at- 
tempt to find Docetism in the use of the term pop<pi ] — 
a term used by the apostle in reference to the divine 
nature— or of the terms opoitopa, cxypa, and evp&ij- 
vai, all of which occur elsewhere in Paul's writings, and 
are here used to denote simply that Jesus Christ pre- 
sented himself to the view of men actually as one of 
themselves (Liinemann, Pauli ad Phil. Ep. cont. Bau- 
rium defensa, Gbtt. 1847 ; BrUckner, Ep. ad Phil. Paulo 
auctori vindicata cont. Baur. Lips. 1848). Baur was 
| followed by Schwegler (1846), who argued from the 
phraseology of the epistle and other internal marks that 
it is the work not of Paul, but of some Gnostic forger in 
the 2d century. He too has been answered by Liinemann 
(1847), Bruckner (1848), and Resch (1850). Even if his 
inference were a fair consequence from Banr’s premises, 
it would still be neutralized by the strong evidence in 
favor of Pauline authorship, which Palev flora Pau- 
lina, ch. vii) has drawn from the epistle as it stands. 
The arguments of the Tubingen school are briefly stated 
1 in Reuss ( Gesch . d. X. T. § 130-133), and at greater length 
in Wiesinger’s Commentary. Most persons who read 
them will be disposed to concur in the opinion of dean 
Alford (A". T. iii, 27, ed. 1856), who regards them as an 
instance of the insanity of hypercriticism. The ca- 
nonical authority and the authorship of the epistle may 
be considered as unshaken. 

A question has been raised as to whether the extant 
Epistle to the Philippians is the only one addressed by 
Paul to that Church. What has given rise to this 
question is the expression used by the apostle (iii, 1), 
rd ai’Tu ypcajaiv \<plv, k.t.X., where the writing of the 
same things to them is supposed to refer to the identity 
of what he is now writing with what he had written in 
a previous letter. It has also been supposed that Poly- 
carp knew of more than one epistle addressed by the 
apostle to the Philippians, from his using the plural (og 
ci—ojv vpiv t ypa'pev i7rioToXdg) ill reference to what he 
had written to them. To this, however, much weight 
eannot be attached, for there can be no doubt that the 
Greeks used iiriaroXai for a single letter, as the Lat- 
ins used litera (see a multitude of examples in Ste- 
phans’s Thesaurus, s. v.). That Polycarp knew of only 
one epistle of Paul to the Philippians has been supposed 
by some to be proved by the passage in the 11th chap- 
ter of his letter, preserved in the Latin version, where 
he says, “ Ego autem nihil tale sensi in vobis vel au- 
divi, in quibus laboravit beatus Paulus qui estis in prin- 
cipio epistoke ejus,” etc. But, as Meyer points out, 
“epistolie” here is not the genitive singular, but the 
nominative plural; and the meaning is not “who are 
in the beginning of his epistle,” which is hardly sense, 
but (with allusion to 2 Cor. iii, 1) “who are in the be- 
ginning [i. e. from the beginning of his preaching the 
Gospel among you — a common use of iv apxy, which 
was the expression probably used by Poly carp] his 
epistle.” It is going too far, however, to say that this 
passage has no bearing on this question ; for if Meyer’s 
construction be correct, it shows that I’olycarp did use 
kTTioroXai for a single epistle. Meyer, indeed, trans- 
lates “who are his epistles;” but if the allusion is to 2 
Cor. iii, 1, we must translate in the singular, the whole 
Church collectively being the epistle, and not each 
member an epistle. But though the testimony of Poly- 


1TIILIPPIAXS, EPISTLE TO TIIE 96 PIIIL1PPIAXS, EPISTLE TO TIIE 


carp for a plurality of epistles may l>e set aside, it is less 
easy to set aside the testimony of the extant epistle it- 
self in the passage cited. To refer rti aura to the pre- 
ceding \atptn in Kvptip seems somewhat difficult, for 
nowhere previously in this epistle has the apostle ex- 
pressly enjoined on his readers \aipiiv iv Kvpiip, and one 
does not see what on this hypothesis is the propriety of 
such expressions as d Kinipuv and tiotyuXtv; and to lay the 
stress on the yoiupitv, as Wieseler proposes (Chronolo~ 
f/ie deg Ap. Xeit. p. 458), so as to make the apostle refer 
to some verbal message previously sent to the l’hilip- 
piaus, the substance of which he was now about to put 
into writing, seems no less so; for not only does the 
epistle contain no allusion to any oral message, but in 
this case the writer would have said kui yuatpiw. A 
large number of critics follow Pel agios in the explana- 
tion, ‘‘eadcm repetere qnee preesens dixeram but it 
may be doubted if so important a clause may be legiti- 
mately dragged in to complete the apostle’s meaning, 
without any authority from the context. Ilence many 
have concluded that the apostle alludes to some written 
communication previously sent by him to the Philip- 
pi a ns (so lliihnleiu, Platt, Meyer, Bleek, Schenkel, etc.). 
I5ut, besides the lack of all evidence, of such lost epistles 
in general, the assumption here must he pronounced in 
a high degree doubtful and precarious, lienee we con- 
clude that rti aitrci refers to the \aiptn \ which is the 
pervading thought of the epistle (i, 4, 1.S; ii, 17, etc.), 
and which seems to have been the more dwelt upon as 
the actual circumstances of the case might very natu- 
rally have suggested the contrary feeling (hence vkvij- 
puv). See Ellicott, ail loc. Ewald ( Sendschreiben ties 
Ap. Paulas, p. 431) is of opinion that Paul sent several 
epistles to the Philippians; ami he refers to the texts 
ii, 12 and iii, 1* as partly proving this. But some ad- 
ditional confirmation or explanation of this conjecture 
is requisite before it can be admitted as either probable 
or necessary. 

There is a break in the sense at the end of the second 
chapter of the epistle, which every careful reader must 
have observed. It is indeed quite natural that an epis- 
tle written amid exciting circumstances, personal dan- 
gers, and various distractions should bear in one place 
at least a mark of interruption. Lc Moyne (H>85) 
thought it was anciently divided into two parts. Hein- 
richs (18|0). followed by Paulas (1817), has conjectured 
from this abrupt recommencement that the two parts 
are two distinct epistles, of which the first, together 
with the conclusion of the epistle (iv, 21-23), was in- 
tended for public use in the Church, and the second ex- 
clusively for the apostle's special friends in Philippi. It is 
not easy to see what sufficient foundation exists for this 
theory, or what illustration of the meaning of the epistle 
could be derived from it. It has met with a distinct 
reply from Krause (1811 and 1818); and the integrity of 
the epistle has not been questioned by recent critics. 

11. Time anil Place of Writing. The constant tradi- 
tion that this epistle was written at Pome by Paul in 
his captivity was impugned first by Ocdcr (1732), who, 
disregarding the fact that the apostle was in prison (i. 
7, 13, 14) when he wrote, imagined that he was at Cor- 
inth (see Wolfs ('unr Philuloijieir. iv, lti8, 270); and 
then by Paulas (170!)), Schulz (1823), Bdtlger (1837), 
and Pilliet (1811). in whose opinion the epistle was 
written during the apostle’s confinement at Ciesarea 
(Acts xxiv, 23). But the references to the •‘palace" 
(pnetorium. i, 13), and to *‘C;e.-ar’s household” (iv, 22), 
seem to point to Pome rather than to Ciesarea; and 
there is no reason whatever for supposing that the apos- 
tle felt in Ciesarea that extreme uncertainty of life con- 
nected with the approaching decision of his cause which 
he must have felt towards the end of his captivitv at 
Pome, and which he expresses in this epistle (i, 13, 20; 
ii. 17; iii, HO; and, further, the dissemination of the 
(iospel described in Phil, i, 12-18 is not even hinted at 
in Luke’s account of the Civsarcau captivity, but is de- 
scribed bv him as taking [dace at Pome (comp. Acts xxiv. 


2.3 with xxviii, 30, 31). Even Pcuss (flench, d. X. T. 
1800), who assigns to ('ivsarea three of Paul’s epistles, 
which are generally considered to have been written at 
Pome, is decided in his conviction that the Epistle to 
the Philippians was written at Pome. 

Assuming then that the epistle was written at Pome 
during the imprisonment mentioned in the last chapter 
of the Acts, it may be shown from a single fact that it 
could not have been written long before the end of the 
two years. The distress of the Philippians on account 
of Epaphroditus’s sickness was known at Pome when 
the epistle was written; this implies four journeys, sep- 
arated by some indefinite intervals, to or from Philippi 
and Pome, between the commencement of Paul’s cap- 
tivity and the writing of the epistle. The Philippians 
were informed of his imprisonment, and sent Epapliro- 
ditus; they were informed of their messenger’s sickness, 
and sent their message of condolence. Further, the ab- 
sence of Luke’s name from the salutations to a Church 
where he was well known implies that he was absent 
from Pome when the epistle was written : so does Paul’s 
declaration (ii, 20) that no one who remained with him 
felt an equal interest with Timothy in the welfare of the 
Philippians. By comparing the mention of Luke in Col. 
iv, 14 and Pliilem. 24 with the abrupt conclusion of bis 
narrative in the Acts, we are led to the inference that 
lie left Ponte after those two epistles were written and 
before the end of the two years’ captivity. Lastly, it is 
obvious from Phil, i, 20 that Paul, when lie wrote, felt 
his position to be very critical, and we know that it be- 
came more precarious as the two years drew to a close. 
Assuming that Paul’s acquittal and release took place 
in 58, we may date the Epistle to the Philippians early 
in that year. 

1 1 1. Personal Circumstances of the Writer at the Time. 
— 1. Paul's connection vith Philippi was of a peculiar 
character, which gave rise to the writing of this epistle. 
That city, important as a mart for the produce of the 
neighboring gold-mines, and as a Poman stronghold 
to cheek the rude Thracian mountaineers, was distin- 
guished as the scene of the great battle fatal to Brutus 
and Cassius, B.C. 42. More than ninety years after- 
wards Paul entered its walls, accompanied by Silas, 
who had been with him since lie started from Antioch, 
and by Timothy and Luke, whom he afterwards at- 
tached to himself; the former at Derbe. the latter quite 
recently at Troas. It may well be imagined that the 
patience of the zealous apostle had been tried by bis 
mysterious repulse, first from Asia, then from Bithyuia 
and Mysia, and that liis expectations had been stirred 
up by the vision which hastened his departure with his 
uew-found associate, Luke, from Troas. A swift pas- 
sage. brought him to the European shore at Xoapolis, 
whence lie took the road, about ton miles long, across 
the mountain ridge called Symbol um to Philippi (Acts 
xvi, 12). There, at a greater distance from Jerusalem 
than any apostle bad yet penetrated, the long-restrained 
energy of Paul was again employed in laying the foun- 
dation of a Christian Church. Seeking first, the lost 
sheep of the bouse of Israel, he went on a Sabbath-day 
with the few Jews who resided in Philippi to their 
small Proseucha on the bank of the river Cungitos. 
The missionaries sat down and spoke to the assembled 
women. One of them. Lydia, not horn of the seed of 
Ahralmm, but a proselyte, whose name and occupation, 
as well as her birth, connect her with Asia, gave heed 
unto Paul, and she and her household were baptized, 
perhaps on the same Sabbatli-dav. Her house became 
the resilience of the missionaries. Many days they re- 
sorted to t he Proseucha, and the result of their short 
sojourn in Philippi was the conversion of many persons 
(xvi, 40), including at Jast their jailer and bis house- 
hold. Philippi was endeared to Paul, not only by the 
hospitality of Lydia, the deep sympathy of the converts, 
and the remarkable miracle which set a seal on bis 
preaching, but also by the successful exercise of his 
missionary activity alter a long suspense, and by the 


PHILIPPIANS, EPISTLE TO THE 97 PHILIPPIANS, EPISTLE TO THE 

happy consequences of his undaunted endurance of ig- inquirers into the new faith at Eome addressed thern- 
nomfnies which remained in his memory (Phil, i, 80) selves to the apostle, and to those who were known to 


after a long interval. Leaving Timothy and Luke to 
watch over the infant Church, Paul and Silas went to 
Thessalonica (1 Thess. ii, 2), whither they were followed 
hv the alms of the Philippians (Phil, iv, 16), and thence 
southwards. Timothy, having probably carried out sim- 
ilar directions to those which were given to Titus (i, 5) 
in Crete, soon rejoined Paul. We know not whether 
Luke remained at Philippi. The next six years of his 
life are a blank in our records. At the end of that pe- 
riod he is found agaiu (Acts xx, 6) at Philippi. 

After the lapse of five years, spent chiefly at Corinth 
and Ephesus, Paul, escaping from the incensed worship- 
pers of the Ephesian Diana, passed through Macedonia, 
A.D. 54, on his way to Greece, accompanied by the 
Ephesians Tychicus and Trophimus, and probably vis- j 
ited Philippi for the second time, and was there joined 
by Timothy. His beloved Philippians, free, it seems, | 
from the controversies which agitated other Christian 
churches, became still dearer to Paul on account of the 
solace which they afforded him when, emerging from a 
season of dejection (2 Cor. vii, 5), oppressed by weak 
bodily health, and anxious for the steadfastness of the 
churches which he had planted in Asia and Achaia, he 
wrote at Philippi his second Epistle to the Corinthians. 

On returning from Greece, unable to take ship there 
on account of the Jewish plots against his life, he went 
through Macedonia, seeking a favorable port for em- 
barking. After parting from his companions (Acts xx, 
4), he again found a refuge among his faithful Philippi- 
ans, where he spent some days at Easter, A.D. 55, with 
Luke, who accompanied him when he sailed from Ne- 
apolis. 

Finally, in his Roman captivity (A.D. 57), their 
care of him revived again. They sent Epaphroditus, 
bearing their alms for the apostle’s support, and ready 
also to tender his personal service (Phil, ii, 25). He 
stayed some time at Rome, and while employed as the 
organ of communication between the imprisoned apos- 
tle and the Christians, and inquirers in and about Rome, 
he fell dangerously ill. When he was sufficiently recov- 
ered, Paul sent him back to the Philippians, to whom 
he was very dear, and with him our epistle. See Phi- 
lippi. 

2. The state of the Church at Rome should be consid- 
ered before entering on the study of the Epistle to the 
Philippians. Something is to be learned of its condi- 
tion about A.D. 55 from the Epistle to the Romans, 
and more about A.D. 58 from Acts xxviii. Possibly the 
Gospel was planted there by some who themselves re- 
ceived the seed on the day of Pentecost (Acts ii, 10). 
The converts were drawn chiefly from Gentile proselytes 
to Judaism, partly also from Jews who were such by birth, 
with possibly a few converts direct from heathenism. 
In A.D. 55 this Church w r as already eminent for its 
faith and obedience: it was exposed to the machina- 
tions of schismatical teachers; and it included tw r o con- 
flicting parties, the one insisting more or less on observ- 
ing the Jewish law in addition to faith in Christ as 
necessary to salvation, the other repudiating outward 
observances even to the extent of depriving their weak 
brethren of such as to them might be really edifying. 
We cannot gather from the Acts whether the whole 
Church of Rome had then accepted the teaching of 
Paul as conveyed in his epistle to them. But it is cer- 
tain that when be had been two years in Rome, his 
oral teaching was partly rejected by a party which per- 
haps may have been connected with the former of those 
above mentioned. Paul’s presence in Rome, the free- 
dom of speech allowed to him, and the personal freedom 
of his fellow-laborers were the means of infusing fresh 
missionary activity into the Church (Phil, i, 12-14). 
It was in the work of Christ that Epaphroditus was 
w T orn out (ii, 30). Messages and letters passed between 
the apostle and distant churches; and doubtless church- 
es near to Eome, and both members of the Church and 
VIII.— G 


be in constant personal communication with him. Thus 
in his bondage he was a cause of the advancement of 
the Gospel. From his prison, as from a centre, light 
streamed into Caesar’s household and far beyond (iv, 22; 
i, 12-19). See Rome. 

IV. Effect of the Epistle. — We have no account of the 
reception of this epistle by the Philippians. Except , 
doubtfid traditions that Erastus w’as their first bishop, 
and that he with Lydia and Parmenas v r as martyred in 
their city, nothing is recorded of them for the next forty- 
nine years. But about A.D. 107 Philippi v'as visited 
by Ignatius, w ho was conducted through Neapolis and 
Philippi, and across Macedonia, on his way to martyr- 
dom at Rome. His visit was speedily followed by the 
arrival of a letter from Polycarp of Smyrna, which ac- 
companied, in compliance with a characteristic request 
of the warm-hearted Philippians, a copy of all the let- 
ters of Ignatius that were in the possession of the 
Church of Smyrna. It is interesting to compare the 
Philippians of A.D. 58, as drawn by Paul, with their 
successors in A.D. 107 as drawn by the disciple of John. 
Steadfastness in the faith, and a joyful sympathy with 
sufferers for Christ’s sake, seem to have distinguished 
them at both periods (Phil, i, 5, and Polyc. Ep. i). The 
character of their religion was the same throughout, 
practical and emotional rather than speculative : in both 
epistles there are many practical suggestions, much in- 
terchange or feeling, and an absence of doctrinal discus- 
sion. The Old Testament is scarcely, if at all, quoted ; 
as if the Philippian Christians had been gathered for 
the most part directly from the heathen. At each pe- 
riod false teachers were seeking, apparently in vain, an 
entrance into the Philippian Church, first Judaizing 
Christians, seemingly putting out of sight the resurrec- 
tion and the judgment which afterwards the Gnostieiz- 
ing Christians openly denied (Phil, iii, and Polyc. vi, 
vii). At both periods the same tendency to petty in- 
ternal quarrels seems to prevail (Phil, i, 27 ; ii, 14; iv, 2; 
and Polyc. ii, iv, v, xii). The student of ecclesiastical 
history will observe the faintly marked organization of 
bishops, deacons, and female coadjutors to which Paul re- 
fers (Phil, i, 1 ; iv, 3), developed afterwards into broad- 
ly distinguished priests, deacons, widows, and virgins 
(Polyc. iv, v, vi). Though the Macedonian churches 
in general were poor, at least as compared with com- 
mercial Corinth (2 Cor. viii, 2), yet their gold-mines 
probably exempted the Philippians from the common 
lot of their neighbors, and at first enabled them to be 
conspicuously liberal in alms-giving, and afterwards laid 
them open to strong warnings against the love of money 
(Phil, iv, 15: 2 Cor. viii, 3 ; and Polyc. iv, vi, xi). 

Now r though we cannot trace the immediate effect of 
Paul’s epistle on the Philippians, yet no one can doubt 
that it contributed to form the character of their Church, 
as it was iu the time of Polycarp. It is evident from 
Polycarp’s epistle that the Church, by the grace of God 
and the guidance of the apostle, had passed through those 
trials of which Paul warned it, anti had not gone back 
from the high degree of Christian attainments which 
itVeached under Paul’s oral and w ritten teaching (Polyc. 
i, iii, ix, xi). If it had made no great advance in knowl- 
edge, still unsound teachers were kept at a distance from 
its members. Their sympathy with martyrs and con- 
fessors glowed with as warm a flame as ever, whether 
it was claimed by Ignatius or by Paul. They maintained 
their ground with meek firmness among the heathen, 
and still held forth the light of an exemplary though 
not a perfect Christian life. 

V. Scope and Contents of the Epistle. — Paul’s aim in 
writing is plainly this: while acknowledging the alms 
of the Philippians and the personal services of their 
messenger, to give them some information respecting 
his own condition, and some advice respecting theirs. 
Perhaps the intensity of his feelings and the distraction 
of his prison prevented the following out his plan with 


PHILIPPIANS, EPISTLE TO THE fl 

undeviating closeness. For the preparations for the de- 
parture of Epaphroditus, and the thought that he would 
soon arrive among the warm-hearted Philippians, filled 
Paul with recollections of them, and revived his old 
feelings towards those fellow-heirs of his hope of glory 
who were so deep in his heart (i,7) and so often in his 
prayers (i, 4). 

Full of gratitude for this work of friendly remem- 
brance and regard, Paul addressed to the Church in 
Philippi this epistle, in which, besides expressing his 
thanks for their kindness, he pours out a Hood of elo- 
quence and pathetic exhortation, suggested partly by his 
own circumstances, and partly by what he had learned 
of their state as a Church. That state appears to have 
been on the whole very prosperous, as there is much 
commendation of the Philippians in the epistle, and no 
censure is expressed in any part of it either of the 
Church as a whole, or of any individuals connected with 
it. At the same time the apostle deemed it necessary 
to put them on their guard against the evil influences 
to which they were exposed from Jndaizing teachers 
and false professors of Christianity. These cautions he 
interposes between the exhortations suggested by his 
own state, and by the news he had received concerning 
the Philippians, with which his epistle commences ami 
with which it closes. We may thus divide the epistle 
into three parts. In the first of these (i, ii), after the 
usual salutation and an outpouring of warm-hearted af- 
fection towards the Philippian Church (i, 1-11), the 
apostle refers to hi.s own condition as a prisoner at 
Home ; and, lest they should be east down at the thought 
of the unmerited indignities he had been called upon to 
suffer, lie assures them that these had turned out rather 
to the furtherance of that great cause on which his heart 
was set, and for which he was willing to live and labor, 
though, as respected his personal feelings, he would rath- 
er depart and be with Christ, which he deemed to be 
“far better” (12-24). Ik* then passes bv an easy tran- 
sition to a hortatory address to the Philippians, calling 
upon them to maintain steadfastly their profession, to 
cultivate humanity and brotherly love; to work out 
their own salvation with fear and trembling, and con- 
cluding by an appeal to their regard Ibr his reputation 
as an apostle, which could not but be affected by their 
conduct, and a reference to his reason for sending to them 
Kpaphroditus instead of Timothy, as he had originally 
designed (i, 25; ii, 30). In part, second he strenuously 
cautions them, as already observed, against Jndaizing 
teachers, whom he stigmatizes as “dogs” (in reference, 
probably, to their impudent, snarling, and quarrelsome 
habits), “ evil-workers,” and “ the concision by which 
latter term he means to intimate, as Thcophvlact re- 
marks (ad loc.), that the circumcision in which the Jews 
so much gloried had now ceased to possess any spiritual 
significance, and was therefore no better than a useless 
mutilation of the person. On this theme he enlarges, 
making reference to his own standing as a Jew, and in- 
timating that, if under the Christian dispensation Jew- 
ish descent and Jewish privileges were to go for anv- 
thing, no one could have stronger claims on this ground 
than he; but at the same time declaring that however 
lie had once valued these, he now counted them “all 
but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ” 
(iii, 1 12). A reference to his own sanctified ambition 
to advance in the service of Christ leads him to exhort 
the Philippians to a similar spirit; from this he passes 
to caution them against unnecessary contention, and 
against those who walk disorderly, concluding bv re- 
minding them of i lie glorious hopes which, as Chris- 
tians, they entertained (vcr. 13 21). In the third part 
we have a series ol admonitions to individual members 
of the Church at Philippi (iv, I 3), followed by some j 
general exhortations to cheerfuhu ss moderation, prayer, 
and good conduct (vcr. 4 0) ; after which come a series 
of allusions to the apostle's circumstances and feelings, 
his thanks to the Philippians for their seasonable aid, and 
his concluding benedictions and salutations (vcr. 10 23). 


18 PHILIPPIANS, EPISTLE TO TIIE 

VI. Charact 'eristic Features of the Epistle. — Strangely 
full of joy and thanksgiving amid adversity, like the 
apostle's midnight hymn from the depth of his Philip- 
pian dungeon, this epistle went forth from his prison at 
Home. In most other epistles lie writes with a sus- 
tained effort to instruct, or with sorrow, or with indig- 
nation; he is striving to supply imperfect, or to correct 
erroneous teaching, to put down scandalous impurity, 
or to heal schism in the Church which lie addresses. 
Ihit in this epistle, though he knew the Philippians 
intimately, and was not blind to the faults and tenden- 
cies to fault of some of them, yet he mentions no evil 
so characteristic of the whole Church as to call for gen- 
eral censure on his part or amendment on theirs. ( If all 
his epistles to churches, none has so little of an otlicial 
character as this. He withholds hi.s title of “apostle” 
in the inscription. We lose sight of his high authority, 
and of the subordinate position of the worshippers by the 
river-side; and we are admitted to see the free action of 
a heart glowing with inspired Christian love, and to 
hear the utterance of the highest friendship addressed 
to equal friends conscious of a connection which is not 
earthly and temporal, but in Christ, for eternity. Who 
that bears in mind the condition of Paul in his Roman 
prison can read unmoved of his continual prayers for 
his distant friends, his constant sense of their fellowship 
with him, his joyful remembrance of their past Chris- 
tian course, his confidence in their future, his tender 
yearning after them all in Christ, his eagerness to com- 
municate to them his own circumstances and feelings, 
his carefulness to prepare them to repel any evil from 
within or from without which might dim the bright- 
ness of their spiritual graces? Love, at once tender and 
watchful — that love which “ is of Cod” — is the key-note 
of this epistle; and in this epistle only we hear no un- 
dertone of any different feeling. Just enough, and no 
more, is shown of his own harassing trials to let us see 
how deep in his heart was the spring of that feeling, 
and how he was refreshed by its sweet and soothing 
flow. 

VII. Commentaries. — The following are the exegetieal 
helps specially on this entire epistle; a few of the most 
important are indicated by an asterisk (*) preiixed : Vic- 
torians, In Ep. ad Ph. (in Mai, Seript. Yet. Ill, i, ol ; 
Pseudo-Ilieronymus, Commentarii (in Opp. [ Fnppos. ], 
xi, 1011); Chrysostom, Ilomilin ■ (Cr. et Lat. in Opp. xi, 
20.S; also in Erasmi Opp.v iii, 310; in Engl, [including 
other epistles] in Lib. of Fathers, xiv, < >xf. IS 13, 8vo); 
Zwingli. .1 nno tat lanes (Tignr. 1531, 4to ; also in Ojtp. iv, 
504) ; Hoffmann, Commentarius ( Basil. 1541,8vo) ; Brenz, 
Fxplicatio (Franc. 1548, 8vo; also in Opp. vii); Cal- 
vin, Commentarii (in Opp. often ; separately in Engl, by 
Bechet, Loud. 1584, fob; by Johnston [iuclud. Col.], 
Kdinb. 1842, 12mo; by Pringle [iuclud. Col. and Thess.], 
Fdinb. 1851. 8vo); Major, Fnarraiio [iuclud. Col. and 
Thess.] (Vi tenib. 1554. 15151, 8vo); Ridley, Exposition 
(in Richmond's Fathers, ii); Weller, Commentarius fin- 
elm]. Thess.] (Xorih. 15l51,8vo); Salbont, Commentarii 
[iuclud. other epistles] (Antw. ]5lil,8vo; also in Opp. 
Col. Atrr. 15(58, ful.) ; Musculus, Commentarius [iuclud. 
Col., Thess., and 1 Tim.] (Basil. 1505, 1578, 1505, lol.) ; 
Aretius, Commentarii [iuclud. Col. and Thess.] (Morg. 
1580. 8vo) ; ( fleviail, .Voter [iuclud. Col. ) (Ceil. 1580, 
8vo); Steuart (Roman Catli.), Commentarius (Ingolst. 
1505, 4to) ; Zanchius. Commentarius [iuclud. Col. and 
Thess.] (Neost. 1505. fid.; also in Opp. vi); Woinrich, 
Fxplicatio (Lips. 1(515, 4to) ; Airav, Lectures (Loud. 1(518, 
Ito) ; Battns, Commentarius (Rost. 1(527. 4to); Velasquez 
( Rom. Catli.), Commentarii (Lugd. 1(528 -32; Antw. 1(537, 
1(551; Veil. 1(51(5, 2 vols. fid.); Sehotan. Commentaria 
( I'Taneck. 1(537, 4 to) ; (’roll, Commentarius (in Opp. i, 
501) : Meolfnhr. Commentation! s (Allorf. 1041. 4to) ; Coc- 
eeius, t'ommentarius (in t>pp.\)\ Bailie, Exposition (2*1 
cd. Ceu. 1050-00.2 vols. 8vo; in English by Sherman, 
Loud. 1811, Svo) ; Seheid, Oispntationes ( Argent. 1008, 

4 to); Breithaupt, .1 nimadrersiones (Hoi. 1(503. 1703.4to); 
Hazevoet, 15 rklaaring (Loyd. 1718, 4to) ; Van Til, I'er- 


PHILIPPINE ISLANDS 


99 


Iclaaring ([includ. Rom.] Harlem, 1721. 4to; in Lat. [in- 
cluil. 1 Cor., Eph., ami Col.] Amst. 1726, 4to) ; Busching. 
Introductio (Hal. 1746, 4to) ; Storr, Diss. exegetica (Tub. 
1783, 4to; also in Opusc. i, 301-67) ; Am Elide, Annota- 
tiones (fasc. i, ii, Torg. 1789-92; A'iteb. 1798-1803, 8vo) ; 
Paulus, De tempore , etc. (Jen. 1799, 4to) ; Lang, Kearbeit. 
(Nuromb. and Alt. 1800, 8vo) ; Krause, An dicersis hom. 
script., etc. (Regiom. 1811, 4to ; also in Opusc. p. 1-22) ; 
Hoog, De Philip, conditione (L. B. 1825, 8vo); *Rhein- 
wald, Commentin' (Berl. 1827, 8vo); Acaster, Lectures 
(Loud. 1827, 8vo) ; Rettig, Quiestiones (Giess. 1831, 8vo); 
Schinz, D. ChristL Genuine zu Phil. (Zur. 1833, 8vo) ; 
Eastburn, Lectures (X. Y. 1833, 8vo) ; J'assavant, A usle- 
gung (Basle, 1834, 8vo) ; Baynes, Commentary (Loud. 
1834, 12mo) ; Matt hies, Erklar. (Creifsw. 1835, 8vo); 
’•'Steiger, Exeg'ese [includ. Col.] (Par. 1837, 8vo) ; ’•‘Van 
Heiigel, Commentarius (L. B. 1838, 8vo); Hdlemann, 
Commentarii (Lips. 1839, 8vo) ; Anon., Erklar. (Hanov. 
1839, 8vo); Neat, Discourses (Lond. 1841, 8vo) ; Rilliet, 
Commentaire (Gen. and Par. 1841, 8vo) ; llall, Exposi- 
tion (Lond. 1843, 8vo) ; Neander, Erleiut. (Berl. 1849, 8vo; 
in Engl, by Mrs. Conant, N. Y. 1851, 12mo) ; Robertson, 
Lectures (Lond. 1849, 12mo); B. Crusius, Commentar 
(Jen. 1849, 8vo) ; Kohler, Auslegung (Kiel, 1855, 8vo); 
Toller, Discourses (Lond. 1855, 12ino); *Weiss, A usle- 
gung (Berl. 1858, 8vo) ; *Ellieott, Commentary [includ. 
Col. and Philem.] (Lond. 1858, 8vo) ; Jatho, Erklar. 
(Ilildesh. 1858, 8vo) ; *Eadie, Commentary (Lond. 1858, 
1861, 8vo); Shulte, Commentary (Lond. 1861, 8vo) ; 
Sclienkel, Erleiut. [includ. Eph. and Col.] (Leipz. 1862, 
8vo) ; Newland, Catena (Lond. 1862, 8vo) ; Vaughan, 
Lectures (2d ed. Lond. 1864, 8vo); Todd, Exposition 
(Lond. 1864, 8vo) ; *Lightfoot, Commentary (Lond. 1868, 
1870, 8vo) ; Johnstone, Lectures (Lond. 1875, 8vo). See 
Epistlk. 

Philippine Islands, situated in 5° 30'-19° 42' 
N. lat., and 117° 14'-126° 4' E. long., in the great In- 
dian Archipelago, to the north of Borneo and Celebes, 
are more than twelve hundred in number, and have 
an area of about 150,000 square miles. The popula- 
tion is over 6,000,000, three fourths of whom are sub- 
ject to Spain. The remainder are governed, according 
to their own laws and customs, by independent native 
princes. Luzon, in the north, has an area of 51,300 
square miles, and Mindanao, or Magindanao, in the 
south, fully 25,000. The islands lying between Luzon 
and Mindanao are called the Bisayas, the largest of 
which are: Samar, area 13,020 square miles; Mindoro, 
12,600; Panav, 11,340; Leyte, 10,080; Negros, 6300; 
Masbate, 4200; and Zebu, 2352. There are upwards of 
a thousand lesser islands of which little is known. To 
the south-west of the Bisayas lies the long, narrow isl- 
and of Paragoa or Palawan, formed of a mountain-chain 
with low coast-lines, cut with numerous streams, and 
exceedingly fertile. The loiests abound in ebony, log- 
wood, gum-trees, and bamboos. To the north of Luzon 
lie the Batanen, Bashee, and Babuyan islands, the lirst 
two groups having about 8000 inhabitants, the last un- 
peopled. The Sooloo Islands form a long chain from 
Mindanao to Borneo, having the same mountainous and 
volcanic structure as the Philippine Islands, and all are 
probably fragments of a submerged continent. Many 
active volcanoes are scattered through the islands; 
Mayon, in Luzon, and Buhayan, in Mindanao, often 
causing great devastation. The mountain-chains run 
north and south, and never attain a greater elevation 
than 7000 feet. The islands have many rivers, the 
coasts are indented with deep bays, and there are many 
lakes in the interior. Earthquakes are frequent and 
destructive. The soil is extremely fertile, except ivliere 
extensive marshes occur. In Mindanao are numerous 
lakes, which expand during the rainy season into in- 
land seas. Rain may be expected from May to Decem- 
ber, and from June to November the land is flooded. 
Violent hurricanes are experienced in the north of Lu- 
zon and west coast of Mindanao. Especially during the 
changes of the monsoons, storms of wind, rain, thunder 


PHILIPPINE ISLANDS 

and lightning prevail. The weather is very fine, and 
heat moderate, from December to May, when the tem- 
perature rapidly rises and becomes oppressive, except 
lor a short time after a fall of rain. The fertility of the 
soil and the humid atmosphere produce a richness of veg- 
etation which is nowhere surpassed. Blossoms and fruit 
hang together on the trees, and the cultivated fields 
yield a constant succession of crops. Immense forests 
spread over the Philippine Islands, clothing the moun- 
tains to their summits; ebony, iron-wood, cedar, sapan- 
wood, gum-trees, etc., being laced together and gar- 
landed by the busli-rope or palasan, which attains a 
length of several hundred feet. The variety of fruit- 
trees is great, including the orange, citron, bread-fruit, 
mango, cocoa-nut, guava, tamarind, rose-apple, etc. ; 
other important products of the vegetable kingdom be- 
ing the banana, plantain, pine-apple, sugar-cane, cot- 
ton, tobacco, indigo, coffee, cocoa, cinnamon, vanilla, 
cassia, the areca-nut, ginger, pepper, etc., with rice, 
wheat, maize, and various other cereals. Gold is found 
in river-beds and detrital deposits,beingused,in the form 
of dust, as the medium of exchange in Mindanao. Iron 
is plentiful, and fine coal-beds, from one to four feet 
thick, have been found. Copper has long been worked 
in Luzon. There are also limestone, a fine variegated 
marble, sulphur in unlimited quantity, quicksilver, ver- 
milion, and saltpetre — the sulphur being found both 
native and in combination with copper, arsenic, and 
iron. Except the wihl-cat, beasts of prey are unknown. 
There are oxen, buffaloes, sheep, goats, swine, harts, 
squirrels, and a great variety of monkeys. The jun- 
gles swarm with lizards, snakes, and other reptiles; the 
rivers and lakes with crocodiles. Huge spiders, taran- 
tulas, white ants, mosquitoes, and locusts are plagues 
which form a set-off to the beautiful fireflies, the brill- 
iant queen -beetle ( Eluter noctilucus), the melody of 
myriads of birds, the turtle-doves, pheasants, birds-of- 
paradise, and many lovely species of paroquets, with 
which the forests are alive. “ Hives of wild bees hang 
from the branches, and alongside of them are the nests 
of humming-birds dangling in the wind.” The caverns 
along the shores are frequented by the swallow', whose 
edible nest is esteemed bv the Chinese a rich delicacy. 
Some of them are also tenanted by multitudes of bats 
of immense size. Buffaloes are used for tillage and 
draught; a small horse for riding. Fowls are plentiful, 
and incredible numbers of ducks are artificially hatched. 
Fish is in great abundance and variety. Mother-of- 
pearl, coral, amber, and tortoise-shell are important ar- 
ticles of commerce. The principal exports are sugar, 
tobacco, cigars, indigo, Manilla hemp, coffee, rice, dye- 
w'oods, hides, gold-dust, and beeswax. 

Native Population . — The Tagals and Bisayans are the 
most numerous native races. They dwell in the cities 
and cultivated lowlands; 2,500,000 being converts to 
Roman Catholicism, and a considerable number, espe- 
cially of the Bisayans, Mohammedan. The mountain 
districts are inhabited by a negro race, who, in features, 
stature, and savage mode of living, closely resemble the 
Alfoors of the interior of Papua, and are probably the 
aborigines driven back before the inroads of the Ma- 
lays. A few of the negroes are Christian, but they arc 
chiefly idolaters, or without any manifest form of relig- 
ion, and roaming about in families, without fixed dwell- 
ing. The Mestizos form an influential part of the pop- 
ulation ; by their activity engrossing the greatest share 
of the trade. These are mostly of Chinese fathers and 
native mothers. 

The leading mercantile houses are English and Amer- 
ican. British and American merchants enjoy the lar- 
gest share of the business, the exports to Great Britain 
being upwards of .£1,500,000 sterling yearly, and the 
imports thence nearly of the same value. There are 
seven British houses established at Manilla, and one at 
Iloilo, in the populous and productive island of Panav, 
which is the centre of an increasing trade. The total 
exports and imports of the Philippine Islands have a 


niiLippixs 


100 


PHILIPPS 


value of about £G, 000, 000 yearly. The Chinese exercise 
various trades and callings, remaining only for a time, 
and never bringing their wives with them. The prin- 
cipal languages are the Tagalese and Bisavan. Rice, 
sweet potatoes, fish, flesh, and fruits form the food of 
the Tagals and Bisayans, who usually drink only water, 
though sometimes indulging in cocoa-wine. Tobacco 
is used by all. They are gentle, hospitable, fond of 
dancing and cock-fighting. Education is far behind; 
it is similar to what it was in Europe during the Middle 
Ages. It is entirely under the. control of the linmish 
priesthood, who are governed by an archbishop (of Ma- 
nilla), and the bishops of New Segovia, Nueva ( 'acercs, 
and Zebu. Religious processions are the pride of the 
people, and are formed with great parade, thousands of 
persons carrying wax-candles, etc. 

The Sooloo Islands have a population of 150,000; are 
governed by a sultan, whose capital is Sung, in 0 3 U 
N. lat., and 120 3 55' 51" 1C. long., who also rules over 
the greatest part of Paragoa, the northern corner only 
being subject to Spain. Luzon has a population of 

2.500.000, one fifth part being independent; the Bisaya 
Islands, 2,000,000, of whom three fourths are under 
Spanish rule. The population of Panav amounts to 

750.000, and that of Zebu to 150,000. Of the numbers 
in Mindanao nothing is known ; the districts of Zambo- 
anga, Misamis, and Caragan, with 100,000 inhabitants, 
being all that is subject to Spain. The greater part of 
the island is under the sultan of Mindanao, resident at 
Selanga, in 7° 9' N. lat., and 124 J 38' K. long., who, 
with his feudatory chiefs, can bring together an army 
of 100,000 men. lie is on friendly terms with the Span- 
iards. Besides Manilla, there are very many large and 
important cities, especially in Luzon, Panav, and Zebu. 
The great centres of trade are Manilla, in Luzon, and 
Iloilo, in Panav. The Philippine islands were discov- 
ered in 1521 by Magellan, who, after visiting Mindanao, 
sailed to Zebu, where, taking part with the king in a 
war, he was wounded, and died at Mactan April 20, 
1521. Some years later the Spanish court sent an ex- 
pedition under ViHabos, who named the islands in honor 
of the prince of Asturias, afterwards Philip II. For 
some time the chief Spanish settlement was on Zebu; 
lmt in 1581 Manilla was built, and lias since continued 
to be the seat of government. — Chambers. See Sem- 
per, Die Philippinen u.ihre Jiemthner (Wiirzb. 1809); 
and his Reisen im A rchipel der Philippinen (Leips. 1807- 
73, 8 vols. 8vo) ; Earl, Papuans, ch. vii ; A cademy , Aug. 
15, 1873, p. 311. 

Philippins, a small Russian sect, so called from the 
founder, Philip Pustoswiiit, under whose leadership they 
emigrated from Russia to Livonia near the beginning 
of the 18th century, are a branch of the Raskolniks 
(q. v.). They call themselves Staroicersld, or “Old- 
Faith Men,” because they cling with the utmost tenacity 
to the old service-books, the old version of the Bible, 
and the old hymn and prayer books of the Russo-Greck 
Church, in the exact form in which those books stood 
before the revision which they underwent at the hands 
of the patriarch Nikon (q. v.) near the middle of the 17th 
century. There are two elasses of the Raskolniks— one 
which recognises popes (or priests); the other, which 
admits no priest or other clerical functionary. The 
Philippins are of the latter class; and they not only 
themselves refuse all priestly ministrations, but they re- 
gard all such ministrations baptism, marriage, sacra- 
ments — as invalid; and they rebaptizc all who join their 
sect from other Russian communities. AH their own 
ministerial offices are discharged by the Starik, or parish 
elder, who for the time takes the title of pope, and is re- 
quired to observe celibacy. But the preaching is per- 
mitted to any one who feels himself “called by the 
Spirit.” to undertake it. Among the Philippins the spirit 
of fanaticism at times has run to the wildest excesses. | 
They refuse oaths, and decline to enter military service; 
and it was on this account and like incompatibilities 
that they were forced to emigrate, under the leadership 


of Philip Pustoswiiit, “ the saint of the Desert.” They 
are now settled partly in Polish Lithuania, partly in 
East Prussia, where they have several small settlements 
with churches of their own rite. They are reported to 
be a peaceable and orderly race. Their principal pursuit 
is agriculture; and their thrifty and industrious habits 
have secured for them the good-will of the land-propri- 
etors as well as of the government. 

They are sometimes called JJruleurs, or Tueurs, from 
their tendency to suicide, which they consider merito- 
rious, and which they accordingly court, sometimes bury- 
ing themselves alive, sometimes starving themselves 
to death. Accusations of laxity of morals have been 
brought against them, of renouncing marriage, and liv- 
ing in spiritual brotherhood and sisterhood, t he truth of 
which has never been clearly established; for when the 
empress Anne (A.D. 1730-1740) sent commissioners to 
inquire into the state of their monasteries, they shut 
themselves up, and burned themselves alive within their 
own walls, rather than give any evidence on the subject. 
See Piaton, (l reek Church (see Index). (J. II. W.) 

Philippists is the name of that sect or party among 
the Lutherans who were the followers of Philip Melanc- 
tlion. lie had strenuously opposed the Ubiquists, who 
arose in his time; and the dispute growing still hotter 
after his death, the University of 'Wittenberg, who es- 
poused Melancthon’s opinion, were called by the Fla- 
eians, who attacked it, Philippists. They were strongest 
in that university, the opposite party controlling the 
University of Jena. The Philippists Avere in the end 
accused of being Calvinists at heart, and were much 
persecuted by the ultra-Lutheran party. See the differ- 
ent works on the Reformation (q. v.), and the long trea- 
tise in Herzog, Real-Kncyklopiidie, xi, 537-540. See also 
AdIAI’IIOHISTIC Controversy ; Melanctiion. 

Philipps, Dirk, one of the most eminent co-labor- 
ers of Simon Menno (q. v.), was born in 1504 at Len- 
warden, the capital of Friesland, of Romish parentage. 
I Ie was carefully and piously reared, and had unusual 
educational facilities in his time. When the Anabap- 
tists came to Friesland, Philipps, who was then a de- 
voted Romanist, soon became interested in the new 
doctrines; and after his brother Ubbo. a common me- 
chanic, had embraced the modern teachings and Become 
a preacher, l)irk also found pleasure in them; forsook 
the Church of Rome, and was rebaptized. As a preacher 
of the new doctrines lie was stationed at Appingadam 
(Groningen), and contented himself in that position until 
the Anabaptists advocated the extreme socialistic views. 
About the year 1534 or 1535 these two brothers came 
out boldly against the M iinster ideas of the Anabaptists, 
and thus prepared the way for the revolution which 
Menno shortly after effected. After 1530 the brothers 
Philipps disappear, and are but little beard of. At 
the conference of the different Anabaptists held at Buck- 
holt, in Westphalia, they do not seem to have been pres- 
ent. In 1543 we tind them at Enulen. After that we 
only meet Dirk now and then, but always in closest inti- 
macy with Menno. Ubbo finally separated from both 
Dirk and Menno. and took a conciliatory position be- 
tween the Protestants and Romanists. But Dirk re- 
mained true to Menno, and ever after is warmly com- 
mended by the great Dutch Reformer and founder of the 
Quakers of Holland. After the death of Simon Menno, 
Dirk was more or less involved, and that unhappily, in 
the controversies which agitated the Dutch Anabaptists. 
In 1508 lie was at Dantzic, but was so much sought after 
at home that the sixty-foiir-vcars-old man consented to 
return to Emdeu. lie died there in 1508 or 1570. llis 
many pamphleteering publications have been collected 
in his Knch irulion, or •• Hand-book,” among which there 
is an Apoloyy or Defence of the Anabaptists ; a treatise 
on ('hristian Marriage, etc. It is the universal testi- 
mony of Protestants and Romanists that Dirk Philipps 
was a very learned man, well versed in the classical 
languages, and a pulpit orator of the very highest order. 


PHILIPPS 


101 


PIIILISTIA 


See (lent, Anfang u. Fortgang der Streitigkeiten unter 
den Taufgeshmten ; Blaup. Ten Cate, Gesch. der Tauf- 
gesinnten. See also Mesxonites, ami the literature 
thereto appended. (J. H.W.) 

Philipps, Ubbo. See Philipps, Diuk. 

Philippsohn, Moses, a noted Hebraist, was born 
May 9. 1775, in Sandersleben, a small town on the Wip- 
per, and was destined for a rabbinate by bis parents, 
who began to initiate him into Hebrew when be was 
scarcely four years of age. In 1787 he was sent to a 
rabbinic school at Halberstadt, where he was instructed 
in the Talmud and other branches of rabbinic litera- 
ture. lie then went to Brunswick, where he devoted 
himself to the study of the sciences generally, and in 
particular Hebrew philology, acquiring a most classical 
and charming style in Hebrew composition. In 1799, 
when only four-ami -twenty, he was appointed master 
of the noted Jewish school at Dessau, where the cel- 
ebrated historian Jost and the philosopher Mendels- 
sohn, were educated. Here Philippsohn prosecuted more 
zealously than ever the study ofllebrew and the Hebrew 
Scriptures, and determined to continue, with the aid of 
his three colleagues, the great Bible work commenced 
by Mendelssohn (q. v.), selecting the minor prophets for 
their conjoint labor. Philippsohn undertook to trans- 
late and expound Ilosea and Joel, being the two most 
difficult books of the twelve minor prophets; his col- 
league Wolf the translation and exposition of Obadiah, 
Micah, Ilabakkuk, and Zephaniah ; his colleague Sol- 
omon undertook Haggai and Zeehariali; while Neuman 
undertook Amos, Nahum, and Malacbi ; Jonah having 
already been published by Lowe (q. v.) ; and the whole 
was published under the title rt““inZ2 nriD'a, a Pure 
Offering, at Dessau, in 1805. Three years later Philipp- 
sohn published a Hebrew Grammar and Chrestomatliy, 
entitled 2TT2, Friend of Students (Dessau, 

1808; 2d improved ed. ibid. 1823); and a Hebrew Com- 
mentary/ on the Book of Daniel , with a translation by 
Wolf (ibid. 1808). He also wrote essays on various 
subjects connected with Hebrew literature in the He- 
brew periodical called TDN'in, The Gatherer, and died 
April 20, 1814. See Steinschneider, Catalogus Libr. 
Hebr. in Bibliotheca Bodleiima, col. 2099, and the inter- 
esting biographical sketch by Dr. Ph. Philippson, in his 
Biogruphische Skizzen (Leips. 1864) ; Jost, Gesch. der 
Juden. u. s. Sekten (see Index in vol. iii). — Kitto, Cyclop. 
Bib. Lit. s. v. 

Philips, Edward, M.A., an English divine, was 
born near the middle of the 16th century. He was en- 
tered a student in Broadgate’s Hall, now Pembroke Col- 
lege, in 1574; became preacher at St. Saviour’s, South- 
wark, London, and died about 1603. He was a Calvinist, 
and esteemed “a person zealous of the truth of God, 
earnest in his calling, faithful in his message, powerful 
in his speech, careful of his flock, peaceable and blame- 
less in his life, and comfortable and constant in his 
death.” Ilis published sermons are entitled, Certaine 
Godly and Learned Sermons, Preached by that worthy 
Servant of Christ in St. Saviour's, in Southwark ; and 
were taken by the pen of II. Yelcerton , of Gray's Inn, Gen- 
tleman (Lond. 1607, 4to). — Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Philips, Thomas, a IJoman Catholic divine, was 
born of Protestant parentage at Ickford, in Buckingham- 
shire; received his education at St. Omer’s, and there 
became a zealous Romanist. He entered into orders, 
and became a Jesuit, but quitted that society, and ob- 
tained a prebend in the collegiate church of Tongres, 
with a dispensation to reside in England. He was the 
author of The Study of Sacred Literature Stated and 
Considered (Lond. 1758, 8vo); and The Life of Cardinal 
Pole (Oxf. 1764-67, 2 vols.). He died at Liege in 1774, 
Philips was a man of eminent piety, and a writer of 
considerable ability. 

Philip’s (St.) and James’s (St.) Day, a festival 
observed in memory of the apostles Philip and James 


the Less, on the 1st of May. In the Greek Church the 
festival of St. Philip is kept on the 14th of November. 

Philis'tia (Heb. Pele'sheth, P.uAe, signif. doubt- 
ful [see below] ; Sept. (i\\o<j>v\ot), the land of the Phi- 
listines, as it is usually styled in prose (Gen. xxi, 32, 
33; Exod. xiii, 17; 1 Sam. xxvii, 1, 7; xxix, 11; 1 
Kings iv, 21 ; 2 Kings viii, 2, 3). This term is ren- 
dered in our version sometimes “ Palestina,” as in Exod. 
xv, 14, and Isa. xiv, 29, 31 ; and “Palestine” in Joel iii, 
4; but “Philistia” in Psa. lx, 8; lxxxvii, 4; and cviii, 
9 ; and “ Philistines” in Psa. lxxxiii, 7. “ Palestine” 

originally meant nothing but the district inhabited by 
the “Philistines,” who are called by Josephus n«Xm- 
arivoi, “ Palsestines” (Ant. v, 1, 8). In fact the two 
words are the same, and the difference in their present 
form is but the result of gradual corruption. The form 
Philistia does not occur anywhere in the Sept, or Vul- 
gate. In Exod. xv, 14 this word ( Pelesheih ) is used 
along with Canaan, and as distinct from it; in Joel iii, 
4 its “coasts” are referred to (for it was a littoral terri- 
tory), and are coupled with Tyre and Sidon as having 
sold into slavery the children of Judah and Jerusalem, 
and carried off silver and gold from the Temple ; and 
in Isa. xiv, 29-31 it is told not to congratulate itself on 
the death of Ahaz, who had smitten it. In Psa. lx, 8; 
lxxxiii, 7; lxxxvii, 4; cviii, 9, it is classed among 
countries hostile to Israel. The word therefore uni- 
formly in Scripture denotes the territory of the Philis- 
tines — though it came at length to signify in common 
speech the entire country — the Holy Land. Philistia 
is probably the country vaguely referred to by Herodo- 
tus as Xvph) II aXatarii'a — for he describes it as lying 
on the sea-coast (vii, 89). The name is specially at- 
tached to Southern Syria by Strabo (xvi), Pomp. Mela 
(i, 11), and Pliny (Hist. Nat. v, 12). The broader sig- 
nification of the term arose by degrees. Josephus ap- 
parently uses it in both meanings (Ant. i, 6, 2, 4; viii, 
10, 3). Philo says of Palestine, t) rare 7rpo<rt]yoptvno 
Xavavauov, and Jerome says, “Terra Juchea quas nunc 
appellator Paliestina” (see Reland, Palcest. chap, i, vii, 
viii). In the Talmud and the Arabic it likewise de- 
notes the whole land of the Jews. See Palestine. 

The name itself has given rise to various conjectures. 
Hitzig identifies the Philistines with neAacryoi, and 
supposes the word, after the Sanscrit Yalaksha, to de- 
note the white races, as opposed to the Phoenician or 
dusky races (see Kenrick, Phcen. p. 50, 52). Redslob 
makes it a transposition of the name of their country, 
Shephelah, the low country (A.V. “valley” or 
“ plain”). Knobel, Gesenius, Movers, and Roth take it 
from the root “to emigrate” — of which ’A \X<xpv- 

\oi is supposed to be a translation. Fiirst substantially 
agrees with this etymology, from the same Heb. root, 
in the sense of breaking through , i. e. “wandering.” 
Stark regards this Greek term as opposed to 6 pu<f>v\og, 
“of the same race” (Gaza, p. 67); and Von Lengerke 
looks upon it as a playful transposition of A>v\arTitip. 
’A\\6<l>v\ot seems, in later Greek, to denote a foreign 
race living in a country among its natives. Thus Po- 
lybius gives the name to the forces of Hannibal located 
in Gaul and Italy (iii, 61). The Sept, has in this way- 
given it to a race that lived in a country which God 
had conferred in promise on the Hebrew people. The 
same name is for a like reason given to the population 
of Galilee (1 Macc. v, 15). 

Philistia proper was a long and somewhat broad strip 
of land lying on the sea-coast, west of the hills of 
Ephraim and Judah, and stretching generally from 
Egypt to Phoenicia. The northern portion of this ter- 
ritory, from Joppa nearly as far as Ashkelon, was allotted 
to Dan; and the southern portion, from Ashkelon to the 
wilderness of Till, and extending east to Beersheba, 
was assigned to Judah. In short, it comprised the 
sonthern coast and plain of Canaan, along the Mediter- 
ranean, hence called “ the sea of the Philistines” (Exod. 
xxiii, 31), from Ekron to the border of Egypt; though 


PHILISTIM 


102 


PHILISTINE 


at certain times the Philistines had also in possession 
large portions of the interior (Psa. lx, 7; Ixxxvii, 4; 
cviii, 10; 1 Sam, xxxi, 8; 1 Kings xv, 27; Psa. lxxxiii, 
7). The laml of the Philistines partakes of the general 
desolation common to it with Jud.-ea and other neigh- 
boring states. According to Voinov, except the imme- 
diate environs of a few villages, the whole country is a 
desert abandoned to the Bedawin Arabs, who feed their 
flocks on it (Zeph. ii, 4-7). ,See Phii.istixk. 

Pliilis'tim (Gen. x, 14). See rinusnxu. 

Philis'tine (llcb. Pelishtt TV232, gentile from 
r'232, Philistia; Sept. a\\6<pv\oe, but sometimes «l>u- 
Xtanttp for the plur., which is the usual form; A. V. 
once “ Philistim,” (ien. x, 14; Josephus. IlaAnumroi, 
.1 nt. v, l, 18), a race of aboriginal Canaanites inhabiting 
the land of Philistia (q. v.). ( The following article is 

mainly based upon that in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible.) 

I. Early History . — 1. The origin of the Philistines is 
nowhere expressly stated in the Hible; but since the 
prophets describe them as "‘the Philistines from Caphtor” 
(Amos ix, 7), and “ the remnant of the maritime district 
of Caphtor” (Jer. xlvii, 4), it is primu facie probable 
that they were the “ Caphtorims which came out of 
Caphtor” who expelled the Avim from their territory 
and occupied it in their place (Dent, ii, 23), and that 
these again were the Caphtorim mentioned in the Mo- 
saic genealogical table among the descendants of Miz- 
raim (Gen. x. 14). But in establishing this conclusion 
certain difficulties present themselves: in the first place, 
it is observable that in Gen. x, 14 the Philistines are 
connected with the Casluhim rather than the Caphto- 
rim. It has generally been assumed that the text has 
suffered a transposition, and that the parenthetical 
clause "out of whom came Philistim” ought to follow 
the words “ and Caphtorim.” This explanation is, 
however, inadmissible; for (1) there is no external evi- 
dence whatever of any variation in the text, cither here 
or in the parallel passage in 1 Chron. i, 12; and (2) if 
the transposition were effected, the desired sense would 
not be gained ; for the words rendered in the A. V. “out 
of whom” (2'2~ “’J2X i really mean “whence,” and de- 
note a local movement rather than a genealogical de- 
scent, so that, as applied to the Caphtorim. they would 
merely indicate a sojourn of the Philistines in their 
land, and not the identity of the two races. The clause 
seems to have an appropriate meaning in its present po- 
sition: it looks like an interpolation into the original 
document with the view of explaining when and where 
the name Philistine was first applied to the people 
whose proper appellation was Caphtorim. It is an ety- 
mological as well as a historical memorandum; for it is 
based on the meaning of the name Philistine (from the 
root 1232 =thc Aithiopic falasa, “ to migrate;” a term 
which is said to be still current in Abyssinia [Knobel, 
Vblkert . p. 281], and which on the Egyptian monu- 
ments appears under the form of Pulost [Brugsch. 
llist. (T Egypt. p. 187]), viz. “emigrant,” and is designed 
to account for the application of that name. But a sec- 
ond and more serious difficulty arises out of the lan- 
guage of the Philistines; for while the Caphtorim were 
Hamitic, the Philistine language is held to have been 
Shemitic. (llitzig, in his I’rgeschichte d. Phil., how- 
ever, maintains that the language is Indo-European, 
with a view to prove the Philistines to be Pelasgi. lie 
is. we believe, singular in his view.) It has hence been 
inferred that the Philistines were in reality a Shemitic 
race, and that they derived the title of Caphtorim sim- 
ply from a residence in Caphtor (Ewald, i,331 ; Movers, 
Phiimz. iii, 258), and it has been noticed in confirmation 
of this that their land is termed Canaan (Zeph. ii, , r >). 
But this seems to be inconsistent with the express as- 
sertion of the Bible that they were Caphtorim (Dent, ii, 
23), and not simply that they came from Caphtor; and 
the term Canaan is applied to their country, not cthuo- 
logically but. etymologically, to describe the trading 


habits of the Philistines. The difficulty arising out of 
the question of language has been met by assuming 
either that the Caphtorim adopted the language of the 
conquered Avim (a not unusual circumstance where the 
conquered form the bulk of the population), or that 
they diverged from the llamitic stock at a period when 
the distinctive, features of llamitism and Shemitism 
were yet in embryo. (See below.) A third objection 
to their Egyptian origin is raised from the application 
of the term “uneircumcised” to them (1 Sam. xvii, 2(1; 
2 Sam. i, 20), whereas the Egyptians were circumcised 
(Herod, ii, 30). But this objection is answered by Jer. 
ix, 25, 20, where the same terra is in some sense applied 
to the Egyptians, however it may be reconciled with 
the statement of Herodotus. Sec Caiuitou. 

There is additional evidence to the above that the 
Philistines belonged to the Shemitic family. The 
names of their cities and their proper names are of She- 
mitic origin. In their intercourse with the Israelites 
there are many intimations that the two used a com- 
mon language. How is this, if they were immigrants 
in Palestine? This difficulty is removed by supposing 
that originally they were in Palestine, being a part of 
the great Shemitic family, went westward, under press- 
ure from the wave of population which came down 
from the higher country to the sea-coast, but after- 
wards returned eastward, back from Crete to Palestine; 
so that in Amos ix, 7 it is to be understood that God 
brought them up to Palestine, as he brought the Israel- 
ites out of Egypt — back to their home. This view the 
passage undoubtedly admits; but we cannot agree with 
Movers iu holding that it gives direct evidence in its 
favor, though his general position is probably correct, 
that the Philistines first quilted the mainland for the 
neighboring islands of the Mediterranean sea, and then, 
after a time, returned to their original home (Movers, 
p. 19, 29, 35). Greek writers, however, give evidence 
of a wide diffusion of the Shemitic race over the islands 
of the Mediterranean. Thucydides says (i, 8) that most 
of the islands were inhabited by Carians and Phoeni- 
cians. Of Crete, Herodotus (i, 173) declares that bar- 
barians had, before Minos, formed the population of the 
island. There is evidence in Homer to the same effect 
{()</. ix, 174; com]). Strabo, p. 475). Many proofs offer 
themselves that, before the spread of the 1 1 el Ien es. these 
islands were inhabited by Shemitic races. The wor- 
ship observed in them at this time shows a Shemitic 
origin. The Shemities gave place to the Hellenics — a 
change which dates from the time of Minos, who drove 
them out of the islands, giving the dominion to his son. 
'rite expelled population settled on the Asiatic coast. 
This evidence, derived from heathen sources, gives a 
representation which agrees with the scriptural account 
of the origin, the westerly wandering, and eastward 
return of the Philistines. But chronology creates a dif- 
ficulty. Minos probably lived about the year B.C. 1300. 
According to the O. T. the Philistines were found in 
Palestine at an earlier period. In Gen. xx, 2: xxvi, 1, 
wc find a Philistine king ofGcrar. But this king (and 
others) may have been so termed, not because he was 
of Philistine blood, but because he dwelt iu the land 
which w f as afterwards called Philistia. There are other 
considerations which seem to show that Philistines did 
not occupy this country in the days of Abraham (con- 
sult Bcrtheau, p. 19l»). It is, however, certain that the 
Philistines existed in Palestine in the time of Moses as 
a brave and warlike people (Exod. xiii, 17) — a fact 
which places them on the Asiatic continent long before 
Minos. This difficulty does not appear considerable to 
us. 'fherc may have been a return eastwards before 
the time of Minos, as well as one in his time; or he 
may have merely put the finishing stroke to a return 
commenced, from some cause or other — war, over-popu- 
lation, etc.— at a much earlier period. The informa- 
tion found in the Bible is easily understood on the 
showing that in the earliest ages tribes of the Shemitic 
race spread themselves over the West, and, becoming 


PHILISTINE 


103 


PHILISTINE 


inhabitants of the islands, gave themselves to naviga- 
tion. To these tribes the Philistines appear to have 
belonged, who, for what reason we know not, left Crete, 
and settled on the coast of Palestine. 

2. The next question therefore that arises relates to 
the early movements of the Philistines. It has been 
very generally assumed of late years that Caphtor rep- 
resents Crete', and that the Philistines migrated from 
that island, either directly or through Egypt, into Pal- 
estine. This hypothesis presupposes the Shemitic or- 
igin of the Philistines; for we believe that there are no 
traces of Hamitic settlements in Crete, and consequently 
the Biblical statement that Caplitorim was descended 
from Mizraim forms an a priori objection to the view. 
Moreover, the name Caphtor can only be identified with 
the Egyptian Coptos. But the Cretan origin of the 
Philistines has been deduced, not so much from the 
name Caphtor, as from that of the Cherethites. This 
name in its Hebrew form CrHS) bears a close resem- 
blance to Crete, and is rendered Cretans in the Sept. 
A further link between the two terms has apparently 
been discovered in the term ‘nS, kai l, which is applied 
to the royal guard (2 Kings 
xi, 4, 19), and which sounds 
like Carians. The latter of 
these arguments assumes that 
the Cherethites of David’s 
guard tvere identical with the 
Cherethites of the Philistine 
plain, which appears in the 
highest degree improbable. 

See Ciieketiiite. With re- 
gard to the former argument, 
the mere coincidence of the 
names cannot pass for much 
without some corroborative 
testimony. The Bible fur- 
nishes none, for the name oc- 
curs but thrice (1 Sam. xxx, 

14; Ezek. xxv, 16; Zeph. ii, 

5), and apparently applies to 
the occupants of the southern 
district; the testimony of the 
Sept, is invalidated by the fact 
that it is based upon the mere sound of the word (see 
Zeph. ii, G, where keroth is also rendered Crete) ; and, 
lastly, we have to account for the introduction of the 
classical name of the island side by side with the He- 
brew term Caphtor. A certain amount of testimony is 
indeed adduced in favor of a connection between Crete 
and Philistia; but, with the exception of the vague ru- 
mor, recorded but not adopted by Tacitus {Hist, v, 3), 
the evidence is confined to the town of Gaza, and even 
in this case is not wholly satisfactory. The town, ac- 
cording to Stephanas Byzantinus (s. v. rd£a), was 
termed Minoa, as having been founded by Minos, and 


this tradition may be traced back to, and was perhaps 
founded on, an inscription on the coins of that city, con- 
taining the letters ME1NO; but these coins are of no 
higher date than the 1st century B.C., and belong to a 
period when Gaza had attained a decided Greek char- 
acter (Josephus, War, ii, 6, 3). Again, the worship of 
the god Mama, and its identity with the Cretan Jove, 
are frequently mentioned by early writers (Movers, 
P/ioniz, i, 662) ; but the name is Phoenician, being the 
maran, “lord,” of 1 Cor. xvi, 22, and it seems more prob- 
able that Gaza and Crete derived the worship from a 
common source, Phoenicia. Without therefore asserting 
that migrations may not have taken place from Crete 
to Philistia, we hold that the evidence adduced to prove 
that they did is not altogether sufficient. What is re- 
markable, and as if two distinct and unallied peoples 
bore the same appellation, on a tablet of Rameses 111 at 
Medinet Habu is sculptured a naval victory over the 
Sharutana, perhaps the Cherethites of Crete; while an- 
other nation of the same name, perhaps the Cherethites 
of the mainland, form a portion of the Egyptian army. 
We find also the name Pulusata in close connection with 
this Sharutana. See Crete. 


On the other hand, it has been held by Ewald (i, 330) 
and others that the Cherethites and Pelethites (2 Sam. 
xx, 23) were Cherethites and Philistines. The objec- 
tions to this view are: (1) that it is highly improbable 
that David would select his officers from the hereditary 
foes of his country, particularl}’ so immediately after he 
had enforced their submission ; (2) that there appears 
no reason why an undue prominence should have been 
given to the Cherethites by placing that name first, and 
altering Philistines into Pelethites, so as to produce a 
paronomasia; (3) that the names subsequently applied 
to the same body (2 Kings xi, 19) are appellatives; and 




PHILISTINE 


104 


PHILISTINE 


(4) that the terms admit of a probable explanation from 
Hebrew roots. See Pelethite. 

3. A still more important point to be decided in con- 
nection with the early history of the Philistines is the 
time when they settled in the land of Canaan. If we were 
to restrict ourselves to the statements of the Bible, we 
should conclude that this took place before the time of 
Abraham ; for they arc noticed in his day as a pastoral 
tribe in the neighborhood of Gerar (Gen. xxi, 32, 34; 
xxvi, 1, 8); and this position accords well with the 
statement in Dent, ii, 23 that the Avim dwelt in Jln- 
zerim, i. e. in nomad encampments; for Gerar lay in the 
south country, which was just adapted to such a life. 
At the time of the exodus they were still in the same 
neighborhood, but grown sulliciently powerful to inspire 
the Israelites with fear (Exod. xiii. 17 ; xv, 14). When 
the Israelites arrived, they were in full possession of the 
Sheplielah from the “river of Egypt” (el-Arish) in the 
south to Ekron in the north (Josh, xv, 4, 47), and had 
formed a confederacy of five powerful cities — Gaza. Ash- 
dod, Ashkclon, Gath, and Ekron (Josh, xiii, 3). At what 
period these cities were originally founded we know not, 
but there are good grounds for believing that they were 
of Canaanitish origin, and had previously been occupied 
by the Avim. The name Gath is certainly Canaanitish ; 
so most probably are Gaza, Aslidod, and Ekron. Ash- 
kclon is doubtful; and the terminations both of this and 
Ekron may be Philistine. Gaza is mentioned as early 
as in Gen. x, l!) as a city of the Canaanit.es; and this as 
well as Aslidod and Ekron was in Joshua’s time the 
asylum of the Canaanitish Anakim (Josh, xi, 22). The 
interval that elapsed between Abraham and the exodus 
seems snlHcient to allow for the alteration that took 
place in the position of the Philistines, and their trans- 
formation from a pastoral tribe to a settled and powerful 
nation. But such a view has not met with acceptance 
among modern critics, partly because it leaves the mi- 
grations of the Philistines wholly unconnected with any 
known historical event, and partly because it docs not 
serve to explain the great increase of their power in the 
time of the Judges. To meet these two requirements 
a double migration on the part of the Philistines, or of 
the two branches of that nation, has been suggested. 
Knobel, for instance, regards the Philistines proper as a 
branch of the same stock as that to which the Ilvksos 
belonged, and he discovers the name Philistine in the 
opprobrious name Philidon or Phil it is, bestowed on the 
Shepherd kings (Herod, ii, 128); their first entrance into 
Canaan from the Casluhim would thus be subsequent 
to the patriarchal age, and coincident with the expul- 
sion of the Ilvksos. The Cherethites he identifies with 
the Caphtorim who displaced the Avim; and these he 
regards as Cretans, who did not enter Canaan before the 
period of the Judges. The former part of his theory is 
inconsistent with the notices of the Philistines in the 
book of t Icnesis ; these, therefore, he regards as additions 
of a later date ( Volkert. p. 218 sq.). The view adopted 
by Movers is, that the Philistines were carried west- 
ward from Palestine into Lower Egypt by the stream 
of the 1 lyksos movement at a period subsequent to Abra- 
ham; from Egypt they passed to Crete, and returned 
to Palestine in the early period of the Judges ( Phiiniz . 
iii, 2.X). This is inconsistent with the notices in Joshua. 
Ewald, in the second edition of his ( iesehirhte , propounds 
the hypothesis of a double immigration from t'rete, the 
first of which took place in the ante-patriarchal period, 
as a consequence either of the Canaanitish settlement 
or of the Ilvksos movement, the second in the time of 
the Judges ((Jesch. i, 323-331). We cannot regard the 
above views in any other light than as speculations, built 
up on very slight data, and unsatisfactory, inasmuch as 
they fail to reconcile the statements of Scripture. Kor 
they all imply (1) that the notice of the Caphtorim in 
Gen. x, 14 applies to an entirely distinct tribe from the 
Philistines, as Ewald (i, 331, note) himself allows; (2) 
that either the notices in Gen. xx, xxvi, or those in 
Josh, xv, 15—17, or perchance both, are interpolations; 


and (3) that the notice in Deut. ii, 23, which certainly 
bears marks of high antiquity, belongs to a late date, 
and refers solely to the Cherethites. But, beyond these 
inconsistencies, there are two points which appear to 
militate against the theory of the second immigration 
in the time of the Judges: (1) that the uational title of 
the nation always remained Philistine, whereas, accord- 
ing to these theories, it was the Cretan or Cherethite 
element which led to the great development of power in 
the time of the Judges; and (2) that it remains to be 
shown why a seafaring race like the Cretans, coming 
direct from t ’aphtor in their ships (as Knobel, p. 224, un- 
derstands ••Caphtorim from Caphtor” to imply), would 
seek to occupy t lie quarters of a nomad race living in 
encampments, in the wilderness region of the south. 
We hesitate, therefore, to endorse any of the proffered ex- 
planations, and, while we allow that the Biblical state- 
ments are remarkable for their fragmentary and paren- 
thetical nature, we are not prepared to fill up the gaps. 
If those statements cannot be received as they stand, it 
is questionable whether any amount of criticism will 
supply the connecting links. One point can, we think, 
be satisfactorily shown, viz. that the hypothesis of a 
second immigration is not needed in order to account 
for the growth of the Philistine power. Their geo- 
graphical position and their relations to neighboring 
nations will account for it. Between the times of Abra- 
ham and Joshua the Philistines had changed their quar- 
ters, and had advanced northwards into the Shcphelah 
or plain of Philistia. This plain has been in all ages 
remarkable for the extreme richness of its soil ; its fields 
of standing corn, its vineyards and olive-yards, arc in- 
cidentally mentioned in Scripture (Judg. xv, 5) ; and in 
time of famine the land of the Philistines was the hope 
of Palestine (2 Kings viii. 2). We should, however, fail 
to form a just idea of its capacities from the scanty no- 
tices in the Bible. The crops which it yielded were 
alone sufficient to insure national wealth. It was also 
adapted to the growth of military power; for while the 
plain itself permitted the use of war -chariots, which 
were the chief arm of offence, the occasional elevations 
which rise out of it offered secure sites for towns and 
strongholds. It was, moreover, a commercial country; 
from its position it must have been at all times the great 
thoroughfare between Phoenicia and Syria in the north, 
and Egypt and Arabia in the south. Aslidod and Gaza 
were the keys of Egypt, and commanded the transit 
trade; and the stores of frankincense and myrrh which 
Alexander captured in the latter place prove it to have 
been a depot of Arabian produce (Plutarch, Alex. cap. 
2o). We have evidence in the Bible that the Philis- 
tines traded in slaves with Edom and Southern Arabia 
(Amos i, fi ; Joel iii, 3, 5), and their commercial character 
is indicated bv the application of the name Canaan to 
their land (Zcph. ii, 5). They probably possessed a 
navy; for they had ports attached to Gaza and Ashke- 
lon ; the Sept, speaks of their ships in its version of Isa. 
xi, 14, and they are represented as attacking the Egyp- 
tians out of ships. The Philistines had at an early 
period attained proficiency in the arts of peace; they 
were skilful as smiths (1 Sam. xiii, 20), as armorers 
(xvii, 5, 6), ami as builders, if we may judge from the 
prolonged sieges which several of their towns sustained. 
Their images and the golden mice and cmerods (vi, 1 1) 
imply an acquaintance with the founder’s and gold- 
smith's arts. Their wealth was abundant (Judg. xvi, 
o, IS), and they appear in all respects to have been a 
prosperous people. 

4. Subsequent Extension. — Possessed of such elements 
of power, the Philistines had attained in the time of the 
Judges an important position among Eastern nations. 
Their history is, indeed, almost a blank; yet the few 
particulars preserved to us are suggestive. About B.G. 
1209 we find them engaged in successful war with the 
Sidonians, the effect of which was so serious to the lat- 
ter power that it involved the transference of the capital 
of Phoenicia to a more secure position on the island of 


PHILISTINE 


105 


PHILISTINE 


Tyre (Justin, xviii, 8). About the same period, or a 
little after, they were engaged in a naval war with Ra- 
meses III of Egypt, in conjunction with other Mediter- 
ranean nations; in these wars they were unsuccessful 
(Brugseh, Hist. d'Egypte , p. 185, 187), but the notice of 
them proves their importance, and we cannot therefore 
be surprised that they were able to extend their author- 
ity over the Israelites, devoid as these were of internal 
union, and harassed by external foes. 'With regard to 
their tactics and the objects that they had in view in 
their attacks on the Israelites, we may form a fair idea 
from the scattered notices in the books of Judges and 
Samuel. The warfare was of a guerilla character, and 
consisted of a series of raids into the enemy’s country. 
Sometimes these extended only just over the border, 
with the view of plundering the threshing-floors of the 
agricultural produce (1 Sam. xxiii, 1) ; but more gen- 
erally they penetrated into the heart of the country 
and seized a commanding position on the edge of the 
Jordan valley, whence they could secure themselves 
against a combination of the trans- and cis-Jordanie 
divisions of the Israelites, or prevent a return of the 
fugitives who had hurried across the river on the alarm 
of their approach. Thus at one time we find them 
crossing the central district of Benjamin and posting 
themselves on Miehmash (xiii, 1G), at another time 
following the coast -road to the plain of Esdraelon 
and reaching the edge of the Jordan valley by Jezreel 
(xxix, 11). From such posts as their headquarters 
they sent out detached bands to plunder the sur- 
rounding country (xiii, 17), and, having obtained all 
they could, they established some military mark (S^SH, 
A. Y. “garrison,” but perhaps meaning only a column , 
as in Gen. xix, 2G) as a token of their supremacy 
(1 Sam. x, 5; xiii, 3), and retreated to their own 
country. This system of incursions kept the Israelites 
in a state of perpetual disquietude: all commerce was 
suspended, from the insecurity of the roads (Judg. v, 6) ; 
and at the approach of the foe the people either betook 
themselves to the natural hiding-places of the country, 
or fled across the Jordan (1 Sam. xiii, G, 7). By degrees 
the ascendency became complete, and a virtual disar- 
mament of the population was effected by the sup- 
pression of the smiths (xiii, 19). The profits of the Phi- 
listines were not confined to the goods and chattels they 
carried off with them. They seized the persons of the 
Israelites and sold them for slaves; the earliest notice 
of this occurs in l Sam. xiv, 21, where, according to the 
probably correct reading (C' 1 '73?, and not C^DS') fol- 
lowed by the Sept., we find that there were numerous 
slaves in the camp at Miehmash : at a later period the 
prophets inveigh against them for their traffic in human 
flesh (Joel iii, G; Amos i, 6): at a still later period we 
hear that “the merchants of the country” followed the 
army of Gorgias into Judiea for the purpose of buying 
the children of Israel for slaves (l Mace, iii, 41), and 
that these merchants were Philistines is a fair inference 
from the subsequent notice that Nicanor sold the cap- 
tive Jews to the “cities upon the sea-coast” (2 Mace, 
viii, 11). There can be little doubt, too, that tribute 
was exacted from the Israelites, but the notices of it are 
confined to passages of questionable authority, such as 
the rendering of I Sam. xiii, 21 in the Sept., which 



Heads of Philistine Prisoners. (From the Egyptian 
Mouuments.) 


represents the Philistines as making a charge of three 
shekels a tool for sharpening them ; and again the ex- 
pression “Metheg-ammah” in 2 Sam. viii, 1, which is 
rendered in the Vulg.^/’emani tributi , and by Symma- 
ehus ti)v i^ovaiav tov <popov (the true text may have 
been ITTan, instead of nEXH). In each of the pas- 
sages quoted the versions presuppose a text which 
yields a better sense than the existing one. 

II. Connection of the Philistines with Israelitish Jlis- 
tory. — Here we recur to the Biblical narrative. 

1. Under Joshua and the Judges. — The territory of 
the Philistines, having been once occupied by the Ca- 
naanites, formed a portion of the Promised Land, and 
was assigned to the tribe of Judah (Josh, xv, 2, 12, 45- 
47). No part, however, of it was conquered in the 
lifetime of Joshua (xiii, 2), and even after his death no 
permanent conquest was effected (Judg. iii, 3), though, 
on the authority of a somewhat doubtful passage, we 
are informed that the three cities of Gaza, Ashkelon, 
and Ekron were taken (Judg. i, 18). The Philistines, 
at all events, soon recovered these, and commenced an 
aggressive policy against the Israelites, by which they 
gained a complete ascendency over them. We are un- 
able to say at what intervals their incursions took place, 
as nothing is recorded of them in the early period of 
the Judges. But they must have been frequent, inas- 
much as the national spirit of the Israelites was so en- 
tirely broken that they even reprobated any attempt at 
deliverance (xv, 12). Individual heroes were raised 
up from time to time whose achievements might well 
kindle patriotism, such as Sliamgar the son of Anatli 
(iii, 31), and still more Samson (xiii-xvi); but neither 
of these men succeeded in permanently throwing off 
the yoke. Of the former only a single daring feat is 
recorded, the effect of which appears, from Judg. v, 6, 7, 
to have been very shortlived. The true series of de- 
liverances commenced with the latter, of whom it was 
predicted that “he shall begin to deliver” (xiii. 5), and 
were carried on by Samuel, Saul, and David. A brief 
notice occurs in Judg. x, 7 of invasions by the Philistines 
and Ammonites, followed by particulars which apply 
exclusively to the latter people. It has hence been 
supposed that the brief reference to the Philistines is in 
anticipation of Samson’s history. 

The history of Samson furnishes us with some idea 
of the relations which existed between the two nations. 
As a “ borderer” of the tribe of Dan, he was thrown into 
frequent contact with the Philistines, whose supremacy 
was so established that no bar appears to have been placed 
to free intercourse with their country. His early life 
■was spent on the verge of the Shephelah between Zorah 
and Eshtaol, but when his actions had aroused the ac- 
tive hostility of the Philistines he withdrew into the 
central district, and found a secure post on the rock of 
Etam, to the south-west of Bethlehem. Thither the 
Philistines followed him without opposition from the 
inhabitants. His achievements belong to his personal 
history : it is clear that the}' were the isolated acts of 
an individual, and altogether unconnected with any na- 
tional movement; for the revenge of the Philistines was 
throughout directed against Samson personally. Under 
Eli there was. an organized but unsuccessful resistance 
to the encroachments of the Philistines, who had pene- 
trated into the central district and were met at Aphek 
(l Sam. iv, 1). The production of the ark on this occa- 
sion demonstrates the greatness of the emergency, and 
its loss marked the lowest depth of Israel’s degradation. 

The next action took place under Samuel’s leader- 
ship, and the tide of success turned in Israel’s favor : the 
Philistines had again penetrated into the mountainous 
country near Jerusalem ; at Mizpeh they met the cowed 
host of the Israelites, who, encouraged by the signs of 
divine favor, and availing themselves of the panic pro- 
duced by a thunderstorm, inflicted on them a total de- 
feat. For the first time the Israelites erected their pillar 
or stele at Eben-ezer as the token of victory. The re- 


PHILISTINE 


10G 


PHILISTINE 


suits wore the recovery of the border-towns and their 
territories ‘-from Ekron even unto Gath,” i. e. ill the 
northern district. The success of Israel may be partly 
ascribed to their peaceful relations at this time with 
the Amorites (1 Sam. vii, 9-14). 

2. Under the Hebrew Monarchy . — The Israelites now 
attributed their past weakness to their want of unity, 
and they desired a king, with the special object of 
leading them against the foe (1 Sam. viii, 20). It is 
a significant fact that Saul first felt inspiration in the 
presence of a pillar (A. V. “garrison”) erected by the 
Philistines in commemoration of a victory (x, 5, 10). 
As soon as he was prepared to throw off the yoke 
he occupied with his army a position at Michniash, 
commanding the defiles leading to the Jordan valley, 
and his heroic general Jonathan gave the signal for a 
rising by overthrowing the pillar which the Philistines 
had placed there. The challenge was accepted; the 
Philistines invaded the central district with an im- 
mense force (a copyist’s clerical exaggeration [see 
NcmukuJ), and, having dislodged Saul from jUichmash, 
occupied it themselves, and sent forth predatory bands 
into the surrounding country. The Israelites shortly 
after took up a position on the other side of the ravine 
at Geba. and availing themselves of the confusion con- 
sequent upon Jonathan’s daring feat, inflicted a tre- 
mendous slaughter upon the enemy (ch. xiii, xiv). 
No attempt was made by the Philistines to regain their 
supremacy for about twenty-five years, and the scene 
of the next contest shows the altered strength of the 
two parties: it was no longer in the central country, 
but in a ravine leading down to the Philistine plain, 
the valley of Elah, the position of which is about four- 
teen miles south-west of Jerusalem; on this occasion 
the prowess of young David secured success to Israel, 
and the foe was pursued to the gates of (lath and Ekron 
(ch. xvii). The power of the Philistines was, how- 
ever, still intact on their own territory, as is proved by 
the llight of David to the court of Achish (xxi, 10 15), 
and his subsequent abode at Ziklag (ch. xxvii), where 
he was secured from the attacks of Saul. The border 
warfare was continued; captures and reprisals, such 
as are described as occurring at Kcilah (xxiii, 1-5), 
being probablj' frequent. The scene of the next con- 
flict was far to the north, in the valley of Ksdraelon, 
whither the Philistines mat' have made a plundering 
incursion similar to that of the Midianites in the days 
of Gideon. The battle on this occasion proved disas- 
trous to the Israelites: Saul himself perished, and the 
Philistines penetrated across the Jordan, anil occupied 
the forsaken cities (xxxi, 1-7). The dissensions which 
followed the death of Saul were naturally favorable to 
the Philistines; and no sooner were these brought to a 
close by the appointment of David to be king over the 
united tribes than the Philistines attempted to counter- 
balance the advantage by an attack on the person of 
the king; they therefore penetrated into the valley of 
Uephaim, south-west of Jerusalem, and even pushed for- 
ward an advanced post as far as Bethlehem (I Miron, 
xi, HI). David twice attacked them at the former spot, 
and on each occasion with signal success, in the first 
case capturing their images, in the second pursuing 
them “ from (leba until thou come to (Inzer” (2 Sam. v, 
17 25; l Omni, xiv, 8-16). About, seven years after 
the defeat at Kcphaim, David, who had now consoli- 
dated his power, attacked them on their own soil, and 
took (lath, with its dependencies (1 Omni, xviii, 1), and 
thus (according to one interpretation of the obscure ex- 
pression “ .Met Iicg-am mail” in 2 Sam. viii, 1) “lie took 
the arm-bridle out of the hand of the Philistines” (Ber- 
thcuu, Comm, on 1 Chron.), or (according to another) 
“he took the bridle of the metropolis out of the hand 
of the Philistines” (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1 Id) — mean- 
ing in either case that their ascendency was utterly 
broken. This indeed was the case; for the minor en- 
gagements in David’s lifetime probably all took place 
within the borders of Philistia; (lob, which is given as 


the scene of the second and third combats, being proba- 
bly identical with (lath, where the fourth took place (2 
8am. xxi, 15-22; comp, the Sept., some of the copies of 
which read PO instead of Po/3). 

The whole of Philistia was included in Solomon’s 
empire, the extent of which is described as being “ from 
the river unto the land of the Philistines, unto the bor- 
der of Egypt” (1 Kings iv, 21 ; 2 Miron, ix, 2<3), and 
again, “ front Tiphsah unto tlaza” (l Kings iv, 24 ; A. V. 
“Azzah”). The several towns probably remained un- 
der their former governors, as in the case of (lath (1 
Kings ii, 39), and the sovereignty of Solomon was ac- 
knowledged bv the payment of tribute (iv, 21). There 
are indications, however, that his hold on the Philis- 
tine country was by no means established; for we find 
him securing the passes that led up from the plain to 
the central district by the fortification of (lezer and 
Bethhoron (ix, 17), while no mention is made either of 
(laza or Ashdod, which fully commanded the coast- 
road. Indeed the expedition of Pharaoh against Gezer, 
which stood at the head of the Philistine plain, and 
which was quite independent of Solomon until the time 
of his marriage with Pharaoh’s daughter, would lead to 
the inference that Egyptian intiuenee was paramount 
in Philistia at this period (ver. 16). 

Under the later Jewish kings these signs of aggres- 
sion on the part of the Philistines increase. The divi- 
sion of the empire at Solomon’s death was favorable to 
the Philistine cause: Kehoboam secured himself against 
them by fortifying (lath and other cities bordering on 
the plain (2 Chron. xi,8) : the Israelitish inonarchs were 
either not so prudent or not so powerful, for they al- 
lowed the Philistines to get hold of (libbethon, com- 
manding one of the defiles leading up from the plain of 
Sharon to Samaria, the recovery of which involved 
them in a protracted struggle in the reigns of Xadab 
and Zimri (1 Kings xv, 27 ; xvi, 1). Judah meanwhile 
had lost the tribute; for it is recorded, as an occurrence 
that marked Jehoshaphat’s success, that "some of the 
Philistines brought presents” (2 Chron. xvii, 11). But 
this subjection was of brief duration : in the reign of 
his son Jehoram they avenged themselves by invading 
Judah in conjunction with the Arabians, and sacking 
the royal palace (xxi, 16,17). The increasing weak- 
ness of the Jewish monarchy under the attacks of 11a- 
zael led to the recovery of (lath, which had been cap- 
tured by that monarch in his advance on Jerusalem 
from the western plain in the reign of Jchoash (2 Kings 
xii, 17), and was probably occupied by the Philistines 
after his departure as an advanced post against Judah : 
at. all events it was in their hands in the time of Uzziah, 
who dismantled (2 Chron. xxvi, 6) and probably de- 
stroyed it ; for it is adduced by Amos as an example of 
divine vengeance (Amos vi, 2), and then disappears 
from history. Uzziah at the same time dismantled 
Jabnch (Jamnia). in the northern part of the plain, and 
Ashdod, and further erected forts in different parts of 
the country to intimidate the inhabitants (2 Chron. 
xxvi, 6). The prophecies of Joel and Amos prove that 
these measures were provoked by the aggressions of the 
Philistines, who appear to have formed leagues both 
with the Edomites and Phoenicians, and had reduced 
many of the Jews to slavery (Joel iii, 4 6; Amos i, 6- 
1P). How far the means adopted by Uzziah were ef- 
fectual we are not informed; but we have reason to 
suppose that the Philistines were kept in subjection un- 
til the time of Ahaz, when, relying upon the difficulties 
produced by the Syrian invasions, they attacked the bor- 
der-cities in the Shephelah, and “the south” of Judah 
J (2 Chron. xviii. 18). 

From this time the notices of the Philistines are 
largely involved in the movements of the great powers 
surrounding Palestine. Isaiah’s declarations (xiv. 29- 
32) throw light upon these subsequent events: from 
them we learn that the Assyrians, whom Ahaz sum- 
moned to his aid, proved themselves to be the “cock- 
atrice that should conic out of the serpent's (Judah's) 


PHILISTINE 


107 


PHILISTINE 


root,” by ravaging the Philistine plain. A few years 
later the Philistines, in conjunction with the Syrians 
and Assyrians (“ the adversaries of Rezin”), and per- 
haps as the subject-allies of the latter, carried on a se- 
ries of attacks on the kingdom of Israel (Isa. ix, 11, 12). 
Ilezekiali’s reign inaugurated a new poliey, in which 
the Philistines were deeply interested: that monarch 
formed an alliance with the Egyptians, as a counter- 
poise to the Assyrians, and the possession of Philistia 
became henceforth the turning-point of the struggle 
between the two great empires of the East. Hezekiah, 
in the early part of his reign, re-established his author- 
ity over the whole of it, “even unto Gaza” (2 Kings 
xviii, 8). This movement was evidently connected 
with liis rebellion against the king of Assyria, and was 
undertaken in conjunction with the Egyptians; for we 
find the latter people shortly after in possession of the 
five Philistine cities, to which alone arc we able to refer 
the prediction in Isa. xix, 18, when roupled with the 
fact that both Gaza and Ashkelon are termed Egyptian 
cities in the annals of Sargon (Bunsen, Egypt, iv, 603). 
The Assyrians under Tartan, the general of Sargon, 
made an expedition against Egypt, and took Aslidod, 
as the key of that country (Isa. xx, 1, 4, 5). Under 
Sennacherib Philistia was again the scene of important 
operations: in his first campaign against Egypt Ash- 
kelon was taken and its dependencies were plundered; 
Ashdod, Ekron, aud Gaza submitted, and received as a 
reward a portion of llezekiah’s territory (Kawlinson, 
llerod. i, 477): in his second campaign (on the view 
that the two were different) other towns on the verge 
of the plain, such as Libnali and Lachish, were also 
taken (2 Kings xviii, 14; xix, 8). The Assyrian su- 
premacy, though shaken by the failure of this latter 
expedition, was restored by Esar-liaddon, who claims to 
have conquered Egypt (Rawlinson, i, 481) ; and it seems 
probable that the Assyrians retained their hold on Ash- 
dod until its capture, after a long siege, by the Egyptian 
monarch Psammetiohus (llerod. ii, 157), the effect of 
which was to reduce the population of that important 
place to a mere “ remnant” (Jer. xxv, 20). It was about 
this time, and possibly while Psammetiehus was en- 
gaged in the siege of Ashdod, that Philistia was trav- 
ersed by a vast Scythian horde on their way to Egypt: 
they were, however, diverted from their purpose by the 
king, and retraced their steps, plundering on their re- 
treat the rich temple of Venus at Ashkelon (llerod. i, 
105). The description of Zephaniah (ii, 4-7), who was 
contemporary with this event, may well apply to this 
terrible scourge, though more generally referred to a 
Chahkean invasion. The Egyptian ascendency was not 
as yet re-established, for we find the next king, Neeho, 
compelled to besiege Gaza (if the Cadytis of Herodotus, 
ii, 159) on his return from the battle of Megiddo. After 
the death of Neeho, the contest was renewed between 
the Egyptians and the Chakkeans under Nebuchadnez- 
zar, and the result was specially disastrous to the Phi- 
listines : Gaza was again taken by the former, and the 
population of the whole plain was reduced to a mere 
“remnant” by the invading armies (Jer. xlvii). The 
“old hatred” that the Philistines bore to the Jews was 
exhibited in acts of hostility at the time of the Baby- 
lonian captivity (Ezek. xxv, 15-17); but on the return 
this was somewhat abated, for some of the Jews married 
Philistine women, to the great scandal of their rulers 
(Nell, xiii, 23, 24). 

3. Post-exilian History. — From this time the history 
of Philistia is absorbed in the struggles of the neighbor- 
ing kingdoms. In B.C. 332, Alexander the Great trav- 
ersed it on his way to Egypt, and captured Gaza, then 
held by the Persians under Betis, after a two month’s 
siege. In 312 the armies of Demetrius Poliorcetes and 
Ptolemy fought in the neighborhood of Gaza. In 198 
Antioehus the Great, in his war against Ptolemy Epiph- 
anes, invaded Philistia and took Gaza. In 166 the 
Philistines joined the Syrian army under Gorgias in its 
attack on Jud<ea (1 Mace. iii,41). In 148 the adherents 


of the rival kings Demetrius II and Alexander Balas, 
under Apollonius and Jonathan respectively, contended 
in the Philistine plain : Jonathan took Ashdod, tri- 
umphantly entered Ashkelon, and received Ekron as 
his reward (1 Macc. x, 69-89). A few years later Jon- 
athan again descended into the plain in the interests 
of Antioehus VI, and captured Gaza (1 Macc. xi, 60-62). 
No further notice of the country occurs until the capture . 
of Gaza in 97 by the Jewish king Alexander Jamueus, 
in his contest with Lathvrus (Joseph. A nt. xiii, 13, 3; 
)Var, i, 4, 2). In 63 Pompey annexed Philistia to the 
province of Syria (d nt. xiv, 4, 4), with the exception 
of Gaza, which was assigned to llerod (xv, 7, 3), to- 
gether with Jamnia, Ashdod, and Ashkelon, as appears 
from xvii, 11, 5. The last three fell to Salome after 
Herod’s death, but Gaza was re-annexed to Syria (xvii, 
11, 4, 5). The latest notices of the Philistines as a na- 
tion, under their title of aXXd^uXoi, occur in 1 Macc. 
iii-v. The extension of the name from the district oc- 
cupied by them to the whole country, under the familiar 
form of Palestine, has already been noticed under that 
head. 

ID. Usages, etc. — With regard to the institutions of 
the Philistines our information is very scanty. Their 
military tactics have been noticed above. The country 
in which they settled is remarkably productive (2 Kings 
viii, 2). Thomson exclaims on entering it, “Beautiful 
but monotonous— wheat, wheat, a very ocean of wheat” 

( Land and Book, ii, 32 sq.). The country, he adds, 
greatly resembles some of the prairies in Western Amer- 
ica. “ Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the 
same year a hundredfold” (Gen. xxvi, 12). Not only 
was agriculture most remunerative, hut Philistia was the 
highway for caravans between Egypt and the north, and 
commerce must have added to its wealth. Harbors were 
attached to Gaza and Ashkelon, and a lucrative naviga- 
tion may have been carried on. The greatness of the 
cities was mainly owing to commerce, for the coast of 
Palestine was in the earliest ages exclusively in posses- 
sion of the traffic which was carried on between Europe 
and Asia. Besides a great transit trade, they had inter- 
nal sources of •wealth, being given to agriculture (Judg. 
xv, 5). In the time of Saul they were evidently supe- 
rior in the arts of life to the Israelites; for we read (1 
Sam. xiii, 20) that the latter were indebted to the former 
for the utensils of ordinary life. 

The five chief cities had, as early as the days of Josh- 
ua, constituted themselves into a confederacy, restricted, 
however, in all probability, to matters of offence and de- 
fence. Each was under the government of a prince 
whose official title was seren, “pO (Josh, xiii, 3; Judg. 
iii, 3, etc.), and occasionally sdr, "O (1 Sam. xviii, 30; 
xxix, 6). Gaza may be regarded as having exercised 
a hegemony over the others, for in the list of the towns 
it is mentioned the first (Josh, xiii, 3 ; Amos i, 7, 8), ex- 
cept where there is an especial ground for giving prom- 
inence to another, as in the case of Ashdod (1 Sara, vi, 
17). Ekron always stands last, while Ashdod, Ashkelon, 
and Gath interchange places. Each town possessed its 
own territory, as instanced in the case of Gath (1 Chron. 
xviii, 1), Ashdod (l Sam. v, 6), and others, and each pos- 
sessed its dependent towns or “ daughters” (Josh.xv,45- 
47; 1 Chron. xviii, 1 ; 2 Sam. i, 20; Ezek. xvi, 27, 57), 
and its villages (Josh. L c.). In later times Gaza had a 
senate of five hundred (Joseph. A nt. xiii, 13, 3). 

'l'he Philistines appear to have been deeply imbued 
with superstition: they carried their idols with them 
on their campaigns (2 Sam. v, 21), and proclaimed their 
victories in their presence (1 Sam. xxxi, 9). They also 
carried about their persons charms of some kind that 
had been presented before the idols (2 Macc. xii, 40). 
The gods whom they chiefiv worshipped were Dagon, 
who possessed temples both at Gaza (Judg. xvi, 23) and 
at Ashdod (1 Sam. v, 3-5; 1 Chron. x, 10; 1 Macc. x, 83); 
Ashtoreth, whose temple at Ashkelon was far-famed (l 
Sam. xxxi, 10; llerod. i, 105); Baal-zebub, whose fane 


PIIILLIITS 


108 


PHILLIPS 


at Ekron was consulted by Ahaziah (2 Kings i, 2-G) ; and 
Derceto, who was honored at Ashkelon (Diod. Sic. ii,4), 
though unnoticed in the Ilible. l'ricsts and diviners 
(l Sam. vi, 2) were attached to the various seats of 
worship; and the Philistine magicians wore in repute 
(Isa. ii, G). 

The special authorities for the history of the Philis- 
tines arc Stark, Gaza und die philistiiische Kiiste (Jena, 
1852); Knobel, Yblkertafel der Genesis ((Jiess. 1850); 
Movers, Phonizien (llonn, 1811); llitzig, Crgesch. und 
Mythologie der Philistder (Lcips. 1845); and Kncueker, 
in Schcnkel's Bibel-Lex. s. v. Philistiier. See also dour. 
Bar. Lit. July, 1852, p. 323 sq.; Jan. 185G, p. 291) sq.; 
lriseh, l)e Origine, diis et terra Palerstinorum (Tubing. 
1G9G) ; Wolf, Apparatus Philistworum beliieorum (Yiteb. 
1711); Ilanneckcr, Die Philistiier (Kichstsidt, 1872). 


tics. The amount of work he went through with is 
amazing. lie projected a complete course of mathe- 
matical works, and published in 1828 a work on conic 
sections, which was afterwards adopted as a text-book 
in Columbia College, New York, lie prepared also trea- 
tises on algebra, geometry, trigonometry, differential and 
integral calculus, and natural philosophy, besides mak- 
ing for his own use translations of many of the French 
mathematicians — which works, however, lie never made 
any attempt to publish, lie also joined the other mem- 
bers of the faculty in contributing his quota to the 
Harbinger, a newspaper published at Chapel Hill, in 
1832, under the direction of Dr. Caldwell. Up to the 
time of his coming to North Carolina, and for many 
years after, he seems to have devoted himself exclu- 
sively to scientific studies. Although he had been for 


Phillipps, C.I'Jokuk, a Congregational minister, was - voars a C0l,sistent membc>r °f Church, yet now he 
born at Kondham, in the county of Norfolk, England bo S an t0 experience a change, which he regarded as the 
near the opening of the 17th century. Having given tme be « im,in S of 1,is Christian life. Henceforth he 
early indications of a remarkably 'vigorous mind, a ccasc(1 to be the raere ,cacher " f science; he added to 
strong love of knowledge, and a deep sense of reli»ion lns otber (lu,1PS the of theology and un- 

lie was sent to the University of Cambridge, where lie weaned activity in all Christian duties, and in iSoptem- 

received his education, and distinguished himself as a ' ^ ,w ' 1 ' ” ,v '’ * 1 ’" — ~ r 

scholar. Theology was his favorite study; and, while 
yet a young man, lie had made himself familiar with the 


her, 1833, was licensed by the Presbytery of Orange, at 
New Hope, and in April, 1835, was ordained to the fall 

^ work of the ministry, lie was never installed as pastor, 

most celebrated of the fathers of tlie ChristVan Chiircln bnt he P reached as a SU PP 1 . V n,r sonie time at Pittsbom’, 


Not long after his ordination he began to entertain scru- 
ples with regard to certain requirements of the Estab- 


and afterwards, for the greater part of his ministerial 
life, at New Hope Church. He was in the fulldischarge 


lished Church. This dissatisfaction became so strong of ,,is Passional "’lien he died suddenly March 

ate to this country 14 ’ 18(b .' ,)r< l>hll,1 P s ",' as a man remarkable literary, 


that at last he determined to emigrate to this country 
with a company of Puritans, among whom was John 
M’inthrop. He arrived at Salem in 1G30. Having 
founded with a number of others the settlement of Wa- 
tertown, Mass., Phillipps became the first pastor of the 
Church, and as such he continued his labors till near 
the time of his death, which occurred July 1, 1G44. 
Phillipps possessed no small degree of intellectual acu- 
men, and was an able controversial writer, lie was a 
man of great independence of mind, and adhered with 


theological, and professional attainments, lie was an 
inexorable mathematician, but well and thoroughly read 
in all departments. Many books in his library had 
this simple comment, Perlcgi.” llis chief religious 
reading was among the old Nonconformist divines; his 
favorite authors were the old English classics; the book 
that was oftenest in his hand was the Hible. He was a 
great preacher; his sermons were complete structures; 
there was nothing oratorical about him — it was the pure 


unyielding tenacity to his conscientious convictions “weight of metal.” As a man he was uncompromising- 
lie seems to have been in advance of nearly all his con- ]y collscie,1,iou S remarkably modest, free from all arro- 
tcmporarics in regard to the principles of strict Contrre- ffance aml P rcsum P tioi b a"'l yet most genial as a com- 


panion and friend. See Wilson, Presb. llist. Almanac, 


gationalism; insomuch that his views were, for a time, P aaum aml fncn( ‘- s 
regarded as novel and extreme. His ministry was ^8, p.349. (J. L. S.) 

marked by great diligence and fervor, and attended Phillips, John, LL.D., ail American philanthropist 
with rich blessings, llis publications are, Reply to the of some note, was born in Andover, Mass., Dec. 27, 1719; 


Confutation of some Grounds of Infant Baptism; as also 
Concerning the Form of a Church, put forth against me 
by one Thomas Lamb (bond. 1G45, 4to). See Mather, 


was educated at Harvard College (class of 1735); and 
having preached for some time, at length engaged in 
mercantile pursuits, and was for several years a member 
of the Council of New Hampshire. In 1778 he and his 
brother, Samuel Phillips, of Andover, founded and liber- 
ally endowed the academy in that town, which was in- 
divine, was born at Newendon, Essex Countv England Cor P orat ° (1 178 °- 1,1 l78!) ,lC further gave to this 
April 22, 1792. llis father was a minister of the Estab- i,,stitntil ’ n * 20 ’ 000 - Thc academy called Phillips Ex- 
lishcd Church of England, and attached to the Evan- ctor Aca,lom >'> of which 1,e was the sole fo »» l1cr , was 


M agnalia, iii, 82-84, 162; Winthrop, Journal; Sprague, 
Annals of the .1 mer. Pulpit , i, 15-17. (J. II. W.) 

Phillips, James, 1 >.!)., an eminent Presbyterian 


golical party in that Church. His early education was 
acquired mostly while lie was engaged in private studv 
and teaching in the service of the English navy, llis 
tastes and habits seem to have been fixed early, and to 
the impressions which lie there received, and the scenes 
he witnessed at the great military and naval stations, 
may be traced many of his tater*hahits and interests, 
lie came to America in I8]x. and engaged in the busi- 
ness of teaching at Harlem, N. Y., where he soon had a 
flourishing school. There were at that time in New 
York and the neighborhood a number of American and 
Hritish mathematicians who had organized a mathe- 
matical chib, of which he lieeame a member. To the 
mathematical journals published at that time lie was a 
regular contributor, or at least to two of them— the Math- 
ematical Repository and A 'ash's Biurg. In 1820 he was 
elected to the vacant mathematical chair in the Univer- 


incorporated in 1781, with a fund which was eventually 
increased to $134,000. He endowed a professorship in 
Dartmouth College, and he contributed liberally to 
Princeton College, lie died in April, 1795. bequeath- 
ing to his aCiidemy two thirds of all his estate, and one 
third of the residue to the seminary at Andover, par- 
ticularly for the benefit of pious youth. 

Phillips, Morgan, sometimes called Phillip Mor- 
gan, a Homan Catholic divine, was born probably during 
(lie latter part of the 15th century, lie received his 
education at Oxford, graduating in the class of 1537. 
lie was made principal of St. Mary’s Hall in 154G, and 
was one of the founders of the English < ullegc at 1 )ouay, 
where he died in 1570. llis powers as a disputant were 
so great that he was called “ Morgan the Sophistcr.” and 
he was one of the three selected to dispute with Peter 
Martyr on the Eucharist, and published on that occasion 


sirv of North Carolina, and entered upon the duties of Bisputatio de Sacramento Furharistur in Cuir. Oxon. 
Ins professorship in July of the same year. In this posi- habita contra JK Peter Martyr. 13 Mai, 1549. He also 
non he continued to labor for forty-one years, devoting published .1 Treatise showing the Regiment of Women is 
himself with unremitting care and attention to his du- conformable to the Law of God and Nature (Liege, 1571, 


PHILLIPS 


109 


PHILLIPS 


8vo), written in answer to John Knox’s work, The First 
Blast of the Trumpet, etc. See Wood, A then. Oxom. ; 
Dodd, Ch. Hist. vol. Hi ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A uth. s. v. 

Phillips, Richard, an English Wesleyan preach- 
er, was born in 1777. In early life he was brought to 
Christ through Methodist influence, and, feeling called 
of God to the wx»rk of the ministry, entered the itinerant 
ranks in 1804, and continued in the active labors of the 
ministry until 1844, when debility constrained him to 
accept an assistant, and to preach only occasionally. 
‘‘Blessed with a good understanding and a retentive 
memory, patient and prudent, enjoying the life of God 
in his soul, and warmly attached to the doctrines and 
discipline of Methodism, he preached those doctrines 
and administered that discipline to the profit of the 
Wesleyan body.” See Wesleyan Magazine, 184G, p. 916. 

Phillips, Samuel (1), a Congregational minister, 
was born Feb. 17, 1690 (O. S.), at Salem, Mass. lie 
graduated at Harvard College in 1708, and was ordained, 
Oct. 17, 1711, pastor of the South Parish, Andover, 
where he remained until his death, June 5, 1771. Sam- 
uel Phillips was a devoted orthodox preacher, and not 
only refused to be affected by the heretical tendencies 
of his times, but combated all Arian influences, and be- 
came a most decided opponent of the Unitarians. “As 
a preacher, he was highly respectable, was zealous, and 
endeavored not only to indoctrinate his people in senti- 
ments which he deemed correct and important, but to 
lead them to the practice of all Christian duties,” He 
published, Elegy upon the Death of Nicholas Noyes and 
George Curwen (1718) : — A Word in Season, or Duty 
of a People to take the Oath of Allegiance to a Glorious 
God (1727): — Advice to a Child (1729) '.— The History 
of the Saviour (1738): — The Orthodox Christian, or a 
Child well Instructed (1738) : — -A Minister's Address to 
his People (1739) : — A Sermon on Living Water to be 
had for A skivg (1750) : — A Sermon on the Sinner's Re- 
fusal to Come to Christ (1753) : — A Sermon on the Ne- 
cessity of God's Drawing in Order to Men's Coming unto 
Christ (1753): — Seasonable Advice to a Neighbor, in a 
Dialogue (1761) : — Address to Young People, in a Dia- 
logue (1763); and several occasional sermons. See 
Sprague, Annals, i, 273. 

Phillips, Samuel (2), LL.D., an American philan- 
thropist, noted for his service to the state, deserves a place 
here for the interest which he took in educational mat- 
ters. lie was born at Andover m 1751, and graduated 
at Harvard College in 1771. He was a member of the 
Provincial Congress in 1775, and of the House of Repre- 
sentatives till the year 1780, when he assisted in framing 
the constitution of Massachusetts. On its adoption he 
was elected a member of the Senate, and was its presi- 
dent from 1785 to 1802. Being appointed justice of the 
Court of Common Pleas for Essex in 1781, he held his 
office till 1797, when his declining health induced his 
resignation. He was commissioner of the state in 
Scharp’s insurrection, and in 1801 was chosen lieuten- 
ant-governor. He died Feb. 10, 1802. Although so 
greatly honored with public eminence, he remained a 
faithful son of the Church of Christ, and was not only 
regular in his own observances, but ministered fre- 
quently to those unable to go to church, lie appeared 
to be continually governed by love to the Supreme 
Being, and by the desire of imitating his benevolence 
and doing good. Phillips’s deep views of evangelical 
doctrine and duty, of human depravity and mediatorial 
mercy, formed his heart to humility, condescension, and 
kindness, and led him continually to depend on the 
grace of God through the atonement of his Son. He 
was one of the projectors of the academy at Andover, 
and was much concerned in establishing that, as well 
as the academy at Exeter, which were founded by his 
father and uncle. To these institutions he was a dis- 
tinguished benefactor. He was also a founder of the 
American Academy of Arts and Sciences of Boston. At 


his death he left to the town of Andover $5000, the in- 
come to be applied to the cause of education. After his 
death his widow, Phoebe Phillips, and his son, John Phil- 
lips, of Andover, evinced the same attachment to the in- 
terests of learning and religion, by uniting with Samuel 
Abbot, and three others of a most liberal and benevolent 
spirit, in founding the theological seminary at Andover, 
which was opened in September, 1808. See Allen. Diet, 
of A mer. Biog. s. v. ; Brown, Pel. Cyclop, s. v. ; Drake, 
Diet, of A mer. Biog. s. v. 

Phillips, Thomas, an English Roman Catholic 
priest, was born in Buckinghamshire in 1708. lie re- 
ceived his education at St. Omer’s College, and became 
a most zealous worker in the Church, lie obtained a 
prebend in the collegiate church of Tongres, and resided 
for many years in the family of the earl of Shrews- 
bury. Towards the end of his life he retired to the 
English college at Liege, where he died in 1774. He pub- 
lished, The Study of Sacred Literature fully Stated and 
Considered (Lond. 1756, 8vo ; 2d ed. 1758; 3ded.l765): — 
Philemon (1761, 8vo). This autobiographical pamphlet 
w F as privately printed, and suppressed: — The. History of 
the Life of Reginald Pule (Oxford, 1764-1767, 2 pts. in 1 
vol.4to; Lond. 1767,2 vols. 8vo). Thiswork elicited six 
answers, by Richard Lillard, T. Ridley, T.KeVe, E.. Stone, 
B. Pye, and J. Jones (see Chalmers, Biog. Diet, xxvi, 
460-461), and Phillips responded in an appendix to the 
Life (1767, 4to) ; see also end of his 3d ed. of Study of 
Sacred Literature: — Reasons for the Repeal of the Law 
against the Papists: — Translation in Metre of the Hymn 
Lauda Sion Salvatorem: — Censura Comment ariorum 
' Cornelii d Lapide, in Latin, on a single sheet, lie also 
addressed some poetry to his sister Elizabeth, abbess of 
the Benedictine nuns at Ghent. See Cole’s MS. A then. 
in the British Museum; European Magazine, for Sep- 
tember, 1796; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A uth. 
s. v. 

Phillips, William (l),a Christian philanthropist, 
was born in Boston April 10, 1750. Owing to feeble 
health, he was prevented from receiving many education- 
al advantages. lie entered upon mercantilepursuits with 
his father, from whom he received a large fortune at his 
death. In 1772 he made a profession of religion; in 
1794 he was made a deacon of Old South Church, Bos- 
ton, where he officiated until his death, May 26, 1817. 
He was highly respected by the community at large, 
and was influential in all the affairs of State and Church. 
He was at one time the lieutenant-governor of his na- 
tive state. He was also actively engaged in philan- 
thropic labors, and was at his death president of the 
Massachusetts Bible Society. His charities were very 
extensive, and during a series of years amounted to from 
$SOOO to $11,000. He bequeathed $15,000 to Phillips 
Academy; $10,000 to the theological institution at 
Andover; to the Society for Propagating the Gospel 
among the Indians, the Massachusetts Bible Society, 
the Foreign Mission Board, the Congregational Society, 
the Educational Society, and the Massachusetts General 
Hospital, each $5000; to the Medical Dispensary $3000; 
to the Female Asylum, and the Asylum for Boys, each 
$2000. See Allen, Diet, of A mer. Biog. s. v. 

Phillips, William (2), a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Jessamine County, 
Ky., May 7, 1797. Even as a youth he exhibited tal- 
ents of a superior order. He received a careful and pious 
training, but he did not as a young man make any out- 
ward profession of religion; and after entering political 
life, and while engaged for several years as a successful 
teacher, he became even less considerate of his higher 
and immortal interests, and sought refuge from the 
accusations of conscience in the dark and cheerless 
regions of infidelity. His early impressions of relig- 
ious truth were, however, strong and abiding, and he 
was finally converted, and deeply impressed with the 
idea that he was called of God to enter the Christian 
ministry. Dec. 27, 1828, he was licensed as a local 


PHILLIPS 


110 


piiilo 


preacher. In the fall of 1831 he was received into the 
Kentucky Conference. lie was appointed consecutively 
to the Winchester Circuit, Lexington Circuit, and New- 
port and Covington stations, lie was also assistant 
editor of t lie 1 1 'estern Cfoistian Advocate, serving for 
one year by appointment of the Hook Committee, and 
then by vote of the General Conference of 183d. Among 
his numerous contributions to that journal was a series 
of articles on the peculiar tenets of Alexander Camp- 
bell, which excited very considerable attention. These 
were republished, by request of the Ohio Conference, 
after Air. Phillips's death, which occurred June 22, 1836, 
onlv a few weeks after his election bv the Oeneral Con- 
ference. (J.1LW.) 

Phillips, William Wirt, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was born in Montgomery County, X. V., Sept. 23, 
1796. He graduated at Union College, Schenectady, 
X. Y., in 1812; completed a three years’ course in the 
Associate Reformed Theological Seminary, New York, 
and afterwards spent a year in the theological semina- 
ry at New Brunswick, X. J., under the instruction of 
Lev. Dr. Livingston; was licensed by the Xew Bruns- 
wick Classis of the Reformed Dutch Church, and in 
April, 1818, was ordained and installed pastor of Pearl 
Street Presbyterian Church, Xew York City. From this 
church lie was called to the First Presbyterian Church, 
Xew York. The congregation having disposed of their 
building and ground in Wall Street, in May, 1841, 
the corner-stone of the building on Fifth Avenue, near 
Twelfth Street, was laid in the following autumn, and 
soon after completed. Dr. Phillips was their beloved 
pastor for a period of nearly forty years; he was active- 
ly engaged in the discharge of his ministerial duties 
until about four weeks before his death, which occurred 
March 20, 1865. Dr. Phillips was a man of the utmost 
simplicity of character; a sound and able preacher of 
the Gospel, whose aim in the pulpit was to hold forth 
the Word of Life in all its purity, and to impress it with 
solemnity upon the hearts of all his hearers, lie was 
moderator of the General Assembly which met at Pitts- 
burgh in 1835, and for many years previous to his death 
he was the presiding officer of the Board of Foreign 
Missions, lie was also president of the Board of Pub- 
lication; a trustee of Princeton College and Seminary; 
a director of the Sailors' Snug Harbor, and several other 
benevolent institutions. Sec Wilson, Bresb. Hist. Alma- 
nac, 1866, p. 160 ; Congreg. Quar. 1859, p. 133. (J. L. S.) 

Phil(l)potts, IIenky. D.D., an English prelate of 
much note, was the son of a respectable hotel-keeper of 
Gloucester, and was born in that city in 1777. At the 
age of fifteen be was elected to a scholarship at Corpus 
Cliristi College, Oxford, and having taken the degree of 
11. A., gained the chancellor's prize for an English essay 
in 1795. lie was elected in the following year to a fel- 
lowship at Magdalen College, which he vacated on his 
marriage in 18oi with Miss Surtees, a niece of the late 
lord chancellor Eldon. In 1806 he became chaplain to 
Dr. Barrington, bishop of Durham, and in that capacity 
distinguished himself by a controversy which lie main- 
tained against the learned Roman Catholic historian of 
England. Dr. Eiugard (q. v.1, and subsequently by the 
publication of some pamphlets, vindicating the estab- 
lished clergy in the Xortli from the attacks of lords 
Grey and Durham. For these services he was reward- 
ed with the rich living of Stanhope. In 1825 he again 
entered the lists of controversy as the opponent of Mr. 
Charles Butler’s Hook of the ( 'atholic Church. In 1827 
lie published his celebrated Letter on Catholic /.'manci- 
pation addressed to Mr. Canning, soon after which he 
was promoted (in 1828) to the deanery of Chester, which 
he exchanged in October, 183ll, for the bishopric of Ex- 
eter. As a member of the House of Lords, bishop Pliill- 
potts proved the zealous champion of Tory principles, 
and consequently opposed the Reform Bill, the Irish 
Church Temporalities Bill, the Poor-law Bill, the F'c- 
clesiastical Commission, the National Education Bill, 


and every measure of a liberal tendency. Dr. Phillpotts 
was for many years in that, assembly the recognised 
episcopal bead and representative of the extreme High- 
Church party, and by bis writings and speeches warmly 
advocated the revival of convocation, and of other in- 
novations on t lie established system of ecclesiastical af- 
fairs. In 1849 he rejected Mr. Gorham, who was nom- 
inated by the crown to a living in Devonshire, on the 
ground that he held erroneous opinions as to the effects 
of infant baptism ; and though he was supported by the 
[ecclesiastical courts, their judgment was set aside on* 
appeal by a decision of the judicial committee of the 
privy council in 18.50. On this Dr. Phillpotts published 
a Letter in which he formally excommunicated the 
archbishop of Canterbury, who had been a party to the 
decision (sec Edl.ib. Her. xcv, 59-65). See Gouiiam 
Case. In the following year he held a synod of his 
clergy at Exeter, which was pronounced illegal by the 
officers of the crown, and lias never since been sum- 
moned. He died in i869. The list of Dr. Pliillpotts's 
controversial pamphlets occupies no less than twelve 
pages in the new catalogue of the British Museum. His 
best-known publications are given in Allibone, J)icf. of 
Brit, and A liter. . 1 ufhors, s. v. See English Cyclop, s. v. ; 
Men of the Time , s. v. ; Blackwood's Mag. xxiv, 1; 
xxix, 157 ; Dublin University Mag. xx, 223; Eraser's 
Mag. ii, 687 ; Loud. A then. 1861, i, 151. 

Philo (snrnamed in Latin Jejveus, i. e. the Jew; 
in Hebrew, *,'"E : in Greek, OiXtur [6] Ioo- 

Cnioc), the greatest of ancient Jewish philosophers, 
flourished in the 1st century of the Christian <Tra. We 
give a somewhat lengthy exposition of his philosophic 
and religious opinions. 

Life . — Philo was a native and throughout life a resi- 
dent of Alexandria. The precise time of his birth is 
unknown, but be represents himself as of advanced age 
about A.D. 40, when he was sent as chief of an embassy 
from the Jews of Alexandria to the emperor Caligula, 
for the purpose of pleading their cause against Apion, 
who charged them with refusing to pay due honors to 
Caesar (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 8, 1; comp. l)e Legat. ad 
C'aium, xxviii). He was probably about sixty years 
old; if so, he was born about B.C. 20. and was contem- 
porary with all the important events of the Xew Testa- 
ment. He went again to Rome in the reign of Claudius, 
but after this nothing is known with certainty of his 
whereabouts. Philo had a brother employed in tlie 
affairs of government at Alexandria, named Alexander 
Lysimachus, who is supposed to be the Alexander men- 
tioned in Acts iv. 6 as a man “of the kindred of the high- 
priest.” That Philo was a member of the sacerdotal 
family is asserted by Josephus (.1 nt. xviii, 8, 1), and also 
by Eusebius. Jerome, and others, and bis own writings 
indirectly testify that such was the fact. There is also 
reason to believe that he belonged to the sect of the 
Pharisees. Philo was eminent for his learning and elo- 
quence. To the attainments usually secured by Jews 
of his social condition (Eusebius, Trap. Ecang. viii, 13) 
he added an extensive knowledge of the Greek philoso- 
phy, especially the Platonic, for the acquisition of which 
the most favorable opportunities would occur in Alex- 
andria, at that time the very metropolis of the learned 
world and the home of revived Hellenism. He has been 
represented by Sealiger and Cudwortli as ignorant of 
Jewish literature and customs, but Eabricius and Man- 
gey have clearly shown that such a view is entirely 
groundless. The supposition of his ignorance of He- 
brew must have arisen from the fact that the Jews of 
Alexandria at that time were so little acquainted with 
the original of the Old-Test. Scriptures that they had to 
be supplied with the Sept, and other Greek versions. 
But even Geiger, who says that Philo had but a school- 
boy knowledge of the Hebrew language, concedes that 
when tlie translation of the Bible was undertaken for 
the Alexandrian Jews, “they had not yet been alto- 
gether estranged from the Hebrew language;” but that 


PHILO 


111 


piiilo 


» thev were no longer so much at home and versed in it 
that "they could have fully mastered the Book which 
was to offer them the bread and water of life; it was 
the Grecian language that must bring it home to them” 
(p. 140; comp, also p. 148). As absurd as is this 
charge of Philo’s ignorance of Hebrew is the charge 
that Philo’s Greek is unclassical, and this because he 
was a Jew. As well might we say of the Jewish literati 
of Germany that their style is Jewish -German, and 
not the pure tongue of Lessing and Gervinus. Philo’s 
Greek was of course not that of Plato, nor the pure At- 
tic of Demosthenes. No one at Alexandria wrote so 
purely, but Philo wrote as did his contemporaries, and 
as wrote the best of them. In his treatise De Con- 
yressu, xiv, Philo refers himself to his own attainments 
in grammar, philosophy, geometry, music, and poetry; 
and his accomplished character was thus gracefully at- 
tested by his wife, who, when once asked why she 
alone of all her sex did not wear any golden ornaments, 
replied : “The virtue of a husband is a sufficient orna- 
ment for his wife” ( Fragments , ed. Richter, vi, 23G). 

The circumstance that Philo was contemporary with 
New-Test, events, coupled with his high intelligence 
and interest in sacred learning, as well as with the fact 
that he once visited Jerusalem “ to offer up prayers and 
sacrifices in the Temple” (although only one such visit 
is referred to by him [Richter’s ed. of Fragments , vi, 
200], his piety and devotion probably led to occasional 
repetitions of this pilgrimage, which were less likely to 
be mentioned because of his modesty and reserve in per- 
sonal matters), led ancient writers to connect Philo in- 
timately with Christianity. Photius (Bill. Cod. 15) 
makes him a friend of the apostle Peter; as do also Eu- 
sebius (Hist. Eccles. ii, 17), Jerome ( Catal . Scriptor. Ec- 
cles.), and Suidas. Photius goes so far as to say that 
Philo was admitted into the Christian Church, from 
which he afterwards fell. But while we have no direct 
means of testing the truth of such statements, they cer- 
tainly do not bear the evidence on their face. A man 
of such decided characteristics as Philo could no more 
have remained quiet after conversion than did Saul of 
Tarsus, and, because we have no utterances from him as 
a Christian, we have reason to reject the story as fabu- 
lous from first to last. Besides, Philo’s own extant writ- 
ings do not give the slightest reference to any such im- 
portant step, and this fact tells even more strongly, if 
possible, against the report. 

IHs Theology and Philosophy. — In the article Neo- 
Peatoxisji (q. v.) it has been shown that this eclectic 
philosophy, though it developed in the 3d century after 
Christ, is not only to be regarded in its origin as co- 
eval with Christianity, but must acknowledge as its 
father and founder Philo the Jew (see Kingsley, Alex- 
andria and her Schools, p. 79). Alexandria, from its 
very foundation by Alexander the Great in B.C. 332, 
had sought to establish Greek civilization within its 
borders, and to produce an intellect that might be the 
rival of Athens in her proudest day. Mind was the 
secret of Greek power, and for that the great conqueror 
would work in this African city, which he designed to 
be the point of union of two, or, rather, of three worlds. 
For in this place, named after himself, Europe, Asia, 
and Africa were to meet and to hold communion. Un- 
der the Ptolemies this desire was strengthened still 
more, and yet the outcome of all the Ptolenuean appli- 
ances was of little or no account if we except the great 
collection of MSS. and art treasures. The wisest men, 
though gathered from the most learned centres of the 
world, failed to produce anything that was really worth 
preserving. In physics they did little. In art nothing. 
In metaphysics less than nothing. Says Kingsley, “ You 
must not suppose that the philosophers whom the Ptol- 
emies collected (as they would any other marketable 
article) by liberal offers of pay and patronage, were such 
men as the old Seven Sages of Greece, or as Socrates, 
Plato, and Aristotle. In these three last indeed, Greek 
thought reached not merely its greatest height, but the 


edge of a precipice, down which it rolled headlong aftel 
their decease. . . . When the Romans destroyed Greece, 
God was just and merciful. The eagles were gathered 
together only because the carrion needed to be removed 
from the face of God’s earth. And at the time of which 
I now speak the signs of approaching death were fear- 
fully apparent. Hapless and hopeless enough were the 
clique of men out of whom the first two Ptolemies hoped 
to form a school of philosophy ; men certainly clever 
enough, and amusing withal, who might give the kings 
of Egypt many a shrewd lesson in kingcraft and the 
crafts of this world, and the art of profiting by the folly 
of fools and the selfishness of the selfish ; or who might 
amuse them, in default of fighting-cocks, by puns and 
repartees, and battles of logic; ‘how one thing cannot 
be predicated of another,’ or ‘ how the wise man is not 
only to overcome every misfortune, but not even to feel 
it,’ and other such weighty questions, which in those 
days hid that deep unbelief in any truth whatsoever 
which was spreading fast over the minds of men . . . 
during those frightful centuries which immediately pre- 
ceded the Christian awa, when was fast approaching 
that dark chaos of unbelief and unrighteousness which 
Saul of Tarsus so analyzes and describes in the first 
chapter of his Epistle to the Romans; when the old 
light was lost, the old faiths extinct, the old reverence 
for the laws of family and national life destroyed, yea, 
even the natural instincts themselves perverted ; that 
chaos whose darkness Juvenal and Petronius and Taci- 
tus have proved in their fearful pages not to have been 
exaggerated by the more compassionate thongh more 
righteous Jew” (p. 55-63). 

Fortunately for the Macedonians, another Eastern 
nation had closely intermingled with them, and from 
this mixture of two races came that superior product 
which gave to Alexandrian thought not only a new im- 
pulse, but a superior life. When Hellenism was trans- 
ferred to Alexandria, the Grecian spirit, as we have seen, 
was in an exhausted and faded condition. But together 
with Hellenism had come Judaism also. True, the lat- 
ter was not sought for and imported at the bidding of 
the mighty conqueror of three worlds, but he had suf- 
fered the Jews to rind a home in Alexandria, and thus 
Judaism found its establishment then and there. The 
Ptolemies also pursued the same conciliatory policy; 
and Judaism gained strength and developed so much at 
Alexandria that it became a centre of Jewish thought 
and learning for several centuries, and its rabbins were 
called “ the light of Israel.” 

Now it is to be expected that whenever two spiritual 
powers meet, such as Hellenism and Judaism, such as 
Grecian culture and Jewish religion — when two such 
spiritual world-reforming powers come into eonfiict with 
each other — that conflict must necessarily result in new 
formations; something new will always grow out of it, 
be it by their antagonism or by their spiritual interpen- 
etration ; new creations will be evolved* either bearing 
the character of both, or pre-eminently that of one of 
them, yet impregnated, in a certain measure, by that of 
the other. The conflict between Hellenism and Juda- 
ism was principally a spiritual struggle, and its result a 
radical change in the thought and belief of both Jew 
and Macedonian, which led to the formation of what 
came to be known as Neo-Platonism, a philosophy of 
syncretism, whose elements are partly Oriental (Alex- 
andrian-Jewish in particular) and partly Hellenic; but 
whose form is strictly Hellenic, and whose peculiarity 
of doctrine is that it is distinguished from Plato’s own 
by the principle of revelation contained in the new phi- 
losophy. 

The great representative of this syncretism, which 
also reappeared afterwards in manifold shapes in Gnos- 
ticism, is our spirited and prolific theologian, Philo of 
Alexandria. He held to the divine character of the 
Old Test., had very strict views of inspiration, and 
thought that the Mosaic law and the Temple worship 
were destined to be perpetual. He ascribed to the Jews 


PHILO 


112 


PIIILO 


a mission for all nations, boasteil of their cosmopolitism, 
and called them priests and prophets, who offered sac- 
rifice and invoked the blessing of God for all man- 
kind. With him the expounding of the hooks of the 
Old Test, is synonymous with the philosophy of his na- 
tion; hut in his own exposition he allegorically intro- 
duces into those documents philosophical ideas, partly 
derived from the natural internal development of Jew- 
ish notions, and partly obtained from Hellenic philoso- 
phy, and thus the theology of Philo has been aptly 
called a blending of Platonism and Judaism. 

The allegorical method of interpreting the sacred 
Scriptures, which had long prevailed among the more 
cultivated of the Alexandrian Jews, was adopted by 
Philo without restriction. His principle that the proph- 
ets were only involuntary instruments of the Spirit 
which spoke through them was favorable to the freest 
use of this mode of exegesis. He pronounced those 
who would merely tolerate a literal interpretation of the 
Scriptures as low, unworthy, and superstitious: and 
while he was thus led astray frequently to the introduc- 
tion of foreign heathen elements into the store of divine 
revelation, and to the refusal of all elements which, like 
the anthropomorphisms for instance, seemed offensive 
to the culture of the time, Philo, like Origen (q. v.) 
in later times, far from rejecting the literal sense in 
every case, often, especially in the case of historical 
events in the Old Test., assumed both this and the alle- 
gorical sense as equally true. But Philo, besides this, 
regarded as higher that conception of Scripture which 
penetrated beneath the shell of the letter to what he 
thought, to he the kernel of philosophical truth ; beneath’ 
the anthropomorphic and anthropopathic representations 
of God, to that idealistic view of (iod which, in fact, di- 
vests him in the end of all concrete attributes. In this 
way, in spite of his opposition to Hellenic mysteries, 
Philo set up a radical distinction of initiated and un- 
initiated, a mode of interpretation which leads very 
easily to the contempt of the letter, and thus to an un- 
historical, abstractly spiritualistic tendency. Sec Ix- 
tkiu'KKT atiox. As a devoted, believing Jew, Philo 
accepted Judaism as a truth requiring no proof. But 
in him, as probably in others of the Alexandro-Jcwish 
school of philosophers before him, the desire was awak- 
ened to blend the Jewish inheritance with the newly 
acquired Grecian knowledge; to heighten the truths of 
Judaism hv the addition of Hellenic culture; to recon- 
cile both treasures with each other, so that each should 
make the lustre of the other shine the more clearly and 
brightly. Directly antagonistic as they were to each 
other, a compromise must needs he effected between 
them. Judaism is the fruit of self-evidence, inner ex- 
perience of a vivid conviction, for which no proof is 
required. Hellenism, on the contrary, proceeded from 
investigation, from human research, starting from the 
physical, to reach, by combination and analysis, the 
higher idea. These are two processes not only diverging 
in their progress, but even in their whole conception, aim 
these two directly antagonistic views clashed against 
eaeli other. But there was also in Hellenism a tendency 
which, although grown from the Grecian spirit, never- 
theless endeavored to conceive, by a certain prophetic 
llight of poesy, the higher, thence to descend to the 
lower, and thus to make the former descend into lower 
degrees. It desired likewise directly to conceive the 
divine, the ideal, by intuition, by higher perception. 
With such a hold flight Plato conceived the everlast- 
ing Good, the everlasting Beautiful, whence individual 
ideals evolve themselves, which as archetypes— we are 
not told whether they have a distinct existence, or must 
he regarded as mere fictions of the spirit— are expressed 
in real objects, perfect in themselves, while the several 
visible objects represent them in a limited degree. This 
was a system which especially suited the philosophizing 
Jews; it afforded them a bridge between the purely spir- 
itual and the physical objects, llow does the Highest 
Spirit, the eternally Perfect One, enter into the finite 


world? lie creates ideals from himself, says Plato. He 
introspects himself, and thus perfection is produced; hut 
this perfection impresses itself upon more subordinate 
existences, and thus it descends from immediate causes 
to intermediate causes, until the real objects spring into 
existence, and creation becomes manifest to us; God, 
the eternal existence, the eternally perfect, is the 
highest cause, hut the eternally Pure One does not im- 
mediately come into contact with the impure — only by 
means of manifold emanations ami concatenations, the 
earthly grows into existence. Such views afforded the 
philosophic Jews a happy means of preserving the the- 
ory of the infallibility and ineonceivableness of God, and 
I yet of accepting the different figurative expressions con- 
cerning God in the Bible, because they could refer to the 
subordinate beings. Hellenism of that time, stiff and 
sober as it was, was unfit to conceive naive, poetical im- 
ageries, and to admit poetical expression without fear- 
ing that thereby the sublimity of thought might he vio- 
lated. The latter was tenaciously adhered to, and when- 
ever it expressed entities too directly, it had to yield to 
forced interpretations. To such also the Bible was fre- 
quently subjected. Narratives and commands were 
forcibly driven from their natural simplicity into arti- 
ficial philosophemes, in the belief that their value would 
thus he enhanced. The figurative expressions and 
events in connection with God were referred to such 
subordinate spirits as had evolved themselves from 
God. In the writings of Philo that intermediate agency 
is comprised in the Logos, 

As with Plato and the elder Greeks, so with Philo, 
theology was the ultimate object of all metaphysical 
science. But there arose a puzzle in the mind of the 
Jewish philosopher, as in reality it had already arisen 
in the minds of Socrates and Plato, llow could he rec- 
oncile the idea of that absolute and eternal one Being, 
that Zeus, Father of gods and men, self-perfect, self- 
contained, without change or motion, in whom, as a 
Jew, he believed even more firmly than the Platonists, 
with the Daemon of Socrates, the divine teacher whom 
both Plato and Solomon confessed? Or how, again, 
could he reconcile the idea of him with the creative and 
providential energy, working in space and time, work- 
ing in matter, and apparently affected and limited, if 
not bafllcd, by the imperfection of the matter which he 
moulded? Philo offered a solution in that idea of a 
Logos, or Word of God, divinity articulate, speaking 
and acting in time and space, and therefore by succes- 
sive acts, anil so doing in time and space the will of 
the timeless and spaceless Father, the abysmal and 
eternal Being, of whom lie was the perfect likeness. 
In calling this person the Logos, and making him the 
source of all human reason, ami knowledge of eternal 
laws, he only translated from Hebrew into Greek the 
name which he found ill his sacred hooks, “ The Word 
of God.” Of God himself. Philo teaches that he is in- 
corporeal, invisible, and cognizable only through the rea- 
son; that he is the most universal of beings, the Being 
to whom alone being, as such, truly pertains; that he 
is more excellent than virtue, than science, or even 
than the good per sc and the beautiful per sc. lie is 
one and simple, imperishable and eternal; his existence 
is absolute and separate from the world; the world is 
his work. Thus while Philo contends that God is to he 
worshipped as a personal being, lie yet conceives him 
at the same time ns the most general of existences: ro 
ytviKMTaTov eoriv 6 5fi»£ ( Legis Al/eg. ii). God is 
the only truly existent being, ro or ( De tfomn. i, Goo, 
ed. Slang.). But Philo, similarly to the Neo-Plat onists 
of a later epoch, advances upon the Platonic doctrine by 
representing God as exalted not only above all human 
knowledge and virtue — as Plato had done — hut as above 
the idea of the Good — Kpeirruty re if open), kcu Kpeir- 
rojy 1 ) hnon’ip if, Kai Kpeirnov if avrb rayacbv k ai 
ui'Tv rb KaXbv (7>c J tuncli Ojjicio, i, 2, ed. Mnug.) — 
with which Plato identifies him— and by teaching that 
we do not arrive at the absolute by scientific demon- 


PIIILO 


113 


PIIILO 


stration ( Xoywv cnrobti&i), but by an intermediate sub- 
jective certainty (ivapytiq, De post Caini, 48, p. 258, 
ed. Mang.). Still a certain kind of knowledge of God, 
which, however, is only second in rank, results from 
the esthetic and teleological view of the world, as 
founded on the Socratic principle that “ no work of skill 
makes itself’ ( ovciv tuiv TtyviKuiv ipytov dnavTopaTi- 
£frat)» God is one and simple : 6 Stog povog iari Kai 
tv, ov csvyKpipa, <pmig airXi / . . . rkraKrai ovv o 
Stag Kara ro tv Kai rt) v povdca, pdXXov Ct Kai i) po- 
vdg Kara top tva Stov ( Legis Alleg. ii, i, 66 sq. ed. 
Mang.). God is the only free nature (// povij iXevStpa 
<fn'i<Tig , De Sonin, ii), full of himself and sufficient to 
himself (avro iavrov TrXgptg Kai tavrip 'iKavbv, De 
Nom. Mutat. i, 582); everything finite is involved in 
necessity. God is not in contact with matter; if he 
were he would he defiled. He who holds the world it- 
self to be God the Lord has fallen into error and sacri- 
lege. In his essence God is incomprehensible ; we can 
only know that he is, not what he is. All names which 
are intended to express the separate attributes of God 
are appropriate only in a figurative sense, since God is 
in truth an unqualified and pure being. Notwithstand- 
ing the pantheistically sounding neuters which Plato 
applies to God, Philo ascribes to him the purest blessed- 
ness: “ He is without grief or fear, not subject to evils, 
unyielding, painless, never wearied, filled with unmixed 
happiness” (De Cherubim, i, 154). God is everywhere 
hv his power (rag cvvaptig avrov bid y pg Kai i’Carog, 
dtpog Tt Kai ovpavov rdvag), but in no place with his 
essence, since space and place were first given to the 
material world by him (De Linguarum Conf. i, 425). 
Speaking figuratively, Philo describes God as enthroned 
on the outermost border of the heavens, in an extra- 
mundane place (roTzog ptraKoerpiog ), as in a sacred cit- 
adel (Genes. 28, 15; De Vit. Mos. ii, 164, etc.). God is 
the place of the world, for it is he that contains and en- 
compasses all things (De Somniis, i). In creating the 
world, God employed as instruments incorporeal poten- 
cies or ideas, since he could not come in contact with 
polluting matter (i% tKtirijg [rife o votag] rravr iyiv- 
ri)(Jtv b $t6g, o i’K izpaTTTbptvog avrog ’ ov yap rp> Srtpig 
dntipgg Kai Tntpvppivgg vXpg i^avtiv rbv ibpora Kai 
paKcipiov dXXd ralg dawparoig Cvvaptaiv, Hjv trvpov 
bvopa cii ickai Kartypiiaaro tt pog to ytvog tKaorov ri)v 
doporrovcroav Xafitiv poptppv, De Sacrificantibus, ii, 
261). These potencies surround God as ministering 
spirits, just as a monarch is surrounded by the members 
of his court. The highest of the divine potencies, the 
creative ( ttoii)tiki /), bears also, according to Philo, in 
Scripture the name of God ($tcg~) ; the second or ruling 
(fiamXiKi)) potency is called the Lord ( Kvpiog ) (De 
Vita Mosis, ii, 150, et al.). These are followed by the 
foreseeing potency, the law-giving, and many others. 
They are all conceived by Philo, not only in the nature 
of divine qualities, but also as relatively independent, 
personal beings, who can appear to men, and who have 
favored some of them with their most intimate inter- 
course (De Vita Abrah. ii, 17 sq.). 

From all that has been said of tbe Philonic doctrine 
of the Logos, it is clearly apparent that Philo recognised 
it as the highest of all the divine forces; and yet many 
of his descriptions of it were in no essential like those 
of the apostle John, but rather belonged to Jewish ideas 
which he found already existing. The distinction of a 
concealed God and a revelation of him was connected 
with the Old-Test, idea of theophanv. But by tracing 
back all theophanies to the one principle of revelation 
lying at their basis, and by making it their objective, 
the idea of the Logos was attained. The apocryphal 
book of The Wisdom of Solomon had already interposed 
wisdom between God and tbe world as the reflection of 
the eternal light; the fountain of all knowledge, virtue, 
and skill; the moulder of all things; the medium of all 
the Old-Test, revelations (ch. vii-x). This idea Philo 
also conceived, but he modified it according as the Pla- 
tonic influence was more or less stronglv felt. Savs 
VIII.— H 


Neander, “In proportion as he occupied the stand- 
point which divested the Divine Being of human qual- 
ities, or that which favored anthropomorphism, the 
ideal or the symbolical, might not the Xoyog appear as 
a power of God or as a hypostatic being?” Philo de- 
scribes the Xoyof, therefore, as the first-born before all 
existence, the irpinToyovag vibg r ov Stov, as the per- 
fect reflection of God, as the dpyayytXog among the 
angels, as the original power of the divine powers. Al- 
luding to the voijTov Tzapdctiypa of Plato, he describes 
him as the world-constructing reason ; he compares the 
world to the £d>oj' of Plato, and the Xoyoc to the soul of 
the w'orld; he calls him God’s vicegerent in the world 
(vnapyog) ; he gives him the office of mediator between 
God and the universe, since the connection of phenom- 
ena with God is effected through the reason revealed in 
the world. Hence he is the high-priest of the w'orld, 
the advocate ( irapdKXprog ) for the defects of men with 
God, and generally the revealer of the divine nature to 
the universe. The Logos is the archetype of the rea- 
son, which is formed not after the Absolute himself, the 
"Ov, but after the Logos. He, as the revelation of the 
Absolute in the reason, is the image of God, after which 
man, according to Genesis, was created. In this con- 
nection he calls the Logos the ideal man ; and alluding 
to a Jewish mystical idea, the original man. In the 
Logos is the unity of the collected revelations of the 
Divine Being which is individualized in man. In gen- 
eral, everything is traced hack to the distinction be- 
tween the Divine Being as he is in bimself and his rev- 
elation in the Logos, or the eivai and the XtytoSai. 
The revelation of God in creation — in all positive reve- 
lation — in the communication of separate ideas by pe- 
culiar dogmas — all this forms part of the knowledge of 
the revealed God in the phenomenal world, and of the 
symbolical knowledge from the standpoint of the viol 
tov Xoyou, over which the standpoint of the vioi tov 
"Ovrog is raised. But this Logos by Philo is only a 
sort of intermediate being between God, who is in his 
nature hidden, simple, without attributes, and the eternal, 
shapeless, chaotic matter (the Platonic i/Xr/). It is the 
refection, the first-born Son of God; the second God; 
the sum of the ideas, which are the original types of all 
existence; the ideal world itself (Koopog voprog ); the 
medium through w T hich the actual, sensible world (koo- 
pog aiaSpTog) is created and upheld; the interpreter 
and revealer of God; the archangel, who destroyed 
Sodom and Gomorrah, spoke to Jacob and to Moses in 
tbe burning bush, and led the people of Israel through 
the wilderness; the high-priest (dpyitptvg), and advo- 
cate (irapdKXprog), who pleads the cause of sinful hu- 
manity before God, and procures for it the pardon of its 
guilt. We see an apparent affinity of this view with 
the christology of St. Paul and St. John, and thus it 
probably came to exert no small influence with the 
early Church fathers in the evolution of their doctrine 
of the Logos. But at the same time we’must not over- 
look the very essential difference. Philo’s doctrine 
would not itself suggest the application of the idea of 
the Logos to any historical appearance whatever; for 
the revelation of the Logos refers not exclusively to any 
single fact, but to everything relating to the revelation 
of God in nature and history. If, according to John’s 
Gospel, the appearance of the Logos is the highest and 
only medium of communication with God, then commun- 
ion with the Logos in Philo’s sense can only be a subor- 
dinate standpoint; for not even the highest man immedi- 
ately apprehends the Absolute. Yet out of this religions 
idealism a preparation and a medium might be formed 
for Christian realism, when what was here taken in a 
merely ideal sense showed itself as realized in human- 
ity. Christianity refers the Logos to the perfect rev- 
elation of God in human nature, to the one revelation 
in Christ ; and substitutes for tbe immediate apprehen- 
sion of the Absolute the historically founded communion 
with God revealed in Christ. The symbolical meaning 
of Philo’s Paraclete was elevated by the reference to the 


piiilo 


114 


PIIILO 


historical Christ as the only high-priest. Thus the 
Alexandrian ideas formed a bridge to Christianity. But 
we cannot regard the doctrine of a union of the Logos 
with humanity, in all the forms under which it ap- 
peared, as a reflection in the first place of Christianity, 
but must doubtless presuppose a tendency of this kind 
before, the Christian icra. A yearning of the spirit goes 
before great events — an unconscious longing for that 
which is to come. This must especially have been the 
case in that greatest revolution which the religious de- 
velopment of humanity experienced. It was preceded 
by an unconscious feeling of a revelation of the spiritual 
world to humanity — a longing which hastened to meet 
the new communications from God. It was not difficult 
for those who regarded the Logos as the medium of 
revelation, by which God made himself cognizable to 
pious souls, and, on the other hand, who held the Mes- 
siah to be the highest of God's messengers, to suppose a 
particular connection between him and the Logos. But, 
after all, this Jewish idea of the Logos is quite eclipsed 
by the Christian idea of the Messiah : with the Jews it is 
simply the hope of their miraculous restoration from all 
parts of the world to Palestine, through the agency of a 
superhuman appearance (oipic) ; and even this super- 
natural phenomenon has no legitimate place in Philo’s 
system; it means nothing. But again, his dualistic 
and idealistic view of the world absolutely excludes an 
incarnation, which is the central truth of Christianity 
(comp. Dorner, Person of Christ). 11 is Christ, if he 
needed any, could have been at best but a gnostic, do- 
cetistic, fantastic Christ; his redemption, but ideal and 
intellectual, lie attained only an artificial harmony 
between God and the world, between Judaism and hea- 
thenism; which hovered, like a “spectral illusion,” an 
“evanescent fata morgana,” on the horizon of dawning 
Christianity. Says Schaff, “It is a question not yet 
entirely settled whether Philo’s Logos was a personal 
hypostasis or merely a personification, a divine attri- 
bute. While Gfrbrer, Grossmann, Diihne, Liicke, Litter, 
and Semisch maintain the former view, Dorner (Ent- 
iricklungsgescliichte der Lehre von der Person Christi, 2d 
ed. i, 23 sq.) has latterly attempted to re-establish the 
other. To me, Philo himself seems to vibrate between 
the two views; and this obscurity accounts for the dif- 
ference among so distinguished scholars on this point” 
(Hist, of the Apostolic Church, p. 1*0). The eternal 
atonement, which Philo imagined already made and 
et( mall// being made by his ideal Logos, could be effected 
only by a creative act of the condescending love of 
God; and it is a remarkable instance of divine wisdom 
in history that this redeeming act was really performed 
about the same time that the greatest Jewish philoso- 
pher and theologian of his age was dreaming of and an- 
nouncing to the world a ghostlike shadow of it. 

Of his other philosophic speculations we have space 
only to refer to some of his ethical views. With him 
knowledge ami virtue are gifts of God, to be obtained 
only by self-abnegation on the part of man. A life of 
contemplation is superior to one of practical, political 
occupation. In other words, the business of man is to 
follow and imitate God (He Caritate , ii. 404, et pass.). 
The soul must strive to become the dwelling-place of 
God, his holy temple, and so to become strong, whereas 
it was before weak, and wise, whereas before it was 
foolish ( l)e Sonin, i, 23). The highest blessedness is to 
abide in God (irtpag ti'CaipnviuQ to hkXu’uji; kui rrppt- 
7cw£ fwvip ern'/rai). The various minor sciences 
serve as a preparatory training for the knowledge of 
God. Of the philosophical disciplines, logic and phys- 
ics are of little worth. The highest step in philosophy 
is the intuition of tlod, to which the snge attains 
through divine illumination when, completely renounc- 
ing himself and leaving behind his finite self-conscious- 
ness, he resigns himself unresistingly to the divine in- 
fluence. 

It. remains for us to notice the use that has been made 
of l’hilo’s writings within the domain of New-Test. in- 


terpretation. There are some Christian exegetists who 
in their rationalistic tendency have gone so far as to 
account for the character and style of some of the New- 
Test. Scriptures by referring their origin to Philo’s writ- 
ings. (We here quote largely from Kitto’s liiblical Cy- 
clnpeedia.) Mr. Grintield. in his Hellenistic Greek Testa- 
ment, and the accompanying Scholia, has derived many 
of his notes from the works of Philo; in the applica- 
tion, however, of such illustrations, it must be borne in 
mind that Philo’s style was hardly a natural one; it is 
very elaborate, and avoids Alexandrian provincialisms, 
and on that account often fails to elucidate the simple 
diction of the New Test., even where there is similarity 
in the subject-matter (comp. Carpzovii Ever. Suer, in 
Ep.ad Heir. p. MO). But recent critics of the ration- 
alistic school are not content with finding in Philo such 
illustration of the New Test, as might be expected to 
occur in a contemporary, and in some respects kindred, 
Greek writer; they go so far as to assert that some of 
the prominent doctrines of the sacred writers are little 
else than accommodations from the opinions of Philo, 
mediate or immediate. Thus Grossmann ( Qurrst . Philon. 
sub init.) does not scruple to say that Christianity is 
the product of the allegories of the Jewish synagogue 
and of Philo. Other writers, more measured in their 
terms, trace isolated truths to a like source. For in- 
stance, the well-disposed Ernesti ( Institutes ), and after 
hitn Liicke, who says, “It is impossible to mistake as 
to the immediate historical connection of John’s doc- 
trine of the Logos with the Alexandrian in its more 
perfect form, as it occurs in Philo.” Similarly , Strauss, 
l)e Wette, and others; while others again apply the 
like criticism to St. Paul. Among these we must es- 
pecially notice Gfrbrer. whose work, Philo und die jii - 
disch-alexandrinische Theologie, has been made acces- 
sible to English readers, in an abridged form, by Prof. 
Jowett, in his dissertation St. Paul und Philo , contained 
in his commentary on St. Paul’s Epp. i, 3G3-417. No 
criticism, however, is to be tolerated by the believer in 
Bevelation which does not start from the principle that 
the characteristic truths of Christianity are self-evolved, 
i. e. (to use Doruer’s words) “have not emerged from 
without Christianity, but wholly from within it ” (Per- 
son of Christ [Clark], vol. i, Introduction, p. 45). In- 
stead of making Philo, in any sense, a fountain-head of 
Christian doctrine, it would be more correct to regard 
him as the unconscious source of antichrist ian opinion 
— unconscious, we say, for with all his knowledge and 
skill in style, Philo possessed not those energetic qual- 
ities which characterize founders of schools of opinion. 
To say nothing of Philo’s influence upon the tlieoso- 
phizing fathers of the Church, Clement of Alexandria 
and Origen, who borrowed largely from their Jewish 
predecessor and fellow-citizen, some of the salient her- 
esies of the early centuries had almost their spring in 
the Philoiiian writings (for the affinity of the opposite 
opinions of Arms and Sabellius to certain opinions of 
Philo, see Mosheim’s Notes on Cudworth cited below); 
while that pagan philosophy, the Neo-Platonism of 
Alexandria, which derived much of its strength and ob- 
tained its ultimate defeat from the Christianity which 
it both aped and hated, is mainly traceable to our Philo. 
For a popular but sufficiently exact statement of (1) 
Philo’s relation to Neo-Platonism, and (2) of the antag- 
onism of this Neo- Platonism to Christianity, the reader 
is referred to Lewes’s Hist, of Philosophy, p. 230-278. 
Although we cannot therefore allow that the inspired 
volume of the Christian religion owes in its origin any- 
thing to Philo, we do not deny to his writings a certain 
utility in the interpretation of the New Test. See Pm- 
i.i>8oi*i iy, Gukkk. Besides the explanation of words and 
phrases above referred to (a service which is the more 
valuable because of Philo’s profound acquaintance with 
the Sept uagint version, in which the writers of the New 
Test, show themselves to have been well versed also), 
the works of Philo sometimes contribute interesting 
elucidation of scriptural facts and statements. We may 


PIIILO 


115 


PIIILO 


instance his delineation of the character of Pontius 
Pilate (Be Legat. ad Caium, xxxviii, Richter, vi, 134; 
Bohn, fv, 164). This well-drawn sketch of such a man, 
from the masterly hand of a contemporary, throws con- 
siderable light on more than one point, such as the 
relations of Herod and Pilate, which are but lightly 
touched in the Gospels (comp. Hale’s Analysis, iii, 216- 
218). As a second instance, may we not regard the re- 
markable passage of St. Paul as receiving light from 
Philo’s view of the twofold creation, first of the heavenly 
( ovpavtog ) or ideal man, and then of the earthly (ytjivog) 
man ? (Comp. 1 Cor. xv, 46, 47, with Philo, Be Allegor. 
Legis, i, 12, 13 [Richter, i, 68 : Bohn, i, 60], and Be Mundi 
Opijic. p. 46 [Richter, i, 43; Bohn, i, 39] ; and see Stanley 
on Corinthians, i, 331.) But then such illustration is 
rather an example of how Philo is corrected by St. 
Paul, than of how St. Paul borrowed from Philo. Re- 
specting the allegorical method of interpreting the Old 
Test., of which the apostle is alleged to have derived 
the idea from our author, it should be remembered that 
St. Paul, guided by the Divine Spirit, who had indited 
the ancient Scriptures, was directed to apply Old-Test, 
facts to New-Test, doctrines, as correlative portions of 
one great scheme of providential dispensation ; whereas 
Philo’s adaptations of the same facts were only the prod- 
uct of an arbitrary and extremely fanciful imagination ; 
so that in the case of the former we have an authorita- 
tive and sure method of interpreting ancient events 
without ever impairing their historical and original 
truth, whereas the latter affords us nothing besides the 
conjectures of a mind of great vivacity indeed, but often 
capricious and inconsistent, which always postpones the 
truth of history to its allegorical sense, and oftentimes 
wholly reduces it to a simple myth. Readers of Philo 
are well aware of the extravagance and weakness of 
many of his allegories; of these some are inoffensive, no 
doubt, and some others are even neat and interesting, 
but none carry with them the simple dignity and ex- 
pressiveness of the allegorical types of the New Test. 
St. Paul and Philo, it is well known, have both treated 
the history of Hagar and Sarah allegorically (comp. 
Gal. iv, 22-31 with Philo, Be Congressu, p. 1-5 [Rich- 
ter, iii, 71-76; Bohn, ii, 157-162]; and see Lightfoot, 
Epist. to Gal. p. 189-191 ; and Howson’s Hagar and 
Arabia, p. 20, 36, 37) ; but although we have here one 
of the best specimens of Philo’s favorite method, how 
infinitely does it fall short of St. Paul’s! To say noth- 
ing of authority, it fails in terseness and point, and all 
the features of proper allegory. The reader will at once 
perceive this who examines both. 

Literature. — For an account of Philo’s philosophical 
and theological system in general, the reader is referred 
to Mosheim’s notes on Cudworth, p. 640-649 [transl. by 
Harrison, ii, 320-333], where Philo’s influence on Pa- 
tristic divinity and early heresy, especially the Sabel- 
lian, is clearly traced ; to Ritter, Hist, of Phil, [transl. 
by Morrison], iv, 407-478; and to Dellinger, The Gen- 
tile and the Jew [transl. by Darnell], ii, 398-408 ; Nean- 
der, Ilist. of Christ. Bogmas, xi, 135 sq.; id. Ch. Hist. 
p. 58 sq. ; Ueberweg. Hist, of Philos, i, 222 sq. ; Schaff, 
Hist, of the A post. Ch. p. 176 sq. ; Tennemann, Hist, of 
Phil. p. 170 sq. ; Fabricius, Bis. de Platonismo Philonis 
(Leips. 1693, 4to) ; id. Sylloge Bissertat. (Hamb. 1738, 
4to); Stahl, Attempt at a Systematic Statement of the 
Boctrines of Philo of Alexandria, in the Allgem. Bibl. 
dcr Bibl. Literatur of Eiehhorn, tom. iv, fasc. v ; Sehrei- 
ter, Ideas of Philo respecting the Immortality of the 
Soul, the Resurrection, and Future Retribution, in the 
Analecten of Keil and Tzchirner, vol. i, sec. 2; see also 
vol. iii, sec. 2; Scheffer, Qucestiones, pt. i, ii, 1829-31; 
Grossmann, Qucestiones Philoniancr, pt. i, Be theologice 
Philonis fontibus et auctoritate (1829); GfrOrer, Philo 
und die A lexanehinische Tkeosophie (1831, 1835, 2 vols.) ; 
Diilme, Gesehichtliehe Barstellung der jiidisch-alexan- 
drinischen Religionspldlosophie (1831), pt. i; id. in the 
Theol. Studien und Kritiken, 1833, p. 984; Bucher, Phi- 
lonische Studien (1848) ; Creuzer, Kritik der Schriften 


des Juden Philon, in Theol. Studien und Kritiken, Janu- 
ary, 1832. Philo’s opinions about the divine Logos have 
been warmly discussed. The ancients, as we have seen, 
were fond of identifying them with Christian doctrine; 
Mangey, in the middle of the last century, accompanied 
his splendid edition of Philo’s works (2 vols. fol.) with 
a dissertation, in which he made our author attribute, 
in the Christian sense, a distinct personality to the 
Logos; bishop Bull had stated a similar opinion (Bef. 
Fid. Nic. [transl. by the Rev. Peter Holmes for the 
Anglo. Cath. Lib.], i. 31-33); and, more recently, Bry- 
ant (Sentiments of Philo Jucl. concerning the \oyoc ) ; 
and, very lately, Pye Smith ( Messiah , i, 573-600). 
But the conclusions of these writers, however learnedly 
asserted, have been abundantly refuted in many works; 
the chief of which are Carpzovii Bisput. de \6yco Phi- 
lonis, non Johannis, ad versus Mangey (1749) ; Caesar Mor- 
gan’s Investigation of the Trinity of Plato and of Philo 
Jud. ; Burton’s Bampton Lectures, note 93, p. 550-560 ; 
and Dorner’s Person of Christ [Clarke], i, 22-41. (See 
also the able articles of professors H. B. Smith and Moses 
Stuart, in the Bibliotheca Sacra, vi, 156-185, and vii, 
696-732.) An interesting review of Philo’s writings 
and their relation to Judaism, from the Jewish point of 
view, occurs in Jost’s Geschichte des J udenthums, i, 379- 
393 (the chapter is designated Bie Gnosis im Juden- 
thume'); Griitz, Gesch. der. Juden, iii, 298 sq.; Schultz, 
Die judiselie Religionsphilosophie in Gelzer’s Prot. Mo- 
natsblatt, vol. xxiv, No. 4 (Oct. 1864) ; Clemens, Bie 
Therapeuten (Konigsb. 1809) ; Georgius, Ueber die neu- 
esten Gegensatze in Auffassung der Alexandria Reli- 
gionsphilosophie in Illgen’s Zeitsehr. f. hist. Theol. 
(1839), Nos. 3 and 4 ; Keferstein, Philo's Lehre r. d. Mit- 
telwesen (Leips. 1846); Wolff, Die Philonische Philoso- 
phic (ibid. 1849; 2d ed. Gothenb. 1858); Frankel, Zur 
Ethik des Philo, in Monatschrift f. Gesch. u. Wissensch. 
d. Judenthums, July, 1867; Delane) 7 , Philon d'Alexan- 
drie (Paris, 1867). 

We ought not to close this article without noticing 
the old opinion which made Philo the author of the 
beautiful Book of Wisdom in the Apocrypha. This 
opinion, which was at one time very prevalent, has not 
stood its ground before recent critical examination. 
For the literature of the question we can only refer our 
readers to Prof. C. L. W. Grimm’s Bus Buch der Weis- 
heit, Einleitung, sec. 6, where the authorities on both 
sides are given. Corn, a Lapide, in Librum Sapient ice, 
also discusses Philo’s claims to the distinguished honor 
which tradition had conferred on him, but decides against 
him [new edition by Vives, viii, 264]. 

Besides Mangey’s edition of Philo, above referred 
to, we mention Turnebus’s edition (Paris, 1552, fol.), 
emended by Hoeschelius (Colon. Allobrog. 1613; Paris, 
1640; Francof. 1691) ; Pfeiffer’s edition, incomplete (Er- 
langen, 1785-92, 5 vols. 8vo), and the convenient edition 
by Richter (Leips. 1828-30, 8 vols. 12mo). This last 
contains not only a reprint of Mangey, in the first six 
volumes, but two supplementary volumes of Philo’s 
writings, discovered by Angelo Mai in a Florentine MS., 
and by Bapt. Aucher in an Armenian version, and trans- 
lated by him into Latin. What an edition of Philo 
ought to be to deserve the approbation of the critical 
student has been pointed out by different German 
theologians, most recently by Creuzer, in Theol. Stu- 
dien v. Kritiken, 1832, p. 1-43. A popular and cheap 
edition was published at Leipsic (1851-53); also Phi- 
lonea, ed. Tischendorf (Leips. 1868). A fuller account 
of these editions, with a list of the various versions of 
Philo’s writings, which have been made from time to 
time into Latin, Hebrew, German, French, Italian, Span- 
ish, and English, is contained in Fiirst’s Bibl. Jud. 
Fiirst adds a catalogue of all' the leading works in which 
Philo and his writings have been treated. To his list 
of versions we must here add the useful one published 
by Mr. Bohn, in four vols. of his Eccl. Library, by Mr. 
Yonge. 

For a complete, and withal succinct examination of 


piiilo 


11G 


PIIILO 


the entire field of Philo’s opinions, we refer to llerzocfs 
Real-Eneyklop. xi, 57*-G03. Shorter and more accessi- 
ble, but inevitably imperfect, notices occur in Smith’s 
Diet, of Gr. and Horn. Biog. and Mgthol. iii, 309 sq. ; 
SeliafTs . I postolie Church [ ( ’larke], p. 21 1 -214 ; Horne’s 
Introduction [by Eyre], p. 277, 27* ; [by Davidson], 
p. 3(13-305; Davidson’s Hermeneutics [Clarke, 1*13], p. 
03-05; Fairbairn’s Ilermeneut. Man. p. 47. A temper- 
ate review of Jowett’s Dissertation on Philo and St. 
Paul may be found, written bv Dr. J. 11. Light foot, in 
the Journal of Philology , iii, 119-121; and for sound 
views respecting Philo’s doctrine of the Xoyoc. as bear- 
ing upon the writings of the New Test., see Neander’s 
Planting of the Christian Church [Holm], ii, 13-15; 
Westcott’s Introduction, p. 13*-143, and Tholuck’s St. 
John [Clarke], p. 02-67. The interest of .lews in the 
writings of their philosophic countryman is curiously 
exhibited in the Hebrew version of certain of them. 
These are enumerated by Fiirst, Hibl. Jndaica.n, 91). As. 
de’ Rossi, one of the translators, has revived Philo’s syn- 
onym Jedidiah, by which he was anciently designated 
in Rabbinical literature (see Bartolncci, ut sup., and 
Steinsclin eider’s liodl. Catul. s. v. Philon). (.1. II. \V.) 

Philo Carpathu'S (from Carpathns, an island 
north-cast of Crete), or, rather, Cakpasips (from Car- 
pasia, a town in the north of Cyprus), an Eastern ec- 
clesiastic, flourished about the opening of the 5th cen- 
tury. His birthplace is unknown, but he derived this 
cognomen from his having been ordained bishop of 
Carpasia by Epiphanius, the well-known bishop of Con- 
stantin. According to the statements of Joannes and Po- 
lybins, bishop of Rhinoscuri, in their life of Epiphanius 
(Vita Epiphan. ch. xlix), Philo, at that time a deacon, 
was sent, along with some others, by the sister of the 
emperors Arcadius and Ilonorius, to bring Epiphanius 
to Rome, that through his prayers and the laying on of 
hands she might be saved from a dangerous disease 
under which she was laboring. Pleased with Philo, 
Epiphanius not only ordained him bishop of Carpasia, 
but gave him charge of his own diocese during his ab- 
sence. This was about the beginning of the 5th cen- 
tury (Cave, Hist. Lift. p. 240, ed. Genev.). Philo Car- 
pasius is principally known from his commentary on 
the Canticles, which he treats allegorically. A Latin 
translation, or, rather, paraphrase of this commentary, 
with ill-assorted interpolations from the commentary 
of Gregorius I, by Salutatus, was published (Paris, 1537, 
and reprinted in the Biblioth. Pat. Jugdun, vol. v). 
Fragments of Philo’s commentary are inserted in that 
on the Canticles, which is falsely ascribed to Eusebius, 
edited by Meursius (Lugd. Batav. 1017). In these he 
is simply named Philo, without the surname. Bandu- 
rius, a Benedictine monk, promised in 1705 a genuine | 
edition, which he never fulfilled. An edition, however, 
was published from a Vatican XI S. in 1750, under the 
name of Epiphanius, and edited by Fogginius. The 
most important edition, however, is that of Giaeomcllus 
(Rome, 1<<2), from two MSS. This has the original 
(Ireek, a Latin translation, with notes, and is accom- 
panied by the entire Creek text of the Canticles, prin- 
cipally from the Alexandrian recension. This is re- 
printed in ( ialland, .V. Bill. PP. ix,7l3 : Ernest i (Xeueste 
Theolog. Bill. vol. iii, pt. vi), in a review of this edition, 
of which he thinks highly, is of opinion that the com- 
mentary, as we now have it, is but an abridgment of 
the original. Besides this commentary, Philo wrote on 
various parts both of the Old and New Test., fragments 
of which arc contained in the various ('ateiur. See 
Suidas, s. v. ; Cave, l. c. ; Fabrieius, Bibl. Grice, vii, 39*, 
011 ; viii, 04.) ; x, 479. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Pom. 
Bing. s. v. Comp. Herzog. Real- Bn cyklopii die, s. v. 

Philo Tin-: Diai.kctk ian, See Philo the Mk- 

GAtllAN. 

Philo ok Laiussa, an academic philosopher of 
Athens, flourished in t lie century preceding the Chris- 
tian tera. He quitted the Greek capital on the success 


[ of the army of Mithridates, and went to Rome, where 
1 he had Cicero for a disciple. He gained renown by his 
I services to philosophic science. lie furnished a more 
complete and systematic division of the different branches 
of philosophy, and was more methodic in his terms. He 
is also often spoken of as the founder of the third acad- 
emy. See Tennemann, Manual of Hist, of Philosophy ; 
Ueberweg, Hist, of Philosophy (see Index in vol. ii). 

Philo the Mkgaiuan, or Dialec tk ian, was a dis- 
ciple of Diodorus Cronus, and a friend of Zeno, t bough 
older than the latter, if the reading in Diogenes Laer- 
tius (vii, 10) is correct. In his Menexenus he men- 
tioned the live daughters of his teacher (Clem. Alex. 
Strom, iv, 52*, ed. Potter), and disputed with him re- 
specting the idea of the possible, and the criteria of the 
truth of hypothetical propositions. With reference to 
the first point, Philo approximated to Aristotle, as he 
recognised that not only what is, or will be, is possible 
(as Diodorus maintained), blit also wliat is in itself con- 
formable to the particular purpose of the object in ques- 
tion, as of chaff to burn (/card Atyoptpop hiiTi }- 

, CuoTifTa ; Alex. Aphrod. A ’at. Quul. i, 14; comp, on 
the whole question Harris, in Upton’s Arriani Dis- 
sertat. Epict. ii, 19, ap. Schweighauser. ii, 515, etc.). 
Diodorus had allowed the validity of hypothetical prop- 
ositions only when the antecedent clause could never 
lead to an untrue conclusion, whereas Philo regarded 
those only as false which with a correct antecedent had 
an incorrect conclusion (Sext. Empir. Adc. Math, viii, 
113, etc.; Hypofyp.u, 111); comp. (’icero, Acad. ii, 47 ; De 
Fato, 0). Both accordingly had sought for criteria for 
correct sequence in the members of hypothetical propo- 
sitions, and each of them in a manner corresponding to 
what he maintained respecting the idea of the possible. 
Chrvsippiis attacked the assumption of each of them. 

The Philo who is spoken of as an Athenian ami a 
I disciple of Pvrrhon, though ridiculed hv Timnn as a 
sophist, can hardly be different from Philo the dialecti- 
cian (Diog. Laert. ix, 07, 09). Jerome (Joe. 1) speaks 
of Philo the dialectician and the author of the Menexe- 
nus as the instructor of Carneades, in contradiction to 
chronology, perhaps in order to indicate the sceptical 
direction of his doctrines. — Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. 
s. v. 

Philo the Monk. An ascetic treatise, bearing the 
name of Philo Monnchus, whom ( ’ave (Hist. Lilt. p. 170) 
deems to he much later than the other ecclesiastical 
writers of the same name, is preserved in the library of 
Vienna (Cod. Theol. 325, No. 15). It is entitled Contra 
Pulchritudinem Eemiuarum, — Smith, Diet, of Class. 
Biog. s. v. 

Philo the Pvtiiagoheax. Clemens Alexandrinus 
(Strom, i, 395) and Sozotnen (i, 12) mention Philo d 
IluS’ayoptior;. It is probable from their language that 
they botli mean by the person so designated Piiilo Jt - 
ileis. JnnsiiiS (ibid, iii, c. iv, p. 17) is strongly of 
opinion that Philo the elder and this Philo mentioned 
by Diemens are the same. Fabrieius, who once held 
this opinion, was led to change his views (Bill, i, *02), 
and tacitly assumes (iv, 73*) that Sozomcn indicated 
Philo Jiidiuus by this epithet.— Smith, Diet, of Class. 
Biog. s. v. 

Philo the Rhetorician and Philosopher. Dave, 
Gincontcllus, and Ernest i arc of opinion that ibis is no 
other than Philo ( , arpathius(q. v.). Ilis a*ra agrees with 
this, for the philosopher is quoted by Athanasius Sinaitn, 
who flourished about A.D. 501. We need not be star- 
tled at the term philosopher as applied to an ecclesiastic. 
This was not uncommon. Michael Psellus was termed 
the prince of philosophers, and Nicetas was surnamed, 
in the same wav as Philo, pi) r«ip k ai $ n\dao<pot Be- 
sides. Polybius, in the life of Epiphanius, expressly 
calls Philo of ( ’arpathia vXppixop diri) p/jropwp, which 
Tillcmont and others erroneously understand to mean a 
man who has changed from the profession of the law to 
that of the Church. Cave shows that the p/ ( ruip held 


piiilo 


117 


PHILOLOGY 


an office in the Church itself, somewhat analogous to our 
professorship of ecclesiastical history. Our only knowl- 
edge of Philo, under this name, whether it be Philo Car- j 
pathius or not, is from an inedited work of Anastasius 
Sinaita, preserved in the library of Vienna and the Pod- 1 
leian. Glvcas ( Annul . p. 283, etc.), it is true, quotes as 
if from Philo, but he has only borrowed verbatim , and 
without acknowledgment, from Anastasius. The work 
of Anastasius referred to is entitled by Cave Demon- 
st ratio Historica de Magna et Angelica sinnmi Sacerdo- 
tis Dignitate. Philo’s work therein quoted is styled a 
Church history, but, if we may judge from the only 
specimen of it we have, we need hardly regret its loss. 
It consists of a tale regarding a monk, that, being ex- 
communicated by his bishop, and having afterwards 
suffered martyrdom, he was brought in his coffin to the 
church, but could not rest till the bishop, warned in a 
dream, had formally absolved him. See Cave, Hist. 
Lift. p. 176 (ed. Geneva, 1720); Fabricius, Bill, Grcec. 
vii, 420. — Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v. 

Philo Senior. Josephus (Apion, i, 23), when enu- 
merating the heathen writers who had treated of Jew- 
ish history, mentions together Demetrius Phalereus, 
Philo, and Eupolemon. Philo he calls the elder (6 
TTpeofibrepog), probably to distinguish him from Philo 
Judaeus, and he cannot mean Herennius Philo, who 
lived after his time. Clemens Alexandrinus ( Stromat . 
i, 146) also couples together the names of Philo the 
elder and Demetrius, stating that their lists of Jewish 
kings differed. Hence Yossius thinks that both authors 
refer to the same person (De Hist. Grcec. p. 486, ed. 
Westermann). In this Jonsius agrees with him, while 
he notices the error of Josephus, in giving Demetrius 
the surname of Phalereus (De Script, llist. Phil, iii, 4, 
p. 17). As Iluetius ( Demonstrat . Evangel, p. 62) was 
of opinion that the apocryphal Book of Wisdom was 
written by this Philo, he was necessitated to consider 
him as a Hellenistic Jew, who, unskilled in the origi- 
nal Hebrew, had it translated, and then expanded it, in 
language peculiar to his class (ibid. p. 62, 246, etc.). 
Fabricius thinks that the Philo mentioned by Josephus 
may have been a Gentile, and that a Philo different 
from either Philo Judauis or senior was the author of 
the Book of Wisdom. Eusebius ( Prcep . Evangel, ix, 
20, 24) quotes fifteen obscure hexameters from Philo, 
without giving hint of who he is, and merely citing 
them as from Alexander Polyhistor. These evidently 
form part of a history of the Jews in verse, and were 
written either by a Jew, in the character of a heathen, 
as Fabricius hints is possible, or by a heathen acquaint- 
ed with the Jewish Scriptures. This is, in all proba- 
bility, the work referred to by Josephus and Clemens 
Alexandrinus. Of course the author must have lived 
before the time of Alexander Polyhistor, who came to 
Rome B.C. 83. It is doubtful whether he is the same 
as the geographer of the same name. — Smith, Diet, of 
Class. Biog. s. v. 

Philo of Taksus, a deacon. He was a companion 
of Ignatius of Antioch, and accompanied the martyr 
from the East to Rome, A.D. 107. He is twice men- 
tioned in the epistles of Ignatius ( Ad Philadelph. c. xi; 
Ad Smyrnceos, c. xiii). He is supposed to have writ- 
ten, along with Bheus Agathopus, the Martyrium Tg- 
natii, for which see Ignatius. See Cave, llist. Lift. p. 28 
(ed. Geneva, 1720). — Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v. 

Fhilolaus, a Pythagorean philosopher, was born at 
Crotona, or Tarentum, towards the close of the 5th cen- 
tury B.C. Aresas, a probable disciple of Pythagoras, 
was his master; so that we receive the Pythagorean 
doctrine from Philolaus, only as it appeared to the third 
generation, and an account of it is therefore more prop- 
erly in place in a general examination of the philosophy 
of Pythagoras (q. v.). It has been repeated once and 
again that Philolaus divined the true theory of the 
universe, and was the virtual predecessor of Copernicus. 
Nothing can be more false. In his scheme indeed, not 


the earth, but fire, is placed in the centre of the uni- 
verse; that fire, however, is not the sun, which, on the 
contrary, he makes revolve around the central irvp. 
The scheme, in so far as it can be understood, is alto- 
gether fantastic, based on no observation or comparison 
of phenomena, but on vague and now unintelligible 
metaphysical considerations. The only predecessor of 
Copernicus in antiquity was Aristarchus of Samos, 
whose remarkable conjectures appeared first in the 
editio princeps of Archimedes — published after Coper- 
nicus w rote. Of Philolaus’s three works, writteu in the 
Doric dialect, only fragments now remain. See Bdckh, 
Leben, nebst den Bruchstiicken seiner Werke (Berl. 1819); 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. s. v. ; 
Uebenveg, llist. of Philos, (see Index in vo'l. ii); But- 
ler, Hist, of Ancient Philos, vol ii. (J. H. W.) 

Pliilol'ogus ( <pt\6\oyoc,fond of talk), one of the 
Christians at Rome to whom Paul sent his salutations 
(Rom. xvi, 15). A.D. 55. Origen conjectures that lie 
was the head of a Christian household which included 
the other persons named with him. Dorotheas makes 
him one of the seventy disciples, and alleges that he. 
was placed by the apostle Andrew as bishop of Sinope, 
in Pontus (see Epiplianins, Mon. p. 68, ed. Dressel). 
Pseudo-llippolytus (De LXX Apostolis) substantially 
repeats the same improbable tradition. Ilis name is 
found in the Columbarium “of (he freedmen of Livia 
Augusta” at Rome; which show's that there was a Plii- 
lologus connected with the imperial household at the 
time when it included many Julias. The name Plii- 
lologus w'as a common one at Rome (Lewin, Life and 
Epistles of St. Paul, ii, 71). 

Philology, Comparative, The importance which 
this subject has assumed in modern science as a key to 
the history of national origin justifies its admission and 
brief discussion here, with special reference to the tw T o 
Biblical tongues. 

The ethnographical table contained in the tenth 
chapter of Genesis has derived no little corroboration 
and illustration from the researches of modern philol- 
I ogy. It has thus been clearly established that all the 
languages which have furnished a polished literature 
are reducible to two great families, corresponding, with 
a fetv sporadic variations, to the lineage of the two older 
sons of Noah respectively, namely, Shem and Japheth. 
The former of these, which is in fact usually designated 
as the Shemitic, is emphatically Oriental, and embraces 
the Hebrew and Arabic, with their cognates, the Samar- 
itan, the eastern and western Aramaean, or Chaldee and 
Syriac, and the Ethiopic. The latter, which is conven- 
iently styled the I?ido -Germanic group, includes the 
Sanscrit, with its sister the Zend, and their offshoots, 
the Greek, the Latin, the Gallic, the Saxon— in a word, 
the stock of the Occidental or European languages. The 
analogies and coincidences subsisting between the mem- 
bers of the Shemitic family have been pretty fully ex- 
hibited by Castell, Gesenius, and Ftirst in their lexicons, 
and by Ew r ald and Nordheimer in their grammars; 
while the relationship existing among the Indo-Ger- 
manic group has been extensively traced by Bopp in 
his Comparative Grammar, by Pott in his Etymolo- 
gische Forschungen, and by Benfey in his Wurzd- Lex- 
icon. Other philologists, among whom De Sacv, Bour- 
nouf, Max Muller, and Renan may be especially men- 
tioned, have somewhat extended the range of these 
comparisons, and occasional resemblances have been 
pointed out in particular forms between the Shemitic 
and Indo-Germanic branches; but no systematic colla- 
tion of these latter coincidences, so far as we are aware, 
has been instituted, unless w r e accept such fanciful at- 
tempts as those of Parkhurst, who derives most of the 
Greek primitives from Hebrew roots! Yet notwith- 
standing the confusion at Babel and many a later lin- 
guistic misadventure, the common Noaehian parentage 
ought to be capable of vindication by some distinct traces, 
at least of analogy if not of identity, in early forms of 


PHILOLOGY 


118 


PHILOLOGY 


speech existing among both these great branches of 
the human family as represented by their written rec- 
ords. We propose in this article briefly to exhibit a 
few of these resemblances which have presented them- 
selves in our own investigations as arguing a common 
origin, although a remote one, between the Shemiric 
and the lndo-Germanic tongues; the most of them are 
certainly too striking to have been accidental. Lest we 
should venture beyond our own or our readers’ depth, 
and make our pages bristle with an unnecessary display 
of foreign characters, we shall confine our illustrations to 
the Hebrew, on the one hand, and to the Greek, Latin. 
French, German, and English, on the other, as sufficient 
representatives of the two lingual families which we 
are comparing. 

1. Identity of Roots . — The following is a table, com- 
piled from notes made in the course of our own reading, 
of such Hebrew roots as recur among the European dia- 
lects so strikingly similar in form and signification as to 
leave in most cases little doubt of their original identity. 
We have carefully excluded all those that betray evi- 
dences of later or artificial introduction from one lan- 
guage to the other, such as commercial, mechanical, or 
scientific terms, mere technicals, obvious onomatopoet- 
ics, names of animals, plants, minerals, official titles, etc., 
and we have selected words representing families as far 
divergent as possible, rather than those exhibiting the 
most striking resemblance. It will be interesting to 
observe how a root has sometimes slipped out of one or 
more of the cognate dialects, in the line of descent, and 
reappears in another representative; a few only are founds 
in all the columns. In some of them again the signifi- 
cation or form has become disguised in one or another 
of the affiliated languages, but becomes clear again in a 
later representative. We have restored the digamma 
> wherever it was necessary in order to bring out the re- 
lationship in the Greek roots. Those marked with an 
asterisk are Chaldee. A few out of their proper column 
are included in brackets. 


HEBREW. 

CREEK. 

LATIN. 

FRENCH. 

GERMAN. 

ENGLISH. 

2 x 

father 

uvua 




:t 

-.11 

+’A 

to desire 

? UU<0 

aveo 




■px 

*» 

balo 1 

piailler 

[bawl] 

wail 


to pound 


bone 

Baugel 

beak 

"X 

afttpat 






In roll 
f.Uio 

volvo 


walzen 

wheel 

-,-x 

naught 

>»/ 

non 

ne 

uelu 

no, liu- 

5X 

thi» 

ille 

il 

er 


"=:x 

I 

ego 

je 

ich 

I 

P?k 

to squeeze 

“7X« 

ango 

angoisse 

cage 

auger 


loail 





“2X 

to lag up 




store 

rrx 






rs 

the earth 



Erde 

earth 

““X 

updopai 

? ara 




xrx 

to tome 

lad 

f 


int 

rrx 

thou 

tu 

in 

dn 

lliou ( 

■s 




bel 

by 

"X2 

to dig 
napoo 

foro 

perper 

lx>li ren 

bore 

*2X2 

to stink 



V biise 


X*2 


vado 

venir 

waten 

i wend 

MS 

to tread 

pes 

patte 

Pfad 

path 

iri'a 

to be ashamed pudCO 



basil 


HEBREW. 

GREEK. 

| LATIN. I 

1 FRENCH. 

GERMAN. 

ENGLISH. 

H22 


tides 

foi 


failh 

,“122 


mous 

mont 

Buhne 

mount 

-:-2 

(3opii 

voro 



browse 

PP^ 

to empty 

bacno 



puke 


nvpot 

tar 



bar-ley 

X‘2 

to create 

pnro 

parer 


pare 

rrz 

to bolt 


barre 


bar 


to bless 

precor 

prier 

frageu 

pray 

"l“2 

to cleanse 

ipurns 

pur 


pure 


the hack 

K VtfsoSt 

cnnibo 

gibbenx 

Gieliel 

gaff 


a cup 

Kiepa 

caput 

chapeau 

Ilaupt 

goblet 

' 

to hew 

eaedo 

conteau 

schueiden 

lent 


a kid 

luedus 



kid 


X«*f>T09 

portns 

cour 

iGitter 

yard 

’ inia 

a let 

? k\ 7, pot 

? glarea 



? gravel 


to tie 

catena 


gatten 



to he smooth 
\a\not 

gelu 

[gleich] 

kahl 

callow 

= v- 

to fold 

gl mills 



ag-glom. 

crate 


to sculpture 

sculpo 



scalp 


also 

KOI VOf 

cnin 









ira 

to low 

ccva 


Kuh 

cow 


7odw 





2na 

a scab 


scorbut 

Scliorf 

I scurvy 

■ns 

to scrape 

rado 

gratter 

ikratzen 

1 grate 


XtipttTTIO 





V"? 

the throat 

yapyapi^ 

guttur 

gimlet 

Gurgel 

gulp 


to crush 


ecraser 

Gries 

groats 


to share 

? careo 


! 

sclieeren 

score 

(to 

pluck 



Griff 


1 ITtptlTTOfJiai 

carpo 

gripper 

crop 

rapio 

\t crever 

raffen 

rob 

-,-a 


sarrio 

ecurer 

sclieuern 

scour 

u 
’A 
* J 

to melt 

tabco 




) 

T/jKO> 






to be silent 
daprioo 

domo 

dompter 

do mm 

dumb 

PP7 

to crush 
ddmoo 





“P7 

to stab 


dagne 

? Deich 

? dig 


to tread 



treten 

thresh 

1- T 

TpeX” 





■n 

tbs 

hie 



lie 

x^n 

hs 

is 


je- 

it 

n r0 

tabs 

flo 

fut 

werdeu 

was 

*n 

lo! 

eu 





it* 






r n ;' 

ve 

ou 

uud 

and 


t tT 

qne 

let 


y too 

H2T 

tosla., 






? u, 

.... 

.... 



rtT 

this 

(is) te 


der 

the 

“TT 

to boil 
tea, 

.... 


sieden 

seethe 


to quaks 




y shake 

bbj 

to swing 
<ri«Xor 

? salix 

? snillir 


? sally 

n'T 

to stink 




tllllg 

' -T 

Tu-nor 




srj 

to f asm 


ecu me 

Scluinm 

skim 

PPJ 

tv filer 
oukhoC 

snguiu 

sac 

seihen 

sack 

PTT 

to strew 

<J!ttlp (j) 

sero 

a-sperger 

streueu i 

sow 


PHILOLOGY 


119 


PHILOLOGY 


HEBREW 

GREEK. 

LATIN. 

FRENCH. [ 

GERMAN. | 

ENGLISH* ! 

HEBREW. 

GREEK, j 

LATIN. 

FRENCH. 

GERMAN. | 

ENGLISH. 

33n 

to teat i 

7raxd<TO , (i) 

>atuo 

inttre ■ [abate] 

at 

FITS 3 

KCtpvat 





b3n 

to bind 

.... 

able Kabel 

able 

’3 

a gnat ( 

;iuifes : 

1 cauif 1 

tneipen i 

lip 

nnn 

\°iiu 

■tar 

jair 

^aar ] 

eer 1 

333 i 


genu < 

Tenou 1 

Evnie 1 

tnee 


.... 

cueillir 


coil 1 

“ T ( 

yin via 1 

juneus ( 

join 1 

inicken c 

joign 

D*in 

to hasten 

.... 

late 

ictzen 1 

laste 

br= 

to double , 

[fold] 

? copula < 

jonple 1 

Koppcl < 

couple 

ran 

to look 

? uyd£opai 




jaze I 

rss 

Kupnrm 1 

cavus « 

javerue 1 

ivippen i 

cup 

pjn 


'is 


.... 

tigor 

n ?3 

to hide 


? couvrir 

.... 

! cover 

n^n 

C«« 

vivo 



save 

nis 

to dig 


carrer 


quarry 

nbn 




*n? 

to proclaim 

crocio 

.... 1 

kreischeu i 

shriek 

Ixeitpto 

ippus 

glisser 

schliipfeu 

Jlib 


Kpu^m 
to leap 
OKaipm 
to beat 

? Kvdotpot 
to faint 



bbn 

vW 

pbn 

to pierce 

to pull 

\i'ti> 
to smooth 

cceluni 

axus 

glaber 

creux 

[lose] 

hohl 

os 

gliiuzen 

lole 

oose 

deck 

rr 3 

nnb 

curro i 

cudo 

laxus 

char 1 

lauguir 

karren 

carry 

lag 

cn 

father-in-law 

gemiuus 


groom 

nnV 

a tablet 
\evKdi 

lux 


leuchten 

light 

yu/toi 





B sib 

to muffle 

lateo 

[? claudo] 


lid 

ben 

to spare 



uild 

nellow 


XaE^avio 



P=7 

dpa\os 
to throttle 





ysib 

to deride 

lndo 

e'-luder 


il-lusiou 

7Tvi^U) 





:rb 

to mock 



lachen 

laugh 

3311 

to peel 

scabo 


schabeu 

scrape 


ye\um 



<rKa7rra> 



hacken 

aash 

'J“b 

to devour 

glutio 

glouton 


glut 



? acies 

hacher 

\dpitm 



r 1- V 

? ofds 





T’Bb 

lampas 

lampe 


lamp 

n P>7 

[ n E?] 

qusero 

ac-querir 

[question] 

query 

PP^ 

to lap 

Xeixtn 

lignrio 

langue 

leckeu 

lick 

_ __ 

to waste 






the tongue 





“ T 

Kupcpoo 





1 ■-? 

? yXihatra 





inn 

to tremble 
Kpuhita 




cradle 

nx3 

a hundred 
? piyus 

’magnus 


’ Slenge 

? much 

PPO 

to quash 




creak 

nn-2 

to measure 
pirpov 

meta 

mesure 

messen 

mete 

inn 

to glow 

areo 

ete 

Herd 

ardent 

S*ra 

to melt 

mingo 

[? muck] 

[? mucus] 

? meek 

urn 

to carve 
yputpto 

scribo 

graver 

graben 

scratch 

'JW 

[mutiny] 

moveo 

mouvoir 

[muto] 

mow 

nin 

to be silent 

[hist !] 


husch 

hush 

psn 

pin nor 


moquer 


mock 

plunge \ , 

y 007TTU ) 

[dive] 

[dabble] 

taufen 

dip 

rw 

to die 
pop TO? 

mors 

mort 

Idord 

murder 

2T22 to «n£j 





xri3 

to clap 

macto 



smack 


to encircle 

[^?] 

tour 

[turn] 

tier 

nri3 

piixopat 

u7ro-nv<r<ru) 

e-mungo 





to pounce 

lundo 


Stoss 

toss 

Sa 


qnis ? 

qui? 

wer? 

why? 

3E*J 

to trip 

£TT€l/3a> 

stipes 

Stamper 

tappen 

step 

sb-a 

e to fill 

J ptt\a 

mnltus 

mille 

viel 

mile 

ana 

to drive 

trudo 



thrust 

( uXorov 

plus 

plouvoir 

voll 

flow 

r-.'j 

to rend 

5pv TTTIO 



streifeu 

strip 

bb3 

to talk 
XaXuco 

lallo 

[loll] 

lallen 

lull 


to please 
/ 3oi\opat 

volo 

vouloir 

wollen 

will 

rV? 

to be smooth 
pa\aKOi 

mulceo 

? meler 

Milch 

melt 

“^T 

ftolui 

bos 




H33 

to allot 
vipm 

numerus 





to flow 



wallen 

well 

r,o-? 

piyvvpt 

misceo 

mixer 

mischen 

mingle 

si; 

to know 
Foida 

video 

voir 

weissen 

wit 


to find 
pcvd 

r«v?i 


mit 

meet 

-n-' 

to give 
? cam 



geben 

if 

ns-a 

to suck 

M>‘C“ 

musso 



mutter 

P*' 

seine 

virnim 

vin 

Wein 

vine 

PP r 

y fJitKpO? 

maceo 

maigre 

ranger 

meagre 

b = ? 

to be able 

? calleo 



could 

nia 

to be bitter 
[nicero] 

amarus 

morne 

murrisch 

mourn 

“i‘^ 

to bring forth 

, [? lewd] 


Leute 

lad 

b&2 

to rule 
/3uci\evv 






to go 




walk 

tl ; w3 

to touch 





: i-T 






paoous 





bb; 

to wail 

tilulo 

hurler 

heulen 

yell 

bs3* 

<pav\o 9 



faul 

foul 

ID? 

to found 

F t^opiu 

sedeo 

as-seoir 

setzeu 

sit 

3 ns 

to lead 
ttytopat 

ago 

agir 


act 

cijj 

to possess 

heres 

heritor 

? Herr 

heir 

iw 

to wander 

unto 



uod 

XS? 

to go forth 


issue 


’ooze 

ms 

to rest 





e; 

there is 

est 

est 

ist 

is 

3*1 3 

to reel 



nicken 


ns 

a bucket 
Kudos 

cadus 



? caddy 

b'J3 

tVxXuj 

tuli 

tolerer 

[«°] 

tall 

"'3 

a brand 

? siccus 

? sdclie 



“33 

to keep 

tueri 















^3 

because ' 

qui 

quo 

wie 

how 

n=3 

to smite . 

neco 

unire 


an-noy 

Vs 

all 

FdXos 

ullus 

iseul 

alle 

whole 

*333 

a lad 
uviip 






PHILOLOGY 


120 


PHILOLOGY 


HEBREW. GREEK. 

LATIN. 

1 FRENCH. 

GERMAN. 

ENGLISH. 


to fall 
oefiu \\a) 

fallo 

falloir 

fallen 

fail 


to fill 
KU7TTU) 

[chop] 

*couper 


cuff 

*r* 

to give 


douncr 


cn-dow 


didutpu 





nr: 

to palpitate 

Tpttil 

terreo 

trembler 


tremble 

w i1Z7 to view 

? sequor 


? snehen 

sight 

rba 

crock 

-ilex 




n?r 

‘Se 

super 


iiber 

over 


uyairati) 





b*7 

eril 



ubel 

? ill 


to aeeend 

? alo 

? ad-olcs- 


ad-nlt 

? uWoftut 

cence 


7,37 

to cover 
Ku\v7T TO) 

clepo 




77 

T,L 

si mill 

ensemble 

sanuut 

same 
? tee in 

brs 

to toil 

moles 



moil 

P T - V 

a eollar 



Nackcn 

neck 


to arrange 

rectus 

rang 

Iteihe 

row 


the back 

? ipttptj) 




? roof 



[“-=] 

{ 

triefen 

drip 




t tropfen 

.drop 

irr7 

to tmoke 



Athem 

1 .... 







1X2 

to be beautiful 




? fair 

7^2 

It ^ vt’fH 

figo 

[pack] 

pochen 

peck 

1SB 

to faint 

piger 



.... 

112 

fat 

7rar>/p 

vitriens 

paitre 

Futter 

feed 

“2 

to be torpid 




fag 

tf2 

to blow 

? bnfo 

? botiffer 

? puffen 

? puff 

p*2 

to i rarer 

[tickle] 

vagus 

vaciller 

schwankeu 

wag 

I,.-, 

a bean 

? bulla 

[? pulse] 


? boll 

1*2 

a U 

4>upor 




pall 

H2“2 

fat 

pinguis 




IS 

bullock 

porto 


Farre 


112 

to scatter 

pars 

part 

[brittle] 

party 


/ to bear 





ms 

- 

fero 

fertile 

fahren 

burden 

( /jup4>9 1 

pario 

fruit 

Iibrde , 

born 


to break 
ftiinvufu 

frico 

? froisscr 

brecheu 

wreck 

P9 

to rend | 




? burst 


to tear off \ 

[fringe] 

[fray] 

franchir 

frank 

free 

,172 


tides 

foi 

Pns?] 

faith 

nr. 2 

to open 

pateo 

l-pandre 

? spreitcu 

? span 

pn:i 

kuxi£<* 

cachin- 

uor 

.... ! 

gackeln 

giggle 

171* 

to ,ltp 

scaudo 



? climb 

712^ 

to watch 
erKtmoptai 

specio 


spiiheu 

spy 


the voice 

culo 

.... , 

call 

Yjp 

to kill 
KTtild) 

[kill] 


qnfdcu 

quell 

Vri? 

little 

teudo 

[W3 

diinn 

thin 

ip 

light 

KtXflf 

cclcr 

uc-celercrj 


ex-cel 

,i:p 

to get 


gagner 


gain 

“P 

cold 

upvot 

ernor 

ichor 

gfdneu 

gore 


to call 
V)p"U 

? garrio 

crier 

kriilieu 

cry 

mp 

to meet 











YP 

a Jp2 

cornu 

corue | 

Horn 

corner 


HEBREW. GREEK. 




7*1 


ffopuai 
to be a ngry 

*Vvj 

to i/iate 

Y T pi/3ut 

iptoy ofiai 
to contend 


,W21 to hurl 

*1“ to ihout 

y — — to mend 

“ "r piinTii) 

to bale 

3XJ r»«* 

_ v ..i to pant 

* [simp] 

a rod 

“rr! Kit« 

_ w <0 break 

the breatt 


verus gnrdcr 
rego | rage 
durmio dormir 


? rival is [strive] 
ramus 


TJ 

■ 1 Turkov 
— - — onycha 

* vV*T okuAAw 

“"l ffi. 

--■J fo/i/arf 

mkim to drink 
[slICClls] 
7Z‘" to be wise 


a name 
“I ? o , J)M a 


Mf sun 

" "*? /Y/A,ov 

a (w// 

1 1 oioi't 

tothiver 

- “ x>:p 

- ” ^«>u 

n f i V [sipT 

Z7l‘ to judge 

n V n to hang 

I -rtuo) 

3EP. inti pi d 

_ r _ to beat 

“*T T,'<7TTai 


[reeve] 

— .? ecopc 

cou-sulo couseil 


scipio 

scptem 


? polio 

sto 

siigo 

vello 

turn 

mitto 

sol 

dens 


GERMAN. ENGLISH. 

wehreu wary 
reckeu reach 
triliuncn dream 


? raffle 

ram 

rant 


raft 


Reef 
?sclibpfeu scoop 
| .... j counsel 



sebuauben snuff 


! saner 

sour 


Sell a ft 

shaft 

sept 

sicben 

seven 


? Schiefer 

? shiver 

teton 

Zitzeu 

teat 


Stier 

steer 

ecaille 

Schale 

| 

shell 

j 

,? than 

? do 


stehen 

stand 

such 

saugen 

soak 



? skill 

spolier 

Fell 

peel 


dann 

111 Oil 

mettre 

schmeis- 

seu 

smile 

solcil 

Sonne 

summer 

alcut 

Znhn 

dent 

[hair] 

Schaucr 

! ‘baggy 

.... 

jThur 

door 

all- sorbet- 

schlappen 

Scli'ippe 

lap 

six 

seclis 

six 


["'"v! 


tenir 

delnicu 

lender 



? fool 

tajier 

zap fen 

tabor 

.... 1 

zehrcu 

tear 


This list is sufficiently copious, after deducting those 
examples which further research may show to be merely 
fortuitous, to prove a more than accidental agreement in 
words of frequent use. Many of the roots are evidently 
related to each other, and most of them are found in sev- 
eral kindred forms. Among these the selection has here 
been made not so much for the purpose of exhibiting the 
most palpable similarity as to include the greatest vari- 
ety of distinct etymons in each line of descent. We have 
not room to express the numerous cognates and deriva- 
tives of each, to trace the connection of their meanings 
with the common or generic import, nor to note the va- 
rious orthographical changes that they have undergone. 
If the reader will take the trouble to investigate these 
points at his leisure, as lie may readily do with the help of 


PHILOLOGY 


121 


PHILOLOGY 


good lexicons of the respective languages, he -will soon 
satisfy himself how widely these radices have ramified 
and how intimately they are connected. A comparison 
with their Arabic and Sanscrit parallels would still fur- 
ther verify the foregoing results. 

II. Monosyllabic Roots. — It is well settled that the so- 
called weak radicals in Hebrew verbs, technically de- 
nominated Pe-Aleph, Pe-Nun, Pe-Yod, Lamed-IIe, etc., 
which drop away in the course of inflection, were not in 
reality originally triliteral at all, but that these letters J 
were only added in those forms in which they appear j 
for the sake of uniformity with regular verbs. But 
these constitute in the aggregate a very large part, we ' 
apprehend a decided majority, of all the verbs most fre- 
quently employed in the language. Besides these, there 
is another very large class of roots of kindred or anal- 
ogous signification with each other, and having two 
radicals in common. All these, as Gesenius has ingen- 
iously shown in his Lexicon , are likewise to be regarded 
as essentially identical, the idea clinging in the two 
letters possessed by them in common. Thus we have 
reduced nearly the other moiety of Hebrew verbs, and 
these it must be remembered are the ground or stock 
of the entire vocabulary, to biliterals. The presumption 
is not an unwarrantable one that all the roots might 
etymologically be similarly retrenched. The few quad- 
riliterals that occur are unceremoniously treated in this 
manner, being regarded as formed from ordinary roots 
by reduplication or interpolation. 

Now it is a remarkable coincidence that the ultimate 
theme of the primitive Greek verb has been ascertained, 
in like manner, by modern philologists to be a monosyl- 
lable, consisting of two consonants vocalized, in precise 
conformity with the Hebrew system of vowel points, 
by a single mutable vowel. Thus the basis of such 
protracted forms even as \av%dvo), /l tavSdvui, 8 i$ci<tx oj i 
becomes \«$, pa$, ca\. Indeed, Noah Webster has 
applied the same principle to all the roots of English 
words; and in his Dictionary (we speak of the quarto 
edition, originally published at New Haven in two vol- 
umes) he has indicated them as “ class Dg, No. 28,” etc., 1 
although be seems never to have published the key or 
list of this classification. 

III. Primitive Tenses. — In nothing perhaps does the 
disparity between the Greek and the Hebrew verb strike 
the student at first more obviously than the multiplicity 
and variety of tense-forms in the former, compared with 
the meagre and vague array of tenses in the latter. A 
little further examination, however, shows that by means 1 
of the various so-called conjugations (Niphal, Hiphil,etc.) | 
the Hebrews managed to extend their paradigm to pret- 
ty considerable dimensions. Here the Heb. Piel and 
other dageshed conjugations evidently correspond with 
the reduplication of the Greek perfect and pluperfect 
tenses, while the prefixed syllable of Hipliil, etc., af- 
fords a clew to the device of the simple augment in 
Greek. These, however, are comparatively unimpor- 
tant, although interesting analogies. 

The root of the Hebrew verb is found in its least dis- 
guised form in the prieter Kal. The future is but a 
modification of this, as is especially evident from the 
facility with which it resumes the preterit import with 
“vav conversive.” The past is naturally the first and 
most frequent tense in use, because it is historical. In 
all these respects the prater answers to the Greek second 
aorist. The augment of this tense was a secondary or 
subsequent invention, and, accordingly, Homer habitual- 
ly disregards it. The “Attic reduplication” (for exam- 
ple, yyayov) had a still later origin. The second aorist 
gives the root in its simplest if not purest form. It is 
further remarkable that none but primitive verbs hare 
this tense, and no Greek verbs are primitive but those which ' 
exhibit a monosyllabic root as found in the stem of the 
second aorist. We invite the attention of scholars es- 
pecially to these last enunciated principles. They show 
that this tense was originally the ground-form of the 
verb. 


No tense in Greek exhibits greater modifications of 
the root than the present. This argues that the tense 
itself was of comparatively late date. Accordingly the 
derivative verbs most usually have it, although defect- 
ive in many other parts ; and the variety of forms under 
which it appears occasions most of the so-called irregu- 
larities set down in tables of Greek verbs. Now the 
Hebrew has properly no present tense. Present time 
can only be expressed by means of the participle, with 
the substantive verb (regularly understood) like our 
“ periphrastic present” (“ I am doing,” etc.). True to 
the analogy which we have indicated, the junior mem- 
bers of the Hebraistic family, especially the Chaldee and 
Syriac, have constructed a present tense out of the par- 
ticiple by annexing the inflective terminations appro- 
priate to the different numbers and persons. This proc- 
ess illustrates the formation of 

IV. I erb Inflections. — In Greek, as in Hebrew, the 
personal endings are obviously but fragments of the 
personal pronouns, appended to the verbal root or tense- 
stem. This is so generally recognised to be the fact 
with respect to both these language*, that we need dwell 
upon it only for the purpose of explaining, by its means, 
some of the peculiarities of the Greek verbs in -pi. This 
termination, which reappears in the optative of other 
verbs, was doubtless the original and proper sign of the 
first person, rather than the ending in -w. The former 
is the basis of the oblique cases of the pronoun of the 
first person, pi, me; as the latter is the last, but non- 
radical, syllable of the nominative, iyw, I. It is in 
keeping with this that the verbs in -pi are some of the 
oldest in the language, for example, the substantive 
verb, tipi. The passive terminal -pat is doubtless but 
a modification of the same. Now the principle or fact 
to which we wish to call particular attention in this 
connection is this : Every primitive “ pure ” verb in Greek 
is a verb in -pt. By this rule the student may always 
know them, as there are no others, except the few fac- 
titious verbs in -vpi, and very rare exceptions like ptm, 
riot, 7rtvu), which are attributable to disguises of the 
true root. Let it now be further noted, in confirmation 
of what we have stated above concerning the Greek 
primal tense, that verbs in -pi have substantially the same 
inflection as the second aorist, and they hare only those 
tenses with which these inflections are compatible. Neither 
of these last-named principles, it is true, is carried out 
with exactness, for the aorists passive of other verbs 
seem to have usurped these active terminations; but 
we are persuaded they are in general the real clew to 
the defectiveness and peculiar inflection of the forms in 
-pi. We therefore look upon the verbs in question as 
interesting links in the descent from the older Hebrew 
type. 

V. Declensional Endings. — In the absence of any real 
declensions whatever in the Hebrew', or any proper 
cases — unless the “construct state” be entitled to be 
regarded as a genitive— there is little ground of com- 
parison with the copious series of modifications of the 
Greek noun and adjective. Yet Webster has noted the 
resemblance of the plural S' 1 and Chaldee to the Eng- 
lish oxew (archaic house??, etc.). The v “ ephelcustic” 
has its analogue in the “paragogic” *}, and is strikingly 
generalized in the “ nunnation” of the Arabic. 

VI. Vowel Changes. — To the learner the Hebrew' lan- 
guage seems very complicated in this respect ; but the 
whole process of vocalization is wrought out under the 
following simple law : that “ w'ithout the tone, a long 
vowel cannot stand in a closed syllable, nor a short 
vowel in an open syllable.” From this results practi- 
cally the alternative of a long vowel or an additional con- 
sonant (or dagesh forte) in ever}' unaccented syllable. 
In the Greek the following fundamental principle pre- 
vails: that a long vowel (or diphthong) indicates the 
omission of a consonant , except where it represents two 
short vowels ; and this latter is tantamount to the other, 
for there is one letter less. Thus the systems of sylla- 


PIIILO^IETOr! 


122 


PHILOPONUS 


bication in both languages essentially coincide in this: 
that length in the vowel is equivalent to another consonant. 
We might take room to exemplify these rules, but the 
modern scholar will readily see their truth. In none 
of the later cognate languages is this principle regarded 
with much uniformity, although from the nature of the 
vocal organs themselves, it follows, even in so arbitrary 
a tongue (or rather so historical a spelling) as the Eng- 
lish, that a vowel is naturally long when it ends the 
syllable, and short when a consonant closes the sound, 
lint in the Greek and Hebrew the law we have pro- 
pounded is consistently carried out in a complete system 
of euphonic changes which lie at the very threshold of 
either language. 

Accordingly, in exactness of phonetic representation 
these two languages have no rival, not even in the (ler- 
man, Italian, or Spanish. Though the original sounds 
are now somewhat uncertain, yet it is evident (unless we 
take the degenerate modern (ireek, and the discrepant 
modern IJahbinical pronunciations as perfect guides) that 
each letter and vowel in both had its own peculiar pow- 
er. The two alphabets, we know, w f ere identical in or- 
igin; for if we distrust the story of the importation of 
the riuenician characters by Cadmus into (ireece, we 
have but to compare the names, order, and forms of the 
written signs (reversing them, as the two languages 
were read in opposite directions), in order to satisfy 
ourselves that they are essentially the same. Even the 
unappreciable N has its equivalent in the spiritus lenis 
(as the V may be visually represented by the spiritus 
asj>er), and the old digamma ( fav ) reappears in the 
consonantal “l- J’crhaps the reason why v initial al- 
ways has the rough breathing is owing to its affinity 
to both these last named. See Aumiaukt. 

We trust we have said enough to illustrate our propo- 
sition that these two lingual families, and especially 
their two chiefly interesting representatives — which, 
widely variant as they are in age, culture, flexibility, 
and genius, yet by a remarkable Providence have been 
brought together in the only revelation written for man 
— have no ordinary or casual points of resemblance. We 
would be glad to see the subject extended by some com- 
petent hand, especially by a comparison of the vener- 
able and rich Sanscrit and Arabic. See Siuoi me Lan- 
guauks. 

Pllilome'tor ( t f l t\opi/r<op, mother-loving), the sur- 
name of 1‘tolenneus VI of Egypt (2 Mace. iv, 21). See 
PTOMiMY. 

Fhilon. See 1 ‘iiilo. 

Pliilopatris is the name of a dialogue found among 
the writings of Lucian (q. v.). It is quoted in Church 
history as a contribution to the heathen satires against 
Christianity. It is a frivolous derision of the character 
and doctrines of the Christians in the form of a dialogue 
between Critias, a professed heathen, and Triephon, an 
Epicurean, personating a Christian. It represents the 
Christians as disaffected to the government, dangerous 
to civil society, and delighting in public calamities. It 
calls St. Paul a half-bald, long-nosed Galikean, who trav- 
elled through the air to the third heaven (2 Cor. xii, 
1-4). It combats the Church doctrine of the Trinity, 
and of the procession of the Spirit from the Father, 
though not by argument, but only bv ridicule. Not 
its intrinsic value, but its historic references, make it a 
valuable production. The authenticity of the work has 
been called in question by Gessner, in bis J)e atate et 
nurture dialog i Lurianei, qni I 'Inlop. inscribitur (Jen. 
1/11; Leips. 1730 ; t Witting. 1741 ; et in tom. ix,cd. Hip.), 
who ascribes to it a post-N’ieaian age. Of like opinion 
are N candor ( Church Hist, ii, 90) and T/.schirncr {Fall 
des lleidenthums, p. 312), N iebuhr ( Kkinc histor. ;/. 
philolog. Srhri/trn, ii, 73) dates it from the reign of 
Nicephoros Pliocas (9G3-9G9), but this date is general- 
ly regarded as too recent. Compare Itcrnliardy, Ihrl. 
Juhrb. 1832, ii, 131; Ehrmann, in Stein's Sludien ihr 


evangel. Geistlichkeit Wiirtenibergs, 1839, p. 47; Schmid, 
Jie Philopatrule Lucianeo diulogo nova dissert. (Leips. 
1830) ; Wetzlar, I)e wtute, vita script isque Luciani Sa- 
mos (Marb. 1834) ; Scliaff, Ch. /list, ii, 79. (J. II. W.) 

Philoponists, a sect of Tritheists in the Gth cen- 
tury, named after a famous Alexandrian grammarian. 
Nature and hypostasis, be affirmed, were identical, unity 
not being something real, but only a generic term, ac- 
cording to the Aristotelian logic. See PniLoroxfs. 

Philoponus, Joannks (’Iwarri/g 6 •FiXottovoc), 
or Joannes Guammaticts (5 Vpappu ~ iKbc)y an Alex- 
andrian theologian and philosopher of great renown, but 
which lie little deserved on account of bis extreme dul- 
ness and want of good-sense, was called <FiXo 7 roj'Of be- 
cause be was one of the most laborious and studious men 
of his age. lie lived in the 7th century of our a-ra; 
one of bis writings, rhgsica, is dated May 10, G17. 
lie calls himself ypappartKur. undoubtedly because be 
taught grammar in bis native town, Alexandria, and 
would in earlier times have been called rhetor, lie was 
a disciple of the philosopher Ammonias. Although 
his celebrity is more based upon the number of bis 
varied productions and the estimation in which they 
were held by 1-iis contemporaries than upon the in- 
trinsic value of those works, he is yet so strangely 
connected with one of the most important events of his 
time (though only through subsequent tradition) that his 
name is sure to be banded down to future generations. 
We refer to the capture of Alexandria by Ainru in A.l). 
0*39, ami the pretended conflagration of the famous Al- 
exandrian library. It is in the first instance said that 
Philoponus adopted the Mohammedan religion on the 
city being taken by Amru, whence he may justly be 
called the last of the pure Alexandrian grammarians. 
Lqxni this, so the story goes, he requested Amru to grant 
him the possession of the celebrated library of Alexan- 
dria. Having informed the absent caliph Omar of the 
philosopher's wishes, Amru received for answer that if 
the books were in conformity with the Koran, they were 
useless, and if they did not agree with it, they were to 
he condemned, ami ought in both cases to be destroyed. 
Thus the library was burned. Hut we now know that 
this story is most likely only an invention of Abul- 
faraj, the great Arabic writer of the 13th century, who 
was, however, a Christian, and who, at any rate, was 
the first that ever mentioned such a thing as the burn- 
ing of the Alexandrian library. We consequently dis- 
miss the matter, referring the reader to the 51st chapter 
of Gibbon's Decline and Fall. It is extremely doubtful 
that Philoponus became a Mohammedan, llis favorite 
authors were Plato and Aristotle, whence his tendency 
to heresy; and he was one of t lie lirst and principal pro- 
moters of the sect of the Tritheists, which was con- 
demned by the Council of Constantinople of G81. .Start- 
ing with Monophysite principles, taking <pvm£ in a con- 
crete instead of an abstract sense, and identifying it 
with vicioTiiatc , Philoponus distinguished in God three 
individuals, and so became involved in Tritheism. This 
view he sought to justify by the Aristotelian categories 
of genus, species, ami individuum. llis followers were 
called Philoponiaci and Tritheistie. Philoponus, it may 
be remarked, was not the tirst promulgator of this error; 
but (as appears from Assem. Hibl. Orient, ii, 327 ; comp. 
11 chile, ii, 555) the Monophysite John Ascusnages, who 
ascribed to Christ only one nature, but to each person 
in the Godhead a separate nature, and on this account 
was banished by the emperor and excommunicated by 
the patriarch of Constantinople. The time of the death 
of Philoponus is not known. The following is a list of 
bis works: Tu/i> h'ij ri)v Mwiareuig Konpoyoviav 
tik&v Xiiyoi Commeutarii in Mosaicam Cosmogonimn , 

lib. viii, dedicated to Sergius, patriarch of Constanti- 
nople, who held that see from Git) to G39, and perhaps 
Gil. Edit. Gnece et Latinc by Halthasar Cordcrius 
(Vienna, 1G30, 4to). The editor was deficient in schol- 
arship, and Lambccius promised a better edition, which, 


Philo pon us 


123 


PIIILOSOPHISTS 


however, never appeared. Fhotius ( Biblioth . cod. 75) 1 
compares the Cosmogonia with its author, and forms no 
good opinion of either : — Disputatio de Paschale, “ad 
calcem Cosmogonra,” by the same editor: — Kara Ilpd- 
k\ov 7 repi aidioTrjTOQ Koopov Xixjtig, Xuyoi it), Adversus 
Procli de XEtemitate Mundi A rgumenta X I ' III Solu- 
tiones, commonly called De yEt emit ate M undi. The end 
is mutilated. Edit. : the text by Victor Trincavellus 
(Venice, 1535, fob); Latin versions, by Joannes Mahotins 
(Lyons, 1557, fob), and by Casparus Marcellas (Venice, 
1551, fob) : — De quinque Dialectis Greecee Lingua, Liber. 
Edit. Grace, together with the writings of some other 
grammarians, and the Thesaurus of Varinus Camerte^ 
(Venice, 1476, fob; 1504, fob; ad calcem Lexici Graco- 
Latini, Venice, 1524, fob; another, ibid. 1524, fob; Basle, 
1532, fob; Paris, 1521, fob) : — 'S.vvayioyi) tmv irpoQ cid- 
(ftopoi' rrgpaaiav hatyopioQ Tovovpivtov XiUtioy, Collec- 
tio Vocum quae pro diversa significatione Accent it m di- 
versum acdpiunt , in alphabetical order. It has often 
been published at the end of Greek dictionaries. The 
only separate edition is by Erasmus Schmid (Wittenb. 
1615, 8vo), under the title of Cyrilli , rel, ut alii volant, 
Joanni Philoponi Opusculum utilissimum de Differentiis 
Vocum Grcecarum, quod Tonum, Spiritual, Genus, etc., 
to which is added the editor’s Dissertatio de Pronunci- 
atione Grceca Antiqua. Selnnid appended to the dic- 
tionary of Philoponus about five times as much of his 
own, but he separated his additions from the text: — 
Comment arii in Aristotelem, viz. (1) In A nalytica Pri- 
ora. Edit.: the text, Venice, 1536, fob ; Latin versions, 
bv Gulielmus Dorotheas (Venice, 1541, fob), Lucillus 
Philaltheus (ibid. 1544, 1548, 1553, 1555, fob), Alexander 
Justinianus (ibid. 1560, fob). (2) In Analytica Posteriora. 
Edit. : Venice, 1504, fob, together with Anonymi Graci 
Commentarii on the same work (ibid. 1534, fob), revised 
and with additions, together with Eustratii, episcopi 
Nicaeani (who lived about 1117) Commentarii on the 
same work. A Greek edition of 1534 is said to exist. 
Latin versions by Andreas Grateolus (Venice, 1542, fob; 
Paris, 1543, fob) and by Martianus Rota (Venice, 1559, 
1568, fob). (3) In quatuor priores Libras Physicorum. 
Edit. : the text, cum Prafatione Victoris Trincavelli ad 
Casparum Contarenum Cardinalem (Venice, 1535, fob) ; 
Latin version, by Gulielmus Dorotheas (ibid. 1539 and 
1541, fob); a better one by Baptista Rasarius (ibid. 
1558, 1569, 1581, fob). Philoponus speaks of his Scholia 
to the sixth book, whence Ave may infer that he com- 
mented upon the last four books also. (4) hi Librum 
unicum Meteorum. The text ad calcem Olympiodori 
In Meteor a (Venice, 1551, fob) ; Latine, by Joannes Bap- 
tistus Camotius (ibid. 1551, 1567, fob). (5) In Libros 
III de Anima. Edit. Grace, cum Trincavelli Epistola 
ad Nicolaum Rndolphum Cardinalem (Venice, 1553, 
fob); Latine, by Gentianus Hervetus (Lyons, 1544, 
1548 ; Venice, 1554, 1568) and by Matthceus a Bove (Ven- 
ice, 1544, 1581), all in folio. (6) In Libros V De Gene- 
ratione et Interitu. Grace, cum Prafatione Asalani 
(Venice, 1527, fob), together with Alexander Aphrodi- 
seus’s Meteorologia. (7) In Libros P De Generatione 
Animalium, probably by Philoponus. Edit. Grace cum 
Petri Corcyrai Epistola Graca ad Andrcam Mattlraum 
Aquavivam (Venice, 1526, fob); Latine, by the same, 
ibid, eodem anno. Black letter. (8) In Libros XIV 
Metaphysicorum. Latine by Franciscus Patricius (Fer- 
rara, 1583, fob). The text was never published. Phi- 
loponus wrote many other works, some of which are lost, 
and others have never been published. Fabricius gives 
an “Index Scriptorum in Philop. De Mumli ^Eternitate 
memoratorum,” and an “Index Scriptorum in universis 
Philoponi ad Aristotelem Commentariis memoratorum,'’ 
both of great length. See Fabricius, Bibl. Gra>c. x, 639, 
etc.; Cave, Hist. Litt. vol. i. — Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog- 
raphy, s. v. See Schaff, Church History, iii, 674, 767 ; 
llilgenfeld, Patristik, p. 288; Ueberweg, History of 
Philosophy, i, 255, 259, 347-9, 402 ; Alzog, Kirchen- 
geschichte, i, 313; Stillingfleet, IFbr&s, vol. i; Gieseler, 
Ecclesiastical History (see Index); Hagenbach, History 


of Doctrines ; Cndworth, Intellectual System of the Uni- 
verse (see Index). 

Fhilosarcae (Gr. tfnXho, to love, and odpi, flesh), a 
term of reproach used by the Origenists in reference to 
the orthodox as believers in the resurrection of the 
body. 

Philosopher {tptXoaotpoO- Of the Greek sects of 
philosophers existing in the time of the apostles, the 
Stoics and Epicureans are mentioned in Acts xvii, 18, 
some of whom disputed with Paul at Athens. In Cob 
ii, 8 a warning is given against philosophy itself, as a 
departure from the knowledge of Christ; and it has 
been noticed that Paul, who had been a Pharisee, acted 
in this respect in harmony with the sect in which he 
had been educated (Grossmann, De Pharisaismo Ju- 
dteor. Alex, i, 8). At least the rabbins set the divine 
law above all human wisdom; yet they do not appear 
to have given the name of philosophy to their exposi- 
tions of the law (see Josephus, Ap. ii, 4; 1 Mace, i and 
v). Paul is speaking in the passage alluded to of the- 
osopliic speculations, which had found an entrance 
among Christians (v, 16 sq.), and on which Eliein- 
wald {De pseudo doctor. Colas. Bonn, 1834), Neander 
( Gesch . d. Pflanz. i, 438 sq.), and others have made in- 
vestigations (see, in brief, De Wette, Br. a. d. Kolos, p. 

I sq.). It is plain from Paul’s letters that he denied all 
worth to human wisdom and philosophy in comparison 
with that eternal salvation which is only to be obtained 
through the divine revelation in the Gospel ; but it is 
not necessary to suppose that he was a despiser of sober 
philosophic investigation, either on the ground of bis 
pharisaic training or of his apostolic principles. For 
monographs, see Volbeding, Index Programmatum, p. 
89 sq. See Philosophy. 

Philosopllists, a name given to a class of French 
writers who entered into a combination to overturn the 
religion of Jesus, and eradicate from the human heart 
every religious sentiment. The man more particularly 
to whom this idea first occurred Avas Voltaire, Avho, be- 
ing Aveary (as he said himself) of hearing people repeat 
that twelve men ay ere sufficient to establish Christianity, 
resolved to prove that one might be sufficient to over- 
turn it. Full of this project, he SAvore, before the year 
1730, to dedicate his life to its accomplishment; and 
for some time he flattered himself that he should enjoy 
alone the glory of destroying the Christian religion. 
He found, hoAvever, that associates would be necessary; 
and, from the numerous tribe of his admirers and disci- 
ples, he chose D’Alembert and Diderot as the most proper 
persons to co-operate Avith him in his designs. But 
Voltaire Avas not satisfied Avith their aid alone. He 
contrived to embark in the same cause Frederick II, 
king of Prussia. This royal adept Avas one of the most 
zealous of Voltaire’s coadjutors, till he discovered that 
the philosophists Avere Avaging Avar with the throne as 
well as Avith the altar. This, indeed, Avas not originally 
Voltaire’s intention. He Avas %’ain; he loved to be ca- 
ressed by the great; and, in one Avord, he was from 
natural disposition an aristocrat, and an admirer of roy- 
alty. But Avhen he found that almost even' sovereign 
but Frederick disapproved of his impious projects be- 
cause they perceived the issue, he determined to op- 
pose all the governments on earth rather than forfeit 
the glory, Avith Avhich he bad flattered himself, of van- 
quishing Christ and his apostles in the field of contro- 
A r ersy. He hoav set himself, Avith D’Alembert and Dide- 
rot, to excite universal discontent Avith the established 
order of things. For this purpose they formed secret 
societies, assumed neAv names, and employed an enig- 
matical language. Thus Frederick Avas called Luc; 
D’Alembert. Protagoras, and sometimes Bertrand; Vol- 
taire, Raton ; and Diderot, Platon, or its anagram, Ton - 
pin; Avhile the general term for the conspirators Avas 
Caeouec. In their secret meetings they professed to 
celebrate the mysteries of My thru ; and their great ob- 
ject, as they professed to one another, Avas to confound 


PHILOSOPHISTS 


124 


philosophy 


the wretch, meaning Jesus Christ. lienee their secret 
watchword was Ecrasez Flu fume, ‘‘Crush the Wretch.” 
If we look into some of the hooks expressly written for 
general circulation, we shall there tiud the following 
doctrines; some of them standing alone in all their na- 
ked horrors, others surrounded by sophistry and mere- 
tricious ornaments, to entice the mind into their net 
before it perceives their nature: “The 1’niversal Cause, 
that (lod of the philosophers, of the Jews, and of the 
Christians, is but a chimera and a phantom. The phe- 
nomena of nature only prove the existence of (lod to a 
few prepossessed men : so far from bespeaking a God, 
they are but the necessary effects of matter prodigiously 
diversilied. It is more reasonable to admit, with Manes, 
a twofold God, than the God of Christianity. We 
cannot know whether a God really exists, or whether 
there is the smallest difference between good and evil, 
or vice and virtue. Nothing can be more absurd than 
to believe the soul a spiritual being. The immortality 
of the soul, so far from stimulating man to the practice 
of virtue, is nothing but a barbarous, desperate, fatal 
tenet, and contrary to all legislation. All ideas of jus- 
tice and injustice, of virtue and vice, of glory and in- 
famy, are purely arbitrary, and dependent on custom. 
Conscience and remorse arc nothing blit the foresight 
of those physical penalties to which crimes expose us. 
The man who is above the law can commit without re- 
morse the dishonest act that may serve his purpose. 
The fear of God, so far from being the beginning of 
wisdom, should be the beginning of folly. The com- 
mand to love one’s parents is more the work of educa- 
tion than of nature. Modesty is only an invention of 
refined voluptuousness. The law which condemns mar- 
ried people to live together becomes barbarous and cruel 
on the day they cease to love one another.” These 
extracts from the secret correspondence and the public 
writings of these men will suffice to show us the nature 
and tendency of the dreadful system they had formed. 
The philosophists were diligently employed in attempt- 
ing to propagate their sentiments. Their grand En- 
cyclopedia was converted into an engine to serve this 
purpose. See Excycloivedists. Voltaire proposed to 
establish a colony of philosophists at Cloves, who, pro- 
tected by the king of Prussia, might publish their opin- 
ions without dread or danger; and Frederick was dis- 
posed to take, them under his protection, till he discovered 
that their opinions were anarchical as well as impious, 
when he threw them off, and even wrote against them. 
They contrived, however, to engage the ministers of 
the court of France in their favor, by pretending to 
have nothing in view but the enlargement of science, 
in works which spoke, indeed, respectfully of revelation, 
while every discovery which they brought forward was 
meant to undermine its very foundation. When the 
throne was to be attacked, and even when barefaced 
atheism was to be promulgated, a number of impious 
and licentious pamphlets were dispersed (for some time 
none knew how) from a secret society formed at the 
Hotel d'l Iolbach, at Paris, of which Voltaire was elected 
honorary and perpetual president. To conceal their 
design, which was the diffusion of their infidel senti- 
ments, they called themselves Ency eloped ists. See IIoi,- 
bacji. Ihc books, however, that were issued front this 
club were calculated to impair and overturn religion, 
morals, and government; and these, indeed, spreading 
over all Europe, imperceptibly took possession of public 
opinion. As soon as the sale was sufficient to pay the 
expenses, inferior editions were printed and given away, 
or sold at a very low price; circulating libraries of them 
were formed, and reading societies instituted. While 
they constantly disowned those productions before the 
world, they contrived to give them a false celebrity 
through their confidential agents and correspondents, 
who were not themselves always trusted with the entire 
secret. ISy degrees they got possession of most of the 
reviews and periodical publications; established a gen- 
eral intercourse, by means of hawkers and pedlers, with 


1 the dislant provinces, and instituted an office to supply 
all schools with teachers; and thus did they acquire un- 
precedented dominion over every species of literature, 
over the minds of all ranks of people, and over the 
education of youth, without giving any alarm to the 
world. The lovers of wit and polite literature were 
caught by Voltaire; the men of science were perverted, 
and children corrupted in the first rudiments of learning, 
bv D’Alembert and Diderot; stronger appetites were 
fed by the secret club of baron llolbach; the imagina- 
tions of the higher orders were set dangerously afloat 
by Montesquieu ; and the multitude of all ranks were 
surprised, confounded, and hurried away by Poussoau. 
Thus was the public mind in France completely cor- 
rupted, and this, no doubt, greatly accelerated those 
dreadful events which afterwards transpired in that 
country.— Henderson’s I hick, s. v. 

Philosophoumena. See IhrroLYTUs. 

Philosophy is the highest department of human 
speculation, the most abstract knowledge of which the 
human mind is capable. 

Importance of the Subject — The character of the in- 
vestigations with which philosophy is concerned, and 
still more the superabundance during the last century 
of what has professed itself to be philosophy, render it 
excessively difficult either to define this branch of in- 
quiry, or to determine what may be legitimately includ- 
ed under the wide designation. .Sir William Hamilton 
devoted seven lectures of his course of metaphysics to 
the discussion of this single topic. The vagueness of 
the term, the instability and indistinctness of the boun- 
daries of this department of knowledge, and the dissen- 
sions in regard to all its details, have led many quick 
and ingenious minds to repudiate the study altogether, 
and to deny to it any valid existence. Nevertheless it 
is necessary to recognise its reality, in spite of the un- 
certainty of its nature, of the confusion thus produced, 
and of the pretensions sheltered under its honorable 
name. It was a profound and keen reply, which was 
said to have been made by Aristotle to the assailants 
and abnegators of philosophy, that “whether we ought 
to philosophize or ought not to philosophize, we are com- 
pelled to philosophize” (tire (piXoaotpyriov 0<\orro0>j- 
rtor, tirt fit) (fu\orro<pi)Teoi' tpiXoaa (pijriov, 7 rrtrrwt; Ci 
(piXomxpijrtov, David. Prole yam. Phil., ap. Schol. A ris- 
tot. p. 13, ed. Acad, Herol.). for philosophy is required to 
demonstrate the inanity and nugatorincss of philoso- 
phy : “ Hut the mother of demonstrations is philosophy.” 
The same deep sense of the irrecusable obligation is 
manifested by Plotinus, when, in a rare access of hu- 
mor, he utters the paradoxical declaration that all 
things, rational and irrational — animals, plants, and 
even minerals, air and water too— alike yearn for theo- 
retical perfection (or the philosophical completion of 
their nature, Einiead. iii, viii, 1); and that nature, albeit 
devoid of imagination and reason, has its philosophy 
within itself, and achieves whatever it effects by the- 
ory, or the philosophy which it does not itself possess. 
“There is reason in roasting eggs," and philosophy in 
all things, if we can only get at it : 

“ the meanest flower that blows can give 

Thoughts that do often lie. too deep for tears.” 

Philosophy is, like death, one of the few things that we 
can by no means avoid, whether we welcome or reject 
it; whether we regard the irresistible tendencies of our 
intellectual constitution to speculative inquiry, or the 
latent regularity, order, and law controlling all things 
that fall under our notice, when they develop them- 
selves in accordance wiili their intrinsic nature (see Sir 
\V. Hamilton, Metaphysics, lect. iv, p. 4l» ; I’cbcrwcg, 
/list, of Philosophy, vol. i, § 1, |>. fi). 

There is no longer reason to dread the rarity of phi- 
losophy; there has been no occasion for such alarm for 
more than two thousand years; the terror has been 
produced by the redundance of what claims this name. 
There are philosophers of all sorts, who deal with all 


PHILOSOPHY 


125 


varieties of subjects. There is mental, moral, political, 
economical, and natural philosophy; there is the phi- 
losophy of religion, the philosophy of enthusiasm, and 
the philosophy of insanity; the philosophy of logic, the 
philosophy of rhetoric, the philosophy of language, 
and the philosophy of grammar; there is the philoso- 
phy of history, the philosophy of law, the philosophy 
of the inductive sciences; there is the philosophy of 
colors, the philosophy of music, the philosophy of 
dress, the philosophy of manners, the philosophy of 
cookery, the philosophy of building, etc. All imag- 
inable topics reveal an aptitude for philosophic treat- 
ment, and pretend to furnish a basis for some special 
philosophy. It would occasion no surprise to encounter 
a philosophy of jack-straws, and other infantile amuse- 
ments. There must be some legitimacy, however slight, 
in these numerous pretensions, some semblance of truth 
in such easy assumption, or such professions would not 
continue to be repeated and tolerated. There must be 
some common clement, some cord of similitude, uniting 
together under one category these multitudinous forms 
of inquiry, and the unnumbered inquiries which are left 
unnamed. 

Scope of the Term. — The word philosophy first appears 
in the Father of History. It is applied by Croesus to 
Solon, in his travels in search of knowledge and in- 
formation, and is used as almost equivalent to theory, 
which in the context means scarcely anything more 
than sight-seeing or observation (Ilerodot. i, 30). It 
next appears in Thucydides. Pericles speaks of the 
Athenians as ‘•'philosophizing without effeminacy,” 
where the term seems to denote the acquisition of in- 
formation and culture (Thuc. ii, 40). The origination 
of the word is ascribed to Pythagoras in a familiar an- 
ecdote, which reports that, being asked by Leon, the 
chief of Phlius, “ What were philosophers?” he replied, 
with a happy allusion to the concourse at the Olympic 
Games, that “ they were those who diligently observed 
the nature of things,” calling themselves “students, or 
lovers of wisdom,” and occupied with “the contemplation 
and knowledge of things” (Cicero, Tusc. Qn. v, 3, 9). He 
is supposed to have thus repudiated the designation of 
“ wise man,” or “sophister,” previously in vogue, and to 
have modestly proposed in its stead the appellation of 
“ philosopher,” a lover of wisdom. The authenticity of 
the anecdote has been gravely questioned; and the des- 
ignation, alleged to have been rejected in this manner, 
continued in habitual use, with no invidious sense, and 
was applied to Socrates and the chiefs of the Socratic 
schools (Grote, Hist, of Greece, pt. ii, vol. viii, ch. lxvii, 
p. 350). To the numerous passages cited by Grote may 
be added Androtion, Fr. 39; Phan. Erctrius, Fr. 21 ; and 
Synesii Dio, apud Dion Chrysostom, ii, 329, ed. Teubner). 
The censures of the Sophists by Plato and Aristotle, the 
character of the Socratic teaching, and the almost ex- 
clusively inquisitive and indeterminate complexion of 
the Platonic speculation, appear to have given currency 
to the designation of philosophy, as a more modest and 
inconclusive appellative than “ sophia,” or wisdom. 

Originally, then, philosophy imported only the loving 
pursuit of knowledge, without any implication of actual 
attainment; but it soon acquired a more positive and 
distinct acceptation. In the Republic Plato defines phi- 
losophy as “ the circuit, or beating about of the soul in 
its ascending progress towards real existence;” and de- 
clares those to be philosophers “who embrace the really 
existent,” and “who are able to apprehend the eternal 
and unchanging.” In the Euthydemus he goes farther, 
and describes philosophy as “the acquisition of true 
knowledge.” In the definitions ascribed to Plato, which, 
though not his, may preserve the tradition of his teach- 
ing, it is only “ the desire of the knowledge of eternal 
existences.” Xenophon rarely employs the term, but 
applies “sophia” to the Socratic knowledge. In one 
passage where he uses it it signifies the knowledge and 
practice of the duties of life (J hem. iv, 2, p. 23). 

A great step towards the definite restriction of the 


PHILOSOPHY 

meaning of philosophy was made by the Platonic writ- 
ings, though the name continued, and has always con- 
tinued, to be employed with great latitude. Aristotle, 
who gave a sharp, scientific character to nearly every- 
thing which he touched, first confined the term to spe- 
cial significations, and gave to it a limited and, in some 
cases, a purely technical meaning. He calls philosophy 
“ the knowledge of truth ;” and he endeavored to dis- 
cover a “first philosophy,” or body of principles com- 
mon to all departments of speculative inquiry, and deal- 
ing solely with the primary elements and affections of 
being (Met. i, 1, p. 993; Phys. i, 9, p. 5; Simplicii 
Schol. p. 345). 'This first philosophy, or “knowledge 
of the philosopher,” corresponds to metaphysics in its 
stricter sense — a division of speculative science receiv- 
ing its name from the remains of Aristotle, and, in great 
measure, constituted by his labors. It is the science of 
being as being (ro iv i) uv, Met. vi, 1, p. 1026; xi, 3, 
p.1060; iv, p. 1001). Thus, with the Peripatetics, phi- 
losophy included all science, but especially theoretical 
science, and was peculiarly attached to metaphysical 
science. With this accords the definition of Cicero, 
which is evidently derived from Peripatetic sources 
(De Off. ii, 2, 5). 

This historical deduction is not unnecessary. Many 
words grow in meaning with the growth of civilization. 
Many gradually lose with the advancement of knowl- 
edge their original vague amplitude, and acquire a defi- 
nite and precise significance. The real import of either 
class of words can be ascertained only by tracing their 
development through their successive changes. The 
history of the term philosophy enables us to understand 
the still subsisting vacillation in its employment, and to 
detect the common principle which runs through all its 
various and apparently incongruous applications. It 
brings ns, at the same time, to the recognition of the 
mode and measure of its most rigorous employment. 

Philosophy is the earnest investigation of the princi- 
ples of knowledge, and most appropriately of the first 
principles, or principles of abstract being. It is not 
science, but search (Kant, Program. 1765-66; Sir Will- 
iam Hamilton, Metaph. lect. i, iii ; Discussions, p. 787). It 
is distinctively zetetic , or inquisitive, rather than dog- 
matic. Its chief value consists in the zeal, perspicacity, 
simplicity, and unselfishness of the persevering desire for 
the highest truth, not in its attainment ; for the highest 
truth is, in its nature, unattainable by the finite intelli- 
gence of man. It has not, or ought not to have, the 
pretension or confident assurance of knowledge, though 
this claim has frequently been made (?) (piXoooipia yvu>- 
oig ion iravnov tCov oj >twv, David. Interpr. x. Catey. 
Schol. A ristot. p. 29, cd. Acad. Bern].). It is only a sys- 
tematic craving and continuous effort to reach the high- 
est knowledge. 

“For man loves knowledge, and the beams of truth 
More welcome touch Iiis understanding's eye 
Than all the blandishments of sound his ear, 

Than all of taste his tongue” (Akeuside). 

Philosophy was called by the schoolmen “the science 
of sciences;” and wherever the recondite principles of 
knowledge are sought, there is philosophy, in a faint 
and rudimentary, or in a clear and instructive form. 
Hence it admits of being predicated of investigations 
far remote from those higher exercises of abstract con- 
templation to which it is most properly applied. 

What is man ? What are his faculties and powers? 
Whence is he? Whither is he going ? 1 1 ow shall he 

guide himself? What is this vast and varied universe 
around him? How did it arise? How is it ordered 
and sustained? What is man’s relation to it, and to 
the great Power behind the veil, manifested by its won- 
drous movements and changes? What is the nature 
of this power? What are man’s duties to it, to him- 
self, and to his fellow-men ? What knowledge of these 
things can he acquire? What are his destinies, and his 
aids for their achievement? These questions, and ques- 
tions like these, constitute the province of philosophy 


philosophy 


120 


philosophy 


proper. They present themselves dimly or distinctly to 
every reflecting mind; and they will not be gainsaid. 
Our intellectual constitution compels us to think of 
them ; and to think of them, however weakly and spas- 
modically, is the beginning of philosophy. They all 
admit of partial solution — of an answer at least, which 
stimulates further investigation. None of them can re- 
ceive a full and complete reply from the human reason — 
they stretch beyond its compass. All of them, in every 
age. have met with some response, either in the poetic 
and bewildering fancies of the prevalent mythology, or 
in the wild guesses of popular credulity; either in the 
aphorisms of the prudent, or in the conclusions of those 
who have sedulously devoted themselves to the unrav- 
elling of these enigmas. This latter class have been 
the philosophers of eaeh generation, from the com- 
mencement of rational inquiry to the current day, as 
they will continue to be till the closing of the great roll 
of time; for of philosophy there is no end. 

This constant disappointment and continual renewal 
of effort are strange phenomena, and have often proved 
utterly disheartening. Hence has proceeded the objec- 
tion so frequently urged that philosophy is ever in 
restless and fretful activity, but does not advance. The 
allegation of an entire failure of progress is unjust; but 
the same questions constantly reappear with changed 
aspects, and the same solutions are offered under altered 
forms. But the change in the aspects and the altera- 
tion in the forms are themselves an advancement. The 
true source of encouragement is, however, to be derived 
less from the progress which can never pass the boun- 
daries imposed by the same old questions than from 
the knowledge that the pursuit is more than the im- 
practicable attainment — the race more important than 
the arrival at the goal could be— at least in this finite 
life, with our finite powers. From this habitual disap- 
pointment, and the apparent failures which bring the 
disappointment, have arisen, too, this variety of solu- ' 
tions which have been proposed for the numerous rid- 
dles that philosophy propounds to man. Yarro enu- 
merated two hundred and eighty-eight possible sects, 
apparently on the basis of ethics alone (August. I)e Cir, 
lh i. xix, 1) ; and the number of distinguishable schemes 
of philosophy, to say nothing of diversities of opinion 
in regard to details, is countless. Yet each of these has 
contributed something to our knowledge: in the more 
precise statement of the problems to he solved, in the 
clearer determination of their conditions, in the refuta- 
tion of former errors, in the exposure of previous mis- 
apprehensions, in presenting the inquiries under new 
and brighter lights, or in adding to our positive infor- 
mation in regard to these dark and difficult subjects. 
The gratitude which Aristotle expresses, in a remark- 
able passage {Met. i), towards his predecessors, who 
had gone astray, or who had failed to see the truth, is 
due to all philosophical inquirers. They have contrib- 
uted something towards the result, however incomplete 
that result may remain (icai yap ovtoi avvtjia\tn>TO 
ti' ti) v yap iv npopaKpaav pputv ; and see Alexan- 
der Aplirodis. Sehol . Aristot. ad loc. j) yap nov KaTa- 
coZiov tvTropia trpirimortpovg >ipa£ n~/c 
uXrfttiac irapatTKnuitrn'). 

History of the Subject .— The hopelessness of satisfac- 
tory attainment, with the inevitable persistency of the 
search, and the gradual approximation, or appearance 
of approximation, to a goal which is never reached, hut 
is ever receding, eventuate in changes, expansions, 
fluctuations, and revolutions in opinion, which are re- 
corded and appreciated in the history of philosophy. 
This history chronicles the origins and original phases 
of philosophical inquiry, its mutations, progresses, and 
recessions, and t lie causes of them; it notes the intro- 
duction of new doctrines, new methods of procedure, 
new modes of exposition ; the dissensions and controver- 
sies which spring up and minister to new developments; 
the reduction of kindred views to a coherent body, and 
the constitution of sects and schools; the fortunes of 


sneh schools, the development or perversion of the sev- 
eral successive or contemporaneous schemes of specula- 
tion in the bosom of the schools themselves, either in 
consequence of their own internal activity, or of the 
necessities suggested or enforced by external attack. 
In this manner, and from these motives of change, 
philosophy exhibits unceasing activity and frequent 
novelty of form, notwithstanding the substantial iden- 
tity of the questions debated, and the sameness of the 
ground surveyed. In these vicissitudes of opinion 
there is, however, an element which ought never to he 
overlooked, and which gives an immediate ami urgent 
interest to all the variations. The philosophy of 
an age or sect is largely influenced by recent experi- 
ences, and bv the present demands of the society or circle 
to which it is addressed ; and, in turn, it exercises a most 
potent influence in determining the views of the rising 
and succeeding generations, not only within the range 
of theoretical inquiry, but also in government, social 
organization, manners, habits of thought, arts, and in 
everything which concerns the daily life of the people. 
The condition of Athenian politics and morals directly 
engendered the Socratic inquiries and the Soeratic 
schools. The personal degradation and servility of the 
Homans under the empire provoked the revival and 
ardent advocacy of stoicism. The repugnance to Islam- 
ism, and the dialectical needs of Christendom, gave 
birth to mediaeval scholasticism. The antagonism which 
issued in the Knglish commonwealth furnished the hot- 
bed in which germinated the philosophy of llobbes. 
Locke and the eneyelopsvdists were the prophets and 
guides of the French revolutionary spirit ; and the ma- 
terialism of the current years has received form as well 
as vitality from the predominance and achievements of 
the physical sciences, and the enormous fascinations of 
material interests and gratifications. Thus the alter- 
nations of philosophy explain and are explained by the 
concurrent modifications of society. 

The history of philosophy admits of two distinct 
principles of division, both of which are simultaneously 
employed. It may he divided either with reference to 
its special subject-matter, as a part of the general do- 
main of philosophy, or with reference to its chronolog- 
ical successions. Each of these distributions of course 
permits further subdivision. 

Plato practically, though not expressly, divided phi- 
losophy into dialectics, physics, and ethics, including 
theology and much of metaphysics, along with natural 
philosophy, under the head of physics. See Platonic 
PiULosoriiY. The division of Aristotle is indistinct 
and apparently variable. But he did not complete his 
system. TI is metaphysics, which corresponds nearly with 
his first philosophy, or with philosophy in its strictest 
sense, was an incomplete collection of unfinished papers, 
gathered and arranged after his death. Science, or 
knowledge, he distributes between practice, production, 
and theory ( Metuph . vi, 1, Fray. 137, p. 94. ed. Didot). 
Ueberweg mistakes this for a formal division of phi- 
losophy, but the third head is the only one to which 
Aristotle would have assigned the name of philosophy, 
lie elsewhere distinguishes theory into physical, mathe- 
matical, and theological— the last corresponding with 
philosophy proper {Metuph. xi, 7). In one of his frag- 
ments, philosophical problems are declared to be of 
five kinds: political, dialectical, physical, ethical, and 
rhetorical (Aristot. Fray. 137, p. 10t<). This division 
excludes the greater part of philosophy. The uncer- 
tainty and confusion which these several divisions are 
calculated to produce may be accounted for and excused 
by the loose acceptation of the term physics in the So- 
cratic schools; and by the fact that metaphysics, or phi- 
losophy, in Aristotle’s estimation. lay beyond the domain 
of physics. Dividing philosophy into metaphysics, phys- 
ics, and ethics, we now habitually exclude physics, or 
natural philosophy, and set it apart as the realm of ex- 
act science. The other two are assigned to philosophy. 
But metaphysics and ethics may be united as together 


PHILOSOPHY 


127 


PHILOSOPHY 


constituting philosophy, or they may be kept distinct 
and variously subdivided. Sir William Hamilton, who, 
in deference to the narrowness of the Scotch school, at 
times almost identifies psychology with philosophy, 
enumerates, by a strained construction, five branches of 
the former: logic, ethics, politics, {esthetics, and the- 
ology (Metaph. lect. iii, p. 44). Remusat incidentally 
distributes philosophy under the five heads of psychol- 
ogy, logic, metaphysics, theodicy (or the philosophy of 
religion = theology), and morals ( Vie <F Abelard, liv. ii, 
ch. iii, vol. i, p. 351 sq.). Ampere, in his ingenious and 
fantastic classification of human knowledge, by a sep- 
tuple series of violent dichotomies, manufactures eighty- 
four distinct departments of philosophical inquiry. For 
the present purpose, the sufficiency or the insufficiency, 
the validity or the invalidity, of these various divisions 
and subdivisions is unimportant. The history of phi- 
losophy includes them all, either as definite members or 
as subordinate parts. Each may be treated separately, 
or all may be embraced in one treatment, or a distinct 
discussion may be bestowed upon several of them com- 
bined in one view. Thus there may be a history of 
mental philosophy, and a history of ethics, like the sup- 
plements of Dugald Stewart and Sir James Mackintosh 
to the Encyclopaedia Britannica; or a history of logic, 
like Mr. Blakey’s very feeble treatise on that subject; 
or a history of heretical opinions, like those so common 
in the earlier ages of the Christian Church ; or a general 
history of philosophy, like Brucken’s or Tennemann’s or 
Ueberweg’s. This is the mode in which the history of 
philosophy may be divided. 

The other process of division regards primarily the 
succession of philosophical systems, or of philosophical 
schools, where the systems are identified with particular 
schools. A very loose and general distribution of this 
kind is into ancient, mediaeval, and modern, each of 
which has often been handled separately. The distinc- 
tion between these divisions is mainly the difference of 
time. They frequently run into each other. In many 
characteristics, both of doctrine and method, they re- 
peat each other. The scholastic procedure is discern- 
ible in Plotinus and Joannes Damascenus, while John 
Scotus Erigena approached more nearly to the Neo- 
Platonists than to the schoolmen. Occam and Gerson 
exhibit many modern features ; and among the mod- 
erns there are many wide differences, not only in doc- 
trine, but in character. Hence other divisions, more 
precise than are attainable by these indistinct chrono- 
logical periods, have latterly won more favor. The fol- 
lowing may be offered as an example of such distribu- 
tion : 

I. The commencements of philosophy, chiefly among the 
Orientals, with whom philosophy, mythology, and the- 
ology were inseparably intertwined. 

II. The philosophy of the Greeks, which comprehends of 
course the philosophy of the Romans, as it was essen- 
tially Greek from Cicero to Boethius. 

III. The philosophy of the Schoolmen, which in part over- 
laps modern systems. To this the philosophy of the 
Jews and Saracens may be joined as an appendix, since 
it affords the transition to it from the Greeks. 

IV. The philosophy of the Renaissance, or Transition Age, 
commencing with Gemistus Pletho and the Medicean 
Academy, and ending with Pascal and Gassendi. 

V. The philosophy of Modern Times— from Francis Bacon 
and Descartes. 

Each of these periods has many subdivisions, which 
have been variously constituted by different historians, 
and necessarily vary with the variation of the aspects 
under which philosophy is contemplated by the several 
chroniclers of its fluctuations. 

Literature. — The fullest repertory of works on the 
several schemes of philosophy, on its general and special 
history, and on the history of the philosophers them- 
selves, and of particular doctrines, may be found in 
Ueberweg, History of Philosophy, translated by George 
S. Morris (N.Y. 1875, 2 vols. Svo). Up to the date of 
that work the fullest treatise on the subject was H. 
Ritter’s Geschichte der Philosophic (Gotha, 1854, 12 
vols. Svo). A convenient summary is Maurice’s J loral 


and Metaphysical Philosophy (Lond. 1850-56, and later, 
4 vols. Svo), which gives a historical review of the 
whole subject. (G. F. H.) 

Philosophy, Chaldean. See Magi; Philoso- 
phy. Hebrew. 

Philosophy, Greek. It is not in accordance with 
the scope of this Cyclopaedia to give a full account of 
the various philosophical systems of the ancient Greeks. 
These are sufficiently discussed under the names of 
their respective founders. Our purpose here is only to 
give so much as will serve to show their relations to 
Christianity. (In doing this, as well as in the follow- 
ing article on Hebrew Philosophy, we avail ourselves 
largely of the statements in Kitto's and Smith’s Dic- 
tionaries.) 

I. The Development of Greek Philosophy. — The com- 
plete fitness of Greek philosophy to perform a propae- 
deutic office for Christianity, as an exhaustive effort of 
reason to solve the great problems of being, must be ap- 
parent after a detailed study of its progress and con- 
summation ; and even the simplest outline of its history 
cannot fail to preserve the leading traits of the natural 
(or even necessary) law by which its development was 
governed. 

The various attempts which have been made to de- 
rive Western philosophy from Eastern sources have 
signally failed. The external evidence in favor of this 
opinion is wholly insufficient to establish it (Ritter, 
Gesch. d. Phil, i, 159, etc. ; Thirlwall, Hist, of Gr. ii, 130 ; 
Zeller, Gesch. d. Phil. d. Griechen, i, 18-34; Max Muller, 
On Language, 84 note), and on internal grounds it is 
most improbable. It is true that in some degree the 
character of Greek speculation may have been influ- 
enced, at least in its earliest stages, by religious ideas 
I which were originally introduced from the East; but 
this indirect influence does not affect the real original- 
ity of the great Greek teachers. The spirit of pure 
philosophy, distinct from theology, is wholly alien from 
Eastern thought; and it was comparatively late when 
even a Greek ventured to separate philosophy from re- 
ligion. But in Greece the separation, when it was once 
effected, remained essentially complete. The opinions 
of the ancient philosophers might or might not be out- 
wardly reconcilable with the popular faith ; but philos- 
ophy and faith were independent. The very value of 
Greek teaching lies in the fact that it was, as far as is 
possible, a result of simple reason, or, if faith asserts its 
prerogative, the distinction is sharply marked. In this 
we have a record of the power and weakness of the hu- 
man mind written at once on the grandest scale and in 
the fairest characters. 

Of the various classifications of the Greek schools 
which have been proposed, the simplest and truest seems 
to be that which divides the history of philosophy into 
three great periods, the first reaching to the a?ra of the 
Sophists, the next to the death of Aristotle, the third 
to the Christian a*ra. In the first period the world ob- 
jectively is the great centre of inquiry; in the second, 
the “ideas” of things, truth, and being; in the third, 
the chief interest of philosophy falls back upon the 
practical conduct of life. Successive systems overlap 
each other, both in time and subjects of speculation, but 
broadly the sequence which has been indicated will 
hold good (Zeller, Die Philosophic der Griechen, i, 111, 
etc.). After the Christian iera philosophy ceased to 
have any true vitality in Greece, but it made fresh ef- 
forts to meet the changed conditions of life at Alexan- 
dria and Rome. At Alexandria Platonism was vivified 
by the spirit of Oriental mysticism, and afterwards of 
Christianity; at Rome Stoicism was united with the 
vigorous virtues of active life. Each of these great 
divisions must be passed in rapid review. 

I. The pre-Socratic Schools. — The first Greek philos- 
ophy was little more than an attempt to follow out in 
thought the mythic cosmogonies of earlier poets. Grad- 
ually the depth and variety of the problems included in 


PHILOSOPHY 


12S 


philosophy 


the idea of a cosmogony became apparent, and, after 
each clew had been followed out, the period ended in the 
negative teaching of the Sophists. The questions of 
creation, of the immediate relation of mind and matter, 
were pronounced in fact, if not in word, insoluble, and 
speculation was turned into a new direction. 

What is the one permanent element which underlies 
the changing forms of things V— this was the primary 
inquiry to which the Ionic school endeavored to lind an 
answer. Thales (B.C. cir. G25-G10), following, as it 
seems, the genealogy of Hesiod, pointed to moisture 
(water) as the one source and supporter of life. Anax- 
imenes (B.C. cir. 520-480) substituted air for water, as 
the more subtle and all-pervading element; but equally 
with Thales he neglected all consideration of the force 
which might be supposed to modify the one primal sub- 
stance. At a much later date (B.C. cir. 450) Diogenes 
of Apollonia. to meet this difficulty, represented this el- 
ementary “air” as endowed with intelligence (vacate), 
but even he makes no distinction between the material 
and the intelligent. The atomic theory of Democritus 
(B.C. cir. 460-357), which stands in close connection 
with this form of Ionic teaching, offered another and 
more plausible solution. The motion of his atoms in- 
cluded the action of force, but he wholly omitted to ac- 
count for its source. Meanwhile another mode of spec- 
ulation had arisen in the same school. In place of one 
definite element. Anaximander (B.C. 610-547) suggested 
the unlimited (ro a-tipov) as the adequate origin of 
all special existences. Somewhat more than a century 
later Anaxagoras summed up the result of such a line 
of speculation: “All things were together; then mind 
(i/ouf) came and disposed them in order” (Diog. Laert. 
ii, G). Thus we are left face to face with an ultimate 
dualism. 

The Eleatic school started from an opposite point of 
view. Thales saw moisture present in material things, 
and pronounced this to be their fundamental principle; 
Xenophanes (B.C. cir. 550-530) “looked up to the whole 
heaven, and said that the One is Cod” (Arist. Met. i, 5, , 
to tv tlvai run ceov). “Thales saw gods in all 
things; Xenophanes saw all things in God” (Thirlwall, 
Hist, of Or. ii, 13G). That which w, according to Xen- 
ophanes, must he one, eternal, infinite, immovable, un- 
changeable. Parmenides of Elea (B.C. 500) substituted 
abstract “being” for “God” in the system of Xeno- 
phanes, and distinguished with precision the functions 
of sense and reason. Sense teaches us of “ the many,” 
the false (phenomena); Beason of “the one,” the true 
(the absolute). Zeno of Elea (B.C. cir. 450) developed 
with logical ingenuity the contradictions involved in 
our perceptions of things (in the idea of motion , for in- 
stance), and thus formally prepared the way for scep- 
ticism. If the One alone is, the phenomenal world is 
an illusion. The sublime aspiration of Xenophanes, 
when followed out legitimately to its consequences, end- 
ed in blank negation. 

The teaching of Heraclitus (B.C. 500) offers a com- 
plete contrast to that of the Eleatics, and stands far in 
advance of the earlier Ionic school, with which he is 
historically connected. So far from contrasting the 
existent and the phenomenal, he boldly identified being 
with change. “ 1 here ever was, and* is, and shall be, 
an ever-living fire, unceasingly kindled and extinguished 
in due measure * l iiirropevov pirpa icai (nroofiu’Vi'pt- 
tw ptrpa, ( lem. Alex. .S ’from, v, 1 I, § 105). Best and 
continuance is death. That which is is the instantane- 
ous balance of contending powers (Diog. Laert. ix, 7. 
<Y* riyc h’avnu-poTrlpj i/ppotTcai r« oitii). Creation 
is the ploy of the Creator. Everywhere, as far as his 
opinions can be grasped, Heraclitus makes noble “guesses 
at truth;” yet lie leaves “fate” (tipap/un/) as the su- 
preme creator (Stob. Eel. i. p. 59. ap. Bitter and Broiler, 

§ 42). The cycles of life and death run on by its law. 
It may have been by a natural reaction that from these 
wider speculations he turned his thoughts inwards, 
“1 investigated myself," he says, with conscious pride 


(Plutarch, aclv. Col. 1118, c); and in this respect he 
foreshadows the teaching of .Socrates, as Zeno did that 
of the Sophists. 

The philosophy of Pythagoras (B.C. cir. 540-510) is 
subordinate in interest to his social and political the- 
ories, though it supplies a link in the course of specula- 
tion : others had labored to trace a unity in the world 
in the presence of one underlying element or in the 
idea of a whole; he sought to combine the separate 
harmony of parts with total unity. Numerical unity 
includes the finite and the infinite: and in the relations 
of number there is a perfect symmetry, as all spring out 
of the fundamental unit. Thus numbers seemed to 
Pythagoras to be not only “patterns” of things (rCuv 
ovtmv), but causes of their being (rijc oixuac). How 
he connected numbers with concrete being it is impos- 
sible to determine; but it may not be wholly fanciful 
to see in the doctrine of the transmigration of souls an 
attempt to trace in the successive forms of life an out- 
ward expression of a harmonious law in the moral as 
well as in the physical world. (The remains of the 
pre-Soeratic philosophers have been collected in a very 
convenient form by F. Mullach in Didot’s Biblioth. (Jr. 
Paris, I860.) 

The first cycle of philosophy was thus completed. 
All the great primary problems of thought had been 
stated, and typical answers rendered. The relation of 
spirit and matter was still unsolved. Speculation is- 
sued in dualism (Anaxagoras), materialism (Democri- 
tus), or pantheism (Xenophanes). < >n one side reason 
was made the sole criterion of truth (Parmenides); on 
the other, experience (Heraclitus). As yet there was 
no rest, and the Sophists prepared the way for a new 
method. Whatever may be the moral estimate which 
is formed of the Sophists, there can be little doubt as to 
the importance of their teaching as preparatory to that 
of Socrates. All attempts to arrive at certainty by a 
study of the world had failed : might it not seem, then, 
that truth is subjective? “Man is the measure of all 
things.” Sensations are modified by the individual ; 
and may not this hold good universally? The conclu- 
sion was applied to morals and politics with fearless 
skill. The belief in absolute truth and right was well- 
nigh banished: but meanwhile the Sophists were per- 
fecting the instrument which was to be turned against 
them. Language, in their hands, acquired a precision 
unknown before, when words assumed the place of 
things. Plato might ridicule the pedantry of Protag- 
oras, but Socrates reaped a rich harvest from it. 

2. The Socratic Schools . — In the second period of 
Greek philosophy the scene and subject were both 
changed. Athens became the centre of speculations 
which had hitherto ehielly found a home among the 
more mixed populations of the colonies. At the same 
time inquiry was turned from the outward world to the 
inward, from theories of the origin and relation of things 
to theories of our knowledge of them. A philosophy 
of ideas, using the term in its widest sense, succeeded a 
philosophy of nature. In three generations Greek spec- 
ulation reached its greatest glory in the teaching of 
Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. When the sovereignty 
of Greece ceased, all higher philosophy ceased with it. 
In the hopeless turmoil of civil disturbances which fol- 
lowed, men’s thoughts were chiefly directed to questions 
of personal duty. 

The famous sentence in which Aristotle (Met. xiii, 4) 
characterizes the teaching of Socrates (B.C. 468-309) 
places his scientific position in the clearest light. There 
are two things, he says, which we may rightly attrib- 
ute to Socrates, inductive reasoning and general defini- 
tion (roof; t tirak-TtKovt; Xoyonc nai ro opi^ta^ai KaSo- 
<\oi'). By the first lie endeavored to discover the per- 
manent element which underlies the changing forms of 
appearances and the varieties of opinion: by the sec- 
ond he fixed the truth which he had thus gained. But, 
besides this. Socrates rendered another service to truth. 
He changed not only the method, but also the subject 


PHILOSOPHY 


129 


PHILOSOPHY 


of philosophy (Cicero, Acad. Post, i, 4). Ethics occu- 
pied in his investigations the primary place which had 
hitherto been held by physics. The great aim of his 
induction was to establish the sovereignty of virtue; 
and, before entering on other speculations, he determined 
to obey the Delphian maxim and “ know himself” 
(Plato, Phcedr. p. 229). It was a necessary consequence 
of a first effort in this direction that Socrates regarded 
all the results which he derived as like in kind. Knowl- 
edge (hri(m)pij) was equally absolute and authorita- 
tive, whether it referred to the laws of intellectual oper- 
ations or to questions of morality. A conclusion in 
geometry and a conclusion on conduct were set forth as 
true in the same sense. Thus vice was only another 
name for ignorance (Xenoph. Mem. iii, 9, 4; Arist. Eth. 
Eud. i, 5). Every one was supposed to have within him 
a faculty absolutely leading to right action, just as the 
mind necessarily decides rightly as to relations of space 
and number, when each step in the proposition is clearly 
stated. Socrates practically neglected the determina- 
tive power of the will. His great glory was, however, 
clearly connected with this fundamental error in his 
system. He affirmed the existence of a universal law 
of right and wrong. He connected philosophy with 
action, both in detail and in general. On the one side 
he upheld the supremacy of conscience, on the other 
the working of Providence. Not the least fruitful char- 
acteristic of his teaching was what may be called its 
desultoriness. *IIe formed no complete system. He 
wrote nothing. He attracted and impressed his follow- 
ers by his many-sided nature, lie helped others to 
give birth to thoughts, to use his favorite image, but he 
was barren himself (Plato, Thecet. p. 150). As a result 
of this, the most conflicting opinions were maintained 
by some of his professed followers, who carried out iso- 
lated fragments of his teaching to extreme conclusions. 
Some adopted his method (Euclides, B.C. cir. 400, the 
Megarians ), others his subject. Of the latter, one 
section, following out his proposition of the identity of 
self-command (iyKpdrtui) with virtue, professed an ut- 
ter disregard of everything material (Antisthenes, B.C. 
cir. 3GG, the Cynics ), while the other (Aristippus, B.C. 
cir. 3G6, the Cyrenaics ), inverting the maxim that vir- 
tue is necessarily accompanied by pleasure, took imme- 
diate pleasure as the rule of action. 

These “ minor Socratic schools” w r ere, however, pre- 
mature and imperfect developments. The truths which 
they distorted were embodied at a later time in more 
reasonable forms. Plato alone (B.C. 430-347), by the 
breadth and nobleness of his teaching, was the true suc- 
cessor of Socrates ; with fuller detail and greater elab- 
orateness of parts, his philosophy was as many-sided as 
that of his master. Thus it is impossible to construct a 
consistent Platonic system, though many Platonic doc- 
trines are sufficiently marked. Plato, indeed, possessed 
two commanding powers, which, though apparently in- 
compatible, are in the highest sense complementary : a 
matchless destructive dialectic, and a creative imagina- 
tion. By the first he refuted the great fallacies of the 
Sophists on the uncertainty of knowledge and right, 
carrying out in this the attacks of Socrates; by the 
other he endeavored to bridge over the interval between 
appearance and reality, and gain an approach to the 
eternal. His famous doctrines of Ideas and Recollection 
( drdfivtjmg ) are a solution by imagination of a logical 
difficulty. Socrates had shown the existence of general 
notions; Plato felt constrained to attribute to them a 
substantive existence (Arist. Met. xiii, 4). A glorious 
vision gave completeness to his view. The unembodied 
spirits were exhibited in immediate presence of the 
“ ideas” of things (Phcedr. p. 247) ; the law of their em- 
bodiment was sensibly portrayed ; and the more or less 
vivid remembrance of supramundanc realities in this 
life was traced to antecedent facts. All men were thus 
supposed to have been face to face with truth : the ob- 
ject of teaching was to bring back impressions latent 
but uneffaced. 


The “ myths” of Plato, to one of the most famous of 
which reference has just been made, play a most impor- 
tant part in his system. They answer in the philosopher 
to faith in the Christian. In dealing with immortality 
and judgment he leaves the way of reason, and ventures, 
as he says, on a rude raft to brave the dangers of the 
ocean (Phcedr. p.85, D ; Gorg. p. 523, A). “ The peril and 
the prize are noble and the hope is great" (Phcedr. p. 1 14, 
C, D). Such talcs, he admits, may seem puerile and 
ridiculous; and if there w r ere other surer and clearer 
means of gaining the desired end, the judgment would 
be just (Gorg. p. 527, A). But, as it is. thus only can he 
connect the seen and the unseen. The myths, then, 
mark the limit of his dialectics. They are not merely 
a poetical picture of truth already gained, or a popular 
illustration of his teaching, but real efforts to penetrate 
beyond the depths of argument. They show that his 
method was not commensurate with his instinctive de- 
sires; and point out in intelligible outlines the subjects 
on which man looks for revelation. Such are the rela- 
tions of the human mind to truth (Phcedr. p. 24G-49) ; 
the pre-existence and immortality of the soul (Mem, p. 
81-3; Phcedi'.p. 110-12; 77m. p. 41); the state of future 
retribution (Gorg. p. 523-25; Pep. p. G14-16); the rev- 
olutions of the world (Polit. p.2G9. Comp, also Sympos. 
p. 189-91, 203-5; Zeller, Philos, d. Griech. p. 3G1-G3, 
w ho gives the literature of the subject). 

The great difference between Plato and Aristotle (B.C. 
384-322) lies in the use which Plato thus made of im- 
agination as the exponent of instinct. The dialectics 
of Plato is not inferior to that of Aristotle, and Aristotle 
exhibits traces of poetic power not unworthy of Plato; 
but Aristotle never allows imagination to influence his 
final decision. He elaborated a perfect method, and 
he used it with perfect fairness. His writings con- 
tain the highest utterance of pure reason. Looking 
back on all the earlier efforts of philosophy, he pro- 
nounced a calm and final judgment. For him many of 
the conclusions which others had maintained were val- 
ueless, because he showed that they rested on feeling, 
and not on argument. This stern severity of logic gives 
an indescribable pathos to those passages in which he 
touches on the highest hopes of men ; and perhaps there 
is no more truly affecting chapter in ancient literature 
than that in which he states in a few unimpassioned 
sentences the issue of his inquiry into the immortality 
of the soul. Part of it may be immortal, but that part 
is impersonal (De An. iii, 5). This was the sentence of 
reason, and he gives expression to it without a word of 
protest, and yet as one who knew the extent of the sac- 
rifice which it involved. The conclusion is, as it were, 
the epitaph of free speculation. Laws of observation 
and argument, rules of action, principles of government 
remain, but there is no hope beyond the grave. 

It follows necessarily that the Platonic doctrine of 
ideas was emphatically rejected by Aristotle, who gave, 
however, the final development to the original concep- 
tion of Socrates. 'With Socrates “ ideas” (general defi- 
nitions) were mere abstractions; with Plato they had 
an absolute existence; with Aristotle they had no exist- 
ence separate from things in which they were realized, 
though the form (popfo)), which answers to the Platonic 
idea, was held to be the essence of the thing itself (comp. 
Zeller, Philos, d. Griech. i, 119, 120). 

There is one feature common in essence to the sys- 
tems of Plato and Aristotle which has not yet been no- 
ticed. In both, ethics is a part of politics. The citizen 
is prior to the man. In Plato this doctrine finds its 
most extravagant development in theory, though his 
life, and, in some places, his teaching, were directly op- 
posed to it (e. g. Gorg. p. 527, D). This practical in- 
consequence was due, it may be supposed, to the con- 
dition of Athens at the time, for the idea was in complete 
harmony with the national feeling; and, in fact, the 
absolute subordination of the individual to the body 
includes one of the chief lessons of the ancient world. 
In Aristotle the “political” character of man is defined 


YI II.— I 


PHILOSOPHY 


130 


PHILOSOPHY 


with greater precision, and brought within narrower 
limits. The breaking np of the small Greek states had 
prepared the way for more comprehensive views of 
human fellowship, without destroying the fundamental 
truth of the necessity of social union for perfect life. 
But in the next generation this was lost. The wars of 
the succession obliterated the idea of society, and phi- 
losophy was content with aiming at individual happi- 
ness. 

The coming change was indicated by the rise of a 
school of sceptics. The scepticism of the Sophists 
marked the close of the first period, and in like manner 
the scepticism of the Pyrrhonists marks the close of the 
second (Stilpo, B.C. cir. 290 ; Pyrrho, B.C. cir. 290). But 
the Pyrrhonists rendered no positive service to the cause 
of philosophy, as the Sophists did by the refinement of 
language. Their immediate influence was limited in 
its range, and it is only as a symptom that the rise of 
the school is important. But in this respect it fore- 
shows the character of after-philosophy by denying the 
foundation of all higher speculations. Thus all interest 
was turned to questions of practical morality. Hitherto 
morality had been based as a science upon mental an- 
alysis, but by the Pyrrhonists it was made subservient 
to law and custom. Immediate experience was held to 
be the rule of life (comp. Bitter and ITeller, § 350). 

3. The post-Socmtic Schools. — After Aristotle, phi- 
losophy, as lias already been noticed, took a new' direc- 
tion. The Socratic schools were, as has been shown, 
connected by a common pursuit of the permanent ele- 
ment which underlies phenomena. Socrates placed vir- 
tue iu action, truth in a knowledge of the ideas of things. 
Plato went farther, and maintained that these ideas are 
alone truly existent. Aristotle, though differing in 
terms, yet only followed in the same direction when he 
attributed to form, not an independent existence, hut a 
fashioning, vivifying power in all individual objects. 
But from this point speculation took a mainly personal 
direction. Philosophy, in the strict sense of the word, 
ceased to exist. 'Phis was due both to the circumstan- 
ces of the time and to the exhaustion consequent on the 
failure of the Socratic method to solve the deep myster- 
ies of being. Aristotle had, indeed, laid the wide foun- 
dations of an inductive system of physics, but few were 
inclined to continue his work. The physical theories 
which wore brought forward were merely adaptations 
from earlier philosophers. 

In dealing with moral questions two opposite systems 
are possible, and have found advocates in all ages. On 
the one side it may be said that the character of actions 
is to be judged by their results; on the other, that it is 
to be sought only in the actions themselves. Pleasure 
is the test of right in one case; an assumed or discovered 
law' of our nature iu the other. If the world were per- 
fect and the balance of human faculties undisturbed, it 
is evident that both systems would give identical results. 
As it is, there is a tendency to error on each side, which 
is clearly seen in the rival schools of the Epicureans and 
Stoics, who practically divided the suffrages of the mass 
of educated men in the centuries before and after the 
Christian :era. 

Epicurus (B.C. 352 270) defined the object of phi- 
losophy to he the attainment of a happy life. The 
pursuit of truth for its own sake he regarded as super- 
fluous. He rejected dialects as a useless study, and 
accepted the senses, in the widest acceptation of the 
term, as the criterion of truth. Physics lie subordinated 
entirely to ethics (Cicero, he Fin. i.7). But lie differed 
widely from the Cyrcnaics iu his view of happiness. 
The happiness at which the wise man aims is to he 
found, lie said, not in momentary gratification, hut iu 
lifelong pleasure. It does not consist necessarily in ex- 
citement or motion, hut often in absolute tranquillity 
(drannZm). “The wise man is happy even on the 
rack” (Ding. Eaert. x, 11*), for “virtue alone is insep- 
arable from pleasure” (id. p. 13*). To live happily 
and to live wisely, nobly, and justly, arc convertible 


phrases (id. p. 110). But it followed as a corollary 
from his view of happiness that the gods, who were 
assumed to be supremely happy and eternal, were abso- 
lutely free from the distractions and emotions conse- 
quent on any care for the world or man (id. p. 139; 
comp. Encr. ii, 045-47). All things were supposed to 
come into being by chance, and so pass away; and the 
studv of nature was chiefly useful as dispelling the su- 
perstitious fears of the gods and death by which the 
multitude arc tormented. It is obvious how such teach- 
ing would degenerate in practice. The individual was 
left master of his own life, free from all regard to any 
higher law than a refined selfishness. 

While Epicurus asserted in this manner the claims 
of one part of man’s nature in the conduct of life, Zeno 
of Citium (B.C. cir. 2*0), with equal partiality, advo- 
cated a purely spiritual (intellectual) morality. The 
opposition between the two was complete. The infinite, 
chance-formed worlds of the one stand over against the 
one harmonious world of the other. Un the one side 
are gods regardless of material things, on the other a 
Being permeating and vivifying all creation. This dif- 
ference necessarily found its chief expression in ethics. 
For when the Stoics taught that there were only two 
principles of things, matter (ro Tratr\ov), and God, fate, 
reason — for the names were many by which it was fash- 
ioned and quickened (ro tz oioiV) — it followed that the 
active principle in man is of divine origin, and that his 
duty is to live conformably to nature (to vpoXoyovpi- 
i nog [ry ] £jji>). By “ nature” some understood 

the nature of man, others the nature of the universe; 
but both agreed in regarding it as a general law of the 
whole, and not particular passions or impulses. Good, 
therefore, was hut one. All external things were in- 
different. Reason was the absolute sovereign of man. 
Thus the doctrine of the Stoics, like that ol Epicurus, 
practically left man to himself. But it was worse in its 
filial results than Epicurism, for it made him his own 
god. 

In one point the Epicureans and Stoics were agreed. 
They both regarded the happiness and culture of the 
individual as the highest good. Both systems belonged 
to a period of corruption and decay. They were the 
efforts of the man to support himself in the ruin of the 
state. But at the same time this assertion of individual 
independence and breaking down of local connections 
performed an important work in preparation for Chris- 
tianity. It was for the Gentile world an influence cor- 
responding to the Dispersion for the Jews. Men, as 
men, owned their fellowship as they bail not done be- 
fore. Isolating superstitions were shattered hv the ar- 
guments of the Epicureans. The unity of the human 
conscience was vigorously affirmed by the Stoics (comp. 
.4 ufnniniis. iv. 4. 33, with Gataker’s notes). 

Meanwhile in the New Academy Platonism degen- 
erated into scepticism. Epicurus found an authorita- 
tive rule in the senses. The Stoics took refuge in wliat 
seems to answer to the modern doctrine of “common- 
sense,” and maintained that the senses give a direct 
knowledge of the object. Carneadcs (B.C. 213-129) 
combated these views, and showed that sensation can- 
not he proved to declare the real nature, but only some 
of the effects, of things. Thus the slight philosophical 
basis of the later schools was undermined. Scepticism 
remained as the last issue of speculation; and, if we 
may believe the declaration of Seneca (Qiorst. Xu/. vii, 
32), scepticism itself soon censed to he taught as a sys- 
tem. The great teachers had sought rest, and in the 
end they found unrest. No science of life could be es- 
tablished. The reason of t lie few failed to create an 
esoteric rule of virtue and happiness, for in this they 
all agreed, that the blessings of philosophy were not 
for the mass. A “gospel preached to the poor” was as 
yet unknown. 

But though the Greek philosophers fell short of their 
highest aim, it needs no words to show the work which 
they did as pioneers of a universal Church. They re- 


PHILOSOPHY 


131 


PHILOSOPHY 


vealed the wants and the instincts of men with a clear- 
ness and vigor elsewhere unattainable, for their sight 
was dazzled by no reflections from a purer faith. Step 
by step great questions were proposed — fate, provi- 
dence — conscience, law — the state, the man; and an- 
swers were given which are the more instructive be- 
cause they are generally one-sided. The -discussions 
which were primarily restricted to a few, in time influ- 
enced the opinions of the many. The preacher who 
spoke of “ an unknown God” had an audience who conld 
understand him, not at Athens only or Home, but 
throughout the civilized world. 

The complete course of philosophy was run before 
the Christian a?ra, but there were yet two mixed sys- 
tems afterwards which offered some novel features. At 
Alexandria Platonism was united with various elements 
of Eastern speculation, and for several centuries exer- 
cised an important influence on Christian doctrine. At 
Home Stoicism w T as vivified by the spirit of the old re- 
public, and exhibited the extreme Western type of phi- 
losophy. Of the first nothing can be said here. It 
arose only when Christianity was a recognised spiritual 
power, and was influenced both positively and negative- 
ly by the Gospel. The same remark applies to the ef- 
forts to quicken afresh the forms of paganism, which 
found their climax in the reign of Julian. These have 
no independent value as an expression of original 
thought ; but the Homan Stoicism calls for brief notice 
from its supposed connection with Christian morality 
(Seneca, f A.D. 65; Epictetus, f A.D. cir. 115; M. Au- 
relius Antoninus, 121-180). The belief in this connec- 
tion found a singular expression in the apocryphal corre- 
spondence of Paul and Seneca, which was widely received 
in the early Church (Jerome, De Vir. III. xii). And late- 
ly a distinguished writer (Mill, On Liberty, p. 58, quoted 
by Stanley, Eastern Ch. lect. vi, apparently with ap- 
probation) has speculated on the “ tragical fact” that 
Constantine, and not Marcus Aurelius, was the first 
Christian emperor. The superficial coincidences of 
Stoicism with the New Test, are certainly numerous. 
Coincidences of thought, and even of language, might 
easily be multiplied (Gataker, A ntoninus, Prief. p. xi, 
etc.), and in considering these it is impossible not to 
remember that Shemitic thought and phraseology must 
have exercised great influence on Stoic teaching (Grant, 
Oxford Essays, 1858, p. 82). But beneath this external 
resemblance of Stoicism to Christianity, the later Stoics 
were fundamentally opposed to it. For good and for 
evil they were the Pharisees of the Gentile world. 
Their highest aspirations are mixed with the thanks- 
giving “ that they were not as other men are” (comp. 
A nton. i). Their worship was a sublime egotism. The 
conduct of life was regarded as an art, guided in indi- 
vidual actions by a conscious reference to reason (An- 
ton. iv, 2, 3 ; v, 32). and not a spontaneous process rising 
naturally out of one vital principle. The wise man, 
“wrapt in himself” (vii, 28), was supposed to look with 
perfect indifference on the changes of time (iv, 49); and 
yet beneath this show of independence he was a prey 
to a hopeless sadness. In words he appealed to the 
great law of fate, which rapidly sweeps all things into 
oblivion, as a source of consolation (iv, 2, 14; vi, 15); 
but there is no confidence in any future retribution. In 
a certain sense the elements of which we are composed 
are eternal (v, 13), for they are incorporated in other 
parts of the universe, but we shall cease to exist (iv, 14, 
21; vi, 24; vii, 10). Not only is there no recognition 
of communion bet ween an immortal man and a personal 
God, but the idea is excluded. Man is but an atom in 
a vast universe, and his actions and sufferings are meas- 
ured solely by their relation to the whole ( A nton. x, 5, 
6, 20; xii, 26; vi, 45; v, 22; vii, 9). God is but an- 
other name for “the mind of the universe” (6 rov oAou 
roue, v, 30), “ the soul of the world” (iv, 40), “ the reason 
that ordereth matter” (vi. 1), “universal nature” (?) rUtv 
bXwv <p{ioic, vii, 33; ix, 1 ; comp, x, 1), and is even iden- 
tified with the world itself (rov ytvrqoavroQ Koopov, 


xii, 1; comp. Gataker on iv, 23). Thus the stoicism 
of M. Aurelius gives many of the moral precepts of the 
Gospel (Gataker, p. xviii), but without their founda- 
tion, which can find no place in his system. It is im- 
possible to read his reflections without emotion, but 
they have no creative energy. They are the last strain 
of a dying creed, and in themselves have no special af- 
finity to the new faith. Christianity necessarily in- 
cludes whatever is noblest in them, but they affect to 
supply the place of Christianity, and do not lead to it. 
The real elements of greatness in M. Aurelius are many, 
and truly Homan ; but the study of his Meditations by 
the side of the New Test, can leave little doubt that he 
could not have helped to give a national standing-place 
to a catholic Church. 

The history of ancient philosophy in its religious as- 
pect has been strangely neglected. Nothing, so far as 
we are aware, has been written on the pre-Christian a?ra 
answering to the clear and elegant essay of Matter on 
post- Christian philosophy ( Histoire de la Philosophie 
dans ses imports avec la Religion depuis I'ere Chreti- 
e.nne, Paris, 1854). There are useful hints in Carove’s 
Vorkalle des Christenthums (Jena, 1851), and Acker- 
mann’s Das Christliche in Plato (Ilamb. 1835). The 
treatise of Denis, Histoire des Theories et des hlees mo- 
rales dans V Antiquit e (Paris, 1856), is limited in range 
and hardly satisfactory. Dbllinger’s Vorhalle zur Gesch. 
d. Christenthums (Kegensb. 1857 ; transl. Lond. 1862) is 
comprehensive, but covers too large a field. The brief 
surveys in De Pressense’s Hist. des Trois Premiers Siecles 
del'Eylise Chretienne (Paris, 1858; transl. Edinb. 1862), 
and in Cocker, Christianity and Greek Philosophy (N. Y. 
1870), are much more vigorous, and on the whole just. 
But no one seems to have apprehended the real char- 
acter and growth of Greek philosophy so well as Zeller 
(though with no special attention to its relations to re- 
ligion) in his history (Die Philosophie der Griechev, 2d 
ed. Tub. 1856), which for subtlety and completeness is 
unrivalled. See (in addition to works named in the ad- 
joining articles) Brandis. Ilandb. d.gr.-rbm. Philosophie 
(Berl. 1835 sq.) ; Maury, Hist, de la Religion de la- Gr'ece 
(Paris, 1857 sq., 3 vols.); Butler, Hist, of A nc. Philos. 
(Lond. 1866, 2 vols.). 

II. Connection of Greek with Hebrew Philosophy . — 
The literature of Greece and Judaea came in contact at 
Alexandria; and the first known attempt to accom- 
plish their fusion is that ascribed to the Jewish Peri- 
patetic Aristobulns, in the reign of Ptolemy Pbilometor 
(B.C. 180-146) ; but the principal extant specimens are 
to be found in the writings of the Jewish Platonist 
Philo, the date of whose birth may be placed about B.C. 
20. (Aristobulns is said to have been a Peripatetic; 
but of his exact relations to this philosophy nothing is 
known. From the few fragments which remain of his 
writings, he seems to have anticipated Philo in the em- 
ployment of an allegorical interpretation of Scripture. 
His name, however, is more known in connection with 
forgeries of the Greek poets in support of his theory 
that the wisdom of the Greeks was borrowed from 
Moses. Sec Valckenter, Diatribe de Aristobulo, Lugd. 
Bat. 1806, reprinted in Gaisford's edition of Eusebii 
Prcep. Erang.; Diihne, ii, 73; Vaclierot, Histoire de 
VEcole d'A lexandrie, i, 140.) Philo’s system may be de- 
scribed as the result of a contact between the Hellenic 
theory of the absolute and the Jewish belief in God as 
represented in the Old Test. (See Dorner, Person of 
Christ, vol. i, note A [p. 330, Eng. transl.]. For some of 
the details of this contact, see Dahne, i, 31 sq.) In his 
religion Philo was a Jew, with all a Jew’s reverence for 
the oracles of God committed to the charge of his peo- 
ple; but his philosophical studies attached themselves 
to those doctrines of the Platonic philosophy which, 
while dealing with the same great question, approached 
it from an opposite point of view. (For Philo’s testi- 
mony to the divine authority of the Scriptures, see I it. 
Mos. lib. iii, c. 23 [p. 163, Mangey]; Quis rer. div. har. 
c. 52, 53, p. 510, 511. Other passages to the same effect 


PHILOSOPHY 


132 


PHILOSOPHY 


are cited by Gfrorer, i, 54. Philo even maintains the 
divine inspiration of the Septuagint version, Yit. Mos . 
ii, c. G, 7, p. 139, 140.) The result in his writings was an 
attempted combination of the two — the Greek philos- 
ophy supplying the fundamental idea, while the. Jewish 
Scriptures, through the Septuagint translation, contrib- 
uted, by means of an extravagant license of allegorical 
interpretation, much of the language and illustration 
of the system, besides imparting to it the apparent sanc- 
tion of a divine authority. The leading idea of Philo’s 
teaching is the expansion of that thought of Plato’s 
which forms the connecting link between the philoso- 
phy of Greece and the pantheism of the Past — that 
thought which represents the supreme principle of 
things as absolutely one and simple, beyond personality 
and beyond definite existence, and as such immutable 
and incapable of relation to temporal things. (Comp. 
Plato, Rep. vi, 509 ; ii, 381, Gfrbrcr, i, 134, and Franck, 
liict. des Sciences Philosophiques, art. Philon, regard 
this feature of Philo’s theology as of Oriental origin. 
Put his Greek studies might suggest the same idea, and 
much of his language seems to point to this origin. See 
Diihne, i, 31, 41.) 

In place of the God of the Hebrew Scriptures, who, 
even in liis most hidden and mysterious nature, is never 
regarded as other than a person, Philo is led to substi- 
tute the Greek abstraction of an ideal good or absolute 
unity, as the first principle of a system in which philos- 
ophy and theology are to be reconciled and united : 
and though he is unable entirely to abandon the lan- '■ 
guage of personality which the Scriptures at every ! 
page force upon their readers, he is at the same time 
unable, consistently with his philosophical assumptions, 
to admit an immediate personal relation between the 
Supreme Peing and the creature. (See JJe J fut. Xom. 
c. 4, p. 582; Gfrorer, i, 144; Diihne, ii, 154. The vari- 
ous passages inconsistent with this, in which Philo 
seems to speak of a direct action of God in the world, 
may perhaps be explained by supposing this action to 
be exerted through the medium of the Logos. Comp. 
Quod JJcus sit immut. c. 12, p. 281 ; Gfrorer, i, 199, 293.) 
The medium of reconciliation is sought in a develop- 
ment of the scriptural manifestation of the Wisdom and 
the Word of God, which take the place of the soul of 
the world as it appears in the Tinneus , being represent- 
ed as a second God — the connecting link between the 
first principle and the world ; in whom are concentrated 
those personal attributes which are indispensable to 
religious belief, and which are so conspicuously present 
in the Scripture theology ( Fragm . p. 625, ex Euseb. 
Prtep . Koenig, vii, 13 : Aid ri tog iripi irtpov Broo <pi](ji 
to iv it tear i Hfoo hrohjere top avSptoTOP, a\\’ oi’ft 
Ty tavTOu ; llnyfc'uXcjr Kni aotpiog rovri Kt\pi]opq^i/- 
Tm. () vijtov yap ovdiv tartiKOViaSiivai irphg tvv 

aiHoTUTW teai Uaripa tui v dAtov ievvaro, dXXti irpog 
t'ov eturtpov Dfcm og itirtr tut iron Adyog). The fol- 
lowing short summary of Philo’s system will serve to 
exhibit those of its features which are most nearly re- 
lated to our present inquiry (in this summary use has 
been made chiclly of that of Hegel, Gesc/i. der Philos. in 
his 1 1 'trie, xv, 18-23, and of that of Zeller, Philos, der 
Griechen, i ii, 594-665) : The highest aim of philosophy, 
and the most perfect happiness, according to Philo, is 
the knowledge of God in his absolute nature ( lie Vita 
< 'ontempl. c. 2, p. -173. Comp. J)e Vovf. Ling. c. 20, p. 
419; He. Viet, afferent, c. 1G, p. 201; he Monarch, i, 3, 

4, p. 216), in which he is exalted above all atlinitv to 
finite things, without qualities, and not to be expressed 
in speech ( Legis Alleg. i, c. 13, p. 50: « 7 ro«o£ 6 Oadf. 
Ibid. c. 15, p. 53: eti yap i/yiiaSai teat throtov avrbv 
etrai, Kui ehpSapTon Kai eiTpiiTTOV. l>e Sonm. i. 39. p. 
655: AlytuSai yap ov 7ritf>incn’, ciXXu porov etvat ~b 
or. Comp, lie \ 'it. Cont. c. 1, p. 172; Quod Dens im- 
mut. c. 11, p. 281). Such knowledge, though not fully 
attainable by any man, is nevertheless to be earnestly 
sought after, that it may be attained at least in that 
second degree in which wc apprehend directly the ex- 


istence of God, though falling short of a comprehension 
of his essence (lie Proem, et Pan. c. 7, p. 415. Comp. 
Gfrorer, i, 135, 199. liy this hypothesis of a primary 
and secondary knowledge, Gfrorer reconciles those pas- 
sages in which the knowledge of God is spoken of as 
unattainable with others apparently of an opposite im- 
port: e. g. Git Post. Caini, c. -is, p. 258; lie Monarch. 
i, G, p. 218). Even this amount, however, of direct 
knowledge is not to be gained by any effort of human 
thought, but only by God's revelation of himself; and 
such a revelation is only possible in the form of an ec- 
static intuition, in which the seer, himself passive, is 
elevated by divine inspiration above the conditions of 
finite consciousness, and becomes one with the God 
whom he contemplates (De Poster. Cain. c. 5, p.229; 
Legis Alleg. iii, 33, p. 107; lie Abr. e. 24, p. 19; lie 
Migr. Abr. c. 31, p. 463; Eragtn. p. G54; Qnis rer. div. 
liter. c. 13, 11, p.482; comp. Neander, Ch. Hist, i, 79, ed. 
Holm. This ecstatic intuition is insisted upon also by 
Plotinus and the later Platonists, as in modern times by 
Scholling). But this ecstatic vision is possible only to 
a chosen few; for the many, who are incapable of it, 
there remains only that inferior and improper appre- 
hension of God which can be gained through the means 
of derived and created existences, especially of his Word 
or Wisdom, who is the medium by which God is re- 
lated to the world, the God of imperfect men, as the 
Supreme Being is the God of the wise and perfect (Le- 
gis Alleg. iii, 32, p. 107 ; iii, 73. p. 128; lie Abr. c. 24, 
p. 19 ; he Migr. A br. c. 31, p. 4G3 ; lie Conf. Ling. c. 28, 
p. 427). This Word, or Logos, is described in various 
ways, some more naturally denoting an impersonal, oth- 
ers a personal being. (Whether the Logos of Philo is 
to be regarded as a distinct person or not is matter of 
controversy. The negative is maintained by Burton 
[ Hampton Lectures, note 93] and by Horner [Person of 
Christ, i, 27, Engl, transl. and note A], against Gfrorer, 
Diihne, Liicke, and the majority of recent critics. An 
intermediate view is taken by Zeller, iii, G2G, and to 
some extent by Prof. Jowett, Epistles of St. Paul, i, 484, 
2d ed.) He is the intelligible world, the archetypal 
pattern, the idea of ideas (He Mundi Opif. e. G, p. 5; 
elsewhere the A<Syo<; is distinguished from the Ttapa.- 
Ctiypa. See lie Coif Ling. e. 14, p. 414), the wisdom 
of God ( Legis Alleg. i. 19, p. 56), the shadow of God, by 
which, as by an instrument, he made the world (Legis. 
Alleg. iii, 31, p. 1UG; comp, lie Monarch, ii. 5, p. 225; 
lie Cherub, c. 35, p. 1G2): he is the eternal image of 
God (lie Conf. Ling. c. 28, p. 427. The contradiction 
between this representation and the concrete attributes 
ascribed to the Logos is pointed out by Hegel, 1 1 ’erke, 
xv, 20), the eldest and most general of created things 
(Legis Alleg. iii, 61, p. 121): lie is the first-born of God, 
the eldest angel or archangel (He Conf Ling. c. 28, p. 
427 ; Qnis rer. dir. ha r. e. 42, p. 501), the high-priest of 
the world (lie Sonin, i, 37, p. 653; comp. He Gig. c. 11, 
p. 2G9; Lie Migr. Abr. e. 18, p. 452), the interpreter of 
God (Legis Alleg. iii, 73, p. 128), the mediator between 
the Creator and bis creatures, the suppliant in behalf 
of mortals, the ambassador from the ruler to his subjects 
(Quis rer. dir. liter, c. 42, p. 501). lie is moreover the 
God in whose likeness man was made; for the supreme 
God cannot have any likeness to a mortal nature 
(Fragm, p. G26) : he is the angel who appeared to 1 la- 
gar (lie Somn. i, 41, p. G56 ; lie Prof. c. i. p. 547), the 
God of Jacob’s dream and the angel with whom he 
wrestled (He Sonin, i, 39, p. G55; lie Mut. Xom. e. 13, 
p. 591), the image of God who appeared to Moses at the 
bush ( ) it. Mos. i, 12, p. 91 ; comp. Gfrorer, i, p. 283, 284 \ 
the guide of the Israelites in the wilderness (lie Migr. 
.1 br. c. 31, p. 163). This interposition of the Logos thus 
serves to combine the theology of contemplation with 
that of worship and obedience; it endeavors to provide 
one God for those whose philosophical meditations aspire 
to an intuition of the absolute, and another for those 
whose religious feelings demand a personal object; 
while at the same time it attempts to preserve the unity 


PHILOSOPHY 


133 


PHILOSOPHY 


of God by limiting the attribution of proper and su- 
preme deity to the first principle only. 

In addition to this, which may be regarded as the 
central point of Philo’s system, some have endeavored 
to elicit from his writings a closer approximation to 
Christian doctrine, in the recognition of a third divine 
being, distinct both from the supreme God and from 
the Logos. (See Allix, Judgment of the Jewish Church , 

р. 118, ed. 1821 ; Kidder, Demonstration of the Messias, 
pt. iii, ch. 5.) A remarkable passage sometimes cited for 
this purpose occurs in his allegorizing commentary on 
the cherubim and the fiaming sword placed in Eden. 
“ With the one truly existent God,” he says, “ there are 
two first and highest powers, goodness and authority : 
by goodness be has produced everything, and by au- 
thority lie rules over that which he has produced ; and 
a third, vdiich brings both together as a medium, is 
reason; for by reason God is both a ruler and good. 
Of these two powers — authority and goodness — the 
cherubim are the symbol; and of reason, the flaming 
sword” ( De Cherub, c. 9, p. 148). In like manner he 
comments on the threefold appearance to Abraham in 
the plains of Mamre: “The middle appearance repre- 
sents the Father of the universe, who in the sacred writ- 
ings is called by his proper name, the Existent (ii "Qr), 
and those on each side are the most ancient powers and 
nearest to the Existent; one of which is called the 
creative and the other the kingly power. The creative 
power is God, for by this power be made and arranged 
the universe; and the kingly power is Lord, for it is 
meet that the Creator should rule over and govern the 
creature” (. De Abr. c. 24, p. 19; comp. De Sacr. Ah. et 
Cain. c. 15, p. 173). The inference, however, which has 
been drawn from these and similar passages rests on a 
very precarious foundation. There is no consistency 
in Philo’s exposition, either as regards the number or 
the nature of these divine powers. Even granting the 
disputed opinion that the powers represent distinct per- 
sonal beings, we find in one of the above passages the 
three beings all distinguished from the supreme God; 
while in the other he seems to be identified with one 
of them ; and the confusion is increased if we compare 
other passages in which additional powers are men- 
tioned with further distinctions. (Comp. De Mut. Xom. 

с. 4, p. 582, where a empyema ) SvrapLQ is mentioned as 
distinct from the fiamXua) and ttoiijtik)], and all three 
are distinguished from the supreme God.) The truth 
seems to be that Philo indulged his allegorizing fancy 
in the invention of divine powers ad libitum , in any 
number and with any signification which the text on 
which he was commenting for the moment might hap- 
pen to suggest; and he has no more difficulty in find- 
ing six divine powers to be represented by the six cities 
of refuge ( De Prof. c. 18, 19, p. 5G0, 5G1. In this pas- 
sage, again, the three higher powers, represented by the 
three cities beyond Jordan, are clearly distinguished 
from the supreme God) than he has in finding three, to 
suit the two cherubim and the flaming sword. In this 
kind of desultory playing with the language of Scrip- 
ture it is idle to look for any definite doctrine, philo- 
sophical or theological. 

It must not be supposed that the doctrines here at- 
tributed to Philo are clearly and unambiguously enun- 
ciated in his writings. Many passages might be quoted 
apparently indicating different views; and probably no 
consecutive summary of doctrines could be drawn up 
against which similar objections might not be urged. 
This difficulty is unavoidable in the case of a writer 
like Philo, who attempts to combine together two an- 
tagonistic systems, of whose antagonism he is himself 
but imperfectly, if at all, conscious. Philo’s system has 
been called an eclecticism ; but it was not so much an 
eclecticism founded on definite principles of selection as 
an accumulation of speculations which he w r as unable 
to combine into a consistent whole, though persuaded 
of the existence of a common principle of truth concealed 
under them, There is a perpetual struggle between the 


Jewish and the heathen, the religious and the philo- 
sophical elements of his system, if system it can be 
called, which cannot be set at rest by all the latitude of 
interpretation which he so freely indulges in. Hence 
his religious convictions perpetually manifest themselves 
in language inconsistent with his philosophical theories; 
and the utmost that can be attempted in a short analysis 
of his teaching is to give an outline of the system as it 
probably would have been had it been logically carried 
out, not as it actually appears in his own very illogical 
attempt to carry it out. 

In the language as well as in the doctrines of Philo 
we may trace the influence of Greek philosophy in con- 
junction with the literature of his own nation. The 
theory, indeed, which would trace the term Aoyog to 
the few and unimportant passages in which it is em- 
ployed by riato is too fanciful and far-fetched to be 
tenable; but the appearance in Philo of the Stoical dis- 
tinction between Ad-yog tvdia&tTog and Ad-yog jrpoejiopi- 
koc, as well as his general use of the term, seems to in- 
dicate that in the employment of this word he was in- 
fluenced by the language of the Greek philosophy, 
though perhaps in conjunction with that of the Sept. 
(On the Adyog of the Stoics and its relation to Philo, 
see Zeller, Philos, der Griechen, iii, 630. Comp. Wyt- 
tenbach on Plutarch , ii, 44, A. The distinction between 
IvSiaStTog and irpo<popiKog Adyog, though acknowl- 
edged by Philo, is not applied by him directly to the 
divine reason [see Gfrbrer, i, 177]. On other affinities 
between Philo and the Stoics, see A^alckenar, Diatr. 
de A ristobulo, sec. xxxii.) In the use of the cognate 
term So <pia, as nearly, if not quite equivalent to Ad- 
yog, he was probably more directly influenced by 
writers of his own nation, by the Sept, version of the 
Proverbs, and by the books of Ecclesiasticus and Wis- 
dom. (On the identity of Adyog and So0('a in Philo, 
see Gfrorer, i, 213 sq.) Thus his language, no less than 
his matter, indicates the compound character of his 
writings ; the twofold origin of his opinions being par- 
alleled by a similar twofold. source of the terms in which 
they are expressed. 

It is necessary to dwell to some extent upon the 
-writings of Philo, because it is through them, if at all, 
that the influence of the Greek philosophy on the Chris- 
tian Scriptures is to be traced. Whether we admit the 
conjecture that St. John, during his residence at Eph- 
esus, might have become acquainted with Philo’s writ- 
ings; or whether we regard these writings as the extant 
representatives of a widely diffused doctrine, which 
might have reached the apostle through other channels 
(see, for the one supposition, dean Milman, in a note on 
Gibbon, ch. xxi ; and for the other, Gfrorer, i, 807 ; ii, 
4), it is to the asserted coincidences between this evan- 
gelist and the Alexandrian philosopher that we must 
look for the chief evidence for or against the theory 
which asserts an influence of Greek speculations on 
Christian doctrine. The amount of that influence, 
however, has been very differently estimated by differ- 
ent critics ; one of whom, as has been before observed, 
ascribes to it nearly all the distinctive doctrines of the 
Christian Church ; while another considers that the 
whole resemblance between St. John and Philo maj^ be 
accounted for by their common use of certain passages 
of the O. T., especially those concerning the angel of 
the Lord, and the distinction between the hidden and 
the revealed God (see Tholuck on the Gospel of St. John, 
p. G5, Engl, transl.). The truth may perhaps be found 
in an intermediate view, if we distinguish between the 
Christian doctrine itself and the language in which it 
is expressed. Notwithstanding the verbal parallels 
which may be adduced between the language of Philo 
and that of some portions of the N. T., the relation be- 
tween the Alexandrian and the Christian doctrine is 
one rather of contrast than of resemblance. The distin- 
guishing doctrine of the Christian revelation — that of 
the Word made flesh — not only does not appear in Philo, 
but could not possibly appear, consistently with the lead- 


PHILOSOPHY 


134 


PHILOSOPHY 


ing principles of his philosophy, according to which the 
flesh, anti matter in general, is condemned as the source 
of all evil. The development of Philo’s doctrine, if ap- 
plied to the person of Christ, will lead, as has been point- 
ed out, not to Christianity, but to doeetism (see Dorner 
on the Person of Christ, i, 17, Kngl. transl.) ; and in the 
distinction, which he constantly makes, between the ab- 
solute Cod and the secondary deity, who alone is capa- 
ble of relation to finite things, we may trace the germ 
of a theory which afterwards, in various forms, became 
conspicuous in the different developments of gnosti- 
cism. 

In fact, the method of Philo, both in his philosophical 
theories and in his interpretations of Scripture, is so far 
from being, either in substance or in spirit, an anticipa- 
tion of the Christian revelation, that it may rather be 
taken as a representative of the opposite spirit of ration- 
alism, the tendency of which is to remove all distinction 
between natural and revealed religion, by striving to 
bring all religious doctrines alike within the compass 
of human reason. It is not the reception of divine truth 
as a fact, resting on the authority of an inspired teacher, 
telling ns that these things are so; it is rather an inqui- 
ry into causes and grounds, framing theories to explain 
how they are so. The doctrine of the Logos, as it ap- 
pears in Philo, is a hypothesis assumed in order to ex- 
plain how it is possible that the Cod whom his philoso- 
phy taught him to regard as above all relation to finite 
existence, could nevertheless, as his religion taught him 
to believe, be actually manifested in relation to the world. 
To explain this difficulty, he has recourse to the suppo- 
sition of an intermediate being between Cod and the 
world; standing, as it were, midway between the ab- 
stract and impersonal on the one side, and the definite 
and personal on the other; and described in language 
which wavers between the two conceptions, without 
succeeding in combining them. In this respect the 
theory reminds 11 s not only of those forms of gnosticism 
which subsequently emanated from the Alexandrian phi- 


losophy under the influence of Christianity, as Philo’s 
system emanated from the same philosophy under the 
influence of Judaism, but also, to some extent, of later 
speculations, which, in the endeavor to transfer the 
Catholic faith from a historical to a metaphysical foun- 
dation, have regarded the doctrine of the incarnation 
of the divine Word, not as the literal statement of a fact 
which took place at an appointed time, but as the figu- 
rative representation of an eternal process in the divine 
nature. (See Fichte, Anweisuny zum seliyen Ltben, 
Werke, v, 4*2; Schelling, Yorlesungen tiler A rad. Stud. 
p. 192; Hegel, Philosophic dtr Geschichte, Werke, ix, 
38X; llitur, Chnstliche Gnosis, p. 715.) 

On the other hand, the Christian revelation, while dis- 
tinctly proclaiming as a fact the reconciliation of man to 
God bv One who is both God and man, yet announces 
this great truth as a mystery to be received by faith, 
not as a theory to be comprehended by reason. The 
mystery of the union between God’s nature and man’s 
does not cease to be mysterious because we are assured 
that it is real. No intermediate hypothesis is advanced 
to facilitate the union of the two natures by removing 
the distinctive attributes of either; no attempt is made 
to overcome the philosophical difficulties of the doctrine 
by deifying the humanity of Christ or humanizing his 
divinity. 1 ! is divine nature is not less divine than that 
of his Father; his human nature is not loss human than 
that of his brethren. The intellectual difficulty of com- 
prehending how this can be remains still : but the au- 
thority of a divine revelation is given to enable us to 
believe notwithstanding. 

But while we acknowledge the wide and fundamental 
differences which exist between the doctrines of the Al- 
exandrian Judaism and those of the Christian Scriptures, 
we must also acknowledge the existence of some strik- 
ing similarities of language between the writings of 
Philo and some parts of the N. T. The following in- 
stances exhibit some of the most remarkable parallels 
of this kind : 


N. T. 

John i, 1. ’Ey upxjj '»*' u Aoyoc, nat 6 A oyor t)v wpor ran 
Geop, Hat Oeor t)i/ 6 Aon or. 


John 1, 3. lUivTa it' avroZ iyevero, Kai xotpie avrov iyivero 
ovie tv o ytyovev. 

John i, 4. Kai h £<oi; »ji/ to <pmr tu>v uvljpwnmv . 9. tp to 

<pii>r to uXrj^«pdp d tpiorii^ei irapTa tipSpctmop. 

John i, 18. Gcop oddeir impose wwwore * 6 povoyeiip vioc 6 
m v ete t ov saXwov t ov narpue, iseivor if nyi/oaro. (The par- 
allels sometimes adduced from John iv, 10 and vi, 32, as 
compared with lie Prof. Is, p. 500, and Legis Alleg. ii, 21 ; 
iii, 50, 59, are very questionable. In both cases the allu- 
sion seems to arise naturally from the conversation, aud 
not from any reference to Philo.) 

1 John i, 5. ’On d Oedc <pmr lari, Kai osoria tv avrm ovs 
tonv oviepia. 

1 John H, 1. Kai idp nr upuprtj, wapasXnrov txopev wpor 
tom waripa, 'hitrovv Xptarav iisatov. 


Bom. IV, 1 i- O cop t ov h'aXoi’VTOf tu p Ij tivra iLf ovtol. 

1 (’or. iii, 1, 2. me vtinioie iv Xpnrrm’ ydAa vpae iwontra, 
Kai ov fipwpa ; comp. Ileb. v, 12, 13. 

1 Cor. iv, 1. wf vwnpirar XptoroZ sat oikopumop? pvtrrnptmv 
Ueov. 

1 Cor. X, 4. ewtvov yap is w\ evpansrir asoXoviovatp wirpat’ 

1 it wtrp a »']p 6 Xpttrrur. 

1 Cor. xiii, 12. (3Xiwopevy<\p tiprt it' itrowrpov tv a' viypart, 

2 Cor. iii, 18. tip tie it wdvrtr avusesaXvpptvm wpoomwm t ijv 
dofap K vpiav KaTowrpt^opevot. 

2 Cor. iii, 3. IwtaroXg XpttTToZ itasovti^cZoa Zip’ iipwv, tyye- 
ypappivn ov pi\av t, dXXd jriti'paTi Otup ^uipto*, ovs iv wXaf i 
Xijtvate, uXXd iv wXaft sapitae trupsii ate. 

2 Cor. iv, 4. top XpttrroZ, or tffTtv e.smv t oZ Gcop; comp. 
C’ol. i, 15. 


Philo. 

De Covf. Ling. 28, p. 4‘27. r>ie atdtov cikopoc aPTod, Xdyop 
t ov UptoToTov. De Sonin, i, 39, p. 055. sa\ei it at ov tov 
wpetrfivrarov uptop i ph Xir/ov. Fragm. p. 025. wpor top 
ievrepov Ocd v or tor tv iseivov Xityor. 

Dc Monarch, ii, 5, p. 225. .\6yor H co-tip elsmv OtoZ, it' ov 
ovpnar 6 soouor iiopiovpyeiro. 

De Mundi Opif. S, p. 6. Sat rairrrir el SOI a to po»itop <f>mt 
tseivo, o Seiov Xiiyov ytyo pcp cIkcup top dieppoiperoai toc ti/p 
yeveatv avrov. 

Legis Alleg. iii, 73, p. 128. op wept rT.r tpioemr avrov ota- 
yvmvut dpparat, uXX' u^aJTiiTOP, iup top tnoparor avrov ivvt]- 
Umptv, u wep i)v, rov ippnvttor Xoyov. 


De Sonin, i, 13, p. 632. iwetii) wpiurov pi P o Otoe tfimr ion. 

Dc Vit. Mos. iii, 14, p. 155. ’A» a'jSaiov yap >)v rov epu'pivov 
rm top soopov warpi wapaKXi/rm xpiitrZat reXetortirw rip ape- 
r i/v vltv wpot re iiuvijoreiav upaprtiottrtoi , s.r.X. 

[Tlie Son of God here is the world, represented by the 
vestments of the high-priest.] 

De Crcat. PrillC. 7, p. 307. Ta ytip pi ; oito istlXetrc v e'tr to 

De A grieult. 2, p. 301. ’r.rrci ii Iiiwiott pev ion 
rpotpi], reXeiotr ii- Til is wvpmv wtppara, sat tl/i’X'A yaXasrm- 
ittr pi v av eiev rpotpat, s.r.X. 

Dc Prtvm. et Porn. 20, p. 427. poFv KacapS-ti ra Kai upittijp 
yeyovora twp Scoop tcXctcop. 

Legis Alleg. ii, 21, p. S2. h yap asporotiot wtr pa h aotftia 
rov (leoo ... if or wor,llei T«r (ptXotpiovr il/t'X’te. 

Dc Decal. 21, p. 198. rnr ytip it a sarowrpov tpavraotovrai a 
voir Ocop, s . t. X. 

Quod Omn. jtrob. lib. 7, p. 452. Sopor ii inhevirir 6 
ip-dv Xayor, ov\ vwo rov ieivoe 11 top dcii ov - 1 ijtop epiapror 
iv xoprtiiotr *; <7T*;Xa»v a<l/vxoe it*l>i'X‘>ir, itXX' vw' aStuuirov 
tpvotuie atpSapror cp dJapuTiu itavota rvwmzeir. 

De Monarch . ii, 5, p. 225. Xd^or ii ionv e!kuip (>cop. Dc 
Conf. Ling. 28, p. 427. Ocop yip e.smv Xoyor d wt/to/ivraror. 


PHILOSOPHY 1 

Col. i, 15. npmoTOKOs ircl<rt\s (cri'creur; comp. Deb. i, G. 


1 Tim. ii, 5. Ely yap Geo?, el? Kai peoirrir Oeov uai iiv$pd>- 
noiv, uvSpuyiro? Xpiords ’In trow. 


Ileb. i, 2. bd ov Kai tiroirtaev tovs alaiya?. 

Ileb. i, 3. or fiy unavyaapa Trit 56frj? Kai xapaicri/p rij? 
lirocrdaemt airou. 


Ileb. i li, 1. KaTaya/jcaTe tov uttootoAov uai upxtepea ns 
6/uo\aytas tipeov Xptardi/ ’In oovv. 

Ileb. iii, 4. 7rci? yap oikos KaTaOKevdQrat viro Tiyo? * 6 de 
rii rravra KaToOKeuaoas Gto?. 


Heb. iv, 12. ££>y y itp o Aoyos tov Geoy, Kai evepyt/t, Kai 
Topunepor inep 7racrav pdxaipav bioropov, Kai buKvoiipevot 
a\pt peptopov ypvx's Te Ka ‘ irvevparos, uppiuv Te Kai pveAwv. 


Heb. iv, 14, 15. "Exo^Te? ovv iipxtepta peyav, dieAnAuSoTa 
T our oiipuvov?,'lri<Tovv tov i>idv Tt>i» &eov, KpaTibpev t7,? opoAa- 
71a?. Ov yap exopev upxtepea pi] duyd/ueyay avpnuSriaat Tat? 
uuSeveiau iipGiv, nenetpapevov be Kara ndvra naS’ u/uotoTTjra 
Xd)pir a papTtav, 

Heb. VI, 13. Tcp yap A ftpadp 67ra77ei Att/aeyo? d Geo?, eirei 
Kar’ oi/deyu? et’xe /U£'C 0l '°*' bpooat, iopooe KaSr ' eauroy. 

Heb. vii, 25. wayTOTe £«y el? to ei/TU 7 X“»'eiv y7rtp auTiov. 
(It may be questioned whether the allegorical commentary 
ou Melchisedck [Leg. Alleg.m, 26, p.103] is a fair parallel to 
Heb. vii. The latter seems more likely to have been taken 
directly from Psa. cx, without the intervention of Philo.) 

Heb. xi, 4. Kai d<’ at/Ttiy aTroS'aywy 6Tt XoAenat. 


An examination of these passages will, we believe, 
confirm the view which has been above taken of the 
doctrinal differences between them ; while, at the same 
time, it will enable us to discern a purpose to be served 
by the verbal resemblances which they undoubtedly ex- 
hibit. If we except instances of merely accidental sim- 
ilarity in language, without any affinity in thought; or 
quotations by way of illustration, such as St. Paul occa- 
sionally borrows from heathen writers ; or thoughts and 
expressions derived from the O. T., and therefore com- 
mon to Philo and the apostles, as alike acknowledging 
and making use of the Jewish Scriptures; they may be 
reduced, for the most part, to two heads: first, the use of 
the name 6 Aoyof, by St. John, as a title of Christ, and 
the application to him, both by St. John and St. Paul, 
of various attributes and offices ascribed by Philo to 
the divine Word, and to the various philosophical rep- 
resentations with which the Word is identified; and, 
secondly, the recognition, chiefly in the acknowledged 
writings of St. Paul and in the Epistle to the Hebrews, 
of a spiritual sense, in parts of Scripture, distinct from 
the literal interpretation; though this is employed far 
more cautiously and sparingly than in Philo, and as an 
addition to, rather than, as Philo for the most part em- 
ploys it, as a substitute for the literal sense. The apos- 
tles, it would appear from these passages, availed them- 
selves, in some degree, of the language already estab- 
lished in the current speculations of their countrymen, 
in order to correct the errors with which that language 
was associated, and to lead men’s minds to a recognition 
of the truth of which these errors were the counterfeit. 
This is only what might naturally be expected from men 
desirous of adapting the truths which they had to teacli^ 
to the circumstances of those to whom they had to teach 
them. There was an earlier gnosticism founded in part 
on the perversion of the Law, as there was a later gnos- 
ticism founded in part on the perversion of the Gospel; 
and it is probable that, at least at the time when St.John 
Wrote, the influence of both had begun to be felt in the 


5 PHILOSOPHY 

Legis Alleg. iii, 61, p. 121. 6 X 070 ? to5 eeoj . . . irpeapina- 
to? Kai yeviKwTaTu? ribv ecru ycyove. De Agrieult. 12, p. SOS. 
Toy opS’ov avTov Xo^oy, TTpunoyovov yidy. DeProf. 20, p. 562. 

6 pev npec/iinaTOf t uv oy tot Aoyo ?. De Suvill. i, 37, p. 653. 
d pxtepeiii 6 7rpu>Toyovoi ainov $e7o? A 070 ?. 

Quia rer. div. hcer. 42, p, 501, T <Z be upxayyeAw Kai irpeo- 
Pvtutw Aoyoj biepedv e^aiperov eb uiKev o rd oXa yevvuous 
Trariip/iva peSoptov ctt'Is to yevopevov btaKpivt] tov irenoit]Ko- 
T Of, K. T. X. 

De Cherub. 35, p. 162. aiTtov piv ainov tov Geoy . . . I Ipya - 
vov be Ad-yoy GeaS, bt’ ov KaTeoKevua$t\. 

De 31 undi Opif. 51, p. 35. iru? uvSpanot koto piv t'i v 
bt'ivoiuv (yKetwTut S’etip Aoyiy, t? paKapias (comp. Saj). Sol. 
vii, 26). De Plant. Xoe, 5, p. 332. (pvaeau enpayeiov n coro- 
imaopa 1) anavyuapa ^t^oycor ofppuyibi Geoy is 0 xopaKTrp 
e<TTiv ulbioi Auyoi. 

De Sonin, i, 38, p. 654. 6 pev bij peyas upxiepev r t 7,r 6 /uoXo- 

De Cherub. 35, p. 162. oIk/o Kat n6As •ndaa Vya KaTaoKey- 
aoStj, t iva (rvveio'eAS'elv be 7; up’ ov buptovpyvv, k.t.A. . . . 
MeTtAirttiy ovv u7rd T«>y ev ptpet KaTaoKevuiv, 1 be Ti;y /ue-jiffTtiy 
oiKiav i) TroXiy, Toyde Toy Koapov * el‘pi;oett yap aiTtoy pev 
avTov tov Qeov, k.t. X. 

Quia rer. div. hcer. 26, p. 401. tiZ t opel tS>v ovpndvTwv 

ainov Aoyiy, df es t>,v v^vtutuv aKoyiiS’et? aKpi/v biaipwv ovbe- 
rroTe Aijyei tu a ffS’iiru 7rdvra. 27, p. 402. Ootw? 6 Bed? 
aKoyiiadjueyor Toy Tojut'a Taiy cvpudvrvyv uutov X<> 70 y, biatpeT 
Ttjv Te upopepov Kai enrotov twv ciXuy oloiav. 

De Prof. 20, p. 562. A eyopev yap tov upxtepea ov K avSpa)- 
nov dXXd Xo^oy $eiov eivai, ttuvtwv oi>x eiiovaitov pavov, dXXd 
Kai aKoucriaiv abtKtipdToov iipeTOXOv. De ITt’t.10, p. 246. on o 
7 rpdr dXr'j^ecay apx‘epei>s Kai pi] \I/evbu>vvpor aptToxos itpapTti- 
Putwv emiv. 

Legis Alleg. iii, 72, p. 127. 'Opa? yap ot« ov wj’ eTf'poy 
bpvvet Gear, oddty yap ainov Kpcmov, dXXd Ka^’ eavrov, cr 
eon 7rdyT&)y aptoTos. 

Quia rer. div. hcer. 42, p. 501. d b' aoTor iKtTnr pev eon tov 
5yf]Toy KnpaivovTos uei irpos to cupSaprov. 


Quod deter, potior i inaid. 14, p. 200. Maprvpijoet be to 
XpnoZrtv Aoyiov, ey w epusvij xpdipeyo? Kai f3owv ci TreTroyS’ey into 
kukov ouvSerov Ttjbuvyd)? evpioKerat. llai? yap 6 p^Kef tcy 
btuMye<r~ai bvvaros ; 

Christian Church, and had modified to some extent the 
language of its theology (see Burton, Bampton Lectures, 
p. 218). If so, the adoption of that language, as a ve- 
hicle of Christian doctrine, would furnish the natural 
means both of correcting the errors which had actually 
crept into the Church, and of counteracting the influ- 
ence of the source from which they sprang. If the phil- 
osophical Jews of Alexandria, striving, as speculative 
minds in every age have striven, to lay the foundations 
of their philosophy in an apprehension of the one and 
the absolute, were driven by the natural current of such 
speculations to think of the supreme God as a being 
remote and solitary, having no relation to finite things, 
and no attributes out of which such a relation can arise, 
it is natural that the inspired Christian teacher should 
have been directed to provide, by means of their own 
language, the antidote to their error; to point, in the 
revelation of God and man united in one Christ, to the 
truth, and to the manner of attaining the truth ; to turn 
the mind of the wandering seeker from theory to fact, 
from speculation to belief; to bid him look, with the 
eye of faith, to that great mystery of godliness in which 
the union of the infinite and the finite is realized in fact, 
though remaining still incomprehensible in theory. If 
the same philosophers, again, seeking to bridge over 
the chasm which their speculations had interposed be- 
tween God and man, distorted the partial revelation of 
the Angel of the Covenant, which their Scriptures sup- 
plied, into the likeness of the ideal universe of the Tla- 
tonist, or of the half-personified world-reason of the 
Stoic, it was surely no unworthy object of the apostolic 
teaching to lead them, by means of the same language, 
to the true import of that revelation, as made known, in 
its later and fuller manifestation, by the advent of the 
Word made flesh. If the Platonizing expositor of the 
Jewish Scriptures, eager to find the foreign philosophy 
which he adopted in the oracles of God committed to 
his own people, explained away their literal import by 
a system of allegory and metaphor, it was natural that 


PHILOSOPHY 


136 


PHILOSOPHY 


the inspired writers of the New Covenant should point 
out the true meaning of those marks which the Jewish 
history and religion so clearly bear of a spiritual signifi- 
cance beyond themselves, by showing how the institu- 
tions of the Law and the record of God's dealings with 
his chosen people are not an allegory contrived for the 
teaching of a present philosophy, but an anticipation, 
designed by the divine Author of the whole as a prep- 
aration, directly and indirectly, by teaching and train- 
ing, by ritual and prophecy, by type and symbol, to 
make ready the way for him that was to come. 

The attempts made by Grossmann, Gfrbrer, and oth- 
ers, to explain the origin of Christianity as an offshoot 
of the Jewish philosophy of Alexandria rest mainly on 
these occasional coincidences of language, while over- 
looking fundamental differences of doctrine. The ideal 
Logos, the distinguishing feature of the Alexandrian 
philosophy, has no place in the teaching of the N.T. 
The belief in one Christ, very God and very man, has 
not only no place in, but is diametrically opposed to the 
philosophical speculations of Philo. For his personal 
relations to Christianity, see Philo. Christianity came 
into the world at a time when the Grivco-Jewish modes 
of thought, of which Philo is the representative, were 
prevalent; and the earliest Christian teachers, so far as 
they had to deal with those to whom that philosophy j 
was familiar, could do so most effectually by means of , 
its language and associations. These considerations 
seem naturally to explain the resemblance and the dif- 
ference between the two systems — resemblance as re- 1 
gardsthe language employed; difference as regards the 
doctrine which that language conveys. 

See Iveferstein, Philo's Lchre v. d. yottl. Mittelwesen I 
(Leips. 1*46) ; Niedner, De Xoyiy apud Philonem (in the 
Zeitsckr.f.hist. Tlteol. 1*111) ; Clarke’s Comm, ad loc. Job. ; 
Bryant, Philo Judceus (Cambr. 1707, 8vo). See Logos. 

III. Christianity in Contact with Ancient Philosophy. 
— The only direct trace of the contact of Christiauit}- 
with Western philosophy in the N. T. is in the account 
of Paul’s visit to Athens, where “certain philosophers 
of the Epicureans and of the Stoics” (Acts xvii, IS) — 
the representatives, that is, of the two great moral 
schools which divided the West — “encountered him;” 
and there is nothing in the apostolic writings to show 
that it exercised any important influence upon the early 
Church (comp. 1 Cor. i, 22-21). But it was otherwise 
with Eastern speculation, which, as it was less scientific 
in form, penetrated more deeply through the mass of 
the people. The “philosophy” against which the Co- 
lossians were warned (Col. ii, 8) seems undoubtedly to 
have been of Eastern origin, containing elements simi- 
lar to those which were afterwards embodied in various 
shapes of gnosticism, as a selfish asceticism and a su- 
perstitious reverence for angels (vcr. 10-23), and in the 
Epistles to Timothy, addressed to Ephesus, in which 
city Paul anticipated the rise of false teaching (Acts 
xx, 30), two distinct forms of error may be traced, in 
addition to Judaism, due more or less to the same influ- 
ence. < )nc of these was a vain spiritualism, insisting 
on ascetic observances, and interpreting the resurrection j 
as a moral change (l Tim. iv, 1-7 ; 2 Tim. ii, 16-1*) ; the 
other a materialism allied to sorcery (2 Tim. iii, 13, yo- 
jjTtc). The former is that which is peculiarly “false- 
styled gnosis" (l Tim. vi, 20), abounding in “profane 
and old wives’ fables” (iv, 7) and empty discussions (i, 
6; vi, 20); the hitter has a close connection with ear- 
lier tendencies at Ephesus (Acts xix, 19), and with the 
traditional accounts of Simon Magus (comp, viii, 9), 
whose working on the early Church, however obscure, 
was unquestionably most important. These antago- 
nistic ami yet complementary forms of heresy found a 
wide development in later times; but. it. is remarkable 
that no trace of dualism, of the distinction of the Crea- 
tor and the Hedeemer, the Demiurge and the true God, 
which formed so essential a tenet of the Gnostic schools, 
occurs in the N.T. (comp. Thiersch, Versuck zur Her- I 
stellimy d. hist. Stundpunkhs, etc., p. 231-301). 


The writings of the sub-apostolic age, with the ex- 
ception of the famous anecdote of Justin Martyr ( Dial 
2-4), throw little light upon the relations of Christian- 
ity and philosophy. The heretical systems again are 
too obscure and complicated to illustrate more than the 
general admixture of foreign (especially Eastern) tenets 
with the apostolic teaching. One book, however, has 
been preserved in various shapes, which, though still 
unaccountably neglected in Church histories, contains 
a vivid delineation of the speculative struggle which 
Christianity had to maintain with Judaism and hea- 
thenism. The Clementine Homilies (ed. Dressel, 1833) 
and Recognitions (ed. Gersdorf, 1*3*) are a kind of phi- 
losophy of religion, and in subtlety and richness of 
thought yield to no early Christian writings. The pict- 
ure which the supposed author draws of his early relig- 
ious doubts is evidently taken from life (Clem. Hecoyn. 
i, 1-3; Ncandcr, Ch. Hist, i, 43, Engl, transl.); and in 
the discussions which follow there are clear traces of 
Western as well as Eastern philosophy (Uhlhorn, Hie 
Horn. u. llecoyn. d. Clem. Horn. p. 404, etc.). 

At the close of the 2d century, when the Church of 
Alexandria came into marked intellectual pre-eminence, 
the mutual influence of Christianity and Neo-Platonism 
opened a new field of speculation, or, rather, the two 
systems were presented in forms designed to meet the 
acknowledged wants of the time. According to the 
commonly received report, Origen was the scholar of 
Ammonius Saccas, who first gave consistency to the 
later Platonism, and for a long time he was the contem- 
porary of Plotinus (A.D. 205-279), who was its noblest 
expositor. Neo-Platonism was, in fact, an attempt to 
seize the spirit of Christianity, apart from its historic 
basis and human elements. The separation between 
the two was absolute; and yet the splendor of the one- 
sided spiritualism of the Neo-Platonists attracted in 
some cases the admiration of the Christian fathers (Ba- 
sil, Theodoret), and the wide circulation of the writings 
of the pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite served to prop- 
agate many of their doctrines under an orthodox name 
among the schoolmen and mystics of the Middle Ages 
(Vogt, Xeu-Platonismus it. Christenthum, 1836 ; 1 lerzog, 
Encyklop. s. v. Neu-Platonismus). Sec Neo- Plato- 
nism. 

The want which the Alexandrian fathers endeavored 
to satisfy is in a great measure the want of our own 
time. If Christianity be truth, it must have points of 
special connection with all nations and all periods. The 
difference of character in the constituent writings of the 
N. T. are evidently typical, and present the Gospel in a 
form (if technical language may be used) now ethical, 
now logical, now mystical. The varieties of aspect 
thus indicated combine to give the idea of a harmonious 
whole. Clement rightly maintained that there is a 
“gnosis” in Christianity distinct from the errors of 
gnosticism. The latter was a premature attempt to 
connect the Gospel with earlier systems; the former a 
result of conflict grounded on faith (Mulder, Patroloyie , 
p. 424, etc.). Christian philosophy may be in one sense 
a contradiction in terms, for Christianity confessedly 
derives its first principles from revelation, and not from 
simple reason; but there is no less a true philosophy of 
Christianity, which aims to show how completely these, 
by their form, their substance, and their consequences, 
meet the instincts and aspirations of all ages. The ex- 
position of such a philosophy would be the work of a 
modern < )rigen. 

See Halier, J'hilosophie dcr Kirchenvuier (Milnch. 
1*59); Stock!, Philos, d. patristischen Zeit (Wurzburg, 
1*59); Muller, Kostnoloyie in d. yriech. Kirche (Halle, 
186*). 

IV. Patristic Hecoynit ion o f the Propaedeutic Office o f 
Creek Philosophy. — The divine discipline of the Jews 
was in nature essentially moral. See PniLOsoriiY, 
IIkuickw. The lessons which it was designed to teach 
were embodied in the family and the nation. Yet this 
was not in itself a complete discipline of our nature. 


PHILOSOPHY 


137 


PHILOSOPHY 


The reason, no less than the will and the affections, had 
an office to discharge in preparing man for the incarna- 
tion. The process and the issue in the two cases were 
widely different, but they were in some sense comple- 
mentary. Even in time this relation holds good. The 
divine kingdom of the Jews was just overthrown when 
free speculation arose in the Ionian colonies of Asia. 
The teaching of the last prophet nearly synchronized 
with the death of Socrates. All other differences be- 
tween the discipline of reason and that of revelation are 
implicitly included in their fundamental difference of 
method. In the one, man boldly aspired at once to 
God; in the other, God disclosed himself gradually to 
man. Philosophy failed as a religious teacher practi- 
cally (Rom. i, 21, 22), but it bore noble witness to an 
inward law (ii, 14, 15). It laid open instinctive wants 
which it could not satisfy. It cleared away error, 
when it could not found truth. It swayed the foremost 
minds of a nation, when it left the mass without hope. 
In its purest and grandest forms it was “a schoolmaster 
to bring men to Christ” (Clem. Alex. Strom, i, § 28). 

This function of ancient philosophy is distinctly rec- 
ognised by many of the greatest of the fathers. The 
principle which is involved in the doctrine of Justin 
Martyr on “the Seminal Word” finds a clear and sys- 
tematic expression in Clement of Alexandria (comp. Re- 
depenning, Origenes , i, 437-439). “ Every race of men 

participated in the Word. And they who lived with 
the Word were Christians, even if they were held to be 
godless (a&eoi), as, for example, among the Greeks, 
Socrates and Heraclitus, and those like them” (Just. 
Mart. Ap. i, 46 ; comp, i, 5, 28, and ii, 10, 13). “ Phi- 

losophy,” says Clement, “before the coming of the 
Lord, was necessary to Greeks for righteousness ; and 
now it proves useful for godliness, being in some sort a 
preliminary discipline (irpoTrctidva ri£ ouva) for those 
who reap the fruits of the faith through demonstration. 
. . . Perhaps we may say that it was given to the 
Greeks with this special object (irpoiiyovpf-vujg), for it 
brought (iiraicaydjyu) the Greek nation to Christ, as 
the law brought the Hebrews” (Clem. Alex. Strom, i, 
5, § 28; comp. 9, § 43, and 16, § 80). In this sense he 
does not scruple to say that “ Philosophy was given as 
a peculiar testament (SiaBijKgv) to the Greeks, as form- 
ing the basis of the Christian philosophy” (ibid, vi, 8, 
§ 67 ; comp. 5, § 41). Origen, himself a pupil of Ammo- 
nias Saccas, speaks with less precision as to the educa- 
tional power of philosophy, but his whole works bear 
witness to its influence. The truths which the philos- 
ophers taught, he says, referring to the words of Paul, 
were from God, for “God manifested these to them, 
and all things that have been nobly said” (c. Cels, vi, 3; 
Philoc.15). Augustine, while depreciating the claims 
of the great Gentile teachers, allows that “some of 
them made great discoveries, so far as they received 
help from heaven, while they erred so far as they were 
hindered by human frailty” (August. Be Civ. ii, 7 ; 
comp. Be Boctr. Chr. ii, 18). They had, as he else- 
where says, a distant vision of the truth, and learned 
from the teaching of nature w hat prophets learned from 
the Spirit ( Serm . Ixviii, 3; cxl, etc.). 

But while many thus recognised in philosophy the 
free witness of the Word speaking among men, the 
same writers in other places sought to explain the par- 
tial harmony of philosophy and revelation by an orig- 
inal connection of the two. This attempt, which in the 
light of a clearer criticism is seen to be essentially fruit- 
less and even suicidal, w r as at least more plausible in 
the first centuries. A multitude of writings w r ere then 
current bearing the names of the Sibyl or llystaspes, 
which were obviously based on the O.-T. Scriptures, 
and as long as they were received as gennine it was 
impossible to doubt that Jewish doctrines were spread 
in the West before the rise of philosophy. On the 
other hand, when the fathers ridicule with the bitterest 
scorn the contradictions and errors of philosophers, it 
must be remembered that they spoke often fresh from 


a conflict with degenerate professors of systems which 
had long lost all real life. Some indeed there w T ere, 
chiefly among the Latins, who consistently inveighed 
against philosophy. But even Tertullian, who is among 
its fiercest adversaries, allows that at times the philoso- 
phers hit upon truth by a happy chance or blind good- 
fortune, and yet more by that “ general feeling with 
which God was pleased to endow the soul” (Tertull. Be 
An. 2). The use which was made of heathen specula- 
tion by heretical writers was one great cause of its dis- 
paragement by their catholic antagonists. Irenjeus en- 
deavors to reduce the Gnostic teachers to a dilemma: 
either the philosophers with whom they argued knew 
the trnth or they did not; if they did, the incarnation 
was superfluous; if they did not, whence comes the 
agreement of the true and the false? (Adv. I leer, ii, 14, 
7). Hippolytus follows out the connection of different 
sects with earlier teachers in elaborate detail. Tertul- 
lian, with characteristic energy, declares that “ Philoso- 
ophy furnishes the arms and the subjects of heresy. 
What (he asks) has Athens in common with Jerusa- 
lem? the Academy with the Church? heretics with 
Christians? Our training is from the Porch of Solo- 
mon. . . . Let those look to it who bring forward a 
Stoic, a Platonic, a dialectic Christianity. We have no 
need of curious inquiries after the coming of Christ Je- 
sus, nor of investigation after the Gospel” (Tertull. Be 
Prcescr. fleer. 7). 

This variety of judgment in the heat of controversy 
was inevitable. The full importance of the history of 
ancient philosophy was then first seen when all rivalry 
was over, and it became possible to contemplate it as a 
whole, animated by a great law, often trembling on the 
verge of truth, and sometimes by a “bold venture” 
claiming the heritage of faith. Yet even now the rela- 
tions of the “two old covenants” — philosophy and the 
Hebrew Scriptures — to use the language of Clement — 
have been traced only imperfectly. What has been 
done may encourage labor, but it does not supersede it. 
In the porticos of Eastern churches Pythagoras and 
Plato are pictured among those who prepared the way 
for Christianity (Stanley, p. 41) ; but in the West, sib- 
yls, and not philosophers, are the chosen representatives 
of the divine element in Gentile teaching. 

Philosophy, Hebrew. The term philosophy, as 
seen above, may be properly used in a wider and in a more 
restricted sense. In the former it is nearty synonymous 
with science, and embraces all departments of human 
knowledge capable of being scientifically classified — that 
is, where the facts are presented in their causes, where 
phenomena are referred to principles, and arranged un- 
der laws. In the latter it is confined to speculative 
knowledge, that which the mind has of its own opera- 
tions and laws, or which it acquires by reasoning from 
its own thoughts. We have no evidence that philoso- 
phy in the stricter sense was cultivated by the ancient 
Hebrews; nor have we much reason to believe that sci- 
entific study, even as regards external phenomena, was 
much followed by them. Forming our estimate from 
what of their literature has been preserved to us in the 
Bible, we must coiiclude that the ancient Hebrew mind 
was not specially characterized by those tendencies, nor 
largely endowed with those faculties which give birth 
to speculative research. The analytical and the logical 
are but slightly perceptible in their mental products, 
while the imaginative, the synthetic, and the histori- 
cal largely predominate. We should be led to infer 
that they delighted rather in putting things together 
according to their analogies than in distributing them 
according to their differences. They were careful ob- 
servers of phenomena, and their minds sought scope in 
bold flights of imagination, or reposed in calm, pro- 
tracted, and profound reflection ; but it was as histori- 
ans and poets rather than as philosophers that they 
looked on the world both of being and event. 

It thus appears that philosophy, if we limit the word 
strictly to describe the free pursuit of knowledge of 


PHILOSOPHY 


138 


PHILOSOPHY 


which truth is the one complete end, is essentially of 
Western growth. In the East the search after wisdom 
has always been connected with practice: it has re- 
mained there, what it was in < I recce at lirst, a part of 
religion. The history of the Jews offers no exception 
to this remark : there is no Jewish philosophy properly 
so called. Yet on the other hand speculation and ac- 
tion meet in truth; and perhaps the most obvious- les- 
son of the ( i. T. lies in the gradual construction of a 
divine philosophy by fact, and not by speculation. The 
method of Greece was to proceed from life to Hod; the 
method of Israel (so to speak) was to proceed from God 
to life. The axioms of one system are the conclusions 
of the other. The one led to the successive abandon- 
ment of the noblest domains of science which man had 
claimed originally as his own, till it left bare systems 
of morality; the other, in the fulness of time, prepared 
many to welcome the Christ — the Truth. 

From what has been said, it follows that the philoso- 
phy of the Jetvs, using the word in a large sense, is to 
be sought for rather in the progress of the national life 
than in special books. These, indeed, furnish impor- 
tant illustrations of the growth of speculation, but the 
history is written more in acts than in thoughts. Step 
by step the idea of the family was raised into that of 
the people: and the kingdom furnished the basis of 
those wider promises which included all nations in one 
kingdom of heaven. The social, the political, the cos- 
mieal relations of man were traced out gradually in re- 
lation to Cod. See Jkws; JroAis.M. 

I. The Philosophy of Mature. — 1. Primitive Period . — 
With the Hebrews the original theory of the world was 
so simple that little occasion was given to them for spec- 
nlation on the mysteries of existence. Their conception 
of it was essentially and wholly monotheistic. They 
held the existence of one God, besides whom there was 
no other; and as the world had come into being by his 
simple fiat, so it was kept in being by his will, gov- 
erned by bis immediate agency, and subordinated to 
the fulfilment of his designs. No trace is discoverable 
in the Bible of those pantheistic notions in which the 
thinkers and writers of other ancient nations seem so 
generally to have taken refuge from the perplexities 
arising out of the relations of the finite to the infinite, 
and which at a later period took such hold of the 
Jewish mind, as is attested by their cabalistic hooks 
(Frcystadt, PhUosophia Cabbulistica et Pantheismus, 
1832). The world and the things in the world were 
regarded by them not as emanations from God, nor as 
in any sense God; they are all the. work of his hands, 
proceeding from him, but as distinct from him as the 
work is distinct from the workman, liv the word of 
Jehovah all things were created, and by bis word they 
are upheld. They all belong to him as bis property, and 
he docs with them as he wills. They are his, but not in 
any sense he. As little do the Hebrews seem to have 
realized the idea of an order of nature distinct from the 
will and power of God. The phenomena of being and 
event they referred alike to the immediate agency of 
the Almighty. Causation was with them simply God 
acting. I hey thus removed the distinction between 
the natural and the supernatural, not. as some modern 
speculat ists propose, bv reducing all phenomena under 
natural laws, but by the reverse process, resolving all 
into the immediate operation of God. Man, as part of 
God’s creation, is equally subject with the. rest to his 
control. Ills times and ways arc all in God’s hand. 
By God’s power and wisdom he has been fashioned; by 
God's goodness lie is upheld and guided; by God’s law 
bis entire activity is to lie regulated; at God's com- 
mand lie retires from this active sphere and passes into 
the unseen world, where bis spirit returns to him who 
gave it. 

Hut though this simple and childlike theory of the 
universe gave little scope for speculative thinking and 
inquiry, and though the Bible presents us with hut 
little that indicates the existence of philosophic study 


1 among the ancient Hebrews, we are not entitled to con- 
clude from these data that such pursuits had no exist- 
ence among them. It is to be borne in mind that it 
was foreign to the design and pretensions of the sacred 
writers to discuss speculatively points on which they 
w’ere commissioned to speak authoritatively in the 
name of God; nor must it be forgotten that we have 
not in the Bible tlic entire literature of the Hebrew 
people, and that, as philosophic writings would, because 
not addressed to the popular mind, be precisely those 
most likely to he allowed to perish, it is possible that 
much may have been lost which, bad it been preserved, 
would have shown how’ and to what extent scientific 
research flourished among the Hebrews. This sugges- 
tion acquires force, not only from the fact that we know’ 
that certain utterances by Solomon of a scientific kind, 
probably committed to writing, have perished (1 Kings 
iv. 33), but also from the statement in Eccles. xii, 12, 
which, besides indicating that the literature of the He- 
brews was more copious than what we now possess, leads, 
from its connection, to the conclusion that part of it at 
least was devoted to philosophic inquiry. The book of 
Ecclesiastes itself, as well as that of Job, may be held 
as proving that the Hebrew mind did not acquiesce 
wholly in simple faith, but had, like mind elsewhere, 
its seasons of doubt, question, and speculation on mat- 
ters relating to man’s condition and destiny. We may 
also point to l’sa. xlix, lxxiii, and to many passages in 
the book of l’roverbs, as indicating the same thing. 
Nor must we overlook the fact that the Hebrew is rich 
in terms which are appropriate to philosophic inquiry, 
and indicate habits of analytic research among those by 
whom they were used. Of these may be mentioned 
rf2;n, wisdom, often used as we use philosophy (comp. 
Eccles. i, 13, where "T might almost be ren- 

dered to philosophize) ; “,“2, from ‘|“2, between, to sepa- 
rate, to discern, to understand, i. e. to analyze percep- 
tions into their component elements, so as to arrive at 
just notions of them, whence n:"2, insiykt, intelliyence, 
judgment; and to invest iyate, to examine; 

n:.n, to think, to refect; to ponder ; " jN to know, 
whence r7T, knowledye. To these may be added their 
names for the mental part of man, H 1 ”*. irvtvpa ; 

; rYC'IT!, anima ; —5, uapcia, <J>pi]V. 

ft is further to be observed that though the Bible 
does not present philosophic truth in a speculative form, 
it presents abundantly the materials out of which phi- 
losophies may be constructed, l’hilosophy thus exists 
in it as it. exists in nature, not (to use the scholastic 
phraseology) in a manifest and evolute, but in a con- 
crete and involute state; and it needs only a patient 
collection of its statements, and the arrangement of 
these according to their meaning and relations, to ena- 
ble us to construct systematic developments of them. 
We may thus form not only a theology from the liible, 
but an anthropology, including physiology and a sys- 
tem of ethics. See Boos, Fundamenta Psychologies ex 
Sac. /Script, t 'oiled a ( ! 7 1>9) : Beck , I’mriss d. biblischen 
Seelenlchre (IS 13); llaussmann. Pie bibl. Lehre torn 
Memchen (1S-1N); Von Schubert, Gesch. der S<elc (4th 
ed. 1850); Delitzsch, System der bibl. Psychologic (2d 
ed. 1801); Taylor, Ituctor Pubitantinm (1GG0); Bml- 
dseus, Jnstit. The* log. Moralis (17154; Staudliu, Lehr- 
buck der Moral fur Theologen (2d ed. 1S17); Schleier- 
macher, I>ie t'hristliche Sitte (IS43); Harless, Christ- 
liche Kthik (4th ed. 1849) ; Wnttke, Jlandb. d<r Christl. 
Sittenfehre (2 vols.). See Biulio.u, Thkoiouv. 

For the natural science of the Hebrews, see Astkon- 
omy, Botany, Mkmcink, Zooloov, and the articles 
on subjects of natural history in this work. For the 
exact sciences, see the articles Giikonoi-ogy and Nu.m- 

ltKlt. 

2. I'jilian Penod. — This is of great interest to the 
student of the Bible, in consequence of the intluence 
which the Babylonian philosophy exerted on the opiu- 


PHILOSOPHY 


139 


PHILOSOPHY 


ions and manner of thinking of the Israelites during 
their captivity in Babylon — an influence of a general 
and decided character, which the rabbins themselves 
admit, in alleging that the names of the angels and of 
the months were derived by the house of Israel from 
Babylon (Rosh Ilashcinah , p. 56). The system of opin- 
ion and manner of thinking which the captives met 
with in Babylon cannot be characterized exclusively as 
Chaldsean, but was made up of elements whose birth- 
place was in various parts of the East, and which ap- 
pear to have found in Babylon a not uncongenial soil, 
where they grew and produced fruit which coalesced 
into one general i-Vstem. Of these elements the two 
principal were the Chaldtean and the Medo-I’ersian or 
Zoroastrian. It is to the first that the reader’s atten- 
tion is invited in this article. 

The Chaldaeans, who lived in a climate where the 
rays of the sun are never darkened, and the night is al- 
ways clear and bright by means of the light of the 
moon and stars, were led to believe that light was the 
soul of nature. Accordingly it was by the light of the 
sun and stars that the universal spirit brought forth all 
things; and therefore the Chaldaeans offered their hom- 
age to the Supreme Being in the heavenly bodies, 
where he appeared to them in a special manner to 
dwell. As the stars form separate bodies, imagination 
represented them as distinct existences, which had 
each their peculiar functions, and exerted a separate 
influence in bringing forth the productions of nature. 
The idea of a universal spirit disappeared, as being too 
abstract for the people, and not without difficulty for 
cultivated minds; and worship was offered to the stars 
as so many powers that governed the world. It is easy 
to see how the ChakUeans passed from this early cor- 
ruption of the primitive religion of the Bible to a low 
and degrading polytheism. 

As light was regarded as the only moving power of 
nature, and every star had its own influence, so natural 
phenomena appeared the result of the particular influ- 
ence of that heavenly body which at any given time 
was above the horizon; and the Chaldean philosophers 
believed that they found the cause of events in its po- 
sition, and the means of foretelling events in its move- 
ments. These views, and perhaps the extraordinary 
heat and the pestilential winds which in certain months 
prevail in the country, and against which there is no 
protection except in the hills, led the Chaldaeans to the 
mountains which gird the land. On these observato- 
ries, which nature seems to have expressly formed for 
the purpose, they studied the positions and movements 
of the heavenly host. They thought they saw that 
similar phenomena were constantly accompanied bfy the 
same conjunction of the stars, which seemed to observe j 
regular movements and a similar course. On this the 
Chaldiean priests came to the conviction that natural 
events are bound together, and that sacrifices do not 
interrupt their course; that they all have a common 
origin, which works according to unknown principles 
and laws, whose discovery is so important as to deserve 
their best attention. The heavenly bodies themselves 
are obedient to these laws; their formation, position, 
and influence are consequences of these universal laws, 
by which nature was controlled. This determined the 
Chaklseans to seek in the heavens the knowledge of the 
original cause which created the world, and of the laws 
which that cause followed in the formation of things 
and in the production of phenomena, since in the heav- 
ens dwelt the power which brings all things forth. 

The stars were masses of light; the space which held 
them were filled with light; no other power appeared 
to operate therein : accordingly the Chaklaeans held 
light to be the moving power which had produced the 
stars. It could not be doubted that this power pos- 
sessed intelligence, and the operations of the mind ap- 
pear to have so much resemblance to the subtlety and 
fleetness of light that men who had only imagination 
for their guide had no hesitation to represent intelli- 


| gence as a property of light, and the universal spirit or 
highest intelligence as light itself. The observations 
of the Chaldieans had taught them that the distances 
of the stars from the earth are unequal, and that light 
decreases in its approach to the earth, on which they 
concluded that light streams forth from an endless foun- 
tain far removed from the earth, in doing which it fills 
space with its beams, and forms the heavenly bodies in 
different positions and of different magnitudes. The 
creative spirit was therefore set forth by them under 
the image of an eternal, inexhaustible fountain of light; 
they thought this fountain was to the universe what 
the sun is to the regions lighted and warmed by his 
beams. 

As light becomes less in propagating itself, its foun- 
tain must be of an inconceivable subtlety and purity, 
and, accordingly, in its loftiest condition, intelligent. 
As its beams are removed from their source they lose 
their activity, and by the gradual waning of their influ- 
ence sink from their original perfection; they therefore 
produced different existences and intelligences, in pro- 
portion as they became more distant from the fountain 
of light; at last, passing from one clement into another, 
they lost their lightness, were pressed together, and 
made dense, till thej^ became corporeal, and produced, 
chaos. There accordingly was between the Supreme 
Being and the earth a chain of intermediate existences, 
whose perfections decreased as they were more remote 
from the First Great Cause. This Supreme Being had 
communicated in a distinguished degree his primary 
radiations, intelligence, power, productiveness; all other 
emanations had, in proportion to tlieir distance from the 
highest intelligence, a less and less share in these per- 
fections; and thus were the different regions of light, 
from the moon to the dwelling-place of the Supreme, 
filled with various orders of spirits. 

The space which contained the First Cause, or Foun- 
tain of radiations, was filled with pure and happy in- 
telligences. Immediately beneath this region began the 
corporeal world, or the empyrenm, which was a bound- 
less space, lighted by the pure light which flowed im- 
mediately from the Great Source; this empyreum was 
filled with an infinitely less pure fire than the original 
light, but immeasurably finer than all bodies. Below 
this was the ether, or grosser region, filled with still 
grosser fire. Next came the fixed stars, spread over a 
wide region where the thickest parts of the ethereal fire 
had come together and formed the stars. The world 
of planets succeeded, which contained the sun, moon, 
and the wandering stars. Then came the last order of 
beings — the rude elements which are deprived of all ac- 
tivity, and withstand the motions and influence of light. 
The different parts of the world are in contact, and the 
spirits of the upper regions can influence the lower, as 
well as descend and enter into them. As the chaotic 
elements were without shape and motion, the spirits of 
the higher regions must have formed the earth, and hu- 
man souls are spirits sprung from them. To these spir- 
its from above the system of the Clialdfeans ascribed all 
the productions, appearances, and movements upon the 
earth. The formation of the human body, the growth 
of the fruits, all the gifts of nature, were attributed to 
beneficent spirits. In the space below the moon, in the 
midst of night, tempests arose, lightnings threaded the 
dark clouds, thunder broke forth and laid waste the 
earth ; there were found spirits of darkness, corporeal 
daemons spread through the air. Often, too, were flames 
of fire seen to rise out of the bosom of the earth, and the 
mountains were shaken. Earthly potvers or daemons 
were supposed to dwell in the centre of the earth ; and 
since matter was held to be without activity, all move- 
ments were attributed to spirits. Storms, volcanoes, 
tempests, appeared to have no other object than to de- 
stroy human happiness; and these daemons were held 
to be wicked spirits who produced these evils; to them 
every unfortunate event was ascribed, and a sort of hi- 
erarchy was formed of these evil beings, as had been 


PHILOSOPHY 


140 


PHILOSOPHY 


done in the case of the good spirits. But why did not 
the Supreme Mind put down, by an exertion of his pow- 
er, this swarm of wicked spirits? Some thought it was 
beneath the dignity of the Primary Essence to contend 
with these daemons; others were of opinion that these 
bad spirits were naturally indestructible, and as the Su- 
preme could neither destroy nor improve them, he had 
banished them to the centre of the earth and to the re- 
gion beneath the moon, where they indulged in their 
baseness and exercised their dominion: in order, how- 
ever, to protect the human race against fiends so nu- 
merous and fearful, he commissioned good spirits, whose 
office it was to defend men against these corporeal dae- 
mons. As the good and the bad spirits had various | 
degrees of power and different offices, so they had names j 
given to them which described their functions. As the 
good spirits were under an obligation to protect men 
and furnish succor in their need, they were compelled ] 
to learn human language; accordingly, it was believed i 
that a guardian angel against every evil was possessed 
by every one who bore his mysterious name— a name 
which was to be pronounced only when succor was need- 
ed. All manner of names were therefore devised, by 
which the good spirits were conjured or informed of 
human necessities; and all the combinations of the al- 
phabet were exhausted in order to bring about a com- 
merce between men and angels. Here is the origin of 
the Cabala, which gave strange names to these spirits 
in order to bring them into connection with men, and 
by this means to do wonderful things (Matt, xii, 24-27). 
These names also sometimes served to drive had spirits 
away : they were a kind of exorcism. For since it was 
believed that these daemons had been banished to the j 
centre of the earth, and that they could do evil only in 
consequence of having baffled the vigilance of the guar- 
dian spirits and escaped to the outer world, so, it Avas 
held, they were compelled to flee as soon as they heard 
the name of the good angels whose business it was to 
keep them shut up in subterranean caverns, and to pun- 
ish them if they ventured from their prison-house. A 
power, too, was ascribed to the name of the spirit, or to 
the image which marked his office — a power which 
forced the spirit to come on being called; and, accord- 
ingly, it was held that this name carved on a stone kept 
the spirit near the person who wore the stone— a no- 
tion in which is probably found the origin of talismans, 
formed cither by words or symbolical figures. 

3. Cabalistic Period. — It is uncertain at what date the 
earliest Cabala (i. e. Tradition) received a definite form ; 
but there can be no doubt that the two great divisions of 
which it is composed, “ the Chariot” ( Mercabah , Ezek.i), 
and ‘‘the Creation” (/ iereshith , Gen. i), found a wide de- 
velopment before the Christian a;ra. The first dealt with 
the manifestation of God in himself; the second with his 
manifestation in Nature; and as the doctrine was hand- 
ed down orally, it received naturally, both from its ex- 
tent and form, great additions from foreign sources. On 
the one side it was open to the Persian doctrine of 
emanation, on the other to the Christian doctrine of 
the Incarnation ; and the. tradition was deeply impressed 
by both before it was first committed to writing in the 
7th or Xtli century. At present the original sources 
for the teaching of the Cabala are the Sepher Jeziruh , 
or Book of Creation, and the Sepher Hazohur, or Book 
of Splendor. 1 lie former of these dates, in its present 
form, from the Mil, and the latter from the 13th century 
(Zulu, Gottesd. Yurtr. d. Jnden, p. 1 Go ; Jellinek, Moses 
ben-Schenitob de Leon , l,eips. 1X51). Both arc based 
upon a system of pantheism. In the Book of Creation 
the cabalistic ideas are given in their simplest form, 
and offer some points of comparison with the system of 
the Pythagoreans. The book begins with an enume- 
ration of the thirty-two ways of wisdom seen in the 
constitution of the world; and the analysis of this nnm- I 
her is supposed to contain the key to the mysteries of 
Nature. The primary division is into 10 + 22. The 
number 10 represents the ten Sepkiroth (figures) which 


answer to the ideal world; 22. on the other hand, the 
number of the Hebrew alphabet, answers to the world 
of objects; the object being related to the idea as a 
word, formed of letters, to a number. Twenty-two 
again is equal to 3 + 7 + 12 ; and each of these numbers, 
which constantly recur in the O.-T. Scriptures, is in- 
vested with a peculiar meaning. Generally the funda- 
mental conceptions of the hook may he thus represented : 
The ultimate Being is Divine Wisdom ( Chokmah . <ro- 
<pici). The universe is originally a harmonious thought 
of Wisdom (Number, Sephirah ); and the thought is 
afterwards expressed in letters, which form, as words, 
the germ of things. Man, with his t\tofold nature, thus 
represents in some sense the whole universe. He is the 
microcosm in which the body clothes and veils the soul, 
as the phenomenal world veils the spirit of God. It is 
impossible to follow out here the details of this system, 
and its development in Zohar; hut it is obvious how 
great an influence it must have exercised on the inter- 
pretation of Scripture. The calculation of the numer- 
ical worth of words (comp. Hev. xiii, IX; Gemutna, 
Iiuxtorf, Lex. Rabb. p, 446), the resolution of words into 
initial letters of new words (Xotaricon, Iiuxtorf, p. 1339), 
and the transposition or interchange of letters ( Temn - 
rah), were used to obtain the inner meaning of the text ; 
and these practices have continued to affect modern Jew- 
ish exegesis. 

The fragments of Berosus, preserved by Eusebius and 
Josephus, and to be found in Sealiger (De Kmendat. 
Temp.),&\v\ more fully in Fabricius ( Hibl . Gr. xiv, 175), 
afford some information on the subject of Chaldtean 
philosophy. Berosus was a priest of the god Baal, at 
Babylon, in the time of Alexander the Great. On the 
naturalistic philosophy of the Jews in general, the 
Talmud and other works of the Jewish rabbins may 
also be advantageously consulted, together with the fol- 
lowing authorities: Euseb. Prre.p. Erring. ix, 10; Philo, 
De Mir/. Man.; Selden, De Diis Syr is, Prolog. 3 ; Stan- 
ley, Hist, of Oriental Philosophy ; Klenkcr. Ueber die 
Xatnr and den Vr sprung der Emanationslehre bei den 
Kabbalisten (Biga, 17X6); Molitor, Philos, der Gekhichte 
(1X27-2X); Hartmann, Die enye Yerbindung des A. T. 
mit deni X. (1X31); Kctzer, Lexicon von P. Fritz (1X38); 
Brocken, Ilist.-Crit. Phil. ; Bitter, Geschichte der Phil. ; 
Nork, ) r ergleichende Mythologie (1x36) ; Lutterbeek. 
Xcu-test. Lehrbegriff, i, 223 - 254; Keuss, K abba la, in 
Herzog’s Encyklop.; Joel, Die Religionsphilos. d. Zohar 
(1849) ; West cot t, Introd. to Gospels, p. 131- 134 ; Franck, 
La Kabbale (1X43). See Cabala. 

II. The Philosophy of History. — The philosophy of 
the Jews is, as has been seen from the above outline of 
its naturalistic relations, essentially a moral philosophy, 
resting on a definite connection with God. The doc- 
trines of Creation and Providence, of an Infinite Divine 
Person and of a responsible human will, which else- 
where form the ultimate limits of speculation, are here 
assumed at the outset. The dilfieulties which they in- 
volve are but rarely noticed. Even when they are 
canvassed most deeply, a moral answer drawn from the 
great duties of life is that in which the questioner finds 
repose. The earlier chapters of Genesis contain an in- 
troduction to the direct training of the people which 
follows. Premature and partial developments, king- 
doms based on godless might, stand in contrast with 
the slow foundation of the divine polity. To distin- 
guish rightly the moral principles which were succes- 
sively called out in this latter work would he to write 
a history of Israel; hut the philosophical significance 
of the great crises through which the people passed 
lies upon the surface. The call of Abraham set forth 
at once the central lesson of faith in the Unseen, oil 
which all others were raised. The father of the nation 
was first isolated from all natural ties before he received 
the promise; his heir was the son of his extreme age; 
his inheritance was to him ‘‘as a strange land.” The 
history of the patriarchs brought out into yet clearer 
light the sovereignty of God ; the younger was pre- 


PHILOSOPHY 


141 


PHILOSOPHY 


ferred before the elder; suffering prepared the way for 
safety and triumph. God was seen to make a cov- 
enant with man, and his action was written in the rec- 
ords of a chosen family. A new aera followed. A na- 
tion grew up in the presence of Egyptian culture. Per- 
secution united elements which seem otherwise to have 
been on the point of being absorbed by foreign powers. 
God revealed himself now to the people in the wider 
relations of Lawgiver and Judge. The solitary disci- 
pline of the desert familiarized them with his majesty 
and his mercy. The wisdom of Egypt was hallowed 
to new uses. The promised land was gained by the 
open working of a divine Sovereign. The outlines of 
national faith were written in defeat and victory; and 
the work of the theocracy closed. Human passion then 
claimed a dominant influence. The people required a 
king. A fixed Temple was substituted for the shifting 
Tabernacle. Times of disruption and disaster followed ; 
and the voice of prophets declared the spiritual mean- 
ing of the kingdom. In the midst of sorrow and de- 
feat and desolation the horizon of hope was extended. 
The kingdom which man had prematurely founded was 
seen to be the image of a nobler “kingdom of God.” 
The nation learned its connection with “all the kin- 
dred of the earth.” The Captivity confirmed the les- 
son, and after it the Dispersion. The moral effects of 
these, and the influence which Persian, Greek, and Ho- 
man, the inheritors of all the wisdom of the East and 
West, exercised upon the Jews, have been elsewhere 
noiiced. See Cyhus; Dispersed. The divine disci- 
pline closed before the special human discipline began. 
The personal relations of God to the individual, the 
family, the nation, mankind, were established in inef- 
faceable history, and then other truths were brought 
into harmony with these in the long period of silence 
which separates the two Testaments. But the har- 
mony was not always perfect. Two partial forms of 
religious philosophy arose. On the one side the pre- 
dominance of the ChakUean or Persian element gave 
rise to the Cabala; on the other the predominance of 
the Greek element issued in Alexandrian theosophy. 

Before these one-sided developments of ihe truth 
were made the fundamental ideas of the divine gov- 
ernment found expression in words as well as in life. 
The Psalms, which, among the other infinite lessons 
that they convey, give a deep insight into the need of 
a personal apprehension of truth, everywhere declare 
the absolute sovereignty of God over the material and 
moral worlds. The classical scholar cannot fail to be 
struck with the frequency of natural imagery, and with 
the close connection which is assumed to exist between 
man and nature as parts of one vast order. The con- 
trol of all the elements by one All-wise Governor, stand- 
ing out in clear contrast with the deification of isolated 
objects, is no less essentially characteristic of Hebrew 
as distinguished from Greek thought. In the world of 
action Providence stands over against fate, the univer- 
sal kingdom against the individual state, the true and 
the right against the beautiful. Pure speculation may 
find little scope, but speculation guided by these great 
laws will never cease to affect most deeply the intel- 
lectual culture of men. (Comp, especially Psa. viii, 
xix, xxix, 1, lxv, lxviii, lxxvii, lxxviii, Ixxxix, xcv, 
xcvii, civ, evi, cxxxvi, cxlvii, etc. It will be seen that 
the same character is found in Psalms of every date.) 
For a late and very remarkable development of this 
philosophy of Nature, see Dillmann, Das B. Henoch , xiv, 
xv. 

One man above all is distinguished among the Jews 
as “the wise man.” The description which is given 
of his writings serves as a commentary on the national 
view of philosophy. “And Solomon’s wisdom excelled 
the wisdom of all the children of the east country, and 
all the w isdom of Egypt. . . . And he spake three thou- 
sand proverbs; and his songs were a thousand and five. 
And he spake of trees, from the cedar that is in Leba- 
non even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the 


wall : he spake also of beasts, and of fowl, and of creep- 
ing things, and of fishes” (1 Kings iv, 30-83). The les- 
son of practical duty, the full utterance of “a large 

heart” (ver. 29), the careful study of God’s creatures 

this is the sum of wisdom. Yet in fact the very prac- 
tical aim of this philosophy leads to the revelation of 
the most sublime truth. Wisdom was gradually felt 
to be a person, throned by God, and holding converse 
with men (Prov. viii). She was seen to stand in open 
enmity with “ the strange woman,” who sought to draw 
them aside by sensuous attractions; and thus a new 
step was made towards the central doctrine of Chris- 
tianity — the Incarnation of the Word. 

Two books of the Bible — Job and Ecclesiastes — of 
which the latter, at any rate, belongs to the period of 
the close of the kingdom, approach more nearly than 
any others to the type of philosophical discussions. But 
in both the problem is moral and not metaphysical. 
The one deals with the evils which afflict “the perfect 
and upright;” the other with the vanity of all the pur- 
suits and pleasures of earth. In the one we are led for 
an answer to a vision of “ the enemy” to whom a par- 
tial and temporary power over man is conceded (Job 
i, 6-12); in the other to that great future when “God 
shall bring every work to judgment” (Eccl. xii, 14). 
The method of inquiry is in both cases abrupt and ir- 
regular. One clew after another is followed out, and 
at length abandoned ; and the final solution is obtained, 
not by a consecutive process of reason, but by an au- 
thoritative utterance, welcomed by faith as the truth, 
towards which all partial efforts had tended. (Comp. 
Maurice, Moral and Metaphysical Philosophy, 1st ed.) 

The Captivity necessarily exercised a profound in- 
fluence upon Jewish thought. The teaching of Persia 
seems to have been designed to supply important ele- 
ments in the education of the chosen people. But it 
did yet more than this. The imagery of Ezekiel (ch. 
i) gave an apparent sanction to a new form of mystical 
speculation. The contact of the Jews with Persia thus 
gave rise to a traditional mysticism. Their contact 
with Greece was marked by the rise of distinct sects. 
In the 3d century B.C. the great doctor Antigonus of 
Socho bears a Greek name, and popular belief pointed 
to him as the teacher of £adoc and Boethus, the sup- 
posed founders of Jewish rationalism. At any rate, we 
may date from this time the twofold division of Jewish 
speculation which corresponds to the chief tendencies 
of practical philosophy. The Sadducees appear as the 
snpporters of human freedom in its widest scope; the 
Pharisees of a religious Stoicism. At a later time the 
cycle of doctrine was completed, when by a natural re- 
action the Essenes established a mystic asceticism. 
The characteristics of these sects are noticed elsewhere. 
It is enough now to point out the position which they 
occupy in the history of Judaism (comp. Westcott, In- 
trod. to Gospels, p. 60-66). At a later period the Fourth 
Book of Maccabees (q. v.) is a very interesting example 
of Jewish moral (Stoic) teaching. See Sects, Jewish. 

The conception of wisdom which appears in the 
book of Proverbs was elaborated with greater detail af- 
terwards [see Wisdom of Solomon], both in Palestine 
[see Ecclesiasticus] and in Egypt; but the doctrine 
of the Word is of greater speculative interest. Both 
doctrines, indeed, sprang from the same cause, and indi- 
cate the desire to find some mediating power between 
God and the world, and to remove the direct appear- 
ance and action of God from a material sphere. The 
personification of Wisdom represents only a secondary 
power in relation to God ; the Logos, in the double 
sense of Eeason (\6yog tvi haSerog) and Word (\dyog 
7rpoflopucog), both in relation to God and in relation to 
the universe. The first use of the term Word ( Memra ), 
based upon the common formula of the prophets, is in 
the Targum of Onkelos (1st century B.C.), in which 
“the Word of God” is commonly substituted for God in 
his immediate, personal relations with man (Westcott, 
Introd. to Gospels, p. 137); and it is probable that round 


PIIILOSTORGirS 


142 


PI I ILOSTR ATUS 


this traditional rendering a fuller doctrine grew up, 
Hut there is a clear difference between the idea of the 
Word then prevalent in Palestine and that current at 
Alexandria. In Palestine the Word appears as the out- 
ward mediator between God and man, like the Angel of 
the Covenant ; at Alexandria it appears as the spiritual 
connection which opens the way to revelation. The pref- 
ace to John's Gospel includes the element of truth in 
both. In the Creek apocryphal books there is no men- 
tion of the Word (yet comp. Wisd. xviii, 15). Por the 
Alexandrian teaching it is necessary to look alone to 
Philo (cir. B.O. 20-A.D. 5U) ; and the ambiguity in the 
meaning of the Creek term, which has already been no- 
ticed, produces the greatest confusion in bis treatment of 
the subject. In Philo language domineers over thought, 
lie has no one clear and consistent view of the Logos. 
At times he assigns to it divine attributes and personal 
action; and then again he affirms decidedly the abso- 
lute indivisibility of the divine nature. The tendency 
of his teaching is to lead to the conception of a twofold 
personality in the Codhead, though he shrinks from the 
recognition of such a doctrine (De Monarch, § 5; J>e 
Somn. § 37 ; Quod. det. pot. ins. § 24 ; De Sonin. § 39, 
etc.). Above all, his idea of the Logos was wholly dis- 
connected from all Messianic hopes, and was rather the 
philosophic substitute for them. (See Westcott, Introd. 
to Gospels, p. 138-141; Dlihne, Jiid.-Alex. Religions - 
philos. [1834] ; Gfriirer, Philo, etc. [1835] ; Dorner, Die 
Lehre v. d. Person Christi, i, 23 sip; Liicke, Comm, i, 
207, who gives an account of the earlier literature.) 
See Philosophy, Gkeek. 

On the general subject, see Bucli, Weisheitslehre der 
Hebruer (Strasb. 1851); Nicolas, Les doctrines reli- 
(jieuses des Juifs (Par. i860). 

Philostorgius (‘hiXofTropy/oc), an Eastern eccle- 
siastical historian of some note, was a native of Borissus, 
in Cappadocia. He was the son of Carterius and Eulam- 
pia, and was born in the reign of Valentinian and Valens, 
in A. I). 358, according to Gothofredus ( Proleg. ad Philost. 
p. 5, etc.), about A.l). 3G7, according to Vussius (De 
Hist. (Jr. p.314). lie was twenty years old when Euno- 
mins (q. v.) was expelled from Ciesarea. lie was edu- 
cated at Constantinople, and, together with his father, 
warmly embraced the doctrines of Emiomius. Philos- 
torgius wrote an ecclesiastical history, from the heresy 
of Arius, in A.D. 300, to the period when Theodosius 
t he Younger conferred the empire of the West on Valen- 
tinian the Younger (A.D. 425). The work, composed 
in twelve books, began respectively with the twelve 
letters of his name, so as to form a sort of acrostic. 
In this history he lost no opportunity of extolling the 
Arians and Etinomians, while he overwhelmed the ortho- 
dox party with abuse, with the single exception of Greg- 
ory of Nazianzum. Photius charges Philostorgius with 
introducing gross misrepresentations and unfounded 
statements, and savs that the work is not a history, but 
a panegyric upon the heretics. Philostorgius, never- 
theless, was a man of learning, and was possessed of 
considerable geographical and astronomical knowledge. 
Being a heretic, it is not. to be wondered at that his 
work has not come down to ns. An abstract of it, how- 
ever, was made bv Photius in a separate work, which 
has been preserved. Photius characterizes him as be- 
ing elegant in his style, making use of ligurative ex- 
pressions, though not in excess, llis tigures were, how- 
ever, sometimes harsh and far-fetched, and his narrative 
involved and indistinct (Phot. Jiibl. cod. 40). Pho- 
tius’s abstract was published at Geneva in IT. 13 bv 
Jnc. Godcfroi,or Gothofredus, entitled Rcchsiastiae his - 
tontr, ii f’onstantino M. .1 riiqtie initiis ad suit usque tem- 
pora, libri rii a Photio in epitomen contract); ttnnc 
primrnn editi a Jacobo Golhofredo, (Ir.et Lot. cum sup- 
plement is nonnullis, indieeque accurato , er prolirioribns 
dissertationibns (Lugd. 1013, 4 to), and in a somewhat 
corrected form, with a new Latin translation, by II. Vale- 
rius (Paris, 1073), together with the ecclesiastical his- 
tory of Theodoritns, Evagrius, and Theodoras; also by 


Reading, Ex ecclesiasdcis Philostorgii historiis epitome , 
et frugmenta (Cantabr. 1720). There is also a French 
version : A brege de VHistoire de I'Rglise de Philostorge 
(Paris, JG70). See Fabricins, Btbl. (Jr. vii, 420, etc.; 
Vossius, De Hist. (Jr. p. 313, etc.; Scholl, Gesch. der 
Griech. Lit. iii,3l3. — Smith, Diet. oJ'Gr. and Rom. Biog. 
s. v. See Dowling, Introd. to Church Hist.; Hook, 
Recles. Bing. viii. 72; Hagcnbach, Hist, of Doctrines, i, 
328; Jortin, Remarks, ii, 121 : Stanley, Hist, of East. 
Ch. p. 108 ; Stiiudlin, Gesch. d. Kirchengeseh. p. 72. 

Philostratus, Flavius, a famous Greek Sophist, ' 
was a native of the island of Lemnos, and was bom in 
the second half of the 2d century ofonr sera. He taught 
rhetoric tirst at Athens, and Eusebius therefore calls 
him an Athenian, but Eunapius and Saidas always speak 
of him as a Lemnian, and he himself hints in his Life 
1 of Apollonius that be used to he at Lemnos when he was 
young. lie frequented the schools of the Sophists, and 
mentions having heard Damianus of Ephesus, Proclns 
Naucratitas, and llippodromus of Larissa. This shows 
that he lived in the reign of the emperor Severus (193- 
212). He also taught at Rome, where he became known 
and was patronized by the empress Julia, the wife of 
Scptimius Severus, who was partial to the learned, and 
was surnamed “the philosophic,” because she gathered 
about herself such a brilliant circle of scholars. She 
commissioned him to compile the biography of Apollo- 
nius of Tyana from some memoirs written by a certain 
Damis of Nineveh, who had accompanied Philostratus 
in his peregrinations, and which had come into her pos- 
session. Philostratus professes also to have used in his 
compilation a collection of letters of Apollonius, which 
were at one time in the possession of Hadrian, and were 
placed by that emperor in his palace at Antinm, togeth- 
er with certain responses of the Oracle of Trophonins, 
which Apollonius had also collected. The biographer 
availed himself also, according to his own statement, of 
the narrative of a certain Maximus who had known 
Apollonius. The book of Philostratus displays groat 
credulity in the compiler, and a great want of critical 
discrimination ; it also contains many anachronisms and 
geographical errors. 1 1 net and others have imagined 
that the object of Philostratus was to write a parody of 
the life of Christ, but this seems doubtful: the parody, 
if intended as such, is too gross; besides which, it ap- 
pears from the testimony of Lampridius ( Life of Alex. 
Severus), that Christ was really worshipped by some of 
the later heathen emperors, together with Abraham, 
Orpheus, and Apollonius, these being all looked upon 
as holy men and tutelary genii. That Apollonius of 
Tyana was a real character, a philosopher, and a travel- 
ler appears from various passages of ancient authors; 
but it is remarkable that no one mentions him until 
nearly a century after the time assigned for his death. 
The empress Julia, a Syrian by birth, was probably fond 
of the marvellous; and Philostratus, intending to enter* 
tain her, inserted in his book all the wonderful stories 
he could collect relative to his hero. It seems, however, 
that in the time of the great struggle between the hea- 
then and Christian religions under Diocletian andhis im- 
mediate successors, some of the heathen writers thought 
of availing themselves of the Life of Apollonius as a 
kind of counterpoise, to the t iospel narrative, llieroclcs, 
prefect of Alexandria, and an enemy of the Christians, 
wrote a book with that object, in the shape of a com- 
parison between the life of Apollonius by Philostratus 
and that of Christ, of which book Eusebius wrote a refu- 
tation : Eusebii Pamphili .4 nimadeersiones in Philost rati 
de Apollonio Tgunensi Commentarins vb institution cum 
illo ab Hiernde Christi enmparationem. adornatie. Lac- 
tantius (I)ivin. /nstit.v, 3) also combats the same notion 
as absurd. Augustine ( Rpisf. 4) refers to Apollonius 
as a magician whom the heathens compared with ('hrist. 

( See Tillemont, Hist, dts Rmpereurs Remains, vol. ii, and 
Baylc’s article Apollonius de Tgane .) The other works 
of Philostratus are, The Lives of the Sophists, in two 
books (ed. by Kayser, Heidelberg, 1838): — Heroica, or 


PHILOTHEIA 


143 


PHILPOT 


comments on the lives of some of the heroes of Ilomer, 
in the shape of a dialogue (ed. by Boissonade, Paris, 
1806, 8vo): — leones , or descriptions of sixty-four paint- 
ings which were in a portico near Neapolis by the sea- 
shore (these descriptions contain valuable information 
concerning the state of ancient art) (ed. by F. Jacobs 
and F. G. Weleker, Leips. 1825, 8vo) : — Epistles, mostly 
erotic, excepting a few on matters of literature; one, 
which is inscribed to Julia Augusta, is an apology for 
the Sophists. Philostratus wrote also many other works, 
such as a Lexicon Rhetorieum, orations, etc., but they 
are lost. Different editions of all the existing works 
of Philostratus have been published. Those by Blorel- 
lius (Paris, 1608) and Olearius (Leips. 1709, fol.) are 
good, but a better one, far more critical and correct, is 
that by Kayser (Zurich, 1844, 4to), with a valuable body 
of notes on each work. There are separate editions of 
the lives of the Sophists. See Neander, Christian Dog- 
mas, i, 192 sq. ; Baur, Apollonius v. Tyana w. Christus 
(Tub. 1832); AIzog, Kirehengesch. i, 149; Bitter, Hist, 
of Philos. ; Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. ; 
Butler, Hist, of Ancient Philosophy, vol. ii ; Lardner, 
JFor&s (see Index). 

Philotheia ((pi \oSeia, i. e. the love of God), is a 
term which was sometimes applied by ancient Christian 
writers to the monastic life, because those who embraced 
that life professed to renounce all for the love of God. 
Hence Theodoret entitles one of his books Philotheus 
(q.v.). 

Fhilotheos Historia (<pi\65eog itrropia, God- 
loving history), the name given by Theodoret, the well- 
known commentator, bishop of Cyrus, to his lives of 
thirty ascetics or Eastern monks. “Their virtues,” he 
confesses, “ cannot be adequately described,” and he re- 
lates the most astounding prodigies of them. The tract 
is in the third folio of Sirmond’s edition of his works. 
See Philotheia. 

Philotheus (<i>i\65eog) (1), an Eastern prelate, 
flourished as patriarch of Alexandria about A.D. 995. 
He was a man of luxurious habits and a most scandal- 
ous eourse of life. Philotheus wrote four works, the 
titles of which, as translated from the Arabic, are, De- 
clarator: — Rara Comment at orum, et Depravationes Ilce- 
reticorum : — Deteetio A rcanorum : — A utobiographia. 
All of these works are lost, and it does not appear 
whether the author wrote in Arabic or in Greek. A 
sermon, De Mandat is Domini nostri Jesu Christi (ed. 
Greek and Latin by P. Possinus in his Ascefiea), is as- 
cribed to one S. Pilotheus, perhaps the same person. 
See Cave, Hist. Lift, ad an. 995. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. 
and Rom. Biog. s. v. 

Philotheus (2) Coccrxus, also an Eastern eccle- 
siastic, flourished as patriarch of Constantinople. He 
was probably born in the beginning of the 14th century, 
and early took the monastic habit. After living for a 
considerable time as a monk in, and afterwards as su- 
perior of, the convent of St. Laura on Blount Sinai, he 
was appointed archbishop of Heraeleia (before 1354). 
In 1355 he was employed by the emperor John Canta- 
cuzenus in bringing about a reconciliation between 
Michael, the son, and John Pakeologus, the son-in-law 
of the emperor; and in the same year he was chosen 
patriarch of Constantinople, in the place of Callistus, 
who, however, recovered his see after John Pala > ologus 
had taken possession of Constantinople. Callistus, how- 
ever, died soon afterwards, and now Philotheus was 
once more placed in the patriarchal chair, which post 
he occupied with great dignity till his death, which oc- 
curred in 1371, according to Cave, or in 1376 according 
to the Chronologia reformata of J. B. Riccioli quoted 
by Fabrieius. We append the titles of the most im- 
portant of the numerous works of Philotheus, very few 
of which have been published : Liturgia et Ordo insti- 
tuendi Diaeonum, printed in Latin in the 26th vol. of 
Bibl. Pat. Max.: — Libri xv Antirrhetiei, a defence of 
his friend the celebrated Palama, extant in different li- 


braries: — Sermo Encomiasticus in tres II ierarchas, Ba- 
sil ium, Gregorium Theologian, et Joannem Chrysostomum, 
Latin, in the 26th vol. of Bibl. Pat. Max., Gr. and Lat. 
by Jac. Pontanus, together with Philippi Solitarii Di- 
optra (lngolstadt, 1604, 8vo); bv Fronto Dueams, in the 
2d vol. of A uctuar. Pair. (Paris, 1624) : — Oratio de Cruee, 
Gr. and Lat. apud Gretser. De Cruee (lngolstadt, 1616, 
fol. vol. ii); there is another Oratio de Cruee, in the 
same volume, which is attributed by some to our Phi- 
lotheus: — Oratio in tertiam Jejuniorum Dominicam, Gr. 
and Lat. (ibid.) : — Refutatio A nathematismorum ab Har- 
menopulo scriptorum, Gr. and Lat. apud Leunelav. Jus. 
Gr. Rom. lib. iv: — Confutatio Capitum xiv Aeindymi 
et Barlaami, extant in BIS.: — Horn ilia: — Compendium, 
de (Economia Chiisti, etc. Wharton, in Cave, and Fa- 
brieius give a catalogue of the numerous ivorks of Phi- 
lotheus. See Fabrieius, Bibl. Grcec. xi, 513, etc. ; Cave, 
Hist. Lift, ad an. 1362. — Smith, Diet. Gr. and Rom. Biog. 
s. v.; Neale, Hist, of the East. Ch. (Patriarchate of Con- 
stantinople). 

Philotheus (3) BIonaciius or Sanctus, an un- 
known monk, wrote De Mandatis Domini nostri Jesu 
Christi, ed. Gr. and Lat. in P. Possinus’s Aseetica (Paris, 
1684). Although this work bears the same title as 
the one quoted above under the head Philotheus No. 1, 
the works are apparently by different authors. See 
Fabrieius, Bibl. Greee. xi, 519; Cave, Hist. Lift. Dissert. 

i, p. 17, ed. Oxon. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. 
s. v. 

Philotheus (4), archbishop of Selvmbria, of un- 
known age, wrote Oratio in T. Agothonicum, which is 
still extant in BIS. 

Pliiloxenian Version. See Syriac Versions. 

Philoxenus of Bagdad, an Eastern prelate of 
some distinction as an author, also known as Lazarus 
Bar-Sapta, flourished in the early part of the 9th cen- 
tury as bishop of Bagdad. This episcopate was founded 
in 762, but Philoxenus is the first incumbent of whom 
we have any notice. His character seems to have been 
a questionable one, for in the year 829 he was deposed, 
on which he appealed to Alanmeon,the caliph, by w hom 
the sentence was confirmed. Philoxenus is the author 
of a Syro-Jacobite liturgy, which is in nowise remarka- 
ble. See Neale, Hist, of the East. Ch. (Introd.), i, 329. 

Philoxenus of BIabi g or Hierapolis, an East- 
ern prelate of some note, flourished in the second half 
of the 5th century. lie was a devoted Jacobite, and 
for his zeal in the propagation of their doctrines is reck- 
oned among the saints of that branch of the Syrian 
Church. He was bishop of Blabug, to which see he 
was consecrated by Peter the Fuller, after A.D. 485, 
though he is said not to have been baptized. He is the 
author of two Jacobite liturgies, of which only one is 
authenticated. The other is, according to Neale, “a 
sadly inflated specimen of mediaeval taste in the East.” 
He is also noted as the translator of certain portions of 
the sacred Scriptures into Syrian, and as the supervisor 
of a general and complete version. Besides, he was the 
head of the Blonophysites about 500, when they fought 
with Nestorianism at the Council of Chalcedon. See 
Neale, Hist, of the East. Ch. (Introd.), i, 333 ; Assemani, 
Bibl. Orient, ii, 10; Le Quien, Oriens Christianus, ii, 
928; Renaudot. Lit. Orient, ii, 300; Petavius, De theol. 
dogmat, lib. i, cap. xviii ; Wald), Gesek. der Ketzereien, 
vi, 955 sq.; vii, 10 sq.; Dorner, Entwiekelungsgeseh. etc., 

ii, 23-46, 152, 168. (J.H.W.) 

Philpot, John, an English divine of the Refor- 
mation period, noted for his learning and bis devotion 
to the Protestant cause, for which he paid his life, 
was born near Winchester about the close of the 15th 
century. He was educated at New College, Oxford, 
which he entered in 1534, and of which he finally 
became a fellow. After leaving Oxford he travelled 
through Italy, where, on account of his religion, he was 
brought into danger. On returning to England he re- 


PIIILPOTTS 


144 


PIIINEHAS 


ceived the preferment of the arch deacon ry of Winches- 
ter. During the time of Edward his labors were abun- 
dant and successful, lie was well furnished both by 
nature and grace for his calling, and he devoted him- 
self with an uncompromising zeal to the advancement, 
of pure and undeliled religion. After the accession of 
Mary, Philpot distinguished himself by his bold stand 
for the Protestant cause. In a convocation of bishops 
and dignitaries, held for the purpose of changing the 
established religion from Protestantism to popery, the 
learned archdeacon, and a few others, bore a noble tes- 
timony against the design. For his exertions, notwith- 
standing the promised freedom of debate, he was called 
before the bishop of Winchester (Stephen Gardiner"), 
and was by his order imprisoned a year and a half, lie 
was then sent to bishop Bonner, and other commission- 
ers, who confined him in the bishop’s coal-house, lie 
here met with every insult: was once confined from 
morning till night in the stocks; was examined some 
fifteen or sixteen times; and, though he firmly and 
unanswerably defended his cause, was met only with 
taunts and abusive epithets. Yet in all this persecu- 
tion the consolations of the Holy Spirit were abun- 
dantly administered to him; insomuch that on one oc- 
casion Bonner said to him, “I marvel that you are so 
merry in prison, singing in your naughtiness,” etc. 
Philpot, proving a most uncompromising devotee to the 
new religion, and a most ingenious exponent of the law 
of the land, was regarded by the Papists as a dangerous 
man to be abroad, and he was therefore condemned as a 
heretic. After his condemnation he suffered many in- 
dignities in Newgate. But lie was soon brought to the 
stake, lie kissed the wood, and said, “Shall 1 disdain 
to suffer at this stake, when my Lord and Saviour re- 
fused not to suffer a most vile death on the cross for 
me?” When lie was bound to it, he repeated the lOGth, 
107th, and 108th Psalms, and prayed most fervently; 
till at length, in the midst of the flames, with great 
meekness and joy, he gave up his spirit to God. This 
occurred at Smithfield, Dec. 18, 1555. For both learning 
and piety he was esteemed as only next to Bidlev among 
the English Reformers. They had sound ami clear 
views of that Gospel which they sealed with their blood. 
Philpot’s writings have been collected and published 
under the title, Examinations and Writings, edited for 
the Parker Society by the Rev. R. Eden (Camb. 1842, 
8vo). They contain besides a biographical Notice of 
Philpot ; Notices of the Bishops and other Clergy , etc., 
who examined Philpot in 1555; the Process and History 
of Master John Philpot, examined, condemned, and mar- 
tyred; J disputation in the Convocation Bouse, October, 
1553; Letters; Apoloyy for Spitting upon an A nan; 
Defence of the True and Old A uthority of Christ's Church, 
by Cadi us SccuncUis Curio, translated by John Philpot. 
See also Richmond's Fathers, iv, 335; British Reform- 
ers, vol. iii; Fox, Acts and Monuments, anno 1555; 
Strype, Memorials, and his Cranmer ; Fuller, Abel lle- 
dicivus; Wood, A theme, Oxon.; Bickcrsteth, Christian 
Student, p. 328; Middleton, Evangel. Biogr. i, 428 sq. ; 
Burnet, /list, of the English lief; Soamcs, 1 list, of the 
lief; Hardwick, Hist, of the lief. p. 21G; Fronde. Hist, 
of England (see Index in vol. viii) : Hook, Eccles. Biog. 
viii, 74. (.1. 11. W.) 

Philpotts. See Piiii.U’otts. 

Philter, Philtre (Gr. <pi\rp or, love-charm, love- 
potion). A superstitious belief in t he efficacy of certain 
artificial means of inspiring and securing love seems to 
have been generally prevalent from very early times; 
and among I lie Greeks and Romans (among the latter 
in the later days of the republic, and under the emper- 
ors) love-charms, and especially love-potions, were in 
continual use. It is not certainly known of what these 
love-potions were composed — nor can we rely entirclv 
on the details given us on this subject by classic writ- 
ers, and their commentators in later time— but there is 
no doubt that certain poisonous or deleterious herbs 


and drugs were among their chief ingredients, to which 
other substances, animal as well as vegetable, are said 
to have been added, coupled with the employment of 
magic rites. Thessaly had the credit of producing the 
most potent herbs, and her people were notorious as the 
most skilful practiccrs of magic arts, whence the well- 
known “Thessala philtra” of Juvenal (vi, CIO). These 
potions were violent and dangerous in operation, and 
their use resulted often in the weakening of the mental 
powers, madness, and death, instead of the purpose for 
which they were intended. Lucretius is said to have 
been driven mad by a love-potion, and to have died by 
his own hand in consequence — though the story docs 
not perhaps rest on sufficient authority; and the mad- 
ness of the emperor Caligula was attributed by some 
persons to love-potions given him by his wife Caisonia 
— by which also she is said to have preserved his at- 
j tachmcnt till the end of his life. In the corrupt and 
licentious days of the Roman empire the manufacture 
of love-charms of all kinds seem to have been carried 
on as a regular trade; the purchasers, if not the makers 
of them, being chiefly women. The use of philters 
seems to have been not unknown during the Middle 
Ages; and in the East, the nurse of superstition of all 
kinds, belief in the power of love-potions lingers proba- 
bly down to the present day. — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Philumena, one of the youngest, and in Italy one 
of the most revered of saints, especially as the protec- 
tress of the imprisoned, deserves to be mentioned here 
as one of the most extravagant examples of Romish 
credulity and superstition. Her remains were reported 
to have been exhumed in 1802 from the catacomb of 
St. Eriscilla (q. v.) at Rome. Her history is claimed 
to have been revealed at the time to three different 
persons, and according to this she was the descendant 
of a Greek prince, and in her thirteenth year was 
brought to Rome as a Christian devotee, and came under 
the notice of the emperor Diocletian, who desired her 
for wife — an honor which she refused on the ground 
that she had two years previously wcddcil herself to 
her Lord in her virginity. For this refusal the emperor 
condemned her to death by martyrdom. In 1805 her 
remains were removed to her supposed birthplace — 
— Mngnano, twenty miles from Naples. The wonders 
wrought at her tomb were related far and near, and 
soon her resting-place became the object of many pil- 
grimages, and she is now known as the “wonder- 
worker of the 10th century.” Dope Gregory XVI put 
her in the calendar of saints, and she is commemorated 
Aug. 11. See Sintzel, Yerehrung der heil. Bhilomena 
(Munich, 1844) ; Wetzcr n. Welle, Kirchen-l.exikon, xii, 
984 sq. ; Abel, Die I.egende rom heil. Jchumi v. Ncpo- 
muck (Berk 1855), p. G. (J. 11. W.) 

Phin'ees («bt»'tlc), the Gnvcized form of the Heb. 
name Eiiinkiias (q.v.): a. The son of Kleazar, son of 
Aaron, the great hero of the Jewish priesthood (1 Esdr. 
v, 5 ; viii, 2, 29 ; 2 Esdr. i, 2 b; Ecclus. xlv, 23 ; 1 Macc. 
ii. 2G) ; b. The son of Eli (2 Esdr. i, 2 a) : but the inser- 
tion of the name in the genealogy of Ezra (in this place 
only) is evidently an error, since Ezra belonged to the 
line of Elcazar, and Eli to that of Ithamar; <•. A priest 
, or Lcvitc of the time of Ezra, father of Eleazar (1 Esdr. 
viii, G3). 

(<hinot.) In 1 Esdr. v, 31 it stands for Raskaii (q.v.) 
of the Heb. text (Ezra ii, 49). 

PlliiTehas (Heb. Pinechas', Cr.TE, mouth of brass 
[Gescn.], or of utterance [Fitrst]; Sept, ‘bti’tif v. r. 
‘hni-rif ; Josephus, the name of two or three 

Hebrews. 

1. Son of Eleai.ar and grandson of Aaron (Exod. vi, 
25). I lie plot her is recorded as one of the daughters 
of l’utiei, an unknown person, who is identified by the 
rabbins with Jethro the Midianite ( Targ . Pseudojon. on 
Exod. vi, 25; Wagcnscil, Sotu, viii, G). Ehinchas is 
memorable for having while quite a youth, by his zeal 
and energy at the critical moment of the licentious idol- 


PHINEHAS 


145 


PHIPPS 


atrv ofShittim, appeased the divine wrath and put a stop 
to the plague which was destroying the nation (Numb, 
xxv, 7). B.C. 1619. For this he Mas rewarded by the 
special approbation of Jehovah, and by a promise that 
tlie priesthood should remain in his family forever (ver. 
10-13). This seems to have raised him at once to a 
very high position in the nation, and he was appointed 
to accompany as priest the expedition by which the 
Midianites were destroyed (xxxi, 6). Seven years later 
he also headed the party who were despatched from 
Shiloh to remonstrate against the altar which the trans- 
jordanic tribes were reported to have built near Jordan 
(Josh, xxii, 13-32). In the partition of the country he 
received an allotment of his own — a hill on Mount 
Ephraim which bore his name — Gibeath-Pinechas. 
Here his father was buried (xxiv, 32). 

During the life of Phiuehas he appears to have been 
the chief of the great family of the Korahites or Kor- 
hites who guarded the entrances to the sacred tent and 
the whole of the sacred camp (1 Chron. ix, 20). After 
Eleazar’s death he became high-priest — the third of 
the series. B.C. cir. 1580-1523. In this capacity he is 
introduced as giving the oracle to the nation during the 
struggle with the Benjamites in the matter of Gibeali 
(Judg. xx, 28). Where the ark and tabernacle w r ere 
stationed at that time is not clear. From ver. 1 we 
should infer that they M'ere at Mizpeh, while from ver. 
18, 26 it seems equally probable that they were at 
Bethel (which is also the statement of Josephus, Ant. 
v, 2, 11). Or the Hebrew words in these latter verses 
may mean, not Bethel the town, but, as they are ren- 
dered in the A. V., “house of God,” and refer to the 
tabernacle at Shiloh. But wherever the ark may have 
been, there was the aged priest “standing before it,” 
and the oracle w’hich he delivered was one which must 
have been fully in accordance with his own vehement 
temper, “Shall w r e go out to battle ... or shall we 
cease?” The answer was, “Go up: for to-morrow I 
M ill deliver them into your hand.” 

The memory of this champion of Jehovah u r as very 
dear to the Jews. The narrative of the Pentateuch 
presents him as the type of an ardent and devoted 
priest. The numerous references to him in the later 
literature all adopt the same tone. lie is commemo- 
rated in one of the Psalms (evi, 30, 31) in the identical 
phrase which is consecrated forever by its use in refer- 
ence to the great act of faith of Abraham ; a phrase 
which perhaps more than any other in the Bible binds 
together the old and new dispensations — “that was 
counted to him for righteousness unto all generations for 
evermore” (comp. Gen. xv, 6; Rom. iv, 3). The “ cov- 
enant” made with him is put into the same rank for 
dignity and certainty with that by which the throne 
M r as assured to king David (Ecclus. xlv, 25). The zeal 
of Mattathias the Maccabee is sufficiently praised by a 
comparison with that of “ Phinees against Zambri, the 
son of Salom” (1 Macc. ii, 26). The priests who re- 
turned from the captivity are enrolled in the official 
lists as the sons of Phiuehas (Ezra viii, 2 ; 1 Esdr. v, 5). 
Tn the Seder Olam (ch. xx) he is identified with “the 
prophet” of Judg. vi, 8. 

Josephus (.-Da?, iv, 6, 12), out of the traditions which 
he frequently introduces, adds to the narrative of the 
Pentateuch a statement that “so great was his courage 
and so remarkable his bodily strength that he would 
never relinquish any undertaking, however difficult and 
dangerous, without gaining a complete victory.” The 
later Jews are fond of comparing him to Elijah, if in- 
deed they do not regard them as one and the same in- 
dividual (see the quotations in Meyer, Chron. Jlehr. p. 
845; Fabricius, Codex Pseudepig. p. 894. note). In the 
Targum Pseudojonatban of Numb, xxv the slaughter 
of Zimri and Cozbi is accompanied by twelve miracles, 
and the covenant made with Phiuehas is expanded into 
a promise that he shall be “ the angel of the covenant, 
shall live forever, and shall proclaim redemption at the 
end of the world.” II is Midianitish origin (alrcadv no- 
VIII.— K 


ticed) is brought forward as adding greater lustre to his 
zeal against Midian, and enhancing his glorious destiny. 
The verse which closes the book of Joshua is ascribed 
to Phiuehas, as the description of the death of Moses at 
the end of Deuteronomy is to Joshua ( Baba Bcithra , in 
Fabricius, p. 893). He is also reported to be the author 
of a work on sacred names ( ibid.'), which, however, is so 
rare that Fabricius had never seen it. 

The succession of the posterity of Phinehas in the 
high-pricsthood was interrupted when Eli, of the race 
of Ithamar, was priest; but it was resumed in the per- 
son of Zadok, and continued in the same line to the de- 
struction of Jerusalem. See High-pkiest. One of the 
members of the family — Manasseh, son of Johanan, and 
brother of Jaddua— went over to the Samaritans, and 
they still boast, that they preserve the succession (see 
their letter to Scaliger, in Eichhorn’s Repertorium , xiii, 
262). 

The tomb of Phinehas, 7 place of great resort to both 
Jew's and Samaritans, is shown at Awertah, four miles 
south-east of Nablus. It stands in the centre of the 
village, enclosed within a little area or compound, which 
is overshadowed by the thickly trellised foliage of an 
ancient vine. A small mosque joins the wall of the 
compound. Outside the village, on the next hill, is a 
larger enclosure, containing the tomb of Eleazar, and a 
cave ascribed to Elijah, overshadowed by two venerable 
terebinth-trees, surrounded by arcades, and forming a 
retired and truly charming spot. The local tradition 
asserts that Awertah and its neighborhood are the “ Hill 
of Phinehas.”— Smith. 

2. Second son of Eli (1 Sam. i,3; ii, 34; iv, 4, 11,17, 
19; xiv, 3). He was not of the same line as his illus- 
trious and devoted namesake, but of the family of Itha- 
mar. See Eli. Phinehas was killed with his brother 
by the Philistines when the ark M-as captured. B.C. 
1125. He had two sons, Aliitub, the eldest — v’hose sons 
Aliijah and Ahimeleeh were high-priests at Shiloh and 
Nob in the time of Saul (xiv, 3) — and Ichabod. He is 
introduced, apparently by mistake, in the genealogy of 
Ezra in 2 Esdr. i, 2 a. 

3. A Levite, mentioned* in Ezra viii, 33 as the father 
of the Eleazar who aided Meremoth to weigh the ves- 
sels of the sanctuary. B.C. ante 458. The meaning, 
how'ever, may be that Eleazar was of the family of the 
great Phinehas. 

Fhinney, Clement, .an American Free-will Baptist 
preacher, noted especially as an evangelist, M'as born in 
Gorham, Me., Aug. 16, 1780. lie possessed a good phys- 
ical constitution, a large share of good-nature and cheer- 
fulness, as well as strong common-sense. His love of 
music w’as remarkable. When a youth his talent of 
song made him a favorite with both old and young. In 
1806 he Mas converted, and after his talents had been 
consecrated to God his gift of song became instrumen- 
tal in awakening in the human heart responses to the 
calls of the divine Word. He sang with the Spirit and 
with power, which at times produced w’onderful effect. 
He received ordination in 1816, and feeling called of 
God to labor as an evangelist, declined the work of the 
pastorate. He seemed to be. specially qualified by nat- 
ure and grace for the w’ork of winning souls to Christ, 
and God gave him many as seals of his ministry— thou- 
sands were awakened by his earnest and affectionate 
ministrations. Though his advantages for an education 
were limited, yet college professors and other learned 
men were frequently found among his delighted audi- 
tors. He was a devoted friend of the slave, and, with 
the leaders of his denomination, early espoused the anti- 
slavery cause. His amiability, integrity, wisdom, and 
purity of character won for him universal confidence 
and esteem. He died at Portland, Me., where he had 
performed the most of his public labors, full of years 
and abounding in faith. 

Phipps, JosErir, a noted member of the Society of 
Friends, fiourished in the second half < f last century. 


PIIISOX 


14G 


PIIOBUS 


He is distinguished as the writer of eight important 
theological treatises (Lond. 1707-9(1), of which we men- 
tion here, Itrief Remarks on the Common Arguments 
now used in Support of divers Ecclesiastical Impositions 
in this Xation (1709. 8vo): — The Original and Present 
State of Man briefly considered ; where in is shown the 
Xature o f his Fall, and the Xecessity, Means, and Man- 
ner of his Restoration ; to which are added some Re- 
marks on the Arguments of Samuel Xewton, of Xorwich 
(1773, 8vo) I Reply to a late Publication of S. Xew- 
ton, intituled .In Appendix , etc. ; in Answer to which it 
is plainly shoum that the Quakers are not Calvinists , that 
the Cospel comprehends more than llorcfa, and that the 
Spirit of Truth is to be experienced and sensibly felt in 
the Minds and Consciences of Men (177-1, 8vo); — Ah 
A ddress to the Youth of Xorwich (1770. 12mo) Dis- 
sertations on the Xature and Effect of Christian Bap- 
tism, Christian Communion, and Religious Waiting upon 
God; to which are added a few Reflections on the Ob- 
servance of Public Fasts and Festivals (1781, 8vo). 

Phi'son (<1>j<twj')j a (Iriecized form (Eeclus. xxiv, 
25) of the name of the river Pison (q. v.). 

Fhlegethoil, a river in the infernal regions, ac- 
cording to the system of ancient heathenism. It was 
one of the four rivers which the dead must cross before 
finding admission to the realms of Orcus. See Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, ii, 655. 

Pllle'gon (<h\fywi', burning ), one of the Christians 
of Koine to whom Paul sent his salutations (Korn. xvi. 
14). A.D. 55. The legend (apud Dorotheas) makes 
him to have been one of the seventy disciples, and 
bishop of Marathon. So likewise Psemlo-llippolytus 
(Be EXX Apostolis). lie is said to have snlTered mar- 
tyrdom on April 8 ( Martyrologinm Romanian, apud Es- 
tium), on which day he is commemorated in the calen- 
dar of the Byzantine Church. 

Phlegon (<l>\ty«n/), siirnamed Tr,\i.uanis, from 
Tralles, a city of Lydia, where he was born, flourished 
in the reign of the emperor Hadrian. Nothing is known 
of the events of his life, and the date of his death is un- 
certain ; however, as one of his chronological works, 
which is no longer extant, carried the history down to 
1)1. 229.2 = A. D. 141 (Saidas'), he probably lived to the 
middle of the 2d century A.D. Pldegoifs name is fa- 
miliar among the moderns because, though a heathen, 
he bore witness to the accomplishment of Christian 
prophecies (Origen, Contra Cels. lib. ii, § 14, p. (19, cd. 
Spencer, Cantab. 1G77 ; but see Lardner’s Credibility, 
pt. ii, Heathen Testimonies, eh. xiii, who concludes that 
“upon the whole this citation is of no great moment”). 
There is also in Phlegon's writings a passage which 
may be reckoned still more material, as it is supposed 
to relate to the miraculous darkness which prevailed at 
the time of Christ’s crncilixinn. In St. Jerome’s Latin 
version of the Chronicle of Eusebius (p. 155, ed. Pont., 
Burdig. KlOt), the passrge occurs as follows: “And so 
writes Phlegon, an excellent compiler of the < dympiads, 
in his thirteenth book, saving, * In the fourth year of 
the two hundred and second Olympiad there was a 
great and extraordinary eclipse of the sun, distinguished 
among all that had happened before. At the sixth hour 
the day was turned into dark night, so that the stars in 
the heavens were seen, and there was an earthquake in 
Bithyina which overthrew many houses in the city of 
Nice”' (comp. Origen, Contra Cels. lib. ii, § 33. p.Kl) . 
§ 59, p. 9(1; and other authorities quoted hv Lnrdner). 
This passage was the origin of a controversy in England 
in the early part of the iast century between Mr. Wliis- 
ton, Dr. Sykes, Mr. Chapman, and others, a long and 
complete account of which may he found in the English 
translation of Bayle's Dictionnnire Ilistorique. s. v., and 
in Chauffepie’s “Supplement” to it. The immediate 
cause of the controversy was the omission of the pas- 
sage in t ho eighth edition ol Dr. S. Clarke’s Boyle lect- 
ures, published soon after liis death in 1732, although it 
had been inserted in the first edition, which came out 


in 170G. This was done at the persuasion of Dr. Sykes, 
who had suggested to Clarke that an undue stress had 
been laid upon the passage. Wliiston, who informs ns 
of’tliis affair, expresses great displeasure against Sykes, 
and calls “ the suggestion groundless.” Upon this Sykes 
published .1 Dissertation on the Eclipse mentioned by 
Phlegon , or an Inquiry whether that Eclipse had any 
Relation to the Darkness which happened at our Sav- 
iour's Passion (1732, 8vo). Sykes concludes it to be 
most probable that Phlegon had in view a natural 
eclipse, which happened Nov. 24, in the first year of the 
two hundred and second Olympiad, and not m the fourth 
year of the Olympiad in which Christ was criicilied. 
Many pieces were written against Sykes, who replied 
to some of them, but it may well be considered as a 
controversy still unsettled. The principal objections 
against the authority of the passage m question are 
thus briefly summed up by Dr. Adam Clarke ( Comment . 
on Matt, xxvii, 45): 1. All the authors who quote Phle- 
gon differ, and often very materially, in what they say 
was found in him. 2. He says nothing of “Judiea,” 
what he says is that in such an Olympiad (some say 
the one hundred and second, others the two hundred 
and second) there was “an eclipse in Bithynia,” and 
“an earthquake at Nice.” 3. lie dees not say that the 
earthquake happened at the time of the eclipse. 4. lie 
does not ultimate that this “darkness” was “extraordi- 
nary,” or that the eclipse happened at the “full of the 
moon,” or that it lasted “ three hours;” all of which cir- 
cumstances could not have liven omitted by him if he 
had known them. 5. lie speaks merely of an ordinary 
though perhaps total eclipse of the sun, and cannot 
mean the darkness mentioned by the evangelists. And, 
G, he speaks of an eclipse that happened in some year 
of the one hundred and second or two hundred and sec- 
ond Olympiad, and therefore, upon the whole, little 
stress can be laid on what he says as applying to this 
event. .Some fragments of his works are all that re- 
main, the longest belongs to a treatise, Iltpt Sarpaoi- 
iuv, De Mirabilibus. It is a curious work, divided into 
thirty-five chapters (some of which are very short), and 
containing (as might be expected from the title) a great 
many absurd fables. The same may be said of a shorter 
fragment of four chapters. 1 Dot paKpofii wr, De Longee- 
ris. The third fragment that remains is a chapter, 
fhpi run' ’()\vp-i(ui', De Olgmpiis, which is supposed 
by Salmasms (Ad Spurtian. p. 13) to be the preface to 
a lost work. De 0/gmpionicis. These fragments were 
first published in 15G8 (Basil. 8vo. Greek and Latin), by 
Xylamler, together with Autunini Liberalis, Transform. 
Conger., Apultonii I/ist. Mirab. , Antigom (’arystii 
Hist. Mirab.; and M. Antoninus, De Vita slid. An 
improved edition, with notes by Meursius, appeared in 
1(520 (Lugd. Bat. 4 to, Greek and Latin), which is re- 
printed by Gronovius in his Thesaur. Antiquit. Grtrc. 
viii, 2G90 sip, and 2727, and ix, 1289 sq.; and also in- 
serted among the works of Meursius, vii, 77 sq. The 
best edition is by Westermann, in his Script ores Rerum 
Mirabilium Grawi (Bruns. 1839). Sec, besides the ref- 
erences already given, Engl, t'gclop. s. v. , Gen. Biog. 
Diet. s. v.. Smith, Diet, of Gr, and Rom. Biog. and 
Mythol. s. v. 

Phobetor ( 'ho/ b) nop , . friyh tener') . an attendant on 
Sommis, the god of sleep, in the ancient heathen my- 
thology. It was his olliee to suggest to the mind im- 
ages of animated beings, and in this capacity he is men- 
tioned by Ovul in his Metamorphoses. 

Phobus (‘hd -Joe), the personilieation of Fear among 
the ancient Greeks, lie is said to have been the son 
of Ares and Cytheroia. and a constant attendant upon 
his father, lie was worshipped by the Womans under 
the equivalent name of Met us. 

Pliobus is the name of a number of Jews who dis- 
tinguished themselves in Hebrew literature. We men- 
tion the following as most important: 

1. .S.\MCEt, of Wareislaw, flourished in the last quar 


PHOCAS 


147 


PHOEBUS 


ter of the 17th century, was rabbi at Forth ami 
Schidlow, and wrote, bx^'lj TV'S, a commentary on 
the codex Eben-Ezer , making use of other commentaries 
on the same, as the “fit ‘Hi 13 of Chajira lvolien, etc. 
(Dvrlienfurt, 1689; corrected edition, Fiirth, 1694; Wil- 
na-Grodno, 1819) : — a commentary on the codex Orach 
Chajini : — a commentary on Jore Dea : — Discourses on 
the Pentateuch, which have not been printed. 

2. Samuel ben- Joseph ha-Kohen Falk, of Vienna, died 
in Palestine, where he went after the Jews had been ex- 
pelled from Vienna in 1670. lie wrote, bxfl'C’J 

a kind of haggadistic dictionary of proper names, where- 
in he speaks in alphabetical order of E^iX, fVSX, ““inx, 
etc., collected from different sources (Venice, 1694) : — 
discourses on the Pentateuch (ibid. 
1714). See Wolf, Bibl. Hebr. iii, 1 122 sq. 

3. Uri ben-Aliaron ha-Levi, a typographer at Am- 
sterdam, was born in 1623, and was still living in 1713. 
lie published the Hebrew Old Testament, with many 
additions of Jacob Blitz, and a Preface in Jmkeo-Ger- 
mau by the editor (Amsterd. 16791. He also published 
Neuer Abendsegen , a prayer-book, in Juda?o - German 
(ibid. 1677). See Gratz, Gesch. d. Juden , x, 329 sq. 

4. Uri ben-David, flourished in the middle of the 17th 
century, was rabbi at Polnow, in Lithuania, and wrote 
mm "HX, an exegetical and allegorical commentary 
on the Pentateuch, with additions of Sam. El. Edeler 
(Lublin, 1672). See Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. i, 131 ; iii, 84. 

5. Uri ha-Kohen, rabbi at Metz, wrote halachic dis- 
cussions, haggadic dissertations, and discourses, under 
the title of m>nn nrbn (Metz, 1793). 

6. Uri ben- A . Low, of Breslau, is the author of, 

C'S’S.a Ilebrew-German Dictionary (Dyrhenfurt, 1773) : 
— miX ^pb, in two parts, the first gives the six 
hundred and thirteen precepts according to the Penta- 
teuch , the second, under the title CSrD, con- 

tains these precepts in a metrical form (ibid. 1812), 

7. Uri ben-Simeon, of Beelen, who lived in the middle 
of the 16th century, published r*lXn D^rP, remark- 
able epitaphs of pious and distinguished Israelites in 
Palestine, written for pilgrims. After it had been pub- 
lished by an anonymous author in 1537, Uri Phobus 
recast the whole, and published it in 1564 at Safed, 
after having visited and seen himself the different places. 
It was then published again in Venice in 1599, and often. 
It w r as translated into Latin by Hottinger, in his Cippi 
Hebraici (Heidelberg, 1659-1662); into French bv Car- 
molv (in Itevue Orient. [Brussels, 1843-1844] iii, 85-99): 
— m?, a Calendarium, which has been translated into 
Latin by Jac. Christmann, under the title Calendarium 
Pulestinorum et universorum Judaorum ad annos 40 sup- 
pututum , auctore Uri Jil. Sim. Judteo Palastino, nunc 
prinium ex sermone Hebneo in Lutinum conversum, 
ac scholiis utilibus maximeque necessariis illustration 
(Frankf. a. M. 1594). See Wolf, Bibl. Hebr. i, 133 sq. , 
iii, 84 sq. ; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 95 sq. (B. P.) 

Phocas, a Christian martyr of the early Church, 
flourished as bishop of Pontus in the 3d century, lie 
was condemned to death for his refusal to sacrifice to 
Neptune, and was put to death by being first cast into 
a hot limekiln, and afterwards throw'll into a scalding 
bath (Fox, p. 16). 

Another martyr of the same name flourished near 
the opening of the 4th century. He was put to death I 
in A.D. 303. He w'as inserted in the list of martyrs in j 
the days of the emperor Constantine, This Phocas is 
to the Greek Christians the Castor and Pollux of an- 
cient Greece, and mariners revere his memory and pray 
for his intercession. He is commemorated by the Bo- 
manists July 14. 

Phocas, John, a noted Eastern monastic, flour- 
ished at Crete near the middle of the 12th century. | 


He Is especially distinguished by his description of a 
visit to Palestine, which work is entitled E x$paoig 
tv (Tvvuipu ruiv dir’ ’Aurtoyti«f pt\pt AtpooXvpwv kckt- 
rpiov Kai \mpio v Svpiac, d>oim-?j£ Kai rwv Kara Iln- 
Xatorivpv dyiiov tottivv (ed. Gr. et Lat. Leo Allatius, 
Colon. 1653). This is a most important contribution to 
the department of Biblical geography, and is prized even 
in our day. See Smith, Did. of Gr. and Rom. Biog. ii, 
601. 

Phoebadius, an eminent prelate of the 4th cen- 
tury, flourished as bishop of Agen, in Gaul. He was 
living in 392, when Jerome wrote his Catalogue, but was 
then in extreme old age. He is noted as the author of 
Liber contra Arianos (published in Bibl. Max. Patr. 
iv, 300; Bibl. Patr. Gall, v, 250; Athanasii Dialogi, v, 
1570, 8vo). 

Plice'be ( /, radiant), a deaconess of the 
Church at Cenchrea?, recommended to the kind atten- 
tion of the Church of Borne by Paul, who had received 
hospitable treatment from her (Bom. xvi, 1). A.D. 55. 
Her name occurs first in the long list of Christian men 
and women of whom express mention is there made. 
For the most part these were persons who had been pre- 
viously known to Paul, and had some connection with 
him in his apostolic labors, but were at the time resid- 
ing in Borne. Phoebe, however, w r as in the neighbor- 
hood of the apostle, probably still in Cenchreas, and was 
on the eve of setting out for Borne — on what business 
it is not said; but that she had something of impor- 
tance m hand is evident from the request of the apostle, 
that the Christians at Borne would “receive her in the 
Lord, and assist her in whatever business she had need 
of them” (ver. 2). See Paul. It is probable that she 
was the bearer of the Epistle to the Eomans. See Bo- 
mans, Epistle to. “What is said of her is worthy of 
especial notice, because of its bearing on the question 
of the deaconesses of the Apostolic Church. On this 
point we have to observe, (1) that the term Sicikovoq, 
here applied to her, though not in itself necessarily an 
official term, is the term which would be applied to her 
if it were meant to be official; (2) that this term is ap- 
plied in the Apostolical Constitutions to women who 
ministered officially, the deaconess being called t) £i- 
aKovoQ, as the deacon is called 6 ctetKovog ; (3) that it 
is now generally admitted that in 1 Tim. iii, 11 Paul 
applies it so himself; (4) that in the passage before us 
Phoebe is called the Swkovqq of a particular Church, 
which seems to imply a specific employment ; (5) that 
the Church of Cenchrea?, to which she belonged, could 
only have been a small Church : whence we may draw 
a fair conclusion as to what was customary, in the mat- 
ter of such female ministration, in the larger churches; 

(6) that, whatever her errand to Borne might be, the 
independent manner of her going there seems to imply 
(especially when we consider the secluded habits of 
Greek women) not only that she was a widow or a 
woman of mature age, but that she was acting officially ; 

(7) that she had already been of great service to Paul 
and others (Trpoordrig 7roXXix>i>, Kai ipoi) avrov), either 
by her wealth or her energy, or both ; a statement which 
closely corresponds with the description of the qualifi- 
cations of the enrolled widows in 1 Tim. v, 10; (8) that 
the duty which we here see Phoebe discharging implies 
a personal character worthy of confidence and respect” 
(Smith). See Deaconess. 

Phoebus (4>o7/3oc, bright), a title, and subsequent- 
ly a name, of Apollo. It had reference both to the 
youthful beauty of the god, and to the radiance of the 
sun, when, latterly, Apollo became identified with He- 
lios, the sun-god. 

Phoebus, William, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Somerset County, Md., August, 1754. 
In 1783 he was admitted to the Conference, and preach- 
ed in various places until 1798, when he located in the 
city of New York, entering upon the practice of medi- 
cine. In 1806 he was readmitted into the New York 


1 4 S 


PHOENICIA 


PHCEXICE 


Conference, laboring effectively till 1821, after which 
time be was either supernumerary or superannuated. 
He died in New York Nov. 9, 185L lie was a sound 
preacher and an excellent man. — Minutes of Confer- 
ences, ii, 162 ; Sprague, A nn. of the A mer. Pulpit, vii, 87. 

Phaeni'cd [some P he' nice'], or, rather, Pihenix 
(«1 >oiv($,a palm-tree [q.v.], which Theophrastus says 
was indigenous there), a town and harbor in the island 
of Crete, which the vessel in which the apostle Paul 
sailed was attempting to reach when driven away by 
the euroclydon and wrecked (Acts xxvii, 12). The 
harbor or “ haven” ( \ipt)v ) is described by Luke as 
fiMwovra Kara \ij3a Kai Kara \wpov, which the A. V. 
renders “lieth towards the south-west and north-west.” 
Hut Mr. Smith contends that Kara in connection with 
winds means “in the same direction as.” Thus (3\t- 
t rovra Kara \i)3a would not mean, as is generally sup- 
posed, that the haven looked to the point from which 
the libs blows, but to the point towards which it blows. 
Consequently the haven looked toicards the north-east 
and the south-east (Smith, Voyage and Shipwreck of St. 
Paul, p. 86 sq., 2d ed.). In this rendering 31 r. Smith 
is sustained by ancient authorities, and also by some of 
the best modern critics (Alford, ad loc. ; Conybeare and 
Ilowson, Life of St. Paul, ii, 331, note; see, however, 
for the contrary opinion, Hacket On Acts, ad loc.). It 
is certain that one meaning of Kara with the accusative 
is “opposite,” or “over against,” as it is correctly trans- 
lated in ver. 7 of this very chapter. Schweighauscr, in 
his Lexicon //erodoteum, has pointed out some very in- 
structive instances of this in Herod, ix, 3!, where Kara 
is used indiscriminately with avriov and dvria. In 
this sense, (3\tTrovra Kara Ai/3a, etc., would he equiv- 
alent to liXirrovra tt pot; A</3«, etc.; a phrase as to the 
meaning of which there could be no doubt (Xenophon, 
J Jem. iii, 8, 9). Knrti with au accusative also often 
siguities “down.” lint the objection to translating it 
so in this passage is that it would thus, with extreme 
awkwardness, inferentially mean the exact contrary of 
what it directly means in its other acknowledged sense, 
as marking the local relation between two objects. 

Both Ptolemy and Strabo mention a town •Point;; 
while Ptolemy alone mentions a haven, of a similar 
name, which he calls in the accusative •I>on'<Kori , ra. 
Strabo locates it on the southern coast, at the narrowest 
part of the island (x, 1, p. 475). Ilicrocles identities it 
with A radena, and seems to place it opposite the island 
of Clauda {Vet. llom. It in. ed. \ Vessel, p. 650, 651) ; and 
Stephen of Byzantium identifies Aradena and Acropolis 


(s. v.). On the south coast of Crete, at the narrowest 
part of the island, and opposite the island of Clauda, is 
the harbor of Lutro. It is open to the east; but, as a 
little island lies almost in front of it, it has two en- 
trances, one looking to the north-east, and the other to 
the south-east. It is thus described by captain Spratt: 
“Having in 1853 examined generally the south coast 
of Crete. I was fully convinced that Lutro was the Phe- 
nice of St. Paul, for it is the only bay to the westward 
of Fair Havens in which a vessel of any size could tint! 
any shelter during the winter months. By hauling in- 
side the island, and securing to the south shore of the 
hay, a vessel is nearly land-locked. South-east and 
east winds only could endanger her; but with the for- 
mer, where the fetch is greatest, the wind would not 
blow home against such a mountain as the White 
Mountains, so immediately over the bay, and rising to 
an elevation of 9000 feet” (Smith, p. 89). 31 r. Brown, 

who since visited it, adds: “It is the only secure har- 
bor, in all winds, on the south coast of Crete” {Id. p. 
256). This identification is confirmed by the researches 
of 3Ir. Pash ley {Travels in Crete, ii, 257), who discov- 
ered, a short distance above Lutro, a village called 
Acropolis (“ upper city”), and another near it called 
Aradhena. Captain Speke also ( Researches in Crete, ii, 
249) asserts that the name Phtneka is still currently ap- 
plied to Lutro, and that a Latin inscription found there, 
dating from the emperor Nerva, shows that ships from 
Alexandria resorted to this harbor. Leclder, on the 
other hand {Die Apostelyesch. 1869, p. 400), maintain- 
ing the usual interpretation of Kara here {towards), 
suggests that Luke is only reporting a popular opinion 
as to the situation of Phoenix, which Paul's company 
did not reach ; and that hence we are not to look for 
the usual accuracy of the writer. See Siiipwkkck (ok 
Paul). 

Phceni'cia (<l>omV//),a country whose inhabitants 
necessarily held important and intimate relations, not 
only to the Hebrews, hut to all antiquity. (The follow- 
ing account of it is founded on that contained in Kitto's 
Cyclopeedia, with large additions from other sources.) 

I. The Land. — 1. Name. — “PhceuTce” was not the 
name by which its native inhabitants called it, hut was 
given to it hv the Creeks, who called those merchants 
who came from that coast of the Mediterranean Sea 
which runs parallel with 3Tount Lebanon <I>oi !'<*»<;. In 
Cicero {De Fin. iv, 20) there occurs the doubtful read- 
ing Phoenicia (comp, the 3hilgatc in Numb, xxxiii, 51). 
However, this latter form of the name has come into 



3Iap of Coast near Lutro. 


PHOENICIA 


149 


PHOENICIA 


general use (comp. Gesenii Momnnenta Phoenicia [Leips. 
1837], p. 338; Forbiger, llandbuch dvr alien Geographic 
[ibid. 1842-1844], p. 659 sq.). This name has been 
variously derived. It is possibly from Phoenix the son 
of Agenor and the brother of Cadmus. It perhaps arose 
from the circumstance that the chief article of the com- 
merce of these merchants was tyoivur, purple. The word 
< poivue; means blood-red , and is probably related to <f>6voc, 
murder. This derivation of the name is alluded to by 
Strabo (i, 42). Others imagine as naturally that the 
color does not give name to the people, but is named 
after them: as our damask, from Damascus; or our 
“calico," from Calicut. The term, as an epithet of 
color, may also apply, as Kenrick supposes, to the sun- 
burnt complexion of the people. But after all, in the 
opinion of others, a Greek derivation may not be admis- 
sible, for the name may be original or Shemitic — though 
it is ridiculous in Scaliger, Fuller, and Glassius to iden- 
tify it with 522, “ to live luxuriously,” in allusion to the 
results of Phoenician wealth and merchandise. Strabo, 
however, maintains that the Phoenicians rvere called 
•PoiviKtr, because they resided originally on the coasts 
of the Red Sea. Bocliart, in his Canaan (i, 1), derives 
the name from the Hebrew “22? ^22, sons of Anak. 
Reland, in his Palcestina ex Monumentis Veteribus II- 
lustrata, derives it from 0om£, palm-tree; and this is 
the etymology now generally acquiesced in. The palm- 
tree is seen, as an emblem, on some coins of Aradus, Tyre, 
and Sidon ; and there are now several palm-trees within 
the circuit of modern Tyre, and along the coast at vari- 
ous points ; but the tree is not at the present day one of 
the characteristic features of the country. The native 
name of Phoenicia was Kenuan (Canaan) or Kna, signi- 
fying Lowland, so named in contrast to the adjoining 
Aram, i. e. Highland, the Hebrew name of Syria. The 
name Ken dan is preserved on a coin of Laodicea of the 
time of Antioclius Epiphanes, whereon Laodicea is styled 
“a mother city in Canaan,” “|2.*222 CX XI'ijAb. Kna 
or Chna (Xra) is mentioned distinctly by Herodian the 
grammarian as the old name of Phoenicia. Hence, as 
Phoenicians or Canaanites were the most powerful of all 
tribes in Palestine at the time of its invasion by Joshua, 
the Israelites, in speaking of their own territory as it 
was before the conquest, called it “the land of Canaan.” 
See Canaan. 

In the O. T. the word Phoenicia does not occur, as 
might be expected from its being a Greek name. In 
the Apocrypha it is not defined, though spoken of as 
being, with Ccele-Syria, under one military commander 
(2 Macc. iii, 5, 8; viii, 8; x, 11 ; 3 Macc. iii, 15). In 
the N. T. the word occurs only in three passages, Acts 
xi, 19; xv, 3; xxi, 2; and not one of these affords a 
clew as to how far the writer deemed Phoenicia to ex- 
tend. On the other hand, Josephus possibly agreed with 
Strabo; for he expressly says that Caesarea is situated in 
Phoenicia (Ant. xv, 9, 6) ; and although he never makes 
a similar statement respecting Joppa, yet he speaks, in 
one passage, of the coast of Syria, Phoenicia, and Egypt, 
as if Syria and Phoenicia exhausted the line of coast on 
the Mediterranean Sea to the north of Egvpt ( War, iii, 
9, 2). 

The Phoenicians in general are sometimes called 
Sidonians (comp. Gesenii Monument a Phoenicia, 5i, 267 
sq.; Thesaurus Linguee Ilebraicce, under the word j‘ , T2J). 
J ustinus (xviii, 3) alludes to the etymology of this name : 
“A city being built which they called Sidon, from the 
abundance of fishes; for the Phoenicians call a fish sidon." 
This statement is not quite correct. But the root T12J, 
which in Hebrew means only to catch beasts and birds, 
can also be employed in Arabic when the catching of 
fishes is spoken of. This root occurs also in the Ara- 
maic, in the signification of both hunting and fishing 
(comp, the art. Zidon). 

2. Extent. — Phoenicia in general is the name applied 
to a country on the coast of Syria, bounded by the Med- 


iterranean Sea on the west and Lebanon on the east; 
Syria and Judaea forming its northern and southern 
limits respectively, situated between about 34 to 36° 
N. lat., and 45° to 36° E. long. Yet the extent of its 
territory varied so considerably at different times that 
the geographical definitions of the ancient writers differ 
in a very remarkable manner. Thus, while in Gen. x, 
19 Canaan does not reach northwards beyond Sidon — a 
place which in early times gave the name to the whole 
people (22*2“n:2, ‘jlT'X Dent., Jrnlg.)— and Byb- 

lus and Berytus are considered as lying beyond it (Gen. 
x, 15 sq. ; Josh, xiii, 5), it comprised in the Persian 
period (Herod, iii, 91) Posidium, as high as 35° 52'. 
Later still (Pliny, Strabo. Ptolemy) the Eleutherus (34° 
60'), and subsequently (Mela, Stephanus) the island of 
Aradus (34 3 70'), were considered its utmost northern 
limits. To the south it was at times Gaza (Gen. x, 19; 
Zeph. ii, 5; Herod., Philo, Eustath.), at others Egypt 
(Numb, xxiv, 5 ; Josh, xv, 4, 47 ; Strabo, Procop., etc.) ; 
and, from the Macedonian period chiefly, Ca'sarea is 
mentioned as its extreme point. Eastward the coun- 
try sometimes comprised parts of Syria and Palestine, 
beyond the mountain-ridges of the former and the hill- 
chains of the latter. 

It will thus be seen that the length of coast to which 
the name Phoenicia was applied varied at different times, 
and may be regarded under different aspects before and 
after the loss of its independence. (1.) What may be 
termed Phoenicia proper was a narrow undulating plain, 
extending from the pass of Has el- Hey ad or Abyad, the 
“ Promontorium Album” of the ancients, about six miles 
south of Tyre, to the Nahr el-Auly, the ancient Bos- 
trenus, two miles north of Sidon (Robinson, Bib. Pes. 

ii, 473). The plain is only twenty-eight miles in 

length, and, considering the great importance of Phoe- 
nicia in the world’s history, this may well be added to 
other instances in Greece, Italy', and Palestine, which 
show how little the intellectual influence of a city or 
state has depended on the extent of its territory'. Its 
average breadth is about a mile (Porter, Handbook for 
Syria, ii, 396); but near Sidon the mountains retreat to 
a distance of two miles, and near Tyre to a distance of 
five miles (Kenrick, Phoenicia, p. 19). The whole of 
Phoenicia, thus understood, is called by Josephus ( A nt. 
v, 3, I) the great plain of the city of Sidon (ro ptya 
7rtSiov Nicfwt'of 7roAtaic). In it, near its northern ex- 
tremity', was situated Sidon, in the north latitude of33° 
34' 05"; and scarcely more than seventeen geograph- 
ical miles to the south was Tyre, in the latitude of 33° 
17' (admiral Smyth’s Mediterranean, p. 469): so that 
in a straight line those two renowned cities were less 
than twenty English miles distant from each other. 
Zarephath, the Sarepta of the N. T., was situated be- 
tween them, eight miles south of Sidon, to which it be- 
longed (1 Kings xvii, 9 ; Obad. 20 ; Luke iv, 26). (2.) 

A still longer district, which afterwards became fairly 
entitled to the name of Phoenicia, extended up the coast 
to a point marked by the island of Aradus. and by 
Antaradus towards the north ; the southern boundary 
remaining the same as in Phoenicia proper. Phoenicia, 
thus defined, is estimated by’ Mr. Grote (Hist, of Gr eece, 

iii, 354) to have been about one hundred and twenty 
miles in length ; while its breadth, between Lebanon 
and the sea, never exceeded twenty' miles, and was gen- 
erally much less. This estimate is most reasonable, al- 
lowing for the bends of the coast ; as the direct differ- 
ence in latitude between Tyre and Antaradus (Tortosa) 
is equivalent to one hundred and six English miles; 
and six miles to the south of Tyre, as already' men- 
tioned, intervene before the beginning of the pass of 
Ras el-Aby’ad. The claim of this entire district to 
the name of Phoenicia rests on the probable fact that 
the whole of it, to the north of the great plain of Sidon, 
was occupied by' Phoenician colonists; not to mention 
that there seems to have been some kind of political 
connection, however loose, between all the inhabitants 


PHOENICIA 


150 


PHOENICIA 


(Diodorus, xvi, 41). Scarcely sixteen geographical ! 
miles farther north than Sidon was Berytus; with a 
roadstead so well suited for the purposes of modern 
navigation that, under the modern name of Beirut, it 
has eclipsed both Sidon and Tyre as an emporium for 
Syria. Whether this Berytus was identical with the 
Berdthah and Berothai of Ezek. xlvii, 1G, and of 2 Sam. 
viii. X, is a disputed point. Still farther north was Bvb- 
lus, the Gebal of the Bible (Ezek. xxvii, 9), inhabited 
by seamen and calkers. Its inhabitants are supposed 
to be alluded to in the word Giblim, translated “stone- 
sqiiarcrs” in the A. V. of 1 Kings v, IX (32). It still 
retains in Arabic the kindred name of Jcbeil. Then 
came Tripolis (now Tarabnlus), said to have been found- 
ed by colonists from Tyre, Sidon, and Aradus, with three 
distinct towns, each a furlong apart from one another, 
each with its own walls, and each named from the city 
which supplied its colonists. General meetings of the 
Phoenicians seem to have been held at Tripolis (l)iod. 
xvi, 11), as if a certain local jealousy had prevented the 
selection for this purpose of Tyre, Sidon, or Aradus. 
Lastly, towards the extreme point north was Aradus it- 
self, the Arvad of Gen. x, IX and Ezek. xxvii, X, situ- 
ated, like Tyre, on a small island near the mainland, 
ami founded by exiles from Sidon. 

During the period of the conquest of Canaan by the 
Israelites, the Phcenieians possessed the following towns, 
which we will enumerate successively in the direction 
from south to north: Dora (TH, Josh, xi, 2; xvii, 11 
sq.) ; Ptolemais Judg. i, 33); Ecdippa (2M2X, 

Josh, xix, 29); Tyre (VU, Josh.xix,29); Sarepta(r£“!i, 

1 Kings xvii, 9 sq. ; Luke iv, 2G); Sidon (‘p’VX Gen. 
x, 15); Berytus (nri“2, Ezek. xlvii, 1G; 2 Sam. viii, 
X | ; I ly bl us (b 2 2, J osh .xiii,5); Tripolis, Simyra (**“"22!"!, 
Gen. x, IX); Arka pp^ZTl, Gen. x, 17); Simna 
Gen. x, 16); Aradus (“’'“Tl'ixn, Gen. x, IX). Comp, the 
respective articles on these towns. Sidon is the only 
Plnenician town mentioned in Homer (see Iliad, vi, 
239; xxiii, 743; Odyss. xv, 415; xvii, 121). 

3. Geographical Features . — The whole of Phoenicia 
proper is well watered by various streams from the ad- 
joining hills ; of these the two largest are the Khasimi- 
ych, a few miles north of Tyre— the ancient name of 
which, strange to say, is not certain, though it is con- 
jectured to have been the Loonies — and the Bostrenus, 
already mentioned, north of Sidon. The soil is fertile, 
although now generally ill-cultivated ; but in the neigh- 
borhood of Sidon there are rich gardens and orchards. 
The havens of Tyre and Sidon afforded water of sufli- 
cient depth for all the requirements of ancient naviga- 
tion, and the neighboring range of the Lebanon, in its 
extensive forests, furnished what then seemed a nearly 
inexhaustible supply of timber for ship-building. To 
the. north of Bostrenus, between that river and Beirut, 
lies the only desolate and barren part of Phoenicia. It is 
crossed hv the ancient Tamvras or Damuras, the mod- 
ern Nahr ed-Damur. From Beirut the plains are again 
fertile, 'flic principal streams are the Lvcus, now the 
Nahr el-Kolb, not far north from BeirtU ; the Adonis, 
now the Nahr Ibrahim, about five miles south of Gcbal ; 
and the Eleutherus, now the Nahr el-Kebir, in the bend 
between Tripolis and Antaradus. 

The climate of Phoenicia— an item of immense mo- 
ment in the history of a nation — varies very consider- 
ably. Near the coast, and in the lower plains, the heat 
iu summer is at times tropical, while t lie more moun- 
tainous regions enjoy a moderate temperature, and iu 
winter even heavy falls of snow are not uncommon. Iu 
the southern parts the early rains begin in t fetober, and 
are. after an interval of dry weather, followed by the 
winter rains, which last till March, the time of the 
‘■latter” rains. From May till t >ctobcr the sky remains 
cloudless. The rare difference of temperature found in 
so small a compass is thus happily described by Voinov: 
‘*lf the heat of July is oppressive, a six hours' journey 


to the neighboring mountains transports you into the 
coolness of March ; and if, on the contrary, the hoar-frost 
troubles you at Besharrai, a day’s travel will bring you 
into the midst of blooming Mav ;” or, as an Arabic poet 
has it, “Lebanon bears winter on its head, spring on its 
shoulders, autumn on its lap, and summer at its foot.” 
The dense population assembled in the great mercantile 
towns greatly contributed to augment by artificial means 
the natural fertility of the soil. The population of the 
country is at present very much reduced, but there are 
still found aqueducts and artificial vineyards formed of 
mould carried up to the terraces of* the native rock. 
Ammianus Marcellinus says (xiv, X), “Phoenicia is a 
charming and beautiful country, adorned with large 
and elegant cities." Even now this country is among 
the most fertile in Western Asia. It produces wheat, 
rye, and barley, and, besides the more ordinary fruits, 
also apricots, peaches, pomegranates, almonds, citrons, 
oranges, figs, dates, sugar-cane, and grapes, which 
furnish an excellent wine. In addition to these prod- 
ucts, it yields cotton, silk, and tobacco. The country 
is also adorned by the variegated flowers of oleander 
anil cactus. The higher regions are distinguished from 
the bare mountains of Palestine by being covered with 
oaks, pines, cypress-trees, acacias, and tamarisks; and 
above all by majestic cedars, of which there are still a 
few very old trees, whose stems measure from thirty to 
forty feet in circumference. The inhabitants of Sur still 
carry on a profitable traffic with the produce of Mount 
Lebanon, namely, in wood and charcoal. Phoenicia pro- 
duces also Hocks of sheep and goats; and innumerable 
swarms of bees supply excellent honey. In the forests 
there are bears, wolves, panthers, and jackals. The sea 
furnishes great quantities of fish, so that Sidon, the most 
ancient among the Phoenician towns, derived its name 
from fishing. 

II. The People. — 1. Respecting the ethnography of 
the Phoenicians, we have only to observe that the opin- 
ions are as much divided on the subject as ever. Ac- 
cording to Gen. x, 15, Canaan had eleven “sons” (“Ca- 
naan begat Sidon his first-born, and lletli, and the Jebu- 
site, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, and the llivite, 
and the Arkite, and the Sinite, and the Arvadite, and 
the Zemarite, and the Ilamathitc; and afterwards were 
the families of the Canaanites spread abroad"), six of 
whom had settled in the north of Palestine; and al- 
though all his descendants are sometimes included, both 
by classical writers and the Sept. (e. g. in Josh, v, 1, 12), 
in the name of ‘boivncfc, yet in general the term chiefly 
applies to the inhabitants of the north. Scripture speaks 
of them as descendants of primeval giants (Autochthons) 
who had inhabited Canaan since the flood— that is, from 
times immemorial. Considering the careful attention 
paid by the Biblical writers to the early history of Pal- 
estine, and the close contact between the Phoenicians 
and Israelites, it would appear as if all traditions of a 
time anterior to their sojourn in that land had been long 
lost. Gen. x, G, on the other hand, calls Canaan a de- 
scendant of 11am— a statement which, unless explained 
to refer to their darker skins, would seem to war against 
their being indigenous inhabitants of Palestine, or a 
Shemitic population, an assumption much favored by 
their language. Herodotus, however, makes them, both 
on their own statements and by accounts preserved in 
Persian historians, immigrants from “the Erythneau 
Sea;” and Justin backs the notion of immigration by 
recording that the Tyrian nation was founded by the 
Phcenieians, and that these, being forced by an earth- 
quake to leave their native land, first settled on the 
Assyrian lake (Dead Sea or lake of Gennesarcth), and 
subsequently on a shore near the sea, where they found- 
ed a city called Sidon. The locality of the “ Erythneau 
Sea.” however, is a moot point still. It is taken by dif- 
ferent investigators to stand either for the Arabian or 
Persian Gulf; the latter view being apparently favored 
bv the occurrence of Phicnieinn names borne by some 
of its islands (Strabo)— though these may have been 


PHOENICIA 


151 


PHOENICIA 


given them by late Phoenician colonists. Some have | 
seen in them the Hyksos driven to Syria. Without en- j 
tering any further into these most difficult, and, in the 
absence of all trustworthy information, more than vague ' 
speculations, so much appears certain, that many immi- 
grations of Shemitic branches into Phoenicia, at differ- 
ent periods and from different parts, must have taken 
place, and that these gradually settled into the highly 
civilized nationality which we find constituted as early 
as the time of Abraham (Gen. xii, 6, TS4 = thcn, already; 
comp. Aben-Ezra, ad loe., and Spinoza, Tract. Theol.- 
Pol. ch. viii). It would be extremely vain to venture 
an opinion on the individuality of the different tribes 
that, wave-like, rushed into the countrj r from various 
sides, at probably widely distant dates. The only ap- 
parently valuable tradition on the subject seems con- 
tained in the above-quoted passage of Gen. x, 15-18. 
But there is one point which can be proved to be in the 
highest degree probable, and which has peculiar interest 
as bearing on the Jews, viz. that the Phoenicians w r ere 
of the same race as the Canaanites. This remarkable 
fact, which, taken in connection with the language of 
the Phoenicians, leads to some interesting results, is ren- 
dered probable by the following circumstances : 1st. The 
native name of Phoenicia, as already pointed out, was 
Canaan, a name signifying “lowland.” This was well 
given to the narrow slip of plain between the Lebanon 
and the Mediterranean Sea, in contrast to the elevated 
mountain range adjoining; but it would have been in- 
appropriate to that part of Palestine conquered by the 
Israelites, which was undoubtedly a hill-country (see 
Movers, Das Phonizische A Iterthum, i, 5) ; so that, when 
it is known that the Israelites at the time of their inva- 
sion found in Palestine a powerful tribe called the Ca- 
naanites, and from them called Palestine, the land of 
Canaan, it is obviously suggested that the Canaanites 
came originally from the neighboring plain, called Ca- 
naan. along the sea-coast. 2d. This is further confirmed 
through the name in Africa whereby the Carthaginian 
Phoenicians called themselves, as attested by Augustine, 
who states that the peasants in his part of Africa, if 
asked of what race they were, would answer, in Punic 
or Phoenician, “Canaanites” ( Opera Omnia, iv, 1235; 
Erposit. Epist. ad Rom. § 13). 3d. The conclusion thus 

suggested is strongly supported by the tradition that 
the names of persons and places in the land of Canaan 
— not only when the Israelites invaded it, but likewise 
previously, when “ there were yet but a few of them,” 
and Abraham is said to have visited it — were Phoenician 
or Hebrew : such, for example, as Abimelek, “father of 
the king” (Gen. xx, 2); Melchizedek, “king of right- 
eousness” (xiv, 18); Kirjatli-sepher, “city of the book” 
(Josh, xv, 15). As above observed, in Greek writers 
also occurs the name \vd for Phoenicia (comp. Gesenii 
Thesaurus Linguae, Hebraicce [Leips. 1839], ii, GOG, and 
Gesenii Monumenta Phoenicia, p. 570 sq.). The dialect 
of the Israelites perhaps resembled more the Aramiean, 
and that of the Phoenicians more the Arabic ; but this 
difference was nearly effaced when both nations resided 
in the same country, and had frequent intercourse with 
each other. Concerning the original country of the 
Phoenicians and their immigration into Canaan, comp, 
especially Bertheau, Zur Geschichte der Israeliten (Got- 
tingen, 1840), p. 152-186, and Lengcrke, Kanaan, 
Volks- mid Religionsgeschiclite Israels (Kdnigsberg, 
1844), i, 182 sq. 

2. Government. — Two principal divisions existed an- 
ciently among these Canaauites: these were those of 
the interior of Palestine, and the tribes inhabiting the 
sea-coast, Phoenicia proper. By degrees three special 
tribes, more powerful than the rest, formed, as it were, 
the nucleus around which the multitude of minor ones 
gathered and became one nationality, viz. the inhabi- 
tants of Sidon, of Tyre, and of Aradus. Three principal 
elements are to be distinguished, according to classical 
evidence (Cato, comp. Sen. ad ^En. iv, G82), in the con- 


stitution of Phoenician states : 1. The aristocracy, con- 
sisting of certain families of noble lineage, which were 
divided into tribes (L23w), families (JinS’IIE, Phoen. 
■pun), and gentes (“1254 IV2), the last generally of 
the number of 300 in each state or colony. Out of the 
“tribes” were elected thirty principes (Phoen. 2*1). who 
formed a supreme senate ; besides which there existed 
another larger representative assembly of 300 members, 
chosen from the gentes. 2. The lower estates of the 
people, or “plebs” itself, who do not seem to have had 
their recognised special representatives, but by constant 
opposition, which sometimes broke out in open violence, 
held the nobles in check. 3. The kingdom, at first he- 
reditary, afterwards became elective. Nor must the 
priesthood be forgotten : one of the most powerful ele- 
ments in the Phoenician commonwealth, and which in 
some provinces even assumed, in the person of the high- 
priest, the supreme rule. There was a kind of federal 
union between the different states, which, according to 
their importance, sent either their kings or their judges, 
at the head of a large number of their senators, to the 
general councils of the nation, held at stated periods 
either at Sidon or Tyre. The colonies were governed 
much as the home-country, except that local affairs and 
the executive were intrusted to two (annual, as it would 
seem) judges (E^S^r, suffetes) elected by the senate 
— an institution which for some time also replaced the 
monarchical form in Tyre. When Tripolis was founded 
by Tyre, Sidon, and Aradus, as a place of joint meet- 
ing for their hegemony, every one of these cities sent 
100 senators to watch her special interests at the com- 
mon meeting; and the senate of Sidon seems, in the 4th 
century B.C., at least, to have consisted of 500 to GOO 
elders, some of whom were probably selected more for 
their wealth than for their noble lineage. The king 
sometimes combined in his person the office of high- 
priest. The turbulent seething mass of the people, 
consisting of the poorer families of Phoenician descent, 
the immigrants of neighboring tribes, the strangers, 
and the whole incongruous mass of workmen, trades- 
people, sailors, that must have abounded in a commer- 
cial and maritime nation like the Phoenicians, and out 
of whose midst must have arisen at times influential 
men enough — was governed, as far as we can learn, as 
“constitutionally” as possible. The unruly spirits were 
got rid of in Koman fashion somehow in the colonies, 
or were made silent by important places being intrusted 
to their care, under strict supervision from home. Only 
once or twice do we hear of violent popular outbreaks, 
in consequence of one of which it was mockingly said 
that Phcenicia had lost all her aristocracy, and what 
existed of Phoenicians was of the lowest birth, the off- 
spring of slaves. As the wealth of all the world accu- 
mulated more and more in the Phoenician ports, luxury, 
and too great a desire to rest and enjoy their w r ealth in 
peace, induced the dauntless old pirates to intrust the 
guard of their cities to the mariners and mercenary sol- 
diers, to Libyans and Lydians — “ they of Persia and of 
Lud and of Phut,” as Ezekiel has it; although the wild 
resistance which this small territory offered in her sin- 
gle towms to the enormous armies of Assyria, Babylo- 
nia and Greece shows that the old spirit had not died 
out. The smaller states were sometimes so much op- 
pressed by Tyre that they preferred rather to submit to 
external enemies (comp, lleeren, Ideen, etc., p. 15 sq. ; 
Beck, Anleitung zur genaueren Kenntniss der Welt- und 
V biker geschichte, p. 252 sq., and 581 sq.). 

3. History.— One of the most powerful and important 
nations of antiquity, Phoenicia has yet left but poor in- 
formation regarding her history. According to Jose- 
phus, every city in Phoenicia had its collection of regis- 
ters and public documents (comp. Targum to Iviijath- 
Jearim, Judg. i, 11, 15). Out of these, Menander of 
Ephesus, and Dias, a Phoenician, compiled two histories 
of Tyre, a few fragments of which have survived (comp. 


PHOENICIA 


152 


PHOENICIA 


Josephus, Contra Ap. i, 17, 18; Ant. viii. 5, 3; xiii, 1 
si]. ; ix, 14, 2; Thcophil. Ad Autol. iii, 22; Svncclhis, 
Chron. p. 182). Kanchoniatho is said to have written 
a history of Plucnieia and Egypt, which was recast by 
Philo of Byblns, under the reign of Hadrian, and from 
his work Porphyrius (4th century A.I>.) took some eos- 
mogonical quotations, which found their way into Eu- 
sebius ( I'rir] >. 1'i'ung, i. 10). Later Phoenician histori- 
ans’ works (Theodotus, Hesycrates, Moschos, mentioned 
as authors on Plucnieia by Tatianus, Contra Grcrcos, § 37) 
are likewise lost, Gescnius mentions, in his Monument a 
Phoenicia (p. 303 sq.), some later Phoenician authors, 
who do not touch upon historical subjects. Thus noth- 
ing remains but a few casual notices in the Bible, some 
of the Church fathers, and classical writers (Josephus, 
Synecllus, Herodotus, Diodorus, Justin), which happen 
to throw some light upon the history of that long-lost 
commonwealth. A great part of this history, however, 
being identical with that of the cities mentioned, in 
which by turns the hegemony was vested, fuller infor- 
mation will be found under their special headings. The 
names of the kings from Hiram to Pygmalion are pre- 
served by Josephus (Apion, i, 18) in a fragment from 
the history of Tyre by Menander of Ephesus. We give 
them, with the computations of the reigns by Movers (ut 
sup. 11. i, 140, 143, 149), Duncker (Gesch. des A Iter (hums 
[3d ed. llerl. 1803 7], i, 520 sq.), and llitzig ( Vrejesch . 
nnd Mf/thol. der Phitistder, p. 191). See also Ilerzog, 
Encyiclop, xi, 020 sq. 


, Name. 

Menander. 

Movers. 

Dumber. llilziir. 



B.C. 

B.C. 1 B.C. 

Hiram I — 

34 years 

980-947 

1021-991 1031-997 

Halcaznr — 

7 (17) years 

94(5-940 

991-974 997-990 

Abdastartus 

9 years 

939-931 

974-9(55 1 990-9 St 

ITukuowu . . 

12 years 

930-919 

905-953 1 9S1-909 

Astartus 

12 years 

918-907 

953-941 909-957 

i Astarymns . 

9 years 

906-S98 

941-932 957-948 

Etudes 

8 months 


1 

Ithobal 

32 (12) years 

897-8(5(5 

931 -SOS ! 948-910 

Bslezorns . . 

0 i8, Is) years 

805-858 

N9S-890 91G-910 

Myttonns. .. 

9 (25. ‘.".i) years 

S57-833 

890-801 ! 910-901 

P\ gtnalion . 

47 (40, 48) years 

83*2-785 

801-813 | 900- tt 53 


Broadly speaking, we may begin to date Phoenician 
history from the time when Sidon first assumed the 
ride, or about B.C. 1500. Up to that time it was chiefly 
the development of the immense internal resources, and 
the commencement of that gigantic trade that was des- 
tined soon to overspread the whole of the then known 
world, which seem to have occupied the attention of 
the early and peaceful settlers. The symbolical repre- 
sentative of their political history during that period is 
El, or Belitan, builder of cities, supreme and happy 
ruler of men. The conquest of Canaan by the Israelites 
marks a new epoch, of which lists of kings were still 
extant in late Greek times. We now hear first of Sido- 
nian colonies, while the manufactures and commerce 
of the country seem to have reached a high renown 
throughout the neighboring lands. The Israelites drove 
out Sidonian settlers from Laish, near the sources of the 
Jordan. Somewhat later (beginning of 13th century), 
Sidonian colonization spread farther west, founding the 
(island-) city of Tyre, and Uitium and Hippo on the coast 
of Africa. About 1209, however, Sidon was defeated 
by the king of Askalon, and Tyre, assuming the ascen- 
dency, ushered in a third period, during which Phccni- 
cia reached the summit of her greatness. At this time, 
chiefly under the brilliant reign of Hiram, we hear also 
of a close alliance with the Israelites, which eventually 
led to common commercial enterprises at sea. After 
Hiram’s death, however, political dissensions began to 
undermine the unparalleled peace and power of the 
country. His four sons ruled, with certain interrup- 
tions, for short periods, and the crown was then assumed 
by Ethbaal, the father of Jezebel. His grandson, Mat- 
tan, left the throne to his two children, Pygmalion and 
Dido (Klissa). The latter, having been excluded from 
power by her brother, left the country, together with 
some of the aristocratic families, and founded Carthage 


(Xew-Town), about B.C. 813. Of the century that fol- 
lowed, little further is known save occasional allusions 
in Joel and Amos, which tell of the piratical commerce 
of Tyrians and Sidonians. Assyrian, Chahhvan, Egyp- 
tian invasions followed each other in turns during the 
last phase of Phoenician history, dating from the 8th 
century, and soon reduced the flourishing country to 
insignificance. Deeds of prowess, such as the thirteen 
years’ siege sustained by Tyre against overwhelming 
forces, could not save the doomed countn’. Her fleet 
destroyed, her colonies wrested from her or in a state 
of open rebellion, torn by inner factions. Plucnieia was 
ultimately (together with what had been once Nebu- 
chadnezzar's empire) embodied with Persia B.C. 538. 
Once more, however, exasperated by the enormous 
taxes imposed upon them, chiefly during the Greek 
war, together with other galling measures issued by 
the successive satraps, the Plucnicians, under the lead- 
ership of Sidon, took part in the revolution of Egypt 
against Artaxerxes Mnemon and Ochus, about the mid- 
dle of the 4th century B.U., which ended very unhappily 
lor them. Sidon, the only city that refused to submit at 
once at the approach of the Persian army, was con- 
quered, the citizens themselves setting fire to it, and 
more than 40,000 people perished in the flames. Al- 
though rebuilt and repeopled shortly afterwards, it yet 
never again reached its ancient grandeur, and to Tyre 
belonged the hegemony, until she, too, had to submit, 
after a seven years’ siege, to Alexander, who through the 
battle on the Issus (B.C. 333) had made all Phoenicia 
his as part and parcel of the gigantic Persian empire. 
Under Autioclms the t treat, all except Sidon became 
subject to Scleucidiau sway. Pompey, incorporating 
Plucnieia with Syria (B.C. tin), made it a Homan prov- 
ince. During the civil wars of Home, when Cassius 
divided Syria into small provinces, and sold them sepa- 
rately, Tyre again became for a short period a princi- 
pality. with a king of its own. Cleopatra in her turn 
received Plucnieia as a present from Antony. What 
shadow of independence was still left to the two ancient 
cities was taken from them by Augustus (A.D. 20). 
Tyre, however, retained much of her previous impor- 
tance as an emporium and a manufacturing place through 
the various vicissitudes of Syrian history during the 
sixteen centuries that followed, until the Ottoman Turks 
conquered the country, and the opening up of the New 
World on the one hand, and of a new route to Asia on 
the other, destroyed the last remnant of the primitive 
grandeur of one of the most mighty empires of the an- 
cient world, and one which has contributed one of the 
largest shares to the civilization of all mankind. 

4. Occupations. — Commerce and colonization were the 
elements by which this grandeur was chiefly accomplish- 
ed. Kegarding the former, we have already hinted at the 
overflowing wealth and almost unparalleled variety of 
home products which this small country furnished forth, 
and which, far too abundant for their own consumption, 
easily suggested the idea of exportation and tratlic of 
exchange. Their happy maritime position further en- 
abled them to do that which Egypt and Assyria, with 
all their perfection of industry and art, were debarred 
from doing; partly, it is true, through their isolated 
habits and narrow laws, but chiefly by the natural lim- 
its of their countries. To Plucnieia alone it was given 
to supply the link that was to connect the East with 
the West, or at least with Europe and Western Africa. 
Uommuuicating by means of Arabia and the Persian 
Gulf with India ami the coast of Africa towards the 
equator; and on the north, along the Euxine. with the 
borders of Scythia, beyond the Strait of Gibraltar, with 
Britannia, if not with the Baltic, their commerce di- 
vides itself into ditlerent great branches according to 
those natural highways. Prom the countries on the 
Persian Gulf and the Bed Sea. the coasts of Arabia, Af- 
rica, and India, they exported spice, precious stones, 
myrrh, frankincense, gold, ivory, ebony, steel, and iron, 
and from Egypt embroidered linen and corn, In ex- 


PHCENICIA 


153 


PHOENICIA 


change they brought not only their own raw produce 
and manufactures, but gums and resins fur embalming, 
also wine and spices. From Mesopotamia and Syria 
came the emeralds and corals of the lied Sea ; from Baby- 
lon the manifold embroideries; wine and line wool from 
Aleppo and the Mesopotamian plains; from Jmkea the 
finest wheat, grape-honev, oil, and balm. Another re- 
mote region, Armenia, furnished troops of riding and 
chariot horses and mules; and this same country, or, 
rather, the south-eastern coast of the Euxine, further 
furnished the Phoenician emporiums with slaves of a 
superior market-value— for pirating and slave-dealing 
went hand in hand with their maritime calling — with 
copper, lead, brass (or ichalcum), and tunnies, which 
they also fetched, together with conger-eels, from the 
Atlantic coast. Their extensive early commerce with 
Greece is frequently alluded to in Homer, and is further 
shown by the remarkable fact of the abundance of She- 
mitic or Phoenician words in Greek for such things as 
precious stones, fine garments, vessels, spices, and East- 
ern plants in general, musical instruments, weights and 
measures, etc. (comp, yui ’>ppa, "112; tdvvap or, "|V£2p; 
frdj'i'rt, Pi:p; Xifiarog, !"I2ES; xciXfiiivii, galbanum, 
i"!32bn ; vapSog , "J"13 ; adptpdpog, "PE1T ; ’iavmg, 
ns*— "* ; fivaaog, j’*E ; Kapnaaoc, OE"Q ; vctftXa, ^E3 ; 
rvpiravov, "11 ; oapfiuKt], XEEO; Kvirpog, “IEE ; i'cr- 
<ru/ 7 roc, EVtX; Kifitopvoi', "‘EE; traKicog, plE ; yr/pnjr, 
E“lPl; StXrog, rb“I; appaftujv, pvd, i”l3"2; va- 

f3oCy Ep; dp«xpi), VT22"1"I; icupog, "E. etc.). Beyond 
the Strait, along the north and west coast of Africa, 
they received skins of deer, lions, panthers, domestic 
cattle, elephants’ skins and teeth, Egyptian alabaster, 
castrated swine, Attic pottery and cups, probably also 
gold. Yet the most fabulously rich mines of metals — 
such as silver, iron, lead, tin — they found in Tartessus. 
So extensive and proverbial was this commerce that we 
enumerate its elements in detail. 

The position of Phoenicia, as w r e have seen, was most 
favorable for the exchange of the produce of the East and 
West. Persians, Lydians, and Lvcians frequently served 
as mercenaries in the Phoenician armies (Ezek. xxvii, 
10, 11). Phoenicia exported wine to Egypt (Herod, iii, 
5, 6). Purple garments were best manufactured in 'lyre 
(Amati, De Pestitutione Purpurarum, 3d ed. Caserne, 
1784). Glass was made in Sidon and Sarepta (comp. 
Heeren, p. 80 sq. ; Beck, p. 593 sq.). In Phoenicia was 
exchanged the produce of all known countries. After 
David had vanquished the Edomites and conquered the 
coasts of the Bed Sea, king Hiram of Tyre entered into 
a confederacy with Solomon, by which he insured for 
his people the right of navigation to India. The com- 
bined fleet of the Israelites and Phoenicians sailed from 
the seaports of Ezion-geber and Elath. These ports 
w r ere situated on the eastern branch of the Bed Sea, the 
Sinus Elaniticus, or Gulf of Akabah. Israelitish-Phceni- 
cian mercantile expeditions proceeded to Ophir, perhaps 
Abhira, situated at the mouth of the Indus (comp. Las- 
sen, Indische Alterthumskunde [Bonn, 1814], i, 537 sq.). 
It seems, however, that the Indian coasts in general 
were also called Ophir. Three years were required in 
order to accomplish a mercantile expedition to Ophir 
and to return w r ith cargoes of gold, algum-wood, ivory, 
silver, monkeys, peacocks, and other Indian produce. 
Some names of these products are Indian transferred 
into Hebrew, as C'iEEX, almuggim, Sanscr. valgu, 
or, according to the Decanie pronunciation, valgum; 
C^arryr, shen-habbim (ivory), Sanscr. ibha; "Ip 
koph (ape), Sanscr. kapi ; takkiyhn (peacock), 

Sanscr. cikhi, according to the Decanic pronunciation 
(comp. 1 Kings ix, 27; x, 11, 22). See Oriim, It 
seems, however, that these mercantile expeditions to 
India were soon given up, probably on account of the 
great difficulty of navigating the Bed Sea. King Je- 
boshaphat endeavored to recommence these expeditions, 


but his fleet was wrecked at Ezion-geber (1 Kings xxii, 
48). The names of mercantile establishments on the 
coasts of Arabia along the Persian Gulf have partly been 
preserved to the present day. In these places the Phoe- 
nicians exchanged the produce of the West for that of 
India, Arabia, and Ethiopia. Arabia especially fur- 
nished incense, gold, and precious stones. The Midian- 
ites (Gen. xxxvii, 28) and the Edomites (Ezek. xxvii, 
10) effected the transit by their caravans. The forti- 
fied Idumrcan town Petra probably contained the store- 
houses in which the produce of southern countries was 
collected. From Egypt the Phoenicians exported espe- 
cially byssus (ver. 7) for wine. According to an an- 
cient tradition, the tyrant of Thebes, Busiris, having 
soiled his hands with the blood of all foreigners, was 
killed by the Tyrian Hercules. This indicates that 
Phoenician colonists established themselves and their 
civilization successfully in Upper Egypt, where all 
strangers had usually been persecuted. At a later pe- 
riod Memphis was the place where most of the Phoeni- 
cians in Egypt were established. Phoenician inscrip- 
tions found in Egypt prove that even under the Ptole- 
mies the intimate connection between Phoenicia and 
Egypt still existed (comp. Gcsenii Monument a Phoeni- 
cia , xiii, 224 sq.). From Palestine the Phoenicians im- 
ported, besides wheat, especially from Judaea, ivory, oil, 
and balm ; also wool, principally from the neighboring 
nomadic Arabs. Damascus furnished wine (Ezek. xxvii, 
5, G, 17, 18, 21), and the mountains of Syria wood. The 
tribes about the shores of the Caspian Sea furnished 
slaves and iron; for instance, the Tibarteans (?E^r» 
Tubal) and Moschi (” -"2, Meshech). Horsemen, horses, 
and mules came from the Armenians (iT2“!3r, Togar- 
mah) (see lleeren. p. 8G-130). The treasures of the 
East were exported from Phoenicia by ships which 
sailed first to Cyprus, the mountains of which are visi- 
ble from the Phoenician coast. Citium was a Phoenician 
colony in Cyprus, the name of which was transferred to 
the whole of Cyprus, and even to some neighboring isl- 
ands and coasts called CV: (Gen. x, 4; Isa. xxiii, I, 
12). Hence also C"rn, the name of a Canaanitish or 
Phoenician tribe (Gesenii Monumenta Phoenicia, p. 
153). Cyprus was subject to Tyre up to the time of 
Alexander the Great. There are still found Phoenician 
inscriptions which prove the connection of Cyprus with 
Tyre. At Bhodes (E"3T1) also are found vestiges of 
Phoenician influence. From Bhodes the mountains of 
Crete are visible. This was of great importance for the 
direction of navigators, before the discovery of the com- 
pass. In Crete, and also in the Cycladic and Sporadic 
Isles, are the vestiges of Phoenician settlements. On 
the Isle of Tliasos, on the southern coast of Thrace, the 
Phoenicians had gold-mines; and even on the southern 
shores of the Black Sea they had factories. However, 
when the Greeks became more powerful, the Phoeni- 
cians sailed more in other directions. They occupied 
also Sicily and the neighboring islands, but were, after 
the Greek colonization, confined to a few towns, Motva, 
Soloes, Panormus (Thucydides, vi, 2). The Phoenician 
mercantile establishments in Sardinia and the Balearic 
Isles could scarcely bp called colonies. Carthage was a 
Phoenician colony, which probably soon became impor- 
tant by commerce with the interior of Africa, and re- 
mained connected with Tyre by means of a common 
sanctuary. After Phoenicia had been vanquished by 
the Assyrians. Babylonians, and Persians, the settle- 
ments in Sicily, Sardinia, and Spain came into the 
power of Carthage. The Phoenicians had for a long 
period exported from Spain gold, silver, tin, iron, lead 
(Ezek. xxxviii, 13), fruit, wine, oil, wax, fish, and wool. 
Their chief settlement was Tarsliish, EU’ET, subjec- 
tion, from the root lE’u”', he vanquished , subjected. The 
Aramaeans pronounced it E^rn"; hence the Greek 
Tartessos. This was probably the name of a town sit- 
uated to the west of the Pillars of Hercules (Calpe 


PIKENICIA 


154 


PHOENICIA 


ami Abyla, now Gibraltar ami Ceuta), and even more 
west than t Jades, at the mouth of Lhe Bad is (Herod, iv, 
62; Seymuus Chius, v, 161 sq.). This river was also 
called Tartessus (Arist. Meteor, i. 13; Pausan. vi, 19. 3: 
Strabo, iii, |>. 14*). At a later period the town of Tar- 
tessus obtained likewise the Phoenician name Carteja, 
from r~“, toirn (Strabo, iii, p. 151). There are otlier 
names of towns in Spain which have a Phoenician der- 
ivation : < Jades, “13, septum, fence (comp, tiesenii 
M memento, Phoenicia, p. 304 sq., 319); Malaga {~~'Z i, 
on account of much salt lish thence exported; or, ac- 
cording to (Jcsenius (id. p, 312 sq., and 353), from 
officina fabrorum, iron-works, or man- 
ufactory of other metals, on account of the mines to be 
found there; Belon, ciritas , city (id. p. 311 sq.. 

and 348). The voyage to Tarshish was the most im- 
portant of those undertaken by the Phoenicians, lienee 
it was that their largest vessels were all called ships of 
Tarshish, although they sailed in other directions (1 
Kings x. 22). It appears also that the Phoenicians ex- 
ported tin from the British Isles, and amber from the 
coasts of Prussia. Their voyages on the western coasts 
of Africa seem to have been merely voyages of discov- 
ery, without permanent results. The Spanish colonies 
were probably the principal sources of Phoenician wealth, 
and were, founded at a very remote period. The migra- 
tion of the Phtonician, Cadmus, into Ikeotia likewise 
belongs to the earlier period of Piuenician colonization, 
llomer seems to know little of the Sidoninn commerce; 
which fact may be explained by supposing that the 
Pluenicians avoided all collision and competition with 
the increasing power of the Creeks, and preferred to 
direct their voyages into countries where such compe- 
tition seemed to be improbable. 

Herodotus describes the Phoenicians as beginning 
soon after their settlement to occupy themselves in dis- 
tant voyages (i, 1). From the construction of rude 
rafts, they must speedily have reached to a style of 
substantial ship -building. Their commercial vessels 
are represented either as long in shape, and tilted both 
for sailing and being rowed with fifty oars — “ships of 
Tarshish ;” or as rounder in form, and more capacious 
in stowage, but slower in speed— tubs or coasting-ves- 
sels — bearers of cargo on short voyages. Xenophon 
(Economics, viii) passes a high eulogy on a Phoeni- 
cian ship — “the greatest quantity of tackling was dis- 
posed separately in the smallest stowage.” Their mer- 
chantmen also carried arms for defence, and had lig- 
ures on their prows, which the Creeks named vraratrot. 
They steered by the Cynosure, or the last star in Crsa 
Minor; and they could cast reckonings, from the com- 
bined application of astronomy and arithmetic (Strabo, 
xvi, 2, 24). This nautical application of astronomy is 
ascribed by Callimachus to Thales, a Phoenician by de- 
scent (Pray. ed. Blomtield, p. 213; Diog. Laert. Thales). 
Lebanon supplied them with abundance of timber, and 
Cyprus gave them all necessary equipments, from the 
keel to the topsails — “a fundamento ipso carina* ad su- 
premos ipsos ear bases" (.Vmiii. Marcell, xiv, 8-14). 
These daring Piuenician navigators in the reign of 
Pharaoh - Xcchu circumnavigated Africa — departing 
from the Bed Sea and returning by the Strait of Gib- 
raltar. 1 hey reported that in sailing round Libya they 
had the sun on their right hand— a story of which He- 
rodotus says, “I, for my part, do not believe them,” 
and yet it is the positive proof that they had gone 
round the t ape (Herod, iv, 42). Diodorus speaks also 
of Piuenician mariners being driven westwards beyond 
the Pillars of Hercules into the ocean, and reaching at 
length a very fertile and beautiful island “a dwelling 
of gods rather than of men"- one probably of the Azores 
or Canary Islands. The Pluenicians furnished to Xerxes 
3(10 ships, hut they were defeated at Salamis. It is 
said that of all the nations employed in digging the fa- 
mous canal across the isthmus of Athos, they alone had 


sufficient engineering skill to begin its banks on their 
section at a slope, and thus prevent caving in (vii, 23). 
The remote periods of Piuenician commerce and colon- 
ization are wrapped in myths. Phoenician ships may 
have first carried the produce of Assyria and Egypt — 
but their own wares and manufactures were soon largely 
exported by them (Ezek. xxviii). The commerce of 
lyre reached through the world (Strabo, iii, 5, II). 
There was also a great trade in the tunny fisheries, and 
the Tyrians sold fish in Jerusalem (Neh.xiii, 16). Plue- 
nicia excelled in the manufacture of the purple dye ex- 
tracted from the shell-fish nnirex, so abundant on parts 
of its coasts. This color in its richest hue was at length 
appropriated to imperial use, and the silk so dyed wus 
of extraordinary value. The glass of Sidon was no less 
famous than the Tyrian dye — the fine white sand used 
for the process being very abundant near Mount Carmel. 
Class has been found in Nineveh, and glass-blowing is 
figured at Bcni-llassan in Egypt. The art might have 
come from Egypt, but the discovery in Phoenicia is rep- 
resented as accidental. The pillar of emerald shining 
brightly in the night, which Herodotus speaks of as 
being in the temple of Hercules, was probably a hollow 
cylinder of glass with a lamp within it (Kenrick, Phoe- 
nicia. p. 249). Phoenicia produced also drinking-cups 
of silver and gold. Homer describes Sidon as abound- 
ing in works of brass. Its building-stone was not of 
very good quality, but cedar-wood was largely em- 
ployed. When stone was used the joints were bevelled 
— a practice which also characterizes Hebrew architect- 
ure, and gives it a panelled appearance. The mining 
operations of the Pluenicians were also celebrated. 
Herodotus says they turned a mountain over iv ry £>/- 
ri/ott— in the search for gold. Mines were wrought in 
the various colonies — in the Crceian islands and in 
Spain — bv processes much the same as those employed 
in more modern times. The marine knowledge and 
experience of Phoenicia led to the plantation of nu- 
merous colonies in Cyprus. Uhodcs, Cilicia, and the isl- 
ands of the vEgean — the Cyclades and Sporades (Thu- 
cyd. i, *) — in Sicily, in Sardinia, the Balearic Islands, 
and in Spain. Strabo says that the Phoenicians pos- 
sessed the best parts of Iberia before the days of Homer 
(iii, 22. 14). One principal colony was in Northern Af- 
rica. and Strabo asserts that they occupied the middle 
part of Africa soon after the Trojan war. The story of 
Dido and the foundation of Carthage is well known, the 
event being placed by some in B.C. 813. Byrsa, the 
name of the hill on which the city was built, denotes a 
fortress, being (Bozrah), the name also of the 

Idunuean capital; though its Creek form, Bcpern, gave 
rise to the story about the purchase of as much land as 
a hide would measure. Carthage means “new town” 
(fT«"n ““"), and Puniei is only another spelling of 
Phoenici. Intercourse with many strange and untutored 
races led the Pluenicians to indulge in tictions, and love 
of gain taught them mercantile deceits and stratagems. 
*• Piuenician figment” — 4/tvapa ^oii'ivoror — or a travel- 
ler’s tale, was proverbial in former times. like Pnnica 
at a later period (Strabo, xii, p. 55). The Etymalayinm 
Maynnm bluntly defines (ftotrtKucn e by ro tf/tveor, the 
lie. In the Odyssey they are described as “crafty” vav- 
aiK\vrui (Odyss. xiii, 415), or as “crafty and wicked.” 
As n trading nation they were ready sometimes to take 
advantage of the ignorant ami savage tribes with which 
they bartered, and they cared nothing for law or right 
on the high seas, where no power could control or pun- 
ish; so that l lysses uses the phrase 4 >oii>i£ dryp drra- 
ri/\ta tie tot; rpioicrijc, “a Piuenician man knowing 
deceitful things — crafty” (id. xiv. 285). The term 
“Canaan,” “Canaanite.” or “man of Canaan,” the na- 
tive name of the Piuenician, is sometimes rendered 
“merchant” in the English version (Isa. xxiii, 8; Zoph. 
i, 1 1 ; Job xli, 6; Prov. xxxi. 24 ; Zech. xiv, 21 ; llos. 
xii, 7 ; Ezek. xvii. 4). “Piuenician" and “merchant” 
were thus interchangeable terms; so that <J>u7n$ yrVo- 


PHOENICIA 


155 


PHOENICIA 


ft ai means, “ I become a trader.” But the phrase seems 
to have sunk in moral meaning, and trader was but an- 
other name for a hucksterer, or a pedler going from 
house to house, as in Prov. xxxi, 24. Nay, the prophet 
Hosea (xii, 7) says, “ He is a Canaanite,” or “ Phoeni- 
cian,” or “as for Canaan, the balances of deceit are in 
his hand: he loveth to oppress. And Ephraim said, 
Yet am I become rich, I have found me out substance.” 
A common proverb expressive of fraud matching fraud 
was Supoi Trpbg <t>oivncag. No coined money of Phoe- 
nicia is extant prior to its subjugation by the Greeks. 
The standard seems to have been the same as the Jew- , 
ish; the shekel being equal to the Attic tetradrachm; 
and the zuz, which occurs on the tablet of Marseilles, 
being of the value of a denarius. On the same tablet 
kesepli (silver) occurs, with the probable ellipse of 
“shekel,” as in Hebrew. Foreign silver money (“*) is 
also there referred to. Among 
the antiquities dug up in Nin- 
eveh are several bronze weights 
in the 1’orra of lions ; having 
both cuneiform legends with 
the name of Sennacherib, and t 
also Phoenician or cursive She- j 
rnitic inscriptions (Layard, Xin. 
and Bab. p. G01). The cor was I 
a Phoenician measure, the same 
as the Hebrew chomer, and 
holding ten Attic metret£e,each 
metretes being equal to about ten and a half gallons. 
The arithmetical notation was carried out by making 
simple strokes for the units; 10 was a horizontal stroke 
or a semicircle, and 100 was a special sign, the unit 
strokes added to it denoting additional hundreds (Ge- 
senii Momnnenta Phoenicia, p. 85). 

It appears almost incredible how, with the compara- 
tively small knowledge of natural science which we must 
attribute to them, the Phoenicians could thus on their frail 
rafts traverse the wide seas almost from one end of the 
globe to the other, with apparently no more difficulty 
than their inland caravans, their chapmen and dealers, 
found in traversing the neighboring countries. Yet it 
must not, on the other hand, be forgotten that theirs 
appears to have been an uncommon knowledge of as- 
tronomy and physical geograply — witness their almost 
scientifically planned voyage of discovery under Hiram 
— and that, above all, an extraordinary amount of prac- 
tical sense, of boldness, shrewdness, unscrupulousness, 
untiring energy, and happy genius, went far to replace 
some of the safe contrivances with which modern dis- 
coveries have made our mariners familiar. These qual- 
ities also made and kept them the unrivalled masters 
of ancient commerce and navigation. They were, 
moreover, known rather to destroy their own ships and 
endanger their lives than let others see their secret way 
and enterprise; and it would be very surprising if tbeirs 
had not been also the greatest discoveries, the greatest 
riches and splendor and power for many a long century, 
though they owned but a small strip of country at 
home. Well might Tyre once say, “ I am of perfect 
beauty” (Ezek. xxvii, 3), and the prophet address Si- 
don, “ Behold, thou art wiser than Daniel, there is no 
secret they can hide from thee: with thy wisdom and 
thine understanding thou hast gotten thee riches, and 
hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures: by thy 
great wisdom and by thy traffic hast thou increased thy 
riches, and thine heart is lifted up because of thy riches” 
(xxviii, 3-5). There can, indeed, not be fancied a 
fuller and more graphic account of the state of Phoeni- 
cia, especially as regards her commercial relations, than 
the two chapters of Ezekiel (xxvii and xxviii) contain- 
ing the lamentation on Tyre : which, indeed, form our 
chief information on this point. 

In regard to Phoenician trade, as connected with the 
Israelites, the following points are worthy of notice. 

(1.) Up to the time of David, not one of the twelve 



Coin of Tyre, Antio- 
chus IV. 


tribes seems to have possessed a single harbor on the 
sea-coast : it was impossible, therefore, that they could 
become a commercial people. It is true that according 
to Judg. i, 31, combined with Josh, xix, 26, Accho or 
Acre, with its excellent harbor, had been assigned to the 
tribe of Asher; but from the same passage in Judges it 
seems certain that the tribe of Asher did not really ob- 
tain the possession of Acre, which continued to be held 
by the Canaanites. However wistfully, therefore, the 
Israelites might regard the wealth accruing to their 
neighbors the Phoenicians from trade, to vie with them 
in this respect was out of the question. But from the 
time that David had conquered Edom, an opening for 
trade was afforded to the Israelites. The command of 
Ezion-geber, near Elath, in the land of Edom, enabled 
them to engage in the navigation of the fled Sea. As 
they were novices, however, at sailing, as the naviga- 
tion of the Red Sea, owing to its currents, winds, and 
rocks, is dangerous even to modern sailors, and as the 
Phoenicians, during the period of the independence of 
Edom, were probably allowed to trade from Ezion-ge- 
ber, it was politic in Solomon to permit the Phoenicians 
of Tyre to have docks and build ships at Ezion-geber 
on condition that his sailors and vessels might have the 
benefit of their experience. The results seem to have 
been strikingly successful. The Jews and Phoenicians 
made profitable voyages to Ophir in Arabia or India, 
whence goldwas imported intoJudaeain large quantities; 
and once in three years still longer voyages were made, 
by vessels which may possibly have touched at Ophir, 
though their imports were not only gold, but likewise 
silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks (1 Kings x, 22). See 
Tarsiiish. There seems at the same time to have been 
a great direct trade with the Phoenicians for cedar-wood 
(ver. 27), and generally the wealth of the kingdom 
reached an unprecedented point. If the union of the 
tribes had been maintained, the whole sea-coast of Pal- 
estine would have afforded additional sources of revenue 
through trade; and perhaps even ultimately the “great 
plain of Sidou” itself might have formed part of the 
united empire. But if any possibilities of this kind 
existed, they were destroyed by the disastrous secession 
of the ten tribes; a heavy blow from which the Hebrew 
race has never yet recovered during a period of nearly 
3000 years. 

(2.) After the division into two kingdoms, the curtain 
falls on any commercial relation between the Israelites 
and Phoenicians until a relation is brought to notice, by 
; no means brotherly, as in the fleets which navigated 
the Red Sea, nor friendly, as between buyers and sellers, 
; but humiliating and exasperating, as between the buy- 
ers and the bought. The relation is meant which ex- 
isted between the two nations when Israelites were sold 
as slaves b}^ Phoenicians. It was a custom in antiquity, 
when one nation went to war against another, fur mer- 
chants to be present in one or other of the hostile camps, 
in order to purchase prisoners of war as slaves. Thus 
at the time of the Maccabees, when a large army was 
sent by Lysias to invade and subdue the land of Judah, 
it is related that “ the merchants of the country, hear- 
ing the fame of them, took silver and gold very much 
with servants, and came into the camp to buy the chil- 
dren of Israel for slaves” (1 Macc. iii, 41); and when it 
is related that at the capture of Jerusalem by Antiochus 
Epiphanes, the enormous number of 40,000 men were 
slain in battle, it is added that there were “no fewer 
sold than slain” (2 Macc. v, 14; Credner’s Joel, p. 240). 
Now this practice, which is thus illustrated by details 
at a much later period, undoubtedly prevailed in earlier 
times {Odyssey, xv, 427 ; Herod, i, 1), and is alluded to 
in a threatening manner against the Phoenicians by the 
prophets (Joel iii, 4, and Amos i, 9, 10), about B.C. 800. 
The circumstances which led to this state of things 
may be thus explained. After the division of the two 
kingdoms there is no trace of any friendly relations be- 
tween the kingdom of Judah and the Phoenicians: the 
interest of the latter rather led them to cultivate the 


PHOENICIA 


15G 


PHOENICIA 


friendship of the kingdom of Israel : and the Israel itish 
king, Ahab. had a Sidonian princess as his wife (1 Kings 
xvi, 31). Now, not improbably in consequence of these 
relations, when Jchoshaphat, king of Judah, endeavored 
to restore the trade of the Jews in the lied Sea, and for 
this purpose built large ships at Ezion-gcber to go to 
Opliir for gold, he did not admit the Phoenicians to any 
partieipation in the venture, and when king Ahaziah, 
Ahab's son, asked to have a share in it, his request was 
distinctly refused (xxii, 4«, 19). That attempt to re- 
new the trade of the Jews in the lied Sea failed, and in 
the reign of Jehoram, Jehoshaphat’s son, Edom revolted 
from Judah and established its independence; so that 
if the Phoenicians wished to despatch trading-vessels 
from Ezion-gcber, Edom was the power which it was 
mainly their interest to conciliate, and not Judah. Un- 
der these circumstances the Phoenicians seem, not only 
to have purchased and to have sold again as slaves, and 
probably in some instances to have kidnapped inhabi- 
tants of Judah, but even to have sold them to their en- 
emies the Edomites (Joel. Amos, as above). This was 
regarded with reason as a departure from the old broth- 
erly covenant, when Hiram was a great lover of David, 
and subsequently had the most friendly commercial 
relations with David's son; and this may be considered 
as the original foundation of the hostility of the He- 
brew prophets towards l’lueiiieiaii Tyre (Isa. xxiii; 
Ezek. xxviii). 

(o.) The only other notice in the Old Testament of 
trade between the Phtenicians and the Israelites is in 
the account given by the prophet Ezekiel of the trade 
of Tyre (xxvii, 17). While this account supplies valu- 
able information respecting the various commercial deal- 
ings of that most illustrious of Plueiiiciau cities [see 
Tvut:], it likewise makes direct mention of the exports 
to it from Palestine. Those were wheat, honey (i. e. 
sirup of grapes), oil, and balm. The export of wheat 
deserves attention [concerning the other exports, see 
Balm; IIonky; Oil], because it shows how important it 
must have been to the Plucnicians to maintain friendly 
relations with their Hebrew neighbors, and especially 
with the adjoining kingdom of Israel. The wheat is 
called wheat of Minnith (<j. v.), which was a town of 
the Ammonites, on the other side of the Jordan, only 
once mentioned elsewhere in the Bible: and it is not 
certain whether Minnith was a great inland emporium, 
where large purchases of corn were made, or whether 
the wheat in its neighborhood was peculiarly good, and 
gave its name to all wheat of a certain fineness in qual- 
ity. St ill, whatever may be the correct explanation 
respecting Minnith, the only countries specified for ex- 
ports of wheat are Judah and Israel, and it was through 
the territory of Israel that the wheat would be imported 
into Plnenieia. It is suggested by lleereu (in his His- 
torical Researches, ii, I I7j that the fact of Palestine be- 
ing thus, as it were, the granary of Phoenicia, explains 
in the dearest manner the lasting peace that prevailed 
between the two countries. He observes that with 
many of the other adjoining nations the Jews lived in 
a state of almost continual warfare; but that they never 
‘once engaged in hostilities with their nearest neighbors 
the Phoenicians. The fact itself is certainly worthy of 
special notice; and is the more remarkable, as there 
were not wanting tempting occasions for the interfer- 
ence of the Plucnicians in Palestine if they desired it. 
When Elijah at the brook Kishon, at the distance of 
not nmre than thirty miles in a straight line from l yre, 
put to death 4.00 prophets of Baal (1 Kings xviii, lit), 
we can well conceive the agitation and anger which 
such a deed must have produced at lyre. At Sidou, 
more especially, which was only twenty miles farther 
distant from ►fie scene of slaughter, the lirst impulse of 
the inhabitants must have been to march forth at once 
in battle array to strengthen the hands of Jezebel, their 
own princess, in behalf of Baal, their Plucnician god. 
When again afterwards, by means of falsehood and 
treachery, Jehu was enabled to massacre the worship- 


pers of Baal in the land of Israel, we cannot doubt that 
the intelligence was received in Tyre, sidon, and the 
other cities of Phoenicia, with a similar burst of horror 
and indignation to that with which the news of the 
massacre on St. Bartholomew’s day was received in all 
Protestant countries; and there must have been an in- 
tense desire in the Phoenicians, if they had the power, 
to invade the territories of Israel without delay and in- 
flict signal chastisement cm Jehu (2 Kings x. lX-2*>. 
The fact that Israel was their granary would undoubt- 
edly have been an element in restraining tlie Pliumi- 
cians, even on occasions such as these; hut probably 
still deeper motives were likewise at work. It seems 
to have been part of the settled policy of the Plneni- 
cian cities to avoid attempts to make conquests on the 
continent of Asia. For this there were excellent reasons 
in the position of their small territory, which, with the 
range of Lebanon on one side as a barrier, and the sea 
on the other, was easily defensible by a wealthy power 
having command of the sea. against second or third rate 
powers, but for the same reason was not well situated 
for offensive war on the land side. It may he added 
that a pacitic policy was their manifest interest as a 
commercial nation, unless by war they were morally 
certain to obtain an important accession of territory, or 
unless a warlike policy was an absolute necessity to 
prevent the formidable preponderance of any one great 
neighbor. At last, indeed, they even carried their sys- 
tem of mm-iutervontion in continental wars too far. if 
it would have been possible for them by any alliances 
in Syria and Cccle-Syria to prevent the establishment 
on the other side of the Lebanon of one great empire. 
For from that moment their ultimate doom was certain, 
and it was merely a question of time as to the arrival 
of the fatal hour when they would lose their indepen- 
dence. But too little is known of the details of their 
history to warrant an opinion as to whether they might 
at any time by any course of policy have raised up a 
barrier against the empire of the Assyrians or Chaldees. 
See CoM.MKKt K. 

The impulse given to industry and the arts by this al- 
most unparalleled extension of the commercial sphere of 
the Phoenicians was enormous. Originally exporters or 
traders only for tin* wares of Egypt and Assyria, they 
soon began to manufacture these wares themselves, and 
drew the whole world into their circle of commerce. As 
to the early and most extensive commercial intercourse 
between l’lxcnicia and (ireeee and her colonies, nothing 
can be more striking than the circumstance of nearly all 
t be (ireok names for the principal objects of Oriental 
commerce being l’lnenieian, or rather Micmilie: identi- 
cal, almost, with the terms found in the Old Testament. 
The descriptions of the abundance of precious nu-tals 
verge o:i the fabulous. Tims, tlu* Phoenicians are sup- 
posed to have made even their anchors of silver, when 
they lirst discovered the mines, not knowing how to 
stow away all the silver in their vessel. What must 
have been the state of these mines is clear from the fact 
that even in the Woman time 10, (WO men were constant- 
ly employed as miners, and the state received a clear 
revenue of 20.500 drncluns daijv. The 41 Fortunate 
Islands,” which, according to Diodorus, they discovered 
after many days’ sailing along the coast of Africa, be- 
yond the Pillars of Hercules, and which, to judge from 
the name Purpurarue given to some islands ofl’thc coast 
of Mauritania, would seem to have been the Canaries, 
yielded them the shell-fish purpura, so useful for their 
dyeing maim factories. Besides their wholesale com- 
merce carried on by fleets and caravans, they also ap- 
pear to have gone about the interior of Syria and Pal- 
estine, retailing their home or foreign produce. What 
degree of perfection they had reached in metallurgy 
may he seen in the minute description of the mining 
process contained in Job (xxviii. 1-1 1 ). probably derived 
from mines which they worked in flu* la-banon. Cyprus, 
Thasos, Iberia. Tnrtessus. and wherever a trace of metal 
was found. That they had acquired a high standing 


PHOENICIA 


157 


PHOENICIA 


in what we should call the fine arts raav be gathered 
from the fact that not only architects, but skilful work- 
ers of all kinds, for the adornment and embellishment 
of the Temple, were sent for by Solomon when he in- 
tended to fulfil the task his father David had set him- 
self, in all the magnificence and splendor worthy of Iris 
golden reign. Their sculptures — what there has been 
found of them— do not, it is true, give us a very high 
notion of their artistic perfection ; but, for all we know, 
these may be only the archaic beginnings, or the rem- 
nants of a corrupt age or unskilful hands. Better things 
may come to light any day. There certainly exist 
some exceedingly skilful engravings of theirs on gems 
among the Assyrian remnants. We further know (comp, 
the gold-edged silver bowl, for instance, given to Telem- 
achus by Menelaos, which had been previously given 
to llepluestos by the king of the Sidoniaus; the silver 
vase offered by Achilles as a prize at the funeral games 
for Patroclus; the columns and the magnificent vessels 
cast for the Temple of Jerusalem by Tyrian artists, and 
the like) that they manufactured all kinds of beautiful 
vessels and ornaments in gold, silver, and ivory, and 
knew how to extract perfumes from the lily and cy- 
press; but, as in every other respect, they must in this 
province also be declared to have been only the skilful 
appropriators of the knowledge of others, of which, how- 
ever, they made use with a diligence and perseverance 
entirely unparalleled. 

In broadly recapitulating the routes their vessels took 
around the earth, we have indicated the line of their 
colonization. We cannot do more in this place than 
hint at the wanderings of Baal (q. v.), Astarte (q. v.), 
and Melkarth (q. v.), as the principal allegories in which 
the myth couched the primitive traditions of their set- 
tlements abroad. The whole of the Mediterranean, with 
its islands and coast, had been made theirs by rapid 
strides. Commencing with neighboring Cyprus, they 
proceeded to Cythium, to Rhodes, Crete, the Cvcladic 
and Sporadic Isles, Cilicia, Lycia, and Caria, Chios, Sa- 
mos, Tenedos, Bithvnia, the Euxine, Samothrace, Lem- 
nos, Thasos (whither they had come “in search of Eu- 
ropa”), Bceotia, and Euboea. More difficult was the 
occupation of Sicily and the neighboring islands, where 
Motya, Machanetti, Panormus, and other cities, testify 
to their successful settlements. Thence also, by way 
of Malta, they sailed to Africa, and founded Carthage, 
which afterwards possessed herself of all the colonies in 
Sicily, Sardinia, and Spain. In Sardinia and the Ba- 
learic Islands they had commercial establishments at 
Caralis (Cagliari), Minorca, Iviza, Elba. Spain was one 
of their earliest and principal settlements, where they 
founded Cadiz, Malago, Belon, Abdarach, and other cit- 
ies. It is also more than probable, although we have 
no distinct evidence on the point, that they had colonies 
in the tin districts of Cornwall and the Scillv Isles, as 
also on the Baltic. They settled, further, both on the 
north-west coast of Africa (Mauritania, Cerne), and on 
its north coast (Hippo, Utica, Leptis, Hadrumetum). 
How far Phoenicians may have had a more than tem- 
porary sojourn in India (Ophir=? Abhira), whither 
they went by way of the Red Sea, we are unable to 
determine at present. 

5. Religion. — The same lack of genuine and authentic 
information, of which wc have spoken before, bafilcs our 
endeavors to arrive at anything like a proper under- 
standing of the real character of the religion of the 
Phoenicians. The mutilated scraps contained in classi- 
cal writers can be of as little use for its full reconstruc- 
tion as the uncertain allusions of the Bible. As to 
Sanchoniatho. extracts of whose Phoenician writings 
(in Philo of Byblus’s Greek version) are, as has been 
mentioned above, supposed to have survived in Euse- 
bius, all that can be said regarding them is that we have 
more than ample reasons to suspect both the author, 
the translator, and the Church father, not of wilful mis- 
interpretation, but of a certain want of candor in doing 
that full and fair justice to both side3 which wc expect 


from a historian of our day. A few broken votive and 
sacrificial stones, a few coins and unshapely images, 
make up the rest of our sources of information for the 
present. A few years hence, however, we may, if our 
excavations are carried on with unflagging zeal, and 
are as successful as they have been of late years, have 
as ample a supply to work upon as we have now respect- 
ing the once— hardly fifteen years ago — much more un- 
known land of Nebuchadnezzar and Sennacherib, if not 
with respect even to Greece and Rome. It will be suf- 
ficient here to indicate that Phoenician, like Canaanitic 
religion, in general consisted in a worship of the pow- 
ers of nature under their favorable or creative ( — fe- 
male), and unfavorable or destroying, yet also begetting 
( = male) aspects. Still more concretely were these rep- 
resented in the different phases of life, as child (Adonis), 
youth (Esmun), man (Baal-Hercules), or old man (Be- 
litan) ; again, as kings (Moloch) or queens (Astarte), 
and other characters most fitting to the idea symbolized 
in them. Their chief (visible) representatives — the 
sun, the moon, the planets, and the elements— were re- 
vered as supreme deities, who, at the same time, were 
also the special Numina of particular tribes, places, and 
seasons, and some of their general designations, such as 
King (“^ -), Lord Cp“!X), Almighty (^X), etc., are also 
found in the Bible. To the supreme class of deities 
E“'3V’b?) belong Baal and Astarte, with 
their different attributes and ramifications, e. g. Baal- 
samim, C'-T bV'2—T.tv^ ’OXvfnrtoc, Optimus Max- 
imus, Baalitan, Baal Ram, Baal Mon; Baal Melkarth, 
X7“p king of the city (Tyre) ; Astarte =Tanith, 
r:r, generally with the epithet m, the groat one, 
who appears identical with the Egypto-Persian war- 
and moon-goddess Tanaith. Corresponding to this triad 
in the Svro-Sidonian worship, we meet in Northern 
Phoenicia with the two Sidonian tribes: El (^X) or 
Kronos, the founder of Bvblus and Berytus; Baaltis 
('7?:-, my lady) = Aphrodite (Astronoe, Beruth); 
and Adonis (Gauas, Eljun, Esmun, etc.). Besides oth- 
er well-known deities, such as Moloch and Dagon (Der- 
keto, Atergatis) — for all of which we refer to the special 
articles treating of them — we find a certain mysterious 
number of minor gods, variously denominated the strong 
ones (Kabiri), or the children of the Just One (Zadik, 
p-HX, “"33), the principal patrons of the seafarers, 
worshipped alike by all the Phoenician tribes (Dioscuri. 
Pktaci: Chusor-Phtha [Chnsartis], Astarte, Cadmus 
[CTp] or Taaut, Adod, and principally Esmun [j’l’i'X 
= J rEsculapius]). These, together with the infernal or 
Chthonic deities, Muth (“' - = death), further a god- 
dess known only to us as “ Persephone” (daughter of 
Jeplita with the Samaritan Sichemitcs), or Dido 
(n“TT3 = thc wandering one), or generally Elothi — 
my lady, my goddess, etc., are, as far as we know T at 
present, the chief representatives of the Phoenician 
Pantheon, which, be it observed by the way, appears to 
have been almost as catholic in the reception of foreign 
deities as that of imperial Rome. Like the Greeks, and 
after them the Romans, the Phoenicians also deified 
certain natural phenomena and “elements” (sun, moon, 
stars, water, fire, earth, air), personal attributes, abstract 
ideas, allegories, the seasons of life, of the year, of the 
day, trades and professions, and even animals; prob- 
ably as symbols only at first. The serpent (Agatbo- 
daemon, Esmun, Tvphon), the bull (Ashterotli-Karna- 
im), the lion, the ass (symbol of Sheinitic Baal -worship), 
the dog, fishes, doves, goats, etc., are found either repre- 
senting divinities, or merely sacred to them. Anything 
like an investigation into the various phases of Phoeni- 
cian mythology. w r hich, stretching from the remotest 
prehistoric days far into the first Christian centuries, 
must needs contain the most contradictory, apparently 
irreconcilable, elements and data, lies beyond the scope 


PHOENICIA 


158 


PHOENICIA 


of this article. We shall only mention that Sanehoni- 
atho distinguishes — a sure sign of the consciousness on 
the part of native writers of the hopeless confusion in 
the religious notions and traditions of their time — three 
periods or ;vras, with distinct circles of deities of special 
classes and families. The first period contains twelve 
families of gods. In the second three dynasties follow 
each other, and there are twenty-two supreme deities 
(according to the letters of the Phoenician alphabet), I 
at the head of whom stands El or Kronos, etc., as fol- j 
lows : 

X, El, Kronos. 

E, Baity!. E, Astnrte. Apollo. 

5, Dagon. Iihen. E, Pontos. 

*1, Atlas. E, Baaltis. U, Typhon. 

n, Persephone. b, Ileimarmene. p, Xereus. 

1, Athene. Ilora. ", Sido. 

I, Zeus Demarns. 2, Kronos. 12?, Poseidon. 

H, Sadid. C, Zeus Belns. r, Iladod. 

Of the third period only fragments of Sanchoniatho 
have come down, but it would appear as if Zeus Heins 
had in this assumed the chief rank, equal to Kronos of 
the second period. These gods and goddesses were 
propitiated in various ways, but chiefly by sacrifices, 
which consisted on certain occasions of first-born male 
children (“jV-5 "‘Z2Tt> Prostitution (trip) in 
honor of Astarte was considered another praiseworthy I 
act. Among the rites of sacrifice and expiation must j 
also be enumerated circumcision, which was not prac- I 
ticed with all the Phoenician tribes, but seems to have I 
been a ceremony peculiar to the worshippers of El, the 
special deity of Hcrvtus and Hyblus. Whether, how- 
ever, as has been held, it is to be considered analogous 
to this prostitution of virgins in the service of Astarte, 
we shall not here investigate. The country abounded 
with places of worship, for every grove and every height, 
every river and every well, were adapted for the pur- 
pose, if it could be fancied a dwelling-place fur some 
deity. See Iuolatky. Xor were special buildings 
(sanctuaries, temples), with all their accessories of arks 
and priests, wells and fires, wanting; as indeed the Phoe- 
nicians are supposed to have been the first who erected 
such permanent sanctuaries. Their construction was 
in accordance with their destination, which was not to 
be houses of prayer, but the seat of honor of the special 
deity. They were divided into two parts, the first of 
which contained the statues and symbols which were 
the objects of public worship. The second, the Advton, 
on the other hand, contained such symbols which were 
not to be seen constantly, but were reserved for certain 
special festive occasions; besides the holy arks with 
their mystical contents, and the holy vehicles upon 
which these sacred objects were carried about. The 
walls were covered with the symbolical representations 
of the deities; and in this place also the priests kept 
their archives. Something of the abhorrence of all vis- 
ible representations of the Deity which seems in the 
first stages of their existence to have filled the minds 
of all Shcmitic nations — an abhorrence erroneously 
taken ol late to indicate their monotheistic propensity 
(comp. Kenan’s and flunk’s Inaugural Lectures) — is 
also noticeable with the Phoenicians, whose gods were 
legion. Xu paintings, statues, or other likenesses of 
deities are recorded as found in the ancient temples of 
(lades, Tyre, Samaria, Paphos, etc. There were, how- 
ever, certain symbolical columns of wood, (fori 

the female Xnmen, Astarte), of stone, r'ZSZ (for Haul), 
of gold or emerald (E-Izn), together with phallic rep- 
resentations, found in and before the Phoenician sanctu- 
aries. Another kind of divine mementos, as it were, 
were the Hetylia (bx r^Z), probably meteors, for which 
a fetich -like reverence was shown, and which were I 


called by the names of Father, Mighty Father (EX EX 
iX), and at the time of Augustine there were still a 
number of priests engaged in Punic Africa to wait upon 
these idols and to elicit oracles from them (Eucaddirs). 
Among the principal festivals, with some of which, as 
with those of the. Hebrews, were connected pilgrimages 
— from the farthest colonies even — are the “awaken- 
ing” and the “self-destruction by fire” of Hercules, a 
certain festival of “staves, ” a vintage-feast in honor of 
the Tyrian Bacchus, and certain others in honor of 
Astarte, celebrating her disappearance, flight, and wan- 
derings, the Adonia, etc. An account of the different 
Phrcnician gods named in the Bible will be found else- 
where (see Asmkkah ; Ashtarotji ; Baal, etc.), but it 
will be proper here to point out certain cfTects which 
the circumstance of their being worshipped in Phcenieia 
produced upon the Hebrews. 

(1.) In the first place, their worship was a constant 
temptation to polytheism and idolatry. It is the gen- 
eral tendency of trade, by making merchants acquainted 
with different countries and various modes of thought, 
to enlarge the mind, to promote the increase of knowl- 
edge, and, in addition, by the wealth which it diffuses, 
to afford opportunities in various ways for intellectual 
culture. It can scarcely be doubted that, owing to 
these circumstances, the Phoenicians, as a great com- 
mercial people, were more generally intelligent, and as 
we should now say civilized, than the inland agricultu- 
ral population of Palestine. When the simple-minded 
Jews, therefore, came in contact with a people more 
versatile and, apparently, more enlightened than them- 
selves, hut who nevertheless, either in a philosophical 
or in a popular form, admitted a system of polytheism, 
an influence would be exerted on Jewish minds, tending 
to make them regard their exclusive devotion to their 
own one God, Jehovah, however transcendent his attri- 
butes, as unsocial and morose. It is in some such way 
that we must account for the astonishing fact that Sol- 
omon himself, the wisest of the Hebrew race, to whom 
Jehovah is expressly stated to have appeared twice — 
once, not long after his marriage with an Egyptian 
princess, on the night after his sacrificing 1000 burnt- 
offerings on the. high place of Gibeon, and the second 
time after the consecration of the Temple— should have 
been so far beguiled by his wives in his old age as to 
become a Polytheist, worshipping, among other deities, 
the Phoenician or Sidonian goddess Ashtureth (1 Kings 
iii, 1-5; ix, 2; xi, 1-5). This is not for a moment to be 
so interpreted as if he ever ceased to worship Jehovah, 
to whom he had erected the magnificent Temple, which 
in history is so generally connected with Solomon’s 
name. Probably, according to his own erroneous con- 
ceptions, he never ceased to regard himself as a loyal 
worshipper of Jehovah, but he at the sarpe time deemed 
this not incompatible with sacrificing at the altars of 
other gods likewise. Still the fact remains that Solo- 
mon, who by his Temple in its ultimate results did so 
much for establishing the doctrine of one only (lod, 
became himself a practical Polytheist. If this was the 
case with him, polytheism in other sovereigns of infe- 
rior excellence can excite no surprise. With such an 
example before him, it is no wonder that Allah, an es- 
sentially bad man, should after his marriage with a Si- 
donian princess not only openly tolerate, but encourage 
the worship of Baal; though it is to be remembered 
even in him that lie did not disavow the nuthoritv of 
.Jehovah, hut, when rebuked by his great antagonist 
Elijah, he rent his clothes and put sackcloth on his 
Hesh, and showed other signs of contrition evidently 
deemed sincere (I Kings xvi, 31 ; xxi, 27-21* ). Finally, 
it. is to be observed generally that although, before the 
reformation of Josiaii (2 Kings xxiii), polytheism pre- 
vailed in Judah as well as Israel, yet it seems to have 
horn more intense and universal in Israel, as might have 
been expected from its greater proximity to Phoenicia; 
and Israel is sometimes spoken of as if it had set the bad 


PIICENICIA 


159 


PIICENICIA 


example to Judah (2 Kings xvii, 19: Jer. iii, 8) ; though, 
considering the example of Solomon, this cannot be ac- 
cepted as a strict historical statement. 

(2.) The Phoenician religion was likewise in other 
respects deleterious to the inhabitants of Palestine, be- 
ing in some points essentially demoralizing. For ex- 
ample, it sanctioned the dreadful superstition of burn- 
ing children as sacrifices to a Phoenician god. “They 
have built also,” says Jeremiah, in the name of Jehovah 
(xix, 5), “the high places of Baal, to burn their sons 
with fire for burnt-offerings unto Baal, which I com- 
manded not, nor spake it, neither came it into my mind” 
(comp. Jer. xxxii, 85). This horrible custom was prob- 
ably in its origin founded on the idea of sacrificing to a 
god what was most valuable in the eyes of the suppliant ; 
but it could not exist without having a tendency to stifle 
natural feelings of affection, and to harden the heart. 
It could scarcely have been first adopted otherwise than 
in the infancy of the Phoenician race ; but grown-up men 
and grown-up nations, with their moral feelings in oth- 
er respects cultivated, are often the slaves in particular 
points of an early implanted superstition, and it is wor- 
thy of note that, more than two hundred and fifty years 
after the death of Jeremiah, the Carthaginians, when 
their city was besieged by Agathocles, offered as burnt- 
sacrifices to the planet Saturn, at the public expense, 
two hundred boys of the highest aristocracy; and, sub- 
sequently, when they had obtained a victory, sacrificed 
the most beautiful captives in the like manner (Diod. 
xx, 14, 65). If such things were possible among the 
Carthaginians at a period so much later, it is easily con- 
ceivable how common the practice of sacrificing children 
may have been at the time of Jeremiah among the 
Phoenicians generally; and if this were so, it would have 
been certain to prevail among the Israelites who wor- 
shipped the same Phoenician gods; especially as, owing 
to the intermarriages of their forefathers with Canaan- 
ites, there were probably few Israelites who may not 
have had some Phoenician blood in their veins (Judg. 
iii, 5). Again, parts of the Phoenician religion, espe- 
cially the worship of Astarte, tended to encourage dis- 
soluteness in the relations of the sexes, and even to 
sanctify impurities of the most abominable description. 
Connected with her temples and images there were male 
and female prostitutes, whose polluted gains formed part 
of the sacred fund appropriated to the service of the 
goddess; and, to complete the deification of immorality, 
they were even known by the name of the “ consecrat- 
ed.” Nothing can show more clearly how deeply this • 
baneful example had eaten into the hearts and habits 
of the people, notwithstanding positive prohibitions and 
the repeated denunciations of the Hebrew prophets, than 
the almost incredible fact that, previous to the reforma- 
tion of Josiah, this class of persons was allowed to have 
houses or tents close to the temple of Jehovah, whose 
treasury was perhaps even replenished by their gains 
(2 Kings xxiii, 7 ; Dent, xxiii, 17, 18; 1 Kings xiv, 24; 
xv, 12: xxii, 46; IIos. iv, 14; Job xxxvi, 14; comp. 
Lucian, Lucius, c. 35; De Ded Syra, c. 27, 51 ; Gese- 
nius, Thesaurus, s. v. p. 1196; Movers, Phon. i, 

678, etc.; Spencer, De Legihus Hebrteorum, i, 561). 

A few words may be added here on Phoenician the- 
ogonv and cosmogony, which, as far as they are known 
to us, give evidence of the enormous amount of thought 
bestowed by the thinkers of that people on the enigma 
of creation. The Deity was, in accordance with the an- 
tique mind, presupposed. Speculation never questioned 
its eternal existence, the original quality of each of its 
two principal— male and female — sides, and the way in 
which, out of their union, sprang the universe. Accord- 
ing to the system of Endemus, Time, Desire, and Mist 
formed the first triad of existence; and from the embrace 
of the last two sprang air and “ motion of air,” out of 
which again was produced the mundane egg. The cos- 
mogony, according to Sanchoniatho on the other hand, 
assumes, in the beginning of all things, a gloomy and 


agitated air, and a turbid chaos of thickest darkness, 
which for a long course of ages was without limits. The 
wind becoming enamoured with its own essence, Mot 
sprang into being, as a kind of thick, putrid fluid, which 
contained all germs. The first beings created from this 
were without intellect? and from them, again, came in- 
tellectual beings, Zopha-Semin (C* 1 "©“IS), watch- 

men, or beholders of the heavens. “ And it began to 
shine Mot, also the sun and the moon, the stars and the 
great planets. The glowing sun, heating sea and earth, 
raised vapors, which produced clouds and winds, light- 
ning and thunder, and at their crash the beings began 
to awake in terror, and male and female moved on land 
and sea.” The wind Kolpia further produced with Baau 
("PIS of Genesis) Aion and Protogonos, the first mor- 
tals. Aion first discovered the art of nutriment from 
1 fruit-trees; and their children, Genos and Gcnea, who 
dwelt in Phoenicia, first worshipped Baalsamin, or the 
sun. Genos begat Light, Fire, and Flame, out of whom 
came giants, Cassius, Libanns, Antilibanus, and Brathys. 
Their sons invented the art of constructing huts of 
reeds and meshes and the papyrus, and the art of mak- 
ing coverings for the body out of the skins of wild 
beasts. After them came the inventors of hunting and 
fishing, the discoverers of iron, of the art of navigation, 
etc. One of their descendants was Elyon (probably the 
God whose priest was Melchisedec, Gen. xiv, 18, etc. ; 
Abraham, in bis reply to the king of Sodom, emphati- 
cally adds “Jehovah” to El-Elyon), who with his wife 
Beruth begat an Autochthon, afterwards called Uranos 
(heaven), and his sister Ge (earth). They had issue four 
sons, Ibis, Betvlus, Dagon, and Atlas; and three daugh- 
ters, Astarte, Bhea, and Dione. Chronos deposed his 
father, subsequently killed him, and travelled about in 
the world. He then assigned the whole of Phoenicia to 
Astarte, to Athene he gave Attica, and to Taut Egypt. 
The country being involved in war, he offered up his 
two sons, Jcud and Muth (HlO, Pluto), in expiation. 
He afterwards bestowed the city of Byblus upon the 
goddess Baaltis (Dione), and Berytus upon Poseidon 
and the Kabiri. Taut made the first images of the 
countenances of the gods Chronos and Dagon, and formed 
the sacred characters of the other elements; and the 
Kabiri, the seven sons of Sydyc,and their eighth brother 
Asklepios, first set them down in memory. “Thabion,” 
Eusebius ( Pr . Ev. i, 10) continues, “ the first hierophant, 
allegorized these things subsequently, and, mixing the 
facts with physical and mundane phenomena, he deliv- 
ered them down to those that celebrated orgia, and to 
the prophets who presided over the mysteries, and to 
their successors, one of whom was Isiris, the inventor 
of three letters, the brother of Chna, the first Phoeni- 
cian.” 

6. L,anguage . — The most important intellectual in- 
vention of man, that of letters, was universally asserted 
by the Greeks and Bomans to have been communicated 
by the Phoenicians to the Greeks. The earliest written 
statement on the subject is in Herodotus (v, 57, 58), 
who incidentally, in giving an account of Ilarmodins 
and Aristogeiton, says that they were by race Gephv- 
neans; and that he bad ascertained by inquiry that the 
Gephyroeans were Phoenicians, among those Phoenicians 
who came over with Cadmus into Boeotia, and instruct- 
ing the Greeks in many other arts and sciences, taught 
them likewise letters. It was an easy step from this to 
believe, as many of the ancients believed, that the 
Phoenicians invented letters (Lucan, Pharsal. iii, 220, 
221). This belief, however, was not universal ; and 
Pliny the Elder expresses his own opinion that they 
were of Assyrian origin, while he relates the opinion of 
Gellius that they were invented by the Egyptians, and 
of others that they were invented by the Syrians {Nat. 
Hist, vii, 57). Now, as Phoenician has been shown to 
be nearly the same language as Hebrew, the question 
arises whether Hebrew throws any light on the time 
or the mode of the invention of letters, on the question 


PHOENICIA 


1G0 


PHOENICIA 


of who invented them, or on the universal belief of an- 
tiquity that the knowledge of them was communicated 
to the Greeks by the Phoenicians. The answer is as 
follows: Hebrew literature is as silent as Greek litera- 
ture respecting the precise date of the invention of let- 
ters, ami the name of the inventor or inventors; but 
the names of the letters in the Hebrew alphabet are in 
accordance with the belief that the Phoenicians commu- 
nicated the knowledge of letters to the Greeks: for 
many of the names of letters in the Greek alphabet, 
though without meaning in the Greek, have a meaning 
in the corresponding letters of Hebrew. For example: 
the first four letters of the Greek alphabet. Alpha. Heta, 
Gamma, Delta, arc not to he explained through the 
Greek language; but the corresponding tirst four letters 
of the Hebrew alphabet, viz. Aleph, Beth, Gimel, Da- 
leth, being essentially the same words, are to be ex- 
plained in Hebrew. Thus in Hebrew Aleph or Kleph 
means an ox ; lleth or Ilayith a house ; < Jamal, a camel : 
and Deleth a door. The same is essentially, though not 
always so clearly, the case with almost all the sixteen 
earliest Greek letters said to have been brought over from 
Phoenicia by Cadmus, A B T A H F I K A M NOLI Pi! T; 
and called on this account Phoenician or Cadmeian let- 
ters (Herodot. /. c. ; Pliny, Hist. Xnf. vii, 57; Jelf, 
Creek Gram, i, p. 2). The sixth letter, afterwards dis- 
used, and now generally known by the name of Di- 
gamma (from Dionysius, i, 20), was unquestionably the 
same as the Hebrew letter Yav (a hook). Moreover, 
as to writing, the ancient Hebrew letters, substantially 
the same as Phoenician, agree closely with ancient 
Greek letters— a fact which, taken hv itself, would not 
prove that the Greeks received them from the Phoeni- 
cians. as the Phoenicians might possibly have received 
them from the Greeks; hut which, viewed in connec- 
tion with Greek traditions on the subject, and with the 
significance of the letters in Hebrew, seems reasonably 
conclusive that the letters were transported from Phoe- 
nicia into Greece. It is true that modern Hebrew writ- 
ing and the later Greek writing of antiquity have not 
much resemblance to each other; but this is owing 
partly to gradual changes in the writing of Greek let- 
ters, and partly to the fact that the character in which 
Hebrew Bibles are now printed, called the Assyrian or 
square character, was not the one originally in use 
among the .lews, but seems to have been learned in the 
Babylonian captivity, and afterwards gradually adopted 
by them on their return to Palestine (Gesenins, (iesch. 
der Hebriiischm Spmche und Sett rift, p. 150). See Ai,- 

lMIAHICT. 

As to the mode in which letters were invented, some 
clew is afforded by some of the early Hebrew and the 
Phoenician characters, which evidently aimed, although 
very rudely, like the drawing of very young children, 
to represent the object which the name of the letter 
signified. Thus the earliest Alpha has some vague re- 
semblance to an ox’s head, Gimel to a camel’s back, 
Dalcth to the door of a tent, A'av to a hook or peg. 
Again, the written letters, called respectively, Gained 
(an ox-goad), Ayin (an eye), Qoph (the hack of the 
head), Kcsh or Posh (the head), and Tav (a cross), 
are all effort s, more or less successful, to portray the 
things signified by the names. It is said that this is 
equally true of Egyptian phonetic hieroglyphics; but, 
however this may lie, there is no difficulty in under- 
standing in this way the formation of an alphabet; 
when the idea of representing the component sounds or 
half-sounds of a word by figures was once conceived. 
But the original idea of thus representing sounds, 
though peculiarly felicitous, was by no means obvious, 
and millions of men have lived and died without its oc- 
curring to any one of them. 

It may not be unimportant to observe that, although 
so many letters of the Greek alphabet have a meaning 
in Hebrew' or Plueniciau, vet their Greek names arc 
not in the Hebrew' or Pluenician, hut in the Aramaic 
form. There is a peculiar form of the iiouu in Aramaic 


called by grammarians the status emphaticus, in which 
the termination « (X t ) is added to a noun, modifying it 
according to certain law's. Originally this termination 
was probably identical with the definite article “ha;” 
which, instead of being prefixed, was subjoined to the 
noun, as is the case now’ with the definite article in the 
Scandinavian languages. This form in a is found to 
exist in the oldest specimen of Aramaic in the Bible, 
Yegar sahadutha, in Gen. xxxi, 47, where saluiduth, 
testimony, is used by Laban in the status emphuticus. 
Now' it is worthy of note that the names of a considera- 
ble proportion of the “Cadmeian letters” in the Greek 
alphabet are in this Aramaic form, such as Alpha, Beta, 
Gamma, Delta, Eta, Theta. Iota, Kappa, Lambda; and 
although this fact by itself is not sufficient to support 
an elaborate theory on the subject, it seems in favor, as 
far as it goes, of the conjecture that when the Greeks 
originally received the knowledge of letters, the names 
by which the several letters were taught to them were 
Aramaic. It lias been suggested, indeed, by Gesenins, 
that the Greeks themselves made the addition in all 
these cases, in order to give the words a Greek termi- 
nation, as “they did with other Phrenician words, as 
melet, pcikSa, nebel, vdfiXa.” If, however, a list is ex- 
amined of Phtenician words naturalized in Greek, it will 
not be found that the ending in a has been the favorite 
mode of accommodating them to the Greek language. 
For example, of the words specified by Bleek ( Kinlei - 
tung in das .1. 7’. p. G9) as having been communicated 
through the Phoenicians to the Greeks (see above), it 
is remarkable that only four end in a in Greek which 
have not a similar termination in Hebrew; and of these 
four one is a late Alexandrian translation, and two are 
names of musical instruments, which, very probably, 
may first have been communicated to Greeks, through 
Syrians, in Asia Minor. Under any circumstances, the 
proportion of the Phoenician words which end in a in 
Greek is toi small to warrant the inference that any 
common practice of the Greeks in this respect will ac- 
count for the seeming fact that nine out of the sixteen 
Cadmeian letters are in the Aramaic status emphaticus. 
The inference, therefore, from their endings in a re- 
mains unshaken. Still this must not he regarded in 
any way as proving that the alphabet was invented by 
those who spoke the Aramaic language. This is a 
wholly distinct question, and far more obscure; though 
much deference on the point is due to the opinion of 
Gesenins, who, from the internal evidence of the names 
of the Shemitic letters, has arrived at the conchiMon 
that they were invented by the Phoenicians ( Puluo - 
graphie, p. 291). The strongest argument of Gesenins 
against the Aramaic invention of the letters is that, al- 
though doubtless many of the names are both Aramaic 
and Hebrew, some of them are not Aramaic— at least 
not in the Hebrew signification; while the Syrians use 
other words to express the same ideas. Thus 7-X in 
Aramaic means only 1000, and not an ox; the word for 
“door” in Aramaic is not r?1, but ; while the six 
following names of Cadmeian letters are not Aramaic: 
V, n'v\ r--;, X2 (Syr. 2?2), f ; p, *r. 

As this obviously leads to the conclusion that the 
Hebrews adopted Phtenician as their own language, or. 
in other worths, that what is called the Hebrew lan- 
guage was in fact “the language of Canaan,” as a 
prophet called it (Isa. xix. 18), and this not merely pn- 
I etically, but literally and in philological truth; and as 
this is repugnant to some preconceived notions respect- 
ing the peculiar people, the question arises whether the 
Israelites might not have translated Canaanitish names 
into Hebrew. On this hypothesis the names now ex- 
isting in the Bible for persons and places in the land of 
Canaan would not he the original names, but merely 
the translations of those names. The answer to this 
question is, 1. That, there is not the slightest direct 
mention, nor any indirect trace, in the Bible, of any 


PHOENICIA 


161 


PHOENICIA 


such translation. 2. That it is contrary to the analogy 
of the ordinary Hebrew practice in other cases : as, for 
example, in reference to the names of the Assyrian 
monarchs (perhaps of a foreign dynasty) Pul, Tiglath- 
Pileser, Sennacherib, or of the Persian monarchs Darius, 
Ahasuerus, Artaxerxes, which remain unintelligible in 
Hebrew, and ean only be understood through other Ori- 
ental languages. 3. That there is an absolute silence in 
the Bible as to there having been any difference what- 
ever in language between the Israelites and the Ca- 
naanites, although in other cases where a difference 
existed that difference is somewhere alluded to, as in 
the ease of the Egyptians (Psa. Ixxxi, 5; exiv, 1), the 
Assyrians (Isa. xxxvi, 11), and the Chaldees (Jer. v, 15). 
Yet in the ease of the Canaanites there was stronger 
reason for alluding to it; and without some allusion to 
it, if it had existed, the narration of the conquest of 
Canaan under the leadership of Joshua would have been 
singularly imperfect. 

The Phoenician language, however, certainly be- 
longed to that family of languages which, by a name 
not altogether free from objection, but now generally 
adopted, is ealled “Shemitie.” Under this name are 
included three distinct branches : a. Arabic, (p which 
belongs iEthiopic as an offshoot of the Southern Arabic 
or Himyaritic. b. Aramaic, the vernacular language 
of Palestine at the time of Christ, in which the few 
original words of Christ which have been preserved in 
writing appear to have been spoken (Matt, xxvii, 4G; 
Mark v, 41; and mark especially Matt, xvi, 18, which 
is not fully significant either in Greek or Hebrew). 
Aramaic, as used in Christian literature, is ealled Syriac, 
and as used in the writings of the Jews has been very 
generally ealled Chaldee, c. Hebrew, in which by far 
the greater part of the Old Testament was composed. 
Now one of the most interesting points to the Biblical 
student connected with Phoenician, is, that it does not 
belong to either of the first two branches, but to the 
third ; and that it is in fact so closely allied to Hebrew 
that Phoenician and Hebrew, though different dialects, 
may practically be regarded as the same language. 
This may be shown in the following way: (1.) In pas- 
sages which have been frequently quoted (see especially 
Gesenii Monumenta Scriptural Linguceque Phoenicia 1 , p. 
231), testimony is borne to the kinship of the two lan- 
guages by Augustine and Jerome, in whose time Phoe- 
nician or Carthaginian w r as still a living language. 
Jerome, who w T as a good Hebrew scholar, after men- 
tioning, in his Commentaries on Jeremiah (lib. v, e. 25) 
that Carthage was a Phoenician colony, proceeds to 
state, “ Unde et Poeni sermone eorrupto quasi Phceni 
appellantur, quorum lingua Hebraeae lingua) magna ex 
parte eonfinis est.” Augustine, who was a native of 
Africa, and a bishop there of Hippo, a Tyrian colony, 
has left on record a similar statement several times. In 
one passage he says of the two languages, “ Istje linguce 
non multum inter se differunt” (Qucestiones in Ilepta- 
teuchum, vii, 1G). In another passage he says, “Cog- 
natse sunt istte iingine et viciiue, Ilebrcea, et Punica, et 
Syra” ( In Joann. Tract. 15). Again, on Gen. xviii, 9, 
he says of a certain mode of speaking (Gen. viii, 9), 
“Loeutio est, quarn propterea Ilebneam puto, quia et 
Punieas lingua) familiarissima est, in qua multa inveni- 
mus Hebrceis verbis eonsonantia” (lib. i, eap. 24). On 
another occasion, remarking on the word Messias, he 
says, “Quod verbum Punica) lingua) eonsonum est, sicut 
alia f/ebrcea multa et pane omnia ” ( Contra Uterus Peti- 
liani, ii, c. 104). (2.) These statements are fully con- 

firmed by a passage of Carthaginian preserved in the 
Pcenulus of Plautus (act v, scene 1), and accompanied 
by a Latin translation as part of the play. There is no 
doubt that the Carthaginians and the Phoenicians were 
the same race; and the Carthaginian extract is undeni- 
ably intelligible through Hebrew to Hebrew scholars 
(see Boehart’s Canaan ; and especially Gesenii Monu- 
menta Phoenicia, p. 357-382, where the passage is trans- 
lated with notes, and full justice is done to the previous 
VIII.— L 


translation of Bochart). (3.) The close kinship of the 
two languages is, moreover, strikingly confirmed by 
very many Phoenician and Carthaginian names of places 
and persons, which, destitute of meaning in Greek and 
Latin, through which languages they have become 
widely known, and having sometimes in those lan- 
guages occasioned false etymologies, become really sig- 
nificant in Hebrew. Thus through Hebrew it is known 
that Tyre, as Tsar, signifies “a roek,” referring doubt- 
less to the roeky island on which the eity was situated : 
that Sidon, as Tsidon , means “Fishing” or “Fishery,” 
which was probably the occupation of its first settlers: 
that Carthage, or, as it was originally ealled, “ Cartha- 
da,” means “New Town,” or “Newton:” and that Bvr- 
sa, which, as a Greek name, suggested the mythological 
mythus of the Bull's Hide ( yEneid , i, 3GG, 367), was 
simply the citadel of Carthage — “Carthaginis areem,” 
as Virgil accurately termed it : the Carthaginian name 
of it, softened by the Greeks into B vpaa, being merely 
the Hebrew word Botsrah, “citadel ;” identical with the 
word ealled Bozrah in the English Version of Isa. lxiii, 
1. Again, through Hebrew, the names of celebrated 
Carthaginians, though sometimes disfigured by Greek 
and Homan writers, acquire a meaning. Thus Dido is 
found to belong to the same root as David, “ beloved :” 
meaning “his love” or “delight;” i. e. the love or de- 
light either of Baal or of her husband: Hasdrubal is 
the man “whose help Baal is:” Hamilear the man 
whom the god “Milcar graciously granted” (eomp. Ila- 
naneel; Oti,cmpog)i and, with the substitution of Baal 
for El or God, the name of the renowned Hannibal is 
found to be identical in form and meaning with the 
name of Hanniel, who is mentioned in Numb, xxxiv, 
23 as the prince of the tribe of Manasseh : Hanniel 
meaning the grace of God, and Hannibal the graee of 
Baal. (4.) The same conclusion arises from the exami- 
nation of Phoenician inscriptions, preserved to the pres- 
ent day; all of which ean be interpreted, with more or 
less certainty, through Hebrew. Some of these will be 
more particularly noticed below. 

111. Literature. — 1. Original Remains. — With the ex- 
ception of Greek and Latin, no language was so widely 
known and spoken throughout antiquity as the Phoeni- 
cian ; and monuments of it have been found, and con- 
tinue to be found, almost all over the aneient world. 
We ean only vaguely speculate on its early history and 
its various phases, so long as our materials yield so little 
information on that point. Its decline seems to date 
from the 8th century B.C., when Aramaisms crept in 
in overwhelming numbers. Finally, the close contact 
with, and the everywhere preponderating influence of 
the Greeks, superseded — chiefly after Alexander’s time 
— the ancient language almost completely; and even 
coins with Phoenician legends occur not later than the 
2d century B.C. 

An important Phoenician literature seems to have 
been extant as late as the 1st century A.D., but it has 
disappeared front the face of the earth. After the sec- 
ond half of the 3d century the language had vanished 
entirely in the country itself, and Jerome, who lived in 
Palestine, mentions the Punic, but never the Phoenician. 
In the West it survived to a much later period. In 
Mauritania and Numidia it remained, in a corrupted 
form, the reigning tongue as late as the 4th eenturv 
A.D.; and Augustine draws his explanations of Scrip- 
ture from the Punic current in the 5th century. There 
was a translation of the whole Bible into Punic made 
for the use of the Punic churches; and in and near 
Tripolis it was the language of the common people up 
to a late period. From the Gth century, however, it 
rapidly died out, chiefly in consequence of the Vandals, 
Goths, Moors, and other foreign tribes overrunning the 
eountry, and ingrafting their own idioms upon it. 

The literature of Phoenicia, in its original form, has, 
as we have said, perished entirely. "What traces and 
fragments we have of it have survived in Greek trans- 
lations. But from even these small remnants we can 


riKEXICIA 


162 


PHOENICIA 


easily imagine the extreme antiquity, and the high 
importance and vast extent of these productions, which, 
at first, seem to have been chiefly of a theological or 
theogonieal nature. Their authors are the gods them- 
selves, and the writings are only accessible to the 
priests, and to those initiated in the mysteries. From 
the allegorical explanations of these exalted personages 
sprang a new branch of sacred literature, of which those 
fragments of cosmogony mentioned above are derived. 
To the literary age of Taaut, Cadmus, Ophion, ICsmun, 
etc., succeeded Thabion, lsiris, Sanchoniatho, and Mo- 
chus, who founded the schools of priests and prophets. 


before ray time, in the flood of days— in dumbness cease9 
the sou of gods. Dead do I lie in ‘this tomb, in the grave, 
on the place which I have built. 1 myself ordain that all 
the nobles aud all the people shall not open this place of 
rest ; they shall not seek for treasures aud not carry away 
the sarcophagus of my rcstiug-placc, aud not disturb me 
by mounting the couch of my slumbers. If people should 
speak to thee [and persuade thee to the contrary], do not 
listen to them. For all the nobles and all the people who 
shall open this sarcophagus of the place of rest, or carry 
away the sarcophagus of niv couch, or disturb me upou 
this ’resting-place, may they tind no rest with the depart- 
ed; may they not be buried in a tomb, and may no son 
and successor live afier them in their place," etc. (see 
Thomson, Land and Book, i, l!*s sq.). 



Davis, consisting of votive tablets, a (doubtful) tomb- 
stone, and a sacrificial tariff, which completes another 
stone found some years ago at Marseilles of the same 
nature; both setting forth the amount of taxes, or rath- 
er the proportionate share the priest was entitled to re- 
ceive for each sacrifice. An- 
other exceedingly valuable 
(trilingual) inscription, refer- 
ring to the gift of an altar 
vowed to Eshmun-Asklcpios. 
has lately been discovered in 
Sardinia (see below). < hie of 
the most important historical 
monuments is the sarcophagus 
of Kshmanasar 11, king of Si- 
don (son of Tenues?), found at 
Tyre in 1 S5o. the age of which 
lias variously been conjectured 
between the 1 1th century B.C. 
(Kwald) — a most incongruous 
guess indeed — the 7ih (llit- 
zig), the bill (due De Luyncs), 
and the lth (Levy), of which 
shall add the commence- 
ment, literally translated: 



Lid of PhoMiician Sar- 
cophagus. 


“In the month of Itnl, In the fourteenth year that I 
reigned, king E«hnianasar, king of the Sidonians, son of 
king Tebnitn, king of the Sidonians— spake king Ksh- 
manasar, king of the Sidonians, saying: Carried away 


are at least two kinds of 
Phoenician writing to be distinguished most clearly. 

I The older, purer, more orthographical, and more neatly 
executed, is found in the inscriptions of Phoenicia her- 
self, of Malta, Athens. Citium, and Carthage; the younger, 
corrupted not only with respect to the grammar and lan- 
guage, but also with respect to the form of the letters, 
which arc less carefully executed, and even exhibit some 
strange, probably degenerate characters, is found chiefly 
on the monuments of Cyprus, Cilicia, Sardinia, Africa. 
Spain, Xnmidia. and the adjacent parts. 

Besides these monumental sources for the language, 
there arc a few remnants of it embedded, as we said, in 
ancient non-Plitenician writings. The Old Testament 
alone, however, has preserved its words — proper nouns 
chiefly— umnutilated. Later eastern writers even, not 
to mention the Creeks and Homans, have corrupted the 
spelling to such a degree that it is often most puzzling 
to trace the original Shemitic words. Phoenician names 
occur in Suidas, Dioscoridcs, Apulcius, in martyrologies, 
caleiidariums. Acts of Councils, in Church fathers (Au- 
gustine, Prisoianus. Scrvus), etc. The only really impor- 
tant remnant, however, is found preserved albeit fear- 
fully mutilated and Latinized — in Plautus’s ranufus, 
act v, scene 1 of which contains, in sixteen lines, ihe 
Pluenician translation of the Latin text, with more 
than one hundred Phienicinn words. Several other 
phrases and words are embodied in act v, scenes 2 and 
3 of the same play. Vet, although there is very little 


PHOENICIA 


163 


PHOENIX 


doubt among scholars about the greater portion of these 
texts, the corruption and mutilation which they had to 
undergo, first at the hands of Plautus, who probably 
only wrote them by the ear, then at the hands of gen- 
erations of ignorant scribes, have made more than one 
word or passage an insoluble puzzle. The first of the 
two specimens of Phoenician [Punic] writing subjoined 
is taken from one of those Carthaginian votive tablets 



I with which the British Museum (now the wealthiest in 
Phoenician monuments) has lately been enriched, as 
mentioned before. The emblems on it are symbolical, 

I and refer to the deities invoked. The lower part is 
mutilated, but easily supplied. The date is uncertain, 

! perhaps the 2d or 3d century B.C. The second is a tri- 
lingual inscription from a base of an altar recently found 
! at Pauli Gerrei, in Sardinia, and has been fully explained - 
by Deutsch (sec Transactions of the Royal Society of 
Literature, 1864). Its contents are briefly this : A cer- 
tain Cleon, Phoenician by religion, Greek by name, Ro- 
man by nationality, a salt-farmer, vows an altar— mate- 
rial and weight of which are only given in Phoenician : 
viz. copper, a hundred pounds in weight — to Eslimun- 
Asklepios “the Healer” (the Phoenician Mearrach , 
clumsily transcribed Merre in Latin, and Mir re in 
Greek), in consideration for a cure to be performed. 
The date, given in Phoenician, viz. the year of two, ap- 
parently annual, entirely unknown judges, gives no clew 
to the time. Paheographical reasons, however, would 
place it in about the 1st century B.C. 

2. Modeini Authorities. — Among those who have more 
or less successfully occupied themselves with Phoenician 
antiquities, language, and literature, and who have also, 
in some instances, deciphered inscriptions, we mention 
Scaliger, Bochart, Pococke, Barthelem)’, Swinton, Bayer, 
Dutens, Hamaker, Gesenins, Movers, Munck, Judas, 
Barges, De Saulcv, Ewald, Levy, Vaux, Renan, De 
Luj’iies, De Vogue, Deutsch, and others; to whose writ- 
ings, contained either in special works or scattered in 
Transactions of learned societies, we refer for further 
information on the subject of our article. 

In English, see Kenrick’s Phoenicia (Lond. 1855); in 
Latin, the second part of Bochart’s Geographia Sacra , 
under the title “Canaan,” and Gesenius’s work, Scrip- 
ture Linguaeque Phoenicia Monumenta quotquot super- 
sunt (Leips. 1837) ; in German, the exhaustive work of 
Movers, Die Phonizier und das Photiizische Alterlhum 
(Berlin, 1841-1856, 5 vols.); Gerhard, Kunst der Pho- 
nizier (ibid. 1848) ; an article on the same subject by 
Movers, in Ersch and Gruber’s Encyclopadie , and an ar- 
ticle in the same work by Gcsenius on Palaographie. 
See likewise Gesenius, Gesch. der Hebraisehen Sprache 
und Schrift (Leips. 1815) ; Bleek, Einleitung in das Alte 
Testament (Berl. I860). Phoenician inscriptions discov- 
ered since the time of Gesenius have been published by 
Judas, Etude demons! rat ire de la longue Phenicienne et de 
la longue Libyque (Paris, 1847), and forty-five other in- 
scriptions have been published by the abbe Bourgade 
(ibid. 1852, fob). In 1845 a votive tablet was discov- 
ered at Marseilles, respecting which see Movers, Phoni- 
zische Texte (1847), and Judas, Analyse (Par. 1857), and 
Etudes (ibid. 1857). On the sarcophagus of Eshman- 
asar, see Dietrich, Zicei Sidonische Insckriften, und eine 
alte Phonizische Konigsinschrift (Marburg, 1855), and 
Ewald, ErHarung der grossen Phonizischen Inschrift von 
Sidon (Gottingen, 1856, 4to; from the seventh volume 
of the A bhandlungen der Konigl. geograph. Gesellschaft 
zu Gottingen ). Information respecting these works, and 
others on Phoenician inscriptions, is given by Bleek, 
p. 64, 65. See also Barthelemy, Monumens Phoeniciens 
(Paris, 1795) ; Hamaker, De Monument is Punicis (Leips. 
1822); Raoul - Rochette, Monumenta Phoenicia (Paris, 
1828); Davis, Carthage (Loml. 1861) ; Wilkins, Phoenicia 
and Israel (Lond. 1871); Renan, Mission de Phenicie 
(Paris, 1864). 

Phoenix, the name of a mythical Egyptian bird, 
supposed by some to be a kind of plover, like the kibitz, 
often depicted with human arms, and called in hiero- 
glyphs rekh. Others cousider it to be the bennu, or 
nvcticorax, a bird sacred to Osiris, and represented 
w-atchiug in the tamarisk over his coffin. The first of 
these representations has sometimes a star upon the 
head, supposed to indicate the astronomical period of its 
appearance. It visited Egypt after the death of its fa- 
ther, and entered the shrine particularly dedicated to it 
! at Heliopolis, and there buried its parent, putting the 


PIIOXASCUS 1G4 PIIOTISTEIUOX 



Antique liepieseiitations of the Pbumix. 

1, Sitting on a woodiiile; ?, striding; 3, false phoen'x, destitute of tuft ; 4, the planet Mercury ns messenger of the pods, with Lis travelling-staff, and 
n p lux nix ; 5, a gold deunrius of Trnjnn, representing a pluxmx as surmounting its nest aud bearing tbe sun's disc. 


Itotlv into an egg or case made of myrrh, anti then clos- 
ing up the egg. Another account is that the Phoenix, 
when about, to tlie, made a nest for itself in Arabia, from 
which a new Phoenix sprang of itself. This bird pro- 
ceeded to Heliopolis, and there burned and buried its 
father. Put the more popularly known version is that 
the Phoenix burned itself, and a new and young Phoenix 
sprang from the ashes. A less received version is that 
a worm crawled out of the body of the dead Phoenix, 
and became the future one. The Phoenix was, accord- 
ing to the most authentic accounts, supposed to visit 
Egypt every live hundred years; the precise period, 
however, was not known at Heliopolis, and was a sub- 
ject of contention till its appearance. The connection 
of the Phoenix period with that of the Sothiac cycle, 
appears to be generally received by chronologists, as well 
as the statement of Ilorapollo, that it designated the 
soul and the inundation of the Nile. A great difference 
of opinion has prevailed about the Phcenix period: ac- 
cording to /Elian, it was a cycle of 500 years; Tacitus 
seems to make it one of 250 years; Lepsius, a cycle of 
1500 j'ears. The Pluenix was fabled to have four times 
appeared in Egypt: 1, under iSesostris; 2, under Amasis, 
5*19-525 B.C.; 3, under Ptolemy Philadelphia, 284- 
240 B.C. : and lastly, 34 or 36 A.D., just prior to the 
death of Tiberius. The Phcenix also appears upon the 
coins of Constantine, 334 A.l), viz. 300 years after the 
death of Christ, who was considered the Phoenix by the 
monastic writers. It is supposed by the rabbins to be 
mentioned in the Bible (dob xxix, 18; Psa. eiii, 5). See 
Herodotus, ii, 73; Achilles Tati us, iii, 25; Tacitus, Am. 
vi, 28; Tselzes, Chil. v, 397; Lepsius, Einleit. p. 1*3 ; 
A rchteologia , xxx, 256. — Chambers. The East is full 
of fables resembling the phcenix. Thus the tiimorg of 
the ancient Persians is said to have witnessed twelve 
catastrophes, and may yet see many more. It has lmilt 
its nest oil Mount A \af and perched upon the branches 
of the Yogard , or tree of life ; it predicts good or evil to 
mortals. Similar legends are to be found connected 
with the Itokh of the Arabians and Semenda of the Hin- 
dus. The Jews also have their sacred bird Tsits. See 
Gardner, Faiths of the World , ii, 655, 656. 

Plionascus ((pun>anKor, (I singing-master ). a name 
given in the. ancient Christian Church to the individual 
who acted as precentor (q. v.), or led the psalmody in 
divine service. This appellation seems to have been 
used first in the 4th century, and is still employed in 
t lie Greek Church. 

Phorcus or Phorcys, a Homeric sea-god, to whom 
a harbor in Ithaca was dedicated, lie is said to have 
been the son of Pontu.s and Go, and to have been the 
father, by his sister ( 'eto, of the Gorgons, the Hesperian 
dragon, and the llcspcride9. By Hecate lie was the 
father of Scylla. 

PhoTos (<l>6poc), an incorrect Greek form (1 Esdr. 
v, 19; ix, 26) of the Hob. name (Ezra ii, 3; viii, 3) 
Pakosii (q. v.). 

Phos (0o trj, light'}, and its allied term Pliotisma 
( illumination ), are generally applied in the ancient 
Christian Church to baptism, from the great blessings 
supposed to arise from it. Hence baptized Christians 
were sometimes called tfioriZo/iwui, the enlightened, ami 
the baptistery (pojTtnTtjpiov. place of enlightenment. The 
same terms were also applied to the Lord's Supper. — 


Biddle, Christian Antiquities, p. 4*4, 4*5, 551. Sec also 
Baptism (A ’times of 5.). 

Phosphorus (Qtoatpopor, Ught-bnnger), a surname 
of Artemis. Eos , and Hecate. This was also the name 
given by the Greek poets to the planet Venus when it 
appeared in the morning before sunrise. 

Phota Uagia (0wr« ityi a, holy lights), a term an- 
ciently used to denote the festival of Epiphany, as be- 
ing commemorative of Christ’s baptism. See Epiph- 
any. 

Photiilians is the name of those Christian here- 
tics who denied Christ’s divinity. They derived their 
views from J 'hot inns of Sirmium (q. v.). They flour- 
ished in the 4th and part of the 5th century. 

Photinus op Sikmium, an Eastern ecclesiastic, noted 
as the founder of a heretical body, flourished near the 
middle of the 4th century. Of his origin and earliest 
history we know nothing. lie was a pupil of Marcellus 
of Ancyra, and was for a time deacon under him. Later 
IMiotiuus was made bishop of Sirmium, in Pauuonia. 
lie was a person of unusual accomplishments, and was 
generally respected for his learning. Even while yet 
connected with Marcellus, heretical tendencies were 
manifest in Photinus. Once advanced to the bishopric, 
lie soon fell away from all restraint, gradually aban- 
doned orthodox associations, and suddenly changed, af- 
ter having taught the people the knowledge of the true 
God, to those pernicious Sabcllian notions for which his 
teacher had been condemned. According to Yincentius 
Xirinensis, be went even further than Macarius, and 
added to the impieties of Sabellius, Paulus Samosate- 
nus, Cerinthus, and Ebiou, this distinctive formula, that 
*• Christ was not only mere man, but began to be the 
Ghrist when the Iloly Ghost descended upon him in 
Jordan.” In other words, *■ that Jesus Ghrist was born 
of the Holy Ghost and the Virgin Mary ; that a certain 
divine emanation, which he called the Word, descended 
upon him; and that, because of the union of the divine 
Word with his human nature, he was called the Son of 
God, and even God himself; aud that the Holy Ghost 
was not a person, but merely a celestial virtue proceed- 
ing from the Deity.” lienee, while the Oriental Church 
could suffer Marcellus to remain within the fold, it could 
not tolerate the man who would teach such extreme 
heresy. At a synod held at Milan in 345, the doctrine 
was also rejected and condemned; and while thus dis- 
carded by both the East and the West, he vet managed 
to retain his episcopal office until A.l). 351, when a 
Semi-Arian council at Sirmium removed him. l’or a 
time restored under the emperor Julian, he was soon 
again deposed, and died in exile, probably near the close 
of the 1th century. 1 1 is writings are lost. His doc- 
trines we learn from the anathemas of those synods 
which sat in judgment over them. See. besides the 
literature quoted in the article Makcellis, llcfclo, 
Conciliengesch. vol. i. (J. II. W.) 

Pliotisma. See l’tios. 

Fhotisterioii (<pwTiori]piov\ a place of illumina- 
tion, being a term frequently used in the ancient Chris- 
tian Church to denote the baptistery , or t lie place, of 
baptism, that ordinance being supposed to he attended 
with a divine illumination of t lie soul. See Ptios. This 
name might also be used for another reason, namely, 
because baptisteries were the places in which instruction 


PHOTIUS 


165 


PHOTIUS 


was communicatecl previous to baptism, the catechu- 
mens being there taught the creed and instructed in the 
first rudiments of the Christian faith. 

Photitis of Constantinople (1), an Eastern ec- 
clesiastic, nourished in the 4th century. In the Acta 
Sanctorum, Junii, i, 274, etc., is given an account of the 
martyrdom of St. Lucillianus, and several others who 
are said to have suffered at Byzantium, in the perse- 
cution under Aurelian. The account bears this title : 
4>wriou row paKapunrciTov OKtvocpvkaKog ruin 'Ay'uav 
*A ttootoAiov k ai Aoyo-Hrou iyKmptov tig ror liyiov 
itpopdprvpa AovniWiavvv ; Sancti M artyris Lucilliani 
Encomium, auctore beatissimo Photio, Sanctorum Aposto- 
lorum Sceuophylace ac Loyotheta. Of the writer Pho- 
tius, nothing further appears to he known than is con- 
tained in the title, namely, that he was keeper of the 
sacred vessels in the great church of the Apostles at 
Constantinople, which was second in importance only 
to that of St. Sophia; and that he must he placed after 
the time of Constantine, by whom the church was built. 
The Encomium is given in the Acta Sanctorum in the 
original Greek, with a Commentarius preevius, a Latin 
version, and notes by Conradus Janningus. See Fa- 
bricius, Bill. Grcec. x, 271, G7S. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. 
and Rom. Biog. s. v. 

Photius of Constantinople (2), also an Eastern 
ecclesiastic, flourished in the 5th century as presbyter 
of the Church at Constantinople, and was one of the 
most decided and active supporters of the unfortunate 
lieresiarch Nestorius (q. v.). When Antonius and 
Jacobus were sent, some time before the Council of | 
Ephesus, A.D. 431, to convert, hv persecution, the Quar- 
tadecimans and Novatians of Asia Minor, they presented 
to some of their converts at Philadelphia, not the Nicene 
Creed, but one that contained a passage deemed heret- 
ical on the subject of the Incarnation, which excited 
against them Charisins, who was oeconomus of the 
Church at Philadelphia. In these proceedings Antonius 
and Jacobus were supported by Photius, who not only 
gave them letters at the commencement of their mission, 
attesting their orthodoxy, but procured the deposition 
of their opponent Charisius, who thereupon presented a 
complaint to the Council of Ephesus ( Concilia , vol. iii, col. 
073, etc., ed. Labbe). Tillcmont is disposed to ascribe to 
Photius the answer which was drawn up to the Epistola 
ad Solitarios of Cyril of Alexandria. A certain Photius, 
a supporter of Nestorius, was banished to Petra, about 
A.D. 43G (Lupus, Ad Ephesin Concil. rarior. PP. Epis- 
tola ?, cap. clxxxviii), whom, notwithstanding the ob- 
jections of Lupus (not.inloc.), we agree with Tillemont 
in identifying with the presbyter of Constantinople 
(Tillemont, Memoires , xiv, 300, 332, 494, G07, 787). — 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. 

Photius of Constantinople (3), one of the most 
eminent men whose names occur in the long scries of 
the Byzantine annals, flourished in the 9th century. In 
the preparation of this article we depend very largely 
upon Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. 

Life. — The year and place of his birth, and the name 
of his father, appear to be unknown. His mother’s 
name was Irene: her brother married one of the sisters 
of Theodora, wife of the emperor Theophilus (Theoph. 
Continuat. lib. iv, 22) ; so that Photius was connected 
by affinity with the imperial family. We have the 
testimony of Nicetas David, the Paphlagonian. that his 
lineage was illustrious. He had at least four brothers 
(Mountagu, Not. ad Epistol. Photii, p. 138), one of whom, 
the eldest, enjoyed the dignity of patrician. Photius 
himself, in speaking of his father and mother, celebrates 
their crown of martyrdom, and the patient spirit by 
which they were adorned, during the reign of Theoph- 
ilus or some other of the iconoclastic emperors. This is 
the more likely, as Photius elsewhere (Epistol. 2, Encycl. 
§ 42, and Epistol. ad Nicol. Papam) claims as his rela- 
tive Tarasius (probably great-uncle), partriarch of Con- 
stantinople, who was one of the great champions of im- 


age worship, which show’s the side taken by his fam- 
ily in the controversy. The ability of Photius w’ould 
have adorned any lineage, and his capacious mind was 
cultivated, as the testimony even of his opponents and 
his extant works show, with great diligence. “He 
was accounted,” says Nicetas David, the biographer and 
panegyrist of his competitor Ignatius, “to be of all men 
most eminent for his secular acquirements, and his un- - 
derstanding of political affairs. For so superior w T ere 
his attainments in grammar and poetry, in rhetoric and 
philosophy, yea, even in medicine, and in almost all the 
branches of knowledge be}'ond th*e limits of theology, 
that he not only appeared to excel all the men of his 
own day, hut even to bear comparison with the ancients. 
For all things combined in his favor : natural adapta- 
tion, diligence, wealth, which enabled him to form a 
comprehensive library; and more than all these, the 
love of glory, which induced him to pass whole nights 
without sleep, that he might have time for reading. 
And when the time came (which ought never to have 
arrived) for him to intrude himself into the Church, he 
became a most diligent reader of theological works” 

( Vita Jgnatii apud Concil. vol. viii, ed. Labbe). It mnst 
not, however, he supposed that Photius had wholly 
neglected the study of theology before his entrance 
on an ecclesiastical life : so far was this from being 
the case, that he had read and carefully analyzed, as 
his Bibliotheca attests, the chief works of the Greek 
ecclesiastical w’riters of all ages, so that his attainments 
in sacred literature might have shamed many a profes- 
sional divine. Thus highly connected, and with a mind 
so richly endow’ed and highly cultivated, Photius ob- 
tained high advancement at the Byzantine court. He 
held the dignity of a jjroto-a-secretis, or chief-justice 
(Codin. De Officiis CP. p. 3G, ed. Bonn) ; and, if we trust 
the statement of Nicetas David ( l . c.), of protospatha- 
rins, a name originally denoting the chief sword-bearer 
or captain of the guards, but which became, in later 
times, a merely nominal office (Codin. ibid. p. 33). To 
these dignities may be added, on the authority of An- 
astasias Bibliothecarins ( Concil . Octavi Hist, apud Con- 
cil. vol. viii, col. 9G2, ed. Labbe), that of senator; but 
this is, perhaps, only another title for the office of proto- 
a-sccretis (Gretser. et Goar. Not. in Codin. p. 242). Be- 
sides these official duties at the capital, he was also occa- 
sionally employed on missions abroad ; and it w T as during 
an embassy “ to the Assyrians” (a vague and unsuitable 
term, denoting apparently the court of the caliphs, or of 
some of the other powers of Upper Asia) that he read 
the works enumerated in his Bibliotheca, and wrote the 
critical notices of them which that work contains — a 
striking instance of the energy and diligence with which 
he continued to cultivate literature in the midst of his 
secular duties and when aw ay from home. Of the date 
of this embassy, while engaged in which he must have 
resided several years at the Assyrian court, as well of 
the other incidents of his life before his elevation to the 
patriarchate of Constantinople, we have no knowledge. 
He could hardly have been a young man at the time 
he became patriarch. 

The patriarchal throne of Constantinople was occu- 
pied in the middle of the 9th century by Ignatius (s. v.)> 
who had the misfortune to incur the enmity of some 
few bishops and monks, and also of Bardas. who was all- 
powerful at the court of his nephew Michael, then a 
minor. Ignatius had excommunicated Bardas on a 
charge of incest, and Bardas, in retaliation, caused the 
patriarch’s deposition, and the election of Photius in his 
place. Though a layman, and, according to some state- 
ments, under excommunication for supporting Gregory, 
less than a week sufficed, according to Nicetas David 
(ibid.), for the rapid passage of Photius through all the 
needful subordinate gradations : the first day witnessed 
his conversion from a layman to a monk ; the second 
day he was made reader; the third day subdeacon; 
the fourth, deacon; the fifth, presbyter; and the sixth 
(Christmas-day, A.D. 858) beheld his promotion to the 


PIIOTIUS 


16G 


PIIOTIUS 


patriarchate, the highest ecclesiastical dignity in the 
empire. Nicetas (ibid.) states that his ofliee was irreg- 
ularly committed to him by secular hands. Photius 
himself, however, in his apologetic epistle to pope Nich- 
olas l (apud Baron. A mat. ad aim. 859, § lxi, etc.), states 
that the patriarchate was pressed upon his acceptance 
by a numerous assembly of the metropolitans, and of 
the other clergy of his patriarchate; nor is it likely 
that the Byzantine court would fail to secure a sulli- 
cient number of subservient bishops to give to the ap- 
pointment every possible appearance of regularity. A 
consciousness that the whole transaction was violent 
and indefensible, whatever care might be taken to give 
it the appearance of regularity, made it desirable for 
the victorious party to obtain from the deposed patri- 
arch a resignation of his office ; but Ignatius was a man 
of too lofty a spirit to consent to his own degradation. 
Photius, however, retained his high dignity; the secu- 
lar power was on his side ; the clergy of the patriarch- 
ate, in successive councils (A.l). 858, 859), confirmed his 
appointment, though we are told by Nicetas David that 
the metropolitans exacted from him a written engage- 
ment that he would treat his deposed rival with filial 
reverence, and follow his advice; and even the legates 
of the Holy See were induced to side with him, a sub- 
serviency for which they were afterwards deposed by 
pope Nicholas I. The engagement to treat Ignatius 
with kindness was not kept ; in such a struggle its ob- 
servance could hardly be expected ; but how far the 
severities indicted on him are to be ascribed to Photius 
cannot now be determined. The critical position of 
the latter would be likely to aggravate any disposition 
which he might feel to treat his rival harshly; for 
Nicholas, in a council at Home (A.D. 862), embraced the 
side of Ignatius, and anathematized Photius and his 
adherents; various enemies rose up against him among 
the civil officers as well as the clergy of the empire; 
and the minds of many, including, if we may trust Ni- 
cetas (ibid.), the kindred and friends of Photius him- 
self, were shocked by the treatment of the unhappy Ig- 
natius. To add to Photius’s troubles, the Civsar Bardas 
appears to have had disputes with him, either influ- 
enced hv the natural jealousy between the secular and 
ecclesiastical powers, or, perhaps, disappointed at not 
finding in Photius the subserviency be had anticipated. 
The letters of Photius addressed to Bardas (EpistoUr, 
3, 6, 8) contain abundant complaints of the diminution 
of his authority, of the ill-treatment of those for whom 
he was interested, and of the incffieacy of his own in- 
tercessions and complaints. However, the opposition 
among his own clergy was gradually weakened, until 
only live bishops remained who supported the cause of 
Ignatius. Yet, notwithstanding these defections from 
the deposed patriarch, Photius labored zealously for a 
restoration of friendly feelings between himself and the 
Western patriarch. Nicholas, however, spurned all ad- 
vances, anil in A.l). 863 anathematized and deposed 
Photius anew. Of course the Homan patriarchate, fail- 
ing to secure the aid of the Kastern emperor, could not 
give practical effect to the deposition, and Photius re- 
mained in his place. In order to retaliate on Home, he 
now assembled a council of the Kastern clergy at Con- 
stantinople (A.D. 867), in which t lie question was re- 
moved from the region of a personal dispute between 
the bishops to a controversy of doctrine and discipline 
between the churches of the Hast and West themselves. 
In this council Photius first brought forward distinctly 
certain grounds of difference between the churches, 
which, although considerably modified, afterwards led 
to their final separation. In all these doctrinal differ- 
ences, the council condemned the Western Church, ex- 
communicated Nicholas and his abettors, and withdrew 
from the communion of the see of Home. The charge 
of heresy against the Church of Home in general was 
embraced in the following articles: 1. That the Church 
of Home kept the Sabbath as a fast; 2. That it permit- 
ted milk and cheese in the first week of Lent ; 3. That 


it prohibited the marriage of priests; 4. That it con- 
fined the rite of anointing persons baptized to the bish- 
ops alone; 5. That it had corrupted the Nicene Creed 
by the addition of the words Jilioque. As neither party 
bad the secular power wherewith to carry its sentence 
into effect, the separation of the Eastern and Western 
churches became simply a schism, and as such lasted 
until the actual deposition of Photius, A.D. 869. 

Of the conduct which controlled Photius as patri- 
arch, in matters not connected with the struggle to 
maintain his position, it is not easy to judge. That 
he aided Bardas, who was elevated to the dignity of 
Civsar, in his efforts for the revival of learning, per- 
haps suggested those efforts to him, is highly proba- 
ble from his indisputable love of literature (Theoph. 
Con tin. I)e Mich. Theophili Eilio, c. 26). That he pos- 
sessed many kindly dispositions is indicated by his 
letters. The charges of the forgery of letters, and of 
cruelty in his struggles with the party of Ignatius, are, 
there is reason to believe, too true; but as almost all 
the original sources of information respecting his char- 
acter and conduct are from parties hostile to his claims, 
we cannot confidently receive their charges as true in 
all their extent. The murder of Cajsar Bardas (A.D. 
866 or 867), by the emperor’s order, was speedily fol- 
lowed by the assassination of .Michael himself (A.D. 
867), and the accession of his colleague and murderer, 
Basil I (the Macedonian). Photius had consecrated 
Basil as the colleague of Michael ; but after the murder 
of the latter he refused to admit him to the commun- 
ion, reproaching him as a robber and a murderer, and 
unworthy to partake of the sacred elements. Photius 
was for this offence immediately banished to a mon- 
astery, and Ignatius restored: various papers which the 
servants of Photius were about to conceal in a neigh- 
boring reed-bed were seized, and afterwards produced 
against Photius, first in the senate of Constantinople, 
and afterwards at the council held against him. This 
hasty change in the occupants of the patriarchate had 
been too obviously the result of the change of the im- 
perial dynasty to be sufficient of itself. But the im- 
perial power had now the same interest as the Western 
Church in the deposition of Photius, A council (recog- 
nised by the Burnish Church as the eighth (ecumenical 
or fourth Constantinopolitan) was therefore summoned, 
A.D. 869, at which the deposition of Photius and the 
restoration of Ignatius were confirmed. The cause was 
in fact prejudged by the circumstance that Ignatius 
took his place as patriarch at the commencement of the 
council. Photius, who appeared before the council, and 
bis partisans were anathematized and stigmatized with 
the most opprobrious epithets, lie subsequently ac- 
quired the favor of Basil, but by what means is uncer- 
tain; for we can hardly give credence to the strange 
tale related by Nicetas (ibid.), who ascribes it to the 
forgery and interpretation by Photius of a certain ge- 
nealogical document containing a prophecy of Basil’s 
exaltation. It is certain, however, not only that he 
gained the favor of the emperor, but that be soon ac- 
quired a complete ascendency over him ; lie was ap- 
pointed tutor to the sons of Basil, had apartments in 
the palace assigned to him ; and on the death of Igna- 
tius, about A.D. 877, was immediately restored to the 
patriarchal throne. With writers of the Ignatian party 
and of the Hoinisb Church this restoration is, of course, 
nothing less than a new irruption of the wolf into the 
sheepfold. According to Nicetas, he commenced his 
patriarchate by beating, banishing, and in various ways 
alllicting the servants and household of his defunct 
rival, and by using ten thousand arts against those who 
objected to bis restoration as uncanonical and irregular. 
Some lie bribed by gifts and honors, and by translation 
to wealthier or more eligible sees than those they occu- 
pied; others he terrified by reproaches and accusations, 
which, oil their embracing his party, were speedily and 
altogether dropped. That, in the corrupt state of the 
Byzantine empire and Church, something of this must 


PHOTIUS 


167 


PHOTIUS 


have happened at such a crisis, there can be little doubt ; 
though there can be as little doubt that these state- 
ments are much exaggerated. It is probable that one 
great purpose of Basil in restoring Photius to the patri- 
archate was to do away with divisions in the Church, 
for it is not to be supposed that Photius was without 
his partisans. But to effect this purpose he had to gain 
over the Western Church. Nicholas had been suc- 
ceeded by Hadrian II, and he by John VIII (some reck- 
on him to be John IX), who now occupied the papal 
chair. John was more pliant than Nicholas, and Basil 
was a more energetic prince than the dissolute Michael; 
the pope therefore yielded to the urgent entreaties of a 
prince whom it would have been dangerous to diso- 
blige; recognised Photius as lawful patriarch, and ex- 
communicated those who refused to hold communion 
with him. Pope John’s yielding attitude in this case 
betrayed so much womanly weakness that it is, in the 
opinion of some, thought to have been the origin of that 
fable about popess Joan (q. v.), in that it obtained for 
him the feminine sobriquet Joanna. But the recogni- 
tion was on condition that he should resign his claim 
to the ecclesiastical superiority of the Bulgarians, whose 
archbishops and bishops were claimed as subordinates 
by both Pome and Constantinople; and is said to have 
been accompanied by strong assertions of the superi- 
ority of the Roman see. The copy of the letter in which 
John’s consent was given is a re-translation from the 
Greek, and is asserted by Romish writers to have been 
falsified by Photius and his party. It is obvious, how- 
ever, that this charge remains to be proved ; and that 
we have no more security that the truth lies on the side 
of Rome than on that of Constantinople. The ecclesi- 
astical jurisdiction of Bulgaria was no new cause of dis- 
sension : it had been asserted as strongly by the pious 
Ignatius as by his successor (comp. Joan. VIII Papre 
Epistol. 78, apud Condi, p. 63, etc.). Letters from the 
pope to the clergy of Constantinople and to Photius 
himself were also sent, but the extant copies of these 
are said to have been equally corrupted by Photius. 
Legates were sent by the pope, and even the copies of 
their Commonitorium, or letter of instruction, are also 
said to be falsified ; but these charges need to be care- 
fully sifted. Among the asserted additions is one in 
which the legates are instructed to declare the council 
of A.D. 869 (reputed by the Romish Church to be the 
eighth ceenmenieal or fourth Constantinopolitan), at 
which Photius had been deposed, to be null and void. 
Another council, which the Greeks assert to be the 
eighth oecumenical one, but which the Romanists reject, 
was held at Constantinople A.D. 879. The papal leg- 
ates were present, but Photius presided, and had every- 
thing his own way. The restoration of Photius and the 
nullity of the council of A.D. 869 were affirmed : the 
words “ filioque” (q. v.), which formed one of the stand- 
ing subjects of contention between the two churches, 
were ordered to be omitted from the creed, and the ju- 
risdiction of the Bulgarian Church was referred to the 
emperor as a question affecting the boundaries of the 
empire. The pope refused to recognise the acts of the 
council, with the exception of the restoration of Photius, 
though they had been assented to by his legates, whom 
on their return he condemned, and then anathematized 
Photius afresh (Baron. Annul. Eccles. ad ann. 880, vols. 
xi, xiii). The schism and rivalry of the churches became 
greater than ever, and has never since been really healed. 
See Greek Church. Photius, according to Nicetas 
(ibid.'), had been assisted in regaining the favor of Basil 
by the monk Theodore or Santabaren ; but other writers 
reverse the process, and ascribe to Photius the introduc- 
tion of Santabaren to Basil. Photius certainly made 
him archbishop of Eucha'ita, in Pontus; and he enjoyed, 
during Photius’s patriarchate, considerable influence 
with Basil. By an accusation, true or false, made by 
this man against Leo, the emperor's eldest surviving son 
and destined successor, of conspiring his father's death, 
Basil had been excited to imprison his son. So far, how- 


ever. was Photius from joining in the designs of Santa- 
baren, that it was chiefly upon his urgent entreaties the 
emperor spared the eyes of Leo, which he had intended 
to put out. Basil died A.D. 886, and Leo VI succeeded 
to the throne. He immediately set about the ruin of 
Santabaren ; and, forgetful of Photius’s intercession, scru- 
pled not to involve the patriarch in his fall. Andrew and 
Stephen, two officers of the court, whom Santabaren had. 
formerly accused of some offence, now charged Photius 
and Santabaren with conspiring to depose the emperor, 
and to place a kinsman of Photius on the throne. The 
charge appears to have been utterly unfounded, but it 
answered the purpose. An officer of the court was sent 
to the church of St. Sophia, who ascended the ambo, or 
pulpit, and read to the assembled people articles of accu- 
sation against the patriarch. Photius was immediately 
led into confinement, first in a monastery, afterwards in 
the palace of Pega; ; and Santabaren was brought in 
custody from Euehaita and confronted with him ; the 
two accusers, with three other persons, were appointed 
to conduct the examination, a circumstance sufficient to 
show the nature and spirit of the whole transaction. 
The firmness of the prisoners, and the impossibility of 
proving the charge against them, provoked the emper- 
or’s rage. Santabaren was cruelly beaten, deprived of 
his eyes, and banished; but was afterwards recalled, and 
survived till the reign of Constantine Porpliyrogenitus, 
the successor of Leo. Photius was banished to the mon- 
astery of Bordi, in Armenia (or rather in the Thema Ar- 
meniacum), where he seems to have remained till his 
death. He was buried in the church of a nunnery at 
Merdosagares. The year in which his death occurred 
is not ascertained. Pagi, Fabricius, and Mosheim fix 
it in A.D. 891 ; but the evidence on which their state- 
ment rests is not conclusive, lie must have been an 
aged man when he died, for he must have been in mid- 
dle age when first chosen patriarch, and he lived after 
that event thirty years, and probably more. He w r as 
succeeded in the patriarchate by the emperor’s brother 
Stephen, first his pupil, then his syncellus, and one of 
his clergy. (Theoph. Contiuuat. lib. v, c. 100; lib. vi, 
c. 1-5; Svmcon Magister, Ik Easil. Maced, c. 21; Ik 
Leone Basil. Jil. c. 1 ; Georg. Monaeh. lie Basil, c. 24 ; De 
Leone , c. 1 -7.) 

The character of rhotius is by no means worthy of 
much respect. He was an able man of the world, but 
not influenced by the high principles which befitted his 
sacred office. Vet he was probably not below' the aver- 
age of the statesmen and prelates of his day; and cer- 
tainly was not the monster that the historians and other 
writers of the Romish Church, whose representations 
have been too readily adopted by some moderns, would 
make him. A writer in the Edinburgh Review, xxi, 329, 
says , im He seems to have been very learned and very 
wicked — a great scholar and a consummate hypocrite — 
not only neglecting occasions of doing good, but pervert- 
ing the finest talents to the worst purposes.'’ This is 
unjust; he lived in a corrupt age, and v’as placed in a 
trying position ; and, without hiding or extenuating his 
crimes, it must be remembered that his private charac- 
ter remains unimpeached ; the very story of his being 
a eunuch, which, though not having the appearance 
of truth, shows at least that he was not open to the 
charge of licentiousness ; his firmness is attested by his 
repulse of Basil from the communion of the Church, and 
his mercifulness by his intercession for the ungrateful 
Leo. It must be borne in mind also that his history 
has come down to us chiefly in the representations of 
his enemies. The principal ancient authorities have 
been referred to in the course of this narrative, though 
we have by no means cited all the places. We may 
add, Leo Grammaticus, Chronographia, p. 463-476, ed. 
Paris ; Zonar. xvi, 4, 8, 11,12; Cedren. Compend. p. 551, 
569, 573, 593, ed. Paris; ii, 172, 205, 213, 248, ed. Bonn; 
Glycas, Annul, pars iv, p. 293, 294, 297, etc., ed. Paris; 
p. 226, 228, 230, etc., ed. Venice; p. 544, 547, 552, ed. 
Bonn ; Gcnesius, Reges, lib. iv, p. 48, ed. Venice ; p. 100, 


PIIOTIUS 


1C8 


PIIOTIUS 


ed. Bonn ; Constantin. Manass. Compcnd. Chron. vers. 
5133-51G3, 5233, etc., 5309, etc. ; Joel, Chronog. Compend. 
p. 179, ed. Paris; p. 55, 5G, ed. Bonn ; Ephraim. De Pa- 
triarchs CP. ver. 10,012-10.025, ed. Bonn. 

Various notices and documents relating to liis history 
generally, but especially to liis conduct in reference to 
the schism of the churches, may be found in the Concilia , 
vols. viii, ix, ed. Labbe; vols. v, vi, ed. Ilardouin; vols. 
xv, xvi, xvii, ed. Mansi. Of modern writers, Baronins 
(.1 « mil. Pccles. A. IX X58-XS6) is probably the fullest, but 
at the same time one of the most unjust. Hankins ( l)e 
Byzantin. Perhnt Scripturibus, pars i, c. IX) has a very 
ample memoir of l’hotius, which may be advantageous- 
ly compared with that of Baronins, as its bias is in the 
opposite direction. See also 1 lupin, Xourdle Biblio- 
theque des Auteurs Pcclesiastiques , , Siede ix, p. 270, 2d 
ed. 1098. An essay by Francesco Fontani, I)e Photio 
X nr<c Jiomre ppiscopo ejusque Scriptis JJissertatio , pre- 
fixed to the first volume of his Xovcp Kruditorum Deli- 
cue (Florence, 17X5, 12ino), is far more candid than most 
of the other works by members of the Burnish Church ; 
and is in this respect far beyond the Me moire surle Pu- 
friarche Phofius, by M. Weguelin, in the Mi 1 mains de 
V Academic Royale (de I’russe) des Sciences et / idles - 
Lettres , an nee 1777 (Berlin, 1779, -(to), p. 440, etc. 
.Shorter accounts may be found in Mosheim (Pedes. 
J/ist. by Murdock, bk. iii, cent. ix. pt. ii, c. iii, § 27-32), 
and in the works cited at the close of this article. Fa- 
brieius has given a list of the councils held to determine 
questions arising out of the struggle of Ignatius and 
Photius for the patriarchate, or out of the contests of 
the Eastern and Western churches with regard to Plm- 
tins. lie has also given a list of writers respecting 
l’hotius, divided into— 1. Those hostile to Phot ins; and 
2. Those more favorable to him. Of the historians of 
the lower empire, Le Beau (Has Empire , liv, Ixx, 38, 
etc.; lxxi, Ixxii, 1-3) is outrageously partial, inflaming 
the crimes of Photius, and rejecting as untrue, or passing 
over without notice, the record of those incidents which 
are honorable to him. (iibbon ( Decline and Fall, c. 53, 
GO), more favorable, has two separate, but brief and un- 
satisfactory, notices of the patriarch. 

Writings. — The published works of Photius are the 
following: 1. Meptw/3i/3\oe i) Ut/3Ato3’<)v>/, Myriobib- 
lon seu Bibliotheca. This is the most important and 
valuable of the works of Photius. It may be described 
as an extensive review of ancient <!reek literature by a 
scholar of immense erudition and sound judgment. It 
is an extraordinary monument of literary energy, for it 
was written while the author was engaged in liis em- 
bassy to Assyria, at the request of Photius’s brother 
Tarasius, who was much grieved at the separation, and 
desired an account of the books which Photius had read 
in his absence. It thus conveys a pleasing impression, 
not only of the literary acquirements anti extraordinary 
industry, but of the fraternal affection of the writer. It 
opens with a prefatory address to Tarasius, recapitulat- 
ing the circumstances in which it was composed, and 
stating that it contained a notice of two hundred and 
seventy-nine volumes. 'I’he extant copies contain a 
notice of two hundred and eighty: the discrepancy, 
which is of little moment, may have originated either 
in the mistake of Photius himself, or in some alteration 
of the divisions by some transcriber. It has been 
doubted whether we have the work entire. An extant 
analysis, by Photius, of the l/istoria Pcdesiastica of 
Philostorgius (q. v.), bv which alone some knowledge 
of the contents of that important work has been pre- 
served to us, is so much fuller than the brief analysis of 
that work contained in the present text of the Bibli- 
otheca, as to lead to the supposition that the latter is im- 
perfect. “It is to be lamented,” says Yalcsius (Be 
Critica, i, 29), “ that many such abridgments and col- 
lections of extracts are nmv lost. If these were extant 
in the state in which they were completed by Photius, 
we should grieve less at the loss of so many ancient 
writers.” But Leiche has shown (Diatribe in Phot. 


Bibliofh.) that we have no just reason for suspecting 
that the Bibliotheca is imperfect; ami that t he fuller 
analysis of Philostorgius probably never formed part of 
it, but was made at a later period. The two hundred 
and eighty divisions of the Bibliotheca must be under- 
stood to express the number of volumes (codices) or 
manuscripts, and not of writers or of works: the works 
of some writers, e. g. of Philo Judanis (codd. 1U3-IU5), 
occupy several divisions; and, on the other hand, one 
division (e. g. cod. 125, Justini Martyr is Scripta 1 ’aria), 
sometimes comprehends a notice of several different 
works written in one codex. The writers examined 
are of all classes: the greater number, however, are 
theologians, writers of ecclesiastical history, and of the 
biography of eminent churchmen ; but several are sec- 
ular historians, philosophers, and orators, heathen or 
Christian, of remote or recent times, lexicographers, 
and medical writers; only one or two are poets, and 
those on religious subjects, and there are also one or two 
writers of romances or love tales. There is no formal 
classification of these various writers; though a series 
of writers or writings of the same class frequently oc- 
curs, e. g. the Acta of various councils (codd. 15-20); 
the writers on the Resurrection (codd. 21-23); and the 
secidar historians of the Byzantine empire (codd. G2- 
G7). In fact, the works appear to be arranged in the 
order in which they were read. The notices of the 
writers vary much in length: those in the earlier part 
are very briefly noticed, the later ones more fully ; their 
recent perusal apparently enabling the writer to give a 
fuller account of them; so that this circumstance con- 
firms our observation as to the arrangement of the 
work. Several valuable works, now lost, are known to 
us chiefly by the analyses or extracts which Photius 
has given of them; among them are the Persica and 
Jntlica of ('tesias (q. v.), in eod. 72; the De Rebus post 
Alexandrian Magnum gestis, and the Parihica and the 
Bithynica of Arrian, in eodd. 53, 92, ami 93; the Jlisto- 
rite of Olympiodorus (q. v.), in eod. 80; the Xarrafio - 
ties of Conon, in eotl. 1XG; the A 'ora JJistoria of Ptol- 
emy llephiestion, in cod. 190; the De lleraclra? Pouticce 
Rebus of Memnon, in eod. 224; the 1 it a Isidori by Da- 
mascius, in end. 242; the lost Declamationes of llime- 
rius, in cod. 243; the lost books of the Bibliotheca of 
Diodorus Siculus, in cod. 244 ; the De Prythreeo (s. Ru - 
bro) Mari of Agatharcliides, in cod. 250; the anony- 
mous 1 it a Pauli t'J'olitani and 1 it a A thanasii. in codd. 
257 and 258; the lost Orationes, genuine or spurious, of 
Antiphon. Isocrates, Lysias, Isreus, Demosthenes, Ily- 
perides, Deinarchiis, and Lvcnrgus, in codd. 259-2GX; 
and of the Chrestomatheia of llelladius of Antinoopolis, 
in cod. 279; besides several theological and ecclesiasti- 
cal and some medical works. The above enumeration 
will suffice to show the inestimable value of the Bibli- 
otheca of Photius. especially when we reilcct how much 
the value of liis notices is enhanced by the soundness 
of his judgment. The first edition of the Bibliotheca 
was published by David Ihesehelius. under the title of 
Bi/3\io$i,w/ roe <hwrioe, Librorttm quos legit Photius 
Putriarrha Pxcerpta et ('ensura (Augsburg, ItiOl, fol.). 
Some of the Ppistolev of Photius were subjoined. The 
text of the Bibliotheca was formed on a collation of four 
MSS., and was accompanied with notes by t lie editor; 
but there was no Latin version. A Latin version and 
scholia, bv Andreas Schott ns of Antwerp, were pub- 
lished (ibid. It inti, fol.); but the version is inaccurate, 
and has been severely criticised. It was. however, re- 
printed. with t lie tJrcek text, under the title of <Pioriov 
Miuno/3ij1\on ij Ilif3\in$i/i:ii, Photii Myriobiblon sire 
Bibliotheca (ticneva, 11112, fol., and Boiicn, 1653, fol.). 
This last edition is a splendid one. hut inconvenient from 
its size. An edition, with a revised text, formed on a col- 
lation of lour MSS. (whether any of them were the same 
as those employed hv lloeschelius is not mentioned ). was 
published by Immanuel Bekker (Berlin. 1X24 25.2 thin 
vols. I to) : it is convenient from its size and the copious- 
ness of its index, but has neither version nor notes. 


PIIOTIUS 


169 


PIIOTIUS 


2. ’Eiriropi) tic rwv UK\ii<naoriKwv 'arropnov <heXo- 
oropyiov fi7ro <pwvi]Q <hwWow TTorpicipxov, Compendium 
Histories Ecclesiastics Pldlostorgii quod dictuvit Pho- 
tius patriarchs. Cave regards this as a fragment of 
another work similar to the Bibliotheca, but his con- 
jecture rests on no solid foundation. The Compendium 
is of great importance as preserving to us, though very 
imperfectly, an Arian statement of the ecclesiastical 
transactions of the busy period of the Arian controversy 
in the 4th centum It was first published, with a Latin 
version and copious notes, by Jacobus Gothofredus (Go- 
defroi) (Geneva, 1643, 4to) ; and was reprinted with the 
other ancient Greek ecclesiastical historians by Henri- 
cus Yalesius (Henri Valois) (Paris, 1673, fob) and by 
Reading (Cambridge, 1720, fob). 

3. TXopoicavwv or No/to udvovov, Xomocanon, s. Xo- 
mocanonon, s. Xomocanonus, s. Canomim Ecclesiastico- 
rum et Legum Imperialism de Ecclesiastics Discipline 
Conciliatio s. Harmonia. This work, which bears am- 
ple testimony to the extraordinary legal attainments 
of its author, is arranged under fourteen nrXot, Tituli, 
and was prefixed to a 'S.vvraypa rwv kovoviov, Cuno- 
num Syntagma, or collection of the Canones of the apos- 
tles and of the ecclesiastical councils recognised by the 
Greek Church, compiled by Thotius; from which cir- 
cumstance it is sometimes called npoKoi'om, Procanon. 
It has been repeatedly published, with the commenta- 
ries of Theodore Balsamon, who strongly recommended 
it, in preference to similar works of an earlier date: it 
appeared in the Latin version of Gentianns Hervetus 
(Paris, 1561, fob), and in another Latin version of Hen- 
ricus Agylaeus (Basle, 1561, fob), and in the original 
Greek text with the version of Agvlaeus, edited by 
Christophorus Justellns (Paris, 1615, 4to). It was re- 
printed, with the version of Agvlteus, in the Bibliotheca 
Juris Canonici, published by Guillelmus Voellus and 
Ilenricus Justellus (Paris, 1661, fob), ii, 785, etc. The 
Xomocanon of Photius was epitomized in the kind of 
verses called politici by Michael Psellus, whose work 
was published, with one or two other of his pieces, by 
Franciscus Bosquetus (Paris, 1632, 8vo). 

4. ITffoi rwv oiicovpevucwv ovvoCwv, De Septem 
Conciliis (Ecumenicis. This piece subjoined, with a 
Latin version, to the Xomocanon in the Paris editions 
of 1615 and 1661, and often published elsewhere, is 
really part of one of the Epistolce of Photius, and is no- 
ticed in our account of them. 

5. ’EjnoroXaj, Epistolce, There are extant a con- 
siderable number of the letters of Photius. The MSS. 
containing them are enumerated by Fabricius (Bill. 
Greec. xi, 1 1). It is much to be regretted that no com- 
plete collection of them has been published. David 
Hceschelins subjoined to his edition of the Bibliotheca 
(Augsburg, 1601, fob), mentioned above, thirty-five let- 
ters selected from a MS. collection which had belonged 
to Maximus Margunius, bishop of Cerigo, who lived 
about the end of the 16th century. One consolatory 
letter to the nun Euscbia on her sister’s death was pub- 
lished by Conrad Rittershausius, with a Latin version, 
with some other pieces (Niirnberg, 1601, Svo). But 
the largest collection is that prepared with a Latin ver- 
sion and notes by Richard Mountagu (Latinized Mon- 
tacutius), bishop of Norwich, and published after his 
death (Loud. 1651, fob). The Greek text was from a MS. 
in the Bodleian Library. The collection comprehends 
two hundred and forty-eight letters translated by the 
bishop, and a supplement of five letters brought from 
the East by Christianus Ravins, of which also a Latin 
version by another person is given. The first letter in 
Mountagu’s collection is addressed to Michael, prince 
of the Bulgarians, on the question Tt iartv ipyov dp- 
yoi'roc, De Officio Principis: it is very long, and con- 
tains the account of the seven general councils already 
mentioned (No. 4), as subjoined to the printed editions 
of the Xomocanon. This letter to prince Michael was 
translated into French verse by Bernard, a Theatin 
monk, dedicated to Louis XV, and published (Paris, 


1718, 4to). The second letter, also of considerable 
length, is an encyclical letter on various disputed topics, 
especially on that of the procession of the Iloly Spirit, 
the leading theological question in dispute between the 
Eastern and Western churches. Mountagu’s version 
has been severely criticised by Combefis (Fabricius, 
Bill. Grcec. i, 701, note f f f). Several important letters 
are not included in the collection, especially two to pope 
Nicholas I, and one to the archbishop or patriarch of 
Aquileia, on the procession of the Holy Spirit, of all of 
which Baronius had given a Latin version in his An- 
nales Ecclesiastici (ad ann. 859, lxi, etc.; 861, xxxiv, 
etc.; and 883, v, etc.). Fragments of the Greek text 
of the letters to pope Nicholas were cited by Allatius in 
different parts of his works; the original of the letter to 
the archbishop of Aquileia was published in the A ucta- 
rium Xorissimum of Combefis, pt. 3, p. 527, etc. (Paris, 
1672, fob), with a new Latin version and notes by the 
editor; and the original of all the three letters, together 
with a previously unpublished letter, Ad (Economuni 
Ecclesice Antiochke, and the encyclical letter on the pro- 
cession of the Holy Spirit (included in Mountagu’s col- 
lection), the Acta of the eighth oecumenical council 
(that held in 879, at which the second appointment of 
Photius to the patriarchate was ratified), and some 
other pieces, with notes by Dositheus, patriarch of Jeru- 
salem, were published by Anthimus “ Episcopus Rcm- 
J niens,” i. e. bishop of Rimnik, in Wallacliia, in his 
I Topog yapdf (Rimnik, 1705, fob). A letter, Ad The- 
ophanem Monachum, i. e. to Theophanes Cerameus, 

1 with a Latin version by Sirmond, was published by the 
Jesuit Franciscus Scorsus, in his Procpmium Secundum, 

' § 3, to the Homilke of Cerameus (Paris, 1644, fob), and 
another letter, Stauracio Spatharo-candiduto, Preefecto 
insula; Cypri, was included in the Ecclesice G rtecce Mo- 
numents of Cotelerius (ii, 104), together with a short 
piece, nepi rov pi) Itiv tr pbg rd iv rep fiiip Xvmjpu 
imerr pieptoS at, Quod non oporteat adpreesentis vitie mo- 
lestias attendere, which, though not bearing the form of 
a letter (perhaps it is a fragment of one), is in the MS. 
classed with the Epistolce. A Latin version, from the 
Armenian, of some fragments of an Epistola Photii ad 
Zachariam A rmenice Patriarcham, in support of the 
doctrine of the Council of Chalcedon, is given in the 
Conciliatio Ecclesice A rmenice cum Romans of Galanns 
(Rom. 1650, fob). To all these we may add the Epistola 
Tarasio Eratri, usually subjoined to the Bibliotheca. 
The Epistola ad Zachariam, just mentioned, and an- 
other letter, Ad Principem Annenium A sutium, are ex- 
tant in MS. in an Armenian version (comp. Alai, Scrip- 
tor. Yeterum Xov. Collectio, Prolog, in voh i, Rom. 1825, 
4 to). 

6. AtZtwv ovvaywyij s. AeZacuv, Lexicon. Marquar- 
dusGudius, of Hamburg, had an anonymous MS. lexicon, 
which he believed and asserted to be that of Photius; 
but the correctness of his opinion was first doubted by 
some, and is now given up by most scholars; and an- 
other lexicon, much shorter, and which is in the MSS. 
ascribed to Photius, is now admitted to be the genuine 
work of that eminent, man. Of this Lexicon there ex- 
ist several MSS., but that known as the Codex Galeanus, 
because given by Thomas Gale to the library of Trinity 
College, Cambridge, is considered to be the archetype 
from which the others have been transcribed; but this 
MS. is in itself very imperfect, containing in fact not 
much more than half the original work. Nearly the 
whole of the lexicon known as the Lexicon Sanger- 
manense, a portion of which was published in the Anec- 
dote Grceca of Immanuel Bekker (Berlin, 1814, 8vo), i, 
319, etc., appears to have been incorporated in the Lex- 
icon of Photius, of which, when entire, it is estimated 
to have formed a third part ( Prajat . to Porson’s edi- 
tion). The Lexicon of Photius was first published, from 
Continental MSS., by Gothofredus Ilermannus (Leips. 
1808, 4to). It formed the third volume of a set, of 
which the first two volumes contained the Lexicon as- 
cribed to Joannes Zonaras. The publication of the Lex - 


PIIOTIUS 


no 


PIIOTIUS 


icon was followed by that of a Libellus A nimadrersionum 
ad Photii Lexicon (Leips. 1810, Ito), and Curcr Xocissi- 
mte sice Appendix Xoturum et Kmendativnum in Photii 
Lexicon (Leips. 1812, -Ito), both by Jo. Fried. Schlcusner. 
But the edition of Hermann having failed to satisfy the 
wants of the learned, an edition from a transcript of the 
Codex Galcanus, made by Person, was published after 
the death of that eminent scholar (Loud. 1822, Ito and 
8vo). (Comp. Kdinb. Rev. xxi, 321), etc., No. 42, July, 
1813, and ( 'lass. Jouru . 1. c.) 

7. A^apiXaxia, Atnphilochia. This work, which Al- 
latius, not a friendly censor, declared to be *• a work 1111cm! 
with vast and varied learning, and very needful for theo- 
logians and expositors of .Scripture,” is in the form of 
answers to certain questions, and is addressed to Am- 
philochius, archbishop of Cyzicus. The answers are said 
in one MS. (apud Fabrieius, Pill. (7 me. xi, 2(5) to be 
two hundred and ninety-seven in number; but Mont- 
faucon (/. e.) published an index of three hundred and 
eight, and a Vatican MS., according to Mai (Script. 1 'et. 
A 'ova Collecting vol. i, Prolog, p. xxxix), contains three 
hundred and thirteen. Of these more than two hundred 
and twenty have been published, but in various frag- 
mentary portions (Mai, l. <■.). The lirst portion which 
appeared in print was in the Lcctioms Antiquir. of Cani- 
sius (Ingolstadt, 1001 . etc., 4to), v, 188, etc., who gave 
a Latin version, bv Franciscos Turrianus, of six of the 
Qiaestiones ; but the work to which they belonged was 
not mentioned. In the subsequent edition of the Lec- 
tiones by Basnage (Amsterd. 1725, -Ito, vol. ii, pt. ii, p. 
240, etc.), the Greek text of live of the six was added 
(the original of the sixth seems never to have been dis- 
covered), as well as the Greek text of a seventh Quas- 
tio , “ J)e Christi Yolnntatibus Gmmicis ,” of which a Latin 
version by Turrianus had been published in the .lucta- 
rium Antiquarian Canisii Lectionum of the Jesuit Petrus 
Stewartius (Ingolstadt, 1(11(5, 4to) ; also without notice 
that it was from the Atnphilochia . Further additions 
were made by Combefis, in his SS. Pat rum Amphi- 
lochii , etc., Opera i Paris, 1044, 2 vols. fol.) (by a strange 
error he ascribed the work not to Photius, but to Am- 
philochius of Icouium, a much older writer, from whose 
works lie supposed Photius had made a selection), and 
in his Xovum A nctarium (Paris. 1048), 2 vols. fol. ; by 
Montfaucon, in his Jiibliotheca Coisliniana (Paris, 1715, 
fol.); and by Jo. Justus Spier, in Wittenberg iscke An- 
inerkiaiytn iiber theoloyische. philosophische , historische. 
philoloyische , und kritische Material (Wittenberg, 1738, 
8vo), pt. i (llarlcs, Jut rod. in llistoriam Lingme Croc. 
Supplem. ii, 47). But the principal addition was made 
by Jo. Cbr. WollT, of forty-six Qmrstbmiv, published, 
with a Latin version, in his Curie Philoloyica. (llamb. 
1735, 4to), vol. v ad tin.; these were reprinted in the 
Jiibliotheca J'atrum of Galland (Venice, 1770, fol.), vol. 
xiii. A further portion of eighteen Qiacst tones, under 
the title Kk* tuiu ( I>u>riov ’A/j^uXoy/wn ni'«, Ex J'hotii 
A mphilochiis qmtdam , was published, with a Latin ver- 
sion, by Angelas Antonins Sehottus (Naples, 1817, Ito) ; 
and some further portions, one of twenty Quiestioncs, 
with a Latin version by 31 ai, in his Scriptorum 1 'ete- 
rnal A 'ora Collect io. i. 103, etc., and another of a hun- 
dred and thirty (pursiioues, in ix, 1 , etc. As many of 
the (paestiones were mere extracts from the J'lpistolir 
and other published works of Photius, Mai considers 
that with these and with the portions published by 
him, the whole of the Amphilochiu has now been pub- 
lished. lie thinks (Script or. Yet. Xora Collect, vol. i, 
Prolog, p. xl ) that the patriarch, towards the close of his 
life, compiled the work from his own letters, homilies, 
commentaries, etc., and addressed it to his friend Am* 
philochius, as a mark of respect, and not because the 
questions which were solved had actually been proposed 
to him by that prelate; and he thus accounts for the 
identity of many passages with those in the author’s 
other works. 

8. Adrersns Maniclavvs s. Paulina nos Lihri Quutuor. 
No Greek title of the whole work occurs, but the four 


books are respectively thus described: 1. An)yij(rig wspi 
rijg Mni'iyaiwi' draf3\(«m)<Tfior, Xu r ratio de Muni- 
c/aris recens repidluluniibus. 2. ’A~opiai rat Xvotig 
tujv M« vt\aiu)v, J)ubia it Solutiones M anichicorum. 
3. Too 4’o»r<ou \oyo£ P, Photii Sermo III. 4. Kara 
rijg ruin Mai'i\aiuiu dpraproeg 7r\« !'/)<;, ’Apaiviip rip 
dyuordrip pora\<p Trparpvripip rat i)yovpir(p tuiv 
iepau’, Contra repullnluntem Maniclaeorum Errorem ad 
.4 rseninm Mona chum Sanctissimum Presbyterum et Pnr- 
f return Sacrorum. The title of the second book is con- 
sidered by Wolff to apply to the second, third, and fourth 
books, which formed the argumentative part of the 
work, and to which the first book formed a historical 
introduction. The second book is intended to show 
that the same God who created spiritual intelligences 
also created the bodies with which they are united, and 
the material world generally ; the third vindicates the 
divine origin of the Old Testament ; and the fourth 
reiterates some points of the second and third books, 
and answers the objections of the Paulicians. The lirst 
book has several points in common with the historical 
work of Petrus .Siculus on the same subject, so as to 
make it probable that one writer used the work of the 
other, and it is most likely Fhotius availed himself of 
that of Petrus. This important work of Photius was 
designed lor publication by several scholars (see Wolff, 
Priefat. in Anecdot. Cnee. vol. i; and Fabrieius, Eibl. 
Cnee, vii, 321); xi, 18), but they were prevented by 
death from fulfilling their purpose. Montfaucon pub- 
lished the first book, with a Latin version, in bis Jiib- 
liotheca Coisliniana (p. 349, etc.) ; and the whole work 
was given by Jo. Christoph. Wolff, with a Latin version 
and notes, in his Anccdota Craca (Hamb. 1722, 12mo), 
vols. i. ii, from which it was reprinted in vol. xiii of the 
Bibliotheca J'atrum of Galland (Venice, 1770, fol.). A 
sort of epitome of this work of Photius is found in the 
Panoplia of Kuthymius Zigabenus. Oudin contended 
that the work of Metrophanes of Smyrna, on the Ma- 
tt iclueans and on the Holy Spirit, was identical with 
this work of Photius; but this opinion is erroneous. 

1*. Knr« rutv ryg TraXaiag 'Pa ipijg on tV II arpig 
pdrov hcTroptoerai to II vevpa to iiyiov dXX’ ov\i rat 
in roe Vioe, Adrersus Jxitinos de Processione Spirit us 
Suncti. This work is incorporated in the Greek text of 
the J'unopUu of Kuthymius Zigabenus (Tcrgovist. 1710. 
fol., p. 112, 113), of which it constitutes the thirteenth 
rirXog or section. It is omitted in the Latin versions 
of Kuthymius. The work of Photius contains several 
syllogistic propositions, which are quoted and answered 
seriatim in the De Vuione Ecclesiarum Oratio I, of Jo- 
annes Veceus, published in the Cneeia Orthodoxa of 
Allatius (Pome, 1052, Ito), i, 154, etc. It is apparently 
the work entitled by Cave Dispututio Compendia ria tie 
J'rocessione Spiritus Saudi a solo Pat re. 

10. 'O piXiai, llom ilia?. Several of these have been 
published: (I.) “l\K<ppa<ng rijg iv nut; fiaoiXdoig ring 
tKKXqoiag rijc inrepayiag BforoKor i>~d UaaiXeion rod 
yiaKiddrog oiicoeopijxiirjqg, Descript io Xonr Sunetissi- 
mip Dei Cenitricis Ecclesite, in J'ahido a Jiasilio Mace- 
done txstrndiv; a discourse delivered on the day of the 
dedication of the church described. It was first printed 
by Lnmbccius, in bis notes to the work of Georgius 
Cod inns, De thiyinibus CJ'olitunis (Paris. 1055, fol.), p. 
187, and is contained, with a Latin version, in the Bonn 
reprint of Codin us (1839, Nvo). It is also contained in 
the Oriyinum CJ'oiitananun Manipulus of Pombelis 
(Paris, 1004, Ito), p. 290, with a Latin version and notes; 
and in the Jinpeiiuni Orient ale of Bandurins (Paris, 
1711, fob), pars iii, p. 117. (2.) Km; ro yfiaowr rijg 

bin paying thorcKoe, llomitia in Sanctissimcr Jhi Ce- 
nitricis Xatalem J/inn, published by Combefis in bis 
Auctariian A drum (Paris, 1(548. fob), vol. i, col. 1583, 
and in a Latin version, in bis Jiibliot/uca J'atrum cou- 
ciouatona (Paris, 1002, fob otcA. Both text and ver- 
sion arc reprinted in the Bibliotheca J'atrum of Galland. 
(3.) Di Sepulturam Domini ; a fragment, probably from 
this, is given by Mai (Scriptor. I 'et. Xora Collect. Pro- 


PIIOTIUS 


m 


PIIOTIUS 


leg. iu vol. i, p. xli). (4.) TTepi roe /n) ceir 7rpdc ra ev 
Tip Xv 7 n)pa hriGTpecpeG$ai, Quod non oporteat ad 
prcesentis Vitce Molestias attendere. This piece, which 
is perhaps not a homily, but the fragment of a letter, 
was published in the Ecclesice Grcecce Monumenta of 
Cotelerius, and has already been noticed in speaking of 
the Epistolce of Pliotius. 

11. 'E piorppara deica ovv ‘ iGcng ra7g curaKpioeGi, In- 
terrogationes decern cum totidem Responsionibus, s. Evra- 
ycoyai icai ctirodeiZeig aKpifing owe iXeypsvai tic row 
avvotiKtjjv Kai iGToptKuiv ypatpdtv irtpi tmaKuTrioi' Kai 
prjTpoiroXiTwv Kai Xonruiv irtpiov drayKuiiov Zjjrgpd- 
Tior, Collecliones accuratceque Demonst rationes de Epis- 
copis et Metropolitis et reliquis aliis necessariis Quces- 
tionibus ex Synodicis et Historicis Monumentis excerptce . 
This piece was published, with a Latin version and 
notes, by Francesco Fontani, in the first volume of his 
Norce Eruditorum Delicice (Florence, 1785. 12mo). The 
notes were such as to give considerable offence to the 
stricter Romanists. (Mai, Scriptor. Veter. Xor. Collect. 
Proleg. ad vol. i, p. xliv.) 

12. E/’c tvv Ao vkclv tppgvtiai, In Lucam Expositi- 
ons. Some brief Scholia on the Gospel of Luke from 
MSS. Catena ?, are given, with a Latin version, in vol. i 
of the Scriptorum Veterum Nova Collectio of Mai, p. 
189, etc., but from which of Photius’s works they are 
taken does not appear. 

13. Cunonicu Responsa, addressed to Leo, archbishop 
of Calabria; also published, with a Latin version, by 
Mai (ibid. p. 3G2), from a Palimpsest in the Vatican Li- 
brary. 

Many works of this great writer still remain in IMS. : 
1. Commentarius in D. Puuli Epistolas, a mutilated copy 
of which is (or was, according to Cave) in the public 
library at Cambridge. It is largely cited by QEcnme- 
nius. 2. Catena in Psalmos, formerly in the Coislinian 
library, of which, according to Montfaucon (Bibl. Coislin. 
p. 58, 59), Photius appears to have been the compiler. 
But the Commentary on the Prophets, Piophetarum 
Liber , ascribed to him by Cave, Fabricius, and others, 
appears to have no real existence ; the supposition of 
its existence was founded on the misapprehension of 
a passage in Possevino’s Apparatus Sacer (Mai, Pro- 
leg. ut sup. p. 1). 3. Homiliie XI I’, extant in MS. at 

Moscow, of the subjects of which a list is given in the 
Auctarium Kovissimum (ad calc. vol. i) of Combefis, 
in the De Scdptoribus Ecclesiasiicis of Oudin (col. 210, 
etc.), and in the Bibl. Grceca (xi, 30, etc.) of Fabricius. 
To these may be added two other homilies, De Ascen- 
sion and In Eesto Epiphcmice, and an Encomium Proto- 
Martyris Theclce (Fabricius, ibid.). 4. Odce. Nine are 
or were extant in a MS. formerl\ r belonging to the col- 
lege of Clermont, at Paris; and three in an ancient Bar- 
berini MS. at Borne. The latter are described by Mai 
(Proleg. p. xliv) as of moderate length, and written in 
pleasing verse. Some Epigrammata of Photius are 
said to be extant (Montfaucon, Bibl. Coislin. p. 520); 
but the Erixtipuy, In Meihodium CPol ., said to be given 
in the Acta Sanctorum, Junii, ii, 969, is not to be found 
there. 5. ’EiriTop)) twv TzpaKTiKwv tu>v iirra o’ikov- 
pei'iKutv ovvbccor, Epitome Acturum Conciliorum sej)tem 
Generalium. This is described by Cave and Fabricius 
as a different work from the published piece (No. 4, 
above). Some critics have doubted whether it is dif- 
ferent from the similar work ascribed to Photius of 
Tyre; but as this prelate lived in the time of the third 
or fourth councils, he could not have epitomized the 
Acta of the fifth, sixth, and seventh. Thus the Epitome 
cannot be by Photius of Tyre, whatever doubt there 
may be as to its being the work of our Photius. 6. 
The Syntagma Canonum has already been mentioned 
in speaking of the Nomocanon. 7. Ilepi rijg too ayiov 
Hi 'tvparoc pv Gray my lag, De Spirit us Sancti Disci- 
plinu Arcana, s. iltpi too ayiov Kai £coo7to io5 Kai 
7rpoGKvvi)Tov Uvevparog, Liber de Sjnritu Sancto, ad- 
dressed to a bishop Bedas, and different from the pub- 
lished work (No. 9). It is described by Mai, who has 


given some extracts ( Proleg . p. xlv), as “liber lucu- 
lentus, varius, atque prolixus.” It is ascribed in one 
MS., but by an obvious error, to Metrophanes of Smyr- 
na. 8. Ttt irapd rijg tKKXyoiag ruiv Aariv mv ainui- 
para pepiKci, Adversus Latinorum Ecclesiam Crimina- 
tiones Purticulures. 9. Contra Francos et Latinos (ibid. 
p. xlviii) ; a very short piece. Various other pieces 
are mentioned by Cave, Lambecius, Fabricius, and Mai, 
as extant in IMS.; but some of these are only fragments 
of the published writings (ibid. p. 1) enumerated by 
mistake as separate works. The work In Categorias 
A ristotelis, now or formerly extant in Vienna and Paris, 
is apparently a part of the Amphilochia (ibid. p. xxxvi). 
The works De Episcopis et Metropolitis, and the Anno- 
tatio de Patriarchis sede suu injvste pulsis, mentioned by 
Cave and Fabricius, appear to be either the Interroga- 
tions decern published by Fontani, or a part of that 
work. (See No. 11 of the published works.) The Sym- 
bolum Fulei mentioned by Lambecius, Cave, and Harles 
(Fabricius, Bibl. Grcec. xi, 30), is part of one of the let- 
ters to pope Nicholas; and the Liber de Pulsione Ignatii 
ac Restitution mentioned by Montfaucon (Bibl. Bibli- 
othecarum, p. 123), is also part of a letter of pope Nich- 
olas ; and the fragment De decern Oratoribus, mentioned 
by Vossius and others, and extant in MS. in the King’s 
Library at Paris, is probably from the Bibliotheca (Mai, 
Proleg. p. 1). Some works have perished, as that 
against the heretic Leontius of Antioch, mentioned h}' 
Suidas (s. v. Atovrioe). Photius wrote also against the 
emperor Julian (Phot. Epist. 187, ed. Montae.), and in 
defence of the use of images. Some writings, or frag- 
ments of writings, of his on this subject (-1 drersus Icono- 
machos et Paulicianos, and De Differentia inter sacras 
Imagines atque Idola ) are extant in the Imperial Li- 
brary at Vienna, but whether in distinct works, or 
under what title, does not appear to be known. 

In the Synodicon of bishop Beveridge (vol. ii, ad fin. 
pt. i) a short piece is given, of which the running title 
is Balsamon in rhotii Interrogationes quornmdam Mo- 
nachorurn ; but the insertion of the name of Photius is 
altogether incorrect; the work belongs to the time of 
the emperor Alexius I Comnenus. The Exegesis, or 
Commentary of Elias Cretensis on the Scala Paradisi 
of Joannes Climacus, is, in a MS. of the Coislinian library 
(Montfaucon, Bibl. Coislin. p. 141), improperly ascribed 
to Photius. 

Two learned Romanists, Joannes Andresius and Ja- 
cobus Morellius, have in recent times contemplated the 
publication of a complete edition of the works of Pho- 
tius; the latter proceeded so far as to draw up a Con- 
spectus of his proposed edition (Mai, Proleg. p. xliv). But 
unfortunately the design has never been completed. 
Migne lias published an edition iu 4 vols. roy. 8vo, 
which he claims to be complete, but it is hardty as critical 
as the works of the greatest genius of his age deserves. 
This edition is entitled Photii, Constantinopolitanipatri- 
archce, opera omnia in classes qninque distributa: exe- 
getica, dogmatica, parametica, liistorica canonica, etc., 
aceurante J. I\ Migne (tomes i et iv, in grand-8 ii deux 
colonnes, 1416 p., Paris, impr. et libr. J. P. Migne, 1860. 
Veneunt 4 vol. 42 frauds gallicis). See Cave, Hist. Lift. 
ii, 47, etc. (ed. Oxford, 1740-1743); Fabricius, Biblioth. 
Grcec. i, 701 ; vi, 603 ; vii, 803 ; x, 670 to xi, 37 ; xii, 185, 
210, 216, 348 ; Oudin, Comment, de Scriptorib. et Scriptis 
Eccles. vol. ii, col. 200, etc. ; Hankins, De Rerum Byzan- 
tin. Scriptorib. pars i, c. 18 ; Dupin, Xourelle Bibliotheque 
des Auteurs Eccles. IXme Siecle, p. 346 (2me ed. 1698); 
Ceillier, A utcurs Sacres, xix, 426, etc. ; Ittigius, De Bib- 
liothecis Patrum, passim ; Gallandius, Biblioth. Patrum , 
Frol eg. in vol. xiii; Fontani, De Photio Force Romce 
Episcopo ejusque Scriptis Dissertatio, prefixed to vol. i 
of the Nova Eruditorum Delicice ; Mai, Scriptor. Vet. 
Nova Collectio , Proleg. in vol. i ; Assemani, Bibliotheca 
Juris Orientalis, lib. i, c. 2, 7, 8, 9 ; Vossius, De Ilisfori- 
cis Greeds, lib. ii, c. 25 ; Donaldson’s Literature (see In- 
dex in vol. ii) ; Lea, Sacerdotal Celibacy (see Index) - , 
Ffoulkes, Divisions off Christendom, vol. ii, cli. i; Fleury, 


PIIOTIUS 


172 


PIIIIYGIA 


Hist. Ecclesiastique ; Maimbonrg, Schisme des Grecs; 
Diillinger, Lehrbuch der Kirchengesch. vol. i ; Jager, 
Hist, de Photius, d'apres les monuments origineaux 
(Paris, 1845). 

Photius ok Tyre, another Eastern ecclesiastic, 
flourished near the middle of the 5th century. On the 
deposition of Ireimis, bishop of Tyre, in A.I). 4 lx, Pho- 
tins was appointed his successor. Evagrius (Hist. Ke- 
cks. i, 10) makes the deposition of Ircmeus one of the 
acts of the notorious Council of Ephesus, held in A.I). 
4 It), and known as the "Concilium Latrocinalc but 
Tillemont more correctly considers that the council only 
confirmed the previous deposition (Memoires, xv. 2(5x i. 
Photius ofTyre was one of the judges appointed by the 
emperor Theodosius II, in conjunction with Eustathius, 
bishop of berytus, and TTanins, bishop of II intone in 
Osrhocne, to hear the charges against I has, bishop of 
Kdessa. Photius, Eustathius, and Crauias met at i>e- 
rvtiis, and Photius and Eustathius again met at Tyre, 
in the year 448 or 149, heard the. charges, acquitted 
Ibas, and brought about a reconciliation between him 
and his accusers, who were presbyters of his own ( 'hurch 
at Edessa ( Concil . vol. iv, col. (127. etc., ed. Eabbe ; vol. 
ii, col. 503, etc., ed. Ilardouin). There is a considera- 
ble dilHcultv as to the chronology of these meetings, 
which is discussed by Tillemont in two of his careful 
notes (Mem. xv, 897, etc.). Photius was present at the 
Council of Ephesus, known as the •‘Concilium Eatroci- 
nale,” where he joined in acquitting the archimandrite 
Eutyches, and restoring him to his ecclesiastical rank 
from which he had been deposed ( Concil . vol. iv, col. -<><>, 
ed. Labbc; vol. ii, col. 220, ed. Ilardouin). About, the 
same time Photius had a contest with Eustathius, 
bishop of Ilerytus, who had obtained an edict of the 
emperor Theodosius II, erecting berytus into a metro- 
politan see, as to the extent of their respective jurisdic- 
tions. Tillemont judges that the dignity accorded to 
the see of lierytus was designed to be merely titular, 
and that the struggle was occasioned by the attempt of 
Eustathius to assume metropolitan jurisdiction over 
some bishoprics previously under the jurisdiction of 
Tyre. In this attempt, being supported by the patri- 
archs Anatolius of Constantinople and Maximus of An- 
tioch, he effected his purpose; and Photius, after a 
struggle, was constrained, not so much by an excom- 
munication, which was speedily recalled, as by a threat 
of deposition, to submit. The jurisdiction of the dio- 
ceses abstracted was, however, restored to Photius bv 
the Council of Chalccdon, A.I). 151 ( Concil . vol. iv, col. 
539, ed. Eabbe; vol. ii, col. 435, etc., ed. Ilardouin). 
Photius was among those who at the same council voted 
t hat Theodoret was orthodox, and should be restored to 
his see ( Concil . col. (519, ed. Eabbe; col. 495, ed. llar- 
douin). Me also took part in some of the other trans- 
actions of the assembly. Nothing further is known of 
him. There is extant one piece of Photius, entitled 
Aiijireir, Preces s. Supplex /Abidins, addressed to the em- 
perors Valcntinian III and Marcian, respecting the dis- 
pute with Eustathius of lierytus. It is given in the 
Actio Qnnrta of the Council of Chalccdon (Concil. vol. 
iv, col. 512, etc., ed. Labbc; vol. ii, col. 436, etc., ed. 
Ilardouin ). 

A Synopsis de Conciliis , extant in MS., is ascribed to 
Photius ol IV rc : this cannot be, as some have supposed, 
the same work as the Epitome Actorum Concil hr um, 
also extant in MS., and ascribed to the more celebrated 
Photius, patriarch of Constantinople. See Tillemont, 
Mem. I. <■.; Cave, Hist. Lift, ad aim. 151, i, 413; Fa- 
bricius, JHblioth. Grac. x, (578; xii. 358. Smith, Diet, 
of (Jr. and Horn. Iliog, and Mytlml. s. v. 

Fhotizomenoi (^iwri^o/ffi'oo enlightnmf), a term 
frequently used among the early Christians to denote 
the baptized as being instructed in the mysteries of the 
Christian religion. See Puns. 

Flirat. See Eiiui rates. 

Phrenology (from $p>)v, the mind, and Xdyoc, a 


discourse), an empirical science, which claims to read 
the mental peculiarities of individuals by means of the 
exterior developments of the skull. It had its origin 
with Franz .Joseph Call, a physician of Germany, and 
was greatly extended by lir. Spurzhcim, of the same 
country, and by George and Andrew Combe, of Scot- 
land. In this country it has been chiefly popularized 
by the late E. X. and < ). S. Fowler. There is a sprightly 
periodical, called the Phrenological Journal , published 
in New York, devoted to its advocacy. In accordance 
with its theory of the special functions of particular por- 
tions of the brain, it has mapped out the cranium into 
various ‘‘organs,” as amativoness, philoprogenitiveness, 
etc., in the animal order; ideality, veneration, etc., in 
the {esthetic and moral; ligure, time, tune, etc., in the 
perceptive, and so on. It has largely been used by 
itinerant lecturers as a method of indicating the char- 
acter of unknown persons, somewhat after the fashion 
of fortune-telling. Its claims to scientitic value are not 
generally admitted by sound physiologists and mental 
philosophers, as neither its crauiological nor its psycho- 
logical theory and analysis agree with the best settled 
principles of either of those departments of self-knowl- 
edge. Its theological bearings arc decidedly material- 
istic. For a fuller exposition the reader is referred to the 
works of the writers above cited. See also Psychology. 

Phrontisterion (<ftpovTi<T~i]pior, a place o f medi- 
tation), a name anciently applied to denote monasteries 
as being places of education and schools of learning, 
baptisteries were also occasionally called by this name, 
the catechumens being there educated in religious truth. 

Phryg'ia (4>pvyia. perhaps from <ppvyio, hence 
parched), an inland province of Asia Minor, bounded 
on the north by liithynia and Galatia, on the east, by 
Cappadocia and Evcaonia. on the south by Lvcia, Pi- 
sidia, and Isanria, and on the west by Caria, Lydia, and 
Mysia. Perhaps there is no geographical term in the 
New Testament which is less capable of an exact defi- 
nition. Many maps convey the impression that it was 
co-ordinate with such terms as liithynia, Cilicia, or 
Galatia. Hut in fact there was no Koman province of 
Phrygia till considerably after the first establishment 
of Christianity in the peninsula of Asia Minor. The 
word was rather ethnological than political, and denoted, 
in a vague manner, the western part of the central re- 
gion of that peninsula. Accordingly, in two of the 
three places where it is used, it is mentioned in a man- 
ner not intended to be precise (/ ifkzovrtg rt)v &pvyiav 
Kai n) v \'u\(iTnzt) v \<opa i\ Acts xvi, (5; cifp\optrog 
Ka^eKqg ~))v I 'a\ariK>)v yiopar Kai ftpoyiar, Acts xviii, 
23), the former having reference to the second mission- 
ary journey of St. Paul, the latter to the third. Nor is 
the remaining passage (Acts ii, 10) inconsistent with 
this view, the enumeration of those foreign Jews who 
came to Jerusalem at Pentecost (though it does follow, 
in some degree, a geographical order) having no refer- 
ence to political boundaries. 15v Phrygia we must un- 
derstand an extensive district, which contributed por- 
tions to several Human provinces, and varying portions 
at different times. In early times Phrygia seems to 
have comprehended the greater part of the peninsula 
of Asia Minor. It was subsequently divided into Phryg- 
ia Major on the south, and Phrygia Minor or Epictetus 
(acquired) on the north-west. The Homans divided 
the province into three districts: Phrygia Salutaris on 
the east, Phrygia Paeatiana on the west, and Phrygia 
Katakckaumenc (the burnt) in the middle. The coun- 
try, as detined by the specilied limits, is for the most 
part level, and very abundant in corn, fruit, and wine. 
It had a peculiar and celebrated breed of cattle, and the 
line raven-black wool of the sheep around l^todicca on 
the Evens was in high repute. The Maunder and the 
Hermits were its chief rivers. The Phrygians were a 
very ancient people, and are supposed to have formed, 
along with the lVlasgi, the aborigines of Asia Minor. 
Jews from Phrygia were present in Jerusalem at the 


PHRYGIANS 


173 


PHUT 


Feast of Pentecost (Acts ii, 10). All over this district j 
the Jews were probably numerous. They were first in- 
troduced there by Antioehus the Great (Josephus, A at. 
xii, 3, 4); and we have abundant proof of their pres- 
ence there from Acts xiii, 14; xiv, 1, 19, as well as from 
Acts ii, 10. The cities of Laodieea, Ilierapolis, and Co- 
lossus, mentioned in the New Testament, belonged to 
Phrygia, and Antioch in Pisidia was also within its lim- 
its (see the names). See Kosenmiiller, Bill. Geo g. iii, , 
43-45; Leake, Geog. of Asia Minor ; Smith, Did. of 
Class. Geog. s. v. See Asia Minor. 

Phrygians or Cataplirygians (q. v.), a sect in 
the 2d century, so called as being of the country of 
Phrygia. They were orthodox in everything, setting 
aside this, that they took Montanus for a prophet, and 
Priseilla and Maximilla for true prophetesses, to be eon- 
suited in everything relating to religion ; as supposing 
that the Holy Spirit had abandoned the Church. See 

31 ON TANl STS. 

Phtha or Ptah, the supreme god of the ancient 
Egyptians, in the first four dynasties or successions of 
kings, extending about 321 years. This god seems, 
however, in later times to have been degraded from his 
high position and become a secondary god. No image 
of this, nor indeed of any other god or goddess, is found 
upon the most ancient Egyptian monuments. The 
worship of Phtha passed from Egypt into Greece, and 
was altered into Hephaestus. “ When, in later times,” 
says 3Ir. Osburn, in his Religions of the World, “ pictures 
and images of the gods made their appearance on the 
ruins of ancient Egypt, Ptah was represented as a tall 
youth, with handsome features, and a green complexion, 
denoting the swarthy, sallow hue which the burning 
sun of Africa had already impressed upon the skins of 
Phut and his descendants, lie was swathed in white 
linen like a mummy to denote that he had been dead, 
but his hands had burst through the cerements, and 
grasped many symbols, to denote that he has risen again. 
This god is made the son of many divine parents, accord- 
ing to the later fables, both of the monuments and of the 
Greek authors, most of them prompted by political mo- 
tives; but noton the monuments of all epochs. The im- 
age of Ptah of 31emphis is enclosed in a shrine, to denote 
that he claimed affinity with no other god, and that his 
real parentage was unknown or forgotten.” 

Phthartodocetae (from (jtSaproc, destructible, and 
Iokho, to seem). One of the numerous 31onophvsite 
sects. They were so called because they maintained 
that the body of Christ was truly corruptible before his 
resurrection. They were opposed to another sect which 
affirmed that the body of Jesus was rendered incor- 
ruptible in consequence of the divine nature blended 
with it: these were called Aplitliartodocetse, Phanta- 
siasts, etc., and were likewise divided into parties, some 
of which debated whether the body of Christ was 
Created or uncreated. See Aiuitiiautodocet.e ; 3Io- 

NOPI1YSITES. 

Phthartolatrae ((jt-aproQ, destructible, and Xa- 
Tpeiuo , to worship ), a term of reproach applied to the 
Severians (q. v.) in the Gth century, who maintained 
that Christ’s body was corruptible of itself, but by reason 
of the Godhead dwelling in it was never corrupted. 

Phud (<i>Qi'e), an incorrect Greek form (Jud. ii, 23) 
of the Ileb. name (Ezek. xxvii, 10) Phut (q. v.). 

Phu'rah (Heb. Purah', !"HS), bough; Sept. <i>apd), 
the servant of Gideon, who went with him by night to 
spv the camp of the 31idianites (Judg. vii, 10. 1 1). Ii.C. 
1362. 

Phu'rim (Esth. xi, 1). See Puui.w. 

Phut (Heb. Put, uttS ; Sept. <bov8 or <t>ovr, but usu- 
ally At/3vee, and so Josephus, .1 tit. i, 6, 2), the name of a 
people mentioned in connection with 3Iizraim and Cush 
as third among the descendants of Ham (Gen. x, 6; 
“ Put,” 1 Cliron. i, 8), elsewhere applied to an African 


country or people (Jer. xlvi, 9; Ezek. xxvii, 40; xxx, 
5; xxxviii, 5; “Put,” Nah. iii, 9. Comp, also Jud. ii, 
23, in the Greek and Syriac). In all of these passages 
Phut or Put is named with Cush, Ludim, and Lubim. 
Putites served in the Egyptian army (Jer. 1. c.; comp. 
Ezek. xxx, 5), and the Tyrian navy (Ezek. xxvii, 20), 
and are numbered in the army of Gog (Ezek. xxxviii, 
5). Josephus (.4?rt. i, 6,2) understands here the 3Iau- 
ritanians. He also mentions a river bearing the same 
name, in the territory of the 3Iauri, which is called Put 
by Pliny (p. 242, ed. Hard.), and flows into the At- 
lantic. Ptolemy (iv, 1, 3) calls it Phthouth (long. 74°, 
lat. 30§°), in 3Iauritania Tingitana (comp. Michael. jS/h- 
! cil. i, 160 sq.). These traces of the name, however, are 
not needed. That it is a name of Libya is sufficiently 
obvious from the Sept, in Jeremiah and Ezekiel, and 
from the fact that Faint is a Coptic name for Libya in 
Egypt — that is, for that part of Lower Egypt which lies 
west of the Canopic mouth of the Nile, so called (see 
I Gesen. Thesaur. ii, 1093). 3Iore recently Hitzig would 
identify with Put the tribe of Puiiya, mentioned in the 
inscriptions at the tomb of Darius, and refers to Pu tea 
(HoiVfa), a city on the west bank of the river Triton 
in Northern Africa (Ptol. iv, 3, 39). But no weight can 
be given to his remark that a people which served in 
the Egyptian army in foreign expeditions must not be 
sought in Western Africa. — Winer, ii, 229. See Libya. 

“In the above genealogical lists Phut follows Cush 
and 3Iizraim, and precedes Canaan. The settlements 
of Cush extended from Babylonia to Ethiopia above 
Egypt, those of 31izraim stretched from the Philistine 
territory through Egypt and along the northern coast 
of Africa to the west ; and the Canaanites were estab- 
lished at first in the land of Canaan, but afterwards 
were spread abroad. The order seems to be ascending 
(towards the north: the Cushite chain of settlements 
being the most southern, the 3Iizraite chain extending 
above them, though perhaps through a smaller region, 
at least at the first, and the Canaanites holding the 
most northern position. We cannot plaee the tract of 
Phut out of Africa, and it would seem that it was al- 
most parallel to that of the 31izraites, as it could not be 
farther to the north : this position M ould well agree 
with Libya. But it must be recollected that the or- 
der of the nations or tribes of the stocks of Cush, 3Iiz- 
raim, and Canaan is not the same as that we have in- 
ferred to be that of the principal names, and that it is 
also possible that Phut may be mentioned in a supple- 
mentary manner, perhaps as a nation or country de- 
pendent on Egypt. The few mentions of Phut in the 
Bible clearly indicate, as already remarked, a country 
or people of Africa, and, it must be added, probably not 
far from Egypt. It is noticeable that they occur only 
in the list of Noah’s descendants and in the prophetical 
Scriptures. Isaiah probably makes mention of Phut as 
a remote nation or country, where the A. V. has Pul, 
as in the 31asoretie text (Isa. Ixvi, 19). Nahum, warn- 
ing Nineveh by the fall of No-Amon, speaks of Cusli 
| and 3Iizraim as the strength of the Egyptian city, and 
1 Phut and Lubim as its helpers (iii, 9). Jeremiah tells 
of Phut in Necho’s array with Cush and the Ludim 
(xlvi, 9). Ezekiel speaks of Phut with Persia and Lml 
as supplying mercenaries to Tyre (xxvii, 10), and as 
I sharing with Cush, Lud, and other helpers of Egypt, in 
I her fall (xxx, 5); and again, with Persia, and Cush, 
I perhaps in the sense of mercenaries, as warriors of the 
army of Gog (xxxviii, 5). From these passages wc 
cannot infer anything as to the exact position of this 
1 country or people; unless indeed in Nahum, Cush and 
i Phut, Mizraim and Lubim, are respectively connected, 
u-hicli might indicate a position south of Egypt. The 
serving in the Egyptian army, and importance of Phut 
to Egypt, make it reasonable to suppose that its posi- 
tion was very near. 

“In the ancient Egyptian inscriptions we find tw r o 
names that may be compared to the Biblical Phut. 
The tribes or peoples called the Nine Bows, IX Petu or 


piiut 


174 


PHYLACTERY 


IX Na-Petu , might partly or wholly represent Phut. 
Their situation is doubtful, and they are never found in 
a geographical list, but only in the general statements 
of the power and prowess of the kings. If one people 
be indicated by them, we may compare the Naphtuhim 
of the Bible. See Naimitlihm. It seems unlikely 
that the Nine Bows should correspond to Phut, as their 
name does not occur as a geographical term in use in 
the directly historical inscriptions, though it may be 
supposed that several well-known names there take its 
place as those of individual tribes; but this is an im- 
probable explanation. The second name is that of Nu- 
bia, To-pet, "‘the region of the Bow,” also called 7o- 
merit-pet, “ the region, the island of the Bow,” whence 
we conjecture the name of Meroe to come. In the geo- 
graphical lists the latter form occurs in that of a people, 
A nu -merit -pet, found, unlike all others, in the lists of 
the southern peoples and countries as well as the north- 
ern. The character we read Pet is an unstrung bow, 
which until lately was read Kens, as a strung bow is 
found following, as if a determinative, the latter word, 
which is a name of Nubia, perhaps, however, not in- 
cluding so large a territory as the names before men- 
tioned. The reading Kens is extremely doubtful, be- 
cause the word does not signify bow in Egyptian, so far 
as we are aware, and still more because the bow is used 
as the determinative of its name Pet , which from the 
Egyptian usage as to determinatives makes it almost 
impossible that it should be employed as a determina- 
tive of Kens. The name Kens would therefore be fol- 
lowed by the bow to indicate that it was a part of Nu- 
bia. This subject may be illustrated by a passage of 
Herodotus, explained by ]\Ir. Harris, of Alexandria, if 
we may premise that the unstrung bow is the common 
sign, and, like the strung bow, is so used as to be the 
symbol of Nubia. The historian relates that the king 
of the Ethiopians unstrung a bow, and gave it to the 
messengers of Cambvscs, telling them to say that when 
the king of the Persians could pull so strong a bow so 
easily he might come against the Ethiopians with an 
army stronger than their forces (iii, 21, 22, ed. I.awlin- 
son : Sir G. Wilkinson’s note). For the hieroglyphic 
names, see Brugsch, (Jeogr. Inschr. 

“The Coptic Piphaiul must also be compared with 
Fhut. The tirst syllable being the article, the word 
nearly resembles the Hebrew name. It is applied to 
the western part of Lower Egypt beyond the Delta; 
and Champollion conjectures it to mean the Libyan 
part of Egypt, so called by the Greeks, comparing the 
Coptic name of the similar eastern portion, Phapabia 
or Tapabia , the older Arabian part of Egypt and Ara- 
bian Nome (IS Egypt e sons les Phuraons, ii, 28-31, 243). 
Be this as it may, the name seems nearer to Naphtuhim 
than to Phut. To take a broad view of the question, 
all the names which we have mentioned may reason- 
ably be connected with the Hebrew Phut; and it may 
be supposed that the Naphtuhim were Mizraites in the 
territory of Phut, perhaps intermixed with peoples of 
the latter stock, it is, however, reasonable to suppose 
that the Pet of the ancient Egyptians, as a geographical 
designation, corresponds to the Phut of the Bible, which 
would theretore denote Nubia or the Nubians, the for- 
mer, ii we are strictly to follow the Egyptian usage. 
This identification would account for the position of 
Phut after Mizraim in the list in Genesis, notwith- 
standing the order of the other names; for Nubia has 
been from remote times a dependency of Egypt, except- 
ing in the short period of Ethiopian supremacy, and 
the longer time of Ethiopian independence. The Egyp- 
tian name of Cush, Kesh, is applied to a wider region 
well corresponding to Ethiopia. The governor of Nu- 
bia in the time of the Pharaohs was called Prince of 
Kesh, perhaps because his authority extended beyond 
Nubia. The identitication of Phut with Nubia is not 
repugnant to the mention in the prophets; on the con- 
trary, the great importance of Nubia in their time, 
which comprehended that of the Ethiopian supremacy, 


w'oukl account for their speaking of Phut as a support 
of Egypt, and as furnishing it with warriors. The 
identification with Libya has given rise to attempts to 
find the name in African geography, which we shall not 
here examine, as such mere similarity of sound is a 
most unsafe guide” (Smith). 

The name of Phtha, the chief deity of Memphis, has 
been considered bv some Egyptologists to be the hiero- 
glyphic transcription of Phut, the son of Ham, whose 
descendants settled in the oases of the Libyan desert, as 
is demonstrated by the circumstance that the country 
named after Phut, in the Hebrew, is translated Libya 
by the Sept, (see Gesenius, Lexicon, s. v. “The 

name Phut, in its change to Phtha," says ( >sburn, “has 
undergone an extraordinary process, highly character- 
istic of the modes of thought that prevailed in very an- 
cient times. Written with the final h, which may be 
added to a Hebrew word without altering the sense, it 
represents the consonants of the verb ‘ to reveal,’ which 
in the Coptic sense is ‘to write hieroglyphics.’ A still 
stranger use has been made of this pun upon the name 
of Phut. His animal representative has been named 
after the action in direct antagonism with that of the 
human original. The hieroglyphic name of the bull 
Apis, hp, is the Coptic verb pet, ‘to hide,’ which is a 
mere transcription of the ancient verb ~*n, “sn, with 
the same meaning. The comparison of the two groups 
renders this contrast very apparent. It will be seen 
that one group is as nearly as possible an inversion of 
the other. The meanings are in like manner in antith- 
esis. In the bull Apis, therefore, were concealed the 
attributes which were revealed in Phtha” {Mon. Hist. 
°f Egypt, ch. v). 

Some late Egyptologists, however, regard Put as a 
merely Egyptian pronunciation for Punt ( Bunsen, Egypt, 
ii, 304), which was the name of an Arabian tribe east 
of Egypt (Brugsch, Geogr. Inschr. ii, 15). See Eth- 
nography. 

Phu'vah (Heb. Puvvah', !~P3, mouth ; Sept. <hot>a), 
the second named of four sons of Issaehar (Gen. xlvi, 
13). B.C. 1000. This name is also written “ Pua” in the 
A. V. (Numb, xxvi, 23), and “Pnali,” margin “Phu- 
vah ” (1 Chron. vii, 1). His descendants are called 
“Punites” (Numb, xxvi, 23). 

Phygel'lus (Gr. 4>uyt\\oc, perh. a fugitive'), a 
Christian of Asia, who being at Borne during Paul’s im- 
prisonment, deserted him in his necessity (2 Tim. i, 15). 
A.D. G4. “It is open to question whether this repu- 
diation of the apostle was joined with a declension from 
the faith (see Buddanis, Eccl. A postal, ii, 310), and 
whether the open display of the feeling of Asia took 
place — at least so far as Phygellus and Ilcrmogenes 
were concerned — at Borne. It was at Borne that One- 
siphorus, named in the next verse, showed the kindness 
for which the apostle invokes a blessing on his house- 
hold in Asia: so perhaps it was at Borne that Phygel- 
lus displayed that change of feeling towards Paul which 
the apostle’s former followers in Asia avowed. It seems 
unlikely that Paul would write so forcibly if Phygellus 
had merely neglected to visit him in his captivity at 
Borne, lie may have forsaken (see 2 Tim. iv, 16) the 
apostle at some critical time when his support was ex- 
pected ; or he may have been a leader of some party 
of nominal Christians at Borne, such as the apostle de- 
scribes at an earlier period (Phil, i, 15, 16) opposing him 
there. Dean Ellicott, on 2 Tim. i, 15, who is at vari- 
ance with the ancient Greek commentators as to the 
exact force of the phrase ‘they which are in Asia,’ 
states various opinions concerning their aversion to 
Paul. The apostle himself seems to have foreseen it 
(Acts xx, 30) ; and there is nothing in the fact incon- 
sistent with the general picture of the state of Asia at a 
later period which we have in the first three chapters 
of the Bevelation.” — Smith. 

Phylactery (0i»\a/cr//pioi’, a receptacle for safe* 


PHYLACTERY 


175 


PHYLACTERY 


keeping), a small square box, made either of parchment 
or black calf-skin, in which are enclosed slips of parch- 
ment or vellum with Exod. xiii, 2-20, 11-17 ; Dent, vi, 
4-9, 13-22, written on them, and which are worn on the 
head and left arm by every strict Jew on week-day 
mornings during the time of prayer. 

1. Name and its Signification. — The Greek term <pv- 
XaKTi'ipiov =phylactery, is a later expression used in the 
N. T. for the O. T. word PE3i3, plur. PE313, “front- 
lets” which is rendered ‘pipEPI, prayer-fillets, by the 
Chaldee paraphrases of Onkelos and Jonathan b.-Uzziel, 
as well as by the unanimous voice of Jewish tradition. 
It is now generally agreed by lexicographers that, ac- 
cording to the analogy of ^33, which stands for 23^3, 
and 3213, which stands for 3333, and which are 
formed by the reduplication of the chief two radical let- 
ters, PD313 stands for PE3E3, from C]13, to bind 
round (Ewald, Lehrbuch der Hebraischen Sprache , § 158, 
c), and that it denotes a tie , a band , a frontlet. The 
Sept, in all the three instances in which *p3 PEZP.ub 

occurs (Exod. xiii, 16; Dent, vi, 8; xi, 18), ren- 
ders it by dffaXevTOv tc po 6<p$a\pun> aov, a fixture be- 
fore thine eyes, with which Symmachus and Theodo- 
tion agree. The rendering of Aquila, tig drivaKra, 
for an immovable (comp. Montfaucon, Hexapla, nota ad 
vers.), is to the same effect. Philo (ii, 358), however, 
translates it auoptva 7r po b<p$a\pu>v, and afterwards 
adds that it is to be a constant pendulum (<rd\ov 
ravra Kivovptvov) to summon the sight by its motion 
to a very clear inspection. Herzfehl ( Geschichte des 
Volkes Israel , ii, 224) infers from this that Philo must 
either have read aaXtvTov in the Sept., or taken the d 
before it as intensitive, and assigns to 313 the sense of to 
move backwards and forwards , vindicating for P.1S313 
the meaning of pendulum, pendent ornament. Herzfcld, 
moreover, maintains that this rendering is more in har- 
mony with the little houses, or square boxes, constituting 
the phylacteries, and that it escapes the following ob- 
jections to the current rendering of it by binding 1 'ound: 
(1) In the phylacteries the box in the front is the prin- 
cipal part, and not the strap round the head which holds 
it; and (2) the PE313 is to be “ between the eyes” 
which does not tally with forehead tie ( Stimbinde ). 
The name “p^EP, prayer-fillets, by which the Chaldee 
paraphrases and the Syriac version render P133l3,and 
which is the common appellation for the phylacteries 
among the Jews to the present day, owes its origin to 
the fact that the phylacteries are worn during praver- 
time. lienee the plural ‘pb“ 1 EP has the masculine ter- 
mination to distinguish it from the feminine Pl'b^EP, 
which denotes prayers, just as the plural masculine 
tpbnn denotes psalms, in contradistinction to the fem- 
inine plural P’l'bPP, praise. 

2. The Manner in which the Phylacteries are Made and 
Used. — As the Mosaic law (Exod. xiii, 16; Deut. vi, 8; 
xi, 18) gives no specific directions how the phylacteries 
are to be made, but simply says that they are to be of 
a double nature, viz. for the hand and between the eyes, 
the Jewish canons have enacted minute regulations 
about the arrangement and use of them. A piece of 
leather is soaked, stretched on a square block cut for the 
purpose, sewed together with gut-strings while wet, and 
left on the block till it is dried and stiffened, so that 
when it is taken off it forms a (rPE) square leather 
box ( Jerusalem Megilla, iv, 9). As the Mosaic code 
enjoins one for the hand and another for the head, two 
such boxes (D^PE) are requisite for making the phy- 
lacteries. The box of which the phylactery for the 
hand (f 1 b’U rVbEP) is made has no inscription out- 
side, and only one cell inside, -wherein is deposited a 
parchment strip with the four following sections writ- 


ten thereon in four columns, each column having seven 
lines. On column i is written Exod. xiii, 1-10, treating 
on the sanctification of the first-born, and containing 
the injunction about the phylacteries; on col. ii, Exod. 
xiii, 11-16, which also treats on the sanctification of the 
first-born, and repeats the injunction about the phylac- 
teries; on col. iii, Deut. vi, 4-9, enjoining that the law 
and the command about the phylacteries should be in- 
culcated into the minds of the rising generation; and 
on col. iv is written Deut. xi, 13-21, describing the bless- 
ing attached to the keeping of the law, and to the ob- 
servance of the command about the phylacteries. The 
order, therefore, of the passages of Scripture is as fol- 
lows : 


iii,] 1-1 6 Exod. xiii, 1-10 


The slip is rolled up, put inside, tied with white and 
w r ell-washed hairs of a calf or cow, generally obtained 
from the tail, and put into the box; a flap connected 
with the brim is then drawn over the open part and 
sewed firmly down to the thick leather brim, in such a 
manner as to form a loop on one side, through which 
passes a very long leather strap (PPlE"!), wherewith 



the phylactery is fastened to the arm. The box of 
which the phylactery for the head (CXP P^EP) 
is made has on the outside to the right the regular 
three-pronged letter Shin, being an abbreviation for 
"HE?, the A Imighty, and on the left side a four-pronged 
letter Shin {Sabbath, 28 b). In the inside are four cells, 
in which are deposited four slips of parchment, w hereon 
are written the same four passages of Scripture as on 
the one slip in the phylactery for the hand. The box is 
closed in the same manner, and a thong passes through 
the loop with which it is fastened to the head. 

The phylacteries, like the Mezuzah, i. e. the scrolls 
on the door-posts, must be written in Hebrew charac- 
ters, while the law may be written in Greek (Mishna, 
Megilla, i, 8). Every Jew, from the time that he is 
thirteen years of age, when he is considered a member 


PHYLACTERY 


176 


PHYLACTERY 




Phylactery for the Head. 


of the congregation ( iTli *2 “SI. is obliged to wear the 
phylacteries during the time of morning prayer, every 
day except on Sabbath and festivals. Ik-fore commenc- 
ing his devotions he first puts on one on the left arm 
through the sling formed by the long strap. Having 
fastened it just above the elbow, on the inner part of the 
naked arm, in such a manner that when the arm is bent 
the phylactery may touch the flesh and be near the 
heart, to fulfil the precept, “ Ye shall lay up these words 
in your heart,” he first twists the long strap three times 
close to the phylactery, forming a Shin, which stands 
for "Tl', the. Almighty , pronouncing the following bene- 
diction : “ Blessed art thou, () Lord our (iod, King of the 
universe, who hast sanctified ns with thy command- 
ments and enjoined us to put on the phylacteries.” lie 
then twists the long leather strap seven times around 
the arm (in the form of two Shins, one with three 
prongs and the other with four), and puts on the phy- 
lactery on the head, placing it exactly in the centre 
between the eyes, so as to touch the spot where the hair 
begins to grow, and before he secures it pronounces the 
following benediction: “Blessed art thou, O Lord our 
Hod, King of the universe, who hast sanctified us with 
thy commandments, and enjoined upon us the command 
about the phylacteries;” ami immediately after adjust- 
ing it says, “Blessed be the name of the glory of his 
kingdom forever and ever” (Maimonides, lad 1/a-Che- 
zaka, llilchoth Tephillin, iv, 5). lie then winds the end 



of the long leather strap three times around his middle 
finger, and the remainder around the hand, saying, “I 
will betroth thee unto me forever, yea, l will betroth 
thee unto me in righteousness and in judgment, and in 
loving-kindness, and in mercy, and thou shalt know the 
Lord” (11 os. ii, 19). 

There is no special canon about the size of the boxes 
(.STI) which contain the slips, and thus constitute 
the phylacteries. They are generally made an inch 
and a half square, and are worn during morning prayer, 
except on Sabbath and festivals, because these days be- 
ing themselves a sign (r*it) require no other sign or 
pledge (Maimonides, ibid, iv, 10). The pious Jews who 
are engaged in the study of the law, and in meditations, 
also wear them during these hallowed engagements; 
they make the phylacteries a little larger than the 
ordinary ones to give more space, and hence more dis- 
tinctness to every letter and word composing the writ- 
ing inside, and walk with the phylacteries on from one 
place to another. The hypocrites among the Pharisees 
imitated this, and made their phylacteries more than 
ordinarily large, so as to make them conspicuous and 
visible to any one at a distance, thereby to indicate that 
they were praying or in lioly meditation, which our 
Saviour rebuked (Matt, xxiii, 5). If the phylacteries 
are written by an infidel they must be burned; ami if 
written by a Samaritan, an informer, a slave, a woman, 
or a minor, they arc unlawful and must be shut up 
(Maimonides, ibid, i, 13). The Sadducees wore the 
phylacteries on the forehead or brow, and on the palm 
of the band (Maimonides, ibid, iv, 3). 

3. Origin and Design of the Phylacteries. — It is the 
unanimous voice of Jewish tradition that the phylac- 
teries arc enjoined in Kxod. xiii, 9, 16; Dent, vi, 8; xi, 
18. It is true that Bashbam and Abcn-Ezra (on Exod. 
xiii, 9), who are followed by Dc Lyra, Calvin, bishop 
Patrick, II. Michaelis, Iveil, etc., take the passages in 
question in a figurative sense, But against this the ad- 
vocates of the usage urge that — (1.) It is inconceivable 
that the same declaration should be used four times 
figuratively, there being no parallel for such a usage 
throughout the whole Pentateuch. (2.) In two cases 
out of the four (Dent, vi, 9; xi, 20), the injunction is 
immediately followed by the command about the Mezu- 
zuh, which is generally admitted to be literal [see Mi:zr- 
zaii], and it is against all sound rules of exegesis to 
take one command in a figurative and the other in a 
literal sense. (3.) In every one of the four instances 
wherein the injunction is given, the expression r,*S is 
used, which in all other passages of Scripture invariably 
denotes a visible sign, given either to attest an event or 
doctrine stated in the foregoing passage, or to serve as a 
remembrance. Now, on the supposition that the whole 
commandment is to be taken figuratively, it would be 
no sign whatever, and the term 1*1“ 273 could not have 
been substituted for the technical expression 
as it is in Exod. xiii, 9. (1.) The end of the external 

action enjoined in the first clause of Exod. xiii, 9 is im- 
mediately introduced in the second clause by 1“'23, 
11 that the law of the Lord may be in thy mouth ;” where- 
as, as Pliilippsolm rightly remarks, the simple conjunc- 
tion 7 would be required if the preceding words had the 
same internal figurative meaning, (o.) It was a com- 
mon custom in ancient days for those who engaged in 
military service, or devoted themselves to the worship 
of a special deity, to be marked either on the forehead 
or on the hand, or on both (Yeget.c/e Mil it. ii, 5; Herod, 
ii, 1 13 ; Lucian, De Syr. Dea, 59 ; A sint. Res. vii, 281 sq.). 
Thus the high-priest, as being especially consecrated to 
the service of Jehovah, had inscribed in the plate, on 
the front of his head '•Holiness to the Lord” (Exod. 
xxviii,36), the ordinary servants of Jehovah were com- 
manded to have a mark (Ezek. ix. 4, 6) ; and at the in- 
gathering of Israel we are told that even the horses 
shall have written upon their bells “Holiness to the 


PHYLACTERY 


177 


PHYLACTERY" 


Lord” (Zech. xiv, 20) ; while the worshippers of the 
beast are represented as bearing his inscription on their 
foreheads and arms (Rev. vii, 3 ; xiii, 16-13 ; xiv, 9-11 ; 
xvi, 2; xix, 20; xx, 4). The Moslems, Nusairieh and 
Bedawln Arabs, to the present day, either tie, or have 
tattooed, on their hands and foreheads select passages 
of the Koran. It was therefore natural that the Mosaic 
law, which forbids tattooing (Lev. xix, 28), should ap- 
propriate, for the service of the Most 1 Iigh, the innocent 
and generally prevailing custom, which the lawgiver 
could not eradicate, of wearing ornaments and tokens, 
with inscriptions declaring that they belonged to Jeho- 
vah, and that the Lord is their Redeemer. This uni- 
versal custom would of itself be sufficient argument for 
taking the injunction in its literal sense, even if we had 
not the support of the ancient versions and the undevi- 
ating practice of the synagogue ; and be it remembered 
that even the Sadducees, who rejected tradition and 
adhered to the simple meaning of the law, also wore 
phylacteries. As to the phrase “33 mb bv E3r2 
(Frov. iii, 3, etc.), which is frequently quoted in support 
of the spiritual meaning, it must be observed that it too 
is to be taken literally, inasmuch as m? does not de- 
note the external front of the breast, but the tablet which 
the ancients wore on their hearts. It is the same as 
Dpi 2, which so frequently occurs in the Mishna (comp. 
Kelim, xxiv, 7), and which the Greeks called II<Va£, 
and the Homans Pugillares. This tablet, when made of 
wood, was called mb (Isa. xxx, 8; Habak. ii, 2) ; when 
of metal, it was termed “(V’bs (Isa. viii, 1), and when it 
was of stone it was denominated The argu- 

ment of Spencer, that because the Sept, renders 
by dadXtvra, and not (pvXatcrppta, therefore this ver- 
sion did not understand it literally, “ inter eos (qui le- 
gem illam sensu tantum metaphorico expouendam een- 
suerunt) LXX cum primis notandi veniunt, qui quod 
inMoisi est mSDID ipsi non tpiXaKrppia sed dadXevra 
transtulerunt” (Be Leg . Ilebraor. ritual, lib. iv, c. 2), ig- 
nores the fact that tpvXaicrijpta is a term which obtained 
at a much later period as an equivalent for *p>Er\ Jo- 
sephus, too, who like all the ancient and modern Jews 
takes the injunction literally, does not render niEDHS 
by (f)v\aKri]pta (Ant. iv, 8, 13). The fact is, that in 
very early days there was no fixed and technical term 
for those frontlets. Hence Herzfeld ( Gesch . des Yolkes 
Israel, ii, 223) has pointed out that the phylacteries are 
meant in 2 Kings xi, 12, where the high-priest is said 
to have put upon Joash “the crown and the mi”;” 
and Duschak ( Josephus nnd die Tradition, p. 85) sup- 
poses that the TephilUn are meant by iTIli’n “Y1X (Isa. 
viii, 16). The injunction about the phylacteries was so 
generally observed among the Jews after the Babylo- 
nian captivity, that the writers of them found it a most 
lucrative business. Hence we are told that “twenty- 
four fast days were ordained by the Great Synagogue, 
in order that the writers of the scrolls of the law, the 
phylacteries, and the mezuzalis, might not grow* rich, 
inasmuch as they were not allowed to write them on 
these days” ( Pesachim , 50 5). In harmony with the 
design of the phylacteries, Maimonidcs propounds their 
utility, when he remarks: “The sacred influence of the 
phylacteries is very great ; for as long as one wears them 
on his head and arm he is obliged to be meek, God- 
fearing, must not suffer himself to be carried away by 
laughter or idle talk, nor indulge in evil thoughts; but 
must turn his attention to the words of truth and up- 
rightness” (Kitto). Nevertheless, the fact that these 
appendages, being regarded more or less in the light of 
amulets, engender superstition, has led interpreters gen- 
erally to view the sacred injunction as a spiritual or 
figurative precept. This is the opinion of the Karaites, 
Grotius, Schbttgen (Her. Heb. i, 194), Eosenmiiller, 
Hengstcnberg (Pent, i, 458 sq.), and most others. In 
VIII.— M 


Matt, xxiii, 5 only they are called tpvXaKrfjpia , either 
because they tended to promote observance of the law 
(dei pvijpijv fyem rou Bfor, Just. Mart. Dial. e. Tryph . 
p. 205, for which reason Luther happily renders the 
word by Denkzettel), or from the use of them as amu- 
lets (Lat. preebia, Gr. n-fpianrci, Grotius ad Matt, xxiii, 
5). &v\aKTfipiov is the ordinary Greek word for an am- 
ulet (Plutarch, ii, 378, B, where 0uA. = the Roman bulla), 
and is used apparently with this meaning by a Greek 
translator (Ezek.xiii, 18) for DIP, S3, cushions (Hoscn- 
mitller, Schol. ad loc. i ; Schleusner, Lex. in X. 7\). 
Jerome (on Matt, xxiii, 5) says they were thus used in 
his day by the Babylonians, Persians, and Indians, and 
condemns certain Christian “muliercul®" for similarly 
using the Gospels (“parvula evangelia,” fiifiXia piupd, 
Chrvs.) as 7 repidppara, especially the Procem. to St. 
John (comp. Chrysost. Horn, in Matt. 73). The Koran 
and other sacred books are applied to the same purpose 
to this day (Hottinger, Hist. Orient, i, 8, p. 301 ; De nit- 
minis Orient, xvii sq.; “The most esteemed of all Che- 
gabs is a Mushaf, or copy of the Koran,” Lane, Mod. 
Egypt, i, 338). Sealiger even supposes that phylacter- 
ies were designed to supersede those amulets, the nse of 
which had been already learned by the Israelites in 
Egypt. See Amulet. There was a spurious book 
called Phylact. Angelorum, where pope Gelasius evi- 
dently understood the word to mean “amulets,” for he 
remarks that Phylaeteria ought rather to be ascribed 
to devils. In this sense they were expressly forbidden 
by pope Gregory (“ Si quis . . . phvlacteriis usus fuerit, 
anathema sit.” Sixt. Senensis, Bibl. Sand. p. 92; comp. 
Can. 36, Coneil. Land.). 

The expression “ they make broad their phylacteries" 
(irXaTvvovGi to. tpv A. avrUiv, Matt, xxiii, 5) refers not 
so much to the phylactery itself, which seems to have 
been of a prescribed breadth, as to the case (fiXiXp) in 
which the parchment was kept, which the Pharisees 
(among their other pretentious customs, Mark vii, 3, 4 ; 
Luke v, 33, etc.) made as conspicuous as they could 
(Reland, Antiq.W, 9, 15). Misled probably by the term 
7rAaruvou<7t, and by the mention of the DX^or fiinge 
(Numb, xv, 38, Sept. kX werpa vaKtv&ivov tvl rd Kpeia- 
rreca rutr 7 rrepvyhov) in connection with them, Epi- 
| phanius says that they were 7rAdrfa rn'ipara 7 rop^t’pae. 
like the Roman laticlave, or the stripes on a Dalmatic 
cloak (rd ci arjpara Tijg7rop<p{’pag<pvXaKT))pia tiuiSamv 
oi T)Kpifit»p.tvoi ptrovopciZeiv, c. liter, i, 33; Sixt. Sen. 
1. c.). He says that these purple stripes were worn by 
the Pharisees with fringes, and four pomegranates, that 
no one might touch them, and hence he derives their 
name (Reland, Antiq. ii, 9, 15). But that this is an error 
is clearly shown by Sealiger (Eknch. Trihar. viii, 66 
sq.). It is said that the Pharisees wore them always, 
whereas the common people only used them at prayers, 
because they were considered to be even holier than the 
or golden plate, on the priest’s tiara (Exod.xxviii, 
36), since that had the sacred name once engraved, but 
in each of the Tephillin the tetragrammaton recurred 
twenty-three times (Carpzov, App. Critic. 196). Again 
the Pharisees wore the tephilluh above the elbow, but 
the Sadducees on the palm of the hand (Goodwyn, l. c.). 
The modern Jews only w-ear them at morning prayers, 
and sometimes at noon (Leo of Modena, l. c.). In our 
Lord’s time they were worn by all JeAvs, except the 
Karaites, women, and slaves. Boys, when (at the age 
of thirteen years and a day) they become r‘ij *’33 
(sons of the commandments), Avere bound to wear them 
(Baba Berac. fol. 22, 1, in Glossa), and therefore they 
may have been used even by our Lord, as he merely 
discountenanced their abuse. The suggestion Avas made 
by Sealiger (/. 0 .), and led to a someAvhat idle contro- 
A'ersv. Liglitfoot (//or. Ilebr. ad Matt, xxiii, 5) and 
Otho (Lex. Rub. p. 656) agree Avith Sealiger, but Carp- 
zov (l. c.) and others strongly deny it, from a belief 
that the entire use of phylacteries arose from an error. 


PIIYLLOBOLIA 


178 


PIIYSICIAX 


The rabbins even declared that God wore them, arguing 
from Isa. Ixii, 8; Deut. xxxiii, 2; Isa. xlix, 16. Per- 
haps this was a pious fraud to inculcate their use; or it 
may have had some mystic meaning (Zohar, pt. ii, fol. 
2; Carpzov, /. c.), but the rabbins disapproved the ap- 
plication of them to charm wounds or to lull children 
to sleep (hi. Leg. 253; Maimonidcs, I)e Idol. ii). lie 
who wore them was supposed to prolong his days (Isa. 
xxxviii, 1G), but he who did not was doomed to per- 
dition, since he thereby broke eight affirmative precepts 
(Maimonidcs, Tephil. iv, 2G). We have a specimen of 
this style of interpretation in the curious literalism of 
Kimchi’s comment on Psa. i, 2. Starting the objection 
that it is impossible to meditate in God’s law day and 
night, because of sleep, domestic cares, etc., he answers 
that for the fulfilment of the text it is sufficient to wear 
tephillia! In spite of these considerations, .Justin (Dial, 
c. Trgph. I. c.), Chrysostom, Kuthymius, Theophylact, 
and many moderns (Baumgartcn, Comm, i, 479; Winer, 
s. v. Phylact.). prefer the literal meaning. It rests, there- 
fore, with them to account for the entire absence of all 
allusion to phylacteries in the (_). T. The passages in 
Proverbs (ut sup.) contain no such reference, and in 
Ezck. xxiv, 17, "N;2 means not a phylactery (as Jarchi 
says'), but a turban (Gesen. Thesaur. p. 1(»89).— Smith. 

4. Literature. — Besides the authors already quoted 
(Sixt. Sencnsis, Belaud, Light foot, Schdttgen, Carpzov, 
Ilottinger, Goodwyn, BosenmUller, etc.), see the follow- 
ing, to whom they refer: Surcnlnisius, Mishna ad Tract. 
Perackoth , p. 8, 9; Beck, l)e Jndeeoruni Ugameutis pre- 
entiris, and l)e usu Phylact. (1G79); Basnagc, Hist, des 
Juifs, V, xii, 12 sq. ; Braunius, De Vest. Sucerd. p. 7 sq. ; 
Buxtorf, Synag. Jud. p. 170 sq. ; Maimonidcs, Yad Ila- 
cash. p. 2, 3 ; Cgolino, l)e 1‘hylacter. Ilebraior. in The- 
saur. tom. xxi ; Townlev, Reasons for the Laws of Mo- 
ses, p. 350 ; Bodenschatz, Gottesdienstl. I 'erfassnng d. 
Judeti , iv, 15 sq. ; Gropp. De Phylact. (Lcips. 1708) ; 
Otlio, Lex. Rabbin, p. 75G; Wagenseil, Sofa, c. ii, p. 397 
sq. ; Spencer, De Leg. Ilvbr . IV, i-vii ; llerzfeld, Gesch. d. 


mous for their medicines ( Odyss . iv, 229). Their aid 
was at first made use of, as among common people at 
all times, for surgery and in extraordinary cases, and 
medicines (Exod. i, 15: the “stools,’ 2 '! 2 SI, there 
spoken of were, according to Gescnius, This. J/eb. p. 17, 
benches or seats on which the parturient females were 
seated; but the word, see Ptudien u. Krit. 1834, p. 81, 
G2G, Gil ; 1812, p. 1048. will scarcely bear this significa- 
tion, see Ewald, Gesch. Isr. i. 481, and Lengerke, Kenan , 
p.387) were regularly employed (see Kail, De ubstelridb. 
mat rum llebr. in xKg. I lamb. 1746). In later times He- 
brew prescriptions obtained, which the prophets some- 
times applied (2 Kings iv. 21; v, 10; viii, 7; xx,7; Isa. 
xxxviii; which cases, although miraculous, evince the 
custom of seeking relief from that class of persons) ; 
mostly for external injuries or complaints (Isa. i, G; 
Ezck. xxx, 21 ; 2 Kings viii, 29: ix, 15), but sometimes 
for internal maladies (2 Chron. xvi, 12), and even for 
mental diseases (l Sam. xvi, 1G; comp. Josephus, .4 ut. 
viii, 2, 5) ; but these never reached any extensive degree 
of science (see Buxtorf, Lex. Ckald. s. v. X2“). The re- 
sort to physicians was very general before and especially 
after the exile (2 Chron. xvi, 12; Jer. viii, 22; Sir. 
xxxviii, 1 ; Mark v, 26; comp. Luke iv. 23 ; v, 31 ; viii, 
43; see Josephus, lCar, ii, 8, 6; Dough tad Analect.W, 
35), and eventually medical practitioners could be found 
even in the smaller cities of the land (Josephus, Life, 
72; comp. Ant. xiv, 13, 10). Their remedies consisted 
mostly in salves (especially balsam, Jcr. viii, 22; xlvi, 
11 ; li, S; comp. Prosp. Alpin. Med.xEg. 118 sq.; or oil, 
Luke x, 34; Mislma, Sabb. xiv, 4; including the oil- 
bath, Josephus, H «r, i, 33, 5; Mislma, Perachoth , i, 2), 
leaves (Ezck. xlvii, 12), plasters (e. g. of Jigs, 2 Kings 
xx, 7; comp. Pliny, xxiii, G3; Strabo, xv, 713), and 
bathing in mineral springs (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 6, 5; 
Life, 16 ; Hor, i, 33, 5; ii, 21, 6; comp. John v, 2), or 
in flowing streams (2 Kings v, 10). Internal nostrums 
are again and again recommended in the Talmud (see 


sq. ; .-spencer, ue i.eg. near, i \ , i-vii ; iierzicui, oesc/i. a. ,, ,, ... .. T ... ' . 

Jail. ii, 223 sij. ; ihc Dercch (Vienna, 1K.V.I), l * e * ' s !!!“’ X,V J *>’ Jom 


the Old Test, honey only is mentioned (Prov. xvi, 24), 
which still holds a conspicuous place among medical 
compounds in the East. Specimens of the Jewish pre- 
scriptions may be seen in Lightfuot on Mark v, 2G (the 
formula or “ Recipe " is “T'^P). Surgical operations are 
mentioned in the Mislma (.Sabb. xxii. 6; Chelitn, xii, 4; 
comp. Sabb. vi, 5). Great curative virtue was attrib- 
uted to amulets (Mislma, Sabb. vi, 2, 10), incantations, 
charms, the touch of certain individuals, and other su- 
perstitions of a like character (2 Kings v, 11 [comp. 
BosenmUller, Morgenl. iii, 227 J ; Josephus, .1 ut. viii, 5) ; 
especially in cases of hypochondria or supposed dnuno- 


p.24sq.; Ilochmnth.in Pen Chauanya, p. 215; and the 
monographs cited by Volbeding, Index Programmatum, 
p. 130. Sec Ehoxtlet. 

Phyllobolia (from tyvWov, a leaf and fidWio, 
to throw), a custom which existed among the ancient 
heathen nations of throwing flowers and leaves on the 
tombs of the dead. The Greek was placed on his fu- 
neral bed as if asleep, wearing a white robe and gar- 
land. the purple pall half hidden by numerous chaplets, 
and so was carried out to his burial before the dawn of 
day. The Homans, deriving the custom from the Greeks, 
covered the hicr and the funeral pile with leaves and 

flowers. It is not an unfrequent custom in different nincal possession. See A.mili.t ; P.kmoniac. The 
parts of England in our day to spread (lowers on and priests (Luke xvii, 14) were appointed by the law (Lev. 
around the body when committing it to the coffin. In xii-xv) the civil health-wardens, not so much for the 
M ales also, when the body is interred, females hasten cure as for the inspection of the sick, or of persons sns- 
Avith their aprons full of (lowers to plant them on the pected of certain maladies, and the instructions given 
grave. The practice of connecting (lowers with the to them, especially respecting endemic diseases, exhibit 
dead seems to have been of great antiquity, 

for an Egyptian of high rank was wont to ■ o 

be carried to his sepulchre in a sarcophagus ^ 

adorned with lotus, had his tomb decked wit li 
wreaths, and his mummy-case painted with 
acacia lea\-es and flowers. The use of the 
flowers on such occasions ivas no doubt con- 
nected with the idea of life after death. 

Physician (SiS\ rnphe, a enrer; iarpoc). 

Among the Hebrews, as among the ancients 
generally, medical remedies (Exod. xxi, 19) 

Avere early (comp. Pliny, xxix, 5) dispensed by 
a special class, who probably derived their skill 
from the Egyptians (Gen. 1, 1 ; comp. Herod, ii, 

84; iii, 1, 129; Diod. Sic. i, 82 ; Diog. Laert. iii, 

8; Plinv, xxvi, 3; xxix, 30; see Sprcngel, /»>- 
schichte, i, G2 ; Wilkinson, iii, 390), w lio were fa- 



Aucieut Egyptian Doctors (or Barbers ?) aud Patients. 


PHYSIOGNOMY 


179 


PIARISTS 


a very careful observation, and afford apt and accurate 
symptoms. See Leprosy; Plague. For the priests 
themselves, who, in consequence of being obliged to per- 
form their services barefoot, were often liable to catch 
cold (see Kail, De morbis sacerdotum V. T. llafn. 1745), 
a special physician ( medicus viscerum) was (in later 
times) appointed at the Temple (Lightfoot, p. 781). 
The priests must have obtained considerable anatomical 
knowledge (comp, the Talmudic abstract on osteology 
in the Mislina, Oholoth, i, 8) from the daily slaughter 
of the animal sacrifices. On the subject generally, see 
Bonier, Diss. de statu medicines ap. vet. Ebr. (Viteb, 
1755); Lindlingcr, De Ilebr. vet. arte medica (1774); 
Sprengel, De medicina Ebrceor. diss. (Hal. 1789) ; comp. 
Schmidt’s Bibl. Medicus (Tull. 1743) ; also Norberg, De 
medicina Arabum (in his Opusc. acad. iii, 404 sq.); 
Wundcrbar, Biblisch-talmudische Medicin (Riga, 1859). 
— Winer, i, 91. See Medicine. 

The superstitious credulity of modern Orientals as to 
curative means is proverbial, and has been noticed by 
all travellers. The Arabs are ready to put faith in al- 
most any Frank as a professional “medicine man” or 
hakim (literally “wise man”), as they term all physi- 
cians. Prescriptions of all sorts are at once taken by 
them, however absurd ; but they are generally unwill- 
ing to exercise the patience, care, self-restraint, and es- 
pecially the cleanliness necessary to a real cure. They 
expect sudden and immediate restoration, and invaria- 
bly prefer extraordinary to simple remedies. All this is 
in keeping with the supernatural character of the nos- 
trums ordinarily employed by them. Indeed, fatalism 
being the basis of Mohammedanism, a resort to direct 
divine power might naturally be expected. See Su- 
perstition. 

“ It is a very prevalent notion among the Christians 
of Europe that the Muslims are enemies to almost every 
branch of knowledge. This is an erroneous idea; hut it 
is true that their studies, in the present age, are confined 
within very narrow limits. Very few of them study 
medicine, chemistry (for our first knowledge of which 
we are indebted to the Arabs), the mathematics, or as- 
tronomy. The Egyptian medical and surgical practi- 
tioners are mostly barbers, miserably ignorant of the 
sciences which they profess, and unskilful in their prac- 
tice; partly in consequence of their being prohibited by 
their religion from availing themselves of the advantage 
of dissecting human bodies. But a number of young 
men, natives of Egypt, are now receiving European in- 
struction in medicine, anatomy, surgery, and other sci- 
ences, for the service of the government. Many of the 
Egyptians, in illness, neglect medical aid, placing their 
whole reliance on Providence or charms. Alchemy is 
more studied in this country than pure chemistry, and 
astrology more than astronomy” (Lane, Mod. Egypt. 
i, 239). 

Physiognomy (from Qvmg, nature, and yvdtpov, 
an index), a method, rather than a science, of discover- 
ing the human character by means of the features, es- 
pecially of the countenance. To some extent this is 
instinctively practiced, as all have learned to read the 
natural language of the tones, expression, gesture, etc., 
which spontaneously accompany our emotions. There 
can be no doubt also that passions or states of mind ha- 
bitually indulged imprint themselves upon the linea- 
ments of the face, and so become an indication of char- 
acter. But when it is claimed that this is invariably 
the case, and that it may be reduced to fixed rules of 
interpretation which will serve as an unerring guide, 
the principle becomes proverbially deceptive. Lavater 
is especially famous for his fanciful scheme on this basis ; 
and by Campe the so-called “facial angle” was relied 
on for determining the comparative intellectual capaci- 
ty of individuals; but experience has demonstrated the 
fallacy of all such arbitrary systems of physiognomy. 

Physiology (from efivmc, nature, and Xoyog, a 
discourse ), the science of the animal constitution, espe- 


cially in man. This branch of self-knowledge is evi- 
dently of the highest temporal importance, and lies at 
the basis of the practice of medicine. Modern educa- 
tion has recognised its claims by incorporating it among 
the common-school studies; and few of the coming gen- 
eration, it is hoped, will be so ignorant as to labor under 
the popular delusions and superstitions to which its neg- 
lect in former ages has led. 

Piaggia, Teramo or Erasmo (also called Teramo 
di Zoagli), an Italian painter, was born at Zoagli, in 
the Genoese state, near the beginning of the 16th cen- 
tury. lie was a pupil of Lodovico Brea, and painted at 
Genoa in 1547. In conjunction with Antonio Semini 
he painted several pictures for the churches at Genoa, 
the most esteemed of which is an altar-piece of the 
Martyrdom of St. Andrea, in the church of that saint. 
Lanzi highly commends this work, and says, “None can 
witness this very beautiful altar-piece without seeing 
traces of Brea’s style, already enlarged and changed 
into one more modern.” lie also painted several pieces 
by himself, at Genoa and at Chiavari. See Spooner, 
Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, ii, 689. 

Piales, Jean Jacques, a French canonist, was bom 
in 1720 at Mur-de-Barrez (Aveyron). Being received 
as a lawyer in the Parliament of Paris (1747), he formed 
a connection with Claude Mey, one of the supporters of 
Jansenism, and both gave a great number of consulta- 
tions and took a very active part in the affairs of the 
appellants. While one treated of the great questions 
of public law and jurisdiction, the other gave himself 
entirely to practice relating to benefices. Although Pi- 
ales lost his sight in 1763, he lost nothing of his zeal 
for the cause which he maintained, and M. Dupin says, 
“ There is no counsellor in the world who dictated more 
consultations.” He died in Paris Aug. 4, 1789. Un- 
foreseen changes in ecclesiastical matters have rendered 
his works useless ; they are. Traite de la Collation des 
Benefices (Par. 1754 and 1755, 5 vols. 12 mo) : — De la 
Provision de la Cour de Rome a litre de Prevention (2 
vols. 12mo) : — De la Devolution , du Devolu et des Va- 
cances de plein Droit (3 vols. 12mo): — De V Expedative 
des Gradues (1758, 6 vols. 12mo) : — Des Commendes et 
des Reserves (3 vols. 12mo) : — Des Reparations et Re- 
constructions des Eglises (Par. 1762, 4 vols. 12mo ; 1788, 
5 vols. 12mo, ed. given by Camus). The first volume 
(the only one which appeared) of the Histoire de la 
Fete de la Conception is attributed to Piales. See Jour- 
nal Chretien (1758 and 1759) ; Camus et Dupin, Biblioth. 
choisie des Livres de Droit ; Picot, Memoires Eccles. tom. 
iv; Feller, Did. Hist. — lloefcr, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
xl, 32. 

Piane, Giovanni Maria Dei.i.e (called II Molina - 
retto ), a Genoese painter, was born at Genoa in the yeaf 
1G60. According to Patti, he studied under Gio. Bat- 
tisti Gaulli, whose style he adopted, and distinguished 
himself by some excellent works which he executed for 
the churches at Genoa, but more by the excellence of 
his portraits. Lanzi highly extols his Decollation of 
St. John the Baptist, at Sestri di Ponente. He also says 
that he was particularly excellent in portraits, and that 
Genoa is full of his works in this branch. He ivas also 
invited to Parma and Piacenza, where he furnished the 
court with portraits, and executed some works for the 
churches. He was afterwards invited to Naples by 
king Charles of Bourbon, who appointed him his paint- 
er, with a liberal pension, and he continued in this ser- 
vice till his death in 1745. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of 
the Fine Arts, ii, 690. 

Fiarists is the name of a Roman Catholic order 
which was founded by St. Joseph Calasanza or Calasan- 
tius, a Spanish nobleman and priest, at Rome in 1607, 
and was approved by pope Gregory XV in 1622 as a 
congregation of regulated clergy, under the name Pa- 
tres scholurum piarum ( Fathers of the pious schools ). 
Paul V was the first pontiff to give encouragement to 
the work of this now celebrated order. Until that time 


PIASTRIXI 


180 


riAzzi 


Calasanza labored at Rome only, and was so remarkably 
successful in getting children for instruction under him- 
self and his associates that bis work was gladly accepted 
as that of a religious order by 1322. Calasanza was the 
first goncral of the congregation, anil under his manage- 
ment it spread through Roland, Germany, Italy, and 
other countries. In 1*30 the Riarists had 33 houses in 
Germany, 28 in Italy, 32 in Hungary, 14 in Roland, and 
at least 30 in Spain. In Italy they have since been 
suppressed ; and the only country in which the Riarists 
conduct, at present, educational institutions of note is 
the Austro-1 1 ungarian monarchy. In Cis-Lithuanian 
Austria, in 1870, they had 21) houses with 207 members; 
included in which were 4 under-gymnasia. The Riarists 
take besides the three usual monastic vows, a fourth— 
that of free instruction of youth. Rope Innocent XII 
granted them the privileges of the Begging Monks. 
Their dress is a long, black coat, like the overcoat of 
the Jesuits, and a mantle like theirs. At the head of 
the congregation stands the general, who is elected for 
six years, and to whom arc subject the generals of the 
different societies or countries in which the order pre- 
vails. (J.I1.W.) 

Piastrini, Giovanni Domenico, a painter, was horn 
at Ristoja about 1700, lie studied under Cav. Benedet- 
to Lnti at Florence, and afterwards went to Romo, where 
he distinguished himself by paintings in the church of 
St. Maria in Via Bata; in which, according to Banzi, 
he rivalled the best followers of Carlo Maratti. He 
also painted some works for the churches in his native 
city, particularly in Ba Madonna della Cmilta, where 
he tilled two large spaces with pictures illustrating the 
history of that church. See Spooner, Biog. /list, of the 
/■'ine Arts, ii, C1)0. 

Piatti, Fuaxc esco, an Italian painter, was, accord- 
ing to Fnessli, horn at Tcglio, in the Valtelinc, in 1350. 
He executed many works for the churches in the neigh- 
borhood, and painted much for the collections. Sec 
Spooner, Biog. /list, of the Fine Arts, ii, 69U. 

Piattoli, Gaetano, a Florentine painter, was born 
in 1703. lie studied under Francesco Riviera at Beg- 
horn. Banzi says he is particularly extolled for the 
excellence of his portraits. lie found abundant em- 
ployment at Florence in that branch of the art, and was 
not only patronized by the inhabitants, hut was em- 
ployed to paint the portraits of the foreign nobility who 
visited that city. He died in 1770. 

Piazza, Car. Andrea, an Italian painter of the 
Venetian school, was born at Cnstelfranco about 1G00. 
lie was the nephew and pupil of Raolo Riazza (q. v.), 
whom lie accompanied to Rome, and whose style he 
adopted, though somewhat modified by an attentive 
study of the works of the great masters. lie acquired 
distinction, and was patronized by the drtke of Lorraine, 
in whose service he continued many years, and received 
from him the honor of knighthood, lie afterwards re- 
turned to Venice, where he executed some works for the 
churches, the hist of which is the Marriage at Cana, 
in the church of S. Marin, a grand composition of many 
figures, which Banzi says is one of the best works in 
the place, lie died there in 1370. See Spooner, Bing. 
Hist, of the Fine A rts , ii, 300. 

Piazza, Carlo Bartolomeo, an Italian monk, 
deserves to he mentioned here, lie was abbe and 
counsellor of the t 'ongregation of the Index, and pub- 
lished Diarium Vuticunnm (Rome, 1GS7, 4to), and La 
Gerarchia cardinulizm (ibid. 1703, fob). — 1 Ioel’er, Xouv. 
Biog. Genera/e, xl, 35. 

Piazza, Francesco, an Italian theologian, was 
horn in Bologna near the beginning of the 15th century. 
In 1424 lie took the dress of the Dominicans, and dis- 
tinguished himself by his skill in the science of canon 
law. He died at Bologna Dee. 17, 1430. llis treatise 
De restitntionibus, usnris et ercomm unicut ioniln/s (Cre- 
mona, 1472, fol.) has been several times reprinted. An- 


other, composed by him, De actu matrimonial i, which 
contains singular opinions, is preserved in manuscript 
at Leipsic. — 11 offer, Four. Biog. Generate, xl, 35. 

Piazza, Girolamo Bartolomeo, an Italian Do- 
minican friar, flourished in the first half of the 18th 
century, lie was highly esteemed by his coreligion- 
ists, and was at one time judge of the Inquisition. But 
the cruelty and injustice of the Roman ritramontanists 
caused him to withdraw from the Church of Rome. He 
went over to England, and was admitted into the Church 
of England. He taught Italian and French for many 
years at Cambridge, and died there about 1745. lie is 
the author of A i Short and True Account of the Inqui- 
sition and its Proceedings, as it is Practiced in Italy, set 
forth in some Particular Cases (Engl, and Fr., Bond. 
1 1 22). See Qnetif and Eehard, Scriptures ordinis Pra- 
dicationum, s. v. 

Piazza, Paolo (commonly called Padre Cosimo), 
was born at Cnstelfranco, in the Venetian territory, in 
1557. lie studied under the younger Raima, and Bag- 
lioni commends him as one of his best pupils. He did 
not follow the style of his master, but adopted one of his 
own, which, though not distinguished by great vigor or 
| energy, was graceful and pleasing, anil gained him so 
much reputation that he was successively employed by 
pope Paul V, the emperor Rudolph II, anil the doge 
Rriuli. lie executed many works, both in oil and fres- 
co, for the churches and public edifices at Rome, Vienna, 
Venice, and other places. lie was employed several 
years by the emperor Rudolph. Among his best works 
are the Descent from the Cross in the < ’ampidoglio, and 
the History of Antony and Cleopatra in the I’alazzo 
Borghesc at Rome. After Riazza had acquired distinc- 
tion, he joined the Capuchin friars, and took the name 
Padre Cosimo, hv which appellation he is usually known. 
He died at Venice in 1321. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of 
the Fine A rts, ii, 390. 

Piazzetta, Giovanni Battista, one of the most 
celebrated of the later Venetian painters, was horn in 
1GS2. According to Zanetti, lie was instructed in the 
rudiments of the art by his father, a reputable sculptor 
in wood, and afterwards became the pupil of Anto- 
nio Molinari. Ilis first, style was distinguished for 
a clear and brilliant tone of coloring, but on visiting 
Bologna lie employed himself with Spagnolctto; and by 
diligently studying the works of Guorcino, lie imitated 
his strong contrasts of lights and shadows, and boldness 
of relief, with considerable success. Banzi says it is 
supposed that he had long observed the effects of lights 
applied to statues of wood and images of wax, and by 
this means he was enabled to draw with considerable 
judgment and exact precision the several parts that 
are comprehended in the shadowing; owing to which 
art his designs were eagerly sought alter, and his works 
repeatedly engraved by Ritteri. by Relli. and by Mo- 
naco, besides many other masters in Germany and 
elsewhere. His method of coloring, however, dimin- 
ished in a great measure the chief merit of his pictures, 
llis shades have increased and changed, his lights sunk, 
and his tints become yellow; so that there remains an 
inharmonious and unformed mass. There arc a few of 
his pictures still in good preservation: as the Decolla- 
tion of St. John the Baptist, in the church of that saint 
at l'adua, placed in competition with those of the first 
artists in the state, and at that period esteemed best of 
all. “ Vet if we follow him closely lie will not fail to 
displease 11 s by that monotonous coloring of lakes ami 
yellows, and by that rapidity of hand called, by some, 
spirit, though to the judicious it often appears neglect, 
as if the artist were desirous of abandoning his task 
before it was completed.” lie executed many chalk- 
drawings which were greatly valued. He also etched a 
few plates from his own designs. He died at Venice in 
1754. Sec Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts, ii, 390. 

Piazzi, Ballistic an Italian painter, was horn at 
Lodi, and nourished from 1524 to 1553, as appears from 


PIBESETII 


181 


PIBESETII 


the dates on his pictures. According to Orlandi, he 
was one of the most successful imitators of Titian. 
Lanzi says that his picture of the Assumption of the 
Virgin, in the collegiate church of Codogno, is worthy 
of anv of the disciples of Titian. It is a grand compo- 
sition, containing figures of the apostles, and two por- 
traits of the Marchesi Trivulzi. In the church of the 
Incoronata, at Lodi, he painted three chapels in fresco, 
each ornamented with four beautiful histories. One 
contains the Mysteries of the Passion, another the Acts 
of St. John the Baptist , and the third the Life of the 
Virgin. “ It is currently believed,” says Lanzi, “ that 
Titian, in passing through Lodi, painted several of the 
heads— a story probably originating from the exceed- 
ing beauty that may be observed in them.” He some- 
times imitated the style of Giorgione, as may be seen 
in his altar-piece in the church of St. Francesco at 
Brescia, representing the Virgin among several saints, 
which is esteemed one of the most beautiful produc- 
tions in that city. He executed many works for the 
churches in other cities, particularly at Crema and Al- 
essandria. In the cathedral of the latter city are sev- 
eral of his best works. Lanzi rebukes Ridolfi, who 
commends him for nothing except his coloring, whereas 
“he boasts a very noble design, is tolerably select in 
his forms, and rich and harmonious in his coloring. 
His Wedding at Cana, in the refectory of the Padri Cis- 
terciensi, at Milan, is truly a surprising production, no 
less for its boldness of hand than for the number of its 
figures, which seem to live and breathe, though the 
whole of them are not equally well studied, and a few 
are really careless and incorrect.” Lomazzo also, speak- 
ing of his Choir of the Muses — in which he introduced 
the portraits of the president Sacco and his wife, for 
whom it was painted — says, “ I may, without fear of 
temerity, observe that it is impossible to produce any- 
thing more perfectly graceful and pleasing, and more 
beautiful in point of coloring, among works in fresco.” 
See Spooner, Blog. Hist, of the Fine Arts, ii, GDO. 

Pi-be'seth (Heb. id. Sept. Bou/3aoroc ; 

Vulg. Bubastus), a town of Lower Egypt, mentioned 
but once in the Bible (Ezek. xxx, 17). In hieroglyphics 
its name is written Bahest, Bast, and Ila-Bahest, followed 
by the determinative sign for an Egyptian city, which 
was probably not pronounced. The Coptic forms are 
Bast, with the article pi prefixed, or Poubaste, Poubast, 
Phoubasthi, Bouasti , Pouast; and the Greek, liovfiao- 
tiq , Bo vfiaaroQ. The first and second hieroglyphic 
names are the same as those of the goddess of the place, 
and the third signifies the abode of Bahest, that god- 
dess. It is probable that Bahest is an archaic mode of 
writing, and that the word was always pronounced, as 
it was sometimes written, Bast. It seems as if the 
civil name was Bahest, and the sacred Ila-Bahest. It 
is difficult to trace the first syllable of the Hebrew and 
of the Coptic and Greek forms in the hieroglyphic equiv- 
alents. There is a similar case in the names Ila-lfesar, 
Bousiri, Pousiri, YHovoipic, Bnsiris. Dr. Brngsch and 
M. Deveria read re or Pa, instead of Ha; but this is 
not proved. It may be conjectured that in pronuncia- 
tion the masculine definite article pepa or pi was pre- 
fixed to Ila, as could be done in Coptic: in the ancient 
language the word appears to be common, whereas it is 
masculine in the later. Or it may be suggested that 
the first syllable or first letter w r as a prefix of the vul- 
gar dialect, for it is frequent in Coptic. The name of 
Philae mav perhaps afford a third explanation, for it is 
written Eelek-t, Eelek, and P-Eelek (Brugscli, Geogr. 
Insehr. i, 156, Nos. 626, 627); whence it would seem 
that the sign city (not abode) was common, as in the 
first form the feminine article, and in the last the mas- 
cidine one, is used, aud this would admit of the reading 
Pa-Bast, “ the [city] of Bubastis [the goddess].” The 
goddess Bast, who was here the chief object of worship, 
was the same as Pesht, the goddess of fire. Both names 
accompany a lion-headed figure, and the cat was sacred 


to her. Herodotus considers the goddess Bubastis to 
be the same as Artemis (ii, 137), and that this was the 
current opinion in Egypt in the Greek period is evi- 
dent from the name Speos Arteraidos of a rock temple 
dedicated to Pesht, and probably of a neighboring town 
or village. The historian speaks of the annual festival 
of the goddess held at Bubastis as the chief and most 
largely attended of the Egyptian festivals. It was ev- 
idently the most popular, and a scene ©f great license, 
like the great Moslem festival of the Sevid el-Bedawi 
celebrated at Tanteh in the Delta (ii, 59, 60). 

There are scarcely any historical notices of Bubastis 
in the Egyptian annals. In Manetho’s list it is related 
that in the time of Boethos, or Bochos, first king of the 
2d dynasty (B.C. cir. 2231), a chasm of the earth opened 
at Bubastis, and many perished (Cory’s Ancient Frag- 
ments, 2d ed. p. 98, 99). This is remarkable, since, 
though shocks of earthquakes are frequent in Egypt, 
the actual earthquake is of very rare occurrence. The 
next event in the list connected with Bubastis is the 
accession of the 22d dynasty (B.C. cir. 990), a line of 
Bubastite kings (ibid. p. 124, 125). These were either 
foreigners or partly of foreign extraction, and it is prob- 
able that they chose Bubastis as their capital, or as an 
occasional residence, on account of its nearness to the 
military settlements. See Migdol. Thus it must 
have been a city of great importance when Ezekiel 
foretold its doom: “The young men of Aven and of 
Pi-beseth shall fall by the sword: and these [cities] 
shall go into captivity” (xxx, 17). Heliopolis and Bn- 
bastis are near together, and both in the route of an in- 
I vader from the East marching against Memphis. Bu- 
bastis was situated on the west bank of the Pelusiac 
I or Bubastite branch of the Nile, about forty miles from 
I the central part of Memphis, and was the principal 
town of the Bubastite nome (Pliny, / list. Xat. v, 9 ; 
Ptolemy, iv, 5). Herodotus speaks of its site as hav- 
ing been raised by those who dug the canals for Sesos- 
tris, and afterwards by the labor of criminals under 
Sabacos the Ethiopian, or, rather, under the Ethiopian 
dominion. He mentions the temple of the goddess Bu- 
bastis as well worthy of description, being more beautiful 
than any other known to him. It lay in the midst of the 
city, which, having been raised on mounds, overlooked 
it on every side. An artificial canal encompassed it 
with the waters of the Nile, and was beautified by trees 
on its bank. There was only a narrow approach lead- 
| ing to a lofty gateway. The enclosure thus formed 
was surrounded by a low wall, hearing sculptures ; with- 
in was the temple, surrounded by a grove of fine trees 
(ii, 137, 138). Sir Gardner Wilkinson observes that 
I the ruins of the city and temple confirm this account. 
The height of the mounds and the site of the temple 
are very remarkable, as well as the beauty of the latter, 
which was “of the finest red granite.” It “was sur- 
rounded by a sacred enclosure, about 600 feet square, 
j . . . beyond which was a larger circuit, measuring 940 
! feet by’l200, containing the minor one and the canal." 
; The temple is entirely ruined, but the names of Rame- 
I ses II of the 19th dynasty, Userken I (Osorchon I) of 
1 the 22d, and Nekht-har-heb (Nectanebo I) of the 30th, 
| have been found here, as well as that of the eponymous 
goddess Bast. There are also remains of the ancient 
houses of the town, and, “amidst the houses on the 
N.W. side are the thick walls of a fort, which protected 
the^cmple below” (Notes by Sir G. Wilkinson in Raw- 
linson’s Herodotus, ii, 186, plan). Bubastis thus had a 
fort, besides being strong from its height. — Smith. The 
city was taken by the Persians, who destroyed the 
walls (Diod. Sic. xvi, 51) ; but it was still a place of 
some consideration under the Romans. It was near 
Bubastis that the canal leading to Arsinoe (Suez) open- 
ed to the Nile (Strabo, xvii, 805; Mela, i, 9, 9; Herod, 
ii, 138); and although the mouth was afterwards often 
changed and taken more southward, it has now returned 
to its first localitj', as the present canal of Tel el-\\ adi 
commences in the vicinity of Tel Basta. This Tel 


ric 


182 


PICART 


Casta, which undoubtedly represents Bubastis. is in X. 1 
Iat. 30° 36', E. long. 31° 33'. Kitto. See Wilkinson, 
MoJey'n Egypt, i, 300, 427-429 ; Ritter, Evdkunde, i, 825 ; 
Rosellini, Monum. Storichi , ii. 76 sq. : Mar.ncrt, tieog. 
x, i, 58b sq. ; Malus, in the JJescr. de 1 Egypt e, iii, 307. 

Pic, Jean, a young French Christian, suffered mar- 
tyrdom for his devotion to the Protestant cause. He 
was born in 1546, and flourished at Tournay. Togeth- 
er with his friend, Hugo Destaillcur. accused of heresy, 
they were proven to have circulated the Genevese tracts, 
and refusing to recant, were imprisoned; and March 
22, 1565, were sentenced to be burned to death. They 
died faithful to the Lord they had decided to serve. 
►See Hurst, Martyrs to the Tract Cause, p. 154-164. 

Picard, J ean (0, a French priest, is noted especially 
as an astronomer, lie was born at La Fleche, in the 
present department of the Sarthe, and after taking holy 
orders became prior of Rille, in the same department. 
He gave himself largely to astronomic studies, and 
many are his publications in this department of natu- 
ral science. Picard died at Paris duly 12, 1682. For 
a list of his publications, which are not of special in- 
terest to us, we refer to Condorcet, Eloge de Picard; 
Fontenelle, Eloge de Picard; and the Eiographie Uni- 
versclle, s. v. 

Picard, Jean (2), a French humanist, was bom in 
Beauvais in the 16th century, lie was regular canon 
of St. Victor, in Paris, lie died in 1617. We owe 
to him the edition of the chronicle of Guillaume de 
Xeubourg {De rebus A nglicis [Paris, 1610, 8vo~], lib. v), 
accompanied by the life of the author and historical 
notes, and that of the (Euvres de St. Bernard (Paris, 1615, 
fob). See Moreri, Did. Hist. s. v.; Papillon, Hibl. de 
Burgogne, s. v. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene rale, xl, 47. 

Picard, John. Sec Picards. 

Picard, Mathmin, a French ecclesiastic who 
flourished in the early part of the 17th century, was 
curate of Mesnil - Jonrdain, in the diocese of Evreux. 
Picard is the author of a quaint hook, which has be- 
come very rare, Le. Envet des Paillards, ou juste Puni- 
tion des Yoluptueux et Charnels (Rouen, 1623, I2mo). 
lie incurred the same accusations as Urbaiu Gramlier, 
and was doomed to the same penalty. His alleged 
crime was bewitching the nuns of Saint-Louis of Lou- 
viers, and sundry acts of profanation and debauchery. 
As he was tried after his death, his body was exhumed 
and burned at Rouen, in execution of a judgment ren- 
dered Aug. 21, 1647. See Frere, Bibliogr. Xormande . — 
Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 48. 

Picardet, Ciiari.ks X., a French priest, was born at 
Dijon near the beginning of the 18th century. Before the 
Revolution he was canon of Saint-.) ean-Baptiste of Dijon, 
and prior of Xeuilly, near that city. He died about 1701. 
We have of his works, Essai sur 1' Education des petits 
Enfants (Dijon, 1756, I2mo): — Les deux Abdolonymes 
(ibid. 1770, 8vo) : — and Ilistoire meteorologiqne, nosalo- 
gique,et economique pour l' A nnee 1785. lie had under- 
taken a considerable work, which, under the title of 
Grande Apologetique, was to contain the refutation of 
all heresies since the establishment of ( 'hristianity. See 
Biog. Xouv. des Contemp.— Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, xl, 53. 

Picards, a Christian sect of heretics which arose in 
Bohemia in the 15th century. John Picard, the founder 
of the sect, whence their name, drew after him men*and 
women to whom he promised that he would restore 
them to the primitive state of innocence wherein man 
was created. With this pretence lie taught them to 
give themselves up to all impurity, saving that therein 
consisted the liberty of the sons of God, and all those 
not of their sect were in bondage, lie first published 
his notions in Germany and the Low Countries, and 
persuaded many people to go naked, and gave them the 
name of Adamites (q. v.); and accordingly he assumed 
the title of .Veto .1 dam. After this he seized on an isl- 


and in the river Lausnecz, some leagues from Tabor, 
the headquarters of Zisca, where he established himself 
and his followers. 11 is women were common, but none 
were allowed to enjoy them without his permission; so 
that when any man desired a particular woman he car- 
ried her to Picard, who gave him leave in these words: 
‘•Go. increase, multiply, and till the earth.” At length, 
however, Zisca, general of the Hussites (famous for his 
victories over the emperor Sigismond ), incensed at their 
abominations, marched against them, made himself mas- 
ter of their island, and put them all to death except two, 
whom he spared that he might learn their doctrine. 

Such is the account which various writers, relying 
on the authorities of ..Eneas Silvios and Yarillas, have 
given of the Picards. Some, however, doubt whether 
a sect of this denomination, chargeable with such wild 
principles and such wild conduct, ever existed. It ap- 
pears probable that the reproachful representations of 
the writers just mentioned were calumnies invented 
and propagated in order to disgrace the Picards, merely 
because they deserted the communion and protested 
against the errors of the Church of Rome. Lasitius in- 
forms us that Picard, together with forty other persons, 
besides women and children, settled in Bohemia in the 
year 1418. Balbinus, the. Jesuit, in his Epitome llerum 
Bohemicarum, lib. ii, gives a similar account, and charges 
on the Picards none of the extravagances or crimes as- 
cribed to them by .Sylvius. .Schlecta. secretary of La- 
dislaus, king of Bohemia, in his letters to Erasmus, in 
which he gives a particular account of the Picards, 
says that they considered the pope, cardinals, and bish- 
ops of Rome as the true antichrists; and the .adorers of 
the consecrated elements in the emharist as downright 
idol worshippers. According to this author, the Pi- 
cards are Vaudois, who fled from persecution in their 
own country and sought refuge in Bohemia. Beauso- 
bre held the same opinion, on the ground that the 
Vaudois were settled in Bohemia in the year 1178, 
where some of them adopted the rites of the Greek, and 
others those of the Latin Church. The former were 
pretty generally adhered to till the middle of the 14th 
century, when the establishment of the Latin rites 
caused great disturbance. At the commencement of 
the national troubles in Bohemia, on account of the op- 
position of the papal power, the Picards more publicly 
avowed and defended their religious opinions; and they 
formed a considerable body in an island by the river 
Launitz, or Lausnecz, in the district of Bochin, and, re- 
sorting to arms, were defeated by Zisca. See Hard- 
wick, /list, of the M. .1. Church, p. 436; lief. p. 95; 
Mosheim, Church /list. vol. ii ; and the references under 
Aimjiitks. (J. II. W .) 

Picart, Bernard, a famous French engraver, was 
born at Paris in 1673. He was the pupil of Le t’lerc. 
His best works are. those executed in France. Hav- 
ing embraced the Reformed religion, he took up his 
residence in Holland. In Amsterdam, to which place 
he accompanied his father in 1710, he worked ex- 
clusively for the booksellers, and became mannered, 
metallic, and merely ornamental. A great many of his 
prints are from his own designs, in which he imitated 
the style of composition of Antoine Covpel. He had a 
facility in imitating the styles of other earlier engrav- 
ers, and he published many prints of this class which 
arc said to have deceived collectors; Picart used to call 
them Impostures iunoeeuUs, and they were published 
under this title, to the number of seventy-eight, with a 
list of his works (Amsterdam, 1738), after his death. 
His prints altogether amount to about 13(H), and one of 
the best of them is a Slaughter of the Innocents, after 
a design of his own: there are various impressions of 
it. lie died in 1733. The French text which Pieart’s 
copper-plates were intended to illustrate was written by 
J. F. Bernard and Bruzen de la Martiniere. The first 
and best edition of the work in the original French is 
that of 1723-37 ; to which should be added Supplement 
(1743, 2 vols.), and Superstitions, Anctenncs et Jlodtrnes 


PICART 


183 


PICCOLOMINI 


(1733-36, 2 vols.). Picart is the author of a work on 
The Religious Ceremonies and Customs of the several 
Nations of the known World, represented in more than a 
hundred copper-plates, which he designed, and accom- 
panied with historical explanations and several curious 
dissertations (Loud. 1731-39, 7 vols. fol.). See Duples- 
sis, Hist, de la Gravure en France; Haag Freres, La 
France Protest ante, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliogr. 
s. v. ; English Cyclop, s. v. 

Picart, Etienne, called Le Roniain, father of the 
preceding, also a celebrated French engraver, was born 
at Paris in 1631. His prints, chiefly portraits and his- 
tory, are very numerous: they are flnelv executed, but 
want harmony. He worked with the graver and the 
etching-needle, much in the style of Poilly. He is sup- 
posed to have been called Le Domain from his long so- 
journ in Dome, or he assumed the name that he might 
not be confounded with another engraver of the name 
of Picart. lie was engraver to the king, and a member 
of the French Academy of Painting, etc. He left his 
country because he was persecuted for his religious be- 
lief, and died at Amsterdam in 1721. He engraved many 
sacred subjects of the great masters, among them the 
Birth of the Virgin, after Guido; the Marriage of St. 
Catharine, after Correggio ; the Holy Family, after Tal- 
ma, etc. 

Piccadori, Jean Baptiste, an Italian ascetic of 
some note, was born at Rieti in 1766. lie entered the 
congregation of the regular Minorites, and professed phi- 
losophy and theology. In 1791 he obtained the profes- 
sorship of morals, and kept it while he lived, lie was at 
the same time curate of the parish of Saint- Vincent-et- 
Saint-Anastase, consultor of the Index, etc. In Septem- 
ber, 1826, Leo XI appointed him superior-general of his 
order, in which he had occupied different minor charges. 
Piccadori published Institutions ethique,ou de la Philoso- 
phic morale, and was prevented by death from finishing 
Institutions du Droit des Gens, lie died at Rome Dec. 
29, 1829. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 55. 

Picchiani, Francesco (also called Picchetti), an 
Italian architect, was born at Ferrara in the latter part 
of the 17th century. He was the son, and probably the 
pupil, of Bartolomeo Picchiani, who erected the church 
del Monte della Misericordia at Naples. F'rancesco 
settled in that city, where he gained a high reputation 
for his talents. He was employed by the viceroy Don 
Pedro Arragona to assist in the construction of a basin 
for the royal galleys, and other vessels. He also con- 
structed the beautiful avenue leading from the basin to 
the piazza of the palace, adorning it with elegant foun- 
tains. Among his other works were the church and 
monastery of S. Giovanni della Monache, without the 
Porta Alba; S. Agostino; La Divino Amore; the church 
and monastery de' Miracoli ; and the Monte de’ Poveri, 
in the Strada di Toledo. He died in 1690. See Spoon- 
er, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, ii, 692. 

Piccliianti, Giovanni Domenico, an Italian de- 
signer and engraver, was born at Florence about 1670. 
He was instructed in the rudiments of drawing by 
Giovanni Battista Foggini, and afterwards learned en- 
graving. Piccliianti, with Lorenzini, Mogalli, and other 
artists, was employed in engraving a set of plates from 
pictures in the Florentine Gallery. Among other works 
of his are the following: The Madonna della Seggiola, 
after Raffaelle; The Virgin and Infant Jesus, with St. 
John, after Anthony Caracci ; The Tribute-Money, after 
Titian ; The Virgin and Infant, after Titian: Abraham 
sending away II agar, after P. da Cortona. See Spooner, 
Biog. Ilist. of the Fine Arts, ii, 692. 

Piccinardi, Serafino, an Italian theologian of 
some note, was born at Padua in 1634. He embraced 
the rule of St. Dominic; professed theology at Bologna, 
Verona, Genoa, and Milan ; and was called upon, in 1669, 
to occupy the chair of metaphysics at the university 
of his native place. According to Papadopoli, he died 


in 1686 at Brescia; according to Echard, in 1695. IJe 
published, Philosophies dogmaticce peripatetiem Chns- 
tianee lib.ix (Padua, 1671-1676, 2 vols.4to) : — l)e appro- 
bation doctrines St. Thomce lib. vii (ibid. 1683, 3 vols. 
fol.): — and Prcedestinatus (ibid. 1686, 4to). — lloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 55. 

Piccilli, Giacomo, an Italian engraver, was born 
at Venice in 1617. It is not known by whom lie w r as - 
instructed. He engraved a set of thirty portraits of the 
principal painters of the Venetian school, for the account 
of their lives by Ridolfi, published in 1648. lie also 
engraved a few plates after the Italian masters, among 
which are The Holy Family , after P. Liberi ; Judith with 
the Head of llolofernes ut her Feet, and The Holy Fam- 
ily, after Titian. His plates are executed in a stiff, dis- 
agreeable style. He was living in 1669. See Spooner, 
Biog. Ilist. of the Fine Arts, ii, 692. 

Piccioni, jMatteo, a painter and engraver, was born 
at Ancona, according to Nagler, in 1615. Little is known 
of him as a painter, save that he flourished at Rome, and 
was elected a member of the Academy of St. Luke in 
1655. Lanzi says he was a fellow-student of Giovanni 
Antonio Galli. Bartsch gives a list of twenty-three 
prints by him, among which are the following : St. Luke 
painting the Virgin, after Raffaelle; The Adoration of 
the Shepherds, alter P. Veronese ; The Holy Family, after 
P. Veronese ; The Virgin and Infant Jesus, with St. John, 
after A. Camassei ; The Exposing of Moses in the Waters 
of the Nile, after A. Camassei. See Spooner, Biog. Ilist. 
of the Fine A rts, ii, 692. 

Piccola, Niccoca (or Niccot.a Lapiccola), a 
Sicilian painter, was born at Crotona, in Calabria Ultra, 
in 1730. 1 le studied under Francesco Manciui at Rome, 
and acquired considerable reputation. He executed 
several works for the churches in that city, and deco- 
rated the cupola of a chapel in the Vatican, which was 
so much esteemed that it was afterwards copied in mosaic. 
Many paintings by Piccola are at Veletri, but none of 
his works are specified. He died in 1790. See Spooner, 
Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts, ii, 692. 

Piccolomini, Alessandro, one of the most dis- 
tinguished of Italian prelates of the 16th century, was 
born at Siena in 1508. lie sprang from the same fam- 
ily as pope Pins II (q. v.), and by his piety, modesty, 
and scholarship gained great renown ; but no events of 
his life are particularly worth recording. He deserves 
to be remembered for the wide extent of his writings, 
and the esteem in which they were held by his contem- 
poraries and immediate followers. He died in 1578. 
He was of an original turn of mind, and his writings 
are almost all in Italian, so that he is among the earliest 
of those who endeavored to raise the character of ver- 
nacular literature by treating all branches of knowledge 
in modern tongues. His commentaries on Aristotle 
were prized for their good-sense, and for their abandon- 
ment of most of the scholasticisms by which that phi- 
losophy was disfigured by commentators. He advocated 
in 1578 the reformation of the calendar, which was af- 
terwards adopted. In his book on the fixed stars and 
the sphere he adopts the mode of designating the stars 
by letters— a small matter, but one which makes the 
greater part of the immortality of Bayer, and to which 
the diagrams of Piccolomini establish his prior claim. 
His works are of a most miscellaneous character— as- 
tronomy, physics, comedies, sonnets, morals, divinity, 
and commentaries ou Aristotle. De Thou speaks in 
strong terms of the rare union of diversity and depth 
which his acquirements presented. For a list of his 
most important works, and an estimate of them, see Fa- 
biani, Vita d' A less. Piccolomini (Vienna, 1749, 1759, 
8vo) ; Ughelli, Italia Sacra, s. v. ; Tiraboschi, Storia 
della letter, ital. vol. vii, pt. i, p. 506; Niceron, Me- 
moires, vol. xxiii, s. v. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. s. v. 

Piccolomini, Francesco, an Italian philosopher, 
father of the preceding, was horn in 1520 at Siena. At 


PICEXAEDI 


184 


PIC1I0X 


Padua, where he pursued his studies, lie was condisciple 
of Felix l’eretti, who became pope under the name of 
Sixtus V, and who boasted of having worsted him in 
public disputation. 11c professed philosophy at Siena, 
Maccrata, Perugia (1550), and dually at Padua (15G0). | 
Ills advanced age compelled him. in lG01,to leave the 
latter city' and retire to Siena, lie strove both by his 
lessons and by his writings to restore the philosophy of 
Plato, and to show that it is compatible after all with the 
principles of Aristotle. He died at Siena in 1G04. lie 
left, Uniccrsa pkilosophia de moribus (Venice, 1583, 
fol.) ; the editions of Frankfort (1G01, 1G11, 8vo) contain j 
besides, under the title of Comes politicus, an answer to 
the attacks of Zabarella: — Libri de scientite mitura P 
partibns (Frankf. 1597, 1G27, 4to), which is a treatise 
on natural philosophy: — l)e arte dejiniendi ct ctega liter 
discurrendi (ibid. 1GU0, 4to): — Conimenlaria in Aris- 
totelem De Ortu et Interitu , De anima et De Colo 
(Mentz, 1 608, 8vo) ; each of these commentaries was 
also published separately. — Hoofer, Now. Biog. Gene- 
rate, xl, G7. 

Picenardi, Carlo (1) (called The Elder), an Italian 
painter, who, according to Zaist, flourished at Cremona 
about 1600. lie was of a patrician family, and a fa- 
vorite pupil of Lodovico Caracci. lie executed some 
works for the churches of his native city, and painted 
some burlesque histories which gained him considerable 
repntation. lie died young. See Spooner, Biog , Hist, 
of the Cine Arts, ii, 092. 

Picenardi, Carlo (2) (called The Younger), son of 
the preceding, was born about 1 G 1 0. It is not known by 
whom he was instructed; but, after studying at Pome, 
he went to Venice, and formed a style of his own, Poman 
in design and Venetian in coloring. On his return to 
Cremona he executed some works for the churches and 
public edifices, but painted most for the collections. Lan- 
zi says he was very successful in burlesque histories, in 
imitation of the elder Picenardi. lie died about the year 
1G80. See Spooner, Biog. llist. of the Cine .1 its, ii, G92. 

Picliler, Aloys, Dr., one of the most prominent 
Poman Catholic theologians of Germany, was born in 
1833 at Purgkirchen, in the diocese of Passau. He 
studied at the Passau Lyceum and at Munich, and in 
1857 he received the prize lor an essay on Polybius. 
Two years later he was made a priest ; in 18G1 he was 
honored with the theological doctorate, and in the fol- 
lowing year he commenced his lectures on Church his- 
tory. In 18G9 he was appointed librarian at St. Peters- 
burg; but two years later he was found to be guilty of 
kleptomaniac propensities in his official capacity, and as 
he had robbed the library of many valuable possessions, 
he was brought to trial, found guilty, and condemned 
to banishment to Siberia, where he remained till 1874, 
when lie was pardoned through the intervention of the 
Bavarian prince Leopold. Pichlcr then returned to his 
native country. I le died June 3, 1874, at Siegdorf, near 
Tranenstein. lie wrote, Gesehiehte des Protestuntismus 
in der orieutalischen Kirche im 17 Jahrhund., oder di r 
Patriarch Cgrillus Luca r is u. seine Zeit (Munich, 18G1): 
— Die orientulisehe K irchetifrage nach ihrem gegeniciir- 
tigen Stande (ibid. 18G1): — Gesehiehte der kirehlichen 
Trennuug zwisehen Orient und Occident (18G4-G5, 2 vols.) ; 
which had the distinction of being placed on the Pom- 
ish Index : — Die Theologie des Leibnitz (1809sq., 2 vols.) : 
— Die icuhren // indernisse und die G rundbediugungen einer 
durchgreifenden lb form der Kirche ( 1870). 'Inwards the 
last he became more estranged from his Church. Sec 
Zuchhold, Bibliotheca Theologica, ii, 995; I.iterariseher 
Ha nd ice iser furs kutholische Deutschland, 1 874. p. 335 sq. ; 
Kurtz, Lehrbuch der K ircheugesch.i th ed., i i, 357. (11. 1 \) 
Picliler, Veit, a German Poman Catholic theolo- 
gian and member of the Society of Jesus, was born at 
llerchtofen, Bavaria, in the second half of the 17th cen- 
tury. He entered the Jesuitic order, and was a pro- 
fessor of canonical law at Dillingen; became in 171G 
professor of jurisprudence at Ingoldstadt, and in 1731 


he obtained a professorship of jurisprudence at Munich, 
lie died in 1736. We have of him, Iter polemicum ad 
Ecclesice. catholicce veritatem (Augsb. 1708, 8vo): — Ex- 
amen polemicum super A ug us tana confessione (ibid. 1708, 
8vo): — Papatus numquam errans in proponendis jidei 
articulis (ibid. 1709, 8vo) : — Lutheranismus constantor 
errans in Jidei articulis (ibid. 1709, 8vo) : — Thtologia 
polemica (ibid. 1719, 4 to, and often) : — Summa jurispru- 
dent ue sacra: (ibid. 1723, 5 vols. 8vo) : — Jus canonicum 
practice explicatum (ibid. 1728, 4to; 1735, 1710, fol.). — 
lloefer, A ’our. Biog. Generate, xl, 77. 

Fichon, Jean, a French Jesuit, noted as a revival- 
ist., was horn at Lyons in 1G83. lie early became a 
preacher, but after entering the Society of Jesus in 
1G97, and obtaining orders, preached in missions at 
Phcims, Langrcs, and Metz. Stanislas, duke of Lorraine 
and Par, gave him the direction of the missions which 
he founded in this country with truly royal liberality. 
To refute some Janscnists, who dissuaded the people 
from frequent communion by asserting that man must 
be perfect before approaching the holy table, he pub- 
lished Esprit de Jesus Christ et de V Eglise sur la Com- 
munion Jrequenie (1745, 12mo). 11 is book caused a 

great stir. It was attacked by the authors of the Nou- 
relles Ecclesiastiques, condemned by an ordinance of 
51. de Cavhis, bishop of Auxerre (Sept. 27, 1747), and 
soon afterwards hv other prelates, zealous partisans of 
I the “Unigenitus bull.” Jesuits and Janscnists being 
united against his book, Pichon retracted his obnoxious 
opinions in a letter to 51. de Beaumont, archbishop of 
Paris, Jan. 24, 1748. He then went to preach at Col- 
mar; but as it soon appeared that he was cndcavor- 
ing secretly to instigate a number of German prelates 
against the proscription of his work in France, he was 
banished to 5Iaariac (1718), and soon after compelled 
to leave France. Having found an asylum in the house 
of the bishop of Lyons (Valais), he became grand-vicar 
and general visitor of his bishopric, lie died at L} - ons 
5Iay 3, 1751. — lloefer, A 'our. Biog. Generate, xl, 78. 

Pichon, Thomas- Jean, a French litterateur, was 
born in 1731 at Le 51ans. Having been ordained a 
priest, he attached himself to 51. d’Avrincourt, bishop 
or Perpignan, by whose protection he became canon and 
chorister of the Saintc-Chapclle of Le 5Ians. lie was 
historiographer of the king’s brother, whose estate was 
in that part of France. At the time of t lie Involution 
the constitutional bishopric of Sartlic was offered to Pi- 
chon; but he would accept only the situation of admin- 
istrator of the hospital of Le 5Ians. lie died at that 
place Nov. 18, 1812. His principal writings are, La 
liaison triomphanie des Noureautes (Paris, 175G, l2mo): 
it is an essay upon manners and incredulity: — Traite 
historique et critique de la Nature de Dieu (ibid. 1758, 
12mo) : — Cartel aux Philosophes a quatre Pattes (Brus- 
sels, 17G3, 8vo), in which he exposes materialism: — 
Mi- moire sur les .1 bus du Celibat dans I'Ordre politique 
(Amsterdam, 17G3, 8vo) ; this memoir, quite singular 
and inaccurate, excited some complaints against the 
author: — La Phgsiqne de FHistoire (La Have, 17G5, 
12mo); general considerations upon the temperament 
and character of people:— /.es Droits respect [fs de FEtat 
et de FEglise ruppeles a feurs Principes (Paris, 17GG, 
12mo) : — Me tuo ires sur les Abusdans les Manages (Am- 
sterdam, 17GG, 12mo): — Des Eludes ihiologiqnes (Avig- 
non, 17G7, 12mo); researches upon the abuses which op- 
posed the progress of theology in the public, schools: — 
Les Arguments de la liaison en Fuveur de la Jleligiun it 
du Sacenloce (Paris, 177G, 12mo) ; an examination of the 
treatise De F llomme of Ilelvetins. Abbe Pichon also 
published the Principes de la Jleligion et de la Morale 
of Saurin (Amsterdam, 17G8, 2 vols. P2mo), the same 
work as tlir Esprit de Saurin of J. F. Durand: — La 
France agricole et marehande of Goycn (Paris, 17G8, 
8vo): — and Le Sucre it le Couroniument de Louis AT/ 
of Gobct (Paris, 1775, 8vo and Ito), to which was added 
a Journal historique of this ceremony. .See Dcsportes, 


PICK 


185 


PICKERING 


Bibliogr. du Maine ; Quorate], France Litter, s. v — Hoe- 
fer, Noiie. Biog. Generate, xl, 79. 

Pick, a name common to several Hebrew literati, of 
whom we mention the following: 

1. Aarox. — When and where he was horn, and when 
he became a Christian, we do not know. From his 
publications we see, what he states himself, that he was 
formerly professor of Hebrew and Chaldee at the Uni- 
versity of Prague. He afterwards resided at London, 
where he published A Literal Translation from the He- 
brew of the Twelve Minor Prophets, with Notes and Crit- 
ical Remarks (Loml. 1833; 2d ed., without notes, ibid. 
1835; 3d cd. 1838) : — A Treatise on the Hebrew Accents 
(ibid. 1837) : — The Bible Student's Concordance, bg which 
the English Reader marj be enabled readily to ascertain 
the Literal Meaning of any Word in the Sacred Ong- 
inal (ibid. 1840, 1850, 4to) ; a work of little account to 
scholars : — The Gathering of Israel (ibid. 1845). When 
Pick died we do not know. See Steinschneidcr, Biblio- 
graphisches Ilandbuch (Berl. 1859), p. Ill; Allibonc, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

2. Israel, the founder of the Amenian Congrega- 

tion, was born at Scuftenberg, Bohemia, about the year 
1825. After attaining maturity, he obtained his liveli- 
hood by writing for periodicals at Vienna till the year 
1852, when be received an appointment to act as rabbi 
for the Jewish synagogue in Bucharest, the chief city 
of the present Eoumania. In the latter part of 1853, 
having been impressed in favor of the Christian relig- 
ion, he boldly confessed his faith in Christ crucified; 
was baptized at Breslau, Silesia, Jan. 1, 1854, on which 
occasion Pick delivered an address to the Jews assem- 
bled at the Hofkirche. Viewing the promises given to 
the Jewish people in the Old Testament from a He- 
braic standpoint, Pick intended to constitute in the 
Holy Land a congregation of the people of God, consist- 
ing of Jewish Christians. The whole Mosaic law, in- 
cluding the Jewish Sabbath and circumcision, alongside 
of baptism and the Lord's Supper, he intended to make 
the basis of ecclesiastical and civil organization. Here 
and there be was successful in winning some believers, 
whom he called the Amenian Congregation, because in 
Christ (the j , 2X Isa. lxv, 1G) all promises of the 

Old Covenant are yea and amen. The nucleus of this 
congregation was in Miinclien-Stadbach. In the year 
1857 Pick went to Palestine, in order to reconnoitre the 
field for a settlement of his adherents, where, however, he 
disappeared without leaving any traces. He wrote, Israel 
hat eine Idee zu tragen: ein Wort an mein Volk (Breslau, 
1854; Engl, translation, “A Word to my People,” Edin- 
burgh, 1854) : — her Gott der Synagoge und der Gott der 
Judenchristen (ibid.) : — Briefe an meine Stammesgenossen 
(Hamburg, 1 854) : — Der Stern aits Jacob (ibid. 1 855-5G) : 
— Wider Stahl und Bunsen (Barmen, 185G). See Kurtz, 
Lehrbnch der Kirchengeschichte (7th cd. Mitau, 1874), ii, 
445; Niedncr, Lehrbuch der christlichen Kirchengeschichte 
(Berlin, 18GG),p. 950; Jewish Intelligencer (Lond. 1854), 
p. 302 sq. ; Pick, In Saat avf Iloffnung (Leips.), 1857 ; 
Zuchhold, Bibliotheca Theologica, ii, 995. (B. P.) 

Pickard, Edward, an English dissenting minis- 
ter, inclined to Arianism, was born at Alcestcr, War- 
wickshire, in 1714. After studying theology, he be- 
came minister at Bermondsey in 1740, and at Carter 
Lane, London, in 1746. lie died in 1778. He is the 
author of National Praise to God for the glorious Revo- 
lution, the Protestant Succession, and the signal Suc- 
cesses and Blessings with which Providence has crowned 
vs, a sermon on Psa. cxlvii, 1 (Lond. 17G1, 8vo) : — The 
Religious Government of a Family, particularly the Ob- 
ligation and Importance of Family Worship , in three dis- 
courses (ibid. 17G2, 8vo). — Darling, Cyclop. Bibliogr. s. v. 

Pickard, John H., a Presbyterian minister, was 
bora in Orange County, X. C., in March, 1783. He re- 
ceived a limited education, and was not a graduate of 
any college. In 181G he was licensed, and installed over 


Stony Creek and Bethesda churches, in X. C., where he 
continued to labor devotedly for upwards of thirty years. 
During the later years of his life he preached occasion- 
ally in the destitute portions of his neighborhood. He 
died Sept. 11, 1858. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 
1800, p. 77. 

Pickering, George, one of the great pioneers of 
Xew England Methodism, was born in Talbot County, 
Md., in 17G9, converted in St. George’s Church, Phil- 
adelphia, when eighteen years old, and almost immedi- 
ately began his public labors. In 1790 he was received 
on probation by the Conference, and for fifty-six years 
continued to receive its appointments, and lived to be 
the oldest active preacher in the itinerancy. He died 
in 184G, retaining his mental faculties to the last hour; 
and as he laid aside his armor to give up the ghost, 
could use such language as “All my affairs for time and 
eternity are settled, glory be to God.” George Picker- 
ing was a rare man in all respects. Any just delinea- 
tion of him must comprehend the whole man, for it was 
not his distinction to be marked by a few extraordinary 
traits, but by general excellence. In person he was 
tall, slight, and perfectly erect. His countenance was 
expressive of energy, shrewdness, self-command, and 
benignity; and in advanced life his silvered locks, 
combed carefully behind his ears, gave him a striking 
appearance. The exactitude of his mind extended to 
all his physical habits. In pastoral labors, exercise, 
diet, sleep, and dress, he followed a fixed course, which 
scarcely admitted of deviation. Almost unerring pru- 
dence marked his life. If not sagacious at seizing new 
opportunities, he was almost infallibly perfect in that 
negative prudence which secures safety and confidence. 
Xo man who knew him would have apprehended sur- 
prise or defeat in any measure undertaken by him after 
Ins usual deliberation. His character was full of energy, 
but it was the energy of the highest order of minds, 
never varying, never impulsive. He continued to the 
last to wear the plain, Quakerlike dress of the first Meth- 
odist ministry. His voice was clear and powerful, and 
his step firm to the end. His intellectual traits were 
not of the highest, but of the most useful order. Method 
was perhaps his strongest mental habit, and it compre- 
hended nearly every detail of his daily life. His ser- 
mons were thoroughly “skeletonized.” He pretended 
to no subtlety, and was seldom if ever known to preach 
a metaphysical discourse. The literal import of the 
Scriptures, and its obvious applications to experimental 
and practical religion, formed the substance of his ser- 
mons. Perspicuity of style resulted from this perspi- 
cacity of thought. The most unlettered listener could 
have no difficulty in comprehending his meaning, and 
the children of his audience generally shared the inter- 
est of his adult hearers. See Stevens, Hist, of the Meth. 
Episc. Church; N. Y. Methodist, vol. vii, Xo. G; Sher- 
man, New England Sketches, p. 399 ; Sprague, A nnals of 
the A mer. Pulpit, vii, 196-200. (J. II. W.) 

Pickering, Robert, a noted Wesleyan preacher, 
was born at Sancton, Yorkshire, in 178G; was early con- 
verted to God, and called to the duties of the Christian 
ministry. Having for some time labored as a local 
preacher in the Hull Circuit, he offered to accompany 
Dr. Coke as a missionary to the East. But as Coke 
had obtained his complement of young men, Pickering 
regarded this as a providential indication that he was 
not intended for the mission field. Soon after he passed 
the requireil examinations, and at the Conference of 
1811 was placed on the president’s list of reserves. 
In Xovember of the same year he was sent as tempo- 
rary supply to Partington Circuit, and in the following 
January to Spilsby. At the Conference of 1812 he was 
appointed to Horncastle; and in 1813 to the Spilsby 
mission. His next appointment was to Louth, where 
he spent two years. Subsequently he travelled at Tod- 
morden, Barnsley, and Doncaster, and in 1822 was ap- 
pointed to Colne, where he remained three years. Here 


PICKETT 


18 G 


PICQUET 

his exertions, both of mind and body, in the erection of I cially of the abbe Boulogne, who intrusted him with 


a new chapel and two preachers' houses, seriously im- 
paired his health. In 1*27 he was stationed at Ketter- 
ing; next at Norwich ; in 1831 at West Bromwich, and 
there he labored faithfully, although rapidly declining 
in health. While at Conference in London in 1*34 he 
was taken very ill, and lie died August 18. Pickering 
was a man of genuine piety. As a preacher lie was a j 
workman who needed not to be ashamed. lie was well 
and extensively read in theology and general literature. 
As a man he was fearless and honorable. What he con- 
sidered to be his duty he unhesitatingly discharged. 1 
See Wesleyan Meth. Slag. 183G, p. 8*9-895; 1835, p. 
719. (.1. II. W.) 

Pickett, John lb, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born April 2, 1*14, in Fair- 
field District. S. < of godly parentage ; was converted ! 
in 1831; called of (loci to the ministry, he began to 
preach October, 1*34, and in the following spring en- 
tered South Carolina Conference. He labored faith- 
fully and acceptably for the Church until 1SG2, when 
an attack of paralysis obliged him to take a superan- , 
liuate’s relation. lie died March 15, 1870. lie was 
quick in perception, patient in study, strong in will, 
possessed great powers of analysis, and a lively imagi- 
nation. In temper he was genial, hearty, self-possessed, 
and confident. lie had the simplicity of a child, both 
in and out of the pulpit. His maimer in the pulpit was 
self-possessed and deliberate; but as he proceeded in his 
sermon, he generally warmed with his subject, and his 
voice assumed a depth and fulness of volume which was 
wonderful. See Annual Minutes of the Conferences of 
the Meth. Episc. Church , South, p. 420,421. 

• PiCO. Sec MlttANDULA. 

Picot, Frangois Edouard, a French painter, was 
born at Baris in 1780. lie was a disciple of Vincent, 
and in INI l obtained the second grand prize for paint- 
ings in France from the Academy. After studying for 
some time at Borne, he was intrusted with the execution 
of a picture representing The Death of Sapphire; (18]9) 
for the church of St. Scverin. In the same year he ex- 
hibited the tableau of Amor and Psyche, the figures of 
which, expressive of graceful naivete, obtained great 
favor, and which was bought by the duke of Orleans. 
M. Picot was rewarded at that exhibition by a first- 
class medal. After this auspicious beginning he exe- 
cuted freely and successfully. Among his works are 
Raphael and the Fornarina; The Deliverance of St. 
Deter; 7'he Annunciation; two ceilings in the Louvre, in 
the Musde des Antiques. Picot had a share in the work 
of restoration of the paintings of the Fontainebleau pal- 
ace. He executed The Crowning of the Virgin (Notre 
Dame de Lorctto) ; the paintings of the ship and choir 
of St. Vincent do Paul, with M. Flandrin ; and some pict- 
ures in the church of St. Clotildc. M. Picot was re- 
ceived a member of the Academic des Beaux Arts in 
]83(i. in the place of Charles Vernct. He was created 
an ollieor of the Legion of Honor in 1832. He died 
in 18711. — lloefer, A’ our. /Hog. Generate , xl, 8G. 

Picot, Michel Joseph Pierre, a French w riter 
of some note, was horn March 21, 1770, at Neuville- 
aux-Boix, near < trleans. lie was early destined for the 
Church, and was received at the age of thirteen in the 
house of the bishop of Bayeux. He studied theology at 
the seminary of Orleans. While professor of human- 
ities at Menng-sur-Loire, he refused the oath required 
hv the civil constitution of the clergy. A warrant be- 
ing issued against him for his share in the evasion of a 
royalist, he absconded to Paris; then, submitting to the 
duties of the requisition which he had shirked till then, 
lie offered to enter the marine (1793). and, after two 
campaigns, was employed in the equipment office at 
Brest. In 1797 he was released, and devoted himself 
to the study of the history of the Church during the 
18th century. The Me moires which he published in 
18'lG obtained the eulogies of religious societies, espe- 


thc redaction of the Memorial Catholique, a monthly 
paper founded by him. In the month of April, 1814, 
he was called upon to manage II Amt de la Ildigion et 
du Rot, which soon became the official journal of the 
clergy. lie died Nov. 15, 1*41, at Paris, lie left. 
Memoire pour serrir a F Ilistuire eedesiastique pendant le 
dix-huitieme Siecle (Paris, 180G, 1815-18JG, 4 vols. 8vo; 
3d edit. G vols. 8vo) ; this valuable publication is less 
polemical than the Memoins of father d'Avrigny, of 
which it is a kind of continuation ; but the historical 
part of it is weak, and the bibliography is incomplete : — 
Essai historique sur V Influence de la Religion en France 
pendant le dix-sepiieme Siecle (ibid. 1824, 2 vols. 8vo). 
lie is the chief contributor to the collection of the Me- 
langes (9 vols. 8vo), commenced by the abbe Boulogne ; 
and he edited in 1827 the works of that prelate, adding 
to the same a Tableau religieux de la France sous le 
Direetoire , and a Precis historique sur VEglisc constitu- 
tionnelle. He wrote a number of articles in the Journal 
des Cures, in the Supplement au Diet, historique of Feller, 
the Jiiographie C nicer selle of Michaud, etc. He be- 
queathed part of his rich library to the seminary of 
Saint-Sulpice.- Ilocfer, Xouv. Ding. Generate , xl, 85. 

Picot, Pierre, a Swiss preacher, was horn in 174G 
at Geneva, lie descended from Nicolas Picot, who left 
Novon in company with Calvin, his friend, to settle in 
(ienevn. His studies being finished, lie visited France, 
Holland, and England,- and connected liimself with 
Franklin, who vainly urged him to accompany Cook in 
bis second voyage around the world. After having 
served for ten years the Church of Sattignv, lie was 
attached to that of Geneva (1783), and there received 
in 1787 the title of honorary profe ssor of theology, lie 
died in Geneva March 28, 1822. We have of his works, 
De multiplici moutium utilitaie (Geneva, 1790, 8vo) : — 
the Eloge historique de J.A. Mallet- Eavre, in the Guide 
astronomiqne of Lalande (1771): — and some Sermons 
(ibid. 1823, 8vo), remarkable for their harmony of style. 
See Babbe, etc., Blog. unic. et port at. des Contemp. ; Haag 
Freres, La Erunce Drotestaute , s. v. — lloefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate, xl, 83. 

Picot, Victor Maria, a French engraver, was horn 
at Abbeville in 1741. About the year 1770 he went to 
London, where lie engaged in business, lie died in 
1805. Nagler gives a list of tliirtv-six prints by him, 
among which is 7'he Eour Evangelists, after Buhens. 
Sec Spooner, Biog. J/ist. of the Eine A rts, ii, G93. 

Picquet, Frangois (1), a French prelate, was 
born at Lyons April 12, 1G2G. The son of a hanker, he 
was destined to a commercial career, and travelled in 
France, Italy, and England. As he had thus become 
associated with several influential Parisians, lie was in 
1G52 appointed to the consulship of France at Aleppo; 
and, although he was only twenty-six years of age, lie 
was so successful in the discharge of his duties that the 
Dutch republic intrusted him with her own representa- 
tion in the same city. Although a layman, he displayed 
extraordinary zeal for the promotion of the missionary 
work, lie received the tonsure in ltitiO at the hands 
of Andre, archbishop of Syria, who was indebted to him 
for his elevation. Two years afterwards he resigned 
the consulship and wont to Borne, to give to pope Alex- 
ander Yll an account of the state of religion in Syria. 
When he returned to France he received orders, was 
appointed prior of Grimand (Provence), and (1GG3) 
apostolic pmtonotarins. lie was proposed in 1G74 for 
the apostolic vicaratc of Babylon, and became in 1G75 
bishop in pariibtis of Cicsaropolis. in Macedonia. In 
1G79 he embarked for Aleppo with the chevalier d’Ar- 
vieux, the new French consul, endeavored with unre- 
lenting zeal to revive the faith of the Catholics, am) 
started in May, 1G8|. as ambassador of t lie courts of 
France and Borne in Persia, with a view of working for 
the restoration and expansion of the Catholic faith. 

I lie arrived at Ispahan July 12, 1G82, and soon after- 


PICQUET 187 PICTURES 


wards witnessed the celebrations in that city in honor 
of the passage of the khan of the Tartars, Usbeck, who 
was on his way to Mecca. He was granted an audi- 
ence, harangued the khan in Italian, and obtained a 
promise of protection for the Roman Catholics of his 
lands. Towards the close of 1683 he took the same 
prince rich presents from the king of France, and trans- 
mitted to his sovereign the answer and presents of the 
Persian sovereign. That same year he was appointed 
bishop of Babylon, and he had arrived at Hamadan, 
when his impaired health compelled him to stop several 
months in that city, where he died, Aug. 26, 1685, after 
writing to the Congregation of the Propaganda for a 
coadjutor. A special honor was conferred on him by 
his burial in the church of the Armenians. Picquet 
furnished to Nicole several important documents for his 
work on the perpetuity of the faith of the Church in re- 
gard to the Eucharist. — Hoefer, A out'. Biog. Gen. xl, 87. 

Picquet, Francois (2), a French missionary, was 
born at Bourg (in Bresse) Dec. 6, 1708. lie took holy 
orders, and for a time preached in the diocese of Lyons, 
but finally entered the Congregation of St. Snlpice, and in 
1735 was by it sent to Montreal, to share in the work of 
the North American missions. Towards 1740 he settled 
north of that city, near the lake of Two Mountains, 
where he constructed a fort with the money sent for 
that purpose by Louis XV, and by requisitions. With 
the aid of this fort he succeeded in keeping sedentary 
two roaming tribes, the Algonquins and Nipissings, who 
took to agriculture. lie induced them, as well as the 
Trokas and Hurons, to submit to France; and during 
the war of 1742 to 1748, Picquet’s measures for the safe- 
ty of his colony were so effective that it remained un- 
touched by English invasion. Peace being restored, he 
founded in 1743 a new mission near Lake Ontario, and 
called it La Presentation ; the point occupied by it is 
the same where the English afterwards founded Kings- 
ton. In 1753 he arrived at Paris, and repuited to the 
minister of the marine as to the flourishing state of the 
colony, which counted already no less than five hundred 
families. In the war that broke out soon afterwards, he 
put himself at the head of the Indians which be had 
trained, destroyed all English forts south of Ontario, 
and contributed to the defeat of general Braddock. 
After the defeat of Quebec (1759), Picquet determined 
to return to France by way of Louisiana. He started 
with twenty-five Frenchmen and two small troops of 
savages, which were successively relieved by others in 
the tribes he met; traversed Upper Canada, reached 
Michilimakiuac, crossed Michigan, and by the Illinois 
and the Mississippi rivers went to New Orleans, where 
he spent twenty-two months. The English had offer- 
ed a reward for his head. Picquet had never received 
any reward, except a bounty of a thousand dollars and 
some books in 1751. The books he had to sell to enable 
him to return to France, and he was compelled to live 
on his scanty inheritance until the assembly of the 
clergy of France in 1765 presented him a bounty of 
twelve hundred pounds, which they gave him a second 
time in 1770. In 1777 he undertook a journey to 
Ilome, where Pius VI, to honor his merits, paid all his 
expenses, and made him a present of live thousand 
pounds. Picquet came home to die at Verjou, near 
Bourg, the house of his sister, a poor peasant-woman, 
July 15, 1781. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 87. 

Pictet, Benedict, a learned Swiss divine, was born 
at Geneva in 1655. He studied there under Francis 
Turretin, whom he succeeded as professor of theology in 
1687, and obtained great celebrity. In 1690 he was 
made rector of the academy; in 1700 pastor of the Ital- 
ian Church. He died in 1724. Pictet joined to vast 
erudition a vivid and natural eloquence. A list of his 
numerous works is given by Niceron. Among these the 
following are the most important: La Theologie Chre- 
iienne, et la Science da Saint (new ed. Gen. 1721, 3 vols. 
4to) ; originally Theologia Christiana (ibid. 1616, 2 vols. I 


12mo) ; Christian Theology (translated from the Latin by 
the Bev. Frederick Kevroux, B.A., Loiul. 1847, sm.8vo): 
— La Morale Chretienne, ou l' Art de Lien vicre (nouv. 
ed. augmentee, Gen. 1709, 8 vols. 12mo) ; the first volume 
of this work appeared anonymously. It was reprinted 
at Lyons, in France, with a dedication to the bishop of 
Belley : — Dissertation sur les Temples, leur Dedicace, et 
plusieurs Choses qu'on y voit , arec un Sermon (ibid. 1716, 
12mo) : — Unit Sermons sur VExamen des Iteligions (1 
Thess. v, 21) (ibid. 1716, 8vo): — Dix Sermons sur dicers 
Sujets (ibid. 1718, 8vo) : — L'llistoire du douzieme Siecle 
I (Amst. 1732, 4to) : — Quatorze Sermons sur divers Sujets 
(Gen. 1721, 8vo). See Biblioth. Germanique, s. v. ; Ni- 
ceron, Memoires, vol. i ; Senebler, Hist, litter, de Geneve , 
ii, 249 sq. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bill. s. v.; Mosheim, Eccles. 
Hist. vol. iii ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. viii, 92. (J. 11. W.) 

Picture, the rendering in the A. V. in three pas- 
sages of two Hebrew words which are from the same 
root (PI -TIL to look at ). 

1. Maskith, rPS’JB, an image ; used alone, either lit- 
erally (plur. “pictures,” Prov. xxv, II) or in the sense 
of imagination (“conceit,” Prov. xviii, 11 ; plur. “ wflsh,” 
Psa. Ixxiii, 7); with *"N:, a stone (“image of stone,” 
Lev% xxvi, l ; plur. “ pictures,” Numb, xxxiii, 52) ; with 
-i“in, an apartment (plur. “ chambers of imagery” [q. v.], 
Ezek. viii, 12), “it denotes idolatrous representations, 
either independent images, or more usually stones 1 por- 
trayed,’ i. e. sculptured in low relief, or engraved and 
colored (Ezek. xxiii, 14; Layard, Kin. and Jktb. ii, 306, 
308). Movable pictures, in the modern sense, were 
doubtless unknown to the Jews; but colored sculptures 
and drawings on walls or on wood, as mummy-cases, 
must have been familiar to them in Egypt (see Wilkin- 
son, A nc. Egijpticins, ii, 277). In later times we read 
of portraits (titcbvac), perhaps busts or intagli, sent by 
Alexandra to Antony (Josephus, Ant. xv, 2, 6). The 
‘ pictures of silver’ of Prov. xxv, 11, were probably wall- 
surfaces or cornices with carvings, and the ‘apples of 
gold’ representations of fruit or foliage, like Solomon’s 
flowers and pomegranates (1 Kings vi, vii). The walls 
of Babylon were ornamented with pictures on enam- 
elled brick” (Smith). 

2. Sekiyuh , rVlb, th ejlag of a ship, as seen from afar 
(plur. “ picture,” Isa. ii, 16). The Phoenician and Egyp- 
tian vessels had their flags and sails of purple and other 
splendid colors (see Ezek. xxvii, 7 ; comp. Diod. Sic. i, 
51; Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, iii, 211). See Standard. 

Pictures, Worship of, in Churches. The use 
of paintings and images in churches was introduced as 
early as t lie commencement of the 4th century, but 
was speedily condemned by a council held at Illiberis, 
in Spain, A.D. 305. Individual writers also during this 
century bore their testimony against the practice in 
question. Eusebius of Ctesarea, at the beginning of the 
century, and Epiphanius of Salamis, towards the close 
of it, denounced the practice as heathenish and uuscript- 
ural (see Milner’s Hist, of the Church, vol. iv, eh. xiii, 
p. 423). Nevertheless the practice of hanging up pict- 
ures of saints and martyrs, as well as symbolical repre- 
sentations of Scripture histories, prevailed in the 5th 
century. No images of God or representations of the 
Holy Trinity were tolerated in ehurches till after the sec- 
ond Nicene council. Pictures of Scripture scenes were 
hung on the walls of churches at first to aid those who 
eould not read. The idolatrous devotion with which the 
Papists bow down before the images and paintings of 
the dead is a consequence of this practice. See Im- 
age-worship. Besides, the pictures are used by the 
Romanists for working upon the superstitious belief of 
the masses. Thus Seymour tells us the following in 
bis Pilgrimage: “There is scarcely an incident in the 
life of our Lord that has not its rival incident or parallel 
in the legendary life of Mary. For example, a picture 
represents an angel announcing to Mary the miraculous 
conception of the Messiah ; it is rivalled by another rep- 


tie 


188 


PIECE 


resenting an angel announcing to Anna, the legendary 
mother of Mary, the miraculous and immaculate con- 
ception of Mary in the womb. A picture represents the 
birth of our Lord ; it is paralleled by another represent- , 
ing the nativity or birth of the Virgin Mary. If there 
is one representing our Lord sitting on the throne and 
bearing the crown as King of kings, there is a rival pict- 
ure representing Mary sitting on the same throne, bear- 
ing the sceptre, and wearing the crown as Queen of 
heaven. There are two classes of miraculous pictures. 
One class comprehends those which are said to have 
had a miraculous origin ; that is, to have been painted 
in part or in whole by no human hands, but by an angel, 
or some mysterious visitant from the world of spirits. 
The second class of miraculous pictures is far more nu- 
merous, and comprehends all those which have per- 
formed miracles. At the church of .St. < iiovanni e Paolo, 
near Pome, is a small picture of the Virgin Mary, which 
is said to have shed tears on the French invasion of It- 
aly. At Arezzo we were shown a picture in the cathedral 
church, which wept many tears at the language of some 
drunkards. It was a Madonna, and the bishop made it 
the means of collecting sufficient funds to build a new' 
chapel to commemorate it. In the church of St. I’ictro 
de Montorio is a singularly ugl}' representation of Mary 
and our Lord. Indeed, it is positively hideous; but an 
inscription on a marble slab announces that ‘ this sacred 
likeness of the mother of God, holding her son and a 
book, is illustrious for miracles more and more every 
day.’ In St. Peter’s, however, is a very important one, 
not only for the miracle, but for its authentication. It 
is in the. subterranean chapel, usually called the Grotto. 
It is a picture of the Virgin with a mark under the left 
eye, and the following is the. inscription : ‘This picture 
of the Most Holy Virgin Mary, which stood between 
the pillars of the porch of the ancient Basilica, having 
been struck by an impious hand, poured forth blood 
(sanguinem fudit) on the stone, which is now protected 
by a grating.’ On one side is a large stone, on the oth- 
er are two small stones. All three arc covered with a 
strong iron grating, to preserve them, as on them the 
blood of this miraculous picture is said to have fallen,” 
See Piddle, Christian Antiquities ; Coleman, Christian 
A ntiquities . 

Pie is a table or rule which w*as used in the old Bo- 
man offices previous to the Information, showing in a 
technical way how to find out the service which is to be 
read upon each day, and corresponds to what the Greeks 
called wivaK, or the index (literally a plan!:, by me- 
tonymy a painted table or picture); and because in- 
dexes or tables of books were formed into square figures 
resembling pictures or painters’ tables hung up in a 
frame, these likewise were called irivaKtc, or, being 
marked only with the first letters of the word, 7n’s, or 
pies. Pie is the familiar English name for the Romish 
pica (ordinal, or service-book), which perhaps came 1'rom 
the ignorance of the friars, who have thrust in many 
barbarous words into the liturgies. Some say that the 
word pye is derived from littera picata , a great black let- 
ter in the beginning of some now order in the prayer, 
and among printers that term is still used, the pica type. 
Sec Procter, Book of Common Prayer; Eadic, Evcles. 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Piece of Gold. The A.V., in rendering the ellip- 
tical expression ‘‘six thousand of gold,” in a passage 
respecting Naaman, relating that lie “took with him 
ten talents of silver, and six thousand of gold, and ten 
changes of raiment” (2 Kings v, f>), supplies “pieces” 
as the word understood. The similar passage respect- 
ing silver, in which the word understood appears to be 
shekels, probably justifies the insertion of that definite 
word. Sec Piwk of Silver. The same expression, 
if a weight of gold be here meant, is also found in the 
following passage: “And king Solomon made two hun- 
dred targets of) beaten gold : six hundred of gold went 
to one target” (1 Kings x, 1G). Here the A. V. supplies 


the word “shekels,” and there seems no doubt that it 
is right, considering the number mentioned, and that a 
common weight must be intended. That a weight of 
gold is meant in Naaman’s case may be inferred, be- 
cause it is extremely unlikely that coined money was 
already invented at the time referred to, or indeed 
that it was known in Palestine before the Persian pe- 
riod. See Dark*; Money. Pings or ingots of gold 
may have been in use, but we are scarcely warranted 
in supposing that any of them bore the name of shek- 
els, since the practice was to weigh money. The ren- 
dering “pieces of gold” is therefore very doubtful; and 
“ shekels of gold,” as designating the value of the whole 
quantity, not individual pieces, is preferable. — Smith. 
See Gold. 

Piece of Money. SccKksitaii; Stater. 

Piece of Silver. The passages in the <). T. and 
those in the X. T. in which the A. V. uses this term 
must be separately considered. Sec Money. 

I. In the O.T. the word “pieces” is used in the A. V. 
for a word understood in the Hebrew, if we except one 
or two cases to be afterwards noticed. The phrase is 
always “a thousand” or the like “of silver” (Gen. xx, 
1G; xxxvii, 2X; xlv, 22; Judg. ix, 4; xvi, 5; 2 Kings 
vi, 25; Hos. iii, 2; Zcch. xi, 12, 13). In similar pas- 
sages the word “shekels” occurs in the Hebrew, and it 
must be observed that these arc cither in the law, or 
relate to purchases, some of an important legal charac- 
ter, as that of the cave and field of Machpelah, that of 
the threshing-floor and oxen of Araunah, or to taxes, 
and the like (Gen. xxiii, 15, 1G; Exod. xxi, 32; Lev. 
xxvii, 3, G, 1G; Josh, vii, 21 ; 2 Sam. xxiv, 21 ; 1 C’hron. 
xxi, 25, whore, however, shekels of gold are spoken of ; 
2 Kings xv, 20; Xch. v, 15; Jer. xxxii, 9 ). There are 
other passages in which the A. V. supplies the word 
“shekels” instead of “pieces” (Dcut. xxii, 19. 29; Judg. 
xvii, 2, 3, 4, 10; 2 Sam. xviii, 11, 12), and of these the 
first two require this to be done. It becomes then a 
question whether there is any ground for the adoption 
of the word “pieces,” which is vague if actual coins be 
meant, and inaccurate if weights. The shekel, be it 
remembered, was the common weight for money, and 
therefore most likely to be understood in an elliptical 
phrase. When we find good reason for concluding that 
in two passages (Dent, xxii, 19, 20) this is the word 
understood, it seems incredible that any other should be 
in the other places. See Shekel. 

One of the exceptional cases in which a word cor- 
responding to “pieces” is found in the Hebrew is in 
the Psalms, where presents of submission arc prophesied 
to be made of “pieces of silver.” (Ixviii, 30, 

lleb. 31). The word j*^, which occurs nowhere else, 
if it preserve its radical meaning, from ”3^, must 
signify a piece broken off, or a fragment: there is no 
reason to suppose that a coin is meant. — Smith. An- 
other exceptional passage is 1 Sam. ii, 2G, where the 
lleb. word rendered “piece [of silver]” is n“*ASX. ago- 
rdh, which seems to signify a small piece of money, as 
wages, from the idea of collecting (root “JX to gather). 
See Silver. For the “pieces of silver" in Josh, xxiv, 

I 32, see Kesitaii. 

II. In the N.T. two words arc rendered by the phrase 
“ piece of silver,” drachma, fyay/ii), and dpyvptvr. (I.) 
The first (Luke xv, S, 9) should be represented by 

I drachm. It was a Greek silver coin, equivalent, at 
| the time of Luke, to the Human denarius, which is prob- 
I ably intended bv the evangelist, as it had then wholly 
or almost superseded the former. See Drachma. (2.) 
The second word is very properly thus rendered. It 
! occurs in the account of the betrayal of our Lord for 
j “thirty pieces of silver" (Matt, xxvi, 15; xxvii. 3, 5, G, 

' 9). It is difficult to ascertain what coins are litre in- 
I tended. If the most common silver pieces be. meant,' 
they would be denarii. The parallel passage in Zcch- 
i ariah (xi, 12, 13) must, however, be taken into consul- 


PIERCE 


189 


PIERCE 


eration, where, if our view be correct, shekels must be 
understood. It may, however, be suggested that the 
two thirties may correspond, not as of exactly the same 
coin, but of the chief current coin. Some light may be 
thrown on our difficulty by the number of pieces. It 
can scarcely be a coincidence that thirty shekels of sil- 
ver was the price of blood in the case of a slave acci- 
dentally killed (Exod. xxi, 32). It may be objected 
that there is no reason to suppose that shekels were 
current in our Lord’s time; but it must be replied that 
the tetradrachms of depreciated Attic weight of the 
Greek cities of Syria of that time were of the same 
weight as the shekels which we believe to be of Simon 
the Maccabee [see Money], so that Josephus speaks of 
the shekel as equal to four Attic drachmae (Ant. iii, 8, 
2). These tetradrachms were common at the time of 
our Lord, and the piece of money found by Peter in the 
tish must, from its name, have been of this kind. See 
Stater. It is therefore more probable that the thirty 
pieces of silver were tetradrachms than that they were 
denarii. There is no difficulty in the use of two terms, 
a name designating the denomination and “piece of 
silver,” whether the latter mean the tetradrachm or the 
denarius, as it is a vague appellation that implies a 
more distinctive name. In the received text of Mat- 
thew the prophecy as to the thirty pieces of silver is 
ascribed to Jeremiah, and not to Zechariah, and much 
controversy has thus been occasioned. The true expla- 
nation seems to be suggested by the absence of any 
prophet’s name in the Syriac version, and the likeli- 
hood that similarity of style would have caused a 
copyist inadvertently to insert the name of Jeremiah 
instead of that of Zechariah. — Smith. See Silver- 
ling. 

Pierce, Edward, an English painter who flour- 
ished in the reigns of Charles I and II, was eminent 
both in history and landscapes. He also drew archi- 
tecture, perspective, etc., and was much esteemed in his 
time. But there is little of his work now remaining, 
the far greater part being destroyed in the fire of Lon- 
don, 1(366. It chiefly consisted of altar-pieces, ceilings 
of churches, and the like; of these there is one yet re- 
maining, done by him, in Covent Garden Church, where 
are to be found many admirable parts of a good pencil. 
He worked some time for Vainly ck, and several good 
pieces by Pierce are to be seen at Belvoir Castle, in 
Leicestershire. He died in London about the close of 
the 17th century. 

Pierce, George Edmond, D.D., an American 
Congregational divine, noted especially as an educator, 
was born at Southbury, Conn., Sept. 9, 1794. He was 
educated at Yale College, class of 1816; then studied 
theology at Andover Theological Seminary, class of 
1821, teaching at the same time at the Fairfield Acad- 
emy. In July, 1822, he was ordained pastor of the Con- 
gregational Church at Harwinton, where he remained 
until called to the presidency of the Western Reserve 
College in 1834. He remained at the head of this 
high school until 1855, and gave to ft an excellent rep- 
utation. He died at Hudson, Ohio, May 27, 1871. 

Pierce, Gershom, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in the closing quarter of 
the last century. He was converted about 1800, and 
called of God to the work of the sacred ministry; joined 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, and entered in 1803 
the New lork Conference. His first appointment was 
at Plattsburgh. In 1804 he preached at Fletcher; 1805, 
Niagara; 1806, Osivegatcliie ; 1807, Dunham; 1808, 
Saratoga; 1809-10, Granville; 1811, Thurman; 1812, 
Grand Isle; 1813-14, Cambridge; 1815-16, Montgom- 
ery; 1817-18, Sharon; 1819, Albany; 1820, Coeymans; 
1821-22, Chatham; 1823-24, Granville ; 1825-26, Pitts- 
field; 1827, Burlington; 1828-29, Redding; 1830-31, 
Hempstead and Huntington. At the Conference of 
1832 he became superannuated, and continued in that 
relation to the period of his death. Mr. Tierce was a 


man of much more than ordinary ability. His intellect, 
in force and habit, is best described by the expression 
“long-headed.” He was a devout man, at times a most 
powerful preacher. His sermons, weighty with thought, 
fervid with feeling, and in power of the Holy Spirit, 
made a deep and abiding impression. He died in much 
peace at Milan, Ohio, March 23, 1865. See Smith, Sa- 
cred Memories, p. 28* sq. 

Pierce, Janies Edwin, an American divine of 
note, was born at West Townsend, Vt.. in 1839. He 
graduated at Middlebury College in 1861, and at Au- 
burn Theological Seminary in 1865. On Ids graduation 
he was elected to a professorship (of the Hebrew lan- 
guage and literature) in the last-named institution, 
which position he retained till his death (at Auburn, 
July 13, 1870). lie was a close student, a thorough 
and able teacher, and an impressive and popular preach- 
er. — Appleton’s Amer. Cyclop, x, 570. 

Pierce, John, I).I)., a noted American Congrega- 
tional minister, was born at Dorchester, Mass., July 14, 
1773. He was educated at Harvard University, class 
of 1793, and then became a tutor in his alma mater. 
Descended of very humble parentage, he had made his 
way to college by his own exertions, and maintained his 
position by the force of his own industry. Feeling per- 
suaded that his work w r as that of the Christian ministry, 
he took up the study of theology, and March 15, 1797, 
was ordained over the First Congregational Church, 
Brookline, Mass., of which he was sole pastor for hall a 
century. He died in this place Aug. 24, 1849, respect- 
ed by all who knew him, and greatly mourned by the 
ecclesiastic body to which he belonged. Dr. Pierce 
was member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences, and 
of the Massachusetts Historical Society'. For several 
years he w r as president of the Massachusetts Bible So- 
ciety. In all matters appertaining to family' and liter- 
ary statistics he was a prodigy'. He had 18 quarto 
vols. of 600 pages each, of his own MS., containing 
memoirs and memorabilia. He published Half-century 
Discourse at Brookline (Mar. 1847) : — Sketch of Brook- 
line, in “Mass. Hist. Collections,” 2d ser. vol. ii : — Ser- 
mon at Ordination of S. Clark (1817) : — Dudleian Lect. 
(1821); also occasional Sermons, etc. See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , viii,831 ; Allibone, Did. of 
Brit, and Amer. A uthors , s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Pierce, John J., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Vermont in 1791. lie secured his early education 
principally by his own exertions; graduated at Prince- 
ton College in 1820, and at the theological seminary in 
the same place in 1823. lie was licensed by the New 
Brunswick Presbytery', and began preaching at Ports- 
mouth, Va., where he remained until 1824, when he left 
for Clarksville, Tenn. In 1825 he w T as elected president 
of an academy in Elkton, Ky., which position he held 
until 1837. Soon after he occupied temporarily the 
place of one. of the professors in Centre College, Dan- 
ville, Ky r . ; then returned again to Elkton ; but subse- 
quently left, and spent two years in teaching in Illinois 
and Missouri. On his return he took charge of Ridge- 
wood Church, Ivy'., where he continued to labor until 
his death, March 18, 1861. Mr. Pierce was a pure- 
hearted, simple-minded man ; never attaining any very 
eminent success in the ministry, but ever contented and 
happv. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1862, p. 116. 
(J. US.) 

Pierce, Thomas, D.D., an English divine of note, 
flourished near the middle of the 17th century’. lie 
was educated at Magdalen College, Oxford, and after 
graduation was presented with a fellowship. In 1648 
he was ejected for nonconformity, but was restored un- 
der the Protectorate, and became prebend of Canterbury 
and Lincoln; in 1661 president of Magdalen College; 
in 1671 dean of Salisbury. He died in 1691. Dean 
Pierce was a man of more than ordinary talent and ac- 
quisition. In theology' he was decidedly' Arminian, 
and published a number of occasional sermons, theolog- 


PIERCE 


190 


PIERPONT 


ical treatises, and controversial tracts. Among these 
we mention, The Sinner Impleaded in his own Court , 
wherein are represented the (treat Discouragements from 
Sinning which the Sinner rereiveth front Sin itself (Loud. 
1656, vo) \—The Divine Philanthropic defended against 
the Declamatory Attempts of certain lute printed Tapers , 
entitled, A Curreptorg Correction. Di Vindication of 
some Motes concerning Cod's Decrees, especiallg of Repro- 
bation [against 15a rice] (Loud. 1657,4to) .1 Collection 
of Sermons upon Several Occasions (Oxf. 1671, 4to) : — 
.1 Correct Copg of some Motes concerning Cod's J herns, 
especiallg of I It prohat ion (Oxf. 1671, *1 to) : — Pacifica - 
torium Orthodoxa Theologite Corpusculum. Secundtv 
huic edilioni accesseruut, De perfectissimo Dei cultu ad 
normam divinam exigendo [Anon.] (Land. 16X5, sm. 
8vo). Dean Pierce also greatly assisted bishop Walton 
in the publication of the Polyglot Bible, lie was the 
decided antagonist of Baxter, and, according to Wat- 
son, “compelled that great controversialist to quail be- 
fore him” (lPorA-s, i, 169). See Wood. Athena Oxoni- 
enses ; Lowndes, Drit. Librarian, p. 10X0; Watts, Dibl. 
Brit. s.v. (J. 11. W.) 

Pierce, Thomas A., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Fauquier Co., Ya., 
Oct. 25, 1X19; was converted at the age of twenty ; and 
feeling called of God to the work of the sacred ministry, 
joined the Virginia Conference at Charlottesville in the 
fall of 1X17, and was appointed to the Stafford Circuit. 
In 1848 he was sent to Bnppahannock and Culpepper; 
in 1X49 he went to King William, where he travelled 
two years; in 1X52 and 1X58 he labored on the James 
City and New Kent Circuit: in 1X54, in King George; 
1X55, in New Hampshire; 1X56 and 1X57, in Ilanover. 
In 1S5X he was again in King William ; in 1859 he was 
sent to Greensville; in 1X60 and 1X61 he had his pas- 
toral charge in Mecklenburg; in 1X62 and 1X63, in Camp- 
bell; 1864 and 18(55. in Appomattox. In all of these 
appointments he labored like a man of God, and was 
instrumental in doing much good. Failing health 
obliged him in 1X66 to take a superannuated relation. 
He died Feb. 26. 1x67. See Minutes of Ann. Couf. of 
the M. E. Church, South, 1868. 

Pieri, Stiskano, a Florentine painter, horn in 1513, 
and a pupil of Battista Nnldini. He passed much of his 
life at Home, where he was patronized by cardinal Ales- 
sandro Medici, by whom he was employed in the church 
of S. Brasserie, where he painted the Aninmciation and 
some pictures of the apostles. He executed other works 
for the churches at Borne and Florence, in which latter 
city he assisted Vasari in the cupola of S. Maria del Fi- 
ore. Lanzi says one of his best works is the Sacrifce 
of Isaac, in the Balazzo Pitti. Another fine picture is 
the Assumption of the Virgin, in the church of S. Maria 
in Via. at Botnc. His works are well designed, hut 
Baglioni censures them as being dry and hard. He 
died at Borne in the year 1660. See Spooner. Biog. 
Ilist. of the Fine Arts, ii, 693. 

Fieritz, .Toskimi Auraiiam, a noted Anglican di- 
vine, was born of Jewish parentage in the year 1X15 at 
Kletzko, in Prussia. At the age of twenty-three Pieritz 
became a Christian by being baptized at London. Four 
3 ’ears later “the London Society for Propagating the 
Gospel among the Jews” appointed him a missionary 
among his brethren, and for about eight years he faith- 
fully discharged his duty in that relation, residing in 
different places in the west of England. In the year 
1X51 lie accepted an appointment to a pastoral charge in 
British Guiana. For about twenty years he labored as 
rector of the parish of St. Patrick, in the town of New 
Amsterdam, in the colony of British Guiana, where he 
died, Oct. 16, 1X76. See Jewish Intelligencer (London), 
1 838, p. 292: 1X76, p. 26; Deport of the Loudon Society, 
1X51, p. 34 ; Kalkar, Israel und die Kirche, p. 172. ( B. P.) 

Pierius, surnamed the younger Origen, a disciple of 
Origen, was distinguished in t lie Church of the 3d cen- 
tury as a scholar and author of high repute. We know 


nothing of his personal history, and his writings are no 
longer extant, or at least are inaccessible. 

Pierpout, Hezekiah B., an American Presby- 
terian minister, was a native of Connecticut, and was 
born about 1791. In 1X21 he came to New York state 
ami settled at Bochester, and soon after was ordained a 
Presbyterian minister. He became the pastor of a 
Church in Hopewell, t hitario Co., for several vears. lie 
was then called to the pastorate at Avon, and there he 
lived until about 1X61, when he moved to Bochester, 
N. V., where he died in 1X71, beloved by all his ac- 
quaintances for his many social and genial qualities. 
Indeed, none knew him but to honor him, both as a 
Christian and as a gentleman. “He lived a long life 
of usefulness as a pastor of the Presbyterian Church, 
and died full of years, in the blessed consciousness of a 
blameless life as an honored servant of God's ministry.” 

Pierpout, James, a noted New England Congre- 
gational minister of colonial days, was horn at Boxbury, 
Conn., in 1661. He was educated at Harvard College, 
where he graduated in 1(5X1 ; was ordained fourth min- 
ister in New Haven, Conn., in 16X5, and retained that 
connection until his death in 1714. In the year 1698 
Mr. Pierpout was one of three ministers who concerted 
the plan of founding a college— a plan which took ef- 
fect in the establishment of Vale College in 1766. As 
one of the original trustees of the institution he was 
untiringly active; and it was through his inthience, 
in no small degree, that the distinguished individual 
front whom it received its name was induced to make 
it the object of his liberal benefactions. Dwight, in his 
life of Edwards, states that Mr. Pierpout read lectures 
to the students in Yale College as professor of moral 
philosophy. This, however. Dr. Bacon considers doubt- 
ful, as the college was not removed from Say brook till 
after Mr. Pierpout ’» death. Of the famous synod held 
at Saybrook in 1708, for the purpose of forming a svs- 
tem that should better secure the ends of Church dis- 
cipline and the benefits of communion among the 
churches, Mr. Pierpont was a prominent member. The 
“Articles” which were adopted as the result of the 
synod, and which constitute the well-known “Saybrook 
Platform,” arc said to have been drawn up l>y him. Tltc 
only publication of Air. Pierpont was a sc rmoii preached 
at Boston, in Cotte>n Mather's pulpit, in 17P2, entitled 
Sundry false Hopes of Heaven discovered and deerged. 
Mather introduces the sermon with a short preface, in 
which he says of the author. “He has been a rich bless- 
ing to the Church of God.” New Haven values him, 
all Connecticut honors him — they have cause to do so. 
Dr. Bacon writes thus concerning him : 

“That we are not able to form so lively an idea of him 
as of Davenport is partly because his life was shorter, 
and was less involved in scenes of conflict, and partly, no 
doubt, because his nature and the early discipline of Di- 
vine Providence had less fitted him to make himself con- 
spicuous by the originality and energy of his character, 
and to leave his image stamped with ineffaceable distinct- 
ness on the records of his times. Tn the pulpit Mr. Pier- 
pont was distinguished among his contemporaries. His 
personal appearance was altogether prepossessing. He 
was eminent in the gift of prayer. Ills* doctrine was 
sound and discriminating, and his style was clear, lively, 
and impressive, without anythimr of the affected qnniht- 
noss which characterized some of the most eminent men 
of that day.” 

See Sprague, A nnals of the A mcrican Pulpit, i, 265, 206 ; 
Bacon, Historical Discourses, p. 171 sq.; id. Genesis of 
the Mew England Churches. (J. 11. W.) 

Pierpout, John, an eminent American Fnitnrian 
divine, noted especially for his part in temperance and 
antislaverv movements, was horn in 17X5 at Litchfield, 
Conn., and graduated at Yale College in 1X64. The 
years immediately after his leaving college were oc- 
cupied in teaching, a part of the time at the South and 
afterwards in New England, and he then studied law 
and settled at Newhuryport. 'Flic war of 1x12 inter- 
fered with his professional prospects, and he forsook 
the law for business, but met with indifferent success, 


191 


PIETISM 


PIEllQUUST 


both at Boston and Baltimore, and in 1818 he entered 
the Cambridge Divinity School. Less than a year af- 
ter this time he was installed as pastor of the Hollis 
Street Unitarian Church at Boston, succeeding the Rev. 
Dr. Holley, and for twenty-five years he held the pas- 
torate of that church. At first he was successful, popular, 
and strongly beloved by his people, but the latter part 
of his ministry was clouded with troubles and dissen- 
sions between himself and prominent men of his society 
on the temperance question, which were never amicably 
adjusted. While settled at Boston he visited Europe 
and Palestine. In 1845 he became the first pastor of the 
Unitarian Church at Troy, N. Y. After a four years’ 
pastorate there he received a call to Medford, where 
was his last ministerial experience. After this he iden- 
tified himself with the Spiritualists, having become 
an enthusiastic believer in animal magnetism. The 
breaking out of the rebellion found Mr. Pierpont at his 
home in Medford, but the wear and tear of over seventy- 
five years of life had not been sufficient to keep him 
quietly at his fireside while parishioners and friends 
were hastening to the front to uphold the government 
which he loved and honored. He sought a post of duty 
at once, and governor Andrew yielded to his request, 
and appointed him chaplain of the Twenty-second Regi- 
ment. The exposure of camp-life and duties on the 
field proved beyond his strength, and he was soon com- 
pelled to resign his place, ranch to his regret. Secre- 
tary Chase then appointed him to a clerkship in the 
treasury department, and his clerical duties were always 
faithfully performed, and he proved a valuable and effi- 1 
eient officer. He died in i860, while yet in the employ 
of the government. Sir. Pierpont was a thorough schol- 
ar, a graceful and facile speaker, a poet of rare power 
and pathos, a most earnest advocate of the temperance 
and antislavery movements, and a man whose convic- 
tions, purposes, and impulses were always sincerely ex- 
pressed. His strong desire for securing advancement 
and reform may have led him sometimes into injudi- 
cious steps, and diminished his influence for the causes 
he sought to advance, but his heart was always right; 
and temperance, freedom, and Christianity had no firmer 
and more consistent friend or advocate. He leaves an 
enviable reputation as a poet, and his pathetic “Pass- 
ing Away” will live as long as our language is spoken 
or written. In addition to his poetical works, he pub- 
lished at Boston several popular school-readers, and 
some twenty occasional sermons and discourses. See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and .4 mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Chris- 
tian Examiner , Nov. 1866, art. v; Atlantic Monthly , 
Dee. 1866; Appleton’s Annual Cyclopaedia, 1866, p. 617. 
(J.II.W.) 

Pierquin, Jean, a French ecclesiastic, noted espe- 
cially as a writer, was born Feb. 15, 1672, at Charle- 
ville. After taking holy orders, he was in 1699 ap- 
pointed curate of Chatel, in the Ardennes, where he 
spent his whole life, dividing his time between works 
of charity and literary pursuits. He died March 10, 
1742. lie published, Vie de St. Tuvin , Her mite (Nancy, 
1732, Svo): — Dissertations physico-theologiques sur la 
Conception de Jesus dans le Sein de la Vierye Marie, sa 
mere (Paris, 1742, P2mo), in which work he gives some 
physical account of the manner in which the divine act 
of generation took place, etc. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, xl, 128. 

Pierre, St. See Peter. 

Pierre, Jean Baptiste Maria, a French painter, 
was born at Paris in 1715. It is not known by whom 
he was instructed; but he went, when quite young, to 
Rome, where he remained several years. On his re- 
turn to Paris he distinguished himself as a historical 
painter; and executed several works for the churches 
and public edifices, which gained him great reputation. 
He was appointed painter to the king, and elected mem- 
ber of the academy at Paris. One of his greatest works 
was the ceiling of the chapel of the Virgin, in the church 


| of St. Sulpice, which has been engraved by Nicholas 
Dupuis. He also etched a few plates from his own 
designs and those of others, lie died in 1789. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, ii, 694. 

Pierson, Abraham, an American Congregational 
divine and educator, was born at Lynn, Mass., in 1641. 
Abraham, his father, first minister of Southampton, L. I. 
(born in Yorkshire, England, in 1608, died Aug. 9, 1678), 
was one of the first settlers of Newark in 1677, and was 
the first minister of that town. He preached to the In- 
dians of Long Island in their own language, and con- 
tributed Some Helps for the Indians in New Haven Col- 
ony to a further Account of the Progress of the Gospel 
in New England (1659). His son, Abraham, Jun., was 
educated at Harvard University, where he graduated in 
1GG8. After studying theology, he was ordained col- 
league with his father at Newark, N. J., March 4, 1672, 
and was minister at lvillingworth, Conn., from 1694 until 
bis death, March 5, 1707. Mr. Pierson was identified 
with the founding of Yale College, was anxiously de- 
sired for its first principal, and did instruct for a time at 
Killingworth, though he never moved to Savbrook, 
where the commencements of Yale were held in its ear- 
liest days, because his parishioners would not suffer him 
to leave them. He was taken ill in the midst of the 
agitation regarding his college duties, and died before 
he coidd settle the case. President Clapp, in his History 
of Yale College, says of rector Pierson that lie was “a 
hard student, a good scholar, a great divine, and a wise, 
steady, and judicious gentleman in all his conduct.” See 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 116 sq. ; Bacon, 
Genesis of the Neio England Churches. (J. H.W.) 

PiStas, a virtue which denotes veneration for the 
Deity, and love and tenderness to our friends, and es- 
pecially dutifulness to parents. It received divine hon- 
ors among the Romans, and was made one of their gods. 
Acilius Glabrio first erected a temple to this new divin- 
ity, on the spot where a woman had fed with her own 
milk her aged father, who had been imprisoned by order 
of the senate, and deprived of all aliment. The goddess 
is seen represented on Roman coins as a matron, throw- 
ing incense upon an altar, and her attributes are a stork 
and children. See Cicero, De Div. 1 ; Val. Maximus, v, 
4; Pliny, vii, 36; Zumpt, in the Class. Museum, iii, 452. 

Pietism is the specific appellation of a phase of re- 
ligious thought which developed itself especially within 
the pale of the German Lutheran Church in the 18th 
century. Like English Methodism, it originated in a 
period of indifference to religion, and, like it also, aimed 
to supersede dead faith, knowledge without life, form 
without spirit, worldliness under the cloak of religion, 
by life — a spiritual and living faith. Like Methodism, 
it laid great stress on the necessity of the new birth ; it 
prohibited certain amusements and modes of life until 
then considered as at least harmless; and it encouraged 
private assemblies of Christian persons for purposes of 
edification, such as the study of the Scriptures or the 
interchange of spiritual experiences. Like Methodism, 
too, it encountered at first no little ridicule, and even 
persecution. It was accused of being an attempt to 
found a new sect, and was vehemently opposed on this 
ground; but, unlike Methodism, though it did here and 
there give rise to some insignificant bodies of separa- 
tists, it never broke off from the national Church of 
the country, but remained as a movement within its 
pale. 

The development of German Lutheranism, which 
really means German Protestantism, repeats in a most 
peculiar manner the course of the general Church pre- 
vious to it. As in the first four centuries the productive 
spirit of the Church proposed to itself the view of Chris- 
tianity as a whole, so also wastlie time from the beginning 
of the Reformation to the A ugsbnrg Confession (q. v.) 
one pre -eminently creative, and it laid the foundation 
of the Lutheran Church as regards its confession of 
faith. With the endeavor pervading the 5th, 6tb, and 


PIETISM 


192 


PIETISM 


7th centuries more distinctly to work out the single doc- 
trines corresponds the work of the Lutheran Church up 
to the time of the Formula Concordat’ (rj. v.), by which 
the various differences of doctrines were to be settled. 
As the Church of the Middle Ages had handed down to 
it, as a tirm foundation, the doctrinal matter produced 
by the fathers and sanctioned by the Church, which 
scholasticism then undertook to work out and digest in 
a systematic manner, so there arose in the 17th century 
— the Protestant Middle Ages — a scholasticism which 
put into a regular form the Lutheran confession of faith 
embodied in the Formula Concordur. As in the Middle 
Ages mysticism stands side by side with the strict repre- 
sentatives of scholasticism, so the Protestant mystics, 
Jacob Bbhmc (q. v.), Arndt, and others, stand by the 
side of an effete orthodoxy. This mystical tendency 
acquired an importance about the end of the 17th and 
the beginning of the 18th centuries. A parallel again i 
between this period and that of the 14th century is I 
obvious. In the 14th century the romantic spirit had 
become extinct; scholasticism had outdone itself; from 
France there flowed over Europe a worldly spirit; the 
Roman spirit had decayed; everything was in dissolu- 
tion. Then from the reaction against the externalized 
scholasticism and secularized life there broke forth on 
all sides and in the most varied forms mysticism, 
which had in itself a Reformatory feature. In like 
manner after the Thirty-years’ War the blossom of 
Germany had withered; the religious spirit, which 
since the period of the Reformation had been the first 
power in Germany, had stepped into the background; 
while, on the other hand, the secular spirit had been let 
loose, along with a powerfid retinue of immorality, espe- 
cially by the preponderance of France under Louis XIV. 
It was a dreary period in German history. 

Politically the empire had fallen asunder into a num- 
ber of separate despotic little states; and the sentiment 
of national unity had become so nearly extinct that the 
loss of the fertile and beautiful Alsace to France seems 
to have been viewed with wonderful indifference. So- 
cially the life of the people had greatly deteriorated. 
The rural population was terribly diminished in num- 
bers and wealth; t heir means of communication were 
restricted by the destruction of their horses and the 
neglect of the roads; their schools had disappeared, and 
were but very slowly replaced ; their new houses and 
churches were bare and barn-like compared to the old 
ones; their periodical gatherings for certain purposes 
of local self-government or for festivities had fallen into 
disuse. It was a vegetating sort of existence, and the 
writers of the following age bear testimony to the illit- 
eracy and coarseness of manners which prevailed to- 
wards the end of the 17th century even among the 
gentry of the country districts. In the towns things 
were hut little better. The commerce of Germany had 
received a serious check; her merchant- princes had 
sunk to the level of petty traders, and adopted the 
manners and culture of the latter class. Ilcr old free 
cities wore decaying; only a few of the newer ones 
were growing, and what intellectual life then existed 
centred in them, as at Hamburg or Berlin, or at the 
court of any sovereign who specially protected letters, 
or still more at the universities. Throughout this pe- 
riod Germany contributed only one really great name to 
literature that of Leibnitz; while in France it. was the 
age of military glory and social brilliancy — of Racine 
and Moliore. of Fenclon and Rossuet, of Uaylc and Vol- 
taire. German men and women therefore found their 
own life mean and tiresome, and were carried away bv 
admiration of their splendid neighbor, till it became the 
fashion to imitate whatever was French in manners, 
dress, or tone of thought, and the very language was 
wretchedly corrupted hv the intermixture of French 
phrases. < >f course there was a class, of which king 
Frederick William I of Prussia may be taken as the 
type, who hated foreign ways, and upheld whatever was 
most autiquated and unrefined as peculiarly German ; 


but in general the tide set in favor of the foreigners. 
The French were now the great models, and very unfor- 
tunate ones for a people whose natural genius was so 
totally different. German literature reached its lowest 
ebb under these influences. One of the earliest signs, 
if not the first sign, of its revival was a rebellion against 
French classicism, and an admiration for the master 
writers of English— Shakespeare and Milton. 

Religion suffered under the same depression. On the 
one hand was a rigid Lutheranism which had petrified 
what had once been living convictions into dead dog- 
mas, and which gave its whole attention to controver- 
sies about definitions of doctrines in which the people 
had ceased to feel a genuine interest. On the other 
hand was a genteel indifference which idolized “en- 
lightenment” (the favorite watchword of that period), 
and indemnified itself for its compliance with certain 
outward observances by laughing at the whole affair in 
private. Rabcner, a satirist of this period, when char- 
acterizing the earlier part of the 18th century, says: 
“There was a time in Germany when no satire could be 
witty at t lie expense of anything but the Bible, aud 
there were lively heads which had. so to speak, a com- 
plete satirical concordance in readiness, that their wit 
might never run dry. ... If a groom is conscious of 
possessing a more cultivated mind than the dairymaid, 
lie startles her by a jest on some text or hymn ; all the 
servants scream with laughter, all admire him, down to 
the very cowboy, and the poor dairymaid, who is not so 
witty, stands there abashed.” When the danger seemed 
imminent that the great work of the Reformation would 
prove in vain, and that it would soon come to ruin, 
providential supply and guidance came in the pietistic 
spirit which arose. Indeed, the learned Doruer holds, 
with a large number of others, that this new tendency 
was a necessary stage in the development of Protestant- 
ism — a supplement of the Reformation — and that Spener, 
the father of pietism, was the veritable successor of Me- 
lanctlion. 

But we must first learn what pietism proposed to do 
before we can properly appreciate its historical impor- 
tance. Pietism commenced upon the principle that the 
Church was corrupt ; that the ministry were generally 
guilty of gross neglect ; anil that the people were cursed 
with spiritual death. It therefore proposed, as a theo- 
logical means of improvement: 1. That the scholastic 
theology, which reigned in the academies, and was com- 
posed of intricate and disputable doctrines, anil obscure 
and unusual forms of expression, should be totally abol- 
ished. 2. That polemical divinity, which comprehended 
the controversies subsisting between Christians of differ- 
ent communions, should be less eagerly studied and less 
frequently treated, though not entirely neglected. 3. 
That all mixture of philosophy and human science with 
divine wisdom was to be most carefully avoided; that 
is, that pagan philosophy aud classical learning should 
be kept distinct from, and by no means surpersedc Bib- 
lical theology; but, 4, that, on the contrary, all those 
students who were designed for the ministry should be 
accustomed from their early youth to the perusal anil 
study of the Iloly Scriptures, and be taught a plain sys- 
tem of theology, drawn from these unerring sources of 
truth. J3. That the whole course of their education was 
I to be so directed as to render them useful in life, by the 
practical power of their doctrine and the commanding 
influence of their example. But it was not intended to 
confine these reforms to students and the clergy. Re- 
ligious persons of every class and rank were encouraged 
to meet in what were called Biblical colleges, or colleges 
of piety (we might call them pravcr-mectings), where 
some exercised in reading the Scriptures, singing, and 
prayer, and others engaged in the exposition of the 
Scriptures; not in a dry and critical way, but in a strain 
of practical and experimental piety, whereby they were 
mutually edified. This practice, which always more or 
less obtains where religion flourishes (as, for instance, at 
the Reformation), raised the same sort of outcry as at 


PIETISM 


193 


PIETISM 


the rise of Methodism ; and those who entered not into 
the spirit of the design were eager to catch at every in- 
stance of weakness or imprudence, to bring disgrace on 
that, which, in fact, brought disgrace upon themselves, 
as lukewarm and formal Christians. “In so saying, 
Master, thou reproaehest us also.” 

The person who began this religious movement was 
John Arndt (1555-1621), who wrote The True Chris- 
tian, a work as useful religiously as Bunyan’s Pilgrim's 
Progress or Doddridge’s Religion in the Soul, fcjpener 
followed (1635-1705). The private religious meetings 
which he established about 1675, Collegia Pietatis, were 
the origin of the application of the name pietism to the 
movement. One of his pupils was the saintly A. H. 
Francke (q. v.). Paul Gerhard, the well-known author 
of the German hymns, also belonged to the same party. 
The revival feeling spread rapidly through Germany, 
where the institution of the “Collegia,” being in com- 
plete accord with the national instinct, soon attained 
great popularity. Up to 1686 pietism had spread with- 
out exciting commotion, no persecution having yet 
been attempted. But when in this year Spener re- 
moved to Dresden, and several of his students made 
bold to lecture at the University of Leipsie, in imitation 
of their leader’s practice, giving in their lectures par- 
ticular prominence to the correction of the errors con- 
tained in Luther’s translation of the Bible, the great 
body of Lutherans, who had been accustomed to regard 
this translation as little short of inspired, took umbrage 
at such freedom of criticism, and at the practice of these 
Pietists who lectured in the popular tongue. All kinds 
of adverse rumors were circulated, they were maligned 
in many ways, and complaints were made to the univer- 
sity authorities. When these popular agitations %vere 
ignored, there followed tumults of so violent a character 
as to spread throughout Leipsie the seeds and principles 
of mutiny and sedition, and finally the matter was forced 
to public trial. Of course the pious and learned men 
above mentioned were, indeed, declared free from the 
errors and heresies that had been laid to their charge, 
but were, at the same time, prohibited from carrying on 
the plan of religious instruction they had undertaken 
with such zeal. It was during these troubles and di- 
visions that the invidious designation Pietists was 
first invented; it may at least be affirmed that it was 
not commonly known before this period. It was at first 
applied by some giddy and inconsiderate persons to those 
who frequented the Biblical colleges, and lived in a man- 
ner suitable to the instructions and exhortations that 
were addressed to them in these seminaries of piety. 
It was afterwards made use of to characterize all those 
who were either distinguished by the excessive auster- 
ity of their manners, or who, regardless of truth ami 
opinion, were only intent upon practice, and turned the 
whole vigor of their efforts towards the attainment of 
religious feelings and habits. But as it is the fate of all 
those denominations by which peculiar sects are distin- 
guished to be variously and often very improperly ap- 
plied, so the title “Pietist” was frequently given in 
common conversation to persons of eminent wisdom 
and sanctity, who were equally remarkable for their ad- 
herence to truth and their love of piety; and not seldom 
to persons w’hose motley characters exhibited an enor- 
mous mixture of profligacy and enthusiasm, and who 
deserved the title of delirious fanatics better than any 
other denomination. This contest was by no means 
confined to Leipsie, but spread with incredible celerity 
through all the Lutheran churches in the different states 
and kingdoms of Europe. For from this time, in all the 
cities, towns, and villages where Lutheranism was pro- 
fessed, there started up, all of a sudden, persons of vari- 
ous ranks and professions, of both sexes, who declared 
that they were called by a divine impulse to pull up 
iniquity by the root; to restore to its primitive lustre 
and propagate through the world the declining cause 
of piety and virtue; to govern the Church of Christ by 
wiser rules than those bv which it was at present di- 
vin. — N 


reeted; and who, partly in their writings and partly in 
their private and public discourses, pointed out the 
means and measures that were necessary to bring about 
this important revolution. Several religious societies 
were formed in various places, which, though they dif- 
fered in some circumstances, and were not all conducted 
and composed with equal wisdom, piety, and prudence, 
w'ere, however, designed to promote the same general 
purpose. In the mean time these unusual proceedings 
filled with uneasy and alarming apprehensions both 
those who were intrusted with the government of the 
Church and those who sat at the helm of the state. 
These apprehensions w r ere justified by this important 
consideration, that the pious and well-meaning persons 
w ho composed these assemblies bad indiscreetly admit- 
ted into their community a number of extravagant and 
hot-headed fanatics, who foretold the approaching de- 
struction of Babel (by which they meant the Lutheran 
Church), terrified the populace with fictitious visions, 
assumed the authority of prophets honored with a 
divine commission, obscured the divine truths of re- 
ligion by a gloomy kind of jargon of their own inven- 
tion, and revived doctrines that had long before been 
condemned by the Church. The most violent debates 
arose in all the Lutheran churches; and persons whose 
differences were occasioned rather by mere words and 
questions of little consequence than by any doctrines or 
institutions of considerable importance, attacked one 
another with the bitterest animosity; and in many 
countries severe law's were at length enacted against 
the Pietists. These revivers of piety proposed to carry 
on their plan without introducing any change into the 
doctrine, discipline, or form of government that were 
established in the Lutheran Church. 

At the head of this movement stood, in Germany, 
the learned and pious Spener, whose sentiments were 
adopted by the professors of the new Academy of 
Halle; and particularly by Francke and Faulus Anto- 
nius, who had been invited thither from Leipsie, where 
they began to be suspected of pietism. Though few 
pretended to treat either with indignation or contempt 
the intentions and purposes of these good men (which, 
indeed, none could despise without affecting to appear 
the enemy of practical religion and virtue), yet many 
eminent Lutheran divines, and more especially the pro- 
fessors and pastors of Wittenberg, being of opinion that, 
in the execution of this laudable purpose, several unor- 
thodox maxims were adopted and certain unwarrant- 
able measures employed, proceeded publicly against 
Spener in the year 1695, and afterwards against his 
disciples and adherents, as the inventors and promoters 
of erroneous and dangerous opinions. These debates 
turned upon a variety of points, and therefore the mat- 
ter of them cannot be comprehended under any one 
general head. If we consider them indeed in relation 
to their origin, and the circumstances that gave rise 
to them, we may be able to reduce them to some 
fixed principles. We have already said that those who 
had the advancement of piety most zealously at heart 
were possessed of a notion that no order of men con- 
tributed more to retard its progress than the clergy, 
whose peculiar vocation it was to inculcate and promote 
it. Looking upon this as the root of the evil, it was 
but natural that their plans of reformation should begin 
here; and accordingly they laid it down as an essential 
principle that none should be admitted into the ministry 
but such as had received a proper education, were dis- 
tinguished by their wisdom and sanctity of manners, 
and had hearts filled with divine love. Hence they 
proposed, in the first place, a thorough reformation of the 
schools of divinity; and they explained clearly enough 
what they meant by this reformation, as we have seen 
above. As these maxims w r ere propagated with the 
greatest industry and zeal, and were explained inadver- 
tently by some without those restrictions which pru- 
dence seemed to require, these professed patrons and re- 
vivers of piety were suspected of designs that could not 


PIETISM 


194 


PIETISM 


but render them obnoxious to censure. They were 
supposed to despise philosophy and learning; to treat 
with indifference, and even to renounce, all inquiries 
into the nature and foundations of religious truths; to 
disapprove of the zeal and labors of those who defended 
it against such as either corrupted or opposed it; and 
to place the whole of their theology in certain vague 
and incoherent declamations concerning the duties of 
morality. Hence arose those famous disputes concern- 
ing the use of philosophy and the value of human learn- 
ing, considered in connection with the interests of re- 
ligion; the dignity and usefulness of systematic theol- 
ogy; the necessity of polemic divinity; the excellence 
of the mystic system; and also concerning the true 
method of instructing the people. The second great 
object that employed the zeal and attention of the per- 
sons now under consideration was that the candidates 
for the ministry should not only for the future receive 
such an academical education as would tend rather to 
solid utility than to mere speculation, but also that they 
should dedicate themselves to God in a peculiar man- 
ner, and exhibit the most striking examples of piety 
and virtue. This maxim, which, when considered in 
itself, must be considered to be highly laudable, not only 
gave occasion to several new regulations, designed to 
restrain the passions of the studious youth, to inspire 
them with pious sentiments, and to excite in them holy 
resolutions, but also produced another maxim, which was 
a lasting source of controversy and debate, viz. : “ That 
no person who was not himself a model of piety and di- 
vine love was qualified to be a public teacher of piety, 
or a guide to others in the way of salvation.” This 
opinion was considered by many as derogatory to the 
power and efficacy of the Word of God, which cannot 
be deprived of its divine influence by the vices of its 
ministers, and as a sort of revival of the long-exploded 
errors of the Ponatists; and what rendered it peculiarly 
liable to an interpretation of this nature was the impru- 
dence of some Pietists, who inculcated and explained it 
without those restrictions that were necessary to render 
it unexceptionable. lienee arose endless and intricate 
debates concerning the following questions: “Whether 
the religious knowledge acquired by a wicked man can 
he termed theology?” “ Whether a vicious person can, 
in cfTect, attain a true knowledge of religion ?” “llow 
far the olliec and ministry of an impious ecclesiastic 
can he pronounced salutary and efficacious V” “ Wheth- 
er a licentious and ungodly man cannot he susceptible 
of illumination?” and other questions of a like nature. 
These revivers of declining piety went still farther. 
In order to render the ministry of their pastors as 
successful as possible in rousing men from their indo- 
lence, and in stemming the torrent of corruption and 
immorality, they judged two things indispensably nec- 
essary. The first was to suppress entirely, in the 
course of public instruction, and more especially in that 
delivered from the pulpit, certain maxims and phrases 
which the corruption of men leads them frequently 
to interpret in a manner favorable to 1 lie indulgence 
of their passions. Such, in the judgment of the 
Pietists, were the following propositions: No man is 
aide to attain to that perfection which the divine law 
requires; good works are not necessary to salvation; in 
the act of justification, on the part of man faitli alone is 
concerned, without good works. The second step which 
they took in order to give efficacy to their plans of ref- 
ormation was to form new rules of life and manners, 
much more rigorous and austere than those that hail 
formerly been practiced; and to place in the class of 
sinful and unlawful gratifications several kinds of pleas- 
ure and amusement which bad hitherto been looked 
upon as innocent in themselves, and which could only 
become good or evil in consequence of the respective 
characters of those who used them with prudence or 
abused them with intemperance. Thus dancing, pan- 
tomimes, public sports, theatrical diversions, the reading 
of humorous and comical books, with several other kinds 


of pleasure and entertainment, were prohibited by the 
Pietists as unlawful and unseemly, and therefore by no 
means of an indifferent nature. The third tiling on 
which the Pietists insisted was that, besides the stated 
meetings for public worship, private assemblies should 
he held for prayer and other religious exercises. The 
University of llalle. which had been founded for the 
avowed purpose of promoting the pietistic movement, 
finally became its home and centre; and the Orphan- 
house established in that town by A. 11. Francke, and 
renowned all over Europe, one of its most effective 
agencies. He sides, it became a living proof that pie- 
tism was not only able to combat the religious errors 
of the times, but also to grapple with the grave wants 
of common life. Is not that a good and safe theology 
which, in addition to teaching truth, can also clothe 
the naked and feed the hungry? It has been charged 
against the Pietists that they wrote hut little. Writ- 
ing was not their mission. It was theirs to act, to 
reform the practical life and faith of the people, not 
to waste their strength in a war of hooks. They 
wrote what they needed to carry out their lofty aim ; 
and this was perhaps sufficient. They did lack pro- 
fundity of thought; hut let it he remembered that 
their work was restorative, not initial. Vet we would 
not leave the impression that pietism did not exert any 
influence as a literary light. The theological instruc- 
tion of Francke anil his coadjutors in the University of 
Halle was very influential. During the first thirty 
years of its history six thousand and thirty-four theolo- 
gians were trained within its walls, not to speak of the 
multitudes who received a thorough academic and re- 
ligious instruction in the Orphan-house. The Oriental 
Theological College, established in connection with the 
university, promoted the study of Biblical languages, 
and originated the first critical edition of the Hebrew 
llihle. Moreover, it founded missions to the Jews and 
Mohammedans. From llalle streams of the new life 
flowed out until there were traces of reawakening 
throughout Europe. First, the larger cities gave signs 
of returning faith; and the universities which were 
most bitter against Sponer were influenced by the 
power of the teachings of his immediate successors. 
Pietism propagated its influence bv means of Bengel in 
Wurtomberg and the University of Tubingen, and in 
Moravia through Zinzcndorf. Arnold and Thomasius 
belonged to this party at the beginning of the 18th 
century. Hettinger at Tubingen, Crusins at Ueipsic, 
and, to a certain extent, Bmltlcus also, partook of the 
spirit of pietism. The opposition of the old Lutheran 
party of other parts of Germany produced controver- 
sies which continued till about 1720 (for an account, see 
Wcismann, Mem. Keel. Hist. Suer. [1745], p. 1018 sq. - ). 
Zurich, Basle, Berne, and all the larger towns received 
it with gladness. It penetrated as far east as the prov- 
inces bordering on the Baltic Sea, and as far north as 
Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Many of the conti- 
nental courts welcomed it, and orphan-houses, after the 
model of Francke’s, became the fashion of the day. The 
l.’eformed Church was influenced and impelled by it, 
and even England and the Netherlands indicated a 
strong sympathy for its practical and evangelical feat- 
ures. No higher tribute can tie paid it than that of 
Tlioluck, who avers “that the Protestant Church of 
Germany lias never possessed so many zealous Christian 
ministers and laymen as in the first forty years of the 
INth century.” 

With a new generation of professors at llalle among 
them C. B. Michaelis, the younger Francke, Frciting- 
liausen, the elder Knapp, Callenherg, and Baumgarten 
— taking the place of their more vigorous predecessors, 
pietism began to lose its first power and earnest spirit. 
The persistent inquiry into scriptural truth passed over 
into a tacit acquiescence of the understanding, l.’eli- 
anee was placed on the convictions, more than on the 
fruits of study, Sponer had blended the emotions of 
the mind and heart, reason and faith, harmoniously ; but 


PIETISM 


195 


PIETISM 


the later Pietists cast off the former and blindly fol- 1 
lowed the latter, lienee they soon found themselves 
indulging in superstition, and repeating many of the 
errors of some of the most deluded Mystics. Science 
was frowned upon, because of its supposed conflict with 
the letter of Scripture. The language of Spener and 
Francke, which was full of' practical earnestness, came 
into disuse. Definitions became loose and vague. The 
“ Collegia,” which had done so much good, now grew 
formal, cold, and disputatious. The missions, which had 
begun very auspiciously, dwindled from want of means 
and men. External life became pharisaieal. Great 
weight was attached to long prayers. The duke of Coburg 
required the masters of schools to utter a long prayer in 
his presence, as a test of fitness for advancement. Tie- 
tism grew mystical, ascetic, and superstitious. Some 
of its advocates and votaries made great pretensions to 
holiness and unusual gifts. This had a tendency to 
bring the system into disrepute in certain quarters, 
though the good influences that it had exerted still ex- 
isted and increased. It might disappear, but the good 
achieved by it would live after it. Pietism, though 
it ceased its aggressive power after Francke and Tho- 
masius, was destined to exert a reproductive power long 
afterwards. From their day to the present, whenever 
there has arisen a great religious want, the heart of the 
people has been directed towards this same agency as 
a ground of hope. Whatever be said against it, it can- 
not be denied that it has succeeded in finding a safe 
lodgment in the affections of the evangelical portion of 
the German Church. Even in our own century the 
Church has had recourse to pietism as its only relief from 
a devastating rationalism; not the pietism of Spener 
and Francke, we acknowledge, but the same general 
current belonging to both. Its organ was the Evangel- 
ical Church Gazette, in 1827, and among the celebrities 
who attached themselves to it we find the names of 
Heinroth, Von Meyer, Schubert, Von Raumer, Steffens, 
Sclinorr, and Olivier. Pietism lacked a homogeneous 
race of teachers. Here lay the secret of its overthrow. 
Had the founders been succeeded by men of much the 
same spirit, and equally strong intellect, its existence 
would have been guaranteed, so far as anything relig- 
ious can be promised in a country where there is a state 
Church to control the individual conscience. The great 
mistake of Lutheranism was in its failure to adopt it as 
its child. The sceptical germ which soon afterwards 
took root, gave evidence that it could cause its over- 
throw for a time, at least; but the evils of rationalism 
were partially anticipated by the practical teachings of 
the Pietists. 

The inference has frequently been drawn that the 
two tendencies — the dogmatic and the pietistic — 
which marked the religious life of Germany at the 
opening of the 18th century, ministered indirectly to 
the production of scepticism ; the dogmatic strictness 
stimulating a reaction towards latitude of opinion, and 
the unchurchlike and isolating character of pietism fos- 
tering individuality of belief. This inference is, how- 
ever, hardly correct. Dogmatic truth in the corporate 
Church, and piety in the individual members, are ordi- 
narily the safeguards of Christian faith and life. The 
danger arose in this case from the circumstance that 
the dogmas were emptied of life, and so became unreal ; 
and that the piety, being separated from theological 
science, became insincere. Rationalism in Germany, 
without pietism as its forerunner, would have been fatal 
for centuries. But the relation of these tendencies, so 
plainly seen in the ecclesiastical history of Germany, is 
one of long standing. From the days of Neo-Platonism 
to the present they have existed, the good to balance 
the evil, faith to limit reason. They have been called 
by different names; but Christianity could little afford 
to do without it or its equivalent, in the past, and the 
Church of the future will still cling as tenaciously and 
fondly to it or to its representative. A recent author 
who has shown a singular facility in grouping historical 


periods and discovering their great significance, says: 
“Pietism -went back from the cold faith of the 17th 
century to the living faith of the Reformation. But 
just because this return w 7 as vital and produced by the 
agency of the Holy Spirit, it could not be termed a lit- 
eral return. We must not forget that the orthodoxy 
of the 17th century w r as only the extreme elaboration 
of an error, the beginning of which we find as far back, 
as Luther’s time, and which became more and more a 
pou r er in the Church through the influence of Melanc- 
| thon. It was this: Mistaking the faith by which we 
believe for the faith which is believed. The principle of 
the Reformation was justification by faith, not the doc- 
trine of faith and justification. In reply to the Catholics 
it was deemed sutficient to show that this was the true 
doctrine which points out the way of salvation to man. 
The great danger lay in mistaking faith itself for the 
doctrine of faith. Therefore, in the controversies con- 
cerning justifying faith, we find that faith gradually 
came to be considered in relation to its doctrinal aspects 
more than in connection with the personal, practical, 
and experimental knowledge of men. In this view pie- 
tism is an elaboration of the faith of the lGth century. 

. . . So far from being heterodox, Spener even expressed 
himself in the most decided manner in favor of the doc- 
trines of the Church, lie would make faith consist less 
in the dogmatism of the head than in the motions of 
the heart; be would bring the doctrine away Irom the 
angry disputes of the schools and incorporate it into 
practical life, lie was thoroughly united with the Re- 
formers as to the real signification of justifying faith, 
but these contraries which were sought to be re-estab- 
lished he rejected. . . . From Spener’s view a new 
phase of spiritual life began to pervade the heart. The 
orthodoxy of the state Church had been accustomed to 
consider all baptized persons as true believers if only 
they had been educated in wholesome doctrines. There 
■was a general denial of that living, conscious, self faith 
which was vital in Luther, and had transformed the 
world. The land, because it was furnished with the 
Gospel and the sacraments, was considered an evangel- 
ical country. The contrast between mere worldly and 
spiritual life, between the living and dead members of 
the Church, was practically abolished, though there 
still remained a theoretical distinction between the vis- 
ible and invisible Church. As to the world outside the 
pale of Lhe Church, the Jews and heathen, there w*as no 
thought whatever. Men believed they had done their 
whole duty when they had roundly combated the other 
Christian churches. Thus lived the state Church in 
quiet confidence of its own safety and pure doctrine at 
the time when the nation w r as recovering from the dev- 
astations of the Thirty-years’ War. ‘ In the times suc- 
ceeding the Reformation,’ says a Wiirtemberg pastor of 
the past century, ‘the greater portion of the common 
people trusted that they would certainty be saved if 
they believed correct doctrines; if one is neither a Ro- 
man Catholic nor a Calvinist, and confesses his opposi- 
tion, he cannot possibly miss heaven ; holiness is not so 
necessary after all’” (Auberlen, Die guttliche OJfenba- 
rung, i, 278-281). 

The enemies of pietism have confounded it with mys- 
ticism. There arc undoubted points in common, but 
pietism was aggressive instead of contemplative ; it was 
practical rather than theoretical. Both systems made 
purity of life essential, but mysticism could not guard 
against mental disease, while pietism enjoyed a long 
season of healthful life. The latter was far too much 
engaged in relieving immediate and pressing wants to 
fall into the gross errors which mark almost the entire 
career of the former. Pietism was mystical in so far as 
it made purity of heart essential to salvation ; but it was 
the very antipodes of mysticism when organized and 
operating against a languid and torpid Church with such 
weapons as Spener and his coadjutors employed. Bdhme 
and Spener were world-wide apart in many respects, but 
in purity of heart they were beautifully in unison. 


PIETOSI 


19G 


FI GEN AT 


A brief account of pietism is given in Ilase's Church 
Hist. § 409: am! for a fuller account, see Schrockh, Kir- 
chevgesch. seii der Ref. viii, 255-291 ; Pusey, On Herman 
Theology, pt. i ( p. 67-113); pt. ii, cli. x ; Amand Saintes, 
Crit. Hist, of Rationalism, cli. vii. Spener’s character 
and life may be seen in Canstein's memoir of him ; and 
in Weismann, p. 966-972. A philosophical view of pi- 
etism, as a necessary stage in the development of Ger- 
man religious life, is given bv Dorner in the Bind. u. 
Krit. is 10, pt. ii, p. 137, “ l r eber den Pietismus.” Kah- 
ilis, who himself quotes from it (Hist, of Germ. Rrot. p. 
102). regards pietism as ministering indirectly to ration- 
alism ; much in the same way as bishop Fitzgerald crit- 
icised the similar evangelical movement of England 
(A i<ls to Faith , p. 19, etc.). The best account of pietism 
is to be found in llorsbach, Spener u. seine Zeit.; liret- I 
schneider, Die Grnndlaye ties evanyelischen J’ietiswus ; j 
Mnrklin, Darstelluny u. Kritik des modemen Pietismns. j 
See also Hurst, Hist, of Rationalism, cli. ii and iii ; Hurst’s 
llagenbach, (’hnrch Hist, of the ]X(h and 19 th Centuries ; 
Winkworth, Christian Ringers of Germany, p. 257 sq. : 
Meth. (in. Rev. April. 1865, p. 316; Bibliotheca Baeva, 
duly, 1865, p. 522; 1864, p. 224; Gass, Dogmengesch. ; 
Haag, Hist, des Dogmes. (J. II. W.) 

Pietosi is the name of a celebrated Jewish family, 
called in Hebrew 7 ‘j'2, which, like the families 

c-rrsrn and *,*2, traced their origin to 

those Jews who were led into captivity after the destruc- 
tion of Jerusalem by Titus and Vespasian. To this fam- 
ily belong the following : 

1. Benjamin r*K, ben- A hr., b.-Jech., b.-A br. Rofe, of 
Home, who flourished in the middle of the 13th century, 
in the author of I" 1 "!"! 'AV a didactic poem (Prague, 
1598) religious hymns. See Zunz, 
Synagogale Poesie, p. 313-315; id. L ite ratui -gesch ich/e 
der synagog. Poesie, p. 362 sq. ; Steinsehneider, Cata- 
logus Libr. Jlebr. in Hibl. Jiodl. p. 2767 sq. ; Dukes, Ozar 
Xachmad, ii, 199. 

2. J.uoij dk, of Italy, wrote ip"* 1 r*“£, a great 
collectaneum of diverse matters (Livorno, 1800): — 
Z«P""3 novellas on the treatises ChiilHn and 7c- 
mnra (ibid. 1810) another collectaneum 
(ibid.). 

3. Zidkia i>b, a brother of Benjamin, wrote “'h-’l* 
-P^n, on Jewish rites and precepts (Venice, 15 It!; 
Sulzbach, 1699; Dubno, 1794). See Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. 
i, 1001 ; iii, 961 ; iv, 962; Schorr, Kritische Cntersuchnng 
iiber das Werk Schibbale ha-Leketh inZijjon (Frankfort- 
on-thc-Main, 1841), i, 147 sq. ; Fiirst. liibl. Jud. iii, 
100. (B. P.) 

Pietro, Minibus m, an Italian prelate of note, was 
born Jan. 18, 1747, at Alhano. After defending in pub- 
lic disputation at Borne with great success some theo- 
logical propositions, he was appointed professor of eccle- 
siastical history in the Gregorian university, and of 
canonical law at the Homan arclii -gymnasium. He 
took an important share in the work of the congrega- 
tion which examined the decisions of the Synod of Pis- 
toja favorable to Jansenism, and contributed with the 
learned Gerdil to t he redaction of the bull . 1 ttclorem 
jidei (1791). Pius VI. when he left Home (1798), made 
him apostolical legate, and he had to give his advice in 
many a delicate question ; for instance, in tliat of the 
oath of hatred against royalty which was exacted from 
French clergymen. Pius VI 1 appointed him succes- 
sively patriarch of Jerusalem, cardinal (Feb. 23, 1801), 
and prefect of the Propaganda. When this pontiff was 
forced to leave Home (isiift), Pietro was chosen to occu- 
py his place ; but he was soon compelled to betake him- 
self to Paris, ami upon his refusal to attend the religious 
celebration of Napoleon's marriage with Marin Louisa, 
lie was punished with banishment, loss of the ensigns 
of his dignities, and confiscation of his income. Hi-le- 
gated to Saumur with cardinals Gabrielli and Oprizznni, 


confined in 1810 in the dungeon of Vincennes, he joined 
the pope in 1813 at Fontainebleau, and was again sepa- 
rated from him in January, 1814. The political situa- 
tion finally allowed him to return to Home, and lie be- 
came grand penitentiary, prefect of the Index, bishop 
of Albano (1816), and of Porto and Santa-Hufiine (1820). 
lie died at Home July 2, 1821. This prelate, remark- 
able for his circumspection and flexibility, was consid- 
ered one of the luminaries of the Sacred College, for his 
theological lore and administrative abilities.— HoelVr, 
Xouv. Bioy. Generale, xl, 205, 

Piety occurs but once in the A. V.: “Let them 
learn first to show piety at home” (too iciov o Ikov troi- 
fiih', better, “towards their own household,” 1 Tim. v, 
4). The choice of this word here instead of the more 
usual equivalents of “godliness,” “reverence,” and the 
like, was probably determined by the special sense of 
pietas, as “erga parentes” (Cicero, Partit. 22; Rep. vi, 
15; I nr. ii, 22). It does not appear in the earlier Eng- 
lish versions, and we may recognise in its application 
in this passage a special felicity. A word was wanted 
for tboefiih' which, unlike “showing godliness,” would 
admit of a human as well as a divine object, and this 
piety supplied. — Smith. 

Piety, or godliness, only another name for personal 
religion, consists in a firm belief, and in right concep- 
tions of the being, perfections, and providence of God; 
with suitable affections to him, resemblance of his moral 
perfections, and a constant obedience to his will. The 
different articles included in this definition, such as 
knowledge, veneration, love, resignation, etc., are ex- 
plained in their proper places in this work. For Per- 
verted Piety, see Ethics. 

Piga, jMkleth'S, an Eastern prelate, flourished in 
the second half of the 16th century, lie was in 1591 
exarch of the Church of Constantinople, and shortly af- 
ter that time was chosen to fill the chair of St. Mark's. 
As patriarch of Alexandria, Piga distinguished himself 
by great devotion to ecclesiastical studies, and as the 
author of one or two controversial writings for the Sla- 
vonic Church, which was exposed to the intrusion of 
Homanism. 

Pigenat, Francois, a French preacher of the Jesu- 
itic order, was born at Autnn near the close of the 15th 
century, lie early became a member of the Society of 
Jesus, and at Paris was one of the most zealous preach- 
ers of the. League. In September, 1588, he was, in a 
somewhat quaint manner, elected curate of St. Nicolas 
des Champs, Legeav having been expelled by his par- 
ishioners as suspected of Hugucnotism. Henry III said 
on that occasion that “Parisians were kings and popes, 
and if you only let them have their own way, ihey will 
soon dispose of the whole spiritual and temporal power 
of the realm.” In January. 1589, Pigenat preached at 
Paris the funeral sermon of the duke and cardinal of 
Guise, assassinated at. Blois by order of the king, and 
gave them the title of martyrs. Pigenat took a con- 
spicuous part in all the absurd and obscene processions 
of the time, lie organized one in his own parish, where 
over a thousand persons, of both sexes and every age, 
were marched half naked, the curate himself having 
only a white robe to cover him. lie was one of the 
first to sign the deposition of Henry III, anil became a 
member of the council of Quarante. lie was by his 
friends claimed to he inspired, but royalist writers call 
him “a troublesome liar, false prophet, promoter of 
every kind of crime, who receives from the Spanish 
court numbers of doubloons for his vociferating in the 
chair and in the public thoroughfares.” After the 
murder of Henry HI, Pigenat transferred his ani- 
mosity to Henry IV, declaring that “it was not in the 
power of God that the Bearnais should be converted, 
that the pope could not absolve him and put him on 
the throne, and that if he did he would lie excommuni- 
cated himself.” Pigenat did not live to see Henry IV 
make his entrance into Paris, lie died in 1590. Ac- 


PIGEON 197 PIGNEAU 


cording to L’Estoile, he was not destitute of talent and. 
imagination. 

Ilis brother, Onox Pigenat, provincial of the Jesuits 
and one of the Seize, was also a chief of the League. He 
died at Bourges of an attack of frenzy. 

A third member of the same family, Jean Pigenat, 
lived at the same time. He left A veuglement des Poli- 
tiques, Heretiques , et Muhenstres, etc. (Paris, 1592, 8vo). 
— lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 205. 

Pigeon is the rendering — but only in connection 
with the epithet “young" — of two very different lleb. 
and one Gr. word : !“I3*P> yonah, irtpiartpa, a general 
name for any member of the dove family (“dove” ev- 
erywhere, except in the Mosaic enactment, Lev. i, 14; 
v, 7, 11 ; xii, 6, 8; xiv, 22. 30: xv, 14, 29; Numb, vi, 
10; Luke ii, 24); but in Gen. xv, 9, brs, gozal, the 
young of any bird, perhaps there correctly of the dove, 
although in Dent, xxxii the “young" of the eagle is 
meant. The Biblical passages in which the pigeon is 
mentioned may be classified as follows: 

1. Pigeons or doves were the only birds used for sac- 
rifices (comp, already Gen. xv, 9), in particular young 
pigeons (nDV^rt ^32. pulli columbini ) and turtle-doves, 
which were sacrificed, sometimes with other offerings 
(Lev. xii, 6, in purifying women after childbed), some- 
times alone as free-will offerings made by fire (Lev. i, 
14) ; or were prescribed in the purifications from lepro- 
sy (Lev. xiv, 22), from personal uncleanness (Lev. xv, 
14); that of Nazarites (Numb, vi, 10), and of women 
after menstruation (Lev. xv, 29). But in two cases, 
where poverty interfered with more costly sacrifices, 
these were substituted (Lev. v, 7 sq. ; xii, 8. Comp. 
Luke ii, 24). Such offerings of birds were also made 
by the poor in Egypt. (See Pausan. x, 32, 9. Comp. 
Engel, Cyprus, ii, 184 sq.) For the purpose of provid- 
ing these sacrifices, dealers in pigeons used to sit in the 
neighborhood of the Temple (Matt, xxi, 12; Mark xi, 
15; John ii, 14, 16); and the raising of doves was from 
an early day a pursuit peculiar to the Jews (Isa. lx, 8. 
Comp. KosenmUller, Morgenl. vi, 283), although there 
were also many wild pigeons in Palestine (Ezek. vii, 16. 
Comp. Schubert, iii, 250), which built their nests in 
clefLs of the rocks (Jer. xlviii, 28; Cant, ii, 14; Rob- 
inson, ii, 433), or at least sought a refuge there when 
chased (Psa. xi, 1. Comp. Iliad, xxi, 493 sq. ; Quint. 
Smyrn. xii, 12 sq.). See Scliwebel, De columbarum 
cultu (Onold. 1767); Wernsdorf, De columb. sacra Sy- 
rontm (Helmst. 1761). 

2. The flight of the pigeon was employed by the 
poet as a figure for swiftness (Psa. lv, 7 ; Ilosea xi, 11. 
Comp. Soph. (FA. Col. 1081; Eurip. Bacch. 1090; Rob- 
inson, ii, 484), and is so understood by many interpre- 
ters in several passages of the New Testament (Matt, 
iii, 16; Mark i, 10; John i, 32) in which the Holy Spir- 
it’s descent is spoken of, but this may be doubted. The 
figure is carried out still further by Isaiah (lx, 8), and 
it is true that the pigeon surpasses in swiftness and di- 
rectness of flight many birds of its size, without, how- 
ever, being remarkable in this respect (Virg. Ain. v, 
213 sq. ; Plin. x, 52). The cause of this may be found 
in its long wings (Rechsteiu, Xaturgesch. iv, 2), by 
means of which it often escapes the birds which would 
prey upon it (Plin. x, 52; Phiedr. i, 323; .Elian, Ani- 
mal. iii, 45). In songs of love, the eyes of the beloved, 
as expressive of attachment and of innocence, are com- 
pared with those of the dove, or, as some say, with little 
doves (Cant, i, 15; iv, 1). And in Cant, v, 12 it is said, 
“ His eyes are like doves over brooks of icater, bathed in 
milk, resting in fulness a very beautiful description of 
the swimming apple of the eye. (The explanation of 
these words by Umbreit and Ddpke is in better taste 
than that of Rosenmuller.) The voice of the dove is 
represented by the poets as a sigh, an expression of sor- 
row (ran, Isa. xxviii, 14; lix, 11; Nah. ii, 8. Comp. 
Ezek. vii, 16 ; Theocr, vii, 141 ; Virg. Eclog. i, 59 ; Mar- 


tial, iii, 59, 19 ; and quotations from the Oriental poets 
in Jones, Poes. A siaf. p. 346 sq. ; Gesen. Comment, on Isa. 
i, 992). To the white and glimmering plumage refer- 
ence is made in Psa. lxviii, 14; on which we remark 
that, according to ilasselquist ( Travels , p. 553), the 
pigeons of Palestine have usually whitish-gray feathers 
on the neck, head, breast, and shoulders. In the com- 
parison used by Jesus (Matt, x, 16), the dove is the 
image of innocence. (Comp. Schottgen and Wetstein, 
ad loc.) 

3. Psa. lv, 7 was understood by the Hebrew inter- 
preters as affording a trace of the use of carrier-pigeons 
among the ancient Jews; their use being common now 
in the East. (See Arvieux, Xuchr. v, 422 ; Troilo, Trar. 
p. 610 sq.; Russell, A r . II. of Aleppo, \\, 90; and especially 
Bochart, Ilieroz. ii, 542 ; J. De Sacv, La Colombe messa- 
ge re, from the Arabic of Michael Sabbagh [Par. 18<)5] ; 
and on the use of them in ancient times, especially in 
sieges, see .Elian, I '. H. ix, 2 ; Plin. x, 53 ; Front. 
Straieg. iii, 13, 8.) But the words of this passage con- 
tain no such reference. Some would also refer to the 
same birds the words in Psa. lvi, I (Lengerke, Ken. p. 
166), but without reason. (See Gesen. Thes. i, 104.) — 
Winer, ii, 566. See Dove; Turtle-dove. 

Figgott, John, an English Baptist divine, flour- 
i ished in the second half of the 17th century, and was 
! very popular in his day, especially in his own religious 
denomination. As a religious instructor, he taught with 
clearness and argued with strength, exhorted with ve- 
hemence and reproved with becoming authority, lie 
published, Account of J. Pilkingion's Recantation of 
Romanism (Lond. 1669, 4to) : — Eight Separate Sermons 
j (1700-1709, all 8vo) : — Eleven Sermons (1714, 8vo) ; with 
the last is the sermon preached at Piggott’s grave by 
the Rev. J. Stenneth. See Skeats, 1 list, of the Free 
Churches of England, p. 261; Allibone, Diet, of Brit . 
and A mer. .1 uthors, s. v. 

Figllius, Albert, whose family name was Van 
Campen, was born about the year 1490 at Campon, in 
the Netherlands. lie studied first philosophy and 
mathematics at Louvain, then theology, on which he 
lectured at the. latter place and at Cologne, where he 
had also been honored with the doctorate of divinity. 
He accompanied pope Adrian VI (q. v.) to Spain and 
Italy, and after the death of Adrian he resided at Rome, 
and acted on several important missions as the repre- 
sentative of Rome, as at Worms and Regensburg. Un- 
der pope Paul 111 (q. v.) he was made provost of the 
church of St. John at Utrecht, where he died, Dec. 
24, 1543. Although Pighius was very fierce against 
Protestants, yet among his own coreligionists his or- 
I thodoxy to the Catholic faith was doubted very much. 
Of his works we mention, Ad versus Prognosticatoru m 
j vulgus, qui animas preedidiones edunl et se astrologos 
I mentiuntur, astrologiie defensio : — De eequinoctiorum sol- 
si it iorumque inventione, nec non de ratione paschalis ce- 
lebrationis et de restitutione ecclesiasiici calendarii : — 
Adrersus novatn Mat'd Beneventuni astronomiam apo- 
logia : — A sserfio hierarchice ecclesiastical lib. vi (Cologne, 
1538, and often) : — and De libero hominis arbitrio et di- 
vina gratia libri x adrersus Lutherum, Calvinum, et alios, 
to which Calvin replied in his Defensio sanee et orihodoxiee 
doctrime de Servitnte et Liberatione humani A rbitrii ad- 
vers. Calumnias A lb. Pighii Canipensis (Geneva, 1545), 
published in his traetatus. See Dupin, Xourelle Bibli- 
oth 'eque des A uteurs ecclesicistiques, etc., t. xvi ; Bayle, 
Diet. s. v. ; Schweizcr, Centraldogmen, i, 180; Ilerzog, 
Reul-Encyklop. s. v. ; Theologisches Universal-Lexikon, 
s. v.; Jdcher, Gelehrten- Lexikon, s. v. ; Hagenbach, 
History of Doctrines, ii, 197 sq. (B. P.) 

Figneau de Behaine, Pierre-Joseph, a French 
missionary, was born Dec., 1741, at Origny (Thieraclie). 
He was brought up in the College of Laon, and studied 
theology at the Seminairc des Trente-Trois at Paris. 
After taking holy orders, he embarked at Cadiz, in the 
beginning of 1756, for the Oriental missions, unknown 


PIG NONE 


198 


PIK 


to his parents, who were opposed to his design. In 
1767 he arrived at the island of Hon-Dat, near the coast 
of Cochin-China. The apostolic vicar of that mission, 
M. rignel, bishop of Champa in partibus, gave him the 
direction of his college, which he was then transferring to 
that place. In 1768 the governor of the province Kan- 
Rao, to which the island of llon-Dat belonged, ordered 
him to be arrested, and sentenced him to the cangne, 
with another French missionary and a Chinese priest. 
They endured the torment with patience, and after three 
months' captivity were set at large. Pignean resumed 
the direction of his college, and transferred it to Pon- 
dicherry. In 1770 he was appointed bishop of Adran in 
partibus, and coadjutor of the apostolic vicar of Cochin- 
China. whom he soon after succeeded in his office. In 
1774 he entered Cochin-China by the Cambodia. lie 
found the whole country in the power of rebels, who had 
put to death the king and his nephew. The brother 
of the latter, Xguyen-Auts, who had been imprisoned, 
escaped and fled to the house of the bishop of Adran, 
where lie was concealed for a month. He succeeded 
afterwards in bringing together a small force, took pos- 
session of Lower Cochin-China, and called to his side 
his benefactor, and was, in all he did, directed by his 
advice. In 1783 he was beaten by the rebels, and had 
to dee the country. Pignean then, taking along the 
pupils of his college, went to the Cambodia, and thence 
to Siam. Having embarked for Pondicherry, lie heard, 
while sailing along the coast of Cambodia, that Ngu- 
yen-Ants was at a short distance on the coast; he joined 
liim, who, with about six hundred soldiers, was reduced 
to the last extremity of starvation. lie relieved them 
with his own provisions, and after spending a fortnight 
with them, he gained l’ulo-Way, a small deserted island, 
situated sixty leagues from the continent. He stayed 
there nine months, during which time he wrote, in com- 
pany with a Cocliin-Chinese priest, instructions for the 
religions worship, and corrected several works translat- 
ed from the French. In December, 17*4, lie joined 
again the king of Cochin-China, ami soon after went 
in person to solicit the assistance of Louis XVI for his 
friend, taking along with him the six-year-old son of 
the Asiatic prince, lie arrived at Lorient F'ebriiarv, 
1787. His embassy was a successful one. France en- 
gaged to send four frigates and nearly two thousand 
soldiers to Cochin-China, and obtained in compensation 
the principal harbor of that country, Touron. Louis 
XVI appointed Pignean bis plenipotentiary, and had 
his prebend presented by him to Xguyen-Auts. The 
bishop, who had received rich presents himself, em- 
barked for Pondicherry with the young prince, carry- 
ing to count Thomas Conway, governor-general of the 
French settlements, the blue cordon lie had obtained for 
him, with the direction to prepare and command in 
person the projected expedition; hut various obstacles, 
among others the Revolution, prevented it, and the 
bishop could only equip two little ships, which he 
loaded with ammunition, guns, etc. Count Conway 
put also at his disposition a frigate, on board of which 
lie sailed to Cochin-China, where he joined the king in 
December, 17*9. The arrival of these subsidies, the 
clever exertions of the French officers, who in a short 
time equipped a powerful tleet, and organized an army 
of six thousand soldiers after the European fashion, gave 
the victory to the king. The bishop was hopeful of 
turning to the advantage of religion the influence lie 
had won, when he died of dysentery, Oct. 9, 1799. In 
August. 1*01, the French government restored the 
tomb of Pignean do Rrhaino, and proclaimed it French 
property, lloefcr, A 'our. Ding. (i cue rule, xl, 224. 

Pignone, Sun ink, an Italian painter, who, accord- 
ing to Oretti. was horn at Florence in t lie year 1614, 
studied with Fahrizio Hoselii, afterwards with Pas- 
siguano, and lastly with Francesco Fnrini, whose man- 
ner lie adopted, though he improved his coloring by 
visiting Venice, and studying the works of the great 
masters, particularly those of Titian and Tintoretto. 


After his return to Florence lie distinguished himself 
hv several works which he executed for the churches, 
and which were greatly admired for the delicacy and 
beauty of the coloring. The most esteemed of these 
are, Si. Michael discomfiting the Hebei Angels, in the 
Xunziata: St. Louis, King of France, Distributing his 
Wealth to the Poor, in S. Felicita; and an altar-piece, 
Monte Oliveto. 1 1 is most admired works, however, 
are to he found in the collections of the nobility. These 
are of small size, and from sacred subjects. There arc 
also some of his pictures in the Florentine Hallery. He 
was fond of painting mythological subjects, the peculiar 
character of which afforded a line opportunity of dis- 
playing his marvellous skill in flesh tints. Lanzi and 
Carlo Maratti agree as to his being among the host of 
the Florentine painters of his time. His death oc- 
curred in 1698. See Spooner, Hiog. Hist, of the Fine 
Arts, ii, 695. 

Fignorius, Lairentius, a noted Italian ecclesias- 
tic, celebrated especially as an antiquary, was horn 
at Padua in 1571, and flourished at Treviso, where he 
held a eanoury. He died of the plague in 1631. He 
collected a cabinet of medals and other curiosities of 
rare extent and value. His principal work is an at- 
tempt to explain the famous Isiac Table, a relic of 
Egyptian antiquity, covered with figures of divinities, 
symbols, and hieroglyphs. The table is supposed by 
Warbnrtou to belong to the latest period of ancient 
Egypt. I’ignorins also wrote a treatise, De Servis et 
eomm apud veteres M inistcriis : — Antiquities of Padua, 
etc. See Xuuv. Did . Hist. s. v. 

Fi-hahi'roth (Heb. Pi-hachiroth' , “'2, 

understood by some to be of Hebrew etymology, and 
rendered mouth of the gorges ; Sept, t) t 7 rav\ic, ro erro- 
pa E ipw$, EtpioS ; Vnlg. Phikahiroth), a place before 
or at which the Israelites encamped, at the close of the 
third march from Raineses, when they went out of 
Egypt. Pi-liahiroth was before Migdol, and on either 
hand were Baal-zephon and the sea (Exod. xiv, 2,9; 
Numb, xxxiii. 7. 8). The name is probably that of 
a natural locality, from the unlikelihood that there 
should have been a town or village in both parts of the 
country where it is placed in addition to Migdol and 
Raal-zephou, which seem to have been, if not towns, at 
least military stations, and its name is susceptible of an 
Egyptian etymology giving a sense apposite to this 
idea. The first part of the word is apparently treated 
by its punctuation as a separate prefix (Numb, xxxiii, 8), 
and it would therefore appear to be the masculine def- 
inite article Pe, Pa, or Pi. .lablonsky proposed the 
(’optic pi- Achiral, “ the place where sedge grows," and 
this, or a similar name, the late M. Fnlgencc Fresnel 
recognised in the modern Ghuweybet el-bus, ‘‘the bed 
of reeds," near Ras Atakah. There is another tlhuirey- 
bet el-bus near Suez, and such a name would of course 
depend for its permanence upon the continuance of a 
vegetation subject to change. Migdol appears to have 
been a common name for a frontier watch-tower. See 
Mu;in)i„ Raal-zophon we take to have had a similar 
meaning to that of Migdol. See Baai.-zkimion. We 
should expect, therefore, that the encampment would 
have been in a depression, partly marshy, having on 
either hand an elevation marked by a watch-tower 
(Smith). It is evident that so vague a circumstance as 
the presence of reeds, which are common in any moist 
place near Suez, cannot serve to determine tile locality. 
This must be fixed by the more definite notices of the 
narrative, which appear to us to point to the opening 
of the plain el-Hadeah . between Jebel Atakah and Jebcl 
Abn-Dcrirj. See F.xouk; Red Sea, Crossing ok. 

File, also called Jksaiah Rerun, n somewhat noted 
Jewish rabbi, flourished at Breslau, in Silesia, where lie 
died, May 13, 1799, after having occupied the rabbiship 
for about sixteen years. He wrote or notes and 

corrections to the Talmud, which arc generally printed in 


PIKE 


199 


PILATE 


the modern editions of the Talmud: — 'U nx5£!"i, 
elucidations and corrections to Nathan ben-Jechiel’s 
(q. v.) dictionary, called Aruch, but only on the letters 
N— 2, which were edited by It. W. Giinsburg (Breslau, 
1830), while the second part, comprising the letters b— P., 
which was prepared by Luzzatto and Hurvvitz, was ed- 
ited by Rosenkranz (Vienna, 1859) : — X 2^"“ “'2“ i. e. 
glossaries on the Targum of Onkelos (q. v.), edited by 
D. Sklower (Breslau, 1827, and Vienna, 1836) : — ‘p — X“i 
■pi lib, glossaries on the Mishna, printed in the editions 
of the Mishna (Vienna, 1793; Prague, 1825-30; and 
with manyadditions edited by W. Eger, Altona, 1811-46). 
See Beer, Jiidische Liter at urbriefe (Leips. 1857, p. 45 ; 
reprinted from Frankel’s Monatsschrift , 1853-1854); 

F first, Bibliotheca Judaica, i, 110; Zunz, Die J lonats- 
taye des Kalenderjahres (Berlin, 1872), p. 27 ; Engl, transl. 
by Rev. B. Pick, in the Jewish Messenger (N. Y. 1874); 
Cassel, Leitfaden zur jiidische n Geschichte n. Literatur 
(Berlin, 1872), p. 107 ; Jost, Gesch. d, Judenth. u. s. Sekten, 
iii, 245; Steinschneider, Bibliograph. Ilandb. p. 22; Ca- 
talogus Libr. Jlebr. in Biblioth. Bodl. p. 1385. (B. P.) 

Pike, Samuel, an English Dissenting minister, was 
born at Ramsey, Wiltshire, about 1717. He became 
minister of a congregation at Henley-on-Thames, and 
in 1747 succeeded John Hill at the Three Cranes, Lon- 
don. He died in 1773. Pike was quite a voluminous 
writer. Among his many productions we mention, 
Thoughts on such Passages of Scripture as ascribe Af- 
fections and Passions to the Deity (Lond. 1750, 12mo) : 
— Philosophia Sacra , or the Principles of Natural Phi- 
losophy extracted from Divine Rerelution (Lond. 1753, 
8vo); a scarce work, written on Hutchiusonian prin- 
ciples: — The Nature and Evidences of Saving Faith; 
being the substance of Four Sermons on Ileb. xi, 1 ; Two 
of which were Preached at the Merchants' Lecture , Pin- 
ner's Ilall. With a Preface (Lond. 1764, 8vo): — Re- 
ligious Cases of Conscience answered in an Evangelical 
Manner , or the Inquiring Christian Instmcted; to which 
are added Replies to Thirty-two Questions, or the Pro- 
fessing Christian Tided at the Bar of God's Word. To 
which is subjoined the Character of the Happy, Honest, 
and Faithful Man. By Samuel Pike and Samuel Hay- 
ward (new ed. Romsev, 1819, 8vo; last Amer. ed. with 
an Introd. by Dr. H. A. Boardmati, Pliila. 1859, 12mo) : i 
— Compendious Hebrew Lexicon (1766, 8vo; new ed. 
1816, 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A u- 
thors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. (J. H.W.) 

Pikollos, a deity among the ancient Wends of 
Slavonia, who was believed to preside over the infer- 
nal regions and the realms of the dead, lie was rep- 
resented as an old man with a pale countenance, and 
having before him three death’s heads. He correspond- 
ed to Pluto of the ancient Romans, and to Sica of the 
Hindus. Like the latter, he desires human blood, and 
reigns at once over the manes or souls of the dead, and 
over the metals in the bowels of tbe earth. 

Pilarik, Stephen, a Hungarian ecclesiastic of some 
distinction, was born ac Otschova in 1615. He was the 
son of a Protestant clergyman, and also devoted him- 
self to the ministry, and his talent as a preacher soon 
got him a widespread reputation. In the year 1663, while 
travelling, he was captured by Tartars, who reduced him 
to slavery, lie died Feb. 8, 1693, at Neusalza. Ilis prin- 
cipal writings are, Currus Jehovce mirabilis (Wittenberg, 
1678, 4to) ; and Turcico- Tart mica crudelitas ( Buda, 1684, 
4to), a touching account of his captivity. His son, also 
called Stephen, who died in 1710, left some works, now r 
forgotten. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 229. 

Pi'late, Pontius (nourioc n/Xaroc, Graecized 
from the Latin Pontius Pilatus'), the Roman procurator 
or resident as governor of Judrea during the period of 
our Lord’s public ministry and passion, and chiefly 
known in history from his connection with the Cruci- 
fixion. (In tbe following account we largely avail our- 


selves of the article in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible, with 
additions from other sources.) 

I. His Name. — His preenomen or first name is un- 
known. His nomen or family-name indicates that he 
was connected, by descent or adoption, with the gens of 
the Pontii, first conspicuous in Roman history in the 
person of C. Pontius Telesinus, the great Samnite gen- 
eral. The cognomen Pilatus has received two explana- . 
tions. (1.) As armed with the pilum or javelin (comp. 

“ pilata agmina,” Virg. Min. xii, 121) ; (2.) As contracted 
from pileatus. The fact that the pileus or cap was the 
badge of manumitted slaves (comp. Suetonius, Nero, 
c. 57 ; Tiber, c. 4), makes it probable that the epithet 
marked him out as a libertus, or as descended from one. 

II. His Office Pilate was the sixth Roman procura- 

tor of Juda?a (Matt, xxvii, 2; Mark xv, 1 ; Luke iii, 1 ; 
John xviii, xix), under whom our Lord taught, suffered, 
and died (Acts iii, 13; iv, 27 ; xiii, 28; 1 Tim. vi, 13). 
The testimony of Tacitus on this point is no less clear 
than it is important,; for it fixes beyond a doubt the 
time when the foundations of our religion were laid. 

“ The author of that name (Christian) or sect was Christ, 
who was capitally punished in the reign of Tiberius by 
Pontius Pilate” (Auctor nominis ejus Christus, Tiberio 
imperitante, per Procuratorem Pentium Pilatum sup- 
plied affectus est), 

A procurator (iniTpoTrog, Philo, Leg. ad Caium, and 
Josephus, War, ii, 9, 2 ; but less correctly gytpwv, Matt, 
xxvii, 2; and Josephus, Ant. xviii, 3, 1) was generally 
a Roman knight, appointed to act under the governor 
of a province as collector of the revenue, and judge in 
causes connected with it. Strictly speaking, proenra- 
tores Ccesaris were only required in the imperial prov- 
inces, i. e. those which, according to the constitution of 
Augustus, were reserved for the special administration 
of the emperor, without the intervention of the senate 
and people, and governed by his legate. In the sena- 
torial provinces, governed by proconsuls, the corre- 
sponding duties v r ere discharged by qiuestors. Yet it 
appears that sometimes qirocuratores w r erc appointed in 
those provinces also, to collect certain dues of th efscus 
(the emperor’s special revenue), as distinguished from 
those of the cerarium (the revenue administered by the 
senate). Sometimes in a small territory, especially in 
one contiguous to a larger province, and dependent upon 
it, the procurator was head of the administration, and 
had full military and judicial authority, though he was 
responsible to the governor of the neighboring province. 
Thus JiuUea was attached to Syria upon the deposition 
of Archelaus (A.D. 6), and a procurator appointed to 
govern it, with Caesarea for its capital. Already, dur- 
ing a temporary absence of Archelaus, it had been in 
charge of the procurator Sabinus; then, after the eth- 
nareh’s banishment, came Coponius; the third procu- 
rator was M. Ambivius; the fourth Annins Rufus; the 
fifth Valerius Gratus; and the sixth Pontius Pilate 
(Josephus, Ant. xviii, 2, 2), who was appointed A.D. 
25-6, in the twelfth year of Tiberius. He held his of- 
fice for a period of ten years (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 10, 
2). The agreement on this point between the accounts 
in the New Testament and those supplied by Josephus 
is entire and satisfactory. It has been exhibited in de- 
tail bv the learned, accurate, and candid Lardner (i, 150- 
389, Lond. 1827). These procurators had their head- 
quarters at Ctesarea, which is called by Tacitus Judoxe 
caput; but they took up their temporary abode at Je- 
rusalem on occasion of the great feasts, as a measure of 
precaution against any popular outbreak. See Pro- 
curator. 

III. His Life. — 1. Of the early history of Pilate we 
know nothing; but a German legend fills up the gap 
strangely enough. Pilate is the bastard son of Tyrus, 
king of Mavence. His father sends him to Rome as a 
hostage. There he is guilty of a murder; but being 
sent to Pontus, rises into notice as subduing the barba- 
rous tribes there, receives in consequence the new name 
of Pontius, and is sent to Judiea. It has been suggested 


PILATE 


200 


PILATE 


that the twenty-second legion, which was in Palestine 
at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem, and was af- 
terwards stationed at Mayence, may have been in this 
case either t he bearers of the tradition or the inventors 
of the fable (coinp. Yilraar, Deutsche Xationalliteratur, 
i, 217). 

2. J/is Official Career. — (1.) I /is Administration in 
General. — One of Pilate’s first acts was to remove the 
headquarters of the army from Ciesarea to Jerusalem. 
The soldiers of course took with them their standards, 
bearing the image of the emperor, into the lloly City. 
Pilate had been obliged to send them in by night, and 
there were no bounds to the rage of the people on dis- 
covering what had thus been done. They poured down 
in crowds to Ciesarea, where the procurator was then re- 
siding, and besought him to remove the images. After 
five days of discussion he gave the signal to some con- 
cealed soldiers to surround t lie petitioners and put them 
to death unless they ceased to trouble him; but this 
only strengthened their determination, and they de- 
clared themselves ready rather to submit to death than 
forego their resistance to an idolatrous innovation. Pi- 
late then yielded, and the standards were by his orders 
brought down to Ciesarea (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 3, 12; 
Wuv, ii. 9, 2-4). No previous governor hail ventured 
on such an outrage. Herod the Croat, it is true, had 
placed the Homan eagle on one of his new buildings; 
but this had been followed by a violent outbreak, and 
the attempt had not been repeated (Ewald, Geschichte, 
iv, 509). The extent to which the scruples of the Jews 
on this point were respected by' the Homan governors is 
shown by the fact that no effigy of either god or em- 
peror is found on the money coined by them in Judica 
before the war under Nero (ibid, v, 33, referring to De 
San lev, Ilecherches sur la X umismutique judaique, pt. 
viii, ix). Assuming this, the denarius with Ciesar’s 
image and superscription of Matt, xxiii must have been 
a coin from the Homan mint, or that of some other 
province. The latter was probably current for the 
common purposes of life. The shekel alone was re- 
ceived as a Temple-offering, See Abomination of 
Desolation. 


/E 


Coin of Jucliea struck under Pontius Pilate. 




Lord as a piece of news (uirayytWovTeg, Luke xiii, 
1), and on which he founded some remarks on the 
connection between sin and calamity. It must have 
occurred at some feast at Jerusalem, in the outer court 
of the Temple, since the blood of the worshippers was 
mine/led with their sacrijiees ; but the silence of Josephus 
about it seems to show that riots and massacres on such 
occasions were so frequent that it was needless to re- 
count them all. Ewald suggests that the insurrection 
of which Mark speaks (xv, 7) must have been that con- 
nected with the appropriation of the ('orban (supra), 
and that this explains the eagerness with which the 
people demanded Harabbas’s release, lie infers further, 
from Harabbas’s name, that he was the son of a rabbi 
(Abba was a rabbinic title of honor), and thus accounts 
for the part taken in his favor by the members of the 
Sanhedrim. See Hakabbas. 

(2.) His special Connection with Jesus. — It was the 
custom for the procurators to reside at Jerusalem dur- 
ing the great feasts, to preserve order, and accordingly, 
at the time of our Lord’s last Passover, Pilate was occu- 
pying his official residence in Herod’s palace; and to 
the gates of this palace Jesus, condemned on the charge 
of blasphemy, was brought early in the morning by the 
chief priests and officers of the Sanhedrim, who were 
unable to enter the residence of a (ientile, lest they 
should he defiled, and unlit to eat the Passover (John 
xviii, 28). Pilate therefore came out to learn their 
purpose, and demanded the nature of the charge. At 
lirst they seem to have expected that he would have 
carried out their wishes without further inquiry, and 
therefore merely" described our Lord as a kokottouic 
( disturber of the public peace); but as a Homan procu- 
rator had too much respet t for justice, or at least under- 
stood his business too well to consent to such a condem- 
nation, and as they knew that he would not enter into 
theological questions, any’ more than (Jallio afterwards 
did on a somewhat similar occasion (Acts xviii, 14), 
they’ were obliged to devise a new charge, and therefore 
interpreted our Lord’s claims in a political sense, accus- 
ing him of assuming the royal title, perverting the na- 
tion, and forbidding the payment of tribute to Home 
(Luke xxiii, 3; an account plainly presupposed in 
John xviii, 33), It is evident that from this moment 
Pilate was distracted between two conflicting feelings : a 
fear of offending the Jews, who had already grounds of 
accusation against him. which would be greatly strength- 
ened by’ anv show of lukewarmness in punishing an of- 
fence against the imperial government, and a conscious 
conviction that Jesus was innocent, since it was absurd 


Ohverte : Ti,9f t>!on KaiVupoj (“Of Tiberius Osar”), will) the legend t? 16, 
i. e. A. I). !i9, the year of our Lord’s crucifixion. Reverse : Ka.'oa- 

pe s (“ Julia [mollier] of Osar"), wilh three ears of corn tied together. 
Probably a quadrant, equivalent to two ** mites" (Mutt, xi, *.'9). 

On two other occasions Pilate nearly’ drove the Jews 
to insurrection; the lirst when, in spite of this warning 
about the images, lie hung up in his palace at Jerusa- 
lem some gilt shields inscribed with the names of dei- 
ties, which were only’ removed by an order from Tibe- 
rius (Philo, Ad Caiurn, § 38, ii, 589); the second when 
he appropriated the revenue arising from the redemp- 
tion of vows (Corban ; comp. Mark vii, 11) to the con- 
struction of an aqueduct. This order led to a riot, which 
he suppressed by' sending among the crowd soldiers 
with concealed daggers, who massacred a great number, 
not only of rioters, but of casual spectators (Josephus, 
War, ii, 9, 4). Ewald suggests that the Tower of Si- 
loam (Luke xiii, 4) may have been part of the same 
works, and that this was the reason why its fall was 
looked upon as a judgment (Gesch. vi, 40). The Phar- 
isaic reverence for whatever was set apart for the Corban 
(Mark vii, 11), and their scruples as to admitting into it 
anything that had an impure origin (Matt, xxvii, li). 
may’ be regarded, perhaps, as outgrowths of the same 
feeling. See Couuax. 

To these specimens of his administration, which rest 
on the testimony’ of profane authors, we must add the 
slaughter of certain Galihvans, which was told to our 


to suppose that a desire to free the nation from Homan 
authority' was criminal in the eyes of the Sanhedrim. 
Moreover, this last feeling was strengthened by his own 
hatred of the Jews, whose religious scruples had caused 
him frequent trouble, and by a growing respect for the 
calm dignity’ and meekness of the sufferer. First he 
examined our Lord privately, and asked him whether 
he were a king. The question which he in return put 
to his judge, “ Sai/est than this of thyself, or did others 
tell it thee of me?” seems to imply that there was in Pi- 
late's own mind a suspicion that the prisoner really was 
what he was charged with being; a suspicion which 
shows itself again in the later question, “ Whence art 
thou ?” (John xix. 8), in the increasing desire to release 
him (ver. 12), and in the refusal to alter the inscription 
on the cross (ver. 22). In any ease Pilate accepted as 
satisfactory Christ’s assurance that his kingdom teas not 
of this world, that is. not worldly in its nature or ob- 
jects, and therefore not to he founded by’ this world’s 
weapons, though he could not understand the assertion 
that it was to l»e established by hearing witness to the 
truth, llis famous reply, “ What is truth?” was the 
question of a worldly-minded politician, sceptical be- 
cause he was indifferent, one who thought truth an 
empty’ name, or at least could not see “any connection 
between uXifitta and fiamXtia, truth and policy” (Dr. 
C. Wordsworth, Comm, ad loc.). With this question he 


TILATE 


201 


PILATE 


brought the interview to a close, and came out to the 
Jews and declared the prisoner innocent. To this they 
replied that his teaching had stirred up all the people 
from Galilee to Jerusalem. The mention of Galilee 
suggested to Pilate a new way of escaping from his di- 
lemma, by sending on the case to Herod Antipas, te- 
trarch of that country, who had come up to Jerusalem 
to the feast, while at the same time this gave him an 
opportunity for making overtures of reconciliation to 
Herod, with whose jurisdiction he had probably in some 
recent instance interfered. But Herod, though propiti- 
ated by this act of courtesy, declined to enter into the 
matter, and merely sent Jesus back to Pilate dressed in 
a shining kingly robe (tov7i)r« XapTrpav, Luke xxiii, 
11), to express his ridicule of such pretensions, and con- 
tempt for the whole business. So Pilate was compelled 
to come to a decision, and first, having assembled the 
chief priests and also the people, whom he probably 
summoned in the expectation that they would be favor- 
able to Jesus, he announced to them that the accused 
had done nothing worthy of death, but at the same 
time, in hopes of pacifying the Sanhedrim, he proposed 
to scourge him before he released him. But as the ac- 
cusers were resolved to have his blood, they rejected 
this concession, and therefore Pilate had recourse to a 
fresh expedient. It was the custom for the Roman 
governor to grant every year, in honor of the Passover, 
pardon to one condemned criminal. The origin of the 
practice is unknown, though we may connect it with 
the fact mentioned by Livy (v, 13) that at a Leetistcr- 
nium “ vinctis quoque dempta vincula.” Pilate there- 
fore offered the people their choice between two, the 
murderer Barabbas, and the prophet whom a few days 
before they had hailed as the Messiah. To receive their 
decision he ascended the a portable tribunal 

which was carried about w r ith a Roman magistrate to 
be placed wherever he might direct, and which in the 
present case was erected on a tessellated pavement (\t- 
SocTpinrov) in front of the palace, and called in Hebrew 
Gabbatha, probably from being laid down on a slight 
elevation (FJZa, to be high”). As soon as Pilate had 
taken his seat, he received a mysterious message from 
his wife, according to tradition a proselyte of the gate 
(StorTtfirjc), named Procla or Claudia Procula {Evany. 
Nicod. ii), who had “ suffered many things in a dream,” 
which impelled her to entreat her husband not to con- 
demn the Just One. But he had no longer any choice 
in the matter, for the rabble, instigated of course by the 
priests, chose Barabbas for pardon, and clamored for the 
death of Jesus; insurrection seemed imminent, and Pi- 
late reluctantly yielded. But before issuing the fatal 
order he washed his hands before the multitude, as a 
sign that he was innocent of the crime, in imitation 
probably of the ceremony enjoined in Deut. xxi, where 
it is ordered that when the perpetrator of a murder is 
not discovered, the elders of the city in which it occurs 
shall wash their hands, with the declaration, “Our 
hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes 
seen it.” Such a practice might naturally be adopted 
even by a Roman, as intelligible to the Jewish multi- 
tude around him. As in the present case it produced 
no effect, Pilate ordered his soldiers to inflict the scourg- 
ing preparatory to execution; but the sight of unjust 
suffering so patiently borne seems again to have troubled 
his conscience, and prompted a new effort in favor of 
the victim. He brought him out bleeding from the 
savage punishment, and decked in the scarlet robe and 
crown of thorns which the soldiers had put on him in 
derision, and said to the people, “ Behold the man !” 
hoping that such a spectacle would rouse them to shame 
and compassion. But the priests only renewed their 
clamors for his death, and, fearing that the political 
charge of treason might be considered insufficient, re- 
turned to their first accusation of blasphemy, and quot- 
ing the law of Moses (Lev. xxiv, 16), which punished 
blasphemy with stoning, declared that he must die “be- 


cause he made himself the Son of God.” But this title 
vwg Sfoi) augmented Pilate's superstitious fears, already 
aroused by his wife’s dream (pdXXov ttpofiifii], John 
xix, 7); he feared that Jesus might be one of the he- 
roes or demigods of his own mythology; he took him 
again into the palace, and inquired anxiously into his 
descent (“Whence art thou?”) and his claims, but, as 
the question was only prompted by fear or curiosity, 
Jesus made no reply. When Pilate reminded him of 
his own absolute power over him, he closed this last 
conversation with the irresolute governor by the mourn- 
ful remark : “ Thou couldst have no power at all against 
me, except it were given thee from above; therefore he 
that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin.” God 
had given to Pilate power over him, and power only, 
but to those who delivered him up God had given the 
means of judging of his claims; and therefore Pilate’s 
sin, in merely exercising this power, was less than theirs 
who, being God’s own priests, with the Scriptures before 
them, and the word of prophecy still alive among them 
(John xi, 50; xviii, 14), had deliberately conspired for 
his death. The result of this interview was one last 
effort to save Jesus by a fresh appeal to the multitude; 
but now arose the formidable cry, “If thou let this man 
go, thou art not Caesar’s friend,” and Pilate, to whom 
political success was as the breath of life, again ascended 
the tribunal, and finally pronounced the desired con- 
demnation. 

The proceedings of Pilate in our Lord’s trial supply 
many interesting illustrations of the accuracy of the 
evangelists, from the accordance of their narrative with 
the known customs of the time. Thus Pilate, being 
only a procurator, had no quasstor to conduct the trial, 
and therefore examined the prisoner himself. Again, 
in early times Roman magistrates had not been allowed 
I to take their wives with them into the provinces, but 
this prohibition had fallen into neglect, and latterly a 
proposal made by Ctecina to enforce it had been rejected 
(Tacit. Ann. iii, 33, 34). Grotins points out that the 
I word used when Pilate sends our Lord to 

| Herod (Luke xxiii, 7), is “propria Romani juris vox: 

| nam remittitur reus qui alicubi eomprehensns mittitur 
1 ad judicem aut originis aut habitationis” (see Alford, ad 
loc.). The tessellated pavement (Xw'darptorov) was so 
necessary to the forms of justice, as well as the fiijpa, 
that Julius Ca*sar carried one about with him on his 
expeditions (Sueton. Jul. c. 46). The power of life and 
death was taken from the Jews when Judaea became a 
province (Josephus, Ant. xx, 9, 1). Scourging before 
execution was a well-known Roman practice. 

So ended Pilate’s share in the greatest crime which 
has been committed since the world began. That he 
did not immediately lose his feelings of anger against 
the Jews who had thus compelled his acquiescence, and 
of compassion and awe for the Sufferer whom he had 
unrighteously sentenced, is plain from his curt and an- 
gry refusal to alter the inscription which he had pre- 
pared for the cross (o ytypaQa, ytypatpa), his read}’ ac- 
quiescence in the request made by Joseph of Arimathsea 
that the Lord’s body might be given up to him rather 
than consigned to the common sepulchre reserved for 
those who had suffered capital punishment, and his sul- 
len answer to the demand of the Sanhedrim that the 
sepulchre should be guarded. (Matt, xxvii, 65, f\sre 
KovtTTuidiav ’ virdyert, aatyaXiaaoSe tog ot dart. Elli- 
cott would translate this, “Take a guard,” on the ground 
that the watchers were Roman soldiers, who were not 
under the command of the priests. But some might 
have been placed at their disposal during the feast, and 
we should rather expect XdfitTt if the sentence were 
imperative.) 

(3.) His Eventual Fate . — Here, as far as Scripture is 
concerned, our knowledge of Pilate’s life ends. But we 
learn from Josephus {Ant. xviii, 4, 1) that his anxiety 
to avoid giving offence to Ciesar did not save him from 
political disaster. The Samaritans were unquiet and 
rebellious. A leader of their own race had promised to 


PILATE 


202 


PILATE 


disclose to them the sacred treasures which Moses was 
reported to have concealed in Mount Gerizim. Pilate ■ 
led his troops against them, and defeated them easily 
enough. The Samaritans complained to A'itollius, now 
president of Syria, and he sent Pilate to Home to answer 
their accusations before the emperor (ibid. 2). When lie 
reached Home he found Tiberius dead and Cains (Calig- 
ula) on the throne, A.l>. 30. Eusebius adds (Hist. Keel. 
ii, 7) that soon afterwards. “ wearied with misfortunes,” 
he killed himself. As to the scene of his death there 
are various traditions. One is that he was banished to 
Vienna Allobrogum (Vienne on the Phone), where a 
singular monument, a pyramid on a (piadrangular base, 
fifty-two feet high, is called Pontius Pilate’s tomb 
(Smith, Diet, of Chins. Ceog. art. Vienna). Another is 
that he sought to hide his sorrows on the mountain by 
the lake of Lucerne, now called Mount I’ilalus; and 
there, after spending years in its recesses, in remorse 
and despair rather than penitence, plunged into the 
dismal lake which occupies its summit. According to 
the popular belief, “a form is often seen to emerge from 
the gloomy waters, and go through the action of one 
washing his hands; and when he does so .dark clouds 
of mist gather first round the bosom of the Infernal 
Lake (such it has been styled of old), and then, wrap- 
ping tiie whole upper part of the mountain in darkness, 
presage a tempest or hurricane, which is sure to follow- 
in a short space” (Scott, .1 me of Ceiersiein, ch. i). (See 
below.) 

Pilate’s wife is also, as might be expected, prominent 
in these traditions. Her name is given as Claudia Pro- 
cula (Xieeph. Hint. Keel, i, 30). She had been a prose- 
lyte to Judaism before the crucifixion (Kvang. Xicocl. 
c. 2). Nothing certain is known as to her history, but 
the tradition that she became a Christian is as old as 
the time of Origen (Horn, in Matt. xxxv). The Creek 
Church has canonized her. The dream lias been inter- 
preted by some as a divine interposition; by others as 
a suggestion of the devil, who wished to prevent the 
Saviour’s death : by others as the unconscious reflection 
of her interest, in the reports which had reached her re- 
garding Jesus. The description of Jesus as “that just 
man” (np cWrmp iKtivip), it is remarked bv Sell a ft’, re- 
calls the celebrated unconscious prophecy of Plato, in 
his H< public, as to the linatog who was, after enduring 
all possible sufferings, to restore righteousness. In the 
earlier periods, and indeed so long as the commonwealth 
subsisted, it was very unusual for the governors of 
provinces to take their wives with them (Senec. l)e 
Contror. 25), and in the strict regulations which Au- 
gustus introduced he did not allow the favor, except in 
peculiar and specified circumstances (Seuton. A ug. 24). 
The practice, however, grew' to be more and more prev- 
alent, and was customary in Pilate’s time. It is evident 
from Tacitus that at the time of the death of Augustus, 
t iermanicus hail his wife Agrippina with him in Gcr- 
miiny (A mini, i, 40, 41; comp, iii, 33-55); Josephus, 
Ant. xx, 10, 1 ; Upian, iv, 2). Indeed, in the begin- 
ning of the rcigii of Tiberius, Germanicus took bis w ife 
with him into the East. Piso, the project of Syria, took 
his wife also along with him at the same time (Tacit. 
A nmil. ii. 54. 55). “ But,” says Lardner ( i, 152), “ noth- 
ing can render this (the practice in question) more ap- 
parent than a motion made in the Homan senate by 
Severn* < jesina, in the fourth consulship of Tiberius, 
and second of Drusus Ca-sar (A. I). 21), that no magis- 
trate to whom any province was assigned should be ac- 
companied by his wife, except the senate’s rejecting it, 
and that with some indignation” (Tacit. Annul, iii, 33, 
31). The fact mentioned incidentally, or rather im- 
plied, in Matthew, being thus confirmed by full and un- 
questionable evidence, cannot fail to serve as a corrob- 
oration of the evangelical history. (Comp. Paulus, 
Comm, iii, 723; Kuiniil, In lor. Mat.; Hotter, Ih Conjii - 
gin Pilati Somnio, Jena, 1701 ; Kluge, Ite Somuio I’xoris 
PH. Hal. 1720; Ilerbart, Kxamen iSomnii L'xoris Pil. 
Oldcnb. 1735.) 


IV. Uis Character.— The character of Pilate may be 
sufficiently inferred from the sketch given above of bis 
conduct at our Lord’s trial. By some he has been de- 
picted as one of the worst of tyrants: by others, who 
have passed to the opposite extreme, his faults have 
been unduly palliated or denied. Tertullian speaks of 
him as virtually a Christian at heart (“jam pro suii 
conscientiaChrislianiim,”.l/jo/.c.2l); and the Ethiopian 
Church has even made him a saint. We have no rea- 
son to suppose that, so far as his general administration 
went, it differed greatly from that of the other Human 
governors of Judn-a. lie was a type of t lie rich and 
corrupt Homans of his age; a worldly-minded states- 
man, conscious of no higher wants than those of this life, 
yet by no means unmoved by feelings of justice and 
mercy. 1 1 is conduct to the Jews, in the instances 
quoted from Josephus, though severe, was not thought- 
lessly cruel or tyrannical, considering the general prac- 
tice of Homan governors, and t he difficulties of dealing 
with a nation so arrogant and perverse. Certainly there 
is nothing in the facts recorded by profane authors in- 
consistent with his desire, obvious from the Gospel nar- 
rative, to save our Lord. But all his better feelings 
were overpowered by a selfish regard for his own secu- 
rity. He would not encounter the least hazard of per- 
sonal annoyance in behalf of innocence and justice; the 
unrighteous condemnation of a good man w-as a trifle in 
comparison with the fear of the emperor’s frown and 
the loss of place and power. While we do not differ 
from Chrysostom’s opinion that he was TzapdvopoQ 
(Chrysost. i, 802, .1 tic. Jndoos, vi), or that recorded in 
the Apostolical Constitutions (v, 11), that lie was arai - 
•IpoQ, we yet see abundant reason for our Lord’s merci- 
ful judgment, “He that delivered me unto thee hath 
the greater sin.” At the same time his history furnishes 
a proof that worldliness and want of principle arc sources 
of crimes no less awful than those which spring from 
deliberate and reckless wickedness. The unhappy no- 
toriety given to his name by its place in the two uni- 
versal creeds of Christendom is due, not to any desire 
of singling him out for shame, but to the need of fixing 
the date of our Lord's death, and so hearing witness to 
the claims of Christianity as resting on a historical basis 
(August. I)e Fide i t Sgmb. c. v, vol. vi. p. 15G; Pearson, 
On the Creed, p. 23!), 210, ed. Burt, and the authorities 
quoted in note c). 

That the conduct of Pilate was highly criminal can- 
not he denied. But his guilt was light in comparison 
with the atrocious depravity of the Jews, especially the 
priests. 11 is was the guilt of weakness and fear, theirs 
the guilt of settled and deliberate malice. His state of 
mind prompted him to attempt the release of an ac- 
cused person in opposition to the clamors of a misguided 
mob; theirs urged them to compass the ruin of an ac- 
quitted person hv instigating the populace, calumniat- 
ing the prisoner, anil terrifying the judge. If Pilate 
yielded against his judgment under the fear of personal 
danger, and so took part in an act of unparalleled injus- 
tice, the priests and their ready tools originated the 
false accusation, sustained it by subornation of perjury, 
and when it was declared invalid enforced their own 
unfounded sentence by appealing to the lowest passions. 
Pilate, it is clear, was utterly destitute of principle. lie 
was willing, indeed, to do right, if lie could do right 
without personal disadvantage. Of gratuitous wicked- 
ness he was perhaps incapable, certainly in the condem- 
nation of Jesus he has the merit of being for a time on 
the side of innocence. But he yielded to violence, and 
so committed an awful crime. In his hands was the 
life of the prisoner. Convinced of his innocence, he 
ought to have set him at liberty, thus doing right re- 
gardless of consequences. But this is an act of high 
virtue which we hardly require at the hands of a Homan 
governor of Jiukva; and though Pilate must bear t lie 
reproach of acting contrary to his own declared convic- 
tions, yet he may equally claim some credit for the ap- 
parently sincere efforts which he made in order to de- 


PILATE 


PILATE 203 


feat the malice of the Jews and procure the liberation 
of Jesus. 

If now we wish to sum up the judgment of Pilate's 
character, we easily see that he was one of that large class 
of men who aspire to public offices, not from a pure and 
lofty desire of benefiting the public and advancing the 
good of the world, but from selfish and personal consid- 
erations, from a love of distinction, from a love of power, 
from a love of self-indulgence; being destitute of any 
fixed principles, and having no aim but office and influ- 
ence, they act right only by chance and when conven- 
ient, and are wholly incapable of pursuing a consistent 
course, or of acting with firmness and self-denial in cases 
in which the preservation of integrity requires the ex- 
ercise of these qualities. Pilate was obviously a man 
of weak, and therefore, with his temptations, of corrupt 
character. The view given in the Apostolical Consti- 
tutions (v, 14), where unmanliness (dvavdpia) is as- 
cribed to him, we take to be correct. This want of 
strength will readily account for his failing to rescue 
Jesus from the rage of his enemies, and also for the acts 
of injustice and cruelty which he practiced in his gov- 
ernment-acts which, considered in themselves, wear a 
deeper dye than does the conduct which he observed 
in surrendering Jesus to the malice of the Jews. This 
same weakness may serve to explain to the reader how 
much influence would be exerted on this unjust judge, 
not only by the stern bigotry and persecuting wrath of 
the Jewish priesthood, but especially by the not con- 
cealed intimations which they threw out against Pilate 
that, if he liberated Jesus, he was no friend of Tiberius, 
and must expect to have to give an account of his con- 
duct at Pome. That this was no idle threat, noth- 
ing beyond the limits of probability, Pilate’s subsequent 
deposition by Vitellius shows very plainly; nor could 
the procurator have been ignorant either of the stern 
determination of the Jewish character, or of the offence 
he had by his acts given to the heads of the nation, or 
of the insecurity, at that very hour, when the contest 
between him and the priests was proceeding regarding 
the innocent victim whom they lusted to destroy, of his 
own position in the office which he held, and which, of 
course, he desired to retain. On the whole, then, view- 
ing the entire conduct of Pilate, his previous iniquities 
as well as his bearing on the condemnation of Jesus — 
\iewing his own actual position and the malignity of 
the Jews — we cannot, we confess, give our vote with 
those who have passed the severest condemnation on 
this weak and guilty governor. 

The number of dissertations on Pilate’s character and 
all the circumstances connected with him, his “faci- 
nora,” his “ Christum servant] i stadium,” his wife’s 
dream, his supposed letters to Tiberius, which have 
been published during the last and present centuries, is 
quite overwhelming. On this point the student may 
consult with advantage dean Alford’s Commentary; 
Ellicott, Historical Lectures on the Life of our Lord , 
sect, vii : Ncander's Life of Christ , § 285 (Bohn) ; Ewald, 
Geschichte, v, 30, etc. See also Muller, Be enixiss. Pil. 
Christ, servand. stud. (Hamb. 1751); Tobler, in Pfen- 
niger, Samml. z. christl. Mag. Ill, ii, (Zurich, 1782); 
Niemever, Charakt. i, 129 sq. ; Panins, Comment, iii, 697 
sq. ; Liicke, on John xix. Comp. Schuster, in Eieh- 
liorn’s Biblidth. d. bibl. Lit, x, 823 ; Olshausen, in an- 
swer to Tholtick’s low valuation of Pilate, Comment, ii, 
504 sq. The reader will find a discriminating analysis 
in Stier, Reden Jesu, vi, 318-382 (ii, 619 sq. of the Ameri- 
can translation), and in I)r. Hanna’s Last Day of Our 
Lord's Passion, p. 77-148. See also the Zeitschr. f. 
wissensch. Theol. 1871, vol. iv. 

V. Apocryphal A ccounts. — We learn from Justin Mar- 
tyr ( Apol . i, 76, 84), Tertullian (Apol. c. 21), Eusebius 
(Hist. Eccles. ii, 2), and others, that Pilate made an offi- 
cial report to Tiberius of onr Lord’s trial and condem- 
nation ; and in a homily ascribed to Chrysostom, though 
m ^ r ked as spurious by his Benedictine editors (Horn. 
viii, in Pasch, viii, 968, D), certain viropviipara 


j (Acta, or Commentarii Pilati) are spoken of as well- 
known documents in common circulation. That he 
made such a report is highly probable, and it may have 
been in existence in Chrysostom’s time; but the Acta 
Pilati now extant in Greek, and two Latin epistles from 
him to the emperor (Fabric. Apocr. i, 237, 298; iii, 111, 
456), are certainly spurious. The number of extant 
11 Acta Pilati," in various forms, is so large as to show 
that very early the demand created a supply of docu- 
ments manifestly spurious, and we have no reason for 
looking on any one of those that remain as more au- 
thentic than the others. The taunt of Celsus that the 
Christians circulated spurious or distorted narratives 
under this title (Origen, c. Cels.'), and the complaint of 
Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. ix, 5) that the heathens made 
them the vehicle of blasphemous calumnies, show how 
largely the machinery of falsification was used on either 
side. Such of these documents as are extant are found 
in the collections ofFabricius, Thilo, and Tischendorf. 
Some of them are but weak paraphrases of the Gospel 
history. The most extravagant are perhaps the most 
interesting, as indicating the existence of modes of 
thought at variance with the prevalent traditions. Of 
these anomalies the most striking is that known as the 
Paradosis Pilati (Tischendorf, Evang. Apoc. p. 426). 
The emperor Tiberius, startled at the universal dark- 
ness that had fallen on the Homan empire on the day 
of the crucifixion, summons Pilate to answer for having 
caused it. lie is condemned to death, but before his 
execution he prays to the Lord Jesus that he may not 
be destroyed with the wicked Hebrews, and pleads his 
ignorance as an excuse. The prayer is answered by a 
voice from heaven, assuring him that all generations 
shall call him blessed, and that he shall be a witness for 
Christ at his second coming to judge the twelve tribes 
of Israel. An angel receives his head, and his wife dies 
filled with joy, and is buried with him. Startling as 
this imaginary history may be, it has its counterpart in 
the traditional customs of the Abyssinian Church, in 
which Pilate is recognised as a saint and martyr, and 
takes his place in the calendar on the 25th of June 
(Stanley, Eastern Church, p. 13 ; Neale, Eastern Church, 
i, 806). The words of Tertullian, describing him as 
“jam pro sua eonseientia Christianas” (Apol. e. 21), in- 
dicate a like feeling, and we find traces of it also in the 
Apocryphal Gospel, which speaks of him as “uncir- 
cumcised in flesh, but circumcised in heart” (Evang. 
Nicod. i, 12, in Tischendorf, Evang. Apoc. p. 236). 

According to another legend (Mors Pilati, in Tisch- 
endorf ’s Evang. Apoc. p. 432), Tiberius, hearing of the 
wonderful works of healing that had been wrought in 
Judaea, writes to Pilate, bidding him to send to Borne 
the man that had this divine power. Pilate has to 
confess that he has crucified him ; but the messenger 
meets Veronica, who gives him the cloth which had re- 
ceived the impress of the divine features, and by this 
the emperor is healed. Pilate is summoned to take his 
trial, and presents himself wearing the holy and seam- 
less tunic. This acts as a spell upon the emperor, and 
he forgets his wonted severity. After a time Pilate is 
thrown into prison, and there commits suicide. Ilis 
body is cast into the Tiber, but as storms and tempests 
i followed, the Homans take it up and send it to Vienne. 

I It is thrown into the Rhone ; but the same disasters fol- 
low, and it is sent on to Losania (Lucerne or Lausanne?). 
There it is sunk in a pool, fenced round by mountains, 
and even there the waters boil or bubble strangely. 
The interest of this story obviously lies in its presenting 
an early form (the existing text is of the 14th century) 
of the local traditions which connect the name of the 
procurator of Judaea with the Mount Pilatus that over- 
looks the lake of Lucerne. The received explanation 
(Ruskin, Modern Painters , v, 128) of the legend, as 
originating in a distortion of the descriptive name 
Mods Pileatus (the “ cloud-capped”), supplies a curious 
instance of the genesis of a myth from a false etymol- 
ogy; but it may be questioned' whether it rests on suffi- 


PILATE'S STAIRCASE 


204 


PILGRIM FATHERS 


cient grounds, and is not rather the product of a pseudo- 
criticism, finding in a name the starting-point, not the 
embodiment of a legend. Have we any evidence that 
the mountain was known as “ 1‘ileatiis” before the le- 
gend V Have we not, in the apocryphal story just cited, 
the legend independently of the name? (comp. Vilmar. 
Deutsche X 'ationalliterutur, i, 217). The extent to which 
the terror connected with the belief formerly prevailed 
is somewhat startling. If a stone were thrown into the 
lake, a violent storm would follow. No one was allowed 
to visit it without a special permission from the author- 
ities of Lucerne. The neighboring shepherds were 
bound by a solemn oath, renewed annually, never to 
guide a stranger to it (( lessncr, Descript. Afoul. Pilat. 
[Zurich, 1555J, p. 40). The spell was broken in 1 5X4 
by Johannes M idler, cure of Lucerne, who was bold 
enough to throw stones and abide the consequences 
((lolbery, Unicers pittoresque dv la Suisse , p. 327 ). It is 
striking that traditions of Pilate attach themselves to 
several localities in the sooth of Trance (comp. Murray’s 
Hand-book for France , lloute 125). 

Hut whatever we may think of these legends, or even 
of the apocryphal works that have come down to our 
own times, there can be little doubt that the original 
documents referred to by the early Church fathers were 
genuine (Uencke, Opnsc. Acad. p. 201 sq.). Such is 
the opinion of Winer ( Reahcbrterb .). Lardner, who 
has fully discussed the subject, decides that “it must be 
allowed by all that I’ontius Pilate composed some mem- 
oirs concerning our Saviour, and sent them to the em- 
peror’’ (vi. (510). Winer adds, “What we now have in 
Crock under this title ( Pilate's Report; see Fabricii 
A jiocr. i, 237, 230; iii, 45(5), as well as the two letters of 
Pilate to Tiberius, are fabrications of a later age.” So 
Lardner: “The Acts of Pontius Pilate, and his letter 
to Tiberius, which we now have, are not genuine, but 
manifestly spurious.” We have not space here to re- 
view the arguments which have been adduced in favor 
of and against these documents; but we must add that 
we attach some importance to them, thinking it by no 
means unlikely that, if they are fabrications, they are 
fabricated in some keeping with the genuine pieces, 
which were in some way lost, and the loss of which the 
composers of our actual pieces sought as well as they 
could to repair. If this view' can be sustained, then the 
documents we have may serve to help ns in the use of 
discretion to the substance of the original Acts. At all 
events, it seems certain that an oilicial report was made 
by Pilate; and thus we gain another proof that “these 
things were not done in a corner.” Those who wish to 
enter into this subject should first consult Lardner ( ut 
sup.), and the valuable references he gives. 8ce also 
Altman, De Fpist. Pit. ad Tiber. (Peril. 1755) ; Van Dale, 
De Orac. p. (KM) sq. ; Schmidt, Finleitung ins A’. T. ii, 
249 sq. Of especial value is Ilermansson, De Pontio 
P Hat . (Upsala, 1(521); also lhirger, De Pontio Pilat. 
(Mison. 17IS2). The latest work on the subject is that 
of Lipsius, Die Pilutus-A cten, kritisch untersucht (Kiel, 
1871). .Sec Acts ok Pi lath. 

On the general subject of this article, the reader may 
refer to (Jcrmar, Docetur ad locu P. Pilati facinora cert. 
(Thorun, 1785); Lcngheimieh, De Pilati patria ’ (s. 1. 
It577); (Jotter, De Conjugis Pilati Somnio (Jen. 1704); 
Kluge, De Somnio Uxoris Pilati (llal. 1720); llerbart, 
Kxamen So midi Px. PH. (t)ldenb. 1735); I )istoll, De 
Solute f ’xoris Pilati (Alt. 1772); Moimicr, De Pilati 
in Causa Serrat. agendi ratione (1825); Warneck, Pont. 
Pil. t in Deniable ((Jotha, 18(57) ; Theol. and l.it. Journal, 
April. 18(51. I law, in his Leben Jesu , p. 203, 205 (third 
ed.), affords valuable literary references on this, as on so 
many other X.-T. subjects. See also the monographs 
referred to bv Volbeding, Index Program malum, p. 58, 
59. See .1 Ksrs Chuist. 

Pilate’s Staircase. This celebrated staircase is 
contained within a little chapel near the church of St. 
John Lateran, at Pome. It consists of twenty-eight 
white marble steps, and it is alleged by Humanists that 


this is the holy staircase which Christ several times as- 
cended and descended when he appeared before Pilate, 
and that it was carried by angels from Jerusalem to 
Pome. Multitudes of pilgrims at certain periods crawl 
up the steps of this staircase on their knees, with rosa- 
ries in their hands, and kissing each step as they as- 
cend. On reaching the top. the pilgrim must repeat a 
short prayer. The performance of this ceremony is re- 
garded as peculiarly meritorious, and entitling the de- 
vout pilgrim to a plenary indulgence. It was during 
this act of devotion that Martin Luther, then a monk, 
was startled by the remembrance of the text, “The just 
shall live by faith.” lie instantly saw the folly of such 
performances; and fleeing in shame from the place, be- 
came from that time a zealous reformer. 15y the Po- 
manists this staircase is called Scala Santa, or holy 
staircase. 

Pil'dash (Heb. Pildash', — ^22. according toFiirst, 
for “722, fame of fire ; Sept. 4>u\cic), the sixth 
named of the eight sons of Xahor, Abraham’s brother, 
by bis niece and wife, Milcah ( (Jen. xxii, 22). B.C. eir. 
204(5. “The settlement of his descendants has not been 
identified with any degree of probability. Bunsen 
( Hibehrerk , (Jen. xxii, 22) compares Ripalthas, a place 
in the north-east of Mesopotamia; but the resemblance 
of the two names is probably accidental” (Smith). 

Pil'elia (Ileb. Pilcha', Ni22 2, the slice, or worship; 
Sept, ‘I>a\<7£o), the head of one of the Jewish families 
who sealed the covenant with Nelicmiah (Xeli. x, 24 
[Ileb. 25]). B.C.445. 

Piles. See Il.TMoitnnoins. 

Pile'ser. See Tkilath-Pilkskr. 

Pile-tower, or Pele-tmcer. an architectural term, 
seems to have signified a small fortress, dwelling, or 
tower, capable of being defended against any sudden 
marauding expedition. Church towers appear to have 
been sometimes used for the same purpose. Some of 
these towers, which were used for habitations, have bad 
additions made to them subsequent to their erection. 
Heifer-haw tower, near Alnwick, and a tower in Cor- 
bridge churchyard, were probably pele - towers only. 
Pile, a fortress, occurs only in names of places in the 
Isle of Man, Lancashire, and the neighboring parts, but 
it is an archaic term not exclusively northern. 

Pilgrim is used in the A. V. only in the old sense of 
sojourner, for trapnricpgoi' (Heb. xi, 13; 1 I\>t. ii. 11 ; 
“stranger,” 1 Pet. i, I). Similarly in the O. T. “pil- 
grimage” occurs as a rendering of magur, which 

signifies a stag, or an abode in a foreign country, travels 
((Jen. xvii, 8). Metaphorically, it is applied to the so- 
journing on earth; thus the patriarch Jacob says to 
Pharaoh, “The days of the years of my pilgrimage are 
a hundred and thirty years ((Jen. xlvii, 9). The Psalm- 
ist likewise says, “Thy statutes have been my songs in 
the house of my pilgrimage” (Psa. cxix, 54). 

Pilgrim Fathers, a name often given to the early 
settlers of New Kngland. The ship “ Mayflower," that 
bore the first of them, left Plymouth Sept. t5. 1(520, 
and on Dec. (5 the passengers landed on a rock in 
Cape (’oil harbor. The men engaged in the formation 
of the Xew Kngland colonies have seldom been sur- 
passed in sagacity and prowess, in piety and benevo- 
lent exertion. Many of them were men of education 
and rank; they were eminently free from the low and 
degrading vices of the statesmen of that age. The po- 
litical trust committed to them was lelt to be an awful 
deposit. It was their constant aim. one which they 
carried with them to the council -chamber, and bore 
back with them to the closet in their religions exercises, 
that each colonist should exhibit the lofty mien of a 
freeman, and wear the dignity of an heir to heaven; 
that lie should bow the knee to none but (Jod, and bear 
no yoke but bis who is meek ami lowly in heart. The 
grief of bidding farewell to friends, country, and home 


PILGRIM 


205 


PILGRIMAGES 


did not produce in them a sentimental lethargy, but 
was borne with manly courage and Christian heroism. 
In the long and tedious voyage their hearts sank not. 
Their spirit did not tail them in the midst of those 
difficulties and dangers with which foreign adventure 
abounds. The sultry climate, the swamp and the for- 
est, the solitary encampment, and the whoop of the sav- 
age, were calmly and successfully encountered. Like 
their leaders, the majority of them were men of God. 
The men that landed from the “ Mayflower” on the rock 
of Plymouth felt themselves to be “ chosen vessels,” 
and the consciousness of their solemn consecration was 
the deepest sensation of their religious experience. The 
preservation of the ordinances of religion was a princi- 
pal endeavor with them. The first trees of the virgin 
forest were felled for the sanctuary — “a man was fa- 
mous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick 
trees.” Truly did they vow, If I forget thee, O Jeru- 
salem, let my hand forget her cunning.” Their inner 
life nourished itself by frequent days of fasting and 
prayer. These were seasons of coveted enjoyment. 
Their firmness might be somewhat stern, their rigidness 
of observance might generate formality, yet their heart 
was with God, his law their guide, bis glory their aim. 
In every r crisis they inquired at the oracle of Jehovah ; 
in seasons of deliverance they entered his courts with 
praise — “a multitude that kept holiday;” in times of 
impending danger they placed themselves under the 
protection of him to whom the shields of the earth be- 
long. They were a people worthy of those high-soided 
patriots who were their leaders, both in civil polity and 
religion. Few statesmen of that day had the purity of 
Winthrop, few ministers the learning of Cotton, the en- 
dowments of Hooker, or the self-sacrificing spirit of Rog- 
er Williams. — Eadie, Eccl. Cycl. s. v. See Pl hitaxs. 

Pilgrim, Religious. See Pilgrimages. 

Pilgrim, a German prelate of mediaeval times, flour- 
ished from 970 to 991. He was first engaged in mission- 
ary work among the Hungarians. He held different 
ecclesiastical positions, and at last was made bishop of 
Passau. In 971 he drew up for pope Benedict VI a re- 
markable report concerning the spread of Christianity 
in Hungary, but the paper was somewhat exagger- 
ated, and probably prepared by Pilgrim to further some 
particular interest of his own. The truth is that, like 
liis predecessors, he was striving to assert his indepen- 
dence of the archbishopric of Salzburg; and he defended 
the dignity and rights of that ancient metropolis, the 
long since dilapidated city of Lorch (Laureacum), whose 
diocese stretched onward to Pannonia. “And so we may 
suppose,” says Neander, “ that in his efforts to convince 
the pope (from whom, in fact, he obtained the fulfilment 
of his wishes) how necessary the restoration of this me- 
tropolis was to Pannonia and to its subordinate bishop- 
rics, he allowed himself to be betrayed into a somewhat 
exaggerated representation of this new sphere of labor 
in Hungary.” See Neander, History of the Christian 
Church, iii, 331 sq. ; Kurtz, Lelirbuck d. Kirchengesch. 
(7th ed.) i, 291; Theolog. Univ.-Lex. s. v. (B. P.) 

Pilgrim, Joiianx Ulrich, an engraver on wood, 
and the supposed inventor of engraving in ehiaro-osenro. 
Little is known of him or of his works, except a few 
prints, which are marked with two pilgrims’ staves 
crossed between the initials Jo. V. Among the ten 
prints mentioned by Bartsch are these: Christ on the 
Cross, with the Magdalen kneeling at its foot, and the 
Virgin and St. John standing one on either side; The 
Virgin, seated in a garden, with the Infant on her knee; 
The Virgin, half-length, with the Infant in her arms; 
St. Jerome in the Desert, with a book in one hand and a 
stone in the other ; and St. Sebastian, tied to a tree. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine Arts, ii, G9G. 

Pilgrimage of Grace, Tiie. In the time of Hen- 
ry VIII, it is said that by the dissolution of the lesser 
monasteries about ten thousand persons became (rather 
from choice than necessity, for they' had the option of 


being transferred to the larger houses) applicants for 
public bounty. These persons, traversing the kingdom, 
by the detail of their sufferings created extensive dis- 
satisfaction, and popular feeling was with them. Many 
of the people also sympathized with the inmates of 
nunneries, some of whom they were taught to regard 
as ladies of gentle lives and kind deeds, whose monastic 
charities were necessarily suspended when their com- 
munities were dispersed. An attempt was made to sup- 
press the growing disturbance by restoring thirty of 
the less disorderly of the suppressed houses. But the 
storm broke out first in Lincolnshire, and subsequently 
in Yorkshire, where forty thousand men marched with 
crucifixes and banners before them, calling their expe- 
dition the Pilgrimage of Grace, and avowing their ob- 
ject to be the removal of low-born counsellors tCrom- 
well, the chancellor, was the son of a blacksmith at 
Putney’), the suppression of heresy, and the restitution 
of the Church. These rebel forces, however, melted 
away without any action; and their leader Aske, upon 
a repetition of the outbreak, was beheaded for treason. 
Many of the abbots and friars were supposed to be im- 
plicated in the pilgrimage. — Farrar, Eccles. Did. s. v. 

Pilgrimages are exercises of religious discipline, 
which consist in journeying to some place of reputed 
sanctity’, frequently in discharge of a vow. 

Christian Pilgrimages. — The idea of any peculiar sa- 
credness being attached to special localities under the 
Christian dispensation was very’ strikingly rebuked by- 
Christ in his conversation with the woman of Samaria, 
as recorded in John iv; and nowhere is the principle 
on this subject more plainly laid down than in the 
Lord’s statement on that occasion : “The hour cometh, 
and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship 
the Father in spirit and in truth : for the Father seek- 
eth such to worship him.” In proportion, however, as 
Christianity receded from the apostolic age, it gradu- 
ally’ lost sight of the simplicity and spirituality which 
marked its primitive character, and availed itself of 
carnal expedients for the purpose of elevating the im- 
agination and kindling the devotion of its votaries. 
Hence, in the 4th century’, many', encouraged by the 
example of the emperor Constantine, whose supersti- 
tious tendencies were strong, resorted to the scenes of 
the Saviour’s life and ministry for the nourishing and 
invigoration of their religions feelings and desires. 
Helena, the mother of Constantine, set the first exam- 
ple of a pilgrimage to Palestine, which was soon exten- 
sively’ imitated; partly, as in the case of Constantine, 
with a desire to be baptized in the Jordan, but still 
more from a veneration for the spots which were asso- 
ciated with the events of the history of Christ and his 
apostles. Thus a superstitions attachment to the Holy 
Land increased so extensively that some of the most 
eminent teachers of the Church, as Jerome and Gregory 
of Ny’ssa, openly disapproved these pilgrimages. The 
most frequent resort of pilgrims was Jerusalem, but to 
this were afterwards added Rome, Tours, and Compos- 
tella. As to the last-named place, we find that in the 
year 1428, under the reign of Henry VI, abundance of 
licenses were granted by the crown of England to cap- 
tains of English ships for carrying numbers of devout 
persons to the shrine of St. James; provided, however, 
that those pilgrims should first make oath not to take 
anything prejudicial to England, nor to reveal any of 
its secrets, nor to carry’ out with them any more gold or 
silver than would be sufficient for their reasonable ex- 
penses. In that y’ear 926 persons went from England 
on the said pilgrimage. In our own times the greatest 
numbers have resorted to Loretto (q.v.), in order to visit 
the chamber of the Blessed Virgin, in which she was 
born, and brought up her son Jesus till he was twelve 
years of age! or to Paray le Monial (q.v.), to pay- 
homage to the Virgin Marie a la Coque (q. v.). 

In the Middle Ages pilgrimages were regarded as a 
mark of piety’, but, as might have been expected, they 
gave rise to the most flagrant abuses. We find ac- 


PILGRIMAGES 


206 


PILGRIMAGES 


cord i ugly pope Boniface, in a letter to Cuthbert, arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, in t lie 8th century, desiring that 
women and nuns might be restrained from their fre- 
quent pilgrimages to Home. The second Council of 
Chalons also, which was held in A.I). 813, denounces 
in no measured terms the false, trust reposed in pil- 
grimages to Borne, and also to the church of St. Mar- 
tin at 'lours. “There are clergymen,” complains this 
ecclesiastical synod, “who lead an idle life, and trust 
thereby to he purified from sin, and to fulfil the duties 
of their calling; and there are laymen who believe that 
they may sin or have sinned with impunity because 
they undertook such pilgrimages ; there are great men | 
who, under this pretext, practice the grossest extortion 
among their people ; and there are poor men who em- 
ploy the same excuse to render begging a more profit- 
able employment. Such are those who wander round 
about, and falsely declare that they arc on a pilgrimage ; 
while there are others whose folly is so great that they 
believe that they become purified from their sins by the 
mere sight of the holy places, forgetting the words of 
St. Jerome, who says that there is nothing meritorious 
in seeing Jerusalem, but in leading a good life there.” 
It was between the lltli amt the 13th centuries, how- 
ever, that the rage for pilgrimages came to its height. 
About the commencement of the period now referred to 
the idea extensively prevailed throughout Kurope that 
the thousand years mentioned in the Apocalypse were 
near their close, and the end of the world was at hand. 
A general consternation spread among all classes, and 
many individuals, parting with their property and 
abandoning their friends and families, set out for the 
Holy Land, where they imagined that Christ would ap- 
pear to judge the world. While Palestine had been in 
the hands of the caliphs, pilgrimages to Jerusalem had 
been encouraged as offering them an ample source of 
revenue; but no sooner had Syria been conquered by 
the Turks, in the middle of the lltli century, than pil- 
grims to the Holy Land began to he exposed to every 
species of insult. The minds of men in every part of 
Christendom were now inflamed with indignation at 
the cruelties and impositions of the Mohammedan pos- 
sessors of the holy places; and in such circumstances the 
Church enthusiasts found little difficulty in originating 
the Crusades (q. v.), and for two centuries vast armies 
of pilgrims poured into the Ilolv Land. It was easier 
for the Crusaders, however, to make their conquests 
than to preserve them ; and accordingly, before the I3th 
century had passed away, the Christians were driven 
out of all their Asiatic possessions, and the holy places 
fell anew into the hands of the infidels. 

In almost every country where Bomanism prevails pil- 
grimages have been and still are common. In England, 
at one time, the shrine of Thomas ii Beckct, and in Scot- 
land that of St. Andrew', was the favorite resort of devout 
pilgrims. But even down to the present day there are 
various places in Ireland where stations and holy wells 
attract crowds of devout worshippers every year; and 
many parts of that country are sacred to extraordinary 
worship and pilgrimage. From the beginning of May till 
the middle of August every year crowds of popish peni- 
tents resort to an island near the. centre of Lough Fin, 
or White Lake, in the county of Donegal, to the amount, 
of three or four thousand. These are mostly of the 
poorer sort, anil many of them are proxies for those who 
are richer; some of whom, however, together with some 
of the priests and bishops, on occasion make their ap- 
pearance there. When the pilgrim comes within sight 
of the holy lake he must uncover his hands and feet, 
and thus walk to the water-side, and is taken to the isl- 
and for sixpence. Here are two chapels and fifteen 
other houses, to which are added confessionals, so con- 
trived that the priest cannot see the person confessing. 
The penance varies according to the circumstances of 
the penitent, during the continuance of which (some- 
times three, six, or nine days) he subsists on oatmeal, 
sometimes made into bread. He traverses sharp stones 


on his hare knees or feet, and goes through a variety of 
other forms, paying sixpence at even,' different confes- 
sion. When all is over the priest bores a gimlet-hole 
through the top of the pilgrim’s staff, in which he fas- 
tens a cross peg: gives him as many holy pebbles out 
of the lake as he cares to carry away, for amulets to be 
presented to his friends, and so dismisses him, an object 
of veneration to all other papists not thus initiated, who 
no sooner see the pilgrim's cross in bis hands than they 
kneel down to get his blessing. But France, even in 
modern times, remains the special patron of Bomau- 
Catholic devotees. Thus the X.-Y. Tribune correspond- 
ent writes undo* Aug. 27, 1875, from Baris: “If half a 
million was a correct estimate— the faithful will tell 
von that it was too low — of the number of those who 
had already this year, at the date of my 10th of July 
letter, gone on foot or wheels to pay their devotions at 
this, that, and the other French shrine, by this it should 
be near a million and a half. We are now in the height 
of the pilgrimage season. Never in modem times, if in 
any time, was there another like it for brisk anil multi- 
tudinous pious peregrination. One day it is 100,000 
devotees about Xotre Iiame de la Garde; on another 
20,000 at Cambrai, 10,0U0 at Xotre Dame de Li'esse, at 
La Salette , and Lourdes, besides great days and extraor- 
dinary occasions. The affluence is constant, with a 
sprinkling of miraculous cures from the thaumaturgic 
springs of the last-named places. There is hardly a di- 
ocese whose bishop does not exalt the merits of some 
local shrine lbr convenience of tender-footed or short- 
winded devotees of his flock.” In Belgium also the same 
priestly management prevails. The chief object is, of 
course, the attraction of immense flocks of pilgrims from 
all parts of the world to enrich from their offerings the 
depleted coffers of the papacy, and to incite the popular 
mind to renewed ardor in the promotion of all the ob- 
jects at which Bomanism has been wont to aim. Sec 
Bomanism. 

Peculiar usages have prevailed from time to time 
among the pilgrims of Christianity. Thus the English 
pilgrim’s weeds consisted of a hood with a cape, a low- 
crowned hat with two strings, a staff or bourdon four or 
five feet long, made originally of two sticks swathed 
together, a bottle strung at their waist-belt, and scrip. 
Those whose pilgrimage was self-imposed walked bare- 
footed, and begged their daily broad, let their beards 
grow, and wore no linen. The palmer was distinguished 
by two leaflets of palm; the pilgrim to Mount Sinai 
wore the St. Catharine’s wheel; he who went to Borne 
came back with a medal, graven with the cross-keys, 
or vernicle; the pilgrim to Compostella brought home 
the scallop-shell of (lalicia; those who went to Wal- 
singham were distinguished by a badge; and from Can- 
terbury the pilgrim carried, as a memorial, an ampulla 
full of Canterbury water, which was mingled with one 
tiny drop of a Becket’s blood. Latimer mentions “ the 
piping, playing, and curious singing, to solace the trav- 
ail and weariness of pilgrims.” At (lloucester the pil- 
grims’ door, with its colossal warders, remains in the 
south arm of the transept. In the holy wars the French 
Crusaders were distinguished by a red, English by a 
white, and Flemings by a green cross. Penitents paid 
Peter’s pence as a composition for a pilgrimage to Borne, 
or commuted it by a visit to Peterborough. St. Alban’s, 
or St. David’s. In lOfi-l, persons going to visit a saint 
bail the protection of the Church. At Hereford, a canon 
might be absent on a pilgrimage in England for three 
weeks; and once in bis life for seven weeks to visit St. 
Denis; ten weeks, Borne and Compostella: eight, Pon- 
tegnes; and one year, Jerusalem. In some Continental 
countries pilgrims and priests sometimes inscribed their 
names on the altars which they visited. Those were 
called inscripta. or litorata, lmt must not be confounded 
with those bearing the donor’s name; the first instance 
of the latter custom occurred in the ease of Pulcherins 
at Constantinople, as Sozomen relates. The pilgrim’s 
tomb sometimes bore the print of two bare feet, as cm- 


PILGRIMAGES 


207 


PILGRIMAGES 


blematical of liis safe return. The pilgrims, having 
been first shriven, prostrated themselves before the altar 
while prayers were said over them, and stood up to re- 
ceive the priest’s benediction on their scrips and staves, 
which he sprinkled with holy water and delivered into 
their hands. If they were going to Jerusalem, a cross was 
marked upon their garment ; the ceremonial terminated 
with a solemn mass. In 1322 a priest who betrayed a 
confession had to go on a pilgrimage as a penance. In 
1200 monks were forbidden to become pilgrims. “ Divers 
men and women,” said W. Thorpe in the loth century, 
“ have with them both men and women that can well 
sing wanton songs, some other have bagpipes, so that 
in every town, what with the noise of their singing and 
with the sound of their piping, and with the jingling 
of their Canterbury bells, and with the barking out of 
dogs after them, they make more noise than if the king 
came there away with all his clarions and many other 
minstrels.” The staff had sometimes a bronze socket, 
inscribed with these words in Latin, “May this cross 
direct thy journey in safety.” 

Jexcish Pilgrimages , — Among the Jews pilgrimages 
to Jerusalem are made by the most devoted only. The 
Polish and Russian Jews, greatly oppressed in their 
homes, occasionally seek relief by a journey to the city 
of Zion, there to pray for the speedy coming of the Mes- 
siah. That sect of Judaism known as the Chasidim 
have their yearly processions to Sandez, the nursery of 
the most absurd superstition. The time for this pil- 
grimage is generally on the first days of the month of 
Elul. As soon as the sound of the cornet proclaims the 
approach of the new year the Chasidim of Galicia and 
Russian Poland hasten in large numbers to Sandez, to 
manifest their adoration and veneration by rich presents 
to the rabbi working miracles, who presides at Sandez. 
About that time the city authorities and the rabbi as- 
sume a very friendly relation, and the quiet life of the 
place changes into activity by the increase of strangers. 
The streets are filled with Chasidim, who come from 
afar off to open their heart and confide their secret 
wishes to the wonder-working man. 

Mohammedan Pilgrimages . — In Mohammedan coun- 
tries, pilgrimages are much in vogue. The pilgrimage 
to Mecca (q. v.) is not only expressly commanded in 
the Koran, but is regarded by the Arabian prophet as in- 
dispensable to all his followers. In his view, a believer 
neglecting this duty, if it were in his power to perform 
it, might as well die a Christian or a Jew. The Per- 
sians, however, instead of subjecting themselves to a 
toilsome pilgrimage to Mecca, look upon the country of 
which Babylon formerly, and now Bagdad, is the chief 
city, as the holy land in which are deposited the ashes 
of Ali and the rest of the holy martyrs. Not only do 
the living resort thither, but many bring along with 
them the dead bodies of their relatives, to lay them in 
the sacred earth. Pilgrimage is a duty binding upon 
all Moslems, both men and women. Inability is the 
only admitted ground of exemption, and Mohammedan 
casuists have determined that those who are incapable 
must perform it by deputy, and bear the expense of these 
substitutes. What is principally reverenced in Mecca, 
and gives sanctity to the whole, is a square stone build- 
ing, called the Kaaba (q. v.). Before the time of Moham- 
med this temple was a place of worship for the idolatrous 
Arabs, and is said to have contained no less than three 
hundred and sixty different images, equalling in num- 
ber the days of the Arabian 3 'ear. They were all de- 
stroyed by Mohammed, who sanctified the Kaaba, and 
appointed it to be the chief place of worship for all true 
believers. The Mussulmans pay so great a veneration 
to it that they believe a single sight of its sacred walls, 
without any particular act of devotion, is as meritorious 
in the sight of God as the most careful discharge of 
one’s duty for the space of a whole year in any other 
temple. To this temple every Mohammedan who has 
health and means sufficient ought once, at least, in his 
life to go on a pilgrimage; nor are women excused from 


the performance of this duty. The pilgrims meet at 
different places near Mecca, according to the different 
parts from whence they come during the months of 
Shawal and Dlni’lhaja, being obliged to be there by 
the beginning of the latter; which month, as its name 
imports, is peculiarly set apart for the celebration of this 
solemnity. The men put on the ibram or sacred hab- 
it, which consists only of two woollen wrappers, one 
wrapped about the middle, and the other thrown over 
their shoulders, having their heads bare, and a kind of 
slippers which cover neither the heel nor the instep, 
and so enter the sacred territory on their way to Mecca. 
While they have this habit on they must neither hunt 
nor fowl (though they are allowed to fish), which pre- 
cept is so punctually observed that they will not kill 
vermin if they find them on their bodies: there are 
some noxious animals, however, which they have per- 
mission to kill during the pilgrimage, as kites, ravens, 
scorpions, mice, and dogs given to bite. During the 
pilgrimage it behooves a man to have a constant guard 
I over his words and actions; to avoid all quarrelling or 
J ill language, all converse with women, and all obscene 
| discourse ; and to apply his whole attention to the good 
work he is engaged in. The pilgrims being arrived at 
Mecca, immediately visit the temple, and then enter on 
the performance of the prescribed ceremonies, which 
consist chiefly in going in procession round the Kaaba, 
in running between the Mounts Safa and Meriva, in 
making the station on Mount Arafat, and slaying the 
victims and shaving their heads in the valley of Mina. 
In compassing the Kaaba, which they do seven times, 
beginning at the corner where the black stone is fixed, 
they use a short, quick pace the first three times they 
go round it, and a grave, ordinary pace the last four; 
which, it is said, was ordered by Mohammed, that his fol- 
lowers might show themselves strong and active, to cut 
off the hopes of the infidels, who gave out that the im- 
moderate heats of Medina had rendered them weak. 
The aforesaid quick pace, however, they are not obliged 
to use every time they perform this piece of devotion, but 
only at some particular times. As often as they pass 
by the black stone they either kiss it, or touch it with 
their hand, and kiss that. The running between Safa 
and Meriva is also performed seven times, partly with 
a slow pace and partly running ; for they walk gravely 
till they come to a place between two pillars; and there 
they run, and afterwards walk again, sometimes looking 
back, and sometimes stopping, like one who had lost 
something, to represent Ilagar seeking water for her 
son ; for the ceremony is said to be as ancient as her 
time. On the 9th of Dhu’lhaja, after morning prayer, 
the pilgrims leave the valley of Mina, whither they 
come the day before, and proceed in a tumultuous and 
rushing manner to Mount Arafat and Mina, and there 
spend the night in prayer and reading the Koran. The 
next morning by daybreak they visit el-Mashar el- 
Karam,or the sacred monument; and, departing thence 
before sunrise, haste by Batn-Mohasser to the valley of 
Mina, where they throw seven stones at three marks or 
pillars, in imitation of Abraham, who, meeting the devil 
in that place, and being by him disturbed in his devo- 
tions, or tempted to disobedience when he was going to 
sacrifice his son, was commanded by God to drive him 
away by throwing stones at him; though others pre- 
tend that this rite is as old as Adam, who also put the 
devil to flight in the same place and by the same means. 
The ceremony being over, on the same day, the 10th 
of Dhu’lhaja, the pilgrims slay their victims in the 
said valley of Mina, of which they and their friends eat 
part, and the rest is given to the poor. These victims 
must be either sheep, goats, kine, or camels; males, if 
either of the two former kinds, and females if either of 
the latter, and of a fit age. The sacrifices being over, 
they shave their heads and cut their nails, burying 
them in the same place; after which the pilgrimage is 
looked upon as completed, though they again visit the 
Kaaba to take their leave of that sacred building. The 


PILGRIMAGES 


208 


PILKIXGTOX 


pilgrimage to Mecca was interrupted for a quarter of a 
century by the Carmathians, and in onr own day it has 
been again interrupted by the Wahabis, and these in 
turn were defeated by Mohammed Ali, who revived 
the pilgrimage and attended with his court. In the 
year 1873. 200,000 pilgrims visited the holy places. 
But in the present year (1877) pilgrimages to Mecca 
have been revived in marvellous force, owing to the 
contest of Turkey with Jiussia, and it is expected that 
nearly one half million people, if not more, will bring 
tribute to the Kaaba, the treasures of which, amounting 
to over 200,000,000 piasters, or $50,000,000, have been 
placed at the disposal of the sultan of Turkey, and are 
to be used in the defence of the Mussulman’s faith. 

J leal hen Pilgrimages . — Among heathen nations, also, 
pilgrimages are practiced. In Japan, more especially, 
all the different sects have their regular places of resort. 
The pilgrimage which is esteemed by the Sintuists as 
the most meritorious is that of Istje, which all are bound 
to make once a year, or at least once in their life. An- 
other class of pilgrims are the Siunse, who go to visit in 
pilgrimage the thirty-three principal temples of Canon, 
which are scattered over the empire. Besides these 
regular pilgrimages, the Japanese also undertake occa- 
sional religious journeys to visit certain temples in fiil- 
tihnent of certain vows. These pilgrims travel alone, 
almost always running, and, though generally very poor, 
refuse to receive charity from others (comp. McFarland, 
Japan, p. 211). 

Hinduism has its pilgrimages on a grand scale. 
Thousands and tens of thousands annually repair to the 
temple of Juggernaut (q. v.). Equally famed as the 
resort of multitudes of Hindu pilgrims is the island of 
tjanga Sagor, where the holiest branch of the Ganges 
(q. v.) is lost in the waters of the Indian Ocean. To 
visit this sacred river hundreds of thousands annually 
abandon their homes, and travel for mouths amid many 
hardships and dangers, and should they reach the scene 
of their pilgrimage, it is only in many cases that they 
may plunge themselves and their unconscious babies 
into the troubled but, in their view, purifying waters, 
offering themselves and their little ones as voluntary 
victims to the holy river. Among the numberless sa- 
cred spots in Hindustan maybe mentioned Jumuontri, 
a village on the banks of the Jumna, which is so famed 
as a place of pilgrimage that those who resort thither 
are considered as thereby almost entitled to divine hon- 
ors. 'flic holy town of Ilurdwar may also be noticed, 
to which pilgrims resort from every corner of the East 
where Ilindftistn is known; and of such efficacy is the 
water of the Ganges at this point that even the guilti- 
est may be cleansed from sin by a single ablution. The 
llindfts also attach great importance to pilgrimages to 
the holy temples at Benares and other sacred shrines. 
Sometimes these are performed on sandals with small 
spikes inserted, every step causing pain to the pilgrim. 
In other cases, the whole distance of hundreds of miles 
is travelled by the infatuated fakir tumbling over and 
over, like a wagon-wheel, without ever standing on his 
feet; for the greater the pain and suffering with which 
the pilgrimage is accomplished, the greater is the merit 
attached to its performance. It often happens that 
poor pilgrims perish on the road for want of food, or in 
consequence of sufferings arising from the severe pen- 
alty which they intlict upon themselves. But instead 
of this being a warning to others, it is considered highly 
meritorious to fall in the effort to fulfil a vow made in 
honor of their idol gods. The Buddhists, though not 
so devoted to pilgrimages as the Ilindits, are not with- 
out their places of sacred resort. One of the most noted 
is Adam’s I’eak. in t ’pylon, where Gotama Buddha is 
supposed to have left the impression of his foot. The 
summit of the peak is annually visited by great numbers 
of pilgrims. The Lamaists of Thiliet also make an an- 
nual pilgrimage to Lha-Ssa for devotional purposes. 

I)r. Johnson gives us some observations on pilgrim- 
age, which are so much to the purpose that we shall 


here present them to the reader : “ Pilgrimage, like 
many other acts of piety, may be reasonable or super- 
stitions, according to the principles upon which it is 
performed. Long journeys in search of truth are not 
commanded; truth, such as is necessary to the regula- 
tion of life, is always found where it is honestly sought; 
change of place is no natural cause of the increase of 
piety, for it inevitably produces dissipation of mind. 
Yet since men go every day to view the fields where 
great actions have been performed, and return with 
stronger impressions of the event, curiosity of the same 
kind may naturally dispose us to view that country 
whence our religion had its beginning. Thai the .Su- 
preme Being may be more easily propitiated in one 
(dace than another is the dream of idle superstition; 
but that some places may operate upon our own minds 
in an uncommon manner is an opinion which hourly 
experience will justify, lie who supposes that his vices 
may be more successfully combated in Palestine, will, 
perhaps, find himself mistaken; yet he may go thither 
without folly : he who thinks they will be more freely 
pardoned dishonors at once his reason and his religion” 
(Johnson’s Rasselas). See Encyelop. Brit. s. v. ; Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, s. v. ; British Quar. liev. July, 
1875, art. v; Medieval and Modern Saints, p. 112, 159; 
Baptist Quar. April, 1875, art. vii; Cutts, Scenes and 
Characters of the Middle Ayes (Lond. 1873), essay iii ; 
Lea, Sacerdotal Celibacy ; Butler, Church History , i, 410, 
447; Riddle, Hist, of the Papacy; Gieseler, Ecclesias- 
tical History; Mosheim, Ecclesiastical History, vol. ii ; 
Walcott, Sacred Archa’ol. s. v. 

Pilgrims and Strangers. See Sionites. 

Pilkington, James, a noted Anglican prelate, 
who nourished in the great Reformation period of the 
16th century, was born of an ancient gentleman’s fam- 
ily at Rivington, in Lancashire, in 1520. lie was edu- 
cated at St. John’s College, Cambridge, and after gradu- 
ation took holy orders. Under the reign of king Edward 
he distinguished himself as one of the disputants against 
transubstantiation, but under the reign of bloody Man’ 
he was obliged to leave the country, as he was very’ de- 
cided in his Protestant proclivities, lie lived for a while 
at Zurich, and then at Basle. When suffered to return, 
in 1558, after the accession of Elizabeth, he was made 
master of his alma mater, lie interested himself in 
educational affairs generally throughout the kingdom, 
and in his native place established a free-school, which 
he himself endowed. In 1561 he was elevated to the 
bishopric of Durham, and became noted for his tolerant 
I views. Thus, in 1564, he advocated indulgence to Non- 
conformists, and to all who scrupled to observe practices 
or assume obligations having any appearance of popish 
tendency. Bishop Pilkington died in 1575. He pub- 
lished, Exposition of the Prophet Hayyeus (Lond. Infill, 
8vo) : — and on Obadiah (156(1), AY hemiah (Catnb. 1585, 
1 to), Ecclesiastes, Epistle of Peter, and of Paul to the 
(kdatians : • — J)ef. of the Engl. Service; and, besides, 
many sermons. His II 'o}-ks were edited, with biograph- 
ical notices, for the Parker Society, by the Rev. James 
Seholetiehl, regius professor of Greek. Cambridge (Camh. 
1 842, 8 vo). Sec St rype’s Cranmer, Parker, and O’ rindal; 
Hardwick, Hist, of the Ref. p. 219 et ah; Soames, Eliza- 
bethan Ch. History, p. 22, 49. 605; Burnet, Hist, of the 
Ref. ; Hook, Eccles. Bioy. viii, 92. (J. 11. W.) 

Pilkington, Matthew, an English divine, nour- 
ished near the middle of the last century as prebend of 
Lichfield. He is especially noted as a secular writer. 
He is also the author of Evangelical History and Har- 
mony (Lond. 1747, fol.), which is executed with great 
care, and is of some value: — .1 Rational Concordance 
(Xottiugh. 1749, lto), which is now extremely scarce: — 
and Remarks upon several Passages oj'Scripture (t ’ami*, 
and Lond. 1759, 8vo), which, according to Orme (Bibl. 
Bibl. s.v.), “contains a considerable portion of valuable 
matter.” Pilkington also published several of his ser- 
mons (1733, 4to; 1755, 8vo), etc. 


PILLAR 


209 


PILLAR 


Pillar is a term frequently occurring in the Scrip- 
tures, especially of the O. T., where it is used in differ- 
ent senses, and as the rendering of several Heb. and Gr. 
words, which need to be distinguished both in their 
meaning and application. 

1. Original Words so Translated. — 1. From the root 
23J3, natsab,to station, come the following: 

tsebdh (rendered “ pillar” everywhere in Genesis, and in 
Exod. xxiv, 4 ; Dent, xii, 8 ; Isa. xix, 19 ; elsewhere 
“image”), a column or image of stone; rzil"?, matstse- 
beth, a monumental “ pillar” (Gen. xxxv, 14, 20 ; 2 Sam. 
xviii, 18), once the trunk or stump of a tree (“sub- 
stance,” Isa. vi, 13); mutstsdb, according to some 

a military post (as in Isa. xxix, 3, “mount”), or garri- 
son, according to others a terminal mark (Judg. ix, 6) ; 
i-'SS. netsib, a statue (only Gen. xix, 26, “pillar”), or 
military officer or garrison (as elsewhere rendered). 

2. From other roots: ammud, lit. something 

upright (from “lii, to stand), a column (the usual word 
for “ pillar,” and invariably so rendered in the A. V., but 
meaning an elevated stand or platform in 2 Kings xi, 
14; xxiii, 3); "liDi, mis' ad, a support (from "20, to 
prop), a balustrade (only 1 Kings x, 12) ; matsuk, 

a column (from p^X, to set up) as a support (fig. 1 Sam. 
ii, 8), or tropically a crag (“ situate,” 1 Sam. xiv, 5) ; 

onienah (from “(OX, to stay up), a column (only 
2 Kings xviii, 16); and rt"'2“'ri, timerah, a column, in 
the form of an artificial palm-tree (Cant, iii, 6 ; Joel ii, 
30 [Heb. iii, 3]). 

3. In the N. T. : only otvXqc, a column or support 
(Gal. ii, 9; 1 Tim. iii, 15; Rev. iii, 12; x, 1). 

II. Uses. — The essential notion of a pillar is that of a 
shaft or isolated pile, either supporting or not supporting 
a roof. 

1. Monumental. — Perhaps the votive object was the 
earliest application of the pillar. This in primitive 
times consisted of nothing but a single stone or pile of 
stones. Instances are seen in Jacob’s pillars (Gen. xxviii, 


18; xxxi, 46, 51, 52; xxxv, 14); in the twelve pillars 
set up by Moses at Mount Sinai (Exod. xxiv, 4) ; the 
twenty-four stones erected by Joshua (Josh, iv, 8, 9 ; see 
also Isa. xix, 19, and Josh, xxiv, 27). See Stone. The 
trace of a similar notion may probably be found in the 
holy stone of Mecca (Burckhardt, Trav. i, 297). The 
erection of columns or heaps of stone to commemorate 
any remarkable event was universal before the intro- 
duction of writing or inscription, and it is still employed 
for that purpose by many savage nations. See Galeed. 
Monumental pillars have thus been common in many 
countries and in various styles of architecture. Such 
were perhaps the obelisks of Egypt (Fergusson, p. 6, 8, 
115, 246, 340 ; Ibn-Batuta, Trav. p. Ill ; Strabo, iii, 171, 
172; Herod, ii, 106; Arum. Marc, xvii, 4; Josephus, 
Ant. i, 2, 3, the pillars of Seth). See Pyramid. 

The stone Ezel (1 Sam. xx, 19) was probably a ter- 
minal stone or a wavmark. See Ebenezer. 

The “ place” set up by Saul (1 Sam. xv, 12) is ex- 
plained by St. Jerome to be a trophy, Vulg. fornicem 
triumphalem (Jerome, Qucest. llebr. in lib. i, Reg. iii. 
1339). The word used is the same as that for Absa- 
lom’s pillar, gad (lit. a hand), called by Josephus 
%apa (.4 nt. vii, 10, 3), which was clearly of a monumen- 
tal or memorial character, but not necessarily carrying 
any representation of a hand in its structure, as has been 
supposed to be the case. So also Jacob set up a pillar 
over Rachel's grave (Gen. xxxv, 20 ; and Robinson, i, 
218). The monolithic tombs and obelisks of Petra are 
instances of similar usage (Burckhardt, Syria, p. 422; 
Roberts, Sketches, p. 105; Irby and Mangles, Travels, 
p. 125). See Absalom’s Tomb. 

2. Architectural. — Pillars form an important feature 
in Oriental architecture, partly perhaps as a reminis- 
cence of the tent with its supporting poles, and partly 
also from the use of flat roofs, in consequence of which 
the chambers were either narrower or divided into por- 
tions by columns (Judg. xvi, 25). The tent-principle 
is exemplified in the open halls of Persian and other 
Eastern buildings, of which the fronts, supported by pil- 
lars, are shaded by curtains or awnings fast- 
ened to the ground outside by pegs, or to trees 
in the garden-court (Esth. i, 6 ; Chardin, Voy. 
vii, 387 ; ix, 469, 470, and plates 39,81 ; Lay- 
ard, Xin. and Bab. p. 530, 648 ; Burckhardt, 
Notes on Bed. i, 37). Thus Moses was com- 
manded to spread the veil of the tabernacle on 
four pillars (Exod. xxvi, 32, etc.). Thus also 
a figurative mode of describing heaven is as 
a tent or canopy supported by pillars (Psa. 
civ, 2; Isa. xl, 22), and the earth as a flat 
surface resting on pillars (1 Sam. ii, 8 ; Psa. 
lxxv, 3). See Tent. 

It has already been remarked that the word 
“place,” in 1 Sam. xv, 12, is in Hebrew 
“ hand.” In the Arab tent two of the posts 
are called yed or “ hand” (Burckhardt, Bed. i, 
37). See Hand. 

The general practice in Oriental buildings 
of supporting flat roofs by pillars, or of cov- 
ering open spaces by awnings stretched from 
pillars, led to an extensive use of them in con- 
struction. In Indian architecture an enormous 
number of pillars, sometimes amounting to 
1000, is found. A similar principle appears 
to have been carried out at Persepolis. At 
Kineveh the pillars were probably of wood 
[see Cedar], and it is very likely that the 
same construction prevailed in the “ house of 
the forest of Lebanon,” with its hall and porch 
of pillars (1 Kings vii, 2, 6). The “chapi- 
ters” of the two pillars Jachin (q.v.) and Boaz 
resembled the tall capitals of the Persepolitan 
columns (Lavard, Xin. and Bab. p. 252, 650; 
Nineveh, ii, 274; Fergusson, Handb. p. 8, 174, 
178, 188, 190, 196, 198, 231-233; Roberts, 



Solitary Pillar in the Wilderness. 

VIIL — o 


FILL AU 


210 


PILLAR 


Sketches , Xo. 182, 184, 190, 198; Euseb. Vit. Const, iii. 
34, 38; Burckhardt, Trav. in A rabia, i, 244, 245). Set- 

IIOL'SK. 

3. Idolatrous. — The word .1 fatstsebdh, “pillar.” is 
generally rendered “statue” or “image” (c. g. Dent. 

vii, 5; xii, 3; xvi, 22; Lev. xxvi, 1 ; Exod. xxiii, 24; 
xxxiv, 13 ; 2 Chron. xiv, 3 ; xxxi, 1 ; Jer. xliii, 13 ; IIos. 
iii. 4; x, 1 ; Mic. v, 13). This agrees with the usage 
of heathen nations, practiced, as we have seen, by the 
patriarch Jacob, of erecting blocks or piles of wood 
or stone, which in later times grew into ornamental pil- 
lars in honor of the deity (Clem. Alex. Colt, ad Gent. 
e. i v ; Strom, i, 24). Instances of this arc seen in the 
Attic Derma; (Paiisan. iv, 33, 4), seven pillars signifi- 
cant of the planets (iii, 21, 9; also vii, 17, 4, and 22, 2; 

viii, 37); and Arnobius mentions the practice of pour- 
ing libations of oil upon them, which again recalls the 
case of Jacob (.4 dv. Gent, i, 335, ed. (lauthicr). See 
Asheraii; Phallus. 

The termini or boundary-marks were originally, per- 
haps always, rough stones or posts of wood, which re- 
ceived divine honors (Ovid, Fast, ii, G4I, 084). Sec 1 
Idol. 

But other circumstances contributed to make stones 
an object of worship. Such phenomena as the rocking | 
stones worshipped by the British Druids would natu- 
rally excite the astonishment of an ignorant people, i 
and many commentators are of opinion that the ',ZS 
eben mashkith, image of stone, which the Jews 
were forbidden to erect (Lev. xxvi, 1), was one of those 
bowing or rocking stones, especially as the phrase is 
used in opposition to i"i— il"2, matstsebdh. which signifies 
“a standing pillar.” Those rare phenomena, aeroliths, 
still more easily became objects of idolatry; they were 
generally of a similar kind to that mentioned by Ilero- 
dian, as being consecrated to the sun under his name 
of Elaiagabulos, and preserved in his magnificent tem- 
ple in Syria; “in which,” says the historian, “there 
stands not any image made with hands, as among the 
Creeks and Homans, to represent the god, but there is 
a very large stone, round at the bottom, and terminat- 
ing in a point of a conical form, and a black color, 
which they sa} r fell down from Jupiter.” Sec Diope- 
tes. Sacred pillars or stones were indeed frequently 
worshipped instead of statues by idolatrous nations, and 
traces of this preposterous veneration may still be found 
in various countries. See Diana. The erection of 
monoliths or monumental pillars was forbidden to the 


Israelites, but it appears that they were permitted to 
erect cairns or piles of stone to preserve the recollection 
of great events, as Joshua did at Cilgal (q. v.), that it 
might be a memorial of his miraculous passage over the 
Jordan. See Cromlech. 

4. Lastly, the fgurative use of the term “pillar,” in 
reference to the cloud and fire accompanying the Israel- 
ites on their march (Exod. xxxiii, 9, 10; Xch. ix, 12; 
Hsa. xeix, 7), or as in Cant, iii, 0 and Lev. x, 1, is plainly 
derived from the notion of an isolated column not sup- 
porting a roof. See Pillar of Cloud and Eire. A 
pillar is also an emblem of firmness and steadfastness 
(Jer. i, 18; Rev. iii, 12), and of that which sustains or 
supports (<Jal. ii, 9; 1 Tim. iii, 15). In the Apocrypha 
we find a similar metaphor (Ecclns. xxxvi, 24): “lie 
that getteth a wife beginneth a possession, a help like 
unto himself, and a pillar of rest.” Sec Architecture. 

PILLAR is in architectural language the column 
supporting the arch. In the Norman style the pillars 
are generally massive, and are frequently circular, with 






St. Peter's, Northamp- 
ton, c. 11 GO. 

capitals either of the same form or square; they arc 
sometimes ornamented with channels, or Jlutes, in vari- 



PILLAIi 


211 


PILLAR 


ons forms, spiral, zigzag, reticulated, etc. In plain 
buildings a square or rectangular pillar, or pier, is occa- 
sionally found ; a polygonal, usually octagonal, pillar is 
also used, especially towards the end of the style, and is 
generally of lighter proportions than most of the other 
kinds. But, besides these, clustered or compound pil- 
lars are extremely numerous and much varied ; the 
simplest of them consists of a square with one or more 
rectangular recesses at each corner, hut a more common 
form is one resembling these, with a small circular shaft 
in each of the recesses, and a larger one, semicircular, on 
two (or on each) of the faces: most of the compound 
pillars partake of this arrangement, though other va- 
rieties are by no means rare. 

In the Early English style plain circular or octagonal 
shafts are frequently used, especially in plain buildings, 
hut many other and more complicated kinds of pillars 
are employed ; the commonest of these consists of a large 
central shaft, which is generally circular, with smaller 
shafts (usually four) round it; these are frequently made 
of a finer material than the rest, and polished, hut they 
are often worked in courses with the central part of the 
pillar, and are sometimes filleted ; in this style the pil- 
lars are very constantly banded. 



Wei ford, c. 1220. 


In the Decorated style the general form of clustered 
pillars changes from a circular to a lozenge-shaped ar- 
rangement, or to a square placed 
O diagonally, hut many other vari- 

4 eties are also to be met with. 

They sometimes consist of small 
J shafts surrounding a larger one, 
I and are sometimes moulded; the 
y A small shafts and some of the 

fey ^ mouldings are often filleted; plain 

octagonal pillars are also very fre- 
quently employed in village churches: towards the end 
of this style a pillar consisting of four small shafts sep- 
arated by a deep hollow and two fillets is common, as it 
is also in the Perpendicular style, but the hollows are 
usually shallower, and the disposition of the fillets is 
different. 

A plain octagonal pillar continues in use throughout 
the Perpendicular style, though it is not so frequent as 
at earlier periods, and its sides are occasionally slightlv 


hollowed. In Decorated work a few of the mouldings 
of the piers occasionally run up into the arches and form 
part of the arcliivolt, as at Bristol Cathedral, hut in Per- 
pendicular buildings this arrangement is much more 
common, and in some cases the whole of the mouldiugs 
of the pillars are continued in the arches without any 
capital or impost between them : the forms are various, 
but in general arrangement they usually partake of a 
square placed diagoualty; sometimes, however, they are 
contracted in breadth so as to become narrower between 
the archways (from east to -west) than in the opposite 
direction : the small shafts attached to the pillars in this 
style are usually plain circles, but are occasionally fillet- 
ed, and in some instances are hollow-sided polygons. — 
Parker, Glossary of Architecture, s. v. 



Pillar of Cloud and Fire. According to Exod. 

xiii, 21 sq. (comp, xiv, 2*1; Numb, xiv, 14; Nell, ix, 12, 

19), the Israelites during their journey from Egypt 
through the desert were accompanied in the day by a 
pillar of cloud, and at night by a pillar of fire (Ileb. 
'|2^ ll'X Sept. gtv\oq vvp'tXgQ, Trvpog ), as 

a guide (comp. esp. Exod. xl, 3G sq.) and protection 
(comp. Psa. cv, 89 ; Wisd. x, 17), and this waited 
over the tabernacle while the people rested (Exod. xl, 
34 sq.; Numb, ix, 15 sq.). The narrative represents 
Jehovah himself as in this cloud (comp, also Numb. 

xiv, 14), and as speaking from it to Moses (Exod. 
xxxiii, 9 sq.; Numb, xii, 5; Deut. xxxi, 15). Later 
writers explain this of the “wisdom' 7 of God (aoQia, 
Wisd. x, 17), or the divine Logos (q. v. ; comp. Philo, 
Opera, i, 501). Toland, again, and after him many 
others, explained this appearance naturally, and re- 
ferred it to the fire carried in a vessel before the host, 
which in the day served as a guide and signal by its 
smoke, and at night by its brightness. Yon der Ilart 
carried this opinion so far as to hold that this fire car- 
ried before the Israelites was the sacred fire preserved 
upon the altar from the time of Abraham (Ephemeral. 
Philol. Discurs. vi, 109 sq.; and Philol. T Indie. Helmst. 
1096. For the controversy on this view, see IJosen- 
miillcr on Exod. xiii, 21; comp. Forster, in Eichhorn’s 
Repert. x, 132 sq.). This custom is actually observed 
by caravans in the East at the present day (Ilarnier, 
Ohserv. i, 438 sq. ; Descript, de VEgypte, viii, 128), 
and it became at an early day customary with armies 



PILLAR 


212 


FILLMORE 


in the East, especially in traversing an unknown region 
(Curt, iii, 3, 9; v, 2, 7; but the passages sometimes 
quoted, Yeget. Mil. iii, 5; Frontin. Sfrate g. ii, 25, do not 
refer to this. Comp. esp. on the custom, Faber, .lr- 
chdol. p. 214 sq. ; Wol/htb. Frugm. p. 103 sq.; Hauer, 
/ lehr. Mythol. i, 281 sq.). Meanwhile we must not for- 
get that it is the evident intention of the historian to 
narrate a miracle (comp, also Psa. lxxviii, 11; cv, 39; 
comp. Died. Sic. xvi, GO; Clem. Alex. Strom, i, 150). 
The following monographs on this subject arc unimpor- 
tant : Krause, he colamna ignis ac nubis (Yiteb. 1707); 
Friderici, l)e col. ign. et nnb. (Leips. 1GS9) ; Salim, lie 
column, ign. ac nub. (Gedan. 1702); Miinden, he co- 
lumn. nub. et igne (Guslar. 1712), and many others. Fol- 
lowing this national recollection, Isaiah (iv, 5) has em- 
ployed the figure of a cloud of smoke and tire hovering 
over Zion and the Temple as a symbol of the presence 
of Jehovah, in his picture of the blessedness of the the- 
ocracy (comp. Ewald, hr. G'esch.ii, 1G7 sq.).— Winer, ii, 
COG. See Suek.in.vii. 

Pillar, Flain ok the (22*2 Sept, rg (3a- 

\avtp tj) tvptry rgg ot«ct€W£ ; Alex, omits t \ y f vpiry ; 
Yulg. quercum quee stabat ), or rather “ oak of the pillar" 
— that being the real signification of the Hebrew word 
dun; a tree which stood near Shechom, and at which 
the men of Shechem and the house of Millo assembled, 
to crown Abimelecli, son of Gideon (Judg. ix, G). 
There is nothing said by which its position can be as- 
certained. It possibly derived its name of Jfutstsdb 
from a stone or pillar set up under it ; and reasons have 
already been adduced for believing t hat this tree may 
have been the same with that under which Jacob buried 
the idols and idolatrous trinkets of his household, and 
under which Joshua erected a stone as a testimony of 
the covenant there re-executed between the people and 
Jehovah. See Meonenim. There was both time and 
opportunity during the period of commotion which fol- 
lowed the death of Joshua for this sanctuary to return 
into the hands of the Canaauites, and the stone left 
standing there by Joshua to become appropriated to 
idolatrous purposes as one of the matstsebdhs in which 
the religion of the aborigines of the llolv Laud delight- 
ed. See Idolatry. The terms in which Joshua 
speaks of this very stone (Josh, xxiv, 27) almost seem 
to overstep t be bounds of mere imagery, and would 
suggest and warrant its being afterwards regarded as 
endowed with miraculous qualities, and therefore a fit 
object for veneration. Especially would this be the 
case if the singular expression, “It hath heard all the 
words of Jehovah our God which he spake to us ,” were 
intended to indicate that this stone had been brought 
from Sinai, Jordan, or some other scene of the commu- 
nications of Jehovah with the people. The Samaritans 
still show a range of stones on the summit of Geri/.im 
as those brought from the bed of Jordan by the twelve 
tribes. — Smith. See Oak. 

Pillar ok Salt. See Lor. 

Pillar Saints, devotees who stood on the tops of 
lofty pillars for many years in fulfilment of religious 
vows. The lirst who originated this practice was Sim- 
eon, a native of Syria, who was born about A. I). 390. 
In early youth lie entered a monastery near Antioch, 
where he devoted himself to the most rigid exercises 
of mort ideation and abstinence. Having been expelled 
from the monastery for his excessive austerities, he 
retired to the adjacent mountain, where he took up 
his residence first in a cave, and then in a little cell, 
where he immured himself for three years. Next he 
removed to the top of a mountain, where he chained 
himself to a rock for several years. 11 is fame had now 
become so great that crowds of visitors thronged to see 
him. “ Incommoded by the pressure of the crowd,” we 
are told, “he erected a pillar on which lie might stand, 
elevated at first six cubits, and ending with forty. The 
top of the pillar was three feet in diameter, and sur- 
rounded with a balustrade. Here he stood day and 


night in all weathers. Through the night, till 9 A.M., 
lie was constantly in prayer, often spreading forth his 
hands and bowing so low that his forehead touched his 
toes. A bystander once attempted to count the number 
of these successive prostrations, and he counted till they 
amounted to 1211. At 9 o’clock A.M. he began to ad- 
dress the admiring crowd below, to hear and answer 
their questions, to send messages and write letters, etc., 
for he took concern in the welfare of the churches, ami 
corresponded with bishops, and even emperors. To- 
wards evening he suspended his intercourse with this 
world, and betook himself again to converse with God 
till the following day. lie generally ate but once a 
week, never slept, wore a long sheepskin robe, and a 
cap of the same. Ilis beard was very long, and his 
frame extremely emaciated. In this manner he is re- 
ported to have spent thirty-seven years, and at last, in 
his sixtv-ninth year, to have expired unobserved in a 
praying attitude, in which no one ventured to disturb 
him till after three days, when Anthony, his disciple and 
biographer, mounting the pillar, found that his spirit 
had departed, and his holy body was emitting a de- 
lightful odor. Ilis remains were borne in pomp to An- 
tioch, in order to be the safeguard of that unwalled 
town, and innumerable miracles were performed at his 
shrine. Ilis pillar also was so venerated that it was 
literally enclosed with chapels and monasteries for some 
ages. Simeon was so averse to women that he never 
allowed one to come within the sacred precincts of his 
pillar. Even his own mother was debarred this privi- 
lege till after her death, when her corpse was brought 
to him, and lie- now restored her to life for a short time 
that she might sec him, and converse with him a little 
before she ascended to heaven.” Another Simeon Sty- 
litcs is mentioned by Evagrius as having lived in the 
Gth century. In his childhood he mounted his pillar 
near Antioch, and is said to have occupied it sixtv- 
eiglit years. The example of .Simeon was afterwards 
followed, to a certain extent at least, by many persons 
in Syria and Palestine, and pillar saints were found in 
the East even in the 12th century, when the Stylites. as 
they were termed by the Greeks, were abolished. This 
order of saints never found a footing in the West, and 
when one Wnllilaieus attempted to commence the prac- 
tice in the German territory of Treves, the neighboring 
bishops destroyed his pillar, and prevented him from 
carrying his purpose into effect. See Gardner, Faiths 
of the World , ii, GG2. 

Pilled (Gen. xxx, 37, 38) is a rendering of 722, 
paisdf. to strip of the bark, being the same as 
“strnkes,” i. e. streaks, in the same connection (ver. 57). 
Peeled (Isa. xviii, 2; Ezek. xxix, 18), however, is a 
different word in the original, 2”*2, marat , signifying 
to polish. The verb “to pill" appears in Old English as 
identical in meaning with “to peel — to strip,” and in 
this sense is used in the above passages from Genesis. 
Of the next stage in its meaning as- plunder, we have 
traces in the word “pillage,” pilfer. If the difference 
between the two forms lie more than accidental, it would 
seem as if. in the English of the 17th century, “peel” 
was used for the latter signification, 'flic “people scat- 
tered and peeled" are generally interpreted to mean 
those that have been plundered of all they have. Comp. 

“ Peeling their prisoners.” Milton, I\ II. iv. 

“To peel the chiefs, the people to devour." 

— 1 Myden, llvmer , I Had (Kichardson). 
'I’lie soldiers of Nebuchadnezzar's army (Ezek. xxix. 
18), however, have their shoulder peeled in the literal 
sense. The skin is worn off with carrying earth to pile 
up the mounds during the protracted siege of Tyre. See 
TV HE. 

Pil(l)more (also spelled Pibnoor ), Joseph, P.P., 
an early Episcopal minister in America, was born at 
Tadmouth, Yorkshire, England, about 1734, and was 
educated at Kings wood, the school of John Wesley, un- 
der whom he had been previously converted. On com- 


PILLOW 


213 


PILLSBURY 


pleting his studies, Pilmore became a lay helper in the 
Methodist itinerant ministry, and labored in this way 
for many years through England, Scotland, and "Wales. 
His ministerial certificate from Mr. Wesley represents 
him as “having grace, gifts, and success or fruit in the 
•work.” II is word was blessed everywhere. His ap- 
pearance and preaching were impressive. Mr. Pil- 
more’s manly form, tall and erect, his sympathizing 
spirit, earnest zeal and prayers, all united to make strong 
and lasting impressions. In 17G9 he came to America, 
and preached throughout the colonies. Stevens says 
Pilmore had many hair-breadth escapes of life and limb 
in his wide journeys. At Charleston, S. C., he could 
find no place to use for preaching except the theatre, 
and while earnestly delivering a sermon, suddenly the 
table used for a pulpit, with the chair he occupied, all 
at once disappeared through a trap-door to the cellar. 
This was a wicked contrivance of the “baser sort.” 
Nothing discouraged, however, the preacher, springing 
upon the stage, with the table, invited the audience to 
the adjoining yard, adding pleasantly, “Come on, my 
friends, we will, by the grace of Clod, defeat the devil 
this time, and not be heat by him from our work,” and 
then quietly finished his discourse. The fruits of his 
Christian labors appeared in the conversion of many 
souls. Wherever he appeared large crowds attended 
his ministry, and listened to his Master’s message. 
With the "Wesleyan preachers generally, Pilmore re- 
tired from his ministerial work during the troublesome 
times of the American Revolution. In 1783 he joined 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, and was soon after 
ordained. He now became rector of Trinity (Oxford), 
All Saints (Lower Dublin), and St, Thomas (White- 
marsh). After the establishment of peace in this j’ear 
he returned to America, and next served St. Paul’s, 
Philadelphia, and thence removed to Christ Church, 
New York, of which he was chosen rector in 1804. 
Notwithstanding the interdiction of “Old Trinity,” he 
preached with great acceptance and usefulness during 
ten years, and then was chosen rector of St. Paul’s, 
Philadelphia, in 1814. Mr. Pilmore’s congregation in 
New York became well known for its evangelical piety, 
and some of its communicants were on terms of inti- 
mate friendship with the members of the old John 
Street Methodist Episcopal Church. During the year 
1821 this faithful and aged minister’s mental powers 
exhibited evidences of failure, and this, with bodily in- 
disposition, made it necessary for him to have an as- 
sistant. The Rev. Mr. Benjamin was chosen. Con- 
tinuing gradually to fail, Pilmore departed this life 
July 24, 1825. Dr. Pilmore was a faithful minister of 
God, and wherever he preached gathered a large body 
of communicants. He left many bequests for charitable 
purposes. He is the author of a Xarrative of Labors in 
South Wales (1825), and of a Description of Travels and 
Triuls and Preaching in the Colonies of Xew York , Xew 
Jersey , Delaware , Pennsylvania , Maryland, and Virginia , 
which was never published. See Sprague, A nnals of the 
Amer. Pulpit, v, 2GG ; Disoswav, in the X. F. Methodist, 
No. 178; Lives of Eminent Philadelphians (1859). p. 801. 
(J.H.W.) 

Pillow is the rendering in the A. V. of three very 
different Hebrew and one Greek word. The proper 
term is in the plur. n.X'lia, meraashoth (Gen. xxviii, 
11, 18, elsewhere “bolster”), which denotes simply a 
place for laying the head. In that passage we read 
that “Jacob took of the stones of that place [Ilaran], 
and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that 
place to sleep.” The Hebrew word would be more 
properly rendered “ towards the head.” Similarly our 
Lord employed either the bench or possibly some cush- 
ion or rug upon it, when asleep upon the boat ( irpoa - 
Kt<j>d\aim’, Mark iv, 38). See Bed. The r03, ke'~ 
seth (also in the plur.), of Ezek. xiii, 18, 20, however, 
designates a cushion or soft pad used in some way for 
magical enticement, perhaps one of the meretricious 


luxuries of the females alluded to. See Armhole. In 
1 Sam. xix, 13, 1G, the Heb. word is “P22, kebir, some- 
thing braided or plaited, hence usually thought to be a 
quilt or mattress. See Bolster. 

What kind of pillows the Hebrews used we have no 
means of knowing, but the ancient Egyptians had pil- 
lows of wood formed to receive the head when resting 
on their couches, and these no doubt had a cushion 
stuffed with feathers, or other soft material. Specimens 
of these wooden pillows may be seen in the British Mu- 
seum (Wilkinson, A nc. Egyptians, i, 71). “ Hardy trav- 
ellers, like Jacob (Gen. xxviii, 11, 18) and Elijah (1 
Kings xix, 6), sleeping on the bare ground, would make 
use of a stone for this purpose ; and soldiers on the inarch 
had probably no softer resting-place (l Sam. xxvi, 7, 11, 
12, 1G). Possibly both Saul and Elijah may have used 
the water-bottle which they carried as a bolster, and if 
this were the ease, David’s midnight adventure becomes 
more conspicuously daring. The * pillow’ of goats’ hair 
which Miclial’s cunning put in the place of the bolster in 
her husband’s bed (xix, 13, 1G) was probably, as Kwald 
suggests, a net or curtain of goats’ hair, to protect the 
sleeper from the mosquitoes ( Gesch . iii, 101, note), like 
the ‘canopy’ of Holofernes” (Smith). See Sleep. 



Ancient Egyptian Wooden Pillow. 


Pillsbury, Itiiamar, an American Presbyterian 
evangelist, and missionary, was born in Dracntt, Mass., 
Aug. 22, 1794. His parents being both very pious, his 
early discipline and religious training were very strict 
and thorough. He prosecuted his academic course 
under many difficulties and discouragements, being 
obliged to interrupt his studies from time to time and 
to engage in teaching, in order to raise funds. He en- 
tered Union Academy, in Plainfield, N. II., in 1815; 
graduated at Yale College in October, 1822; studied 
theology in New York under the direction of Rev. Drs. 
Gardiner Spring and E. W. Baldwin; was licensed in 
October, 1824, and on June 19, 1825, was at his own re- 
quest and by the unanimous vote of the Presbytery 
ordained as an evangelist. For several months after 
he labored as city missionary in and around the cities 
of New York and Boston. The character and results 
of his labors in those two cities laid the foundation for 
that extensive system of religious effort which aims at 
the spiritual good of the poor and destitute, known as 
City Missions. Desirous of a pastoral charge, in Sep- 
tember, 1827, he accepted an invitation to supply the 
, Church at Smith town, Long Island, for one year, hut 
continued to labor in that capacity until April, 1830, 
when he was installed their regular pastor. At his own 
request, in 1833 this relation was dissolved, and until 
May, 1834, he spent the time in travelling as an agent 
of the American Sunday-School Union. In 1835 he 
was appointed a commissioner to the General Assembly 
at Pittsburgh, Pa., after which he started on a tour of 
exploration to the state of Illinois, with a view to the 
founding of a colony. In September of the same year 
he returned to New York, and succeeded in organizing 
a company with a capital of some $40,000, to be in- 
vested “in the purchase of land, and the establishment 
of a colony for promoting the cause of education and 
piety in the state of Illinois.” From this time onward 


PILOT 


214 


PIXCIIOX 


to the end of his life he was identified with the West, 
especially in all that pertained to the growth and pros- 
perity of the Presbyterian Church. To the scheme of 
Christian colonization he gave much thought, time, la- 
bor, and prayer. From the spring of 1830 his labors 
as a missionary frud an evangelist fairly set in; and 
with untiring energy and devotion he addressed him- 
self to his work. He organized fourteen churches, and 
assisted at the organization of several others. In 1837 
was organized the Church at Andover, in the Andover 
colony, and in 1841 he was installed its pastor, and con- 
tinued to minister unto it until September, 1819. In 
May, 1850, he w as installed pastor at Princeton, Bureau 
Co., where he had previously organized a Church ; in 
1853 he was chosen president of McDonough College, 
at Macomb; in 1855 he began to labor as stated supply 
in the Presbyterian Church at Macomb; in 1800 he 
returned to Andover, and took charge of the. Church 
which he founded there. lie died April 20, 1802. Mr. 
Pillsbury was a prudent and wise counsellor, a sincere 
and constant friend, and an able and faithful minister 
of the Gospel. Sec Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imatmc, 1803, 
p. 195. (J. L. S.) 

Pilot (bnh, chobcl, Ezek. xxvii, 8, 27-29), literally 
a steersman, a mariner, is also rendered in our version 
(donah i, 6) “ship-master;” but in the passage in Eze- 
kiel it is used in a figurative sense for the chief rulers 
or counsellors of the Tyrians. See Sim*. 

Filsbury, Piiinkas, Elder , a famous early Amer- 
ican Baptist minister, nourished in Maine in 1804. lie 
was uneducated, in the ordinary acceptation of the term, 
but was called “ a son of thunder” on account of his 
boldness and ability. He was extremely eccentric, and 
many curious incidents in his personal history arc told, 
but nothing can be related here of any interest to the 
general inquirer. 

Pilseii, Francis, a Flemish painter and engraver 
who flourished at Ghent about the middle of the 18th 
century. 1 le studied under Robert van Audcnardc. Lit- 
tle is known of his painting; but there are a few prints 
by him, among which are the following: Virgin and In- 
fant Jesus ; t.'onvers ion of St. Ha von; a St. Francis , after 
Rubens ; The Martyrdom of St. Hlaize , after G. de ( 'ray- 
er. .See Spooner, Hiog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, ii, 697. 

Fil'tai (lleb. Piling', "«^E, my deliverances ; Sept. 
<Vt\eri), the representative of the priestly house of Mo- 
adiah, or Maadiah, in the time of Joiakim, the son of 
Joshua; apparently one of the priests who returned to 
Jerusalem with Nehcmiah (Neb. xii, 17). B.C. 445. 

Pilzarro, Abraham Israkl, of Amsterdam, a Jew- 
ish litterateur, was of Portuguese origin, and flourished 
in Italy near the opening of this century. He wrote 
J)iscursos y exposiciones sobre la vara de Jeiida, an ex- 
position of Jacob’s prophecy, entitled “the Sceptre of 
Judah,” in which he complains of the unfair manner in 
which Christians expound the Scriptures, of their un- 
fitness for such a task, and the danger of confuting their 
interpretations. On account of its odious contents it 
was suppressed by the leaders of the congregation (a 
MS. copy of this work is to be found in the Karacin 
Library). See De Rossi, Dizionario storico deyli a atari 
Fbrci, p.26-1 ; id. Hill. Jud. Antichrist. (Parma, 1800), p. 
92; Wolf, Hi hi. Ilebr. iii, 42; De Long, Hibl. Sacra , ii, 
591 (where the author is called Hizaro) ; Liudo, Hist, 
of the Jews in Spain and Portugal, p. 3G9. (15. I’.) 

Pimentel, Abraham iia-Koiiks, a Jewish rabbi, 
flourished about the middle of the 17th century. lie 
was a pupil of Saul Mortera, ami afterwards rabbi at the 
academy Kcter 'fora of Amsterdam, and lastly rabbi of 
the congregation of the Sephardim at Hamburg, lie 
wrote p”!- r"i j on Jewish rites, in three parts 
(Amsterd. 1668); — academic treatises in the Portuguese 
language, under the title Questoens et discourses aca- 
demicos, que compoz et recitun nu illusive Academia “r: 


l-TT et juntamente algnns sermons compostos por o dit- 
to (JIamb. 1G88). See Wolf. Hibl. Ilebr. i, 97; iii, 58 
sq. ; De Rossi, Hizionario storico degli autori Ebrei, p. 
264 (Germ, transl. bv llamberger) ; Filrst, Hibl. Jud. iii, 
101. (B. 1’.) 

Fin (“4r% yathvd'), a tent-pin, spoken of the copper 
pegs driven into the ground to hold the cords of the 
court (Exod. xxvii, 19; xxxv, 18; xxxviii. 20. 31: 
xxxix, 40; Numb, iii, 37; iv. 32). or for any other 
purpose (Judg. xvi, 14; Ezek. xv. 3), being the same 
word elsewhere usually rendered “nail” (Judg. iv, 21, 
22; v, 20; Ezra ix, 8; Isa. xxii, 22, 25; Zccii. x, 4), 
occasionally “ stake” (Isa. xxxiii, 20 ; liv, 2), once “ pad- 
dle” (Dent, xxiii, 13). See Xaii.. 

Pins, in the modern sense of the word, used for fas- 
tening the dress, were no doubt in use among the He- 
brews, as we know they were among the Egyptians, 
but they were frequently made of bone or wood, and 
bore a considerable resemblance to skewers, as did those 
used even in England till a comparatively recent period. 
The forms of the Egyptian pins may be seen in the 
British Museum. “Pins and needles were among the 
articles of the toilet which have occasionally been found 
in the tombs. The former are frequently of consider- 
able length, with large gold heads; and some, of a dif- 
ferent form, tapering gradually to a point, merely bound 
with gold at the upper end, without any projecting head 
(seven or eight inches in length), appear to have been 
intended for arranging the plaits or curls of hair, like 
those used in England in the days of Elizabeth for 
nearly the same purpose” (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, ii, 
344). See Crispixg-pin. 





Ancieut Egyptian Toilet-pins. 


Pinart, Michki,, a French Orientalist, was horn in 
July, 1659, at Sens. His parents died when he was 
very voting, and left him penniless. Admitted by the 
protection of the abbe Boilcnu, grand-vicar at Sens, in 
i lie community of Germain Gillot, lie learned there 
Latin, Greek, and the elements of Hebrew. He was 
sufficiently proficient in the latter language to be able 
to help father Thomassin in his Glossaire. He ob- 
tained a situation as tutor at the College Mazarin, and 
in 1712 was appointed tbeologist of the chapter of Sens. 
He had been a member of the Academic des Inscrip- 
tions since 1706. The “Collections” of this company 
ami the “Journal des Savans” contain several memoirs 
of him. He died at Sens July 3, 1717. — llocfcr, Xouc. 
Hiog. Generate, xl, 218. 

Finault, Pikkkb Oi.jvikr, a French writer who 
flourished in the second half of last century, was a 
member of the Parliament of Paris, and is the author 
of, Jugenicni parte sur les Jesuites par les grands homines 
de F Eglise et de 1' Et at (1761, 12mo) : — La uourelle phi' 
tosophie devoilee (1770, l2mo):— and Origine des maux 
de I Eglise (1787, l2mo). lie published a new edition 
of llerieourt’s Lois ecclesiasiiques de France (1771, fob), 
and sonic translations of Portuguese and Italian works. 

llocfcr, A our. Hiog. Generate, xl, 248. 

Pinclion, Gi ii.i.apmi:, a French prelate of note, 
was born in the parish of St. Alban, near St. Brieuc, in 
1 181. He took holy orders in 1207, and was made canon 
of St. Brieuc; then of St. Gat ion de Tours; and. in 
1220, bishop of St. Brieuc. 1‘icrre Mauclcrc, duke of 
Brittany, made an attempt at that time to encroach 
upon the secular rights which the bishops of the prov- 
ince enjoyed in their bishopries, and lie issued ordi- 
nances by which the clergy were deprived of their 
most important privileges. Guillaume, acting in ac- 
cord with the other prelates of the duchy, excommuni- 


PINCKARD 


215 


PINEDO 


cated Mauelerc, who, having assembled a number of 
his barons at Redon, decided that the bishops should 
be banished. Guillaume retired to Poitiers, where he 
acted, for some time, as coadjutor of Philippe, bishop 
of that city, during a severe illness of this prelate (12-29). 
His rights having been recognised by Pierre Mauelerc, 
he returned to his see in 1231, and kept busy during 
the rest of his life in reforming the abuses which had j 
spread among the clergy during his absence, and eon- , 
tinuiug the reconstruction of his cathedral. Guillaume 
Pichon died at St. Brieue July 29, 1234. He was can- 
onized by Innocent III in 1247. His complete relies 
were discovered in 1847 in the cathedral. The Church 
of St. Brieue and of Tteguier devotes to his memory the 
29th of July. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 248. 

Finckard, Patrick M., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born near the opening of 
the present century. He was converted about 1840, 
and in 1844 entered the itinerant ranks of the Methodist 
ministry, and preached successfully until 1870 within 
the bounds of the Missouri Conference. During this 
long term of ministerial life he was employed in circuit, 
station, and district work ; also in the agency of Cen- 
tral College, and, later, as the depositary in St. Louis of 
the Book-house of Missouri Methodism, in all of which 
places of trust and responsibility he gained the approval, 
confidence, and esteem of his brethren and the Church. 
He died Sept. 23, 1871, See Minutes of Annual Con/. 
M. E. Church, South, 1872, p. 738. (J. 11 AX.) 

Pinckney Lectures are a series of sermons, for 
the foundation of which Charles Pinckney, chief-justice 
of South Carolina under the provincial government 
(father of the late general C. C. Pinckney), provided. 
He died in 1758, and by his last will directed that two 
sermons, in May and November, annually, being on the 
first Wednesday after the second Tuesday in each of 
these months, should be preached in St. Philip’s Church, 
Charleston, on the “greatness of God, and his goodness 
to all creatures,” with the view, as he states, “to en- 
courage and promote religious and virtuous principles 
and practices among us, and to raise an ardent love of 
the Deity in us ; and in order to excite an emulation in 
my wealthy countrymen, whose abilities and fortunes 
will better enable them thereto, for establishing lectures 
among us, in humble imitation of those founded by the 
Hon. Mr. Boyle in Great Britain.” For effecting these 
pious purposes, the will states, “I do hereby charge my 
said mansion and land and buildings in Colleton Square, 
devised to m3' eldest son, with the payment of five guin- 
eas yearly, and every 3'ear forever, unto such lectures." 
—Staunton, Eccles. Did. s. v. 

Pinczovians, a Soeinian sect, so named after the 
town of Pinczow, Poland, where its leaders resided. 
The Pinczovians were usually called “Unitarian Breth- 
ren,” but they deserved to be called Arians (q. v.) 



those views of Jesus Christ which afterwards were the 
common views of the Soeinian sect; but the greater , 
part of them agreed with the Arians, and affirmed that j 
the Saviour was produced by God the Father before I 
the foundation of the world, but that he was greatly j 
inferior to the Father, and so also the Iloly Spirit was 
begotten, and is inferior to the Father. This is very 
clearly taught by George Schomann in his Testamentum, 
published by Sand (p. 194-5) : “ Sub id fere tempus (A.D. 
1566) ex rhapsodiis Leelii Socini quidatn fratres dice- 
runt, Dei filium non esse seeundam Trinitatis personam 
patri coessentialem et cosequalem, sed homiuem Jesum 
Christum, ex Spiritn Sancto conceptum, exvirgine Ma- 
ria natum, erueifixum et resuscitatum ; a quibus nos 
eommoniti, sacras litteras perserutari, persuasi sumus.” 
These words most clearly show that the Pinczovians (as 
they were called before the}' separated from the lie- 
formed in 1565) professed to believe in a Trinit}' of some 
sort, and did not divest Jesus Christ of all divinity. 


Besides, Schomann was a doctor of great authority 
among them; and in the year 1565 (as he himself in- 
forms us), he contended at the convention of Petricow 
(pro lino Deo patri) for one God the Father, in oppo- 
sition to the Reformed, who, he says (Deum trinum de- 
fendebant), maintained a threefold God . Yet in the 
following year he, with others, was induced by the pa- 
pers of Ladius Socinus to so alter his sentiments that 
he denied Christ to be a divine person. He, therefore, 
with his Pinczovian flock, before this time must nec- 
essarily have been, not a Soeinian, but an Arian. See 
Poland. (J. H.W.) 

Pindar, John Hothersall, an English divine, was 
born in 1794. lie graduated at Caius College, Cam- 
bridge, in 1816, and became principal of Codringtoir 
College, Barbadoes. lie was afterwards canon residen- 
tiary and prebendary of Wells Cathedral, and principal 
of Wells Theological College, which latter office he re- 
signed in 1865. He died at West Malvern, Eng., April 
16, 1868. He published a volume of Sermons on Com- 
mon Prayer: — Sermons on the Ordination Service : — 
Sermons on the Holy Days of the Church: — Expository 
Discourses on the Epistle to Timothy ; and some Lectures . 
— Appleton’s Annual Cyclop, viii, 592. 

Pinder, Thomas, a Wesleyan preacher of some note, 
was born at West Stockivith, near Gainsborough, Eng., 
Sept. 22, 1774. He was converted through Methodist 
agency in 1795 at Sheffield. He felt called of God to 
the work of the holy ministry, and in 1799 was appoint- 
ed to the Thetford Circuit. Thence for thirty-five years 
he labored on in a most exemplary discharge of his pas- 
toral and ministerial functions. In all the circuits in 
which he travelled he was highly and deservedly es- 
teemed, both in his public and private capacity. As a 
preacher, though not great, he was striking, faithful, 
and impressive. As a pastor, he was most tender and 
sympathizing. lie died Aug. 27, 1835. — West. Meth . 
Mag. 1836, p. 719 ; 1838, art. i. 

Pineda, Juan de (1), a learned Franciscan monk, 
was born at Seville in 1557. After entering the order 
at the age of fourteen, he was carefully advanced in clas- 
sical learning, and then instructed in theology. As a 
student, he bore the reputation of great erudition, espe- 
cially in the Greek, Hebrew, and Oriental languages. 
He was placed at the head of the Inquisition in Anda- 
lusia, and was commissioned by cardinal Zapata to visit 
the principal libraries of Spain, in order to register those 
works which might be obnoxious to the Roman Cath- 
olic religion. The result of his inquiry was an Index 
novus Librorum Prohibitorum (Seville, 1631), published 
by order of cardinal Zapata, grand-inquisitor of Spain. 
Pineda published a version of Theodore I’d tar’s Catena 
Greecorutn Patrum in Proverbia Salomonis. He also 
published Conimentarius in Job (Madrid, 3597, 2 vols. 
fol.) : — Prexlectio sacra in Canticum Canticorum (Seville, 
1602) : — Salomo rrcevius, sire de Pebus Salomonis Regis 
(Lyons, 1609, libri octo): — Conimentarius in Ecclesiasten 
(Antwerp, 1620). He died at Seville Jan. 27, 1637. — 
Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 261. 

Pineda, Juan de (2), another Spanish divine, was 
born at Medina del Campo in the I6th century, and has 
frequently been confounded with the preceding. He 
belonged to the Order of the Jesuits, and published Ilis- 
toria marai'illosa de S. Juan-Baptista (Salamanca, 1 574, 
4to) : — La Monarquia Ecclesiastica, 0 Ilistoria Univer- 
sal del Mundo (ibid. 1588, 14 vols. fol.; Barcelona, 1594, 
1620) ; Agricultura Christiana que contiene xxxv, dialo- 
gos familiares (ibid. 1589, 2 vols. fol.). Many other 
works of his remain unpublished.— Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate, xl, 262. 

Pinedo, Thomas de (called in the synagogue 
Isaac), a noted Jewish litterateur of the 17th century, 
was born in 1614 in Spain, but was obliged to leave his 
native country and seek a refuge in Amsterdam from 
inquisitorial perseention. He was more famed for his 


riXEDO 


216 


PINE-TREE 


proficiency in Greek and the ancient classics than as 
a Jewish theologian, lie was descended from the fami- 
ly of Pinheiro of Francoso, in Portugal. Jlis education 
he received at Madrid, where he was indebted to the 
training of the Jesuits for his literary attainments, of 
whom he speaks in grateful remembrance. He had al- 
ready readied a mature age when the suspicions of the 
Inquisition obliged him to quit the scene of his studies 
and the society of his learned friends in the capital of 
Spain, to live in safety in the 1’nitcil Provinces. lie be- 
longed to those few who were fortunate enough to evade 
in safety the clutches of the Inquisition. lie differs 
from Orobio tic Castro in this especially, that he never 
in any of his writings attacked the Christian religion, 
but, on the contrary, frequently took pleasure in ac- 
knowledging its beneficial influences upon society, 
though lie did not spare the tribunal of tbe Inquisi- 
tion, of which he says: '■ Jlc pudot pigctquc prodidisse 
hoc tie gente Christiana.” At Amsterdam he finished 
and published, in 1678, his edition of Nrf^ai'ot; 7 reyt 
7 ro Xtujp : Sttphanus de Crbibus quern Primus Thomas de 
Pineda Lusitunus Lut'd jure domibut et obserrationibus 
scrutinio variarum liny ita rum ac prweipue Ilebraicve. 
Phanieue , Grevcte. et La time dialect is illustrabat, and 
dedicated the work to the marquis of Mondejos, of the 
house of Mendoza, ever devoted to the encouragement 
of literature. Pincdo’s work, which is very valuable for 
Jewish history and archaeology, and was lately edited 
with a preface by Dindorf (Leips. 1825, 1 vols.), shows 
that the author was well acquainted with Jewish lit- 
erature. Besides Josephus, which forms the basis of 
the whole, Pinedo quotes Benjamin de Tudela's Itinera- 
ries ; David Zemach (p. 482, 584) ; II. Salomo Jarchi, s. v. 
Antiochia, “quem llebnvi per rosethehoth l’asi vocant, 
ccleberrimus in S. S. commentator Kimehi's Commen- 
tary on Genesis (p. 497) ; Ibn - Ezra’s Commentary on 
Esther (p. 583); Maimonidcs, Mon k Xtbuchim ; B. Aza- 
riali, Min Ilaadomim (p. 583). In two passages Pinedo 
mentions the name of Jesus, viz., when speaking of 
Bethlehem, lie says, after having given the explanation 
of the text: “ Scd multo magis nrbem nobilitarimt 
Darulis et Jesu Xazareni natales;” and then, when 
speaking of Galilee, he adds: ‘‘Quia Jesus Xazarenus 
frequenter in liac regione versabatnr, ideo Julianus, 
o II apa/ld-yc, cum per contcmptum G alike um et Chris- 
tianos Galileeos vocabat. Sic cnim vocabantur prius 
Christiani, qui sub imperatore Claudio, relicto Xazareeo- 
rum et Galibcorum nomine, Christiani dicti sunt, lit tes- 
tatur Suidas.” Pinedo died Xov. 13, 1679, and the noble 
marquis whom we have mentioned above warmly ex- 
pressed in a letter to the Judieo- Spanish poet, De 
Barrios, his regret at the death of Pinedo, and more 
especially at his dying in the profession of Judaism. 
Pinedo not only left in his Srttyavor a monument “ acre 
percunius,” but also wrote his own epitaph in the follow- 
ing words: 

Advertite Mortalcs. 

II ic jaeet 

Thomas dc Pinedo Lnsitanus 

Qui prinnim Orientem vidit 
In Lusitaniie oppido Fraucoso. 

(Mutt 

Ex nohili illins regni familia 
Paterna Pinheiro, niuicrna Fonseca 
Madriti penes patriium oducarns 
Literis apnd Jesiiitas npciara dedit. 

Domo profngns 

Null ins criminis ac invidke reus 
Has oras appulit. 

Antecpiam abiret ad plnrcs 
I 11 sui niemorium 

Hoc ceuotapbium per Steplianiini sibi cxcitavit. 

Id volebnt vos scire. 

Valete. 

Sec FUrst. JiiU.Jud. iii. 102; De Rossi, Dhionario storico 
deyli autor i Ebrei. p. 261 sq.( < ler. transl. by I hamburger); 
Wolf, Jiibl. JJibr. i, 997 ; iii, 278; Da Costa, Israel and 
the Gentiles, p. 433 sq. ; Griitz, Geseh. d. Jntlen, x, 200; 
Kayscrling, in Frankel's Mount sschrift. 1858, p. 191 sq.; 
id. Geschichte der Judut in Portuyal f Leips. 1867), p. 
301. (B. P.) 


Pinelli, Luca, an Italian theologian, born at Melfi. 
llis family, one of the twenty-four chief of Genoa, gave 
the republic two doges, Agostino, son of Filippo, elected 
1555, and Agostino, son of Alessandro, elected 1609. 
lie was admitted in 1562 into the Company of Jesus; 
was a professor of theology at Ingolstadt and Pont-ii- 
Mousson, and rector at Florence, Perugia, and Palermo. 
Pinelli died at Naples Aug. 25, 1607. Ilis theological 
writings enjoyed a favor which is not extinguished 
altogether even in our own day. They have been re- 
printed and translated a number of times. Some of 
them must be referred to here: Medituzioni del Sacra- 
mento (Brescia, 1599, 12mo; translated into French, 
Pitux entretiens, etc., Tournav, i860, 18mo): — Gersone , 
avvero della perf*zione reliyiosu, lib. iv; the most re- 
cent editions of this often republished work arc, in Ital- 
ian, Rome, 1839, 8vo ; in Latin, 1710, lOmo ; in French, 
1847, 18 mo, etc.: — Meditazione della Veryine Maria 
(Brescia, 1599, 12mo: translated into Portuguese by 
Antonio Yaz de Sousa) : — I)e Sacramento Panitentiee 
(Cologne, 1602, P2mo) : — Trattato dell ultra rita e dello 
stato delli c mime in essa (Venice, 1604, 8vo): — Medita- 
tiones de I V hominis norissimis, quee sunt mors, judicium, 
irfernus, paradisus (Cologne, 1605, 12mo) : — Trattato 
della M essa (Naples, 1606, 12mo). The spiritual works 
of father Pinelli appeared first at Venice (1004, 12 mo); 
but the Latin edition of Cologne (1604. 3 vols. l2mo) is 
the most complete.— Hoofer, Xouv. Bioy. Generate . xl, 
265. 

Pine-tree. The word “pine” occurs in our trans- 
lation three times, but in neither case is the pine of our 
northern regions referred to in the original. The first 
instance is in Neh. viii, 15 (Sept. SoXou KvTraoiacnvov, 
Yulg. liynum pulcherrimuni), where the Hebrew words 



Stone-Piuc Cone and Nuts. 


PINNACLE 


217 


PINNACLE 


‘j’Sd ets shemen, are rendered “ pine - branches.” 

though the phrase is generally understood to denote 
the wild olive-tree. See Olive. The second and third 
instances are in Isa. xli, 19 (Sept. ttivki], Vulg. pirns') 
and lx, 13 (Sept, ft paSvdadp, Vulg. ulmus ), where the 
Hebrew word is IPHn, tidhdr, which Gesenius conject- 
ures to denote the oak (from its hardness and durabil- 
ity, root, “irp) ; but the old translators waver between 
beech, pine, cypress, larch, etc., and by modern inter- 
preters it has been variously explained to be the Indian 
plane, the larch, and the elm (Celsius, Hierob. ii, 271). 
See Ash-tree ; Box-tree; Cedar-tree. The Sept, 
rendering in Isa. xli, 19, ftpad’vdadp, appears to have 
arisen from a confused amalgamation of the words be- 
rosh and tidhdr, which follow each other in that pas- 
sage. Of these berosh is sometimes rendered “ cypress,” 
and might stand for “juniper.” That species of juniper 
which is called savin is in Greek ftpaSv. The word 
Snap is merely an expression in Greek letters for tidhdr 
(Pliny, xxiv, 11, 61 ; Schleusner, s. v.; Celsius, Hierob. 
i, 78). In the Chaldee paraphrase the word murneyan, 
commonly thought to mean the elm, is used as the syno- 
nym of tidhdr. But no similar name having been dis- 
covered in any of the cognate languages, no proofs can 
be adduced in favor of one more than another. The 
name tidhara, meaning “ three-cornered,” is applied in 
India to a species of Euphorbia ( E . antiquorum ) ; but 
this is not likely to be the plant alluded to in Scripture. 
But the rendering “ pine” seems least probable of any, as 
the root implies either curvature or duration, of which 
the latter is not particularly applicable to the pine, and 
the former remarkably otherwise. On the other hand, 
Thomson ( Land and Book , ii, 266 sq.) supposes that 
berosh ('lj*H3) onght to be rendered pine instead of fir, 
as usual in the A. V. ; referring it to the “stone-pine,” 
which still covers the sandy ridges of Lebanon and Iler- 
mon, and is called snubar by the Arabs. See Fir. 

Pinnacle. In the account of our Lord’s tempta- 
tion (Matt, iv, 5), it is stated that the devil took him to 
Jerusalem, “and set him on a [rather the ] pinnacle of 
the Temple” (twi to 7rTepvyiov rov 'i(poi’). The part of 
the Temple denoted by this term has been much ques- 
tioned by different commentators, and the only certain 
conclusion seems to be that it cannot be understood in 
the sense usually attached to the word (i. e. the point of 
a spiral ornament), as in that case the article would not 
have been prefixed. Grotius, Hammond, Doddridge, 
and others take it in the sense of balustrade or pinnated 
battlement. But it is now more generally supposed to 
denote what was called the king’s portico, which is 
mentioned by Josephus (.4 nt. xv. 11, 5), and is the same 
which is called in Scripture “ Solomon’s porch.” Of this 
opinion are Wetstein, Kuinbl, Parkhurst, Rosenmiiller, 
and others. Krebs, Schleusner, and some others, how- 
ever, fancy that the word signifies the ridge of the roof 
of the Temple; and Josephus {Ant. xv, 11, 5) is cited 
in proof of this notion. But we know* that iron spikes 
were fixed all over the roof of the Temple to prevent 
the holy edifice from being defiled by birds (Joseph. 
War, v, 5, 6), and the presence of these spikes creates 
an objection, although the difficulty is perhaps not insu- 
perable, as we are told that the priests sometimes went 
to the top of the Temple ( Middoth , ch. iv; T. Bab. tit. 
Taanith, fol.29). Dr. Bloomfield asks : “ May it not have 
been a lofty spiral turret, placed somewhere about the 
centre of the building, like the spire in some cathedrals, 
to the topmost lookout of which the devil might take 
Jesus?” {Itecens. Synopt. in Matt, iv, 5). We answer, 
no: steeples do not belong to ancient or to Oriental ar- 
chitecture, and it is somewhat hazardous to provide one 
for the sole purpose of meeting the supposed occasion of 
this text. Lightfoot, whose opinion on this point is 
entitled to much respect, declares his inability to judge 
whether the part denoted should be considered as be- 
longing to the holy fabric itself or to some building 


within the holy circuit. If the former, he can find no 
place so fitting as the top of the tbiN, or porch of the 
Temple; but if the latter, the royal porch or gallery 
(oro« ftacnXiKt)) is the part he would prefer. He adds 
that, above all other parts of the Temple, the porch 
thereof, and indeed the whole pronaos, might not unfitly 
be called to WTepoyiov too hpoi’, the wing (for that is 
the literal meaning) of the Temple , “because like wings 
it extended itself in breadth on each side, far beyond the 
breadth of the Temple.” if therefore the devil had placed 
Christ on the very precipice of this part of the Temple, 
he may well be said to have placed him “ upon the wing 
of the Temple ; both because this part was like a wing 
to the Temple itself, and because that precipice was the 
wing of this part” {/lor. lltbr. ad Matt, iv, 5). Against 
this interpretation, however, it seems decisive that Jesus, 
not being a priest, could not have gained admittance to 
the Temple proper; unless, indeed, we understand that 
he was transported thither and back again miraculously. 
With regard to the other alternative, it is only necessary 
to cite the description of Josephus to show that the situ- 
ation was at least not inappropriate to Satan’s object : 
“On the south part (of the court of the Gentiles) was 
(rrod ftamXiKt), ‘ the royal gallery,’ that may be men- 
tioned among the most magnificent things under the 
sun; for above the profoundest depth of the valley, 
Herod constructed a gallery of a vast height, from the 
top of which, if any one looked down, he would become 
dizzy, his eyes being unable to reach so vast a depth.” 
— Kitto. The same Greek word is used in the Sept, ver- 
sion to render, 1. “23. kanaph, a wing or border, e. g. of 
a garment (Numb, xv, 38; 1 Sam. xv, 27 ; xxiv, 4); 
2. “V 1 22p, senappir, the fin of a fish (Lev. xi, 9. So 
Arist. Anim. i, 5, 14); 3. katsah, an edge; A. V. 
end (Exod. xxviii, 26). Hesychius explains TiTtpvyiov 
as eiKpojTppiov. Perhaps in any case to -KTtpvyiov 
means the battlement ordered by law to be added to 
every roof. It is in favor of this that the word kanaph 
is used to indicate the top of the Temple (Dan. ix. 27 ; 
Hammond, Grotius, Calmet, De Wette, Lightfoot, flor. 
Ilebr. ad Matt. iv). Eusebius tells us that it was from 
“the pinnacle” (ro 7TTepvytov) that St. James was pre- 
cipitated, and it is said to have remained until the 4th 
century (Euseb. Hist. Eccles. ii, 23 ; Williams, Iloly City, 
ii, 338). — Smith. See Temple. 

PINNACLE is an architectural term used to desig- 
nate a small turret or tall orna- 
ment, usually tapering towards 
the top, and much used in Gothic 
architecture as a termination to 
buttresses, etc. Pinnacles are 
not used in the Norman style, 
thongh there exist a few small 
turrets, of late date, with point- 
ed terminations, which appear to 
be their prototypes, as at the 
west end of Rochester Cathedral, 
and the north transept of the 
church of St. Stephen at Caen. 

In the Early English style 
they are not very abundant ; they 
are found circular, octagonal, or 
square ; some arc perfectly plain, 
as at the east end of Battle 
Church, Sussex : others are sur- 
rounded with small shafts, as at 
Peterborough and Wells; and in 
some instances the tops are 
crocketed. Towards the latter 
part of this style the system 
of surmounting each face of 
the shaft with a small pedi- 
ment was introduced, and about 
the same period the shafts be- 
gan to be occasionally made of Battle Church, cir. 1250. 



PIXOX 


218 


PIXSKEU 



Lincoln. 


open-work, so as to form niches for 
statues. 

Decorated pinnacles are very nu- 
merous; they have the shafts some- 
times formed into 
n i eli es, and sometimes 
panelled or quite 
plain, and each of the 
sides almost invaria- 
bly terminates in a 
pediment ; the tops 
are generally erock- 
eted, and always have 
fmials on the points: 
in form they are most 
usually square, but 
are sometimes octag- 
onal, and iu a lew 
instances hexagonal 
and pentagonal; oc- 
casionally, in this 
style, square pinna- 
cles are placed diagonally. 

In the Perpendicular style they do 
not in general differ much from those 
of the Decorated ; polygonal forms are 
not very frequently found, and square 
Peterborough Ca- pinnacles are verv much oftener placed 
tbcdral, A.U.123S. ; iiag0 „ a||v 0 „ b „; trcsscSi are 

also in rich buildings abundantly used on the offsets of 
buttresses, as well as at the tops: instead of the small 
pediments over the sides of the shaft, it is sometimes 
finished with a complete moulded cornice or capping, 
out of which the top of the pinnacle rises, and some- 
times in the place of a top of this kind the figure of an 
animal holding a vane, or some other device, is used : 
there are a few examples of pinnacles in this style with 
ogee-shaped tops. In the fine Perpendicular towers the 
pinnacles are often the most striking feature. Exam- 
ples arc seen on Merton and Magdalen towers in Ox- 
ford, and many of the towers in Somersetshire. — Parker, 
Glossary of Architecture, s. v, 

Pi'non ( Ilcb. Pinon', prob. i. q. Punon ; Sept. 
d>Eii’wi'; Yulg. Phinon), one of the “dukes” of Edom; 
that is, head or founder of a tribe of that nation ((Jen. 
xxxvi, 11 ; 1 Chron. i. 52). By Eusebius and Jerome 
(<9 nomast icon, eptvutv, and Fenon) the seat of the tribe 
is said to have been at Punon, one of the stations of the 
Israelites in the Wilderness; which again they identify 
with Phaeno, “ between Petra and Zoar,” the site of the 
famous Homan copper-mines. No name answering to Pi- 
non appears to have been yet discovered in Arabic liter- 
ature or among the existing tribes. — Smith. Sec Pinon. 

Pius, Jean i>e, a French prelate noted for his dip- 
lomatic career, was born at Toulouse towards 1 170. He 
was the third son of (laillard dc Pins, and studied un- 
der the guidance of his eldest brother at Toulouse, 
Poitiers, Paris, and in Italy, where he became proficient 
in (ireek and Latin letters through the lessons of Phi- 
lippo Bcrsaldo the elder. In 1407 he embraced the cler- 
ical profession; returned to Italy, where lie spent live 
years, and was in 1511 appointed clerk-counsellor at 
the parliament of his native city. Antoine Puprat, 
with whom he was closely acquainted, took him to 
Italy, and had him appointed counsellor at the parlia- 
ment founded by Francis 1 at Milan. lie there man- 
aged some very intricate matters with so much prudence , 
and dexterity that the king sent him on an embassy ' 
to Venice iu 151(1, and to Home in 1520. On both oc- 
casions he showed extraordinary aptitude for political 
negotiations, and displayed great zeal for the interests 
of religion and the glory of his country. A pontifical 
brief of Dee. 27, 1520, shows that Jean de Pins was 
made bishop of Pamiers. Hut he never governed that 
bishopric, and was in 1523 appointed bishop of Hieux. , 
In 1527 he founded and endowed the chapter of .Saint- i 


Ybars. The most learned men of his time spoke in 
praise of his erudition; and cardinal Sadolet submitted 
to him his own works before giving them to the printer. 
In 1073 his bust was placed in the Salle des Toulou- 
sains Illustres, at the capitol of Toulouse. Jean dc 
Pins wrote in most elegant Latin, and deserved the fol- 
lowing eulogy at the hands of Erasmus, who was such 
a competent judge in the matter: “Potest inter Tnlli- 
an:e dictionis competitores numcrari Johannes Pinus.” 
We have of him, I 'it a Philippi Iiersahli majoris (Ilo- 
logna, 15U5, Ito) : — 1 'it a Sander Cat ha ri no: Senensis 
(ibid. 1505, 4to): — Did It or hi Xarbonensis Vita (Yen. 
and Par. 15 Hi, Syo) : — Allubroyicce narrationis libellus 
(ibid. 1510, 4to); this is a kind of novel composed for 
the instruction of the children of the chancellor An- 
toine Duprat: — De vita attlica (Toulouse, 4 to); this 
work is held in great esteem : — De claris faminis (Par. 
1521, fob); remarkable for the elegance of the compo- 
sition. Pins died at Toulouse Nov. 1, 1537. — lloefcr, 
Xouv, liioej. Gene rale, xl, 277. 

Pinsker, StsmiA, a noted recent Hebraist, was 
born at Tarnopol, Austrian Poland ((ialicia), in 1801. 
lie was the son of a rabbi [sec Siieb.u n], and was well 
trained in Hebrew lore. Becoming interested in the 
doctrines of the Chasidim (q. v.), lie joined the ranks 
of the so-called Kotzker-Chasidim. who, in the theory 
of mystic views, as well as in the practice, favored 
worldly gaycty coupled with cynical elements. At the 
same time lie suffered himself to be drawn into the 
whirlpool of a noisy commercial life, which induced him 
to enter upon several large speculations; his genius 
could not long remain imprisoned in these strange 
spheres, and, with the loss of his entire fortune, lie 
finally abandoned these schemes. lie took up his 
abode in Odessa, which was then a flourishing town, 
and filled the situation of Habbinical secretary, and al- 
though the pittance of a salary which was paid him 
was barely enough for his existence, he was always in 
good spirits. But it was not to be expected that a man 
of Pinsker’s talents should long rest content in such 
a limited sphere. Perceiving how miserable was the 
condition, in regard to culture, of the South-Hussian 
Jews, which he had no doubt was due to a faulty, anti- 
quated education, he determined to exert himself for 
the establishment of Jewish elementary schools, in which 
the children could receive a proper religious and secu- 
lar training, suitable to those times. Odessa, being the 
commercial centre of Southern Hussia, seemed to him 
just adapted for such an institution, and Simcha Pin- 
sker lost no time in communicating this important mat-- 
tcr to his friend Isaac Horowitz, a native of Brody, who 
at once took great interest in the proposition. The two 
young men made known the object they had in view 
to several influential parties, and soon succeeded in gain- 
ing for their plan the conjunction of eminent men, who 
made all necessary arrangements with the congrega- 
tion and the government, and thus readily accomplished 
the object. Pinsker was placed at the head of the 
newly founded school, and in that capacity he labored 
until 1*10, when he removed to Vienna on a pension 
for the remainder of his life. Pinsker is noted, how- 
ever, not simply as the founder and propagator of a 
high educational status among his coreligionists at 
Odessa, but rather as one of the best Hebraists of our 
day. When in 1831) Abraham Firkowitch brought from 
the Crimea a mass of curious and unknown manuscripts, 
and, among others, a codex of the later prophets, which 
had, like several Pentateuch fragments, with II aph ta- 
rot h and Targum, a peculiar punctuation — the vowel 
and accent points deviating in form, placed not un- 
der, but above the consonants— and which lie presented 
to the Odessa Society for history and antiquities, Pin- 
sker gave himself to the deciphering of this newly dis- 
covered system of punctuation, and never rested till, in 
1812-43, he became thoroughly acquainted with the 
materials before him. lie showed the patience of a 
monk of the Middle Ages, continually making researches 


PINSKER 


219 


PINTELLI 


in bibliography, biography, and literary history, and did 
not even shrink from commencing to study the Arabic, 
the language in which some of the manuscripts were 
composed. To acquire the latter was in those days no 
mean task, especially in a town like Odessa, yet Pinsker 
overcame all difficulties, and by his indefatigable dili- 
gence he mastered that language also. But none of 
these researches and their result were communicated to 
the world. Piusker was too modest a man to presume 
that he had anything at command worth knowing by 
the rest of the world until Osias Schorr applied to him 
for a contribution to his critical Ha-Chaluz. For this 
purpose, Pinsker began his labors with a communica- 
tion concerning the accomplishments of two Karaites, 
Mose Darai and Radba (David ben-Abraham), natives 
of Fez, who lived during the Middle Ages, and stood in 
great repute for their learning. The result of these la- 
bors grew to a great work of comprehensive contents, 
which he published under the name Likkute Kadmo- 
nioth (“Collections from Times of Yore”), and also under 
the title, The History of Karaism, and the Karaite Lit- 
erature. In it he describes the development of Karaism, 
and notes four consecutive periods: a pre-Ananitic, one 
of Anan himself, another of the reformer Nohawendi, 
and last the Karaites proper. The latter period brought 
about the breach concerning the Talmudic tradition, and 
missionaries were sent to Jewish congregations in order 
to call the people together to enlist them for the new 
doctrine. From this calling together (Hebrew, kara), 
the word Karaite, according to Pinsker, was derived. 
They were the people who laid the foundation-stone for 
completing the edifice of Biblical orthography, grammar, 
lexicography, and modern Hebrew poesy; and although 
Gaon Saadia may be considered in Rabbinical circles as 
the first who wrote a Hebrew grammar and a lexicon, 
and Dunash ben-Labrat is looked upon as the first who 
wrote poetry according to Arabic rules, yet there were 
already among the Karaites many grammarians, lexi- 
cographers. and poets, who made use of the Arabic me- 
tre, and of this we find ample proofs in the Likkute. 
Important Karaite writings are quoted, among which 
the Lexicon by Eadba and the Divan by Mose Darai 
are largely treated of. Pinsker maintains that the 
latter lived during the 9th century; and, if so, Darai 
must be considered the leader of a great poetic period, 
the value of whose poetical productions was highly ap- 
preciated, inasmuch as Gebirol Mose ibn-Ezra, Jehuda 
ha-Levi, and Abraham ibn-Ezra employed many suc- 
cessful similes, expressions, and even whole strophes, 
which aeeord in sound and manner with those of Darai. 
The Likkute found a reception Avhieh surpassed the 
highest expectations of the author. Hardly known pre- 
viously in the republic of letters, Pinsker became all at 
once a celebrated name. The extraordinary compila- 
tion, the imposing erudition, the superabundance of rich 
material, the conscientiousness and geniality of com- 
binations, were all calculated to cause admiration. Be- 
fore the work was all published, those, as it were, of- 
ficial representatives of Jewish history, Jost and Griitz, 
hastened to declare their acknowledgment. The for- 
mer, Avith full admiration, in the “ Ben-Chananja” (1800), 
and the latter in the preface of the fifth volume of his 
history of the JeAvs. Also Dr. Sehmiedl (Frankel’s J fo- 
natsschrifi, 1801) signified his appreciation of Pinsker. 
In the year 1803 Pinsker published in Vienna his Mebo 
ha-Nikkitd, or, as entitled in German, “ Introduction to 
the Babylonie- Hebraic punctuation system, executed 
according to the manuscripts for history and antiqui- 
ties in the Odessa Museum.” This Avork is a master- 
piece of critical penetration into the historic de\-elop- 
ments of the voAvel and accentuation points. Every 
line of the IAkknte and Mebo sufficiently proves Pin- 
sker’s inquiring mind as a grammarian, and it Avas one 
of his favorite ideas to publish a system of Hebrew 
grammar, Avhieh he was on the point of carrying out 
Avhen his health began to fail him; and the more he 
tried to bid defiance to nature, the more inexorably the 


overtasked mind took revenge on him. He died Oct. 
29, 18G4. He left in MS. more than eighty Avorks, the 
most of them having reference to Rabbinical or Karaite 
authors, such as Jephet ben-Ali, Aron the First, Abra- 
ham ibn-Ezra, Maimonides — the books Abodah and Cor- 
banoth — Kalonymos ben-Kalonyms, Mordecai Coutini, 
Delmedigo, and many others. They treat of punctua- 
tion, accentuation, the Masorah, theoretic and practi- 
cal grammar, lexicography, concordances, comparisons 
in philology, exegesis, bibliography, Biblical geogra- 
phy, and numerous other subjects, llis loss is greatly 
mourned among Hebraists, for had he lived he Avould 
probably have given a completeness to his Avorks which 
no one else is able to supply. (J. H. W.) 

Pintelli, Baccio, a noted Italian architect, is sup- 
posed to have been a Florentine. He Avas very active 
in Rome in the pontificate of Sixtus IV (1471-1484), for 
Avhom he built, in 1473, the Capella Sistina, Avhieh con- 
tains some of the greatest Avorks of modern painting. 
It is a simple rectangular oblong, with a vaulted roof: 
132 feet 8 inches long, 43 feet Avide, and 57 feet 10 inehes 
high. The fresco of the Last Judyment, by Michael An- 
gelo, painted in 1533-1541, for pope Paul III, on the al- 
tar-Avall, is 47 feet 1 inch in height, and 43 feet Avide. It 
is the espeeial chapel of the pope, and the Church cere- 
monies of the first Sunday in Advent and of the Hoi}’’ 
Week are always performed in it; the scrutiny also of 
the votes for the popedom takes place in this chapel, 
Avhen the Conclave is held in the Vatican. Before the 
execution of the Last Judyment , tAvo horizontal series of 
paintings Avent around the chapel beloAv the AvindoAVS,of 
which there are six on each side; the upper is a series 
from the Old and Netv Testaments, illustrating the acts 
of Moses and of Christ ; the second, or loAver, consists of 
imitations of hangings, with the arms of Sixtus IV. 
The side Avails remain as they Avere originally painted, 
and on great festh T als of the Church the painted hang- 
ings used to be formerly covered by the tapestries made 
for the purpose from the celebrated cartoons of Raffaelle 
Avhieh are hoav preserved in the corridor in the museum 
of the Vatican, built for them by Leo XII ; they Avere 
placed in the museum by Pius VII in 1814, in the apart- 
1 ments of Pius V. There are twenty-two tapestries in 
all, but only ten are in the style and of the size of the 
cartoons at Hampton Court; the rest Avere not ordered 
j or purchased for the Sistine Chapel. The subject of 
these ten is the history of the apostles; and besides the 
seven at Hampton Court there are the folknving three: 
the Martyrdom of St. Stephen ; St. Paul in Prison at 
Philippi during the Earthquake ; and the Conversion of 
St. Paul. The ten cartoons of these tapestries Avere 
executed in 1515 and 151G by the order of Leo X, and 
Raffaelle receded for them about ffteen pounds each. 
The second set of tapestries of the Life of Christ, which 
are larger than the others, are supposed, from their style 
and their bad draAving, to have been executed from car- 
toons made by P'lemish masters, probably Van Orlay 
and Michael Coxis, from small sketches by Raffaelle, 
and certainly not from cartoons from Eaffaelle’s oavu 
hands. The two sets are called Della Scuola Xuova 
and Della Scuola Vecchia, those ordered by Leo X being 
of the “Scuola Vecchia.” The eeiling of the Sistine 
Chapel is decorated with the frescos executed in 1512 
by Mieliael Angelo, illustrating the creation of man, the 
fall, and the early history of the Avorld. Michael An- 
gelo intended to paint the Fall of Lucifer on the Avail 
opposite the Last Judgment , but this design Avas never 
carried into execution. The Avhole series of illustra- 
tions Avould have represented the complete cyele of the 
creation and fall of man, and his final salvation, if this 
last design had been executed : it Avould have offered 
one vast “speculum humanse salvationis,” as such a 
series Avas termed by the early artists of the Roman 
Catholic Church : it repeatedly oceurs in early manu- 
scripts. Pintelli Avas the principal architect of Sixtus, 
and he executed several other important Avorks for this 
pope. BetAveen the years 1472 and 1477 Fintelli erect- 


PINTO 


220 


rixTUPJCcmo 


ed the church anil convent of Santa Maria del Popolo, 
in the church of which lie huilt a beautiful chapel for 
Domenico della Uovere, cardinal of San t 'lementc, and, 
according to Vasari, nephew of Sixtus IV: he built a 
palace li r the same cardinal at the Borgo Vecchio. 
About 1470-1470 he built the old Library of the Vati- 
can : Platina was installed by Sixtus as librarian in 
1470. Pintelli restored also the hospital of Santo Spirito 
in Sassia, which was burned down in 1741. lie built 
also the Ponte Sisto over the Tiber; the churches San 
Pietro in Vinculis, Sant’ Agostino, Santa Maria della 
Pace, and Sant’ Apostolo (since rebuilt) ;»and probably 
San Pietro in Montorio and San Jacopo were built from 
his designs. In 1480 Pintelli strengthened the cele- 
brated church and convent of San Francisco at Assisi 
bv raising enormous buttresses against the northern 
walls. Dr. Gave (Kuustblatt, 1836) attributes some 
other works in Home to Pintelli, and lie has shown that 
after the death of Sixtus, in 1481, lie went to U rhino 
to continue the ducal palace of U rhino, which Lucianos 
Lauranna of Slavonia had been engaged upon from 1408 
until 1483, for Federico II. duke of C rhino. Pintelli 
may have remained at U rhino until 1101, when he built 
the church of Santa Maria dellc Grazie at Sinigaglia, 
for the duke Giovanni della Ilovcre. lie probably died 
at Urbino, where he was apparently naturalized, as he 
took the surname of Crbinas. lie appears to have 
been influenced by the style of Brunelleschi in his de- 
signs, in which there are still characteristics of the pre- 
viously prevailing pointed architecture. 1 1 is works 
arc said to be well constructed, as appears from the 
cupola of Sant’ Agostino and the Ponte Sisto, still in a 
perfect state of preservation. — English Cyclop, s. v. 

Pinto, Isaac, a Portuguese moralist of Jewish de- 
scent, was born in 1715. lie first settled at Bordeaux, 
then went to Holland, lie was a learned man, but 
commenced to write only at the age of about fifty, when 
he gained some reputation by defending against Vol- 
taire bis Jewish brethren, or at least, among them, the 
Portuguese and Spanish Jews. lie wrote in French. We 
select among his writings, Essai sur lc luxe (Amster. 
17(12, 12mo). lie thus defines his subject: “Luxury 
consists in this, that the houses we dwell in, the 
clothes we put on, the victuals we live on, the equi- 
pages we use, are so expensive in proportion of our 
means, that we can no longer discharge our duties to- 
wards our families, friends, the country, and the poor” 
(Apologie pour la nation Juice ; lie flexions critiques, etc. 
[ ibid. 1762, 12mo]'). Pereirc, the instructor of the deaf- 
mutes, was the editor of this work. The author sent 
a copy of it to Voltaire, who thanked him, and promised 
to notice it in the next edition of his works, which, 
however, lie failed to do. Gueiiee reprinted the “Apol- 
ogy” as a kind of introduction to his Lettres tie qnelques 
Juijs Portugais : — Du jeu tie Cartes (17G8, 8vo), a let- 
ter to Diderot: — Trciite tie la Circulation et tin Credit 
(ibid. 1771, 1773, 1781, 8vo), translated into English 
and German : — Precis ties arguments contre les materia- 
list! s (La Have, 1771, 1776, 8vo). The complete works 
of Pinto were published in French (Amster. 1771, 8vo), 
and in Gorman (Leipsie. 1777, 8vo). Pinto died Aug. 
14. 1787, at La Have. — Hoofer, Xouv. liivg. Gen. xl, 282. 

Pinto, Josias, ren-Joseimi, a Jewish rabbi, was 
born at the beginning of the 17tli century at Lisbon, 
and settled at Damascus, lie is also called i. o. 
Rabbi Josias Pinto, and wrote “Light of 

the Eyes,” annotations on the Fountain of Jacob, 
-jT”’ 1 “ ( "2, by H. Jakob ibn-Chabib (Venice, 1643, and 
often since): TCZ, “Purified Silver,” a diffuse 

exposition on the Pentateuch (ibid. 1628) : - TO-. 

“Choice Silver." a succinct exposition on Genesis and 
Exodus: T— J TOr, “Proved Silver,” a commentary 
on Proverbs (Amsterd. 17 1 1-35): legal decisions 

(Venice, 1694 ; Smyrna, 1756). See Filrst, Rihl.Jud. iii, 
104; De IJossi, Dizionario storico tlegli aulori Ebrei 


(Germ, transl.by Hamburger), p. 265; Wolf, Pibl. Ihbr, 
i, 399 sq. ; iii, 281 sq. ; Lindo, Hist, of the Jews in Spain 
and Portugal, p. 330; Etheridge, Introduction to Ihbrew 
Lit. p. 437; Finn, Sephardim, p. 462; Steinsclineider, 
Catalogus Libr. Ihbr. in Uibl. Uodl. p. 1547. (11. P.) 

Pinto de Fonseca. Emmaniei., grand-master 
of the Order of Malta, born May 24, 1681. belonged to 
one of the first families of Portugal. Elected grand- 
master Jan. 18, 1741, after discharging the functions of 
vice-chancellor and bailli dc grace, he won by his firm- 
ness of conduct the esteem of the sovereigns of Europe, 
to whom he had been useful. It was during his mas- 
tery that a widespread conspiracy against the order 
was discovered, June 25, 1742. A number of Turkish 
prisoners, among them Osman Pasha, governor of 
Bliodes, were to destroy the knights by the sword and 
by poison, and take possession of Malta with the aid of 
the Turkish fleet, with which they were in secret cor- 
respondence. In September, 17G0,a number of Christian 
slaves forming the crow of a first-rate ship carrying a 
valuable freight, and on board of which Medium t Pasha 
was going to Stanchio to collect the taxes, made them- 
selves masters of the ship, brought it to Malta, and 
shared the spoils with the knights. The sultan pre- 
pared to wreak terrible vengeance on the order, when 
Louis XV, king of France, had the vessel redeemed at 
his own cost and restored to the padishah, Dec. It*, 
1761. Pinto suppressed (1769) the Jesuits in all the 
dominions of the order, but granted them an indem- 
nity in the form of life-rents. In 1772 he obtained from 
king Stanislaus- August of Poland the restitution of 
considerable donations which bail been taken from the 
order, lie died Jan. 24, 1773. — Hoofer, A 'our. Piog. 
Gene rale, xl, 281. 

Pinturicchio, Bernardino, an Italian painter of 
much celebrity, was born at Perugia in 1454. 1 1 is 

real name was Petti Piagi, but he was often called 
Sordicchio, from his deafness and insignificant appear- 
ance, but Pinturicchio was his usual name. lie was 
a disciple of Pietro Perugino (q. v.). His earlier works 
no longer exist. He never perfected himself in the 
use of oil mediums, but was confined almost entirely 
to tempera. lie went to Borne, and probably labored 
with Perugino in the Sistine Chapel. He afterwards 
executed almost numberless frescos in the churches 
and palaces of that city. lie was first patronized by 
the Boveri, anil then by the Piceolomini. For Alex- 
ander VI he decorated the Apartamonto Borgia in the 
Vatican ; five of these rooms still remain in their original 
state. His pictures in the Castle of 8. Angelo have hern 
completely destroyed. During his engagements in Borne 
lie went twice to Orvieto, for the execution of commis- 
sions there. The amount of his labors was surprising, 
but is explained by his great facility of execution and 
the employment of many assistants. He was not orig- 
inal in his compositions; lie loved landscapes, but he 
cumbered them with too much detail; his figures of 
virgins, infants, and angels have a certain coarseness; 
he used too much gilt and ornamentation ; his draperies 
were full, but often badly cast; bis works are either too 
gaudy or very sombre, no pleasing medium seeming to 
suggest itself to him; his flesh has the red outlines of 
the earliest tempera; and \ et with all these faults he 
painted at a time when the great precepts of art were 
well known, and his works are good exponents of skilled 
labor in art without any striking or exceptional power 
in the artist. It is scarcely possible here to give more 
than a list of the churches in which lie painted: in 
Borne they were the Araceli, 8. Cecilia in Trastevore, 
Santa t'rocc in Gorusalemme. and S. Onofrio. In 1196 
he returned to Perugia, and undertook an altar-piece 
for S. Maria de’ Fossi (now S. Anna\ to he completed 
in two years. This is the most finished of his works, 
and more full of feeling than any other. He next 
adorned the collegiate church of SpcIIo; but bis works 
there are fast disappearing from the effects of dampness. 


PINY 


221 


PIOMBO 


lie was next called to Siena by cardinal Francesco Pic- 
colomini, to decorate tlie library of the Duomo. Here 
he painted the ceiling in a variety of designs, with the 
shield and arras of the Piccoloraini in the centre ; and 
the walls with ten scenes from the life of .Eneas Syl- 
vius, or Pius II. This work was commenced in 1503, 
but was interrupted by deaths in the family of his pa- 
tron, and was not completed until 1507, he having tilled 
various other commissions in the mean time. It is said 
with great probability that he was assisted in the library 
by the then youthful Eaffaelle, and some critics have 
been wont to attribute the best features of all Pinturic- 
chio’s pictures to aid from the same source. But this can 
hardly have been the case. They were associated more 
or less, without doubt, and it is not improbable that Raf- 
faelle was one of the many assistants whom the master 
hired in Perugia for his work in Siena; but there are 
many reasons why the credit of the best of Pinturicchio 
should not be given to Sanzio, who certainly does not 
need any such praise. There are many circumstances 
connected with certain cartoons, many similarities of 
figures in the works of the two masters, which make us 
feel sure of their association, but these Siena frescos are 
conceived in the system of Pinturicchio. This library 
is one of the few Italian halls that retain their original 
character. The frescos are discolored and injured in 
parts, but are, on the whole, fairly preserved. It is 
probable that after the completion of these works the 
master went to Rome, and returned to Siena in 1509 
with Signorelli, who stood as godfather to the son born 
to Pinturicchio in the beginning of that year. He then 
probably entered the service of Pandolfo Petrucci. His 
last authentic picture is now in the Palazzo Borromeo 
at Milan, and is a cabinet size of Christ hearing his 
Cross. It was painted in 1513, the year of his death. 
Dreadful stories have been told of the manner in which 
his wife Grama treated him. It is said that when very 
sick she left him to die of starvation, but this lacks con- 
firmation. His works are seen in all large, anti in some 
smaller collections of Europe. See Clement, Handbook 
of Sculptors, Painters, etc., s. v. ; Spooner, Blog. Hist, of 
the Fine .1 rts, s. v. (J. H. IV.) 

Piny, Alexandre, a French ascetic writer of much 
celebrity, was bom at Bareelonnettc in 1640. He joined 
the Dominican Order, and then taught theology at Aix; 
was called to Paris in 1676, and there was the director 
of the novitiate in the houses of his order. He was 
more distinguished for the holiness of his life than for 
his writings. He died at Paris Jan. 28, 1709. Of 
these we mention Cursus philosophicus (Lyons, 1070, 5 
vols. 12mo) : — Summce S. Thomce Compendium (ibid. 
1680, 4 vols. 12mo): — La Clef du par amour (ibid. 1682, 
12mo) : — La Vie cacliee (Paris, 1685, 12mo), etc. — IIoc- 
fer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xl, 285. 

Pinytus is mentioned by Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. iv, 
29, 31) as bishop of Cnossus, in the isle of Crete, and as 
a contemporary of Dionysius of Corinth (q. v.). Ac- 
cording to the notices given by Eusebius, Dionysius ad- 
dressed an epistle to Pinytus, exhorting him that, con- 
cerning abstinence (dyvela), not to lay too heavy a yoke 
on the brethren (roig dctXfoUi;), but rather pay regard 
to the weakness of the majority. It seems that Pinytus 
tried to promote in his congregation a Montanistic or 
Gnostico- ascetic tendency. Pinvtus, however, perse- 
vered in his course, and replied to Dionysius that it was 
time to offer to his congregation a stronger meat than 
milk. Some have thought that the point of difference 
between Dionysius and Pinytus was rather concerning 
celibacy, which the latter intended to introduce among 
his clergy ; but this is a mistake. In other respects, Eu- 
sebius speaks of this rejoinder of Pinytus as containing 
the best proof of the latter’s orthodoxy, his care for the 
salvation of the souls committed to his charge, his rhet- 
oric, and understanding of divine things. See Herzog, 
Real-Encykl. s. v. ; Theol. Univ.-Lex. s. v. ; J ocher, Ge- 
Ichrt.-Lex. s. v. ; Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. iv, 29, 31. (B. P.) 


Fiombo, Fra Sebastiano del, an eminent Italian 
painter, noted in the history of sacred art, was born in 
1485 at Venice, whence he was called also “ Veneziano.” 
His surname, according to Lanzi, was Luciano, though 
it does not appear that he was known by it in his own 
time, or that he ever marked his pictures with it. On 
his principal performance in oil, the Raising of Lazarus, 
the words “Sebastianus Tenet us faciebat” appear in 
characters no doubt traced by himself. He was a skil- 
ful musician, particularly on the lute, but abandoned 
that science for painting, the rudiments of which he 
acquired under Bellini, but afterwards became the dis- 
ciple of Giorgione, whose style of coloring he carefully 
studied and successfully imitated. He first distinguished 
himself as a portrait-painter, to which his powers were 
peculiarly adapted. II is portraits are boldly designed 
and full of character; the heads and hands are admira- 
bly drawn, with an exquisite tone of color and extraor- 
dinary relief. The first historical picture which estab- 
lished his reputation was the altar-piece in the church 
of San Gio. Crisostomo at Venice, which, from its rich- 
ness and harmony of coloring, has frequently been mis- 
taken for a work by his master Giorgione. Sebastiano 
was invited to Rome by Agostino Chigi, a rich mer- 
chant who traded at Venice, by whom he was employed 
in ornamenting his palace oftheFarnesina,in conjunction 
with Baldassare Peruzzi, where Eaffaelle had painted 
his celebrated Galatea. Thus painting in competition, 
he found his own deficiency of invention, to remedy 
which he studied the antique, and obtained the instruc- 
tion and assistance of Michael Angelo. Indeed it is 
said that that illustrious painter, growing jealous of the 
fame of Eaffaelle, availed himself of the powers of Se- 
bastiano as a colorist, in the hope that, assisted by his 
composition, Piombo might become a successful rival. 
Michael Angelo accordingly furnished the designs for 
the Pieta in the church of the Conventuali at Vi- 
terbo, and the Transfiguration and the Flagellation 
in San Pietro in Montorio at Rome, the execution of 
which, however, in consequence of Piombo’s tedious 
mode of proceeding, occupied six years. The extraor- 
dinary beauty of the coloring, and the grandeur of Mi- 
chael Angelo’s composition and design in these cele- 
brated productions, were the objects of universal surprise 
and applause. At this time cardinal Julian de’ Medici 
commissioned Eaffaelle to paint his picture of the 
Transfiguration, and being desirous of presenting an 
altar-piece to the cathedral of Xarbonne, of which he 
was archbishop, he engaged Sebastiano to paint a pict- 
ure of the Raising of Lazarus, of the same dimensions. 
Vasari states that in the composition of this work he 
was assisted by Michael Angelo; and in the magnifi- 
cent collection of drawings belonging to Sir Thomas 
Lawrence there were two careful sketches of l he Laz- 
arus, made by Michael Angelo, and several slighter 
ones of other parts of the design. On its completion 
the picture was publicly exhibited at Rome, in compe- 
tition with the Transfiguration, and it excited general 
admiration, although thus brought into direct competi- 
tion with the crowning glory of Raffaellc’s pencil. It 
was sent to the cathedral of Xarbonne, for which it was 
painted, and remained till the middle of the 18th cen- 
tury, when it was removed by the regent of France into 
the Orleans collection. Having been brought to Eng- 
land with the rest of that collection in 1792, it was pur- 
chased for two thousand guineas, and is now deposited in 
the National Gallery at London. It was painted on wood, 
but has been transferred to canvas ; its size is twelve feet 
six inches high, and nine feet six inches wide. After 
, the death of Eaffaelle, Piombo was called the first painter 
in Rome. He was greatly patronized by pope Clement 
VII, who conferred upon liim the office of keeper of the 
. papal signet, which was the cause of his name, Bel Pi- 
ombo, in allusion to the lead of the seal. This position 
1 rendering it necessary that he should assume a religious 
habit, he abandoned the profession of a painter, and was 
thenceforth called Fra Sebastiano del Piombo. His 


PIOUS WORKERS 


PIPE 


Of 

works were numerous; some fine ones are in Madrid ' 
and St. Petersburg; many are in Venice, and they are 
seen in several Continental galleries. The last work 
was the chapel of the Chigi family, in Santa Maria del 
Popolo, which he left imperfect, and it was afterwards 
finished bv Francisco Salviati. lie died of a fever, at 
Home. in 1547. lie is said to have been the inventor 
of painting upon walls with oil-color, and of preventing 
the colors from becoming dark by applying, in the first 
instance, a mixture of mastic and Grecian pitch, or, 
according to some authorities, a plaster composed of 
quick-lime, pitch, and mastic. — English Cyclop. s. v. See 
Spooner, Jiiog. Hist, of the Fine Arts, s. v. ; Clement, 
Painters , Sculptors, Architects, etc., s. v. 

Pious Workers, a Homan Catholic congregation, 
founded in 1021 by Caraffa, an Italian nobleman, who 
was for a time a Jesuit, was approved by pope Gregory 
XX, and confirmed in ltJ34 by pope I'rban VIII. This 
congregation is governed by a superior tribunal, and 
vows are taken, and they serve in missions and other 
ecclesiastical functions useful to the Church. Their 
dress is black cloth, like that of other ecclesiastics. 



Pious Worker. 


Pipe, Musical chafi!). The Hebrew word 

invariably so rendered (1 Sam. x, 5; 1 Kings i, 40; Isa. 
v, 12; xxx. 20; .Ter. xlviii, 3t>; so also a/'Xdf, 1 Cor. 
xiv, 7) is derived from a root signifying “to bore, per- 
forate,” and is represented with sutlicient correctness by 
the English “pipe” (or “flute,” as in the margin of 1 
Kings i. 4(1). It, is one of the simplest, and therefore 
probably one of the oldest of musical instruments; and 
in consequence of its simplicity of form there is reason 
to suppose that the “ pipe” of the Hebrews did not dif- 
fer materially from that of the ancient Egyptians and 
Greeks. It is associated with the tabret (tdph) as an 
instrument of a peaceful and social character, just as in 
.Shakespeare (Much Ado, ii, 3). “I have known when 
there was no music with him but I lie drum and fife, 
and now had be rather hear the tabor and the pipe ” — 
the constant accompaniment of merriment and festivity 
(Luke vii. 32), and especially characteristic of “the 
piping time of peace.” The pipe and tabret were used 
at the banquets of the Hebrews (Isa. v, 12), and their 


bridal processions (Mislina, Baba metsia, vi, 1). and ac- 
companied the simpler religious services, when the 
young prophets, returning from the high-place, caught 
their inspiration from the harmony (i Sam. x. 5) ;° or 
the pilgrims, on their way to the great festivals of their 
ritual, beguiled the weariness of the march with psalms 
sung to the simple music of the pipe (Isa. xxx, 2!>\ 
When Solomon was proclaimed king the whole people 
went up after him to Gihon, piping with pipes (1 Kings 
i, 40). The sound of the pipe was apparently a soft 
wailing note, which made it appropriate to lie used in 
mourning and at funerals (Matt, ix, 23), and in the la- 
ment of the prophet over the destruction of Moab (Jer. 
xlviii, 3li). The pipe was the type of perforated wind- 
instruments, as the Iiarp was of stringed instruments (1 
Mace, iii, 45), and was even used in the Temple-choir, 
as appears from Psa. lxxxvii, 7, where “the players on 
instruments” are properly “pipers.” Twelve days in 
the year, according to the Mislina (.1 radi. ii, 3), the 
pipes sounded before the altar: at the slaying of the 
First Passover, the slaying of the Second Passover, the 
first feast-day of the Passover, the first feast-day of the 
Feast of Weeks, and the eight days of the Feast of Tab- 
ernacles. On the last-mentioned occasion the playing 
on pipes accompanied t he drawing of water from the 
fountain of Siloah ( Snccah , iv, 1 ; v, 1) for five and six 
days. The pipes which were played before the altar 
were of reed, and not of copper or bronze, because tlie 
former gave a softer sound. Of these there were not 
less than two nor more than twelve. In later times 
the office of mourning at funerals became a profession, 
and the funeral and death-bed were never without the 
professional pipers or thite-plavers (avfojrdc. Matt. ix. 
23). a custom which still exists (eomp. Ovid, East, vi, 
fiGl), “cantabat mrestis tibia fnneribus”). It was in- 
cumbent on even the poorest Israelite, at the deatli of 
his wife, to provide at least two pipers and one woman 
to make lamentation. See Musical Instruments. 

In the social and festive life of the Egyptians the 
pipe played as prominent a part as among the Hebrews. 
“ While dinner was preparing, the party was enlivened 
by the sound of music; and a baud, consisting of the 
harp, lyre, guitar, tambourine, double and single pipe, 
llute, and other instruments, played the favorite airs 
and songs of the country” (Wilkinson. .1 nc. Egypt, ii, 



222). In the different combinations of instruments 
used in Egyptian bands, we generally find either the 
double pipe or the llute, and sometimes both: the for- 
mer being played both by men and women, the latter 
exclusively by women. The Egyptian single pipe, as 
described by Wilkinson (.l«c. Egypt, ii, 3liS), was “a 
straight tube, without any increase at the mouth, and 
when played was held with both hands. It was of 
moderate length, apparently not exceeding a foot and a 
half, and many have been found much smaller; but 
these may have belonged to the peasants, without mer- 


Ancieut Egyptian Reed-pipes. (Now in the British Mu- 
seum. One is !) in. long, the other 15.) 



PIPE 


223 


PIPIIER 


iting a place among the instruments of the Egyptian [ 
band. . . . Some have three, others four holes . . . and 
some were furnished with a small mouthpiece” of reed 
or thick straw. This instrument must have been some- 
thing like the nay, or dervish’s flute, which is described 
by Mr. Lane (Mod. Egypt, vol. ii, ch. v) as “a simple 
reed, about eighteen inches in length, seven eighths of 
an inch in diameter at the upper extremity, and three 


quarters of an inch at the 
lower. It is pierced with 
six holes in front, and 
generally with another 
hole at the back. ... In 
the hands of a good per- 
former the nay yields fine, LEA ~ ° 

mellow tones; but it re- II 

quires much practice to 
sound it well.” The 

double pipe, which is 11LJ 'D 

found as frequently in Modern Egyptian Pipes: 
Egyptian paintings as j ,“t£ 

the single one, “consist- piece of the latter; 6, the 
ed of two pipes, perhaps ArghOl (3 ft. 2\ in. long); 
occasionally united to- each iu sections, A-B, etc. 
gether by a common mouthpiece, and played each 
with the corresponding hand. It was common to the 
Greeks and other people, and, from the mode of holding 
it, received the name of right and left pipe, the tibia 
dextra and sinistra of the Romans; the latter had but 
few holes, and, emitting a deep sound, served as a bass. 
The other had more holes, and gave a sharp tone” (Wil- 
kinson, Anc. Egypt, ii, 309, 310). It was played on 
chiefly by women, who danced as they played, and is 
imitated by the modern Egyptians in their znmvndra , 
or double reed, a rude instrument, used principally by 
peasants and camel-drivers outof doors (ibid, p.311. 312). 
In addition to these is also found in the earliest sculpt- 
ures a kind of flute, held with both hands, and some- 
times so long that the player was obliged to stretch his 
arms to their full length while playing. Any of the 
instruments above described would have been called by 
the Hebrews by the general term ckdlil, and it is not 
improbable that they might have derived their knowl- 


edge of them from Egypt. The single pipe is said to 
have been the invention of the Egyptians alone, who 
attribute it to Osiris (J ul. Poll. Onomasf. iv, 10); and as 
the material of which it was made was the lotus-wood 
(Ovid, Fast, iv, 190, “ horrendo lotos adunca sono”), there 
maybe some foundation for the conjecture. Other ma- 
terials mentioned by Julius Pollux are reed, brass, box- 
wood, and horn. Pliny (xvi, 66) adds silver and the 
bones of asses. Bartenora, iu his note on Arachin, ii, 
3, above quoted, identifies the chalil with the French 
chalumemt, which is the German schalmeie and our 
shawm or shalm, of which the clarionet is a modern 
improvement. The shawm, says Mr. Chappell (Pop. 
Mus. i, 35, note b), “was played with a reed like the 
wayte, or hautboy, but being a bass instrument, with 
about the compass of an octave, had probably more the 
tone of a bassoon.” This can scarcely be correct, or 
Drayton’s expression, “ the shrillest shawm” (Polyol, iv, 
366), would be inappropriate. — Smith, s. v. As among 
the Greeks, Romans, and the modern Arabs (see Nie- 
buhr, Reis, i, 180, where cuts are given), so probably 
among the ancient Jews, there were several kinds of 
pipe, distinguished chiefly by the number of holes. 
(See Joseph. War, iii, 9, 5; Pliny, x, 60; Dongh- 
ta»i Anal, ii, 12; Altmann, in Tempe Ilelv. ii, 509 sq.) 
Yet we must not call to mind the completeness of mod- 
ern pipes and flutes, obtained by keys, etc. See esp. 
Meursius, De tibiis eollectand. in Ugolino, Tkesaur. vol. 
xxxii ; Bartholin, De tibiis vet. Bib. 3 (Amsterd. 1679). 
—Winer, ii, 123. See Flute. 

Pipe, Hydraulic*. There are three Hebrew words 
so rendered : (mutsahah, Zeeli. iv, 2, something 

cast, as rendered 2 Chron. iv, 3); (ne'heb, prob. a 
bezel or cavity, Ezek. xxviii, 13); and ( tsantdr , 

a tube, Zeeh. iv, 12 ; whence Kavzapoc, cantkarus). 

Pipe, John S., a Wesleyan minister, was born in 
the last half of the 18th century. He was converted 
when but a boy. He entered the itinerant ministry in 
1790, and for thirty-five years labored most successfully 
for the Gospel cause. He was generally employed in 
the most populous parts of the British kingdom, and 
was much beloved by the people to whom he preached. 
He died July 21, 1835. “His ministry was faithful, 
lively, and zealous, and his spirit affectionate, cheerful, 
and devout.” — Wesleyan Meth. Mag. 1835, p. 723. 

Piper (Rev. xviii, 22). See Minstrel ; Pipe. 

Pipher, William G., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born August 23, 1817, in IIop- 
kinston, N. II. In 1837 he removed to Illinois, and en- 
tered a school in the town of Ebenezer, near Jackson- 
ville. He was converted Aug. 6, 1838, and believing 
that he was moved by the Holy Ghost to preach the 
Gospel, obtained license Aug. Id, 1841. In September 
of the same year he joined the Illinois Conference, and 
was appointed to the Rushville Circuit; in 1842 was 
sent to Carthage ; in 1843 he was appointed to Pulaski ; 
in 1844 was reappointed to Rushville; in 1845 to Mount 
Sterling; in 1846 to Lawrenceville ; in 1847 to Hills- 
borough; in 1848 was ordained elder; and from 1848 
to 1850 held a local relation. In 1851 he was readmit- 
ted to the Conference, and reappointed to Pulaski ; in 
1852 to Havauna; in 1853 to Athens; in 1854 to Ed- 
gar; in 1855, his health not being very good, he took a 
transfer to Kansas, which at that time was just open- 
ing for settlement. His first appointment was Topeka 
Circuit, where he labored with great acceptability, and 
laid foundations upon which others have since largely 
built. In 1857 he was sent to Big Springs Circuit, 
where he did a good work, organized classes and Sun- 
day-schools, attending to all the duties of a Methodist 
preacher. In 1858 he was appointed to the Auburn 
and Tecumseh Circuit, where he labored the earlier 
half of the year with some success; but the long rides 
between appointments, the many exposures to storms, 
swimming swollen streams, with only such accommoda- 


PirillLES 


224 


pmiE 


tions as new settlements often afford, and sometimes 
wandering over the wide prairies until morning, broke 
him down completely, and at the Conference in 1859 he 
took a superannuated relation, after which lie resided 
at Baldwin City, Kansas, highly respected and most 
beloved by those who knew him best. He died there 
May 15, 1869. See Minutes of A annul Conferences, 1870, 
p. 9*4. 

Piphiles, a name given to the Flemish Albigenses 
(see Kkhert, A dr. Cuthar. in Bill. Mux. Luyd. xxiii, 
GUI). See Ai.hk.knsks. 

Pipping, IIenri, a German theologian and biogra- 
pher, was born at Leipsic in 1G70. lie discharged, from 
the year IG93, several ecclesiastical functions at the 
church of San Thomas at Leipsic, and became in 1708 
preacher at the court of Dresden. Lipping died in 1722. 
lie wrote A reance Bibliotheca Thouue JApsiensis sacra 
(Leipsic, 1780, 8vo) : — Bucer decadum septenurius memo- 
riwu theoloyorum nostra (date c iarissimorum exhibens 
(ibid. 1705, 2 vols. 8vo), followed by a Trias decadum 
(iliid. 1707, 8vo) : — Semicenturia Biograph ica selcciu 
(ibid. 1709, 8vo) : — Syntagma dissertationum (ibid. 1708 
and 1723, 8vo). 

Piquepuz is the name of a French reformed order 
of Franciscans, which was organized by father Vincent 
Massart, a Parisian, in 1593. They built their first 
convent between Paris and Pontoise, and the second at 
the place called Piquepuz, where they finally made 
their headquarters, and obtained the name by which 
they are generally known. The strength of the order 
confined to France is remarkable. They have a house 
at Pome, but it is the only one sanctioned outside of 
France, as pope Paul V, who gave authority for the 
order in 1G20, so conditioned. Their dress is a black 
coat, and a round hood with scapulary. They wear 
sandals, and shave like the Capuchin monks. 



Piquet (or Picquet),('i,.\n>n, a French monastic, 
was born at Dijon in the second half of the Kith cen- 
tury. He joined the Franciscan < >rdor, and became the 
abbot of this order at Chalons-sur-Saonv and at Uome- 
liay. lie was also professor of philosophy, lie died 
after lG'ii. He left Cominentariu sujicr eeuugdicam 


fratrinn Minorum reyulam ac sancti Francisci testa- 
mentum (Lyons, 1597, 8vo). It contains a life of the 
founder, and a catalogue of the distinguished men of his 
order: — Provincia ,S. Bona Centura, seu Buryuudia, 
frutrum Minorum reyuluris obserruntia, etc., <1< script io 
I (Tonrnon, 1G1U and 1012, 8vo). Claude Piquet left, 

I among other manuscripts, a life of pope Clement IV. — 
Iloefer, A 'our, Bioy. Gene rale, xl, 298. 

Pi 'ra (lltiod), a name found in the apocryphal ac- 
count of the family-heads who returned from the Cap- 
j tivitv with Zerubbahcl (1 Ksdr. v. 19); but not con- 
I taiued in the parallel lleb. texts (Ezra ii, 25; Neb. vii, 
29), and evidently originating from a repetition of the 
name Caphira preceding. 

Pi'rarn (lleb. Piram', like a wild ass, i. e. 

fleet; Sept. <1 >i mii i', v. r. Alex, tyepadp, Vulg. Pharant), 
the Amoritish king of Jarmuth at the time of Joshua's 
conquest of Canaan (Josh, x, 3). 11.C. cir. 1618. With 

his four confederates he was defeated in the great bat- 
tle before Gibcon, and fled for refuge to the cave at 
Makkedah, the entrance to which was closed hv Joshua’s 
command. At the close of the long day’s slaughter 
and pursuit, the live kings were brought from their 
hiding-place, and hanged upon five trees till sunset, 

, when their bodies were taken down ami cast into the 
j cave “ wherein they hail been hid” (Josh, x, 27). — 
Smith. See Jarmuth. 

Pir'atlion (lleb. Piruthon , ]"7lf2,Gesen. prince- 
ly ; Fiirst, a cleft or creek; Sept. *l>apri3ui-, v. r. <J>apn- 
I Stop and <ly>a3’wi'), the name of one or two ] daces in 
Palestine. We read in the book of Judges that Abdon 
the son of Hilled, a Pirathonlte, judged Israel, . . . and 
was buried in Piruthon, in the land of Ephraim, in the 
mount of the Amalekitcs” (xii, 13, 15). The city is 
not again mentioned in the Bible; but among David’s 
mighty men was “ Bcnaiah the Piruthonife, of the chil- 
dren of Ephraim” (1 Chron. xxvii, 14; xi, 31 ; 2 Sam. 
i xxiii, 30). The city of Pirathon was therefore situ- 
ated in the territory of Ephraim, and among the moun- 
tains, apparently where a colony of the wandering 
Amalekitcs had settled. Jerome mentions it ( Onomast . 
s. v. Fraaton),but does not appear to have known any- 
thing of it. It is mentioned, however, by the accurate 
old traveller hap-Parchi as lying about two hours west 
of Sheehem, and called Ft Fat a (Asher’s Benjamin of 
Tud. ii, 426). About six miles W.S.W. of AV.bulus, 
upon the summit of a tell among low hills, still stands 
the little village of Ft Fat a, which is doubthss iden- 
tical with the ancient Pirathon (llobinson, Bib. Rts. iii, 
134). According to Schwarz ( Palest . p. 151), it is iden- 
j tilled by Astori with the modern village Preiha, or, the 
mountain of Amalck, five English miles west of She- 
chem, doubtless referring to the same place. 

Josephus mentions a Pharathon (‘hnpn.S’wu). group- 
ing it between Tiinuah and Tekoa (.4 nt. xiii. 1.3); and 
the same name occurs in 1 Maec. ix, 50 (d’OjOacw n), 
among the towns whose ruined fortifications were re- 
stored by Baechides, in his campaign against the Jews; 
hut it could scarcely have been identical with the l’ira- 
t lion of Ephraim, though the names are the same. This 
city was probably situated somewhere in the wilderness 
of Judah; but the site lias not been discovered. See 

Pi RATI IONITE. 

Pir'athcmite (Heb. Pirathoui', and 

from Pirathon; Sept. 4>apu$u>rirr/c, <hapa- 
3uii'fi,or in <l>«p«£wi'), a native or inhabitant of Pira- 
t lion (q. v.) ; tlie epithet of the judge Abdon (Judg. xii, 
13, 15). and of two of David’s ollicers, namely, Benaiah. 
captain of the eleventh army contingent (1 Chron. xxiii, 
11), and a member of the royal guard (1 Chron. xi, 31). 

Firie, Ai,kxani>er, a Scotch divine, flourished near 
the opening of the present century. His ecclesiastical 
connection was first with the Antibiirghcrs. then with 
the Belief Synod, and finally he joined the lndopen- 
| dents. He died at Newburgh, in Fife, in 1804. His 


PIFJT 


225 


PIRKE ABOTII 


works, collected and published .after his death (Edinb. 
1805-0, 6 vols. 1 2ino), contain various treatises, relating 
to the Jews, to the primitive condition of man, on dif- 
ficult passages of Scripture, on baptism and the cove- 
nant of Sinai, and a dissertation on Hebrew roots. On 
all these topics he has many fanciful and visionary spec- 
ulations, and it is to be regretted that a mind so capa- 
ble and a life so industrious was spent so largely on tri- 
fles, or things of a fanciful nature. His controversial 
pamphlets are prized because they exhibit his religious 
modifications. 

Pil'it, a ceremony among the Buddhists of Ceylon, 
which consists in reading certain portions of the Bana, 
for the purpose of appeasing the daemons called Yakas, 
from whom all the afflictions of men are supposed to 
proceed. This ceremony, which is the only one that 
professes to be sanctioned by Gotama Buddha, is thus 
described by Mr. Spence Hardy in his Eastern J/o»a- 
chism: 

“About sunset numbers of persons arrived from differ- 
ent quarters, the greater proportion of whom were wom- 
en, bringing witluhem cocoauiit-sbells and oil, to be pre- 
sented as offerings. As darkness came oil the shells were 
placed in niches in the wall of the court by which the 
wihara is surrounded ; and by the aid of the oil and a lit- 
tle cotton they were soon converted into lamps. The 
wall around the bo-tree was similarly illuminated: as 
many of the people had brought torches, composed of 
cotton aud resinous substances, the whole of the sacred 
enclosure was in a blaze of light. The gay attire and 
merry countenances of the various groups that were seen 
in every direction gave evidence that, however solemn 
the professed object for which they were assembled to- 
gether, it was regarded by all as a time of relaxation and 
festivity. Indeed, the grand cause of the popularity of 
this and similar gatherings is that they are the only occa- 
sion, marriage festivals excepted, upon which the young 
people can see and be seen, or upon which they can throw 
off the reserve aud restraint it is their custom to observe 
in the ordinary routine of society intercourse. The ser- 
vice continues during the seven days, a preparatory cere- 
mony being held on the evening of the second day. The 
edifice in which it is conducted is the same as that in 
which the Bana is read upon other occasions. A relic of 
Bnaha, enclosed in a casket, is placed upon the platform 
erected for the purpose; and the presence of this relic is 
supposed to give the same efficacy to the proceedings 
as if the great sage were personally there. For the 
priests who are to officiate another platform is prepared; 
and at the conclusion of the preparatory service a sacred 
thread, called the pirit nula, is fastened round the interior 
of the building, the end of which, after being fastened to 
the reading-platform, is placed near the relic. At such times 
as the whole of the priests who are present are engaged in 
chanting the chorus the cord is untwined, and each priest 
takes hold of it, thus making the communication com- 
plete between each of the officiating priests, the relic, aud 
the interior walls of the building. From the commence- 
ment of the service on the morning of the second day, 
until its conclusion on the evening of the seventh day, 
the reading-platform is never to be vacated day or night. 
For this reason, when the two officiating priests are to be 
relieved by others, one continues sitting and reading 
while the other gives his seat to his successor, and the 
second priest does not effect his exchange until the new 
one has commenced reading. In the same way. from the 
morning of the second day till the morning of the sev- 
enth day,- the reading is continued day and night, with- 
out intermission. Not fewer than twelve, and in general 
twenty-four, priests are in attendance, two of whom are 
constantly officiating. As they are relieved every two 
hours, each priest has to officiate two hours out of the 
twenty-four. In addition to this, all the priests engaged 
in the ceremony are collected three times in each day: 
viz. at sunrise, at mid-day, and at sunset, when they chant 
in chorus the three principal discourses of the pirit, called 
respectively Mangalsi, Katana, and Karaniyn, with a short 
selection of verses from other sources. After this the 
reading is continued till the series of discourses have 
been read through, when they are begun again, no other 
than those in the first series being read until the sixth 
day, when a new series is commenced. On the morning 
of the seventh day a grand procession is formed of armed 
and unarmed men, and a person is appointed to officiate 
as the dewad-ntaya, or messenger of the gods. This com- 
pany, with a few of the priests, proceeds to some place 
where the gods are supposed to reside, inviting them to 
attend prior to the conclusion of the service, that they 
may partake of its benefits. Until the messenger and 
his associates return the officiating priests remain seated, 
but the reading is suspended. At the festival I attended 
the messenger was introduced with great state, and sul- 
phur was burned before him to make his appearance the 
more supernatural. One of the priests having proclaimed 
VIII.— P 


that the various orders of gods and daemons were invited 
to be present, the messenger replied that he had been de- 
puted by such aud such deities, repeating their names, 
to say that they would attend. The threefold protective 
formulary, which forms parts of the recitation, was spoken 
by all present in grand chorus. In the midst of much 
that is superstitious in practice or utterly erroneous in 
doctrine, there is some advice repeated of an excellent 
teudency ; but the whole ceremony being conducted in a 
language that the people do not understand, no beneficial 
result cau be produced by its performance.” 

Such is the ceremony attending the reading of the rit- 
ual of priestly exorcism. This ritual is called Piruwuna 
pota. It is written in the Pali language, and consists 
of extracts from the sacred books, the recital of which, 
accompanied with certain attendant ceremonies, is in- 
tended to ward off evil and to bring prosperity. 

Pirke Aboth, i. e. capita patmm (p“ 2 , a chap- 
ter ), or sayings of the fathers, is the name of a tract of the 
Jlishna (q. v.), and consists of five chapters of chrono- 
logically regulated gnomes from the teachers of Israel 
who flourished within 450 years. They were in all 
ages highly esteemed for their moral character, but in 
modern times, when a greater interest in Jewish history 
awoke, they also experienced greater attention on ac- 
count of their historical value. The Pirke A both was 
especially used by Frankel for solving some historical 
problems, and several after him found in them sources 
for chronological suggestions. A very ingenious spec- 
ulation about the first chapter of the Pirke Aboth is 
brought forward by rabbi Bloch. He asserts that its 
sentences and rules of life were pronounced on the oc- 
casion of the solemn dispensing of the Semicha , “ the 
ordination and authorization to the office of rabbi and 
judge,” given to the disciples as rules of life in office. 
With such sentence the teacher discharged his disciple, 
who was prepared to enter an independent calling. The 
first chapter gives us the chain of tradition, how the 
law w’as delivered from generation to generation. When 
the men of the great synagogue said, “ Be deliberate in 
judgment, train up many disciples, and make a fence 
for the law f ,” they could not have intended for every 
man and for every opportunity, but just for such disci- 
ples to whom they dispensed Semicha. When Judah 
ibn-Tabia taught (ver. 8), “ Consider not thyself like a 
chief-justice, and when parties are before thee in judg- 
ment, consider both as guilty; hut when they are de- 
parted from thee, consider them both as innocent, if 
they acquiesced in the sentence;” or if Abtalyon im- 
pressed the sages to be cautious of their words (ver. II), 
etc., it appears clearly that they merely addressed per- 
sons who have charge of judgments and of the chair. 
Verse 13, which is taught in the name of Hillel, ex- 
presses genuine Shamaic rigor, and only the supposi- 
tions that these precepts are directed to disciples will 
somewhat explain their rigidness. Especially verse 3 
gains clearness, which reports the sentence of Antigonos 
of Socho : “ Be not like servants who serve their master 
for the sake of receiving reward, but be like servants 
who serve without, the condition to receive reward, and 
let the fear of heaven be upon you.” According to 
the common conception, the last sentence could not 
be brought into close connection with the foregoing. 
Clearly Antigonos intended to say something else than 
what his expounders impute to him. By 0“i2 he de- 
cidedly understood earthly reward, and addressed his 
disciples to exercise their offices as teacher and judge 
not with a view to rew’ard, but for the office’ sake, and 
“ The fear of heaven be upon you” completes the ad- 
vice. The chapters following contain rules of life for 
“every man” (D“ixn lb na^a). 

When the extemporaneous discourses were suspended 
in the synagogue by the reading of the liaggadah (q. v.), 
etc., it became the custom to read in the Sabbath after- 
noon service a chapter of the Aboth (Zunz, Gottesdienstl. 
Vortrdge der Juden, p. 424), and this still continues the 
practice in many countries (Bodenschatz, Kirchl. Ver- 
fassung der Juden , ii, 151 sq.). The Spanish Jew’s read 


PIRKIIEIMEIi 


226 


PIRXEXSIAXS 


the Aboth only on the six Sabbaths between Passover ' 
and Pentecost. The Prayer-books have the Aboth al- 
ways as an appendix. A separate critical edition, with 
German translation, was prepared by rabbi Caro, under 
the title Minchatk Schabbath (Krotoshin, 1*17). See 
Talmii*. (J.1I.W.) 

Pirklieimer, Wimbauj, a celebrated (Ierman hu- 
manist, was born at Eichstadt, Dee. 5, 1470, of an old 
patrician Nuremberg family. lie enjoyed a most re- 
tined education ; he was at the age of eighteen intro- 
duced to the court of the bishop of Kiehstiidt, where he 
soon became proficient in every kind of knightly pursuit, 
and carefully cultivated his tine native talent for music. 
Though interrupted by several military expeditions, his 
literary studies, in which he was guided by Georges von 
Tegen and the canon Adelmann, were not neglected. 
In 1490 he went to the University of Padua, where he 
studied jurisprudence, and gut familiar with the Greek 
language, in which he was taught by Musurus. Three 
years afterwards he completed his study of jurispru- 
dence at Pavia, under Maino, Lancelot, and Philip I)e- 
cius. At his return to Nuremberg, 1497, he married 
Crescentia Kietter, whose influential family soon opened 
to him the doors of the senate. This assembly soon ac- 
knowledged his merit, and, in spite of his youth, in- 
trusted him with several important negotiations. In 
1499 he obtained the command of the contingent sent 
by the city to the emperor Maximilian I against the 
Swiss cantons, when his brilliant conduct during this 
campaign, of which he afterwards published an account, 
won him the favor of the sovereign, who made him his 
counsellor. Disgusted by the envious attacks of which 
the imperial favor was fruitful, he resigned in 1501 his 
functions as senator, but resumed them three years af- 
terwards, when he was again intrusted with the most 
delicate negotiations, his amiable disposition and per- 
suasive eloquence fitting him especially for this kind 
of affairs. In 1511 or 1512 he was sent as deputy to the 
diets of Treves and Cologne. In 1522 Pirklieimer re- 
tired into private life, devoting himself to study, and 
encouraging with all his power throughout Germany 
the cultivation of literature and seienee. His library, 
rich in rare manuscripts, was at the disposition of the 
public; his opulent mansion became the favorite resort 
of a ehosen phalanx of literati, artists, and other per- 
sons of merit. He helped many a poor savant with his 
purse and his influence, lie entertained friendly rela- 
tions with Erasmus, Conrad ( ’ettes, I.’cnchlin, Tritheme, 
Albert 1 Mirer, Pico de la Mirandola, etc. Unfortunately 
the greater part of his correspondence is lost; but. what 
remains of it proves the truth of the words of Coehkvus 
in a letter to Pirklieimer, “ Eo enim haetenns in erudi- 
tos fuisti animo, ut eommuni stndiosorum judieio habitus 
fueris etliterarum deeus et eruditionis varin* atque adeo 
omnigena* princeps.” After greatly improving the con- 
dition of the schools of Nuremberg, be made that city 
one of the most active centres of intellectual culture. 
Hutton likens his influence to that of Erasmus and 
I’eiichlin. 11 is predilection for the classical, especially 
for the Greek writers, some of which lie translated into 
Latin ami German, did not lessen his interest for t He 
history ol his own country. Some parts of it he treated 
with a judicious criticism remarkable for that. time. 
He also endeavored to encourage the study of mathe- 
matics and of astronomy, and finally took a most lively 
interest in all attempts made to reform the Church and 
its discipline, writing against, the degenerated scholas- 
tics, and taking the part of licuchlin against his perse- 
cutors in an eloquent pamphlet, lie at first enlisted 
among tlu> partisans of Luther, hut soon changed his 
mind, being, like Erasmus, fearful lest, the success of 
reformation might prove obnoxious to bis favorite pur- 
suits. lie died at Nuremberg Dec. 22, 1550. His works 
are Kerin* dedntatns (1520, 4 to), under the pseudonym 
of T. Pr. Cottnlanihergius : — Apologia sen Ians poda- 
gra 1 (Nuremb. 1522, 4to; Strasb, 1529, 1570; Amberg, 
1601, 1611, 4to) ; this humorous pamphlet was trans- 


lated into German (Nuremb. 1831, 8vo): — De vera 
Christi came , ad CEcolampadium responsio (ibid. 1526, 
8vo) ; followed by a second answer, and a pamphlet with 
the title De ronritiis monachi illius qni (Ecolumpadius 
nuncupatin' (1527, 8vo) : — Germaniic ex variis Scriptori- 
bus perbreris explicatio (ibid. 1530, 1532, 8vo) : — Pnsco- 
rum Hum morum a.s/tmoM'o (Tubing. 1533 ; Nuremb. 1541, 
4to) : — Translation s of several Opuscvla of Plutarch, 
Lucian, St. Xilus, St. Gregory Xazianzenus, etc. The 
complete works of Pirkheimer have been collected by 
Goldast (Prankf, 1610, fol.) ; among them we find print- 
ed for t He first time his Iiellum Suitense sen Jlelveti- 
cum anno 1190, translated into (ierman by Munch, who 
added thereto a life of the author (Nuremb. 1826). 
Pirklieimer gave the first edition of Pulgentius (ibid. 
1519, 8vo) ; he also wrote the text to the splendid wood- 
cuts of Albert Diirer’s Triumphal Chariot of the Emper- 
or Maximilian. Some of his letters are to be found in 
Strobel’s De it rape and Miscellanea, in Waldaus Beitrage, 
and other collections. 

His sister, Charilas Pirkheimer, born 1464, after en- 
joying a most liberal education, entered very young the 
monastery of Santa Clara at Nuremberg, of which she 
became abbess in 1504. She read (ireek, and wrote in 
Latin with elegance. Some of her letters in that lan- 
guage to Erasmus and others have been preserved. She 
died in 1532. — Hoefer, Xour. Biop. Gene rale, xl, 304. 

Pirking, Eiikexi{i:i<'ii. a ( ierman canonist, was born 
at Sigarten, in Havana, in 1606. After studying phi- 
losophy and jurisprudence at Ingolstadt, he entered the 
Jesuitic order in 1628, and was a professor of morals, 
canon law, and exegesis in several colleges of his order. 
Pirking died after 1676. We have of him, .4 pologia 
Ccesaris. principum Catholicorum et ordinum religiosorum 
adversus Bakluini calumnios (Ingolstadt, 1652, 8vo) : — 
De jurisdictione prtelatorum et rectorum episcopis infe- 
riorum (Dillingon, 1663, 8vo) : — De jurisdictione judicis 
delepati (ibid. 1664, 8vo) De constitutionibus et consue - 
tudine (ibid. 1666, 8vo): — De renuntintione beneftciorum 
(ibid. 1667,8vo): — Comment aria in Decretales (ibid. 1674, 
3 vols. fol.) : — Jus canonicum explicatum (ibid. 1674-1 678, 
5 vols. fol.; Venice, 1759). 

Pirminius, Sr., a Prankish ecclesiastic and bishop 
of Melei (Metz, or Melo in St. C.allen, or Medelsheim. 
near Zweibriieken, or Meanx-on-the-Marne), carried the 
Gospel along the shores of the lake of Constance; and, 
protected in his labors by Charles M artel, he founded 
the monastery of Peichenau. Three years afterwards, 
however, he was expelled in consequence of a national 
rising of the Alemanni against the Prankish rnle, and 
he now descended the llliinc and founded a number 
of monasteries (as Murbach, Schwarzenbach, Nemveiler, 
Sclmttern, Gengenbaeb, etc.), among them llornbaeh, 
in the diocese of Metz, where he died, Nov. 3, 753, after 
having met shortly before with St. lloniface. A great 
many legends surround the life of this servant of Christ, 
which, however, have no historical basis. Pirminius is 
said to be the author of Libellus abbatis Pirminii, de 
singulis libris canonicis scarapsus (the latter in mediae- 
val Latin meaning “excerpt”), printed in Mabillon, 
Vetera Analecta (Paris. 1723, fol.), p. 65-73. Sec 
Lett berg, Kirchengeschichte Deutschlamls, ii, 50-58 ; 11c- 
fele, tieschichte tier Einfiihrung des Christenthums im 
siidirestlichen Deutschland (Tubing. 1837); G. Th. Hud- 
liard, Alteste tieschichte Bayerns (Hamburg, 1841), p. 
316, 371, 372; M. Gorringcr, Pirminius, etc. (Zweibr. 
1811), p. 384 407; Pink, in Piper’s Erangel. Kalender. 
1861, xii, 129 134; Kurtz, Lehrbuclt der Kirchengesth. 
vol. i, § 78. p. 1 ; Herzog. Jleal-Ennjklop. s. v. ; J dehor, 
tlclehrten- Lex ikon, s. v. ; Theologisches Universal- Lex i- 
kon, s. v. (P*. P.) 

Pirna, .Unix. See Pirnkxsians. 

Pirnensians, a mediaeval sect, taking its name 
from John Pirna or Pirnensis, an anti-sacerdotal schis- 
matic of Silesia, A. I). 1341, His principles were those 
common to the mcdiieval sects, and illustrated especial- 


PIROMALLI 


PISA 


ly in the Beghards anil the Brethren of the Free Spirit. 
It is thought probable that they were in some way con- 
nected with the Strigolniks of Russia, although the lat- 
ter belong to a much more recent time. The Pirnensi- 
ans regarded the pope as Antichrist, and were especially 
distinguished by great hatred of the clergy. They dis- 
appeared on the Continent by merging with the Huss- 
ites. See Ivrazinski, Hist, of the Reformation in Po- 
land, i, 55 ; Hardwick, Hist, of the Church in the Middle 
Ages , p. 374. 

Firomalli, Paot.o. an Italian missionary, was born 
in 1591 or 1592 at Siderno (Ulterior Calabria). Having 
embraced the rule of St. Dominic, he devoted himself to 
preaching, and was in 1628 called to Home to teach 
philosophy in the monastery of La Minerva. Appointed 
in 1631 director of the missions of Major Armenia, he 
succeeded in gaining for the Catholic faith a number of 
schismatics and Entychians, among the latter the pa- 
triarchs Cyriac and Moyse III. In 1637 he travelled 
through Georgia, and was twice sent to pacify in Polo- 
nia the uneasiness caused by the dispntes of the Arme- 
nians. In 1642 he went to Persia, remaining there ten 
years, and then preached the Gospel in several parts of 
India. In 1654 he passed over to Africa, with a view 
of converting infidels, but was captured by Algerian pi- 
rates, who kept him prisoner for fourteen months. Ap- 
pointed archbishop of Naschivan (1655), he governed 
that Armenian Church to the close of 1664, when he 
was transferred to the episcopal see of Bisignano, in the 
kingdom of Naples. lie died July 13, 1667, at Bisig- 
nano. He left Theanthropologia (Vienna, 1656, 8vo) : 
— Apologia de duplici natura Christi (ibid. 1656, 8vo); 
and sixteen works never printed, among which we may 
mention a Vocabulary and a Grammar of the Armenian 
language. — Iloefer, Naur. Biog. Generate, xl, 308. 

Firot, Edmoxde, a French theologian, was born Aug. 
12, 1631, at Auxerre. lie chose the clerical career, and 
having taken his degrees, the doctorate included, at the 
Sorbonnc, he became a most successful professor of 
theology, a member of the chapter of Notre Dame de 
Paris, and at last chancellor. It was his regular busi- 
ness to examine the works and theses of theology. lie 
interrogated Mme. Guvon, and undertook the censure 
of her doctrines. Fenelon gave him his Explication de 
M oximes des Saints to examine. He approved of it 
greatly, after some small changes, going even so far, it 
is said, as to call it a golden book; then, under the in- 
fluence of Bossuet, he took back his first decision, and 
wrote against the Explication a censure which was 
signed by sixty other doctors. lie died at Paris Aug. 
4, 1713. With the exception of a Latin speech pro- 
nounced in 1669, nothing of his exists in print; but 
some manuscript pamphlets are mentioned by contem- 
poraries. 

A Jesuit of this name, Pirot (Georges), who was born 
in 1599 in the bishopric of Rennes, is the author of an 
Apologie des Casuistes eontre les Calomnies des Janse- 
nistes (1657), a work condemned by Alexander VII and 
several bishops. Me died Oct. 6, 1659. — Hoefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, xl, 320. 

Pisa, a city of Northern Italy, the recent capital of 
Tuscany, with a population of about 22,000, is noted in 
ecclesiastical history as the seat of several important 
Church councils. 

I. The first council here ( Concilium Pisanum ) was 
convoked by pope Innocent II in 1134, who presided at 
the head of a large assembly of the bishops of France, 
Germany, and Italy. St. Bernard assisted at their de- 
liberations. By this body the excommunication of the 
anti-pope Anacletus was renewed, together with his 
abettors. Several canons were published. 

1. Directs that priests shall be separated from their 
wives, and nuns from their pretended husbands; and 
both parties put to penance. 

6. Forbids, under pain of excommnnication, to violate 
the sanctuary of a church or churchyard. 

See Labbe, Concih x, 989. 


II. But far more important was the council convened 
here March 25, 1409. Its object was the conciliation of 
the pope and anti-pope, and the ending of so dangerous 
a schism as then existed. It was proposed to judge be- 
tween the two competitors for the papacy, and elect one 
of them to the throne, or set both aside and choose a 
third party. The council was called under the protec- 
tion of king Charles VI of France, and was attended by 
the cardinals of both rivals to the papal chair — Bene- 
dict XIII (q. v.) and Gregory XII (q.v.). Benedict, 
by the advice of several bishops, sent seven legates to 
the council ; but Gregory, on the other Viand, refused to 
appear either in person or by deputy, although sum- 
moned in due form. The assembly was one of the most 
august and numerous ever seen in the Church : there 
were present 22 cardinals; the Latin patriarchs of Al- 
exandria (Simon), Antioch (Wenceslaus), Jerusalem 
(Hugo), and Grade (Francis Lando) ; 12 archbishops were 
present in person, and 14 by their proctors; 80 bishops, 
and the proctors of 102 absent; 87 abbots, and the proc- 
tors of 200 others; besides priors; generals of orders; 
the grand-master of Rhodes, with 16 commanders; the 
prior-general of the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre; 
the deputy of the grand-master and Knights of the 
Teutonic Order; the deputies of the universities of Ox- 
ford, Cambridge, Paris, Florence, Cracow, Vienna, Prague, 
and many others; more than 300 doctors in theology; 
and ambassadors from the kings of England, France, 
Portugal, Bohemia, Sicily, Poland, and Cyprus; from 
the dukes of Burgundy, Brabant, etc. 

The following was the action of each session of this 
council: 

Session 1. The order of precedency to be observed by 
the members of the council was laid down. 

Sess. 2. After the usual prayer and sermon, the arch- 
bishop of Pisa read the decree of Gregory X upon the 
procession of the Holy Spirit, to which the Greeks had 
agreed in the Council of Lyons, A.D. 1274, and the canon 
of Toledo relating to the proper order of ecclesiastical 
councils. After this the necessary officers were appoint- 
ed, the letter of convocation read, and the two rival popes 
summoned at the gates of the church; no one, however, 
appearing for them. 

Sess. 3. A fresh citation was made, and no one having 
appeared, the two popes, Pedro of Luna and Angelo Cor- 
rario, were declared contumacious by a sentence which 
was affixed to the church door. 

Sess. 4. Bishop Ulric, the ambassador of Robert, king 
of the Romans, addressed the assembly, endeavoring to 
frustrate the object of the council. 

Sess. 5. The two contending parties were again de- 
clared contumacious, and the promoter of the council 
produced against them thirty-seven articles, contaiuing 
the whole history of the schism, and showing the bad- 
ness of their cause. Although the facts contained in this 
accusation were sufficiently notorious, commissioners 
were appointed to prove their truth. 

Sess. 6. The bishop of Salisbury showed that it was 
necessary for the cause that there should be a general, 
and not merely a partial, withdrawal from the obedience 
of the popes, and declared that he had authority from the 
king of England to follow out the scheme for unity, and 
to consent to whatever the council should determine. 

Sess. 7. The difficulties started by the ambassador of 
the king of the Romans were answered. 

Sess. 8. The bishops of Salisbury and Evrenx showed 
that the union of the two colleges of cardinals could not 
he effected while those of the party of Benedict contin- 
ued to obey him, and that the withdrawal from obedience 
must be universal. Whereupon the council declared the 
union of the two colleges to be lawful, and the council 
itself duly convoked ; and a decree was passed to the ef- 
fect that each one might and ought to’ withdraw from 
the obedience both of Gregory and Benedict; siuce both 
of them had by their artifices eluded the solemn cession 
of office which they had promised upon oath to make. 

Sess. 9. Was employed in the reading of the decree of 
the preceding session. 

Sess. 10. The two contending parties were again cited 
at the door of the church, in order that they might hear 
the testimony of the witnesses. Then thirty-seven arti- 
cles, containing their deposition, were read"; and it was 
noted down by how many witnesses each article was 
proved. 

Sess. 11. The reading of the depositions was continued. 

Sess. 12. A decree was published declaring the council 
to he oecumenical, and all contained in the preceding de- 
positions to be true, public, and notorious. 

Sess. 13. One of the deputies from the University of 
Paris showed that Pedro of Luna was a heretic and schis- 


PISA 


228 


PISA 


matic, and that he had forfeited the papacy; and this he 
declared to be the opinion of the French universities. 
The bishop of Navarre also declared that all the doctors 
in the council, to the number of three hundred, agreed in 
this view. 

8css. 14. A declaration was made that the council rep- 
resented the Romau Catholic Church, that the cognizance 
of the matter before it of right belonged to it, as being 
the highest authority on earth ; also an act of general 
withdrawal from the obedience of the two contending 
parties was drawn np, | 

Sess. 15. The definitive sentence was pronounced in 
the presence of the whole council and of the people who 
were permitted to enter. The sentence was to the effect 
that i he holy cecnmeuical synod, representing the Cath- 
olic Church, to which it appertained to take cognizance 
of and to decide the question, after having examined ev- 
erything which had been done concerning the union of 
the Church, declared Pedro of Luna, called Benedict XIII, 
and Angelo Corrario, called Gregory XII, to be both of 
them schismatical, abettors of schism, heretics, and guilty 
of perjury; that they had given offence to the whole 
Church by their obstinacy, that they had forfeited every 
dignitv, and were, ipso .facto, separated from the Church. 
It forbade all the faithful, under pain of excommunica- 
tion, to recognise them or support their cause. It annulled 
all that they had done against the promoters of unity, and 
declared the last promotion of cardinals made by them 
to be null and void. 

Sess. 16. A paper was read, in which the cardinals pres- 
ent all promised that, in the event of any one of ihem 
being elected to the papal chair, he wonld coutinne the 
present council, until the Church should be reformed in 
its head and in its members ; and if one of those then ab- 
sent or any other not belonging to the college of cardi- 
nals, were elected, that they wonld compel him to make 
the same promise before publishing his election. After- 
wards the council ratified the senteuce against Angelo 
and Pedro. 

Sess. 17. Certain preliminaries concerning the election 
were settled. 

Sess. IS. A solemn procession was made to implore of 
the Almighty the grace necessary to guide their election. 

Sess. 19. The cardinals, to the number of twenty-four, 
entered into conclave under the guard of the grand-mas- 
ter of Rhodes, and at the end of ten days’ confinement, 
they unanimously electe'd Peter of Camlia, cardinal of 
Milan, of the order of Franciscan friars, a man seventy 
years of age, who took the name of Alexander V'. As 
soon as he was elected, John Gerson, chancellor of the 
University of Paris, delivered a discourse, exhorting him 
to the faithful discharge of his duty, etc. 

Sess. 20. The new pope presided ami delivered a dis- 
course. The decree of his election was then read, and on 
the following Sunday he was crowned. 

Sess. 21. A decree was read on the part of the pope, ap- 
proving and ratifying all the dispensations of marriage, 
and those relating to the penitentiary, which had been 
granted by Benedict or Gregory. 

Sess. 22. A decree was published on the part of the 
pope and council, confirming all collations, provisions, 
translations, etc., made canonically by the two rival popes. 

Sess. 23. A decree was rend, ordering metropolitans to 
convoke provincial councils, and the generals of orders to 
hold chapters, having presidents of the pope’s appoint- 
ment. Finally, Alexander ratified all that the cardinals 
had done since May 3, 140S, and especially what had pass- 
ed at Pisa. With regard to Church reform, as many of 
the prelates had left the council, the pope declared that 
the subject should be deferred until the following coun- 
cil, which he appointed to he held in 1412; then he dis- 
missed the assembly, giving plenary indulgence to all 
who had assisted at it, and to all who had adhered to it. 
See Ilanlouin, A eta, vii, 1029 sq.; viii, 1 sq. ; Mansi, 
Concil. x.wi, 1 131 sq. ; xxvii, 1-522; Labbe, Condi, xi, 
2111; Lcnfnnt, Hist, da Conc.de J’tsa (Amsterd. 1724, 
4 to); Wcssenborg, Die Allfjemeinen Concil. des 15 v. 1G 
Jukrh. ii, 4X sq.; Ilefcle, Condlienr/esch. vol. v. For 
the imbecile conduct of papal affairs under the newly 
chosen candidate we refer the reader to the art. Alkx- 
aniikk V, and the history of his successor, John XX11I 
(s. v.). In this place we may simply add that the 
schism, instead of being closed, continued, with three 
popes in t he room of two. The effort also to reduce 
the rank of the pope to a constitutional instead of an 
absolute monarch, by giving to the councils of the 
Church the supreme tribunal, to which the pope him- 
self is subordinate and amenable, failed. See Ixfal- 
liiuuty; Papai. Sithkmacy. 

111. Another council was convened at Pisa in 1511, 
at the instigation of the emperors Maximilian and Louis 
XII of France, who having just cause of complaint 
against pope Julius II (q. v.), persuaded the cardinals 
of fcjt. Croix, Narbonne, and Cosenzi to convoke a coun- 


cil, whose object was set forth to be the reform of the 
Church in its head and in its members, and to punish 
various notorious crimes which for a long time had 
scandalized the whole Church. It was further stated 
that there was urgent need of such councils, that Ju- 
lius had not only neglected to convoke one. but bad 
done all in bis power to binder it ; and, finally, the pope 
was in respectful terms cited to appear at the council. 
Besides this, in answer to the complaint made against 
them by Julius, they published an apology for their 
conduct, in which they justified the convocation of the 
Council of Pisa: first, by a decree passed in the thirty- 
ninth session of the council; secondly, by the pope’s 
own vow, according to which lie had promised to hold 
a council; thirdly, bv the oath of the cardinals, and 
by the necessity of avoiding so great scandal. They 
further showed that the canons, which vest the power 
of convoking such councils in the pope, are to be under- 
stood as speaking of the ordinary state of things, but 
that cause may arise in which councils may be called 
and assembled by others than the sovereign pontiff. 
The pope, in order to parry the blow, convoked a rival 
council to Home, and cited the three above-mentioned 
cardinals to appear there within a certain time, under 
pain of deprivation. The Council of Pisa, however, 
proceeded, and was opened Nov, 1, 1511. Four cardi- 
nals attended, and the proctors of three who were ab- 
sent, also fourteen French bishops and two archbish- 
ops, together with a few abbots and doctors; deputies 
from the universities of France, and the ambassadors 
of Louis XII. The following is an account of each ses- 
sion’s transactions; 

Sess. 1. Cardinal St. Croix presided. The convocation 
of the Council of Pisa, having lor its object the reforma- 
tion of the Church, was pronounced to be just and lawful, 
and all that had been or might be done to its prejudice 
declared null and void. 

Sess. 2. All that related to the order of the assembly 
was settled; the canon of Toledo read, and officers np- 
pointed. A decree was made to the effect that the pres- 
ent council could not he dissolved until the reformation 
of tbe Church should have been effected. The decrees of 
the Council of Constance, relating to the authority of 
oecumenical councils, were renewed. 

Sess. 3. At this time, the pope having mitered into a 
league with Ferdinand and the Venetians, began to at- 
tack the state of Florence, and the fathers judged it ex- 
pedient to transfer the council to Milan; which accord- 
ingly was done ; and on Jan. 4, 1512, the fourth scssiou 
was held at Milan. 

Sess. 4. The assembly was more numerous, the cardi- 
nals of St. Severin aud St. Augelo joined themselves to 
the others. The proctor-gencral of the Order of Prcmon- 
strants made a long discourse upon the disorders which 
ravaged the Church; then certain decrees were read, by 
which thirty days were given to the pope, within which 
time to determine himself to reform abuses in the Church, 
or else to assemble an oecumenical council, or to unite 
with that already assembled. 

Sess. 5. The decree of the Council of Constance was re- 
newed against those who troubled and maltreated per- 
sons coming to the council. 

Sess. 6. A deputy from the University of Paris deliver- 
ed a discourse, after whieh the pope Julius was again 
cited in the usual form; and upon his non-appearance a 
demand was made that lie should be declared contuma- 
cious. Several decrees were also published, among other 
subjects upon the exemplary life which ecclesiastics ought 
to lend; also upon the order to be observed in councils, 
with regard to sessions and congregations. The convo- 
cation of a council to Rome, made by Julius, was declared 
null and void. 

Sess. 7. The promoters of the council required that Ju- 
lius should be declared, through his contumacy, to have 
incurred, ipso .facto, suspension from nil administration 
of the pontifical office. Consequently he was called upon 
three times from the foot of the altar, mid at the church 
door: the settlement of the question was theu deferred 
till the next session. 

Sess. 8. After mass, sung by the bishop of Maguelonne 
(now Montpellier), a decree was made suspending Julius, 
and the council, after reciting all that bad been done iu 
order to obtain his protection, exhorted all cardinals, 
bishops, princes, and people no longer to recognise Ju- 
lius as pope, he having been declared contumacious, the 
author of schism, incorrigible and hardened, and having 
ns such incurred the penalties deuonneed iu the decrees 
of Constance and Basie. 

Sess. 9. This was the last session of the council, for the 
French being obliged to nbaudou the Milauese, the bish- 


PISA 


229 


PISANO 


ops were compelled to quit Milan ; they made an attempt 
to contiune the council at Lyons, but without effect. 

See Landon, Cone, xiii, 1486 ; Dupin, Comp. Hist, iv, 4 ; 
Hefei e, Conciliengesch. 

Pisa, Bartholomeo de’, an Italian theologian, 
was born at Pisa near the beginning of the 14tli cen- 
tury. He belonged to the Dominican Order, and has 
often been confounded with a Franciscan monk of the 
same name, who rendered himself famous by his book 
on the resemblance of Jesus to St. Francis. He died 
about 1347. He wrote several works of piety and the- 
ology; but two only have been printed: Summa de 
casibus conscientice (Cologne, 1474, fol.), and I)e docu- 
ments antiquorum opus morale (Treviso, 1601, 8vo). 
See chard, De Script. Ord. Prcedicat.— Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, xl, 380. 

Pisa, Samuel Cohen de’, a native of Lisbon, was 
one of the most profound Talmudists of the 17th cen- 
tury. He wrote n:s*£ PISS, the “Revealer of Secrets” 
(Venice, 1661), a commentary on the most difficult pas- 
sages of Ecclesiastes and Job, in fourteen chapters, which, 
besides the exposition of the passages, considers very 
important questions. Thus, for instance, in the first 
chapter he treats on the question “whether, in the third 
chapter of Ecclesiastes, the immortality of the soul is 
denied;” and in the ninth chapter, “whether Job did 
deny the immortality of the soul and the resurrection 
of the dead.” See Flirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 105; De Rossi, 
Dizzionario storico degli autori Ebrei, p. 265 (German 
transl. by Hamburger) ; Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. i, 1206 ; iii, 
llll; Lindo, History of the Jews in Spain and Portugal, 
p. 369. (B. P.) 

Pisano, Andrea, an early artist of Pisa, was a 
sculptor and architect, and the friend ofGiotto,afewyears 
his senior. Andrea was born about 1280. Of his several 
works still extant, the bronze gates of the Baptistery of 
St. John at Florence are the most important. These two 
gates are still perfect; the exact date of their execution 
is disputed — whether they were finished in 1330, or only 
commenced in that year. The reliefs are from the life 
of John the Baptist, and the general design of the gate 
is said to have been made by Giotto ; but Giotto’s share, 
if any, must have been more that of the architect than 
the sculptor, though even defining the panels and indi- 
cating the subjects; he can scarcely have had more to 
do with the design than this, or his name would have 
been more intimately associated with them. The work 
appears to have been modelled by Andrea and his son 
Nino, and the castings commenced by some Venetian 
artists in 1330, and the complete gates to have been 
finished and gilded in 1339, with the exception of some 
decorations of the architrave, which were added many 
years afterwards by Vittorio, the son of Lorenzo Ghiberti, 
in order to make them harmonize with the other two sets 
of gates executed by his father. The gates of Andrea 
were originally in the centre of the Baptistery, opposite 
to the cathedral, but were afterwards removed to the 
side, to give place to the more beautiful work of Ghi- 
berti, in the year 1424. All three sets of gates have 
been well engraved in outline by Lasinio, Le tre Porte 
del Battisterio di Firenze (Florence, 1823). Andrea was 
made eitizen of Florence, and died there in 1345; he was 
buried in the cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore. See 
Vasari, Vite de Pittori , etc. (ed. Flor. 1846 sq.); Cicog- 
nara, Storia della Scultura ; Bumolir, Jtalienische For- 
schungen; Rosini, Storia della Pittura Italiana, s. v. 

Pisano, Giovanni, the son and assistant of Xic- 
cola, was born at Pisa about 1240. He seems to have 
inherited much of his father’s genius, but had an entire- 
ly different taste. Gothic architecture was his choice, 
and he was fond of exaggeration and fantastic action 
and expression in sculpture. As early as the making 
of the Siena pulpit he was a master in his own right, 
and went in 1268 to Naples to fulfil a commission from 
the Franciscans there; he also designed the Episcopal 


Palace. After the death of Niccola the Pisans were 
anxious to have Giovanni remain in his native city, 
where lie executed important works. The church of 
S. Maria della Spina was the first example in Italy of 
the pointed architecture, and is a most pleasing one. 
In 1278 he was chosen to build the Pisan Campo Santo; 
it was the first and the most beautiful church of all Italy. 
It is too well known to be described in our limited space, 
but it seems that nothing could have been more fitting 
for its purpose than the plan which he adopted. Many 
of the sculptures here were also by his hand. The rep- 
resentation of Pisa was the first attempt at making large 
statues in Italy since the days of Constantine. It is a 
strange, and in many respects an unlovely work ; and 
yet it has great intensity of expression in its principal 
figure, and displays the originality of Giovanni. He 
gained much reputation from this, and in 1286 went to 
Siena, where he was commissioned to build the facade 
of the cathedral. The people of Siena were very desir- 
ous that he should fix his home there; the magistrates 
made him a citizen, and exempted him from taxes for 
life ; but he remained only three years, and went next 
to Perugia. In that city he made a monument to Urban 
IV, which no longer exists. From this time he devoted 
himself almost wholly to sculpture. At Arezzo he made 
the shrine of S. Donato for the cathedral, which cost 
(including jewels for the Madonna, enamels, and silver 
bass-reliefs) 30.000 florins. It was a superb work of art. 
His next work was done as a rival to “ II Tedesco,” a 
sculptor who had made a pulpit for the church of S. 
Giovanni at Pistoja, which was much praised. A new 
pulpit was also to be made for the church of S. Andrea, 
and there were those in Pistoja who had so admired 
Niccola Pisano that they desired to have Giovanni do 
it ; he excelled his rival in every way, and fully sup- 
ported the reputation he had gained. Our artist now 
went to Florence. This was a prosperous time there, 
and Giovanni remained two years. In 1305 he began 
the monument of pope Benedict XI, and somewhat later 
one for St. Margaret in S. Dominica at Perugia. In 1312 
he undertook the rebuilding of the cathedral of Prato, 
and, though he did not live to see it completed, his de- 
signs were carried out with precision. He died in 1320. 
He had many pupils ; among them Andrea Pisano (q. v.). 
See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine A rts, s. v. ; Vasari, 
Lives of the Painters and Sculptors ; C'icoguara, Storia 
della Scultura, s. v. 

Pisano, Giunta (or Giunta di Giustino of Pisa), 
is the earliest known Tuscan painter, and flourished in 
the first half of the 13th century. A crucifixion paint- 
ed by him in the church of Santa Maria degli Angeli 
at Assisi, about the year 1236, is still preserved ; it is 
admirable in impasto and absolutely great as a work of 
art, compared with anything we know of this early 
period in Italy. Giunta was anterior to Ciraabue. This 
shows how little reliance is to be placed on local and 
partial histories, especially where individuals are made 
heroes of. This picture, of which a fac-simile has been 
published by the DiisscUlorf painter Ramboux, in his 
Outlines from Tracings, illustrating the Old Christian Art 
in Italy, shows that, so far from Cimabue being the fa- 
ther of Dalian painting, he was scarcely equal to Giunta, 
certainly inferior in style of drawing. If an individual 
can have the credit of reviving painting in Italy, it must 
belong to Giunta Pisano, for anything we know, as yet, 
to the contrary; he is said to have worked with the 
Greeks about 1210. There was notoriously an influx 
of Greek artists into Italy after the Venetian capture 
of Constantinople in 1204, but we know of no Greek 
works equal to this crucifixion by Giunta. There are 
several other works of his preserved, and the progress 
of the art was evidently very slow, even down to the 
time of Masaccio, notwithstanding the great impulse 
given to it by the works of Giotto. See Spooner, Biog. 
Hut. of the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Pisano, Niccola, a noted Italian architect and 


PIS ANT 


230 


PISCINA 


sculptor, was born at Pisa about 120G. At the age 
of fifteen be was appointed architect to Frederick II, 
with whom he went to Naples. In the service of this 
sovereign he passed ten years, and then went to Padua, 
where he made the design for the Basilica di S. Antonio. 
The first known attempt which he made as a sculptor re- 
sulted in his alto-rilievo of the Deposition from the Cross 
which now fills a lunette over a door of the cathedral 
of s. Martino at Lucca. This is most excellent as the 
work of an untutored artist, as he was at that time, and 
it. shines by comparison with works of his contempora- 
ries which are near it. The statuettes of the Miseri- 
cordia Vecchia at Florence are of about the same merit 
as this bass-relief. In 1248 Niccola went to Florence to 
assist the (Ihibellines in their work of destruction; he 
was commissioned to overturn the tower called Huarda- 
morto in such a way as to destroy the Baptistery: he 
overturned the tower, but it did not fall in the antici- 
pated direction, and we may believe that this was in ac- 
cordance with his intention, although it was attributed 
to a special miracle by Villani. During the twelve suc- 
ceeding years lie was employed in making designs for 
the building and remodelling of many churches and 
palaces. The church of Santa Trinith at Florence is one 
of the best known of his works of this period. In 12G0 
Niccola established his fame as a sculptor by the mag- 
nificent pulpit which he executed for the Baptistery at 
Pisa. Of course marks of his comparative inexperience 
can be found in this work, but taken all in all it almost 
challenges criticism. 11 is next work was the A rca di 
S. Domenico at Bologna, which is now surrounded with 
a maze of beautiful sculptures, of which the Area is the 
centre, and is of great interest as illustrating the art of 
the 13th century. In 12GG Pisano went to Siena to 
make the pulpit’for the Puomo. This is similar to that 
of Pisa in many ways, but not so effective, because sur- 
rounded by other objects of interest, and in a larger 
space, while at Pisa the pulpit seems almost the only 
thing to attract the attention. In 1269 he was com- 
missioned to build the abbey and convent of La Scor- 
gola, which are now in ruins. In 1274 he commenced 
the fountain of Perugia, which was his last work. The 
authorities of the city made severe laws for its preser- 
vation, and it was considered the most precious posses- 
sion of the city. In 1278 Pisano died, after a life of 
great usefulness, for his influence had been felt through 
all Italy. 11 is services could never be estimated, lie 
had founded a new school of sculpture ; had put behind 
him the standards of barbarism ; in architecture, too, the 
same may be said, and in the words of Mr. Perkins, “lie 
was truly a great man, one to whom the world owes an 
eternal debt of gratitude, and who looms up in gigantic 
proportions through the mist of five centuries, holding 
the same relation to Italian art which Dante holds to 
Italian literature.” In his life he was respected and 
beloved by all who came in contact with him, be it as 
patron, friend, or servant. See Spooner, Diop. /list, of 
the Fine A rts , s. v. 

Pisant, Loris, a French savant, was born in 1G-1G 
at Sassctot, near Fecamp. Admitted in 1GG7 into the 
Congregation of the Benedictines of Saint-Maur, he ad- 
ministered with the rank of superior several abbeys, 
and retired to that of Saint-Ouen. lie died May f>. 
172G, at ltouen. He wrote, Sentiments d'unc Arne peni- 
teute (1711, 12mo), and 7 'mite historiqne it dogniatiqne 
des Pricileges el Exemptions ccclesiastiqncs (Luxe mb. 
171 o, 4to), a work whic h failed to meet the approbation 
of his congregation. — lloefcr, .Your. Diop. Generate , xl. 
330. 

Piscator, Johannes, a Herman theologian of the 
Deformation age, is noted for his learning and piety, 
lie was born at Strasburg March 27, 15415. 11c was 
from his youth up a lover of study, ami was soon dis- 
tinguished for his learning. While engaged in the 
study of logic, he anxiously sought to reconcile and 
unite Aristotle and his commentator Peter Damns 


(q. v.) ; and when, after the completion of his univer- 
sity studies at Strasburg and Tubingen, he became 
professor at the university of his native town, he 
made this the special subject of some of his lectures, 
though the department of divinity was his field. Sir- 
pected of Zwinglianism, lie found his position uncom- 
fortable, and accepted a professorship at Heidelberg in 
1574. But here also the. severely Lutheran tendency 
gave him disquiet, and after a short stay at Xeustadt in 
1578 he went to Ncvers, France, where, however, he was 
not suffered to remain quietly, and in 1584 he finally re- 
moved to Ilerborn as conrector of the Academy, where 
he taught with so much success that many students 
flocked thither from liermany, France, Poland, and 
other northern countries, lie was very diligent, and 
scarcely allowed himself sufficient time for sleep. He 
wrote extensively, translating the whole Bible with 
great faithfulness into the Herman, and making a 
logical and theological analysis of the greater part 
(Ilerborn, 1G02-3, 3 vols. 4to; 2d cd. 1604-6; 3d ed. 
1624; abridged ed. Berne, 1G81 ; Dinsbnrg, 1684). He 
also published several valuable commentaries on the Old 
and New Testaments (1613-58), and many dogmatic 
and polemic writings, of which those on the Lord's 
Supper , Predestination , Heidelberg Catechism , ./ustijica- 
tion, and the reply to llunniiis, lie Sacramintos, de- 
serve mention. Most pecidiar were the views of Pisca- 
tor on the active obedience of Christ, which he held not 
to be imputed, but that which ( hrist for himself owed to 
Hod. See Satisfaction. Piscator died in 1625. See 
Steubing, in Zeitschrifi f histor. Theol. 1841, iv, 198 sq.; 
Schrbckh, Kirehengeseh. s. d. lief v, 358 sq. ; Hass, Prut. 
Dogmatik, i, 163, 383, 422; Tholuck, Dus ukudemische 
Leben des 17 ten Jahrh. pt. ii, p. 304; Ilagenbaeh, Kit- 
chenpcsch. vol. v ; Bossuet, Variations, vol. ii ; Buchanan, 
Justif cation (see Index). (J. II. W.) 

PiscllOU, Fkiei>kk’U Augustus, a minister of the 
German Evangelical Church, and pastor in Berlin, died 
Dec. 31, 1857. lie published, Die hohe Wichtipkeit der 
Uebersetzung der heil. Schrift durch Martin Luther 
(Berlin, 1834): — 1 oh der 1/ii/fe, u-elche die Frauen der 
Avfnnhme des guttlichen Wortes leisten konnen (ibid. 
1836): — Predigten (ibid. 1837): — Vortruge iiber die 
deutsche und sc/nreiztrische Deformation (ibid. 1846): — 
Die A ngsburgische Confession u. der Berliner Kirclnntag 
(ibid. 1853): — Die Tiwfnamen. Fine )\'tihnachfsgabe 
(ibid. 1857, etc.). He also edited the Monatsscht ijt fur 
die unirtc cvnngelische Kirche, in connection with Che- 
ster, Jonas, and Sydow. See Zuchhold, Bibliotheca The - 
ologicit, ii, 899, 997 sq. (B. P.) 

Piscina (Lat. = a reservoir of water), originally the 
reservoir and tilter connected with the aqueducts of 
Dome, but applied in ecclesiastical language to a water- 
drain formerly placed near an altar in a church, is a 
small niche, or fi-nestella , containing the piscina, or la- 
racrum, basin. It consists cf a shallow stone basin, or 
sink, with a hole in the bottom, to carry off whatever is 
poured into it. It is fixed at a convenient height above 
the floor, and was used to receive the water in which 
the priest washed his hands, as well as that with which 
the chalice was rinsed at the time of the celebration of 
the mass. It is usually annexed to the cotisessus or 
scats of the priests in the ancient churches, for the most 
part similarly decorated, and sometimes appearing as an 
additional compartment. It is sometimes also found 
alone in the southern walls of chancels and aisles, some- 
times in the eastern walls on the right, and there are 
one or two instances in which it occurs on the left. 
When two channels occur in it, one was to receive the 
water in which the priest had washed his hands, the 
other that in which he had rinsed the chalice. Du- 
eange limits the piscina, as it is restricted above, to the 
lavaerum. By Bingham it is received in a more en- 
larged meaning. “ The font," says that author, “ by the 
Greek writers is commonly called Jco/Xi’/j/ii/cyxi, and by 
the Latins piscina, for which latter name Optatns affords 


PISCINA 


PISE 


231 




a mystical reason. lie says it was called piscina in al- 
lusion to our Saviour’s technical name which was 

an acrostic composed of the initial letters of our Saviour’s 
several titles, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, our Saviour.” 
See Fisij: Font. In many instances, particularly in 
those of Early English and early Decorated date, there 
are two basins and drains, and occasionally three; within 
the niche there is also often found a wooden or stone shelf, 
which served the purpose of a credence-table , to receive 
certain of the sacred vessels that were used in the ser- 
vice of the mass, previous to their being required at the 
altar ; sometimes there is room at the bottom of the 
niche for these to stand at the side of the basin. In 
England the piscina is almost invariably on the south 
side of the altar, and usually in the south wall (though 
sometimes in the eastern), but in Normandy it is not 
uncommon to find it on the north side, when the situa- 
tion of the altar is such as to render that more conven- 
ient than the south. No piscinas are known to exist 
in England of earlier date than the middle of the 12th 
century, and of that age they are extremely rare; of the 
13th and succeeding centuries, down to the period of 
the Reformation, they are very abundant, and are to be 
found (or at least traces of them) in the chancel of most 
churches that have not been rebuilt, and very frequently 
at the eastern ends of the aisles of the nave also: their 
forms and decorations are very various, but the charac- 


ter of the architectural features will al- 
ways decide their date. — Parker. 

Piscis, Pisciculi, and Vesica 
Piscis. The fish is a hieroglyphic of 
Jesus Christ, very common in the re- 
mains of Christian art, both primitive 
and mediaeval. The origin of it is as 
follows: From the name and title of our 
blessed Lord, ’1 tjaovg Xpiarog, 0 eov Tide, 
Xiorr'/p — Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the 
Saviour — the early Christians, taking the 
first letter of each word, formed the name 
I X0 VS, piscis, a fish. Sec Inscriptions. 
Hence Christians came to be called Pis- 
ciculi, little fishes, with reference to their 
regeneration in the waters of baptism. 
The Yesica Piscis, which is the figure of 
an oval, generally pointed at either end, 
and which is much used as the form of 
the seals of religious houses, and to en- 
close figures of Jesus Christ or of the 
saints, also has its rise from this name 
of Christ, though some say that the mys- 
tical Yesica Piscis has no reference except in its name 
to a fish, but represents the almond, the symbol of vir- 
ginity and self-production. Clement of Alexandria, in 
writing of the ornaments which a Christian may con- 
sistently wear, mentions the fish as a proper device for 
a ring, and says that it may serve to remind the Chris- 
tian of the origin of his spiritual life. See Riddle, 
Christian Antiquities, p. 185; Siegel, Christ!. A Iterthu- 
mer (see Index in vol. iv). See Icimirs. 

Pise, Charles Constantine, D.D., an American 
Roman Catholic divine of note, was born at Annapolis, 
Md., in 1S02. lie was the son of an Italian gentleman 
of ancient and noble family. His mother was an Amer- 
ican lady, a native of Philadelphia. At an early age 
Charles was placed in the Georgetown College, that fa- 
mous institution being then as now under the control 
of the Order of the Society of Jesus. Graduating there 
most creditably, he went to Rome to pursue his theo- 
logical studies, but returned after two years, and com- 
pleted his preparation for the ministry under the tute- 
lage of the Rev. Dr. Bnnti, the preceptor of the late 
archbishop Hughes. On his return to this country 
Pise taught rhetoric and poetry in the Seminary of 
Mount St. Mary’s, Eramettsburg, Md. He w’as ordained 
priest in 1825, and commenced his labors in Frederick, 
Md., but subsequently removed to Baltimore, w r here he 
officiated at the cathedral. The labors of his position, 
together with the performance of 
a large amount of religious liter- 
ary work w hich he attempted, im- 
paired his health, and he again 
visited Rome for a respite. While 
there he was honored with the ti- 
tle of Knight of the Roman Em- 
pire. Upon his return to Amer- 
ica he settled in Washington, and 
through the influence of Henry 
Clay and other warm personal 
friends he was elected chaplain to 
the senate of the United States. 
On the invitation of Dr. Dubois, 
then bishop of New York, he after- 
wards removed to New York City, 
and officiated at St. Peter’s, in Bar- 
clay Street, till 1849, when he went 
over to Brooklyn, and purchased 
the church in Sydney Place, with 
which he was connected at the 
time of his death, in 1866. Dr. 
Pise was acknowledged to be one 
of the most eloquent and learned 
divines of his Church in America, 
as he was one of the most indus- 



Cumnor, c. 1356. Tackley, c. 1450. 


PISGAII 


232 


PISGAII 


trious and faithful laborers in it. Aside from his la- 
bors with Ids spiritual charge, he was eminent both 
as a preacher ami a lecturer, lie devoted much time 
to literary pursuits. He was the author of Letters on 
the Truths of Catholic hoctrines ; a History of the 
Church from its Establishment to the Reformation (1830, 
5 vols. 8vo): — The Acts of the Apostles in Yerse\— The 
Lives of St. Iynatius and his Companions; and many 
other volumes in prose and verse, lie also edited, 
many years ago, in company with the late father Felix 
Varella, I). I)., an influential magazine published in New 
York City, and known as the Catholic Erpositbry. In 
the volumes of this work will be found many of his 
happiest efforts both in verse and prose. Among the 
latter may be mentioned lloree Vayabunda’, a series of 
deeply interesting letters descriptive of his travels in 
Europe. They were eagerly sought after at the time 
of their publication. (J. 11. NY.) 

Pis'gall (1 Ieb. Pisyah', "^“5, always with the art.), 
the name of a mountain of Moab. It is in fact an ancient 
topographical name found, in the Pentateuch and Joshua 
only, in two connections : I. The top, or head, of the Pis- 
gali (EH 'UN"), from which Moses took his dying sur- 
vey of Canaan (Numb. xxi, 20; xxiii, 14; Dent, iii, 27; 
xxxiv, 1); 2. Ashdoth liap-Pisgah, perhaps the springs, 
or roots, of the Pisgah (Deut. iii, 17 ; iv, 49; Josh, xii, 
3; xiii, 20). Sec Asiiixmi-PnsGAii. The word hap- 
Pisyuh, n;--n, literally is the section, from SEE — JTCE, 
to divide, and hence it may mean an isolated hill or peak, 
'flic rendering of the Sept, is not uniform. In Dent, iii, 
17; xxxiv, 1 ; Josh, xii, 3 ; xiii, 20, it is d>o<Tyd; but in 
Numb, xxi, 20; xxiii, 14; and Deut. iii, 27, the phrase 
riSESn UN" is rendered Kopv<pi) too XtXaZtvperov, 
which is a translation of the Hebrew, top of the cut moun- 
tain. 'flic Vulgate has everywhere Phasya. The ref- 
erence to the scene of Moses's death by Josephus (.1 tit. 
iv, 8, 48) affords no additional light. 

“The Pisgah” must have been in the mountain range 
or district, t lie same as or a part of that called the 
mountains of Abarim (comp. Deut. xxxii, 49 with 
xxxiv, 1). See Ah.xki.m. Its situation is minutely de- 
scribed by the sacred writers. It is first mentioned in 
connection with the approach of the Israelites to Pales- 
tine. They marched “ from Ilamoth in the valley, that 


is in the country of Moab. to the top of Pisyah. which 
looketh towards Jeshimon ” (Numb, xxi, 20). Pisgah 
was thus on the plateau of Moab, and commanded a 
view of the western desert. See Jksuimon. Another 
passage (xxiii. 13, 14) proves that it commanded a view 
of the Israelitish camp in the valley on the cast bank 
of the Jordan; and from other incidental notices we 
learn that it was opposite to and in sight of (“:£ *t") 
Jericho (Deut. xxxiv, 1), and overhanging the north- 
eastern angle of the Dead Sea (iv, 49; Josh, xii, 3). 
The names Abarim, Nebo, and Pisgah are connected in 
such a way by the sacred writers as to create some diffi- 
culty to the geographer. In Dent, xxxii, 49 the Lord 
commands Moses, “ (Set thee up into this mountain Aba- 
rim, A fount Xebo" etc.; and in xxxiv, 1 we read that 
Moses, obeying, “went up from the plains of Moab unto 
the mountain of Xebo, the top of Pisyah" ('ll ~“~"“N 
HiEE” UN"). Prom these passages we may infer, 
(1) that Abarim was the name of a range or group of 
mountains; (2) that Nebo was one of its peaks; and 
(3) that the name Pisgah was either equivalent to 
Abarim, or that it is (as represented in some passages 
in the Sept., and in the margin of the A. V.) a common 
noun, signifying “an isolated hill or peak.” If the latter 
view be taken, then Deut. xxxiv, 1 may be rendered, 
“ Moses went up to Mount AY bo, to the top of the hill." 
The construction rather favors the view that Pisgah, 
like Abarim, was the name of the range, and that Nebo 
was one of its peaks. Others have taken precisely the 
opposite view, namely, that Pisgah was a particular 
summit of Nebo as a range; but in that case Pisgah 
would not he so often mentioned (as a mountain at the 
foot of which the Israelitish host encamped, and as fur- 
nishing springs of water), while Nebo is but once named 
(as the peak on which Moses died). (Sec below.) 
Upon Pisgah Palaam built altars and offered sacrifices, 
so that it was probably one of the ancient “ high places” 
of Moab (Numb, xxiii, 14). From its summit Moses 
obtained his panoramic view of the* Iloly Land, and 
there he died (Deut. xxxiv, 1-5). lleneath the moun- 
tains were celebrated “springs” or “torrents” (r*"UN), 
which are several times mentioned in defining the 
boundaries of Pcnben, as Ashduth-Pisyuh (Deut. iii. 17 ; 
iv, 49 in the Hebrew; Josh, xii, 3; xiii, 20). Pisgah 



View westward from the summit of Mt. Pisgnh. (From a sketch takeu on the spot.) 


1. The Nefjeb, ( 

2. Ilebmn. 

3. Hetlilehem. 

4. .1 .r ii4ii I fin end Mount of Olives 

5. Nelii Snmwtl. 

6. Mounts, of Kpbrniin. 


«?. Mounts, of Monh. 
?«. Jehel Sinelinh. 

24. Wmly Ht-sbuil. 


PISGAH 


233 


PISGAH 


therefore lay on the east of Jordan, contiguous to the 
field of Moab, and immediately opposite Jericho. The 
field of Zophim was situated on it, and its highest point 
or summit— its “head” — was the Mount Nebo. If it 
was a proper name, we can only conjecture that it de- 
noted the whole or part of the range of the highlands 
on the east of the lower Jordan. In the late Targums 
of Jerusalem and Pseudo- Jonathan, Pisgali is invariably 
rendered by ramatha , a term in common use for a hill. 
It will be observed that the Sept, also does not treat it 
as a proper name. On the other hand, Eusebius and 
Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. Abarim, Fasga) report the name 
as existing in their day in its ancient locality. Mount 
Abarim and Mount Nabau were pointed out on the road 
leading from Livias to Heshbon (i. e. the Wady Hesban), 
still bearing their old names, and close to Mount Phogor 
(Peor), which also retained its name, tchence, says Jerome 
(a quo), the contiguous region was even then called 
Phasgo. This connection between Phogor and Phasgo 
is puzzling, and suggests a possible error of copyists. 
See Peor. 

No traces of the name Pisgah have been met with in 
later times on the east of Jordan, but in the Arabic garb 
of Has el-Feshkah (almost identical with the Hebrew 
Rush hap-Pisgah) it is attached to a well-known head- 
land on the north-jcestera end of the Dead Sea, a mass 
of mountain bounded on the south by the Wady en-Nar, 
and on the north by the Wady Sidr, and on the north- 
ern part of which is situated the great Mussulman sanc- 
tuary of Neby Musa (Moses). This association of the 
names of Moses and Pisgah on the west side of the Dead 
Sea — where to suppose that Moses ever set foot would 
be to stultify the whole narrative of his decease — is ex- 
tremely startling. No explanation of it has yet been 
offered. Certainly that of M. De Saulcv and of his 
translator (see De Saulev’s Voyage, etc., and the notes 
to ii, 58-66 of the American edition), that the Ras el- 
Feshkah is identical with Pisgah, cannot be entertained. 
Against this the words of Deut. iii, 27, “ Thou shalt not 
go over this Jordan,” are decisive. See Dead Sea. 

The mountain itself is chiefly memorable as the height 
from which Moses got his most distinct view of the Land 
of Promise ; from thence “the Lord showed him all the 
land of Gilead unto Dan, and all Naphtali, and the land 
of Ephraim and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah 


unto the utmost sea ; and the south, and the plain of 
the valley of Jericho, the city of palm-trees, unto Zoar” 
(Deut. xxxiv, 1-3). Mr. Tristam ( Land of Israel, 1865, 
p. 535 sq.) describes a visit which he and his fellow- 
travellers paid to the range of Nebo or Abarim, and the 
magnificent prospect they had from the height which 
they supposed might possibly be the Pisgah of Moses. 
It was about three miles south-west of Heshbon, and 
one and a half miles due west of Main. The elevation 
was considered to be about 4500 feet; yet the ascent 
was not rugged, and for several hours they rode along 
the ridge. The day was clear, and to the north and 
east they saw the hills of Gilead, and “ the vast ex- 
panse of the goodly Belka, one waving ocean of corn 
and grass.” Southwards appeared Mounts Ilor and 
Seir, with other granite peaks of Arabia, in the direc- 
tion of Akabah. Then, turning westwards, there lay 
distinctly before them the Dead Sea and the whole val- 
ley of the Jordan, “all the familiar points in the neigh- 
borhood of Jerusalem.” Looking over Jordan, “ the 
eye rested on Gerizim’s rounded top ; and farther still 
opened the plain of Esdraelon, the shoulder of Carmel, 
or some other intervening height, just showing to the 
right of Gerizim, while the faint and distant bluish haze 
beyond it told us that there was ‘the sea, the utmost 
sea.’ It seemed as if but a whiff were needed to brush 
off the haze, and reveal it clearly. Northward, again, 
rose the distant outline of unmistakable Tabor, aided by 
which we could identify Gilboa and Jebel Duhy (Little 
Hermon). Snowy Hermon’s top was mantled with 
cloud, and Lebanon’s highest range must have been 
exactly shut behind it; but in front, due north of us, 
stretched in long line the dark forests of Ajlun, bold and 
undulating, with the deep sides of mountains, here and 
there whitened by cliffs, terminating in Mount Gilead, 
behind Es-Salt (Ramoth-Gilead).” This seems to' real- 
ize to the full what was anciently exhibited to the eye 
of Moses, and shows the representation given of his ex- 
tensive prospect to have been no ideal picture. 

The spot has more recently been the subject of a 
considerable discussion by Prof. Paine, of the American 
exploring party, in report No. 3 of these operations 
(N. Y. Jan. 1875). Prof. Paine contends that Jebel Neba, 
the highest point of the range, is Mount Nebo, that Je- 
bel Siaghah, the extreme headland of the hill, is Mount 



KllARAB- 


ayun 

... 15 

" ~ IM 0 S A 


HAISA 


. 

a 8ET; ^ 


SCALE OF 


Map of Mount Pisgah. 


PISGAII 


234 


PISIDIA 


Pisgah, and that “the mountains of Abarim” are the 
cliffs vest of these points, and descending towards the 
Dead .Sea. lie maintains these positions by the follow- 
ing arguments : 

1. There is still an old road leading down to the Jor- 
dan valley in this direction, which he thinks the Is- 
raelites pursued on their way from Almon-diblathaim 
to the plains of Moab (Xumb. xxxiii, 47,48). It has 
generally been supposed, however, that they took the 
route now usual with travellers, down Wadv llesban. 
The position of the Israelites on Abarim is there said 
to have been “before” (■'S23) Xebo, a particle which 
generally signifies cast and not west. The parallel ac- 
count of the station in question (xxi, 29) places it 
on “the top of the Pisgah” (fiiCSn 51 *XS); and this 
certainly discountenances Paine’s location on a lower 
peak of the ridge. It is true the phrase is added, 
“which looked! towards Jeshimon, ” i. e. the (ihor or 
Jordan valley (see Kcil, Comment, ad loe.) ; but this 
may possibly mean only pointing in that direction from 
the station last left. The preceding clause, “ the valley 
that is in the field of Moab,” is ambiguous; as it may 
qualify either the point of departure, i. c. Bamoth. 
or the destination, i. e. Pisgah. The A. V. adopts the 
former construction ; but this is not favored by the syn- 
tax of the adjoining verses, and conflicts with the idea 
of a high place (Bamoth), which could hardly have 
been in a valley. The latter reference is therefore 
adopted by most interpreters, but (as l.’osenm Idler re- 
marks) seems to disagree with the phraseology “top of 
Pisgah.” We suggest as the only consistent transla- 
tion, “And from Bamoth [to] the valley which [is] in 
the plateau of Moab (the summit of the Pisgah [range]), 
and overlooks the Ghor.” This makes Pisgah but an- 
other name fur the edge of the table-land of Moab over- 
hanging the Jordan valley or Dead Sea. The particu- 
lar “top” in question was apparently Xebo itself, which 
is in fact but a crest of the Moabitic table-land, that 
shows as a “mountain” only from the western point of 
view. The sole considerable “valley” (^"i'H) answer- 
ing to this description is Wady es-Sowanieh, which is 
the southern head-branch of Wady llesban, and inter- 
sects the plain up to the very crest of Xcho. Prof. 
Paine, however, appears to identify it with the valley 
in which the. “Springs of Muses” are situated, a deep, 
wild glen hardly answering to the requirements of the 
ease, except that it contains water and looks directly 
down upon the Dead Sea. At the encampment as we 
have located it, the Israelites would have been precisely 
on the route to lleshbon, which they next attacked 
(xxi, 21-215), and thence to the (ilior opposite Jericho 
(xxii, 1 ), by way of Wady llesban. 

2. Paine’s next argument is drawn from the history 
of lialaam and Balak immediately following the pas- 
sages last cited. After lodging at Kirjath-huzoth 
(Xumb. xxii, 99), which Paine regards as the site of 
Kufeir A hi- lied, just east, of the crest of Xcho, the two 
proceeded first to “the high places of Baal” (vcr. 41), 
which the professor deems to be “the extremity of Je- 
bel Siaghah, the first chief summit of Pisgah” — a de- 
scription which, if we eorreetlv understand the some- 
what confused statements, designates the outer or west- 
ernmost peak, as from this “the whole of Israel” could 
be seen. Balaam next repaired to a point called “the 
to]> of Pisgah” (ver. 14), which Paine regards as “the 
third” or easternmost peak, because from it only a part of 
the Israelitish camp could be seen. Finally, the prophet 
ascended “the top of l’eor” (ver. 28), winch the pro- 
fessor thinks was the middle or ruin-crowned peak of 
Siaghah, as from it the various surrounding count ries 
there enumerated can he seen to advantage. But this 
distribution of the several localities seems rather arbi- 
trary. The first name is a very indefinite one, being 
identical with Bamoth-baal (Josh, xiii, 17 ), apparently 
nearer the Arnon (Xumb. xxi, 28), if not identical with 
the Bamoth previously referred to (ver. 20) ; and surely 


there arc many spots in the vicinity from which “the 
utmost part of the people” could he seen — a phrase that 
designates not the whole, but only the 7-ear. In Xumb. 
xxiii, 13, where the same expression is used, the same 
place is referred to, and the words must be rendered, 
“And Balak said to him, Come now with me to another 
place, whence thou mayest see him (only his extremity 
canst thou see [here], and not all of him canst thou 
see); and thou shalt curse him for me from there” (see 
Keil, ad loe.). The next locality accordingly was one 
commanding a view of the entire encampment, namely, 
“the top of the Pisgah" range, probably Jebel Xeba it- 
self. It seems to have been much farther than Paine 
makes it from Balak's previous station, for there the 
two adjoining eminences are spoken of in very different 
phraseology (“the high-places of Baal — to a high 
place,” Xumb. xxii, 41 ; xxiii. 3). As this second out- 
look of Balaam is called (xxiii, 14) “the field of Zo- 
phim,” or the watchers , Paine holds that it was Wady 
llaisa, which he reports as being partly under cultiva- 
tion; but this affords no good prospect of the “plains 
of Moab” eastward, such as Keil thinks the import of 
the name requires ( Comment . ad loe.). The third of 
Balaam’s posts of observation was “ the top of Peor, that 
looketh towards Jeshimon,” or the desert [of Judah] 
(Xumb. xxiii, 28); and as the next to the last day’s 
journey of the Israelites was “ to the top of Pisgah, that 
looketh towards Jeshimon” (xxii, 28 ), and as, moreover, 
Moses died on the top of Pisgah, and was buried “in a 
valley in the land of Moab, over against. Bc th-peor” 
(Dent, xxxiv, 0), Paine concludes that all these were 
designations of the same or immediately adjoining 
spots, tints making the rn in-crowned summit of Sia- 
gliah the site of the sanctuary of Peor. and lie adduces 
the character of the remains as evidence that they were 
an early temple. He thinks they are not sufficiently 
extensive for those of the town of Xebo (q. v.), which 
Ite inclines to identify with the more considerable ruins 
called Kltarab el-Mukheyat, a little more than a mile 
south of Jebel Xeba. 

Other collateral arguments of less moment adduced 
by Prof. Paine in support of his views are drawn from 
the name “Ashdoth-Pisgah” (Dent, ii, 17; iv, 49; Josh, 
xii, 3; xiii, 20), which he renders springs of' Pisgah, 
and identifies with those uf Ay An Mfisa; and from the 
Bible accounts of Moses's death and burial, lie also 
adduces the statements of later writers (Josephus, 
Knsebius, etc.) on these points. Ills attempt to trace 
the name Pisgah in the modern Siaghah is an obvious 
failure. 1 1 is main conclusion that Pisgah is a special 
name for a particular part of Mount Xebo, and that the 
mountains of Abarim arc likewise limited to the bills 
immediately overhanging the north-east end of the 
Dead Sea, can hardly be said to be sustaine d by bis in- 
genious reasoning; and we therefore incline to the gen- 
erally entertained view that the reverse is true. Dr. J. 
L. Porter lias still more recently travelled over this lo- 
cality, and he states, in his account of his journey in 
the London Athencrum , that Jtbvl Xibbih is a common 
name for many of the eminences in this vicinity, lie 
is inclined to regard Siaghah as a relic of the name Pis- 
gah. See Xtiito. 

Pishtali. Sec Flax. 

FisicTia (Ilieric/o, etymology uncertain) was a dis- 
trict of Asia Minor, which cannot be very exactly de- 
fined. But it may be described sufficiently by saying 
that it was to the north of Pamphvlia. and stretched 
along the range of Taurus. Xorthward it reached to 
and was partly included in Phrygia, which was simi- 
larly an indefinite district, though far more extensive. 
Thus Antioch in Pisidia was sometimes called a Phryg- 
ian town. In general terms it may he said that Pisidia 
was hounded on the north by Phrygia, on the west by 
t'aria and Lyeia. on the south by Pamphvlia. and on 
the east by t’ilicia and Isauria (Strabo, xii, 5(59; Ptol- 
emy, v, 5). It was a mountainous region ; but high up 


PISOX 


235 


PISOX 


among the peaks of Taurus were some fertile valleys 
and little upland plains. The province was subdivided 
into minute sections, and held by tribes of wild and 
warlike highlanders, who were the terror of the whole 
surrounding country (Strabo, l. c. ; Xenoph. A nab. i, 1, 
11; ii, 5, 13). It was probably among the detiles of 
Pisidia that the apostle Paul experienced some of those 
“perils of robbers” of which he speaks in 2 Cor. xi,26; 
and perhaps fear of the bandits that inhabited them 
had something to do with John’s abrupt departure from 
Paul and Barnabas just as they were about to enter 
Pisidia (Acts xiii, 13, 14). The Pisidian tribes had 
rulers of their own, and they maintained their inde- 
pendence in spite of the repeated attacks of more pow- 
erful neighbors, and of the conquests of the Greeks, and 
even of the Bomans. The latter were content to re- 
ceive from them a scanty tribute, allowing them to re- 
main undisturbed amid their mountain fastnesses. See 
Smith, Did. of Class. Geoff, s. v. The scenery of Pisidia 
is wild and grand. The mountains are mostly lime- 
stone, and are partially clothed with forests of oak, pine, 
and juniper. The lower slopes are here and there 
planted with olives, vines, and pomegranates. Many 
of the ravines are singularly grand — bare cliffs rising 
up a thousand feet and more on each side of the bed of 
a foaming torrent. In other places fountains gush 
forth, and streams brawl along amid thickets of olean- 
der. The passes from the sea-coast to the interior are 
difficult, and have always been dangerous. See Asia 
Mixon. Paul paid two visits to Pisidia. In company 
with Barnabas he entered it from Pampliylia on the 
south, and crossed over the mountains to Antioch, which 
lay near the northern border (Acts xiii, 14). Their 
mission was successful; but the enemies of the truth 
soon caused them to be expelled from the province 
(ver. 50). After an adventurous journey through Ly- 


caonia and lsauria, they again returned through Pisidia 
to Pampliylia, apparently by the same route (xiv, 21- 
24). See Arundell, Asia Minor, \ ol. ii; Fellows, Asia 
Minor; Spratt, Travels in Lycia; see also full extracts 
in C'onybeare and l lowson, Life of at. Paul , i, 134 sq., 
and article Antioch of Pisidia. 

Pi'son (Ileb. Pishon', ‘j'l'J'S, streaming; Sept. 4't- 
awv), the second of the four great rivers which watered 
the garden of Eden, the identification of which has 
hitherto been attempted variously. It is described in 
the sacred text (Gen. ii, 11, 12) as “compassing (^2*D, 
rather, perhaps, traversing) the whole land of Havilah, 
where there is gold ; and the gold of that land is good: 
there is bdellium ( beilo’lach ) and the onvx-stone ( sho'- 
ham)." With regard to this river, the most ancient 
and most universally received opinion identifies it with 
the Ganges. Josephus {Ant. i, 1, 3), Eusebius (Ono- 
mast. s. v.), Ambrosius (De Paracl. c. 3), Epiphanius 
(Ancor. c. 58), Ephr. Syr. (Op. Syr. i, 23), Jerome (Ep. 
4 ad Dust, and Qucest. Ileb. in Gen.), and Augustine ( De 
Gen. ad lit. viii, 7) held this. But Jarchi (on Gen. ii, 
11), Saadi ah Gaon, R. Moses ben -Nachman, and Abr. 
Peritsol (Ugolino, Thesanr. vol. vii) maintained that the 
Pison was the Nile. The first of these writers derives 
the word from a root which signifies “ to increase,” “ to 


overflow” (comp. Hab. i, 8), but at the same time quotes 
an etymology given in Bereshith Rabba, § 1G, in which 
it is asserted that the river is called Fison “because it 
makes the flax CjiTVwS) to grow.” Josephus explains 
it by irXifivc, Scaliger by TrXijppvpa. The theory that 
the Pison is the Ganges is thought to receive some con- 
firmation from the author of the book of Ecclesiasdcus, 
who mentions (xxiv, 25, 27) in order the Pison, the Ti- 
gris, the Euphrates, Jordan, and Gihon. and is supposed 
to have commenced his enumeration in the east and 
to have terminated it in the west. That the Pison 
was the Indus was an opinion current long before it 
was revived by Ewald ( Gesch . d. Yolkes Isr. i, 331, note 
2) and adopted by Kalisch (Genesis, p. 06). Philostor- 
gius, quoted by lluet (Ugolino, vol. vii), conjectured that 
it was the llvdaspes; and Wilford (As. Res. vol. vi), fol- 
lowing the Hindu tradition with regard to the origin 
of mankind, discovers the Pison in the Landi-Sindh, 
the Ganges of Isidorus, called also Nilab from the color 
of its waters, and known to the Hindus by the name of 
Nila-Ganga, or Ganga simply. Severianus ( De M undi 
Creat.) and Ephraem Syr us (Comm, on Gen.) agree with 
Ciesarius in identifying the Pison with the Danube. 
The last-mentioned father seems to have held, in com- 
mon with others, some singular notions with regard to 
the course of this river. He believed that it was also 
the Ganges and Indus, and that, after traversing Ethi- 
opia and Elymais, which he identified with Havilah, it 
fell into the ocean near Cadiz. Such is also the opin- 
ion of Epiphanius with regard to the course of the Pi- 
son, which he says is the Ganges of the Ethiopians and 
Indians and the Indus of the Greeks ( Ancor . c. 58). 
Some, as Ilopkinson (Ugolino, vol. vii), have found the Pi- 
son in the Naharmalca, one of the artificial canals which 
formerly joined the Euphrates with the Tigris. This 
canal is th e flumen reyium of Amm. Marc, (xxiii, G, 
§ 25, and xxiv, G, § 1), and the A rmalcliar of Pliny 
(A r . //. vi, 30). Grotius, on the contrary, considered 
it to be the Gihon. Even those commentators who 
agree in placing the terrestrial Paradise on the 
Shat el- Arab , the stream formed by the junction 
of the Tigris and Euphrates, between Ctesiphon 
and Apamea, are by no means unanimous as to 
which of the branches, into which this stream is 
again divided, the names Pison and Gihon are to 
be applied. Calvin (Comm, in Gen.) was the first 
to conjecture that the Pison was the most easterly 
of these channels, and in this opinion he is followed 
by Scaliger and many others. Huet, on the other 
hand, conceived that he proved beyond doubt that 
Calvin was in error, and that the Pison was the west- 
ernmost of the two channels by which the united 
stream of the Euphrates and Tigris falls into the Per- 
sian Gulf. He was confirmed by the authority of Bo- 
chart ( llieroz . pt. ii, 1. 5, c. 5). Junius (Prcd. in Gen.) 
and Eask discovered a relic of the name Pison in the 
Pasitigris. The advocates of the theory that the true 
position of Eden is to be sought for in the mountains 
of Armenia have been induced, from a certain resem- 
blance in the two names, to identify the Pison with the 
Phasis, which rises in the elevated plateau at the foot 
of Mount Ararat, near the sources of the Tigris and Eu- 
phrates. Reland (de Situ parad. terr. Ugolino, vol. vii), 
Calmet (Did. s. v.). Link ( Ururelt , i, 307), Kosenm filler 
(Handb. der bibl. A It.), and Hartmann have given their 
suffrages in favor of this opinion. Raumer (quoted by 
Delitzsch. Genesis) endeavored to prove that the Pison 
was the Phasis of Xenophon (A nab. iv, 6), that is, the 
Aras or Araxes, which flows into the Caspian Sea. 
There remain yet to be noticed the theories of Leclerc 
(Comm, in Gen.) that the Pison was the Chrysorrhoas, 
the modern Barada, which takes its rise near Damas- 
cus; and that of Buttmann (A elf. Erdk. p. 32), who iden- 
tified it with the Besvnga or Irabatti, a river of Ava. 
Mendelssohn (Comm, on Gen.) mentions that some affirm 
the Pison to be the Gozan of 2 Kings xvii, G and 1 



Coiu of Anuocu iu Pisidia, with the head of Gordiau, as an 
imperial “colony.” 


PISPAII 


236 


PISTOJA 


Chron. v, 26, which is supposed to be a river, and the 
same with the Kizil-Uzen in llvrcania. Colonel Chcs- 
ney, from the results of extensive observations in Ar- j 
menia, was ‘‘led to infer that the rivers known by the 
comparatively modern names of llalys and Araxcs are 
those which, in the book of ( lencsis, have the names of 
Bison and Gihon; and that the country within the 
former is the land of llavilah, while that which borders 
upon the latter is the still more remarkable country of 
Cush" ( Kxped. to Kuphr. and Tigris, i, 267). — Smith. 
Faber inclines to make it the Ahsarus of Pliny, or 15a- 
tiim of modern geographers, which rises in Armenia 
and llows into the Black Sea; but Dr. Hales considers 
the Araxes to have a better claim ; and this last specu- 
lation (for nothing better can any of the assigned posi- 
tions he called) seems to derive support from the author 
of the apocryphal book of Ecclesiasticus, who, speaking 
of a wise man, says that “he tilleth ali things with his 
wisdom,” or spreads it on every side, “as Phison and 
Tigris” spread their waters “in the time of the new 
fruits,” that is, when they are swollen by the melting 
of the winter snows, thus seeming to indicate a river 
rising in a cold and mountainous region. The men- 
tion of gold as the special product of the vicinity in- 
clines to the view which regards the Pishon as identi- 
cal with the Phasis of antiquity ; and the resemblance 
of names confirms this. Sec Edux. 

Pis'pah (Hob. Pispah ', H222, peril, expansion; 
Sept. <bn<T0«), the second of the three sons of Jether, of 
the tribe of Asher (1 Chron. vii, 38). B.C. eir. 1017. 
Pistachio. Sec Nut. 

Pistis Sophia (i. e. the Believing Wisdom) is the 
name of a newly discovered Gnostic work, fully entitled 
Pistis Sophia. Opus Onoslicum e codice manuscripta Cop- 
tico-Latinc rertit M. C. Schwa rtze , edidit J. //. Peter - 
maun (Perl. 1851). The date is doubtful ; it evidently 
belongs to the period when Valontinian Gnosticism had 
reached its full development — about the close, therefore, 
of the 2d century. The general dogmas of the Valcn- 
tinian system arc found in it, though half buried in a 
luxurious and monotonous vegetation. The theme is 
always the same — a gnosis , or hidden doctrine, which 
brings salvation by simple illumination. Jesus Christ 
returns from the heavens into which he had reascended, 
and appears to his disciples on the Mount of Olives, to 
reveal to them the sublime mysteries of the truth. They 
form around him the inner and privileged circle of the 
spiritual ones, whose charge it is to transmit this hid- 
den manna to the pneumatic men of future generations. 
All these revelations revolve around the destiny of 
Sophia, who here symbolizes, far more clearly than 
among the early Valentinians, the melancholy con- 
dition of the human soul, which, as the punishment for 
having sought to overpass the limits of its original 
sphere, is tormented by the cosmical powers, among 
which we recognise the Demiurgus. He produces, by 
emanation, a terrible power with a lion face, which, 
surrounded by other similar emanations, terrifies the 
noble and ardent exiled Sophia, even in the dark re- 
gions of matter, Mashing before her eyes a false and 
misguiding brightness. Nevertheless she does not lose 
courage; she still hopes and believes. Hence she de- 
serves the name of the Believing Wisdom. Twelve 
times she invokes the Deliverer in strains of passionate 
and truly sublime supplication ; these are her twelve 
repentances (“Nunc cujus irvtvpa alacrc, progreditor. 
ut dicat solutionem duodecimo 1 fiFrdroimj iriaretoQ <ro- 
<f>iae ,” Pist. Soph. p. 70). Her deliverance is accom- 
plished hv means of an equal number of interventions 
on the pari of Jesus. As the fall, or sin. is nothing more 
than an obscuration produced by matter, so salvation 
is simply a return to the light. This division of the 
lamentations of Sophia ami the interventions of Jesus 
produces a wearisome amount of repetition; the aspi- 
rations of the soul are. however, rendered with a force 
all the more poetic because so largely derived from 


the Old Testament. In particular, all the penitential 
Psalms are applied to Sophia, being wrested from their 
natural meaning. 

“O Light of lights,” she exclaims, “tboti whom I have 
seen from the beginning, listen to the cry of my repenting” 
(Lumen Inminum, cni iniareviru hide al> initio, midi igitnr 
nunc, lumen, meam ycrdvoiav, ibid. p. 33). “Save me, O 
Light, from my owu thoughts, which are evil. I have fall- 
en into the iufernal regions. False lights have led me 
astray, ami now 1 am lost in these chaotic depths. I can- 
not spread my wings and return to my place, for the evil 
powers sent forth by my enemy, aud most of all this lion- 
faced power, hold me captive. I have cried for help, but 
my voice dies in the night. I have lifted up mv eyes to 
the heights, that thou mnyest come to my aid, O Light. 
Hut I have found none hut hostile powers, who rejoice in 
my aftlictiou, and seek to increase it by putting cut the 
spark of thine which is in me. Now. O’Light of truth, in 
the simplicity of my heart I have followed the false bright- 
ness which /mistook for thine. My sin is wholly before 
thee. Leave me not to suffer longer, for I have cried to 
thee from the beginning. It is for thee ihal 1 am plunged 
into this affliction. Behold me in this place weeping, cry- 
ing out again for the light which I have seen upon tfie 
heights, lienee the rage of those who keep the doors of 
my prison. If thou wilt come and save me, great is thy 
mercy : grant my supplication. Deliver me from this dark 
matter, lest I be, as it were, swallowed up in it” (Libera 
me e uXp bn jus caliginis, ibid. p. 34). “O Light, cast 
upon me ‘the (lame of thy compassion, for I am in bitter 
anguish. Haste thee, hear me. 1 have waited for my 
spouse that he might come and fight for me, and he comes 
not. Instead of light, 1 have received darkness and mat- 
ter. I will praise thee, I will glorify thy name; let my 
hymn rise with acceptance to thee nl the gates of lisrlit. 
Let my whole soul he purified from matter, and dwell iu 
the divine city. Let all souls which receive the mystery be 
admitted therein” (4'uxai hornm qni snscipient mystcri- 
uni, ibid. p. 3(5). The same cry rises twelve times to the 
Deliverer. “ I am become,” says Sophia again, “ like the 
daemon who dwells in matter, in whom all light is extinct. 
1 am myself become matter. My strength is turned to 
stone in me" (Atquc men vis cougelascint in me, ibid. 
p. 43). “ I have set my love in thee, O Light, leave me 
not in the chaos. Deliver me by thy knowledge” (Li- 
bera men in tun cognitione, ibid. p. 56). “My trust is in 
thee ; I will rejoice, 1 will sing praise to thy glory, because 
thou hast had pity on me. " Give me thy baptism, and 
wash away my sius.” 

This mythology, full of poetic sadness, was skilfully 
spread as a veil over the abstractions of Gnosticism, 
and adapted them to the taste of subtle and unhealthy 
minds. The dialogue between Jesus and his disciples, 
in spite of its uniformity, pleased the readers of the 
apocryphal Gospels, and satisfied those feverish imagi- 
nations which had lost the sense of true beauty, l’ridc 
found its gratification in these new mysteries, which 
emulated in every respect those of Eleusis or ofMilhra. 
See Cramer, BtUruge zur Befurdcrung theolog. Kennt- 
tiisse (177H), iii.82 sq.; Kiistlin, Pas gnostisehe System des 
B. Pistis Sophia, in Zeller’s Thcol. ,/ahrh. (Tub. 1*54), 
vol. i and ii. See Gnosticism. (J. II. \V.) 

Pistoja, Synod ok, in 1786. marks one of the many 
reformatory movements in the Homan Catholic Church 
which remained without any effect. Leopold of Tus- 
cany (q. v.), actuated by the same sense in which his 
brother Joseph H of Austria acted, tried to ameliorate 
the affairs of the Catholic Church iu his country. For 
this purpose he issued Jan. 26, 17*6, a circular-address 
to his bishops, containing fifty-seven articles of his re- 
formatory plan, which he wished them to examine re- 
spectively, and carry out, “The most important points 
for consideration were, 1. The necessity of holding an- 
nual synods in each diocese; 2. The restitution of the 
episcopal power; 3, A scientific training of the clergy, 
and a religious education of the people. This circular- 
address was prepared by the grand-duke himself, who 
was well versed in theological literature. He gave his 
bishops six months' time for consideration, but after this 
time he expected them to answer in a frank and cate- 
gorical manner. Almost all the bi.-hops opposed : among 
those who favored the plan was the bishop of Bistoja, 
Seipio Uieci, who, having high notions of jeligious 
purity, attempted other reforms. In September, 1786, 
Hicci assembled a diocesan council at Bistoja, which was 
opened Sept. I* in t lie church of St. Leopold. Two 
hundred and thirty-four clergymen were present, among 


PISTOIi 


237 


PIT 


whom was the greatest unanimity. Among the passed 
resolutions we find several that aimed to enlighten the 
people as to the proper limits of image-worship and the 
invocation of the saints; suppression of certain relics 
which gave occasion to superstitious practices; encour- 
agement to spread religious works, especially the Gospel, 
among the flock. Besides advocating the use of the 
liturgy in the oral language of the country, and expos- 
ing the abuse of indulgences, the spiritual independence 
of the bishops was maintained, and the four propositions 
of the Gallican Church of 1682 (comp, the art. Gallic an 
CiiL'itcix, iii, 725, of this Cyclop. ) were adopted. The 
synod also recommended that the ecclesiastical law of 
marriage should be subject to the law of the country. 
The minutest attention was paid to the reform of mon- 
achism — all orders should be united into one, and per- 
petual vows should be restricted or abolished — and 
Church discipline, and to carry this out the convocation 
of a national synod was expressed as very desirable. 
The grand-duke, who welcomed these resolutions with 
great joy, convoked a council at Florence of the bishops 
of Tuscany, April 23, 1787, and proposed to them fifty- 
seven articles concerning the reform of ecclesiastical 
discipline. The result was, that all articles were either 
laid aside or so modified as to lose their importance. 
The government did not abandon its reformatory plans, 
and allowed every bishop to do in his diocese what he 
pleased. Leopold’s successor abandoned all these plans, 
and suffered a papal bull, Auctorem fidei, dated Aug. 
28, 1794, to condemn the eightv-five propositions of 
the Synod of Pistoja. Comp. A til e decreti del con- 
cilio dicecesano di Pistoja a. 1786, edited hy Bracali 
and translated into Latin: Acta et decreta synodi ditt- 
oes. Pistot'ieiisis (1791, 2 vols.). The proceedings, pub- 
lished at the expense of the grand-duke, and prepared 
by C. Cambiagi in 7 vols., were also translated into 
Latin: Acta congregationis archiepiscoporum et epis- 
coporum Hetrurice Flor entire anno 1787 celebrate e, Ex 
Italico translata a J. Schwarzel (Bamb. 1790-1794); 
Vie de Scipion de Ricci, par de Potter (Bruss. 1825, B 
vols.), German transl. 4 vols. (Stuttg. 1826) ; Wolf, Ge- 
schichte tier rom.-kathol. Kirche unter Pius VI (Leips. 
1796); Munch, Leopold von Oesterreich, in his JJenk- 
tcu rdigkeiten, p. 303 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; 
Theologisches Universal - Lexikon, s. v. ; II. B. Smith, 
History of the Church of Christ in Chronological Tables, 
p.619; Kurtz, Lehrbnch der Kirchengeschichte, § 164, p. 9; 
Niedncr, Lehrbnch der christl. Kirchengeschichte , p. 846 ; 
Ilagenbach - Hurst, History of the Church in the 18 th 
and 19 th Centuries, ii, 433 ; Evangelische Kirchenzeitung 
(1820), p. 270 sq. ; Denzinger, Enchiridion symbolorum 
et defnitionum (4th ed. 1865), p. 388 sq., “ Prcrpositiones 
85 8 y nodi dioscesance Pistoriensis damnatee a Pio VI 
per constitutionem 1 Auctorem fidei"' Aug. 28, 1794; 
Ranke, in Zeitschrift fur historische Thcoloqie, 1871, 
iii, art. ii. (B. P.) 

Pistor, IIenricus, is the author of a Latin hymn, 
“ De S. Johanne Baptista,” commencing, “ Prtecursoris 
et Baptist*.” The only notice we have of Pistor is 
that given by Clichtovlus in Elucidator Eccles. p. 198, 
where we read: “Auctor ejus (viz. of the hymn) fuisse 
traditur eximius pater Henricus Pistor, doctor theolo- 
gus I’arisiensis, et in religiosa domo Sti. Victoris juxta 
Parisios monasticam vitam professus, qui ctiam Con- 
cilio Constantinensi (1414-18) interfuit, eaque tempes- 
tate, doctrina et virtute mirifice floruit.” This is about 
all. As to the hymn itself, the first verse runs thus: 

Prseeursoris et Baptist* 

Diem istnm ehorus isle 
Veneretnr land i Inis. 

Vero die jam diescat, 

Ut iu nostris eiucescat 
Veras dies mentibus. 

See Daniel, Thesaurus Hymnol. ii, 169; Trench, Sacred 
Latin Poetry, p. 91 sq. ; Rambach, Anthologie christl. 
Gesange, p. 364. ( B. P.) 

Pistorius (Germ. Becker ), a name common to many 


theologians in the first two centuries of the Reformation, 
of whom we mention the following: 

1. Coni; ad, a Brunswick theologian. Together with 
Paul Eitzen,of Hamburg, and Joachim Morlin, of Bruns- 
wick, he took part in the proceedings of the Harden- 
berg controversy (comp. Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 540 
sq.). In 1562 lie was superintendent in Giistrow; in 
1572 the duke Ulric of Mecklenburg dismissed him 
from his estates. He then weut to Rostock; thence to 
Antwerp and Vienna; was appointed superintendent 
at Hildeslieim, and, when expelled, returned again to 
Brunswick, where he died in 1588. See Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. ; Theologisches Universal-Lexikon, s. v. 

2. John (1), at first a Roman Catholic priest of St. 
John’s in Nidda, a Hessian city, afterwards first Lu- 
theran pastor and superintendent there, took part with 
Melancthon and Bucer as a representative of the Prot- 
estants in the colloquy at Ratisbou in 1541, and after- 
wards at Worms in 1557. In 1544 he was very ac- 
tive in aiding the prince Herman, count of Wied, to 
introduce the Reformation in the archbishopric of Co- 
logne, but the battle at Miihlberg put an end to the 
whole movement. Pistorius died in 1583. See Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; Theoloy. Universal-Lexikon, s. v. ; 
Smith, Hist, of the Church of Christ in Chronological 
Tables, p. 53; Kurtz, Lehrbnch der Kirchengesch. § 135, 
3 ; Niedncr, Lehrbuch der christl. Kirchengesch. p. 635. 

3. John (2) (also called Niddanus, from his native 
place), son of the former, was born Feb. 4. 1546. He 
studied first medicine, law, and history, and finally the- 
ology. Originally a Lutheran, he became next a zeal- 
ous Calvinist, and induced the first son of the margrave 
Charles II of Baden, Ernest Frederick, to join him. 
Soon afterwards he joined the Roman Catholic Church, 
in which alone he could see the continuity of the 
Church of Christ, and induced the second son of the 
margrave Jacob to follow him. In behalf of his patron, 
he held in 1589 a colloquy at Baden with Andrea and 
Heerbraud, who represented Lutheranism, and Sehyrius, 
who represented Calvinism. A second colloquy he held 
at Emmendingen in 1590, with Dr. Peppus, ofStrasburg. 
After the death of his patron, Pistorius went to Frei- 
burg and Constance ; became doctor of theology, canon 
of Constance, cathedral-provost of Breslau, and imperial 
counsellor to the emperor Rudolph II. Pistorius died 
in 1608. In his Tlieorema de fidei Christianas definita 
mensura, and in Unser von Gottes Genaden Jakobs Mark- 
grafen zn Baden . . . christl. erhebliche und wohlfun- 
dirte A fotifen, etc., he endeavored to justify his own and 
his patron’s conversion to the Church of Rome. His 
polemics against Luther in his A natomia Lutheri,seude 
septem spiritibus Lutheri, called forth a number of re- 
joinders. Pistorius is also the author of some medical 
works, and some historical works on Poland, Germain’, 
Hungary, and Spain. In the service of the Church of 
Rome, Pistorius also wrote a Wegweiser fur alle ver- 
fuhrten Christen, to which Dr. Mentzer replied in his 
Anti- Pistorius. See Fechti Historia Cotloquii Em- 
mendingensis, cui subjicitur protocollum et conclusio (Ros- 
tockii, 1709); Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; Theolog. 
U niversal-Lexikon, s. v. ; Jocher, Gelehrten- Lexikon, s. v. ; 
Buchanan, Justification (see Index). 

4. Theophilcs (1), succeeded the excellent John 
Mathesius (q. v.) in the ministry at Joachimsthal ; and 
his son, 

5. Theopiiilus (2), a great Oriental scholar, lectured 

at Leipsic, Tubingen, Jena, and Copenhagen, and wrote 
Enchiridion linguee sanctee grammaticam (Leips. 1612), 
etc. See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; J ocher, Gelehrten- 
Lexikon, s. v. ; Flirst, Bibl. Jud. iii. 106 ; Stcinschneider, 
Bibliog. Handbuch, p. Ill, No. 1574. (B. P.) 

Pit. In the A. V. this word appears with a figura- 
tive as well as a literal meaning. It passes from the 
facts that belong to the outward aspect of Palestine 
and its cities to states or regions of the spiritual world 
With this power it is used to represent several Hebe 
and Greek words, and the starting-point which the 


238 


PITA K A 


PIT 


eral meaning presents for the spiritual is. in each ease, j 
a subject of some interest. 

1. Of these bdr, ~ ‘2 (root “X2. cognate “X2, beer, 
a well ), occurs most frequently, ami means a deep hole 
or pit, dug in the tirst instance for a well, or a cistern 
hewn or cut in stone, a reservoir, which the t tricntals 
are in the habit of preparing in those regions where 
there are few or no springs, for the purpose of preserv- 
ing rain-water for travellers and cattle. These cisterns 
and trenches are often without water, no supply being 
obtainable for them except from the rain. In old de- 
cayed cisterns the water leaks out, or becomes slimy 
(Jer. ii, 13). Such cisterns or pits, when without water, 
were often used in the Hast apparently for three pur- 
poses: (1 j As a place of sepulture (Psa. xxviii, 1 ; xxx, 
•1; Isa. xxxviii, IS), hence “'2 ‘'they that go 

down to the pit ’— a phrase of frequent occurrence, em- 
ployed sometimes to denote dying without hope, but 
commonly a simple going down to the place ol the 
dead (see Gescn. Lex. s. v.) ; also, “the graves set in 
the sides of t lie pit" (Exod. xxxii, 23), the recesses cut 
out for purposes of burial; or they might be the natural 
fissures in the rocks, abounding in all limestone forma- 
tions. of which the rocks of Syria and Palestine chiefly 
consist. (2) .1 prison: “they shall be gathered as 
prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up” 
(Isa. xxiv, 22; also Jer. xxxvii. 1(5; Exod. xii, 2D). 
'I’he pit or dungeon was a common place of punishment 
in the East, and very dreadful it was, as the case of 
Jeremiah illustrates (Jer. xxxviii, -1, 9). To be doomed 
to the pit was often to be left to a slow death by starva- 
tion; and to be saved from such a doom was regarded 
as the greatest of all deliverances, lienee it was used 
(3) as a place of destruction (Zech. ix, 11). In the ease 
of Joseph, Heuhen suggested the pit as a device for 
saving his brother; the others hostile to Joseph adopted 
it as the most secret, and, they might think, the least 
guilty method of making away with him (Gen. xxxvii, 
22-29 ). 

As remarked above, in this word, as in the cognate 
”X2. bi rr (which is likewise rendered pit in Gen. xiv, 
10; Psa. lv, 23; Ixix, 15; Prow xxiii, 27), the special 
thought is that of a pit or well dug for water (Gescn. 
Thesaur. s. v.). 'flic process of desynony mixing which 
goes on in all languages seems to have confined the 
former to the state of the well or cistern, dug into the 
rock, hut no longer filled with water. Thus, where the 
sense in both cases is figurative, and the same English 
word is used, we have pit (beer') connected with the 
“ deep water," “ the water-flood," “ the deep’’ (Psa. Ixix, 
16), while in pit ( “‘2) there is nothing but the “ miry 

clay" (Psa. xl, 2). Its dreariest feature is that there, is 
“no water” in it (Zcch. ix, 11). .So far the idea in- 
volved has been rather that of misery and despair than 
of death. 1 tut in the phrase “they that go down to 
the pit" (“'2) it becomes even more constantly tlian 
the synonyms noticed below (sheol, shachalh) the rep- 
resentative of the world of the dead (Ezek. xxxi, M. 
16; xxxii. 1*. 21; Psa. xxviii. 1 ; cxliii, 7*). There 
may have been two reasons for this transfer: 1. The 
wide, deep excavation became the place of burial. The 
“graves were set in the sides of the pil” (bar) (Ezek. 
xxxii, 21). To one looking into it, it was visibly the 
home of the dead, while the vaguer, more mysterious 
.Sheol carried the thoughts further to an invisible home. 
2. The pity however, in this sense, was never simply 
equivalent to hnrial-place. There is always implied in 
it a thought of scorn and condemnation. This, too, 
had its origin apparently in the use made of the exca- 
vations, which had either never been wells, or hail lost 
-Uie supply of water. The prisoner in the land of his 
enemies was left to perish in the pit (bar) (Zcch. ix, 
\\,\ The greatest of all deliverances is that the cap- 
tive exile is released from the slow death of starvation 


in it (s/iarhatb, Isa. li, 14). The history of Jeremiah, 
east into the dungeon or pit (bur) (Jer. xxxviii. 6, 9), 
let down into its depths with cords, sinking into the 
tilth at the bottom (here also there is no water), with 
death by hunger staring him in the face, shows how 
terrible an instrument of punishment was such a pit. 
The condition of the Athenian prisoners in the stone- 
quarries of Syracuse (Thuc. vii, 87), the Persian pun- 
ishment of t Ho a—vCoc (C'tesias, Pers. 48), the oubliettes 
of medijeval prisons, present instances of cruelty more 
or less analogous, it is not strange that with these as- 
sociations of material horror clustering round, it should 
have involved more of the idea of a place of punish- 
ment for the haughty or unjust than did the sheol or 
the grave. See Wki.i.. 

2. Shuchath , rn-r, of which, as well as in the cognate 

■““'■j, shuchdh (rendered “pit" in Prov. xx, 14; Jer. 
ii. 6 ; xviii, 20, 22), I"*"',!', shechuth (“ pit," Prov. xxviii, 
10), rVTj, shechith (“ pit,” Earn, iv, 20 ; “destruction," 
Psa. evii, 20), and shichuh (“pit,” Psa. lvii, 6; 

cxix, 85; Jer. xviii, 22), as the root H*- shows, the 
sinking of the pit is the primary thought (Gescn. The- 
saur. s. v.). It is dug into the earth (Psa. ix, 16 ; exix, 
85). A pit thus made and then covered lightly over, 
served as a trap hv which animals or men might he en- 
snared (Psa. xxxv, 7). It thus became a type of sor- 
row and confusion, from which a man could not extri- 
cate himself, of the great doom which comes to all men, 
of the dreariness of death (Job xxxiii, 18, 24, 28. 30). 
To “go down to the pit” is to die without hope. It is 
the penalty of evil-doers, that from which the righteous 
are delivered by the hand of God. Sec Thai*. 

3. Sheol, 7X2.*, in Numb. xvi. 30, 33; Job xvii. 16. 
Here the word is one which is used only of the hollow, 
shadowy world, the dwelling of the dead, and as such 
it has been treated of under ITkli.. 

4. Other Hebrew words rendered pit in the A. V. are 

the following: 23, geb, something cut out, lienee a cis- 
tern in the rock (Jer. xiv, 3); and the cognate X23, gebe 
(Isa. xxx, 1 1 ; Jer. xiv, 3); ^"2^3, gumdts, something 
dug (only Eceles. x, 8) ; and rnE, puchath, an excava- 
tion (2 Sam. xvii, 9; xviii. 17; Isa. xxiv, 17, 18; Jer. 
xlviii, 43, 44 ; “ hole,” Jer. xlviii, 28; “ snare,” Sam. iii, 
17). The term mahamoroth, rendered “deep 

pits” (Psa. cxl, 10), properly signifies streams , whirl- 
pools, abysses of water. The rabbins, Symmachns, ami 
Jerome understood pits of water. 

5. The Greek terms are the following: in Hew ix, 1, 
2, and elsewhere, the “bottomless pit” is the transla- 
tion of ro <pptap rife d/bWou. The A. V. has rightly 
taken <ppsap here as the equivalent of bar rather than 
beer. The pit of the abyss is as a dungeon. It is 
opened with a key (Hew ix, 1 ; xx, 1). Satan is cast 
into it, as a prisoner (xx, 2). In Matt. xii. 11, “pit” 
is the rendering of fti&oroc. a deep hole or “ditch” (as 
rendered in Matt, xv, 14 ; Luke vi,39). See Cistkkn. 

Fitaka or Fitakattayan (Pali pitakan , a “bas- 
ket,” and tdijo, “ three"), the sacred hooks of the Bud- 
dhists. The text of the Pitaka is divided into three 
great classes. The instructions contained in the first 
class, called Winaya, were addressed to the priests; those 
in the second class, Sutra, to the laity ; and those in the 
third class, Abhidarma, to the ddwas and brahmas of 
the celestial worlds. There is a commentary called the 
Atthakatha, which, until recently, was regarded as of 
I equal authority with the text. The text, as we learn 
i from Mr. Spence Hardy, was orally preserved until the 
reign of the Singhalese monarch Wattagamani, who 
reigned from 15.C. 104 to 15. C. 76. when it was commit- 
ted to writing in the island of Ceylon. The commen- 
tary was written by lladltngosha in A. I). 420. To es- 
tablish the text of the Pi takas three several convoca- 
tions were held. The first met 15.C. 543, when the 
whole was rehearsed, every syllable being repeated with 


PITCAIRN- 


239 


PITCHER 


the utmost precision, and an authentic version estab- 
lished, though not committed to writing. The second 
convocation was held in B.C. 443, when the whole was 
again rehearsed, in consequence of certain usages hav- 
ing sprung up contrary to the teachings of Buddha. 
The third convocation took place B.C. 3U8, when the 
Pitakas were again rehearsed, without either retrench- 
ment or addition. These sacred books are of immense 
size, containing, along with the commentary, nearly 
2,000.000 lines. See Buddhists. 

Pitcairn, Alexander, a Scottish divine who flour- 
ished in the second half of the 17th century, and ap- 
pears to have been obliged to seek refuge in Holland, is 
known to ns only as the author of, Compendiarici Phy- 
siologies Aristotelice una cum Anatome Cartesianismi 
(Loud. 1(57(5, 12mo) : — Ilarmonia Erangelica Apos/olo- 
rum Pauli et Jacobi in Doctrina cle Justif. etc. (Kottcrd. 
1085, 4to). In the last-named work, which is of a con- 
troversial nature, Pitcairn opposes Socinians, Papists, 
and Arminians in general, and Curcellaeus, Morus, Bull, 
Sherlock, and Baxter in particular. There is a good 
deal of learning and acuteness displayed in the book, 
and he deserves the study of Calvinists. (J. II. W.) 

Pitcairne, Alexander, another Scottish divine, 
flourished about the same time as the preceding. He 
was minister at Oron. He published The Spiritual 
Sacrifice , a treatise concerning the saints’ communion 
with God in prayer (Edinb. 1004, 2 vols. 4to). 

Pitch is the rendering in the A. V. of two Hebrew 
words, ze'plieth , TST, and ko'pher, “S3. The former 
is from the root zuph, S^T, to fioic , or be liquid (like the 
German Schmalz, from the verb schmelzen ) (Exod. ii, 3 ; 
Isa. xxxiv, 9; comp. Mishna, Scliab. 2). The latter is 
from the root “S3, to cover or smear, and is used in 
Gen. vi, 14, where the Sept, has a<T<pa\Tov 7 the Vulg. 
bitumen. The word “tin, cliemar, rendered “ slime” 
(Gen. xi, 3; xiv, 10; Exod. ii, 3), likewise belongs 
here. The three Hebrew terms all represent the same 
object, viz. mineral pitch or asphalt, in its different as- 
pects : zepheth (the zift of the modern Arabs, Wilkinson, 
Anc. Egypt, ii, 120) in its liquid state, chemdr in its solid 
state, from its red color, though also explained in refer- 
ence to the manner in which it boils up (the former, 
however, being more consistent with the appearance of 
the two terms in juxtaposition in Exod. ii, 3; A. V. 
“pitch and slime”); and kopher, in reference to its use 
in overlaying wood-work (Gen. vi, 14). Asphalt is an 
opaque, inflammable substance, which bubbles up from 
subterranean fountains in a liquid state, and hardens by 
exposure to the air, but readily melts under the influ- 
ence of heat. In the latter state it is very tenacious, 
and was used as a cement in lieu of mortar in Babylonia | 
(Gen. xi, 3 ; Strabo, xvi, 743; Herod, i, 179), as well as 
for coating the outsides of vessels (Gen. vi, 14; Jose- 
phus, War, iv, 8, 4), and particularly for making the 
papyrus boats of the Egyptians water-tight (Exod. ii, 
3 ; Wilkinson, ii, 120). The Babylonians obtained their 
chief supply from springs at Is (the modern Hit), which 
are still in existence (Herod, i, 179). The Jews and Ara- 
bians got theirs in large quantities from the Dead Sea, 
which hence received its classical name of Lacus A sphal- 
tites. The lat ter was particularly prized for its purple hue 
(Plinv, xxviii, 23). In the early ages of the Bible the 
slime-pits (Gen. xiv, 10), or springs of asphalt, were ap- 
parent in the vale of Siddim, at the southern end of the 
sea. They are now concealed through the submergence 
of the plain, and the asphalt probably forms itself into 
a crust on the bed of the lake, whence it is dislodged by 
earthquakes or other causes. Early writers describe 
the masses thus thrown up on the surface of the lake as 
of very considerable size (Josephus, War, iv, 8, 4; Tacit. 
Hist, v, 6 ; Diod. Sic. ii, 48). This is now a rare occur- 
rence (Rooinson, i, 517), though small pieces may con- 
stantly be picked up on the shore. The inflammable 


nature of pitch is noticed in Isa. xxxiv, 9. — Smith. See 
Asphaltum ; Bitumen. 

Pitcher in the A. Y. represents the following words 
in the original: 1. T3, kad ; Sept. vSpia ; Vulg. hydria, 
lagena ; akin to Sanscrit hut and kuZoq ; rendered 
“barrel” (I Kings xvii, 12; xviii, 33). 2. 533 and 

nebel; Sept, dyytlov; Vulg. vas; A. V. “ bottle, - 
only once a “pitcher” (Lara, iv, 2), where it is joined 
with 3“in, an earthen vessel (Gesen. Thesaur. p. 522). 
3. In the X. T. Kfpdpior, twice only (Mark xiv, 13; 
Luke xxii, 10). It denotes the water-jars or pitchers 
with one or two handles, used chiefly by women for car- 
rying water, as in the story of Rebecca ( Gen. xxiv, 15- 
20; but see Mark xiv, 13; Luke xxii, 10). This prac- 
tice has been and is still usual both in the East and 
elsewhere. The vessels used for the purpose are gener- 
ally carried on the head or on the shoulder. The Beda- 
win women commonly use skin-bottles. .Such was the 
“ bottle” carried by Hagar (Gen. xxi, 14 ; Ilarmer, Obs. 
iv, 24G ; Lavard, A7n. and Bab. p. 578 ; Roberts, Sketches , 
pi. 1G4 ; Arvieux, Trav. p. 203; Burckhardt, Notes on 
Bed. i, 351 ; Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 379). The 
same word kad is used of the pitchers employed by 
Gideon’s 300 men (Judg. vii, 1G), where the use made 
of them marks the material. Also the vessel (A. V. 
barrel) in which the meal of the Sareptan widow was 
contained (I Kings xvii, 12), and the “ barrels” of water 
used by Elijah at Mount Carmel (xviii, 33). It is also 
used figuratively of the life of man (Eccles. xii, G). It 
is thus probable that earthen vessels were used by the 
Jews as they were by the Egyptians for containing both 
liquids and dry provisions (Birch, Anc. Pottery, i, 43). 
At the Fountain of Nazareth may be seen men and 
women with pitchers which scarcely differ from those 
in use in Egypt and Nubia (Roberts, Sketches, pi. 29, 
164). The water-pot of the woman of Samaria was 
probably one of this kind, to be distinguished from the 
much larger am phone of the marriage-feast at Cana. — 
Smith. See Bottle; Cp.use; Ewer; Flagon; Pot. 



Egyptian Pitchers. 


Pitcher, Edwin Frank, a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, was born Feb. 14, 184G, near Fair- 
mount, Marion County, West Virginia. He was the 
youngest of thirteen children. Very early in life he 
gave evidence of religious culture, and at the age of 
eleven w r as converted, and joined the Methodists. His 
school life was noted for its spiritual tone. At fourteen 
he entered Dickinson College. At sixteen he took the 
prize medal in the junior contest, and graduated the 
first in his class. The year following his graduation he 
became professor in Emory Female College, Carlisle, Pa., 
and while in this position was licensed to preach. Im- 
pressed with the value of a higher theological training, 
he went to Evanston ; but the climate proving unfa- 
vorable to his health, he returned to his home. In the 
fall of 1SG5 he entered the theological school at ( ’uncord, 
N. II., where he remained until the spring of 18G7, ivhen 
he graduated. Joining the New England Conference, 
he was sent to Amherst, Mass., which was a new field 


PITIIOM 


240 


PITMAN 


ami iiiipretont ions, and his presentation of truth force- 
ful ami vivid. 1 1 is favorite theme was the all-power- 
ful Name. Sue Zion's Herald, Aug. 10, 1876. 

Pi 'thorn (Hob. Pithom', -rs, meaning, if of lleb. 
derivation, mouth of Thom ; but the word is probably 


for Methodism. In 1808 he was called to Morgantown, of the Nile. Most writers, however, regard the rums at 
West Virginia, where his laWs were very successful. Abu-Kesheid as marking the site of Herobpolis. Ae- 
In 1*70 he was stationed at Lawrence, Mass., but tirnl- cordingly the scholars who accompanied the French ex- 
ing his wife’s health failing, he entered the I'hiladcl- pedition place Pithom on the site of the present .1 bhaseh, 
phia (’onferencc. and in March, 1*72, was stationed at at the entrance of the Wady Tumilat, where there was 
Lebanon. Pa. In March, 1*7:5, lu* was sent to Allen- at all times a strong military post. See llcngstenberg, 
town, Pa., which proved to be his last appointment. I n Die Jiiicher Moses und A eyypten ; Du Hois Ayme, in De- 
the spring of 1*75, his own health failing, he sailed for script, de VEyypte , xi, 377 ; xviii, 1, 372; Champollion, 
Lurope. Pcturning the middle of September, his pas- L’Eyypte sous les Phamons, i, 172; ii,58. See Goshen. 
toral work occupied his time until Feb. 23, when he was prthou (IIe b. Pithon', vr"S. peril, hunnlcss 

taken witli hemorrhage from the lungs, lie died May \ , . , * ' . ' - c 

s, Ills Khul.r.hi,. « thorough an, I elevate,!, *!*• Ow-*), the first name,! of f,,nr sons of 

|,i stele classic and chaste. His manner was gentle ' ■<*!>, the grandson of Jonathan, »n, of king haul (1 
- ruth force- Chron. vin, 38; ix, 41). B.C. post lOoO. 

Pithon, 1'p.an^ois and Pi euke, twin-brothers, were 
born Nov. 1, 1539. Hotli became famous as canonists. 
Francois, who died as chancellor of the Parliament at 
Paris in 1G07, published among other works the Coder 
Dionysius Iladrianus (i. e. the collection of canons of 
Egyptian, meaning the [city of] Thomei justice] ; Sept. Dionysius Exigmts, as augmented by Adrian). Pierre 
v. r. Ila3w), one of the store-cities built by the occupied some of the highest oflieial positions, which, 
Israelites for the first oppressor, the Pharaoh “which however, lie relinquished, in order to give himself en- 
knew not Joseph” (Exod.i, 11). In the lleb. these cities ti rely to his studies. After the massacre on Bartholo- 
are two. Pithom and Uaamses; the Sept, adds On as a mew’s eve, he became a convert to the Homan Catholic 
third. It is probable that Pithom lay in the most east- : Church, and again came before the public to defend the 
ern part of Lower Egypt, like Haamses, if, as is reason- conversion of Ilenry IV, and to effect his reconciliation 
able, we suppose the latter to be the Kameses mentioned with Paris. He died at Noyen -sur-Seine in 159G. 
elsewhere, ami that the Israelites were occupied in pub- Pierre wrote Les Lihertes de /’ Eylise (iallicane (Par. 
lie works within or near to the land of Goshen. See 1594), in 83 articles, to which must be added I)u Pny’s 
Haamses. Herodotus mentions a town called Patumus, \ Preuves des Lihertes de LEylise (iallicane, de Maistre 
1 \drorfioc. which seems to be the same as the Thoum j Pierre Pithon (ibid. 16.52). Both brothers published 
or Thou of the Itinerary of Antoninus, probably the j an edition of the Corpus juris canon. See Theoloy. 

Universal- Ler ikon, s. v. (15. P.) 

Pitiful. See Pity 

Pitkin, Caleb, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in New Hartford, Litchfield Co., Conn., Eeb. 27, 1781. 
lie graduated at Yale College, New Haven, Conn., in 
1806; studied theology privately under Hev. Asahcl 
Hooker, of Goshen, Conn.; was licensed June 10, 1807, 


- 

military station Thohu of the Xotitia. Whether or not ■ 

Patumus be the Pithom of Scripture, there can be little ' 
doubt that the name is identical. The first part is the 
same as in Uu-bastis and Bn-siris, either the definite 
article masculine or a possessive pronoun, unless indeed, 
with Brngsch, we read the Egyptian word “ abode” jm, 
and suppose that it commences these names. See IV 

BESETit. The second part appears to be the name of . 

Mum nr 7’ mu, a .livinitv ivotUippctl at On, nr llcli- >?' »'* *<«'■ Congregational Aaaocia turn of Lnc .liCl, 
opolis, a., ,v, •!! as l!a, both being forms of the Sim [see <*>»? aml suppl.esf for a lime the clmrel.es of Derby 
t »n], and it is noticeable that Tlionm or Thou was very 
near the llelinpolite nome, and \ 
within it, and that a monnmeut a 


and Oxford. In 1808 he became pastor of the Church 
perhaps more aiiclenilv Milford, being ordained ami installed byi tl.c West 
'at Abn-Keslteid shows Consociation of Aetv Haven, Conn.; in 1Mb ho acted as 
1,1 .1 Hv... missionarv in Ashtabula and Portage counties, Ohio: 



oom.s|».,de„ce to Pithon, and llaamses, ami the prob- lieriod measures ha, 1 been taken by the presbyteries 
ni.i/. i„.ti, iu , n „i; 0 of Grand Hiver and Portage towards the establishment 


able connection in both cases with Heliopolis confirms 



be determined, before we can speak positively as to the ma * nCt l there t 
Pithom of Exodus. Herodotus places Patumus in the Prcsk ,,ist ' ^^anac, i860, p. 169. (J. L. N.) 

Arabian nome upon the canal of the Hed Sea (ii, 48). Pitman, Charles, D.D., a pioneer preacher of the 
The him rary of Antoninus puts Thou fifty Homan miles Methodist Episcopal Church, was lx>rn near Cookstown, 
from Heliopolis, and forty-eight from Pelusinm; but N. J., January, 1796. lie early embraced religion, be- 
tliis seems too far north for Patumus, and also for Pi- came a local preacher in 1817, and the next year joined 
thorn, if that place were near Heliopolis, as its name the. Philadelphia Conference. At once lie obtained 
and connection with Haamses seem to indicate. It was popularity with all hearers, occupying, from time to 
twelve miles from Vieus Jiidicorum, according to the time, the most important stations and districts in the 
Itinerary. It must therefore have lieen somewhere over Philadelphia Conference. In the year 1841 he was 
against Wady Tfimilat, or the valley of Thom, or near elected corresponding secretary of the Missionary S»- 
t lie mouth of that valley, and not far from Pi-bcseth or eiety. 1 1 is health failing in 1850, he resigned this of- 
1 5u bast is, now called Toil 15asta. I\ ll d-Kehir. or “ the lice and retired to Trenton, passing serenely and joy 
Grent Heap," which is a little to the south of it, may fully from life in 1854, and leaving a name for Christian 
perhaps be the site of ancient Pithom. lleroiipolis, purity, consistency, ministerial ability, and usefulness 
which had so long disappeared, and had almost become which thousands delight to remember. lie possessed a 
mythical, may. after all, lie the same as Pithom. Hero- strong memory, a quick perception, with discriminating 
iipolis. according to Ptolemy, lay at the extremity of judgment, and a holy evangelical fervor stamped his 
Trajan’s canal, i. e. its eastern extremity, where it joined pulpit labors. Dr. Pitman had not many equals as a 
or approached the more ancient canal of Pharaoh Ncclio, public speaker. 1 1 is oratory was emphatically not 
possibly at or within the month of this valley, and. ac- scholastic, but, like the great Patrick Henry’s, the true 
cording to Manetho, not fur from the Bubastic branch eloquence of nature. Although Dr. Pitman was an cx- 


PITMAN 


241 


PITY 


temporaneons preacher, he carefully used his pen in 
preparations for the pulpit. Many sermons he wrote 
in full, not to read or memorize them, but for the pur- 
pose of properly disciplining his thoughts and language, 
and for useful reference. Emphatically a preacher of 
Christ, the precious atonement became his favorite 
theme, and immense multitudes hung delighted upon 
his lips while he held up a crucified Saviour. All who 
heard believed him to be a man of God, preaching with 
divine unction, and they received in faith the words of 
truth which he uttered. I)r. Pitman had a fine, large 
head, moderately high forehead, and slightly sunken 
eyes, his likeness strongly resembling that of the cele- 
brated Robert Hall of England. See New Jersey Me- 
morials of A lethodism; Sprague, Anneils of the Ameri- 
can Pulpit , vol. vii. 

Pitman, John Rogers, an English divine, noted 
as a classical scholar and general litterateur, was born 
about 1782, and was educated at Pembroke College, 
Cambridge, in 1804. He became preacher at Berkeley 
and Belgrave chapels, and in the Foundling and Mag- 
dalen hospitals, and perpetual curate of St. Barnabas 
Church, Kensington. He died in 1870. Of his publi- 
cations, we mention Excerpta ex rariis Romanis Poetis 
(Lond. 1808, 8vo) : — Practical Lectures on St. John (1821, 
8vo; supplement, 1822, 8 vo) : — Sermons for the Year 
(1825, 2 vols. 8vo; 2d series, 1828) : — Practical Commen- 
tary on the Sermon on the Mount (1852). Mr. Pitman also 
edited the works of Dr. Lightfoot (1822-25, 13 vols. 8vo), 
and Bingham’s Origines Ecclesiastics (1840, 9 vols. 8vo). 

Pitri (Sanscrit, i. c. father) is the name affixed in 
Hindu mythology to the deified progenitors of mankind, 
supposed to inhabit the orbit of the moon. 

Pits (or Pitseus), John, D.D., an English divine, 
noted as a biographer, was born at Alton, in Hampshire, 
A.D. 1560. He received his early education at Win- 
chester School, whence, at the age of eighteen, he was 
elected a probationer fellow of New College. Oxford; but 
in less than two years he left the kingdom as a volun- 
tary Romish exile, and went to Douai. He went thence 
to Rheims, and a year afterwards to the English college 
at Rome, where he studied seven years, and was then 
ordained priest. He returned to hold the professorship 
of rhetoric and Greek at Rheims. Towards the end of 
1590 he was appointed governor to a young nobleman, 
with whom he travelled into Lorraine, and afterwards 
went through Upper Germany and Italy. He subse- 
quently returned to Lorraine, where he was preferred to 
a canonry of Verdun. When he had passed two years 
at his new residence, Antonia, daughter of the duke of 
Lorraine, who had married the duke of Cleves, invited 
him to Cleves to be her confessor. He continued in her 
service twelve years, till her death, when he returned a 
third time to Lorraine, and was promoted to the dean- 
ery of Liverdun, where he died in 1616. The leisure he 
enjoyed while confessor to the dnehess of Cleves enabled 
him to compile a work which has given him great re- 
nown, The Lives of the Kinys, Biskops, A postolical Men , 
and Writers of Enyland (four large volumes). The first 
contains the lives of the kings, the second of the bish- 
ops, the third of the apostolical men, and the fourth of 
the writers. The three first are preserved in the ar- 
chives of the collegiate church of Verdun ; the fourth 
only was published after his decease, under the title of 
Joannis Pitsei A nyli, S. Theoloyiee LJoetoris, Liverduni in 
Lotharingia Decani , Relationum Ilistoricarum de Rebus 
Anglicis Tomus Primus (Paris, 1619 and 1623, 4to), but 
the running title by ■which it is most frequently quoted 
is “ De Illustribns Anglia? Scriptoribus.” In this work 
Pits took much from Bale’s book, De Scriptoribus Ma- 
joris Britanniee , without acknowledgment, pretending 
at the same time to abhor both Bale and his work. He 
also quotes Leland’s Collectanea de Scriptoribus Anglia , 
which Wood asserts he never could have had the means 
of perusing, but must likewise have taken at second 
hand from Bale. His partiality is also great. He 
VIII.— Q 


leaves Wickliffe and his followers, together with the 
Scotch and Irish writers, entirely out of his work, and 
in their room gives an account of the Roman Catholic 
writers, such especially as had left the kingdom after the 
Reformation in queen Elizabeth’s time, and settled at 
Rome, Douai, Louvain, etc. This, however, is the best 
and most valuable part of Pits’s work. He published 
three small treatises, which are less known : De Legibus- 
(Trier, 1592) : — De Beatitudine (lngolstadt, 1595): — De 
Peregrinatione (Diisseldorf, 1604, 12mo). The last is 
dedicated to the duchess of Cleves. See Biogr. Brit. 
s. v.: Dodd, Ch. Hist.; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
Auth. s. v.; English Cyclop, s. v. ; Wood, A then. Oxon. 
ii, 173. 

Pitt, Christopher, an English divine, noted espe- 
cially as a poet, was born in 1699 at Blandford, Dorset- 
shire ; was educated at Winchester and at New College, 
Qxford; and, after taking holy orders, obtained the 
family living at Pimperne, where he passed his life, be- 
loved and respected lor his suavity of manners and gen- 
eral benevolence. He died in 1748. His works are of 
a secular character. See Allibone, Did. of Brit, and 
A mer. A uth. s. v. 

Pittoni, Giambattista, an Italian canonist, w'as 
born at Venice in 1666. He took holy orders and was 
a priest, and resided in turns at Rome and Venice. He 
died Oct. 17, 1748. He compiled with great order a 
collection of the pontifical constitutions and of the de- 
cisions of the different Roman congregations (Viterbo, 
1745 and ensuing years. 14 vols. 8vo), which is held in 
great esteem. He left also, Ufa di Benedetto XIII 
(Venice, 1730, 4to) : — De commemoratio7ie omnium fide- 
lium defunctorum (ibid. 1739, 8vo): — De octavis festo- 
rum (ibid. 1746, 2 vols. 8vo) ; etc. 

Pittori, Lodovico Bigi (in Latin, Pidoi-ius), a 
modern Latin poet, was born in 1454 at Ferrara, lie 
cultivated with some success philosophy and theology, 
but his favorite study was Latin poetry. The only de- 
fect of his Latin poems is a kind of monotonous facility. 
We mention of his works, Candida , a poem (Modena, 

1491, 4to) : — Tumultuarioruni carminnm lib. vii (ibid. 

1492, 4to) : — Christianorum opusculorum lib. Hi (ibid. 
1496 or 1498, 4to) : — Epigrammata in Christi vitam (Mi- 
lan, 1513, 4to) : — In calestes proceres hymnorum epita- 
phiorumque liber (Ferrara, 1514, 4 to) : — Sacra et saty- 
rica epigrammata (ibid. 1514, 4to): — Epigrammata mo- 
ralia lib. iv (Modena, 1516, 4fn) ; a collection of ser- 
mons in Italian. All these works have become very 
rare. Frey tag and David Clement have given a com- 
plete list of them. 

Pity is usually defined to be the uneasiness we feel 
at the unhappiness of others, prompting ns to compas- 
sionate them, with a desire for their relief. God is said 
to pity them that fear him, as a father pitictli his chil- 
dren (rsa. ciii, 13). Pity is thus a Christian grace, to 
the practice of which we are exhorted by the apostle : 
“ Love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous” (1 Pet.iii, 8). 

The phrase W^rn C“"^3, nashim rachamaniyoth , 
rendered “pitiful women” in our version (Lam. iv, 10), 
properly refers to the tenderness and affectionate love 
wdiich is the distinguishing trait of the female charac- 
ter ; and that such women should in the “siege and the 
straitness” be driven to and adopt the terrible expedient 
of feeding upon their own children, as in this passage 
they are stated to have done, is an awful instance of the 
literal fulfilment of the threatenings of the Lord in the 
event of the disobedience of the house of Israel (Deut. 
xxviii, 57). The same horrible expedient was resorted 
to also in the last siege of Jerusalem, as it had formerly 
been at the siege of Samaria, in the reign of Ahab (2 
Kings vi, 28, 29). 

Pitiful is a word whose derivations have by modem 
usage been almost limited to the sense of mean, con- 
temptible, or insignificant. In the Bible and Prayer- 
book the old and primary meaning of full of mercy, 


PIUS 


242 


PIUS 


compassionate, or tender, is retained. The English 
Prayer-book gives us these examples: “ . . . though we 
be tied and bound with the chain of our sins, yet let the 
pitifulness of thy great merov loose us."— Occasional 
Prayer. Again ’: “ Pitifully behold the sorrows of our 
hearts;" which petition in the Litany is thus altered 
in the American Prayer-book, •• With pity behold the 
sorrows of our hearts." In these, the original and better 
sense of the word is alone intended. In the Primer of 
king Edward VI there is this expression: “O pitiful 
Physician, and Healer both of body and soul, Christ 
.U-mi ; m And Latimer, in his sermon on the birth of 
Christ, remarks: “Preachers exhort ns to godliness, to 
do good works, to be pitiful and liberal unto the poor;" 
that is, to be compassionate, tender-hearted, and sym- 
pathizing to them. 

Pius I, pope and saint of Rome, was a native of 
Aquileia, and succeeded llyginus. Pius I is suppose^ 
to have commenced his pontificate, or rather bishopric, 
about 15*2 or 153, and to have died in 157. The date 
of liis reign, however, as given by other authorities, is 
from P27 to 1 lU. lie was succeeded by Anicetus, but if 
by llyginus, as some think, then the latter date of reign 
is correct. Several decretals have been attributed to 
Pius l by Gratian, but they are generally considered 
apocryphal. Hermes, the author of the Shepherd, is 
reputed to have been the brother of this pontiff. Pius 
is commemorated in the Western Church July 11. See 
Acta SS. vol. iii, July, p. 17*; Pagi, Brel'. Pont if. Bom. 
i, *27; Jaffe, Regesta Pontificum Ilomanorum, p. 3 and 
920; Tillcmont, Me moires pour serrir ii I'llistoire ec- 
clesiastique (ed. 1732, fob), p. 130 and 203; Fontanini, 
/list or in Litteraria Aquilej. lib. ii, cap. iii, p. 70). 
(J. H. W.) 

Pius II, pope of Rome (from 1458 to 1404), whose 
original name was yKneas Sylvius Piccolomini, was a 
great theologian, diplomatist, canonist, historian, and or- 
ator, and in fact a pontiff universally accomplished. He 
is especially noted as the inspircr of a crusade against 
the Saracens, lie was born at Corsignano, in Siena, 
Oct. 18, Ml 15. Early devoted to study, he soon became 
noted for his scholarship, and found no difficulty in se- 
curing within the Church all the honors and distinc- 
tions he might seek. In 1431 he went as secretary of 
cardinal Pominicus t'apranica to the Council of IJaslo, 
that celebrated ecclesiastical assembly which attempted 
earnestly, though with little success, the reformation of 
the Church, and of which cardinal Piccolomini wrote a 
history: Comment arius de < antis Basil. Concilii, in two 
books — a very important work for the history of the 
Church of that period, which, because of its advocacy 
of Gallican principles, was put in the Index Librarian 
Prohibitorum. At that time Piccolomini was a strong 
advocate for the supremacy of the council, and its right 
to judge and depose even the pope, “who,” he argued, 
“ought to be considered as the vicar of the Church 
rather than as the vicar of ( ’hrist.” These tenets, how- 
ever, were condemned by pope Eugenius IV, though 
they caused the council to assert its authority by sus- 
pending the pope from his dignity. Then began a long 
struggle, which terminated in an open schism, the coun- 
cil deposing Eugenius and electing Felix V. Picco- 
lomini was appointed secretary of the new pope or anti- 
pope, and was sent bv him as his ambassador to the 
emperor Frederick III, who was so pleased with the en- 
voy that he prevailed upon him to give up his preca- 
rious situation and accept the place of imperial secre- 
tary. Frederick afterwards sent him on several missions, 
ami loaded him with favors. Piccolomini proved his 
gratitude to his imperial master, for he wrote several 
works in praise of his patron and in support of his im- 
perial prerogative -lie Oriyine et . I uetoritate Romani 
Imperii ad Fridencum HI hnperatnrem, Lilnr I nns : 
— Hist or in R<rnm Frith rici III : I >c Itinere. .Xnptiis, 
et Coronntione Friderici III Commcnfuritdus : — l>e his, 
qui Friderico III Imperante, in (lermaniam, et per to- 


tnm Kiiropam memorabiliter yesta sunt, usque ad annum 
1458, Commentarius. At last Frederick sent Piccolomini 
as his ambassador to pope Eugenius. This was a deli- 
cate errand for one who had been a most avowed antag- 
onist of that pontiff; but Piccolomini managed so well 
by his dexterity, his captivating address, and, above all, 
his eloquence, that the pope not only forgave him, but 
became his friend ; and Piccolomini had hardly returned 
to Germany from his mission when lie received a papal 
brief appointing him apostolic secretary. lie accepted 
an office congenial to his clerical profession, and also 
because it fixed his residence in Italy. From that time 
a marked change took place in the opinions, or at least 
in the professions, of Piccolomini. and he became a de- 
cided advocate for the claims of the see of Rome. Fin- 
genius died in 1447, ami his successor Nicholas V was 
recognised by the fathers of the Council of Basle, who, 
being forsaken by both the emperor and the F'reneh 
king, made their peace with Rome. Felix V also hav- 
ing abdicated in favor of Nicholas, the schism of the 
Church was healed. Nicholas made Piccolomini bishop 
of Trieste, and afterwards of Siena, and sent him as 
nuncio to Germany and Bohemia, where he had several 
conferences with the Hussites, which he relates in his 
Epistles (Kpistola 130). lie had, however, the merit — 
rare in that age— of recommending mild and concilia- 
tory measures as the most likely to reclaim dissenters 
to the bosom of the Church. He wrote a work on the 
history of Bohemia and the Hussites, in which he states 
fairly and without any exaggeration the tenets of that 
sect, as well as those of the Waldenses, which he calls 
“impious,” but which are mainly the same that have 
since been acknowledged by the Protestant and Re- 
formed churches throughout Europe. He relates (in 
his Ilistoria JUr mica') the burning of John llnss and 
Jerome of Prague, and speaks oftheir fortitude, “which,” 
he says, “exceeded that of any of the philosophers of 
antiquity,” and he recapitulates literally their charges 
against the corruption of the clergy. In the year 1452 
Piccolomini, being then in Italy, was present at the sol- 
emn coronation of Frederick III at Rome, and delivered 
an oration to the pope in the name of that sovereign, 
whom he afterwards accompanied to Naples, On their 
return to Rome he delivered another oration before the 
pope, the emperor, and other German and Italian princes, 
and the ambassadors of other lCuropean courts, for the 
purpose of exhorting them to form an effectual league 
against the Turks, who were then on the point of tak- 
ing Constantinople. Piccolomini felt the great danger 
to Christian Europe from the rapid advance of the Ot- 
toman conquerors, and his paramount object through 
the remainder of his life was to form a strong bulwark 
to protect Italy and Germany; but at the same time he 
was too well acquainted with the politics of the various 
Christian courts, and their selfish and petty jealousies, 
to expect much union in their councils, and he ex- 
presses his views and his doubts in a masterly manner 
in several of his “ Epistles.” In December, 1453, Calix- 
tus III. the successor of Nicholas V. made Piccolomini 
a cardinal; and in 1 158, after the death of Calixtus, he 
was unanimously elected pope, and assumed the name 
of Pius II. 

II is pontificate lasted only six years, but during this 
period he distinguished himself by promoting learning, 
by inculcating peace and concord among the Christian 
princes, and exhorting them to unite their efforts against 
their common enemy, the barbarous Turks. The year 
after his election he convoked a congress of the ambas- 
sadors of all the Christian sovereigns to arrange the 
plan of a general war against t lie I Mtomans, The pope 
himself repaired to Mantua, accompanied by the learned 
Philclpluis, who spoke eloquently in favor of the pro- 
posed league. Most of the Italian states were willing 
to join in it, but Germany and France stood aloof, and 
nothing was decided. Pius also took the pains to write 
a long letter to sultan Mohammed II. to convince him 
of the errors of Islamism, and to induce him to turn 


PIUS 


243 


PIUS 


Christian. In the year 1464 an armament intended [ 
against the Turks was directed to assemble at Ancona, 
and soldiers began to repair thither from various parts. 
Matthias, king of Hungary, and Charles, duke of Bur- 1 
gundy, had promised to accompany the expedition. The 
Venetians also had promised the use of their fleet to for- 
ward the troops across the Adriatic into Albania. Pius 
II set off from Rome for Ancona, but on arriving there 
he found that the soldiers were in want of arms, clothes, 
and provisions ; the foreign princes did not come ; and 
instead of the Venetian fleet, only a few galleys made 
their appearance. The aged and disappointed pontiff 
fell ill, and on Aug. 14 he expired, after having taken 
leave of his cardinals, and begged forgiveness if he had 
erred in the government of the Church. He was gen- 
erally regretted, especially throughout Italy. He was 
succeeded by Paul II. Pius IT, before bis death, raised 
his native town, Corsignano, to the rank of a bishop’s 
see, and gave it the name of Pienza, by which it is now 
known. Pius assisted Ferdinand, king of Naples, in his 
war against the duke of Anjou, the pretender to that 
crown. At the same time he was obliged to make war 
in his own states against Sigismondo Malatesta, lord of 
Rimini, and against the Savelli and other feudal barons, 
in all of which undertakings he was successful. By a 
bull addressed to the universities of Paris and of Cologne, 
Pius condemned his own writings in defence of the Coun- 
cil of Basle, concluding with these words: “ Believe what 
I, an old man, now say to you, and not what I wrote when 
1 was young; believe the pontiff rather than the private 
individual; reject ^Eneas Sylvius, and accept Pius II.” 
In several of his letters to his friends also, and especially 
to Pietro di Noceto, he expresses sorrow for his juvenile 
weaknesses, for he had once been too fond of the fair 
sex, and had even written accounts of some of his amor- 
ous adventures, and of those of other persons, which are 
found among his “Epistles.” Some writers assert that 
yEneas Sylvius had refused the priestly office until his 
fortieth year because of his fondness for the fair sex ; 
and they quote his own confessions in proof. But what- 
ever his previous life, as pontiff he was devoted to the 
Church, and sought the accomplishment of great things. 

A vacancy having occurred in the archiepiscopal see 
of Mentz, two candidates appeared for it — Adolph, count 
of Nassau, and Dietrich of Isenburg. The latter had the 
majority of votes, but Pius, who by the concordat had 
the right of deciding in cases of contested elections, re- 
fused to confirm the choice of Dietrich unless he engaged 
not to assert the supremacy of a general council, not to 
convoke of his own authority an imperial diet, and fur- 
ther to pay to Rome double the sum fixed for the annates, 
or first-fruits. Dietrich demurred to the first two condi- 
tions, and positively refused to accede to the last; and 
as proceedings were instituted against him in the apos- 
tolic court, he appealed to the next general council. 
Pius declared such appeals to be heretical, and excom- 
municated and deposed him, appointing Adolph of Nas- 
sau in his place. The emperor acknowledged Adolph, 
but Dietrich being supported by the count palatine and 
the elector of Bavaria, a Avar ensued, Avhich, after much 
mischief, ended in the submission of Dietrich. Those 
who remembered the sentiments of Piccolomini when 
imperial secretary, and especially his letter ( Epistola 
25) to the papal nuncio, John Carvajal, concerning the 
supremacy of the council, Avere inclined to think that 
change of station had, in him as it but too often does in 
men, produced a corresponding change of opinions. 

As a learned man and a Avriter, Pius II is best known 
under the name of ^ Eneas Sylvius , the most important 
part of his career being passed before he A\ r as elected 
pope. He was one of the first historians of his age, a 
geographer, a scholar, a statesman, and a divine. He 
Avas also a great traveller by sea and by land ; he lived 
many years in Germany; he repeatedly visited France, 
Avent to Great Britain and as far as Scotland, and to 
Hungary. His biographer Carapanus, bishop of Arezzo, 
speaks at length of his peregrinations, and his diligence 


in informing himself of everything Avorth noticing in 
the countries Avhich he visited. His principal works, 
besides those already mentioned, are, Cosmograjikia, vel 
de Mundo Universe Ilistorianim, libri i (a second book 
treats especially of Europe and its contemporary his- 
tory): — In Antonii Panormitce de Dietis et Faetis Al~ 
phonsi Arragonum Regis, libris quatuor, Commentaria : 
— Epitome supra Decades Flavii Blornli Forliviensis , ab 
inclinatione Imperii usque ad tempora Juhannis XXIII , 
Pont. Max. (in 10 books) : — llistoria Gothica (published 
first at Leipsic in 1730) : — A Treatise on the Education 
of Children, with Rules of Grammar and Rhetoric : — 
lastly, his numerous Epistles, Avhich contain much va- 
ried information. A collection of his Avorks Avas pub- 
lished at Basle, xEnece, Sylvii Piccolomini Senensis Opera 
quee extant (1551, fol.), but this edition does not include 
all. Domenico de Rosetti has published a catalogue of 
all his AA'orks and their various editions, and also of his 
biographers and commentators, Serie di Edizioni delle 
Opere di Pio II, o da Ini intitolate (Trieste, 1830). Bi- 
ographies of Pius II bv Platina and Campanus are an- 
nexed to the Basle edition of his works, but a much 
more ample biography is found in the Commentaries 
published (Frankfort, 1614) under the name of John 
Gobellinus, his secretary, but Avhich are known to have 
been written by himself or under his dictation, Pii II, 
Pont. Max., Commentarii Reruin Memorabilium quee 
Temporibus suis contigerunt, libri xii, with a continua- 
tion by his intimate friend, James Ammanato, cardinal 
of Pavia, avIio had at his desire assumed the name of 
Piccolomini. See, besides these. Milman, I list, of Latin 
Christianity, viii, 120-122 ; Riddle, Hist, of the Papacy , 
ii, 377 sq. ; Bower, Hist, of the Popes (see Index) ; Ha- 
genbach, Riickerinnerungen an A eneas Sylvius (Basle, 
1840) ; Verdiere, Sur Mimas Sylv. Piccolomini (Paris, 
1843) ; Pfizer, Aeneas Sylv. Piccol., etc. (Stuttg. 1844); 
Helwing, De Pii II Pontifcis maximi Rebus gestis et 
moribus commentatio (Berol*. 1825) ; Voigt, Aeneas Sylv. 
Piccol. (Berlin, 1856-9); Dux, Kardinal Nicolaus v. 
Cusa a. die Kirche seiner Zeit (Regensburg, 1847, 2 
vols. 8vo). 

Pius III, pope of Rome in 1503, whose original 
name was Francesco Todeschini Piccolomini, was the 
child of pope Pius II’s sister, and was born at Siena in 
1439. He Avas made cardinal by pope Alexander VI, 
and succeeded him in 1503. His pontificate Avas of only 
a very short duration. Twenty -six days after his ele- 
A^ation he died, and Julius II (q. v.) became bis suc- 
cessor. See Panvinius, Vita Pii III. 

Pius IV, pope of Rome from 1560 to 1565, Avhose 
original name Avas Giovanni Angelo Medici or Medi - 
chini, Avas born at Milan, Italy, March 31, 1499. He 
Avas originally a student of law and devoted to the 
legal profession, but his brother Avon him over to the 
ecclesiastical ranks, and in 1549 he Avas made cardinal 
by pope Paul IIT. Pius IV was elected successor to 
pope Paul IV (q. \'.) about the close of 1559, a very 
critical period in papal history, and Avas crowned Jan. 
6, 1560. The most important act of bis pontificate 
Avas, at Easter, 1561, the reassembling of the Council of 
Trent, which had been prorogued under Paul IV. Pius 
was particularly intent upon checking the spread of 
heresy, Avhich had taken root in several parts of Italy, 
besides the valleys of Piedmont, and especially in some 
districts of Calabria. The Spanish viceroy of Naples 
sent his troops, assisted by an inquisitor and a number 
of monks, to exterminate by fire and SAvord the here- 
tics of Calabria. Emmanuel Philibert, duke of Savoy, 
after attacking Avith an armed force the Waldenses, Avho 
made a gallant resistance, agreed to alloAv them the 
exercise of their religion Avithin their oavii districts, 
subject to certain regulations. The quarrels betAveen 
the’ Catholics and Protestants in France Avere more 
difficult to settle. Some of the French Catholic prel- 
ates, among others Monluc, bishop of ^ alence, and 
the cardinal of Lorraine, recommended large concessions 


rius 


244 


PIUS 


to he made to the Protestants with the hope of recon- 
ciling them to the Church, ami queen Catharine di 
Medici wrote to the pope to that effect. The pope re- 
ferred the matter to the council, and in the mean time 
Catharine published the edict of pacification, in Janu- 
ary, 150:2, which allowed the Protestants liberty of con- 
science, ami leave to perform their worship in country 
places, but not within walled towns. The prelates sent 
by France t<> the Council of Trent, and several council- 
lors of the Pirliament of Paris who were also ordered to 
attend in the name of the king, spoke loudly of the ne- 
cessity of an extensive reform in the Church, and seemed 
disposed to render the bishops more independent of the 
see of Rome. The cardinal of Lorraine was of opinion 
that the mass ami other ollices should be performed in 
the vulgar or popular language of each country; but 
the Italian prelates, ami Lainez, general of the Jesuits, 
supported the maintenance of the established form of 
worship, as well as of the papal authority in all its exist- 
ing plenitude. The discussions grew warm, and it was 
only in the following year, 15G3, that the two parties 
came to an understanding. The council terminated its 
sittings in December of that year, and the pope con- 
firmed its decrees by a hull. This was the principal 
event of the life of Pius IV. True, the Tridentine Coun- 
cil was not the most important that has ever met, hut 
at all events it is the most important that lias met in 
modern times. Its importance is comprised in two 
grand principles, llv the one dogmatic theology, after 
divers fluctuations, separated itself from Protestant 
views forever, and the doctrine of justification as then 
established gave rise to the entire system of Roman 
Catholic dogmatics as maintained to our day. By the 
other the hierarchy became founded anew, theoretically 
by the decrees respecting ordination to the priesthood, 
practically by the resolutions on the subject of reform, 
'l'lie faithful were again subjected to an intolerant 
Church discipline, and in urgent cases to the sword of 
excommunication. As the pope held the exclusive 
right of interpreting the Tridentine decisions, it ever 
remains with him to prescribe the rules of faith and 
manners. All the threads of the restored discipline 
converged together in Rome. Such progress could only 
have been made by means of a community of sentiment 
and action with the leading Roman Catholic powers. 
In this union with the monarchies there lies one of the 
most important conditions for the whole subsequent de- 
velopment of Romanism, and were it for nothing else 
Pins IV would still be an important person in the history 
of the world, for he was the first pope that knowingly 
suffered or caused the claim of the hierarchy to place it- 
self in opposition to monarchical government. Alter the 
council Pius IV relaxed all energy, neglected religion, 
ate and drank too eagerly, and took an excessive de- 
light in the splendor of his court, in sumptuous festivi- 
ties, and in costly buildings, lie evidently had done 
his work, lie died in December, I5f>5. 1 1 is disposition 

was generous, and lie embellished Rome; but lie was 
guilty of the common fault of nepotism, lie made his 
nephew*, Charles llorromeo, a cardinal, who afterwards ' 
became celebrated as archbishop of Milan; and he in- 
stituted proceedings against the nephews of the late 
pope, cardinal Carlo Caralla, and his brother the duke 
of Paliano, who were accused of various crimes, which 
were said to he proved against them, and both were ex- 
ecuted. But in the succeeding pontificate of Pius V, the 
proceedings being revised, the two brothers Caralla were 
declared to have been unjustly condemned. See Ranke, 
Papacy, i. 231 sip, et ah; Bower, Hist, of the Popes (sec 
Index): Lconanii, Oratio <le faudibus PH IV (Padua, 
15G5); Panviiiius, Vita J’ii /)'; Jervis, t'h. Hist, of 
France , p. 1 17, 159, lt52; I foulkes, Jtirisions of Chris- 
tendom , vol. i, § (IK ; Janus, Hope and Council, p. 11*; 
Cramp, Popery, p. 2(54 sip; Fisher, !{• format ion, p. Ill; 
Montor, f/ist.des Sourer. Pontifes, iv, 1*3 sip 

FI US IV, Chkkd ok. This document, which forms 
one of the authorized standards of the Church of Rome, 


was prepared hv pope Pius IV immediately after the 
rising of the Council of Trent, and is understood to em- 
body in substance the decisions of that Council. The 
creed hears date November, 15G4, and was no sooner is- 
sued than it was immediately received throughout the 
Romish Church, and since that time it lias continued to 
be accepted as an accurate summary of their faith. It is 
binding upon all clergymen, doctors, teachers, heads of 
universities, and of monastic institutions and military 
orders, and all reconciled converts. For this authori- 
tative document, with the oath of promise appended, 
see PiiOKKssm Fun-:i. 

Pius V, pope of Rome, succeeded Pius IV in 15GG. 
II is family name was Michele Ghisteri; he was horn 
of low descent, Jan. 17, 1504, at Boseo, not far from 
Alessandria, in Piedmont, Italy. Early in life lie en- 
tered the Dominican order, and devoted himself soul 
and body to the monkish piety which his order de- 
manded. He sided with the strict party professing 
the old opinions, and especially distinguished himself 
by his zeal in support of the Inquisition, of which 
tribunal lie, as pope, became one of the leading mem- 
bers. As the tendency to which he attached himself 
triumphed, he rose with the ascendency which it 
gained. Pope Paul IV spoke of friar Michele as “an 
eminent servant of God, and much to he honored.” lie 
made him bishop of Xepi, and in 1557 cardinal. In 
this new dignity Gbisleri continued as before, severe 
in bis manner of life, poor and unpretending. He de- 
voted himself to his religious exercises and to the In- 
quisition. He was austere in his morals, and wished 
to enforce a strict discipline among the clergy, and es- 
pecially the monks and nuns, more than fifty thousand 
of whom are said to have been at that time living and 
strolling about Italy out of their respective convents, 
regardless of any of the obligations enjoined by their 
order (Botta, Storia if Italia, bk. xii). There was also 
a monastic order in Lombardy called the “Umiliati,” 
possessed of considerable wealth, the heads of which led 
openly a most dissolute life, and even kept bravoes or 
hired assassins to execute their mandates. Charles Bor- 
romco, archbishop of Milan, who endeavored to check 
these atrocities, was shot at by one of the monks while 
at prayers in his oratory. The hall, however, only 
grazed the skin: the assassin was taken, and revealed 
his employers, and several preposti. or superiors of con- 
vents of the Umiliati, were executed. Pius V, having 
examined the whole affair, suppressed the order, and 
gave their property to the Jesuits and other orders, lie 
also enforced the authority of the Inquisition over all 
Italy. There were at that time in several towns, es- 
pecially in Tuscany, some scholars and other men of 
learning who advocated the doctrines of the Reforma- 
tion. Some ladies, also, of high rank, who enjoyed a 
reputation for learning, such as Vittoria Colouna, Giulia 
Gunzaga, and Margaret, the wife of Emmanuel Phili- 
bert, duke of Savoy, were suspected of a similar bias. 
Pius demanded of Cosmo, duke of Florence, the person 
of Carnesccchi, a Florentine nobleman who made a pub- 
lic profession of opinions considered as heretical ; being 
given nj) to the Inquisition, he was put to death at 
Rome, 'l'lie same happened to Paleario, Bartocci, and 
Giulio Zanctti ; the last, who was at Padua, being given 
up to the pope by the Venetian senate, on the plea that 
he was a native of Fano, and a subject of the Papal 
States. Numerous informers were kept liv the Inqui- 
sition in every town of Italy; and such was the terror 
produced by these severities that the University of 
Pisa was almost deserted both by teachers and stu- 
dents. ’flic pope also enforced the strict observance 
of the index of forbidden books, and enacted severe pen- 
alties against those who printed or introduced or kept 
such hooks. The print ing-presscs of Italy, those of Gi- 
unti of Florence) and others, declined greatly in conse- 
quence, and many printers emigrated to Switzerland or 
Germany Pius V likewise enforced the canons against 
those priests who kept concubines; hut instead ofleav- 


PIUS 


245 


PIUS 


ing to the civil magistrates the repression of this abuse, I 
he insisted upon the bishops acting both as magistrates 1 
and judges, attached armed men to their episcopal courts, 
and provided prisons for the punishment of offenders. 
Thus frequent collisions were occasioned between the 
secular and the ecclesiastical authorities, especially at 
Naples and Milan. Similar disputes took place also 
concerning the ecclesiastical inspectors and collectors 
sent by the pope to visit and demand accounts of all 
Church property throughout Italy. Pius proceeded on 
the principle asserted in the false decretals that the pope 
has the disposal of all the clerical benefices throughout 
the world. Hence he was also led to reintroduce the 
famous bull called “ In coena Domini,” which excom- 
municates all princes, magistrates, and other men in 
authority who in anyway favor heresy, or who attempt 
to circumscribe the ecclesiastical jurisdiction, spiritual 
and temporal, or to touch the property or revenues of 
the Church ; and all those who appeal from the decision 
of the pope to the general council, as well as those who I 
say that the pope is subject to the council. He ordered 
this bull, so ultramontane in spirit and tendency, to 
he read every Thursday before Easter in every parish 
church throughout the Christian world. France, Spain, 
and the emperor of Germany strenuously resisted the 
publication of this bull. In Italy the senate of Venice 
likewise forbade its publication. At Naples and Milan 
the Spanish governors did the same, but the bishops , 
and monks refused absolution to those who in any way i 
opposed the bull. After much altercation and some mis- 
chief, the civil power attained its object, and the bull 
was set aside. In Tuscany the bull was allowed to be 
published, but rather as a matter of form than as a meas- 
ure upon which judicial proceedings could be grounded. 
The monks and some of the parochial clergy, however, 
pretended by virtue of the bull to be exempt from all 
taxes, and refused the sacrament to the collectors and 
other revenue officers and their families. The duke of 
Florence, Cosmo de Medici, threatened to put the monks 
in prison and prosecute them. The Tuscan bishops tried 
to conciliate matters, and to repress the arrogance of the 
clergy, but the disturbances continued till the death of 
Pius V. To conciliate the Tuscan house, Pius created 
Cosmo de Medici, duke of Florence, by a bull dated Aug., 
1569, grand-duke, and his successors heirs to the title, 
and sent with the bull the model of a crown ornamented 
with a red lily, the former ensign of the Florentine re- 
public. In the struggle with the Saracens, Pius was a 
great promoter of the Christian league; and after the 
glorious victory of Lepanto, Avon by the Christian com- 
bined fleet against the Turks in Sept., 1571, Pins caused 
Marc Antonio Colonna, commander of the papal galleys, 
who had distinguished himself in the battle, to make 
his triumphal entry into Rome on horseback, preceded 
by the Turkish captives and spoils, and accompanied 
by the magistrates, noblemen, and heads of trades of 
the city of Rome. Pius died in May, 1572, and was 
succeeded by Gregory XIII (q. v.). l’ius V Avas can- 
onized by pope Clement XI in 1713. Though a 
truly pious man, seeking only the good of the Church, 
lie yet failed, becanse extremely obstinate in maintain- 
ing his opinions. There Avas no getting him to retract 
even for the strongest reasons. He Avas opinionated; 
and whateA r er estimate he made he Avas sure to adhere 
to inflexibly. Unfortunately he suspected most men, 
and AA r as not, therefore, very charitable toAvards any Avho 
incurred his displeasure. Besides, he was often disap- 
pointed; for a character so stern AA r as sure to make de- 
mands no one could meet, and hence he frequently alien- 
ated men, until his popedom proved nothing but an an- 
noyance to its ruler, and he Avas led to declare that it 
was not propitious to his piety; that it contributed 
nothing to the salvation of his soul, or to his obtaining 
the glory of paradise (Ranke, i, 262). His religion Avas 
certainly of a strange composition. He Avas so exclu- 
sive and bigoted as to cherish a bitter hatred against 
all Christians who differed from him in matters of faith ; 


and Avhile he strove Avith indefatigable zeal to root out 
every vestige of dissenting agitation that yet survived 
in Roman Catholic countries, he persecuted Avith a still 
more savage inveteracy Protestants, Avhether such as 
had become free or those still struggling to be so. Thus 
he gave the papal troops who fought against the Hu- 
guenots the injunction “ to take no prisoners, but to put 
all to death,” and signified his approbation of Alva’s 
sanguinary proceedings b3 r sending him a consecrated 
hat and SAvord. Queen Elizabeth of England he put 
under ban, and Maximilian II he threatened Avith ex- 
communication if he should grant toleration (religious) 
to the Protestants. Surely this Avas a medley of sim- 
plicity, nobleness, personal strictness, devoted religious- 
ness, and morose exclusiveness, of bitter hate and bloody 
persecution. See Walch, Entwurf einer vollst. Geschichte 
der rom. Papste, p. 392 sq. ; Catena, Vita del gloriosis- 
simo papaPio V; Ranke, Papacy, i, 259-277 ; Agatio di 
Somma, Vida de Pio Quinto ; Furillet, Vie du Pape Pie 
V (1674) ; Falloux, Hist, de Saint Pie V (1844, 2 vols.) ; 
Mendham, Life and Pontificate of Saint Pius F(Lond. 
1832, 1844); BoAver, Hist, of the Popes (see Index); 
Soames, Elizabethean Hist, (see Index) ; Collier, Eccles. 
Hist, (see Index) ; Fisher, Hist, of the Reformation, 
p. 302, 411. 

Pius VI, pope of Rome, Avhose original name Avas 
Giovanni Angelo di Braschi, descended from a noble 
family, and Avas born at Cesena, Italy, Dec. 27, 1717. 
He made his reputation very early in life, and Avas ele- 
vated to important ecclesiastical dignities at an unusu- 
ally early period. In 1766 he Avas made keeper of the 
papal exchequer, and in 1773 Avas honored Avith the car- 
dinal’s hat. In 1775, upon the death of pope Clement 
XIV, better knoAvn as Ganganelli, cardinal Braschi, Avho 
had then the reputation of being of a generous disposi- 
tion, fond of learning and the arts, and had besides the 
advantages of a handsome person, a graceful demeanor, 
and easy and affable manners, Avas chosen successor to 
the vacant pontifical chair. In his previous office of 
treasurer he had managed the financial affairs of the 
country Avith prudence and disinterestedness. In the 
first five years of his pontificate he occupied himself 
largely Avith public improvements, and displayed the 
same care and independence. But in his political career 
pope Pius VI Avas rather unfortunate. Even at his ele- 
vation, feeling that he had not the qualifications of a pol- 
itician, he predicted himself, to the conclave, an unhappy 
termination of his reign. Conciliatory in spirit, and de- 
termined upon the preservation of unity in the Church, 
he would frequently make concessions where stern op- 
position Avas more in place ; then again he Avould hesi- 
tate, often Avhere prompt measures alone Avould suffice. 
Thus in 1777 a serious dispute arose Avith Leopold I, 
grand-duke of Tuscany, and Ricci (q. v.), bishop of l*is- 
toja, on the subject of some grave moral offences Avhich 
had been discovered in several convents. The bishops, 
to be sure, had taken the liberty to act Avithout papal con- 
sent, but the case Avarranted prompt proceedings, and 
these were not anticipated from Pius VI. Jealous of his 
authority in Church affairs, he endeavored to interfere, 
but without success, and saAV himself at last passed by 
in the Council of Pistoja (q. a t .), and Avhen the ques- 
tion of jurisdiction Avas finally settled in a more satis- 
factoty manner, it yet left a coldness between the courts 
of Rome and Tuscany. A more important disagree- 
ment took place in 1780 Avith emperor Joseph 11. Leo- 
pold’s brother, who, having control of the reins of pow- 
er under the emperor’s queen, Maria Theresa, Avas bent 
on separating the Church from all papal jurisdiction. 
His first step Avas to suppress superfluous convents Avith- 
out papal consent, and to emancipate the clergy of his 
dominions from all papal interference in matters of 
discipline. It Avas the same question previously raised 
in Tuscany by Leopold. Joseph even Avent further, and 
took upon himself the nomination of bishops— even of 
those in Italy, and the pope readily saw in these pro- 
posed reforms nothing short of a design to Aveaken the 


246 


PIUS 


PIUS 


influence of the see of Home. Pius YT, not willing to 
leave unemployed any conciliatory offices at his com- 
mand. believed that liis duty lay in a visit to the em- 
peror, and accordingly he set out for Vienna in D82, 
to settle matters by personal arrangement. The step 
was in itself a novelty, For several centuries no pontiff 
had ever left Italy.’ Monti wrote a poem on the re- 
markable event, entitled B Pellegtiuo Apostolico. At 
Vienna the pope was received with every honor; yet 
Pius failed to make any impression on the emperor, and 
the matter in discussion was referred to a ministry un- 
favorable to papal claims. It was the same struggle as 
that of Prance, Gallicanism against ritramontanism, 
only this time the pope was himself inclined to be the 
peace- maker between the contending factions in the 
Church. Pius VI failed utterly in his mission, and 
returned to Borne disappointed and dejected, to be 
reproached for his good intentions, with having low- 
ered the dignity of his office, and encouraged the Gal- 
liean tendencies in the Church at large. The troubles 
doubled upon the outbreak of the French devolution, 
and rendered the remaining years of his pontificate 
gloomy and calamitous. In the early period of that 
fearful struggle Pius VI had solemnly condemned the 
abrupt changes made in France concerning the dis- 
cipline and the property of the clergy, though in all 
secular matters he had wisely abstained from interfer- 
ence of any sort. Iiut in January, 1703, a complication 
arose of a most serious nature. A young man, Hugo 
Basscville, an agent of the French republican party, 
while on his way to Naples, where he was to be secre- 
tary of embassy, stopped in the Eternal City, and made 
a foolish demonstration in the Corso, apparently to sound 
the opinions of the people. lie appeared in a carriage 
with several trieolored flags, and distributed revolu- 
tionary tracts, vociferating something about liberty and 
against tyrants; but a mob collected; he was dragged 
out of his carriage, and mortally stabbed in several places 
by the populace. The military arrived too late, and 
though some of the murderers were arrested and tried, 
the French government charged the papal authorities 
with having been a party to the crime. The result 
was that the breach widened, and that finally the pope 
joined the league of the sovereigns against France. In 
1700, when Bonaparte invaded Northern Italy, he took 
possession of the legations, but at the same time offered 
to the pope conditions of peace. These, however, it 
was impossible for Pius to accept, and the papal troops 
were marched against the French. The defeat of the 
papacy followed, and after the possession of Ancona and 
Loreto, peace was established at Campo Formio in Oct., 
171)7. The conditions of peace were very onerous, and 
added vexation to vexation against the unfortunate 
pope, who, old and iulirm,was unequal to the difficulties 
which crowded upon him. Heavy contributions were 
imposed by the French Directory, and Ferrara, Bomagnn. 
and the Bolognese were incorporated with the newly 
founded Cisalpine republic; the price of peace, in fine, 
was t lie revocation of the papal edicts launched against 
the Jansenists, and the acknowledgment of the civil 
constitution of the French clergy. To make bad mat- 
ters worse, some disorders in Borne between the French 
and Italians, in the course of which the French general 
Huphotwas shot, gave a pretext to the French Directory 
for the expedition of Berthicr, who arrived in Koine on 
February 10, and occupied the Vatican. Pius VI, for- 
saken by most, of the cardinals, who had escaped, re- 
mained in the Vatican. On the loth a tree of liberty 
was raised in the Campo Vacciuo, and Borne was for- 
mally declared a republic. Berthicr afterwards sent an 
officer to intimate to the pope that he must renounce 
his temporal sovereignty. Pins answered that he had 
received it from Cod and by the free election of men, 
and could not renounce it ; that be was eighty years 
old, and bis troubles could not be of long duration, but 
that he was determined to do nothing derogatory to bis 
high oflice. Next came the commissary -general of the 


French army, who, after taking an inventory' of all the 
valuables that still remained in the papal residence, or- 
dered Pius to prepare to set out in two days. The pope 
said he could not oppose force, hut protested against 
this new act of violence. On Feb. 20 Pius VI left the 
Vatican with a few attendants, and, escorted by a strong 
detachment of cavalry, took the road to Florence, lie 
was lodged at first in a convent near Siena, and after- 
wards in the Carthusian convent near Florence, where 
he remained till the following year, when the French, 
having driven out of Tuscany the grand-duke Ferdi- 
nand, anil being threatened by the Anstro-IInssians who 
were advancing to the Adige, ordered the pope to be 
transferred to France. lie was taken to Grenoble, and 
afterwards to Valence, on the Rhone, where he died in 
August of that year (171)0). Just before his death the 
Romani republic bad ceased to exist, the French being 
driven out of Italy by the Austro-Russians, and Rome 
was occupied by Austrian and Neapolitan troops. In 
the year 1802. after the restoration of the papal govern- 
ment, the remains of Pius VI were transferred to Rome 
by leave of the lirst consul Bonaparte, at the request of 
his successor, Pius VII, and deposited with solemn pomp 
in the church of St. Peter. The bulls published by Pius 
VI are in Bullur. llommu contin. summor. Pcniff. ('le- 
nient is Kill , Clem. X IV, Pii 17 constitutions, etc., qnas 
Coll. Barbieri , opp. et stuil. II. Begrtdi (Rom. 1835, f. t. 
vii-x); cont. const it. Pii IV. Pitis VI greatly enlarged 
i the museum of the Vatican, which he made one of the 
richest in Europe in works of sculpture, vases, precious 
marbles, and other remains of antiquity; and be caused 
a splendid set of engravings of the objects in this mu- 
seum to be published, under the title of Museo Pio Cle- 
mentino. lie made additions to the church of St. Peter, 
and embellished Rome with new palaces, fountains, and 
other structures. His internal administration was lib- 
eral and mild, ail unusual freedom of opinion and speech 
prevailed at Rome, and a number of learned men gath- 
ered thither from other parts of Italy. Many foreigners 
came to settle in that capital, the tine arts were encour- 
aged by the pope and several of the. cardinals, and mod- 
ern Rome was reviving the brilliant period of Leo X 
when the struggle with the French Directory darkened 
the scene. See, besides the memoirs by Bccattinc 
(Venice, 1801,4 vols.) ; Tavanti (Flor. 1804, 3 vols. Ito); 
tiesch. des Pupstes Pins IV (Vienna, 1700); Bourgoing’s 
Memoires de Pie VI (Par. 1700); Ferrari, 1 it a Pii IT 
(Patav. 1802); Novaes, Bommi J'onfijici, vol. xvi. xvii ; 
Artaud, Hist, des sour. Pontif. Pom. (Par. 1810), vol. 
viii; Wolff, (Jesck. dir kathol. Kirche unier /'ins VI 
(Zurich, 1707-1802, 7 vols. 8vo). 

Pius VII, pope from 1800 to 1823, was successor of 
the preceding, lie was originally called Gregorio Bar - 
naba Chiammonti , being also of noble descent, and was 
born in 1742 at Ceseua. lie tirst studied in the college 
of Ravenna, and subsequently entered the Order of Ben- 
edictines in 1758. He was appointed lecturer on phi- 
losophy, and afterwards on theology, to the novices of 
bis order, lirst at Parma and then at Borne. Pius VI 
appointed him bishop of Tivoli, and in 1785 made him 
a cardinal and bishop of lmola. When Bonaparte took 
possession of the legations, and annexed them to the 
Cisalpine republic, cardinal Cliiarainonti in a homily 
exhorted his flock to submit to the new institutions, 
and to be faithful to the state of which they had be- 
come a part. This conduct is said to have gained the 
approval of Bonaparte. When the news of the death 
of Pius VI, in his exile at Valence, in August, 170!), 
came to Italy, the conclave was summoned to assemble 
at Venice, then under the dominion of Austria, as Borne 
was in a state of anarchy. Thirty-live cardinals ac- 
cordingly ns.-embleil in the Benedictine convent of St. 
Giorgio Msiggiorc, in order to elect one of their number 
to the papal otlice, a dignity apparently not very envi- 
able in those troubled times. The deliberations of the 
conclave lasted several months, and at last, on March 
14, 1800, cardinal Cliiarainonti was chosen, and crowned 


PIUS 


247 


PIUS 


pope on the 21st of the same month, under the name 
of Pius VII. In the following July the pope made his 
entrance into Rome, and soon after appointed cardinal 
Consalvi his secretary of state, or prime minister. In 
the following year the peace of Luneville, between 
France and Austria, was made, and Bonaparte, first con- 
sul of France, ordered his troops to evacuate the papal 
territories, with the exception of the legations, which 
had been formally incorporated with the so-called 
“Italian Republic.” Meantime the ecclesiastical affairs 
of France were in a state of the greatest confusion. 
France was still nominally Roman Catholic, but the 
clergy were no longer in communication with the see 
of Rome, and were divided into parties. In the midst 
of this confusion about one half of the population of 
France followed no mode of worship, and professed no 
religion whatever. A vast number of parish churches 
were shut up, and had been so for ten years. Bona- 
parte saw clearly that a nation could not subsist with- 
out a religion, and that the genius of the French de- 
manded it rather as an institution than an internal life. 
He therefore resolved upon a concordat with Rome. 
The pope appointed the prelate Spina and the theolo- 
gian Caselli, who proceeded to Paris, and Bonaparte 
named his brother Joseph, Cretet, councillor of state, 
and Bernier, a Vendean priest, to treat with the pope’s 
negotiators. But on an intimation from Bonaparte, 
who was above all things anxious that the matter should 
be promptly settled, the pope despatched to Paris car- 
dinal Consalvi, who smoothed down all difficulties, and 
the concordat was signed at Paris, July 15, 1801, and 
was ratified by Pius at Rome, after some hesitation and 
consultation, on August 14tli following. The principal 
scruples of the pope were concerning certain articles 
called “organic,” which Bonaparte appended to the 
concordat, as if they had formed part of it, and which 
were proclaimed as laws of the state. Henceforth Ro- 
manism was the establishment of France; hut, on the 
other hand, pope Pius VII was bound to recognise the 
independence of the French Church. See France. 

From 180L till 1804 Pius VII enjoyed tranquillity at 
Rome, which he employed in restoring order to the 
finances, in ameliorating the judicial administration, in 
promoting the agriculture of the Campagna, and in 
other similar cares. His personal establishment was 
moderate, his table frugal, his habits simple, and his 
conduct exemplary. In May, 1804, Napoleon was pro- 
claimed emperor, and some time after he wrote to the 
pope requesting him to crown him solemnly at Paris. 
After considerable hesitation Pius consented, and set 
out from Rome at the beginning of November of that 
year. The ceremony of the coronation took place in 
the cathedral of Notre Dame, after which the pope 
spent several months in Paris, visiting the public es- 
tablishments, and receiving the homage of men of all 
parties, who w'ere won by his unassuming yet dignified 
behavior and his unaffected piety. In May, 1805, he 
returned to Rome; and his troubles began soon after. 
In October, 1805, a body of French troops suddenly took 
military possession of Ancona. Pins remonstrated in 
a letter which he wrote to Napoleon, who was at that 
time at the head of his army in Austria. It was only 
after the peace of Pressburg that he received an answer, 
in which Napoleon said that he considered himself as 
the protector of the Church against heretics and schis- 
matics, like his predecessors from the. time of Charle- 
magne, and that as such he had occupied Ancona to pre- 
vent it from falling into the hands of the English or the 
Russians. Soon after Napoleon officially required the 
pope, through his ambassador at Rome, to expel from 
his dominions all English, Russian, Swedish, and Sar- 
dinian subjects, and to close his ports to the vessels of 
those powers who were then at war with France. Pius 
replied at length in a letter to Napoleon, representing 
to him that his request was destructive of the indepen- 
dence of the Papal State, and of its political neutrality, 
which were necessary to the welfare of the Church, and 


for the security of the numerous members of it who 
were living in those very countries with which the 
emperor was then at war. He said that the head of 
the Church ought to be a minister of peace, and not to 
take part in a war which has not religion for its object; 
that if some of his predecessors had not always abided 
by this rule, he at least should not follow their exam- 
ple. Napoleon, however, insisted, and an angry corre- 
spondence v r as carried on between the two courts for 
about two years on this subject of contention, the neu- 
trality of the Papal States being all the while merely 
nominal, as the French troops marching from and to 
Naples crossed and recrossed it at their pleasure, and 
the French also kept a garrison at Ancona, the only 
papal port of any importance. By degrees they ex- 
tended their posts all along the Adriatic coast, and gar- 
risoned the various ports. Some time after a body of 
French troops, coming from Naples, passed through 
Rome, ostensibly to proceed to Leghorn ; but they sud- 
denly turned out of the main road and surprised in the 
night the town of Civita Vecchia, of which they took 
military possession. In all these places they confis- 
cated whatever English property they could find. The 
papal troops at Ancona, Civita Vecchia, and other places 
were ordered to place themselves under the direction 
of the French commanders, and some officers who re- 
fused to do so were arrested and kept in confinement. 
Napoleon in the mean time found fresh grounds of quar- 
rel with the pope, lie wished to declare the marriage 
of his brother Jerome with an American Protestant lady 
null ; but Pius refused, saying that although the Church 
abhorred marriages between Catholics and heretics, yet 
if they were contracted in Protestant countries accord- 
ing to the laws of those countries they were binding 
and indissoluble. [ Letter of Pius VII on this impor- 
tant subject in Artaud, Vie du Pape Pie VII (Paris, 
182G).} lie next accused the pope of dilatoriness in 
giving the canonical institution to the bishops elected 
to vacant sees in the kingdom of Italy. Eugene Beau- 
harnais, viceroy of the kingdom of Italy, wrote an able 
and conciliatory letter to the pope, in order to bring 
about an arrangement; and the pope was induced to 
invite the bishops elect to Rome in order to receive the 
canonical institution, when a threatening letter came, 
written by Napoleon from Dresden after the peace of 
Tilsit in the summer of 1807, in which he said that 
“the pope must not take him for a Louis le De'bon- 
naire; that his anathemas would never make his sol- 
diers drop their muskets; that he, Napoleon, if pro- 
voked too far, could separate the greater part of Europe 
from the Roman Church, and establish a more rational 
form of worship than that of which the pope w as the 
head; that such a thing was easy in the actual state 
of people’s minds,” etc.; and he forbade Eugene to cor- 
respond any longer with the pope, or send the bishops 
elect to Rome, for, he said, “they would only imbibe 
there principles of sedition against their sovereign.” 

Matters were now brought to an open rupture. A 
French force under general Miollis entered Rome in 
February, 1808, and took possession of the castle and 
the gates, leaving however the civil authorities undis- 
turbed. The pope was prevailed upon to send cardinal 
de Bay an ne as his legate to Baris, to make a last effort 
at reconciliation; but the cardinal had not arrived at 
his destination when a decree of Napoleon, dated April 
2, 1808, united the provinces of Ancona, Macerata, Fer- 
mo, and Urbino to the kingdom of Italy. Fresh re- 
monstrances on the part of Pius were answered by 
threats of further hostile measures on the part of Na- 
poleon, unless the pope entered into an offensive and 
defensive league with the kingdoms of Naples and Italy, 
and bv a declaration that “the pope would lose his 
temporal sovereignty and remain bishop of Rome as 
his predecessors were during the first eight centuries, 
and under the reign of Charlemagne” (Mote de JI.de 
Champagny , J linistre des Affaires Et r anger es a son 
Eminence le Cardinal Capara, April 18, 1808). The 


PIUS 


248 


PIUS 


war which began soon after in Spain prevented Napo- 
leon from occupying himself with the affairs of Home, 
which remained in a state of uncertainty amid frequent 
clashing between the French military authorities and 
the papal civil officers. The papal territory, impover- 
ished as it was by the loss of its linest provinces, was 
obliged to pay the French troops which garrisoned the 
towns that still nominally belonged to the pope. All 
the disaffected and the turbulent, trusting to French 
protection, openly insulted the papal government. The 
pope remained conlined to his palace on the Quirinal, 
with his Swiss guard at the gates, not wishing to ex- 
pose himself to violence by venturing out. On 31av 
17, 18Ui», Napoleon, who was then making war against 
Austria, issued a decree from Vienna, in which he re- 
sumed the grant of his illustrious predecessor Charle- 
magne, and united the remainder of the Homan states 
to t lie French empire, leaving to the pope his palaces 
and ati income of two millions of fraties. On June 10, 
1 809, the pope issued a hull of excommunication against 
all the perpetrators and abettors of the invasion of Home 
and of the territories of the llolv See. The bull was 
allixed to the gates of the principal churches of Home 
and in other public places. The text of the bull is 
given by cardinal Paeca, in his Manor ie Eloriche , Ap- 
pendix to pt. i, No. v. The French commander, Miollis, 
being afraid of an insurrection of the people of Home, 
who had shown unequivocal signs of attachment to 
their sovereign, thought it expedient to remove Pius 
from the capital. The Swiss guards made no resist- 
ance, having orders to that effect from the pope; and, 
protesting that he “yielded to force,” Pius took liis 
breviary under his arm, accompanied the general to the 
gate, where his carriage was ready, and drove off' under 
an escort. lie was taken first to Grenoble, in Dau- 
pbiiu : , from whence lie was removed, by order of Na- 
poleon, to Savona, in the lliviera of Genoa, where he re- 
mained till June, 1812. While Pius was at Savona, Na- 
poleon convoked a council at Paris of the bishops of his 
empire; but be found that assembly less docile than he 
expected, and he dissolved it without reaching any 
conclusion. The great question was how to fill up the 
vacant secs, when the pope refused the canonical insti- 
tution. The pope at the same time would not recognise 
Napoleon’s divorce from his first wife Josephine. In 
short, Napoleon found that unarmed priests were more 
difficult to conquer than the armies of one half of Europe 
(Thibaudeau, Le Consulul el V Empire, eh. lxxvii ; Hotta, 
Storiu d’Jhtlia , bk. xxv). The plan of Napoleon was to 
have the pope settled at Avignon, or some other town of 
his empire, as his subject and his pensionary, and to con- 
trol himself the nomination not only of the bishops, but 
of the cardinals also, hv which means he would have 
added to his already overhearing temporal power the in- 
calculable support of a spiritual authority which extends 
over a great part of the world. The resistance of l’i us 
disconcerted his views. Napoleon at last imagined that 
by changing Fins to Fontainebleau lie might succeed 
in overcoming his firmness, lie therefore caused Fins 
to be removed with the greatest secrecy, lie was 
brought to Fontainebleau in June, 18]*2, lodged in the 
imperial palace, and treated with marked respect. Na- 
poleon had set out on his Hussiau expedition. After 
his return from that disastrous campaign, in December, 

1812, he went to see the pope, embraced him, and treat- 
ed him with studied attention; he also allowed several 
cardinals who were at 1’aris to repair to Fontainebleau, 
and at last, chiefly through their persuasions, lie pre- 
vailed upon the pope to sign a new concordat, Jan. 25, 

1813. Jt is not true, as some have stated, that Na- 
poleon, in one of his conferences with Pius, lifted his 
hand against him and struck him. Pncea (Memorie 
Storiche, pt. iii, ch. i) denies this oil the authority of 
Fius himself, but thinks it very probable that Napoleon 
spoke to his prisoner in an authoritative and threaten- 
ing tone. Napoleon hastened to publish the articles of 
the concordat, and to give them the force of laws of the 


empire; after which he granted free access to the pope, 
to all cardinals, and others who chose to repair to Fon- 
tainebleau. Fius, who had scruples concerning some of 
the articles which he had signed, laid them before the 
cardinals and asked their opinion. Several of the car- 
dinals, especially the Italian ones, such as Consalvi, 
l’acca, Litta, and l)i Pietro, stated that some of the ar- 
ticles were contrary to the canon law and the legitimate 
jurisdiction of the Homan sec, and pregnant with the 
most serious evils to the Church, and they urged the 
necessity of a prompt retraction. They quoted the ex- 
ample of Paschal If, who, in similar circumstances hav- 
ing ceded to the emperor Henry V the right of investi- 
ture, hastened to submit his conduct to the judgment 
of a couucil assembled in the Lateral], and the council 
revoked the cession. See Paschal II. Upon this 
Fius wrote to Napoleon, 51 arch 24, retracting his con- 
cessions, but proposing a new basis for a concordat; Na- 
poleon, however, took no notice of the retractation, ex- 
cept to exile some of the cardinals who, lie thought, 
had influenced it. Napoleon soon after set oft' for his 
army in Germany, and the affair with the pope remained 
in suspense. It was only after t he defeat of the French 
armies and their expulsion from Germany that Napo- 
leon proposed to restore to the pope the Papal States 
south of the Apennines, if the pope would agree to a 
concordat. Fius answered that he would not enter into 
any negotiations until he was restored to Home. On 
Jan. 22, 1814, an order came for the pope to leave Fon- 
tainebleau the following day. None of the cardinals 
were .allowed to accompany him. lie set out, accompa- 
nied by an escort, and was taken to Italy. On arriving 
at the bridge on the river Nura. in the state of Parma, 
lie met the advanced posts of the Neapolitan troops un- 
der Murat, who was then making common cause with 
the allied powers against Napoleon, Murat had taken 
military occupation of t lie Homan state, but he offered 
to give up Home and the Gampagna. Fius, however, 
preferred stopping at Cescna, liis native town, until the 
political horizon was cleared up. After the abdication 
of Napoleon and the peace of Paris, Fius made liis en- 
trance into Home, May 24, 1814, in the midst of rejoic- 
ings and acclamations, liis faithful Consalvi soon after 
resumed his office of secretary of state. 15y the articles 
of the congress of Vienna the whole of the Papal States 
were restored, including the legations, which were not, 
however, evacuated by the Austrian troops until after 
the fall of Murat, in 1815. 

The remaining years of the life of Fins YII were 
speut in comparative tranquillity, though not in idle- 
ness. He applied himself to adapt, as far as it was prac- 
ticable, the civil institutions of his dominions to the 
great changes which had taken place in the social state. 
Hv a “motu proprio” of the year 181(5 he confirmed the 
suppression of all feudal imposts, privileges, monopolies, 
and jurisdictions; he abolished every kind of torture, 
including that called the “corda,” or “estrapade,” which 
was formerly a frequent mode of punishment at Home; 
lie diminished the land-tax; retained the register of 
•• hypotheques,” or mortgages, instituted hv the French ; 
laid down the basis of a new code of public administra- 
tion, and in November of the following year he published 
a new code of civil procedure, in which he regulated the 
costs of judicial proceedings. He maintained the com- 
mercial courts established bv the French, as well as the 
new system of police, enforced by a regular corps of car- 
abineers, instead of the old “sbirri,” who were ineffective 
and corrupt (Toiirnou, Eludes stathliqucs sur Home, bk. 
iv, eh. vi ). I ’iifortunately, however, the old system of 
secret proceedings in criminal matters was restored, as 
well as that of the ecclesiastical courts, which have ju- 
risdiction also over laymen. Fius, however, also made 
some important alterations in the form of proceeding of 
the Inquisition, almlisliing torture as well as the punish- 
ment of death for offences concerning religion. He did 
perhaps all that he could do as a pope. and certainly more 
than liny pope had done before him. Cardinal Consalvi 


PIUS 


249 


PIUS 


took vigorous measures to extirpate the banditti of the 
Campagua; and in July, 1810, he ordered the town of 
Sonnino, a nest of incorrigible robbers, to be razed to 
the groiuul. With regard to spiritual matters, Pius con- 
cluded a new concordat with France, Naples, Bavaria, 
and other states. He condemned by a bull the political 
society of Carbonari, as well as other secret societies. 
In the month of July, 1823, the aged pontiff had a fall 
in his apartments and broke his thigh. This accident 
brought on indammation, and he died Aug. 20. He 
ivas succeeded by Leo XII (q. v.). Thorwaldsen was 
commissioned to make his monument, which has been 
placed in St. Peter’s. Pius VII stands prominent among 
the long series of popes for his exemplary conduct under 
adversity, his Christian virtues, and his general benev- 
olence and charity. Free from nepotism, virtuous, mod- 
est, unassuming, and personally disinterested, he was a 
stanch, though temperate, defender of the rights of his 
see ; and his meek bearing and unblemished character 
engaged on his side the sympathies of the whole Chris- 
tian world, without distinction of community or sect, 
during the long strnggle with his gigantic and ungen- 
erous adversary. A selection of his bulls, breves, etc., 
are found in Iioskovanv, Monum. Catk.pro independen- 
tia potest, eccl. Quinque eccl. (1847), ii, 1 sq. The Bulla- 
rium Romanum continued contains in vol. xi and xii 
(Rom. 184G) all bulls and breves till 180G. See Cohen, 
Precis histor. sur Pie VII (Par. 1823); Simon, La J7e 
politique et privee de Pie VII (ibid. 1824); Jiiger, Le- 
bensbeschreibung des Papstes Pius VII (Frkf. 1824) ; Ar- 
taud de Montor, / list, de la 1 'ie et du Pontijicat du Pape 
Pie VII (3d ed. Par. 1839, 2 vols. 8vo) ; and Cardinal 
Pacca’s Historical Memoirs, transl. into Engl, by Sir 
George Head (Lond. 1850, 2 vols. post 8vo) ; the Lond. 
Rev. 1854, pt. ii, p. 77 ; Ranke, Hist, of the Papacy, ii, 
311 sq., et al. ; Bower, Hist, of the Popes, vol. viii; Ch. 
Journal, vol. vii ; Stud. u. Krit. I8G7, No. i ; English 
Cyclop, s. v., of which article we have largely availed 
ourselves. 

Pius VIII, pope of Rome, was born at Cingoli, in 
the province of Ancona, Italy*, Nov. 20, 1761. His orig- 
inal name was Francis Xavier Castiglloni. He was 
the friend of Pius VII, and was by him created bishop 
of Montalto in 1800; and elevated to the cardinalate in 
1816. He was generally regarded as the most learned 
canonist of the papal court. He was desired for suc- 
cessor of pope Leo XII. During Pius Y Ill’s short pon- 
tificate of one year and eight months (from March 31, 
1829 till Nov. *30, 1830) nothing remarkable occurred. 
He warred against indifferentism, Bible societies, Free- 
masonry, and all secret associations, and successfully la- 
bored for the establishment of a patriarchate at Constan- 
tinople for the United Armenians. He deserves to be 
especially commended for his humane efforts with Dom 
Pedro of Brazil to suppress the slave traffic and system. 
His bulls, canons, etc., are in Iioskovanv, Monument. Catk. 
ii, 292-317. He was succeeded by pope Gregory XVI. 
See Artaud de Montor, Hist, du Pape Pie VIII (Par. 
1843); Nodari, Vitce Pontificum rii VI, VII, Leonis 
XII , et Pii VIII (Padua, 1840). (J. H. W.) 

Pius IX, the last of the Roman pontiffs who held 
both temporal and spiritual rule. His original name 
was Giovanni Maria Mast a i Ferretti. He was of noble 
parentage, though there are writers claiming him to be 
of Jewish descent. He was born at Sinigaglia, May 13, 
1792. As a youth he was distinguished lor a mild dis- 
position and for his works of charity. While still a child 
he was saved from drowning by a poor contadino, who 
lived to see him seated on what the historian Macaulay 
calls “the most ancient and venerable throne of Eu- 
rope.” At the age of eighteen he went to Rome for the 
purpose of entering the body-guard of the reigning 
pontiff, Pius VII. An epileptic attack, however, pre- 
vented the attainment of his wishes, and he entered 
a religious seminary, where his gentleness and devo- 
tion proved the foundation of his future distinction. | 


While at Rome he lived under the protection of an 
uncle, an officer of the ecclesiastical establishment of 
the Vatican. In the troubled period which marked the 
closing days of Napoleon’s reign, uncle and nephew re- 
moved to their estates at Sinigaglia. On a visit which 
pope Pius VII paid this place, Mastai was presented to 
his holiness, and when the pontiff was again able to re- 
turn to Rome, after his long captivity in France, the 
young ecclesiastic of Sinigaglia was called to the holy 
city. In the meantime his health had improved, and 
he was able to prosecute his studies uninterruptedly. 
By invitation of cardinal Odescalchi, he took part in a 
mission to his native province, and when he returned 
was made deacon in 1818. He obtained a personal au- 
dience of the pontiff, and sought a dispensation which 
would allow him to be ordained without delay to the 
priesthood. The legend states that his holiness, laying 
his hands on the young aspirant, granted him the favor 
asked, together with the apostolic blessing, and thus 
forever cured him of his epilepsy. Secular writers less 
anxious to paint the miraculous manifestations in Pio 
Nono’s youthful days declare that he was a libertine, 
and that, stretched upon a bed of sickness, he repented 
of his sins, and, by a life of abstinence and purity, grad- 
ually recovered. 

In 1819 Mastai received priest’s orders, and first ex- 
ercised the sacerdotal functions in the hospital of San 
Giovanni at Rome— an institution founded for the edu- 
cation of poor orphans. He was assiduously devoted to 
his ministerial duties, and became noted for his charita- 
ble works also. In 1823 a wider field opened to him. A 
canon of the cathedral of Santiago, in Chili, had come 
to Rome to request of the pope the appointment of an 
apostolic delegate to that country, and when monsi- 
gnore Muzi had been given this position, Mastai was 
selected to accompany him as auditor. Two years 
he spent in South America, and on his way home he 
also visited the North, and he is said to have been the 
only pope that ever saw America. Report will have it 
that he even visited a body of Freemasons in Philadel- 
phia (see Princeton Rev. [March, 1878], p. 510). Nor 
need this surprise. “ It is a fact,” says Trollope, “ which 
may be relied on, that — of course in the days before he 
became a priest, or had thought of ever becoming one 
— Pius IX had been a member of a lodge — or a vendet- 
ta, as the term was — of Carbonari.” This was a secret 
society, originally of charcoal-burners (as the name 
signifies), who were opposed to the tyranny of the 
times. In the summer of 1825 Mastai was taken 
into the household of pope Leo XII as domestic prel- 
ate. He became a favorite with the pontiff, ami in 
December was made superintendent of the hospital of 
St. Michael, founded two centuries ago by Innocent X, 
and comprising at this time not only a hospital for the 
sick, but a retreat for the aged, a refuge for boys, a house 
for magdalens, a home for virtuous girls, and a school 
of arts and industries. When he assumed the presi- 
dency of this vast and complicated institution it was on 
the decline. He reorganized every department of the 
hospital, repaired its dilapidated revenues, extended the 
range of its charities, and in less than two years brought 
order out of the confusion — by the sacrifice, however, of 
his own patrimony. He also preached much and ob- 
tained great distinction as a pulpit orator. 

In 1829 Spoleto needed an archbishop. The political 
agitation was great throughout Italy. The approach 
of the disturbances which crowded the year 1830 was 
manifest in a thousand ways. The ecclesiastics, in or- 
der to be all-powerful and sufficient for the struggle, 
needed more than ordinary experience. A policy of 
anxious, irritated, and, at the same time, irritating re- 
pression had proved a failure. Mastai Ferretti was 
young enough to avoid falling into this error of his sen- 
iors, and as he had gained much political sagacity in his 
semipolitico -religious mission across the sea, he was 
selected for the vacant arch i episcopal chair. He quickly 
perceived that he must abandon the old receipts of the 


250 


PIUS 


PIUS 


prison and the executioner, and by a wise rule main- 
tained perfect order in the midst of general disturbance. 
While all Italy was in arms, the little archbishopric of 
Spolcto remained peaceful. When suddenly 5000 in- 
surgents came there to seek refuge from the pursuing 
Austrians, he dealt so kindly and judiciously with them 
that he induced them to lay down their arms and sub- 
mit to authority; and when the civil authority of the 
city submitted to him the lists of these insurgents, he 
tossed them into the tire, instead of forwarding them to 
Koine. < Jrcgory X VI and his court were displeased and 
indignant at such procedure. Mastai was summoned to 
Komc to give an account of his conduct; but be suc- 
ceeded without much difficulty in persuading Gregory 
that if their enemies could be put down without punish- 
ments, which left a fresh store of hatreds behind, it was 
all the better. Mastai’s enemies said that his conduct 
towards the persecuted liberal party was not altogether 
straightforward and consistent, and that be even in 
those early days showed a certain tendency to run with 
the hare tit the same time that lie was hunting with the 
hounds. The archbishop certainly succeeded dually in 
obtaining the approbation of his holiness, for on 1 >ec. 17, 
lx:}'.*, lie was translated to the see of Imola — a very im- 
portant promotion, because it is understood that this bish- 
opric is a stepping-stone to the cardiualate. Mastai had 
not only proved his political sagacity, but his religions 
fervor and purity of life gave a most dignified position to 
the churchmen of the diocese of Spoleto,ns well as later 
to that of Imola. Particularly was he noted for his char- 
ity and readiness to aid all good works, both public and 
private. The disturbed times required such ecclesias- 
tics. It gave authority to the sees and inlluence to the 
pontificate. ITow well the pope appreciated Mastai is 
made apparent in his selection, a short time after, as apos- 
tolic nuncio to Naples. He so ably discharged his mis- 
sion that he was rewarded with the cardinalate by se- 
cret conclave in 1839, though he did not receive the 
purple robe until t lie year after, lie was yet compara- 
tively a young man. There were many far his seniors 
in the college of cardinals. Certainly no one dreamed 
that the bestowal of the red hat upon Mastai ferret ti 
was likely to bring him the tiara soon. 

In 181(1 Gregory XVI died. When the news from 
Koine came to the archbishop-cardinal of Imola, he de- 
layed to celebrate first the obsequies of the dead pope. 
Apparently lie was in no haste to get to Koine; yet those 
wiio were close observers and less friendly say that he 
had an eye to the papal throne from the moment of his 
elevation to t lie cardinalate, and that he prudently for- 
bore ever alter to identify himself with the court of (ireg- 
ory. There were two parties in the conclave. Each of 
these sought in the new pontiff the representative of 
their ideas. The one party, confined to t lie Jesuits and 
headed by Lamhruschini— himself an aspirant lbr the 
vacant chair determined to maintain the papacy of 
medi.-eval limes; the other party, moderately liberal, 
made up of better men than the Jesuits, yet also de- 
voted in the fabric of mediaeval times, but with some 
show of concession to modern ideas, were disposed to 
compromise on a moderate man. and selected the virtu- 
ous Kianehi. the Hominican who never doffed the dress 
of his order for the purple robe, though he accepted its 
honors and eschewed the Austrian policy of the late pon- 
tificate. Outside of the conclave, however, there was a 
small hut enthusiastic faction, called “Young Italy,” re- 
solved to have u liberal pope, and they fastened upon 
the young cardinal who had espoused the Italian cause 
and had been a liberal in his past history. No one out- 
side of the conclave imagined, when, on the Mtliof June, 
it convened, that the party at whose simple mention the 
“ holy" men were accustomed to cross themselves would 
he successful. The only hope was in the popular en- 
thusiasm, which ran so high that there was hope the ror 
populi might possibly he turned into the rn.r Jhi. (In 
the very first vote Lanihrusehini received fifteen votes 
and Mastai thirteen. On the afternoon of the Kith 


Mastai received on the fourth ballot thirty-six votes — 
making.of the fifty-two present, more than the necessary 
two thirds— when the assembly rose as one man to con- 
tirm the choice by unanimous acclamation. Young 
Italy had conquered against all the Jesuit machinations. 
Hut it was well that it was done so soon ; for as Mastai 
— now l’ius IX — was bestowing his benediction ( Urli 
et orln) from the balcony of St. Peter’s, an Austrian car- 
dinal drove into the Piazza with smoking post-horses 
and a “ veto” from Vienna. 

Various incidents in the reign of Pin Xono’s predeces- 
sor had given rise to the wildest agitation in diplomatic 
circles. In 1845 there occurred the rising in the Ko- 
magna, which, when suppressed, revived in a far more 
effective shape in the famous pamphlet. I Cusi delle llo- 
magve , which circulated as the testament of a new po- 
litical gospel throughout the peninsula. Then there 
came the memorable visit of the czar Nicholas to Komc, 
and those interviews in which the pope had dared to 
protest to the dreaded autocrat against the treatment to 
which he subjected the Komish Ohurcli in Knssia. The 
interest excited in the political world was very great, 
for, on the one hand, the religious agitation in Poland 
had assumed serious proportions, while, on the other, 
speculation was stimulated by the mystery surrounding 
this interview, at which only two witnesses had been 
present (cardinal Acton and Mr. Koutcvieff, the Kussian 
minister at Komc). Finally, there came as French am- 
bassador M. Kossi, a born subject of the pope — a fugitive 
professor from Kologna, and a notoriously compromised 
liberal — avowedly to obtain from the holy see its con- 
currence with the principles of free education, then advo- 
cated in France, and its compliance with the desire of the 
French government for the reduction within moderate 
limits of the establishments that had been opened in 
France, more or less clandestinely, by the Jesuits. All 
these circumstances had brought about a degree of agi- 
tation which was acknowledged by all who had not 
some special interest in speaking against the truth. 
Gregory XVI had lived in hourly dread of revolution- 
ary upheaval, and in constant fear of absolute neglect by 
the European states. lie had always kept in his drawer 
a document empowering the cardinals, on his demise, to 
proceed to immediate election, if they saw danger to the 
free action of the conclave. Such times needed a popu- 
lar priest in the pontificate. Hut Mastai disappointed 
both his friends and his enemies— the former so sorely 
that they were weakened beyond the possibility of 
recovery ; the latter, by bis forming an alliance with 
them, and by the execution of schemes which they had 
never dreamed could be executed, even if Lambmscliini 
himself had been in the papal chair. Pio Nono proved 
an impulsive, good-natured man, but ignorant and su- 
perstitious, vain and impetuous, weak and obstinate, 
without a mind of his own or settled policy. His re- 
forms were, in reality, of little value. The best of them 
— those devoid of any political sigiiilicance— projects to 
regulate the finances, to reform the administration of 
justice, to introduce railways, to ameliorate the condi- 
tion of the Campagna — brought about merely a tempo- 
rary improvement. The political measures were equal- 
ly short-lived in their results, and. besides, were a bur- 
lesque on liberalism, 'finis in March, 1847. an edict of 
the press was published with the intention of removing 
some of the restrictions under which it had labored till 
then; but strong hints were given as to the subjects 
which the government would allow to he discussed, and 
a censorship remained established in full force. The 
same year witnessed the institution of the i 'onsulta. un- 
der the presidency of Gizzi. This seemed like conces- 
sion to popular demands, hut the whole thing was a 
farce; the members were chosen by the pope, and the 
functions of the council of the most limited nature. Its 
duty was to give an opinion when called upon, leaving 
it to the pope to net upon the proffered advice or to do 
otherwise. In 1818 appeared the famous stntuto creat- 
ing a high council and a chamber of deputies, as the 


PIUS 


251 


PIUS 


triumph of constitutionalism. But the chambers were 
forbidden to propose any law on ecclesiastical or mixed 
affairs, and every measure had to be submitted to the 
pope in a secret consistory, with the absolute right of 
veto. When the national crusade was inaugurated in 
1847, under the leadership of prince Charles Albert, of 
the house of Savoy — the grandfather of the present king 
of Italy — the pope went with the multitude. The Ul- 
tramontaues, of course, broke out against this manifest 
liberalism of the pontiff, but it only needed a little strat- 
egy on their part, and he was at their bidding. When 
his trusted adviser, count llos.si, was assassinated at the 
door of the Council of State, Pius IX as rapidly retraced 
his steps as he had advanced, and now unreservedly 
gave himself over to those very Jesuits who had plot- 
ted the death of his minister, that the liberals might be 
charged with desperate motives. Accordingly, the pope, 
on the 29th of April, 1848 — his ministry, who had coun- 
selled that the abandonment of the people “ would most 
seriously compromise the temporal dominion of the holy 
see,” having left him — issued, in the form of an allocu- 
tion addressed to the cardinals, that celebrated paper 
which put an end at once and forever to the brief season , 
of popularity and affection of his subjects in which he 
had basked. The first words of it declare the intentions 
of the Holy See “not to deviate from the institutions i 
of our predecessors.” Then it goes on to state that evil- 
minded men had made it believed that the pope had en- 
couraged the Italians in their revolutionary aspirations, ' 
and had endeavored to make his conduct in this respect 
a means of stirring up schism in Germany. The paper 
finally warns all the Italians against any such designs 
or aspirations, enjoining them to remain doeile subjects 
to their princes. This “ allocution” fell like a bombshell 
in the midst of the liberal party. The dismay, the 
disappointment, the rage, were indescribable. Many 
had been led — some of the princes of Italy among the 
number — to compromise themselves in a way they 
would not have done had they not supposed that the 
pontiff was at the head of the liberal movement. This 
terrible announcement was made, too, when already the 
papal troops had passed the frontier of the Stales of 
the Church and joined the forces marching against the 
Austrians; so that these betrayed men were left to be 
treated by the Austrian soldiery as mere rebels and 
brigands. The king of Sardinia and the grand duke 
of Tuscany were equally placed in a most painful pre- 
dicament by this sudden tergiversation of Pius IX. 
They acted, as is well known, differently in the difficul- 
ty. The king did not turn back from the plough to 
which he hail put his hand. The weak grand duke 
made haste to follow the lead of the pontiff, and cast in 
his lot with him and with the Austrians. Sueh vacilla- 
tion could not be other than destructive. When the 
hurricanes which swept over the political fabric of Eu- 
rope reached the Italian shores, Rome’s prinee was the 
first to feel its severest touch. In France the citizen- 
king was forced to exile; in Rome the citizen-pope suf- 
fered a like fate, and with this hegira from the Quirinal 
to Gaeta terminates Pio Nono’s comedy of liberalism. ! 
The story of Pio Nono’s extraordinary "hegira we can- 
not detail. Suffice it to say that Pio Nono’s exit from 
Rome was made with the aid of the Bavarian minister, 
and at Gaeta he was received with great honor by the 
king of Naples, who persuaded the pope to abandon his 
original intention of going to the Balearic Islands. lie 
now enjoyed the sympathy of the reactionists all over 
the world who had looked so coldly upon his early ef- 
forts at reform, but gained, of course, the execrations of 
the liberals, whose cause he had abandoned. Rome, left 
without a ruler, bloomed into a republic. The pope pro- 
tested against all its aets, and summoned the Catholic 
world to put it down. It was France which, having dis- 
graced herself by the election of a Bonaparte as presi- 
dent, was condemned to finish her story of crime and 
humiliation by throttling the Roman republic and re- 
storing the temporal authority of the papacy. French 


| troops landed at CivitaVecchia on the 25th of April, 

| 1849, and besieged the capital, while the Austrians en- 
tered Italy from the north and the Spaniards from the 
south. The capital surrendered on the 1st of July; and 
pending the return of the pope — which did not take 
place until next year — the government was carried on 
by a papal commission, a council of state, a council of 
finances, and provincial councils. The pope returned 
in April, 1850, surrounded by the bayonets of a French 
army, “ to a capital torn and ravaged by bombardment, 
and drenched in the blood of his own subjects, slain for 
the crime of taking up and carrying on the government 
which he had abdicated.” His first act was the perfidy 
of destroying the constitution of chartered rights which 
he had guaranteed to his subjects. II is second act was 
the granting of a mock amnesty, the exceptions to 
which were so framed as to put well-nigh the whole 
population under ban. The glutted prisons, which it 
had been his delight to empty at his first accession, filled 
up again as before. The Inquisition recommenced its 
sacred labors. Five hundred citizens were shot or de- 
capitated and thirty thousand proscribed. Tribunals 
w r ere established which condemned without trial, and 
without even open accusation. Speech was gagged, the 
press was muzzled, the Bible was prohibited. The stir- 
ring of resistance, provoked by excess of tyranny, was 
seized as the pretext of wanton barbarity; and the kind- 
hearted philanthropist of 184<> became an avenger at 
Perugia in 1859 — a sad and black story, on which it is 
rather the province of the secular historian to dwell. 
In 1808, the Austrians broke the concordat and de- 
clared their spiritual emancipation. The year after, 
queen Isabella was driven out of Spain, and the govern- 
ment of the people refused to be bound by any previous 
treaties with the papacy. In 1870, finally, the war with 
Prussia destroyed the empire in France, and with the 
fall of Napoleon not only the French refused to be bound 
to Rome, but the gates of the Eternal City opened to all 
Italy. Previous to the entry of the Italian troops, Vic- 
tor Emmanuel wrote to Pio Nonoa most dutiful and sub- 
missive letter, offering terms of establishment in Rome 
which would guarantee his entire spiritual freedom and 
authority, to which his holiness made characteristic re- 
ply— the most extraordinary defiance ever uttered in 
sueh extremity. Though the king might after this have 
taken matters in his own hand, he yet accepted an obe- 
dient relation to the Church, and caused Parliament to 
guarantee the liberty of the Church and the indepen- 
dence of the sovereign pontiff on May 13, 1871. Not- 
withstanding all efforts of Victor Emmanuel for peace, 
the pope sternly persisted in his firm protest against 
the inevitable change of things. He steadily refused 
to receive the Sardinian princes, or to enter into any 
arrangement with them. He yielded merely to force, 
and evidently enjoyed his martyrdom much more than 
Emmanuel did his victory. For the first year after 
his dethronement, the pope talked of various changes 
of residence — of Malta, of Avignon, and even of St. 
Louis. But this was probably never serious. 11 is great 
age prevented any such adventure, if there were no other 
reasons against it. lie lived retired in the Vatican, and 
called himself a prisoner. On the 3d of June, 1877. the 
Romish Church celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of 
his episcopate, and on Feb. 7, 1878, he died, after a pro- 
tracted dropsical illness. 

Pio Nono’s name will always be prominent among Ro- 
man pontiffs. His long reign proved a contradiction of 
the traditional words uttered at his coronation — Non vi- 
debis annos Petri. Besides, his interest in archaeological 
pursuits, and the care he took in aiding in the preserva- 
tion of the various monuments of Rome and in the em- 
bellishing of her churches, will hand his name down to 
remote generations. On the Forum, on the Coliseum, on 
fountains and in basilicas, the name of Pius IX is carved 
on large marble slabs, recording the part he has taken 
in preserving old structures from decay or in building 
new ones. In the tribune of the grand basilica of San 


PIUS 


252 


PIUS SOCIETIES 


Pnolo-fuori-le-mnra there is a memorial of one of the 
proudest moments of l‘io Noiio's life. An expensive 
and elegant memorial is that placed in 1*71 over the 
well-known hronze statue of St. Peter. Those who de- 
sire to study its details are referred to the pages of the 
Cirilta Cattolica. 

In 1x17 he began the reform of the great religious 
bodies Oil dime 17 he appointed a commission to 1 
inquire into the laxity of discipline in religions com- 
munities. and in the issue he so modified the constitu- 
tions of several as to make the period of probation 
more protracted, and to raise among all the standard of 
discipline and intellectual training. The missions of 
the t hurcli were also strengthened, being carried for- 
ward in part ihus injiil< Hum, and great hierarchies, in 
lands formerly heathen or Protestant, were added to the 
vast clergy that owned “ the Latin obedience.” Thus 
he provided by brief of 1850 for the ecclesiastical gov- 
ernment of England, dividing that country into one 
metropolitan and twelve episcopal sees; and this was fol- 
lowed hyapastoral letter of cardinal Wiseman, on his ap- 
pointment as archbishop of Westminster, exulting in the 
supposed triumph of his Church in the land which had 
been the home of the Information for three centuries. 
Then lie created in this country a vast Homan Catholic 
hierarchy by elevating to the cardinalate the archbishop 
of New York in 1*75, and prepared the way for the re-cs- 
tahlishment of the hierarchy in Scotland, which was ef- 
fected in 1*7*. Finally, in 1*54, without advice of a 
council, he ventured the utterance of a new dogma 
— the inmacuhite conception (q. v.) of the Virgin Marv 
— and the audacious promulgation, in 18C4, of the bull 
Quanta Cum, which, with its accompanying “Syl- 
labus" of damnable errors, was simply an attack on free 
governments and civilization itself, and rivalled the 
spirit and times of Hildebrand, the ecclesiastical abso- 
lutism of the 11th century. The consecration of these 
acts in the Vatican Council of 1*70 by the decree of In- 
fallibility (q.v.) was the logical completion of the Ho- 
mish system and of the pontificate of Pins IX. The 
disturbances which have grown out of these steps are 
detailed in Ot.u ( atiiolkisji. etc. One of the foulest 
blots on the pages of history regarding his reign is the 
forcible conversion of the Jew boy Mortara, and of a piece 
with this is the abject condition of the Hebrews at 
Home, where the walls of the Ghetto were only removed 
with the establishment of the Italian power. The pri- 
vate life of the pope was marked hv great simplicity 
of habits. 

See Balleydier, llhtoire ile la Revol. de Rome (Lyons, 
1*.»1. 2 vols. 8vo) ; Maguire, Rome, its Ruler and its Insti- 
tutions (Loud. 1*51)) ; Saint- Alvin, Pie IX (Paris, 1*00); 
Plus IX : the Story of his Lift (Loud. 1*75, 2 vols. 
*vo); Trollope, Rope Pius IX (ibid. 1*77, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Legge, C mirth of the Temporal Power of the Papacy 
(ibid. 1*70); also, Life, of Pins IX (ibid. 1*75, *vo) ; 
llitclim.wiu, liinfj, of Pins IX (ibid. 1*78, 12mo) ; Xeu- 
i ork Tribune, Feb. 8, 1*78 ; Christian Union, vul. xvii, 
No. 7 ; Christum Aduncate, Feb. 1*78; Thompson, The 
papacy and the Civil Power (X. V. 1*77, 12mo); Prince- 
ton li< rii r. March, 1*7*. (J. H. W.) 

Pius Societies. The stormy years of 184* and 
1*10 brought great hopes and great dangers to the Ho- 
man Catholic t 'lmrch of Germany, especially the hope 
of entire emancipation from the State, and the danger 
of enslavement to the despotism of a liberalism hostile 
to the Church. Hut its representatives knew how to 
steer skilfully hot ween the Scvlla and Charybdis. In 
November. 1*4*. the Herman bishops of the Hnmisli 
body assembled at Wurzburg, to consult together con- 
cerning the best means to proceed in this critical period. 
ITivarying faithfulness to the papacy was the first point 
settled; voluntary co-operation with the “political re- 
generation” of the fatherland, the second; thankful ac- 
ceptance of the promise of unconditional freedom of 
conscience (in the fundamental rights of the Frankfort 
Parliament), in order to accomplish the most complete 


independence of the Church and absolute control of 
national education, from the elementary to the high 
schools, the third. Shortly before this, however, an or- 
ganization of far-reaching significance had been effect- 
ed, in which also— and prominently — the laity were to 
co-operate, viz., the Pins Society , a Homan Catholic 
counterpart of the Protestant Church Piet (q.v.). Soon 
after the revolutionary struggles of March, unions were 
formed at several places in Germany having for their 
object the protection and advancement of Homan Cath- 
olic interests. At the anniversary of the building of 
the cathedral at Cologne, in August, 1*1*, the members 
of several of these unions met together and resolved 
upon a general convocation, in October, 184*, at May- 
cnee, where the first union of this kind was formed, 
under the name of Pius Society . Here all the single 
unions were formed into a great collective union under 
the name of “Catholic Union of Germany;” although 
in practice the shorter name of Pius Society has been 
preferred. To direct the business of the collective 
union, one of the single unions was to be chosen every 
time from the annual general convention, which was 
called “Yorort.” 'Flic object of the union was “the 
obtaining ami maintenance of the freedom of the Church 
and control of the same over the schools ; national cult- 
ure in the Homan Catholic spirit and practice of Chris- 
tian mercy; as fundamental law, obedience to the pope 
and to the episcopate; pacific posture towards the State 
and towards every existing form of government, so far 
as the rights of the Church were not thereby preju- 
diced: and defensive, not aggressive, posture towards 
the non-Catholic confessions. The Virgin Mary was 
chosen as patroness of the union, and every member 
bound himself to repeat a daily Paternoster and Avc 
Maria to further the objects of the union.” The first 
general assembly, which was held at Mavcncc in 1*48, 
was represented by eighty-three different societies ; and 
a letter received from the pope (Feb., 1849), in which he 
gave his approbation and blessing to this union, only 
strengthened the movement, and gave not only author- 
ity, hut also the name. A second assembly was held at 
Breslau, where the papal letter was received, and where 
| the assembly openly expressed it that “a united Gcr- 
1 many was only possible with a Catholic Christianity.” 
Here a new society was also organized, the Vincent ins 
Society, for missionary work at home. The third gen- 
eral assembly was held at Hegensburg (October, 1*49). 
Here, besides the organization of the Bonifacius Soci- 
ety, a paper was started, Kutholischer Vereinshote fur 
das deutsehe Reich, in the interest of all societies organ- 
ized in the spirit of the Pius societies. Every year 
new societies of like tendency and spirit were organ- 
ized, till in the year 1*51 the number was so great 
that the original Pins societies, with the now-existing 
branch associations, were finally amalgamated into one, 
as all were only serving one purpose— the advancement 
of ultramontanism in Germany. Yet, in spite of all 
I these efforts, the seventh general assembly, held at Vi- 
enna (Sept., 1853), was forced to acknowledge that it had 
not succeeded in attracting the masses, for only the same 
faces were present. The meeting at Cologne in 1854 
became discordant, because the committee refused to 
give the Prussian government a guarantee of abstinence 
from political utterances and confessional polemics. The 
ninth general assembly, held at Salzburg in 1857, was 
a living “testimonium paupertatis.” which the Homan 
Catholic world exhibited to the union. Little was felt 
here of important men, deeds, and speeches. The 
cathedral capitular llimiohcn of Maveiicc. the “real 
miles gloriosns of the meeting." uttered hectoring fan- 
faronades about the glorious victories of Homan t ,'atholi- 
cism in Germany, and expressed the confident hope, in 
regard to the forty new Protestant churches built by the 
Giistavns Adolphus Union, that these would shortly 
again he east out into the garden of rejected stones. 

*• Harlequinades also were not wanting. Prof. Kreuzcr, 
of Cologne, e. g., comforted those present in regard to 


PIUS SOCIETIES 


253 


PLACE 


the charge of ultramontanism with the proverb, ‘There 
stands the ox at the mountain;’ from which it follows 
incontestably that the oxen are the real Cismontanes, be- 
cause they are not able to pass over the mountain; and 
as regards the papacy, it is evident that Christ himself, 
who called upon his Father on the cross, was a papist; 
indeed, every man is a born papist, because the child 
lisps ‘ papa’ already in the cradle ; and other such comical 
things.” As a change, it was also greatly lamented that 
two hundred and seven large and twelve hundred and 
thirty-four small journals were in the service of the 
Protestants of Germany, while, on the other hand, the 
Roman Catholics had only six large and eighty-one 
small ones. 

The tenth general assembly was held at Cologne 
(September, 1858). All agreed that the results hith- 
erto achieved were satisfactory. In general, the de- 
portment of this conference was more dignified, the 
contents of its speeches more important, than those of 
the former years. “Still the jester Ilimioben was not 
wanting this time also. He exhorted the women to 
form Parament unions, and informed them that the first 
union of this kind was formed in the year 33 after 
Christ, in consequence of the first secularization, when 
the soldiers cast lots for the garment of the Saviour, 
which he had worn the evening previous as a chasuble 
at the first celebration of the mass. Indeed, we can even 
go farther back than this ; Mary, who made swaddling- 
bands for the child Jesus, was the proper originator of 
the union. After being edified with such trifles, but 
also hearing many important truths, especially concern- 
ing the study of history and the musical culture of the 
young, the meeting was closed by consecrating the 
pillar of Mary built at Cologne in honor of the im- 
maculate conception.”' The eleventh annual conference, 
which was held at Freiburg in 1859, expressed the hope 
that soon all Germany will be brought back within the 
pale of the Roman Catholic Church; while the twelfth, 
held at Prague in 1860, lamented over the wounds which 
were inflicted upon the papacy in that same year. The 
thirteenth general meeting, held at Munich in 1861, ex- 
tolled the virtues of the holy father, and declared the 
robbing of the pope’s territory to be a robbery of God. 
The seventeenth, which was held at Treves in 1865, 
praised the enc} r clica published in 1864 in the bull 
“Quanta cura”as the greatest deed of the 19tli century; 
pronounced John Goerres (q. v.) as the greatest German, 
and the holy coat at Treves as the symbol of Catholic 
unity. In this tenor it went on. “ Half childish, half 
spleenish remained the rest of the meetings, until 
the day at Breslau, in 1872, when humor gave place to 
rage, naivete to fanaticism, and the ostensible peace- 
policy to the ringing of the. alarm-bell” (Kurtz). 

The most prominent societies in connection with the 
original Pius societies are the Bonifacius unions for the 
support of needy Roman Catholic congregations in Prot- 
estant Germany (an imitation of the Gustavns Adolphus 
Union) ; the Charles Borromeo unions, to spread good 
Roman Catholic writings; the Vincentius and Elizabeth 
unions, for visiting the sick and taking care of the poor ; 
the Journeymen unions (founded by Kolping, of Elber- 
feld, in 1846), for the spiritual and temporal sustenance 
of journeymen ; the unions of The Holy Childhood of 
Jesus, composed chiefly of children, who contribute 
monthly five pennies for the salvation of exposed hea- 
then children (especially in China), and daily pray an 
Ave Maria for them. These are the most prominent 
organizations in the service of the hierarchy, and are 
found all over the world. In the United States there 
is hardl} r a large town in which one or the other of 
these societies is not to be found. The tendency is the 
same, although the name may be different. The pur- 
pose of these organizations in the United States is to 
bring the state as much as possible under the influence 
and control of the hierarchy, and the political arena is 
the field of labor. Already they influence the legislat- 
ures, school-boards ; yea, we may say they form a state 


within the state. The clergy commands a great ig- 
norant mass, easily fanaticized, and ready to do any- 
thing “in majorein Dei gloriam et honorem papte infal- 
libilis.” The doctrines of the Vatican are prQmnlgated 
through numerous papers, and the utterances made at 
the annual gatherings of the different organizations are 
the best proof of the spirit which animates these soci- 
eties. See Herzog, Real- Eneyklop. s. v. Piusvereine; 
Theolog. Universal- Lexikon, s. v. ; Wetzer u. Welte, 
Kirchen-Lexikov, s. v. ; more especially Kurtz, Lehrbuch 
der Kirchengesch. (Mitau, 1874), ii, 332 sq. See also Ul- 
tramontanism (in its conflict with Germany). (B. P.) 

Pix. See Pyx. 

Pizzez. See Artists. 

Placaeus. See Place, Josue de la. 

Place, Absalom's. See Absalom. 

Place, Fruitful. See Carmel. 

Place, Conyers, an English divine of some note, 
flourished in the first half of last century, very near the 
opening of that a?ra. We know nothing of his personal 
history, lie has left several valuable publications, 
among which we note, besides his Sermons (Bond. 1702, 
4to; 1721, 8vo; 1705, 4to), Adversaria (1709): — Re- 
marks, with Queries put to Mr. Bolde, concerning his wild 
Pamphlet , or clouterlg Invective, against the Christian 
Ministry and World, called Some Thoughts concerning 
Church Authority (1724, 8vo) : — Space is Xecessary 
Being, etc. (1728) : — Essay towards the Vindication of 
the Visible Creation (1729, 8vo) Reason an Insufficient 
Guide (1735) : — Remarks on a Treatise entitled .4 Plain 
Account, etc., of the Lord's Supper, in which all the 
texts in the New Testament which relate to it are pro- 
duced and explained, and the whole doctrine about it is 
drawn from them alone (1735). See Blakey, Ilist. of 
the Philosophy of the Mind, iii, 31 ; Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. 

Place, Enoch, an American minister in the Free- 
will Baptist Church, was born in Rochester, N. II., July 
13, 1786. He was converted in March, 1807, while en- 
gaged in teaching, and soon felt called of God to enter 
the work of the ministry. He preached his first sermon 
June 2, 1807, and was ordained Jan. 23. 1813. Forty- 
one years of his public life he passed in Strafford, N. 11., 
laboring also much in adjoining towns. He had a thirst 
for knowledge, and from youth to manhood availed 
himself of the means within his reach to acquire an ed- 
ucation, though his denomination at that period was 
not in favor of a learned ministry. By personal effort 
he advanced until he became eminent among his own 
people and a leader in his town. His gifts and position 
eminently qualified him for usefulness both as a minis- 
ter and citizen. He was called to fill high positions in 
his denomination, such as moderator of General Con- 
ference, trustee of printing establishment, member of 
mission boards, etc. As a preacher, he was earnest and 
warm. At times he would have such a sense of the 
sinner’s condition and obligation to God that he would 
speak as one having authority. Occasional]}' he would 
rise to such a height in feeling and eloquence as to be 
almost overwhelming and irresistible. Ilis personal ap- 
pearance was commanding, his voice sonorous and rich. 
He was also eloquent and mighty in prayer. Mr. Place, 
with many other Free-will Baptists, early espoused the 
antislavery cause. Abundant in labors and rich in 
faith. Father Place, as he came to be called, died March 
23, 1865. 

Place ( Placceus ), Josue de la, a celebrated 
French Protestant divine, was born in Bretagne about 
the close of the 16th century : some put the date at 
1596, some as late as 1606. Ilis parents died while he 
was in his infancy, and he was educated under the 
guidance of his elder brothers. When yet very young 
he was made teacher of philosophy at Saumitr, where 
he had been a student. In 1625 he was made pastor of 
the Protestant Church at Nantes, and there remained 


PLACEBO 


254 


PLACET 


until 1632, when he was called, with Amyraliliis and Ca- 
pelins, to a professorship of theology at Saiimur. lie 
died in 1665. An excellent teacher and a pious Chris- 
tian, he yet offended greatly, and provoked much strife 
and controversy by his tendency to Arminian theology 
in his views on the doctrine of Imputation (q. v.). The 
theory of original sin, as consisting only in native cor- 
ruption. was condemned by the French synod of 1615, 
though Placieus himself was not named. Strictly speak- 
ing, his theory was only a modification of Jean Camer- 
on’s (q. v.). who had succeeded Gomarus (q. v.) at Sau- 
mur in 161 *. Cameron himself taught, after l’iseator, 
the imputation of Christ’s passive obedience alone; and 
advocated the theory of the hypothetic universalism of 
divine grace, which was more fully developed by Amy- 
raut. ‘• The peculiarity of Amyrahlism,” says Schwei- 
zer, ‘-is in the combination of a real particularism with 
a merely ideal universalism.” Placivus accepted the 
statement of the synod of 1645, by distinguishing be- 
tween immediate and mediate imputation, and advo- 
cated the mediate, instead of the immediate imputation 
of Adam’s sin to his posterity, lie was opposed by An- 
ton Carissol (q. v.), prolessor in Montauban, and de- 
fended by Charles Drelincourt (q. v.), pastor at Charen- 
ton. 1 1 is defence, 1 tisput at tones acailemiccp, sub pnesulio 
./. /'loca l, de imputatione primi peccuti Adumi , de ar- 
yumentis qiiibus ejfficifur , Christum prius fuisse, (plain in 
ntero />. concijteretur, et de testimoniis et argument is 
quibns probatur Jesttm Christum esse Deuin, was pub- 
lished at Salm (16411-51, 3 vols. 4to), and in an enlarged 
form the year of his death (1665), and since, llis 
works {Opera) were published in collected form at Fra- 
neker in 1699, and again in 1702. See Schweizer, Cen- 
truldoymen, ii, 234 sq., 319; Haag, 1 list . des Doymes ; 
Ebrard, Doymatik, voi. i. § 43; AI tiller. On Sin (see In- 
dex) ; Theoloyical Essays from Princeton Review (N. V. 
1*40), p. 195 sq.; Cunningham, Reformers , p. 379 sq. ; 
Dorner, Cesch. tier protestanf. Theolnyie, ii, 447 ; Brit, 
and For. Ev. Rec. July, 1*60, p. 5*5; Xew-Enylander, 
July, 1*6*. (J. 11. W.) 

Placebo, an office in the Church of Pome, so called 
from its first word, has for its purpose the prayer for 
souls. It is the antiphon (q. v.) at vespers in the office 
of the dead, as the dirge is at matins. .See Procter, 
Book oj Common Prayer ; Elliott, Delineation of Ro- 
manism. 

Placentia, Councils of ( Concilium Placentinnm), 
Several important ecclesiastical gatherings were held 
there. The first of importance was convened March 1, 
1095. and concluded March 5, by pope Urban II. Two 
hundred bishops attended, with nearly 4000 other ec- 
clesiastics and 30,000 laymen. So innumerable were 
the multitude of persons who flocked to it that no 
church could be found in those parts capable of contain- 
ing them, therefore the pope was compelled to hold the 
first and third sessions of this assembly in the open air. 
I lu- empress l'raxedis in person made complaint against 
her husband the emperor llenrv, who divorced her and 
treated her infamously. Ambassadors from the emperor 
of Constantinople were present, who demanded help 
against tin- infidels, with the approbation of the pope. 
Fifteen canons were published, by which the heresy of 
Jlcrenger was again condemned, and the truth of the 
real presence of the Lord Jesus Christ in the holy Eu- 
charist clearly set forth. The sect of the New Xicolai- 
t.'nis (who favored incontinence in the clergy) was also 
condemned. The orders conferred bv t inibert, the anti- 
pope, and others who had been excommunicated, were 
declared null. Flic Ember fasts were also fixed. Alter 
this Urban proceeded to France, and in the autumn of 
the same year held the celebrated Council of Clermont. 
See Labbe, Concilia, \, 500. 

Another important council was held after Easter, 
1132, by Innocent H, assisted by several bishops of 
Lombardy. It was forbidden to receive to penitence 
those who refused to renounce fornication, hatred, ami 


every mortal sin. In this council the antipope Ana- 
cletus was excommunicated. See Labbe, Concilia , x, 
j 9*8. 

Places, Besieged. See Mazor. 

Placet (pladfyum reyium, l if era parentis seu ex- 
equatur) is the sanction by a reigning prince to the 
promulgation and execution of an ecclesiastical ordi- 
nance. The placet is necessitated as soon as ecclesias- 
tical ordinances transgress the purely religious bounda- 
ries, and come in contact with those of the state. As 
soon as the mutual boundaries had acquired a relative 
independence, which drew a line of demarcation between 
both the State and Church, the right of the 2 >lucet was 
established, and the first traces of it we find in the quar- 
rels of Philip le Ilel of France with Boniface VIII 
(q. v.), and Louis of Bavaria with John XXII (q. v.). 
In the 15th century we find this right of assent fully 
established in different countries. Thus Louis XI, in 
1495, appointed a commission at Amiens to examine all 
persons coming from Home whether they had any pa- 
pal briefs upon them “ et icelles voir et visiter, pour 
syavoir s’elles sont aucunement contraires on prejudici- 
ables a nous et ii la dite eglise Gallicane. Et an cas 
qu’en trouverez aucunes qui y fussent contraires on pre- 
judieiables, prenez les et retenez par (levers vous, et 
les porteurs arrestez et constitucz prisonniers, si vous 
voycz que la matierc v soit sujette; et du contenu es- 
dites lettres nous advertissez, on les nous envoyez si 
tonte diligence, pour y donner la provision necessaire” 
(comp. Preuves, f.es / Abertis de I'Eylise GaUicutte, ch. 
x). Martin V (q. v.), in a letter to the archbishops of 
Portugal, complains, anno 1427, of Portugal: “Dicitur 
I enim nobis, quod statuto regio mandatum est. ne quis 
audeat sine ipsins regi* licentia sub poena mortis et per- 
ditionis bonorum in dietis regnis literas apostolicas pub- 
licare.” When John II, king of Portugal, instigated by 
Innocent VIII, repealed the Placetum Reyium, in 14*0, 

! the peers of the realm resisted, and declared that with- 
I out the consent of the states such a repeal was void 
I (Augustini Manuclis, Hist. Joan. I/). Philip the Good, 
duke of Burgundy, decreed, Jan. 3, 1447: “ Dat nie- 
[ mandt cn brenglie, oft en exeqnere eenighe geestelvcke 
; monition, inhibition oft aiulere gheboden, op eenighe 
’ ondersaeten des Landts van Brabandt, uyt wat saeeke 
I dat hot zy, by cerst home by onse < ffficiere ende We- 
thouderen, ende geoe hem klacrlyck te kennen de saeeke 
[ waerom, ende verkrvghc oorlof ende consent. Den gene 
, die dat dede, sal daer an verbeurt hehben alle sine goe- 
dcren, ende te dien aen syn lyf eenen wegh te S. Peter 
ende S. Pauls te Boomeu te doen.” 

By 1594 the placet was already regarded as a custom- 
ary right. Doctrine, usage, and legislature, however, 
developed more fully the cases in which the placet should 
be used, and thus in matters of conscience, according to 
a royal declaration of March *, 1772, reissued Feb. 2*, 
1*10, no placet was required. In Austria the necessity 
of the placet was emphasized as early as the 16th cen- 
tury. In addition to former ordinances, the decree of 
Leopold II, dated March 17, 1791, decreed that “papal 
hulls, briefs, and constitutions must have the sanction 
of the reigning prince before they can be promulgated 
and accepted. This ordinance also refers to all previous 
papal edicts, without exception, in such a manner that 
whenever use is made of an ancient hull the sanction is 
required, and even such bulls as have been sanctioned 
shall only he valid as long as new decrees of the state do 
not affect their validity.” According to another decree, 
dated April 2 and 7, 17*4, the placet was also required 
for all instructions, orders, etc., given to preachers and 
priests, no matter as to the form in which they are made 
known to them. The Austrian decree of 1791 was also 
adopted Jan. 30, 1*30, for the province of the Upper 
Bhine. In Bavaria the same principles, which were still 
adhered to in the edict dated May 26, 1*1*, were already 
the same as in the edict dated April 3, 1770, that ail 
ecclesiastical edicts are subject to the placet, with the 


PLACETTE 


255 


PLAGUE 


exception of summons issued by the ecclesiastical au- 
thorities, provided they only refer to the lower clergy, 
and are the natural issues of ordinances already sanc- 
tioned. These claims of the state had always been the 
subject of protest on the part of the Roman See. The 
bull “ In ccena domini” (q. v.) excommunicates all those 
who prevent the promulgation and annunciation of pa- 
pal bulls and briefs (comp, the bull Pastorolis of Urban 
YU I, anno 1627, § 7, 13, in the Bullarium Romanian, 
vi, 38, 40). When Leopold I, while governor of Bel- 
gium, would not allow the publication of the papal pro- 
hibition of Jansen’s (q. v.) work Augustinus without 
the sanction of the government, appealing to privileges, i 
liberties, and usages, Innoceut X, in 1651, protested 
against it most decidedly: “Quod equidem audiri sine 
horrore animi non potest.” “ Never has such a privi- 
lege been granted either by a pope or a council, which 
must needs destroy the papal power. None, however, 
dare to refer to the privilege of a worldly prince, be- 
cause it would be nothing else but a foolhardy arrogance 
to bind and loose the souls, which right the Lord Jesus 
Christ has granted to none else than to his vicar” (Ros- 
kovany, Monumenta catholica pro independentia potes- 
tatis ecclesiasticce ab imperio civili, pt. i, p. 203, Quinque- 
Ecclesiis, 1847). In this sense the popes have continu- 
ally protested against the placet, and the brief of Pius 
VIII (q. v.), “Pervenerat non ita pridem,” dated June 
30, 1830, is a bitter protest against the edict of Jan. 30, 
1830. This persevering opposition w'as finally crowned 
with a result, but the hierarchy owes this result to an 
institution which is anything but desirable to the Church, 
viz. the liberty of the press. The Belgian Constitution of 
Feb. 25, 1831, art. xvi, decreed : “ The state has no right 
to interfere with the appointment or election of minis- 
ters of any denomination, or to prevent them from hav- 
ing intercourse with their superiors and promulgating 
their records; in the latter case with the proviso of the 
usual responsibility concerning the press and promulga- 
tion.” This example was followed in Holland and 
Prussia in 1848, in Austria in 1855, and in Wtirtemberg 
in 1857. In other countries the purely ecclesiastical 
edicts are freed from the placet; all that is required is 
that the civil authorities get an insight at their publi- 
cation. Since the ascendency obtained by Prnssia in 
the German empire at the close of the Franco-German 
war, the system of Church legislation has undergone a 
complete change, the details of Church government be- 
ing largely taken into the control of the state, and obe- 
dience to the new code of Church laws being exacted 
from the clergy under penalty of forfeiture of income, 
of deprivation of office, and in some cases of exile. For 
the present status quo of Rome in the German empire, 
comp. Kurtz, Lekrbucli der Kirch engesch ichte (Mitau, 
1874), ii, 389 sq. See Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexi- 
kon, s. v. Placet; 1 1 erzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; Theolo- 
gisches Universal- Lexikon, s. v. ; Aschbach, Kirchen- 
Lexikon, iv, 596-601 ; Gieselcr, Eccles. Hist. (Smith’s 
transl.), iii, 340, note 5; Van Espen, Tractatus de pro- 
mulgations legum ecclesiasticarum ac speciatim Bullarum 
et rescrijitorum Curies Romanes (Opera omnia, Lovanii, 
1753, fol. iv, 123 sq.) ; Stockman, Jus Belgarum circa 
Bullarum pontijicum receptionem (Opera, Brux. 1760) ; 
Besier, Specimen de juris placeti historia in Belgio (Tra- 
jecti ad Rh. 1848) ; Philipp, Kirchenrecht, ii, 557 sq. ; iii, 
556 sq. ; Eichhorn, Kirchenrecht, i, 772, 782 sq. ; Rich- 
ter, Kirchenrecht , § 66, 177 (5th ed.). 

Placette, Jean de la, a noted French Protestant 
divine, whose religious convictions caused his exile, 
was born at Pontac in 1639. His father was him- 
self a minister, and traiued Jean with great care for 
the preaching of the glad tidings. In 1660 he was or- 
dained, and continued faithfully to discharge the obli- 
gations of his sacred ministry until after the revocation 
of the Edict of Nantes in 1685, when he was obliged to 
seek refuge from persecution in Denmark. He was 
there brought to the notice of the queen, who recognised 
in him great worth, and determined to enjoy his associ- 


ations and teachings. After her death in 1711 he went 
over to Holland, residing for a while at the Hague, and 
then at Utrecht, where he died in 1718. He ivas the 
author of many works on practical religion and morals, 
which are highly esteemed. He also wrote several 
works in the department of Protestant polemics, and his 
influence was much dreaded by the Romanists. See 
Hook, Eccles. Biog. viii, 97. (J. II. W.) ^ ' 

Flaceus. See Place, Josue de la. 

Placidus, St., a Christian martyr of the 6tli cen- 
tury, was of pious parentage, and was born probably in 
515. When only seven years old he was intrusted by 
his father, the Roman patrician Tertullus, to the care 
of St. Benedict of Nursia. Placidus, thus religiously 
trained, grew up in the service of the Church, and in 
541 became abbot, of a newly founded monastery at 
Messina. In 546 he was killed, with his companions, 
by pirates. lie is commemorated in the Church of 
Rome July 11. See Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , 
vol. xii, s. v. ; Alzog, Kirchengesch. ii, 22. 

Plague is used ill the A. V. as the rendering of five 
Hebrew words: 1. De'ber , “O^T, which properly means 
destruction, death (as Hos. xiii, 14), and is hence applied 
to pestilence (as Lev. xxvi, 25; Deut. xxviii, 21; 2 
Sam.xxiv, 13; 1 Kings viii, 37), and to a murrain among 
beasts (as Exod. iii, 9). The Sept, mostly has §dva- 
rog. 2. J faggejihah', !"!E3'2, from the root P33, to smite ; 
hence a plague as actively considered, a pestilence sent 
from God (Exod. ix, 14; comp. Numb, xiv, 37; xvii, 
13; xxv, 18, etc.). It is also used of slaughter in bat- 
tle (1 Sam. iv, 17 ; 2 Sam. xvii, 9). 3. Makkah', PlS'C, 
from the root HE3, to smite, properly the act of smit- 
ing; hence a blow, a stroke; and so it should be ren- 
dered, rather than plague (Lev. xxvi, 21 ; Numb, xi, 
33; Deut. xxviii, 59, 61 ; xxix, 22; 1 Sam. iv, 8; Jcr. 
xix, 8; xlix, 17; 1, 13). 4. Xe'ga, "33, from "32, to 

smite ; hence the meaning is like that of the foregoing. 
But it is often used to mean a spot, mark, cut, upon the 
skin, from the common effects of a blow'. This is its 
meaning throughout the loth and 14th chapters of 
I Leviticus, where it is rendered plague in the A. Y. 5. 
Ne'geph, S33, from £33, to strike, as above ; hence a 
league, as a divine judgment (Exod. xii, 13, and often). 
See Plagues of Egypt. To these should be added 
I the following Greek words, which are usually translated 
! “plague” in the A. Y. : p dang, properly a scourge ot 
j whip (Mark iii, 10; v, 29, 34 ; Luke vii, 21) ; and 7r\ij- 
1 yt], a stroke or wound, whether of natural or artificial 
infliction (Rev. ix, 20; xi, 6; xv, 1, 6, 8; xvi, 9, 21; 
xviii, 4, 8; xxi, 9; xxii, 18). It is evident that not 
one of these words can be considered as designating by 
J its signification the plague. Whether the disease be 
mentioned must be judged from the sense of passages, 

J not from the sense of words. The discrimination has 
j already been pretty fully' considered under the word 
Pestilence (q. v.). In the following treatment of the 
term we make use chiefly of the articles in Smith’s and 
Kitto’s Dictionaries. 

In noticing the places in the Bible which might be 
j supposed to refer to the plague, we must bear in mind 
| that, unless some of its distinctive characteristics are 
mentioned, it is not safe to infer that this disease is in- 
tended. In the narrative of the Ten Plagues there is 
none corresponding to the modern plague. The plague 
of boils has indeed some resemblance, and it might be 
urged that as in other cases know'll scourges were sent 
(their miraculous nature being shown by their oppor- 
tune occurrence and their intense character), so in this 
case a disease of the country, if indeed the plague an- 
ciently’’ prevailed in Egypt, might have been employed. 
Yet the ordinary plague would rather exceed in severity 
this infliction than the contrary, which seems fatal to 
this supposition. Those pestilences which were sent as 
special judgments, and were either supernaturally rapid 


PLAGUE 


256 


PLAGUE 


in tlu?ir effects, or in addition directed against particular 
culprits, are beyond the reach of human inquiry. But 
we also read of pestilences which, although sent as judg- 
ments, have the characteristics of modern epidemics, not 
being rapid beyond nature, nor directed against indi- 
viduals. Thus’ in the remarkable threatenings in Le- 
viticus and Deuteronomy, pestilence is spoken of as one 
of the enduring judgments that were gradually to de- 
stroy the disobedient. This passage in Leviticus evi- 
dently refers to pestilence in besieged cities: “And I 
will bring a sword upon you, that shall avenge the 
quarrel of I my] covenant: and when ye are gathered 
together in your cities, I will send the pestilence among 
you; and ye shall be delivered into the hand of the 
enemy” (xxvi, 25). Famine in a besieged city would 
occasion pestilence. A special disease may be indicated 
in the parallel portion of Deuteronomy (xxviii, 21): i 
“The Lord shall make the pestilence cleave unto thee, 
until he [or “ it”] have consumed thee from off the land , 
whither thou goest to possess it.” The word rendered ( 
“ pestilence” may, however, have a general signification, 
and comprise calamities mentioned afterwards, for there 
follows an enumeration of several other diseases and 
similar scourges (xxviii, 21, 22). The first disease here 
mentioned has been supposed to he the plague (Bunsen, 
Jiibehcerk ). It is to be remembered that “ the botch of 
Egypt” is afterwards spoken of (ver. 27), by which it 
is probable that ordinary boils are intended, which are 
especially severe in Egypt in the present day, and that 
later still “ all the diseases of Egypt” are mentioned (ver. 
00). It therefore seems unlikely that so grave a dis- 
ease as the plague, if then known, should not be spoken 
of in either of these two passages. In neither place 
does it. seem certain that the plague is specified, though 
in the one, if it were to be in the land, it would fasten 
upon the population of besieged cities, and in the other, 
if then known, it would probably be alluded to as a ter- 
rible judgment in an enumeration of diseases. The 
notices in the prophets present the same difficulty; for 
they do not seem to afford sufficiently positive evidence 
that the plague was known in those times. With the 
prophets, as in the l’cntateuch, we must suppose that 
the diseases threatened or prophesied as judgments must 
have been known, or at least called by the names used 
for those that were known. Two passages might seem 
to be explicit. In Amos we read, “ I have sent among 
you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt: your 
young men have I slain with the sword, and have taken 
your horses; and I have made the stink of your camps 
to come up into your nostrils” (iv, 10). Here the ref- 
erence is perhaps to the death of the first-born, for the 
same phrase, “after the manner of Egypt,” is used by i 
Isaiah (x, 24, 2G), with a reference to the Exodus, and 
perhaps to the oppression preceding it; and an allusion 
to past history seems probable, as a comparison with the 
overthrow of the cities of the plain immediately follows 
(Amos iv, 1 1 ). The prophet Zechariah also speaks of 
a plague with which the Egyptians, if refusing to serve 
Hod, should be smitten (xiv, IX) ; but the name and the 
description which appears to apply to this scourge seem 
to show that it eauuot be the plague (ver. 12). Ileze- 
kiali s disease has been thought to have been the 
plague, and its fatal nature, as well as the mention of a 
boil, makes this not improbable. On the other hand, 
there is no mention of a pestilence among his people at 
the time, unless wc so regard the sudden destruction of 
Sennacherib's army (2 Kings xx, l 11). Severe epi- 
demics are the common accompaniments of dense crowd- 
ing in cities and of famine; and we accordingly often 
find them mentioned in connection (Lev. xxvi, 25; Jer. 
xiv, 12; xxix, IX; Matt, xxiv, 7; Lukexxi, 11). But 
there is no better argument for believing that “pesti- 
lence” in these instances means the glandular plague, 
than the fact of its living at present a prevalent epi- 
demic of the East. It is also remarkable that, the Mo- 
saic law, which contains such strict rules for the seclu- 
sion of lepers, should have allowed a disease to pass 


unnoticed, which is above all others the most deadly, 
and at the same time the most easily cheeked by sana- 
tory regulations of the same kind. Michaelis endeavors 
to explain why the Law contained no ordinances about 
the plague by arguing that, on account of the sudden 
appearance and brief duration of the disease, no perma- 
nent enactments could have been efficient in moderating 
its ravages, but only such preventive measures as varied 
according to the ever-varying circumstances of the ori- 
gin and course of its visitations (Mos. Recht, iv, 290). 
The destruction of Sennacherib's army (2 Kings xix, 35) 
has also been ascribed to the plague. But— not to in- 
sist on the circumstance that this awfully sudden anni- 
hilation of 1X5,000 men is not ascribed to any disease, 
but to the agency of an angel (since such passages as 2 
Sam. xxiv, 15, 1G, weaken this objection, and even Jo- 
sephus understood the cause to be a pestilence, A nt. x, 
1, 5) — it is impossible that such a mortality could have 
been produced, in one night, by a disease which spread 
itself by contagion, like the Oriental plague ; and the 
same remark applies, though in a less degree, to the 
three days’ pestilence in the reign of David (2 Sam. xxiv, 
13). There does not seem, therefore, to be any distinct 
notice of the plague in the Bible, and it is most probable 
that this can be accounted for by supposing either that 
no pestilence of antiquity in the East was as marked in 
character as the modern plague, or that the latter dis- 
ease then frequently broke out there as an epidemic in 
crowded cities, instead of following a regular course. 
See Disicask. 

The disease now called the plague, which has ravaged 
Egypt and neighboring countries in modern times, is 
supposed to have prevailed there in former ages. Ma- 
netho, the Egyptian historian, speaks of “a very great 
plague” in the reign of Semempses, the seventh king of 
the first dynasty, B.C. eir. 2275. The difficulty of deter- 
mining the character of the pestilences of ancient and 
mediaeval times, even when carefully described, warns 
us not to conclude that every such mention refers to the 
plague, especially as the cholera has, since its modern 
appearance, been almost as severe a scourge to Egypt as 
the more famous disease, which, indeed, as an epidemic 
seems there to have been succeeded by it. Moreover, 
if we admit, as we must, that there have been anciently 
pestilences very nearly resembling the modern plague, 
we must still hesitate to pronounce any recorded pesti- 
lence to be of this class unless it be described with some 
distinguishing particulars. The plague in recent times 
has not extended far beyond the Turkish empire and 
the kingdom of Persia. It has been assorted that Egypt 
is its cradle, but this does not seem to be corroborated 
by the later History' of the disease. It is there both spo- 
radic and epidemic; in the first form it has appeared al- 
most annually, in the second at rarer intervals. As an 
epidemic it takes the character of a pestilence, sometimes 
of the greatest severity. < )ur subsequent remarks apply 
to it in this form. It is a much-vexed question whether 
it is ever endemic : that such is the case is favored by 
its rareness since sanitary measures have been enforced. 
Inspecting the causes and origin of plague nothing is 
known. There cannot be the slightest doubt that it is 
propagated by absolute contact with, or a very near ap- 
proach to, the bodies or clothes of persons infected; but 
we are entirely at a loss to know how it is generated 
afresh. Extremes of temperature have a decided effect 
in putting a stop to it; hut Dr. Bussell observed that 
in the year 1701 the plague at Aleppo was mild, in 17G2 
it was severer, and in I7G3 it was very fatal; and yet 
there was no appreciable difference in the respective 
seasons of these years. In Egypt, the plague com- 
mences in autumn, and is regularly put an end to by the 
heats of summer; and it is even asserted that contami- 
nated goods are also disinfected at this time (see Buss- 
egger, Reisen , i, 23G sq.; Mariti, Tntr. p. 109 ; Prosp. Alp. 
Rev. i, 10). In Europe the plague disappeared 
during the winter. This was remarked in all the epi- 
demics except that from 1G3G to 1GI8, called the Great 


PLAGUE 257 PLAGUE 

Plague, on account of its long duration; but even in 1 three, or even four such tumors. They sometimes sub- 
this instance it abated considerably during the winter, side of themselves; or, what is more commonly the 
It was a common superstition that the plague abated on case, they suppurate : and as this process seldom* com- 
St. John’s day. The plague when most severe usually menees before the disease has taken a favorable turn, it 
appears lirst on the northern coast of Egypt, having is regarded as the cause, but more correctly as a sign, 
previously broken out in Turkey or North Africa west of approaching recovery. A carbuncle is an inflamma- 
of Egypt. It ascends the river to Cairo, rarely going tion of the skin, giving rise to a hard tumor, with pus- 
much farther. Thus Mr. Lane has observed that the tides or vesicles upon it. It resembles a common boil, 
great plague of 1835 ‘ : was certainly introduced from but differs from it in this important respect. The ear- 
Turkey” ( Modem Egyptians, 5th ed., p. 3, note 1). It bunele becomes gangrenous throughout its whole ex- 
was first noticed at Alexandria, ascended to Cairo, and tent, so that when the eschar separates a large deep 
farther to the southern part of Egypt, a few cases hav- ulcer is left. Under the term petechia? are included 
ing occurred at Thebes; and it “extended throughout evanescent spots and streaks of various hues, from a 
the whole of Egypt, though its ravages were not great pale blue to a deep purple, which give a marbled ap- 
in the southern parts" (ibul). The mortality is often pearance to the skin. When such livid streaks occur 
enormous, and Mr. Lane remarks of the plague just men- in the face, they disfigure the countenance so much that 
tioned : “It destroyed not less than eighty thousand a patient can hardly be recognised by his friends. The 
persons in Cairo, that is, one third of the population; disease varies so considerably in its symptoms and 
and far more, I believe, than two hundred thousand in course that it is impossible to give one description that 
all Egypt" (ibid.). When this pestilence visited Egypt, will suit even the majority of cases. Sometimes the 
in the summer of 1843, the deaths were not numerous, eruption does not appear at all, and even the general 
although, owing to the government’s posting a sentry symptoms are not of such violence as to lead an ignorant 
at each house in which any one had died of the disease, person to suspect the least danger. The patient is sud- 
to enforce quarantine, there was much concealment, and denly attacked with a loss of strength, a sense of confu- 
the number was not accurately known (Mrs. Poole, Eng- sion, weight in the head, oppression at the heart, and 
lishwoman in Egypt, ii, 32-35). Although since then extreme dejection of spirits. Such eases sometimes 
Egypt has been free from this scourge, Benghazi (lies- terminate fatally within twenty-four hours, and oeea- 
perides), in the pashalie of Tripoli, was almost depopu- sionallv on the second or third day. Generally, how- 
lated by it during part of the years 1860 and 1861. The ever, the patient is attacked with shivering or coldness, 
most fatal, and at the same time the most general cpi- which is soon followed by fever, giddiness, pain in the 
demie, was that which ravaged Asia, Africa, and the head, occasionally also by vomiting. Buboes and car- 
whole of Europe in the 14th century. It was called bnncles in most cases make their appearance on the first 
by the northern European nations “the Black Death,” day; and successive eruptions of them are not unusually 
and bv the Italians “la Mortilega Grande” — the great observed during the course of the disease. There is a 
mortality. According to Dr. Heeker, not less than peculiar and characteristic muddiness of the eye, which 
twenty-five millions perished by it in the short space of has been described by Dr. Bussell as a muddiness and 
three years, from 1347 to 1350. Since the commence- lustre strangely blended together. The fever remits 
ment of this century Europe has been free from the every morning, and increases during the day anil night, 
plague, with the exception of two or three instances. The vomiting then increases; the tumors become pain- 
It occurred at Noja, in the kingdom of Naples, in 1815 ful; and the patient wanders, and is inclined to stupor, 
and 1816; at the Lazaretto of Venice in 1818; in Grei- On the morning of the third day, in favorable cases, a 
fenberg, in Silesia, in 1819. It has not been seen in sweat breaks out, which produces great relief, and some- 
Great Britain since the great epidemic of 1665, which is times even proves critical. The exacerbation on the 
stated to have carried off eight thousand in one week, fourth day is more severe than on the preceding ones, 
Quarantine was first performed in one of the islands and continues intense until it is terminated by the sweat 
near Venice in 1485. Persons who had been cured of on the morning of the fifth day, which leaves the pa- 
plague in the Lazaretto on one of the adjoining islands tient weak, but in every respect relieved. After this the 
were sent there, and all those with whom they had had exacerbations become slighter and slighter; and the bu- 
intercourse, where they were detained forty days. This hoes, advancing favorably to suppuration, little or no fe- 
period was probably fixed upon on account of some ver remains after the beginning of the second week. In 
medical hypothesis. The fortieth day was regarded as other eases, again, the symptoms are far more urgent, 
the last day of ardent diseases, and that which separated Besides vomiting, giddiness, and headache, there is also 
them from chronic. Forty days constituted the philo- diarrhoea at the outbreak of the fever. During the 
sophieal month of alchemists. Theological, and even night the patient becomes delirious or comatose. The 
legal derivations have also been given. The forty pulse is full and strong; and though the tongue is not 
days of the flood ; Moses’s sojourn on Mount Sinai ; our dry, the thirst is excessive. The fever abates some- 
Lord’s fast; and, lastly, what is called the “Saxon term” what on the succeeding morning, but the pulse is fre- 
(Siiehsisehe Frist), which also lasts forty days. Bills quent, the skin hot and dry, and the patient dejected, 
of health were probably first established in 1507, by a As the second day advances, the vomiting and diar- 
couneil of health established at Venice during a fatal rheea become urgent, the eyes are muddy, the expression 
plague that visited Italy for five years; but they were of countenance confused, the pulse quick, and sometimes 
not generally used until 1665. It is to these great mea- low and fluttering, external heat moderately feverish, 
sures that Europe is indebted for its present immunity or occasionally intense in irregular flushings. There is 
from this terrible scourge; and it cannot be doubted pain at the heart, burning pain at. the pit of the stom- 
that but for the callous indifference of the Orientals ach, and incessant restlessness. When to these symp- 
(which proceeds from their fatalism, love of gain, and toms are joined faltering of the tongue or loss of speech, 
ignorance), the same measures would be adopted in the and the surface of the body becomes cold or covered 
East with the same success (Ileeker’s 1 list, of the Epi- with clammy sweats, death is inevitable, although it 
demies of the Middle Ages; Dr. Brown, art. Plague, in may still be at some distance. When the patient has 
Cyclop, of Pract. Med.). See Pestilence. been much weakened by the vomiting, diarrhoea, or 

The glandular plague, like the small-pox, is an erup- hemorrhage, the third day proves fatal; but more eom- 
tive fever, and is the most virulent and most contagions monly the disease is prolonged two or three days longer, 
disease with which we are acquainted. The eruption In this form of plague buboes appear on the second or 
consists of buboes, carbuncles, and petechia?. Buboes third day, and sometimes later; but whether they ad- 
are inflamed and swollen glands; and the glands so af- vanee towards suppuration or not, they seem to have 
feeted are generally those of the groin, axilla, neck, and no effect in hastening or retarding the termination of 
the parotid glands. More frequentlv there are tw'o, the disease. Lastly, in some eases, the eruption of bu- 
VIII. — It 


PLAGUES 


25S 


PLAGUES 


hoes arid carbuncles constitute the principal symptoms 
of the disease; and patients are so little indisposed that 
they are able to go about the streets, or attend to their 
usual avocations, if not prevented by the inflammation 
of inguinal tumors. The disease has never been suc- 
cessfully treated, except in isolated cases, or when the 
epidemic has seemed to have worn itself out. Deple- 
tion and stimulants have been tried, as with cholera, 
and stimulants with far better results. 

See Lildecke. Beschreib. des dirk, Ileichs, p. G 2 sq. ; 
< ilivier, Voyage, vol. i, c. 1* ; Nonnini, Jleise nark Grie- 
dauland. p. 3.X sq. ; Descript, de F Egypte, x iii, 81 sq. ; 
Hulard de Morn. De la Den te Orient. (Paris, 1833); 
L'Aubert, I)e la Peste,ou Typhus (ibid. IS It)); Hussell, 
Xat. Hist, of Aleppo; (’lot-Hey, De la Peste en Egypte 
(1X10), and Apergu general sur F Egypte, ii, 348-350. 
See Medicine. 

Plagues ob’ Egypt (for the use of the Hebrew 
word, see Plague), the term usually applied to the se- 
ries of divine visitations of wrath with which Jehovah 
punished the Egyptians, and especially their king, for 
their refusal to let Israel go. In considering the history 
of the Ten Plagues we have to notice the place where 
they occurred and the occasion on which they were 
sent, and to examine the narrative of each judgment, 
with a view to ascertain what it was and in what man- 
ner Pharaoh and the Egyptians were punished by it, as 
well as to see if we can trace any general connection 
between the several judgments; and we shall thus he 
prepared to estimate their providential character, as 
well as to determine how far they were miraculous 
events, and how far natural or simulated. In this dis- 
cussion we make large use of Poole’s article in Smith’s 
Diet, of the Bible, with additions from other sources. 
See Egypt: Moses. 

1. The History of the Occurrences. — 1. The Place . — 
Although it is distinctly stated that the plagues pre- 
vailed throughout Egypt, save, in the case of some, the 
Israelitish territory, the land of Goshen, yet the descrip- 
tions seem principally to apply to that part of Egypt 
which lay nearest to Goshen, and more especially to 
‘‘the field of Zoan,” or the tract about that city, since 
it seems almost certain that Pharaoh dwelt in the Delta, 
and that territory is especially indicated in Psa. Ixxviii, 
43. That the capital at this time was not more distant 
is evident from the time in which a message could he 
sent from Pharaoh to Moses on the occasion of the Exo- 
dus. The descriptions of the first and second plagues 
seem especially to refer to a land abounding in streams 
and lakes, and so rather to the Lower than to the Upper 
country. We must therefore look especially to Lower 
Egypt for our illustrations, while bearing in mind the 
evident prevalence of the plagues throughout the land. 

2. 'The Occasion. When that Pharaoh who seems to 
have been the first oppressor was dead, God sent Moses 
to deliver Israel, commanding him to gather the elders 
of his people together, and to tell them his commission. 
It is added, “And they shall hearken to thy voice: and 
thou shall come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the 
king of Egypt, and ye shall say unto him, The Lord God 
of tlie Hebrews hath met with us: and now let us go, 
we beseech thee, three days’ journey into the wilder- 
ness, that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. Anil 
I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, 
no, not by a mighty hand. And I will stretch out my 
hand, and smite Egypt with all mv wonders which I 
will do in the midst thereof: and after that he will let 
you go" (Exod. iii, 18 20). Emin what follows, that 
the Israelites should borrow jewels and raiment, and 
“spoil Egypt” (ver. 21, 22). it seems evident that they 
were to leave as if only lor the purpose of sacrificing; 
hut it will be seen that if they did so, Pharaoh, by his 
armed pursuit and overtaking them when they had en- 
camped at the close of the third day's journey, released 
Moses from his engagement. 

When Moses went to Pharaoh, Aaron went with him, 
because Muses, not judging himself to be eloquent, was 


diffident of speaking to Pharaoh. “And Moses said be- 
fore the Lord, Hchold, I [am] of uncircumcised lips, and 
how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me? And the Lord 
said unto Moses, Sec, 1 have made thee a god to Pha- 
raoh : and Aaron thy brother shall he thy prophet" 
(Exod. vi, 30; vii, 1 ; comp, iv, 10-16). We are there- 
fore to understand that even when Moses speaks it is 
rather by Aaron than himself. It is perhaps worthy 
of note that in the tradition of the Exodus which Manc- 
tlio gives, the calamities preceding the event are said to 
have been caused by the king’s consulting an Egyptian 
prophet; for this suggests a course which Pharaoh is 
likely to have adopted, rendering it probable that the 
magicians were sent for as the priests of the gods of the 
country, so that Moses was exalted hv contrast with 
these vain objects of worship. 

It has been asked, What period of time was occupied 
in the infliction of these successive plagues? In an- 
swer to this, some contend for a year; hut they have 
no better reason for this than that it enables them to 
compare tlie plagues with certain natural phenomena 
occurring at fixed seasons of the year in Egypt. This 
has been done with considerable ingenuity, though not 
without some rather violent straining in particular 
cases; but without some better reason than this we 
should not feel justified in accepting a hypothesis which 
the general tone of the narrative does not suggest. 
Each plague, according to the historian, lasted only for 
a short time; and unless we suppose an interval of sev- 
eral weeks between each, a few months or even weeks 
would afford sufficient time for the happening of the 
whole. We may now examine the narrative of each 
plague. 

3. The Plagues themselves. — We here notice first a 
preliminary phenomenon of the same general character 
with the “plagues.” When Moses and Aaron came 
before Pharaoh a miracle was required of them. Then 
Aaron’s rod became a “serpent” (A. V.), or rather “a 
crocodile” (’prr.). Its being changed into an animal 
reverenced by all the Egyptians, or by some of them, 
would have been an especial warning to Pharaoh. The 
Egyptian magicians called by the king produced what 
seemed to be the same wonder, yet Aaron's rod swal- 
lowed up the others (vii, 3 12). This passage, taken 
alone, would appear to indicate that the magicians suc- 
ceeded in working wonders, but if it is compared with 
those others relating their opposition on the occasions 
of the first three plagues, a contrary inference seems 
more reasonable. In this case the expression “they 
also did in like manner with their enchantments” (ver. 
11) is used, and it is repeated in the cases of their seem- 
ing success on the occasions of the first plague (ver. 
22), and the second (viii. 7), as well as when they failed 
on the occasion of the third plague (ver. 18). A com- 
parison with other passages strengthens us in the infer- 
ence that the magicians succeeded merely by juggling. 
Yet, even if they were able to produce any real effects 
by magic, a broad distinction should be drawn between 
the general and powerful nature of the wonders wrought 
by the hand of Moses and Aaron and their partial and 
weak imitations. See Magic. 

(1.) The “ Plague ” of Blood. — When Pharaoh had 
refused to let the Israelites go, Moses was sent again, 
and, on the second refusal, was commanded to smite 
upon the waters of the river, and to turn them and all 
the waters of Egypt into blood. The miracle was to 
be wrought when Pharaoh went forth in the morning 
to the river. Its general character is very remarkable, 
for not only was tlie water of the Nile smitten, but all 
the water, even that in vessels, throughout the country. 
The fish died, and the river stank. The Egyptians 
could not drink of it, and digged around it for water. 
This plague appears to have lasted seven days, for the 
account of it ends, “And seven days were fulfilled, after 
that the Lord had smitten the river” (vii, 13-25), and 
the narrative of the second plague immediately fol- 


PLAGUES 


259 


PLAGUES 


lows, as if the other had then ceased. Some difficulty 
has been occasioned by the mention that the Egyptians 
digged for water, but it is not stated that they so gained 
what they sought, although it may be conjectured that 
only the water that was seen was smitten, in order that 
the nation should not perish. It appears that the wa- 
ter, when filtered through the soil of the banks, regained 
its salubrity. This plague was doubly humiliating to 
the religion of the country, as the Nile was held sacred, 
as well as some kinds of its fish, not to speak of the 
crocodiles, which probably were destroyed. It may 
have been a marked reproof for the cruel edict that the 
Israelitish children should be drowned, and could scarce- 
ly have failed to strike guilty consciences as such, 
though Pharaoh does not seem to have been alarmed 
by it. He saw what was probably an imitation wrought 
by the magicians, who accompanied him, as if he were 
engaged in some sacred rites, perhaps connected with 
the worship of the Nile. Events having some resem- 
blance to this are mentioned by ancient writers; the 
most remarkable is related by Manetho, according to 
whom it was said that, in the reign of Nephercheres, 
seventh king of the second dynasty, the Nile flowed 
mixed with honey for eleven days. Some of the his- 
torical notices of the earliest dynasties seem to be of 
very doubtful authenticity, and Manetho seems to treat 
this one as a fable, or perhaps as a tradition. Nepher- 
cheres, it must be remarked, reigned several hundred 
years before the Exodus. Those who have endeavored 
to explain this plague by natural causes have referred 
to the changes of color to which the Nile is subject, the 
appearance of the lied Sea, and the so-called rain and 
dew of blood of the Middle Ages; the last two occa- 
sioned by small fungi of very rapid growth. But such 
theories do not explain why the wonder happened at a 
time of year when the Nile is most clear, nor why it 
killed the fish and made the water unfit to be drunk. 
These are the really weighty points, rather than the 
change into blood, which seems to mean a change into 
the semblance of blood. The employment of natural 
means in effecting a miracle is equally seen in the pas- 
sage of the Bed Sea; but the divine power is proved 
by the intensifying or extending that means, and the 
opportune occurrence of the result, and its fitness for a 
great moral purpose. See Nile. 

(2.) The “ Plague" of Frogs. — When seven days had 
passed after the smiting of the river, Pharaoh was 
threatened with another judgment, and, on his refusing 
to let the Israelites go, the second plague was sent. 
The river and all the open waters of Egypt brought 
forth countless frogs, which not only covered the land, 
but filled the houses, even in their driest parts and ves- 
sels, for the ovens and kueading-troughs are specified. 
The magicians again had a seeming success in their op- 
position; yet Pharaoh, whose very palaces were filled 
by the reptiles, entreated Moses to pray that they might 
be removed, promising to let the Israelites go; but, on 
the removal .of the plague, again hardened his heart 
(vii, 25 ; viii, I-L5). This must have been an especially 
trying judgment to the Egyptians, as frogs were in- 
cluded among the sacred animals, probably not among 
those which were reverenced throughout Egypt, like 
the cat, but in the second class of local objects of wor- 
ship, like the crocodile. The frog was sacred to the 
goddess Hekt, who is represented with the head of 
this reptile. In hieroglyphics the frog signifies “very 
many,” “ millions,” doubtless from its abundance. In 
the present day frogs abound in Egypt, and in the sum- 
mer and autumn their loud and incessant croaking in 
all the waters of the country gives some idea of this 
plague. They are not, however, heard in the spring, 
nor is there any record, excepting the Biblical one, of 
their having been injurious to the inhabitants. It 
must he added that the supposed cases of the same kind 
elsewhere, quoted from ancient authors, are of very 
doubtful authenticity. The species of reptile which 
was made the instrument of this infliction was probably 


the small frog of Egypt called by the natives dofda, the 
Puna Mosaica of Seetzen (Ileisen, ii, 245, 350 sq.). See 
Frog. 

(3.) The “ Plague" of Lice. — The account of the third 
plague is not preceded by the mention of any warning 
to Pharaoh. We read that Aaron was commanded to 
stretch out his rod and smite the dust, which became, 
as the A. V. reads the word, “lice” in man and beast." 
The magicians again attempted opposition ; but. failing, 
confessed that the wonder was of God (viii, 16-19). 
There is much difficulty as to the animals meant by the 
term C1-. The Masoretic punctuation in vcr. 13, 14 is 
CI2. kitmam, which would probably make it a collective 
noun with 3 formative; but the pointing ESS (vcr. 12) 
and the more decided plural form kiiinim, also oc- 

cur (ver. 13, 14; Psa. cv, 31), of which wc once find the 
singular *3 in Isaiah (li, 6). It is therefore reasonable 
to conjecture that the first form should be punctuated 
Ci3, as the defective writing of E^S3; and it should 
also be observed that the Samaritan has E*32. The 
Sept, has oKvi(ptc, and the Vulg. scinijrfies, mosquitoes, 
mentioned by Herodotus (ii, 95) and Philo (l)e Vila 
Mosis, i, 20, p. 97, ed. Mang.) as troublesome in Egypt. 
Josephus, however, makes the E23 lice (••!«/. ii, 14, 3), 
with which Bochart agrees ( ' Hieroz . ii, 572 sq.). The 
etymology is doubtful, and perhaps the word is Egyp- 
tian. The narrative docs not enable ns to decide which 
is the more probable of the two renderings, except, 

I indeed, that if it be meant that exactly the same kind 
of animal attacked man and beast, mosquitoes would 
be the more likely translation. In this case the plague 
does not seem to be especially directed against the su- 
perstitions of the Egyptians; if, however, it were of 
lice, it would have been most distressing to their priests, 
who were very cleanly, apparently, like the Moslems, as 
a religions duty. In the present day' both mosquitoes 
and lice are abundant in Egypt: the latter may be 
avoided, but there is no escape from the former, which 
are so distressing an annoyance that an increase of 
them would render life almost insupportable to beasts 
as well as men. It is therefore probable that some 
species of gnat or mosquito is meant. See Lice. 

(4.) The “ Plague" of Flies. — In the case of the fourth 
plague, as in that of the first, Moses was commanded to 
meet Pharaoh in the morning as he came forth to the 
water, and to threaten him with a judgment if he still 
refused to give the Israelites leave to go and worship. 
He was to be punished by 31?, arob, which the A. V. 
renders “swarms [of flies],” “a swarm [of flies],” or, in 
the margin, “a mixture [of noisome beasts].” These 
creatures were to cover the people, and fill both the 
houses and the ground. Here, for the first time, we 
read that the land of Goshen, where the Israelites dwelt, 
was to be exempt from the plague. So terrible was it 
that Pharaoh granted permission for the Israelites to 
sacrifice in the land, which Moses refused to do, as the 
Egyptians would stone his people for sacrificing their 
“ abomination.” Then Pharaoh gave them leave to 
sacrifice in the wilderness, provided they did not go 
far; but on the plague being removed broke his agree- 
ment (viii, 20-32). The proper meaning of the word 
31? is a question of extreme difficulty'. The explana- 
tion of Josephus (Anf. ii, 14, 3), and almost all the He- 
brew commentators, is that it means “a mixture,” and 
here designates a mixture of wild animals, in accordance 
with the derivation from the root 31?, “he mixed.” 
Similarly-, Jerome renders it omne genus muscarum , and 
Aquila irdggvia. The Sept., however, and Philo ( I)e 
Vita Mosis, i, 23; ii, 101, ed. Mang.) suppose it to be a 
dog-fly'. Kvvogma. The second of these explanations 
seems to be a compromise between the first and the 
third. It is almost certain, from two passages (Exod. 
viii, 29, 31 ; Hebrew, 25, 27), that a single creature is 
intended. If so, what reason is there in favor of the 


2G0 


PLAGUES 


PLAGUES 


Sept, rendering? Oedmann (J erm. Samuilungen, ii. 
1 fm. ap. « le.se n. Thesaur. s. v.) proposes the blutia orien- 
ttilis, a kind of beetle, instead of a dog-fly; but Ge- 
hcnius ol>jects that this creature devours things rather 
t Ii an stings men, whereas it is evident that the animal 
of this plague attacked or at least annoyed men, besides 
apparently injuring the land. From Tsa. Ixxviii, 15, 
where we read, "lie sent the -~r, which devoured 
them." it must have been a creature of devouring hab- 
its. as is observed by Kalisch ( Comment , on Exod. p. 
i;;s , who supports the theory that a beetle is intended. 
The Egyptian language might be hoped to give ns a 
dew to the rendering of the Sept, and Philo. In hie- 
roglyphics a fly is if, and a bee slab, or kheb, sh and 
kh being interchangeable in different dialects; and in 
(Coptic these two words are confounded in mifafub. 
haf\ meaning musca, apis, scarabmis. We can there- 
fore nnlv judge from the description of the plague; and 
here Gcsenius seems to have too hastily decided against 
the rendering ‘•beetle,’’ since the beetle sometimes at- 
tacks men. Vet modern experience does not bear out 
the idea that any kind of beetle is injurious to man in 
Egypt ; but there is a kind of gadtlv found in that 
country which sometimes stings men, though usually 
attacking beasts. The difficulty, however, in the way 
of the supposition that a stinging fly is meant is that 
all such flies are, like this one, plagues to beasts rather 
than men; and if we conjecture that a fly is intended, 
perhaps it is more reasonable to infer that it was the 
common fly, which in the present day is probably the 
most troublesome insect in Egypt. That this was a 
more severe plague than those preceding it appears 
from its effect on Pharaoh, rather than from the men- 
tion of the exemption of the Israelites, for it can scarce- 
ly be supposed that the earlier plagues affected them. 
As we do not know what creature is here intended, we 
cannot say if there were any reference in this case to 
the Egyptian religion. Those who suppose it to have 
been a beetle might draw attention to the great rever- 
ence in which that insect was held among the sacred 
animals, and the consequent distress that the Egyptians 
would have felt at destroying it, even if they did so 
unintentionally. As already noticed, no insect is now 
so troublesome in Egypt as the common fly, and this is 
not the case with any kind of beetle, which fact, from 
our general conclusions, will be seen to favor the evi- 
dence for the former. In the hot season the flies not 
only cover the food and drink, but they torment the 
people bv settling on their faces, and especially round 
their eyes, thus promoting ophthalmia. Sec Ely. 

(5.) The “ Via put' of the Murrain of JSeusts. — Pha- 
raoh was next warned that, if he did not let the people 
go. there should be on the day following “a very griev- 
ous murrain,” upon the horses, asses, camels, oxen, and 
sheep of Egypt, whereas those of the children of Israel 
should not die. This came to pass, and we read that 
“all the cattle of Egypt died : but of the cattle of the 
children of Israel died not one.” Yet Pharaoh still con- 
tinued obstinate ( Exod. ix, 1 7j. It is to be observed 
flint the expression all the cattle" cannot be under- 
stood to be universal, but only general, for the narrative 
of the plague of bail shows that there were still at a 
later time some cattle left, and that the want of univer- 
sal terms in Hebrew explains this seeming difficulty. 
Tht* mention of camels is important, since it appears to 
favor our opinion that the Pharaoh of the Exodus was 
a foreigner, camels apparently not having been kept bv 
the Egyptians of the time of the Pharaohs. This 
plague would have been a heavy punishment to the 
Egyptians as falling upon their sacred animals of two 
of the kinds specified, the oxen and the sheep; but it 
would have been most felt in the destruction of the 
greatest part of their useful hearts. In modern timis 
murrain is not an imfrcquenl visitation in Egypt, and is 
supposed to precede l lie plague. A very severe mur- 
rain occurred in that country in 1X12, which lasted nine 


months, during the latter half of that year and the 
spring of the following one, and was succeeded by the 
plague, as had been anticipated (Mrs. Poole, English- 
woman in Egypt, ii, 32; i, 59, 114). “‘A very grievous 

murrain,’ forcibly reminding us of that which visited 
this same country in the days of Moses, has prevailed 
during the last three months”— the letter is dated Oct. 
IX, 1X12 — “and the already distressed peasants feel the 
calamity severely, or rather (I should say) the few who 
possess cattle. Among the rich men of the country 
the loss has been enormous. During our voyage up the 
Nile,” in the July preceding, “we observed several dead 
cows and buffaloes lying in the river, as I mentioned in 
a former letter; and some friends who followed us, two 
months after, saw many on the banks; indeed up to 
this time great numbers of cattle are dying in every 
part of the country” {ibid, i, 114, 115). The similarity 
of the calamity in character is remarkably in contrast 
with its difference in duration : the miraculous murrain 
seems to have been as sudden and nearly as brief as 
the destruction of the first-born (though far less terri- 
ble), and to have therefore produced, on ceasing, less 
effect than other plagues upon Pharaoh, nothing re- 
maining to be removed. See Murrain. 

(6.) The “ Plague ” of Moils. — The next judgment 
appears to have been preceded by no warning, except, 
indeed, that when Moses publicly sent it abroad in 
Egypt, Pharaoh might no doubt have repented at the 
last moment. We read that Moses and Aaron were to 
take ashes of the furnace, and Moses was to “sprinkle it 
toward the heavens in the sight of Pharaoh.” It was 
to become “small dust” throughout Egypt, and “be a 
boil breaking forth [with] blains upon man and upon 
beast.” This accordingly came to pass. The magicians 
now once more seem to have attempted opposition, for 
it is related that they “could not stand before Moses 
because of the boil ; for the boil was upon the magicians, 
and upon all the Egyptians.” Notwithstanding, Pha- 
raoh still refused to let the Israelites go (Exod. ix, 
8-12). This plague may be supposed to have been 
cither an infliction of boils, or a pestilence like the 
plague of modern times, which is an extremely severe 
kind of typhus fever, accompanied by swellings. See 
Plague. The former is. however, the more likely ex- 
planation, since, if the plague had been of the latter 
nature, it probably would have been less severe than 
the ordinary pestilence of Egypt has been in this 19th 
century, whereas with other plagues which can be il- 
lustrated from the present phenomena of Egypt the 
reverse is the case. That this plague followed that of 
the murrain seems, however, an argument on the other 
side, and it may be asked whether it is not likely that 
the great pestilence of the country, probably known in 
antiquity, would have been one of the ten plagues; but 
to this it may he replied that it is more probable, and 
in accordance with the whole narrative, that extraor- 
dinary and unexpected wonders should lie effected than 
what could be paralleled in the history of Egypt. The 
tenth plague, moreover, is so much like the great Egyp- 
tian disease in its suddenness, that it might rather be 
compared to it if it were not so wholly miraculous in 
every respect as to be beyond the reach of hitman in- 
quiry. flic position of the magicians must be noticed 
as indicative of the gradation of the plagues: at first 
they succeeded, as we suppose, by deception, in imitat- 
ing what was wrought by Moses, then they failed, and 
acknowledged the linger of God in the wonders of the 
Hebrew prophet, and at last they could not even stand 
before him, being themselves smitten by the plague he 
was commissioned to send. The boil shevhin ) 

was a scab or pustule, which might or might not break 
out into an ulcerous sore (Lev. xiii, 18 sq.4. With this, 
in one of its worst forms. Job was atilieted (ii, 7), and by 
this llezckiah was brought to the verge of the grave (2 
Kings xx. 7; Isa. xxxviii, 21): it was an eruption of a 
very painful kind, accompanied with a burning itch, and 


PLAGUES 


261 


PLAGUES 


tending to produce a permanent state of foul and wast- 
ing disease. One species of it which seized upon the 
legs and knees, and was regarded as incurable, was pe- 
culiar to Egypt, and was hence called “the botch of 
Egypt” (Dent, xxviii, 27, 35). In the case before us, 
this eruption had a tendency to break out into larger 
swellings (rVZVZX, from unused “12, to boil up, to 
swell), and became probably the disease called elephan- 
tiasis, a disease said to be peculiar to Egypt, or the 
black leprosy, a disease which also affects cattle under 
the name of melandria (Jahn, Archaol. I, i. 381 sq.). It 
was something evidently more severe and deadly than 
the endemic Nile-fever, or eruption which visits Egypt 
periodically about the time of the overflowing of the 
Nile, and with which some writers would identify it. 
See Boil. 

(7.) The “ Plague ” of ITail. — The account of the sev- 
enth plague is preceded by a warning, which Moses 
was commanded to deliver to Pharaoh, respecting the 
terrible nature of the plagues that were to ensue if 
he remained obstinate. First of all of the hail it is 
said, “ Behold, to-morrow about this time I will cause 
it to rain a very grievous hail, such as hath not been 
in Egypt since the foundation thereof even until now.” 
He was then told to collect his cattle and men into 
shelter, for everything hailed upon should die. Ac- 
cordingly, such of Pharaoh’s servants as “feared the 
Lord,” brought in their servants and cattle from the 
field. We read that “Moses stretched forth his rod 
toward heaven : and the Lord sent thunder and hail, 
and the fire ran along upon the ground.” Thus man 
and beast were smitten, and the herbs and every tree 
broken, save in the land of Goshen. Upon this Pha- 
raoh acknowledged his wickedness and that of his peo- 
ple, and the righteousness of God, and promised if the 
plague were withdrawn to let the Israelites go. Then 
Moses went forth from the city, and spread out his 
hands, and the plague ceased, when Pharaoh, supported 
by his servants, again broke his promise (Exod. ix, 13- 
35). The character of this and the following plagues 
must be carefully examined, as the warning seems to 
indicate an important turning-point. The ruin caused 
by the hail was evidently far greater than that effected 
by any of the earlier plagues; it destroyed men, which 
those others seem not to have done, and not only men, 
but beasts and the produce of the earth. In this case 
Moses, while addressing Pharaoh, openly warns his ser- 
vants how to save something from the calamity. Pha- 
raoh for the first time acknowledges his wickedness. 
We also learn that his people joined with him in the 
oppression, and that at this time he dwelt in a city. 
Hail is now extremely rare, but not unknown, in Egypt, 
and it is interesting that the narrative seems to imply 
that it sometimes falls there. Thunder-storms occur, 
but, though very loud and accompanied by rain and 
wind, they rarely do serious injury. Those long resi- 
dent in Egypt do not remember to have heard while 
there of a person struck by lightning, nor of any ruin 
excepting that of decayed buildings washed down by 
rain. See Hail. 

(8.) The “ Plague ” of Locusts. — Pharaoh was now 
threatened with a plague of locusts, to begin the next 
day, by which everything the hail had left was to be 
devoured. This was to exceed any like visitations 
that had happened in the time of the king’s ancestors. 
At last Pharaoh’s own servants, who had before sup- 
ported him, remonstrated, for we read, “And Pharaoh’s 
servants said unto him, How long shall this man be a 
snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the 
Lord their God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is 
destroyed?” They suggested a compromise with Mo- ' 
ses, proposing that the men should be allowed to go 
with him to offer sacrifice to Jehovah in the wilder- 
ness, while by retaining the females they made sure of 
the men’s returning to their servitude. Then Pharaoh 
sent for Moses and Aaron, and offered to let the people 


go, but refused when they required that all should go, 
even with their flocks and herds. “And Moses stretched 
forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the Lord 
brought an east wind upon the land all that day, and 
all [that] night ; [and] when it was morning the east 
wind brought the locusts. And the locusts went up over 
all the land of Egypt, and rested in all the coasts of 
Egypt: very grievous [were they]; before them there * 
were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall 
be such. For they covered the face of the whole earth, 
so that the land was darkened; and they did eat every 
herb of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which the 
hail had left: and there remained not any green thing 
in the trees, or in the herbs of the field, through all the 
land of Eygpt.” Then Pharaoh hastily sent for Moses 
and Aaron, and confessed his sin against God and the 
Israelites, and begged them to forgive him : “ Now, 
therefore, forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, 
and entreat the Lord your God that he may take away 
from me this death only.” Moses accordingly prayed. 

“ And the Lord turned a mighty strong west wind, which 
took away the locusts, and cast them into the Bed Sea; 
there remained not one locust in all the coasts of Egypt.” 
The plague being removed, Pharaoh again would not let 
the people go (x, 1-20). This plague has not the un- 
usual nature of the one that preceded it, but it even ex- 
ceeds it in severity, and so occupies its place in the gra- 
dation of the more terrible judgments that form the 
later part of the series. Its severity can be well under- 
stood by those who have been in Egypt in a part of the 
country where a flight of locusts has alighted. In this 
case the plague was greater than an ordinary visitation, 
since it extended over a far wider space, rather than 
because it was more intense; for it is impossible to im- 
agine any more complete destruction than that always 
caused by a swarm of locusts. So well did the people 
of Egypt know what these creatures effected, that when 
their coming was threatened Pharaoh’s servants at once 
remonstrated. In the present day locusts suddenly ap- 
pear in the cultivated land, coming from the desert in a 
column of great length. They fly rapidly across the 
country, darkening the air with their compact ranks, 
which are undisturbed by the constant attacks of kites, 
crows, and vultures, and making a strange whizzing 
sound like that of fire, or many distant wheels. Where 
they alight they devour every green thing, even strip- 
ping the trees of their leaves. Kewards are offered for 
their destruction, but no labor can seriously reduce their 
numbers. Soon they continue their course, and disap- 
pear gradually in a short time, leaving the place where 
they have been a desert. The following careful descrip- 
tion of the effects of a flight of locusts is from Mr. 
Lane’s manuscript notes. He writes of Nubia: 

“Locusts not mifreqnently commit dreadful havoc in 
this country. In my second voyage up the Nile, when 
before the village of Bnstau, a little above Ibrim, many 
locusts pitched upon the boat. They were beautifully 
variegated, yellow and blue. In the following night a 
southerly wind brought other locusts in immense swarms. 
Next morning the air was darkened by them, as by a 
heavy fall of snow; and the surface of the ground was 
thickly scattered over by those which had fallen and were 
unable to rise again. Great numbers came upon and 
within the boat, and alighted upon our persons. They 
were different from those of the preceding day, being of a 
bright yellow color, with brown marks. The desolation 
they made was dreadful. In four hours a field of young 
durrah [millet] was cropped to the ground. In another 
field of durrah more advanced only the stalks were left. 
Nowhere was there space on the ground to set the foot 
without treading on many. A field of cotton-plants was 
quite stripped. Even the acacias along the banks were 
made bare, and palm-trees were stripped of the fruit and 
leaves. Last night we heard the creaking of the s^kiyehs 
[water-wheels], and the singing of women driving* the 
cows which turned them: to-day not one sakiyeh was in 
motion, and the women were going about howlinc, and 
vainly attempting to frighten away the locusts. On the 
preceding day I had preserved two of the more beautiful 
Kind of these creatures with a solution of arsenic: on the 
next day some of the other locusts ate them almost en- 
tirely, poisoned as they were, unseen by me till they had 
nearly finished their meal. On the third day they’weie 
less numerous, aud gradually disappeared. Locusts are 


262 


PLAGUES 


PLAGUES 


eaten by most of the Bedavvin of Arabia, and by some of 
the Nubians, We ate a few, dressed in the most approved 
manner, being stripped of the legs, wings, and head, and 
fried in butter. Thev had a flavor somewhat like that of 
the woodcock, owing to their food. The Arabs preserve 
them as a common article of provision by parboiling them 
in salt and water, and then drying them tu the sun. j 
The parallel passages in the prophecy of Joel form a 
remarkable commentary on the description of the plague 
in Exodus, and a few must be here quoted, for they de- 
scribe with wonderful exactness and vigor the devasta- 
tions of a swarm of locusts: “Blow ye the trumpet in 
Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain : let all 
the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of the 
Lord cometh, for [it is] nigh at hand; a day of dark- 
ness and of gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick 
darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains: 
a great people and a strong; there hath not been ever 
the like, neither shall be any more after it, [even] to the 
years of many generations. A lire dovoureth before 
them ; and behind them a Hame burnetii: the land [is] 
as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a 
desolate wilderness; yea, and nothing shall escape them. 
The appearance of them [is] as the appearance of horses ; 
and ns horsemen, so shall they run. Like the noise of 
chariots on the tops of mountains shall they leap, like 
the noise of a flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, 
as a strong people set in battle array. ... 1 hey shall 
run like mighty men; they shall climb the wall like 
men of war; aiul they shall march every one on his 
ways, and they shall not break their ranks. . . . The 
earth shall quake before them; the heavens shall trem- 
ble: the sun and the moon shall be dark, and the stars 
shall withdraw their shining” (ii, 1-5, 7, 10; see also G, 
S, y, 1 1-25 ; Ilev. ix, 1 -12). 1 Iere, and probably also in 

the parallel passage ot Revelation, locusts are taken as 
a type of a destroying army or horde, since they are 
more terrible in the devastation they cause thau any 
other creatures. See Locust. 

(U.) The “Plague" of Darkness .— After the plague 
of locusts we read at once of a fresh judgment: “And 
the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand to- 
ward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land 
of Egypt, that [one] may feel darkness. And Moses 
stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was 
a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days: 
they saw not one another, neither rose any from his 
place for three days: but all the children of Israel had 
light in their dwellings.” Pharaoh then gave the Is- 
raelites leave to go if only they left tlieir cattle; but 
when Moses required that they should take these also, 
lie again refused (Exod. x, 21 2‘J). The expression we 
have rendered “that [one] may feel darkness," accord- 
ing to the A. V. in the margin, where in the text the 
freer translation “darkness [which] may be felt” is 
given, has occasioned much didiculty. 1'he Sept, and 
Yulg. give this rendering, and the moderns generally 
follow them. It has been proposed to read “and they 
shall grope ill darkness,” by a slight change of render- 
ing, and the supposition that the particle 2 is under- 
stood (lvalisch, Comment, on Exod. p. 171). it is unrea- 
sonable to argue that the forcible words of the A. V. are 
too strong lor Shcmitic phraseology. The difficulty is, 
however, rather to be solved by a consideration of the 
nature of the plague. It lias been illustrated by refer- 
ence to the siinum and the hot wind of the khamsin. 
The former is a sandstorm which occurs in the desert, 
seldom lasting, according to Mr. Lane, more than a 
quarter of an hour or twenty minutes (Mod. Eg. 5th ed. 
p. 2); but for the time often causing the darkness of 
twilight, and affecting man and beast. Mrs. Poole, on 
Mr. Lane's authority, lias described the simum as fol- 
lows: 

“The ‘simflm,’ which is a very violent, hot, and al- 
most sufl'ocntiii<r wind, is of more rare occurrence than 
the khamsin winds, aiul of shorter duration; it* con- 
tinuance being more brief in proportion to the intensity 
of its pure him; heat and the impetuosity of its course. 
Its dircctiou is generally from the south-east, or south- 


south-east. It is commonly preceded by a fearful calm. 
As it approaches, the atmosphere assumes a yellowish 
hue, tinged with red ; the sun appears of a deep blood 
color, and gradually becomes quite concealed before the 
hot blast is felt in its full violence. The sand and dust 
raised by the wind add to the gloom, and increase the 
painful e'flects of the heat and rarity of the air. Respira- 
tion becomes uneasy, perspiration seems to be entirely 
stopped ; the tongue is dry, the skin parched, and a prick- 
ing sensation is experienced, as if caused by electric 
sparks. It is sometimes impossible for a person to re- 
main erect, on account of the force of the wind ; nnd the 
sand and dust oblige all who are exposed to it to keep 
their eyes closed. It is, however, most distressing when 
it overtakes travellers in the desert. My brother encoun- 
tered at Kus, in Upper Egypt, a simum which was said 
to be one of t lie most violent ever witnessed. It lasted 
less than half an hour, and a very violent simum seldom 
continues longer. My brother is of opinion that, although 
it is extremely distressing, it can never prove fatal, un- 
less to persons already brongbt almost to the point of 
death by disease, fatigue, thirst, or some other cause. 
The poor camel seems to suffer from it equally with his 
master; and will often lie down with his back to the 
wind, close his eyes, stretch out his long neck upon the 
ground, and so remain until the storm has passed over” 
(Englishwoman in Egypt, i, 9G, 97). 

The hot w ind of the khamsin usually blows for three 
days and nights, and carries so much sand with it that 
it produces the appearance of a yellow' fog. It thus 
resembles the simum, though far less powerful and far 
less distressing in its effects. It is not known to cause 
actual darkness; at least residents in Egypt mention 
no example either on experience or hearsay evidence. 
By a confusion of the simum and the khamsin wind it 
has even been supposed that a simfim in its utmost 
violence usually lasts three days (Kalisch, Comment. 

I on Exod. p. 170), but this is an error. The plague 
may, however, have been an extremely severe sand- 
storm, miraculous in its violence and its duration, for 
the length of three days does not make it natural, since 
| the severe storms are always very brief. Perhaps the 
j three days was the limit, as about the longest period that 
the people could exist without leaving their houses. It 
lias been supposed that this plague rather caused a su- 
pernatural terror than actual suffering and loss, but this 
is by no means certain. The impossibility of moving 
about, and tbe natural fear of darkness whirl) affects 
beasts anil birds as well as men, as in a total eclipse, 
would have caused suffering; and if the plague were a 
sandstorm of unequalled severity, it would have pro- 
duced the conditions of fever by its parching heat, be- 
sides causing much distress of other kinds. An evi- 
dence in favor of the wholly supernatural character of 
this plague is its preceding the last judgment of all. the 
death of the first-born, as if it wore a terrible foreshad- 
owing of that great calamity. See Simum. 

(10.) The 1 tenth of the Eirst-horn .— Before the tenth 
plague Moses went to warn Pharaoh : “And Moses 
said. Thus saith the Lord, About midnight will I go 
out into the midst of Egypt: and all the first-born in 
tbe land of Egypt shall die, from the tirst-born of Pha- 
raoh that sittoth upon his throne, even unto the first- 
born of the maidservant that (is] behind the mill; and 
all the first-born of beasts. And there shall be a great 
cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there was 
none like it, nor shall be like it any more.” lie then 
foretold that Pharaoh’s servants would pray him to go 
forth. Positive as is this declaration, it seems to have 
been a conditional warning, for we read, “And lie went 
out from Pharaoh in beat of anger,” anil it is added 
that God said that Pharaoh would not hearken to Mo- 
ses. and that the king of Egypt still refused to let Israel 
go (Exod. xi, 4, 10). The Passover was then instituted, 
and the houses of the Israelites sprinkled with the blood 
of the victims. The first-born of the Egyptians were 
smitten at midnight, as Moses had forewarned Pharaoh, 
“And Pharaoh rose lip in the. night, he, and all his ser- 
vants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a great 
' cry in Egypt ; for [there was] not a house where [ there 
, was] not one dead” (xii, SO). The clearly miraculous 
nature of this plague, in its severity, its falling upon 
man and beast, and the singling out of the lirsl-born, 


PLAGUES 


263 


PLAGUES 


puts it wholly beyond comparison with any natural pes- 
tilence, even the severest recorded in history, whether of 
the peculiar Egyptian plague, or other like epidemics. 
The Bible affords a parallel in the smiting of Sennach- 
erib’s army, and still more closely in some of the pun- 
ishments of murmurers in the wilderness. The pre- 
vailing customs of Egypt furnish a curious illustra- 
tion of the narrative of this plague. It is well known 
that many ancient Egyptian customs are yet observed. 
Among these one of the most prominent is the wailing 
for the dead by the women of the household, as. well as 
those hired to mourn. It was thus in the great cholera 
of 1848 at Cairo. This pestilence, as we all know, fre- 
quently follows the course of rivers. Thus, on that oc- 
casion, it ascended the Nile, and showed itself in great 
strength at Bulak, the port of Cairo, distant from the 
city about a mile and a half to the westward. For some 
days it did not traverse this space. Every evening at 
sunset it is the custom to go up to the terrace on the 
roof of the house. There, in that calm, still time, might 
be heard each night the Avail of the women of Bulak 
for their dead borne along in a great wave of sound a 
distance of two miles, the lamentation of a city stricken 
with pestilence. So, when the first-born Avere smitten, 
(i there Avas a great cry in Egypt.” See Fikst-born. 

The history of the ten plagues strictly ends Avith the 
death of the first-born. The pursuit and the passage 
of the Bed Sea are discussed elseAvliere. See Bed Sea, 
Passage of. Here it is only necessary to notice that 
Avith the event last mentioned the recital of the Avon- 
ders Avrought in Egypt concludes, and the history of 
Israel as a separate people begins. See Exode. 

I T. General Considerations. — Having examined the 
narrative of the ten plagues in detail, Ave can uoav speak 
of their character and relations as a Avhole. 

1. Miraculous Nature of the Inflictions. — In the 
above account Ave have constantly kept in view the ar- 
guments of those Avho hold that the plagues Avere not 
miraculous, and, while fully admitting all the illustra- 
tion that the physical history of Egypt has afforded us, 
both in our own obsen’ation and the observation of 
others, Ave liaA r e found no reason for the naturalistic 
A'ieAv in a single instance, Avhile in many instances the 
illustrations from knoAvn phenomena have been so dif- 
ferent as to bring out the miraculous element in the 
narrative with the greatest force, and in every case that 
element has been necessary, unless the narrative be de- 
prived of its rights as historical evidence. Yet more, 
avc have found that the advocates of a naturalistic ex- 
planation have been forced by their bias into a distor- 
tion and exaggeration of natural phenomena in their 
emleaAmr to find in them an explanation of the Avonders 
recorded in the Bible. As miraculous the historian ob- 
viously intends us to regard them, and they are else- 
Avhere spoken of as the “Avonders” (D^PEYE) Avhich 
God wrought in the land of Ham (Psa. ca*, 27), as his 
miracles in Egypt (evi, 7), as his signs 

and prodigies (C'-rE’El tYirX) Avhich he sent into the 
midst of Egypt (cxxxa', 9), etc. It is only under this 
aspect that Ave can accept the narrative as historical. 
It is true that many of them appear to have been of the 
same kind Avith phenomena natural to the country ; but 
this cannot be said of all of them ; and in the case of 
those of Avhich it can be said, the presence of the super- 
natural is seen not only in the unparalleled degree to 
Avhich the infliction reached, but still more in the com- 
plete command Avhich Avas exercised by Moses as the 
agent of Jehovah over the coming and going of the 
visitation. The exemption of the Israelites from the 
general calamity is also clearly assigned to the miracu- 
lous. The only alternative, therefore, alloAved to us is 
to reject the whole narrative as mythic, or to accept it 
as miraculous. The attempts made by Eichhorn and 
the older rationalists to give natural explanations of 
these plagues, only exhibit the deplorable expedients 
to AA'hich an unsound hypothesis may compel able men 


to resort. They were evidently nearly all miracnlous 
in time of occurrence and degree rather than essentially, 
in accordance Avith the theory that God generally em- 
ploys natural means in producing miraculous effects. 
They seem to have been sent as a series of Avarnings, 
each being someAvliat more severe than its predecessor, 
to Avhich Ave see an analogy in the Avarnings Avhich the 
providential government of the Avorld often puls before - 
the sinner. The first plague corrupted the SAveet Avater 
of the Nile and sleAv the fish. The second filled the 
land Avith frogs, Avhich corrupted the Avhole country. 
The third covered man and beast Avith vermin or other 
annoying insects. The fourth Avas of the same kind, 
and probably a yet severer judgment. With the fifth 
plague, the murrain of beasts, a loss of property began. 
The sixth, the plague of boils, Avas Avorse than the ear- 
lier plagues that had affected man and beast. The sev- 
enth plague, that of hail, exceeded those that Avent be- 
fore it, since it destroyed everything in the field, man 
and beast and herb. The eighth plague Avas evidently 
still more grievous, since the devastation by locusts 
must have been far more thorough than that by the 
hail, and since at that time no greater calamity of the 
kind could have happened than the destruction of all 
remaining vegetable food. The ninth plague Ave do 
not sufficiently understand to be sure that it exceeded 
this in actual injury, but it is clear from the narratn-e 
that it must haA'e caused great terror. The last plague 
is the only one that Avas general in the destruction of 
human life, for the effects of the hail cannot have been 
comparable to those it produced, and it completes the 
climax, unless indeed it be held that the passage of the 
Bed Sea Avas the croAvning point of the Avhole series of 
Avonders, rather than a separate miracle. In this case 
its magnitude, as publicly destroying the king and his 
Avhole army, might even surpass that of the tenth 
plague. 

2. Their Historical Character. — These events, though 
supernatural, all find a foundation in the natural phe- 
nomena of Egypt, and stand in close connection Avith 
ordinary occurrences. Hence the rationalist Bohlen 
says that “Moses, in order to avoid the suspicion of 
self-deception, Avas at least obliged to express himself 
in the mildest manner possible among his contempo- 
raries, Avho Avere so avcII acquainted Avith Egypt, if he 
Avished to make the commonly observed natural phe- 
nomena avail as miracles.” To this remark llengsten- 
berg replies ( Egypt and the Books of Moses, in English, 
Edinb. 1851) : 

“ But it is perfectly clear that these occurrences, as they 
are related, notAvithstaiuling their foundation in nature, 
ahvays maintained their character as miracles, ami con- 
sequently are sufficient to prove what they are intended 
to prove, and to accomplish Avhat they did accomplish. 
Indeed, the unusual force in Avhich the common exhibi- 
tions of nature here manifest themselves, and especially 
their rapid succession, while at other times only a single 
one exhibits itself Avith unusual intensity— if Ave at the 
same time consider these eA-ents in connection Avith the 
changing cause of them, and also take into account the 
exemption of the land of Goshen— bring us to the limits 
of the miraculous; for the transition to the miraculous is 
reached through the extraordinary in its highest grada- 
tion. But Ave are brought into the sphere of the miracu- 
lous itself, by the circumstance that these things are in- 
troduced and performed by Moses, that they cease at his 
request, and a part of them at a time fixed upon by Pha- 
raoh himself (Exod.A'iii, 5 sq.). Hence the connection Avith 
natural phenomena can be made to avail against the Pen- 
tateuch ouly Avhen, going beyond the present narrative, 
Ave limit Avhat. in it can be explained by the natural oc- 
currences of Egypt, aud establish the presumption that 
the remainder belongs to fiction. But this assumption 
Avants all foundation. The supernatural presents gen- 
erally, in the Scriptures, no violent opposition to the nat- 
ural, but rather unites in a friendly alliance Avith it. This 
folloAvs from the most intimate relation in which natural 
events also stand to God. The endeavor to isolate the 
miraculous can aid only impiety. Bnt there Avas here a 
particular reason also ’for uniting the supernatural as 
closely as possible Avith the natural. The object to Avhich 
all of these occurrences Avere directed, according to Exod. 
viii, 20, aa'us to sIioav that Jehovah is Lord in the midst 
of the land. Well-grounded proof of this could not have 
been produced by bringing suddenly upon Egypt a sue- 


264 


PLAGUES 


PLAGUES 


cession of strange terrors. From these it would only | 
have followed that Jehovah had received a momentary 
and external power over Kgvpt. On the contrary, if t heir 
annual return were placed under the immediate control 
of Jehovah, it would he appropriately shown that he was 
tiod in the midst of the laud, and the doom of the false 
gods which had been placed in his stead wunld go forth, 
and they would be entirely driven out of the jurisdiction 
which was considered as belonging to them." 

Some objectors have affected to throw discredit upon 
the Mosaic narrative by remarking that no traces of 
any allusion to these plagues of the Egyptians are dis- 
coverable upon the monuments of that country. To 
this the reply is easy. The monuments in question 
were reared under the superintendence of the heathen 
priesthood, and miracles such as these were too hum- 
bling to their pride, ami too destructive of their intlu- 
oncc with the people, to render it likely that they would 
allow them to be recorded in any maimer. Victories, 
triumphs, religions processions, and whatever was cal- 
culated to exalt the gods and kings in the minds of the 
people, were the only subjects permitted to be sculpt- 
ured on the walls of the temples; and the usages of 
domestic life furnish the subjects of the paintings of the 
tombs. In the examination we have made it will have 
been seen that the Biblical narrative has been illustrated 
by reference to the phenomena of Egypt and the man- 
ners of the inhabitants, and that, throughout, its aeon- j 
racy in minute particulars has been remarkably shown, 
to a degree that is sufficient of itself to prove its his- 
torical truth. This in a narrative of wonders is of no 
small importance. See Musics. 

3. The Egyptian Counterfeits. — Of the deeds per- 
formed by Moses some were imitated by the magicians 
of the l’haraoh. To account for this, various hypoth- 
eses have been resorted to. 1. It has been supposed 
that they were enabled to do this by diabolic aid. But 
this assumes the position that men can enter into agree- 
ment or compact with evil spirits so as to receive their 
aid— a position which has never been proved, and con- 
sequently cannot be legitimately assumed to explain 
an actual phenomenon. This hypothesis assumes also 
that evil spirits can work miracles, a position no less 
gratuitous and improbable. 2. It lias been maintained 
that the magicians were aided by (Jod to do what they 
did; that they were instruments in his hand, as was 
the witch who raised Samuel, and were therefore as 
much surprised at their own success as she was; and 
that (bid thus employed them probably to show in the 
most decisive manner that the agency at work was his, 
and that it was just as he gave the power or withheld 
it that the miracle was performed. For this hypothe- 
sis there is much to be said. At the same time it is 
open to objection, for — ( 1 ) While Moses distinctly asserts 
that it was by divine power that he and Aaron wrought, 
he never hints, even in the most distant way, that it 
was by this that the magicians succeeded in their at- 
tempts; and (2) It is expressly said, on the contrary, 
that what they did they did by means of their “en- 
chantments.'’ The word here used (— I"IP) means a 
secret art — hence magical arts, enchantments; and may 
be properly used to designate the covert tricks or jug- 
gling artifices bv which practiecrs of legerdemain im- 
pose upon others. This leads to the 3d hypothesis, 
which is that the achievements of the magicians were 
merely clever tricks by which they imposed upon the 
people, and tended to confirm the l'haraoh in his ob- 
duracy. This hypothesis has in its favor the fact that 
the magicians of Egypt, and of the East generally, have 
always, down to our own day, possessed .mu unparalleled 
ami almost incredible dexterity in artificial magic (see 
Lane, Modern Egyptians, p. 3.V2 sq.fi It is to be borne 
in mind, also, that in the eases before us these magi- 
cians were allowed time to prepare themselves, and to 
go through those introductory process* s hv means of 
which jugglers mainly succeed in cheating the behold- 
ers; and, moreover, it is important to keep in view that 
they performed before witnesses who were interested in 


believing in their success. Above all, in the three feats 
in which they succeeded, there was really nothing but 
what the jugglers of the present day could easily do. 
The jugglers of India will, for a few pence, do tricks 
with serpents far more wonderful than making them 
rigid so as to resemble staves; and any juggler could 
make water in a basin or a tank resemble blood, or, 
when the country was already swarming with frogs, 
could cover some place that had been cleared for the 
purpose with these reptiles, as if he had suddenly pro- 
duced them. The performances of these magicians are 
really below par as compared with those which may he 
witnessed in the room of any travelling conjurer among 
ourselves. Let it he noted, also, that they failed as soon 
as they were required to perform the miracle on the 
instant, as in the case of the plague of lice, fur their at- 
tempts to imitate which no time was allowed; ami as 
a consequence of this it is emphatically said, “they 
could not.” When to all this it is added that they were 
impotent not only to remove the infliction, but even to 
exempt themselves from it, there seems abundant rea- 
son for concluding that these magicians attained to 
nothing beyond the performance of a few successful 
tricks (Scot, Congregational Lecture, p. 210-22G; Ward- 
law, On Miracles, p. 231 sq.). See Jannls and Jam- 

IiltKS. 

4. The Design of these Infictions. — This is a most 
important inquiry. That their ultimate object was the 
eflecting of the liberation of the Israelites from their 
cruel bondage lies on the surface of the narrative; but 
with this there may have been, and probably were, other 
ends contemplated. We may suppose — 1. That God 
designed to produce an effect on the mind of Moses 
himself, tending to educate and discipline him for t he 
great work on which he was about to enter— the con- 
duct and rule of the people during their passage through 
the wilderness. For such a task great fortitude and 
implicit confidence in the power and majesty of Jeho- 
vah were required; and as Moses, timid at first, and 
ready to retire on the first rebuff, gradually acquired 
courage and determination as the manifestations of 
God’s power in the chastisements inflicted on the Pha- 
raoh and his land proceeded, it is very probable that 
the series of inflictions of which lie was the instrument 
were designed to confirm him in faith, obedience, and 
confidence, and so fit him for his great work. 2. We 
may suppose that a salutary effect was intended to be 
produced on the minds of the Israelites, the mass of 
whom had, under their long protracted debasement, sunk 
low in religious and intellectual life. The marvellous 
manner in which God interposed for their deliverance, 
and the mighty power by which he brought them 
forth, could not hut arouse them to thought, and ele- 
vate and quicken their religious emotions. 3. It ap- 
pears that a salutary religious effect was produced on 
many of the Egyptians themselves, as is evidenced by 
the multitudes who united themselves to the Israelites 
when they made their escape; and also on the sur- 
rounding nations, as is attested by Jethro, the father- 
in-law of Moses (Exod. xviii, 10, 11). We may pre- 
sume, therefore, that this also was part of the design 
of these inflictions, especially as we find God expressly 
declaring to Moses that these judgments were intended 
to make the Egyptians know that he was God (vii, 5). 
4. But these cuds were included in the great end of 
demonstrating the vanity of those idols in which the 
Egyptians trusted. “Against all the gods of Egypt,” 
said the Lord to Moses, “I will execute judgment: I 
am Jehovah” (xii, 121. On these idols God would 
pour contempt; and in connection with this it is no- 
ticeable that nearly even’ miracle performed by Moses 
had relation to some object of idolatrous worship 
among the Egyptians. The devouring of the serpents 
by the serpent into which the rod of .Moses bail been 
turned was directed against the serpent - worship of 
Egypt; the turning of the water into blood was an as- 
sault on their sacred river the Nile; the plague of the 


PLAIFEIIE 


265 


PLAIN 


frogs, the gnats, the flies or searabei, all tended to bring 
objects of idolatrous worship among the Egyptians into 
contempt; the murrain on the cattle was directed 
against their Apis- worship ; the plague of boils, brought 
on by the easting of ashes from the altar into the air, a 
rite which they followed to arrest evil, showed how God 
could reverse their omens, and make what they used 
for good to turn to evil ; the hail and storm plague was 
direeted against their worship of the elements, or of 
deities supposed to preside over them; the plague of 
locusts showed that this great scourge which they were 
accustomed to trace to the wrath of their deities was 
entirely in the power of Jehovah; the plague of dark- 
ness poured contempt on their worship of the sun-god; 
and the death of the first-born wound up this terrible 
series by showing that in the hand of Jehovah alone 
was the life of all his creatures. A mighty and mem- 
orable lesson was thus read out before both Egyptians 
and Israelites, which could not but have its effect in 
weakening among the former the attachment of many 
to their idols, and confirming the latter in their rever- 
ence for Jehovah as the only true God. 5. The grad- 
ual increase in severity and frequent remission of the 
plagues are perhaps the best key to their meaning as 
to the king of Egypt himself. They seem to have been 
sent as warnings to the oppressor, to afford him a means 
of seeing God’s will and an opportunity of repenting 
before Egypt was ruined. It is true that the harden- 
ing of lharaoh’s heart is a mystery which St. Paul 
leaves unexplained, answering the objector, “Nay but, 
O man, who art thou that repliest against God ?” (Rom. 
ix, 20). Yet the apostle is arguing that we have no 
right to question God’s righteousness for not having 
mercy on all, and speaks of his long-suffering towards 
the wicked. The lesson that Pharaoh’s career teaches 
us seems to be that there Are men whom the most sig- 
nal judgments do not affeet so as to cause any lasting 
repentance. In this respect the after-history of the 
Jewish people is a commentary upon that of their op- 
pressor. The “ hardening” of Pharaoh’s heart was evi- 
dently nothing more than that permissive act of prov- 
idence by which a long-delayed punishment encourages 
to the persistence in sin (Eccles. viii, 11; Horn, ii, 5). 
God’s design in so often releasing him (t£t)yttpct, Kom. 
ix, 17) from the earlier stages of the inflictions was 
that the final blow might fall with full effect, both as 
to Pharaoh and the world at large. See Judicial 
Blindness. 

See Staekhouse, Hist, of the Bible ; Bryant, Observa- 
tions on the Plagues inflicted on the Egyptians (Loud. 
1794); Eiehhorn, De Egypti anno mirabili, in the 
Comment. Soc. Reg. Scient. Gottingen. Recent ior. iv, 45 ; 
Schwarz, I)e plagis Pharonis (Wittemb. 1724); Bons- 
dorf, De plagis .Egypt. (Aboie, 1809-10) ; Hengstenberg, 
Egypt and the Books of Moses ; Millington, Signs and 
Wonders (Lond. 1874); British Quarterly Review , July, 
1874, p. 153 sq.; and the >*arious commentaries, ad loe. 

Plaifere (or Flayfere), John, D.D., an English 
divine of some note, flourished near the close of the 16th 
and the opening of the 17th century. lie was educated 
at St. John’s College, Cambridge, and was for some time 
fellow of his alma mater. About 1596 he was made 
Margaret professor of divinity in the same college. He 
died in 1608. He was an Arminian in theology, and 
his writings circulated extensively and had great re- 
nown. Thomas Baker, the antiquary, says that if Plai- 
fere’s sermons had never been printed, his name would 
yet have been honored in history, so decidedly marked 
was his influence on his time. Among his works we 
mention Appello Evangelium for the True Doctrine of 
Divine Predestination, etc. (Lond. 1652, 12mo) ; repub- 
lished in Cambridge Tracts (1803, 8vo). See Catter- 
mole, Literature of the Ch. of England, i, 334; Church- 
man's Remembrancer, vol. i. (J. H. TV.) 

Plain. I. This term, either in the sing, or plur., 
does duty in the A. V. for no less than seven distinct 


Hebrew words, each of which had its own independent 
and individual meaning, and could not be — at least is 
not — interchanged with any other. We frequently find 
two, three, and even more equivalents for the same He- 
brew term ; and, besides, some of the words are mani- 
festly mistranslated, and some of them are proper names. 
See Topographical Terms. 

1. '22X, abed, like the Arabic abala, signifies moisture 
and the verdure produced by it, as in a meadow, to which 
last term it chiefly corresponds. Henee it came to be 
applied to a low green plain. It occurs frequently as a 
proper name in Scripture ; chiefly, however, in compo- 
sition, as A bel-beth-maachah (2 Kings xv, 29; 1 Kings 
xv, 20), Abel-meholah (Judg. vii, 22), Abel-muim (2 
Chron. xvi. 4), Abel-shittim (Numb, xxxiii, 49); also 

' alone, as in 2 Sam. xx, 14, 18. In 1 Sam. vi, 18 the 
A. Y. reads “ unto the great stone of Abel ;” but the He- 
brew is ribn.“n 22X IV, “unto Abel the great.” Sev- 
eral MSS. read *2X, “stone” (the Sept, has XTS-ou), and 
this is probably the true reading (De Rossi, Vu)\ Lect. 
ad loe.). Judg. xi,33 is the only passage in which it is 
rendered “plain,” “and he smote them from Aroer, even 
till thou come to Minnith . . . and unto the plain of the 
vineyards” ( 2ZX IV ; Sept, twj. - ’EfitXxappift, 
v. r. ’Aj3i\ dpirtXibvojr ; Abel quee est vineis consitu ). 

) There can scarcely be a doubt that this is a proper 
name, and it should be rendered A bel-keramim. Euse- 
bius and Jerome mention it as a village of the Ammon- 
ites still existing in their day, situated six miles from 
Philadelphia, in the midst of vineyards (Onomast. s. v. 
Abelaviuearum). See Abel. 

2. elan. This word is derived from the root 
b^X, to be strong; and henee it is used in Scripture to 
signify a strong tree, and most probably the ouk, which 
grows to a great size in central and southern Palestine 
(Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 42, 50, 51). In the A. Y. it is 
rendered “ plain” (Gen. xii, 6 ; xiii, 18, etc.), or “plains” 
(xviii, l ; Deut. xi, 30), but in one place the margin has 
“oak” (Judg. ix, 6). It is difficult to account for this 
rendering. Probably it was adopted from the Yulgate, 
which translates convallis in four places, vullis in two, 
and quercus in three. The Sept, has cpf>£, except in 
Judg. ix, 9, where it has fidAavoi ;• ; and ver. 37, 'HXaii'- 
paiortvip. The word should always be rendered “oak.” 
It was considered a sacred tree. Under “the oak of 
Moreh,” at Mamre, Abraham pitched his tent, and wor- 
shipped God (Stanley, S. and P. p. 508). See Oak. 

3. i12‘p2, bik'uli, is from the root 2‘p2, to cleave 
asunder, and signifies literally a cleft, or place formed 
bv dividing mountains, then a valley between moun- 
tains. It is equivalent to the Arabic buk'ah. It is 
generally used in the Bible to denote a low widely ex- 
tended plain: as “the plain of Shinar” (Gen. xi,2 ; Sept. 
irtSiov, ca7npus)\ “ the valley of Jericho” (Deut. xxxiv, 
3) ; “ the valley of Megiddo” (2 Chron. xxxv, 22 ; Zeeh. 
xii, 11); “the valley of Lebanon" (Josh, xi, 17, called 
in Amos i. 5 “the plain of Aven"), which is now called 
el-Bukaa ; “the plain of Ono” (Nell, vi, 2), which ap- 
pears to have been a portion of southern Sharon, where 
the town of Ono was situated. This word is rendered 
“ plain” in the following passages : Gen. xi, 2; Neb. vi, 
2; Isa. xl, 4; Ezek. iii, 22, 23; viii, 4: Amos i, 5; else/, 
where it is translated “valley.” It is generally rendered 
TctSiov in the Sept, and campus in the XTilgate. X2’j?2, 
hik’d, the Chaldee form of Hl'P-, found only in Dan. 
iii. Nebuchadnezzar set up “the golden image in the 
plain of Dura.” See Yalley. 

4. “123, kikkdr, seems to be equivalent to “i2“2, 
from the root ““2, to move in a circle; “22 therefore 
signifies a circuit, or “the region round about any place” 
(allied to which are kvkAoc, circus, and circle; Gesenius, 
Thesaur. p. 717). Hence, with the article “I22H, huk- 
kikkur, it was applied topographically to “the region of 


266 


PLAIN 


PLAIN 

the Jordan," especially the southern part of it, in which 1 
the cities of Sodom and < lomorrah once stood. It is so 
used seven times in Genesis (xiii, 10, lb A- 5 x ' x > 

25. 28, 29); also in 2 Sam. xviii, 2:1; 1 Kings vii. 40; 

2 Chron. iv, 17 ; and apparently in Xeh. iii. 22; xii, 28. 
Ilcliuid suggests that the name may have been derived 
from the windings of the river (Palerst. p. 2< 1 ; comp. 
Stanley. S. and P. p. 278j. Though uniformly rendered 
plain in the A. V., and 7 rtpi\u>poQ or rrtpioiKoc in the 
Sept., it appears to have all the definiteness of a proper 
name. It must be confessed that it is not easy to trace 
any connection between a “circular form” and the nat- 
ure or aspect of the Jordan valley, and it is difficult not 
to suspect that kikkar is an archaic term which existed 
before the advent of the Hebrews, and was afterwards 
adopted into their language. See Joudan. 

The word is also very frequently used in Scripture to 
signify “a piece of money,” generally “a talent” in the 
A?Y. (Exod. xxv, 31); 1 Citron, xx, 2, etc.); also “a 
cake” or “loaf of bread” (1 Sam. x, 3; Prov. vi, 26). 
Their circular form doubtless suggested the name. 

5. midair, with the article This 

word comes from the root to be stmujht or even ; 

hence mix bur signifies a plain or level country ; thus in 
I’sa. xx vi, 12, " Mv foct standeth in an even place,” that 
is, “in a plain also, figuratively, rectitude or justice, as 
in I’sa. Ixvii, 4, Thou shall judge the people righteous- 
ly” (with justice). With the article it has a topograph- 
ical signification, and has usually the definiteness of a 
proper name. In the A. V. it is uniformly rendered 
plain. It occurs in the liiblc in the following passages: 
Deut. iii, 10; iv, 43; Josh, xiii, 9, 10, 17, 21; xx, 8; 1 
Kings xx, 23, 25 ; 2 Citron, xxvi, 10 ; Jcr. xlviii, 8, 21. 
In each of these, with one exception, it is used for the 
district in the neighborhood of Heshbon and I)ibun — 
— the JJelka of the modern Arabs, their most noted past- 
ure-ground; a district which, from the scanty descrip- 
tions we possess of it, seems to resemble the “Downs” 
of England in the regularity of its undulations, the ex- 
cellence of its turf, and its fitness for the growth of 
flocks. There is no difficulty in recognising the same 
district in the statement of 2 Chron. xxvi, 10. It is 
evident from several circumstances that Uzziah had 
been a great conqueror on the east of Jordan, as well as 
on the shore of the Mediterranean (see Ew aid's re- 
marks, ( ieschichte , iii. 588, note), and he kept his cattle 
on the rich pastures of Philistines on the one hand, and 
Ammonites on the other. Tims in all the passages 
quoted above the word wish fir seems to be restricted to 
one special district, and to belong to it as exclusively as 
shejihelah did to the low land of l’hilistia, or arabah to 
the sunken district of the Jordan valley. It is there- 
fore puzzling to find it used in one passage (1 Kings xx, 
23, 25) apparently with the mere general sense of low 
land, or rather flat land, in which chariots could lie ma- 
nueuvred— as opposed to uneven mountainous ground. 
There is some reason to believe that the scene of the 
battle in question was on the east side of the Sea of 
< ienuosareth, in the plain of Jaulan ; but this is no ex- 
planation of the difficulty, because we are not warranted 
in extending the midair farther than the mountains 
which hounded it on the north, and where the districts 
began which Imre, like it, their own distinctive names 
of ( iilead. ltashan, Argob. I iolan. 1 lauran, etc. Perhaps 
the most feasible explanation is that the word was used 
by the Syrians of Damascus without any knowledge of 
its strict signification, in the same manner indeed as it 
was employed in the later Svro-t ’haldee dialect, in which 
meshra is the favorite term to express several natural 
features which in the older and stricter language were de- 
nominated each by its own special name. See Mi.miou. 

6. r V . arabah , pi. ""“7 (from the root ~ “2, to 
be dry), signifies an arid ree/ion. In poetry it is applied 
to any dry pasture-land, like Midbar; but with the ar- 
ticle it means the rullry of' the Jordan, and has the force 
of a proper name. In the A. 1’. it is commonly rendered 


“ plain” (Deut. i. 1 , 7, etc.) ; but in Deut. xi, 30, “ cham- 
paign in Ezek. xlvii, 8, “desert;” and in Josh, xv, 6; 
xviii, 18, “Arabah” (Gesen. Thtsaur. p. 1066; Stanley, 
S. and P. p. 481). The Sept, usually has 'Aj0«/3«, bujt 
sometimes empi]. See Akabaii. 

7. sliepheldh , a low plain, from the root b Z ‘2 , 

to be depressed. In the A. Y. it is rendered “plain” in 
Jcr. xvii, 26; Obad. 19; Zech. vii, 7 ; “low plains” in 1 
Chron. xxvii, 28 ; 2 Chron. ix, 27 ; but elsewhere “ vale” 
or “valley.” It has all the definiteness of a proper name, 
being the specific designation of the maritime plain of 
Philistia. To the Hebrews this, and this only, was the 
Shephelah. Shephelah has some claims of its own to no- 
tice. It was one of the most tenacious of these old He- 
brew terms. It appears in the Creek text and in the 
A. Y. of the book of Maccabees (1 Macc. xii, 38), and is 
preserved on each of its other occurrences, even in such 
corrupt dialects as the Samaritan version of the Penta- 
teuch, and the Targums of Pseudo-Jonathan and of rabbi 
Joseph. And although it would appear to be no longer 
known in its original seat, it has transferred itself to 
other countries, and appears in Spain as Seville, and on 
the east coast of Africa as Snfala. See Sin:mn:LAiT. 

The plain of Esdraelon, which to the modern travel- 
ler in the Holy Land forms the third of its three most 
remarkable depressions, is designated in the original by 
neither of the above terms, but by emek, an ap- 

pellative noun frequently employed in the Bible for the 
smaller valleys of the country — “ the valley of Jezreel.” 
Perhaps Esdraelon may anciently have been considered 
as consisting of two portions : the valley of Jezreel, the 
eastern and smaller; the plain of Megiddo, the western 
and more extensive of the two. See Eshuaklox. 

II. The following are the principal plains of Palestine 
alluded to in the Bible, proceeding from north to south : 

I 1. The great plain or valley of Cade-, Syria, the “hol- 
low' land” of the Creeks, which separates the two ranges 
of Lebanon and Antilebanon, is the most remarkable of 
them all. It is called in the Bible the llika'ath Aven 
(Amos i, 5), and also probably the Bika'ath Lebanon 
(Josh, xi, 17; xii, 7) and Bika'ath Mizpeh (xi. 8), and 
is still known throughout Syria bv its old name, as el- 
Jieka'a , or Ard el-lhka'a. “A long valley, though 
broad,” says Dr. Puscv ( Comment . on Amos i. 5), “if 
seen from a height looks like a cleft ;” and this is emi- 
nently the case with the “ valley of Lebanon” when ap- 
proached by the ordinary roads from north or south. 
It is of great extent, more than sixty miles long by 
about five in average breadth, and the two great ranges 
shut it in on either hand, Lebanon especially, with a 
very wall-like appearance. See Cuclk-Svkia. 

2. The plain (called ““") of Jezreel or Esdraelon, 
which runs from the bay of Ptolemais to the Jordan, 
dividing the mountains of Galilee from those of Eph- 
raim. It is well watered and grassy. See Jkzkkel. 

3. The flat along the Mediterranean from Carmel to the 
brook of Egypt (whose northern part near Joppa is call- 
ed Sharon, V' -, the southern part Shephelah, 

The plain of the tribe of Judah stood in connection w ith 
the latter (1 Macc. iii, 21, 40; xiii. 13). Sec Siiakun. 

4. The meadow of Jordan, or the plain on both sides 

of that river, from the Sea of Gennesarcth to the Dead 
Sea, usually called simply The Plain («“2“2n). In 
the neighborhood of Jericho this valley widens out into 
a great plain, thence called r“2“2, 7 he Plains 

of Jerieho (Josh, iv, 13; v, 10; 2 Kings xxv, 5; Jcr. 
xxxix, 5), as the Dead Sea is called the “ Sea of the 
Plain" (Deut. iii. 17 ; iv, 19). See Jour an, 

5. The elevated plain (".rr ■*£.“’) in the tribe of IIcu- 
brti, in which lay Bczcr and Medeba (Josh. xiii. 16; 
xx, 8; Dent. iv. 43). It belongs to the largo but rat lu r 
dry (Burckhardt, ii. 626) plateau of modern Bclka (Lit- 
ter, ii. 368). See Mo.\n. 

6. For “ the plains of Jericho,” see jEiticno. 


PLAIN SONG 


267 


PLANE 


Plain Song (canto fermo, cantus planus) is one of 
the terms applied to the monotonic recitative melody 
in ancient chants of the liturgy. In later times it be- 
came one of the parts in elaborate pieces, services, and 
anthems, originally the tenor, but afterwards assigned 
to the treble. The Cantus Prophetarum Epistolarum 
et Evangelii admitted certain inflections ; the Cantus 
Psalmorum adopted inflections in the middle and end 
of the verse. An unrestricted melody was used in pref- 
aces, anthems, and hymns, and the plain song is this 
cantus collectarum. — Staunton, Eccles. Diet. p. 536. 

Plaister. See Plaster. 

Plaiting. See Hair. 

Plan of Salvation. See Salvation. 

Plancius, Pieter, a Dutch preacher of renown, 
was born at Drenoutre, Flanders, in 1552. Having im- 
bibed the principles of the Calvinistic faith in the schools 
of Germany and England, he embraced the evangelical 
ministry in 1577, and discharged its duties in Ilrabant 
and Flanders, in the midst of the persecutions of the 
Spanish government. After the taking of Brussels 
(1585), where he was pastor, he fled to Holland, and 
was soon attached to the Church of Amsterdam. Being 
a zealous defender of orthodoxy, he displayed great ani- 
mosity against the Lutherans and Arminians. He was 
in 1619 a member of the Synod of Dort, and was then 
one of the revisers of the version of the Old Testament. 
He is entitled to the gratitude of the Dutch people for 
the services which he rendered them by his geograph- 
ical and nautical acquirements. He counselled the first 
expeditions sent by the Dutch to both Indies, and 
traced even the itineraries of those expeditions. He 
is much spoken of in Jeannin’s negotiations, where he 
is called “a great cosmographer.” He died 3Iay 25, 
1622, at Amsterdam. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, 
xl, 403. 

Planck, Gottlieb Jacob, a noted Protestant 
divine, was born at Nurtingen, in the kingdom of Wiir- 
temberg, Nov. 15, 1751. lie was educated at the uni- 
versity in Tubingen, and in 1784 was made ordinary 
professor of theology in the University of Gottingen. 
In this capacity he exerted a remarkable influence 
throughout German}', as he wielded a powerful pen, 
and wrote many essays upon the history of the Church 
and its doctrines. He is a leading representative of 
“ pragmatic” historiography. II is principal work is his 
Geschichte des protestantischen Systems in seinem Ur- 
sprung. seiner Veranderung , u. seiner Fortbildung (Leips. 
1781-1800, 6 vols. 8vo), which was continued in a work 
published after a long interval under the title of Ge- 
schichte ties protestantischen Lehrbegrifes von der Con- 
cordienformel bis zur Mitte des 1 8ten Jahrhunilerts 
(Gott. 1831). Another great work of his is Gesch. der 
christl.-kirchl. Gesellschaftsverfassung (Hann. 1803-9, 5 
vols. 8vo). Planck, though widely read and followed, 
does not deserve the great renown he has secured. He 
exhibits too much indifference to doctrine to be trusted 
implicitly in his judgments, and yet no one can with- 
hold from him the tribute for application. But, like a 
too obtrusive cicerone, Planck, in these works, requires 
great judgment in the reader. He everywhere dis- 
covers purpose, preconcerted design, ambition, hatred, 
and other passions, as having been the motive forces in 
the process of doctrinal history. Thus the progressive 
and independent development of dogma is resolved into 
psychological dispositions and tendencies, while, at the 
same time, the author’s own doctrinal indifference is 
unconsciously transferred to the agents of the dogma- 
forming process, by the axiomatic assumption that doc- 
trine alone would have been incapable of exciting so 
much interest or contention. In his eyes doctrine is an 
antiquated matter, which is properly destined to ob- 
livion. In this method, the view being restricted to 
efficient causes, and the inherent activity of final causes 
lost sight of, even the efficient causes are not compre- 
hended in their entirety. Planck died in 1833. "With 


Planck the subjective, pragmatic method reaches its 
height. History is only the dreary theatre of human 
interests and passions. It is therefore truly amazing 
that, with his indifference to Church doctrine, he could 
bestow so much toilsome study and learned industry on 
such ‘perfectly indifferent antiquations’ as the theolog- 
ical contentions of the 16th and 17th centuries. Of 
course his work, with all its great and enduring merits, 
and the relative truth and necessity of its position, could 
not fail to have a bad effect, in completely sundering 
the doctrinal consciousness of its age from the basis of 
the older Church orthodoxy, and in justifying this rup- 
ture as a pretended advance. In his other large work, 
The History of Church Government, Planck likewise 
starts from that rationalistic conception of the Church, 
which dates from Locke, viz., that this divine establish- 
ment was originally a mere voluntary association, which 
formed its laws and institutions in accordance with the 
changing wants of the times, and under the influence of 
fortuitous, external circumstances; and that, in this way, 
it gradually assumed an aspect altogether different from 
what its founder and first members intended or foresaw. 
In this way he accounts for the gigantic hierarchy of 
the Middle Ages; which he looks upon in a simply po- 
litical light, with the calmness of a learned but indiffer- 
ent spectator; while the older Protestant orthodoxy had 
held it in pious abhorrence, as the broken bulwark of 
the veritable Antichrist” (Schafif, Hist, of the Apostolic 
Church , p. 73). A complete list of all his writings is 
given in Plutter, Gesch. der Universitat Gottingen, ii, 
121; iii, 283 sq. ; iv, 270. See Liicke, Gottlieb Jacob 
Planck , ein biographischer Versuch (Gott. 1838, 8vo) ; 
Illgen, Zeitschr.fiir histor. Theol. 1843, iv, 75-88; Illiein- 
wald, Repert. of theol. Literatur, 1839, xxv, 105 sq. ; 
Hallesche allgem. Zeit. 1837, iii, 281 sq. ; Dorner, Hist, 
of Protestant Theology, ii, 283; Ivahnis. Hist, of German 
Protestantism, p. 176; Hurst’s Ilagenbach, Church Hist, 
of the 1 8//< and 19 th Centuries ; Alzog, Kirchengesch. ii, 
286,731. (J.H.W.) 

Planck, Heinrich Ludwig, another German 
Protestant divine, son of the preceding, was born at 
Gottingen July 19, 1785, and educated at the university 
of that place, where his father was then a professor. In 
1809 young Planck appeared as author of a work enti- 
tled Versuch einer neuen synoptischen Zusammenstellung 
der drei ersten Evangelien, nach Grundsatzen der hbhern 
Kritik (Gutting. 1809, 8vo). In 1810 he was appointed 
extraordinary professor of theology at Gottingen ; and 
his introductory programme, lie vera natiira atque in- 
| dole orationis Grcecte Xori Testamenti Commentatio 
! (Gottingen, 1810, 4to), added greatly to his reputation. 
The value of this essay can scarcely be overrated, and its 
influence has been equal to its worth. It has wrought 
an entire change of opinion respecting the N.-T. Greek, 
and upon the views which it enforced all subsequent 
investigations have been based. An English transla- 
tion is published in the second volume of the Edinburgh 
Biblical Cabinet. It was Planck’s intention, as stated 
in this essay, to exhibit his views in a more perfected 
form, in a work to be entitled Isagoge Philologica in 
Xovum Testamentum ; but from this he was diverted by 
an engagement into which he entered upon the strong 
recommendation of Gesenius, namely, to prepare a lex- 
icon of the N. T. similar to that which the latter had 
published of the O. T. Unhappily the expectations 
awakened by his early promise were unfulfilled. His 
health was undermined bv frequent attacks of epilepsy, 
and it was with difficulty that he could go through the 
duties of his office as ordinary professor of theology, to 
which he was appointed in 1823. Other works ot his 
are, New Revelation and Inspiration (1817), and a Short 
Scheme of the Philosophic Doctrines of Religion (1821). 
He died Sept. 23, 1831 . See Liicke’s biography of Gott- 
lieb Jacob Planck. (J. II. W.) 

Plane makstudh, a chisel for carpenter’s 

work, Isa. xliv, 18). See Handicraft. 


PLANE-TREE 


2G8 


PLANT 


Plane-tree (Ecclus. xxiv, 14). See Chestnut. 

Planet. See Mazzauotii. 

Planet - worship is a prominent constructive 
feature in all mystic systems of antiquity. Thus t lie 
primitive worship of all objects like Osiris (q. v.) may 
be contemplated under two aspects, differing somewhat 
from each other, but incapable of any rigorous or formal 
separation. That worship seems to be in some local- 
ities directly solar, fortunes of < >siris have been inter- 
woven or idetitilied with those of the great orb of the 
day. Ilis votaries have an eye exclusively to periodic 
motions of the sun and the vicissitudes of the seasons; 
not so much in reference to the increase or the decrease 
of his luminous functions as to seeming changes in his 
fructifying, fertilizing power. In winter he appears to 
the imagination of the worshipper as languishing and 
dying; and all nature, ceasing to put forth her buds 
and blossoms, is believed to suffer with him ; while at 
other seasons of the year the majesty of this great king 
of heaven is reasserted in the vivifying of creation and 
the gladdening of the human heart. There is an an- 
nual resurrection of all nature, for the sun-god is him- 
self returning from the under-world — the region of the 
dead. Or, if we study t ho same representation in its 
more telluric aspect, what is there depicted as a mourn- 
ing for Osiris is no longer emblematic merely of pros- 
tration in the sun-god: it imports more frequently the 
loss of vital forces in the vegetable kingdom us the 
consequence of the withdrawal of the solstitial heat. 
The earth herself becomes the principal sufferer; and 
the cause of all her passionate and despairing lamenta- 
tions is the influence that dries up the fountains of her 
own vitality. Now, whichever be adjudged the prim- 
itive form or the correct interpretation of this old 
Osirian myth, we must remember that, historically 
speaking, the substance of the myth itself is not by any 
means peculiar to the valley of the Nile. It recurs in 
nearly all countries bordering on the Mediterranean. 
It can often be directly traced to Asia, and as often to 
the agency of those I’hcenieian colonists who, scattered 
thickly in the islands to the west of Syria, were import- 
ing to far distant havens not their amber only, but their 
civilization and religious knowledge. In the mother 
country of 1‘luenieia, the Osirian worship had its ancient 
counterpart in the mysteries of Adonis and the annual 
“weeping for Tamtnuz” (Ezek. viii, 14). There, again, 
the fate of the divinity was rigorously identified with 
periodic changes in the aspect of external nature. The 
idea of an Adonis in’ the prime of life was the most 
vivid image which the Syrian mind could fashion of 
all fertilizing and benignant powers. At length, how- 
ever, the divinity sinks down oppressed and over- 
whelmed ; his heart is pierced by some mysterious 
arrow: lie dies, and in the sacred month, “the month 
ol Tammuz,’’ when the scorching blasts of summer 
are well-nigh exhausted, a large crowd of Syrian maids 
and matrons Mock together from all quarters; they be- 
moan the loss of Tammuz; but their vehement ejacu- 
lations arc all quickly followed by a series of impure 
and diabolic orgies; symptoms of returning life in nat- 
ure are to tliein a signal for festivity as frantic as tbeir 
former grid. Vitality is coining bark to earth; and in 
its advent they perceive another “finding” of tbeir lost 
Adonis. '.Ifwi'iwir. Nor is this the only in- 

stance of some close allinily between the old myilmg- 
raphrrs of Egypt and I’lm'nicia. Mingling with the 
other progeny ot I’tah, or the Egyptian Vulcan, stand 
the great (’abirian brothers, whose repute and worship 
were extensively diffused in various provinces of the 
West. The word Cabeiri is itself immediately explain- 
able, if we resort to the Sliemitic languages; for there 
it means the “Great" or “Mighty Ones;” and thus is 
pointing in the same direction as the ancient dwarf- 
gods, which were also sacred images of Cabeiri. and were 
venerated with a kindred fervor by the rude l’lueni- 
cian pilot and the polished priest of Memphis. The 


I Cabeiri seem to have been eight in number, or. ex- 
cluding Esmftu (literally the eighth'), that one of the 
fraternity who was regarded as the chief or aggregate 
expression for the whole, we limit them to seven; winch 
strongly indicates, in the opinion of some writers, an orig- 
inal identity of the Cabeiri avith the more conspicuous 
of the heavenly bodies. In the sacred books of China 
the “seven brilliant ones” deemed worthy of peculiar 
homage are the sun, the moon, and the live planets; 
while the planets, when regarded singly, have been 
made to bear the corresponding title of the “five heav- 
enly chiefs.” The Creek had similarly his seven Srtoi 
ptyaXoi, and the Persian his seven ministers of the 
highest ; examples which appear to be suggestive of 
the early spread of planet-worship, if they do not abso- 
lutely prove that astronomical principles had entered 
largely into the construction of all mythic systems, that 
of Egypt not excepted. Sec Hardwick, Christ and 
other M asters, ii, 201-207; Uldemann, Aegypt. Allcr- 
thiimer, ii, 102 sq.; Movers, hie lleligion tend die tlott- 
lieiten der Phonizier (lioiin, 1841), p. 12 sq. ; Lucian. J)e 
Dea Syria, c. vi sq. ; Ibinscn, Egypt's Place, i, 14 1 ; Jour- 
nal of Asiatic Society, 1804, p. 53 sq. (J. 11. W.) 

Planeta. See Chasuble. 

Plank (‘fV. ets, Ezek. xli. 25, a tree [i. e. beam'], as 
elsewhere usually rendered; tseld, a rib [or side], 
1 Kings vi. 15, as elsewhere generally rendered; 

6b [probably the same as Z’J. ub, a threshold, or “ thick 
beam," 1 Kings vii, 0; “thick (plank),” Ezek. xli, 25], 
“ thick plank,” Ezek. xli, 20). 

Plant. Under this general term we classify and 
explain the several plants mentioned in Scripture, as 
edible, Mowering, or medicinal, in order. 

I. Edible Plants. — Among these, with which we num- 
ber also aromas and spices, may be noticed : 

1. A nise, Cr. di’ifiov, which means rather dill; an 
aromatic herb mentioned by Christ (Matt, xxiii, 23). 
See Anise. 

2. Earley, the frequent rendering of the Hebrew eeo- 

rah', and of the Creek KpiSn), as in Key. vi, 6; 

John vi, 1>. 13. See Harley. 

3. Peon, llcb./?d/. 5'S, as in 2 Sam. xvii, 28; Ezek. 
iv, 9. See Lean. 

4. Caper-berry, lleb. abiyonali' , “VZX. desire (Eccl. 
xii, 5). See Cater- plant. 

5. Cinnamon is the rendering of the Hebrew lciumi- 
mon', vi? 1 Exod. xxx. 23), and of the Creek Kirdpw- 
[iov (llcv. xviii, 13). Sec Cinnamon. 

0. Coriander represents the Hebrew yad, “5, in most 
ancient versions, as the Sept, and Vulg., in Kxod. xvi, 
31 ; Numb, xi, 7 ; but the Chaldee and Samaritan vary. 
See Coriander. 

7. Cucumber translates the Hebrew kisshu, Xp'p 
(Numb, xi, 5) ; and wild encumbers appear to be meant 
in 2 Kings iv, 39 by pa kknoth', r " ' p 3 , where our ver- 
sion has irild gourds. Sec Ovuumhkr; Gourd. 

8. Cummin stands for the Hebrew kammon, “,“3 (Isa. 
xxviii, 25. 27); and in the New 'lest, for the Greek kv- 
fiti’ov. which is simply an adoption of the Hebrew. See 
Cummin. 

9. Do res' dung our version gives for charey yonim, 

"~n, which is probably some kind of vegetable 
food, perhaps kali, though the rendering given is the 
literal translation (2 Kings vi, 25). See Moves’ Di no. 

10. Pitches is given by the A. V. in Isa. xxviii, 25, 

27 for the Hebrew ketsach, which, according to 

the Sept., Vulg., and rabbins, is a kind of fennel flower, 
as black cummin. In Ezek. iv, 9 the word kusse'meth, 
rppZ. is rendered Jitches, but it seems to mean proper- 
ly See I 'itches; Kyi:. 


PL ANT AYITIU S 


PLANT 269 


11. Garlic is the Hebrew CT«, shum (Numb, xi, 5). 
See Garlic. 

12. Gourd. See Cucumber; Gourd. 

13. Grape is the rendering of several Hebrew words; 

some of them distinguishing particular kinds or qual- 
ities : («) beiishim, (Isa. v, 2, 4), wild grapes, i. e. 

bad grapes. Aquila has oatrpiai, Symm. dreXtJ. ( b ) 
Bo'ser , “I S3 (Isa. xviii, 5; Jer. xxxi, 24, 30; Ezek. 
xviii, 2), sour or unripe grapes ; Sept, o p<pa$. (c) Ckart- 
san, sour grapes, kernels (Numb. vi, 4), and of the 

Greek a ra<pvXi), bunch of grapes (Matt. vii, 1G; Luke 
vi, 44 ; Rev. xiv, 18). See Grape. 

14. Leek (in Numb, xi, 5) renders “PSn, chatsir', 
which elsewhere is translated grass, i. e. greens. See 
Grass; Leeks. 

15. Lentil renders Heb. adash', (Gen. xxv, 34; 
2 Sam. xvii, 28 ; xxiii, 11 ; Ezek. iv, 9). See Lentil. 

16. Mallows is for the Ileb. malluach , nJl2"2, proper- 
13* sea purslain (Job xxx, 4). See Mallows. 

17. Mandrake is the Heb. duditim, love-ap- 

ples (Gen. xxx, 14: Cant, vii, 13). See Mandrake. 

18. Manna, Ileb. man, “|‘3, a sweet resin distilling 
from the leaves of tamarisk trees, of several species, 
especially the tamarix Gallica manmfera, from punc- 
tures made by an insect, the coccus manniparus. See 
Manna. 

19. Melon is found in Numb, xi, 5 as the rendering 
of the Hebrew abattichim', S' 1 n' 1 33X. See Melon. 

20. Millet (in Ezek. iv, 9) represents the Hebrew do- 
chdn, " ( rn ; it is the holchus dochna (Linn.). See Mil- 
let. 

21. Mint (in Matt, xxiii. 23: Luke xi, 42) is the 
Greek pcvoopov, i. e. sweet-scented ; the mentha virides 
of Linn. See Mint. 

22. Mustard (in Matt, xiii, 31; xvii, 20; Mark iv. 
31; Luke xiii, 19; xvii, 6) is the Greek oivam; the 
sinapis orientalis. See Mustard. 

23. Olive universally is given in the A. V. where the 
Hebrew za'yith, rPT, is used. In 1 Kings vi, 23 the 
word olive-tree renders the Heb. ets-shemen, ','3 'll U", lit. 
the tree of fatness. The same expression is rendered oil- 
tree (Isa. iv, 19) and pine (Neh. viii, 15). See Olive. 

24. Onion is in Heb. be'tsel, ?I£3, as Numb, xi, 5. 
See Onion. 

25. Parched-corn is the Ileb. kali, or X"?p ; it 
is wheat or barley roasted in the ear and then rubbed 
out; perhaps occasionally some kind of pulse (1 Sam. 
xvii, 17). See Parched-corn. 

26. Pistachio-nuts, in Ileb. botnim', 3133 (Gen. xliii, 
11), a kind of nut of oblong shape, and taking this name 
from beten, *}33, the belly, in allusion to their form. See 
Nuts. 

27. Pomegranate renders the Ileb. rimmdn, in 
many passages. See Pomegranate. 

28. Purslain is the Heb. challamuth', r,*“2rn, accord- 
ing to the S}*riae. Our version has egg (Job vi, 6), 
“ white of an egg," which is certainly wrong. See 
Gesen. Thesaur. s. v., and Purslain. 

29. Raisins, bunches q/’(l Sam. xxv, 18; xxx, 12; 2 

Sam. xvi, 1 ; 1 Chron. xii, 40), translates the Heb. tsim- 
muk, See Raisins. 

30. Rye (in Exod. ix, 32; Isa. xxviii, 25) translates 
the Heb. kussemeth, “3 03, which means a smooth grain, 
spelt. See No. 10, above, and Rye. 

31. Vine, Heb. sorek, p^b, or sorekdh, i"ippb, is a 
peculiar kind of grape-vine. Thus, choice vine (Gen. 
xlix, 11); choicest vine (Isa. v, 2); noble vine (Jer. ii, 
21. See Vine. 


32. Wheat in general is the Heb, chittah, f.in, of 
which the plural in Chaldee is chintim', as 

Ezra vi, 9; vii, 22; and in the New Test, is oirog, a 
general name for grain, which is also rendered “corn” 
(Mark iv, 28- Acts vii, 12). 

II. Among floivering plants we notice the following: 

1. Lily is the Heb. shushan', (1 Kings vii, 19),' 

and shoshan, ybvj (Cant, ii, 16; iv, 5; v, 13; vi, 2,3; 
vii, 3 ; 1 Kings vii, 22, 26). The word means a musical 
instrument shaped like a lily, as Psa. lx, 1 ; Ixix, 1. 
Also Ileb. shos/uinndh, ilS’ITV;?, but only in the tirst 
sense, as 2 Chron. iv, 5 ; Cant, ii, 1,2; IIos. xiv, 6. See 
Lily; Musical Instruments. 

2. Myrtle (in Neh. viii, 15; Isa. xli, 19; Iv, 13; Zech. 
i, 8, 10, 11) represents the Ileb. hadds, 3^n. See Myr- 
tle. 

3. Rose, Heb. chabatstseleth, rpppn, is properly the 
meadow saffron ( colchicum autunmale, Linn.) (Cant, ii, 
1 ; Isa. xxxv, 1). See Rose. 

4. Saffron, Heb. karkum, 33^3 ; Sept. Kpuvog (Cant, 
iv, 14), may refer to both kinds of saffron, the common 
and the Indian. See Saffron. 

5. Sedge, Ileb. achu', *lfiX, rendered meadow in Gen. 
xli, 2, \$,flag in Job viii, 11, is an Egyptian word, ap- 
plied to all kiuds of grassy growth in marshes. See 

1 Reed. 

6. Tare is the Greek ZiZctviov, properly darnel (Matt, 
xiii, 25 sq.). See Tare. 

7. Thorn is the translation of many* Hebrew words, 
for the meanings of which see Thorn. 

III. Of medicinal plants w.e name the following: 

1. Balm, “ balm of Gilead," Heb. tsori’, opobal- 
samum (Gen. xliii, 11; xxxvii. 25; Jer. viii, 22; xlvi, 
11 ; Ii, 8; Ezek. xxvii, 17). See Balm. 

2. Camphire, Ileb. kupher, *133, rendered pitch (Gen. 
vi, 14) : in Cant, i, 14; iv, 13, refers to the el-henna of 
the Arabs, a shrub with fragrant white flowers. See 
Camuiure; Pitch. 

3. Hyssop, Heb. ezub, 2"TX,and Greek vowttoq. See 
Hyssop. 

4. Myrrh, Ileb. lot, 3'P, a fragrant resinous gum from 
the leaves of a shrub, the cistus ladanifera. Sept, and 
Ahilg. stacte, myrrh (Gen. xxxvii, 25; xliii, 11). Also 
Heb. mdr, “b or 1V2, a bitter aromatic resin distilling 
in tears from a tree, the balsamodendron myrrha. See 
Myrrh. 

5. Rue, Greek 7n)y avov, the ruta graveolens of Linn. 
See Rue. 

See, for the plants of Palestine in general, Botany. 

Plantavitius, John, de la Pause, or Plantaritius 
Pausanus, was born 1576 of a noble Protestant, family* 
in the diocese of Nismes, studied theology* and Oriental 
literature, and became pastor at Beziers, where he em- 
braced Roman Catholicism, 1604. He was made bishop 
of Lodeve in 1625, retired from his ecclesiastical func- 
tions in 1648, on account of advanced age and great 
infirmities, and died in 1651, at the Palace Margon. 
Few literati, not Hebrews by* birth, have devoted them- 
selves more earnestly to, and labored more successfully 
in, the department of Hebrew literature than Plantavi- 
tius, and his works will continue to be a monument to 
his learning and industry* as long as the sacred lan- 
guage of the O. T. continues to be studied. They* are 
as follows : Thesaurus synonymicus Ilebreeo-Chaldteo- 
Rabbinicus (Lodova?, 1643, fo!.); very valuable to the 
student of the Hebrew Scriptures on account of its 
treatment of Hebrew synonyms : — Florileyium Biblicum 
Jlebraico-Latmnm (ibid. 1645): — and Florileyium, Rab- 
binicum, complecteiis prcecipnas vet. Rabbinorum senten- 
tias, vers. Lat. et. scholiis illnstratas cum Bibliotheca 
Rabbinica (ibid. 1645). See Wolf, Bibliotheca llibnra, 
i r 5, etc. ; Stein i.jlineider, Catalogus Libr. Iltbr. in Biblio- 


270 


PLASTEU 


PLAXTIER 

theca Bodhdava. col. 2107 ; (Joiner, in Zeitschrift der 
dentsrhen morgenliindischen (its/ llschaft, xvii,330 (Leips. 
1863). Kitto. Cyclop, s. v. 

Plantier, i'i..u i>e IIknri. one of the most promi- 
nent members of the French episcopate, was born of 
humble parentage at Ceyzcrieux, in France, in 1813. 
In 1 *37 he was made a priest, and soon afterwards lie 
was appointed professor of Hebrew at the theological 
school of Lyons. In 1855 he was elected bishop of 
Ni sines, and died May 25, 1875. lie was one of the 
fiercest opponents of Louis Napoleon. See Literal ischer 
I land n't istr, 187 5, p. 252. (B. I\) 

Plantin, CmcisToriiE, a celebrated printer, was 
born in 1514 at Mont-Louis, in the French province of 
Tourainc. of poor parents, lie went to I*aris in his 
youth, and worked there some time in a bookbinders 
shop ; but afterwards went to Caen, in Normandy, where 
he learned the art of printing. After working in several 
of the printing-offices ol France, and especially at Lyons, 
he returned to Paris; but the religious disturbances 
which commenced about that time induced him to re- 
move to Flanders, and he is known to have been a mas- 
ter-printer at Antwerp in 1555. Besides his printing 
establishment at Antwerp, he had one at Baris and an- 
other at Leyden. The beauty as well as the correctness 
of the works which issued from his presses extended his 
reputation rapidly, and he soon acquired a considerable 
fortune. He employed as correctors of the press several 
men distinguished for their learning, and Planting house 
was resorted to by learned men from all countries, lie 
died July 1, 1589. The work which has given most 
celebrity to Blantin’s printing establishment at Antwerp 
is the edition which he printed of the great Polyglot 
Bible, which had previously been printed at Alcala, in 
Spain, under the direction of cardinal Ximencs. Plan- 
tin was engaged to perform the work by Philip II of 
Spain, who sent Arius Montanus to superintend it. and 
he was employed four years (1568 to 1572) in this occu- 
pation. Sec Ann s Montax rs. Guillaume Lebe was 
sent for from Paris to engrave the punches and superin- 
tend the casting of the type. The work, in addition to 
the contents of the Alcala Polyglot, gave a Chaldaic 
paraphrase and a Syriac version of the New Testament 
in Hebrew and Syriac characters. The proofs of the 
Antwerp Polyglot were all revised by Kaphelengius, 
ami the work was published in eight large folio volumes 
(1568 1572). Plantin was not so learned as the Aldi of 
Venice or the Estiennes of Paris, but his Latin prefaces 
to several of the works which he printed seem suffi- 
ciently to establish that he had acquired a considerable 
scholarship. 

Plantscli, Martin, D.D., a German theologian, 
was born in 1460 at Dornstetten, in Wilrtemberg. lie 
studied at the newly founded university at Tubingen, 
where in 1 183 he was made magistcr, in 1184 professor 
of philosophy, and in 1494 doctor and professor of the- 
ology, at the same time preaching in the church of St. 
George. In 1523 he was present at the Zurich collo- 
quium, and died July 18, 1533. In connection with Dr. 
Hnrtsesscr, he founded the famous scholarship of St. 
George and St. Martin at Tubingen, lie was also the 
author of Tractatus de Jay is mahjicis, which he wrote in 
1506, on the occasion of the burning of a certain witch 
at Tubingen. See Joeher, Gdehrtcn-Lex. s. v. (B. P.) 

Planudes Maximts, a Byzantine monk noted as 
a literary character, tlourished in the 14th century. lie 
was born, as he says himself in one of his works, at Ni- 
comedia. The time of his birth is unknown, and almost 
the only circumstance of his life which is beyond doubt 
is that in the year 1327 he was sent on an embassy to 
Venice bv the emperor Andronicus the elder. At this 
time he must have been of a mature age. That lie was 
yet alive in 1310 is evident from a letter still extant, 
which he wrote to the emperor Johannes Paheologns. 
who ascended the throne in that year. D'Urville places 
his death in 1353, for which, however, he adduces no 


testimony. Gerhard Yossius prolongs his life to the 
year 1376, and others place it still later. Towards the 
close of his life Planudes, it is said, was imprisoned on 
account of his partiality for the doctrines of the Church 
of Home; and when afterwards compelled to write 
against that Church, to have done so in such a manner 
and with such feeble arguments that cardinal Bessarion 
declared that the heart of Planudes had no share in 
what he had written on that occasion. His works, of 
which several exist only in MS. form, are not of suffi- 
cient importance to be enumerated here. They con- 
sist of orations and homilies; translations from Latin 
into Greek of several works of such classics as Cicero, 
Caesar, Ovid, etc.; also of Boethius's De Consolatione ; 
St. Augustine, J)e Tnnitate and De Ciritate Dei ; a col- 
lection of xEsop's Fables; commentaries on the Rhetoric 
of llcrmogcues, and other Greek writings. Sec Fabri- 
cius, liibl. Graca, xi, 682 sq. ; Hoffman, Lexicon Bib- 
lioy. Script. Greec. s. v. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Horn. 
Bioy. and Mythol. s. v. 

Plassmann, II kin-rich Ernst, D.D., a German 
Roman Catholic divine, was born in 1817 at Paderborn, 
where he also afterwards labored as professor of theol- 
ogy. He then went to Rome, where lie was appointed 
rector ofthe German National Church. He was also hon- 
ored with the degree of “ Magister Sanitm Theologia*” 
by the Dominican college ,St. Thomte de Crbe. lie 
died at Tivoli. Italy, July 23, 1865. He wrote Die 
& 'chule des heil. Thomas (Soest, 1857), a great but unfin- 
ished work. See Literarischer Ilandweiser Jiir das 
kutholische Deutschland, 1865, p. 27 sq. ; Zuchhold, Bib- 
liotheca Thcoloyica, ii, 1000. (B. P.) 

Plaster, Mason's ("""i, gir, so called from its ejfer- 
vescence, lime; Sept, ravia ; Dan. v, 5; “chalk,’’ Isa. 
xxvii, 9; also "V"!', sid, from its boiling, lime. Dent, 
xxvii, 2, 4; “lime,” Isa. xxviii, 12; Amos ii, 1 ; as a 
verb, n*72, tiiach, to smear, Lev. xiv, 42, 43, 48; else- 
where “daub,” etc.). The mode of making plaster- 
cement has been dcserilied elsewhere. See Mortar. 
Plaster is mentioned on three occasions in Scripture: 

1. Where, when a house was infected with “leprosy” 
(Lev. xiv, 42, 48). the priest was ordered to take away 
the portion of infected wall and rcplastcr it (M ichaelis, 
Lairs of Moses, § 211, iii, 297-305, ed. Smith). See 
IIoisic; Lkrrosv. 

2. The words of the law were ordered to be engraved 
on Mount Ebal on stones which had been previously 
coated with plaster (Dent, xxvii, 2, 4; Josh, viii, 32), 
the pillars being covered with plaster, and the law 
written on this (see Thomson. Land and Book. ii. 204 
sq.). M ichaelis, however (vol. i, bk. iii). supposes that 
the words were cut in stone and plaster afterwards put 
upon it, that when the plaster should fall off the words 
might still he legible. ( )f this, however, no evidence 
appears. The process here mentioned was probably of 
a similar kind to that adopted in Egypt for receiving 
bass-reliefs. The wall was first made smooth, and its 
interstices, if necessary, filled up with plaster. When 
the figures had been drawn, and the stone adjacent cut 
away so as to leave them in relief, a coat of lime white- 
wash was laid on, and followed by one of varnish after 
the painting of the figures was complete. In the case 
of the natural rock the process was nearly the same. 
The ground was covered with a thick layer of fine plas- 
ter, consisting of lime and gypsum, carefully smoothed 
and polished. Upon this a coat of lime whitewash was 
laid, and on it the colors were painted, and set by means 
of glue or wax. The whitewash appears in most in- 
stances to have l>cen made of shell-limestone not much 
burned, which of itself is tenacious enough without glue 
or other binding material (Long, quoting from Bclzoui, 
Kg. ,1 nt. ii, 49. 50). At Behistuu, in Persia, the surface 
of the inscribed rock-tablet was covered with a varnish 
to preserve it from weather; but it seems likely that in 
the case of the Ebal tablets the inscription was cut while 


PLASTER 


271 


PLATINA 


the plaster was still moist (Layard, Xineveh, ii, 188; 
Vaux, Xin. and Persep. p. 172). See Stone. 

3. It was probably a similar coating of cement on 
which the fatal letters were traced by the mystic hand 
“on the plaster of the wall” of Belshazzar's palace at 
Babylon (Dan. v, 5). We here obtain an incidental 
confirmation of the Biblical narrative. For while at 
Nineveh the walls are panelled with alabaster slabs, at 
Babylon, where no such material is found, the builders 
were content to cover their tiles or bricks with enamel 
or stucco, fitly termed plaster, fit for receiving ornamen- 
tal designs (Layard, Xin. and Bab. p. 529 ; Diod. ii, 8). 
See Bricks. 

Plaster, Medicinal (ITI’2, maruch, to rub. hence 
to anoint with a healing salve or similar substance, Isa. 
xxxviii, 21). See Medicine. 

Plastic Nature, an absurd doctrine, which some 
have thus described : “ It is an incorporeal created sub- 
stance, endued with a vegetative life, but not with sen- 
sation or thought; penetrating the whole created uni- 
verse, being co-extended with it; and, under God, moving 
matter, so as to produce the phenomena which cannot 
be solved by mechanical laws: active for ends unknown 
to itself, not being expressly conscious of its actions, and 
yet having an obscure idea of the action to be entered 
upon.” To this it has been answered that, as the idea 
itself is most obscure, and, indeed, inconsistent, so the 
foundation of it is evidently weak. It is intended by 
this to avoid the inconvenience of subjecting God to 
the trouble of some changes in the created world, and 
the meanness of others. But it appears that, even 
upon this hypothesis, he would still be the author of 
them ; besides, to Omnipotence nothing is troublesome, 
nor those things mean, when considered as part of a 
system, which alone might appear to be so. See Dod- 
dridge, Lectures, lect. 37 ; Cudworth, Intellectual System, 
p. 149, 172 ; More, Immortality of the Soul, lib. iii, c. 12 ; 
Bay, Wisdom of God, p. 51, 52; Lord Monboddo, An- 
cient Metaphysics ; Young, Essay on the Powers and 
Mechanism of Xature ; Cocker, Theism ; Tulloch, Eng- 
lish Prat. Theol. ii, 269, 273, 397. 

Plat (ilp^n, chelkah, 2 Kings ix, 26, a piece, or 
portion of ground, as elsewhere rendered). 

Plate (Tpb, luach, 1 Kings vii, 36, a board [or 
“table”], as elsewhere rendered; HD, pack, a thin 
lamina , Exod. xxxix, 3; Numb, xvi, 38; tsits, a 
burnished plate of metal, Exod. xxviii, 36 ; xxxix, 30 ; 
Lev. viii, 9 ; 'pp, seren, an axle, 1 Kings vii, 30). 

Platel, Jacques, a French theologian, was born at 
Bersee, a village of Artois, in the year 1608. He 
joined the Jesuits, and taught philosophy and theology 
at Douai. He was regarded as a man of some learning, 
and his writings were received favorably. He died Jan. 
7, 1681, at Douai. His works are, Synopsis cursus theo- 
logici (Douai, 1654, fol.; 6th ed. 1706) : — .4 uctoritas con- 
tra physicam pradeterminationem (ibid. 1669-1673, 2 
vols. 12 mo). 

Platina, Battista Bartolommeo de Sacciii, a 
very learned Italian, is noted as the author of a History 
of the Popes. He was born in 1421 at Piadena, a village 
between Cremona and Mantua. He first embraced a 
military life, which he followed for a time, but after- 
wards devoted himself to literature. He went to Rome 
under Calixtus III, who was made pope in 1455; where, 
getting himself introduced to cardinal Bessarion, he ob- 
tained some small benefices of pope Pius II, who suc- 
ceeded Calixtus in 1458, and afterwards was appointed 
apostolical abbreviator. When Paul II succeeded Pius 
in 1464, Platina’s affairs took a very unfavorable turn. 
In the first place, Paul was much indisposed towards 
him, on account of his connections with his predecessor 
Pius; but this might possibly have been borne if Paul, 
in the next place, had not removed all the abbreviators 


from their employments by abolishing their places, not- 
withstanding they had purchased them with great sums 
of money. Upon this Platina complained to the pope, 
and most humbly besought him to order their cause to 
be judged by the auditors of the Rota. The pope was 
offended at the liberty, and gave him a very haughty 
repulse : “ Is it thus,” said he, looking at him sternly — 
“is it thus that you summon us before your judges, as 
if you knew not that all laws are centred in our breast ? 
Such is our decree : they shall all go hence, whither- 
soever they please : I am pope, and have a right to ratify 
or cancel the acts of others at pleasure.” These un- 
happy men, thus divested of their employments, used 
their utmost endeavors for some days to obtain audience 
of the pope, but were repulsed with contempt. Upon 
this Platina wrote to him in the following terms: “If 
you had a right to dispossess us, without permitting 
our cause to be heard, of the employments we had law- 
fully purchased, we, on the other side, ought to be per- 
mitted to complain of the injustice we suffer, and the 
ignominy with which we are branded. As you have 
repulsed us so contumeliouslv, we will go to all the 
courts of princes, and entreat them to call a council, 
whose principal business shall be to oblige you to show 
cause why you have divested us of all our lawful pos- 
sessions.” Nothing can better illustrate the temper 
and character of Platina than this letter, which was, 
however, considered as an act of rebellion, and caused 
him to be imprisoned, and to endure great hardships. 
At the end of four months he had his liberty, with or- 
ders not to leave Rome, and continued in quiet for some 
time ; but afterwards, being suspected of a plot, he was 
again imprisoned, and, with many others, put to the 
rack. The plot being found imaginary, the charge was 
turned to heresy, which also came to nothing, and Pla- 
tina was set at liberty some time after. The pope then 
flattered him with a prospect of preferment, and thus 
kept him in Rome; but, dying of apoplexy, left him to 
shift for himself as he could. This ivhole conflict is 
related by Platina himself in his Lives of the Popes, 
under the pontificate of Paul II. Sixtus IV succeeded 
Paul in 1467, and appointed Platina keeper of the Vat- 
ican Library, which was established b) r this pope. Pla- 
tina here found himself in his own element, and lived 
very happily in that station till 1481, when he was 
snatched away by the plague. He bequeathed to Pom- 
ponius Laitus the house which he built on the Mons 
Quirinalis, with the laurel grove, out of which the po- 
etical crowns were taken. He was the author of several 
works, the most considerable of which is De Yitis ac 
Gestis Romanornm Pontificum, or history of the popes 
from St. Peter to Sixtus IV, to whom he dedicated it. 
The Protestants have approved it, and ranked the au- 
thor among the witnesses to truth. Some Roman Cath- 
olic writers charge him with want of sincerity and care ; 
yet Panvinius did not scruple to publish this history, 
with notes of his own, and added to it the Lives of the 
popes from Sixtus IV to Pius IV. It was first printed 
at Venice in L479 (fol.), and reprinted once or twice be- 
fore 1500, since which time all the editions of it are said 
to have been castrated. His Lives of the Popes is 
written with elegance of style, and discovers powers 
of research and discrimination which were then rare. 
He writes with freedom of the popes. Some passages 
are omitted in late editions. In the edition of 1574, the 
passage in the life of St. Anaeletus, “ Uxorem habuit in 
Bithynia,” is for the first time changed into “Uxorem 
non hahens.” Platina wrote also a History of Mantua, 
in Latin, which was first published by Lambecius, with 
notes, at Vienna (1675, 4to). The titles of some of his 
other works are. De Xatnris rerum : — Epistolce ad diver- 
sos: — De honesta volnptaie et valefudine : — Defulso et 
vero bono : — Contra amores: — De vera nobilitate : —De 
optimo cive: — Panegyricus in Bessarionem : — Oratio ad 
Paulum II: — Depace Italics componenda et bello Turcico 
indicendo: — De fosculis lingua Latina : — .4 Treatise on 
the Means of preserving Health, and the Science oj the 


PLATO 


2V2 


PLATO 


Kitchen (Bologna, 1408, 8vo), which provoked the fol- 
lowing epigram by Sannazarius: 

Iuirenia et more?, vitas, obitnsque notasse 
Puutitlcum, argiiUe lex fuit historic. 

Tn tame n hie lanlje tract as pulmenta cnlina*, 

Hoc 1'latinn, est ipsos pascere pontiflccs. 

See Si hriiekh. Kirchoujesch. vol. xxxii ; Niceron, Mi- 
umires. vol. iii : Tiraboschi, titoriu della letter. Ital. s. v. : 
(General lii»g. Diet. s. v. 

Plato, one of the most eminent of the Greek phi- 
losophers.’ lie was by far the most illustrious of the 
pupils of Socrates, completely eclipsing all his fellow- 
students, so that St. Augustine justly remarks, "Inter 
disci pulos Socrates, non quidem immerito, excellcntis- 
sima gloria claruit. qui onmes cacteros obscuraret, Pla- 
to’’ {be fir. Dei , viii, 4j. lie was the earliest of the 
systematic scholarchs, or founders of permanent schools, 
in which the doctrines of the original master, with more 
or less of development and change, continued to be ex- 
pounded through successive generations. II is fame and 
influence on antiquity transcended the renown and au- 
thority of any other teacher, and may have suggested, 
in connection with the character of his doctrine and 
the mode of its exposition, the declaration of Labco, 
that he. was to be accounted a god rather than a man. 
"llunc riatonem Labco inter semideos commemoran- 
dum putavit, sicut I!ereulem,sicut Bomulnm; semideos 
autem hcroibus anteponit, sed ntrosque inter numina 
collocat” (Augustine, ibid. ii. 14). Ilis influence was 
increased, rather than diminished, during the long and 
ardent struggle between rising Christianity and expir- 
ing Paganism— both combatants receiving his impulse, 
claiming his alliance, and submitting to his philosoph- 
ical ascendency. Though the oblivion of the Greek lan- 
guage and the dogmatic character of mediaeval specu- 
lation turned intellectual activity into widely divergent 
channels, yet the revival of letters was attended by the 
resurrection of Plato; and the Mcdicean Academy of 
Florence, under the direction of Marsilius Ficinus (q. v.), 
renewed the prominence of his name and of his philos- 
ophy. Since that period, the beginning of the 16th 
century. Plato has enjoyed an augmented authority in 
the domain of metaphysical inquiry; has animated 
successive schools of brilliant reputation and of ex- 
tensive rule; and has been the late progenitor of the 
most famous systems which have given to modern 
Germany its marvellous predominance in transcenden- 
tal metaphysics. 

I. Life and Times .— The notices of Plato’s life which 
have come down to us are few and scanty, and for the 
most part unauthenticated. Legend early fastened upon 
his name, and incrusted it over with myths as striking 
and as unreal as any employed by himself for the ex- 
emplification of his tenets, lie transformed the rugged 
honesty of his teacher, Socrates: lie was himself truns- 
liguratcd by the wild fantasy of his own followers, and 
was translated in equal degree with Bully Bottom, 
though in dissimilar mode. But, if little is known of 
the real circumstances and incidents of the life of the 
philosopher, there is abundant information in regard to 
the troubled and motley times in which he lived. The 
ancient authorities for the life of Plato which have been 
transmitted to us are few, late, and untrustworthy, llis 
biography by his pupil, companion, and successor, Xe- 
noerntes, was early lost. Of the numerous writers con- 
temporaneous with him, or living in the next centuries, 
who treated his life, professedly or incidentally, scarcely 
any available memorials survive. (Jur fullest author- 
ities are Diogenes Laertius, Apulcius, < llympiodorus, in 
the life prelixed to most editions of the Opera 1‘lutoms, 
and an anonymous biographer. These writers, 1 tiogencs 
Laertius especially, may have had trustworthy materials 
at command, but they have commingled, or rather in- 
undated them, with the legendary growth which sprang 
up after Plato's death a growth which should not be 
entirely neglected, as it exhibits the manner in which 
Plato was regarded by his admiring disciples, arising out 


of his own imaginative expositions, and anticipating the 
fantastic reveries of the Neo- Platonic Thaumatnrgists. 

Plato was born a full Athenian citizen, of Athenian 
parents, but, apparently, not within the limits of At- 
tica. His birthplace seems to have been the island of 
-Kgina, where his father owned a cleruchv, or colonial 
estate. There are dissonances in regard to the year of 
his birth, but it fell within the first half of the Decen- 
nial War, or earlier portion of the Peloponnesian War, 
Grote assigns his nativity to May, B.C. 427, just before 
the surrender of Platiea; Clinton to May, B.C. 429, four 
or five months before the death of Pericles; and Diog- 
enes Laertius to B.C, 428, the year in which Anaxag- 
oras died. 'Faking Grote’s date for convenience, as this is 
no place for the investigation of such chronological prob- 
lems, the philosopher’s birth was synchronous with the 
first exhibitions of the comedian Aristophanes, whom, 
throughout life he so greatly admired, and whose works 
he kept habitually under his pillow. Both the parents 
of Plato were of noble blood; a circumstance which af- 
fected equally his political inclinations and his specu- 
lative views, llis father was Ariston, the son of Aris- 
tocles, and traced his descent from Codrus and the god 
Poseidon. His mother’s name was Perictionc. She was 
descended from a collateral branch of the family of 
Solon the Lawgiver; was nearly related to Critias, the 
chief of the Thirty Tyrants, and was the sister of Char- 
mides, who was at the same time one of the ten govern- 
ors of the Pirieus, The genealogical table is given by 
Ucberweg. Legend, which is traced back to Spensip- 
pus,the nephew of Plato, ascribed the paternity of Plato 
to the god Apollo; and, in the form in which the story 
is told by Olvinpiodorus, closely imitates the record in 
regard to the* nativity of Christ. A similar origin was 
assigned to Servius Tullius, to Pythagoras, to Alexander 
the Great, to Scipio Africanns, to Apollonius of Tvana, 
to the seventh ancestor of Genghiz-Kahn, to Buddha, 
and to many other notable personages. The stop,- of 
Hercules is well known, and furnished occasion for the 
apt sarcasm of Tertullian : "llerculem de fabnla facis 
Christum" (A dr. Marc, iv, 2). It was an old-world 
tale, often repeated in many ages and in many lands. 
As it was traced back to Spcusippus, the translation of 
Plato into a supernatural being must have commenced 
immediately after his death. The transcendentalism 
of his doctrine may have suggested the fiction of his 
original divinity. The latter was recognised in the in- 
scription on the tomb erected to his memory by the 
Athenians: 

Toil? 3i/’ ’AwoX.Wv ’.AtrKXiiirjor »,3t nAfircoia* 

Toy fxee tea ijti’xh •’» 7 " v ita auifia, tri/ot. 

Soon after his birth he was carried to Mount llymettus 
by his father and mother, that they might perform on 
his account the due sacrifices to the enchorial deities — 
Pan, the Nymphs, and the Xomian Apollo. As the in- 
fant lay sleeping on the flowers, the bees settled upon 
liis lips, and filled his month with honey and the honey- 
comb, that Homer’s verse might be accomplished, says 
( llympiodorus: 

Toe Kui U7TO f\i<K icov fit’ei' av&if {II. ii, 249). 

According to Greek usage, the child was called Aris- 
tocles, after his paternal grandfather. The name of Plato 
was imposed on him by Ariston of Argos, his instructor 
in gymnastics, on account of the breadth of his shoul- 
ders or of his forehead, or in consequence of the com- 
pass and fluency of his speech. He excelled so far in 
athletic sports as to gain the reputation of having con- 
tended in the Isthmian and other games, lie began 
his education at an early age by studying grammar 
under Dionysius, and continued it by prosecuting the 
wide circle of knowledge then called music under 1 >raco, 
a distinguished pupil of the more distinguished Damon. 
At some period of his youth he also gained an acquaint- 
ance with the philosophy of Heraclitus, under the guid- 
ance of Cratylus, after whom he has named one of his 
Dialogues. As a boy. he is said to have been quick in 


PLATO 


273 


PLATO 


apprehension, eager, diligent, grave, and modest. His 
first ambition, as with most young men of lively genius, 
seems to have been for literary renown. He wrote lyr- 
ics, dithyrambs, epigrams, and tragedies ; and is even 
said to have composed a tetralogy for competition in 
the Dionysiac festival. In the estimation of antiquity 
he was universally accomplished, and his writings attest 
a wide range of acquirement. After lie entered into 
intimate relations with Socrates, he burned up his ju- 
venile poems; but throughout his career he tvas attend- 
ed by the poetic afflatus. The acquaintance with Soc- 
rates seems to have begun about his twentieth year 
(B.C. 407), and was probably incited by the same causes 
which induced other wealthy, elegant, and ambitious 
Athenians to frequent the company of the ceaseless dis- 
putant — the desire of skill in debate, and dexterity in 
public harangues. Plato, or the author of the Seventh 
Epistle attributed to Plato, acknowledges that in youth 
“he was animated, like other young men, to devote 
himself, as soon as he was his own master, to the affairs 
of the commonwealth.” Other attractions arose, and 
the association with Socrates became closer and closer 
with the passing years, till his venerable master was 
removed from him by the fatal cup of hemlock, after 
eight years of communion. 

The twentieth year of Plato, according to Grote’s 
chronology, coincides with the return of Aleibiades to 
Athens, the commission of Lysander as commander of 
the Peloponnesian fleet, and the appointment of Cyrus 
to the satrapy of Asia. Two years later came the de- 
cisive overthrow of the Athenians at ^Egospotami — the 
siege — the starvation — the surrender — the dismantling 
and the humiliation of Athens. During these disastrous 
and sorrowing years the age of Plato would keep him 
employed, during the season of military operations, in 
the fleet, the infantry, or, more probably from his social 
station, in the cavalry, lie is said to have participated 
in three engagements — at Tanagra, at Helium, and at 
Corinth. These exploits are wild imaginations, spring- 
ing from the acknowledgment of Plato’s service in the 
field, which an active, healthy youth could not have 
avoided, in such days of agony, without incurring the 
degradation of XenroraZtct. Plato might have been 
present at Corinth, but Delium was fought when he was 
only three years old ; Tanagra, w r hen he was only one, 
or, if the principal action of that name be regarded, 
thirty years before his birth. There is no reason to 
doubt Plato’s military service, but the scenes of that 
service are wholly conjectural. His intimate connec- 
tion with Chabrias, in whose defence he once spoke, 
perhaps arose from old camaraderie. 

The subjugation of Athens and the usurpation of the 
Thirty opened to Plato the public career which ap- 
peared barred against him during the reckless rule of 
the Demus. Critias, the leader of the Thirty, a man 
of splendid and various talent, of high culture, of daring 
energy, and of unscrupulous ambition, was a cousin ; 
Charraides, one of the Ten at Pineus, who fell in the 
battle with Thrasvbulus, was an uncle. The gates of 
the political stadium were thrown wide open to him, 
and the prospect of rapid advancement invited his eager 
activity. Accepting the Seventh Epistle as genuine, 
we have his own declaration that he promptly seized 
the opportunity afforded. His relatives, his friends, his 
party, so long excluded from office, were at length in 
power; and he entered as an aspirant along with those 
to whom he was united by blood, by traditional associ- 
ation, by hereditary interest, and by personal procliv- 
ities. lie was a born aristocrat. These things should 
be remembered in the appreciation of Plato’s political 
reveries, in the estimation of his censures of Pericles 
and the democracy, and even in the interpretation of 
his sarcasms on the rhetoricians and sophists. He w r as 
himself an exclusive, an oligarch, and he hated popular 
liberty even more than he hated a tyrant. 11 is polit- 
ical prospeets were, however, soon overclouded. The 
recent democracy had, doubtless, been lawless, savage, 
VIII.— S 


| oppressive, and indiscreet; but his kinsmen, Critias, 

I Charmides, and their colleagues, were more lawless, 
sanguinary, rapacious, and brutal. It is safe to reject 
| the blind partisanship alike of Grotc and of Mitl'ord. 
■ Whether under the rule of the mob or under the rule 
of the few, the internal condition of Athens had become 
desperate. Our histories of Greece, with all their de- 
tails of license and exaction, reveal but little of the 
consuming fever by which Athens and her sister states 
slowly perished. What outraged Plato more than any- 
thing else was the indignity and treacherous injustice 
shown towards his master, Socrates, himself affiliated 
with the dominant party. Socrates was ordered to ar- 
rest an innocent man, and to conduct him to punish- 
ment, in order that he might be involved in the crimes 
and odium of the chiefs. We are reminded of the ne- 
farious counsels given by the historian and administra- 
tor Guicciardini for the repression of the prostrate and 
humiliated Florence, Socrates refused, and his life was 
endangered. At the same time his garrulous mouth 
was stopped, and his instructions in the streets and 
highways prohibited. Plato gave up the delusive vis- 
ions of reform which he subsequently ascribed to his 
youth, and withdrew himself from political concerns. 
Critias was killed, the Thirty driven out, the usurpa- 
tion overthrown, and a complete subversion of the 
recent polity was effected. Plato again sought an en- 
trance into public life. He was dragged in this direc- 
tion by a strong desire, as he confesses. His inclina- 
tions were decidedly political, lie complains of the 
violence and vengeance which attended the political 
disturbances, but admits that much moderation was 
shown by the restored democracy. Still the party ad- 
verse to him acquired full aseendenev, and he found 
himself excluded from influence. His final repulse from 
Athenian politics was due to the malicious indictment 
of Socrates, and his death under sentence of the criminal 
court. The peril and the condemnation of his teacher 
drew Plato closer to him. He attended and advised 
the sage in his trial. He offered to pay the fine that 
might be imposed upon him; and, if parted by sickness 
from his last serene hours, he fondly treasured up his 
memory and his aims, and consecrated his own life to 
the illustration of his virtues, and the perpetuation of 
the fame of his great guide and friend. Anxious and 
occupied with other eares as were the years of Plato’s 
intercourse with Soerates, many of the learned German 
scholars who have occupied themselves with the Pla- 
tonic writings have concluded that several of them 
were composed and published before or soon after the 
death of his illustrious instructor. It seems more rea- 
sonable to refer them all, or nearly all, to a much later 
period. 

The tragic fate of Socrates dispersed the Soeratie fra- 
ternity and drove Plato from Athens. lie naturally 
feared to be involved in like odium and like danger 
with Socrates. It must be remembered that the real 
cause of enmity was mainly political — that Soerates 
and Plato were not merely adversaries of democratic 
ascendency, but had been identified with the tyranny 
of the Thirty. The looseness, too, and unregulated 
passion of Athenian procedure, civil and criminal, 
must also be borne in mind. Justice, innocence, and 
law w r ere no assured protection before an Attic dicas- 
tery. This, doubtless, intensified Plato’s hereditary op- 
position to the rule of the majority, and would increase 
his distrust after the judicial murder of Soerates. lie 
might recall the remark made by Aleibiades at the time 
of liis flight from Sicily, that he would not trust his 
life to the vote of his own mother, lest she should blun- 
der and deposit a black pebble for a white one. Plato 
accordingly retired from Athens, anti found refuge in 
the house of Euclid at Megara, a fellow-pupil, and the 
father of the iMegaric school. He was now in his twenty- 
eighth year. How long he continued at Megara. and 
how far he imbibed the doctrines of Euclid, cannot be 
ascertained, though Mcgarie tendencies may readily be 


PLATO 


274 


PLATO 


recognised in his own teachings. After leaving Mcga- 
ra, Pinto entered upon a round of distant voyages; blit 
their extent, their order, and whether continuous or 
interspersed with visits to his native city, must remain 
undetermined. In the course of his travels lie visited 
Pyrene. where he studied geometry under Tlieodorus; 
and thence proceeded to Kgvpt, where lie admired the 
ancient monuments, and held intercourse with tin- 
priests. Some reports alleged that he extended his 
journeys to Palestine, Syria, Babylonia, and even to 
Persia." When he was about forty years of ago he vis- 
ited Tareiitnm— where he became acquainted with the 
Pythagoreans. Archytas, Timseus, Echecrates, etc.— and 
Syracuse, where his intimacy with Dion was formed. 
He is said to have been admitted at this time to the 
society of the elder Dionysius, and to have offended 
the tyrant, who sent him away in charge of Pollis, the 
Spartan, to he disposed of as a prisoner of war. The 
commission was executed, and Plato was sold as a slave 
in .Egina, but soon ransomed by Anniceris, who refused 
reimbursement. The story is questionable in all its 
parts. 

Immediately after this supposed adventure Plato re- 
turned to Athens, and revived in a novel ami more 
systematic form the career of Socrates, opening a school 
of philosophy in the grove of the hero Academes, which 
adjoined a small estate of his own, either inherited or 
purchased, lying a mile north of Athens, on the road to 
Eleusis. Here he remained for nearly forty years, in 
the exercise of his didactic vocation, with the exception 
of two absences in Sicily, each of considerable length. 
To this interval between the death of Socrates and the 
establishment of the Academy has been attributed the 
composition of many of the Platonic Dialogues. This 
has been done by Herman critics, who have been ena- 
bled by keen intuition to discover what was in the mind 
of Plato, though wholly unrevealed by himself. The 
object of their production in these years is not easily 
discernible. The leisure for their preparation would 
scarcely be afforded during the fatigues of his long jour- 
neys; nor is it likely that one so averse to the literary 
promulgation of his views would engage in such labors 
while occupied in storing his mind with multifarious 
knowledge, in examining the dogmas of other philoso- 
phers. and in maturing his own views. In the absence 
of all positive information, a decision is as absurd as it 
would lie impossible. But the conclusion of (Irote is 
most plausible that the C/uirtte Platoniae are all sub- 
sequent to Plato’s entrance upon his career as a teacher. 

The history of the Academy under the rule and in- 
struction of its founder is unknown. That it was thor- 
oughly successful is evident from the high and wide 
reputation of its teacher, from the distinguished names 
of its pupils, from the duration of their academical 
course, and from its flourishing condition at his death. 
Among the more notable of the earlier academicians 
were Aristotle, who attended the instructions of the 
great teacher for twenty years; Spousippus, the nephew 
of Plato, and his immediate successor; Xenoeratcs, who 
succeeded Spciisippus in the direction of the school; 
Eudoxus of t nidus, the illustrious astronomer; the ora- 
tors Demosthenes, 1 lyperides, and Lyeitrgus; the Syra- 
cusan Dion, and his comrade and murderer, (V/iippus. 
May we add “Timmi of Alliens’’ to the list, on the. 
Strength of the statement of t Hympiodorus, that, “with 
Plato alone did the misanthrope associate.” Men and 
strong-minded women are said to have Hocked to his 
lectures, as he renounced the pungent and mortifying 
irony of Socrates, abstained from disputations in the 
markets and workshops, and refrained from hunting up 
young men to persecute them with logomachies, lie 
diff< red from tin* Pythagoreans in the alistim-ucc from 
oaths, secrecy, and dogmatism; he differed from the 
.Sophists, or those to whom the name in a later day at- 
tached. in requiring no fee from his hearers, though he 
accepted presents at times of large amounts. Honor, 
renown, and iulhteuce increased with advancing years. 


lie was consulted, like that strange philosopher, Ben- 
thani, in recent times, by communities anxious to im- 
prove their organizations or jurisprudence. The Mace- 
donian king l’erdiccas sought his advice, and received 
Philip into his confidence upon his recommendation. 
The younger Dionysius twice tempted him to Syracuse, 
though from these visits he derived little advantage for 
himself, no improvement of condition for the Sicilians, 
and only discredit for philosophy. These two expedi- 
tions to Sicily constitute notable episodes in the life of 
Plato, and are reported and exculpated at length in the 
Seventh Epistle. On the accession of Dionysius the 
younger, who entertained some philosophical aspira- 
tions, and was still in the freshness of youth, his uncle 
Dion pursuaded Plato to accept an invitation to Syra- 
cuse, in the hope that his influence over a youthful 
mind might promote a renovation of good order and 
prosperity, hv inducing the abandonment of the savage 
policy and cruel practices of the preceding tyranny. 
Plato yielded with hesitation ami reluctance, as lie af- 
terwards declared, and sailed for Syracuse B.<’. 307, 
twenty years after his first supposed visit, lie was cor- 
dially welcomed, hospitably entertained, and for some 
time handsome!}' treated. But no conversion was ef- 
fected. lie found the young cub the whelp of the old 
beast. Dion was banished, and Plato discovered him- 
self to he virtually a captive under surveillance, lie 
was anxious to return to Athens, hut the means of 
escape were unattainable. Dionysius made promises, 
and entreaties which were commands, and Plato pro- 
longed his stay till the season of navigation in the en- 
suing year. Notwithstanding this unhappy experi- 
ence, he was again (I1.C. 301) persuaded to visit the 
tyrant of Syracuse, for the purpose of reconciling Dio- 
nysius to Dion, and securing the restoration of the latter 
to his country. The attempt failed utterly. Plato’s 
life was imperilled, and he was enabled to return home 
only through the intervention of Archytas ofTarcutum. 
On his return he met Dion at Olympia, and seems to 
have sanctioned his military expedition against Diony- 
sius, though refusing any direct participation in the en- 
terprise, on account of the technical hospitality received 
from the tyrant. 1 lion's bold adventure was successful. 
Dionysius was deposed and driven into exile. Dion 
acquired the control of Syracuse, declined into tyranni- 
cal procedures himself, was assassinated by his comrade 
Callippns, who was murdered in turn, and in the con- 
tliet of anarchy Dionysius was restored. 

The intercourse of Plato with Dionysius, and even 
with Dion, was open to grave suspicion; and his visits 
to Sicily, with their calamitous issues, occasioned bitter 
reproach. The Seventh Epistle, addressed to the friends 
of Dion, is an elaborate exposition of the motives by 
which he professed to have been guided, and an anxious 
apology lor his conduct. The disorder of the explana- 
tions; the subtle casuistry of the reasoning; the earnest 
palliation of his actions; the inconsequences and incon- 
gruities of his statements; the rnggeduess and inequal- 
ity of the expression; the absence of art, alike in the 
structure and in the details of the letter are very diver- 
gent from the graces of Platonic composition, hut are in 
perfect consonance with the situation of Plato, and with 
the painful solicitudes of a mail compelled to justify 
what he was ashamed of, and. after the disaster of the 
mortifying events, to put the best possible interpreta- 
tions upou unpleasant and damaging memories which 
could not he suppressed. The real facts may have been 
these: Plato, with the sanguine hope of a poet, the con- 
fidence of a philosopher, and the ambition of a reformer, 
believed that he could re-establi.>Ji peace, good order, 
and happiness in Syracuse by his presence; hut Diony- 
sius and his subjects were equally intractable; and the 
Syracusans were so unfitted for civic and social tran- 
quillity, by selfish and sensual luxury, chronic discord 
and general demoralization, as to be restless under any 
government, and refractory under any laws. The dis- 
solution was universal throughout the Hellenic world. 


PLATO 


275 


PLATO 


though unrecognised ; the total decay of the constitu- 
tion was mistaken for an accidental, transitory, and 
curable disease. It was a time, in some respects, like 
the present: when the distemperature of society was 
universally experienced ; when theories of all kinds— 
new constitutions on novel principles; socialistic, com- 
munistic, and other dreams— were in vogue, and some- 
times put into practice, with only an aggravation of 
misery. This unhappy condition of society explains 
not merely Plato’s failures in Sicily, but his disgust at 
Athenian politics, and the visionary, extravagant, and 
often immoral devices of his own political speculations. 

The remainder of Plato's life, after his tinal return 
from Sicily, was devoted to his school. It was passed 
in great ease and honor, notwithstanding the troubles, 
domestic and foreign, in which Athens was involved, 
and the succession of wars which harassed, impover- 
ished, and depopulated Greece, lie died B.C. 347, in 
the year in which Olyntluis was taken by Philip of 
Macedon, and, according to Seneca, on the same day of 
the same month in which lie had been born (“Platoni 
diligentite suae beneficio contigisse, quod natali suo 
decessit, et annum unum atque octogesimum implevit, 
sine ulla deductione,” Epist. vi, G [58 J, § 31). He adds 
that hence the Magi, then at Athens, sacrificed to him, 
as being of a nature more than human (“amplioris fu- 
isse sortis quam humanse rati”) — thus furnishing anoth- 
er evidence of his mythical divinity. 

From this account of the life of Plato it will be seen 
that he had large and unsatisfactory acquaintance with 
the social ailments and political conditions of his time; 
that he held intimate intercourse with the most distin- 
guished personages of the period; that he was brought 
into close connection with Socrates and the Socratic 
family, with the Heraclitean, Megaric, Pythagorean, 
and other schools; that his education was large and 
liberal ; his studies, observation, and travels varied and 
extensive; his talents versatile and lofty; that he unit- 
ed the genius of the poet, the aptitudes of the rhetori- 
cian, the skill of the dialectician, the reason of the phi- 
losopher, with the diligence of a scholar, the training 
of a man of the world, and the propensities of a states- 
man. lie was thus full-armed, and prepared to convert 
to his own use all former knowledge and speculation. 
IIow he employed his gifts and the materials at his 
command will be manifested by the consideration of his 
literary and philosophical career. 

II. Writings . — The literary remains which pass under 
the name of Plato are among the most extensive monu- 
ments of the classic age of Athens, notwithstanding the 
disfavor with which he regarded writing as a mode of 
instruction, and his repeatedly expressed preference for 
oral communication in the treatment of philosophical 
problems ( Phcedo , p. 27G; Grote, Pluto, vol. i, ch. vi, p. 
221-232). It would be pressing too far the remarkable 
declaration contained in the Seventh Epistle : “ I have 
never myself written anything upon these subjects; 
there neither is, nor shall there ever be, a treatise of 
Plato” — it would be pressing this declaration too far to 
conclude from it that Plato had written nothing up to 
that late period of his life. It would be pressing it 
still further, and more unwarrantably, to receive it as 
evidence that he never wrote anything at all. The 
genuineness of the epistle is not above suspicion, and 
has often been denied. Moreover, Plato adds: “The 
opinions called by the name of Plato are those of Socra- 
tes, in his days of youthful vigor and glory.” These 
opinions might have been published by writing, as well 
as by oral delivery, and still have been disclaimed ; and 
there is a bold fiction, or Platonic myth, in ascribing 
them to Socrates at any period of his life ; but it ena- 
bled Plato to disconnect himself from all personal re- 
sponsibility for the doctrines set forth by him. It is 
certain that Plato discountenanced the written promul- 
gation of philosophy, and that his writings were not 
designed for general circulation, or for the acquisition 
of literary or other fame, but as summaries for bis school, 


and for the attestation of his views. This is confirmed 
by the story of llermodorus selling the Platonic treatises 
in Sicily, and by the proverb founded thereon : \6younv 
'E pfioSwpog tju TroptvtTui. Yet, in despite of this aver- 
sion, which rested on grounds of personal ease and secu- 
rity, as well as on the exclusiveness of sect and other 
philosophic reasons, the Opera Platonis constitute a very 
copious collection. They consist of thirty-six works, irr 
fifty-six books, counting the thirteen epistles as one 
book. To these are appended, in many editions of 
Plato, seven treatises generally recognised to be spuri- 
ous. Of the thirty -six works habitually ascribed to 
Plato, only two have wholly escaped challenge on the 
score of authenticity. 

It is very important for the student of philosophy 
that the genuine treatises of Plato should be clearly 
separated from those that are doubtful or illegitimate. 
It is equally important that none should be repudiated 
from fanciful conjecture. The task of criticism seemed 
to have been adequately executed by the great scholars 
of the Museum at Alexandria, and the results which 
they reached were not seriously questioned till the close 
of the last century. Since that period a succession of 
acute and too ingenious philologians in Germany, com- 
mencing with Tennemann and Schleiermacher, have 
undertaken to determine the legitimacy, the order, and 
the approximate dates of the several Platonic treatises, 
in accordance with their own notion of his latent mean- 
ing; and have rejected such of the Dialogues as failed 
to harmonize in form, finish, or sentiment with their 
preconceived views .of the Platonic scheme.* These 
criticisms, arrangements, and rejections do not accord 
with each other: there are continual dissonances among 
these organizers and repudiators. If they are followed, 
everything becomes a quaking bog beneath the feet of 
the inquirer. It is safer and more satisfactory to acqui- 
esce in the conclusions of the ancients, who had means 
of judging at their command denied to us, and to receive 
as Plato’s what has been received as Plato’s under their 
authority. To this conclusion Mr. Grote comes after a 
diligent and minute examination of the Platonic canon, 
and of all that has been alleged on the part of the op- 
ponents. He shows that, the accepted canon rests upon 
the scheme of Thrasyllus, formed about the reign of 
Tiberius; that the canon of Thrasyllus rests upon the 
classification of Aristophanes of Byzantium, and the ar- 
rangements of the Alexandrian Library; that the Alex- 
andrian critics probably derived their knowledge, medi- 
ately or immediately, from Xcnocrates and the early 
Academy itself; and that the Platonic documents were 
attested by their careful preservation, transcription, and 
collation in the Academy itself— the house and manu- 
scripts of Plato having been bequeathed by him to the 
school. The chain of evidence is as complete as pos- 
sible for the determination of the authorship of ancient 
works. The direct positive evidence is valuable and 
irrefragable, but limited. It is almost entirely confined 
to references in Aristotle to treatises with which he 
connects the name of Plato ; references to passages in 
Plato, but without mention of his name; and references 
which can scarcely be explained otherwise than as ref- 
erences to evident passages in Plato, The Dialogues 
thus accredited are, first, the Republic, Timauis, and 
Laws; second, the Phredon, Banquet, Phanlrus, and 
Gorgias; third, the Meno, llippias Minor, and Menex- 
enus ; fourth, the Thesdetus, I’hilebus, and Sophistes; 
and lastly, the Politicos, Apology, Lysis, Laches, and 
perhaps the Protagoras, Euthydemus, and Cratylus. 

The question of the canon is associated with several 
other difficult inquiries — the order of production and 
dates of the several works, their coherence and interde- 
pendence, their special aim, and their purpose as parts 
of a supposed Platonic system. There are no external 
testimonies or internal criteria by which the dates of 
production can be fixed. In some of the Dialogues 
events are mentioned which seem to determine the an- 
terior limit of their composition, but reveal nothing as. 


PLATO 


276 


PLATO 


to later years. Rome critics have supposed that the 
order or approximate dates could be settled by the rel- 
ative age assigned to Socrates in each. This is very 
arbitrary and fantastical, and leaves no guidance but 
bold conjecture. Some critics assume that certain 
pieces appeared during the lifetime of Socrates, others 
immediately after his death, others again during the 
period of Plato’s foreign wanderings, and a large por- 
tion of the remainder in an indicated succession after the 
institution of the Academy. Rome philological legisla- 
tors decide that the Pluedrus and such other Dialogues 
as may suit their fancy were the first fruits of his lit- 
erary fecundity, in consecpience of the joyous juvenility 
of their utterances, the uncastigated redundance of im- 
agination, and the poetic richness of expression. Hut 
the latest productions of Edmund liurke were the rich- 
est. the most ornate, fervid, and poetical. 

It is impossible to discover the chronological order of 
the Platonic treatises. The wide diversity of opinion 
on the subject, the ingenious arguments employed by 
discordant scholars to confirm their own theories and to 
refute those of others, attest this impossibility. There 
is as much divergence of view in regard to the sequence 
of the Platonic Dialogues as in regard to the dramas of 
•Shakespeare. The hopeless uncertainty of all conclu- 
sions is assured by the similar characteristics of both 
authors. The productions of each were subject to con- 
tinued revision and alteration ; the lirst draft rarely, if 
ever, represented the ultimate form. Additions, sup- 
pressions, expansions, modifications, were from time to 
time introduced by both into their works, which were j 
not published in permanent form, or thrown into circu- 
lation until after the death of their authors, lienee it 
is an utterly delusive procedure in either ease to under- 
take to decide the date of production bv tone, by style, 
by doctrine, or by historical statement or allusion. The 
writings of Plato are not bounded by the accidents of 
time. They hear the impress of his hand, his heart, his 
soul, not at particular moments of his life, but are the 
flower and sum of his whole intellectual existence. 
Except in a few instances, which do not affect the to- 
tality of his instructions, there is no ascertainable be- 
fore and after, but all stand upon the same chronological 
plane. The attempt to determine the order in which 
the several works of Plato was produced derives its 
chief interest from the aid thence expected in tracing 
the evolution of the Platonic doctrines, and the relation 
of each treatise to the rest. The inquiry is tempting, 
hut. even ii capable of satisfactory solution, would be 
more fruitless in the ease of Plato than of any other phi- 
losopher. There is so little in Plato of a dogmatic 
character, so much of tentative, sceptical, and nude- 
lined exploration, that the chief result of such an in- 
vestigation, if it were practicable, would not he the dis- 
covery of the process of development and expansion, but 
only the settlement of the sequence of published doubts. 

'1 he question of the connection of the Platonic writings 
early engaged attention, ft seems to have been raised 
in the years immediately following Plato’s death. The 
great critic Aristophanes of Pyzantinm, librarian of the 
Museum at Alexandria, put forth an arrangement of the 
more notable tractates of Plato in a system of trilogies, 
the members of each trilogy being determined by com- 
munity ot subject or correspondence of form and" treat- 
ment. 1 be Platonic exposition is, for tin* most part, so 
thoroughly dramatic that it might naturally suggest an 
arrangement analogous to that observed in t heat rical 
compositions, lint the adaptation of the mould to the 
Platonic writings is altogether arbitrary, and proved to 
he inadequate in the hands of its inventors. The Leyva 
and h'piuoini.s were divorced from the JitjmMir; the Crito 
and / ‘tnnt,, were placed in a different class from the 
Jyit/iyp/iron and t lie . I poloyy. t >nlv fifteen of the trea- 
tises were triloyizfd; the rest were ungrouped, and fol- 
lowed in single file, t Jrote thinks the arrangement may 
have been earlier than Aristophanes. The imperfec- 
tions of the scheme are manifold, and provoked other 


distributions. liy some critics his works were arranged 
in three classes : 1. The Direct, or dramatic; 2. The In- 
direct, or narrative ; 3. The Mixed. This disposition is 
awkward, insufficient, and indistinct. Only two, or at 
most three of the works of Plato are really narrative. 
AH the rest are dialogues, and therefore dramatic; but 
these arc composed of dialogues blended in varying pro- 
portions with narrative. Under the reign of the first 
emperors of Rome the Platonic remains were redis- 
tributed by Thrasyllus, to whom were due two distinct 
schemes. Imitating the example of Aristophanes, and 
guided by the same dramatic analogy, he disposed the 
whole recognised works of Plato in nine tetralogies, or 
groups of four each. The first tetralogy, in which a 
real community of subject and an orderly development 
are manifest, was formed of the Euthyphron, Apology, 
Crito , and Phcedo — which still lead the procession of 
the Corpus Plutonicum in nearly all editions of Plato’s 
works. lint the tetralogies of Thrasyllus had no more 
chronological truth, and rarely more logical coherence, 
than the trilogies of the Alexandrian school. They do 
not seem to have satisfied himself, for he proposed an- 
I other and totally diverse classification of the Platonic 
memorials, founded upon their form and aim rather than 
J on their subject or supposed succession. In this plan 
Thrasyllus distinguished the Platonic treatises into — 
I. Inquisitorv ; II. Expositor}*. The Inquisitory produc- 
tions were divided into, A. Gymnastic; 11. Agonistic. 
The Gymnastic were subdivided into. 1. t fbstctrieal ; 2. 
Peirastic, or Tentative; and the Agonistic into, 1. Con- 
firmatory, or Monstratory ; and 2. Kcfntatory. The Ex- 
pository treatises were separated into, C. Theoretical, 
and D. Practical. Each of those contained two classes: 
the Theoretical — 1. Physical; 2. Logical; and the Prac- 
tical — 1. Ethical, and 2. Political. The two schemes are 
exhibited l»v Grotc in tabular form (Pluto, vol. i. ch. iv, 

p. 161, 162),* 

The ancients thus renounced the effort to reduce into 
a connected series the writings of Plato, either by the 
evidence of the order of their production, or by hypo- 
thetical indications of their logical and philosophies! in- 
terdependence. Such disappointment did not cool the 
ardor or repress the audacity of the German philologians. 
Selileiermachcr bluntly assumed that the various pro- 
ductions of Plato constituted preconceived and well-or- 
dered parts of a systematic doctrine, contemplated in its 
integrity from the beginning of his career. Starting 
from this point, he undertook to detect by internal signs 
the periods of production, the relation of the parts to 
each other, the purpose of each treatise, ^arnl the consti- 
tution of the whole philosophy. Whatever did not ac- 
cord with this scheme was set aside as a disconnected 
or incidental labor, or was rejected as a fraudulent pre- 
tence. Schlciermachcr’s views raised up a host of op- 
ponents, hut a host of imitators of his procedure also. 
It is not appropriate to examine here the theory of 
Schleiermaeher. or the theories of his antagonists; or to 
point out what has been admitted and what rejected by 
each of the acute disputants. The theses of Sehleier- 
macher, Ast, Sneher, U. K. Hermann, Stallbaum. Stein- 
hart, Silsemihl. Munk.and Ueberwegareenrefully stated, 
weighed, and judged in Grotc’s laborious and tedious 
work. 'I’he discussion is noticed here because it in- 
volves the decision of two very important points in the 
appreciation of the doctrine of Plato: Was there any 
unity of design in the literary productions of this phi- 
losopher? Is there any unity of execution, any me- 
thodical scheme of philosophy in them? In other 
words, did Plato contemplate from the commencement 
of his career the elaboration of that scheme which may 
he deduced from his works? Does each separate work 
hear, from the intention of its author, a definite relation, 
and render a definite service to any complete doctrine? 
Are the works of Plato to be considered parts of a sys- 
tem? or as, in the main, occasional and fragmentary 
presentations of disconnected parts of philosophical in- 
quiry? These questions probe the whole significance 


PLATO 


211 


PLATO 


of Plato’s career and of the Platonic doctrine, and we 
assent substantially to the conclusions of Grote. The 
idea of a preconceived plan had been rejected by Ast, 
Socher, Hermann, Stallbaum, and others, before it was 
impugned by Grotc. A system of philosophy is always 
a production of slow and gradual growth, requiring not. 
merely long meditation and frequent re-examination, 
but favorable circumstances, so that ifc is rarely com- 
pleted by its originator, except in method and broken 
outline. The philosophy of Comte is one of the few in- 
stances of complete organization by the author himself; 
the philosophy of Leibnitz an instance of the much 
commoner result of only fragmentary indication. The 
assumption of Schleicrmacher is at variance with nearly 
all experience. Certain fundamental view's in regard 
to principle or method, usually to both, for they are al- 
most indissolubly connected, present themselves to the 
quick apprehension and creative imagination of the 
young philosopher. These long struggle to shape them- 
selves into definite form. They are at first vague, though 
luminous; active, though indeterminate; indistinct in 
outline, though of penetrating radiance. As separate 
questions arise, they are discussed under the impulse 
and by the guidance of the new light; and each succes- 
sive discussion renders this new force more distinct, 
more prominent, and more controlling. With the proc- 
ess of such expansion, new modifications and new ap- 
plications are introduced, and it is only when an oppor- 
tunity is afforded, after the performance of this course, 
for revising the chain of progression, that a philosopher 
is enabled to present his doctrine in harmonious integ- 
rity. Was this opportunity afforded to Plato, outside 
of the sphere of his acroamatic expositions? It may 
well be doubted, if not roundly denied. In his pub- 
lished works we find fragmentary revelations only, ac- 
companied by incongruities and positive inconsistencies, 
which would surely have been absent from speculations 
complete in the mind of the philosopher, and not merely 
in various stages of development. 

If there was no unity of purpose in the several pro- 
ductions, if they were never contemplated in their con- 
ception as parts of a general and concordant system, 
there could scarcely be any definite unity in their exe- 
cution. The whole is composed of all its parts. The 
meditated whole may, indeed, be discerned “by the 
mind’s eye” where several of the parts have been lost 
or never supplied, as any circle may be completed from 
a single arc, or from the broken segments of the same 
circumference. But that this may be done it is essen- 
tial that all the members finished or preserved shall 
have the same curvature, shall have been described by 
the same radius revolving round the same centre. This 
cannot be said, and cannot be supposed without violent 
presumptions, of the Platonic treatises. All that wc 
know, and all that we can positively discern, is ad- 
verse to such an hypothesis. The style of l’lato is sin- 
gularly various : its variety is one of the most salient 
indications of the wealth, freedom, and activity of his 
genius. The structure of the several dialogues is so in- 
geniously diversified as to render them incapable of 
classification, and to make them, like the plays of 
Shakespeare, each a distinct species in itself. Plato’s 
mode of procedure is as elastic as his style. The So- 
cratic method of disputation may be usually retained, 
but its spirit is curiously changed in different applica- 
tions, and its prominence is varied. The points of view, 
the central stations, are constantly shifted in passing 
from one dialogue to another, and, as a necessary result, 
the aspects presented arc changed — the tendencies are 
dissimilar and the doctrines are uncoalescing. But 
more than this ; very few of the treatises of Plato are 
constructive or dogmatical. Nearly all of them are 
simply negative or inquisitorial. The latter do not 
seek to maintain any dependence on the former. They 
are separated bv the whole diameter of the intellectual 
sphere. It is only in a few of his works — presumably 
the late and still crude products of his old age, the sec- 


ond fruitage that never ripens — that Plato enounces 
principles which are neither inductions nor deductions, 
and propounds dogmas which are rather germs of un- 
developed speculation than the partial representation 
of the conclusions of a system already completed and 
formulated. However greatly he may have travestied 
and sublimated the character of his teacher and philo- 
sophical protagonist, his procedure was in the main and 
throughout honestly and earnestly Socratic, and his aim 
was Socratic also. His object was not the establish- 
ment of a doctrine, but the stimulation of candid inves- 
tigation, in order to free his hearers from the stagnation 
of thought and the obsession of vulgar or treacherous 
errors. He was not a doctrinaire , but an inquirer; or, 
rather, he taught the need and practice of investigation, 
not a body of conclusions. Undoubtedly there is an 
intellectual unity, vague, unformed, and in great meas- 
ure unconscious, in the constitution of every man ; there 
is a mental identity, through innumerable and often 
wide changes of opinion, in the entire career of every 
thinker, and this unity and this identity, intuitively 
recognised by the pupil or student, will suggest purpose 
where no purpose was present, and furnish the elements 
of an imaginary system which never revealed itself to 
its parent. To this cause may be largely assigned the 
strange and divergent developments of the Platonic 
philosophy in the several schools which sheltered their 
reveries under the prestige of his great name. It would 
lead us too far from our proper subject to pursue further 
this line of refiection. We return, therefore, to the text 
that there was no conscious scheme, no unity of execu- 
tion, in the writings of Plato, and approve of the spirit 
in which they have been regarded by Grote, who says, 
“ I shall not affect to handle them as contributions to 
one positive doctrinal system, nor as occupying an in- 
tentional place in the gradual unfolding of one pre- 
conceived scheme, nor as successive manifestations of 
change, knowable and determinable, in the views of the 
author. For us they exist as distinct imaginary con- 
versations, composed by the same author at unknown 
times and under unknown specialties of circumstance” 
(Plato, vol. i, ch. vi, p. 279). 

The mode in which these questions may be decided 
regulates the interpretation to be given to the Platonic 
philosophy, both in the original conception of its author 
and in its subsequent developments. It explains the 
origin, the cause, and the filiation of the later divergen- 
cies, and their wide separation from each other. It de- 
termines our appreciation of the nature and extent of 
Plato’s services to his own and future times, fixes his 
position in the history of philosophy and in the devel- 
opment of human intellect. It affects our estimate of 
his relation to his disciples, to his country, and to his 
times; and, indeed, penetrates and colors every part of 
the criticism which may be hazarded on his personal 
and speculative career. 

III. Relations to his Times. — For the just and ade- 
quate conception of Plato it is indispensable to ascertain 
his actual position in the Hellenic world, and his atti- 
tude towards Attic thought, the thought both of the 
general public and of the cultivated intelligences in that 
period of mental activity which followed the death of 
Pericles. To do this it is necessary to consider the re- 
markable mission of Socrates; for, however Plato may 
I have transmuted and glorified his master, he unques- 
| tionably continued his labors in a higher sphere, and 
i both spoke in his name and contemplated the same pub- 
| lie results. The extreme democracy of Athens, which 
was only the fullest and most prononneed exhibition of 
the general Hellenic tendency, threw all power — politi- 
cal, social, and, we may almost say, religious — into the 
hands of the multitude. The populace became more 
wilful, arrogant, and reckless after the demoralization 
produced by the Peloponnesian War and the plague. 
But the intractable Dcmus, described in burning linea- 
ments by Aristophanes, is always under the guidance or 
at the mercy of demagogues, flatterers, and time-serving 


PLATO 


278 


PLATO 


politicians. The sense of power produced in the masses 
the feeling of right, for with mere numbers ‘-might is 
right and the execrable maxim, “Stet pro ratione vo- 
luntas," is the motto of an ochlocracy even more than it 
is of an autocrat. The mob cannot be led by considera- | 
tiotis of abstract morality; it may be wheedled by per- 
suasion, by adroit catch-words, by dexterous appeals to j 
its whims, passions, and immediate interests. At Ath- 
ens it had lost all reverence for the cardinal principles 
of right ; it had been greatly corrupted by the incidents 
and consequences of the war; it was habitually mis- 
guided for selfish purposes by its dissolute leaders; gen- 
tleness, mercy, justice, prudence, were all discredited; 
and everything was sacrificed to momentary caprice, to 
insane suspicion, and to blind l'ury (Plato, De Rep. viii, 
x-xiii ; Xenoph. De Rep . Ath. < tratores Attici, passim). 
In these respects the Athenians were merely the high- 
est exemplification of the contemporaneous spirit of the 
Greeks, The leaders, who debauched the people, could 
hope to gain or to retain their ascendency only hv en- 
couraging the debauched sentiments by which they 
throve. Under these circumstances professed teachers 
visited the Greek cities and thronged to Athens, under- 
taking to communicate for pay the corroding arts by 
which the populace might be swayed, and office, power, 
honor, and emolument acquired. I5y the union of these 
bad influences truth lost all respect ; virtue all author- 
ity; the sense of right was destroyed; every ancient 
rule, custom, or institution was deprived of its sanction ; 
every venerable principle was brought into contempt; 
morality was supplanted by passion or apparent expe- 
diency; nothing stable was suffered to remain; words 
became jugglers’ tools, reason was degraded to chican- 
ery, casuistry, and sonorous plausibility ; and specious 
rhetoric or ambiguous commonplaces took the place of 
wisdom. Xu hope could he entertained for the renewed 
health of society, for the welfare of the community, for 
the restoration of order in the state, till this vicious cir- 
cle of delusions had been broken and suppressed. Hut 
the delusions, and the pernicious practices which at- 
tended them, wore fortified by the conceit of knowledge 
and of practical sagacity; and this conceit could not be 
overcome without exposing the ignorance which it con- 
cealed, and compelling the vain tribe of blind leaders 
of the blind to confess their ignorance with shame and 
remorse. The most effectual mode of reaching this re- 
sult might well seem to he the examination of the nat- 
ure. import, and ambiguities of words, habitually and 
loosely used without reference to their special signifi- 
cance or insignificance; the investigation of flu* shad- 
owy and unsettled notions attached to current phrases 
and accepted aphorisms; the discovery of the charac- 
teristics and relations of propositions, both in particular 
employments and in their general constitution ; and the 
detection of the conditions under which valid conclu- 
sions might he drawn. Lessons of this character could 
Hot be effectually communicated to persons confident in 
their own knowledge and perspicacity, and contemning 
all who were of a different communion, otherwise than 
by propounding a series of interrogations growing not 
"lit of each other, hut out of the answers to each ques- 
tion, and thus leading the respondents into a labyrinth 
of perplexities, absurdities, inconsistencies, and impo- 
tent eon fusion. No escape would then he left from the 
recognition of previous ignorance and error. The better 
natures would be stimulated to further inquiry, and to 
persistent efforts to attain a knowledge of momentous 
truths, or, at least, to abstain from the proclamation of 
manifest uncertainties, unmeaning verbiage, or inter- 
ested misrepresentations, as unquestionable truth. Now 
this procedure was the Socratic r/mchiis , and it was 
mainly conducted by menus ol the Socratic sorites— a 
most fallacious form of reasoning, hut most piercing in 
unveiling the hollow pretensions of arrogant sophistry. 
It w as a keen *■ examination of conscience." intended to 
lav hare the habitual sins of ignorance, false knowledge, 
and fraudulent conceit. It was not designed to teach 


anything but the knowledge of self, and fihe accompa- 
nying knowledge of ignorance disguised as wisdom. 
This was the true Nosee teipsum, and the ground on 
which the Delphic Oracle pronounced Socrates the 
wisest of men — because he professed to know nothing. 
It was a contrivance for sweeping away error, as the 
indispensable preliminary for the discovery- of truth. 
It was not the announcement of truth, hut the prepara- 
tion for its reception. It was the preaching of repent- 
ance, which must precede, and might induce, the resto- 
ration of individual, social, and political health, moral- 
ity, and welfare. We see from the testimony of Plato, 
Xenophon, and even Aristophanes, to what cruel tor- 
tures, to what writhing reluctatious, to what bitter re- 
llections, to what irritating mortifications, the catechu- 
mens in this strange school were subjected. Some went 
away penitent, some sought fuller knowledge, and at- 
tached themselves to the master with reverent love and 
eager desire to learn, some followed him to acquire the 
secret of his art, that they- might apply- it to the nefa- 
rious practices which he proposed to frustrate, lienee 
from the Socratic school issued Alcibiades, and Critias, 
and Uharmules, and Xenophon — the mercenary- soldier 
and enemy of his country. But the most of the disci- 
ples departed in rage and confusion, to feed upon their 
husks, to repeat their old practices, and to nurse enmity 
against the man and the process by- which they- had 
been exposed and brought to shame. 

The vocation of Socrates was exercised in the dock- 
yards, the workshops, the markets, the streets, and all 
places of public gathering, lie straggled about, seizing 
upon every chance idler whom lie might ; and whom 
he fascinated, or button-holed , so that ‘‘lie could not 
choose but hear.” I’lato changed the audience and 
the venue; but he pursued the same dialectical meth- 
od as his instructor, for the same purposes, with the 
same distant prospects; but with greater elegance, 
higher culture, and in a loftier range of thought, illus- 
tration, and expression. Like Socrates, he aimed at co- 
ercing his hearers into an examination of the meaning 
of their terms and the contents of their propositions, 
single or connected, in order to induce them to put aside 
the misguiding and corrupting influences of the empty- 
pretence of knowledge, and of sophistical rules of action. 
When this was achieved, something more might be at- 
tempted: till this was done, nothing beneficial could be 
expected. The teachings of Socrates and 1’lato might 
train men in the legitimate employment of language 
and the instruments of thought, hut was not calculated 
for the establishment of systematic doctrine; and they 
had direct relation to the positive needs of the Hellenic 
communities of their time, rather than to the intellect- 
ual aspirations of a few cultivated minds. If these 
views he correet.it is manifest that Plato could neither 
have contemplated nor executed any- rounded scheme 
of philosophy in the writings that remain to us; and we 
know that we possess all his important works. The 
philosophy that may he ascribed to him must therefore 
be patiently, ami in some degree at least conjrct orally, 
developed from the hints that he has given, and from 
the scattered tenets that he has expressed. 

There is another peculiarity which points in the same 
direction. Artistic considerations, and the desire to re- 
produce the life oftlie time and the familiar intercourse 
of Athenians, may have induced Plato to adopt the form 
of dialogue in nearly all his compositions. The truer 
representation both of Socrates ami of the Socratic mode 
of procedure may also have concurred in recommending 
t lie dramatic presentation of his inquiries. But the di- 
alogue had another and still higher advantage for him : 
it enabled him to conceal his opinions, and to dissociate 
himself from any doctrines calculated to give offence, or 
that might give offence, to the irritable people of Ath- 
ens. The fate of Socrates was always before his eyes; 
ami with much more sincerity, as well as art. than Des- 
cartes. he evaded responsibility for his opinions, 11c 
did not ouly adopt the form of dialogue, but he made 


PLATO 


279 


PLATO 


Socrates the principal speaker, illustrating the Socratic 
method under the mask of Socrates, and putting nearly 
everything of weight, moment, or originality into his 
mouth. He never appears in propria persona. There 
is nothing to connect him before the Athenian dicas- 
teries with any tenet in his writings. There is a con- 
stant avoidance of definite doctrine, a frequent censure 
of written instruction, a continual reference to the ob- 
stetrical procedure, and a deliberate renunciation of all 
responsibility. Everything is thus adverse to syste- 
matic unity of any kind in the Corpus riutonicum. 

IV. Literary and Artistic Merits. — The dramatic 
form of nearly all the Platonic writings has just been 
mentioned as one of the instrumentalities by which the 
philosopher shrouded his personality, and withdrew 
himself from the malice of his fellow-citizens; but it 
constitutes one of the distinguishing excellences of his 
composition. Whatever construction may be put upon 
Plato’s philosophic career, whatever value may be as- 
signed to his speculations, whatever censures of his doc- 
trines may be hazarded, his varied literary merits and 
graces have always won the most enthusiastic admira- 
tion. In a beautiful epigram on his great comic con- 
temporary attributed to him, Plato says that the Graces 
found in the soul of Aristophanes a temple which should 
never decay. The comedies of Aristophanes were Pla- 
to’s constant companions. He caught from them many 
delicate turns of expression and attitudes of thought ; 
and he offered in his own Protean mind an equally im- 
perishable temple for the habitation of the Graces. 
Plato probably owes much more of bis immortality to 
the beauties of his compositions than he does to his 
philosophic splendor and profundity ; and perhaps it was 
chiefly through the fascination of his manner that his 
doctrines secured the attention necessary for tlieir ap- 
preciation and acceptance. The literary attractions of 
the Platonic writings furnish their first and most easily 
recognised claim to permanent renown, and can scarcely 
be regarded as accidental or undesigned characteristics. 
Plato’s earliest efforts were in the direction of poetry, 
lie is believed to have produced attempts of high pre- 
tension in the popular forms of poetic art. No literary ap- 
prenticeship equals poetical composition. When he first 
associated himself with Socrates he was full of dreams 
of political distinction, and he may have expected to 
derive from the intercourse the same aids for a political 
career which were derived by other illustrious pupils of 
the school. When he renounced the temptations of a 
political career, he converted to philosophic purposes all 
the knowledge of literary’ art and all the faculties of ef- 
fective expression which he had acquired by’ bis pre- 
vious discipline. The result was a style unrivalled for 
variety, fertility’, vivacity, ease, flexibility, and almost 
every’ form of literary excellence. The great difficulty 
of expression — to say simple things simply, and ordi- 
nary things with propriety (difficile est- communia di- 
cere) — was never surmounted by r any' writer with such 
felicity as by Plato. None has approached him in the 
natural facility’ with which he changes the mood of ex- 
pression with the changed mood of feeling, or with the 
requirements of the changing subject. He turns “ from 
grave to gay, from lively’ to severe,” with inimitable 
self-possession ; rising without effort to the highest sub- 
limities of imagination, descending without a fall to the 
playfulness of unchecked humor, and poising himself in 
the middle air without hazard and without uneasy’ flut- 
tering of his pinions. 

The exuberance of the Greek vocabulary can be esti- 
mated only by comparing Aristophanes with Plato — 
not that they exhaust its wealth, but that they have 
an ampler mastery of its treasures than any other writ- 
ers of the tongue. In this comparison Plato will not 
appear inferior to Aristophanes in the extent of his pos- 
sessions, in the happiness of their employment, or in 
the force of their combinations. Words, are, however, 
only the currency’ of thought and feeling. The pre- 
eminent merit of Plato is equally manifest in the plas- 


ticity’ of his phraseology’; the appropriate turns of ex- 
pression — the homeliness at times, at times the rare 
magnificence of his diction; the close adaptation of the 
utterance to the sentiment, so as to furnish a perfect 
cast of whatever is intended to be conveyed, no matter 
how convoluted and intricate. To these qualities must 
be added the balance and harmony of all the instrumen- 
talities of communication, and — that which most de-- 
liglited an Attic ear — the rhythm and melody' which 
are almost as imperceptible to moderns as “the music 
of the spheres” to those who know not “ divine philos- 
ophy.” 

These remarkable excellences are only’ aids for the 
fuller exhibition of higher characteristics of art. The 
drama was the favorite recreation of the Athenian peo- 
ple; their whole life was dramatic; their time was 
spent in the open air, “hearing or telling some new 
thing;” their political discussions were dramatic; their 
forensic controversies were thoroughly theatrical ; their 
social gatherings and their street colloquies were all 
dramatic — and the dialogue was in consequence the 
natural representation of their daily existence, as well 
as of the customary procedure of Socrates. The Dia- 
logues of Plato, at once artful and artistic, seemed 
wholly devoid of art, from their correspondence with 
the familiar usages of the people; and thus they won 
regard and ready acceptance, which might have been 
sturdily’ refused to a more demonstrative form of com- 
munication. Then, too, the dialogue enabled the au- 
thor to turn and twist a question into every’ imaginable 
attitude and shape, and Plato revelled in the perform- 
ance of such legerdemain. It furnished an opportunity’ 
of examining a thesis or a doubt on every possible side; 
of bringing forward and answering, modifying, appreci- 
ating, or evading, every’ conceivable objection; and of 
thus applying the Socratic elenchus in the most start- 
ling manner and with the best effect. It also enabled 
Plato to keep ever in the foreground his beloved teacher, 
who was elevated by’ his presentation, though dressed 
up so as to be incapable of recognition. 

This prominence of Socrates points to another charm 
of the Platonic writings. We have little reason to be- 
lieve that the Socrates of Plato was the man whom 
Xenophon described, whom Aristophanes ridiculed, 
whom the Athenians laughed at, whom Anytus and 
Melitus indicted, and who drank the hemlock in the 
public dungeon. The character presented was thor- 
oughly unreal and wholly idealized ; but it was a per- 
fectly natural and consistent creation — as much so as 
Hamlet, Prospero, or Falstaff. It was a living portrait 
of one who had never appeared in that fashion in life. 
The same remarks may be extended to the other per- 
sonages introduced into the magic mirror of Plato. The 
dramatic imagination is continually’ displayed by' him 
with a power and a sagacity’ which might have been 
envied by Sophocles, by Aristophanes, or by Moliere. 
These lifelike personages, moreover, are not employed 
by’ him as vain puppets, or as pageantry to excite sur- 
prise or to decorate the scene. They’ have a sufficient 
ratio essendi, and help forward all the graver purposes 
of the philosopher. How much more effective are the 
illustration and the pungency of the reasoning when 
they are the spontaneous outpouring of the thoughts 
and feelings of personages like ourselves and our ac- 
quaintances! Mr. Grote has shown the aim and the 
service of the endless questionings and inconclusive ar- 
1 gumentation of Plato; and he has noted their partial 
correspondence with the unappreciated method of the 
schoolmen. Both procedures appear tedious, over-sub- 
tle, and absurd to modern apprehensions; y*et they had 
their use, and might be revived with advantage. But 
the Platonic art renders the further service of bringing 
“home to men’s business and bosoms” the grave per- 
plexities which are discussed in so many’ forms and 
clothed in such chameleon hues; and also of making 
men take a lively interest in debates, which might oth- 
erwise be repelled as abstract refinements, devoid of 


280 


PLATO 


PLATO 


practical interest and significance. The total neglect 1 
into which the great schoolmen have fallen, when con- 
trasted with the unfading fame of Plato, may prove 
how much of his influence in every age has been due to 
his literary skill and the marvellous subtlety ami per- 
fection of ids dialogue. 

If we frankly and admiringly confess the variety and 
splendor of the. Platonic style, we must not close our 
eyes to its occasional defects. The copiousness of his 
expression and the joy of indulging his genius certainly 
encouraged loquacity and a needless languor of move- 
ment. The richness of his imagination, lavished upon 
reveries, also led to turgidity and inappropriate gor- 
geousness of rhetoric. These defects were noticed by 
the ancient critics, and can scarcely he overlooked by 
t lie sober modern student (Dionys. llalicnrn. Lie 17 
lie most b. p. 9ot» ; Longa n. Tie Hublim. c. xxxii, xxix). 
There is the brilliancy, but there is also the extrava- 
gance of the Miltonic outbursts of fancy, and, as the 
language far outstrips the thought, it becomes obscure, 
like a cloud before the sun, whose darkness is deepened 
by the fringe of radiance on its borders. 

It is not merely from this cause that Plato frequently 
lapses into obscurities and awkwardnesses. I le is some- 
times more concerned about bis expression than about 
his thought. He dealt in reflections still vague to him- 
self. and in mysteries not clear to bis own mind. There 
was constant demand for the services of a Delian diver. 
The subjects which be bandied were not only deep, blit 
unfathomed by him; not only dark, but undefined. 
Their imperfect apprehension by himself was reflected 
by the indistinctness of bis utterances. There was also 
a misguiding star by which he was often led astray, 
and tempted into pathless intricacies. The imagination 
of Plato was the commanding faculty of his intellect, 
and he followed its beams too far. lie was a poet by 
congenital propensity. Aristotle has said that the phi- 
losopher is a devotee of fable. (<f>t\6f.iv$og 6 QiXooutpoij 
ttmq torn', Metupfi. i. ii, p. 9H2). Plato furnished the 
example, and confirmed the diction. He insisted upon 
the employment of philosophical fiction as the best 
means of popular education; and proposed to substitute 
it for the great poets — Homer, Pindar, and the Trage- 
dians — whom he condemned ami excluded from his com- 
monwealth. He was constantly indulging lus poetic 
appetencies, inventing fables for the illustration of Ins 
positions, and converting his fables into philosophical 
verities. Were the Platonic Ideas at first anything 
more than fantastic dreams — “tenues sine corpore vi- 
tasV” This tendency, which grew with years, event- 
uated in mysticism; and mysticism is at best a lumi- 
nous cloud, unsubstantial, impalpable, inapprehensible, 
however bright it may be. 

V. I'hilosoply .- Prom wliat. has already been ob- 
served, it will be evident that we could not. ascribe to 
Plato a definite, distinct, coherent, and complete body 
of doctrine, lint philosophy, in its original application, 
and peculiarly in t lie Socratic school, imported the love 
and pursuit of truth and wisdom, without assuming 
their actual attainment. In the philosophy of every 
sect, the method of inquiry and the germs or fundamen- 
tal principles constitute its distinctive characteristics 
and excellences, and determine its ulterior develop- 
ments, whether wrought out by the founder of the 
school or bv bis successors. Thus, though we may 
deny to Plato the lull creation of a philosophic system, 
we must admit that lie laid the corner-stone and some 
of the foundations of a system; that he opened out now 
paths of inquiry and broadened old ones, that he stim- 
ulated investigation by characteristic modes, and com- 
municated a potent impulse in a particular direction, 
and that lie furnished new and pregnant germs of 
thought to be cherished into ample growth and produc- 
tion by those who should come after him. These germs 
are scattered through his writings without reciprocal 
connection; but they may be discovered, .harmonized, 
and combined. Though their meaning may appear di- 


verse to different minds, their combinations be variously 
established, and their developments be strangely diver- 
gent, yet a general accordance in the constitution of all 
the expositions will maintain the family likeness, and 
attest the presence of a distinctive and fruitful though 
undisclosed hotly of thought in the original founder of 
the sect. It is this body of thought, indicated, but 
unequally and imperfectly revealed, in the Platonic 
treatises — extracted from them, and co-ordinated by a 
succession of acolytes, who professed to find it in the 
authentic texts — which constitutes the philosophy of 
Plato. Partly in consequence of the length of this no- 
tice, partly in consequence of the impossibility of refer- 
ring the connected scheme in its connected form to 
Plato, it will be presented in brief outline under the 
head of Platonic Philosophy. 

VI. Services and Influence. — A few remarks may be 
added here on the character and tendency of the Pla- 
tonic teachings, as no appropriate place will be found 
for them in the proposed examination of the Platonic 
doctrine. The aim of Plato was to bring liis people to 
a knowledge of their intellectual sins, and to a confes- 
sion of ignorance and guilt in their pretensions and 
practices, in order that a foundation for truth might be 
discovered, and the rules of correct action and upright 
conduct might be established and observed, llis main 
object was to confute intellectual chicanery, to dispel 
delusion, and to lead men to an eager desire for justice, 
righteousness, and wisdom. For his greater pupil, Aris- 
totle, was reserved the task of building on the ground 
which he cleared from wreck aixl ruin and poisonous 
weeds. Hut the vast and magnificent structures of the 
Stagirite are the best proof of the valuable service 
which Plato rendered. The domination of sophistry 
was ended by the career of Socrates and the institution 
of Plato's Academy. In various modes, earnest men 
addressed themselves to the search for truth, and ceased 
to wander after “sounding brass ami tinkling cymbals.” 
Healthy thought, eager purpose, and honest resolution 
were reawakened throughout the realm of Hellenic in- 
tellect; and, though devious paths were pursued, and 
dissimilar resting-places accepted as the goal, all prose- 
cuted their investigations with a single eye to truth, 
and not as the means of fraudulently gaining personal 
advantage. As the Knights of the Hound Table sepa- 
rated in the quest of the Holy (Irani, which only one 
achieved, so the philosophers of (ireeee, after Socrates 
and Plato, travelled by different routes to reach the 
same end, though Aristotle alone accomplished the task 
which all contemplated. The pursuit of the sinnmum 
bonum, or supreme good, became after Plato the special 
object of all philosophy (Cicero, He Fin. Hon. et J/<//.). 
Divergent were the tracks of the inquirers, and dissimi- 
lar the forms of good which were contemplated, hut 
with all the schools virtue ami happiness, which was its 
promised fruit, were the aim. The utter rottenness of 
the communities of t » recce, the irreparable disintegra- 
tion of Hellenic society, prevented the new s| irit from 
infusing health into the diseased political fabric; but 
the unexampled integrity of Lvcnrgus, ami the exalted 
morality of Demosthenes in his Orations, both alleged 
pupils of Plato, may be taken as evidence of the whole- 
some reaction produced. To the lofty ami pure senti- 
ments of Plato, even more than to the beauty of bis 
style, may be applied the observation of Quintilian : 
“ l T t milii non homiuis iugenio sed quodam Delpbico 
videntur oracolo instruct us” (Or. Inst. x. i, t<t). 

The philosophy and the habitual sentiments of t ireeee 
were purified ami elevated by the teachings of Plato, 
and the world never wholly lost the vantage-ground 
which had thus been gained. There is indeed nothing 
more remarkable in the history of Creek intellect than 
the purity of sentiment, the spirituality of aspiration, 
the adoration of virtue and holiness ami justice ami 
right, the fervid enthusiasm for a virtuous life, irre- 
spective of consequences, and the intuitive apprehen- 
sion of the highest precepts of morality, which shine 


PLATO 


281 


PLATO 


through all the writings of Plato. They are blended , 1 
occasionally, it is true, with coarse views contracted 
from the habitual practice of the pagan world around. 
Some of these views are too disgusting to be commem- 
orated here. Others are aberrations unworthy of Plato. 
When he advocates the community of goods and the 
community of women, and the paternal abnegation of 
children, in the governing class of his ideal common- 
wealth, we see how far fantasy betrayed him into per- 
nicious error (JDe Rep. v). There was no greater ser- 
vice rendered to humanity by Aristotle than his confu- 
tation of these dangerous and immoral extravagances. 
But when we contemplate the positions of Plato in re- 
gard to the perfections of God, to the nature of virtue 
and holiness; when we consider his declaration that 
man should assimilate himself to the Deity, that God 
is the source of good, but not of evil, that the regenera- 
tion of the spiritual nature is not to be attained by ar- 
gumentative reasoning, and cannot be taught as a sci- 
ence or an art; when we regard his assertion of the 
immortality of the soul, his belief in future retribution, 
his allegation that the highest truth must be revealed, 
his delineation of the Son of God (7-0? Ssan lyyorog ) — 
it is impossible to overlook his vast superiority over all 
former schemes of morality, and his near approxima- 
tion to the doctrines of Christianity — some of which he 
announces almost in the language of the apostles. We 
know no more terrible and sublime picture than the 
passage in which he depicts the dead presenting them- 
selves for judgment in the other world, scarred and 
blotched and branded with the ineradicable marks of | 
their earthly sins (\pvx>)i' • • ■ SiapepaffTiytopemjv 

KCll Ov\d)V ptOTljV V7TO tTTlOpKUOV KCtl ddlKiuQ, U fKCt- 
c t 10 1) Trpd^iQ avrov i&upupZaro tig ti)v k. t. \. 

Gorg. c. lxxx). Yet this is but one of many analo- 
gous passages. This approximation to revealed truth 
is among the most insoluble problems bequeathed to 11s 
by antiquity. It has often been thought that Plato de- 
rived much of his theological and ethical doctrine from 
the Hebrew prophets, either circuitously or by direct 
acquisition during his supposed travels in Palestine. 
But his tenets are not to be found in those prophets in 
such a form as to be apprehended by a Gentile; nor 
can they be detected in them except through the illu- 
mination of the later revelation. It has been alleged 
that the spiritual interpretation of these utterances, 
which gives them their startling significance, is unwar- 
rantably deduced from the Neo-l’latonists, who were 
posterior to the evangelists. But the tenets are in 
Plato’s text, were commented on by Cicero, and affected 
the speculation of Philo-Judieus, before Christianity had 
secured definite establishment, or Neo-Platonism was 
distinctly constituted. It has been suggested that these 
anticipations of the teachings of the Great Master are 
hesitating and only problematic — dreams thrown out as 
possibilities, the vague longings of the ecstatic fancy — 
but the mystery remains; how could such dreams and 
longings arise in the midst of paganism, and of Athe- 
nian degradation and corruption V We otter no solu- 
tion of the enigma, which awaits its CEdipuS. We only 
note the existence of the riddle. There are marvels in 
the life of men and of nations which no plummet in 
man’s hands can fathom, but which justify the convic- 
tion that, as the spirit of God brooded over the face of 
the deep, and brought order and beauty and life out of 
chaos, so it incessantly broods over the dark confusion 
of earthly change, regulating all issues, and preparing 
the world, in the midst of manifold disorder, for the 
higher and purer phases of being for which it is de- 
signed, and towards which it is blindly striving. 

We are not of the number of those who accept with- 
out inquiry the tenets of Plato, or approve the whole 
tendency of his teachings. We are of another school. 
We recognise, however, that his aims are always noble, 
and that an invigorating morality breathes through 
nearly all his writings. To him we are indebted for 
many glorious visions of supernal beauty, which beam 


upon 11s like the unattainable stars disclosed through 
rifts in the clouds which envelop the earth. But the 
philosophy of Plato is essentially mystical, and conse- 
quently unsubstantial; and, though mysticism may in- 
flame, spiritualize, and refine natures already spiritual 
and refined, it is heady and intoxicating, and apt to 
justify wilful aberrations, and to place every fantastic 
conviction on the same level with confirmed truth." 
The Socratic elcnchus, with its appropriate instrument, 
the Socratic sorites, is invaluable in certain rare con- 
junctures, but it is a dangerous procedure. It reveals 
the baselessness of error, but it weakens all convictions; 
and it was a natural consequence of its employment that 
Platonism so soon passed into the scepticism of the New 
Academy. The spirit of Plato’s philosophy is through- 
out idealistic, though it is not pure idealism ; and ideal- 
ism, in all its forms, inevitably runs into pantheism, 
which resolves everything into phenomenal evolutions 
of divinity, and thus destroys the distinctions of right 
and wrong, and all moral responsibility. Hence, when 
the best of the Romans under the later republic and 
early empire experienced the necessity of corroborating 
the moral sense, and instituting a rigorous rule of con- 
duct, it was not to the Platonists but to the Stoics that 
they recurred. Notwithstanding the purity of Plato’s 
sentiments, his devotion to the abstract and ideal in 
preference to the actual, and bis absolute submission to 
the. tyranny of his rich imagination, tempted him into 
political and social heresies of the worst type of com- 
munism. 

It is thus necessary to distinguish between the vari- 
ous tendencies of the Platonic doctrine, and, while ad- 
miring with reverent enthusiasm its rare excellences 
and elevating impulses, we must not overlook the germs 
of corruption which were also present, and which, like 
rust on iron or mould on bread, contaminated the whole- 
some body on which they preyed. 

Y 1 I. Literature. — The literature of Platonism is end- 
less. A complete collection of the works treating of 
this subject, directly or indirectly, would equal in ex- 
tent the Library of Alexandria, and would include the 
writings of all subsequent philosophers. The professed 
historians of philosophy necessarily devote a large share 
of attention to Plato and his speculations ; and in the 
treatment of the subsequent developments of metaphys- 
ical inquiry they are constantly compelled to refer to 
his system, in its original or derivative form, in conse- 
quence of the unceasing influence which it has exer- 
cised on the highest and most abstract departments of 
human thought. The special treatises which have 
been written on the general philosophy of Plato, or on 
particular Platonic theses, are practically innumerable. 
Under these circumstances it would be a cumbrous and 
inappropriate task to undertake to present here a Pla- 
tonic bibliography. Such a labor would be inevitably 
incomplete, if fullness were contemplated. A selection 
of the best or most accessible authorities would be open 
to many objections, on the score of both omissions and 
admissions. It would be, moreover, a vain repetition 
of what has already been done in a sufficient manner by 
the historians of philosophy. It is consequently more 
advisable to direct attention to the copious enumeration 
of illustrative treatises found in the notice of Plato in 
Ueberweg’s History of Philosophy, and to specify here 
only those recent works which are most useful or most 
accessible to the English student. 

The basis of all intelligent study of the Platonic doc- 
trine must, of course, be the writings of Plato. Of these 
there are three versions in the English language. Henry 
Rogers complained, nearly thirty years ago, that there 
was no translation creditable to English scholarship, the 
only complete attempt being that of Thomas Taylor, the 
Platonist, whose sins and imbecilities are severely casti- 
gated by him. This translation is. The 1 1 ’or/cs of Plato, 
viz. his Fifty-fire Dialogues awl Tice/ re Fpistles, trans- 
lated from the Greek. .Vine of the Dialogues by the late 
Flayer Sydenham and the remainder by Thomas Taylor; 


PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


282 


PLATON 

with occasional 1 into tut ions on the A ine Dialogues trans- 
lated by Sydi n/ntni, and copious .\otes by the latter 7 rans- 
lator, ito. ( bind. 1*01, vols. 4to). At the very time 
of Rogers's complaint a new ami respectable version was 
on the eve of appearance : The 1 1 'orks of Plato, a A etc 
an l Literal I usion, chu tly from the Text of Stallbanuu 
1 1 v Uonrv Gary ami others Holm, Loml. 1*1*, 15 vols. 
8tn. Ms- »).’ A third ami admirable version, recently pro- 
duced. satisfies the desires and removes the grounds of 
censure expressed by lingers: Jowott, The Dialoynes of 
PI tt i. trauslatid into English, with . I it a lyses and Intro- 
d't< tim .< ( republished X. V. 1*74, 4 vols. *vo). A new 
and revised edition of the work has recently appeared. 

The Other aids deserving of notice in this connection 
are. Day, Summary and Analysis of the Dialogues of 
Plato (1*70, 8vo); Grot c, Plato and the other Compan- 
ions of' Sohrates (2.1 ed. I *37, 3 vols. *vo) ; Lewes, Dio- 
graphical Hist, of Philosophy ; lingers, A stays, ‘‘ Plato 
and Somites" (in the L'diub. Per. April, 1*4*. art. i); 
Zeller. Plato and the Older Academy, translated by Al- 
leyne and t biodwin ( Lond. 1*7(5. *vo). It may be added 
that indispensable assistance is still rendered by ( iceros 
Question* s A < adeaiicte, etc., bv Cmlworth's Intellectual 
S>/stt in of the I uirerse, am! by Br ticker’s elaborate ex- 
position of the Platonic tenets in bis well-known llisto- 
ria Critica Philosophic. (G. F. 11.) 



Platon, a celebrated liussian prelate of modern 
times, whose family name was liefschiu. was born June 
*29. 1737. Me was the son of a village priest near Mos- 
cow. in the university of which capital be received his 
education, ami. besides studying the classical tongues, 
made considerable proficiency in the sciences. 11 is tal- 
ents soon caused him to be noticed, and, while yet a 
student in theology, he was appointed, in 1757, teacher 
of poetry at the Moscow academy, and in the following 
year teacher of rhetoric at the seminary of the St. Ser- 
gius Lawra, or convent, lie shortly afterwards entered 
the Church, became successively hieromonach, prefect 
of the seminary, and, in 17(52. rector and professor of 
theology. That same year was marked by an event in 
bis life which greatly contributed to bis advancement, 
Ibr on the visit of Catharine 11 to the St. Sergius Law- 
ra, after her coronation, he addressed the empress in an 
eloipicnt discourse, and on another occasion preached 
before her. So favorable was the impression be made, 
that he was forthwith appointed court preacher and 
preceptor in matters of religion to the grand - duke 
(afterwards the emperor Paul), for whose instruction 
he drew up his Orthodox Faith, or Outlines of Christian 
Thtology , which is esteemed one of his host and most 
useful produet Puis, and has been reproduced in Kng- 
lis.1i by l'iukerton (Lond. 1*11), by Coray (1*57), ami 
by Potissaco (1*5*). During the four years of his 
residence at St. Petersburg. Platon frequently preached 
before the court, ami also delivered on various occasions 
many of the discourses and orations which arc among 
his printed works. After being created member of iho 
synod at Moscow, by an imperial order, lie was made 
archbishop of Twer in 1771*. Mis attention to the duties 
of bis new office was assiduous and exemplary; for he 
not only set about improving the course of study pur- 
sued in the various seminaries throughout bis diocese. 


but established a number of minor schools for religious 
instruction, and drew up two separate treatises, one fur 
the use of the teachers, and the other for their pupils. 
Me was also intrusted with the charge of instructing 
the princess of Wiirtcmberg, Maria Feodorowna, the 
grand-duke’s consort, in the tenets and doctrines of the 
Gneco-Russiau Church. At the beginning of 1775 he 
received the empress at Twer, ami proceeded with her 
and the grand-duke to Moscow, where he was advanced 
to that sec, with permission to retain the archiman- 
driteship of the Sergius Lawra. With the exception 
of some intervals occasioned by his being summoned 
to St. Petersburg, where lie preached before the court, 
it was in that convent that lie chiefly resided, until he 
erected another in his vicinity at his own expense, in 
17*5, called the Bethania. Two years afterwards he 
was made metropolitan of the Russian Church, in which 
capacity lie crowned the emperor Alexander, at Mos- 
cow, in 1*01, delivering on that occasion a discourse 
that was translated into several modern languages, be- 
sides Latin and Greek. He died in bis convent of 
Bethania. Nov. 11 23, 1812. Mis works, printed at 
different times, amount in all to twenty volumes, con- 
taining, besides various other pieces, 595 sermons, dis- 
courses, and orations, many of which are considered 
masterpieces of style and of eloquence. A selection from 
them, consisting of the finest passages and thoughts, 
was published in two volumes in 1*05. English Cyclop. 
s. v. .See Mouravieft'. Hist, of the Church of Russia (Oxf. 
1*12'); Otto, Hist, of Russian Literature , p. 327-330; 
Magenbacli, Hist, of Christian Doctrines, ii, 459, 400; 
Sehlegel, Kirchengesch.des l*/en Jahrh. i, 59 sq. 

Platonic Philosophy, or the philosophy of Pla- 
to. The term is loosely and ambiguously applied. It 
is sometimes used to signify the collection of fragmen- 
tary views scattered through the writings of Plato; 
sometimes it is employed to denote the systematic co- 
ordination and development of those views by the later 
academicians: and, most frequently, it is extended to 
embrace the whole chain of opinion which may be de- 
duced from, or which claims filiation with, the teach- 
ings of Plato. These diverse applications of the name 
are rarely discriminated in ordinary use, and its specific 
import is left vague and undetermined. This indis- 
tinctness cannot be wholly avoided, for it rises out of 
the disconnected utterances and unsystematic presen- 
tations of Plato himself, together with the concurrence 
of his successors in the arrangement and exposition of 
his doctrines. In attempting an outline of the Platon- 
ic philosophy, the effort will be made to adhere as 
closely as practicable to the authentic texts in the writ- 
ings accredited to Plato, and to borrow as little as may 
be from the later luminaries of the school. 

Numerous devices have been employed for the exhi- 
bition of the Platonic doctrine, and none of them arc 
entirely satisfactory. It is necessary for a synoptical 
exposition that some thread should be discovered or 
invented for the support and connection of its several 
members, and that some definite commencement should 
be assumed to which the thread may be attached. The 
fixed point of departure lias been variously chosen ; and 
the tenets of Plato have been strung variously, and with 
various degrees of skill, on the thread adopted. The 
Germans, with their inner light and their divaricating 
assumptions, have been peculiarly ingenious, and often 
peculiarly unhappy, in the performance of their task. 
They abound in luminous views and in acute sugges- 
tions, but they generate such an intricate labyrinth of 
cross-lights that they dazzle, bewilder, and blind as 
much as they illuminate. They impose their own ar- 
bitrary opinions on Plato, as regards both the import 
and the coherence of bis doctrines. They assert de- 
sign where no design can he safely asserted. They 
imagine dependence whore all is disconnected: and 
pretend system where system never existed. Other 
inquirers, ’feeling the difficulty and the hazard of the 
task, have been content, like the translators and many 


PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


283 PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


of the editors of Plato, to give an abstract or analysis 
of the several pieces, with an appreciation of their con- 
tents. This leaves the doctrines in their original seg- 
regation, and affords little aid in bringing them into 
one harmonious picture. This process has been, in the 
main, followed by Grote, whose extensive work appears 
rather as a collection of preparatory studies, pursued 
with great diligence and redundant learning, than as a 
clear and full delineation of Plato and other Compan- 
ions of Socrates. The danger is equally great of pre- 
senting the views of Plato without obvious links of 
connection, and of organizing them into a compact 
scheme, which could not have been contemplated by 
Plato. In avoiding Scylla on the one hand, and Cha- 
rvbdis on the other, we are thrown back upon the orig- 
inal record, with such assistance as may be derived from 
illustrative works, and especially from the historians of 
ancient philosophy. Among these expositors, the. one 
who may still render the best service is Brucker. He is 
in many respects antiquated ; he has morbid antipathies 
and scornful condescensions; he is very mechanical, and 
even wooden in his arrangements; but he is honest, 
earnest, discreet, and free from preoccupations. The 
very methodism of his procedure is serviceable, when we 
seek a summary but connected view of the doctrines 
which Plato taught, or was supposed in ancient times 
to have taught. 

The leading object of Plato's life and philosophical 
activity was to teach the Greeks the correct use of 
reason, and to induce them to apply it, with a constant 
observance of the requisite conditions, to the practical 
concerns of private and public life. The human mind, 
alike from its constitution and from the defects of its 
instrument of communication, is ever exposed to the 
hazard of plausible delusions, and to the peril of accept- 
ing fallacies for irrefragable truth. These pernicious 
consequences were the daily diet of the Athenian peo- 
ple. Hence arose errors in morals, disregard of virtue, 
indifference to wrong-doing, unreflecting license of in- 
dividual passion or caprice, disintegration of society, 
corruption, and anarchy. How were welfare, virtue, and 
happiness to be attained in this mass of disorder? What 
were justice, right, truth? How were they to be de- 
tected, appreciated, and appropriated? On truth ev- 
erything else reposed; but other Greeks besides the 
Cretans were habitual liars ( Grcecia mendax). What 
is truth? The interrogation of Pilate was the funda- 
mental question propounded by Plato to himself and 
to his age; and, in propounding it, he trod in the steps 
of Socrates. There is a truth of knowing and a truth 
of being, and they must agree with each other. How 
are they to be reached and reconciled? If the instru- 
ments of knowledge are broken, warped, or otherwise 
disordered, there can he no true knowledge, and no valid 
apprehension of the character and relation of the facts 
with which we have to deal. The purpose of Plato 
was, in some respects, similar to the purpose of Bacon. 
Bacon proposed to rectify the processes of reasoning in 
the investigation of nature, for the attainment of scien- 
tific knowledge, and for the practical benefits thence to 
be derived. Plato sought to do the same thing in a 
more general manner, for the intellectual and moral im- 
provement of men, of societies, and of states. Coleridge 
has enlarged upon the correspondences of Plato and 
Bacon, and has exaggerated them. It was a tine and 
just instinct which suggested the parallelism. With 
Plato, as with Bacon, the first step was the exposure 
and expulsion of confident ignorance and presumptuous 
error ; the refutation of the vast brood of sophisms which 
swarmed around every principle of speculation and con- 
duct; the determination of the character, extent, and 
validity of human knowledge, and the requirements for 
the legitimate use of reasoning, and for the avoidance 
of its abuse. Only after this had been done would it 
be possible to arrive at trustworthy knowledge or safe 
opinion in regard to the universe of which we are 
members, and in regard to the relations in which we 


! stand to it and to its parts. The truth of being, as a 
subject of knowledge, thus demanded and presupposed 
the truth of knowledge, not in its rounded fulness, 
but in its formulary of procedure. In the ultimate and 
unattainable result, the truth of knowledge would ac- 
cord and he superficially coextensive with the truth 
of being, as the reflection in a perfect mirror corre- 
sponds with the object reflected. Not until such a rec-* 
ognition of the truth of being was gained as the com- 
petency of the weak, fallible, finite mind of man might 
permit, could the conduct of men find safe and authori- 
tative regulation, and the truth of action, or right in 
; all moral contingencies, be discovered. To reason ac- 
curately in order to know the essential character of the 
facts on which action should depend, and by which it 
must be controlled, and to use right reason and correct 
knowledge of facts for the determination of right ac- 
tion, may be said to be an abstract statement of the 
Platonic scheme, which thus embraces the whole duty 
of man. The intricate casuistry of Plato, and the 
breathless flights of his daring and playful fancy, with- 
draw attention from his solemn, earnest, direct, every- 
day aim. The determination and discipline of the 
reason, the appreciation of the universe, sensible and 
intelligible, and the application of these acquisitions 
to the permanent needs of individual, social, and politi- 
cal existence, constitute the sum of Plato's teachings; 
but how wonderfully are they diversified and adorned 
and enriched by his endless variety and poetic imagina- 
tion ! 

In strict accordance with this interpretation of Plato’s 
latent meaning, his philosophy is distributed under 
three heads: I. Dialectical Philosophy; II. Theoret- 
ical, Contemplative, or Physical ; III. Practical (Cicero, 
A cud. Qua? st. i, 5, § 19). The second and third divis- 
ions are subdivided. This distribution is not distinct- 
ly proposed in Plato’s works, but it is implied in them. 
It is accredited by Sextus Empiricus to Xenocrates, 
Plato’s second successor in the Academy. The terms 
employed are earlier than Plato, as are the inquiries 
also. It must not be forgotten that though Plato was 
in the main Socratic, he was also a votary of other doc- 
trines — Eclectic, if not Syncretistic, and, in his later 
writings, largely Pythagorean. 

I. Dialectical Philosophy. — The term “Dialectics” 
includes in Plato much more than it does in Aristotle 
(Sophist, p. 253 ; De Iiep. vii, 532-535 ; Aristotle, Topic. 
i, I . Sophist. Elench. xxxii ; Metaph. ii, 1 ; iii. 2, lihet. 
i, 2). It is not confined to the art of probable argu- 
mentation, but comprehends the whole theory of knowl- 
edge, the characteristics of correct and incorrect reason- 
ing, the conduct of the understanding, and so much of 
psychology as is concerned with the operations of the 
mind in the acquisition, estimation, and communication 
of knowledge. This wide range may be illustrated by 
lord Bacon’s inclusion under Logic of the Aries Inveni- 
endi, Judicandi , Ri tinendi, et Tradendi (De Auym. Sci. 
v, 6). 

There, is a fundamental enigma which demands so- 
lution at the commencement of all inquiry, and which 
has been designated the problem of certitude. How 
can we know that we know what we think we know? 
How does knowledge arise? how is its credibility or 
validity ascertained? What degree of credibility be- 
longs to it ? These questions were never dogmatically 
answered by Plato, unless it were the last. A positive 
answer would have been a repudiation of the Socratic 
profession of ignorance and uncertainty (Aristot. Soph. 
Elench. xxxiii). But he labored assiduously in all his 
treatises to exemplify the conditions of true knowledge, 
and he contributed efficiently to their determination. 
Knowledge, in ordinary, according to Plato, is acquired 
through the senses, but it is not determined by sense: 
it is determined by the knowing mind. This is an ap- 
proximation at once to Ivant’s forms of the understand- 
ing, and to Leibnitz’s acute reply to the maxim, “Nihil 
in intellect u quod non prius in sensu,” by the addition of 


PL ATOXIC PHILOSOPHY 


2S4 


PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


“nisi intellcctus ipse.” The miml is its own place. It 
is lord of itself, and of all the world beside. Sense is an 
affection of the mind through the intervention of the 
corporeal sensibilities. Permanent impressions made 
by the senses are retained by the faculty of memory. 
The collation of remembrances with sensible experi- 
ences constitutes opinion — true opinion when they 
agree, false opinion when they are discordant (I'hileb. 
p. 31 ; Thxiht. p. ISti). The knowledge of things in 
time is uncertain, and amounts only to opinion. The 
human mind may be conceived to be a tablet of wax, 
ready to receive and to retain any impression. This is, 
however, merely an illustration (Xdyon ivtua). Thought 
is the ommuning of the mind with itself. Speech is 
the sensible utterance of thought. Words are not 
knowledge, hut only the means aiul vehicle of knowl- 
edge ( 7 /tea tit. p. 19 1 , 2tl*2 ). 

Intelligence, or real knowledge, is the action of the 
mind in the contemplation of the prime Intelliyibles, or 
incorporeal types of being. It is twofold; the first is 
the perception of the soul, which beheld its appropriate 
iitUllif/ibb s. before descending into the body; the sec- 
ond, or natural knowledge, is that which the mind re- 
ceives while enveloped in its carnal integument. The 
latter, or mundane knowledge, is the restored hut broken 
recollection of what had been known in a pre-existent 
state, and must be distinguished from the acquisitions 
of memory, being concerned with tilings intelligible, as 
the other is with things sensible ( Timmis, p. 30 ; P/ue- 
tlon, p. 71 7(i; comp. Wordsworth, Ode on Intimations 
of Immortality. etc.). This doctrine of reminiscence is 
a peculiarly Platonic fancy, and fascinated the later 
J’latoni.-ts to such an extent that Synesius declined a 
bishopric in the Christian Church rather than renounce 
the dream. It is implicated, as cause or consequence, 
with the doctrine of the Platonic ideal, as both are with 
the dialectic process by which Socrates and Plato strove 
to dissipate error and to evolve truth from the minds 
of their hearers. The midwifery of the mind which 
Socrates professed, and which Plato represented him as 
professing, necessitated the assumption that truth was 
present potentially in the mind, and that it only re- 
quired to be drawn from its latent state by adroit hand- 
ling. It could not be latent, nor could it be brought 
forth, unless it lay there like a chrysalis, and descended 
from an anterior condition of being. It was in a super- 
terrestrial and antemundane existence that souls had 
acquired 

“yEthcrinm sensnm, ntquc aura'i simplicis igucm 
hut before their demission, or return to earth, they had 
been steeped in oblivion, 

“Scilicet inimemores snpera tit convexn revisant.” 
The acquisition of genuine knowledge was thus the res- 
toration of the obliterated memories of supernal real- 
ities. Absurd and extravagant as this tenet appears 
in its Platonic form, it was a dreamy and inefTectnal 
tfl'i rt to give definite expression to the mysterious proc- 
ess of thought. The doctrine was modified and trans- 
formed by St. Augustine so as to deprive it of its wild- 
ness ami irrationality. He conceived the human mind 
to he constituted in perfect harmony with the universe. 

1 lie acquisition of knowledge was the evolution of this 
harmony, and it was accompanied with instinctive con- 
sciousness of the pre-adaptation. Many of the strang- 
est reveries of Plato may be similarly reduced to pro- 
saic probability. 

The supernal realities which are the objects of the 
pure and of the purilied intelligence are the • Jirst Intel- 
liyibhs, presented to the contemplation of unctnhodicd 
or disembodied spirits. These prime iiitelligihles are 
Ideas eternal images, immaterial archetypes {sine cor- 
pore jhrmus) patterns or conceptions forever pres- 
ent to the Divine Mind, furnishing the models, and. 
indeed, the essence, of all the temporal creation. The 
term alias was older than Plato; Imt its application to 
heavenly types, its metaphysical employment, and its 


substitution for the Pythagorean Xumbers, were almost 
certainly Platonic inventions ( Parmenid . p. 135; lie 
lbp, vi, 501*). It has justly been remarked by Uebcr- 
weg, as it had often been remarked before Ueberwcg, 
that “the Platonic philosophy centres in the theory 
of ideas.” In the Dialectics, Physics, Ethics, the ravs 
all converge towards this point. I5ut the ideas of 
Plato are not merely his central doctrine; they are 
usually conceived to he his distinctive doctrine. As 
such, they were assailed and refuted by Aristotle (Met- 
aph. i. vi, ix), who, nevertheless, substituted a more 
rationalistic equivalent for them in Forms. As such, 
they were received and expanded by the New I’lato- 
nists. As such, they have given life and name to all 
associated schemes of philosophy, included under the 
broad name of Idealism. As such, they furnished the 
battle-ground for the long, impassioned, and bitter con- 
troversy of the Idealists ami Nominalists. Sec Ideal- 
ism and Nosiixat.ism. 

According to Plato, following the Klcatic school and 
Heraclitus, all sensible or concrete existence is perish- 
able, fleeting, and imperfect; but ibis imperfection in- 
volves the existence of the perfect, the changeless, and 
the immortal (Aristot. Metaph. i, vi ; Alex. Aplirod. 
Asclcp. et Anon. I'rbin. Schol. ad loc,). If some things 
are good, there must he an absolute goodness, in which 
all things good participate, and which they feebly 
reflect. If things are beautiful, they are so bv the 
incorporation of the beautiful. If actions are just, 
beneficent, or holy, there must he an eternal justice, 
beneficence, and holiness, whence they derive their 
character ( Pheeilms , p. 2 1G-25G : Ilipp. Maj. p. *204. 205 ; 
Conriv. p. 210-212; Pheedo, p. 100-102). The passing 
things of sense acquire their essential character from 
the indwelling of these immutable existences, however 
these may be warped and deformed by being reduced 
to temporal conditions. As it is with abstract qual- 
ities, so it is with individual things. A dog, a horse, a 
man, arc what they are (ro rt ton) from the possession 
of the essential nature of those animals — eaninity, eqai - 
nity, humanity. Each differs from other members of its 
class, or is individualized, by union with matter, and 
consequent deflection from the perfect conception of 
the breed. Each, therefore, is an inadequate and, con- 
sequently, untrue representation of the true and perfect 
being of its kind, and approaches such perfection just 
in proportion as it approximates to the true, perfect, and 
eternal image. These intelligible and uncreated per- 
fections are the ideas, present from the beginning, or 
before all beginning, in the contemplation of the Di- 
vinity, after which all things are made that were made. 
They arc not merely the models of created things, hut 
their essence. In the progress towards truth, all phe- 
nomenal being, all concrete existence, all temporal pre- 
sentation, all earthly images, all sensible apprehensions, 
must he left behind, and, by an ascending process, the 
purified intelligence must pierce the veil and phantas- 
mal appearances of time, and look upon the absolute, 
everlasting, unchanging, and divine ideas of things. 
These alone are true and real; all that is actual, sensi- 
ble, or derived from sense is phenomenal, evanescent, 
and delusive. The doctrine of ideas will reappear, 
for, as llriickcr notes, neither the metaphysics and 
theology of l’lato, nor his physical and ethical philos- 
ophy. can preserve any consistency without them. Ideas 
form the first order of intelligibles, and are apprehend- 
ed by the pure reason with the aid of the scientific 
understanding (iW/fffi ptrii \dyov irtpt\i}irrov). The 
second order consists of species which arc united with 
matter and cannot he separated from it — the insepara- 
ble species of the schoolmen. These are detected by 
the understanding with the concurrence of the intui- 
tive faculty. Things sensible are, in like manner, pri- 
mary and secondary, and are apprehended only conjoet- 
tirally through irrational perception (<*<»£{/ ptf aioci)- 
fTttnc d\o'fOD rogatrrvv). Intelligibles belong to the 
intelligible and eternal universe (ro vot/rov, to ovtuq 


PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


285 PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


or). Sensibles are the shadows of the intelligible, and 
appertain to the visible, phenomenal, and shifting world 

(to OpClTOl', TO aloSlJTOV, TO OVTIOQ ovbeiroTe or, to 

yiyvbpevov). Knowledge attaches only to the former : 
from the latter nothing better than opinion can spring 
( Timmis , p. 28 ; De Rep. vi, 20, p. 509). 

In contemplation, the mind regards truth and false- 
hood: in matters concerned with action, it judges of 
right and wrong. The moral or practical judgment 
proceeds from an ingenital sense of beauty and good- 
ness, and decides, in particular instances, by compari- 
son with the indwelling types of excellence. Truth, 
beauty, and goodness are thus nearly identified, and 
are exhibited as different aspects of the same perfect 
ideas. Beauty is conformity to the idea , and the idea 
is perfectly good and true. 

In dialectical procedure, the first thing to be deter- 
mined is the essential nature of the object under con- 
sideration. The essence is established by definition, 
division, and resolution. The accidents are separated 
by induction and ratiocination, or deduction from first 
principles. In detecting the essence we reduce the 
many to the one; in inferring consequences, we trace 
the one in the many. The Platonic scheme is present- 
ed in the Republic (vii). It is noticeable that hypoth- 
eses are admitted by Plato among the processes for 
discovering truth. The abstract theory thus sanctions 
the large use of imagination which presides over its 
whole development. It may be advantageous to com- 
pare the dialectics of Plato with the severe logic of 
Aristotle, and with the elaborate devices proposed in 
the second book of Bacon’s Organon. Words are no 
criteria of the character of things. They are loosely 
imposed, in consonance with popular impressions, and 
do not agree with realities. Yet words and language 
are of grave importance, and require to be used with 
propriety and precision, to avoid indistinctness and am- 
biguity, and consequent delusion or deception. The 
art of effectual speech springs from a just knowledge 
of the intellectual powers and emotions, of the disposi- 
tions of men, and of the different forms of expression. 
The perfect orator is one who has these endowments, 
knows the arts of persuasion, and can apply them to 
his purposes ( Phcedrus , p. 259). The value which Plato 
attached to the graces of composition is attested by the 
skill and beauty of his own compositions, lie has also 
strongly declared it (ibid. p. 258). Hence, when we find 
him ridiculing and denouncing rhetoric in the Gorgias, 
and comparing it to unwholesome cookery, we must 
accept the explanation of Quintilian that the Gorgias 
was eristic, and designed only for the refutation of the 
Sophists and sophistical teachers of rhetoric (Inst. Or. 
ii, 15). The dialectics of Plato thus embraced every- 
thing connected with the discovery, determination, and 
communication of truth, in its subjective aspect. But 
it will be remembered there was, in addition to the 
truth of knowing, the truth of being also; and this 
forms the second part of the Platonic philosophy. 

II. Theoretical, Contemplative, or Physical Philoso- 
phy. — This grand division of Platonic speculation is 
distributed into three branches: Theology, Physics 
Proper, and Mathematics, which is a sort of appendix 
to the other two. It will be observed that the term 
Physics is employed in a very wide and unrestricted 
sense, to include not merely nature, but everything ex- 
trinsic to the intellectual operations and the ethical 
conduct of man. It is contradistinguished from dia- 
lectics by embracing the real constitution of things, 
while the latter is confined to their mental apprehen- 
sion and exposition. It is contrasted with ethics, as it 
is concerned with essential being, while the latter deals 
only with human action. The division is made in the 
Phaalo (li, p. 103; comp. De Rep. ii, 19, p. 381). It 
is further to be observed that the Platonic doctrines 
are rarely conveyed in explicit propositions, but must 
be gathered from fragmentary statements, from inci- 
dental expressions, from poetic fancies, and from the 


general tenor of discussion. In the Phcedo, Plato ex- 
plains the utter abnegation of physical inquiries by 
Socrates. In the opening of the Timeeus, he announces 
the impossibility of giving anything more than a plau- 
sible account (thcoTtg \byoi) of things becoming, and 
not permanent (vid. Ariston. ap. Stob. lxxx, § 7). Rec- 
ognising, then, the difficulties and the uncertainties 
due to the character of the procedure and the pre- 
sumed complexion of the subject, we continue to note 
the peculiarities of the Platonic philosophy. 

1. Theology. — “ In the beginning the world was with- 
out form.” The universal chaos was reduced to order 
by the Supreme and Intelligent Cause, who framed the 
creation in accordance with the perfect and eternal pat- 
terns ever present to the divine mind. It is the best 
of all generated existences, the best of all possible 
w r orlds, because it was fashioned by the Highest Good- 
ness and Wisdom working after the absolutely perfect 
models, or ideas ( Timmis, p. 28). It was not made, 
however, out of nothing, but out of eternally existing 
matter. Being formed out of matter, it is not free from 
grave blemishes and defects, which are due to the in- 
herent stubbornness and ineradicable perversity of mat- 
ter. God and formless matter are thus the two con- 
curring but antagonistic causes of the universe. By 
matter is understood something very different from the 
palpable substance or body which is habitually con- 
templated under that name — something totally different 
also from anything that we can conceive. It is that 
remnant or substratum of body which subsists after 
every cognizable property of body has been removed 
(Timeeus, p. 51 ; comp. Porph. iSentent. xx; Plotin. En- 
nead. ii, 4; Berkeley, Sins, § 317). By ascribing to 
God the creation of the Cosmos out of unformed matter, 
Plato avoids the heresy of pantheism. Still he in- 
dulges in fantasies which readily lead to it. From the 
nature of matter as co-eternal with the Divine Intelli- 
gence, and from its rcluctation in yielding to the cre- 
ative energy, originate the necessary existence and the 
inevitable presence of evil in all created things (The- 
cetet. p. 176). The antagonism of matter suggested the 
presence of subtle aptitudes and occult qualities. We 
are thus brought within the range of hypotheses sim- 
ilar to those which underlie the recent theories of Dar- 
win, Spencer, and Huxley. 

Matter was the relatively passive ingredient in the 
process of creation. The active power was the Supreme 
Intelligence, or Highest Good, whom it is almost im- 
possible to apprehend, and impossible to declare (Ti- 
mmis, p. 29). lie is the efficient cause of all things; 
the fountain of all pure, spiritual, perfect, and self-sup- 
porting existences; the founder and ultimate fabricator 
of everything, lie is incorporeal reason, self-existent, 
eternaliv the same, without beginning, without end, hav- 
ing no affinity with things of sense, and apprehensible 
only by the pure intellect. lie is all-wise, all-seeing, 
all-foreseeing, all-mighty, except so far as restricted by 
the intractability of matter, lie has absolute freedom 
of will, is supremely good, and, being good, is void of 
envy and malevolence. Hence everything made by 
him is good, so far as the repugnance of matter will 
permit. He framed the world in all possible excellence 
after the eternal image in his own mind. This uncre- 
ated and unbeginning idea of the universe (\dyof or 
Xoyta/ibg tov Btor) has been regarded as a third co- 
eternal principle. This exemplar included the patterns 
or ideas of all created things; everything in the sen- 
sible universe being fashioned according to its corre- 
sponding type in the intelligible universe, or world of 
ideas. The doctrine seems to have been deduced from 
Pythagoras, but was applied by Plato in his own man- 
ner; and never more beautifully nor more character- 
istically than in his celebrated fancy of a cave where 
all that men saw or heard consisted of shadows and 
echoes (De Rep. vii, p. 514-519). The imperfect things 
of earth were thus the obscure, fleeting images of the 
perfect forms of the divine contemplation. It is uu- 


286 


PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


certain whether Plato attributed to these ideas a sub- 
stantive existence of their own, separate Irom and inde- 
pendent of the divine mind, or supposed them to be 
simple the immanent, changeless thoughts of the <»od- 
head. Vet, though t.od is distinctly and habitually 
acknowledged as the lather and creator of all things, 
all things were not directly framed and regulated by 
the .supreme Divinity. Pur the government of the 
sensible universe he created a subordinate deity, and 
placed it in the material creation (Tima us, p, ill). 'Phis 
guiding spirit, or Deiuiurgus, was a mixture of the ideal 
and of the material, of the one and of the many, that, 
being intermediate, it might communicate with both. 
This'was the Aninui Mundi. which assumed such prom- 
inence in the theological and physical speculations of 
the Stoics. It maintained the regular operations of 
the laws of temporal change, and by its plastic energy 
moulded into appropriate forms all the multitudinous 
manifestations of transitory being (to yiyvoptvov) 

( Craty/us , p. 53). I 

The soul of the universe was not the sole created 
divinity. Divine spirits were apportioned to the earth, 
sun, moon, and stars, to govern their developments and 
to preside over their motions (De Leyy. p. MOU), Hosts 
of still inferior deities were assigned to other appro- 
priate functions. Thus, with a tine and half-suppressed 
irony, provision was made for the national gods, and 
for the 30, (Kit) unnamed divinities attested by Ilcsiod. 
To these deities, each in his due place in the vast hie- 
rarchy. was ascribed the duty of forming men, animals 
of lower order, plants, etc., and of watching over them. 
In the subordinate ranks of the celestial army were a 
countless multitude of sprites, who were cousin-german 
to the sylphs, gnomes, fairies, and other tribes of “little 
people," and to whom immortality was denied. 

•j. physics Proper. — The second branch of contem- 
plative philosophy is occupied with the consideration 
of the order of nature as the product of the acts of crea- 
tion. Nothing exists or arises without cause. Hence 
proceeded the Aristotelian maxim re re scii-e est scire 
per caiisus; for the cause allords the ratio essendi, or 
explanation of the existence of the object investigated. 
As the universe, or orderly Cosmos, had a producing 
cause, it was created in time. It was generated or 
brought into being, and was therefore subject to sensible 
perception. It was consequently corporeal, visible, and 
tangible. It could not be visible except through the 
presence of lire, nor tangible without the presence of 
earth. An intermediate bond is needed to link two 
things together, and the fairest of bonds is a mean pro- 
portion. Thus, as lire is to air, so is air to water; and 
as air is to water, so is water to earth. Here are the 
four elements, corresponding to the mystical tetrad of 
the Pythagoreans. They were held together in their 
several combinations by the attraction of love. The 
whole theory is largely Pythagorean, and blends itself 
wit li the Pythagorean imaginations about the secret 
virtues of numbers. The universe is an animated whole, 
composed of perfect parts, and exempt from the infirmi- 
ties of age and of disease ( Tinums , p. 35). A spherical 
ligim and orbicular motion are given to it and its chief 
components because a circle is the most perfect of fig- 
ure'. is least liable to injury and obstruction, returns 
upon itself, and thus promises l ho greatest duration to 
the vast living organism in which all things temporal 
arc contained. As the universe had a spherical form 
and a circular motion conferred upon it, eaeh of the ele- 
ments had its own appropriate figure. Karth was cu- 
bical, lire pyramidal, air octahedral, and water eieosi- 
hedral. or twenty-sided. These were combined in apt 
proportions, and all things were ordered “by measure, 
by number, and by weight.” 

The details of the cosmogony must he omitted. It 
may he added that the earth and the seven moving 
lights of heaven were arranged in concentric spheres, at 
harmonic intervals, around a mighty spindle resting 
on the knees of Necessity ; and that their revolutions 


propagated along the great axis “the music of the 
spheres" to the earth, which was the fixed ami middle 
orb ( De Rep. x, p. 317). The earth was occupied by ani- 
mals and other things created by the subordinate demi- 
urgi, to whom was also intrusted the creation of man. 
Hut man. as the noblest of animals, was not left wholly 
to their handiwork. Immortal souls, numerous as the 
stars, were supplied by the Supreme Intelligence, to be 
provided with terrestrial bodies. These souls were nei- 
ther emanations m»r spirations, but true creations. They 
were to guide and govern the material vessels in which 
they should he confined, as the superior spirits guided 
and governed the worlds which they controlled. The 
matter with which they were united exposed them to 
contamination, to failure, and to sin. From the strug- 
gle “ within the union" results moral evil, or disobe- 
dience to the laws of ideal perfection, which arc in con- 
formity with the purposes of God. In their earthly 
condition, human souls were subjected to the general 
laws of the universe, but were endowed with an unde- 
fined freedom of will through their heavenly constitu- 
tion. 1 Iappiness resulted from obedience to the impulses 
of the better nature, and to the order and economy of 
the intelligible world. 

It would take too much space, ami prove too tedious, 
to enter into the physiology propounded by Plato; and 
nothing could he gained from the presentation of his 
views but the exhibition of Platonic fantasy. We pass 
to the third part, or appendix, which was intended to 
serve at once as a discipline and as an instrument. 

3. Mathematics. — The importance attached by Plato 
to mathematical science is familiar to every student, 
and is illustrated by the inscription supposed to have 
been placed over the entrance to the Academy: 

Mode. 9 a^eoi/ufTpoTor cIc/tm. 

The commendations bestowed by him on this branch 
of learning (De Rep. vii. p. 5*22) may be compared with 
the similar eulogies of Unger Bacon ( Opus Mojus. pt. 
iv) in an age of somewhat analogous speculative devel- 
opment, and of Francis Bacon (De A uy. Sci. iii. vi ; Es- 
says, 1). They may also he contrasted with the views 
presented in t he diatribe of Sir William Hamilton. 

Under the head of mathematics were included, in ac- 
cordance with the Pythagorean practice, and with the 
general conception of antiquity, arithmetic, geometry, 
astronomy, and music. 

III. Practical Philosophy. — Plato's practical philoso- 
phy was in many respects consentaneous with his phys- 
ics, or theory of nature. It would not be correct to sav 
that it was founded upon it. for this would be inconsist- 
ent with the position that there was no orderly, con- 
secutive, or concatenated development of the Platonic 
doctrine in the mind of its author. There is close cor- 
respondence in parts between Plato’s physical and prac- 
tical philosophy, but in others much separation and in- 
dependence. Tile agreement must therefore be ascribed 
to the consonance of the developments of (he same mind 
in dillereut directions, rather than to intentional cohe- 
rence between successive applications of doctrine. The 
practical philosophy of Plato falls under two heads, 
Kt hies and Polities. 

], Ethics. — Moral questions occupy the largest part 
of the Platonic writings; hut they are treated in the 
Soeratic manner, by question and answer, and are thus 
proposed in diffuse and disconnected fragments. Plato’s 
aims, his leading tenets, and liis modes of explication 
are derived from Socrates; but his discussions, so far as 
may be conjectured, are conducted in a much broader 
spirit and loftier strain. He includes also within t lie 
domain of ethics much that would now he referred to 
theology. 

As in the physios everything is traced hack to the 
First Intelligence, the Divine Creator, so in the ethics 
everything is referred ultimately to the perfect and be- 
neficent character of tiod. The good is the summit of 
all conceivable things. God is absolute goodness. The 


PLATOXIC PHILOSOPHY 


287 


PLATOXIC PHILOSOPHY 


supreme good of man ( summum bonnm ) is the knowledge 
and imitation of God, and approximation thereby to the 
divine nature. “ Be ye therefore perfect, even as your 
Father is perfect.” Everything is good and beautiful 
so far as it proceeds from God, retains the impress of its 
divine original, and possesses the characteristics of the 
pure archetypal ideas of moral perfection. “Every; 
good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and 
comcth down from the Father of lights, in whom is no ! 
variableness, neither shadow of turning.” Ordinary 
blessings or advantages in popular estimation, such as 
health, strength, high birth, riches, renown, honors, are 
good only in conjunction with virtue; otherwise they 
are evil ( Protag . p. 851-353). The honorable (the 
right) alone is good ( Alcibiad . i, 116). This is contin- 
ually and strenuously asserted in opposition to the gen- 
eral practice and current sentiment among the contem- 
poraneous Greeks. Virtue is lovely in itself, and to be 
loved irrespective of its rewards. Being of heavenly 
origin, the best reproduction of the divine ideas , and 
approximating to the divine nature, it is itself divine. 
Being divine, it is not an art that can be taught, but 
must be divinely communicated ( Eulhydem . p. 282). 
Goodness can be acquired only by the influx and in- 
working of the Good. 

The object of all knowledge, and it should be the ob- 
ject of all effort, is assimilation to the highest good — 
that is, to God. This assimilation consists in the habit 
and practice of wisdom, fortitude, temperance, justice, 
and holiness ( Thecetet . p. 176; De Legg. iv, 716). The ( 
first stage of this approximation is tvCaipov'ta, usually 
translated happiness, but which implies good disposi- j 
tions, and a conscience tranquil, innocent, and void of 
offence towards God and towards man (Gory. p. 470; 
Sytnpos. p. 188). The Critias breaks off unfinished just 
at the opening of a full discussion of the conditions of a 
happy life. The word is also used for the future beati- 
tude which it anticipates. The requirements for such ] 
bliss correspond, as nearly as a pagan dream can agree 
with revelation, to the Scripture rule “to do justly, to ' 
love mercy, and to walk humbly with God.” 

As has been observed, the body was regarded as a 
prison, because composed of malignant matter. Hence 
humanity was miserable by congenital constitution. 
The progress towards virtue and holiness was to be 
achieved by the subjugation of material antagonisms, 
by the renunciation of worldly aims and temptations, 
and by the purgation of mind and heart from sensual 
appetites and corporeal satisfactions {De Rep. vii, p. 515). 
There is here a pronounced tendency in the direction 
of Oriental asceticism. There is much also that in- 
clines towards the pessimism of Schopenhauer, but it is 
wrought out to a very different issue. These tendencies 
readily explain the growth of the Neo-Platonic reveries 
which may always be detected in the egg in the writ- 
ings of l’lato himself, llow far such results may be . 
due to the difficult}' of framing abstract conceptions at 
the commencement of ethical inquiry, and to the at- 
tendant difficulty of clothing such conceptions in precise 
terms before a philosophical language had been invented, 
it would be hazardous to say. Plato may have simply 1 
designed, in a blind, heathen, tentative way, to prescribe 
“ the purification of the flesh,” and “the overcoming of 1 
the world,” and “ the righteousness which is of God.” 

The morality of Plato was much higher in aim and 
sentiment than it was possible to be in its expression, 
yet in many single precepts it uses nearly the language 
of revealed truth. It habitually insists upon the charms 
of virtue and “the beauty of holiness;” and in the de- 
lineation of the several virtues, which he represents as 
indissolubly connected ( Charmides , p. 161), and at times 
as united in one, he maintains an uncompromising ele- 
vation of view. His illustrations, indeed, are often 
tainted with the prevalent vices of his age and country. 
Thus, in treating of the passions, he is led by his rich 
and mythical fancy into hypothetical explanations, 
which have been very easily abused, and which are re- 


pulsive in their original proposition. We refer to his 
comments on friendship and love. Friendship, or at- 
traction, is ascribed even to the particles of matter; and 
the like proclivities are bestowed upon primordial souls. 
Like is attracted to like, and hence arises friendship. 
Souls of similar nature are drawn towards each other 
by the instinct of resemblance resulting from preadap- 
tation. The attraction proceeding from conformity in' 
their pure state exercises its due influence only between 
spirits retaining in some measure their primordial pu- 
rity. Hence true friendship can exist ouly between 
the good {Lysis, p. 214). 

Love is a species of friendship, or friendship in its 
highest intensity. It is of three orders: sensual, ani- 
mal, or bestial; honorable, having regard to psychical 
virtues; and mixed, which unites the characteristics of 
both {Sympos. p. 201). Love, in its two forms of heav- 
enly and earthly, “ half beast, half deity,” appears in 
Plato in many ambiguous and Protean shapes, rising 
from the coarsest pagan sensualism to the purest aspi- 
rations for the beautiful and the good. But the dia- 
logue in which its nature is chiefly discussed is so tan- 
talizing, shifting, and bewildering — it is woven with 
threads of such changing and returning hues— that it 
furnishes treacherous foundation for any dogmatic con- 
clusions. 

2. Political Philosophy. — The two most extensive 
and elaborate of Plato’s treatises are devoted to political 
questions. Of these, the Republic is the most complete 
and characteristic triumph of his genius. The Laws is 
in a rough and unfinished state, and has often been ex- 
cluded from his works. In narrating the life of Plato, 
his predilections for political life, liis early and unsuc- 
cessful intervention in Athenian affairs, his political 
expeditions to Sicily, and his consultation in matters 
of state by princes and states, were duly commemorated. 
The contemplative habits of his mind, his eager fancy, 
his tone, his temperament, his associations, his heredi- 
tary tastes, his party proclivities, all unfitted him for 
success in actual politics; and from every effort to en- 
gage in them he retired discomfited and disappointed. 
The more congenial domain of speculation was still 
open to him. He might organize a state, regulate its 
citizens, and determine their duties, in the vast realm 
of fancy, with none to make him afraid of either failure 
or obstruction. He might look forward to the ultimate 
adoption of- his projects or his principles in some hap- 
pier time, when philosophers had become rulers, or 
when rulers had become philosophers, and when later 
generations, instructed by his lessons, might give real- 
ity to his dreams {De Leyg. v. 739). In strange modes, 
and in unrecognised forms, his visions have been par- 
tially accomplished. 

The Republic and the Laws differ greatly in tone and 
dogma, as well as in execution, but the}' are intimately 
connected. They are diverse and consecutive presen- 
tations of the same general design. The Republic is 
the ideal state, the Laws the concrete state. The Re- 
public is the dream of a Utopian constitution, the Laws 
the proposition of a frame of government adapted to the 
weaknesses and recalcitration of an Hellenic people. 
Everything in the one is suited to an impossible condi- 
tion of things; everything in the other is reduced to 
the proportions and capacities of actual human society. 
In the one the state is conformed to the abstract idea of 
justice, as it was conceived by Plato; in the other, jus- 
tice is put into action, weighted down with human prej- 
udices and passions, and conformed to the nature of the 
Greeks. These distinctions must be regarded in order 
to prevent exaggeration of Plato’s offences against mo- 
rality and good-sense. We sympathize with the strong 
censure of the Republic expressed by Jlitchell in his 
.4 ristophanes, but we see that what is most repugnant 
may be only an ingenious imagination to symbolize 
pure abstract doctrine. It is not surprising that much 
perplexity should exist in regard to the Republic. Its 
double title produces confusion. Its inscription, or so- 


288 


PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


PLATONIC PHILOSOPHY 


perscription, is, Of Politics, or concerning the Just. The 
second epigraph may liave been formally the addition 
of Thrasyllus, btil it is sanctioned by the text itself (Pc 
Rep. ii. p*. StW ; comp, iv, p. 134). Many critics of great 
name, and especially the ancients, have held it to be a 
theoretical constitution of the state. < tthers, ol not in- 
ferior reputation, among the moderns, have considered 
it as simply an investigation into the nature of justice, 
illustrated by the state, because the state exhibits the 
characteristics of justice in a completer form and on a 
larger scale than the individual could do. Stallbaum, 
in Ins Prol gotnenn , arrays the arguments adduced in 
favor of either opinion, and concludes that Plato’s de- 
sign was to portray the image of a perfect and happy 
life, by prescribing the offices of man in his public and 
private relations (p. xviii, xix). 

We arc not disposed to deny this conclusion, which 
substantially reconciles the previous contradictions; but 
we think there is something more than this. The 
ideal, the absolute, the perfect, was always present to 
the mind of Plato: the whole tenor of his philosophy 
precluded him from resting in the actual. Hut his per- 
sonal and philosophical career urged him also to regard 
with most earnestness the amelioration of the moral and 
political condition of his countrymen, and the improve- 
ment of their political through the rectification of their 
moral state. To a (I reek the state was everything, 
the individual being merely a fragment or constituent 
atom of the state. The life of the citizen was absorbed 
in the state: the life of the state was reflected in the 
life of the citizen — was, indeed, imposed on him. Ac- 
cording to (ircek ideas, the just man could not develop 
his virtues except in a just state; and the just state 
could not subsist except through just citizens — just 
cither by native constitution or by compulsion, or by 
both. Education and discipline would be demanded to 
produce just rulers and just subjects. The investiga- 
tion of the nature of justice would accordingly require 
the determination of the form and conditions of a justly 
organized community (Jowctt, Plato, iv, 5); the delin- 
eation of the just state would be blended with that of 
the just man and the conclusions resulting from the 
whole inquiry would furnish an earthly image of the 
(•reek t’itv of Hod (yt)Q ye oveapov olpai avrt)v tivai, 
J)e AVp.ix, p. 511*2). J ndistinct and fragmentary as is Pla- 
to’s doctrine, it would have been left much more form- 
less and unsatisfactory without the fancies and dreams 
and political precepts contained in the Statesman, lie- 
public, and Laws. They furnish the unjoiuted outlines 
of the complete design for whose construction all the 
rest was intended. 

According to Plato’s notion, justice or righteousness 
is the object and essence of healthy political organiza- 
tion, and he consequently inquires in the Republic into 
its nature, and the best inode of its realization in the 
state. Of course he cannot free himself from Hellenic 
preoccupations. Of course his reactionary tendencies 
and hi>- oligarchical proclivities produced a constant 
recoil fr. m tin democratic license of his Athenian con- 
temporaries towards the spirit of antique usage and the 
imitation of Spartan institutions. Even in his wildest 
vagaries there appears a disposition to employ supposed 
traditionary practices, lb* insists upon the strict sub- 
ordination of ranks; he even petrifies his classes of citi- 
zens intocnMcs, He docs not rigorously conjoin every 
one to his class, but accords advancement to those of 
eminent ability In cur vie re ourerte uttx tains. He 
restricts the government to the few (WW*ny«3oc) ; the 
masses he converts almost into serfs— hewers of wood 
and drawers of water," etc. There arc two great classes 
of freemen, the guardians of the state and the craftsmen 
(Pc Rep. iii.p. 41 1,415). The guardians are themselves 
divided into two orders, the rulers and the auxiliaries. 
The rulers are selected, by successive examinations till 
their thirtieth year, from the body of guardians, who 
are diligently trained and educated from their birth. 
The training and the selection have some agreement 


with the Chinese practices, with English competitive 
examinations, and still more with the regulation of the 
Ottoman Janizaries. There is also a considerable degree 
of correspondence between the Platonic organization and 
Comte’s constitution of the Positive .Society. 

The body of the guardians or auxiliaries is employed 
as the military force to repress internal disorders and to 
repel external danger. The rulers are the supervisors 
of the community, and are to govern it with a view to 
the greatest happiness of all (Pe Rep. iv, p. 240). The 
auxiliaries are to live and to conduct themselves so 
as to cherish and protect the whole commonwealth, 
‘•None of them should have any property beyond what 
is absolutely necessary; neither should they have a 
private house, with bars and bolts, closed against any 
one who lias a mind to enter; their provisions should 
be only such as are required by trained warriors, who 
are men of temperance and courage ; their agreement is 
to receive from the citizens a fixed rate of pay, enough 
to meet the expenses of the year and no more, and they 
will have common meals and live together, like soldiers 
in a camp. . . . They alone of all the citizens may not 
touch or handle silver or gold, or be under the same 
roof with them, or wear them, or drink from them. And 
this will be their salvation and the salvation of the 
state” (Rep. Jowett’s translation, ii. 242). There is here 
the union of Spartan institutions and Pythagorean or- 
ganization with the theoretical devices of Plato. There 
is also an anticipation of the standing armies of modern 
states. 

With the details of the education of the superior 
class, and with the appreciation of different branches of 
instruction, we cannot occupy ourselves further than to 
mention that it is in this connection he censures the 
poets, and excludes Homer and the Tragedians from the 
ideal state as blasphemers against the gods. We pass 
over the criticism of the various forms of government, 
important as this criticism is for political philosophy in 
general, and for the estimation of Plato’s doctrine and 
its relation to Hellenic systems. We cannot, however, 
omit all notice of the measures by which he endeavors 
to maintain the unselfish devotion of the dominant or- 
der. lie leaves the laboring masses almost entirely out 
of sight. They are to be protected in their persons, 
rights, and industry; and they are to be guided in the 
proper course. Further than this there is little concern 
Ibr them. They work in their way for the state, as 
their superiors live and work also for the state, which is 
everything to the legislator. There was reason in the 
interruption of Adiinantus that “ the citizens were 
made miserable,” if the temporal comfort of the citizen, 
and not the theoretical elevation of that hypothetical 
unit, the state, is taken into consideration. 

To guard against jealousies, rivalries, discords, which 
might endanger or ruin the public welfare and the po- 
litical constitution, the equality of the sexes, the com- 
munity of women and the community of property are 
proscribed, and this community is still insisted on in 
the Laws. Plato seems to have held with the Persian 
impostor, Mezdah. in the reign of Khosru Kohad, that 
lends, quarrels, and animosities arise mainly from the 
possession of wealth and women in severalty. The de- 
lusions of modern socialism and radicalism are antici- 
pated. The shadowy character of Plato’s proposed ar- 
rangements is some palliation for their entertainment. 
They are evidently devised as modes of discipline and 
preparation, or as means for the prevention of disorder. 
They are acknowledged to be unsuited to men as men 
now arc, and may be taken as the prefiguration of what 
men might be under other conditions, in a blessed state 
in which there should be neither gold nor silver, nor 
marrying nor giving in marriage. 

For the close correspondence in aim between the 
dreams of Plato and the revelations of Scripture, and 
between the devices of Plato and the projects of modern 
( omnninists and Socialists, we have no satisfactory ex- 
planation. The cultivated intelligence, the active im- 


PLATONICS 


289 


PLAY 


agination, the varied experience, the general immoral- Fayette, X. Y., until 1836, when he became pastor of 
ity, and the painful disquietude of the Greeks in the the Presbyterian Church in Hector. N. Y., where he 
4th century before Christ may account for much, but continued to labor till, in 1848, his health becoming 
it will not interpret all. We leave the enigma as one quite impaired, he ceased his pastoral labors. In 1856 
of the mysterious problems presented by the career of he removed to Clinton, Iowa, and assisted in the organ- 
humanity. There is surely no more marvellous approx- ization of the Church there, and supplied the pulpit for 
imation to revealed truth than in the exposition of the one year. He died May 2, 1859. Mr. Platt was a 
Supreme Good, and of its child or offspring, which is humble, laborious, and self-denying minister — a man 
described ( De Rep. vi, p. 506) in terms that recall the of marked prudence of character. See Wilson, Presb. 
delineation of wisdom in the Hook of Wisdom. Hist. Almanac, 1860, p. 121. (J. L. S.) 

“ Vapor est enim virtntis Dei, et enianatio qnaedam est -pi-an-o .. T v , . . 

clematis Dei siucera; et idco nihil inquinatum in earn -Platte-Montagne, Nicolas de, a French painter 
incurrit. and engraver, son of a celebrated Belgian portrait-paint- 

“ Candor est enim lucis setenise, et speculum sine ma- er, was born at Paris about 1631. He was a pupil of 

d is po S i- do Champagne, Charles ,e Brim, ami of his mi- 

tionem stellarum, luci comparata invenitur prior.” cJe : Jean Alorm. i le painted the Mary which was pre- 

Do not such sublime anticipations consort well with the sen * :e ^ 111 1^66 to the church of Notre Dame at Paris; 

a St. Benedict, a St. Scholustica (1676), and a ceiling for 
the church of the Benedictines do Saint-Sacrement of 
the Rue Cassette ; and The Iloly Ghost aliylitiny upon the 
Apostles, for the church of Saint-Sulpice (1676). He 
also worked for the Tuileries in 1683 and 1684. He 
exhibited two paintings at the salon of 1673; five his- 
torical paintings and three portraits at the salon of 1699 
— the first that took place in the galleries of the Louvre. 
m - - - He engraved from 1651 to 1694, in a fashion but little 

ing here and when, like conquerors in the games who go an <l eleven portraits after 1 orbus, Janet, lmihppe de 
round to gather gifts, we. receive our reward. And it Champagne, II. de Champagne, and after his own paint- 
shall he well with us both in this life and in the pilgrim- j n gs. jj e W as received a member of the Academv April 
age of a thousand years which we have been reciting.” 01 & n . • . 1 ‘ 

21, D/9; appointed supplementary professor July 1, 

1679, and regular professor Dec. 20, 1681. lie signed 
his works Montague, Montaigne, De Platt e-Montaigne, 
N. D. P. Montaigne, N. de la Platt e-Mon tagne, N. van 
Flatten Berc, vulgo De Platte -Montague, ami N. de 
Platte -Montague. He died Dec. 25, 1706. — Hoefer, 
Konv. Biog. Generate, xl, 153. 

Platter (7rapoiptc, properly a sule-dish, consisting 
of dainties set on as a condiment, or sauce). Our Lord, 
in reproving the Pharisees, said, “ Woe unto you, scribes 
and Pharisees, hypocrites ! for ye make clean the outside 
of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full 
of extortion and excess” (Matt, xxiii, 25). “Ilowbeit 
in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the 
commandments of men. For laying aside the com- 
mandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men, as the 
washing of pots and cups; and many other such like 
things ye do. And he said unto them, Full well ye re- 
ject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your 
own tradition” (Mark vii, 7-9). The Talmud con- 
tains many directions on the use of these utensils, which 


conclusion of the Republic, which increases our wonder, 
but at the same time justifies our reverential compari- 
sons ! 

“And thus, Glaucon, the tale has been saved and has 
not perished, and may be our salvation if we are obedient 
to the word spoken; and we shall pass safely over the 
water of Forgetfulness, and our soul will not be detiled. 
Wherefore my counsel is that we hold fast to the heav- 
enly way, and follow after justice and virtue always, con- 
sidering that the soul is immortal, and able to endure ev- 


1 years 

We have now at some length, yet all too briefly, 
reviewed the philosophy attributed to Plato and dedu- 
cible from his writings. We have omitted nearly ev- 
erything in the way of detail, and have attempted the 
survey from an elevated vantage-ground, where only 
the broad lines are apparent, aiid where the asperities 
and discords of the landscape disappear. It may now 
be manifest, we think, how and why Plato has always 
exercised such fascination on pure natures, and lias so 
largely and so enduringly stimulated the speculation 
and ennobled the thought of the world. 

Literature. — Sec the observations made and the works 
specified under the article Plato. Comp, also Tulloch, 

Rat. Theol. in England, vols. i and ii (Loud. 1872, 8vo); 

Lecky, Hist, of Rationalism, and his European Morals ; 

Nourisson, Pensees Ilumaines, p. 45 sq. ; Stephen, Hist, 
of Engl. Thought in the 1 Sth Century (Lond. 1876, 2 
vols. 8vo) ; Ackerman, The Christian Element in Plato 
and the Platonic Philos, (transl. in Clark’s Edinburgh 
Philosophical Library ); Stein, Sieben Bucher zur Ge- 
schichte d. Platonismus (Leips. 1867) ; Bapt. Quar. April, 

1874, art. v, “Plato’s Relation to Christianity;” also Jews are strictly required to observe. See Dish. 


North Brit. Rev. Nov. 1861, art. iii ; Presbyt. Rev. April, 
1864, art. i ; Brit, and For. Ev. Per. Oct. 1862, art. viii, 
on “Platonism of the Fathers. (G. F. II.) 

Platonics, New. See Neoplatonism. 

Platt, Ao ams W., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Weston, Conn., Oct. 28, 1790. After receiving an 
ordinary education, he commenced the study of medi- 
cine, when his brother, who was studying for the min- 
istry, died, and he immediately turned his thoughts in 
that direction. lie graduated with the second honor of 
his class at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y.. in 1817, 


Play (pH3. tsachdk, Exod. xxxii, 6). This word, 
in addition to the sense of joking or sporting (Gen.xix, 
14), may also he understood of amusements, accompa- 
nied with music and singing, in which sense it may be 
understood in Judges xvi, 25. Though we have no 
particular mention in the Old Testament of such mat- 
ters, we may reasonably suppose that some of the games 
practiced by the ancient Egyptians were likewise known 
to the Hebrews; these appear, from the monuments, to 
have been mock combats, races, gymnastic exercises, 
singing, dancing, and games of chance (Wilkinson, A nc. 


and at Princeton Theological Seminary in 1820; was Egyptians, i, 189 sq.). In the declining period of Jewish 
licensed the same year, and entered upon his duties as history the athletic games of the Greeks were intro- 
a missionary in the then new states of Ohio and In- dneed. and there were gymnasia, or schools of exercise 
diana. In January, 1824, he accepted a call, and was in Jerusalem, where the} 1 - practiced wrestling, racing, 
ordained as pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Rut- quoits, etc. (1 Macc. v, 16; 2 Macc. iv, 13-15). For the 
land, N. Y. ; in July, 

1829, he became pastor 
of the Church at West 
Galway, N. Y. ; in 1833 
he gave up the Church, 
and rested for a few 
months; in 1834 he be- 
came stated supply for 
the Church in West 



Ancieut Egyptians playing at draughts and mora (guessing numbers). 


290 


PLEIADES 


PLAYFAIR 

Grecian games of strength and skill so often alluded to 
by Paul, see Games. ('omp. Spout. 

Playfair, James, D.D., a Scotch divine of some 
note, was born about 17-10, and was educated at the 
I'uiversity of St. Andrew’s, lie then became minister 
of Liff and Hen vie livings, which he held until his son 
succeeded him in the work of the ministry, to soon ex- 
change, however, these fields of labor for the scientific 
work' in which lie became so greatly celebrated. Dr. 
.lames Playfair was also principal of the I'nited College 
of Si. Salvador and St. Leonard, in the University of St. 
Andrew's, lie died in 1819. lie published .4 S 't/stem 
<f Chronology, and other works. See London Gentle- 
mans Magazine, 1819, pt. ii, p. 179. 

Playfair, John, an eminent scientist, was born, in 
17 19, at Dundee; was educated at St. Andrew’s; resigned 
a living, and became mathematical professor at Edin- 
burgh, where be died July 20, 1819. Playfair was cele- 
brated as a geologist, and a strenuous defender of the 
Iluttoninn system. Among his works are, Elements of 
Geometry: - Outlines of Philosophy: — Illustrations of 
the Huttonian Theory : — and .1 System of Geography. 

Playfere, John. See Plaifkre. 

Plays, Religious. Sec Mysteries. 

Pleasure is the delight which arises in the mind 
from the contemplation or enjoyment of something 
agreeable, and is synonymous in expression with hap- 
piness (q. v.). 

Pledge (usually some form of b'ZT:, chabdl, to bind 
as by a chattel mortgage; occasionally forms of liZl", 
abut, to exchange, and arub, to yire security; Tal- 
mud, hi a legal sense, an assurance given as 

security by a debtor to his creditor, which is alluded to 
in the Mosaic books in several instances. Thus — 

1. The creditor was not permitted to go to the house 
of his debtor to take his pledge, but must receive it be- 
fore the door (Dent, xxiv, 10 sq.). The reason of this 
requirement and its merciful object are obvious. 

2. The articles which were forbidden to be taken in 

pledge were, (n) the raiment or outer garment (Exod. 
xxii, 2(1 sq. ; Dent, xxiv, 10 sq., but see below), because 
this served the poor also as a covering by night for the 
bed; (Ii) the. handmill (q. v. ; xxiv, G. Comp. Mishna, 
Jiabn Mez. ix, 13). But notwithstanding these merci- 
ful provisions of the law, hard-hearted creditors were 
found among the Israelites who oppressed their debtors 
bv taking pledges (Prov. xx, 1G; xxvii, 13; Ezek. xviiij 
12; xxxiii, 15; Ilabak. ii, G; comp. Job xxii, G; xxiv, 
31. See Dylitzscli, ad loc., and especially Michaclis, 
Mas, Jlecht, iii, G1 sq. The custom of giving pledges 
prevailed extensively in the ages succeeding the exile, 
irorn the fact that by the decisions of the scribes all 
Jews were prohibited from making any payments on 
the Sabbath; hence be who would make a purchase 
on that day left some pledge with the seller (see Mish- 
na, Shab. xxiii. 1), as his miter garment, to be redeemed 
by payment the next day. The taking of pledges is 
still further restricted by the Talmud (Hnbu Mez. ix, 
13). ^ A pledging of land, mortgaging, appears first in 
the I iilmud (Mishna, Shehiith , .x, G). However, the 
legal transfer of land under the Mosaic ecnhomv was 
properly but a pledging; for it could at any time be re- 
deemed, and in the year of Jubilee it returned without 
repayment to the. original owner. Pawning of personal 
pro]K*rty lor debt, however, was a very ancient custom 
(Gen. xxxviii, 17 sq. ). Personal guarantees of faith, 
pledges, or hostages, are mentioned (2 Kings xiv. 14 
1 W' 0 general abhorrence of the usurer, 

and of his taking pledges, among the Arabs of the pres- 
ent day. is often mentioned by travellers. Mohammed 
entirely forbids all lending on interest, and the Mosaic 
precepts (comp. Exod. xxii. 25 27) are generally so un- 
derstood in the East. Act nothing is more common 


there than exorbitant usury, and the taking of pledges 
( Thomson, Lund and Look, i, 499 sq.). Sec Loan. 

PLEDGE is something given in hand as a securi- 
ty lor the fullilment of a contract or the performance of 
a promise. When a man of veracity pledges his word, 
his allirmation becomes an assurance that he will fulfil 
what he has promised. But as the word of every man 
is not equally valid in matters of importance, it becomes 
necessary that a valuable article of some kind should be 
deposited as a bond for fulfilment on his part. In the 
Protestant Episcopal Church Catechism a sacrament is 
defined as “an outward and visible sign of an inward 
and spiritual grace given unto us; ordained by Christ 
himself, as a means whereby we receive the same, and a 
pledge to assure us thereof ;” in which the pledge is the 
token that we receive the grace. — .Staunton, Ecclesias- 
tical Dictionary, p. 53G. 

Plegmund, a noted prelate of the early English 
Church, flourished near the close of the 9th century. 
He was the friend and fellow -student of Alfred, and 
was in 890 elevated to the archbishopric of Canter- 
bury. We know next to nothing about his personal 
history, but we are aware of the influence he exerted 
on ecclesiastical affairs through Alfred. See Churton, 
Early English Church, p. 210, 221 ; Wright, Diogr. Brit. 
(see Index). 

Pleiades is the rendering in the A. V. of n~"r, 
kimdh, in Job ix, 9; xxxviii, 31 ; but in Amos v, 8 our 
A. V. lias “the seven stars,” although the Geneva ver- 
sion translates the word “ Pleiades” as in the other 
cases. In Job the Sept, has llAtirrc, the order of the 
Hebrew words having been altered [see Orion], while 
in Amos there is no trace of the original, and it is diffi- 
cult to imagine what the translators had before them. 
The Vulgate in each passage has a different rendering; 
I/yades in Job ix, 9; Pleiades in Job xxxviii, 31 ; amt 
Arcturus in Amos v, 8. Of the other versions, the 
Pesbito-Syriac and Chaldee merely adopt the Hebrew 
word ; Aqiiila in Job xxxviii, Symtnachns in Job 
xxxviii and Amos, and Theodotion in Amos, give 
“ Pleiades,” while with remarkable inconsistency Aqnila 
in Amos lias “Arcturus.” The Jewish commentators 
are no less at variance. Ilabbi David Kimchi in his 
lexicon says: “ Kabbi Jonah wrote that it was a collec- 
tion of stars called in Arabic Al-Thurdiyd. And the 
wise rabbi Abraham Aben - Ezra, of blessed memory, 
wrote that the. ancients said Kimdh is seven stars, and 
they arc at the end of the constellation Aries, and those 
which arc seen are six. And he wrote that what was 
right in his eyes was that it was a single star, and that 
a great one, which is called the left eye of Taurus; and 
Kesil is a great star, the heart of the constellation Scor- 
pio.” On Job xxxviii, 31, Kimelii continues: “Our 
rabbins of blessed memory have said (Ilerachoth, Iviii, 
2) Kimdh bath great cold and bindeth up the fruits, 
and Kesil bath great heat and ripeneth the fruits: there- 
fore He said. ‘ or loosen the bands of Kesil;' for it opon- 
etli the fruits and bringeth them forth.” In addition 
to the evidence of rabbi Jonah, who identifies the He- 
brew Kimdh with the Arabic el- Thuraigd, we have 
the testimony of rabbi Isaac Israel, quoted by Hyde in 
bis notes on the Tables of Ulugh Heigh (p. 31-33, ed. 
1GG5), to the same effect. That el-Thuraiyd and the 
Pleiades are the same is proved by the words of Alicn- 
llagel (quoted by llvde. p. 331: “ AI-Tliuraiyfi is the 
mansion of the moon, in the sign Taurus, and it is 
called the celestial hen with her chickens.” With this 
llvde compares the Fr. J'nlsiniere, and Eng. Hen and 
Chickens, which are old names for the same stars; and 
Niebuhr (Descr. de V Arabic, \\ KM) gives as the result 
of his inquiry of the Jew at Sanii, " Kinnh, Pleiades, 
qifon appclle aussi en Allemagne la poule qui gloussc.” 
The “ Ancients," whom Abeu - Ezra quotes (on Job 
xxxviii, 31), evidently understood by the, seven small 
stars at t lie end of the constellation Aries the Plei- 
ades, which arc indeed in the left shoulder of the Bull, 


PLENARTY 

but so near the Ram’s tail that their position might 
properly be defined with reference to it. With the 
statement that “ those which are seen are six” may be 
compared the words of Didymus on Homer, non Si 
TLXtidSuiu oiiawv iir ra, ttcivv dpavpog b tfidofiog atr- 
Ti)p, and of Ovid (Fast, iv, 170) : 

“ Qufe septem dici, sex tamen esse solent." 

The opinion of Aben-Ezra himself has frequently been 
misrepresented. He held that Kimdh was a single 
large star, A Idebaran, the brightest of the Hyades, while 
Kesil [A. Y. “ Orion”] was A ntares, the heart of Scor- 
pio. “When these rise in the east,” he continues, 
“ the effects which are recorded appear.” He describes 
them as opj>osite each other, and the difference in right 
ascension between Aldebaran and Antares is as nearly 
as possible twelve hours. The belief of Eben-Ezra had 
probably the same origin as the rendering of the Vulg. 
Jlyades. One other point is deserving of notice. The 
rabbins, as quoted by Kimclii, attribute to Kimdh great 
cold and the property of checking vegetation, while 
Kesil works the contrary effects. But the words of 
rabbi Isaac Israel on Job xxxviii, 31 (quoted by Hyde, 
p. 72), are just the reverse, lie says, “The stars have 
operations in the ripening of the fruits, and such is the 
operation of Kimdh. And some of them retard and 
delay the fruits from ripening, and this is the operation 
of Kesil. The interpretation is, * Wilt thou bind the 
fruits which the constellation Kimdh ripeneth and 
openeth ; or wilt thou open the fruits which the con- 
stellation Ae^jcontracteth and bindeth up?’” On the 
whole then, though it is impossible to arrive at any 
certain conclusion, it appears that our translators were 
perfectly justified in rendering Kimdh by “Pleiades.” 
The “seven stars” in Amos clearly denoted the same 
cluster in the language of the 17th century, for Cot- 
grave in his French Dictionary gives “ Pleiade, f., one 
of the seven stars." Hyde maintained that the Pleiades 
were again mentioned in Scripture by the name Suc- 
coth Benoth. The discussion of this question must be 
reserved to the article on that name. 

The etymology of Kimdh is referred to the Arabic 
Kumeh , “a heap,” as being a heap or cluster of stars. 
The full Arabic name given by Gesenius is “the knot 
of the Pleiades;” and. in accordance with this, most 
modern commentators render Job xxxviii, 31, “Is it 
thou that bindest the knots of the Tleiades, or loosenest 
the bands of Orion?” Simon (Lex. Hebr.) quotes the 
Greenland name for this cluster of stars, “ Killuliurset, 
i. e. siellas colligoias ,” as an instance of the existence 
of the same idea in a widely different language. The 
rendering “ sweet influences” of the A. Y. is a relic of 
the lingering belief in the power which the stars ex- 
erted over human destiny. The marginal note on the 
word “ Pleiades” in the Geneva Version is, “ Which 
starres arise when the sunne is in Taurus, which is the 
spring tvme, and bring flowers,” thus agreeing with 
the explanation of R. Isaac Israel quoted above. — Smith. 

The word is used as the name of the cluster of stars 
in the neck of the constellation Taurus, of which seven 
are the principal. Six or seven may be usually seen if 
the eye is directed towards it; but if the eye be turned 
carelessly aside while the attention is fixed on the 
group, many more may be seen. Telescopes show a 
number of large stars there crowded together into a 
small space. The name Pleiades is probably derived 
from the Greek word Fleios, i. a. full, so that it merely 
denotes a condensed assemblage of stars. The Romans 
called the Pleiades vergil he, because they arose in the 
spring, in the first part of May, and set early in No- 
vember. See Hyde on Ulugh Beigh’s Tabb. p. 32; 
Niebuhr, Arab. p. 1 14; Ideler, Ursprung und Bedeutung 
der Sternnamen , p. 146. See Astronomy ; Constel- 
lation. 

Flenarty (opposed to a vacancy) denotes in eccle- 
siastical language that an office or parish is filled. 
Plenary Indulgence. See Indulgence. 


PLETHO 

Plenary Inspiration. See Deists; Inspira- 
tion. 

Pleronia ( -xX^piopa , fulness ) is the Gnostic term 
for that fulness of pure and radiant light and perfection 
in which the Divine Being was supposed to dwell, ami 
whom they named Bythus. See Gnosticism. 

Plessing, Friedrich Victor - Lebrecht, a Ger- - 
man philosopher, was born at Belleben, near Magde- 
burg, Dec. 20, 1752. He was the son of John Frederick 
Plessing, who was counsellor of the consistory at Wer- 
ningerode, and wrote an Kssai sur VOrigine du Paget- 
nisme (Leips. 1757-1758,2 vols. 8vo), and a Ilistoire des 
Tombeanx (Werningerode, 1786, 8vo) ; he died in 1793. 
Young Plessing attended the theological courses at 
different universities, and finally devoted himself to phi- 
losophy at Kbnigsberg, under Kant’s direction. From 
1788 he was a professor of that science at Duis- 
burg. He died Feb. 8, 1806. He left, Von der Noth- 
wendigkeit des Uebels und der Schmerzen bei fiihlenden 
Geschupfen (Dessau, 1783, 8vo): — Osiris und Socrates 
(Berl. 1783, 8vo) : — IJistorisclie Untersuchungen iiber die 
Theologie und Philosophie der iiltesten Volker bis avf 
Aristoteles Zeiten (Elbingen, 1785, 8vo) : — Memnonium, 
oder Versucli zur Enthullung der Geheimnisse des Alter~ 
thums (Leips. 1787, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Versuche zur Auf- 
kldrung der Philosophie des iiltesten Alterthums (ibid. 
1788-1790,5 vols. 8vo). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale , 
xl, 465. 

Plessis, Joseph Octave, a somewhat noted Roman 
Catholic prelate, was born at Montreal, Canada, March 
3, 1772, of very humble parentage. He decided to give 
himself to the service of the Church, and after com- 
pleting his theological studies was ordained priest, March 
11, 1786; was employed as professor of humanity at the 
College of St. Raphael, also as secretary to the bishop 
of Quebec, and curate of the capital ; Sept. 6, 1797, he 
was made coadjutor to bishop Denault; April 26, 1800, 
he was appointed bishop of Canatte, in Palestine, with 
the succession to the seat at Quebec, of which he be- 
came incumbent Jan. 17, 1806. He founded the college 
at Nicolet, as well as primary schools at Quebec. He 
was called by the crown to the legislative council in 
1818, and proved himself a loyal and patriotic senator. 
In 1796 he pronounced an oration at Quebec on the oc- 
casion of the naval battle of Abonkir. He died at Que- 
bec Dec. 4, 1825. See Ferland, Biog. Notice of J. O. 
Plessis (Qiteb. 1864, 8vo). 

Plessis-Mornay. See Duflessis. 

Pletho or Gemisttis, Georgius, a distinguished 
philosopher, theologian, publicist, historian, geographer, 
and scholar of the 15th century, is one of the most prom- 
inent of the Greeks who contributed to the revival of 
Greek studies in Western Europe, and the restorer of 
the Platonic philosophy. 

IJf e . — The dates of the birth and death of Pletho 
have not been ascertained. He is supposed to have 
died before the capture of Constantinople by the Turks, 
and not many years after the Council of Florence. He 
is vaguely reported to have been nearly a hundred years 
of age at the period of his demise. If this were true, he 
must have first seen the light about the middle of the 
14th century. II is birthplace was probably Constanti- 
nople, but much of his life was spent in Peloponnesus, 
and was passed in official employment. He received 
the name of Pletho, and perhaps of Gemistus, from the 
extent, multiplicity, and fulness of his erudition, which 
he displayed in numerous works on a great variety of 
subjects. “He was admired,” says a writer near his 
time, “ by not Greece alone, but by nearly the whole 
world, for his various and manifold knowledge of things 
divine and human, so that, by the universal consent of 
both Greeks and Latins, lie approached most closely to 
Plato, the prince of philosophers, and to Aristotle.” 4 et 
this great name is one which posterity has willingly let 
die. lie wrote on philosophy, theology, history, geog- 


291 


PLETIIO 


292 


PLETIIO 


raphy, oratory, music, etc. He composed orations, oc- 
casional essays, polemical tracts, letters, etc., anti made 
collections, in the fashion of declining centuries, from 
Diodorus, Appian, and l’lntarch ; from Xenophon and 
Dionysius 1 lalicarnassensis, from Aristotle and Theo- 
phrastus. lie was engaged in numerous controversies, 
with (leorge Gcnnaditis, who became patriarch of Con- 
stantinople after the Ottoman conquest; with Theodore 
of Gaza, and with (leorge of Trebizond. The number 
of his works might encourage the belief that a century 
of years had been accorded to their author: but this 
longevity is discredited by the incidents of his life. If 
he died, almost a centenarian, in 1452, as some reporters 
allege, he must have been about seventy when he held 
the first public employment recorded as held by him ; 
and he must have been verging on ninety when last 
commemorated as an imperial officer in the Pelopon- 
nesus. The years of macrobians are so readily exag- 
gerated by themselves, and by their more juvenile con- 
temporaries, that no great weight need be attached to 
the allegation that he was born in 1355. 11 is name of 

Pletho has been stated to have been bestowed on him in 
consequence of his learning, but it may have been de- 
signed as an approximate reproduction of the name of 
Plato, to whose memory and speculations he devoted 
himself with unrestrained enthusiasm. The surname 
may, indeed, have been assumed by himself, for it fur- 
nished frequent occasions of sarcasm and ridicule to the 
numerous adversaries whom he provoked, lie occupied 
a high place at court, in the close of the reign of the 
emperor Manuel 11 PaUeologns (Brucker says Michael, 
but the last emperor of that name had died almost a 
century and a half before. Dr. Plate, in Smith’s Diet, 
of Gr. and Rom. MytkoL, etc., gives 1426 as the date of 
this official function, but Manuel died in 1425). Gemis- 
tus the Philosopher," as he was already called, was one 
of the notables at the conference in Constantinople which 
recommended conciliation with the Latin Church (Mi- 
chael Attaliotes, Hist. 1‘olit. c. iv). lie attended the 
emperor John V, as a senator and deputy of the Greek 
Church, to the Council of Florence in 113!) (I)ucas. 
Hist. Jiyzant. e. xxxi). Among his companions were 
Bessarion, his pupil; Isidore of Russia; (leorge the 
Scholarins, his future antagonist; and Argyropulus. 
Pletho distinguished himself by the active part which 
lie took in the conferences, and by his violent opposi- 
tion to the union of the churches, lie yielded ulti- 
mately, however, and was one of the signatories of the 
formulary of compromise. This saeriiice of religions 
opinion embittered the feelings of his countrymen to 
him. He did not accompany the emperor on his return to 
Constantinople, During his stay in Florence he formed 
an intimacy with Cosmo the Magnificent, and by the 
fascination of his lectures converted the great Floren- 
tine to the Platonism which Gcmistus had espoused with 
the utmost fervor — though it was rather the mystical 
excesses of the later Neo-Platouists than the genuine 
doctrine of Plato which he hail adopted. Marsilins 
Tithi us states, in his Dedication of Plotinus, that it 
was at Plctho’s suggestion that. Cosmo di Medici insti- 
tuted the Platonic Academy at Florence, of which Fiei- 
lius became the first director. lie certainly succeeded 
in rendering Platonism the rage in Italy, supported as 
he was hv the countenance of his illustrious disciple, 
cardinal Bessarion, and by the favor of the Medicean 
house. Most of his labors henceforth were devoted to 
the illustration and dissemination of the Platonic doc- 
trine. This endeavor, and the success which attended 
it, provoked the hostility of the Aristotelians, whose 
opinions had been for centuries in almost unchallenged 
possession of the domain of philosophy, and involved 
him in virulent controversy with their leaders. Nor 
was the hostility mitigated by the suspicion that Pletho 
desired to supplant not merely Peripatetic-ism, but Chris- 
tianity also, by his revived Platonism, lie was charged 
by George of Trebizoml with being not less dangerous 
to the faith than Mohammed himself. The suspicion 


was in some sort justified by the language of Pletho, 
and corroborated subsequently by the tenor of the Com- 
mentaries of Fieinus. The quarrels thus excited were 
further exacerbated by the revolutionary doctrines of 
Pletho's treatise On Laws, written after the example 
of Plato, and far transceuding the socialistic reveries of 
the Platonic Republic. The work seems not to have 
been published, or even completed. It is said to have 
been burned after his death by the directions of his 
ancient antagonist, George Scholarius, or Gennadius. 
Fragments of the work only remaiu. The imitation 
of Plato might have tempted him to the composition 
of the work, have determined its form, and suggested 
its doctrines. Any such temptation would have been 
encouraged by the meditated socialistic experiment of 
Plotinus. But the wretched condition of his country- 
men, their destitution, their hopeless oppression by 
taxes which they could not pay — especially in Pelopon- 
nesus, ravaged as it had been for centuries by Sclavo- 
nians and Saracens and Franks, and ground into the 
dust by the Latin barons introduced by the Fourth 
Crusade — are alleged as the inducements to this wild 
device of social reorganization. There is every reason 
to believe that Pletho was as sincere as he was earnest 
in this dream of political renovation ; which was neither 
more nor less insane in the 15th century than have been 
the numberless analogous schemes which have deluded 
the 19th. The project seems to have occupied his de- 
clining age. The years of Pletho were as full as was 
his assumed name. 

Writings . — The treatises, abstracts, essays, polemics, 
letters, and other productions of Pletho were both nu- 
merous and varied. They still remain, for the most 
part, in manuscript, nor has there been any complete 
enumeration, or sufficient investigation of those that 
survive. The wish has several times been expressed 
for their collection, recension, and publication; but the 
wish is still ungratified, notwithstanding the acknowl- 
edgment of the various and valuable services that 
might be expected from its satisfaction. The editors 
of the Bonn edition of the Byzantine historians, who 
proceed so languidly with the continuation of the labors 
auspiciously and energetically commenced by Niebuhr, 
may contemplate, or may be induced to contemplate, an 
edition at some future time of the Opera omnia qnee 
supersunt of Georgius Gomistns Pletho. The variety 
of these works has already been indicated. Of those 
which have been given to the press, the most important, 
as reported in Smith’s Dictionary of Mythology, etc., are : 
1. De Gestis Gracorum post puynam ad Mantineum, ex- 
tracted from Diodorus and Plutarch; — 2. De l'ato : — 
3. De Virtutibus : — 4. De Platon icte atqne Aristotelicc 
Philosophic Differentia: — 5. Oracula Mayica Zoroas- 
tr'is. Since this list was prepared, some of the smaller 
tracts of Pletho, previously unedited, have been pub- 
lished, and M. Alexandre has brought out at Paris, 
6. De Jjyibus, Fraymenta. 

Philosophy . — There is no distinctive system of phi- 
losophy to be ascribed to Pletho. lie was a revivalist 
and restorer only, except in the department of polities; 
and even here he was a legitimate disciple of Plato. 
He asserted the. exclusive doctrine of Plato against 
Aristotle and the Aristotelians, and also against the ex- 
periment of the Neo-Plat onists to conciliate the prin- 
ciples of Aristotle with those of Plato. He did not, 
however, avoid the transcendental excesses of the Alex- 
andrian school, or refrain from following the example 
of the later members of that school, in blending Oriental 
fantasies with the speculations of the First Academy. 
Still his restitution of Platonism exercised a great and 
beneficial influence on the intellect of the 15th century, 
by presenting a new object of regard, by quickening in- 
telligence through the conflict of opinions and through 
the controversies excited, and by liberating inquiry 
from the solitary predominance of the one great teacher, 
whose views had been converted into a tyrannical au- 
thority, distorted and cramped in their application, and 


PLETIIO 


293 


PLINY 


deflected into the perilous systems of the Alexandras 
and Averrdists. The institution of the Florentine Acad- 
emy was one of the most potent agencies in the emanci- 
pation of modern thought; and its establishment may 
fairly be credited to the labors and to the impulse of 
Pletlio. "What is truly distinctive of his philosophical 
career is his political project for the reformation and 
amelioration of the Peloponnesus. Though some of its 
outlines were derived from antiquity, and the route was 
in some sort indicated by Plato and Plotinus, yet it pos- 
sesses originality of its own, and was immediately in- 
duced by an active desire of ministering to present 
needs, and of supplying practical remedies, even if they 
were impracticable, to the actual miseries of'tlie society 
around him. 

The plan proposed by Pletlio was a sweeping agra- 
rianism, resembling in some respects the system of Ly- 
curgus and that of Cleomenes II in the same region of 
Laconia; resembling in others the socialism of Plato, but 
resembling still more the extreme projects ofland-reform 
which have recently been proposed in England, Ireland, 
France, and other countries. The evils which he pro- 
posed to redress by a complete alteration of the fabric 
of society were the insecurity of person and propertj' ; 
the squalor occasioned by ravages and multitudinous 
taxes, ill -imposed and unfairly levied; the uncertain 
and defective administration of justice; and the varied 
and degraded currency in circulation. Like Plato, he 
proposed to divide the people into three classes, but the 
classes were different from those of Plato: they were 
to be the agriculturists, the capitalists, and the guar- 
dians. The farmers or agriculturists were intended to 
include the greater part of the industrial body; the cap- 
italists were to embrace the owners of all the appliances 
for the assistance of labor, and apparently the lessors 
of the land ; the guardians, or defenders, comprehended 
all who were engaged in the protection of the society 
and its members, or in the maintenance of right and 
order: princes, magistrates, lawyers, doctors, and sol- 
diers — priests also, probably. There was to be no pri- 
vate property in land; it was to belong exclusively to 
the state, and to be leased out, from time to time, to 
landlords or capitalists. A right of temporary occu- 
pancy was all that was admitted. Of the produce of 
the soil, one third was to be paid to the government for 
the maintenance of the guardians, and for other public 
burdens; one third went to the landlords or capitalists; 
and one third was to be the remuneration of the act- 
ual cultivators. Pletlio, like the French Economistes, 
thought that all wealth was the production of land, 
and that all impositions should be charged upon it. 
The guardians, whether princes or soldiers or magis- 
trates, were a class entirely apart from the rest of the 
community. They paid no taxes, but protected the 
people from external violence and internal disorders, and 
were supported by the government from the proceeds 
of the public third. The soldiers were quartered on 
the farmers to consume the government thirds, so far 
as required for their support : “ fruges consumcre nati.” 
No money-taxes were imposed: the funds required for 
the public service were to be derived exclusively from 
the export and sale of the surplus which remained out 
of the government’s share of the produce. Such is a 
brief abstract of Pletho’s plethoric state. The plan was 
never completed ; the book was burned ; its author died; 
and the Turks conquered the Morca before the experi- 
ment could be tried. 

Literature. — Gass, Gennadii et Plethonis Scripta qnce- 
dam edita et inedita (Breslau, 1841) ; Pellissier, Plethon, 
Traite des Lois, on Pecueil des Fragmens. en Partie in- 
edits de cet Oticrage, par C. A lexandre (Paris, 1851) ; Leo 
Allatius, Ik Georgiis diatriba (ibid. 1G51); Boivin, Que- 
nelle dcs Philosophes du XYme Steele ; Hotly, De Grceeis 
Illustribus, etc. (Lond. 1742); Bayle, Diet . Hist, et Cri- 
tique; Brucker, Hist. Crit. Phil. per. iii, ps. i, lib. i, c. ii, ' 
§ 1 ; e. iii, § 4, 5; Tiraboschi, St aria della Letteratura 
Jtaliana ; Ginguene, Hist, de la Litte future Italienne; 1 


Smith, Diet. Anc. Mgthol. and Biog.; Ilallam, Hist, of 
the Lit. of Europe, ch. ii, § ii, p. 13, 14; Finlay, Hist, 
of the Byzantine Empire, bk. i v, ch. ii, § 5, vol. ii, p. (508 ; 
id. Hist, of Med. Greece, etc., ch. ix, § 2, p. 282; Ueber- 
weg, Hist, of Philosophy, § 109. (G. F. II.) 

Pletz, Joseph, doctor of theology, imperial chap- 
lain, and abbot of the monastery of the Holy Virgin 
of Pagranj-, Hungary ; imperial counsellor, consistorial 
counsellor, deacon-emeritus of the metropolitan chapter 
of St. Stephen, at Vienna; director of the theological 
studies in the Austrian empire, referent of the same, 
assistant of the imperial commission of studies, director 
and president of the theological faculty ; and, in 1835, 
ex-rector magniticus of the University of Vienna, mem- 
ber of the high schools of Vienna, Pesth, and Padua, etc., 
was born at Vienna Jan. 3, 1788; attended the lessons 
of the gymnasium of St. Anna ; studied philosophy and 
theology at the University of Vienna; received orders 
Aug. 30, 1812, and was appointed adjunct at the univer- 
sity, prefect of the studies, and librarian in the episcopal 
seminary. During the years 1814 and 1815 he taught 
dogmatics at the High School of Vienna. In 1816 he 
was appointed chaplain of the court, and first director 
of the studies at the institute for the education of secu- 
lar priests, then recently founded by Francis I. In 1823 
he was called upon to teach dogmatics at the University 
of Vienna, and Feb. 15, 1827, lie became canon of the 
metropolitan chapter of St. Stephen. He received suc- 
cessively the functions and dignities mentioned above, 
and discharged the duties thereof with active zeal, com- 
mendable prudence, with disinterestedness and consci- 
entiousness, for the good of the State and the Church. 
A fit of apoplexy put an end to his restless activity, in 
1841. Pletz rvas a worthy, unblemished priest, a learned 
theologian, a zealous protector of true science, and at the 
same time a father to the poor, a consoler of the afflict- 
ed, a helper in need, and to his friends a true and up- 
right friend. Besides several works of edification and 
some sermons, which he published in the years 1817- 
1833, he wrote a number of essays in Frint’s theolog- 
ical journal, and in his own, which he edited from 1828 
to 1840, under the title of Neue theologische Zeitschrift 
(Vienna), in twelve annual volumes; the thirteenth, 
commenced by Pletz, was completed by his friend, Trof. 
Seebach. 

Plicata, the “folded” chasuble w r orn on Good Fri- 
day by the deacon and subdeacon, or by a priest, folded 
on the shoulder, when acting as a deacon. It is a relic 
of ancient usage, anterior to the use of the dalmatic and 
tunic, when they wore the trabea rolled up in front to 
leave their hands free and unencumbered, and is also a 
peculiarity belonging to times of penance. 

Pliny the Younger, or Caius Cjec. P. Secundus, 
the nephew and adopted son of the elder Pliny, was born 
at Como in A.D. 61 or 62; was a pupil of Quintilian; 
and pleaded successfully as an advocate in his nineteenth 
year. He was successively tribune of the people, pre- 
fect of the treasury, consul, proconsul in Pont us and 
Bitliynia, and augur; and died, universally esteemed, 
in 115. The name of Pliny the Younger has, from the 
da}’s of Tertulliau, been mentioned with peculiar inter- 
est by Christian writers on account of the testimony 
which he bore concerning the Christians of his day in 
Bithvnia. They form the subject of a rather long let- 
ter (x, 97) to Trajan, written about forty }'ears after the 
death of St. Paul, and followed by a short answer from 
Trajan. With all his advantages of education, Pliny 
was superstitious and credulous. Though a kind- 
hearted man even to slaves (viii, 1, 16, 19), he was in- 
tolerant and cruel to the Christians ; and, according to 
his own acconnt, he put to death the Christians of Bi- 
thvnia who would not abjure their religion, though he 
considered it only an innocent superstition. The mate- 
rials for Pliny's life may be collected from his Epistles, 
from which a brief notice has been drawn up by Cella- 
rius, and one more elaborate by Masson ; there is also a 


PLISSOX 


204 


PLOTINUS 


very complete Life of Plinv, with abundant references 
to his letters, prefixed to K. Thierfdd’s German trans- 
lation of the “ Kpistles and Panegyric” (Munich, 1828). 
lint the reader is referred to the ICpistles themselves for 
the most gratifying notice of Pliny the Younger, every 
epistle being, as Molinotli observes, “a kind of historical 
sketch, wherein we have a view of him in some striking 
attitude either of active or contemplative life.” Pliny’s 
Kpistles have been translated into English by Lord <)r- 
rerv and Mr. Melmoth. The best edition of Pliny’s 
Kpistles is that of Cortius and Longolius (Amst. 1734, 
4to). of the editions of the Kpistles and Panegyric 
together may be recommended those of Christopher Cel- 
larius (Leips. 1G93, 12mo) ; llearne, with Life by Masson 
prefixed (Oxford, 1703, 8vo) ; Gicrig (Leips. 180G, 2 vols. 
8vo), and Gcsuctan and .Schaefer (ibid. 1805). Of his 
writings, the letter addressed to the emperor Trajan in 
the year 107 is considered one of the most important 
documents remaining of early Christian history, and we 
therefore transcribe here some portion of it. After men- 
tioning the ditliculty of his own situation, and his per- 
plexity in what manner to proceed against men charged 
with no other crime than the name of Christian, the 
writer proceeds as follows: 

“Others were named by an informer, who at first con- 
fessed themselves Christians, and afterwards denied it; 
the rest said they had been Christians, but had left them 
—some three years ago, some lunger, and one or more 
above twenty years. They all worshipped your image 
and the statues of the gods; these also reviled Christ. 
They affirmed that the whole of their fault or error lay 
in this— that they were wont to meet together on a stated 
day before it was light, and sing among themselves alter- 
nately a hymn to Christ, as to God, aiul bind themselves 
by an oath, not to the commU-ion of auy wickedness, but 
not to be guilty of theft, or robbery, or adultery, never to 
falsify their word, nor to deny a pledge committed to 
them" when called upon to return it. When these things 
were performed, it was their custom to separate, and then 
to come together again to a meal, which they ate in com- 
mon without any disorder ; but this they had forborne 
since the publication of my edict, by which, according to 
•our commands, I prohibited assemblies. Afler receiv- 
ug this account, 1 judged it the more necessary to exam- 
ine, and that by torture, two maid-servants, which were 
called ministers; but 1 have discovered nothing besides 
a bad and excessive superstition. Suspending, therefore, 
all judicial proceedings, 1 have recourse to yon for advice, 
for it Inis appeared to me matter highly deserving consid- 
eration, especially upon account of the great number of 
persons who are in danger of suffering, for many of all 
ages and every rank, of both sexes likewise, are accused, 
and will be accused. Nor has the contagion of this su- 
perstition seized cities only, but. the lesser towns also, aud 
the open country; nevertheless, it seems to me that it 
may he restrained and corrected. It is certain that the 
temples which were almost forsaken bedn to be more 
frequented ; aiul the sacred solemnities, after a long inter- 
mission, are revived. Victims likewise are everywhere 
bought up, whereas for a time there were few purchasers. 
Whence it is easy to imagine what numbers of men might 
be reclaimed if pardon were granted to those who repent.” 
So few and uncertain are the records left to guide our 
inquiries through the obscure period which immediately 
followed the conclusion of the labors of the apostles, that 
the above testimony to the numbers and virtues of our 
forefathers in faith becomes indeed invaluable. See 
Milinnu, Hist, of Christianity ; Liddon, Divinity of 
Christ; Mosheim, Commentary of Christian History; 
Scliall', Hist, of the Christian Church, i, 101 sq. ; Smith, 
Dirt, of ( hiss. Hiny. s, v. ; 1 labr, Geseh, der rOmischen 
I.ittratnr ; 1 lagenbach, A irchenyesch. der evsten tlrti 
.Jahrh. Hi. viii: Alzog, Kircheugesrh. i, 112, 13G; Kid- 
dle, ( liristian I ntif/uities, p. 17G sq. ; Homier, Derjiingere 
l'linius ( I db. I 3) ; (Aiuworth, Intdlertual Universe; 
.lulos Jaiiin, I line h fun el Quint Him (1838); Church, 
Pliny's l.t It i rs (Loud. 1872). 

Plissou, M Ai:ii>l*iiri>KN(’i--.. a French female math- 
ematician, celebrated m her time l>v her eccentricities, 
was born at < ’linrtres Nov. 27, 1727.' 1 lor father was a 
magistrate. Her taste for learned pursuits kept her aloof 
from the world, and induced her to prefer single-blessed- 
ness to matrimonial bliss. Her quaint disposition soon 
engaged her ill disputes with which her sex evidently 
ought to have nothing to do. She first made herself 


known by several pieces in prose and in verse, published 
by the newspapers of the time. In 17G4 the question 
was agitated whether a child bom ten months and ten 
days after the dissolution of the matrimonial tie was le- 
gitimate V Mile. Plissou boldly intervened in this mo- 
mentous debate, and attacked with no little vivacity 
the opinion of Lebos, Bcrtiu, Antoine Petit, etc. : many 
were the epigrams darted at the female philosopher. 
There was a time when she took to observe with pas- 
sionate curiosity the nature of the cat, and comparing 
notes with all the naturalists who had written anything 
about it. She undertook to write the physiology of this 
interesting animal. “What animal,” she says, in one 
of her pamphlets, “is more common, more at hand to be 
examined by educated people, than the cat?” Iler li- 
brary was remarkable in every respect. She died Dec. 
17. 1788. Mile. Plisson left, Odes sur la Vie champetre 
(1750): — Projet pour soulayer les Pauvres de la Can- 
payne (Chartres, 1758) :—Ilecherches sur la Duree de la 
Grossesse (Amsterdam, I7G5) : — La Promenade de Pro- 
vince, Xouvelle , a vec les Yoyuyes d'Oromasis dans Vile de 
Hienveillance et duns la Planetc de Mercure (Paris. 1783, 
12mo):— and J larimes morales d'un Philosophe Chretien 
(Paris, 1783, lGmo).— Hoefer, Xouv. Iiiog . Generate, xl, 
48G. 

Ploos van Amstel, Cornelius, a celebrated 
Dutch amateur engraver and designer, was born at Am- 
sterdam in 172G. lie is chiefly distinguished for his im- 
itations of the drawings of old masters, of which he pos- 
sessed one of the best collections known, amounting to 
five thousand drawings by celebrated Italian. German, 
French, Flemish, and Dutch masters, from Giotto to his 
own time. Horn of a good and wealthy family, he had 
every opportunity for improving liis taste and advanc- 
ing his pursuits. Being acquainted with all the prin- 
cipal collectors of Amsterdam, he commenced making 
his own valuable collection at a very early age. lie 
had likewise a very valuable collection of prints and 
etchings, especially of the works of Lucas van Leyden, 
Albert Diircr, Golzins. Cornelius and .lan Visser. X. Bcr- 
chem, and especially Bembrandt. Ploos van Amstcl’s 
own works consist chiefly of imitations of drawings of 
old masters, in chalk, washed and colored; the colored 
imitations were accomplished by printing with several 
plates. In 17G5 he published a collection of forty-six 
such imitations in various styles, after drawings by A. 
Yandeveldc, Benibrandt, Ostade, Gerard Dow, Baek- 
liuysen, Mctzu, Berchcm, A. Blocmacrt. Wouvermann, 
Micris, Tcrburg, and others. There are altogether up- 
wards of one hundred imitations of drawings by Ploos 
van Amstel, and many of these are published in various 
stages of progress, but very few impressions were taken 
of any. They are enumerated and described by Wei- 
gel in the Kunst-Kutalog, and in Xaglcr’s Kiiusth r-Ler - 
ikon . A collection of one hundred of Van Amstel's and 
some additional similar imitations, with a portrait of 
Van Amstel. was published by C. dusi (London, 1821, 
royal folio); but only one hundred copies were print- 
ed, and at the enormous price of forty guineas per 
copy. Ploos van Amstel died at Amsterdam 1 >ec. 20, 
1798, and on March 3, 1800, his valuable collection, with 
the exception of the etchings of Benibrandt, was sold 
at auction, aiul realized the large sum of 109, 40G flor- 
ins. .See Van Kyndcn en Yamlcr Willigcn, Geschie - 
denis der Vuterlaiulsehe Schihl kunst sedert de I Jeff t der 
Will lieu tv. 181G-1842. — Engl. Cyclop, s. v. 

Plotinus, the most prominent and celebrated of 
the Neo-Platonic philosophers, the most elaborate and 
authoritative exponent of the school of Alexandria, was 
the most transcendental of the ancient transcendent al- 
ists, and was mainly instrumental in transforming into 
the Pantheism of Iamblichns and Prod ns the doctrine 
deduced through many successions from Plato. 

Lift . — The outlines of the career of Plotinus have 
already been given, and have been accompanied with 
a brief notice of bis opinions, under Neo-Platonism. 


PLOTINUS 


295 


PLOTINUS 


The esteem in which the sage of Lvcopolis was held by 
his contemporaries is shown by the application to him 
of the current proverb, “ The productions of Egypt are 
few, but they are great.” Ilis asceticism led him to 
regard his body, tbe casket of his soul, with such con- 
tempt that he would never suffer his likeness to be 
taken. His pupil Amelius, however, introduced the 
painter Cartcrius to his lectures, who was thus enabled 
to take a portrait of him from memory, without his 
knowledge. His philosophical temperament is further 
illustrated by his dying words, addressed to Eustochius, 
“ I am striving to reunite what is divine in me to the 
pure divinity which reigns throughout the universe.” 
When he expired, a dragon rushed from under his bed, 
and escaped through a hole in the wall. Amelius in- 
quired of the Delphic oracle, not yet entirely dumb, 
“ What has become of him ?” and was informed, in a string 
of loose hexameters, that he dwelt with Minos, Ehada- 
mantlius, Abacus, Pythagoras, and other blessed spirits, 
in the contemplation of the Deity, to whom he had 
been conjoined in ecstatic union four times during life. 
After the biographical notice already given, it only re- 
mains to give a somewhat fuller account of his writings, 
and a more extended and connected exposition of his 
views. 

Writings. — The philosophy of the Xeo- Platonic 
school of Alexandria, founded by Ammonias Saccas, 
was an exclusive cult, designed to be a secret and priv- 
ileged possession for the training and elevation of an 
elect body of theorists and enthusiasts. The seal of 
reticence having been broken by Herennius, his fellow- 
disciple, Plotinus deemed that there was no longer 
either obligation or expediency in endeavoring to pre- 
serve the secrets of the new speculation, and accord- 
ingly promulgated it by oral lectures at Home, con- 
tinued for twenty-five years, and by treatises written at 
various times during this long course of instruction. 
His exposition was, however, so curt, intricate, and ob- 
scure; so full of inapprehensible subtleties and impal- 
pable distinctions, that he was under the necessity of 
invoking the aid of liis pupils to interpret ami to 
develop his doctrine. He thus employed his veteran 
disciple, Amelius, to combat the repugnances and to 
remove the doubts of the neophyte Porphyry. All the 
earlier writers who have occasion to mention Plotinus 
speak of his brief, terse, thought -oppressed, oracular 
style; and tbe few among the moderns who have had 
the patience and have taken the pains to wade through 
his tantalizing compositions must have often re-echoed 
the ancient censures. The sublimation of the recondite 
thought is rendered more evanescent by the dryness of 
the phraseology and the niggardliness <tf words. The 
difficulty of the compressed and indistinct utterance is 
made more difficult by the abundance of the nebulous 
thought. Yet through all the clouds of utterance and 
of contemplation gleams continually a more than earth- 
ly radiance, which lights up the darkness, and converts 
the dim, disjointed, spasmodic communications into ex- 
quisite revelations of supernal purity and beauty, and 
into wonderful graces, which are equally without, art, 
in violation of art, and beyond art. The intense flame 
of passionate love illumines dialectical subtleties and 
scholastic formulas in the Letters of Elo'ise and Abelard ; 
and the ethereal splendor of “ the heavenly love,” which 
fills his whole intellectual being, frequently clothes with 
its own light the technical phrases, the visionary ab- 
stractions, and the jagged points of the diction of Plo- 
tinus. Knowledge with him is intuition : he sees the 
divine and the eternal by the influx and the commun- 
ion of the divine: lie is himself in turn apprehended, 
rather than understood, by an immediate contact be- 
tween his own rapt spirit and the enkindled intelligence 
of his readers. lie says that in the pure universe of 
the intelligible there are neither “discourse of reason” 
nor the voices of speech, but only immediate knowledge 
by sympathetic community of thought {ov £>} 0w- 
vaiQ i final xprjeSai vopurreov, iv piv r>g voijTtp over at; 


Kai Trafnrav . . . yiyvunrKouv o’ av teal ra Trap a\\rj- 
\ti)V iv avvioei, Enn. iv, iii, 18). There is something of 
the same inspiration by contact and association which 
quickens and assimilates the eager intellect, and enables 
us to divine and appropriate rather than to understand 
the mystic communications of Plotinus. He seems 
himself to have been fully aware of the vagueness and 
unintelligibility of his compositions. They were bursts 
of sudden revelation, gushing out in hasty, spontaneous 
expression. The weakness of his sight, and the fever- 
ish impatience of his overteeming mind, prevented him 
from recasting what he had once committed to parch- 
ment. He, therefore, intrusted to Porphyry, a rheto- 
rician trained in the school of Longinus, the onerous 
task of collecting, revising, and co-ordinating his works. 
Porphyry undertook the office with reverence, and dis- 
charged it with affectionate fidelity. Plotinus had 
already produced and disseminated among his acolytes 
twenty-one books, when Porphyry came to Pome and 
attached himself to him : he added twenty-four during 
the six years that Porphyry attended liis instructions, 
and he sent nine for revision to Porphyry, in his Si- 
cilian retreat, during the last period of his life. It is 
probable that these books did not embrace all the phil- 
osophical lucubrations of the master, but that there 
were other treatises or essays in various stages of de- 
velopment, which were left behind, or were preserved as 
notes or memoranda in the hands of the disciples — like 
the college notes of the lectures of Xiebulir, Sir William 
Hamilton, and many others, which have been expanded 
and published to complete or to extend the lessons of 
the preceptors. Of such materials there are ample evi- 
dences in the surviving remains of Plotinus, the greater 
part of which appears as brief and undeveloped jottings, 
often as bare hints, while numerous passages have been 
elaborated with great care, and are expressed with ad- 
equate precision, fulness, and accesses of rugged grace. 
Porphyry collected fifty-four essays of various dimen- 
sions, which, in imitation of the Platonic Trilogies and 
Tetralogies, lie arranged in six series of nine each, to 
which he gave the name of Enneads; being guided in 
their combination and disposition by the agreement or 
affinity of their topics, and in their succession by the 
ascending progress from human observation and expe- 
rience, through the constituent principles of abstract 
nature, to ontology and theology. This is not the line 
of systematic exposition, nor is it, in its execution, the 
strict order of discovery. The whole body is irregular 
and confused; incomplete and often incoherent in its 
members; undeveloped and fragmentary in the expo- 
sition of the several parts. There are a few sufficiently 
thorough discussions: On Beauty {Enn. i, vi) ; On Nat- 
ure and the One {Enn. iii, viii) ; On Psychical Problems 
{Enn. iv, iii— v) ; On the Species of Existence {Enn. iv, 
i— iii') ; and On Unity and Multiformity {Enn. vi, iv-v); 
to which may be added On the Essential Good (Enn. 
vi, vii and ix). That there was a definite system in 
the mind of Plotinus may be readily admitted, for there 
is a general congruity of thought pervading the whole 
collection, and his characteristic principles were enter- 
tained from the first. This system might possibly be 
reproduced in its substantial integrity by a liberal em- 
ployment of conjecture and logical evolution. Such a 
system may have been propounded by Plotinus in his 
oral course — though, from his remains and from the tes- 
timony of antiquity, -we may safely conclude that even 
the instructions to the school were marked by the ab- 
sence of method, consecution, perspicuity, and propor- 
tion. The written expansions of his doctrine appear to 
have been determined by transitory contingencies — the 
doubts of his scholars, the cavils of opponents, the ap- 
parent urgency of particular questions, as in the papers 
Against the Gnostics {Enn. ii, ix). Yet even what was 
written in this disconnected manner was composed at 
various times, in diverse moods, and left in different 
degrees of completion. None of the books can be re- 
garded as a just, rounded, and complete essay. They 


PLOTINUS 


296 


PLOTINUS 


are, for the most part, a collection of remarks upon dis- 
continuous points, associated with a common subject 
of inquiry, thus resembling the Pensees , like those of 
Pascal, which were for a long time a favorite but 
imperfect form of enunciation with French thinkers. 
This, however, does not exhaust the impediments to 
any coherent and satisfactory ordination of the produc- 
tions of Plotinus. There is no reason to suppose that 
all his written remains were in a condition to be made 
available. There is reason to believe that other ma- 
terials besides those employed by Porphyry, either in 
his form of synoptical abridgments or of formal trac- 
tates, were in the hands of other disciples. In view of 
all the dillicnlties of his position, so far as they can now 
be ascertained and appreciated, there is a concert of 
opinion among scholars and critics that the procedure 
of Porphyry was judicious, and that no better plan of 
arrangement could have been adopted than the aggre- 
gation of the fragmentary materials in accordance with 
the loose bond of coherence supplied by similarity of 
subject, although this plan utterly disregards the chron- 
ological order of their production, and shutlles con- 
fusedly together the writings of very distinct periods. 
Less inconvenience would result from this disorder, if 
there had been entire constancy and consistency in the 
development of his speculation ; hut in his earlier ca- 
reer Plotinus was much influenced by the tenets of 
Xumenius; in his maturer life he acquired greater in- 
dependence of thought, but inclined most closely to the 
teachings and tendencies of Plato; and in his later 
years he gave evidence of diminished power of intel- 
lect. What could be done to correct or compensate 
for the confusion of the text was supplied by the /Sen- 
tences of Porphyry, which gave an abstract of the doc- 
trine, but these have come down to us only in a sadly 
mangled form. 

In the arrangement of Porphyry [see Neo-Plato- 
nism] the logical order is disturbed, and in a great 
measure inverted. The last two Enncads are the most 
characteristic, and in some respects the most important 
for the estimation of the philosophy of Plotinus. The 
lirst En nead is noted by Porphyry as pre-eminently 
ethical (being occupied with tu lfttKwrapa, or rai ; 
rfiiKiortpac I’Trosiani;). The recension of Porphyry was 
not the only promulgation of the lectures of Plotinus. 
Three, other publications have been specitied, and other 
copies of special parts of his philosophy may have been 
circulated. As soon as he commenced reducing bis 
views to writing, demands for copies were made upon 
him by bis followers, and these exemplars would nat- 
urally be multiplied and disseminated to some extent. 
We know that some of his productions were sent in his 
lifetime from Lome to Syria, to the rhetorician Longi- 
nus. These loose and Hying sheets would soon be lost 
after the more complete body of liis doctrine became 
accessible. This, however, is acknowledged to have ex- 
isted in two forms— that issued with authority by Por- 
phyry. and another presentation by Eustocliius, a pupil 
who attended the douLh-hcd of his teacher. These two 
versions arc alone recognised by Creuzcr, the accepted 
authority for all matters connected with ihe text and 
interprets ion of Plotinus. These recensions did not 
agree eiihcr in the distribution of the matter or in all 
the details of doctrine. The* Eustocbian edition was 
still in existence in the llyzantinc period, but lias since 
perished, and has left the I’orpbyrian text as the sole 
representative of Plotinus. This exemplar is, however, 
believed by Creuzcr to have received additions and al- 
terations from the concurrent copy of the Eustoehinn 
rolls. 

Wo would remark, before proceeding to the consider- 
ation of the peculiar philosophy of Plotinus, that neither 
he, nor the sect of which he was the expositor, contem- 
plated the institution of a distinct, original type of 
speculation. The Nco-lMatonists were the contiimators 
of the Platonic Academy— drifted far, it may be. from 
the ancient shores. Their distinctive purpose was to 


! conciliate Aristotle with Plato, and to harmonize with 
both the teachings of Pythagoras, and t lie asceticism 
which had Howed to Alexandria from Oriental sources. 
The energies of the teachers of the new and moditied 
doctrine would thus be not equally expended over all 
parts of any complete system, but concentrated on the 
subjects of conciliation, the exposition of those leading 
principles which furnished the means of reconcilement, 
and their development in accordance with the scheme 
of agreement. Aspasius, Alexander, and Adrastus were 
read in the school and commented upon by Plotinus to 
the last, in company with Severus. Xumenius, and other 
Platonists or Xeo- Platon ists. Thus is given a further 
explanation of both the incompleteness of the Xco-Pla- 
tonic doctrine in Plotinus, and also of the inevitable 
dilliculty of affording a clear, compact, and methodical 
exposition of that doctrine. 

Philosophy .— The definition of metaphysics by the 
schoolmen as the branch of knowledge treating of ab- 
stract being and its inodilications {be Elite, Entibus et 
Entium affect ibus ) is more applicable to the daring rev- 
eries of Plotinus than to any other scheme of specula- 
tion. For. whether we regard the term as having been 
originally invented by Theophrastus to designate in- 
quiries outside of physics and subsequent to them, or 
beyond physics and transcending them, it is almost ex- 
clusively in this din) and unbounded region that the 
reflections'and imaginations of Plotinus disport them- 
selves. With the ordinary topics of English-speaking 
philosophy he scarcely concerns himself, lie rises from 
the earth like the skylark, and rarely pours forth his 
song till he is lost from sight in the clouds, and com- 
mingles his notes with the mysterious voices of the 
upper air. The account given of his writings would 
preclude any expectation of a complete or detailed bod}” 
of doctrine. His work was fragmentary and without 
order. Death seized the reaper in the midst of his 
harvest, llis instruction must at all times have been 
brokoi and unsystematic, because it was merely tbe 
supplement and modification of opinions already cur- 
rent. He deals only with those sublimities of specula- 
tion — apices coyitabiles — which aid him in harmonizing 
the teachings of Plato, Aristotle, Parmenides, and Py- 
thagoras, in developing their conclusions into a still 
higher range of thought, and in applying this develop- 
ment to the purification of the intellect and to the pur- 
gation of the heart. It is extremely difficult to breathe 
in this rarefied atmosphere. The pilgrim of the Alpine 
Chib is oppressed and dizzied by tbe tenuity of the air 
on the heights of Mont Plane or of Ararat ; and the brain 
whirls in those extreme altitudes of speculation, where 
words become too bard and narrow for their contents, and 
language is only the symbolism of unutterable thoughts. 

Whether, then, we consider the character of the in- 
vestigations, the form in which they appear, their lim- 
itation to the highest and most insoluble problems, their 
incompleteness, or their discontinuity, it is a task of 
the greatest difficulty to present a clear, orderly, and 
coherent view of the philosophy of Plotinus. Within 
the space at command, all that can he attempted will 
be a rapid outline of his most distinctive positions, in 
what appears to be their natural dependence. 

Creuzcr condenses his summary of the Plotinian doc- 
trine into three theses: 

“ 1. There is a Supreme One whence all tilings pro- 
ceed, which cannot be litlv declared by the thought or 
name of Essence or Peing, yet is the fountain and orig- 
inal of all essences, and therefore of being ilself. 

*•2. What is One in the ultimate apprehension becomes 
twofold in Mind (Noec) and through Mind. For Mind, 
turning towards tliaL Supreme One and regarding it, 
establishes difference, generates ideas, and produces the 
commencements of definite thought. 

" 3. The Soul (of l lie world) being turned towards the 
Mind and regarding it, develops the diversity and mul- 
tiplicity of things which are discoverable in tbe sensible 
universe. The universal aggregate of things sensible 


PLOTINUS 


297 


PLOTINUS 


cannot, however, be conceived as unity, if the Supreme 
Mind be excluded, nor can it be thought of as One. 
Mind cannot form for itself the idea of the absolute One, 
without the original One and the Good ; that is, without 
the author and father of Mincl itself, and of all things; 
that is, without the Supreme” ( Prolegom . in Plotin. § 9, 
p. xxiv-xxv, ed. Paris). 

These three propositions correspond in a loose and 
indistinct way with the three principles of the intelli- 
gible universe assumed by Plotinus : the Absolute Good, 
the Supreme Intelligence, and the Soul of the Universe. 
From these three all other intelligences descend by 
gradual differentiations, and all sensible things by dis- 
tinct creation. These three constitute the Neo-Platonic 
trinity : the Good, which is the father of all, the Mind 
(N out,') or absolute Pteason (Aoyog), and the animating 
Spirit, or universal soul {Emu ii, ix, 1 ; v, i, 7 ; ii, 1 ; viii, 
12). The second and third of these principles, and all 
other things in their orderly subordination, which pos- 
sess active potencies in themselves, derive their power 
of acting and their rule of action from the contempla- 
tion and imitation of the superior essences in which 
they participate, and which they apprehend by intu- 
ition of the Divine, ever indwelling, informing, and in- 
working (ervpTra^ig Ci) Tiuv tovto to tV, Enn. iv, iv, 
32; i>qvq aviTjfifitvoQ t\) uneasy ovaloL, vi, iv, 14; ia- 
piv tKaaTog Korjfiog voijrdg, iii, iv, 3). High and chief 
over all intelligences, intelligibles, and sensibles is the 
absolute, eternal, unchanging, self-sustaining One {Enn. 
vi, ix, 3). This is the Absolute Good, and is wholly 
ineffable, being dimly apprehensible only by the purest 
and highest efforts of the most depurated intuition 
{Enn. ii, ix, 1; vi, viii, 8; ix, 3, 4; vn ip imaTi]pi]v 
Cti epaptiv). The One and the Good (which are one) 
is before and above being, and before and above mind, 
or the intelligence (v7rtpf3tj3i]Kvg ti)v tov t>ov Qvatv 
. . . to iKtKtiva vov, Kai iirtKtiva o value, Enn. v, i, 
8). That the One is above the No of is a fundamental 
doctrine with Plotinus, which he professes to deduce 
from Plato. This One and Good is the Father of 
all things, the universal God, existing in all. moving 
through all, and embracing all (iv navra tu dvra, 
Enn. vi, v, 1 ; v, ii, 1). 

This doctrine unquestionably presents the appear- 
ance of Pantheism, and approximates to it, especially 
when taken in connection with the Ecala Intelligibilis 
Ascensus ad Unum, or progress towards the incommu- 
nicable union with the Universal Good. In Proclus it 
can scarcely be distinguished from Pantheism {iv ivi 
ttcivtu icc d dpepy ijvuiTai dXXijXotg ‘ Kai tpoira ttuvtci 
Cid irdvrwv, Inst. Theolog. § clxxxvi). In Plotinus it 
is different. He carefully preserves the distinction be- 
tween the One and the Many, between the Supreme 
Good and all its immediate and derivative products. 
He does not ascribe personality to the Divine One ex- 
cept by metaphor; but he avoids attributing to the 
Divine Being either the evolution or the absorption of 
the universe, and he accords to man personality, free- 
will, and responsibility {Enn. iii, iv, 5-7). 11c distin- 

guishes between the agent in producing all things, and 
the all which is produced {Enn. iii, viii, 8, 9). But 
there is confusion in his utterances, if not contradiction ; 
though he may be credited with a more earnest anxiety 
to escape pantheistic extravagances than can be ac- 
corded to his Christian admirer, translator, and para- 
phrast, Marsilius Ficinus (q. v.). According to Plato, 
genuine knowledge is intuitive: according to Plotinus, 
it is immediate — the union of the knowing and the 
known; ami the knowledge of the Godhead is only by 
direct communion {jrapovaia, Enn. vi, ix, 47 ; iii, vi, 
18; v, v, I ; iii, 1-3; vi, 2; ix, 13). It is no wonder, 
then, that the meaning of Plotinus should be often ob- 
scure and ambiguous, and that it should be declared by 
Marsilius Ficinus to be discoverable, not by sense or 
human reason, but only by a more sublime capacity of 
intelligence ( Plotini . Opera. Exhort, ad A uditores, etc.). 
This may afford some palliation for any indistinctness 


of the present exposition. It is due to a logical neces- 
sity rather than to a theological presumption that Plo- 
tinus asserts being to be posterior to the One, for he 
attaches being inseparably to the three hypostases of 
divinity which constitutes his three principles, it is 
an attempt to develop with entire internal consistency 
the Pythagorean doctrine of numbers, and the Platonic 
thesis of the One and the Many {Enn. vi, vi, 9). The 
L num is Ens and Summum Ens — essential and primor- 
dial Being. There is no separation or division between 
them, but only a theoretical and shadowy antecedence 
and sequence — out of time, irrespective of time, and be- 
yond time. 

The second principle of Plotinus is Mind — the intel- 
ligence per se—~ the Universal Reason (None). The 
One, or the Good, projects a perpetual effulgence of it- 
self, without loss of integrity or diminution of totality 
{TrtpiXapipig avrou ) — the image of its archetype (si- 
Kuva tKtivov Xtyoptv etvai tov vovv). This yearns 
unceasingly for its original (7ro3ei ci rcav to yevvF/aav 
to yervtjSiv, Kai tovto dyaira, Kai pdX terra iirav win 
pdvoi to ytvi’Fjrrav Kai to yeycvvtjpcv or). The desire 
provokes an inclination or conversion of the offspring 
to its parent, of the similitude to its exemplar; and this 
reflection or bending back is itself the Divine Mind, 
Intelligence, Universal Reason, whence all reason and 
thought arc engendered (ry hrusrpoipy i rpig ovto 
iiopa • i) ci dpaeng avri } vovg, Enn. v, i, 6, 7). The 
Divine Mind embraces the eternal ideas which consti- 
tute the intelligible universe, and which it contem- 
plates in the One. These are not types or shadows of 
things, but archetypes and perennial truths, whence all 
things sensible derive their essential constitution, and 
the broken and imperfect truth which they contain. It 
is a second cardinal tenet of Plotinus, in which he di- 
verges from Plato, that ideas are immanent in the Di- 
vine Mind, and not extrinsic to it {Enn. v, i, 1, 2). 

From Mind issues Soul — the universal spirit — the 
soul of the universe (tpvxt)v ytvva vovg). It dwells 
in the universal reason, as the universal reason dwells 
in the One {Enn. v, i, 7). The soul turns partly to the 
Divine Mind whence it proceeds, and contemplates the 
ideas presented there. It turns partly towards the sen- 
sible universe, which it fashions after the ideas. All 
souls are not contained in the universal soul — a doctrine 
espoused by Amelius, which amounts to Pantheism. 
There is a genuine plurality and hierarchy of souls, de- 
rived from the scul of the universe, not by separation 
or division, but by deliberate and intelligent production 
{Enn. iv, ii,2; ix, 1). These three — the One, the Mind, 
the Soul — constitute the trinity of Plotinus. These 
three are one in essence, though distinct in function and 
in origin, and are all divine. From them, by the in- 
augurating potency of the first, by the presentations 
and concurrence of the second, and by the permanent 
creative energy of the third, all the order and beauty 
and variety and harmony of the universe are produced. 
But the universe is twofold : the intelligible, arche- 
typal and eternal {dirvaog ovaa <p veag, ov piovuu)', 
and that which is the image and adumbration of the 
archetype, the Sensible, factitious and transitory {ov 
yap pivu, dXAa pel i) aoparog ipvaig izacra, Enn. iv, 
iv. 5 ; vii. 8 : comp, v, i, 6 ; ix, 9). In the intelligible uni- 
verse are only incorporeal ideas. It is the ideal world. 
In the sensible universe souls are incorporated in bodies, 
and distributed through them (Enn. iii, iv, 1). The 
term souls is used by Plotinus with much greater lati- 
tude than would now be sanctioned, and is extended to 
irrational animals and plants, and even to the blind 
motions, chemical or physical, of organic and inorganic 
matter. The souls which actuate bodies descend from 
the realm of the intelligible, first to the sensible heavens, 
where they assume corporeal vesture, and thence pro- 
ceed by successive declensions to lower and lower in- 
corporations (Enn. iv, iii, 15). Yet the soul in its sepa- 
rable state retains its immortal essence and divine char- 
acter (3’etoi' ro XpFjpa aiiTijg Kai Savpaorov, Kai ruiv 


PLOTINUS 


298 


PLOTINUS 


viTtp ra xp>lfia™ <f>vaiwv, /Tun. iv, ii, 1 ; iii, 22). This 
demission of souls is not necessarily a penalty or a ret- 
ribution — not a banishment from God, as Kmpcdoelcs 
said was his case; hut it is the fulfilment of the object 
of creation, that all things might be perfect accord- 
ing to their perfectibilities, and that the sensible world 
might be the complete but inadequate reproduction of 
all things in the intelligible world (Ann. iv, viii, 1). 

These are the leading principles of the philosophy 
of l’lotinus. They arc extensions and sublimations of 
the tenets of Plato, to whom there is continually an im- 
plicit, and often an express reference (“ Platonem ipsum 
sub Plotini persona loqucntcm,” Mars. Ficiu. ml Audit.). 
In accordance with them, and with the endeavor to con- 
ciliate Platonism with Aristotclism and the elder schools, 
the several topics discussed in the Enneads are devel- 
oped with such modifications and expansions of previous 
doctrine as were deemed requisite. Continual lacuna; 
of course occur — both from the incompleteness of the 
remains and the absence of system in the procedure; 
but it is probable that most of these were designed to 
be supplied by reference to the body of the Platonic 
teachings. They may be certainly supplied in this 
manner, so far as is necessary to establish a general co- 
herence between the several positions. With the exe- 
cution of such a task we have no concern at present, our 
object being strictly limited to the exhibition of the 
distinctive characteristics of Plotinus. 

The sensible world is occupied with body; and body 
is produced by the union of ideas with matter. The 
shadowy and attenuated nature of matter in the con- 
ception of Plato and the Platonists has already been 
exhibited. Sec Platon if Philosophy. Tt is the 
ultimate subject or substratum from which all bodies 
are formed: it is so entirely divested of all properties 
and accidents, which are the means of differentiation, 
it is such a pure residuum , or caput mortnum, that it is 
designated by Plotinus liuthos , the Depth— that which 
lies so low down in the constitution of body, so remote 
from apprehension, as to be accepted as its ultimate 
foundation. It is the lowest extreme, as the One is the 
highest. It is eminently characteristic of Plotinus that 
he recognises matter in the intelligible universe (A ’/in. 
ii, iv, 1-7 ; vi, vii, 33). probably as one of the necessary 
jirimordia rerum. ISody, which is the first and sim- 
plest product from matter, is an infinite, indeterminate 
something, having three dimensions, unlimited, not tru- 
ly existent, and yet more than nothing. The One is of 
course indivisible: body is essentially divisible and mu- 
table, being patient of endless alterations and alterna- 
tions. 

The sensible universe and its component members 
in all their multiplicity and variety arc created by the 
Spirit, by the infusion of appropriate spirits, and the 
union of appropriate ideas with body, or a determinate 
portion of matter. The idea moulds its subject-matter, 
differentiates it, individualizes (or huliriduutes) it, ani- 
mates it; dwelling and moving in it, or rather itself 
inhabited by its material partner. It is here that the 
conciliation of Plato and Aristotle is most thoroughly 
attained by Plotinus, the Platonic ideas being identified 
in their plastic function with the Aristotelian forms. 
The* forms, or specific natures, descend by a regular 
concatenated series from the Iniversal Mind, which is 
the fountain of forms {Jam. v, ix, 3, 5, 8; vi, viii, 1). 
Everything, then, in the sensible world consists of the 
corporeal and the ideal, in unutterable commixture the 
union being transitory the corporeal being subject to 
endless change, the ideal being immortal and unalter- 
able in its essence. The perfection of everything con- 
sists in the completeness with which it appropriates and 
manifests the idea belonging to it. and thereby approx- 
imates in its own particular order of being to the One and 
the (rood. Everything seeks its own perfection, every- 
thing turns to its own idea; ami the original conversion 
of the first divine ellluence, Mind, towards its fountain, 
the Good, is imitated throughout every grade in the 


descending scale of existence to the last and most rudi- 
mentary exhibitions of form. There is a dull, inert 
antagonism, a sullen insubordination in matter, which 
resists the process of this perfection : not a decided ma- 
lignancy, such as is ascribed to it by Plato, but a re- 
silience which generates physical evil, as moral evil is 
produced by defect of essential goodness, and by deflec- 
tion and aberrancy from the good. The operation of 
spirit or mind upon matter, of souls in their several de- 
grees upon body, has been the stumbling-block of all 
philosophies, and was an insoluble enigma to Descartes 
and the Cartesians. Plotinus imagines a kind of pre- 
established harmony, like Leibnitz, but admits, also, a 
divine and concurrent grace (7rpoaipt<ni£ awtpyov£ 
... 6 caipiov trvvtpyug tig tt Ai/piooiv avriov . . . ~d 
rtv/i—Frtui’Tii race Tiuvrm£ avciyKiiiov rt)v “ArpoTrov 
irrd'/ftv, Jam. ii, iii, 15; iv, iii, 13; iv, 3, 9). All this 
is only Platonism developed; but the development is 
pressed to originality when Plotinus retraces the process 
of being, and ascends from the lowest forms to the source 
of all form, the One, Great, Good, which is all in all. 

All derivative being turns to the superior being 
whence it proceeds, and to the inferior being which 
proceeds from it, by a constant and loving libration 
that directs its attention both to the exemplar above 
and to the product of imitation below, lienee results 
the best of worlds possible (Ann. ii, iii, 18; ii, ix, 8; iii, 
ii, 1-3), not pure from blemishes and blurs, in conse- 
quence of the inevitable contamination and pejoration 
through conjunction with matter, and the limitations 
occasioned by material restraint, but ever involving the 
ideas proceeding from the divine intelligence, and ever 
seeking, with a multitudinous concord of aspirations, 
to attain the primordial perfection of the appropriate 
ideas, in the whole and in the parts; and thus to return 
to that communion and union with the One, the Good, 
and the true or real, from whence they have descended. 
The perfection of every nature, which every nature un- 
depraved desires, is this assimilation to the divine. In 
lesthetics and in the works of art, this gives us the in- 
terpretation of beauty and of the beautiful; in life and 
conduct it explains and prescribes virtue and holiness 
and sanctification. 

The essence of the doctrine of Plotinus is contained 
and charmingly displayed in his theory of beauty (Jam. 
i. vi), and might be reproduced in its chief lines from it. 
A sagacious and just instinct has often led to the pub- 
lication of this treatise by itself: for it is not only the 
most satisfactory and complete appreciation of the beau- 
tiful, it is also a miniature of the philosophy of Ploti- 
nus; and his theory of beauty is the counterpart and 
complement of his theory of righteousness ( Jinn. iii. v. 
1). Of course, only the briefest abstract of this part of 
his speculations can be offered here. The simplest and 
most elementary form of beauty is the beauty of colors, 
sounds, forms; but the same principles are involved in 
every species of beauty. The sense of beauty arises 
from the joyous recognition in objects of sense of the 
perfections of the idea embodied in them (ro Ct xdAXof 
ti’pop<}>((t ri£ iv rvTTotr, Jam. iv, vii. 8; i, vi, 1). It is 
an immediate and instinctive perception, which discerns 
in the excellence of the form (the Aristotelian form is 
nearly equivalent to idea, and signifies essential char- 
acter. not outward shape), the presence, the perfection, 
and the participation of the divine reason and purpose 
in the creation; for the eternal is kindred with the 
beautiful (ro eiiciov ai'yyndg rtp KriAtii. Jam. v. iii, 1). 
The form, the idea, the design of God. revealed to the 
dear intelligence and quickened affection, constitutes 
beauty, both as producing cause and as produced emo- 
tion. Corporeal beauties, or things beautiful to sense, 
are only veils, shadows, spectral images of real beauty, 
and derive their power of communicating delight from 
the intellectual or trausmundane beauty which they ob- 
scure even more than they display (Jam. i. vi, 3,5). In- 
tellectual beauty, or beauty in the intelligible world, is 
the pure etlluencc of God (Ann. iii, viii, 10; v, 1); the 


PLOTINUS 


209 


perfect, beneficent plan of the good, accordant with the 
absolute excellence of the Divine Being (?) kciWovi) 
heti votjtov dyaSov <pvmg, Enn. vi, vii. 33). As the 
whole energies of the soul are directed towards the 
good for which it was constituted (Enn. i, vii, 1 ; Prod. 
Inst. Theolog. § ccix), its eager appetencies are instinc- 
tively excited by every manifestation of the good. The 
sense of beauty becomes both purified and intensified 
as the intelligent and sympathetic soul ascends nearer 
to the thought of the divine mind, and to the vision of 
the excellences and glories of the Divine (Enn. i, vi, G). 
Thence all ideas proceed: thither all forms aspire; and 
“the power of beauty is the bloom of the universal 
beauty, which creates all beauty, generating it, and 
making it more beautiful from the redundance of the 
beauty in the Divine, which is the beginning and the 
end of all beauty” (Enn. vi, vii, 32). The whole nature 
of beauty, therefore, consists in the immediate and lov- 
ing apprehension of the goodness and wisdom and ex- 
cellence of the Creator, as imperfectly shown in the in- 
complete perfections of parts of the creation. Whence 
is this faculty of recognition derived? It comes from 
the yearning of all spirit for the beautiful and the good 
and the divine. It is sustained, elevated, and illumined 
by the influx of the beautiful — by the epiphany in the 
soul of the splendors and loveliness of God. As the eye 
sees the sun by the light which proceeds from it, so the 
soul recognises goodness by the goodness which God 
gives, and beauty by the apt sense and sensibility which 
are communicated from the source of all beauty — the 
beautiful in itself (<j>ibg dpet <p£jq 6 pci, ov cV dWov, Enn. 
v, iii, G, et Mars. Ficin. ad loe. v, v, 7). Thus all things 
arc suspended from the Divine, and are filled with di- 
vinity (irdvra itqTTTai tui v Seiov. Mtora TtdvTa 
Srtwi', Procl. Inst. Theolog. § cxlv, cxlvi). 

This explanation may appear vague and visionary; 
but the philosophy of Plotinus can find no other mode 
of expression for its transcendental reveries. It is, how- 
ever, no more indistinct than the language of more pro- 
saic intellects in regard to the like subjects. It accords 
with the declarations of Avicenna and Averroes, of 
Duns Scotus and S. Thomas Aquinas, of Leibnitz and 
of Coleridge (Scot. In Sentent. ii. xi. i, tom. vi, ps. ii, p. 
052-5 ; S. Thom. Aquin. Snmni. Theolog. i, Ixxxix; i, 
iii; lxxix, iv; Ixxxiv, v; Leibn. Trine. Philos, ad Tr. 
Eugen. § 42; Coleridge, A ids to Reflection , p. 242, 2G4, 
note). 

Beauty thus connects itself immediately with the 
search after the first or supreme Good (Enn. ii, ix, 8); 
and in its grades of ascension is a sure progress towards 
its apprehension. “ Since all things are beautiful, and 
in some sort full of delight, all creatures of this sensible 
world lead the wise and contemplative mind to the 
Eternal God : they are the shadows, the echoes, and the 
pictures; the traces, the images, and the visions of 
that effectuating, exemplifying, and ordaining Artist” 
(S. Bonaventura, I tin. Mentis ad Deum, c. vii; comp. 
Bog. Bacon, Opus Tertium. c. lxiv, p. 2GG). 

“Ipse vocat nostros animos nd sidera mundus” 

(Alanilii Astronom. iv, 912). 

Ugliness is defect of the idea and its inadequate re- 
alization. It corresponds to physical and moral evil, 
and indicates a falling away (— ringa rgg if/vxijg) from 
the goodness which was designed in the creation (Enn. 

1, vi, 8, 9; viii, 14). The perfection of every nature is 
this re-assimilation to the divine. In the expressions 
of Plotinus with regard to human souls and man’s du- 
ties there are frequent echoes of the contemporaneous 
Christianity which he opposed— exquisite utterances of 
religious fervor, in which Platonism seems to lose itself 
in the beauties of the new religion (Enn. vi, ix ; iii, ii, 

2, 5: iv, G; v, 1, 2; iii, 8, etc.). The highest aim of 
the spirit is access or reunion to God, which can be ac- 
complished only through the constant intervention and 
co-operation of the Divinity ((Twoi'Cato^: avrepyovura 
tamp run datgova tywi’, Enn. iv, iv. G ; comp. 1 Thess. 
ii, 13; Eph. ii, 18; Bom. viii, 11, 16). For it is “God 


PLOUCQUET 

which worketh in you both to will and to do of his 
good pleasure” (Phil, ii, 13). All things from the high- 
est to the lowest turn by native constitution to the 
more excellent nature whence they are derived, and 
the love within their soul seeks union with their orig- 
inal above. This universal conversion, permeating all 
things, binds the whole universe in an attitude of af- 
fectionate regard to the One and the Supreme Good, 
which is the Creator and the desire of all (Procl. Inst. 
Theolog. § lvii). In the lover of all righteousness, in 
man spiritualized and filled with the desire of holiness, 
it becomes ecstatic elevation and intimate communion 
with the Spirit of the Divine. “ We arc not cut off, or 
separated from God. We breathe the One, whose breath 
is our life, and we are preserved. This support is not 
giveu at one moment, and withdrawn at another, but is 
ever present for our guidance. Nay, more, we incline 
to the Good, and to the happiness above. There the 
soul is at rest and beyond ill, ascending to our true 
country, to the place which is pure of all evils. For 
the soul filled with God produces beauty and righteous- 
ness and virtue. God is its beginning and its end — its 
beginning, because it descends from him; its end, be- 
cause he is the Good to which it aspires. There is the 
heavenly Love, and every soul is love. The soul, in its 
pure nature, is possessed with the love of God, and 
longs for union with him, as a virgin nurses the love 
of the beautiful for the beautiful. Thus the life of 
good and godly and happy men is a transport from 
the things of earth — a life uncharmed by things below 
— the flight of the single and solitary soul to the only 
One" (Enn. vi, ix, 9, 1 1). 

For such sublimities of enthusiasm no language will 
suffice but the rapt Greek of Plotinus or the fervid 
Latin of Marsilius Ficinus, and even these faint and fail 
beneath the divine burden of the thought. 

Literature. — See the references under the art. Neo- 
Platonism, and add : Plotini Platonicorum Coryphaei, 
Opera quee exstunt omnia. Per celeberrimum ilium Mar- 
silium Eicinum, Elorent. Ex antiquissimis Codicibus 
Latine trnmlata et eruditissimis Commentariis illustra- 
ta, etc., Basileae, Impensis Ludovici Bcgis (1615, fol.); 
Plotini Opera Omnia (ed. Ivreuzer, Oxon. 1835, 3 vols. 
8vo) ; Plotini Emieades (ed. Creuzer and Moser, Tar. 
1855, 1 vol. Svo) ; Porphyrins, Plotini Vita; Taylor, 
Thomas, “The Platonist,” Select TFo?U? of Plotinus 
(London, 1817, Svo); Cousin, (Eurres de Plotin (Par.); 
Steinhart, apud Pauly, Real-EncgHop. v, ii ; Kirchner, 
Die Philosophic des Plotinus (Halle, 1854) ; Valentiner, 
Plotin und seine Enneaden (18G4) ; Biehter, A eu-pluto- 
nische Studicn (Hallo, 18G4-7) ; Ncander, Christian Dog- 
mas; Baur, Dreieinigkeitslehre , ii, 207 sq. ; Nourisson, 
Pensees Ilumaines, p. 134 sq. ; Lecky, Rationalism, i, 
240 ; Westminster Rev. 18G8, Oct. p. 24(3. (G. F. H.) 

Ploucquet, Gottfiued, a German philosopher, 
was born Aug. 25, 171G, at Stuttgard. lie came from a 
Protestant family of French origin; his father was an 
innkeeper. While he was studying at Tubingen, he 
was so strongly impressed by Wolf’s writings that, 
without giving up theology altogether, he gave special 
attention to the study of philosophy and mathematics. 
This twofold tendency strikingly appears in the theses 
which he defended in 1740 (Diss. qua Cl. Yarignonii 
demonstratio geometrica 2 >ossibilitatis transubstantionis 
enervaiur), and in which he endeavored to reconcile 
Wolf’s doctrines with the teachings of the Christian 
faith. After discharging in different places the du- 
ties of a minister and tutor, he was appointed in 174G 
deacon at Freudenstadt. Ilis memoir on the monads 
(Primaria Monadologiee capita [Berlin, 174S, 4toj) 
opened to him in 1749 the Academy of Sciences of 
Berlin, and directed to him the attention of the duke of 
Wiirtcmberg, by whose protection he obtained, in 1750, 
the professorship of logic and metaphysics at Tubingen, 
lie taught political economy at the same university, and 
was, in 1778, called to Stuttgard to teach this branch 
at the military school. Ilis faculties having given way 


PLOUGH 


300 


PLOUGHMAN 


in consequence of a stroke of apoplexy, in 1782 he 
was compelled to abandon teaching. Ploucquet was an 
honest and open character, and he was gifted by nature 
with a clear and methodical mind. ‘‘A champion of 
spiritualism,” says Mr. Haag, "lie combated, with a 
degree of penetration equalled only by bis erudition, 
the materialistic doctrines proclaimed by the philoso- 
phers of the 18th century, and feared not even to enter 
into contest with Kant. Then, ascending the stream 
of the centuries, he submitted to strict analysis the sys- 
tems of ancient philosophy, which he tried to build anew 
in historical essays, worthy even now of our attention.” 
I’loucqnet died at Stuttgard .Sept. 13, 1790. lie left a 
number of works, mostly published at Tubingen, and 
written with great purity, but rather exaggerated con- 
cision. The following are the most important : JJe wa~ 
teriuliiimo (1750, 4to) : — J’rincipia de sit but ant its et phe- 
nomenis (Frankfort, 1758, 8vo) : — Be I'grrhonis epocha 
(1758, 4 to) : — Fiaidamcnta philosophic speculative (7th 
ed. 1759, 8vo); it is an exposition of Leibnitz’s system : 
— Be doymatibus Thaletis et Anaxagors (17G3, lto) : — 
Methoelus ealetdandi in loyicis (1703, 8vo). In this 
work lie represents the syllogisms by geometrical fig- 
ures and mathematical formulas; these methods, hinted 
at by Leibnitz, engaged him in discussions with Lam- 
bert and other s: — Probkmata de natura hominis ante et 
post mortem (1 7liG, lto) : — Just it ut tones philosopher theo- 
retics (1772, 1782, 8vo) : — Element a philosophic contem- 
plative, sire de scientia ratiocinandi (Stuttgard, 1773, 
4 to) : — Commentationes philosophic selections (Ptrecht, 
1781, 4to) : — Varite, qiuestiones metaphysics (1782, 4to). 
— Iloefer, Xour. Bing. Generate, xl, 494. 

Plough {char ash', •“71, to plough ; whence mucha- 
reshah', 3j";, and macharesheth, r»“n‘'S, 1 Sam. 
xiii, 20; two instruments used in agriculture. One 
of those is perhaps the ploughshare, the other the coul- 
ter. See also Lai:). Egypt, from the earliest times, 
has laid claim to the honor of the invention of this im- 
portant implement, and as it was undoubtedly one of the 
first countries brought under culture by the hand of man 
after the flood, the claim may be well founded. Agri- 
culture was also early practiced among the Hebrews, 
and, from their agreement in so many other matters, it 
is likely that the implements of the two nations were 
very nearly the same. The ancient Egyptian plough 
was entirely of wood, and of very simple form, like that 



still used in Egypt. It consisted of a share, two han- 
dles, and the pole or beam, which last was inserted into 
the lower end of the stilt, or the base of the handles, 
and was strengthened by a rope connecting it with 
the heel. It had no coulter, nor were wheels applied 
to any Egyptian plough ; but it is probable that the 


point was shod with a metal sock either of bronze or 
iron. It was drawn by two oxen, and the ploughman 
guided and drove them with a long goad, without the 
assistance of reins, which are used by the modern Egyp- 
tians. He was sometimes accompanied by another 
man, who drove the animals, while he managed the two 
handles of the plough; and sometimes the w r hip was 
substituted for the more usual goad. The mode of 
yoking the beasts was exceedingly simple. Across the 
extremity of the pole a wooden yoke or cross-bar, about 
fifty-five inches or five feet in length, was fastened by 
a strap, lashed backwards and forwards over a promi- 
nence projecting from the centre of the yoke, which 
corresiionded to a similar peg or knob at the end of the 
pole; and occasionally, in addition to these, was a ring 
passing over them, as in some Greek chariots. At ei- 
ther end of the yoke was a flat or slightly concave pro- 
jection, of semicircular form, which rested on a pad 
placed upon the withers of the animal ; and through 
a hole on either side of it passed a thong for suspend- 
ing the shoulder-pieces, which formed the collar. These 
were two wooden bars, forked at about half their length, 
padded so as to protect the shoulder from friction, and 
connected at the lower end by a strong broad band 
passing under the throat. See Yokk. Sometimes the 
draught, instead of being from the shoulder, was from 
the head, the yoke being tied to the base of the horns; 
and in religious ceremonies oxen frequently drew the 
bier, or the sacred shrine, by a rope fastened to the up- 
per part of the horns, without either yoke or pole (Wil- 
kinson, .1 uc. Egypt, ii, 14 sq.). According to modern 
travellers the plough now used in Palestine differs in 
some respects from the ancient implement above de- 
scribed. It is lightly built, with the least possible skill 
or expense, consisting of two poles, which cross each 
other near the ground. That nearest the oxen is fas- 
tened to the yoke, while the other serves, the one end 
as the handle, the other as the ploughshare. It is 
drawn by oxen, camels, cows, or heifers (Hackett, Script. 
Jllust. p. 153 sq. ; Thomson, Land and Book, i, 207 sq.). 
In Asia Minor substantially the same custom and im- 
plements prevail (Van Lennep, Bible Lands, p. 75 sq.). 
See AGiuccLTunE. 



Plough of Asia Minor. 

a is (he pole lo which the cross-beam wilh yokes, b, is attached ; c. rhe 
share ; rf, the handle ; e represent* three modes of arminc the share ; 
and/ is a pond wilh a scraper at the other end, probably for cleatis- 
inp the share. 

Ploughman ikkdr, Tsa. Ixi, 5, which signifies 
not only a ploughman, but a husbandman in general'). 
Among the Hebrews, the rich and the noble, it is true, in 
the cultivation of the soil did not always put themselves 
on a level with their servants; but none, however rich 
or noble or prophetically favored, disdained to put their 
band to the plough, or otherwise to join occasionally 



PLOUGHMAN’S COMPLAINT 301 


PLURALIST 


in the labors of agriculture (1 Sara, xi, 7 ; 1 Kings xix, 
19; comp. 2 Chron. xxvi, 10). • See Agriculture. 

Ploughman’s Complaint, The, a remarkable 
anonymous work, published in England in the year 
1352, which severely condemned the practices of po- 
pery, especially auricular confession, the celibacy and 
selfishness of the priests, the rapacity of the friars, the 
covetousness and negligence of the popes, etc. It was 
one among many means which opened the eyes of 
the people to the iniquity of the system, and prepared 
the way for the glorious Reformation. 

Plough-Monday, the first Monday after twelftli- 
dav ; so called from a diversion called fool-plough, which 
was formerly in use on Ash-Wednesday, but afterwards 
transferred to this day. Old ploughs are preserved in 
the belfries of Bassingbourne and Barrington. Plough 
alms were one penny paid for every plough harnessed 
between Easter and Pentecost in 878, and in 960 paya- 
ble on the fifteenth night after Easter. 

Ploughshare (PX, eth, Isa. ii, 4). The plough- 
share is a piece of iron, broad but not large, which tips 
the end of the shaft. So much does it resemble the 
short sword used b3 T the ancient warriors that it may 
with very little trouble be converted into that deadly 
weapon, and when the work of destruction is over, re- 
duced again into its former shape, and applied to the 
purposes of agriculture. In allusion to the first opera- 
tion, the prophet Joel summons the nations to leave 
their peaceful employments in the cultivated field, and 
buckle on their armor: “Beat your ploughshares into 
swords, and your pruning-hooks into spears” (Joel iii, 
10). This image the prophet Isaiah has reversed, and 
then applied to the establishment of that profound and 
lasting peace which is to bless the Church of Christ in 
the latter days: “And they shall beat their swords 
into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks; 
nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither 
shall they learn war any more.” See Plough. 

Plowden, Charles, an English Roman Catholic 
divine'who belonged to the Order of Jesuits, was born in 
1743, and educated at Rome, where he entered into the 
society in 1759. On his return to his own country, af- 
ter the suppression of his order in 1773, he was one of 
the most zealous advocates for the proposed reorganiza- 
tion of the Jesuits in England. He afterwards became 
president of the Catholic college of Stonyhurst, in Lan- 
cashire, and died in 1821. llis publications are against 
Butler and Berington. and for the restoration of the 
Jesuits (1792, 8vo; 1796, 8vo). Also, Remarks on the 
Memoirs of G. Panzani (Liege, 1794, 8vo) Consider- 
ations of the Modern Opinions of the Fallibilitu of the 
Pope (1776, 8vo). 

An older brother of his, Dr. Francis Plowden, a 
noted member of the English Chancery Bar, is the au- 
thor of Jura Anglorum, the Rights of Englishmen (1792, 
8vo), and Church and State (1795, 4to), which both 
plead for Roman Catholic recognition by the English 
government, and became the subject of much contro- 
versv. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer . A utliors, 
ii, 1609,1610. (J.H.W.) 

Fliiche, Noel- Antoine, a French scientist of 
note, was born in 1688. He flourished at one time as 
abbot of Valence de St. Maur. He was also a professor 
of rhetoric at Rheims, and is distinguished as a natural- 
ist and man of letters, and also for his opposition to the 
bull “ Unigenitus.” He is the author of Spectacle de la 
Nature (9 vols.) : — Hist, du del (2 vols.) : — La Meca- 
nique des Langues ; and some lesser works, among which 
is a Harmony of the Psalms and the Gospels (12mo). 
He died in 1761. 

Plumb-line (qJX, anak, a plummet ) or Plum- 
met (rb~7.*^, mishkeleth, Isa. xxviii, 17, or rVp'.T'S, 
mishkdleih, a weight). Amos says (vii, 7), “ Behold, the 
Lord stood upon a wall, made by a plumb-line, with a 
plumb-line in his hand;” and in the tbreatenings de- 


nounced against Jerusalem for the idolatries of Manas- 
seh, we read, “ I will stretch over Jerusalem the line 
of Samaria, and the plummet of the house of Ahab” 
(2 Kings xxi, 13). In Zech. iv, 10, the original term 
for the plumb-bob is jllX, eben bedil , stone of tin. 

The use of the plumb-line in the measurement of su- 
perficial areas was early known to the Egyptians, and 
is ascribed to their king Menes. See Handicraft. 

Plumptre, James, an Anglican divine of note, was 
born in 1770, and was educated at Clare Hall, Cam- 
bridge, of which he afterwards became a fellow. After 
taking holy orders, he became in 1793 vicar of Great 
Gransdon, Huntingdonshire. He died in 1832. He is 
best known as a miscellaneous writer. Among his pub- 
lications (of which there is a list in Allibone) we notice, 
Three Discourses on the Animal Creation (1816, 8vo) : — 
Popular Commentary on the Bible : — Sermons, vol. i and 
ii (1821, 1827, 8vo), which are pronounced practical and 
useful by Bickerstetli (in his Christian Student ). 

Plunket, Oliver, an Irish Roman Catholic prel- 
ate, was born in 1629 at the castle of Rathmore. county of 
Meath, of a good Irish family. lie completed his stud- 
ies at Rome, was a professor of theology in that city, 
and finally elevated to the twofold dignity of archbishop 
of Armagh and primate of Ireland (1669). llis zeal 
having aroused against him the suspicions of the Prot- 
estants, he fell a victim to the violent reaction of Tory- 
ism which took place in 1681. Accused of conspiracy 
against the court, he was arrested, carried to London, 
and sentenced to death by a fanatical jury. In vain 
four successive governors of Ireland testified to his loy- 
alty; the court did not even await the arrival of his 
witnesses, and his means of defence could be produced 
in London only three days after his execution, which 
took place Juh r 1, 1681, at Tyburn. He left a Collection 
of Episcopal Circulars and Pastoral Letters (Lond. 
1686, 2 vols. 4to). See Bp. Burnet, llist. of his Own 
Times, ii, 279. (J.1LW.) 

Plunket, Thomas, D.D., a noted Presbyterian 
Irish divine, flourished at Enniskillen in the second 
half of the 18th century. Having some scruples as to 
the received doctrine of the Trinity, he removed to 
Dublin, where he became minister of the Strand Street 
chapel, lie died about 1780. His son was the noted 
Irisli lord William Conyngham Plunket, and his grand- 
son bishop Thomas Span Plunket. 

Plunket, Thomas Span, an Irish lord and 
prelate, was a son of William Conyngham Plunket, 
the great Irish chancellor, and was born in 1792. He 
was educated at Trinity College, Dublin, ami, after hav- 
ing held various preferments, was appointed dean of 
Down in 1831, and eight years later was raised to the 
bishopric of Tuam. He was consecrated at Christ 
Church, Dublin, bv the archbishop of Dublin, assisted 
by the bishops of Derry and Cashel; was appointed ec- 
clesiastical commissioner in 1851, succeeded his father 
as second baron Plunket in 1853, and was patron of 
ninety-five livings in his united dioceses of Tuam, Kil- 
lala, and Achourv. According to Charles’s Church Di- 
rectory, the gross value of the see is £5265, and the net 
value £4039. He did not confine his attention and care 
| to the members of the Church of England in his dio- 
cese, but he threw himself into the missionary work 
among the Roman Catholics with remarkable zeal and 
energy. No opposition (and he had much to encounter) 
could daunt or obstacles deter him, and to his exertions 
are due, in no small degree, those tangible and indispu- 
, table results, in the shape of new churches, schools, and 
I congregations of converts, which remain a memorial of 
his piety and zeal. He died at Tourenakeady, Galway, 
Oct. 19, 1866. See Appleton’s Annual Cyclop, x i, 600; 
Ch. Journal, vol. xi ; Men of the Times , s. v. { J. II. W.) 

Pluralism. See Pluralities. 

Pluralist is one that holds more than one ecclesi- 
astical benefice with cure of souls. See Pluralities, 


302 


PLUTAIiCII 


PLURALITIES 


Pluralities is a term used in canon law for the 
possession by one person of two or more ecclesiastical 
office*, win tiier of dignity or emolument. This practice, 
it it lie! 1 by Noii-Lpi-copnliaiis. was generally forbidden 
in the early ( bur. b, and lin y <|u- te lor their authority 
the instruct!*. n* nl the apo«tl' l'anl (1 itus i, 5). Uthers 
con ten 1 1 veil that, i usual of a plurality of churches to 
.me piM >r, v\ • < tight to have a plurality of pastors to 
■ •ne i nir h \> s \iv. 23 . Episcopalians contend there 
is n < i ii| r« • i ■ ■ i> tv in a presbyter holding more than one 
er* 1* Mast i al In notice. A bishop could not hold two 
ili.«‘» »es a | r< shy ter. however, officiate in more 

than one parochial church, but not in two dioceses. In 
the Church of Kurland pluralities originated in the 
poorness of many of the livings. Originally a clergy- 
man might hold two or more livings if under the nom- 
inal value of £8. The distance between them was lixed 
by the canon law as not to be greater than thirty miles, 
but custom now tolerates forty-live. Two thousand par- 
ishes, it is said, want in this way a resident pastor, By 
t hose who thus evade the Canon, it is held that (lie 
prohibition is not absolute, and admits of possible ex- 
ception, the natural ground of the prohibition being the 
im|M»s*ihility, in ordinary ca*os, of the same individual 
adequately discharging the duties of more than one of- 
fice, and that therefore, in cases in which this impossi- 
bility does not exist, the union of two or more offices 
in the hands of one person might, speaking absolutely, 
be permitted without infringing the divine law. Ilencc 
canonists distinguish between "compatible" and “in- 
compatible benelices or dignities. Two beneliees may 
be incompatible in three ways: 1. If each requires res- 
idence ratvme rtsi hutix ; 2. if the duties of both fall 
to Im- discharg'd at one and the same time (rations ser- 
ri/ii . 3, if the revenue of cither fully suffices for the 
bcciiiiinig maintenance of the incumbent (ruti»ne si/s- 
tent atom is In other cases, lieuetices or dignities are 
considered compatible, and with the due dispensation 
may be held by the same person. The rules by which 
dispensations from the law of residence arc to be regu- 
lated, as well ns the penalties for its violation, whether 
on the part of the patron or mi that of the recipient, 
have formed the subject of frequent legislation, as in 
the third and the fourth councils of the Lateral], in the 
decretals of litm»-ciit 111 and many other popes, and es- 
pecially in those of the t 'oimcil of Trent. In general, it 
may be sni 1 that the canon law regards as incompatible, 
1. two benelices, eafb having the cure of souls; 2. two 
“ dignities 3, a “dignity" and a cure of souls; 4, a 
cure of souls and a simple beuelice requiring residence. 
In other cases (linn these, the pope is held to have the 
power of dispensing. There is no department of disci- 
pline, however, in whi< h the tendency to relaxation has 
been greattr or more persistent ; and one of the gravest 
of the abuses of the Church was the prevalence of plu- 
rali ni of incompatible benelices, even of bishoprics; and 
although a constant effort was made to prevent this 
nb-. e, l lie o\asuuis of the law were not only frequent, 
but i vi n s ■ room'd from punishment, llv l.t and M Vic- 
toria. i. hs, it is pr.nided that no incumbent of a beno- 
li i ifiM take mid bold (iigctlnr with it another hciie- 
ti e, U«le s the churches are within three miles of one 
aimllu r bv the nmn st r..a«|, and Hip animal value of 
one ..I i i m do#* i nt rxcci-d 4'llHI, Nor ran two heue- 
tices I « * In l logo In r if the population of one exceeds 
a "d Ilia! I I the oilier exceeds 'iUil. The word 
bciii t i •- , in ibis si use, includes any perpetual enraev, 
nuliwi 1 j ill n » bapd, parochial chapelry, or district 
cba|M Irv. Hut a .li-qx n*a( t< ut or license can Ik- obtained 
from tin ar. lilndmp. Hl t .» allow two benelices to be 
held I'lg'ibcr; and if tin- archbishop refuse his license, 
the party may appeal to the Privy Council. A special 
pmvisi m is also contained in the statute wherehv the 
head ruler ■ f any rulltyo or hall m the universities of 
Oxford or ( ambridge, or warden of Durham l uiver-i 
sity. is prohibit! d from taking any cathedral prefer- 
ment, or any other benetice. If any spiritual person , 


holding a benefice shall accept another benefice contrary 
to the statute, the first benefice shall ipso facto become 
void. At the same time provision is made by statutes 
for uniting benelices where the aggregate population 
does not exceed loon, and the aggregate yearly value 
does not exceed .£*5b<>. In Ireland, no faculty or dispen- 
sation can be granted to any spiritual person to hold 
two or more benelices. In Seotiana, before the Bcfor- 
mation, pluralities were also common. Abbacies and 
priories were likewise often bestowed in commendam. 
See Co.w.wKNiMM. the twenty abbots that sat in 
the Parliament which decreed the Deformation, fourteen 
were eommendators. Thus speaks the Second Book of 
Discipline: “ Mrikle less is it law full that onv person 
amaug these men soulil have fvve, sax, ten, or twenty 
kirks, or mac, all having the charge of smiles: and bruik 
the patrimonie thairof. either he admission of the prince 
or of the kirk, in this liclit of the cvangell; lor it is but 
mockage to crave reformation where sic lyke hospice.” 
'The question of pluralities in the Church of Scotland was 
raised in 1779, renewed in 1813, ami the (lateral Assem- 
bly decided against them in 1814 by an act which, how- 
ever, was repealed in 181f>. In 1817 it was enacted that 
no professor could hold a parish unless it was near the 
seat of the university. The question was again raised 
and keenly debated in 1824 — to wit, the holding of a chair 
in a college and of a parochial charge at the same time. 
The university commission soon after disapproved of 
the practice, but not the General Assembly of that pe- 
riod. The tenure of many benefices by one person was 
finally abolished in the Church of England hv 1 and 2 
Victoria, c. Kid. In the Roman Catholic Church this 
practice has been forbidden from a very early period in 
its history, as by the councils of Chalcedon (A.D. 451) 
ami that of Nice (A.D. 7*7), and is still prohibited both 
by the Roman Catholic canon law and by statute law 
in the Established Church of England. But the pro- 
hibition is evaded in various ways: and in all estab- 
lished churches pluralism, in one form or another, is not 
uuc-iimmon. See Chambers's Kncycl. s. v. ; Hammond, 
Canons of the Ch. p. 10j sq. ; Eailie, Cedes. Cycl. s. v. 

Pl'dschke, Johan:: G., an eminent German Ori- 
ental scholar, was born Aug. 20, 178(1, at Eulmstock, 
near Scliweidnitz, in Silesia. He studied theology and 
philology, and for a number of years held the professor- 
ship of philology at Leipsic, In 1818 lie was called as 
doctor and professor ordinarins of theology to Am- 
sterdam, to lake the presidency of the Lutheran semi- 
nary at Amsterdam, and died between 1837 and 1810. 
1’lilsclike wrote, De radicum linyiue Ihbraicie natura , 
c«mm. yrammatica (Leips. 18] 7 ) : — De Psalterii Syriaci 
M> dodaneusis a Cajitano Bngato editi peculiar i indole 
(jnsdf myue usn critico in ememlando textu Psalterii 
tinrci si pt. inti rpretuni (Bonn, 1835 ) -.—Lectioms . I lex- 
andriurr et Jhbraicir, sire de emendando tixtu Veteris 
Tistammti Cried L A' A’ interpret nm et inde Hebraico 
( ibid. 1*37): De emtmhmdo Pentatencho tlra-co LX X 
inf’ rpntnm < t inde Hi braico addito codd. JJoluesianoruin 
ricinsinm it tixtus C rod tlenuo castiyati sped mine (ibid. 
l*'3i . See 1- first. Bibl. .Did, iii, 107; Steiusclmeidor, 
Bibliuyr, Hamlb. p. 1 1 1 ; Winer, J Jam lb. tier theolog. Lit. 
p. . ii , 121, 711; Thiersch, De Pintateuchi rersione Alex- 
andrian, p. 23; Zneholil, Bibl. Thudnyica, ii, 1001 sq. 
(15. 1 M 

Plutarch, nil eminent Greek philosopher, noted also 
ns a biographical ami miscellaneous writer, deserves a 
place here for the moral tendency of all his writings, 
and the vast iiithience he has exerted in modern as well 
as ancient times. Indeed, all that we know of him, 
which is principally gleaned from his own and others’ 
writings, places him in a high rank as measured liy the 
ethics of society in his time, and sets forth the moral- 
ity of certain portions of that society itself during the 
first century of our a-ra. and among so-called heathens, 
in a light of no doubtful brilliancy. Many things he 
wrote might have been written by the most ardent dis- 


PLUTARCH 


303 


PLUTARCH 


ciple of the new creed, and much of his belief was more 
strictly in accordance with the teachings of the apos- 
tles than are the dogmas of other writers of those days 
who call themselves Christians. Yet, in taking his 
works as our guide, we find that Plutarch had no 
knowledge of the great innovation amid which he 
lived, and which was disturbing the West and the East 
alike; or if he had a knowledge of it, he regarded it 
merely as a passing piece of Judaic sectarianism un- 
worthy of his notice. 

Life. — Plutarch, who lived from the reign of Claudius 
to that of Hadrian, was born at Chteronea, a small city 
of Boeotia in Greece, which had also been the birth- 
place of Pindar. Plutarch’s family was ancient in 
Chanronea: his grandfather, Lamprias, was a man em- 
inent for his learning and as a philosopher, and is often 
mentioned by Plutarch in his writings, as is also his own 
father. The time of Plutarch’s birth is not known. 
He was early initiated in study, to which he was natu- 
rally inclined, and was placed under Ammonias. an 
Egyptian, who, having taught philosophy with reputa- 
tion at Alexandria, thence travelled into Greece, and 
settled at Athens. Under this master he made great 
advances in knowledge; and like a thorough philoso- 
pher, more apt to regard things than words, he pursued 
this knowledge to the neglect of languages. The Latin 
language, at that time, was not only the language of 
Rome, but of Greece also. Yet he became not conver- 
sant with it until the decline of life; and though he is 
supposed to have resided in Pome at different times, 
yet he never seems to have acquired a competent skill 
in it at all. lie is reputed to have visited Egypt, which 
was at that time, as formerly it had been, famous for 
learning; and probably the mysteriousness of their 
doctrine might tempt him, as it had tempted Pythag- 
oras and others, to go and converse with the priesthood 
of that country. On his return to Greece he visited 
the various academies and schools of the philosophers, 
and gathered from them many of those observations 
with which he has abundantly enriched posterity. He 
does not seem to have been attached to any particular 
sect, but culled from each of them whatever he thought 
excellent and worthy to be regarded. He could not 
bear the paradoxes of the Stoics, and yet was more 
averse to the impiety of the Epicureans; in many 
things he followed Aristotle; but his favorites were 
Socrates and Plato, whose memory he reverenced so 
highly that he annually celebrated their birthdays 
with much solemnity. Besides this, he applied him- 
self with extreme diligence to collect, not only all books 
that were excellent in their kind, but also all the say- 
ings and observations of wise men, which he had heard 
in conversation, or had received from others by tradi- 
tion ; and likewise to consult the records and public 
instruments preserved in cities which he had visited 
in his travels. He took a particular journey to Sparta, 
to search the archives of that famous commonwealth, 
to understand thoroughly the model of their ancient 
government, the history of their legislators, their kings, 
and their epliori; and digested all their memorable 
deeds and sayings with so much care that he has not 
omitted even those of their women. He took the same 
methods with regard to many other commonwealths ; 
and thus was enabled to leave us in his works such a 
rich cabinet of observations upon men and manners, as, 
in the opinion of some, Montaigne and Bavle in par- 
ticular, have rendered him the most valuable author 
of antiquity. It appears from his writings that Plu- 
tarch visited Home more than once, and that he deliv- 
ered lectures on philosophy in his vernacular, then the 
language of the cultured Romans. It is probable that 
the substance of these lectures was afterwards embodied 
in his moral writings. The latter part of his life was 
spent in honor and comfort in his native cit) r , where he 
passed through various magisterial offices, and enjoyed 
the honors and emoluments of the priesthood. The 
time and circumstances of his death are unknown. 


lForiv. — The great work of Plutarch is his Parallel 
Lives (Biot napaMt/Xot), which contains the biogra- 
phy of forty-six distinguished Greeks and Romans, be- 
sides the lives of Artaxerxes Mnemou, Aratus, Galba, 
Otho, and Homer, which last is probably not by him. 
The forty-six lives are arranged in pairs or sets, each 
of which contains a Greek and a Roman, and the two 
lives in each pair are followed by a comparison of the 
characters of the two persons. These lives are: The- 
seus and Romulus, Lvcurgus and Numa, Solon and Va- 
lerius Publicola,Themistocles and Camillas, Pericles and 
Fabius Maximus. Alcibiades and Coriolanus, Timoleon 
and iEmilius Paulus, Pelopidas and Marcellus, Aristi- 
des and Cato Major, Pliilopccmen and Flaminius, Pyr- 
rhus and Marius, Lvsander and Sulla, Cimon and Lu- 
cullus, Nicias anti Crassus, Eumenes and Sertorius, 
Agesilaus and Pompey, Alexander the Great and Ju- 
lius Ca?sar, Phocion and Cato Minor, Agis and Cleo- 
menes and the two Gracchi, Demosthenes and Cicero, 
Demetrius Poliorcetes and M. Antonins, Dion and M. 
Brutus. The biographies of Epaminondas, Scipio, Au- 
gustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, Nero, Vitellius, He- 
siod, Pindar, Crates the Cynic, Diophantus, Aristomenes, 
and the poet Aratus are lost. Plutarch’s son, Lamprias, 
made a list of his father’s works, which is partly pre- 
served and printed by Fabricius ( Bibliotheca Greeea). 

In the department of biography, Plutarch is the only 
writer of antiquity who has established a lasting repu- 
tation. The plan of his biographies is briefly explained 
by himself in the introduction to the “Life of Alexan- 
der the Great,” where he makes an apology for the 
brevity with which he is compelled to treat of the nu- 
merous events in the lives of Alexander and Caesar. 
“For,” he says, “I do not write histories, but lives; 
nor do the most conspicuous acts of necessity exhibit 
a man’s virtue or his vice, but oftentimes some slight 
circumstance, a word or a jest, shows a man’s character 
better than battles, with the slaughter of tens of thou- 
sands, and the greatest arrays of armies and sieges of 
cities. Now, as painters produce a likeness by a rep- 
resentation of the countenance and the expression of 
the eyes, without troubling themselves about the other 
parts of the body, so I must be allowed to look rather 
into the signs of a man's character, and thus give a 
portrait of his life, leaving others to describe great 
events and battles.” The object then of Plutarch in 
his biographies was a moral end, and the exhibition of 
the principal events of a man’s life was subordinate to 
this his main design; and though he may not always 
have adhered to the principle which he laid down, it 
cannot be denied that his view of what biography 
should be is much more exact than that of most per- 
sons who have attempted t his style of composition. 
The life of a statesman or of a general, when written 
with the view of giving a complete history of all the 
public events in which he was engaged, is not biog- 
raphy, but history. This extract from Plutarch will 
also in some measure be an apology for the want of 
historical order observable in many of the lives. Though 
altogether deficient in that critical sagacity which dis- 
cerns truth from falsehood, and disentangles the intri- 
cacies of confused and conflicting statements, Plutarch 
has preserved in his Lives a vast number of facts which 
1 would otherwise have been unknown to us. He was a 
great reader, and must have had access to large libra- 
ries. It is said that he quotes two hundred and fifty 
writers, a great part of whose works are now' entirely 
lost. On the sources of Plutarch’s Lives the reader 
may consult an essay by A. II. L. Ileeren, De Foniibas 
et Auctoritate Vitarum Parallelaram Plutarchi Com- 
vientationes 7F(Gott. 1820, 8vo). Besides the Lives, a 
considerable number of Plutarch’s essays may be styled 
historical. They may all be read with pleasure, and 
some of them v r ith instruction, not so much for their 
historical value as for the detached curious facts that 
are scattered so profusely through Plutarch’s writings, 
and for the picture which they exhibit of the author’s 


304 


PLUTO 


PLUTAUCII 


n • In i' <>f these essays, entitled On the J fa- 
1, . t //e,od»tus, ho has unl'i.rl unatc-ly f"r his own 

r | . 1 ' >», attacked the veracity and integrity of the 

f:it I r of history, and with the same* success that snb- 
m'| i< lit writers, more ignorant and less honest, have 
inailr their puny attacks on a work the merit of which 
the eloM-ot criticism may enhance hut can never de- 
pro .ate. The Lins of tin Tin Orators, which are at- 
tributed to Plutarch, are of little value, and may not 
Ik- his still they hear internal evidence, at least nega- 
tively, of not living ol a later age than that of Plutarch. 

1 he /.ms of Plutarch tir>t appeared in a Latin version by 
several hands, at Pome, in 2 vols. fol., about 1170. This 
Latin version formed the basis of various Spanish and 
Italian translations. The first Creek edition was print- 
id by Philip ( limit* (Florence. Lil7.ro!.). Among more 
recent edition* are those of Pry an (Loud. 1 7 2!>, 5 vols. 
•In. . in i .reek and Latin, which was completed hy Moses 
du Soul. after llrynu's death: that of t’orav (Par. ] 

1*15, ti vols. xvot; ami that hy Schitfer (Leips. 1x20. 
f» vols. Nvo). The translations are very numerous. The 
best Herman translation is said to he hv Kaltwasser 
(Magdeburg. 1799 ixno. 1" vols. Xvo). Another Ger- 
man iranolntiou appeared at Vienna in 18J2. 4 he best 
ItaUaii translation is bv Pumped. The French transla- 
tion of Amyot. which appeared in 1559, has considera- 
ble merit, and has been often reprinted. The English 
translation of Mr Thomas North (Lond. 1012), which is 
avowedly made from that of Amyot. is often very happy 
in point of expression, and is deservedly much esteemed. 
The Airs were also translated into French by Dacier 
Par. 1721. x vols. 4to). The translation sometimes 
called I hydro's, the tirst volume of which was pub- 
lidic 1 in 10x3. was executed hy a great mimher of per- 
hon«.. Ac ording to a note hy Malone ( Pry den’s Prose 
IPoivt*. ii. TP i, there were forty-one of them. Dry don 
himself translated nothing, but he wrote the dedication 
to the duke of Ormond, and the Life of Plutarch which 
is pp fixed to the translation. The translation hy John 
and William Laiighonie.au insipid and tasteless ver- 
sion, has the merit of being tolerably correct in render- 
ing llu* meaning i f the original. The. last and best 
1. nidi'll translation is that of professor Long, which 
however only includes the lives of those Komans who 
were c •ncerued in tie. fivil Wars of Pome; this trans- 
lation. which is enriched with a valuable body of notes, 
formed live volumes of Knight’s •’Munthlv Volumes” 
i 1*11 L* 17 . 

The other writings of Plutarch, which consist of 
about sixty essays, are generally comprehended under 
the title of his Moral in, >>r Kthical IPo/'/v, many of 
them being en', : rely of an ethical character. The minor 
hi* 1 irical pi^es already referred to, of which that on 
the malignity of Herodotus is one, arc usually com- 
pri-c I in the collection entitled Moralia. Plutarch 
wa* f 'i l ")f the writings of Plato; ho was strongly op- 
1 < I to the Epicureans . if he belonged to any philo- 

d M< t. it was that of the Academies, ltut there 
• • •Inn r like a system of philosophy in his w ritings, 
a ' 1 * wt charaeteri/.« d by depth of thought or 

" T * 1 '• He formed for himself a system, if v«j 

•" 1 *"•• that whiih had little of t lie connected 

« 1' ira i • r "t a *v tem, cut of llic writings of various 
|dn r • Put a mi ral end is always apparent in 

his 1/ /. as well as m his biographic*. A kind. 

Imho* > ■ i'|—*n ion, and a love of everything that is 
« nioldi. . ai <1 cxcelh nt, per\ a>h Ins w ri tings, and give 
Ho* n a l.r it. ante kind if ph a-ure tlmi he has in 
til* <a.m|«ii!v of nil e to mill lro*id, whose singleness 
of loan ft| |p nrs m nm thing that l.< >ays or does. 
1 'lu lari Ii rightly apprn ian .1 the im|...rinnci* of e.hieri- 
ti »», and he gives many go., l pr. . i- u for the bringing 
up of children, lbs philosophy was practical, and in 
many of its application*, ii' for in-lanei his •• Letter of 
Consolation to \polloiiius." and his “Marriage Pre- 
cepts," he is as felicitous ill expression ns he is sound 
in iiis precepts. Notwithstanding all the deduction* 


that the most fastidious critic may make from Plu- 
tarch’s moral writings, it cannot be denied that there is 
something in them which always pleases, and the more 
so the better we become acquainted with them; and 
this is no small merit in a writer. With regard to the 
purely ethical writings of Plutarch, archdean Trench 
says that they indicate a better state of society than is 
generally attributed to his age. Plutarch does not speak 
as one crying in the wilderness, but as to a circle of 
sympathetic hearers who will answer to his appeals. 
It may he supposed that his native kindliness of heart 
would prevent him from taking the full measure of the 
sin with which he was surrounded. No doubt lie was 
deficient in the fierce indignation which consumed the 
heart of Tacitus and put a lash into the hands of Juve- 
nal. Hut it is certain from many passages in his writ- 
ings that he took no rose-colored vieiv of life. Several 
of his statements almost amount to the confession of 
original sin. Plutarch’s style hears no resemblance to 
the simplicity of the Attic writers. It has not the air 
of being much elaborated, and apparently his sentences 
flowed easily from him. He is nearly always animated 
and pleasing, and the epithet pictorial may be justly 
applied to him. Sometimes his sentences are long and 
ill-constructed, and the order of the words appears not 
the best that could be chosen to express his meaning; 
certainly it is not the order in which the best Greek 
writers of an earlier age would have arranged their 
thoughts. Sometimes he is obscure, both from this 
cause and the kind of illustration in which he abounds. 
He occasionally uses and perhaps affects poetic words, 
but they are such as give energy to his thoughts and 
expression to his language. Altogether he is read with 
pleasure in the original hy those who are familiar with 
him, hut he is somewhat harsh and crabbed to a stran- 
ger. It is his merit, in the age in which he lived, treat- 
ing of such subjects as biography and morals, not to 
have fallen into a merely rhetorical style, to have bal- 
anced antitheses, and to have contented himself with 
the inanity of commonplaces. Whatever he says is 
manly and invigorating in thought, and clear and for- 
cible in expression. 

The first Greek edition of the Moralia, which is ex- 
ceedingly incorrect, was printed by the elder Aldus, 
with tiie following title, Plata rclti Opnscula, Ixxxii, Gr. 
( Veil. 1500, fol.). It was afterwards printed at llasle 
by Kroben (1542, fol., and 1571, fol.). The only good 
edition of the J foralia is that printed at Oxford, and 
edited bv 1). Wyttenbach, who labored on it twenty- 
four years. This edition consists of six volumes of text 
(1795-1X00), and two volumes of notes (1X10-1X21), 4to. 
There is a print of it which is generally bound in 5 
vols. 8vo, with two volumes of notes. The notes by 
Wyttenbach were printed at Leipsie in 1X21, in two 
vols. Xvo. The first edition of all t lie works of Plu- 
tarch is by II. Stephens (Geneva, 1572, 13 vols. 8vo), 
which is said to be correctly printed. This edition 
was reprinted several times. A complete edition, Greek 
and Latin, appeared at Leipsie (1774-1785, 12 vols. 8vo), 
with t lie name of J. J. Keisko, but Iloiske did very little 
to it, for he died in 1774. An edition hy J. llutten 
appeared at Tubingen (1791-1805, 14 vols. 8vo). A 
good critical edition of all the works of Plutarch is still 
wanted. Sec Meth. (/n. Her. July, 1X51, art. vi; 1X52, 
p. 3X3; Christian Per. \ ol. x and xi; Catholic WorUl, 
Sept. 1X70; Neander, Christian Doymas ; Pressense, Pe- 
l if /ions In fore Christ , p, 183 s<j. ; Donaldson, Literature 
(see Index); Cndworth. Intellectual Development of the 
Cninrst (see Index in vol. iii); Lardner, 1 1 ’orks ; 
SclialT. Hist . of the .1 post {die Church, p. 140, 152; Land. 
<l». /hr. t let. 1 si! 1 ; Trench, Plutarch , //is Life, His 
/.ires, ami J/is Morals (Lond. 1873, 12mo) ; Smith, 
Dirt, of Class. Jiioy. s. v. 

Pluto (HXornui*, rich'), originally only a surname 
of Hades, as the giver or possessor of riches, is, in the 
mythology of Greece, the third son of Kronos and 
Plica, and the brother of Zeus and Poseidon. On the 


PLYMOUTH BRETHREN 


305 PLYMOUTH BRETHREN 


tripartite division of the universe, he obtained the sov- 
ereignty of the under-world — the realm of darkness and 
ghostly shades, where he sits enthroned as a “subterra- 
nean Zeus” — to use the expression of Homer, and rules 
the spirits of the dead. II is dwelling-place, hov'ever, 
is not far from the surface of the earth. Pluto is inex- 
orable in disposition, not to be moved either by prayers 
or flatteries. He is borne on a ear, drawn by four black 
steeds, whom he guides wdth golden reins. His helmet 
makes him invisible, whence, according to some schol- 
ars, his name of Hades; although others, with at least 
equal probability, translate the word the “all-receiver.” 
In Homer, Hades never means a place, but always a 
person. Moreover, it is to be noticed that the poet does 
not divide the realm of the shades into two separate re- 
gions. All the souls of the dead — good and bad alike — 
mingle together. Subsequently, however, when the 
ethical conception of future retribution became more 
widely developed, the kingdom of the dead was divided 
into Elysium (q. v.), the abode of the good, and Tarta- 
rus (q. v.), the plaee of the wicked. 'Phis change also 
exercised an important influence on the conception of 
Pluto. The ruler of the under-world not only acquired 
additional power and majesty, but the very idea of his 
character was essentially modified. He was now re- 
garded as a beneficent deity, who held the keys of the 
earth in his hand, and possessed its metallic treasures 
(whence his new name Pluto or Plutus'), and who blessed 
the year with fruits, for out of the darkness underground 
come all the riches and swelling fulness of the soil. 
Hence, in later times, mortals prayed to him before pro- 
ceeding to dig for the wealth hidden in the bowels of 
the earth. 

Pluto married Persephone (Proserpina), the daughter 
of Demeter (Ceres), after carrying her off from the 
plains of Enna. He assisted his brothers — according to 
the mythological story— in their war against the Ti- 
tans, and received from the Cyclops, as a reward for 
delivering them from Tartarus, the helmet that makes 
him invisible, which he lent to Hermes (Mercury) in 
the aforesaid war, to Perseus in his combat with the 
Gorgons. and which ultimately came to Meriones. The 
Erinyes and Charon obey his behests. He sits in 
judgment on every open and secret act, and is assisted 
by three subordinate judges, .Eacus, Minos, and Ehad- 
amanthus. The worship of Pluto was widely spread 
both among the Greeks and Ilomans. Temples were 
erected to his honor at Athens, Elis, and Olympia. 
Among trees and flowers, the cypress, boxwood, narcis- 
sus, and maidenhair %vere sacred to him; bulls and goats 
u'ere also sacrificed to him amid the shadows of night, 
and his priests had their brows garlanded with cypress 
wreaths. In works of art he resembles his brothers 
Zeus and Poseidon; only his hair hangs down some- 
what wildly and fiercely over his brow, and his appear- 
ance, though majestic, as becomes so mighty a god, has 
something gloomy and terrible about it. There can be 
little doubt that he, as well as Pan (q. v.), helped to 
trick out the conception of the devil prevalent during 
the Middle Ages, and not yet extinct. If it was from 
Pan that the devil derived those physical characteris- 
tics alluded to in the famous “Address to the Deil” by 
the poet Burns : 

“ O thon, whatever title suit thee, 

Auld Jlornie, Satau, Nick, or Clootie ,” 

it is no less certain that it is to Pluto that he owes his 
position as “king of Hell,” “his Blackness,” and many 
of the insignia of his infernal royalty. — Chambers, s. v. 
See Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v. 

Plymouth Brethren, or Darbyites, is the 
name of a religious body which originated almost si- 
multaneously at Plymouth, England, and Dublin, Ireland, 
about the year 1830. They are most generally called 
after the name of the place where they first started in 
England, but sometimes they are called after their prin- 
cipal founder, John Darbv, at the time a clergvman of 

vin. — u 


the Episcopal Church of Ireland. He himself gave to 
his adherents the name of Separatists, because they left 
the Establishment and determined to maintain a sepa- 
rate existence as a Church. 

Early History . — John Darby was born in England 
of a wealthy family, studied jurisprudence and became a 
lawyer, but, brought into the Church, he w'as strongly 
impressed with a call to the ministry, and, though op- 
posed by his father, he took holy orders. Disinherited 
by the parent for disobedience, Darby found a friend 
and patron in his uncle, from whom he obtained at his 
decease quite an ample fortune. After ordination, Darby 
became gradually impressed with the idea that there 
was no ground for the doctrine of apostolical succession, 
and that any person feeling called to preach should ex- 
ercise that liberty. He therefore denounced the claim 
of the Establishment as unwarranted, and finally broke 
with the Episcopalians. He, however, still held that 
there was a true Church, and that all who thought as 
he did should band themselves together and wait until 
Christ made his personal appearance, which they antic- 
ipated would be speedily. There were a few who united 
themselves together on the strength of these views, in 
Plymouth, England, and at Dublin, Ireland. At the 
former place they seemed to meet with most success. 
There their numbers increased to seven hundred and up 
to fifteen hundred; and so marked was their success that 
they came to be called “ Plymouth Brethren.” (They 
have never taken this name themselves, but they do 
not seem to object to it.) The work increased, and 
bands were formed in London, Exeter, and several other 
places. Among those who united with them were many 
persons of wealth, who contributed considerable sums 
of money to spread their views. They established a 
newspaper, known as the Christian Witness, Mr. Darby 
being its chief contributor. It was not long before they 
were violently opposed by the English clergy. This 
opposition was so w r ell directed and so ably conducted 
that the spread of the new faith was not only seriously 
checked, but their numbers were greatly reduced. In 
1838, or near that time, Mr. Darby left England. He first 
visited Paris, u T here he remained for a time, and then 
went to Switzerland, where he found a more inviting 
field. The Wesleyan Methodists had commenced suc- 
cessful operations in Lausanne. Quite a number had 
withdrawn from the State Church and united with 
them. This excited the general attention of the people. 
Among the new proselytes to Methodism w ere many who 
still held the doctrine of predestination, and refused to 
accept the Wesleyan doctrine of Christian perfection. 
Those who held the doctrine of predestination were 
charged by those who had fully discarded it as having 
received but half the truth. At Yevav similar excite- 
ment prevailed. In this state of things, for the purpose 
of overthrowing the new faith, an influential member 
of the State Church at Lausanne invited Mr. Darby to 
come there and fight the Methodists. He went, and by 
his preaching, and the publication of a book entitled The 
Doctrine of the Wesleyans regarding Perfection, and their 
Use of the Holy Scriptures, he succeeded in so far be- 
wildering them that not long after the greater part of 
them abandoned their faith, and either returned to the 
State Church or united with the Dissenters. Mr. Dar- 
by, besides, gave a series of lectures on the prophecies, 
entitled “Views regarding the actual Expectation of the 
Church, and the Prophecies which establish it.” They 
were largely attended by others than Dissenters, and pro- 
duced a deep impression upon the public mind. They were 
published in book form, first in French, and subsequently 
translated into German and English, and may be found 
in Mr. Darby’s published w r orks. In the estimation at 
least of the author the}’- lifted the veil which had long, 
if not from the beginning, covered the prophecies. Such 
w r as Mr. Darby’s influence among the people that the 
regular ministry was almost entirely ignored, and he 
became the accepted prophet. In fact, his publications 
had the effect directly to turn the people from the min- 


30G 


PX EUM ATOM ACIII 


PLYMOUTH niiKTIIPEX 

i-trv a- a whole. Ji was bis custom to administer the 
sacrament every Sahhath indiscriminately to Church- 
men and Dissenters. which practice earned for him the 
refutation of being a large-hearted Christian, and anx- 
i .us to make the Church one. Hut really his object 
was t<< alienate the people until he could get them under 
his personal control for organization, he himself being 
the centre of the organization, as is but too clearly ap- 
parent front the lly-shoets or tracts which he published, 
t tne of these, entitled Apostasy of the Actual Fron- 
otr y. lavs the axe at the root of the tree of the ( 'hristiau 
t hnreh, leaving it a shapeless wreck. Another, On the 
Foundation of the Church, attacks all Dissenters, and 
denies their right to form any new Church. And still 
another, Liberty to preach Jtsus possessed by erery 
Christian , denies the existence of any priestly otliee in 
the Church, except the universal priesthood of believ- 
ers. A tract entitled The Promise of the Lord, based 
on Matt, xviii, ‘in, gave the shibboleth for the Darhyite 
gatherings. Another tract, entitled Schism, wan issued, 
in which all who hesitated to take part in these gather- 
ings were denominated “schismatics." Thus the work 
of demolition went on. A small seminary was estab- 
lished in which to prepare men for the evangelistic 
work — that is, to spread their views and make disciples 
to them, and tin* result has been a widespread sect, with 
little «.r no organic unity. 

J.iitu' History. A division took place among the 
“ brethren," under the leadership of B. W. Newton. It 
commenced in Kngland and extended to the Continent. 
.Mr. Newton, it is claimed, held with Irving that Christ 
was not sinless. This notion was repelled hv most of 
the Darbvites, and Newton was subsequently expelled 
by Mr. Darby. ( It might be interesting to inquire how 
Mr. Darby could consistently expel a man from his so- 
ciety when he ignores all organizations? If there be 
no organization, what is there to lie expelled from?) 
The Newton heresy extended to Vevay, where there 
was mn h trouble, the “Brethren’’ splitting into two 
factions, which was followed soon after bv many other 
societies. Another division took place among them, in 
which the famous lleorge Midler, of Bristol, Kngland. 
was the m ^t prominent, t Ulior divisions have oc- 
curred. but they are of very little importance. The 
"Brethren" are more or less numerous in I’aris. Lau- 
sanne, II, Hand, Italy, ami Belgium, on the Continent ; 
m Plymouth, Kxeter. and London, in Kngland; a very 
few are m the I oiled Mates, but more in < 'anada. They 
are nil earnest. sHf-saerilicing people. 

Jinc/riiies, itr. -The “Brethren" profess to have no 
creed but the Bible, and condemn all who avow a creed, 
as putting human opinions in the place of the Word of i 
Col; and yet we seriously doubt if there is a Church 
in the land which has a mor** clearly defined creed than 
they have. They denounce nil commentaries on the 
Bible as misleading, and yet Mr. Darby himself has 
written commentaries quite extensively on the Bible, 
to my n .tiling of Mdntosh. In faith they seem to be 
htr<*i,-' v Ant iiioniiau. If once justified, it is their belief 
that lh« ill not only can never full from grace finally, 
but < nil never lull into condemnation. The soul’s .stand- 
in.' ri mams as pure as Christ himself. In other respects 
th< > bold substantially the great and leading doctrines 
of tin i .o | h 1 ; but ns they have no written creed or con- I 
f.s ion, it is exceedingly ditlicnlt to tiud out exactly | 
what they d . h dd. hncli one is in every respect al- 
lowed to hill what In* pleases, consistent (y with con- 
tinued practical evidence that lie is a real Christian, 
which in hi hs a boh* f in the lending doctrines of ovan- I 

goli*.il Christ inns. ie pretends in anything to ' 

judge for another, or make bis convictions obligatory 
any forth* r than lie can, by more peril oily instructing 
the other, induce him to a. ccpt tin m. 1 hi ir views of 
what are called worship are also peculiar. This con- 
sists, they sav. not in preaching or praying petition- 
ing -though those exercises may lend to worship, but 
simply iu adoration, praise, and thanksgiving to kind 


for what he is in himself, and what he is for those who 
render it. Hence worship can only be rendered by true 
Christians, in the breaking of bread and in the praise 
and thanksgiving which they render. Their services, 
therefore, for believers and for unconverted people are 
entirely distinct. They hold the obligation of the 
t 'liurcli to come together the first day of the week to 
break broad ; hence they observe the Lord’s Supper 
every Sabbath morning, and believers alone are ex- 
pected to come together then. They never preach in 
the morning, but usually simply exhort, two, or at the 
most three of them, speaking during the service. In 
the afternoon or evening of the Sabbath they preach to 
sinners. The Plymouth Brethren arc the opposite ex- 
treme to Irvitigism and Mormonism, and yet resem- 
ble these in several respects. They, too, are a protest 
against the present state of the Church, Protestant as 
well as Catholic, which they denounce as Babel, and 
expect the speedy coming of the Lord. But while the 
Irvingites and Mormons lay claim to an apostolical hie- 
rarchy, the “ Brethren,” like the Quakers, reject the 
specitic ministry, and all written creeds and outward 
Church organization. They derive the disunion of the 
Church from the neglect to recognise the Ilolv Spirit 
as Christ’s vicar on earth, and the all-sullicient inter- 
preter of the Holy Scriptures. All human creeds, they 
say, involve a vital denial of this sufficiency of the 
Spirit, ami practically restrict liis operations. All believ- 
ers are true spiritual priests, capacitated for worship 
( 11 eh. x, PJ, 25), and all those who possess the qualifica- 
tions from the Lord are not only authorized but obliged 
to evangelize the world and build up tlie Church, with- 
out any ordination of men. This they consider to he 
the true apostolic mode of worship, according to 1 Cor. 
xii and xiv. But, unlike the Quakers, they retain the 
ordinance of baptism, and administer the Lord's Supper 
every week. As a body, they hold to adult believers’ 
baptism only; blit if one comes to them who was ba|>- 
tized in infancy, while they receive him, they generally 
manage to convince him very soon of the importance 
of being rebaptized. As to the remainder of their creed, 
they seem to agree most with the Calvinistic system, 
and are said to be zealous in good works. See (iniu- 
u ess, Who are the Plymouth P ret It ten ? (Philo. lSlil); 
Dennett, Plymouth Prethren, their Pise. etc. ; Prit.Qu. 
Oct. 1N73, art. iii; Preshy t. Hu. dan. 1X72, p. IS; Mars- 
den, Piet, of Churehes, p. 91 ; Jahrb. deutscher Theolo- 
yie, 1X70, vol. iv; Dr. Steele, in the Advocate of Chris- 
tian Holiness, 1S7G ; Prit.and For. P.r. ltev. duly. 1XU5, 
art. ii ; Loud. Qu. Pec, No. liii, 1SG9, art. iii. (J, II. \Y.) 

Fneumatology (from vrevpa, spirit . and Xoyog, 
word ) is the doctrine of spiritual existence. Considered 
as the science of mind or spirit, pnenmatology consists 
nf three parts: treating of the divine mind, theology; 
i lie angelic mind, angehdogy ; and the human mind. 
This last is now called psychology, “a term to which 
no competent objection can be made, and which aftbrds 
us, what the various clumsy periphrases in use do not, 
a convenient adjective, psyeholoyieaf' (Sir \Y. Hamil- 
ton. Peid's 1 1 'orbs, p. 2 I'd, note). The belief in a return 
from the dead, apparitions, and spirits is largely incor- 
porated in the traditions of the dews, and prevailed el- 
inost universally in the scholastic ages. The mystic 
dacob Hi dime and Kmannel Swedenborg made it a 
popular phase of belief in Northern Kurope, and Marti- 
nez Pasqualis and his disciple St. Martin caused it to 
prevail among the people of France and in Southern 
Kurope. AH these teachers have given accounts of the 
orders of spiritual bcihgswho held communication with 
the living. In onr own day spiritualism lias branched 
out so extensively that it will be treated separately un- 
der tbat heading, (d. 1 1 . \Y.) 

Pneumatom&chi, i. e. adversaries of the Holy 
Spirit, is a name properly applied to all those who cn- 
t« riain luri-tieal opinions ns to the Scripture doctrine 
of the Holy (ilmst, c. g. the Sabdlians (q. v.). The 


PNEUMATOMACHI 


307 


PN EUM ATOM ACHI 


name originated after the subsidence of the Arian con- 
troversy, "and was applied to that party, distinguished 
by the "denial of the catholic faith regarding the Third 
Person of the Holy Trinity ; some denying his divinity, 
others his personality also. The name is, however, more 
specially used to designate the Macedonians, so called 
after Macedonius, who, after the death of Eusebius 
of Nicomedia, was called by the Arian faction to the 
see of Constantinople, in opposition to the catholic 
bishop Paul. This led to bloody strife, inasmuch as a 
majority of the citizens were for Paul. The Arians got 
the better of their catholic adversaries with the help of 
the emperor Constantine, who took the part of Macedo- 
nius, and established him in the disputed see by force 
of arms: three thousand persons perished on that occa- 
sion. Macedonius, although called to the bishopric of 
Constantinople by strict Arians, seems not to have been 
very much of an Arian himself, but persecuted the cath- 
olics after the fashion of other Semi-Arian bishops, and 
became, with Basilius of Ancyra, one of the chiefs of the 
Semi-Arians. As a natural consequence of the rest of 
their doctrine, the Arians declared the Holy Ghost, who 
was little spoken of explicitly at. the beginning of the 
Arian difficulties, to be a mere creature, and most of 
them held him to be an inferior creature to the Son. 
Not only the strict Arians, but also the Semi-Arians, 
who calied the Son “God” and opoiovmog, questioned 
the divinity of the Holy Ghost. Macedonius made him- 
self the leader of this increasing and strengthening pneu- 
matomatical party, teaching emphatically that the Holy 
Ghost was a creature subservient to the Father and Son, 
and wholly different in nature from them (comp. Socra- 
tes. IJist. Eccles. ii, 46; Sozomen, iv, 27; Theodoret, 
Ilist. Eccles. ii, 6 ; Ilceret. Fab. v, 1 1 ; Epiphanius, liter. 
73 and 74). He then invented the artifice of the “Ho- 
moion,” and connecting himself closely with the Semi- 
Arian party, gave them his name (Theodoret, liter. 
Fab. iv, 5). At first therefore the term Macedonian was 
simply equivalent to Semi-Arian, and Socrates calls the 
reply of Liberius to the Semi-Arian legates a letter to 
the bishops of the Macedonians (Socrates, Hist. Eccles. 
iv, 12). The name of Macedonius appears in this reply. 
The good faith of this transaction is (to say the least) 
very doubtful (see the notes on the chapter of Socrates 
in Variorum Annotatiunes in Beading’s edition of Valc- 
sius). and we are in uncertainty as to the opinions which 
Macedonius really held at the close of his life. But 
there is no uncertainty as to the course of the heresy. 
The letters of Liberius were exhibited at the Council 
of Tvana, and the deputies who presented them were 
acknowledged as members of the catholic body. This 
was probably in A.D. 368. But just as among the Ari- 
ans there never was any unity of views as to the Son, 
there was none among the Pneumatomachi and Mace- 
donians as to the Holy Ghost. Some contented them- 
selves with holding the divinity of the Holy Ghost du- 
bious, others denied it outright; some called him a 
creature, but most seem to have fallen in with the ideas 
of Macedonius. Among the most active partisans of 
this heresy were Marathonius and Elcusius, whom Mac- 
edonius called respectively to the sees of Cyzicum and 
Nicomedia. The influence of Marathonius is shown 
by the fact that the Macedonians are sometimes called 
Marathonians. Macedonius was deposed by the strict 
Arians at the Synod of Constantinople in 360 : he spent 
the remainder of his life obscurely in the vicinity of 
Constantinople. The exact date of Macedonius’s death 
is not known, but it appears to have been soon after 
the Council of Tarsus (see Tillemont, Ilist. v ol. ix). 

The appearance of the Pneumatomachi, as such, is 
to be dated from A.D. 360, when Athanasius wrote 
against them, giving them the name here adopted. 
Athanasius was then in the deserts of Egypt, and Sera- 
pion, bishop of Thmuis, in Lower Egypt, requested his 
interposition. The heresies themselves were no novel- 
ties. It was a part of the Arian creed that the Holy 
Spirit was a created being, superior it might be in dig- 


( nity, but nowise different in nature from the angels; 
and in the Gnostic systems we meet with Christ and 
the Holy Ghost as aeons [see Valenti ni ax s] , the latter 
being held, in some cases at least, to be not a distinct 
person, but a divine energy diffused through the uni- 
verse. But there was a great difference in the mode in 
which these heresies were held. They then appeared, 
not as proceeding from a special opposition to the great- 
ness of the Holy Spirit, but as deductions from some 
other leading heresy to which they were subordinate.- 
Thus in the case of the Arians, with which our present 
subject is concerned, the denial of the divinity of the 
Holy Spirit follows upon the denial of the divinity 
of the Son. For as it is impossible to advance the 
Third Person of the Trinity above the Second Person, 
the controversy turned therefore on the divinity of the 
Second. Dealing with this, the Council of Nieaea did 
not touch specifically upon the subordinate heresy, but 
left it to stand or fall with the leading one. But when 
the leading heresy was abandoned, and yet the subordi- 
nate heresy retained, then the latter not only became 
prominent, but was seen to be adopted on its own inde- 
pendent grounds, for its own sake. The Arian half con- 
verted to catholicity was properly a Pneumatomachist. 
Such were those whom Athanasius dealt with in his 
letter to Serapion. They were seceders from the Ari- 
ans who had embraced the true faith regarding the Son, 
but retained their error regarding the Holy Spirit. 
They were consequently opposed both by catholics and 
Arians, but their true controversy was with the former: 
their contest with the latter (Athanasius urges) could 
only be pretended, inasmuch as both agreed in opposing 
the doctrine of the Trinity (Ad Scrap, i, 1, 2, 9, 32). 
This class, then, differed from the later Macedonian 
class: it held Homoousian doctrine regarding the Son, 
whereas the Macedonians were Homoiousians. Atha- 
nasius calls them also Ti-opici, from their figurative in- 
terpretations of Scripture; but this is rather an epithet 
than a proper name. 

In comparison with the Macedonian party, this ear- 
lier party can have been but small. It was, however, 
reinforced a few years later, as we shall show, upon 
the return of a large portion of the Semi-Arian body to 
catholicity. The adoption of the truth concerning the 
Son leads almost necessarily to the adoption of the 
truth concerning the Holy Spirit. The arguments of 
| Athanasius (Ad Scrap, i, 29; iv, 7) show forcibly how 
untenable a position is that which maintains a duality 
instead of a trinity. The original Monarchian tenet 
from which the Arians started is much more easily ad- 
missible. 

The Pneumatomachi of the Macedonian school were 
the Semi-Arians left behind in schism when, in the year 
I 366, the majority of the sect gave in their assent to or- 
thodoxy, and were received into the Church. Before 
this time Macedonius, as we have seen above, had joined 
the Semi-Arian party, but proving thereby unaccepta- 
ble to the Arians, was deposed by the Council of Con- 
( stantinople, A.D. 360 (Theodoret, Ilist. Eccles. ii, 6). 
A council was appointed to meet in Tarsus to effect a 
reconciliation, but just before the meeting thirty-four 
Asiatic bishops assembled in Caria refused the Homo- 
ousion ; and Valens, at the instigation of the Arian Eu- 
doxius, bv whom he had been recently baptized, forbade 
the council (Sozomen, Ilist. Eccles. vi, 12). From this 
time, however, Semi-Arianism disappears from ecclesi- 
astical history. The controversy regarding Christ’s 
divinity ceased, and the denial of the divinity of the 
Holy Spirit became the distinguishing tenet of the 
Semi-Arian party, the tenet thus becoming associated 
with the name Macedonian, which the Semi-Arians 
had recently acquired. Of course there were some, as 
we have already had occasion to state, who called them 
Marathonians, saying that Marathonius, bishop of Nico- 
media, had introduced the term Homoiousiou (Socrates, 
Ilist. Eccles. ii, 45). 

It is to be noticed here that several writers, when 


308 


POCIEY 


1 *X EUM ATOM ACI 1 1 

*r m> * i*f the present heresy, use the word Semi-Arian 
* • th> r sense than tliat now given it. Philaster 
j/,n. c. lxvii) defines the Semi-Ariaus thus: ‘-Hi de 
l»at re et Filio hene sontiunt, unam qualitatis substan- 
t»atn. unam divinitatem esse eredente*, Spirit urn autem 
non de diviua substantia, nec Deum vernm, sed factum 
atipie creatum Spiritum pra-dicantes.” Augustine also 
(Ihtr. e. iii l: Macedonian! de Fat re et Filio recto* 
sentiunt, quod unius sint cjusdcmque substantia* vel es- 
sentia*, sed do Spirit u Saneto hoc noliint credere, crea- 
turnm cum esse dicentes. 11ns potius quidam Semi- 
Amnns vocant, cpiod in hac ipucstione ex parte cum 
illts sint, cx parte nobiscum.” 'I'ltis use of the term 
Semi-Arian is now to be avoided, t lie distinctive mark 
of that party being the llomoiousion. Hut these two 
authorities show that the original l’neumatomachi, | 
against whom Athanasius wrote, must have been largely 
reinforced from those who joined the Church under 
Libcrius. This appears also from Kpiphanius, who 
states t hat the l’neumatomachi proceeded partly from 
the Semi-Ariaus and partly from the orthodox. In the 
preceding article he had defined the Scmi-Arians by 
the llomoiousion; and the “orthodox,” it cannot be 
doubted, were not the old Nieenes. but those who from 
tin Arians had come over to the llomoiousion, and had 
been accepted by Libcrius as orthodox. Tims of the 
Pncumutomachi some were orthodox regarding the di- 
vinity of the Son, and some retained the llomoiousion, 
ami these latter are properly Macedonians, being Semi- 
Ariaus. 

All these started with the tenet of the sect from which 
they sprung, namely, that the Holy Spirit is a created 
being, of the same order as the created angels (The- 
odoret and Epiphanius, /. c.). The authorities of Phi- 
laMcr ami Augustine are sufficient to show that this 
was retained by the majority of the party. But anoth- 
« r opinion arose early. It proceeded Eustathius of 
Si hast in being an example (Socrates, Hist. /Whs. ii, 45) 
from a reluctance to call the Holy Spirit a creature. 
Hut ns they who fell this reluctance would not consent 
t • call him Hod, it followed necessarily that they were 
"1 liged to deny his personality. Still they assigned to 
th impersonal Spirit that which is assigned to the per- 
sonal Spirit bv Homan t atliolies, as being the Vinculum 
(se Augustine, Hr Vide et Symbolo, § 11); Bull, l)ef. 
!il. Yn. ii. 3, 13) of the persons of the Godhead. This 
i- noted by Augustine ( I he ns. e. lii): “(Juamvis a non- 
nullis pcrliibeautur non Deum, sed Deitatein I’atris ct 
1 ilii di ere Spiritum Sanctum, et nullam propriam ha- 
bere substnuliam.” What catlu lies regard as God the 
Hu v Ghost working in the world, they regarded as a 
divine energy difiWd through the world. Mosheim 
ri prtsents this, it appears upon iusullieient grounds, to 
l>c the tenet of the Macedonians in general (Walcli, 
(ii.ii fi. tier h'tztrnm. iii. 9s ). 

I In* hereby of the Pnciunaioniaehi was condemned, 
t r t, i a synod at Alexandria. A.D. :3U2, held by Atha- 
>"»•»■* bin riiuru (Athanasius Synod. Vj>ist. ad Anti- 
' I In* epistle states that Arians. on their reception 
t * ■ t o ( h ircb.ari to anathematize those who sav that 
t • II i\ Spirit is a created being and divided from the 
• ' "f* 1 *• A true renunciation of Arian doc- 

tro i , ale min fnm div* ling the I My Trinity, from 
> 1 1 at one «if the IN r-oiis is a created lieing). The 

1 ' 1 '• 1 r, a< 'ii \w re <• in h iiiiu il woudlv in a synod in 

ll'\ri o n, \.D. M,, /-/*-' t.Sjh d.ixl (hint!.; Hard min. 

( ' '• ‘ * > s ' in n. Hi'/. / * s. vi. 22 ' ; tliirdlv, in a 

svii-sl u Horn* . S.l t. a;7 Dama-i, //I/. ap.Tlieodoret. 

'I • . v. 11, \ ales, inti ; and. ln.-tlv, at the gnat 

Oru 11 Ui eoiilit il held at t ’oliMutil itiople. A j >. .1x1, w’lierc. 
1,1 “PI " J<* tl.e |.«n. les of Ala.adoiiius. Apnlliiinrius] 

ami Lon mint. the Nieene faith « as confirmed ai d m. re 
b 11 y stated. 1 lie first can* n anal In mati/s s tlie “Semi- 

Ariaus. or I’nciiniatounn’ln ."the seventh uses the 

until ■ Mace Ionian-, ami orders (he adtni- im of converts 
from this heresy to In* by unction. To tin simple article 
of the Nice in* Creed. “ I In lieve in the Holy ( ,h**st," were 


added those clauses (excepting the Filioqne) which stand 
at present as the complement of the catholic faith, viz., 
that to the Holy Ghost, who emanates from the Father, 
is due the same adoration and glorification as to the 
Father and to the Son. The Macedonians were invited 
to the Council of Constantinople in the hope that the 
reconciliation interrupted at Tarsus might be effected, 
but the hope was not realized (Socrates, Hist. Eccles. v, 
X; Sozomen, Ilist. Eccles. vii, 7). Facundns states that 
Macedonius himself was invited to the council. This is 
no doubt an error. The council completed the work 
which was begun at Xica?a, and finally declared the 
catholic faith regarding the iloly Trinity. Against its 
determination the Semi-Arian, now the Pneumatoma- 
chist, party was not able to make any effectual resist- 
ance. — Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. See Sehaflf, Church 
History, ii. (539, 044 ; Neandcr, Hist, of ( 'hristum Dogma 
(see Index); llefele, Connliengesch. vols. i and ii; Al- 
zog, Kirchengesch. i, 2X1 ; Sehrbekh, Kirchengesch. vol. 
vi ; Klee, Dogmengesch. pt. i, eh. ii, p. 21 5. 

Poach, Anpkkas. a Herman Lutheran minister of 
the 10th century, studied at Wittenberg under Martin 
Luther, where also he was made magister. In 1542 
he was called to Jena as archdeacon ; then he was 
appointed pastor at Xordhausen; and in 1550 he was 
called as pastor and professor of theology to Erfurt, 
where in 1572 in company with four others, lie was 
deposed. lie then moved to Utcnbach. near Jena, 
where he died, April 2, 1585. He edited Luther’s 
1/ auspostille , with Corrections and Additions (Jena, 1559 
sq.), and wrote the biography of Katzeberger (q. v.), 
low chnstlichen Abschied aus cliesem Sterblichen , etc. 
(Jena, 1559;. See Jdchcr, Gelehrten- I. exikon. s. v. ; 
Winer, llandbuch der theol. Literatur , ii, 130. (B. 1\) 

Pobian, Mosks, also called Vobian, a Jewish writer 
of some note, flourished in Greece in the first part of the 
10th century. lie published, ZllPr ~V “’"'N, 

t lie hook of Job, with a Humic, i. e. neo-Greek, transla- 
tion in Hebrew letters (Constantinople, 1576) ~Z 

E”, the Proverbs, in the same manner 

the Pentateuch, with a IJumic and Spanish translation, 
both in Hebrew letters, with the Chaldee of Onkelos and 
Hashi's commentary (ibid. 1547). The Spanish version 
of this work was reprinted at Ferrara in 15x3. See 
Fiirst, Ziibl, Juduica, i, 285 sq. ; Wolf, Hill. 1 1 three a, I, 
iii, 1520. (B. P.) 

Pochard, Jean, a French theologian, was bom in 
1715 at La Clusc, near Pontarlicr. After going through 
the regular course of studies at Besan^on, be was offered 
by the archbishop of that diocese the direction of the 
seminary, and Pochard there taught theology for thirty 
years. He was afterwards appointed superior of the 
seminary, but the weakness of his health compelled him 
to resign these functions, as he had already resigned his 
chair, lie died at Besniuym Aug. 25, 1780. To him 
is due the revision of the Missal and Breviary of the 
diocese of Bcsan^nn. printed by order of the cardinal of 
Clioiseiil-Beaupre. These works arc considered model 
performances, lie had the largest share in the Methode 
pour la Direction des A nit s (Neufehateau, 1772.2 vols. 
l2mo) uf I’rbain Grisot, which has often been reprinted, 

llocfi r, A 'our. Uiog. O'enende, s. v. 

Poche'retll (Hob. Pvke'reth, ensnaring; 

Sept. v. r. <l>n-yfpfl£, etc.), the name apparent- 

ly of a person (“ P. of Zebaim,” t ho Sept, in some copies 
supplies ‘*son of” between the words) whose children” 
were among the Xcthiuim that returned from the cap- 
tivity with Zerubbalicl (Ezra ii, 57; Xch. vii, 59). 
B.t ante 

Pociey, Hviwrtrs, a Hussian prelate, was horn at 
BnjanNe in 1511. lie occupied a conspicuous place in 
the religious history of Hussia by the share he had, in 
1595. in the return of the western provinces of the cm- 


POCKELS 


309 


POCOCK 


pire to the Roman Catholic Church. He was sent to 
Rome, with several of his colleagues, to signify the 
obedience of the converted provinces to the holy see : 
we have an acconnt of this event by Baronius. Pocicv 
devoted his whole life to cementing and extending this 
union, which was finally destroyed by the emperor 
Nicholas in 1839. Pociey was bishop of Wladimir 
and Bresc, and died at Wladimir July 28, 1013. lie 
left a number of Homilies , published by Leo. Kiszka 
( Kazania y Ilomilie Hipaciyscza Pocieht, 1714, 4to) : — 
The Union, an exposition of the principal articles relat- 
ing to the union of the Greeks with the Roman Church 
(Wilna, 1595): — an Account of the embassy which the 
Kuthenians, in 1470, sent to Sixtus IV (Wilna, 1005, 1 
4to); we know only one copy of this work, that in the 
Imperial Library of St. Petersburg : — Privileges granted 
to the Uniates by the Kings of Poland (Wilna, s. d., about 
1700) : — divers Epistles disseminated in the Annales de 
la Societe Archeologique de Saint-Petersbourg. the most 
remarkable being addressed to the patriarch of Alexan- 
dria : — his Testament, inserted in the Review of Posen . — 1 
Iloefer, Xuuv. Blog. Generate, s. v. 

Pockels, Carl Friedrich, a German moralist, 
was born Nov. 15, 1757, at Wbrmlitz, near Halle. In 
1780, having completed his studies at the university in 
Halle, he was appointed tutor of the princes of Bruns- 
wick, and afterwards guardian of one of them, the duke 
Augustus. When this house lost their estates, he lived 
as a private citizen at Brunswick. In 1813 he occupied 
again his former relation to duke Augustus. lie died 
at Brunswick Oct. 29, 1814. Pockels’s works, written 
in a fluent and elegant style, contain a treasury of sa- 
gacious and curious observations on man and society. 
He left, Beitrage zur Beforderung der M enschenkennt- 
niss (Berlin, 1788-89, 2 parts, 8vo; followed hv Neue ! 
Beiirdge, etc., llamb. 1798, 8vo ) : — Fragmcnte zur Kennt - 
niss des menschlichen Herzens (Hanover, 1788-94, 3 vols. 
8vo ) : — Denkwiirdigkeiten zur Bereicherung der Charak- 
terkunde (Halle, 1794, 8vo ): — Versuch einer Charakter- 
istik des weiblichen Geschlechts (Hanover, 1799-1802, 5 
vols. 8vo) ; it is a writing full of witty remarks ; the 
author published as a pendant Der Mann (ibid. 1805-8, 
4 vols.Svo ): — Karl With. Ferdinand von Braunschweig 
(Stuttgard, 1809, Svo ) : — Ueber den Umgang mil Kindern 
(1811 ): — Ueber Gesellschaft, Geselligkeit und Umgang 
(Hanover, 1813— 1G, 3 vols. 8vo). Pockels published a 
Taschenbuch, as keepsake, for the years 1803 and 1804; 
and, in common with Ch. Ph. Moritz, the Denkwiirdig- 
keiten zur Beforderung des Edlen und Schunen (Berlin, 
1786-88, 2 vols. 8vo), some articles in the Magazin zur 
Fjfahrungsseelenlehre, and in the Bi’aunschweigischcs 
Magazin. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Pockliilgton, John, D.D., an English divine, 
noted also as an educator, flourished near the middle 
of the 17th century. He was at one time president of 
Pembroke Hall and Sidney College, Cambridge, lie 
published Sermo7is (Lond. 1636 ): — Alture Christianum 
(1637, 4to), in answer to Williams’s Holy Table. See 
Williams, John. 

Pocock, Edward (1), an English Orientalist and 
theologian of great note, not only in his own times, hut one 
whose scholarly acquirements are gladly acknowledged 
even in our clay, was born Nov. 8. 1604. lie studied in 
Oxford, his native place, at the university, and devoted 
himself especially to the Oriental tongues, the Hebrew, 
Arabic, Chaldee, and Syriac, first under the direction of 
Matthew Pason, and afterwards under that of William 
Bedwell. Pocock took his bachelor of arts’ degree in 
1622, and his master’s in 1626. Lnd. de Dieu publish- 
ing a Syriac version of the Apocalypse at Leyden the 
following year, our author, after his example, began to 
prepare those four epistles which were still wanting to 
a complete edition of the New Testament in that lan- 
guage. These epistles tvere the second of Peter, the 
second and third of John, and that of Jude. All the 
other books, except these five, had been well printed by 


Albertus Widmanstadius, at Vienna, in 1555, who was 
sent into the West for that purpose by Ignatius, the 
Jacobite patriarch of Antioch, in the 16th centurv. 
Having met with a manuscript in the Bodleian Librarv 
proper to his purpose, Pocock engaged in this work and 
finished it ; but laid it by, not having the courage to pub- 
lish it, till the fame of it, in 1629. brought him into the 
acquaintance of Gerard Vossius, who, being then at Ox- 
ford, obtained his consent to carry it to Leyden, where 
it was printed that year, in 4to, under the immediate 
care and inspection of Liul. de Dien. In 1628 Pocock 
had been received a fellow of the principal college of 
Oxford ; but having decided to enter the priesthood, he 
was ordained priest in 1629, having entered into dea- 
con’s orders some time before, and he was appointed 
ehaplain to the English factory at Aleppo, by the in- 
terest of Sclden, as appears very probable. He arrived 
at that place, after a long voyage, Oct. 17, 1630. llis 
residence in the East for six years furnished an oppor- 
tunity of further study in the Oriental tongues, lie 
acquired great skill in the Arabic tongue, and he like- 
wise endeavored to get a further insight, if possible, into 
the Hebrew; but soon found it fruitless, the Jews there 
being very illiterate. He also improved himself in the 
Ethiopic and Syriac, of which last he made a grammar, 
with a praxis, for his own use. On Oct. 30, 1631, he 
received a commission from Laud, then bishop of Lon- 
don, to buy for him such ancient Greek coins and such 
manuscripts, either in Greek or the Oriental languages, 
as he should judge most proper for a university library 
— which commission Pocock executed to the best of his 
power. He also translated a number of historical works 
from the Arabic, collected a great quantity of Oriental 
manuscripts, which he sent to England, and made a 
careful study of the environs of Aleppo, with respect to 
natural history : the result of the latter study was in- 
tended to furnish a desirable addition to the commenta- 
ries of the Old Testament. In 1634 the plague raged 
furiously at Aleppo; many of the merchants fled two 
days’ journey from the city, and dwelt in tents upon 
the mountains: Pocock did not stir, yet neither he nor 
any of the English caught the infection. In 1636 he 
received a letter from Laud, then archbishop of Canter- 
bury, informing him of his design to found an Arabic 
lecture at Oxford, and of naming him to the university 
as the professor; upon which agreeable news he pres- 
ently settled his affairs at Aleppo, and took the first op- 
portunity of returning home. On his arrival at Oxford 
this year, he took the degree of bachelor of divinity in 
July, and entered on the professorship in August; how- 
ever, the next year, when his friend Mr. John Greaves 
concerted his voyage to Egypt, it was thought expe- 
dient by Laud that Pocock should attend him to Con- 
stantinople, in order to perfect himself in the Arabic 
language, and to purchase more manuscripts. During 
his abode there, he was for some time chaplain to Sir 
Peter Wych, then the English ambassador to the Porte, 
and who became Pocock’s most zealous protector. He 
collected during his stay in that city a number of 
Oriental manuscripts. In 1639 he received several let- 
ters from his friends, and particularly from the arch- 
bishop, pressing him to return home ; and accordingly, 
embarking in August, 1640, he landed in Italy, and 
passed thence to Paris. Here he met with Grotius, 
who was thei) ambassador at the court of France from 
Sweden, and acquainted him with a design he had 
to translate his treatise De reritate Christiana; Religi- 
on is into Arabic, in order to promote the conversion 
of some of the Mohammedans. Grotius was pleased 
with and encouraged the proposal, while Pocock did not 
scruple to observe to him some things towards the end 
of his book which he could not approve: as his ad- 
vancing opinions which, though commonly charged by 
Christians upon Mohammedans, yet had no foundation 
in any of their authentic writings, and were such as 
they themselves were ready to disclaim. Grotius was 
so far from being displeased that he heartily thanked 


pocock 


310 


POCOCIC 


Poo ck for (lie freedom he had taken ; and gave him full 
leave, in the version he intended, to expunge and alter 
whatever he should think fit. This work was published 
in ltit'iO at the sole expense of Mr. Hubert Hoyle: (Jro- 
tiuVs introduction was left out, and a new preface added 
bv Pocock, showing the design of the work, and giving 
some account of the persons to whom it would he of 
11 * 0 . (In his return to England, in lli-10, Pocock found 
himself in very difficult eircumstanees. 1 1 is chair of 
Arabic had been sti pended by archbishop Ijtud. hut 
afi»r the death of that prelate the revenues had been 
m-i/m] upon. Pocock now devoted himself entirely to 
*tn ly. and escaped by his retreat, as well as by the 
inendship of John Seldcn, who enjoyed a great intln- 
ence in the republican party, the vexations, if not 
dangers, which his royalist opinions would have been 
Mire to bring upon him. In 1613 lie was presented by 
his college with the living of ChiWrcv, in Herkshire, 
and in HI 17. in consequence of the exertions of John 
Seldcn, he was reinstated in his Oxford chair, and two 
years later lie was appointed professor of Hebrew. The 
king, who was at that time a prisoner in the Isle of 
Wight, also bestowed on him a rich eanonry. An act 
of Parliament confirmed the gift; but the eanonry thus 
n-signt 1 to him being dilTcrcnt from that originally 
annexed to the professorship, Pocock entered a protest 
against it, and refused to receive the profits. In the 
meantime he composed his Specimen Historic Arabum, 
being extracts from the work of Abiil-laraj in the 
original Arabic, together with a Latin translation and 
copious notes. This work, which was printed at Ox- 
ford in 161* and 1650 (4lo), was reprinted in 1K06 by 
White, with some additions by Svlvestre de Sacy. In 
November, 1650, about a year afler publishing the pre- 
c ling work, Pocock was ejected from his eanonry, and 
it was intended to deprive him of the Hebrew and Ar- 
abic | rofessorsbips; but, thanks to a petition signed hy 
all i lie heads of houses, the masters, and scholars at ( )x- 
f<>r I. Pocock was sutTcred to enjoy both places. In 1055 
he was on the point of being deprived <>f his living, on 
the ground of “ignorance and insufficiency;” at least 
such were the charges preferred against, him by Crom- 
well's committee. Some of his t lx lord friends, however, 
wisely prevented the disgrace to the Houndhcad party 
which would have followed the ejection, upon such 
grounds, of so eminent a scholar as Pocock. The most 
determined against this measure was l)r. John Owen 
( himself one of the Parliamentary commissioners), Seth 
Ward, John Wilkins, and John Wallis, who withstood 
t lie stupid nu<l bigoted creatures to their face, and made 
tlu'in sensible of “the infinite contempt and reproach" 
winch would reward such treatment of a man ‘‘whom 
all (lie learned, not of Kngland only, but of all Knropc, 
so justly admired for his vast knowledge and extraor- 
dinary accomplishments.’’ Meanwhile nothing had suf- 
ficed to ehe’k either his pious care of his parish or his 
pur.uit of sacred and t >riental learning. In Arabic and 
Hebrew learning lie was allowed to be second to none 
of Ins ago. 

from the tir-t Pocock made his Oriental attainments 
'ill -r\ii«it to Hildical illustration; and his euttlrihu- 
i i' , directly and indirectly, to Hildical learning were 
i »on r sis and extremely valuable. ( )f his connection 
wnh Waltons po/n/lnt, his biographer says: “ Krom 
the I • /inning scarce' n step was taken in that work 
n. t excepting even the / 'mb y< annul ) till communi- 
cate l to Mr. Pocock, without whose assistance 5 it must 
have wanted niu-li of its isrfcction he collated 
the \rabic Pmtntcuch, with two copies of Sandins's 
transliitu.il; drew up an uceonnt of the Arabic versions 
< I that | >art of tin ltild ■ which is to he found in the 
Apponltx to the P< lvglol. and lent some of his own 
ri. h store of MSS to (lie c inductors of the work. viz. a 
Syriac MS. of the entire (fid Testament, an Kthiopic 
M's. of t lie Psalm*, two Syriac MSS. of the Psalms, and 
a IVrtian MS, <>f tin* (tospels. Soon after his escape from 
the commissions pur|»oses Pocock published his Porta 


Mosul, being six prefatory discourses of Moses Maimon- 
ides’s “Commentary upon the Mishna,” written in Ara- 
bic, but with the Hebrew letters. This work, which 
was the first production of the Hebrew press at Oxford, 
appeared in 1055, together with a Katin translation and 
numerous notes. Pocock made this w’ork the more use- 
ful to Hildical students by his copious Appendix A ’ota- 
rnm Misctllnnea , where he discusses many points of in- 
terest to Hiblical scholars. Pocock reaped golden opin- 
ions on the publication of this now neglected though 
still very valuable work. In the following year Pocock 
appears to have entertained the idea of publishing the 
A.r posit ions of llabbi Tunchum on the Old Testament , as 
he was at that time the only person in Europe who pos- 
sessed any of the MSS. of that learned rabbi ; but, prob- 
ably from want of encouragement, lie did not prosecute 
bis design. In 1057 the English Polyglot appeared, in 
which Pocock had a considerable hand, lie collated 
the Arabic Pentateuch, and also wrote a preface con- 
cerning the different Arabic versions of that part of the 
Hible, and the reason of the various readings to be 
found in them, the whole of which was inserted in the 
Appendix to the Polyglot. Those parts of the Syriac 
version of the New Testament which had remained un- 
published are due to him; he accompanied them with a 
Latin version and annotations. In 165* his Latin trans- 
lation of the Annals of Duty chins was published at Ox- 
ford (in 2 vols. 4to), at the request and at the expense 
of Selden, who died before it appeared. At the Uestora- 
tion, Pocock was restored (June, 1660) to his canonrv of 
Christ -church, as originally annexed to the Hebrew 
professorship by Charles I ; but the frivolous court of 
Charles II thought as little of rewarding further his at- 
tachment to the royal cause as they were able to appre- 
ciate his works and his worth, lie took his doctor of 
divinity’s degree, and continued afterwards to discharge 
the duties of both his lectures, ami to give to the world, 
to the end of his life, new proofs of his unrivalled skill 
in Oriental learning. He was consulted as a master by 
all the most learned men in Europe: by Ilornius, Ail- 
ing, llottinger, Colins, from abroad; and by Cmlworth, 
Hoyle, Hammond, Castel, at home. His next publica- 
tion, in 1661, was the Arabic poem by Abu Ismail Tho- 
grai, entitled Ldmiy-yatu-l-ajem , with a Latin transla- 
tion. copious notes, and a learned preface by I >r. Samuel 
Clarke. Hut by far the most important as well as the 
most useful of Poeoek’s works was his translation of the 
entire work of Abul-faraj, which, along with the text 
and a few excellent notes, was printed at < Lxford in 1063 
(2 vols. 4to), entitled Gnyorii .4 bnl Farnjii liistoria Dy- 
nast iant m. (This is a compendium of the general his- 
tory of the world from the creation to his own time. i. c. 
about the end of the 13th century, and is divided into 
ten dynasties.) After the publication of this work Po- 
eock seems to have devoted himself entirely to Biblical 
learning. In 167-1 lie published, at the expense of the 
university, his Arabic translation of the Church Cate- 
chism and the English Liturgy. Some time after. Fell, 
dean of Christchurch, having concerted a scheme for a 
commentary upon the Old Testament, to be written by 
some learned bands in that university, engaged our au- 
thor to take a share. This gave occasion to his com- 
mentaries. In 1677 appeared his Commentary on the 
1'rophevie* of Mieah and Malaehi; in 1 (5*5 that on 
llosta, and in 1691 that on Joel. It was his intention 
to comment upon others of the lesser prophets. In 
these commentaries, which are all in English, I’ocoek’s 
skill in his favorite subject of Hiblical Hebrew is very 
apparent. The notes, no doubt, arc too diffuse, but 
they exhibit much profound learning in rabbinical as 
well as sacred Hebrew. In bis critical principles he 
warmly defends the general purity of the Masorctic 
text against the aspersions of Isaac Vossius and the 
theory of Capelins; lint, although liis Masorctic predi- 
lections are excessive, he does not depreciate the Scptua- 
gint. 1 1 is scheme ever was to reconcile by learned ex- 
planations the sacred original and the most venerable 


POCOCK 


311 


POE 


of its versions. This great and good man labored on, 
harassed by enemies and neglected by friends, but re- 
spected for his purity of life, and admired for his match- 
less learning, in his professional and pastoral pursuits, 
to the very end of his life, his only distemper being ex- 
treme old age, which yet hindered him not, even the 
night before he died, from his invariable custom of 
praying from the liturgy with his family, lie expired 
Sept. 10, 1691. after a gradual decay of his constitution, 
and his remains were interred in the cathedral of Christ- 
church, where a monument with an inscription is erected 
to his memory. As to his person, he was of a middle 
stature, and slender; his hair and eyes black, his com- 
plexion fresh, his look lively and cheerful, and his con- 
stitution sound and healthy. In his conversation he 
was free, open, and affable, retaining even to the last 
the briskness and facetiousness of youth. His temper 
was modest, humble, sincere; and his charity brought 
such numbers of necessitous objects to him that dean 
Fell used to tell him complainingly “ that he drew all 
the poor of Oxford into the college property.” His the- 
ological works were collected in 2 vols. fol. in 1740 by 
Leonard T wells, who also wrote an account of the life 
and works of Pocock. Pocock’s services to Oriental 
scholarship in Europe, especially in England, are well- 
nigh inestimable. Bishop Marsh says of him : “ Should 
I begin tospeak of the rare endowments of this admira- 
ble man, I should not be able to end his character un- 
der a volume. His rare learning appears in his writ- 
ings.” “Pocock,” says Hallam, “was probably equal 
to any Oriental scholar w hom Europe had hitherto pro- 
duced. ... No Englishman probably has ever contrib- 
uted so much to that province of [Arabic] learning.” 
See Cattermole, Literature of the English Church , i, 
175; Ilook, Ecclesiastical Biography, x iii, 98 ; Skeats, 
Hist, of the English Free Church , p. 63 ; Orme, Biblio- 
theca Biblia, s. v. ; Perry, Hist. Ch. of Engl., (see Index 
in vol. iii) ; Stoughton, Eccles. Hist, of Engl, (since the 
Restoration), ii, 332; Kitto, Cyclopaedia of British Lit- 
erature, iii, 553; Alii bone, Diet, of British and Ameri- 
can Authors, vol. ii, s. v. ; Biblical Repository , x, 2 sq. 
(J. H. W.) 

Pocock, Edward (2), an English Orientalist, son 
of the preceding, was born at Oxford in 1647, and edu- 
cated at the university of that place. He published, 
under his father’s direction, a philosophical treatise of 
Ibn-Tofail. w ith a Latin version and notes, entitled Phi- 
losophus autodidactus (Oxford, 1671, 4to). The same 
treatise was translated into English by Ockley. He 
was on the point of publishing the Description of Egypt 
by Abdallatif in Arabic and in Latin when, being re- 
fused in 1691 the succession to the chair left vacant by 
his father’s death, he renounced entirely his Oriental 
studies. This valuable work remained long unpub- 
lished : the Arabic text w r as printed at Tilbingen at the 
close of last century, and was almost immediately trans- 
lated into German. White published in 1800 the orig- 
inal and Pocock’s Latin version (Oxf. 4to), with notes 
of his ow r n. 

His brother Thomas translated into English a Hebrew 
treatise of Manasseh ben-Israel (Of the Term of Life, 
Loud. 1699, 12mo). (J. 11. W.) 

Pococke, Richard, an English prelate, w'as born 
in 1704 at Southampton. It is believed that he be- 
longed to the family of the preceding, notwithstanding 
the slight difference in the spelling of his name. He 
studied at Oxford, was received doctor, and embraced the 
ecclesiastical career. In 1734 and 1741 he travelled in 
the East, and published on his return a narrative of his 
journey, under the title, A Description of the East and 
some other Countries (Lond. 1743-45, 3 vols. in 2, folio, 
w’ith 179 drawings and maps). This work most fully 
and w r ith care delineates the countries and manners 
which make its reading interesting even now. Having 
accompanied lord Chesterfield to Ireland as chaplain, 
he remained in that country, and was appointed in 1756 


bishop of Ossory. He had just been transferred to 
Meath when he died of apoplexy, in September, 1765. 
There are some notices of him in the Philosojikical 
Transactions and in the Archteologia. (J. 11. W.) 

Pocularies is an ecclesiastical term used for drink- 
ing-cups consecrated in churches. 

Poderis or Talaris is another name for the alb 
(q. v.). 

Podico, John df, (also called John de Valladolid 
or John Conversus), a convert from Judaism and noted 
as a writer, w r as born about the year 1335. He is the 
author of two anti-Jew T ish works, viz. Corcordia legis, 
cited very often by Alfonso de Spina in his Fortalitium 
fdei (p. 117, 155, 169, 170 sq.), and Declaratio super 
Aben Esram in decern prcecepta; also quoted by Alfonso 
de Spina. He w r as permitted by the king, Don Henry, 
to hold religious disputations w'ith Jews, and in 1375 
such a disputation took place in the cathedral of Avila, 
where Moses Kohen de Tordesillas was the spokesman 
of the Jew's. The main points to be discussed were the 
dogmas of Christianity, the Messiahship of Jesus, his di- 
vinity and incarnation, the Trinit}', and the virginity of 
Mar}'. Four discussions w r ere held, the result of w'hich 
was published by Tordesillas in his *it?, or 

examination of one hundred and twenty-five passages 
of Scripture usually urged by Christians in favor of 
their religion. This book, which he designated “The 
Stronghold of the Faith,” he presented to the syna- 
gogue of Avila and Toledo. See Fiirst, Bibl. Judaica, 
iii, 435, 467 ; De Rossi, Dizionario storico degli Autori 
Ebrei (Germ, transl. by Hamberger), p. 317 ; the same, 
Bibl. Judaica antichristiana, p. 26; Griitz, Gescli. d. 
Juden, viii, 21 sq. ; Lindo, Hist, of the Jews, p. 159; 
Finn, Sephardim, p. 311 ; Ivalkar, Israel und die Kircke, 
p. 25. (B. P.) 

Podoniptc© (i. e. Feet-icashers ) is one of the names 
by which that branch of the Mennonites, otherwise 
known as Flemings, are sometimes designated. They 
maintain that the example of Christ, which has in this 
instance the force of a law', requires his disciples to wash 
the feet of their guests in token of their love ; and for 
this reason they have been called Podoniptce. But oth- 
ers deny that this rite was enjoined by Christ. See 
Mennonites. 

Poe, Adam, D.D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, noted for his devotion to its inter- 
ests, literary, social, and religious, was born in Colum- 
biana County, Ohio, July 21, 1804. Such limited ad- 
vantages as the times and the means of his parents 
afforded him for acquiring an education were eagerly 
embraced, and in the schools and by private tuition he 
secured the elements of a good English education and 
some knowledge of the classics, and formed a taste for 
reading and study which he continued through life. 
He received his early Christian training in the Presby- 
terian Church, and ever cherished for it a profound re- 
spect; but its distinctive doctrines did not find a response 
in his heart, and after careful examination and many 
severe spiritual conflicts he preferred the doctrines of 
religion as taught by the Methodist Episcopal Church. 
Having decided to give himself to the work of the min- 
istry, to which he felt called of God, be was licensed to 
preach, and in 1826 became a travelling preacher in the 
Ohio Annual Conference. He was effective from that 
date to the time of the illness which resulted in his 
death ; and as a pastor, and in the other capacities in 
which be served the Church and her cause, he was a 
most efficient laborer of the Master. Dr. Poe entered 
the travelling ministry when the work involved sacrifices 
and demanded labors of no ordinary character. The 
circuits were of vast extent. An absence from home of 
twenty-eight days, with a sermon and a class or prayer 
meeting for each and every day, and a horseback ride 
of six hundred miles through the forests and the rough 


POE 


1 2 


POELE3IBEKG 


roads «f the border sot tK meets to r.mplete a single 
rout i I, was cum moil. I'mlockt 1 hv heat or cold, 
through dren lung rams or chilling sleet or snow, 
along miry wav*., ami f >r inuiicasurcd reaches of dis- 
tan •<•. the < I ri-t-1 n g ami t hrM-scrving itinerant 
|.n— * I f rwnrd in lit*. ilrefc-fc rounds hunt mg up the 
l.-t mIimv ut the h «»*•• <f Israel, and gathering them 
i nt ) t ic f Id • f ihc crr.'it Shepherd. No man ever en- 
itrul t lie »?i • ** with tinner faith, with greater sin- 
gh 1 1 "t j- ir| ' or with more unreserved devotion 
limn w 1 A Ain I’oe. As he began, so lie continued 
To tin <o 1. His whole being was rooted and grounded 

i 1 1 - 1 . 1 1 is j»a>toral appointments were as follows: 

|s>7, n Brunswick Circuit; 1*2*, on Huron Circuit; 
l**2t>. in charge of Wayne Circuit; 1 Molt, on Columbus 
i ircuit ; 1 ''.i I . mi I leer Creek Circuit: 1*32 3, on Mi- 
nim I ’ircuit ; ls.il. Marietta. In 1*35 1 ir. I’oe succeeded 
the celebrated William 1C Christie as presiding elder of 
Woo-ter hi t rid, and continued on that and the Tillin 
hi'irtM some live years, when his impaired health de- 
manded r -lief front such exhausting labors. In 1*3'.) 
he w ;i* stationed in Mansfield; in 1*10 41, in Dela- 
ware; in Is’lg, pri-ijing elder on Norwalk District; in 
1*13 i i I h law are a second time; in 1*11, agent for the 
Ohio Wesleyan I’niversity; l*lt'», again in Mansfield; 
1*17 on Norwalk or Klyria District. From 1*50 to 
the spring of 1 *52. he was presiding elder of Mansfield 
District. At the General < onference of 1*52 lie was, in 
a maimer highly creditable to himself, elected assistant 
ng< ut of the Western I took Concern. To tliis oflice he 
was re-elected in 1*53. 1 poll the failure of (he health 

of the (lev. K. Swornistedt in 1*00, he was elected prin- 
cipal agent. To this office he was re-elected in 1*04. 
The i .eiieral < ‘uiiferenee of 1*0* would have gladly con- 
tinued him hi this relation had it not found him hover- 
ing between life and death, lie died June 20, 1*08. 
Dr. I'oc was a sound thinker, safe rather than brilliant 
in Ins ihcilogieal views, colloquial rather than oratori- 
cal in hi> style of speech, ever interesting and instruc- 
tive in the pulpit and on the platform. His life was 
genial an 1 Clirist'nn. A man of sterling integrity of 
character and honesty of purpose, of sound and godly 
judgment, he enjoyed the confidence of the Church to 
a degree rarely awarded to living men. Traversing the 
circuit, laboring in the stal ion, charged with the ardu- 
ous administration of the expansive district, or manag- 
ing the vast interests of I he Western Hook Concern, lie 
wa> tin* same sincere-hearted man. with one single pur- 
]M)se. to do well the work committed to him by the 
( biireh. 'I Ins was t lie grand secret of his success. Dr. 
I’oe ha 1 a commanding presence. The spirit of benev- 
olence ruled in his henrt, and its winning sunshine 
beamed in his countenance, lie was Irauk almost to 
blunt news, vet no one could mistake llie generous im- 
pul cs of his heart. He was fearless, but his courage 
was tempered with wisdom, lie was social in a high 
de.'rei , bis winning smile, his genial spirit, and the la- 
ei uy and efl. >t iveness with w hich lie drew upon the 
rieh '• r. boit«e of anecdote will not soon he forgotten 
by In n ini ate friends. Dr. I’m* was greatly interested 
1,1 tl • ’ '•» 'll ltd* outages of the Methodist F.pisco 
pal ( in h. hut particularly the Uhio Wesleyan Dni- 
v,r ' " 1 b be Inav almost be said to have been 

the f. mi r . I its t.iit h in the enterprise, and his devo- 
tion t.. i , w.t. truly hemic. From its inception down 
,n 1 1 1 ir ,f ,1M death no personal « *r family interest 
was d*ar« r to Ins heart than this grand, central educa- 
tional in t it ut ion of the 1 him it in the state of nhio. 
lie was a nu mU r . ft’n b, ,rd of iru-tees from the time 
ol its tour - 1110 ,,. S*e In-In.,, ( l„rk. in the II ,s/,rn 
</mh , I./,, ,/ . .lulv |s.;.S; J tr n'.s , \„rt/, 

( ! h y '• !’• : *’l *1- : '• )■< >/i /.i« Ailrucuh, 

Poe, Daniel, n u nu-tcr f the Methodist F.piseo- 
I«al ( him h, n i id br. liter of i lie pr. c. ding, was born in 
i nhmibiana t’niiiitj, uhio. (let. I \ i.sn.i. j„ August. 
l*-’.«. he uirnt 1 1 with the M.thodi-t Kpi-eopnl Church! 


Voting as he was. he was soon appointed a class-leader, 
and was licensed to exhort. lie prepared at an acad- 
emy for college, and studied at Augusta College. Ken- 
tucky. lie was licensed to preach, and admitted into 
the Ohio Conference, and appointed to travel the 
lx*tart balls Circuit, where, he labored acceptably and 
successfully. The next year lie was appointed to the 
Katun Circuit, and the year following to the Ham- 
ilton Circuit, and in 1*35 to the Oxford Circuit, in 
May, 1*33, lie was sent to the Oneida and Menomonee 
Mission, west of tireen Hay. lie commenced a school 
among t lie Oneida Indians, and extended his visits 
to those at Iirothcrtown, and other fragments of tribes 
scattered through the Wisconsin Territory, and finally 
succeeded in building up a flourishing mission, which 
continues to our day to exert a most salutary ifitlu- 
ence among this reclaimed savage tribe. In the au- 
tumn of 1*3* Mr. Poe travelled on horseback, through 
an almost unbroken wilderness, from Green Hay to Al- 
ton, 111., to attend the Illinois Conference, lie was 
then transferred hack to the Ohio Conference; but he 
could not get to Ohio in time to receive an appointment 
that year. In January, 1*30, his brother, who was pre- 
sidingchler of the Tiffin District, employed him on the 
Mexico Circuit, where he labored till t lie session of his 
Conference in September, 1*30, when he was appointed 
to the M'Arthnrstown Circuit. The next two years he 
was appointed to Tariton. In September, 1*12, he was 
transferred to the Texas Conference. On his arrival 
there he addressed himself with his accustomed zeal 
and energy to his work, but one of the great -wants 
of the country that first impressed him was the need 
of schools and teachers. In view of this destitution 
lie returned to Ohio, in order to secure a corps of teach- 
ers. Alter a few months lie returned to Texas, and 
shortly alter commenced laying the foundations of an 
institution of learning at San Augustine. The next 
Conference resolved to adopt it and give it their patron- 
age. Hut, besides this educational work, Mr. Poe served 
the San Augustine Circuit, which subjected him to the 
necessity of (ravelling some three hundred miles every 
four weeks, lie kept up his engagements with regu- 
larity, and to the satisfaction of all concerned, but the 
exertion necessary to this end proved too much, and in 
1*44 he fell a prey to disease, and died after a very 
short illness. His last words were a testimony of the 
happy servant to whom the Master bade a hearty wel- 
come. 1 Inppv — very, very happy !*’ w< re the last words 

of Daniel l’oe. “As a man of intellect.’' says bishop 
Morris, *■ 1 should place Poe considerably above t lie me- 
dium, though his mind was sober and practical rather 
than striking or brilliant. His perceptions were quick 
and clear, and he bail that strong common-sense and 
sound, discriminating judgment that gave great weight 
to his counsels and great ollieiency to his movements. 
In his moral constitution he was distinguished chiefly 
for the resolute and the heroic. He had a naturally 
kind and amiable spirit. He was far from being im- 
petuous in his movements or hasty in his decisions; . . . 
hut when his purpose was once deliberately and con- 
scientiously formed, it was impossible to divert him from 
the course of his sober convictions. With the highest 
degree of physical courage, he united that higher cour- 
age which has its foundation in principle and in faith. 
The sentiment of fear, except as it had respect to God, 
never found a lodgment in his bosom.” llis preaching 
was such as might have been expected from his solid 
and well-disciplined mind, and his earnest, resolute, and 
eminently Christian spirit. He spoke with great sim- 
plicity and directness, but without any of the graces of 
oratory. His discourses were well-considered, well-di- 
gested expositions of divine truth. See Sprague, ,l«- 
nnh of (h, Amir, /'ufjnt.v ii, 7*t> sq. ; Finlev, JSkttches; 
MimU s »f ( \mft ream 1*15. (J. II. W.) 

Poelemberg, Kounki.hs, a Dutch painter, was 
I'orn at I treeht in l.5*ti. llis master was Abraham 
Hlocmacrt. lie then went to Ponte, where he cn- 


POELEN BURG 


313 


POETRY 


joyed the lessons of Adam Elzheimer (1G00). A mem- 
ber of the academic rank, he was there called II Brusco 
and II Satiro. He Italianized his manner. Ilis paint- 
ings were esteemed, and brought a good price even in 
Italy. Pope Paul V and the grand-duke of Tuscany, 
Ferdinand II, endeavored in vain to keep him. After 
a few months spent in Florence (1021), he went back 
to Holland, where his fame had preceded him. He 
was received with great honors; Rubens became his 
friend. Charles I called him to London, where Poe- 
lemberg painted a great deal; but he finally abandoned 
the service of the English monarch and returned to 
Utrecht, where he died, in 1000. Ilis chief sacred 
works are : The Birth of Jesus, at Dtisseldorf ; Lot and 
his Daughters; the Martyrdom of St. Stephen ; a Flight 
to Egypt ; a Holy Family; an Angel announcing to the 
Shepherds the Birth of the Sarioitr, in the Louvre, and 
one of his best; etc. At the great exhibition at Man- 
chester (1851) the portrait of Poelemberg and his wife, 
painted by himself, and several landscapes, were great- 
ly admired. He left also some good eau-fortes, but 
his engravings are rare and out of the market. Poe- 
lemberg’s manner is remarkable for suavity and light- 
ness; it betokens great facility and an uncommon 
science of the chiaro-oscuro; his masses are large, his 
backgrounds and first plans full of harmony; the de- 
tails, especially those related to architecture, are care- 
fully worked out ; his figures (generally naked females) 
are well grouped, but the drawing is seldom correct. 
See Descamps, T7e des Peintres , i, 214 sip; Plane, La 
Me des Peintres ( Ecole Holla ndaise), liv. 94; Spooner, 
Biog. Ilist. of the Fine A i ts, s. v. ; Mrs. Clement, Hand- 
book of Painters, etc. p. 4G1. 

Poelenburg, Arnold, a Dutch theologian, was 
born Sept. 12, 1G28, at Horn, in the Netherlands, where 
he also became pastor in 1G53, after having completed 
his studies. He removed to Rotterdam, and in 1G59 
became professor of theology of the Remonstrants (q. v.), 
and died Oct. 30, 1GG6. He wrote, Confututio dis- 
putationis Fr. Spanhemii de quinque articulis contro- 
t'ersis, cum refutations argument i Guif. Tuissi, cui sol- 
rendo ne diabolum quidem et angelos ejus esse pares glo- 
riatur : — Dissert, epistol. qua demonstratin' non jiosse 
remonstrantes Integra conscienfia cum Contra remonstran- 
libus rel congregationis vel S. Synaxeos communionem 
colere: — Epistola ad Christ. Hartzaekerum in qua liber 
octavus sumrnce controversiarum Joh. Hornbeckii, qui 
est adcersus remonstrantes refellitur, etc. See Catten- 
burgh, in Biblioth. Remonstrantium ; Jdcher, Gelelirten- 
Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Pcenitentiale Romanum, a collection of rules 
used in the Roman Catholic Church, prescribing the 
time and manner of penance, the forms of prayer to be 
employed for the reception of those who enter upon 
penance, and for reconciling penitents by solemn abso- 
lution. Its history can be traced to the ninth ceuturi’. 
See Penitential. 

Poet (7roiTjn/£, a doer, as often translated) occurs 
but once in this sense in the Bible. Paul quotes the 
poet Aratus, a native, as well as himself, of Cilicia (Acts 
xvii, 28) : “ JPe are the children {the race) of God.” 
This is part of a longer passage, whose import is, ‘‘We 
must begin from Jupiter, whom we must by no means 
forget. Everything is replete with Jupiter. He fills 
the streets, the public places, and assemblies of men. 
The whole sea and its harbors are full of this god. and 
all of us in all places have need of Jupiter.” It was 
certainly not to prove the being or to enhance the 
merit of Jupiter that Paul quotes this passage. But he 
has delivered out of bondage, as we may say, a truth 
which this poet had uttered, without penetrating its 
true meaning. The apostle used it to prove the exist- 
ence of the true Cod, to a people not convinced of the 
divine authority of the Scriptures, and who would have 
rejected such proofs as he might have derived from 
thence. See Abates. 


The same apostle gives a pagan poet the name of 
prophet (Tit. i, 12, “ One of themselves, even a prophet 
of their own, said,” etc.), because, among the heathen, 
poets were thought to be inspired by Apollo. They 
spoke by enthusiasm. Oracles were originally delivered 
in verse. Poets were interpreters of the will of the gods. 
The poet quoted by Paul is Epimenides, whom the an- 
cients esteemed to be inspired and favored by the gods. 
See Epimenides. 

The son of Sirach, intent on praising eminent men, - 
enumerates bards or poets; who were, he says, “Leaders 
of the people by their counsels, and by their knowledge 
of learning meet for the people ; wise and eloquent in 
their instructions : such as found out musical tunes, and 
recited verses in writing” (Ecclus. xliv, 4). It is evi- 
dent that he considered them as of great importance to 
the community ; and we know that they were of great 
antiquity, for Moses, himself a poet, refers to those who 
spoke in proverbs (Numb, xxi, 27), of which he inserts 
a specimen. Jacob was a poet, as appears from his 
farewell benediction on his sons. It appears extremely 
probable that the honorable appellation Nebi equally 
denoted a prophet, a poet, and a musician, as the poets 
principally were. See Poetry. 

Poetry, Hebrew. We propose here to discuss only 
the poetical elements of the Bible, or ancient Hebrew 
poetry. For the sake of brevity and perspicuity, we 
shall treat this subject under the distinct heads of the 
character of Hebrew poetry, its existing remains, its 
classification, its history, and its literature. In doing 
this we use, so far as we find available, the articles in 
the various Biblical dictionaries. See Bible. 

I. The Essential Character of A ncient Ilebi'ew Po- 
etry.— Poetry is in its nature the language of the im- 
agination stimulated by the passions. While prose 
expresses the calm statements of memory and observa- 
tion, or the deliberate conclusions of the judgment, 
poetry gives utterance to the impulsive sentiments of 
the taste, the emotions and the aspirations of the heart. 
History can only appear in poetry in the guise oflegend, 
and reasoning only in the form of animated colloquy. 
The phraseology is in keeping with the difference in 
spirit. Poetry tends to a more exalted and elaborate 
style of language in accordance with the fervid state of 
the mind. Hence the invention — spontaneous in most 
instances — of measure, whether of simple numbers or 
rhyme, to meet this overwrought state of the mental 
faculties. Biblical poetry partakes of these character- 
istics. It is distinguished from the prose compositions 
of the same book by its peculiarities of diction, as marked 
as those of other languages, although not so prosodia- 
cal. The reader is at once made aware of entering the 
poetical domain by a certain elevation of style, and by 
the employment of more frequent and extended tropes, 
as well as by greater abruptness and more decided en- 
ergy in the phraseology. The formal rhythm consists 
not — as in Greek and Latin, or even in the modern 
tongues— in a measured quantity of syllables of a par- 
ticular length in utterance, but in a peculiar balance and 
antiphony of the clauses, constituting what is known as 
parallelism. Each of these peculiar traits of Hebrew 
poetry we take space to develop somewhat in detail. 

One characteristic of Hebrew poetry', not indeed pe- 
culiar to it, but shared by it in common with the litera- 
ture of other nations, is its intensely national and local 
coloring. The writers were Hebrews of the Hebrews, 
drawing their inspiration from the mountains and rivers 
of Palestine, which they have immortalized in their po- 
etic figures, and even while uttering the sublimest and 
most universal truths never forgetting their own nation- 
ality in its narrowest and intensest form. Their images 
and metaphors, says Munk {Palestine, p. 444 a), “are 
taken chiefly from nature and the phenomenaof Palestine 
and the surrounding countries, from the pastoral life, from 
agriculture and the national history. The stars of heaven, 
the sand of the sea-shore, are the image of a great mul- 
titude. Would they' speak of a mighty host of enemies 


POETRY 


3 14 


POETRY 


invadc.ig tin. • in n try, they are the swift torrents or tlie 
roaring waves of t lie sea. or the clouds that bring on a 
ti n i : tlie war-eli a riots advance swiftly like light- 
niii- nr tin* whirlwinds. Happiness rises as the dawn 
and shines like tlie daylight; (lie blessing of Hod de- 
scends like the dew or the bountiful rain; the anger of 
] 1 1 a ven i- a devouring tire that annihilates the wicked 
as ih tlaine which devours tlie stubble. Unhappiness 
it likened to days of clouds and darkness; at times of 
great catastrophes the sun sets in broad day, the heav- 
ens are shaken, the earth trembles, the stars disappear, 
the sun is changed into darkness and the moon into 

l»l I. and so on. The cedars of Lebanon, the oaks of 

Hashan, are the image of the mighty man. tlie palm 
and the reed of the great and the humble, briers and 
thorns of tlie wicked; the pious mail is an olive ever 
green, or a tree planted by the water-side. The animal 
kingdom furnished eipially a large number of images: 
the lion, the image of power, is also, like the wolf, hear, 
etc., that of tyrants and violent and rapacious men; 
and the pious who sailers is a feeble sheep led to the 
slaughter. The strong and powerful man is compared 
tn the lie-goat or the bull of Hashan: the kino of 11a- 
shan lignrc.ii) the discourses of Amos, as the image of 
rich and voluptuous women; the people who rebel 
against the divine will are a refractory heifer. Other 
images arc borrowed front the country life, and from tlie 
life domestic and social : (he chastisement ofOod weighs 
upon Nracl like a wagon laden with sheaves; the dead 
cover the earth as the dung which covers the surface 
of the lields. The impious man sows crime and reaps 
misery, or lie sows the wind and reaps the tempest. 
The people yielding to the blows of their enemies are 
like the c irn crushed beneath the threshing instrument, 
t .od tramples tlie wine in the wine-press when he chas- 
tises (he impious and sheds their blood. The wrath of 
Jehovah is often represented as an intoxicating cup, 
which he causes those to empty who have merited his 
chastisement : terrors and anguish are often compared 
to the pangs of childbirth. Peoples, towns, ami states 
are represented by the Hebrew poets under the image 
of daughters or wives; in their impiety they are cour- 
tesans or adulteresses. The historical allusions of most 
fri ipn ut occurrence are taken from tlie catastrophe of 
Soikun and Itomorrah, the miracles of the departure 
from Egypt, and the appearance of Jehovah on Sinai.” 
Examples might easily lie multiplied in illustration of 
tins remarkable characteristic of the Hebrew poets: 
tlu y stand thick upon every page of their writings, and 
in striking contrast to the vague generalizations of the 
Indian philosophic poetry. There is accordingly no 
poetry which hears a deeper or broader stamp of tlie 
peculiar inlltiences under which it was produced. It 
iieicr leases to he Hebrew in order to become univer- 
sal, and yet it is universal while it is Hebrew. The 
country, the clime, the institutions, the very peculiar 
rto.iiiis institutions, rites, and observances, the very 
k| '' '' ir r» ligious history of the Israelites, are all fait b- 
• »1\ and viwdly rcllcctcd in the Hebrew muse, so that 
1 ' 1 11 ' 1 g van ever be mistaken Ibr a poem of any 
' ' ,,nr I ' Still it remains true that the heart of 
nnu. at ng the heart of all the most civilized nations 

1 1 1 ,r ' ' r h, has I moved and swayed, ami is still 

I 'I* ‘ »m 1 mo**! l»< mli'iallv moved'niul swaved l.v 

th*- ir. n - . I ltd heal poc-y. 

lh.r. i. io, aiieWnt i » Me age that can he put into 
e-f, 1 " I. ui I. that of the 11. brews hut that of the 
11 s * hrir e and Koine, and that of India. 
I i t Tin a., i \ ari< t\ we grant that the poetry of these 
l,; ' 1 ,||r l that of the Hebrews. 1 pic p (K .|ry 
an 1 to dr. in i, the two Mvles so far as mere 

art i c •him. I. were e.diivatel Micee-f„]| v h v them, 
while ninoi the Hr.-utilis we tiud on] v their germs 
and first riidnmiiK So in exenitti.ii we mav also nd- 
!*• it '•'•'Lin the higher qualities of style, thi* Hebrew 
literature is somewhat inferior, Hut the thought is 
more than the expression; the ki ruel than the "shell; 


and in substance the Hebrew poetry far surpasses every 
other. In truth, it dwells in a region to which other 
ancient literatures did not and could not attain — a pure, 
serene, moral, anil religious atmosphere; thus dealing 
with man in his highest relations, first anticipating, and 
then leading onwards, mere civilization. This, as we 
shall presently see more fully, is the great character- 
istic of Hebrew poetry; it is also the highest merit of 
anv literature, a merit in which that of the Hebrews is 
unapproaelicil. To this high quality it is owing that 
tlie poetry of the Hible has exerted on the loftiest in- 
terests and productions of tlie human mind, for now- 
above two thousand years, the most decided and the 
most beneficial influence. Moral and religious truth is 
deathless and undecaying; and so the griefs and the 
joys of David, or the far-seeing warnings and brilliant 
port ravings of Isaiah, repeat themselves in the heart 
of each successive generation, and become coexistent 
with the race of man. Thus of all moral treasuries the 
Hible is incomparably the richest. Even for forms of 
poetry, in which it is defective, or altogether fails, it 
presents the richest materials. Moses has not, as some 
have dreamed, left us an epic poem, but he has supplied 
the materials out of which the Paradise Lost was cre- 
ated. The sternly sublime drama of Samson A rjonislcs 
is constructed from a few materials found in a chapter 
or two which relate to the least cultivated period of 
the Hebrew republic. Indeed, most of the great poets, 
even of modern days, from Tasso down to Byron, all 
the great musicians, and nearly all the great painters, 
have drawn their best and highest inspiration from the 
Bible. 

It may have struck the reader as somewhat curious 
that the poetical pieces of which we spoke above should, 
in the common version of the Hible, be scarcely, if at all, 
distinguishable from prose. We do not know whether 
there is anything extraordinary in this. Much of clas- 
sical poetry, if turned into English prose, would lose 
most of its poetic characteristics; hut, in general, the 
Hebrew poetry sutlers less than perhaps any other by 
transfusion into a prosaic element: to which fact it is 
owing that the hook of 1 'saints, in the English version, 
is, notwithstanding its form, eminently poetic. There 
are, however, eases in which only the experienced eye 
can trace the poetic in and under the prosaic attire in 
which it appears in the vulgar translation. Nor until 
the subject of Hebrew poetry had been long and well 
studied did the learned succeed in detecting many a 
poetic gem contained in the Hible. In truth, poetry 
and prose, from their very nature, stand near to each 
other, and in the earlier stages of their existence are 
discriminated only by faint and vanishing lines, if we 
regard the thought, prose sometimes even now rises to 
the loftiness of poetry. If we regard the clothing, the 
simpler form of poetry is scarcely more than prose; and 
rhetorical or measured prose passes into the domain of 
poetry. A sonnet of Wordsworth could be converted 
into prose with a very few changes; a fable of Krnm- 
machcr requires only to be distributed into lines in or- 
der to make blank verse. Now in translations the form 
is for the most part lost ; there remains only the sub- 
stance, and poetic sentiment ranges from tlie humblest 
to the loftiest topics. So with tlie Hebrew poetry in its 
original and native slate. Whether in its case poetry 
sprang from prose, or prose from poetry, they arc both 
branches of one tree, and bear in their earlier stages a 
very close resemblance. The similarity is the greater 
in the literature of tlie Hebrews, because their poetic 
forms are less determinate than those of some other na- 
tions: they had, indeed, a rhythm; but so had their 
prose, and their poetic rhythm was more like that of 
our blank verse than of our rhymed metre, t >f poetical 
feet they appear to have known nothing, and in conse- 
quence their verse must lie less measured and less strict. 
Its melody was rather that of thought than of art and 
skill spontaneous, like their religious feelings, and 
therefore deep and impressive, but less subject to law, 


POETRY 


315 


POETRY 


and escaping from the hard limits of exact definition. 
Rhyme, properly so called, is disowned as well as metre, 
let Hebrew verse, as it had a kind of measured tread, 
so had it a jingle in its feet, for several lines are some- 
times found terminating with the same letter. In the 
main, however, its essential form was in the thought. 
Ideas are made to recur under such relations that the 
substance itself marks the form, and the two are so 
blended into one that their union is essential to consti- 
tute poetry. It is, indeed, incorrect to say that “ the 
Hebrew poetry is characterized by the recurrence of 
similar ideas” (Latham's English Language, p. 372), if 
by this it is intended to intimate that such a peculiarity 
is the sole characteristic of Hebrew poetry. One, and 
that the chief, characteristic of that poetry is sneh re- 
currence; but there are also characteristics in form as 
well as in thought. Of these it may be sufficient to 
mention the following: 

1. There is a verbal rhythm, in which a harmony is 
found beyond what prose ordinarily presents; but as the 
true pronunciation of the Hebrew has long been lost, 
this quality can only be imperfectly appreciated. 

2. There is a correspondence of words, i. e. the words 
in one verse, or member, answer to the words in an- 
other; for as the sense in the one echoes the sense in 
the other, so also form corresponds with form, and word 
with word. This correspondence in form will fully 
appear when we give instances (see below) of the paral- 
lelism in sentiment; meanwhile an idea of it may be 
formed from these specimens: 

“ Why art thou cast down, O my soul ? 

And why art thou disquieted in me?” 

(Psa. xliii, 5). 

“ The memory of the just is a blessing : 

But the name of the wicked shall rot” 

(Prov. x, 7). 

“ He turneth rivers into a desert, 

And water-springs into dry ground” 

(Psa. evii, 33). 

In the original this similarity in construction is more 
exact and more apparent. At the same time it is a free 
and not a strict correspondence that prevails; a corre- 
spondence to be caught and recognised by the ear in the 
general progress of the poem, or the general structure 
of a couplet or a triplet, but which is not of a nature to 
be exactly measured or set forth by such aids as count- 
ing with the fingers will afford. 

3. Inversion holds a distinguished place in the struct- 
ure of Hebrew poetry, as in that of every other; yet 
here again the remark already made holds good ; it is 
only a modified inversion that prevails, by no means (in 
general) equalling that of the Greeks and Romans in 
boldness, decision, and prevalence. Every one will, 
however, recognise this inversion in the following in- 
stances, as distinguishing the passages from ordinary 
prose : 

“ Amid thought in visions of the night, 

When deep sleep falleth upon men, 

Fear and horror came upou me” 

(Job iv, 13). 

“ To me men gave ear and waited, 

To my words they made no reply" 

(Job xxix, 21). 

“ For three transgressions of Damascus, 

And for four will 1 not turn away its punishment” 
(Amos i, 3). 

“ Ilis grave was appointed with the wicked, 

Aud with the rich man was his sepulchre” 

(Isa. liii, 9). 

4. The chief characteristics, however, of Hebrew po- 
etry are found in the peculiar form in which it gives 
utterance to its ideas. This form has received the 
name of “ parallelism .” Ewald justly prefers the term 
“thought-rhythm,” since the rhythm, the music, the 
peculiar flow and harmony of the verse and of the 
poem, lie in the distribution of the sentiment in such a 
manner that the full import does not come out in less 
than a distich. The leading principle is that a simple 
verse or distich consists, both in regard to form and 


substance, of two corresponding members : this has been 
termed Hebrew rhythm, or parallelismus membrorum. 
Three kinds may be specified: 

(1.) There is, first, the synonymous parallelism, which 
consists in this, that the two members express the same 
thought in different words, so that sometimes word an- 
swers to word; for example: 

“ What is man that thou art mindful of him, 

And the son of mau that thou earest for him 1" 

(Psa. viii, 4). 

There is in some eases an inversion in the second line: 

“ The heavens lelate the glory of God, 

Aud the work of his hands the firmament declares” 
(Psa. xix, 2). 

“ lie maketh his messengers the winds, 
llis ministers the flaming lightning” 

(Psa. civ, 4). 

Very often the second member repeats only a part of 
the first: 

“ Woe to them that join house to house, 

That field to field unite” (Isa. v, 8). 

Sometimes the verb which stands in the first member is 
omitted in the seeond : 

“ 0 God, thy justice give the king, 

Aud thy righteousness to the king’s son” 

(Psa. lxxii, 1). 

Or the verb may be in the seeond member: 

“ With the jawbone of an ass, heaps upon heaps, 
With the jawbone of an ass have 1 slain a thousand 
meu” (Judg. xv, 1C). 

The second member may contain an expansion of the 
first : 

“ Give to Jehovah, ye sons of God, 

Give to Jehovah glory aud praise” (Psa. xxix, 1). 

Indeed the varieties are numerous, since the synony- 
mous parallelism is very frequent. 

(2.) The seeond kind is the antithetic, in which the 
first member is illustrated by some opposition of thought 
contained in the seeond. This less customary kind of 
parallelism is found mostly in the Proverbs : 

“ The full man treadeth the honey-comb under foot, 
To the hungry every bitter thing is sweet” 

(Prov. xxvii, 7). 

Under this head comes the following, with other simi- 
lar examples : 

“ Day to day uttereth instruction, 

Aud night to night showeth knowledge” 

(Psa. xix, 2). 

(3.) The third kind is denominated the synthetic: 
probably the term epithetic would be more appropriate, 
since the second member not being a mere eeho of the 
first, subjoins something new to it, while the same struct- 
ure of the verse is preserved ; thus : 

“ He appointed the moou for seasons; 

The sun knoweth his going down” (Psa. civ, 19). 

“ The law of Jehovah is perfect, reviving the soul ; 
The precepts of Jehovah are sure, instructing the 
simple” (Psa. xix, 7). 

5. Intimately connected with the parallelistic struct- 
ure is the atrophic arrangement of Hebrew poetry. 
Usually the parallelism itself furnishes the basis of the 
versification. This correspondence in thought is not, 
however, of universal occurrence. We find a merely 
rhythmical parallelism in whieh the thought is not re- 
peated, but goes forward throughout the verse, which 
is divided midway into two halves or a distieh : 

“The word Is not upon the tongue, 

Jehovah thou knowest it altogether” 

(Psa. cxxxviii, 4). 

“Gird as a man thy loins, 

I will ask thee ; inform thon me” 

(Job xxxix, 3). 

Here poetry distinguishes itself from prose chiefly by 
the division into two short equal parts. This pecul- 
iarity of poetic diction is expressed by the word “i“T, to 
sing (strictly to play'), which properly denotes dividing 
the matter, and so speaking or singing in separated por- 
tions. Among the Arabians, who, however, have sylla- 
bic measure, each verse is divided into two hemistichs 


31G 


POETRY 


POETRY 


l>\' a •vt?Mira in the middle. The simple two-membered 
rfi vi Inn hitherto described prevails especially in the 
hui I.t .lull, the I'rovcrbs. and a portion of the Psalms; 
but in the ]<im, and still more in the Prophets, there arc 
numerous verses with three, four, or yet more members. 
In vers s consistin'; of three members (tristicha) some- 
times all llir-c are parallel: 

-Happy the man who walketh not in the paths of the 
uin vhteous, 

Nor Maud* h in the way of sinners, 

Nor Mttelli in the scat of scoffers" iPsa. i, 1). 
Sometimes two of the members stand opposed to the 
third : 

"To :ill the world •rocs forth their sound, 

Ti> i he end of the world their words ; 

For the sun he places a tabcruacle in them” 

(Psa. xix, 4). 

Verses of four members contain either two simple par- 
allels : 

"With righteousness shall he jnderc the poor, 

Ami lie nte wi'li cijuity for t lie afflicted of the people; 
lie -h;e 1 smite the earth with i tic rod of his month : 
\\"th no In eat h of his lips shall he slay the wicked’’ 
(Isa. xi, 4). 

nr the fir-t and third answer to each other; also the 
second and fourth : 

“That smote the people in auger 
With a c mtinual stroke ; 

That lorded it over the nations in wrath 
With mil-emitted oppression” (Isa. xiv, C). 

If the* members arc more numerous or disproportionate 
( Isa. xi. 1 1 >. or if tlic parallelism is important or irregu- 
lar, the di< 'inn of poetry is lost and prose ensues; as is 
the ea-c in Isa. v, l li. and frequently in the later proph- 
ets as Jeremiah and Ezekiel. The strophe, however, 
is frequently preserved in a quite extended form with 
rev -ral suhdivi-ions, and the parallelism is often carried 
out in subordinate clauses; instances of this are very 
common, espceiallv in the buok of Ecclesiastes. (See 
§ iv. 1. clow. I 

It is not to he supposed that each poem consists ex- 
clusively of one set of verso; for though this feature 
d as present ilsilf, yet frequently several kinds arc 
f und li thcr in one composition, so jis to give great 
case, fnedom. and capability to the style. Wc select 
the following beautiful specimen, because a chorus is 
introduced : 


1'AVIIi’h l.AMKNT OVER SAfl. ANI> JONATHAN. 


The (i •/< lie, t) I r iel, In s been cut down ou thy heights ! 

CUoru*. llow are the mighty fallen ! 

Tell it not in (J.ith, publish it not iu the streets of Ascalon, 
best the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, 

Le t tlo* daughters of the niicireumciscil exult. 

11.11s of t. ’boa, no dew nor raiu come noon you. devoted 
fields ! 

F >r lucre is stained the heroes’ how, 

S in'.'- how, never anointed with oil. 

From Ho* blood of the slain, from the Tat of the mighty, 

'l im* uiv of Jot.-ithan turned not hack, 

A- 1 the sword of Saul mine not idly home. 

S il • I Jons than ! lovely mid pleasant in life I 
\ I i i h v<* were not divided : 

So f i r th in i .odes, stronger than lious ! 


1 II 
II 

a / 


I im 
\. 
\\ 
CU o 


1 i* - of 1 rad ! weep for Saul ! 

lo • \-.u de v a tcly in purple, 

! tents of gold on your apparel. 

. How ic the mi| hty fallen in the midst of the 
“•I • tli in, sUIn in thy hirh places ! 
t < ♦ • f t t* < e brother Jonathan, 

‘ | ' 1 " •• ’ th> 11 lo me. 

h rf i \\ -ill. tme, more than the love of woman. 
»• I l»iv «... the mb hty fdlcn, 

A > 1 li- iv«mp,ins ofw.n perished! 


We have Hit »i this ole nil only for its singular 
Isautv. I i.t nl». hr.ai.se it i.rouis another (piulitv of 
lld.rcw |,t try the strophe. I„ this p„cm there arc 
three . 1 , .plus mark, d by thr r. curr. nee tliree times 
ot I Im dirge sung by the chorus. |‘he clmrus appears 

*•* I III three par*.., ci.rrispon.inu; with tlic 

parties m re miinedintc Iv nd Ire s..| m Hi ihric several 


portions of the poem. The first choral song is sung by 
the entire body of singers, representing Israel; the sec- 
ond is sung by a chorus of maidens; the third, by first 
a chorus of youths in a soft and mournful strain, and 
then by all the choir iu full ami swelling chorus. But 
in order to the reader’s fully understanding with what 
noble effect these “songs of Zion” came on the souls of 
their hearers, an accurate idea must be formed of the 
music of tlic Hebrews. See Music. Referring to the 
articles which bear on the subject, we merely remark 
that both music and dancing were connected with sa- 
cred song iu its earliest manifestations, though it was 
only at a comparatively late period, when David and 
Solomon had given their master-powers to the grand 
performances of the Temple-service, that poetry came 
forth in all its excellence, and tnusic lent its full aid to 
its solemn and sublime sentiments. 

6. In Hebrew, as in other languages, there is a pecul- 
iarity about the diction used in poetry — a kind ol poet- 
ical dialect, characterized by archaic and irregular forms 
of words, abrupt constructions, and unusual inflections, 
which distinguish it from the contemporary prose or 
historical style. It is universally observed that archaic 
forms and usages of words linger in the poetry of a lan- 
guage after t hey have fallen out of ordinary use. A few 
of these forms and usages are here given from Gesenius’s 
Lthrgebiiutle. The Piel and Iliphil voices are used in- 
transitively (.Ter. li, 5(5; Ezek. x, 7 ; Job xxix, 24) : the 
apocopated future is used as a present (Job xv, 33; Psa. 
xi, G; Isa. xlii, 6). The termination T' is found for 
the ordinary feminine (Exod. xv, 2; (Jen. xlix, 22; 
Psa. cxxxii, 4) ; and for the plural we have j" (Job 
xv, 13; Ezek. xxvi, 18) and “ l ‘ (Jer. xxii, 14 ; Amos vii, 
1). The verbal suffixes, *3. ' - r , and *3- (Exod. xv,0), 
and the pronominal suffixes to nouns, *13- for and 
*rP for (Ilab. iii, 10), arc peculiar to the poetical 
books; as are "HI (Psa. cxvi, 12), ’'“ ,1 (Dent, xxxii, 
37 ; Psa. xi,7),and the more unusual forms, !"I33t n ~(Ezck. 
xl, 1G), (Ezek. i, II), (Ezek. xiii, 20). In 

poetical language also we find *33 for *3 or 3“3. "33 
for 3, *33 for 3, "-3 for 3; the plural forms of the 
prepositions, “2X for 3X. ““3 for “13, "33; and the 
peculiar forms of the nouns, "“7*7 for "“H, "““T? f° r 
*Hn, 3 "333 for 3 " 3 3 . and so on. 

1 1. Existing Item dins of A ncient I / threw Poetry . — The 
poetry which is found in the Bible, rieli and multifarious 
as it is, appears to be only a remnant of a still wider and 
fuller sphere of Shemitic literature. The Xew Testa- 
ment is in fact comprised in our definition, for. besides 
scattered portions, which, under a prosaic form, convey 
a poetic thought, the entire book of the Apocalypse 
abounds in poetry. In no nation was the union of the 
requisites of which we have spoken above found in 
fuller measure than among the Hebrews. Theirs was 
eminently a poetic temperament; their earliest history 
was a hemic without ceasing to be a historic age, while 
the loftiest of all truths circulated in their souls, and 
' glowed on and started from their lips, lienee their 
language, in its earliest stages, is surpassingly poetic. In 
one sense the Bible is full of poetry ; for very much of 
its contents, which is merely prosaic iu form, rises, by 
force of the noble sentiments which it enunciates, and 
the striking or splendid imagery with which these sen- 
timents are adorned, into the sphere of real poetry. In- 
dependently of this poclie prose, there is in the Bible 
much writing which has all the ordinary characteristics 
of poetry. Even the unlearned reader can hardly fail 
to recognise at once the essence of poetry in various 
parts of the Bible. It is no slight attestation to the es- 
sentially poetic character of Hebrew poetry that its po- 
etical qualities shine through the distorting coverings 
of a prose translation. Much of the Biblical poetry is, 
indeed, hidden from the ordinary reader by its prose ac- 


POETRY 


317 


POETRY 


companiments, standing, as it does, undistinguished in 
the midst of historical narrations. 

It is a phenomenon which is universally observed in 
the literature of all nations, that the earliest form in 
which the thoughts and feelings of a people find utter- 
ance is the poetic. Prose is an aftergrowth, the vehicle 
of less spontaneous, because more formal, expression. 
Snatches of poetry are discovered in the oldest prose 
compositions. Even in Gen. iv, 23 sq. are found a few 
lines of poetry, which Herder incorrectly terms “the 
song of the sword,” thinking it commemorative of the 
first formation of that weapon. To us it appears to be 
a fragment of a larger poem, uttered in lamentation for 
a homicide committed by Lamech, probably in self-de- 
fence. See Lamecii. Herder finds in this piece all the 
characteristics of Hebrew poetry. It is, he thinks, lyr- 
ical, has a proportion between its several lines, and even 
assonance ; in the original the first four lines terminate 
with the same letter, making a single or scmi-rhvme. 

Another poetic scrap is found in Exod. xxxii, 18. 
Being told bv Joshua, on occasion of descending from 
the mount, when the people had made the golden calf, 
and were tumultuously offering it their worship — 

“ The sound of war is in the camp 
Moses said : 

“Not the sound of a shont for victory, 

Nor the sound of a shout for tailing ; 

The sound of a shout for rejoicing 
do I hear.” The correspondence in form in the original 
is here very exact and striking, so that it is difficult to 
deny that the piece is poetic. If so, arc we to conclude 
that the temperament of the Israelites was so deeply 
poetic that Moses and Joshua should find the excite- 
ment of this occasion sufficient to strike improvisatore 
verses from their lips? Or have we here a quotation 
from some still older song, which occurred to the minds 
of the speakers by the force of resemblance? Other in- 
stances of scattered poetic pieces may be found in Numb, 
xxi, 14, 15; also ver. 18 and 27; in which passages 
evidence may be found that we are not in possession of 
the entire mass of Hebrew, or, at least, Shcmitic litera- 
ture. Further specimens of very early poetry are found 
in Numb, xxiii, 7 sq., 18 sq. ; xxiv, 3, 15. The ordi- 
nary train of thought and feeling presented in Hebrew 
poetry is entirely of a moral or religious kind; but there 
are occasions when other topics are introduced. The 
entire Song of Solomon many regard as purely an erotic 
idyl, and considered as such it possesses excellences 
of a very high description. In Amos vi, 3 sq. may be 
seen a fine passage of satire in a denunciation of the 
luxurious and oppressive aristocracy of Israel. Subjects 
of a similar secular kind may be found treated, yet never 
without a moral or religious aim, in Isa. ix, 3; Jer. xxv, 
10 ; xlviii, 33 ; Iiev. xviii, 22 sq. But, independently of 
the Song of Solomon, the most sensuous ode is perhaps 
the 45th Psalm, which Herder and Ewald consider an 
epithalamiura. Further illustrations of this part of the 
subject appear under the next division. 

The poetical character of the Revelation of John is 
evident to every attentive reader. Many parts are 
professedly songs, formal expressions of praise, triumph, 
or mourning. The language is not only highly figura- 
tive, but it everywhere abounds with the most poet- 
ical images and modes of expression. Bishop Jebb has 
presented some of the songs in the form of Hebrew po- 
etry; and Prof. Stuart has shown the metrical arrange- 
ment of a few other portions; he has also expressed his 
conviction that the form of poetry, as well as its spirit, 
prevails to a great extent throughout the work. The 
references to the Old Test, in this book are more nu- 
merous than in any other book of the New Test. ; and 
they are not simple quotations, nor the transference of 
thought to a less poetic style of expression ; but they 
are imitations, in general more poetic than the original. 
That they are presented in the form of Hebrew, and 
not of Grecian poetry, can occasion no surprise. No 
other poetry would accord, cither with the habit of the 


apostle, or with the general character and design of the 
Bible. But this form of poetry would perfectly har- 
monize with both. The poetry of the Revelation of 
John appears to consist of the same description of par- 
allelisms, with those intercalary lines and other irregu- 
larities which are found in the larger specimens of 
Hebrew poetry. The species of parallelism which most 
prevails is the synthetic or constructive; the others 
being obviously less suitable to the subject of the com- 
position. There are, however, instances of every kind". 
Indeed, this book not only possesses the form and the 
spirit of Hebrew poetry, but it exhibits as much regu- 
larity in its parallelisms as any Hebrew poetry with 
which it can be justly compared. We give the follow- 
ing passages (Rev. i, 1, 5, G ; xxi, 23) : 

“The revelation of Jesus Christ, 

Which God to him imparted, 

To indicate unto his servants 
What mast come to pass ere long. 
u To Him who loveth us, and washed ns 
From onr sins iu his own blood: 

And constituted us a kingdom, 

Priests unto God, even his Father, 

To him he glory and dominion, 

For ever aud ever, Amen ! 

“ Aud the city has no need of the sun 
Nor of the moon to shine in it; 

For the glory of God illumines it, 

And the light thereof is the Lamb.” 

III. Classification of Poetic Styles.— 1. According to 
the Ancient Hebrew Designations. — These appear to have 
special, if not exclusive reference to what is now known 
as lyric poetry. The terms are of two classes. See 
Psalms. 

a. General titles, referring apparently to the musical 
form or purpose of the compositions. 

(1.) shir, a song in general, adapted for the 
voice alone. 

(2.) “I VIST'S, mizmdr, which Ewald considers a lyric 
song, properly so called, but which rather seems to cor- 
respond with the Greek \pa\fi6c, a psalm, or song to 
be sung with any instrumental accompaniment. See 
Psalm. 

(3.) nr:3, negindh, which Ewald is of opinion is 
equivalent to the Greek i paX/iog, is more probably a 
melody expressly adapted for stringed instruments. 

(4.) ? N 2 , w^, maskil, of which it may be said that if 
Ewald’s suggestion be not correct, that it denotes a 
lyrical song requiring nice musical skill, it is difficult 
to give any more probable explanation. See Mascuil. 

(5.) ES22, miktdm , a term of extremely doubtful 
meaning. See Michtam. 

(6.) jrrr, shiggayun (Psa. vit, 1), a wild, irregular, 
dithyrambic song, as the word appears to denote; or, 
according to some, a song to be sung with variations. 
The former is the more probable meaning. The plural 
occurs in I lab. iii, 1. See Siiiggaiox. 

b. But, besides these, there are other divisions of 
lyrical poetry of great importance, which have regard 
rather to the subject of the poems than to their form or 
adaptation for musical accompaniments. Of these we 
notice : 

(I.) firftPl, tehilldh, a hvmn of praise. The plural 
tehillbn is the title of the book of Psalms in Hebrew. 
The 145th Psalm is entitled “David’s (Psalm) of 
praise ;” and the subject of the psalm is in accordance 
with its title, which is apparently suggested by the 
concluding verse, “The praise of Jehovah my mouth 
shall speak, and let all flesh bless his holy name for 
ever and ever.” To this class belong the songs which 
relate to extraordinary deliverances, such as the songs 
of Moses (Exod. xv) and of Deborah (Judg. v), and the 
Psalms xviii and lxviii, which have all the air of chants 
to be sung in triumphal processions. Such were the 
hymns sung in the Temple-services, and by a bold fig- 
ure the Almighty is apostrophized as “Thou that in- 
habitest the praises of Israel,” which rose iu the holy 


POETRY 


31S 


POETRY 


pla • with the fragrant clouds «>f incense tTsa.xxii.3L 

same cla**s al«o F.wald refer.-, t he shorter poems 

of fo like kind with those already quoted, such as l’sn. 
xxx, xxxii. cxxxviii, and Da. xxxviii. which relate to 
less central occasions, and commemorate more special 
deliverances. The songs of victory snug by the con- 
gregation in the IVmplc, as Psa. xlvi. xlviii, xxiv, 7 1<». 
which is a short triumphal ode, and Psa. xxix. which 
prni-es Jehovah on the occasion of a great natural phe- 
nomenon. are likewise all to be classed in this division 
of lyric poetry. See II VMS. 

n:“". kinuh, the lament, or dirge, of which there 
arc many examples, whether uttered over an individual 
or as an 'outburst of grief for the calamities of the land. 
The most touchingly pathetic of all is perhaps the la- 
ment of 1 lav id for the death of Saul and Jonathan ( - 
Sam. i, 11* 27), in which passionate emotion is blend- 
ed with touches of tenderness of w\iich only a strong 
nature is capable, t'ompare with this the lament 
lor Aimer < 2 Sam. iii, 33. 31) and for Absalom (xviii, 
33). Ilf the same character also, doubtless, were the 
s-mgs w hich the singing men and singing women spake 
over Jo-inh at his death (2 fliron. xxxv, 25). and the 
songs of mourning for the disasters which befell the 
ha| less laud of Judah, of w hich Psalms xlix, lx. lxxiii. 
cxxxvii are examples (comp. Jer. vii. 2!>; ix, Itl [I*]), 
and the Lamentations of Jeremiah the most memorable 
instances. See LAMii.vr.vrios. 

(3.! rt‘7? ““'i', shir yediduth , a love-song (l‘sa. 
xlv, 1 ). in its external form at least. See I'axtki.ks. 

( b) r.*2Sr, tfphilldh . prayer, is the title of Psa. xvii, 
lxxxvi, xc, cii. cxlii, and Hah. iii. All these are strictly 
lyrical compositions, and the title may have been as- 
signed to them either as denoting the object with which 
they were written, or the use to which they were ap- 
plied. As Kwald justly observes, all lyric poetry of an 
elevated kind, in so far as it. reveals the. soul of the 
poet in a pure swift outpouring of itself, is of the nat- 
ure of a prayer: and lienee the term “prayer” was ap- 
plied to a collection of David's songs, of which Psa. 
lxxu formed the conclusion. See Pkaykk. 

Other kinds of poetry there are which occupy the 
tin 1 lie ground between the lyric and gnomic, being 
lyric hi form and spirit, but gnomic in subject. These 
may lie classed as 

mashdl, properly a similitude, and then a 
parable, or sententious saving, couched in poetic lan- 
guage. Such are the songs of Balaam (Numb, xxiii, 
7. 1 x : xxiv,3. 1,7, 2<l. 21. 23., which are eminently lyr- 
ical in character; the mucking ballad in Numb. xxi. 
27 3li. which has been conjectured to be a fragment of 
an ol l Amoritish war-song; and the apologue of Jotham 
(Jndg. ix. 7 2 h , both which last are strongly satirical 
in tone. Put the tinest of all is the magnificent pro- 
phetic sung of triumph over the full of Pahvlon ^Isa. 
xiv. I 27 1 . 


(i;.. r 


ehiddh. ail 

enigma (like the riddle of 

Sam - n. 

.iudg. 

xiv, 1 1 ), or “dark saving." as the A. V. 

hut it in 

P*a. 

xlix, .7; lx 

xviii, 2. The former passage 

illu trat' 

the 

musical, and therefore Ivrical character 

of Itl- - • 

"dark sayings:” 

“ 1 will incline mine ear to a 

par ' 

1 will 

open my 

dark sayings upon the harp.” 

MiitSti 

an l < 

hi id It are 

Used as convertible terms in 

E/.» k. \\ 

>1, 2. 




(7. La fly to this class belongs nulilsdh , a 

mock in*. ironical poem (Hah. ii, f.), 

2, 7 / < 1/</»<Tf/ic Itiftrihutbm,- The Jewish gram- 
marians have attached the poetic accent nation only to 
the tliree books <>t Psalms. Job, and Proverbs. There 
is no doubt that tin- Smg of Solomon is also poetical: 
and with these the Iswik • *f Lcch sia»tes was ancieiitlv, 
ns it M still usually, conjoined, though the form of com- 
position is less deco I* dlv poetical. To these live are to 
I e added the Lnmental urns * f Ji remi.ih, and the smaller 
pieces scattered over the historical mid prophetic writ- 


ings. Keeping these latter out of view, we may say 
that the Hebrew poetical books are six in number; and 
these six may be divided into two groups of three, ac- 
cording to the class of poetical composition to which 
each belongs, viz. : (1) Psalms, Song of Solomon, and 
Lamentations, which are predominantly lyrical in their 
character; and (2) Proverbs, Job, and Ecclesiastes, 
which are predominantly didactic. In the former the 
leading aim of the poet is not to instruct, but to give 
free utterance to the feelings of his own heart; in the 
latter the instruction of others is the object that is prin- 
cipally aimed at; though neither is the lyrical element 
altogether excluded from the latter, nor the didactic 
from the former. < )f the more sustained and elaborate 
epic and dramatic poetry— which was alike alien to the 
character of the Hebrew mind, and also in a certain 
measure inconsistent with the purpose of the Hebrew 
writings as a divine revelation — we have no examples, 
though some have applied the term “dramatic” in a 
loose sense to the book of Job, and in a more strict sense 
to the Song of Solomon. 

3. Modem Terminology . — For epic poetry the constit- 
uent elements do not appear to have existed during the 
classic period of the Hebrew muse, since epic poetry re- 
quires a heroic age — an age, that is, of fabulous won- 
tiers, and falsely so-called divine interpositions. But 
among the Israelites the patriarchal, which might have 
been the heroic age, was an age of truth and reality; 
ami it much raises the religious and historical value of 
the Biblical literature that neither the singular events 
of the age of the patriarchs, nor the wonderful events 
of the age of Moses, nor the confused and somewhat 
legendary events of the age of the Judges, ever degen- 
erated into mythology, nor passed from the reality, 
which was their essence, into the noble fictions into 
which the imagination, if nnchastened and unchecked 
by religion, might have wrought them; but they re- 
tained through all periods their own essential character 
of earnest, lofty, and impressive realities. At a later 
period, when the religion of Moses had, during the Bab- 
ylonian captivity, been lowered by the corruptions of 
the religion of Zoroaster, and an entirely new world of 
thought introduced, based not on reality but fancy, em- 
anating not from the pure light of heaven, but from the 
mingled lights and shadows of primitive tradition and 
human speculation — then there came into existence 
among the Jews the elements necessary for epic poetry; 
but the days were gone in which the mind of the na- 
tion had tht requisite strength and culture to fashion 
them inter a great, uniform, and noble structure; and if 
we can allow that the Hebrews possessed the rndiinen- 
tal outlines of the epic, we must seek for them not in the 
canonical, but in the apocryphal hooks; and while we 
deny with emphasis that the term Epos can be applied, 
as some Herman critics have applied it, to the Penta- 
teuch, we can find only in the book of Judith, and with 
rather more reason in that of Tobit, anything which 
approaches to epic poetry. Indeed fiction, which, if it 
is not the essence, enters for a very large share into both 
epic and dramatic poetry, was wholly alien from the 
genius of the Hebrew muse, whose high and noble func- 
tion was not to invent, but to celebrate the goodness of 
Hod ; not to indulge the fancy, but to express the deep- 
est feelings of the soul; not to play with words and 
feign emotions, hut to utter profound truth and com- 
memorate real events, and pour forth living sentiments. 

Of the three kinds of poetry which are illustrated hv 
the Hebrew literature, the lyric occupies the foremost 
place, commencing, as we have seen, in the pre-Mosaic 
times, nourishing in rude vigor during the earlier pe- 
riods of the Judges, the heroic age of the Hebrews, 
growing with the nation's growth and strengthening 
with its strength, till it reached its highest excellence 
in David, the warrior-poet, and thenceforth began slowly 
to decline. In this period art, though subordinate, was 
not neglected, as indeed is proved by the noble lyrics 
which have come down to us. and in which the art is 


POETRY 


319 


POETRY 


only relatively small and low — that is, the art is incon- 
siderable and secondary — merely because the topics are 
so august, the sentiments so grand, the religious im- 
pression so profound and sacred. At later periods, when 
the first fresh gushing of the muse had ceased, art in 
Hebrew, as is the case in all other poetry, began to 
claim a larger share of attention, and stands in the po- 
ems for a greater portion of their merit. Then the play 
of the imagination grew predominant over the sponta- 
neous outpourings of the soul, and among other crea- 
tions of the fancy alphabetical poems were produced, in 
which the matter is artistically distributed sometimes 
under two-and-twenty heads or divisions, corresponding 
with the number of the Hebrew letters. 

Gnomic poetry is the product of a more advanced 
age than the lyric. It arises from the desire felt by the 
poet to express the results of the accumulated expe- 
riences of life in a form of beauty and permanence. Its 
thoughtful character requires for its development a time 
of peacefulness and leisure ; for it gives expression, not 
like the lyric to the sudden and impassioned feelings of 
the moment, but to calm and philosophic reflection. 
Being less spontaneous in its origin, its form is of neces- 
sity more artificial. The gnomic poetry of the Hebrews 
has not its measured flow disturbed by the shock of 
arms or the tumult of camps; it rises silently, like the 
Temple of old, without the sound of a weapon, and its 
groundwork is the home life of the nation. The period 
during which it flourished corresponds to its domestic 
and settled character. From the time of David on- 
wards through the reigns of the earlier kings, when the 
nation was quiet and at peace, or, if not at peace, at 
least so firmly fixed in its acquired territory that its 
wars were no struggle for existence, gnomic poetry blos- 
somed and bore fruit. We meet with it at intervals up 
to the time of the Captivity, and, as it is chiefly charac- 
teristic of the age of the monarchy, Ewald has appro- 
priately designated this aera the ‘‘artificial period” of 
Hebrew poetry. From the end of the 8th century B.C. 
the decline of the nation was rapid, and with its glory 
departed the chief glories of its literature. The poems 
of this period are distinguished by a smoothness of dic- 
tion and an external polish which betray tokens of labor 
and art ; the style is less flowing and easy, and, except 
in rare instances, there is no dash of the ancient vigor. 
After the Captivity we have nothing but the poems 
which formed part of the liturgical services of the 
Temple. 

Whether dramatic poetry, properly so called, ever 
existed among the Hebrews, is, to say the least, ex- 
tremely doubtful. In the opinion of some writers the 
Song of Songs, in its external form, is a rude drama, 
designed for a simple stage. But the evidence for this 
view is extremely slight, and no good and sufficient 
reasons have been adduced which would lead ns to con- 
clude that the amount of dramatic action exhibited in 
that poem is more than would be involved in an ani- 
mated poetic dialogue in which more than two persons 
take part. Philosophy and the drama appear alike to 
have been peculiar to the Indo-Germanic nations, and 
to have manifested themselves among the Shemitic 
tribes only in their crudest and most simple form. 

Each of these forms of poetry, as they appear in the 
Bible, requires a more distinct notice separately. 

(1.) Lyrical Poetry . — The literature of the Hebrews 
abounds with illustrations of all forms of lyrical poetry, 
in its most manifold and wide-embracing compass, from 
such short ejaculations as the songs of the two Lamechs, 
and Psa. xv, cxvii, and others, to the longer chants of 
victory and thanksgiving, like the songs of Deborah 
and David (Judg. v; Psa. xviii). The thoroughly na- 
tional character of all lyrical poetry has already been 
alluded to. It is the utterance of the people’s life in all 
its varied phases, and expresses all its most earnest 
strivings and impulses. In proportion as this expres- 
sion is vigorous and animated, the idea embodied in lyric 
song is in most cases narrowed or rather concentrated. 


One truth, and even one side of a truth, is for the time 
invested with the greatest prominence. All these char- 
acteristics will be found in perfection in the lyric poetry 
of the Hebrews. One other feature which distinguishes 
it is its form and its capacity for being set to musical 
accompaniment. The names by which the various kinds 
of song were known among the Hebrews will supply 
some illustration of this. (See above.) 

(2.) Gnomic Poetry . — The second grand division of 
Hebrew poetry is occupied by a class of poems which- 
are peculiarly Shemitic, and which represent the near- 
est approaches made by the people of that race to any- 
thing like philosophic thought. Reasoning there is 
none : we have only results, and these rather the prod- 
uct of observation and reflection than of induction or 
argumentation. As IjTic poetry is the expression of 
the poet’s own feelings and impulses, so gnomic poetry 
is the form in which the desire of communicating knowl- 
edge to others finds vent. There might possibly be an 
intermediate stage in which the poets gave out their 
experiences for their own pleasure merely, and after- 
wards applied them to the instruction of others, but 
this could scarcely have been of long continuance. The 
impulse to teach makes the teacher, and the teacher 
must have an audience. It has already been remarked 
that gnomic poetry, as a whole, requires for its develop- 
ment a period of national tranquillity. Its germs are 
the floating proverbs which pass current in the mouths 
of the people, and embody the experiences of many with 
the wit of one. From this small beginning it arises, at 
a time when the experience of the nation has become 
matured, and the mass of truths w hich are the result of 
such experience have passed into circulation. The 
fame of Solomon’s wisdom was so great that no less than 
three thousand proverbs are attributed to him, this be- 
ing the form in which the Hebrew* mind found its most 
congenial utterance. The saver of sententious sayings 
was to the Hebrews the wise man, the philosopher. Of 
the earlier isolated proverbs but few examples remain. 
One of the earliest occurs in the mouth of David, and 
in his time it was the proverb of the ancients, “From 
the wicked cometh wickedness” (1 Sam. xxiv, 13 [14]). 
Later on, when the fortunes of the nation were obscured, 
their experience w as embodied in terms of sadness and 
despondency : “The days are prolonged, and every vis- 
ion faileth,” became a saying and a byword (Ezek. xii, 
22) ; and the feeling that the people were suffering for 
the sins of their fathers took the form of a sentence, 
“ The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s 
teetli are set on edge” (Ezek. xviii, 2). Such were the 
models which the gnomic poet had before him for imita- 
tion. These detached sentences may fairly be assumed 
to be the earliest form, of which the fuller apophthegm 
is the expansion, swelling into sustained exhortations, 
and even dramatic dialogue. See Proverb. 

(3.) Dramatic Poetry . — The drama, in the sense in 
which the phrase is applicable to productions such as 
those of Euripides, Shakespeare, or Schiller, had no place 
in the literature of the Hebrews. This defect may be 
owing to a want of the requisite literary cultivation. 
Yet we are not willing to assign this as the cause, when 
we call to mind the high intellectual culture which the 
Hebrews evinced in lyric and didactic poetry, out of 
which the drama seems naturally to spring. \Ve rather 
look for the cause of this in the earnest nature of the He- 
brews, and in the solemnity of the subjects w*ith which 
they had to do in their literary productions. Nor is it 
any objection to this hypothesis that the drama of mod- 
ern times had its birth in the religious mysteries of the 
Middle Ages, since those ages were only secondary in 
regard to religious truth, standing at a distance from the 
great realities which they believed and dramatized; 
whereas the objects of faith with the Israelites were 
held in all the fresh vividness of primitive facts and 
newly recognised truths. It is impossible, however, to 
assert that no form of tbe drama existed among the He- 
brew people ; the most that can be done is to examine 


POETRY 


320 


POETRY 


such port! tii' '<f their literature as i*Rve ■' down to 

us, f<<r the purjH -e « f a-e< * how far any traces of 

the drama proper are disc< r/.|bh, aid what inferences 
mnv Ih> mad- fr- m tlum. It is unquestionably true, as 
I.w'al 1 i >1 or\. that the Arab reciters el romances will 
many ti-.i." in ilnir one. p -r-uis act out a complete 
dran a i - r - it-t’- 'i. h«m«,mc tlieir voice and gestures 
vmjIi il ,i.i < t | < r»oti and subject. Something of 
tins k i -v | ■ sil.ly have existed amim" the He- 
|,nn . t i i h« re is no evidence that it did exist, nor 
n „v r • ■ Is It making even a probable conjecture 
wi n r ir.t in it. A rude kind of farce is described by 
Mr. L-ii.e U /. I.yyyt. ii, eh. vii ), t lie players of which 
-are ctilh d .1 fti/iattbiuin. These frequently perform 
at the fi^itvals prior to weddings and circumcisions at 
the houses of the great ; and sometimes attract rings of 
auditors and spectators in the |nthlic places in Cairo. 
Their porf .rmances nre scarcely worthy of description : 
it is chietly by vulgar gestures anil imlcceiit actions that 
they amuse and obtain applause. The actors are -only 
men and hoys, the part of a woman being always per- 
formed l«v a man or boy in female attire.” Then fol- 
lows a <le ription of one of these plays, the plot of 
v liich was extremely simple. Hut the mere fact of the 
existence of these rude exhibitions among the Arabs 
and Kgvptians of the present day is of no weight when 
the question to he decided is whether the Song of 
N ngs was d -signed to he so represented, as a simple, 
pastoral drama. Of course, in considering such a ques- 
tion. reference is ma 1c only to the external form of the 
poem, and, in order to prove it, it must be shown that 
the dramatic is the only form of representation which 
it could assume, ami not that, by the help of two actors 
and a chorus it is capable of being exhibited in a dra- 
matic form. All that has been done, in our opinion, is 
the latter. It is but fair, however, to give t lie views 
of those who hold the opposite. Ewald maintains that 
the Sorg of Songs is designed for a simple stage, be- 
cause it develops a complete action and admits of defi- 
nite pauses iu the action, which arc only suited to the 
drama, lie dis- inguishes it in this respect from the 
book of .lob. which is dramatic in form only, though, as 
it is occupied with a sublime subject, he compares it 
with irntfuhf, while the Song of Songs, being taken 
from the < iiummi life of the nation, may be compared 
to comu///. Hut .M. Kenan, who is compelled, in ac- 
cordant* • with hi" own theory of the mission of the She- 
initie nets, to admit tiiat no trace of anything approach- 
ing to the regular drama is found among them, (lues not 
regard the Nmi* of Songs as a drama in the same sense 
as the products of the (.reek and Komnn theatres, but 
a" dramati ■ poetry in the widest application of the term, 
to dtwtgiiate any composition conducted in dialogue and 
e .rrcsjM.n lmg to nil action. The absence of the reg- 
ular drama he attributes to the want of a complicated 
rmtholoov. analogous to that possessed by the lndo- 
I. r [iean pc »j s. Monotheism, the characteristic re- 
h i u ii' f of the Mieniitic races, stilled the growth 
ol a mat id' r v and clucked the development of the 
'Iranis. B no- as it m.av, dramatic representation ap- 
1" r ' * ' ha\ Ik-im alien to the feelings of the Uebrc.vs, 
Ai i - r i . ' tin ir history before the age of llcrod is 

** r ' 1 I i"t tr.v'c ol n t heat re at .Jerusalem, whatever 
"'h r 1 ' " u 'vnHnim may have been adopted; and 

| " 1 ir 1 11 '■nation which the high-priest Jason 

•' ’ t r i ng t i i tabli"h a gymnasium and 

t" ii r 1 i tie- t.r. . U gums is a significant symptom 
«'f ( b* ri 1 . .. . whirl, the people f, It for such spec- 

tace. 1 i -'“ H| nhv remain" to the present dav 

nmon/ th • \rn . in I tlx ;itt« mpts intr.»hiee theatre's 

at Ik 4 r m V . ria have "i mlly failed. Hut. 

savs M. K .an. t h. No g of .s .,.g s j* a .iramaiic poem : 
then- w t r • no [ ol. i- p. rl-.rurn e. s in 1‘alcMine. there- 
fore it n"i t h iv» Inch pit. cut. I in private; and he 
is compelh.l I . friMe the t.illowne hypothesis concern- 
ing it that i i" a Uhr+tfn inttn.led to Iu- com] leted by 
the play of t’» ii “tors mid by mu ic and represented in 


private families, probably at marriage-feasts, the repre- 
sentation being extended over the several days of the 
feast. The last supposition removes a difficulty which 
has been felt to be almost fatal to the idea that the poem 
is a continuously developed drama. Each act is com- 
plete in itself; there is no suspended interest, and the 
structure of the poem is obvious and natural if we re- 
gard each act as a separate drama intended for one of 
the days of the feast. We must look for a parallel to 
it in the Middle Ages, when, besides the mystery plays, 
there were scenic representations sufficiently developed. 
See ( 'antkt.ks. 

Il is scarcely necessary after this to discuss the ques- 
tion whether the book of Job is a dramatic poem or 
not. Inasmuch as it represents an action and a prog- 
ress, it is a drama as truly and really as any poem can 
he which develops the working of passion, and the alter- 
nations of faith, hope, distrust, triumphant confidence, 
and black despair, in the struggle which it depicts the 
human mind as engaged in, while attempting to solve 
one of the most intricate problems it can be called upon 
to regard. It is a drama as life is a drama, the most 
powerful of all tragedies; but that it is a dramatic 
poem, intended to be represented upon a stage, or capa- 
ble of being so represented, may be confidently denied. 
See Jon, Book ok. 

(4.) Acrostics ,- — It only remains to notice that there 
are twelve poems in which the letters beginning each 
verse or couplet or stanza are arranged in alphabetical 
order. These are seven 1 ’sal ms (viz. xxv, xxxiv, 
xxxvii, c.\i, exii, cxix, cxlv), I’rov. xxxi, 10-31, and 
the first four chapters of the hook of Lamentations. 
The device is a very simple one, and was probably 
adopted for the purpose of assisting the memory, and to 
make up for the want of a logical connection and prog- 
ress in the thought. The more sublime poetry does 
not admit of being thus fettered. The Psalms in which 
we meet with it are all of a subdued and simple charac- 
ter, usually didactic. Vet even in these the alphabet- 
ical arrangement is seldom quite exact, usually one or 
two letters are omitted or repeated or transposed. In 
some of the alphabetic poems the strophical arrange- 
ment is marked more distinctly than in any other of 
the Hebrew poetical compositions; for example, in l’sa. 
cxix, which consists of twenty-two stanzas of eight 
lines each ; and Lam. iii, in which the stanza is of three 
lines. See Psalms, Book ok. 

IV. History of the Treatment of Hebrew Poetry.— In 
the lGth and 17th centuries the influence of classical 
studies upon the minds of the learned was so great as 
to imbue them with the belief that the writers of tireece 
and Home were the models of all excellence; and conse- 
quently, when their learning and critical acumen were 
directed to the records of another literature, they were 
unable to divest themselves of the prejudices of early 
education and habits, and sought for the same excel- 
lences which they admired in their favorite models. 
That this has been the case with regard to most of the 
speculations on the poetry of the Hebrews, and that the 
failure of those speculations is mainly tine to this cause, 
will be abundantly manifest to any one who is ac- 
quainted with the literature of the subject. But, how- 
ever barren of results, the history of the various theories 
which have been framed with regard to the external 
form of Hebrew poetry is a necessary part of the pres- 
ent article. 

'The form of Hebrew poetry is its distinguishing 
characteristic, and what this form is has been a vexed 
quest ion for many ages. The Therapeutic, as described 
hv Philo ( He I itci Coutempl. § 3, vol. ii, p. 47.*>, ed. 
Mang.), sang hymns and psalms of thanksgiving to 
<»od, iu divers measures and strains; and these were 
cither new or ancient ones composed by the old poets, 
who had left behind them measures and melodies of 
trimeter verses, of processional songs, of hymns, of songs 
sung at the offering of libations or before the altar, and 
continuous choral songs, beautifully measured out in 


POETRY 


321 


POETRY 


strophes of intricate character (§ 10, p. 484). The value 
of Philo’s testimony on this point may be estimated by 
another passage in his works, in which he claims for 
Moses a knowledge of numbers and geometry, the the- 
ory of rhythm, harmony, and metre, and the whole sci- 
ence of music, practical and theoretical ( De Vita Jfosis, 
i, 5, vol. ii, p. 84). The evidence of Josephus is as little 
to be relied upon. Both these writers labored to mag- 
nify the greatness of their own nation, and to show that 
in literature and philosophy the Greeks had been antic- 
ipated by the Hebrew barbarians. This idea pervades 
all their writings, and it must always be borne in mind 
as the key-note of their testimony on this as on other 
points. According to Josephus (.4 nt. ii, 16, 4), the Song 
of Moses at the Ked Sea (Exod. xv) was composed in 
the hexameter measure (iv iKapirpiy rovtp) ; and again 
(.4 nt. iv, 8, 44), the song in Dent, xxxii is described as 
a hexameter poem. The Psalms of David were in va- 
rious metres, some trimeters and some pentameters 
(Ant. vii, 12, 3). Eusebius (De Prcej). Evang. xi, 3, p. 
514, ed. Col. 1688) characterizes the great Song of Moses 
and the 118th (119th) Psalm as metrical compositions 
in what the Greeks call the heroic metre. They are 
said to be hexameters of sixteen syllables. The other 
verse compositions of the Hebrews are said to be in tri- 
meters. This saying of Eusebius is attacked by Julian 
(Cyrill. Conlr. Jul. vii, 2), who on his part endeavored 
to prove the Hebrews devoid of all culture. Jerome 
(Prcej'. in Iliob) appeals to Philo, Josephus, Origcn, and 
Eusebius, for proof that the Psalter, the Lamentations 
of Jeremiah, and almost all the songs of Scripture, are 
composed in metre, like the odes of Horace, Pindar, Al- 
caeus, and Sappho. Again, he says that the book of 
Job from iii, 3 to xlii, 6 is in hexameters, with dactyls 
and spondees, and frequently, on account of the pecul- 
iarity of the Hebrew language, other feet which have 
not the same syllables but the same time. In Ejnst. 
ad Paalam {Opp. ii, 709, ed. Martianay) occurs a pas- 
sage which shows in some measure how far we are to 
understand literally the terms which Jerome has bor- 
rowed from the verse literature of Greece and Rome, 
and applied to the poetry of the Hebrews. The con- 
clusion seems inevitable that these terms are employed 
simply to denote a general external resemblance, and 
by no means to indicate the existence among the poets 
of the Old Testament of a knowledge of the laws of 
metre, as we are accustomed to understand the term. 
There are, savs Jerome, four alphabetical Psalms, the 
110th (111th), 111th (112th), 118th (119th), and the 
144th (145th). In the first two, one letter corresponds 
to each clause or versiele, which is written in trimeter 
iambics. The others are in tetrameter iambics, like the 
-song in Deuteronomy. In Psa. cxviii (cxix) eight verses 
followeach letter: in Psa. cxliv(cxlv) a let ter cor responds , 
to a verse. In Lamentations we have four alphabetical 
acrostics, the first two of which are written in a kind of 
Sapphic metre ; for three clauses which are connected 
together and begin with one letter (i. e. in the first 
clause) close with a period in heroic measure (f/eroici 
comma). The third is written in trimeter, and the 
verses in threes each begin with the same letter. The 
fourth is like the first and second. The Proverbs end 
with an alphabetical poem in tetrameter iambics, be- 
ginning, “A virtuous woman who can find?” In the 
Prcpf. in Chron. Euseb. Jerome compares the metres of 
the Psalms to those of Horace and Pindar, now running 
in iambics, now ringing with Alcaics, now swelling 
with Sapphics, now beginning with a half foot. What, 
he asks, is more beautiful than the song of Deuteron- 
omy and Isaiah? What more weighty than Solo- 
mon? What more perfect than Job? All these, as 
Josephus and Origen testify, are composed in hexam- 
eters and pentameters. There can be little doubt 
that these terms are mere generalities, and express no 
more than a certain rough resemblance, so that the 
songs of Moses and Isaiah may be designated hexam- 
eters and pentameters with as much propriety as the 
VIII. — X 


first and second chapters of Lamentations may be com- 
pared to Sapphic odes. The resemblance of the He- 
brew verse composition to the classic metres is express- 
ly denied by Gregory of Nvssa (1 Tract, in Psalm, cap. 
iv). Augustine ( Ep . 131 ad Xumerium) confesses his 
ignorance of Hebrew, but adds that those skilled in the 
language believed the Psalms of David to be written in 
metre. Isidore of Seville (Orig. i, 18) claims for the 
heroic metre the highest antiquity, inasmuch as the 
Song of Moses was composed in it, and the book of Job, 
who was contemporary with Moses, long before the 
times of Phcrecvdes and Homer, is written in dactyls 
and spondees. Joseph Scaliger (Ajnmudv. ad Evs. 
Chron. p. 6 b, etc.) was one of the first to point out the 
fallacy of Jerome’s statement with regard to the metres 
of the Psalter and the Lamentations, and to assert that 
these books contained no verse bound by metrical laws, 
but that their language was merely prose, animated 
by a poetic spirit. lie admitted the Song of Moses 
in Deuteronomy, the Proverbs, and Job to be the only 
books in which there was necessarily any trace of 
rhythm, and this rhythm he compares to that of two 
dimeter iambics, sometimes of more, sometimes of fewer 
syllables, as the sense required. Gerhard Yossius (De 
Xat. et Const. Artis Poet. lib. i, e. 13, § 2) says that in 
Job and the Proverbs there is rhythm but no metre; 
that is, regard is had to the number of syllables, but not 
to their quantity. In the Psalms and Lamentations 
not even rhythm is observed. 

But in spite of the opinions pronounced by these high 
authorities, there were still many who believed in the 
existence of a Hebrew metre, and in the possibility of 
recovering it. The theories proposed for this purpose 
were various. Gomarus, professor at Groningen (Da- 
ridis Lyra , Lugd. Bat. 1637), advocated both rhymes 
and metre; for the latter he laid down the following 
rules. The vowel alone, as it is long or short, deter- 
mines the length of a syllable, tiheva forms no syl- 
i lable. The periods or versifies of the Hebrew poems 
never contain less than a distich, or two verses, but in 
! proportion as the periods are longer they contain more 
j verses. The last syllable of a verse is indifferently long 
or short. This system, if system it may be called (for 
it is equally adapted for prose), was supported by many 
men of note; among others by the younger Buxtorf, 
Heinsius, L. de Dieu, Constantin I’Empcreur, and Hot- 
tinger. On the other hand, it was vigorously attacked 
by L. Cappellus, Calovius, Danhauer, Pfeiffer, and Sol- 
omon van Til. Towards the close of the 17th century 
Marcus Meibomius announced to the world, with an 
amount of pompous assurance which is charming, that 
he hail discovered the lost metrical system of the He- 
brews. By the help of this mysterious secret, which he 
attributed to divine revelation, he proposed to restore 
not only the Psalms, but the whole Hebrew Scriptures, 
to their pristine condition, and thus confer upon the 
world a knowledge of Hebrew greater than any which 
had existed since the ages which preceded the Alexan- 
drine translators. But Meibomius did not allow his 
enthusiasm to get the better of his prudence, and the 
condition on which this portentous secret was to be 
made public was that six thousand curious men should 
contribute £o sterling apiece for a copy of his book, 
which was to be printed in two volumes folio. It is al- 
most needless to add that his scheme fell to the ground. 
He published some specimens of his restoration of ten 
Psalms and six entire chapters of the Old Test, in 1690. 
The glimpses which he gives of his grand secret are not 
such as would make us regret that the knowledge of it 
perished with him. The whole book of Psalms, he 
says, is written in distichs, except the first Psalm, which 
is in a different metre, and serves as an introduction to 
the rest. They were therefore intended to be sung, not 
by one priest, or by one chorus, but by two. Meibo- 
mius “was severely chastised by J. II. Mains, B. II. 
Gebhardus, and J. G. Zentgravius” (Jebb, Sacr. Lit. p. 
11). In the last century the learned Francis Hare, 


POETRY 


322 


POETRY 


bishop of Chichester, published an edition of the He- 
brew Psalms, metrically divided, to which he prefixed 
a di'»ertation on the ancient poetry of the Hebrews 
(Psalm. lib. in versiculos met rice dicisns, etc., Loud. 

Kisliop Hare maintained that in Hebrew poetry 
no regard was had to the quantity of syllables, lie re- 
garded shims as vowels, and lout; vowels as short 
at his ph asnre. The rules which he laid down are the 
following. In Hebrew poetry all the feet are dissylla- 
bles, and no regard is had to the quantity of a syllable. 
Clauses consist of an equal or unequal number of sylla- 
ble. If the number of syllables be equal, the verses 
are trochaic, if unequal, iambic. Periods for the mOst 
part consist of two verses, often three or four, sometimes 
more. Clauses of the same periods are of the same 
kind, t lint is. either iambic or trochaic, with very few 
exceptions. Trochaic clauses generally agree in the 
number of the feet, which are sometimes three, as in 
Psa. xeiv, 1 ; evi, l, and this is the most frequent ; some- 
times five, a> in Psa. ix, 5. In iambic clauses the num- 
Ikt of feet is sometimes the same, hut they generally 
differ, lloth kinds of verse are mixed in the same 
poem. In order to carry out these rules, they are sup- 
plemente l by one which gives tu t he versifier the widest 
liceitM*. \\ <>rds ami verses are contracted or lengthened 
at will, by syncope, elision, etc. In addition to this, 
the bishop was under the necessity of maintaining that 
all grammarians had hitherto erred in laying down t lie 
rules of ordinary punctuation. His system, if it may 
Ik* so called, carries its own refutation with it, but was 
considered by Lowth to be worthy a reply under the 
title of Mrtriar Hariance Precis Confutntio, printed at 
the end of his I>< Surra Poes. Ihb. Pmlectioues, etc. 

Anton i t'onject. de Metro Ileb. .!«/. Lips. 1770), admit- 
ting the metre to be regulated by the accents, endeav- 
ored to prove that in the Hebrew poems there was a 
highly artistic and regular system, like that of the 
< i reeks and Homans, consisting of strophes, antistrophes, 
epodes, and the like; but bis method is as arbitrary as 
Hare’s. The theory of Lautwoin ( 1 'ersurh einer r ich ti- 
ff, n Thtont rondtrbibl. Vettskmtsf. Tub. 177.‘>) is an im- 
provement upon those of his predecessors, inasmuch as 
lie rejects the measurement of verse by long ami short 
syllables, and marks the scansion hv the tone accent, 
lie a-sumes little more than a free rhythm: the verses 
are distinguished by a certain relation in their contents, 
and connected by a poetic euphony. Sir W. dunes 
(Comment. Poes. .\si,it. 1771) attempted to apply the 
rules of Arabic metre to Hebrew. He regarded as a 
long syllable one which terminated in a consonant or 
quiescent letter ( X, n, ; hut lie did not develop any 
system. The present Arabic prosody, however, is of 
e nipnrativcly modern invention; and it is not consist- 
ent with probability that then* could be any system of 
vcr-itiratieii among the Hebrews like that imagined by 
.Sir W. duties, when in the example he quotes of Cant, 
i. * !m refer?, the first clause of the verse to the second. 
ai*d the IjW to the fifteenth kind of Arabic metre. 

l i o t ii/iita Jnhi, etc., 1 7!M ) believed that in 
IM.nw, ns in Arabic and Syriac, there was a metre, 
bin that il was nliM-iired by 'the false orthography of 
tin M.i-nrus. ||,. therefore assumed for the Hebrew 
nn \r.l i • v«. nli/.atMi, and with this modification lie 
lonnd i ml ic triim ters. dimeters, ami tetrameters to he 
the m< « i 'Him m tonus of v.r-e. and lays down the 
laws o| m r • . at i n ac • rdinglv. Lellormnnn ( I rsneb 
ii/jt r do M.hd Lett, |.s| , u ok the lust who at- 
tempted i„ », ( f. .it, the - II II. brew metres. lie 
ad<>)(. I t lie Ma«< ret 'n* orthography mid vocalization, 
and doti mimed tliequm my ..filial l.s hv the accent- 
ual ion. ami what lie t< mud the • MorensyMem.” de- 
noting the eon) puss of 11 suigl - st liable. Kacb 

syllable which has m.( the tone accent must have three 
mono; every syllable whi.li has the (one accent mut- 
ilate either lour or two, but generally three. The 
rat are reckoned as follows: a long vowel has two; a 


short vowel, one; every consonant, whether single or 
double, lias one more. Shiva simple or composite is 
not reckoned. The quiescent letters have no more . 
Ihiyesh forte compensative has one; so has methey. 
The majority of dissyllabic and trisyllabic words, hav- 
ing t lie accent on the last syllable, will thus form iam- 
bics and anapaests. Hut as many have the accent on 
the penultimate, these will form trochees. The most 
common kinds of feet arc iambics and anapaests, inter- 
changing with trochees and tribrachs. Of verses com- 
posed of these feet, though not uniform as regards the 
numbers of the feet, consist, according to Hellermanu, 
the poems of the Hebrew Scriptures. 

Among those who believed in the existence of a He- 
brew metre, but in the impossibility of recovering it, 
were Cnrpzov, Lowth, Pfeiffer, Herder to a certain ex- 
tent, Jahn, Hauer, and Huxtorf. The opinions of Ixm-th, 
with regard to Hebrew metre, are summed up by Jebb 
(Suer. Lit. p. 10) as follows: “lie begins by asserting 
that certain of the Hebrew writings are not onty ani- 
mated with the true poetic spirit, but in some degree 
couched in poetic numbers ; yet he allows that the 
quantity, the rhythm, or modulation of Hebrew' poetry, 
not only is unknown, but admits of no investigation by 
human art or industry; he states, after Abarbanel, that 
the Jews themselves disclaim the very memory of met- 
rical composition; he acknowledges that the artificial 
conformation of the sentences is the sole indication of 
metre in these poems; he barely maintains the credi- 
bility of attention having been paid to numbers or feet 
in their compositions; and at the same time he con- 
fesses the utter impossibility of determining whether 
Hebrew' poetry was modulated by the ear alone, or ac- 
cording to any definite and settled rules of prosody.” 
The opinions of Scaliger and Vossius have already been 
referred to. Yitringa allows to Isaiah a kind of orato- 
rial measure, but adds that it could not on this account 
be rightly termed poetry. Miehaelis (AW. 4 in Preel. 
iii), in his notes on Lowth, held that there never was 
metre in Hebrew, but only a free rhythm, as in recita- 
tive, though even less trammelled. He declared him- 
self against the Masoretic distinction of long and short 
vowels, and made the rhythm to depend upon the tone 
syllable; adding, with regard to fixed anti regular me- 
tre, that what lias evaded such diligent search lie 
thought had no existence. On the subject of the 
rhythmical character of Hebrew- poetry, as opposed to 
metrical, the remarks of Jebb arc remarkably appropri- 
ate. “ Hebrew- poetry,” be says (Sacr. Lit. p. 20), “is 
universal poetry; the poetry of all languages, and of all 
peoples: the collocation of words (whatever may have 
been the sound, for of this we are quite ignorant) is pri- 
marily directed to secure the best possible announcement 
and discrimination of the sense: let, then, a translator 
only be literal, and, so far as the genius of bis language 
will permit, let him preserve the original order of the 
words, and lie will infallibly put the reader in possession 
of all, or nearly all, that the Hebrew text can give to 
the best Hebrew scholar of the present day. Now, had 
there originally been metre, the case, it is presumed, 
could hardly have been such; somewhat must have 
been sacrificed to the importunities of metrical neces- 
sity ; tin* sense could not invariably have predominated 
over the sound ; and the poetry could not have been, as 
it unquestionably and emphatically is, a poetry, not of 
sounds or of words, but. of things. Let not this last as- 
sertion, however, be misinterpreted: I would lie under- 
stood merely to assert that sound, and words in subor- 
dination to sound, do not in Hebrew, as in classical 
poetry, enter into the essence of the thing; but it is 
happily undeniable that the words of the poetical Script- 
ures are exquisitely fitted to convey the sense; ami it 
is highly probable that, in the lifetime of the language, 
the sounds were sufficiently harmonious: when 1 say 
sufficiently harmonious, 1 mean so harmonious as to 
render the poetry grateful to the ear in recitation, and 
suitable to musical accompaniment; for which purpose 


POETRY 


323 


POETRY 


the cadence of well-modulated prose would fully answer ; 
a fact which will not be controverted by any person 
with a moderately good ear that has ever heard a chap- 
ter of Isaiah skilfully read from our authorized trans- 
lation; that lias ever listened to one of Kent’s anthems 
well performed, or to a song from the Messiah of Han- 
del.” 

Abarbanel (on Isa. v) makes three divisions of He- 
brew poetry, including in the first the modern poems 
which, in imitation of the Arabic, are constructed ac- 
cording to modern principles of versification. Among 
the second class he arranges such as have no metre, but 
are adapted to melodies. In these occur the poetical 
forms of words, lengthened and abbreviated, and the 
like. To this class belong the songs of Moses in Exod. 
xv, Deut. xxxii, the song of Deborah, and the song of 
David. The third class includes those compositions 
which are distinguished not by their form, but by the 
figurative character of their descriptions, as the Song of 
Songs, and the song of Isaiah. 

Among those who maintain the absence of any reg- 
ularity perceptible to the edr in the composition of 
Hebrew poetry may be mentioned Richard Simon 
(Hist. Crit. du V. T. i, c. 8, p. 57), Wasmuth (Inst. Acc. 
tlebr. p. 14), Alstedius (Enc. Bibl. c. 27, p. 257), the au- 
thor of the book Cozri, and R. Azariah de Rossi, in his 
book entitled Meor Enayitn. The author of the book 
Cozri held that the Hebrews had no metre bound by 
the laws of diction, because their poetry, being in- 
tended to be sung, was independent of metrical laws. 
R. Azariah expresses his approbation of the opinions 
of Cozri and Abarbanel, who deny the existence of songs 
in Scripture composed after the manner of modern He- 
brew poems, but he adds, nevertheless, that be 3 'ond 
doubt there are other measures which depend upon 
the sense. Mendelssohn (on Exod. xv) also rejects the 
system of rn“13m (literally, pegs and vow- 

els). R. Azariah appears to have anticipated bishop 
Lowth in his theory of parallelism : at any rate his 
treatise contains the germ which Lowth developed, 
and may be considered, as Jebb calls it, the technical 
basis of 1 his system. But it also contains other ele- 
ments, which will be alluded to hereafter. His conclu- 
sion, in Lowth’s words ( Isaiah , prel. diss.), was as fol- 
lows : “That the sacred songs have undoubtedly certain 
measures and proportions ; which, however, do not con- 
sist in the number of syllables, perfect or imperfect, 
according to the form of the modern verse which the 
Jews make use of, and which is borrowed from the 
Arabians (though the Arabic prosody, he observes, is 
too complicated to be applied to the Hebrew language) ; 
but in the number of things, and of the parts of things 
— that is, the subject and the predicate and their ad- 
juncts, in every sentence and proposition. Thus a 
phrase containing two parts of a proposition consists 
of two measures; add another containing two more, 
and they become four measures; another again, con- 
taining three parts of a proposition, consists of three 
measures; add to it another of the like, and you have 
six measures.” The following example will serve for 
an illustration : 

Thy-right-hand, O-Jehovah, is-glorious iu-power, 

Thy-right-hand, O-Jehovah, hath-crushed the-enemy. 

The words connected by hyphens form terms, and the 
two lines, forming four measures each, may be called 
tetrameters. “Upon the whole, the author concludes 
that the poetical parts of the Hebrew Scriptures are 
not composed according to the rules and measures of 
certain feet, dissyllables, trisyllables, or the like, as the 
poems of the modern Jews are; but nevertheless have 
undoubtedly other measures which depend on things, 
as above explained. For this reason they' are more 
excellent than those which consist of certain feet, ac- 
cording to the number and quantity of syllables. Of 
this, he says, you may judge yourself in the Songs of 
the Prophets. For do you not see, if you translate 


some of them into another language, that they still 
keep and retain their measure, if not wholly, at least 
in part? which cannot be the case in those Verses the 
measures of which arise from a certain quantity and 
number of syllables.” Lowth expresses his general 
agreement with R. Azariah’s exposition of the rhyth- 
mus of things ; but instead of regarding terms or phrases 
or senses in single lines, as measures, he considered 
“only that relation and proportion of one verse to an- 
other which arises from the correspondence of terms-, 
and from the form of construction; from whence re- 
sults a rhythmus of propositions, and a harmony of sen- 
tences.” But Lowth’s system of parallelism was more 
completely anticipated by Schottgen in a treatise, of 
the existence of which the bishop does not appear to 
have been aware. It is found in his //ora Ilebraicce , 
i, 1249-1263, diss. vi, “de Exergasia Sacra.” This ex- 
ergasia he defines to be the conjunction of entire sen- 
tences signifying the same thing; so that exergasia 
bears the same relation to sentences that synonymy 
does to words. It is only found in those Hebrew writ- 
ings which rise above the level of historical narrative 
and the ordinary kind of speech. Ten canons are then 
laid down, each illustrated by three examples, from 
which it will be seen how far Schbttgen’s system cor- 
responded with Lowth’s. (1.) Perfect exergasia is when 
the members of the two clauses correspond, each to 
each, as in Psa. xxxiii, 7; Numb, xxiv, 17; Luke i, 
47. (2.) Sometimes in the second clause the subject 

is omitted, as in Isa. i, 18; Prov. vii, 19; Psa. cxxix, 
3. (3.) Sometimes part of the subject is omitted, as 

in Psa. xxxvii, 30 ; cii, 28 ; Isa. liii, 5. (4.) The pred- 

icate is sometimes omitted in the second clause, as in 
Numb, xxiv, 5; Psa. xxxiii, 12; cxxiii, G. (5.) Some- 
times part only of the predicate is omitted, as in Psa. lvii, 
9 ; ciii, 1 : cxxix, 7. (6.) Words are added in one mem- 
ber which are omitted in the other, as in Numb, xxiii, 
18 ; Psa. cii, 29 ; Dan. xii. 3. (7.) Sometimes two prop- 

ositions will occur, treating of different things, but re- 
ferring to one general proposition, as in Psa. xciv, 9 ; 
cxxviii, 3; Wisd. iii, 16. (8.) Cases occur, in which 

the second proposition is the contrary of the first, as in 
Prov. xv, 8; xiv, 1, 11. (9.) Entire propositions an- 

swer each to each, although the subject and predicate 
are not the same, as in Psa. li, 7 ; cxix, 168; Jer. viii, 
22. (10.) Exergasia is found with three members, as 

in Psa. i, 1; exxx, 5; lii, 9. These canons Schottgen 
applied to the interpretation of Scripture, of which he 
gives examples in the remainder of that and the fol- 
lowing Dissertation. 

But whatever may have been achieved by his pred- 
ecessors, there can be no question that the delivery 
of Lowth's lectures on Hebrew poetry, and the subse- 
quent publication of his translation of Isaiah, formed 
an aera in the literature of the subject more marked 
than any that had preceded it. Of his system we have 
already given (§ i) a somewhat detailed account, which 
we here slightly expand; for whatever may have been 
done since his time, and whatever modifications of his 
arrangement may have been introduced, all subsequent 
writers have confessed their obligations to the two 
works above mentioned, and have drawn their in- 
spiration from them. Starting with the ‘alphabetical 
poems as the basis of his investigation, because in them 
the verses or stanzas were more distinctly marked, 
Lowth came to the conclusion that they consist of 
verses properly so called, “ of verses regulated by some 
observation of harmony or cadence ; of measure, num- 
bers, or rhythm,” and that this harmony does not arise 
from rhyme, but from what he denominates parallelism. 
Parallelism he defines to be the correspondence of one 
verse or line with another, and divides it into three 
classes — synonymous, antithetic, and synthetic. 

(a.) Parallel lines synonymous correspond to each 
other by expressing the same sense in different but 
equivalent terms, as in the following examples, which 
are only two of the manj r given by Lowth : 


POETRY 


324 


POETRY 


' O-Jehovah, in-thv-strength the-king shnll-rejoice ; 

And-in-thy-salvatiun him greatly t-hall-hc-cxii!t ! 
Tlie-desire uf-his-henrt thou-liast-granted iiuto-him ; 
Aiul-the-iequest of-his-lips tlion-hast-not denied" 
(Psa. xxi, 1, 2). 

“ For the-moth shall-consumc-them like-a-ganneut: 

And-the-worm shall-ent-lhcm like woo!: 
But*niy-ri!r1itcoiisnes« shall-cndure for-ever; 
And-niy-sulvation to-tlie-nge of-nges" (Isa. li, 7, $). 

It will he observed from the examples whieli Lowth 
gives that the parallel lines sometimes consist of three 
or more synonymous terms, sometimes of two, some- 
times only of one. Sometimes the lines consist oneh 
of n double member, or two propositions, ns l’sa. cxliv, 
f», t>; Isa. lxv, 21, 22. 1’arallels are formed also by a 
repetition of part of the lirst sentence (Psa. lxxvii, 1, 
II, li'»; Isa. xxvi, 5, il; Ilos. vi, I); and sometimes a 
part has to be supplied from the former to complete the 
sentence (2 Sam. xxii, 41: .lob xxvi. 5; Isa. xli. 2Nj. 
Parallel triplets occur in .lob iii. 1, tl. il; Psa. cxii. Id; 
Isa. ix, 2<»; .loci iii, 13. Examples of parallels of four 
lines, in which two distiohs form one stanza, are Psa. 
xxxvii. 1. 2; Isa. i. 3: xlix, I ; Amos i, 2. In periods 
of live lines the odd line sometimes comes in between 
two distiehs, as in Job viii, ;>, l! ; Isa. xl vi, 7 ; Ilos. xiv, 
U; Jtw I iii. It! ; or after two distiehs closes the stanza, 
as in Isa. xliv, 2<>. Alternate parallelism in stanzas of 
four lines is found in Psa. ciii, 1 1. 12; Isa. xxx, 10; but 
the most striking examples of the alternate quatrain 
are l>cut. xxxii, 23, 42, the lirst line forming a contin- 
uous sense with the third, and the second with the 
fourth (comp. Isa. xxxiv, 0; (leu. xlix, 0). In Isa. 1, 
in we find an alternate quatrain followed by a fifth 
line. To this tirst division of Ixiwtli’s Jebb objects that 
the name syunnymous is inappropriate, for the second 
clause, with few exceptions, “ dirersijies the preceding 
clause, and generally so as to rise above it. forming a 
sort of climax in the sense.” This peculiarity was rec- 
ognized by Lowtli himself in his 4th Pnelection, where I 
lie says, ‘“idem iterant, variant, augent,” thus marking j 
a cumulative fnrce in this kind of parallelism. The ' 
same was observed by Apb. Newcomc in his Preface 
to Ezekiel, where examples are given in which “the 
following clauses so diversify the preceding ones as to 
rise above them" (Isa. xlii, 7; xliii. 1(1; Psa. xev, 2; 
civ. 1 ). Jebb, in support of bis own opinion, appeals 
to the passages quoted by Lowth (l’sa. xxi, 12; evii, 
3*; Isa. lv, li, 7). and suggests ns a more appropriate 
nnme fur parallelism of this kind, eoyiuite parallelism 
(•Sacr. /.it. p. 3X). 

(b.) bov tlfs second division is antithetic parallelism; i 
when two lines correspond with each other by an oppo- 
sition of terms and sentiments; when the second is con- 
trasted with the tirst, sometimes in expressions, some- 
times in sense only, so that the degrees of antithesis are 
various. As for example: 

*• A nl'C sou rejoice tli his father; 

Hut a foolish son is the grief of his mother" 

(Prov. x, 1). 

“ rile memory of the just is a blessing: 

Pa ' *>)<> cime of the wicked shall rot" (Prov. x, 7). 

I lu- m omic pot try of the Hebrews abounds with illus- 
jrati i» «J ai tiihctie parallelism. Other examples are 

Ili< e in * hi r4ot«, and those in horses; 

H we n hr i one of Jehovah oiu Cod will be strong. 

They i- i. i\v< d d m u, mid rslleii; , 

ltnt \\<- n • u«rn, mid maintain ourselves firm.” 

I •mp.nl • l’—a. \xx, o ; xxxvii, in, 1 1 ; Isa. liv, 10; i.\, 
10. On tin - two kinds of parnlleh*m Jehh appropri- 
ately remark •• *• I lx intif/ohe pnrnlblism serves to 
mnrk the hr. id di Unctions U tween truth an<l fulse- 
IummI, nml good ami evil- the ox/,,,,/, paralblisn, dis- 
charges the more ditlicult and mnrt erilical function of 
discriminating Utwcen differuit ihgnss of truth and 
good on the one hand, of falsehood and evil on the 
other" ( .Snrr. /.it. p. 3!M. 

(c.) Synthi tie or nmstrurtirr paralhlism, where the 
parallel “consists only in the similar form of construc- 


tion ; in which word docs not answer to word and sen- 
tence to sentence, as equivalent or opposite; but there 
( is a correspondence and equality between different prop- 
ositions. in respect of the shape and turn of the whole 
sentence, and of the constructive parts — such as noun 
answering to noun, verb to verb, member to member, 
negalivo to negative, interrogative to interrogative.” 
( hie of the examples of constructive parallels given by 
Lowtli is Isa. I, 5, 0 : 

“ The Lord Jehovah hath opened mine ear, 

And I was not rebellious; 

Neither did I withdraw myself backward— 

I gave my hack to the smiters, 

And my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair; 
My face 1 hid not from shame and spitting." 

Jebb gives as an illustration Psa. xix, 7-10: 

" The law of Jehovah is perfect, converting the soul. 

The testimony of Jehovah is sure, making wise the 
simple/’ etc. 

It is instructive, as showing how difficult, if not impos- 
sible, it is to make any strict classilication of Hebrew 
poetry, to observe that this very passage is given by 
tJeseuius as an example of synonymous parallelism, 
while l)e Wctte calls it synthetic. The illustration of 
synthetic parallelism quoted by Gcscniusis Psa. xxvii,4; 
“ One thing I nsk from Jehovah. 

It will I seek after— 

My dwelling iu the house of Jehovah all the days of 
my life, 

To behold the beauty of Jehovah, 

And to iuquire iu his temple.” 

In this kind of parallelism, as Nordheimer {Gram. A nal. 
p. *7) observes, “an idea is neither repeated nor fol- 
lowed by its opposite, but is kept in view by the writer, 
while he proceeds to develop and enforce his meaning 
by accessory ideas and moditicalions." 

(</.) To the three kinds of parallelism above described 
Jebb adds a fourth, which seems rather to be an unneces- 
sary refinement upon than distinct from the others, lie 
denominates it introverted parallelism, in which he says, 
“ there are stanzas so constructed that, whatever be 
the number of lines, the first line shall be parallel with 
the last; the second with the penultimate; and so 
throughout in an order that looks inward, or, to borrow 
a militarv phrase, from Hanks to centre” {JSacr. Lit. 
]). 53). Thus: 

“My son, if thine heart be wise, 

Mv heart, also shall rejoice; 

Yea, my reins shall rejoice 
When thy lips speak right things" 

(Prov. xxiii, IS, 10). 

“Unto Thee do I lift up mine eyes, O Thou that dwellcst 
in the heavens; 

Behold as the eyes of servants to the hand of their 
masters ; 

As the eyes of a maiden to the hands of her mistress: 

Even so look our eyes to Jehovah onr God, uutil he 
have mercy upon us” (Psft. cxxiii, 1, 2). 

Tpon examining these and the other examples quoted 
hv bishop Jehh in support of his new division, to which 
he attaches great importance, it will be seen that the pe- 
culiarity consists in the structure of the stanza, and not 
in the nature of the parallelism ; and any one who reads 
Ewald’s elaborate treatise on this part of the subject 
will rise from the reading witli the conviction that to 
attempt to classify Hebrew poetry according to the 
character of the stanzas employed will he labor lost and 
in vain, resulting only in a system which is no system, 
and iu rules to which the exceptions are more numerous 
than the examples. 

A few words may now he added with respect to the 
classification proposed bv DeWette. in which more re- 
gard was had to the rhythm. The lour kinds of paral- 
lelism arc: 1. That which consists in an equal number 
ol words in each member, as in Gen. iv, 23. This he 
calls the original and perfect kind of parallelism of 
members, which corresponds with metre and rhyme, 
without being identical with them (Die /'salmen, Kinl. 
§ ‘ 1* l nder this head arc many minor divisions. 2. 
I ucqual parallelism, in which the number of words in 


POETRY 


325 


POETRY 


the members is not the same. This again is divided into 
— a. The simple, as Psa. lxviii, 33. b. The composite, 
consisting of the synonymous (Joh x, 1 ; Psa. xxxvi, 7), 
the antithetic (Psa. xv, 4), and the synthetic (xv, 5). c. 
That in which the simple member is disproportionately 
small (xl, 10). d. Where the composite member grows 
up into three or more sentences (i, 3; lxv, 10). e. In- 
stead of the close parallelism there sometimes occurs a 
short additional clause, as in Psa. xxiii, 3. 3. Out of 
the parallelism, which is unequal in consequence of the 
composite character of one member, another is devel- 
oped, so that both members are composite (xxxi, 11). 
This kind of parallelism again admits of three subdi- 
visions. 4. Rhythmical parallelism, which lies merely 
in the external form of the diction. Thus in Psa. xix, 
11 there is nearly an equal number of words: 

“Moreover by them was thy servaut warned, 

In keepiug of them there is great reward.” 

In Psa. xxx, 3 the inequality is remarkable. In Psa. 
xiv, 7 is found a double and a single member, and in 
Psa. xxxi, 23 two double members. De Wette also held 
that there were in Hebrew poetry the beginnings of a 
composite rhythmical structure like our strophes. Thus 
in Psa. xlii, xliii, a refrain marks the conclusion of a 
larger rhythmical period. Something similar is observ- 
able in Psa. evii. This artificial structure appears to 
belong to a late period of Hebrew literature, and to the 
same period may probably be assigned the remarkable 
gradational rhythm which appears in the Songs of De- 
grees, e. g. Psa. exxi. It must be observed that this 
gradational rhythm is very different from the cumula- 
tive parallelism of the Song of Deborah, which is of 
a much earlier date, and bears traces of less effort in 
the composition. Strophes of a certain kind are found 
in the alphabetical pieces in which several Masoretie 
clauses belong to one letter (Psa. ix, x, xxxvii, cxix ; 
Lam. iii) ; but the nearest approach to anything like a 
stropliical character is found in poems which are divided 
into smaller portions by a refrain, and have the initial 
or final verse the same or similar (Psa. xxxix, xlii, 
xliii). In the opinion of some the occurrence of the 
word Selah is supposed to mark the divisions of the 
strophes. 

It is impossible here to do more than refer to the 
essay of Roster ( Theol . Stud, und Krit. 1831, p. 40-114) 
on the strophes, or the parallelism of verses in He- I 
brew poetry, in which he endeavors to show that the 
verses are subject to the same laws of symmetry as the 
verse-members, and that consequently Hebrew poetry 
is essentially stropliical in character. Ewald's treatise 
requires more careful consideration ; but it must be read 
itself, and a slight sketch only can here be given. 
Briefly thus: Verses are divided into verse-members in 
which the number of syllables is less restricted, as there 
is no syllable metre. A verse-member generally con- 
tains from seven to eight syllables. Two members, the 
rise and fall, are the fundamental constituents. Thus 
(Judg. v, 3): 

“Hear, ye kings ! give ear, ye princes ! 

1 to Jehovah, I will siug.” 

To this all other modifications must he capable of being 
reduced. The variations which may take place maj r be 
either amplifications or continuations of the rhythm, or 
compositions in which a complete rhythm is made the 
half of a new compound, or we may have a diminution 
or enfeeblement of the original. To the two members 
correspond two thoughts which constitute the life of 
the verse, and each of these again may distribute itself. 
Gradations of symmetry are formed, 1. By the echo of 
the whole sentence, where the same sense which is 
given in the first member rises again in the second, in 
order to exhaust itself more thoroughly (Gen. iv, 23; 
Prov. i, 8). An important word of the first member of- 
ten reserves its force for the second, as in Psa. xx, 8; and 
sometimes iu the second member a principal part of the 
sense of the first is further developed, as Psa. xlix, 5 [6]. 


2. When the thought trails through two members of a 
verse, as in Psa. cx, 5, it gives rise to a less animated 
rhythm (comp, also cxli, 10). 3. Two sentences may 

be brought together as protasis and apodosis, or simply 
to form one complex thought; the external harmony 
may be dispensed with, but the harmony of thought re- 
mains. This may be called the intermediate rhythm. 
The forms of structure assumed by the verse are many. 
(1.) There is the single member, which occurs at the 
commencement of a series in Psa. xviii, 2; xxiii, 1; at 
the end of a series in Exod. xv, 18; Psa. xcii, 9; and in 
the middle, after a short pause, in Psa. xxix, 7. (2.) The 
bimembral verse is most frequently found, consisting of 
two members of nearly equal weight. (3.) Verses of 
more than two members are formed either by increasing 
the number of members from two to three, so that the 
complete fall may be reserved for the third, all three 
possessing the same power; or by combining four mem- 
bers two and two, as in Psa. xviii, 7 ; xxviii, 1. 

The varieties of this structure of verse are too nu- 
merous to be recounted, and the laws of rhythm in 
Hebrew poetry are so free that of necessity the va- 
rieties of verse -structure must be manifold. The 
gnomic or sententious rhythm, Ewald remarks, is the 
one which is perfectly symmetrical. Two members of 
seven or eight syllables, corresponding to each other as 
rise and fall, contain a thesis and antithesis, a subject 
and its image. This is the constant form of genuine 
gnomic sentences of the best period. Those of a later 
date have many members or trail themselves through 
many verses. The animation of the lyrical rhythm 
makes it break through all such restraints, and leads to 
an amplification or reduplication of the normal form ; 
or the passionate rapidity of the thoughts may disturb 
the simple concord of the members, so that the unequal 
structure of verse intrudes with all its varieties. To 
show how impossible it is to attempt a classification 
of verse uttered under such circumstances, it will be 
only necessary to quote Ewald’s own words: “All 
these varieties of rhythm, however, exert a perfectly 
free influence upon every lyrical song, just according as 
it suits the mood of the moment to vary the simple 
rhythm. The most beautiful songs of the flourishing 
period of poetry allow, in fact, the verse of many mem- 
bers to predominate whenever the diction rises with 
any sublimity; nevertheless, the standard rhythm still 
returns in each when the diction flags, and the different 
kinds of the more complex rhythm are employed with 
equal freedom and ease of variation, just as thej’ - sev- 
erally accord with the fluctuating hues of the mood of 
emotion and of the sense of the diction. The late 
alphabetical songs are the first in which the fixed 
choice of a particular versification — a choice, too, made 
with designed art — establishes itself firmly, and main- 
tains itself symmetrically throughout all the verses” 
( Dichter d. A Iten Bundes , i, 83 ; transl. in Kitto’s Journal , 
i, 318). It may, however, be generally observed that 
l the older rhythms are the most animated, as if accom- 
I panied by the hands and feet of the singer (Numb, xxi ; 

I Exod. xv; Judg. v), and that in the time of David the 
rhythm had attained its most perfect development. 
| By the end of the 8th century B.C. the decay of versi- 
fication begins, and to this period belong the artificial 
forms of verse. 

It remains now only to notice the rules of Hebrew 
poetry as laid down by the Jewish grammarians, to 
which reference was made in remarking upon the sys- 
tem of R, Azariali, They have the merit of being ex- 
tremely simple, and are to be found at length, illustrated 
by many examples, in Mason and Bernard’s Heb. Gram. 
(vol. ii, No. 57), and accompanied by an interesting ac- 
count of modern Hebrew versification. The rules are 
briefly these: 1. That a sentence may be divided into 
members, some of which contain two, three , or even^/our 
' words, and are accordingly termed binary, ternary , and 
quaternary members respect ively. 2. The sentences 
are composed either of binary, ternary, or quaternary 


326 


POETRY 


POETRY 


members entirely, or of these different members inter- 
mixed. 3. That in two consecutive members it is an 
elegance to express the same idea in different words. 
4. That a word expressed in either of these parallel 
members is often not expressed in the alternate mem- 
ber. 5. That a word without an accent, being joined 
to another word bv Makktph, is generally (though not 
always) reckoned with that second word as one. It 
will be seen that these rules are essentially the same 
with those of Lowth, De Wette, and other writers on 
paralli lism, and from their simplicity are less open to 
objc< lion than any others that have been given. 

in conclusion, after reviewing the various theories 
which have been framed with regard to the structure 
of Hebrew poetry, it must be confessed that beyond the 
discovery of very broad general laws, little lias been 
done towards elaborating a satisfactory system. Prob- 
ably tliis want of success is due to the fact that there is 
no system to discover, and that Hebrew’ poetry, while 
possessed in the highest degree of all sweetness and va- 
riety of rhythm and melody, is not fettered by laws of 
versification as we understand the term. Some advance 
towards an elucidation of the metrical structure of the 
poetical books, and especially in tlieir stropliic arrange- 
ment, ha" been made by Delitzseh in bis fommentariis ; 
but the whole subject admits of a more careful and mi- 
nute adjustment of the clauses and phrases than has 
yet been achieved. 

Modtrn Hebrew poetry, although tolerably copious, 
is altogether east in the mould of the poems of the sev- 
eral European nations among whom the Jews are scat- 
tered, and is therefore stithy artificial, generally with 
rhyme, etc. It is of little value theologically. A very 
fair cdlectiou of specimens may be seen in Martinet's 
l lebruisrhe ('hrestomathie (Ham berg, 1837). 

V. Lit t rat nr e .- England has the credit of opening a 
new patli in this branch by the above-noticed publica- 
tion of bishop Low tit’s elegant and learned Prceleedoms 
d> Sacra Po si /Irbraiomia { Oxon. 1753, which maybe 
found also in 1‘golini Thesuur. vol. xxxi; the editions 
having Michachs's >( Fpimetra are to be pre- 

ferred; that of Oxon. 1810, is good: the work was 
translated into English by t Gregory). On the didactic 
poetry of the Hebrews the reader may consult Umbreit, 
Spriiehe Sal. F.iult itnny ; Rhode, l)e 1 \t. Poetar. Sn/ii- 
tnt'm liitoin. Ili briror. imp. et Graeor. (Ilavn. 1800); 
I'liger, D, Earaljolur. Jtsu niitura, etc. (Leipz. 1828). 
U* ( lere, in bis Pihlioth. I nicer*, ix. 220 sip, lias given 
what is worth attention; sec also 1 list, abreyee de l<t 
I'o so clu : hs Hi hr. in the “ 1 1 istory of the Academy of 
Inscriptions,” xxiii, l»2 sip lint the work which has, 
next to that of Uiwth, exerted the greatest influence, 
i" n posthumous and unfinished piece of the celebrated 
Herder, who has treated the subject with extraordinary 
eloipienee and learning, 1 urn Heist tier Ebrtiisehen Po- 
tto. (1782, to be found in bis collected writings; also 
Tubing, 1 8( |,1 ; and t 'arlsrulie, 1820 1 ; see also (lilglcr, 
ho lit tlkunst dtr lUhrior (Emidsliut. 1814); and (Jnt- 
tuiMi hi. ho poet. Lin nit. d. ulttn Israel it. (Mamili. 
1>. •> . The subject iff metre has been skilfully handled 
by B< Hermann. I t rsueh iibtr d. Metrik tier Hehrdrr 
(Heri. 1*13 . Much useful information may be found 
III 1 ». \V< . I ‘s I o It in lit I in d. 1 . 7 \st. (ibid. 18 pi; trans- 
it 11 "! n to EugiUli by 'l'liiodore Parker, lioston, 1843). 
In i U»* loved s Piilde translaimns of the poetical por- 
tioi s may be toiiiul, in which regard is paid to rlivtbm 
ami piMtu il f rtn n very valuable guide in Hebrew 
l MM ’try, Isitb tor form and substain-e, may be found in 
Noyes a /'/ 1 inflate n o f Job (Cambridge, l*27i; of the 
Psalms (lloMon, 1831 ; ami of Hie Proplots (ibid. 
1*33 ; but tin b< "t, tidiest, and most satisfactory work 
on the subject is by Ewnld, hi, /,<></. liudur dt's Alien 
Plinths (< oittiugen, 1*33 !l. | m.E. *vo). .See also fri- 
tira Pihlira , i, 1 1 1 sip; t arpzov, hit rod. ad Libr. fan. 
Pihl. pt. ii.e. i; N liramm. Ih Pm i Utbnr „ . (llelmsl. 
1723); ,1 ebb, Sarnd Lift rutin ; Santa blitz, I dtr 
Form dtr Ihbr. Pot sit ( Eoiiigdierg, 1*23, wbicli con- 


tains the most complete account of all the various the- 
ories) ; Nicolas, Forme de la Poesie J/ebraique (Paris, 
1*33) ; Sarclii, Jleb. J'oetry, Ancient and Modern (Loud. 
1*24); Wcnrich, De Poesite lleb. et Arab, indole (Leipz. 
1843) ; Meier, Gesch. der poet. Xationul - Lileratur der 
Itebraer ( Leipz. 1833 ); the commentaries of I)e Wette, 
Delitzsch, and Ilupfeld on the Psalms; and the works 
enumerated in Danz, Universal - Theol. Worterbuch, p. 
213 sip: in Darling, Cyclopiediu Piblinyraphia (Italy 
Scriptures), col. 28 sip; and in ScliafTs essay on the 
Pm deal Hooks of the O. T., prefixed to the Am. ed. of 
Lange’s Commentary on Job, p. vii. 

POETRY. ] l kkrew (Post- Piblicat). In speaking of 
post-Uiblical poetry, we mean those poetical productions 
which have come down to us from the so-called Sopherite 
Aye. i. e. from about B.C. 500 to A.D. 70. Productions 
written after this period are properly designated by the 
name A 'eo-llebntic Poetry. 

The divine service of the second Temple, under Ezra 
and his successors, was mainly a restoration, rather than 
a new institute; but the inspired material for liturgy was 
now r more copious. The Psalms, several of which, like 
the melodious swan-song of a departing inspiration, were 
written in the Ezra-Nehemiah time, formed of them- 
selves a primary element. So, at the Feast of Taberna- 
cles, the Asapliites chanted the Conjitemini of the 118th 
Psalm (Ezra iii, 10, 11; comp. Nell, xii, 24; 1 Chron. 
xxvi, 1). The titles given to some Psalms by the men 
of the < jreat Synagogue indicate a stated use of them at 
certain periods of week-day anil Sabbath worship (comp. 
Mishna, Tutimid. ad fin.; Sopherim, sect. 18; and the 
inscriptions for the Psalms in the Septuagint, evidently 
rendered from Hebrew ones). Thus Psa. xxiv is called 
\ba\pug . . . rpg plug aafSjieiTov ; xlviii, etrrlpq nafi- 
lidrov ; xciv, rerpetci cra/3/3eirov ; xxix, doctor OKijid/r; 
xxxviii, TTfpi <ra(3/3drov; cxi-cxix, ’AWqXovia. The 
“fifteen Songs of Degrees” (r.‘"3 , -n 1", Cliald, 

srnn -pr-c*: bv s-'i', i. e. “the 

hymn which was said upon the steps of the abyss”) were 
evidently liturgical, and probably derive their name 
from the fifteen semicircular steps at the Nicanor gate 
of the great court of the Temple, on which the Levitos 
stood while singing them. So the Mishna (Sitccah, 
v, 4): “On the fifteen steps which led into the women’s 
court, corresponding with the fifteen songs of degrees, 
stood the Eevites with their instruments of music, and 
sang.” Besides, the Great llallel (q. v.) and certain 
verses of Psalms were also used, as may be seen from the 
treatise Sitccah, iv, 5. 

The poetry of this period is preserved in four forms: 
of Tephillnh , Perttkah, Shir, and Masha!. 

I. The Tephillnh, or Prayer. — Of this form we have 
the four collects offered by the high-priest on the Day of 
Atonement (q. v.), as preserved in the Jerusalem (iema- 
ra and Midrash Jclamdenii, and which run thus: 1. For 
Uimstlf and his Family: “Lord. I have committed in- 
iquity, I have transgressed, I have sinned, I and my 
house. Pardon. O Lord, the iniquities and transgres- 
sions anil the sins which I have committed and sinned 
before thee. I and my house, as it is written in the law 
of Moses, thv servant : for on that day will he atone for 
you to make you clean, from all your transgressions shall 
ye before Jehovah be cleansed” (Yomah, iii, 7). 2. For 

Himself and the Priesthood: “Lord, 1 have committed 
iniquity, I have transgressed, I have sinned, I and my 
house, and the sons of Aaron, thy consecrated people. 
I beseech thee, Lord, to pardon the iniquities, trans- 
gressions, and sins which I and my house, and the sons 
of Aaron, thv consecrated people, have perversely com- 
mitted, ns it is written in the law of Mt»es, thy servant: 
for mi that day,” etc, (ibid, iv, 2). 3. For the People at 

large : “ Lord, thy people, the house of Israel, have done 
perversely; they have transgressed, they have sinned 
before thee. I beseech of the Lord to pardon the in- 
iquities, transgressions, and sins which thy people, the 
house of Israel, have perversely committed, and by which 


POETRY 


327 


POETRY 


they have sinned and transgressed; as it is written in 
the law of Moses, thy servant : for on that day,” etc. 
4. When he came out from the Holy of Holies : “May it 
please thee, O Lord our God, and the God of our fathers, 
that neither this day nor during this year any captiv- 
ity come upon us; yet if eaptivity befall us this day or 
this year, let it be to a place where the law is culti- 
vated. May it please thee, O Lord our God, and the 
God of our fathers, that no want come upon us either 
this day or this year; but if want visit us this day or 
this year, let it be due to the liberality of our charitable 
deeds. May it please thee, O Lord our God, and the 
God of our fathers, that this year may become a year 
of cheapness, of fulness, of intercourse, and of trade: a 
year with abundance of rain, of sunshine, and of dew : 
one in which thy people Israel shall not require assist- 
ance one from another. And listen not to the prayers 
of those who go forth on a journey. And as to thy 
people Israel, may no enemy exalt himself against 
them. May it please thee, O Lord onr God, and the 
God of our fathers, that the houses of the men of Saron 
may not become their graves.” 

II. The BeraJcah , or Benediction. — The benedietorv 
adoration of the name and dominion of God is a most 
proper and all-pervading element in the Hebrew litur- 
gy. Many of their prayers begin and end with it. The 
herakahs at the close of the several books of the Psalms 
(Psa. xli, 13; Ixxii, 18; lxxxix, 53; evi, 48) were prob- 
abty added by Ezra, or the prophetical men of his time, 
on the final arrangement of the canonical Psalter (comp, 
on these doxologies Gratz, in Monatssch rift fur d. Ju- 
denthum, 1872, xxi, 481 sq.). Those which accompany 
the prayers of the Shemoneh Esreli, or eighteen benedic- 
tions [comp, the art. Liturgy], are believed to be of 
the same period. Thus Maimonides : “ These benedic- 
tions v’ere appointed by Ezra the sopher, and the heth- 
din ; and no man hath power to diminish from or add to 
them” ( Hilchoth Keriath Shema, i, 7 ; and Hilch. Tefila, 
i, 11). “In the innumerable instances where, in the 
Mishna and Aboda, this form occurs, in which the ever- 
lasting name is hallowed, and the truth of the divine 
dominion is reverently confessed, it appears to have 
been the pious desire of the institntors of the synagogue 
ritual that supplication, with prayer and thanksgiving, 
should give a spirit and tone to the entire life of the 
people. Indeed, almost all the affairs of Hebrew life 
have the prescription of their appropriate benedictions” 
(eomp. Berachoth, ch. vi-ix; Rosh ha-Shanah, iv, 5; 
Taanith, ii, 2, etc.). 

III. The Shir , or Song, Chant (from shevar , *1 TO, 
Sanse. swar, swar a, “ a song ;” the Arab, zabara, i. q. 
savara , whence zubar, like the Hebrew" mizmor , of the 
same import), is a metrical composition, designed for 
chanting, and consisting generally of the strophe, anti- 
strophe, and epode. Wc have a fine Biblical model in 
the fifteenth chapter of Exodus, on which see Kcnnicott 
and Lowth. Apart from the divine poetry of the Scrip- 
tures, there are but scanty remains of Hebrew songs of 
a date prior to the destruction of Jerusalem. In the 
Mishna and Gemara we come upon a few reminiscences 
of them, as in the treatise Succah, fob 53, col. 1, where, 
in connection with the solemnities of the Feast of Tab- 
ernacles, we find the following chant: 

TIIE PIOUS AN1> TUE MEN OF RENOWN. 

“O happy youth, devoted sage, 

Who will not put to shame our age 1 

THE PENITENTS. 

“O happy, also, is onr age, 

Which now atones for youth, not sage 1 

cnoRus. 

“O happy be on whom no guilt doth rest, 

And he who einu’d with pardon shall be blest.” 

These songs were accompanied by the musical instru- 
ments of the Levitcs, who stood on the fifteen steps 
which led to the court of the women. Here is another, 
a sort of confession made by the Levites at the same 


feast. “ When the Levites,” says the Mishna, “ reached 
the gate that leads out to the east, they turned west- 
ward, their faces being towards the Temple, and em- 
ployed these words : 

“Our fathers, here established by thy grace, 

Had turn’d their backs upon thy holy place, 

And to the rising sun they set their face ; 

But we will tnrn to thee, Jehovah God, 

Our eyes are set on thee, Jehovah God.” 

Another fragment of a song has been preserved in the 
Mishna ( Taanith , ad fin.), and was sung on the 15th 
day of Ab, w hen the collection of wood required in the 
sanctuary was finished. Then the maidens all went 
forth, arrayed in v'hite garments specially lent them, 
that so rich and poor might be on an equality, into the 
vineyards around Jerusalem, w here they danced and 
sung : 

“Around in circle gay the Hebrew" maidens see, 

From them the happy youth their partners choose; 
Remember beauty soon its charms must lose, 

And seek to win a maid of fair degree. 

“When fading grace and beauty low are laid, 

Yet her who fears the Lord shall praise await; 

God blessed her handiwork, and, in the gate, 

‘Her works have followed her,’ it shall be said.” 

IV. The J\rashal. — This word, according to its San- 
scrito-Shemitic root, denotes comparison or resemblance. 
“In the older Hebrew writings the word is applied to 
prophecy, to doctrine, to history in the loftier style, and 
to instruction given in a kind of poetic form, sometimes 
with the accompaniment of the harp or other music; 
because, in these various manners of instruction, mate- 
rial things are employed in the way of parallel or com- 
parison, to illustrate those which are supersensible or 
spiritual. Hence mashal became a general name for all 
poetry which relates to the ordinary or every-day econ- 
omy of life, with a still more specific application to a 
distinct epigrammatic saying, proverb, maxim, or re- 
flection, carrying in itself some important principle dr 
rule of conduct. The mashal, then, may be said to con- 
sist commonly of two elements : the thesis, principal 
fact or lesson, and the type, emblem, or allusion by 
which it is explained or enforced. The latter may be 
one of the phenomena of nature, or an imaginary trans- 
action in common life ( parable ); or an emblematic 
group of human agents ( apologue. ) ; or of agents non- 
human, with an understood designation (fable'). Some- 
times the mashal takes a mathematical cast ; and the 
doctrine or principle is laid dow r n after a certain arith- 
metical proportion or canon, midah (Prov. vi, 16; xxx, 
15, 18, 21 ; Ecclus. xxiii, 16 ; xxv, 1, 8, 9 ; xxvi, 5, 25 ; 
1, 27, 28). When there is no image or allusion of these 
kinds used, the mashal becomes sometimes an acute, 
recondite, yet generally pleasant assertion or problem — 
gryphos, the ‘riddle,’ or ‘enigma;’ in Hebrew, chidah, 
n-rn (Judg. xiv, 12); and sometimes an axiom or 
oracle of practical wisdom — mussa, a ‘burden,’ a 

weighty saying, from masa, ‘to hear;’ and when con- 
veyed in a brilliant, sparkling style of speaking it be- 
comes melitsah, the pleasant witticism or the 

pungent reproof. The remaining form of the mashal is 
the motto (apophthegm), where some moral is senten- 
tionslv expressed without a simile, and generally with- 
out the parallelism, as we see in the mottoes of the 
Hebrew sages in the book A both." Of such mottoes, we 
mention the following of Hillel : 

“The more flesh, the more worms; 

The more riches, the more care; 

The more wives, the more witchcraft,” etc. ; 
or: 

“Because thou madest float, 

They made thee float: 

In tnrn, who made thee float 
Shall also float”— 

this having reference to a skull floating on the water ; 
or: 

“Each one who seeks a name. 

Shall only lose his fame; 


POETRY 


328 


POGGIO 


Who adds tint to his lore, 

Mm I |o-e it more* and more ; 

K.tcti OIK* (k-erves to perish 

Who fludy does not cheri«h; 

Tli it mun'shiill surely fade 

Who with his crown (■. c. of learning or merit) does 
trade." 

A valuable re lie of mtJtalim is preserved in a book 
known among us as The 1 1 'isdom <J Jesus (he .Sou of 
Sinn h, from which we will ipiote a few sentences: 
“Honor t ie physician before you require bis aid" 
(xxxviii. 1 >. ** I hrec things are contrary to all reason : 
a prc-ml beggar: a rich man who denies it (lives and 
acts a» if he were poort; and an old man who commits 
adulnry” (xxv, 3, I ). ” A good wife is a good gift; 

such is granted to him who fears the Lord. A bad wife 
is a leprosy to her husband ; let him divorce her. and he 
will be cured of bis leprosy" (ch. xxvi). Hcforc you 
vow, consider the vow" (xxviii, 23). See I’akahi.ic. 

The non- Palestinian poetry of this time we pass over, 
it living written in t ireek. See 1 Mitzsch, Xur tjesehkhte 
dir jiidischni /Wo, p. 17-20, 177 sq. ; Etheridge, In- 
troduction to ILbrrtc Literature, p, 02 sq. ; Steinsohnei- 
der, Jt irish Literature , p. 35 sq. : Kdcrsheim, History 
of the Ji irish Xaiion, p. 340 sq., 550 sq. ; id. The Temple, 
its Ministry anil Sendees as they were in the Time of 
Jesus Christ, p. 2 hi sq., 270 sq., 2N(J sq. (11. P.) 

PoFTKY, OmtsTiAN. Sec I1 ym.noi.ogy; Psal- 
moi>y. 

Poggio, IhiActiot.INI (Jiovanxi - Fkaxcksco, a 
celebrated Italian humanist, who contributed richly to 
the revival of classical studies in the period of the Ital- 
ian Renaissance. and did much to encourage scholar- 
ship in t lie t'liurch of Lome, was born at Terranuova, 
near Florence, in I3S0. lie was the grandson of a 
notary, anil studied the Latin language under the di- 
rection of t iiovanni di Ravenna, the (ireek under Eman- 
uel l ‘hrysoloras, and applied himself also to the Hebrew, 
n fact which confutes the opinion of 1 1 netins and others, 
who have said that this language was not cultivated 
in Italy till after the 14th and 15th centuries. After 
the completion of his education he went to Pome, and 
was for some time a copyist, and finally entered the 
service of the cardinal di Rari. In 1413 Poggio was 
appointed apostolic secretary, a poorly paid charge, 
w hich lie occupied forty years. Thus he spent a large 
part of his life in brilliant, surroundings. Eight popes 
bequeathed him to one another, as if he had belonged 
to the chattels of St. Peter. The life which lie led in 
the oflice he held was favorable to study, and he de- 
voted much of it to inquiries into antiquity. 11 is great 
title- to the esteem of posterity is the zeal he displayed 
in the search for the monuments of Unman literature, 
lie made his most important discoveries during a pro- 
tracted stay in Switzerland, w hither he repaired in 1414 
to attend the t cunicil of Constance, lie visited the 
library of the monastery of St. (kill, which lie found in 
a kind if dungeon, lit re lie discovered a copy, almost 
r impl* te, nf Hiiiutiliail’s lustitutiones Oratorio’ , of which 
frngim ills onlv were known at the time.; four books of 
the 1 1 //» nautmi of Valerius Elamis, and the t’ommcn~ 
tarui .1 An mus iVdianus. Afterwards he found, in 
diver* pin • -i i lie History of Amtnianns Martel linns and 
FroutJ 1 1 o« * 7 / > ottsr on ,1 y«i duets. The searches which 
he caim I to be made in the monasteries of France and 
f jermany br-uigl.t to light the works of Manilius, of 
\ itrin hi .nf ( Inin* 1 la, ol Pri*ciaiui*. of Nonius Mar- 
cella*, a con i !• raid** portion nt the poems of Lucretius 
mid .'Mims 1 1 alien*, eight orations oft ‘i.-ero, twelve com- 
edies of Plautus* cle. 

'I he lreed‘*m with which Poggio criticised several 
acts of the • oimcil of t oiiMancc, t pecially in the allair 
of Jerome of Prague, was punished with' a short dis- 
grace, during which he visited England. Reaufort, 
bishop of Winchester, received him with distinction. 
Hut ns little effect followed the brilliant promises of the 
prelate., and ns the English libraries offered no tempta- 


J tions to a man of Foggio’s propensities, he left a coun- 
try the inhabitants of which he describes as plunged 
in the grossest sensuality, and returned to Pome at 
the close of 1420. lie was reinstated into his former 
charge. The calm which the pontifical court enjoyed 
for some years gave him full leisure to correspond with 
his friends N'iccoli, Leonardo d’Arezzo. Traversal, etc., 
ami to write several dialogues and philosophical trea- 
tises, in which lie exposes without mercy the failings 
of monks and priests, which Poggio was most compe- 
tent to describe, as he had himself at the time three 
sons by a mistress, though he was an ecclesiastic. Ilis 
own course he excuses in the following pleasantry, in 
one of his letters to cardinal Julian of St. Angelo : “ You 
say that I have sons, which is not lawful for a cleric; 
and without a wife, which does not become a laic. 1 
may answer that 1 have sons, which is fitting for laics; 
and without a wife, which from the beginning of the 
world has been the custom of clerics: but 1 will not 
defend my failings by any excuse." 

When, after the accession of Etigenius IV, in 1434, a 
sedition compelled the pope to retire to Florence, Pog- 
gio set out on bis way to join his master. He was 
taken by soldiers of Piecinino, and given bis liberty 
only after a heavy ransom paid by his friends. In 
Florence he met Filelfo, against whom he had long en- 
tertained a secret jealousy, which changed into actual 
hatred when his venerated and beloved N'iccoli was the 
1 object of a violent attack from Filelfo. lie launched 
against bis enemy a libel, in which he heaped up all the 
most injurious and obscene expressions which the Latin 
language would afford. Filelfo answered him in the 
same style; whereupon Poggio replied in a still more 
insulting strain. After a truce of four years this edify- 
ing dispute between two of the most distinguished men 
of their time recommenced: Poggio wrote against Fi- 
lelfo a libel full of the most atrocious accusations, al- 
most all of his own invention. Filelfo again returned 
the blow. They were reconciled afterwards: neither 
had damaged himself in the eyes of their contempo- 
raries, who enjoyed these invectives as literary dainties. 
Meanwhile Poggio had bought a villa in the vicinity 
of Florence, and formed there a museum of sculptures, 
medals, ami other objects of art. Towards the close of 
1435 he had married the young and beautiful Vaggia 
di Bomlelmonti. lie was poor and on the decline of 
life; but the young heiress of an illustrious and ancient 
family was in love with his literary fame, which had 
induced the senate of Florence to grant immunity from 
taxes to him and his descendants. Ilis married life 
was a liappv one. 

lie returned to Rome with the papal court, after a 
sojourn of ten years at Florence. During this period 
he had published a choice selection tif letters, and com- 
posed two dialogues, full of the most curious remarks on 
the manners of his time {On Nobility and On the Mis- 
fortunes of Princes'). He had, besides, written the pan- 
egyrics of N'iccoli. Lorenzo di Medici, of the cardinal 
Albergato, and of Leonardo d’Arezzo. At the request 
of pope Nicholas V. with whom he was in great favor, 
be translated into Latin the first five books of Diodorus 
Siculus: about the same time he dedicated his ver- 
sion of Xenophon’s Cyropmlia to Alfonso, king of Na- 
ples, and compelled the king, by the sarcastic remarks 
with which he filled his letters to his friends, to reward 
him with a present of six hundred ducats, whereupon 
he chanted, in the most pompous strains, the encomiums 
of the king. To please pope Nicholas, he wrote a vio- 
lent invective against the antipope, Felix V. He wrote 
also, under the same pope’s auspices, an interesting dia- 
logue On the Vicissitudes of Fortune, which, besides 
many curious incidents in the history of Italy in the 
1 1th and 15th centuries, contains an account of the jour- 
ney of the Venetian Niccolo Conti into India and Persia, 
and a precious description of the monuments of Rome 
as they were at his time. During the plague which 
broke out in Rome in 1450, lie retired to bis birthplace, 


POGODA 


329 


POHLMAN 


where he published his famous Facetice, a collection of 
tales, partly borrowed from the French fabliaux, and 
excessively licentious. This book was eagerly read 
throughout Europe. Soon afterwards he published his 
Historia Disceptativa Convivalis, a dialogue full of sa- 
tirical attacks against physicians and lawyers. He re- 
turned to Rome in 1451, but in 1453 he was offered the 
position of chancellor of the republic of Florence, and a 
few months after his removal to that city was in addi- 
tion made prior of the arts. In the latter quality he 
had to look to the maintenance of good order and of 
the public liberties. Though he was now fully seventy- 
two years of age, he applied himself to study more in- 
tensely than ever; and in that last period of his life, 
though he had an employment which took up much of 
his time, he composed the most considerable of his works. 
His 16ve of retirement induced him to build a country- 
house near Florence, which he called his academy, and 
in which he took much delight. He always spent the 
summer there. From this period and place dates his 
History of Florence, for which he consulted the ar- 
chives of the republic, which were committed to his 
care. This book is one of the best historical works 
of the time. The Florentines, to show their grateful- 
ness, erected to the author a statue, which now forms 
part of a group of the twelve apostles in the church of 
S. Maria del Fiore. Foggio died at Florence Oct. 30, 
1459. He had some estimable parts, but these can- 
not make us forget his vindictive character, his irasci- 
bility, his bad manners and bad morals. Foggio ap- 
pears by his works to have had a great passion for let- 
ters, and as great a regard for those that cultivated 
them. He excelled in Greek and Latin literature, and 
was one of the principal restorers of it. His pursuits 
were not confined to profane antiquity : we see by his 
quotations that he was versed in ecclesiastical history' 
and the fathers, and especially in the writings of Chry- 
sostom and Augustine. Poggio’s treatises, especially 
his dialogues, are feeble imitations of the classics; 
though written in an easy, witty, and sometimes ele- 
gant manner, they are full of solecisms, Italicisms, and 
even barbarisms. His letters are altogether neglected. 
But the rest of his writings are still read, owing to 
their variety of subjects, to some ingenious ideas, and 
to the freedom of speech, sometimes the grace, by 
which they are characterized. His Works were pub- 
lished at Strasburg (1510, fob; 1513, 4to), at Paris 
(1511, 4to; 1513, fob), and at Basle (1538, fob). The 
latter edition, by Bebel, is the best; but it is still in- 
complete, and does not contain the following works, 
afterwards published apart: He Hypocrisia (Lyons, 
1679, 4to), a violent pamphlet against the clergy: — 
Ilistoria Florentina (Yen. 1715, 4to; and in tom. xx 
of the Scriptores of Muratori), translated into Italian 
by Giacomo, the third of the five sons whom Poggio 
had by his legitimate wife (Yen. 1476. fob; Florence, 
1492 and 1598, 4to) : — De Varietate Fortunes. (Par. 1723, 
4to), with fifty-seven unpublished Letters of Poggio. 
The Facetice have often been printed apart (1470, 4to; 
Ferrara, 1471 ; Nuremb. 1475; Milan, 1477 ; Par. 1478, 
4to ; Utrecht, 1797, 2 vols. 24mo). Poggio’s Latin trans- 
lation of Diodorus Siculus was published at Yen ice 
(1473, 1476, fob) and at Basle (1530, 1578, fob). See 
Thorschmidt, Vita Poygia (Wittemb. 1713); Kecanate, 
Vita (Yen. 1715) ; Lenfant, Poggiana (1720, and enlarged 
1721); Niceron, Memo ires, vol. ix; Shepherd, Life of 
Poggio (Lond. 1802, 8vo) ; Nisard, Les Gladiateurs de 
la Republique des Lettres, vol. i ; Trollope, History of 
Florence (see Index in vol. v) ; llallam, Literary Hist, 
of Europe (Harper’s edition), i, 64, 92 ; id. Middle Ages 
(see Index); Christian Schools and Scholars, ii, 306- 
310; Piper, Monumental Theologie, § 148, 150, 153, 214; 
Milman, Latin Christianity, viii, 123; Edinb. Rev. Ixiv, 
32 sq. ; Schlegel, Hist, of Literature, lect. xi ; Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Pogoda is in Slavic mythology the name of a god 
of the spring and of fine weather. Pogoda is a pure 


Slavic word, and means weather. He is supposed to 
have been of a kind and amiable disposition — the god 
of sunny weather, of bright skies, of smiling springs; 
yet the qualification of dobra (good) would seem to be 
necessary in such a case. The description given of his 
exterior appearance is perhaps still less authentic than 
that of his functions : young and beautiful, crowned 
with blue flowers, blue wings on his shoulders, clothed 
in a blue garment interwoven with silver, stretched on 
a bed of flowers resting quietly in the bright air. It is 
not likely that the Slaves one thousand years ago could 
have drawn such pictures of their gods. 

Pohlman, William John, a missionary of the Re- 
formed (Dutch) Church, was born at Albany, N. Y., in 
1812, of pious parents who belonged to the Lutheran 
Church. II is father was of German descent. Converted 
at the age of sixteen, he united with the First Reformed 
Church of Albany, under the care of Dr. John Ludlow. 
Devoting himself to the Christian ministry, Pohlman 
studied three years at the Albany Academy, entered 
Rutgers College in 1832, graduated in 1834, and then 
entered the theological seminary at New Brunswick. 
While a student in this institution he consecrated him- 
self to the foreign missionary work. In August, 1836, 
he offered himself to the American Board of Commis- 
sioners for Foreign Missions, in a memorable letter, 
which concluded with these sentences: “I wish to en- 
list for life. If in your view I can be of any service, I 
lay my' all at your feet. 1 Silver and gold have I none, 
but such as I have give I thee.’ Send me abroad to 
publish glad tidings to the idol-serving nations. Send 
me to the most desert part of all the howling wilder- 
nesses of heathenism, to the most barbarous climes, or 
to more civilized regions. Send me to the millions of 
pagans, to the followers of the <alse prophet, to the Jews 
or the Gentiles, to Catholics or Protestants. Send me, 
in fine, wherever God opens an effectual door. Send 
me — ‘ for necessity is laid upon me ; y’ea, woe is unto 
me if I preach not the Gospel’ to the perishing hea- 
then.” In this spirit he was sent to Borneo. He was 
ordained as an evangelist in April, 1838, by the Classis 
of Albany, and with his wife, a sister of the late Dr. 
John Scudder, the famous missionary to India, sailed 
for his field May 25. They' arrived at the island of 
Java Sept. 10, and after a brief sojourn at Singapore 
went to Batavia, where they were compelled to remain 
a whole year before the Dutch government would per- 
mit them to go to Borneo. Meanwhile he studied the 
Malay language, which prepared him to hold intercourse 
with the people to whom he was sent. After the year 
expired he settled at Pontianak, in Borneo, and imme- 
diately' began his missionary labors. Mrs. Pohlman 
died in 1845. She was a woman of like spirit with 
himself and with her brother — a devoted, intelligent, 
and laborious missionary’s wife and sister. After six 
years of unremitting toils on this island, 31 r. Pohlman 
was transferred to China in 1844, with the Rev. Elihu 
Doty', to establish the Amoy' Mission, in connection 
with David Abeel, D.D. He had studied the Chinese 
language during his residence in Borneo, and so was 
the better prepared to do efficient work at once in his 
new field. For five years more he gave himself up un- 
reservedly' to this noble service. Dr. Abeel’s feeble 
health compelled his return to America in 1845, and he 
died in 1846. See Abei-.l, David. But the mission 
was planted under the most encouraging auspices. A 
church building was erected in Amoy', with funds from 
America, when there were but three communicant mem- 
bers of the mission. Three other distinct missionary’ 
churches, all of which are now self-sustaining, have 
swarmed out of this hive. Native preachers and help- 
ers have been raised up, and the mission has been long 
regarded as a model of evangelizing work in China. 
The strictly missionary work in Amoy is now at an 
end; and the churches there would doubtless live and 
grow and propagate Christianity, like those of ancient 
times, even if all American missionaries were withdrawn 


330 


PO I RET 


POILLY 


from them. Such i« the fruit of the labors of Mr. Pohl- 
inau ami his associates and successors. Hi' valuable life 
and labors wore suddenly ended at breaker’s Point by 
shipwreck of the vev. I on which lie Mas bound from 
Hong Koi gt » Amoy. .Inn.. "i. li*. Pirates attacked the 
sinking >hi, . I ut "Mr. Pohlman sprang from the ship 
and was dr wind. The ruling principle of Mr. Polil- 
iiian ' lit.- ua> I i' n Herat* u to tiod. 1 Ie gave himself 
and his . II i - t I in i. and to the world for Christ’s sake, 
llr ' ar< I nothing. 1 le w as “ tutus in illis.” lie was 
an ml. . In. .Mint, frank, earnest, enthusiastic, and tc- 
im i< U-. t.. tho last degree in prosecuting his good pur- 
p iw*. His disposition was very cheerful, lie had no 
« r -idiots. Hut with practical common-sense and in- 
iriisc energy and zeal, lie lived and labored for the 
kingdom oi Christ. 1 1 is preaching, correspondence, 
and public services glowed with this one spirit, which 
has left its permanent impress upon the mission and 
Church of which he was so conspicuous a servant. 
(W..I. il. T.t 

Poilly, Tk.vni.ois hk. a French engraver, was born 
at Abbeville in 1G22 or 1G2.J. llis father was a gold- 
smith. After working for three years in the studio of 
Pierre Hard, lie went to Home in 1(140. and remained 
there until Iti.il>. lb; engraved during his stay in Italy 
some drawings in a manner which resembles that of 
Bloemaert. t hi his return to France, he engraved with 
equal success portraits and historical subjects, llis por- 
traits are sought for even now, perhaps less oil account 
of the merits of an art which must he confessed to be 
somewhat cold and monotonous, than of the persons 
they represent. Poilly was honored with the title of 
ordinary engraver to the king. lie reproduced the 
works of KuHaclIc, Giulio Kotnano. Guido, Carraccio, 
Lc* limn, Mignard. lx* •Sueur, Poussin, Ph. de Cham- 
pagne. etc. I hc great reputation lie enjoyed in bis 
time attracted to his studio a number of pupils, among 
them Gerard Kdelinck. Nicolas de Poilly. his brother, 
•Scot in, lloullet, etc. Poilly and his brother lived to- 
gether with the Mariette family, for whom Gerard 
worked. Poilly died at Paris, 31 arch. IGDff. Though 
Poilly \s style is very laborious, there arc about four 
hundred prints which hear his name, in which how- 
ever he was of course assisted by bis pupils. llis mas- 
terpiece is the print from Mignard’s celebrated picture, 
now lost, of San Carlo JioiTiimeo ud minister int/ the Sac- 
ram* lit to the Milanese attack* d with the Plai/ue. A 
catalogue of bis prints was published by K. Ilccquct in 
IT.'*'. 1 . See lloeler. A our. /Hop. ( Hue rale, s. w ; Mrs, 
Clement. Handbook of Painters, Sculptors, Architects, 
ami J iif/ran rs , s, v. 

Poimen i TToi/i/pd, i. e. pastor, is a name given to 
ministers of the Gospel in the Xcw-Tes( ament writ- 
ings and by the early ( ‘lnircli. It is a term recommend- 
ed bv the circumstance that Christ had compared liim- 
•If to a she .herd and his people to a Hock; and I lie 
tl Peter had called him the Chief Shepherd. See 

Pointed. In the English Prayer-hook the Psalter, 
* ' • ! I' 1 '• etc., are punctuated throughout in a 

ir iii.ii i r h\ t’ie insertion of a colon in or near 

* ‘ "1 ( il1 h verse without regard to grammatical 

r " ■ l 1,1 done with the design of facilitating 

1 w 111 ’ by pn 'cntiiig to the eye the most nnt- 
" ra * ’ 1 "t the verse, or that which will most 

r " 1 ' r -' •'" I with the movement of the eliant- 

1 ■ 11 « ' *•“* <" this, t lie title of the Knglisli 

I rn r I U st«il<s that the Psalms of David are 

P mi< 1 *>r | nuetiiated as they are to he sung or said 
til « * i n r* i m . I*i the Xiuericaii editions the graimiiat- 
i. al piiiu t nation has be« u restored, and the above por- 
tion of the title - initteel. Maunt. n. /•' . hs. Piet. p. fgJG. 

Pointed Style, cspcc.illy applied to the Pointed 
aredi. is mi nrihite-e lurid te rm first used in the 11th 
I'cntun. I In- Pointed sl\le occurs in Fgvpt, Iialv, 
(.recce, and Mexico in aiinciit buihlings. nierelv as a 


freak of the architect, an accident, or irregularity. 
Some authors have traced its origin to the avenues of 
a forest ; others have seen it in the palm, in the wooden 
churches of an earlier period, or the intersecting arcade. 
Some refer it to the Goths, like Warbnrton; or to the 
Saracens, like Christopher Wren. See Gothic Archi- 
tect cuk. 

Pointer, Joiix, an English divine of some note, 
flourished in the first half of the iNth century as chap- 
lain of Merton College, Oxford, where he was probably 
educated, and as rector of Slapton. lie published, be- 
sides several works of an altogether secular character, 
Oxouienses Academia (Loud. 1741), 12mo). See Alli- 
bone. Diet, of lirit. and A mer. A uihors, s. v. 

Points, Hebrew. See Masor.mi. 

Pointz, UoBKUT, an English theologian of some re- 
pute, flourished uear the middle of the lGth century. 
He was educated at Oxford University, and was made 
perpetual fellow of New College in 1554. He was 
obliged to go abroad alter the accession of queen Mary, 
he having embraced the llelbrmed doctrines, and pre- 
ferring exile to abnegation of his religious convictions, 
lie went to Louvain, and settled there as pastor of a 
Protestant congregation, lie wrote several contro- 
versial works against the Homauists, examining their 
different characteristic doctrines. Among these are, 
Testimonies for the Peal Presence (Lend. 15t>(». lGmo) : 
— Miracles performed bp the Eucharist (1570). See 
Wood, .4 thence Oxouienses, iii, 715. 

Foiret, Pierre, a French philosopher of mystical 
tendency, and a writer whose works are of great im- 
portance to the students of French theological thought, 
was born at Metz April 15, 1G46. He lost his father, a 
mechanic, when but six years of age. As lie showed 
some disposition for the tine arts, he entered as an ap- 
prentice the studio of a sculptor, where he learned the 
elements of drawing. At thirteen years he studied hu- 
manities, and from JGG1 to 1GG3 he was tutor at Basle, 
and there studied at the same time philosophy anil tlic- 
’ ologv. lie finally entered the evangelical ministry, 

! and after residing for a while at Ilanau, was called as 
pastor to Heidelberg in JGG7; married there, and ac- 
quired the reputation of a good preacher. In 1G72 he 
was appointed pastor at Amveiler, in the duchy of 
Zweibrileken. Here he familiarized himself with the 
writings of the philosopher Descartes, and of the mys- 
tics Kcmpis, Tattler, and Antoinette Buurignoii, and 
commenced to turn his thoughts towards the spir- 
itual life. In 1G73 a dangerous illness converted him 
fully to mysticism. The war having disturbed his 
peaceful studies, lie first took refuge in Holland, then 
at Hamburg, in the house of Mile, ltoiirignun. to whom 
he had been long attached by feelings of esteem and 
admiration. In I UNO he established himself at Amster- 
dam. Speaking of his exemplary life there. Bayle says 
that “from a great Cartesian lie had become so pious 
that, in order to apply himself the better to the tilings 
of heaven, lie bad broken off' almost every intercourse 
with the earth.” In order to live in more complete se- 
clusion, lie retired in 1GS8 to Kliciiisbcrg. near Leyden, 
where lie spent more than thirty years in the exercise 
| of piety, and in the composition of spiritual and ascetic 
works, lie died there May 21, 1711). I’oirct is not 
the founder of a sect; lie established no conventicles, 
because lie attached no importance whatever to dog- 
matical questions. llis theological system lacked 
speculative clearness and consistency, and was rather 
a subjective theology of the adoring heart and soar- 
ing fiiiie\- than of the seeing intellect. It lays little 
stress upon the forms and rules of any particular 
Church, and placed the ideal of the Christian life in 
retired, uninterrupted communion with self and with 
God. For him. morals were the essence of religion. 
Hence there was never a more tolerant theologian. 
If he avoided all intercourse with the world, it was 
to preserve the integrity of his conscience. Far from 


POIEET 


331 


POIRIEli 


being indifferent, he was full of zeal for the Christian 
religion, which he defended on several occasions, espe- 
cially against Spinoza. All those who were acquaint- 
ed with him agree in the praise of his meekness, his 
modesty, the purity of his life, the kindness of his 
heart. It would be unjust to deny that there are ex- 
cellent things in his works. He displays a surprising 
sagacity in resolving the most subtle questions of meta- 
physics, and an uncommon talent in throwing light on 
the most obscure principles of theosophy. There is a 
methodical spirit in his writings, which is a fruit of his 
close study of Descartes, and his system, under an ap- 
pearance of disorder, is admirably connected and devel- 
oped. He left about forty works, of which by far the 
most important is his De (Economia Dicina, under the 
French title, L' Economic Divine, ou Sysikme universel, et 
demontre des (Enures et des Desseins de Dieu enters les 
Homines (Amsterd. 1G87, 7 vols. 8vo), in which lie means 
to show with certainty the general harmony of nature 
and grace, of philosophy and theology, of reason and 
faith, of natural and Christian ethics. The principle of 
the philosophic fabric which Poiret sought to construct, 
and which really systematizes and also explains the 
w ild and incoherent rhapsodies of Bourignon, is abstrac- 
tion , or the preference of a presumed illumination to 
reason; the same in essence as the quietism of Molinos, 
the annihilation of the Hindu philosophy, and the di- 
vine vision of Bbhme. Theologically there are, per- 
haps, some things that may be considered valuable in 
Poiret’s writings. Opposed on the one hand to Des- 
cartes, and on the other to the then growing opinions 
of Locke, against whom he wrote an able treatise 
( Fules et Ratio collate e ac suo utraque loco novitce ad- 
t'ersiis Principia J. Locldi ), Poiret sought to mend 
weakness of reason by faith, and badness of will by 
d race . But the extension of his religious notions into 
the proper boundaries of speculative philosophy, to 
say nothing of his strong tendency to fanaticism, points 
him out to us as one of the most decided instances of 
mysticism in his age. Most peculiar are Poiret’s Chris- 
tological views. According to ch. xi of this same trea- 
tise, the (ideal) Son of God assumed human nature soon 
after the creation of man, and prior to his fall, in such 
a manner that he (the Son of God j took from Adam his 
body and a divine soul. Poiret also ascribed to Christ, 
previous to his incarnation in the Virgin Mary, not only 
various manifestations, but also human “emotions and 
sufferings,” and an unwearying intercession for man- 
kind, his brethren (his office as high-priest). But in 
the Virgin Mary he assumed mortal flesh. “The body 
of Jesus Christ, assuming the flesh and blood of the 
blessed Virgin, is as little composed of two different 
bodies as a white and shining garment, dipped in a ves- 
sel dark and full of color, and coming into contact w ith 
the matter which composes this darkness, is thereby 
changed into a double garment, or into two garments 
instead of one.” A complete list of Poiret’s works would 
be useless without a description of them, for which we 
have not space. The curious may consult the Cata- 
logue Raisonne, in the Memoires of J. P. Niceron (Par. 
1727-1745). We have room here for the most impor- 
tant writings only. Among these we w'ould mention 
Cogitationes Rationales de Deo, animo et malo (Amsterd. 
1677, 4to). The edition ot 1715 has besides a disserta- 
tion against the hidden atheism of Bayle and Spinoza : 
— La Paix des bonnes A mes dans toutes les Parties du 
Christianisme (ibid. 1687, 12mo). He advises peace in 
God between all righteous persons, without distinction 
of communion or rites, the essential is to go to God by 
the road of morality, the rest is of little account : — Ieleea 
Theologim Christiana juxta Principia J. Bah mi (ibid. 
1687, 12mo). He avow'S that to understand Bbhme is 
all but impossible : — Les Principles solides de la Religion 
et de la Vie Chretienne appliques a V Education des En- 
fants (ibid. 1690, 1705, 12mo). This book, disapproved 
by tlie ministers of Hamburg, was translated into Ger- 
man, English, Flemish, and Latin : — De Erudilione tri- 


pled solida, superfidaria et falsa lib. in (ibid. 1692, 
12mo, and 1707, 4to). His purpose is to show' that there 
can be no real erudition without inspiration from above: 
— Theologie elu Caur (Cologne, 1696, 1697, lOmo) : — La 
Theologie reelle, vulgairement dits la Theologie Germu- 
nique (Amsterd. 1700, 12mo). This translation of a Ger- 
man work of the 16th century, translated before by Cas- 
talion, had been published in 1676. Poiret accompanied 
it with a Letter on the mystical authors ; the latter are 
130 in number, and Poiret gives most curious details 
about their principles, character, life, and works: — The- 
ologice Jlysiicce Idea (ibid. 1702, 12mo) : — Pules et Ratio 
adversvs Principia J. Locldi (ibid. 1707, 12mo) '.—Bib- 
liotheca Mgsiicorum Selecta (ibid. 1708, 8vo) :—Posthu- 
ma (ibid. 1721, 4to). Poiret translated The Imitation 
of Jesus Christ (ibid. 1683, 12mo, sev. edit.), which he 
paraphrased partly according to the interior sense; the 
works of St. Catherine of Genoa (1691, 12mo), and those 
of Angele do Foligny (169G, 12mo). He edited the 
(Euvres d' Antoinette Bourignon (Amsterd. 1679 and fol- 
lowing, 19 vols. 12mo), w T ith a most circumstantial Life, 
which was reprinted apart (1683, 2 vols. l2mo), and fol- 
lowed by an apologetic Memoire, inserted in the Nou- 
velles de la Republique des Lettres (1685); an answer to 
the attacks of Seekendorf {Monition Necessurium, 1G86, 
4to) ; several mystical Opuscules ; and after having pub- 
lished several of the writings of Mme. Guvon, among 
others, Le Nouveau el VAncieu Testament (Cologne, 
1713-1715, 20 vols. 12mo) ; her Vie, ecrite par elle-meme 
(1720, 3 vols. 12mo) ; and her Poesies (1722, 12mo), 
brought out, a complete edition with great care, in 39 
vols., furnishing them with elaborate introductions, 
prefaces, and apologies, sufficient to make several vol- 
umes in themselves. In all this there is manifest, 
as in the editing of Mile. Bourignon’s writings, a re- 
markable willingness to hide himself entirely behind 
the beloved objects upon which he spends his toil ; so 
that now r in many instances it is impossible to tell just 
how much of the worth and beauty of w hole volumes is 
to be assigned to himself rather than to the reputed au- 
thors. Nearly all of Poiret’s writings have been trans- 
lated into Latin, Dutch, and German. See Walch, Re- 
ligionsstreitigkeiten ausser der evangel.-luther. Kirche, 
liv, 911 sq. ; Niee'ron, Hist, des Ilommes illustres, iv, 
144 sq. ; x, 140 sq.; Grasse, Literatnrgesch. vol. iii, pt. iii, 
p. 479 sq. ; Erdmann, Versuch finer Gesch. d. neuern 
Philosophic, vol. i, pt. ii, p. 217 sq.; Bibliotheca Bre- 
inens. Theol. Philol. tom. iii, pt. i, p. 75 ; Noack, Mgstik, 
§ 217; Niedner, Zeitschr. fur die hist. Theol. 1853-54; 
Hagenbach, I 'orlesungen iiber die Kirchengesch. iv, 326 
sq. ; Dorner, On the Person of Christ, i, 231 sq.; Morell, 
Speculative Ph ilos, of Europe, p. 201 ; Comment, de Vita 
et Scriptes Petri Poiret, in his Posthuma (Amsterd. 1721, 
8vo) ; Jervis, Hist, of the Church of Prance (see Index) ; 
Hurst, Hist, of Rationalism (see Index); Haag, La 
France Protestante, s. v. ; Ilistoire des Dogmes (see In- 
dex). 

Poirey, Francois, a French Jesuit, was born in 
1584 at Vesonl. lie entered the Society of Jesus at 
the age of seventeen years; was a successful teacher of 
humanities, rhetorics, philosophy, and Holy Writ, and 
was appointed superior of a house of his order at Nancy; 
rector of the college of Lyons, and of that of Dole. He 
left, Ignis Holocausti (Pont-a-Mousson, 1629, 16mo) : — 
La Maniere de se disposer a bien mourir (Douai, 1638, 
IGmo): — Le bon Pasteur (Pont-a-Mousson, 1630, 12mo: 
— Le Science des Saints (Par. 1638, 4to), etc. He died 
at Dole Nov. 25, 1637. — Hoeler, Nouv. Biog. Generate, 
s. v. 

Poirier, Germain, Dom, a learned French Benedic- 
tine, was born Jan. 8, 1724, at Paris. He was not quite 
fifteen years of age when he entered the Congregation 
of Saint-Maur. After teaching philosophy and theology 
in the houses of his order, he was appointed secretary 
to the visitor-general of France, and resigned this place 
for another which w r as more congenial to his tastes. 


POISOX 


332 


POISOX 


that < f guardian of the archives of Saint-Denis. In 
1702 lie published in the Xourtlle Collection des Histo- 
riens dr la France, vol. xi, which contains the reign of 
Henry I, an excellent Preface, which forms the fourth 
part of it, and is, according to Dacier, the most substan- 
tial and best work ever written on the first Capetian 
kin^s. Tired of the troubles by which his congregation 
was agitated, he left it in 1765, but re-entered it two years 
later, and was intrusted with the archives of .Saiut-Ger- 
mniu-des-lTes. In 17*5 lie was admitted as free asso- 
ciate into the Academic des Inscriptions, During the 
(.’evolution he was a member of the commission of mon- 
uments, and exerted himself actively in preserving from 
destruction a number of valuable manuscripts. In 1796 
he was appointed librarian of the Arsenal, and in 1*00 
he succeeded Logrand d’Anssy in the National Institute, 
lie united to a rare erudition a no less rare modesty: he 
worked for the pleasure he found in the work: hence 
his easy willingness to communicate the fruit of his re- 
searches to any one who recurred to him. II is death 
revealed the secret of his virtues and of his benevolence; 
the blessings of the poor, their testimonies of grati- 
tude — written testimonies, found, with a few pieces of 
money, in his bureau— were his whole treasure. lie 
wore cheap clothes, and condemned himself to priva- 
tions, to be able to give food and clothing to the poor, 
lie died at Paris Feb. 2. 1*113. Besides what has been 
mentioned, he wrote several historical M t moires, which 
were read in the academy of which he was a member, 
etc. See Dacier. Floge de l)om Poirier (Paris, 1804, 
*vo). — Iloefcr, A owe. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Poison is the rendering in the A. V. of the Bible of 
two Hebrew and two Greek terms, but they are so gen- 
eral as to throw little light upon the knowledge and 
practice of poisons among the Hebrews. 

1 . n~n, chemdh , from the root signifying “to be 
hot,” is used of the heat produced by wine (llos. vii, 
5 , ami the hot passion of anger (Dent. xxix. 27, etc.), 
as well as of the burning venom of poisonous serpents 
(Dent, xxxii, 21, 33; l’sa. Iviii, 4 ; cxl, 3). In all cases 
it denotes animal poison, and not vegetable or mineral. 
’I'lie only allusion to its application is in Job vi. 4, where 
reference seems to be made to the custom of anointing 
arrows with the venom of a snake, a practice the origin 
of which is of very remote antiquity (comp. Homer, 
Gd. i, 201, 202 ; Ovid, Trust, iii, 10, 0 1 {past, v, 307, etc. ; 
Pliny, x v iii, 1). The Soanes, a Caucasian race men- 
tioned by Strabo (xi, 400), were especially skilled in 
the art. Pliny (vi, 34) mentions a tribe of Arab pirates 
who infested the Bed Sea, ami were armed with poi- 
soned arrows like the Malays of the coast of Borneo. 
For this purpose the berries of the yew-tree (Plinv, 
xvi, 20) were employed. The Gauls (Pliny, xxvii, 70) 
used a poisonous herb, limeum, supposed by some to be 
the ••leopard’s bane.” and the Scythians dipped their 
arrow-points in vipers’ venom mixed with human blood. 
'I lie ■ were so deadly that a slight scratch indicted by 
them was fatal (Pliny, xi, 1 1 .*>). The practice was so 
coime n that the name roSivor. originally a poison in 
"I" h arrows were dipped, was applied to poison gen- 
er.illv. Se Amuiw. In Palestine and the countries ad- 
j.'ic i w% re many venomous snakes, as well as insects, 
Midi us the scorpion and the seohipcndra; but no such 
prai i ■ obtained among the Jews. Poisonous plants 
were UN well known a- in other countries, and we have 
an in-! mice .,f a miracle wrought by F.lisha (2 Kings 
iv, to pre\toi nii-rhief liy the accidental shred- 
ding o| a wod g mrd into a mess of pottage prepared 
for tiie sen, „f the prophet,. This fruit or vegetable 
was probably the eoloeynth; and when those who were 
about to partake of it were repelled hv its nauseous bit- 
terness, i lie prophet commanded a handful of meal to 

thrown into the pot, and thus rendered its contents 
lit fir human food. See Goi m>. 

2. -X" (once — Dent, xwii, 32), rmh, if a poison 
at all, denotes a vegetable ] mi son primarily, and is only 


twice (Dent, xxxii, 33 ; Job xx, 16) used of the venom 
of a serpent. In other passages where it occurs it is 
translated “gall’’ in the A. V., except in Hus. x, 4, 
where it is rendered “hemlock.” In the margin of 
Dent. xxix. 18 our translators, feeling the uncertainty 
of (lie word, gave as an alternative “ rosh , or, a poison- 
fid herb." Beyond the fact that, whether poisonous or 
not, it was a plant of bitter taste, nothing can be infer- 
red. That bitterness was its prevailing characteristic 
is evident from its being associated with wormwood 
(Dent. xxix. 18 [17]; Lain, iii, 19; Amos vi, 12), and 
from the allusions to “water of rosh" in Jer.viii, 11; ix, 
13; xxiii, 15. It was not a juice or liquid (Psa. Ixix, 
21 [22]; comp. Mark xv, 23), but probably a bitter 
berry, in which case the expression in Dent, xxxii, 32, 
“grapes of rosh” may be taken literally. It grew in 
the fields (llos. x, 4), was bitter to the taste (Jer. xxiii, 
15; Psa. Ixix, 22 ; comp. Lam. iii, 5), and bore clusters, 
perhaps something like the belladonna (Deut. xxxii, 
32. Yet here the words U'~ ‘HI " might also be ren- 
dered poison grapes, carrying out the tigure of the vine, 
without special allusion to the poison plant). Any spe- 
cial rendering which would suit all the passages is un- 
certain, since all the old translators have but general 
expressions (Sept. \o\f], Vulg. fel, or else some word 
meaning bitter; yet in the passage from llos. /. c. 
aypuxTTir, Veil. MS. riSipaXoc), and there is no kin- 
dred word found in the other dialects to compare. Oed- 
mann (iv, 83 sq.) referred the word to the poisonous 
colocynth ( Cncumis coloa/nthi, Linn.), which grows al- 
most everywhere in Arabia and Palestine; a plant with 
a creeping stem, bright green leaves, and bears a fruit 
with a strangely bitter juice (Fabri Kvogat. ii, 417 sq.). 
But this fruit is not a berry, but an apple, of the size of 
the closed hand; nor does the colocynth shoot up 
among the grain. Michaelis ( Fragm . etc., p. 145) 
would understand the hyoseyiimus or the darnel (Folium 
temnlentum}. (But see Oedmann, ut sup. p. 85.) This 
meaning suits the passage in llosea well (Bosenmiiller, 
.1 Iterth. iv, i, 1 18), but not that in Deut. xxxii, 32 ; nor 
does the lolium prodiice so active a poison that it 
could be mentioned by way of eminence in these pas- 
sages. Indeed, many moderns disbelieve its poisonous 
properties entirely. Celsius ( Hierobot . ii, 46 sq.) ex- 
plains rosh of the cicuta or hemlock, but is opposed by 
Michaelis and Oedmann (ut sup. p. 84). Gesenius (The- 
saur. p. 1281), on the ground that the word in Hebrew 
also signifies “head,” rejects the hemlock, colocynth. 
and darnel of other writers, and proposes the “poppy” 
instead (comp, Livy, i, 54, Paparerum capita, Papa re r 
sumniferum), from the “heads” in which its seeds are 
contained, and from which the ( Irientals have extracted 
opium from a remote antiquity. This was known to the 
ancients to he poisonous, when taken in excess (Pliny, 
xx, 76). But it inav be doubted whether the poppy 
could be so directly and pre-eminently styled the poi- 
son plant (it was even placed on the table as a side- 
dish, Pliny, xix, 53); and if rosh bad denoted a plant 
so well known, surely some one of the old interpreters 
would have discovered it. “ Water of rosh ” would thus 
be simply “opium;” but it must be admitted that there 
appears in none of the above passages to be any allu- 
sion to the characteristic effects of opium. The effects 
of the j'osh are simply nausea and loathing. It was 
probably a general term for any bitter or nauseous 
plant, whether poisonous or not, and became afterwards 
applied to the venom of snakes, as the corresponding 
word in Chaldee is frequently so used. See IIkmmk k. 

3*. ’loe, strictly something emitted, as a missile weap- 
on; hence the venom of a serpent (James iii, 8; Bom. 
iii. 13). See Skhi-knt. 

1. ‘Iv/p/iovor. prop, medicine, lienee often a deadly po- 
tion. There is a clear case of suicide hv poison related 
iu 2 Mace, x, 13, where Ptolcmsoiis Macron is said to 
have destroyed himself by this means. But we do not 
tind a trace of it among tiie Jews, and certainly poison- 


POISSI 


333 


POISSY 


ing in any form was not in favor with them. Nor is I 
there any reference to it in the N. T., though the prac- . 
tice was fatally common at that time in Nome (Sneton. 
Nero , 33, 34, 35; Tib. 73; Claud. 1). It has been sug- 
gested, indeed, that the (fiappaKtia of Gal. v, 20 (A. V. 
‘•witchcraft”) signifies poisoning, but this is by no 
means consistent with the usage of the word in the 
Sept. (comp. Exod. vii, 11 ; viii, 7, 18. etc.), and with its 
occurrence in Rev. ix, 21, where it denotes a crime 
clearly distinguished from murder (see Rev. xxi, 8; 
xxii, 15). It more probably refers to the concoction of 
magical potions and love philtres. See Witchcraft. 

The reference in Mark xvi, 18 seems to be to the 
custom of condemnation to death by means of poison 
(KUivetov, I’lato , Lys. 219; Plutarch, Phoc. c. 36; Diog. 
Laert. ii, 42 ; Ael. 1 '. If. i, 16; ix, 21 ; comp. J. Jac. Bose, 
De potionibus moriiferis , Lips. 1736). We read in 2 
Macc. x, 13 of an example of suicide by poison (comp. 
Bose, Diss. p. 25 sq.). The administration of poisons 
seems to have been no unusual crime in the days of the 
apostles (see Winer, Ad Galat. p. 125; comp. Philo, Op. 
ii, 315 sq.), and the Arabian women were especially fa- 
mous for their skill in preparing them (Joseph. Ant. 
xvii, 4, 1 ; comp. Rein, Rum. C riminalrecht , p. 427 sq.). 
But in the New Testament the words <pappaiciia and 
<pappantvQ do not refer to this, but to necromancy 
(q. v.). On poisoned arrows, see Bow. Swords were 
sometimes also dipped in poison (Curt, ix, 8, 20). See 
Myrrh. 

Poissi. See Poissy. 


Poisson, Nicolas- Joseph, a French ecclesiastic, 
noted as a writer of philosophy, was born in 1637 at 
Paris. He entered the Congregation of the Oratory at 
the age of twenty-three (1660), and undertook to prop- 
agate the principles of Descartes by writing a general 
commentary on all the works of that philosopher; but 
after publishing the Traite de la Mecuniqne annote 
(Par. 1668, 4to), and Remarques sur la Methode (Yen- 
dome, 167 1, 8vo), he gave up the project for fear of com- 
promising his congregation, whom their zeal for the 
new philosophy exposed to the resentment of the fol- 
lowers of Aristotle. The same fear prevented him from 
complying with the solicitations of Clerselier and of 
queen Christina, who promised him ample n.aterials for 
a Life of Descartes. In 1677 he went to Rome, and 
handed secretly to pope Innocent XI, in the name of 
the bishops of Arras and Saint-Pons, a Memoire com- 
posed by Nicoles, and thus obtained the condemnation 
of sixty-live propositions of lax morals which were then 
in vogue in the schools of theology. The real object 
of his journey being discovered, he was recalled by or- 
der of Pere Lachaise (1679), and relegated to Nevers, 
where bishop Valot made him his vicar, and gave him 
the direction of the diocesan seminary. After the death 
of this prelate, Poisson retired to a house of his order at 
Lyons (1705), where he died, May 3, 1710. lie pub- 
lished, besides, Acta Eeelesice Mediolanensis sub sancto 
Carolo (Lyons, 1681-83, 2 vols. fol.), valuable for the 
number of documents translated by the author from 
Italian into Latin : — Delectus actorum Ecclcsiee Univer- 
salis (ibid. 1706,2 vols. fol.). This summary of the coun- 
cils is the most extensive abridgment which we have 
on the subject. 1 Ie left a number of manuscripts, among 
them, Vie de Charlotte de Ilarlay-Sancy : — a Descrip- 
tion de Rome moderne : — a Relation of his journey to 
Rome, etc. See Salmon, Traite de V Etude des Conciles, 
p. 275 sq. ; More’ri, Grand Diet. Hist. s. v. — lloefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 


Poissy, Conference of, an ecclesiastical colloquy 
held September. 1561, is of very great importance in 
the reformatory history of the French Church. It has 
been somewhat spoken of in the article Huguenots ; 
(q. v.). It was called by Catharine de’ Medici, and was 
composed of all bishops and archbishops, and the rep- 
resentatives of the absent prelates of France. It was 
intended that the conference should prepare partly for 


the anticipated renewal of the Tridentinum (q. v.); 
partly as a sort of national council, to effect the refor- 
mation of the French Church; and partly to help re- 
duce the debt of the kingdom by the treasures of the 
Church. But however friendly the prelates were to the 
state, they did not look very favorably upon the project 
of reform, though all classes of society were then anxious- 
ly discussing not only reform of abuses but of doctrine. 
Reformed preachers were invited to participate, and 
even Catharine wrote in favor of the project of keeping 
the Huguenots within the pale cf the Church, and to fa- 
cilitate a reconciliation by tolerating a difference of sen- 
timent. Pius IV, then the Roman pontiff, objected to 
the conference, on the ground that “ if every prince were 
to take upon himself to hold councils in his own domin- 
ions, the Church would soon become a scene of universal 
confusion” (Fra Paolo, Ilist. du Concile de Trente , Ii v. v, 
§53,72). 

The colloquy was opened Sept. 9, in presence of the 
young king, the queen-mother, the princes of the blood, 
the great officers of the crown, and a brilliant audience. 
Cardinal de Tournon presided. The Reformers were 
represented by twelve of their most eminent ministers, 
headed by Theodore Beza, the favorite disciple and con- 
fidential friend of Calvin. Peter Martyr, who was reck- 
oned the ablest theologian of the part}', was likewise 
present. The proceedings were opened with a speech 
by chancellor L’Hopital in favor of this national coun- 
cil, and its advantages over an oecumenical synod. Beza 
spoke next in elaborate exposition of the doctrinal sys- 
tem of the Reformers as set forth in the “ Institutions” 
of Calvin. Beza’s tone was calm, conciliatory, and im- 
pressive. In treating of the Eucharist, he employed 
language which at first seemed almost tantamount to 
the Catholic terminology on that vital point. But on 
further explanation it appeared that the presence which 
he recognised was subjective only; depending not on 
the supernatural virtue of the sacrament, but on the 
power of faith ; to be sought not in any change of the 
substance of the elements, but in the heart of the de- 
vout communicant. Beza repudiated both transubstan- 
tiation (q. v.) and consubstantiation (q. v.). Cardinal 
de Tournon objected to Beza’s speech, and in a trem- 
bling voice prayed for its interruption on the ground 
that the young monarch’s mind would be poisoned. 
Beza, however, managed to conclude, when, after a few 
hasty words of angry remonstrance from the cardinal, 
the assembly separated in a state of agitation (De Thou, 
Hist) Unit’, iiv. xxviii; La Place, Commentaire de I'Etat 
de Religion, liv. vi). 

At the second meeting, several days afterwards, the 
cardinal of Lorraine replied to Beza in a very able dis- 
course. The doctrine of the real presence, as held in 
the Church of Rome, he proceeded to establish by proofs 
drawn with great skill from the Holy Bible and the 
Church fathers. (The speech is given at full length in 
the Collection des Proees-verbaux des Assemblies ge- 
nerates du Clerge de France, vol. i, “Pieces Justifica- 
tions,” No. 2.) The sitting was then adjourned. The 
sessions which followed were not held in the royal pres- 
ence, and were comparatively private. Though it was 
clear that there could be no successful settlement by the 
conference, it was resolved by all parties to make a final 
effort, for approximation, and for this purpose a select 
committee of ten persons was named from the most 
moderate members of each party. After some days of 
negotiation, these divines drew up a formulary upon 
the doctrine of the Eucharist, in the terms of which it 
was hoped that all sincere friends of peace in the rival 
communions might be induced to concur. Its language, 
however, was so ambiguous that each party was at lib- 
erty to construe it in accordance with their own pre- 
possessions. The following was the draft agreed upon: 
“We confess that Jesus Christ, in his Holy Supper, pre- 
sents, gives, and exhibits to us the true substance of his 
body and blood by the operation of the Holy Spirit; 
and that we receive and eat sacramentally, spiritually, 


FOOTER 


334 


POITIERS 


ami by faith the very body which died for us, that we 
may lie bone of his liuiie and flesh of his flesh; and in- 
asmuch iis faith, resting on the Word of God, makes 
present tilings which are promised, so that thereby we 
receive actually the true and natural body and blood of 
our Lord by the power of the Holy Ghost, in that sense 
we acknowledge the real presence of Christ in the Holy 
Supper” ( Bczn. HiHoiri <Us Enlists Re/. i. G(W ; Contin. tie 
El* u rtf, liv. xlvii, 21). « »f course such evasion could 

not prove satisfactory. The doctors of the Sorbonne 
being appealed to. rejected the formulary as “captions, 
instillicieiit, and heretical;” and then the prelates put 
forth a counter-statement, asserting the real presence 
by (raiisiihstantintiou of the elements, according tu the 
niit homed traditions of the Church. This they for- 
warded to the queen, with a request that Beza and his 
associates might be ordered to signify their acceptance 
of it without further demur, under pain of being pro- 
scribed as heretics and banished from the kingdom. 
This peremptory demand was equivalent to a rupture 
of the negotiations; and the conference of Poissv ter- 
minated without satisfactory result. 

The actions of the conference were therefore of very 
little advantage. Several regulations relating to dis- 
ci] line were made. Concerning the election of bishops, 
it was ordered that the name of the person nominated 
by the king to a bishopric shall be posted at the cathe- 
dral doors, and in other public places, that all persons 
may have the opportunity of objecting to him if they 
know anything against him. The following is a sum- 
mary of other important actions of this synod : 

Archbishops and bishops are forbidden to absent them- 
selves from their dioceses for more than three months; 
are exhorted to apply themselves to preaching anil vis- 
itmioiis, and to hold animal synods. 

Archhi-liops are directed to summon provincial conn- 
ell- every three years, according to the decrees of the 
I'oiiuc'l of Basic. Excommunications, save for weighty 
reasons, are forbidden. Curates not to be admitted to 
their benellccs until they have been examined liy the 
hislmp: they are ordered to proceed to priest’s orders 
within a year from their udmhsion : to reside constantly ; 
to explain ihe Cospcl to their people, nml to teach them 
to pray. Ptivaie masses arc forbidden to be said while 
solemn inu-s is celebrated. 

Piiests are enjoined to prepare themselves carefully bc- 
foie approaching the holy altar; to pronounce the words 
di-tiii ’tly ; to do all with decency and gravity: not to suf- 
fer any air-, save those of hymns and canticles, to he 
played’ upon the organ; to coirect the church books; to 
try to aholi-li all superstitions practices; to instruct the 
people that images are exposed to view in the churches 
fur io> other reason than to remind persons of Jesus 
( lirl-t and the saints. It is further directed that all im- 
ages which nre in any way indecent, or which merely 
illustrate fabulous and’ ridiculous tales, shall be entirely 
removed. 

Tlie-e regulations are closed l»v n profession of faith, in 
which the cirnrs of Luther and t'ulvin, and other secta- 
rians, are specially rejected. 

.See, besides (lie authorities already cited, De Tolicc, 
J/i fort/ of French Protestantism, p. 101 sq. ; llossiict, 
I filiations, vol. i; Jervis, Church of' France, i, 137 
IB’: Sddun, fit sch. Jts Prott stunt ism ns in Frankreich 
• I s.i,, », i i <•., vol. i ; Kanke. Frun-'osische Gesvh, i. 23G sip ; 
I’ mill. J/ixnlnr lie a (1*51). vol. ii; Smedlev, History 
<>J t u /.’</. /.*« lii/inti in Fra net . i. 148 sq.. 178; Smiles, 
Jh ii/ ti f'tht llw/it, n»ts (see Index!; Hardwick, His- 
<’>'/ of t/„ /{,/.„■ nation, p. I3M sq. (J. II. W.) 

Poitier, IV urn -bn is, a French religious writer, 
was h >n Ihe. 2H, 1715, at Havre. As soon as lie bad 
takin holy orders, lie was appointed superior of (lie 
seminary of liom o, bv cnrdiunl La Uochcfnurauld, nreli- 
bi-liop of that < it\. After submitting to the law which 
c\n**(«d the i institutional oath of clergymen, lie rc- 
eillul it, and retired to the seminary of St, Firmin, nt 
Paris, where he |h ri-hcd, Sept, 2, 1702, with almost all 
his com] anions. lie left some works of editication, 
w hich had several editions. Hoofer, Xottr. Riot/. Gene- 
rult, xl, 5*2. 

Poitiers (earlier Poictimi*, n corruption of the 
Latin Fictariuni , so called by the (>allic tribe 1 , the Fic- 


tari, who inhabited the district in Ctesar’s time) is one 
of the oldest towns in Trance, It is the capital of the 
department of Vienne, and is situated on an eminence 
near the rivers Clain and Boivre. Its population is now 
about 31,034, and it possesses many churches, chap- 
els, and monasteries. Its cathedral, named St. Pierre, 
is one of the tinest in Trance, and belongs to the 12th 
century. It contains the ashes of Kichard Coeur de 
Linn, and was the seat, in its present condition, or in 
the older edifice that occupied its site, of twenty-three 
ecclesiastical councils. 

PO 1T1 KISS. Coincii.s of ( Concilium Pictariense ), 
were convened here at different times in the Middle 
Ages. 

I. The first of these was held in 503, and was pro- 
voked by a rebellion of nuns, under the leadership of 
Chrodielde, a Frankish princess and nun at Poitiers, w ho 
bad rebelled against Lcubovera, abbess of St. Croix. She 
was here called to account for leaving her mimicry, and 
for the violence which she bad committed against Gon- 
degesilc and other bishops; also for the acts of rebell- 
ion which she, in concert with Besina, another nun, had 
committed against their abbess. Being exhorted to ask 
forgiveness of the abbess, she boldly refused, and threat- 
ened to kill her. The bishops, after consulting the can- 
ons, declared her to be excommunicated, and ordered 
that she should remain so until she should have done 
penance. They then re-established the abbess, Lenbo- 
vera, in the government of the monastery. See Labbe, 
Concil. v, 1 593 ; ( Jrcgor. Turon. Hist. il. France, ix, 4 ; x, 
1G, 19; Mansi, ('nncil. ix, 1011; x, 455, 459; Ilardouin, 
Concil. iii, 490, 527, 531 ; llefelc, Concil iengesck . iii, 51. 

II. Another council was held Jan. 13, 1004, convoked 
by William V, count of Poitiers and duke of Aquitaine. 
Five bishops were present, who published three canons; 

1. Pronounces those persons to be under anathema who 
pillage the churches, rob the poor, or strike the clergy; 
and further declares (hat if they rebel against this sen- 
tence the bishops and barons shall assemble and march 
against (hem, ravaging all around them until they submit. 

The other two canons forbid bishops to take any fees 
for penance and confirmation ; and priests and dcucous 
to retain women in their houses. 

See Labbe, Concil. ix, 780. 

III. The third council was held in 1073, before car- 
dinal Geraml. the Itoman legate, against Berongcr. The 
question of the Ilolv Eucharist was discussed, and the 
minds of men were so exasperated against Bcrenger 
that lie narrowly escaped with his life. See Labbe, 
Concil. x, 3 IG. 

IV. The fourth was held in 1078, by the legate lingo, 
bishop of Die, who, by the account which lie gave of 
this council to pope Gregory VII. seems to have en- 
countered much opposition to his plans, lie complains 
that the king of France had forbidden the count of Poi- 
tiers to allow the council to he held within his states; 
that the archbishop of Tours and the bishop of Bonnes 
bail rendered themselves almost complete masters of 
the council, and (hat the assembly had been disturbed 
hv the armed followers of these prelates. Some attrib- 
ute to this council, and others to the following one, ten 
canons, of which these are the most worthy of note: 

1. Forbids to receive iuvcstitnrca at the hands of kings 
nml other laymen. 

2. Forbids simony and pluralities. 

4. Forbids bishops to receive any present for conferring 
holy orders, for cousecrutiug churches, or for giviug any 
benediction. 

G. Forbids monks and canons to purchase churches with- 
out the bishop's consent. 

Forbids the ordination of the children of priests, and 
of bastards, except they be canons or regular monks. 

in. Enjoins that clerks who carry arms, or who deal in 
usury, shall lie excommunicated. 

See I-abbe, Concil. x. 3GG. 

V. The last council convened at Poitiers was held 
Nov. is, UHO. by order of John and Benedict, the two 
legates of the holy see, who presided in (he place of 
Pascal IL About eighty bishops and abbots were pres- 

i cut. Norigaudus, bishop of Autun, having been found 


POIX 


335 


POLALLIOX 


guilty of simony, was condemned to give up his stole 
and pastoral ring. Upon liis refusal to do so, he was 
further deposed from his bishopric and from the priest- 
hood, and sentence of excommunication was denounced 
against all who continued to obey him as their bishop. 
He, nevertheless, persisted in his refusal to submit to 
the sentence, and retained his stole and ring. In this 
council, moreover, Philip, king of France, who had taken 
back to him Bertrade, his wife, was excommunicated by 
the legates, in spite of the opposition of many of the 
bishops and of William, duke of Aquitaine. Lastly, 
sixteen canons were published: 

1. Declares that it is lawful for bishops only to give the 
tonsure ( coronas benedicere) to the clergy, and for abbots 
to do so to monks. 

2. Forbids them to require any fee for performing the 
operation, or even the scissors and napkin employed. 

4. Reserves to the bishop the benediction of the sacer- 
dotal vestments, and of all the vessels, etc., of the altar. 

7. Forbids, under excommunication, to buy or sell pre- 
bends, and to require any allowance ( pastus ) for having 
given one. 

10. Gives permission to regular canons to baptize, preach, 
administer the sacrament of peuance, and bury the dead 
duriug the bishop’s pleasure. 

12. Forbids to allow to preach those who carry about 
the relics of saints for the sake of gain. 

1G. Confirms all that the pope had enacted in the Coun- 
cil of Clermont. 

See Labbe, ConciL x, 720 ; Hefele, Conciliengesch. vols. 
iv and v. 

Poix, Louis de, a French monastic, was born Oct. 
18, 1714, at Croixrault (diocese of Amiens), lie de- 
voted himself for some years to the study of the Greek, 
Hebrew, Chaldee, and Syriac languages, and conceived 
the design of a Polyglot Bible, to the redaction of which 
several of his confraternity (the Capuchin monks) prom- 
ised to lend a hand. In 1744 the abbe Villefroy, pro- 
fessor at the College of France, took the direction of 
this enterprise ; but the Bible impatiently expected by 
the learned world, and in regard to which Benedict 
XIV addressed a brief of felicitation to Louis de Poix, 
April 9, 1755, was not published, owing to divers con- 
trarieties which at that time befell the Capuchins. In 
17G8 Poix wrote a Memoir, in which he advocated the 
foundation of an institution which, without being a bur- 
den to the State, would be of invaluable service to the 
Church, useful to the learned and men of letters, and 
honorable to the nation. He proposed the name of 
“Societe Iloyal des Etudes Orientates, ” and on the plan 
suggested by him was founded, April 1, 1822, the “So- 
ciety Asiatique.” Louis de Poix died at Paris in 1782. 
He published, with the collaboration of several other 
Capuchins, the following works : Trieres que Nerses, Pu- 
triarche des A rmeniens, Jit a la Glob e de Dieu.pour toute 
Ame Jidele a Jesus Christ (1770): — Principes discutes 
pour faciliter V Intelligence des Lirres prophetiques (Par. 
1755-64, 16 vols. 12mo), the fruit of twenty years’ la- 
bor : — Nouvelle Version des Psaumes (ibid. 1762, 2 vols. 
12mo) : — a Translation of Ecclesiastes (1771, 12mo): 
— Propheties de. Jeremie (ibid. 1780, 6 vols. 12mo): — 
Propheties de Baruch (ibid. 1788, 12mo): — Essai sur le 
Livre de Job (ibid. 1768, 2 vols. 12mo): — Trade de la 
Paix interieure (1764, 1768, 12mo): — Trade de la Joie 
(1768, 12mo). He left in manuscript a Dictionnaire 
Armenien, Latin, Itcdien, et Frungais. — Iloefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, xl, 585. 

Foki, Jehuda, ben-Elieser ( Tshelebi ben -Isaak 
Puki), a Jewish writer of some note, who belonged to 
the sect of the Karaites, was born and educated at Con- 
stantinople in the first half of the 16th century. He 
made extensive travels through Palestine, Egypt, Irak, 
and Persia in order to become acquainted with the Ka- 
raite literature. But having no knowledge of the Ar- 
abic, he was unable to make use of a large portion of 
Karaite literature, as he himself confessed in the preface 
of a work of his. In the year 1571 he was at Kahira, 
where he found many writings of the Karaites in the 
house of the Nasi, or head of the Karaites, where he 
also resided, and was told that all congregations were 


in possession of such collections, which, however, were 
very often burned or plundered. He was told that the 
year before (1570) three hundred very valuable and in- 
teresting works of the Karaites had been taken from 
the synagogue at Kahira and destroyed. At Kahira, 
Poki finished his work PniPP “IJ'IT about 1573, and 
died in 1575 in his native place. The above-named 
work, which was published by his son and brother at 
Constantinople in 1581, treats in a very elaborate way 
on the laws of incest, the preface of which has been 
reprinted by Wolf in his Bibl. Hebr. iii, 294 sq. See 
Fiirst, Gesch. des Karaerthams, from 900 to 1575 (Leips. 
1865), ii, 322 sq. ; id. Bibl. Jud. iii, 108 sq. ; I)e Rossi, 
Dizionario storico degli Autori Ebrei , p. 266 (Germ, 
transl. by Hamberger); Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. iii, 293 sq. 
(B. P.) 

Pol. See Beax. 

Polak, Jacob, a Jewish savant, one of the great- 
est Talmudic authorities in his time, was born about 
1460, and died about 1530 at Prague, where under his 
lead a great Talmudic school had flourished. Polak 
was a pupil of Jacob Margoles of Nuremberg, from 
whom he learned a new method of Talmudic casuistry, 
known as the “ Pilpul.” In the times which were dis- 
astrous and troublesome to the Jews the study of the 
Talmud was left to itself, and, guided by no general 
scientific knowledge, it unavoidably degenerated into a 
method repulsive to the few who were really profound 
scholars, or whose minds were less distorted. The tran- 
sition from the short explanation of words and things 
of the older commentators of the Talmud — through the 
discussions and disputations of the Tosaphoth (in the 
narrower sense) — to the exercises of wit of the Nu- 
rembergers ( Blauser , from the German “bloss,” by 
which the query was introduced) and Rcgensbergers 
(so called from the principal schools), and the petti- 
foggings of modern times, has not yet been specially 
investigated. There are many analogies in Christian 
jurisprudence and .Mohammedan theology to this kind 
of casuistry and discussion (“Pilpul”), which devotes 
more attention to the mode of treatment than to the 
subject itself. For it is the nature of a practical sci- 
ence — and the Halacha must be regarded throughout 
as a theory of law — that over-theorizing causes it to 
degenerate from a practical aim to a mere play of in- 
tellect. During this unhappy time rules derived from 
idle speculation were enforced as rules of life belonging 
to the religious law, more strictly than at any former 
period ; and subsequently the authors of the Tosaphoth 
and their successors, together with the great Spanish 
and Provencal legal authorities (particularly the au- 
thors of compendiums, judgments, etc.), were comprised 
under the expression “ decernents” ( resukim , C^pIDS). 
But it must be said in honor of Jacob Polak, though 
he introduced this “Pilpul method,” he was very care- 
ful not to write down nor publish the decisions achieved 
bv this method of hair-splitting, for fear that his suc- 
cessors might follow him implicitly. The only work 
of his we have is a decision entitled m2 Cp"H 
ZpP 1 ^, published with the approbation of Simon ben- 
Bezalel (Prague, 1594), and republished together with 
Lowe ben-Bczalcl’s Q2H Pj^pQ bv *lEpn (Frank- 
fort-on-the-Main, 1719). See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 109 
sq. ; Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. iii, 1095; Griitz, Geschichte der 
J uden, ix, 63 sq.; Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth. a. s. Sekten, iii, 
240 sq.; Giidemann, in Frankel’s Monatsschrift (Bres- 
lau, 1854), xiii, 423 sq. (B. P.) 

Polallion, Marie de Lumague, Dame de, a French 
lady renowned for her piety, and the founder of a relig- 
ious order, was born Nov. 29, 1599, at Paris. Belonging 
to a noble and rich family, and having enjoyed a brill- 
iant education, she was wooed by several gentlemen of 
high standing, but, resisting all the seductions of the 
world, gave the preference to a life of monastic quiet. 
At the instigation of Lebrun, a Dominican who directed 


POLANCO 33G POLAND 


her conscience, she entered a monastery of the Capuchins, 
lint as the weakness of her health did not suffer her to 
submit to the ascetic rules of the order, she was free to 
leave the monastery, and in Hi 1 7 she was married to 
l'rniH.'oia de I'olailion. Her husband died about a year 
after, and from this time she lived in retirement as tutor 
of one of the daughters of the duchess of ( trleans. Ma- 
dame de Polallion, in the midst of the most brilliant court 
of Kurope. remained true to her early monastic hab- 
its, and when relieved of her duties sought again her 
former retreat. According to St. Vincent de Paul, she 
founded the Must it ul des I-'illes de la Providence" in 
1 » : the members of this sisterhood undertook to ed- 

ucate the children of the poor in the country. She 
directed that they .should he thirty-three in number, 
and distributed them in the villages of the environs of 
Paris. Her own means were soon exhausted by the 
enterprise, but private charity came to the rescue, and 
Anne of Austria, taking the institution under her pro- 
tection, presented it in HJ51 with a mansion in the sub- 
urb of Suint-Mnrccnii. She also helped in the founding 
of the *• Maison des Xonvclles f'atholirpies," which was 
liberally endowed by marshal Turenne. The life of 
Madame de I’olailion has frequently been written. She 
died at Paris Sept. 4. 1 057. Ilocfer, A'owe. Iiiog. Gene- 
rali. xl, 5*7. 

Polanco is the name of three brothers, esteemed 
Spanish painters of the 10th century, natives of Seville. 
Francisco Xurbnran was their master, and they were 
so protieicnl in art that even in their own times their 
works were confounded with those of their master. This 
mist ake, snvs Quillet, has been quite frequent with those 
who beheld the paintings of San-Esteban at Seville, 
where Zurbaran painted St. refer and St. Stephen , but 
where the Martyrdom of the patron, tile Xatirity , which 
is below. St. Hennvnegilde , and St. IJernan , are works 
of Polanco. They always worked and lived together. 
Their great paintings adorn the monuments of Seville. 
At San- Paolo wc find the Apparition of the Angels to 
Abraham; Tobias the F 'on nger guided by an Angel; 
Jacob Wrestling ; Joseph's bream ; and in the church 
of the liiiardiaii Angels, St. Theresa in Kcstnsy (1(1411). 
The la-t work of Carlo Polanco, who seems to have 
lieon the most celebrated of the brothers, bears the date 
of 10*0. — Hoofer, A oucelles biographies Generate, xl, 
5**. 

Poland, Ki « i.ksiastii \t. Histouy or. The Po- 
lish historians Naruscewicz, Friese, Lelowel, and others 
assert that Christianity was introduced into the Slavic 
countries at a very early period by some disciples of 
Methodius from Moravia. Lelowel, upon very unsafe 
grounds, admits a bishopric of Posen anterior to the 
time of king Micislas I. According to Thietmnr of 
Merseburg, the latter, under the intluenee of his wife 
Dambrouska. daughter of the Bohemian duke Holcslas, 
established t lie Christian religion in Poland in 905, pre- 
vailed upon his subjects to destroy the idols, and found- 
ed ns early as IKK?, with the assistance of the Herman 
emperor Otho the t.reat, the bishopric of Posen (Poz- 
nni . over which, together with the bishoprics of t Qi, 
Mi-on, Merseburg, Brandenburg, mid Havelherg, etc., 
jurisdi 'mu was yiven to the archbishop of Magdeburg, 
at tlic t otineil of IJavenna. in 907. It follows that the 
yenr of fomidnlTon, '.Hi*, given by Itogiiphnlus and the 
I »«••/»< /'• r «Mi., has been accepted erroneously. The 
<lioc«-o ot tlx In-hop of Posen extended over the do- 
minions « I duke Poleslas. the Imimdaries of which can- 
not be asrcrtaim .1 for want of documents. Posen w as 
the only Poli b bishopric up to tin* year 1000, when the 
emperor tiiho 111. ni the time of A pilgrimage to the 
tomb of >t. Vlnlbcrt at tinesen. founded the nrchiepis- 

eopal I • iiiesen (linxsnn), mid subordinated to it 

the bishoprics of Colobrega iK.dberg), Cracow, and 
Wrntislavia ( Breslau .nil i lieu situated in the duchy 
of Polmiia. Stanislas Liibienski's assertion that Cra- 
cow was the scat of the oldest Polish bishopric is thus 


proved to be erroneous, as it could not, as an archbish- 
opric, have been a dependence of (Jnosen. 

A'a rig PerioeL— \Ve know' little about the ecclesias- 
tical development of Poland in its lirst Christian cen- 
tury. Pope Gregory VII complained in 1075 of the 
small number of the bishops in proportion to the popu- 
lation ; the dioceses were too large, and the bishops had 
not even fixed residences; nothing definite had been 
decided about the limits of the diocese of Gnesen and 
its dependent bishoprics, among which was then count- 
ed the bishopric of Lebtis, founded by Micislas in 005; 
but as the city passed continually from Poland to Ger- 
many, and vice versa, its existence was a precarious 
one.’ It is believed that the papal legate yEgidius 
founded it a second time in 1123, and subordinated it to 
(inesen; documents relating to it date only from 1133. 
Another episcopal see dependent upon < inesen was the 
bishopric of Pluck, whose foundation is referred to 
lioleslas the (ireat. It was formerly called F.p. Ma- 
snvier. Callus ( Chron . Pol. ail anti. 1110) mentions a 
bishop Simeon : lie seems to have been ordained in 
1 107. and to have died in 1129. A great victory of tlie 
Poles over the Prussians and Pomeranians is attributed 
to bis intercession. And still another dependent bish- 
opric was that of Leslan, which was founded by Micis- 
las II, son of Boleslas the Great, and originally called 
A pise, t 'njuviensis, because it was intended for the prov- 
ince of Cujawia; extended afterwards over the largest 
part of Western Prussia, on the left bank of the Vistula ; 
reached in a northerly direction the Baltic .Sea; and 
was bounded w'est by the archbishopric of (Inesen, which 
it also encircled on the south. Gallus ( Chronicle ) men- 
tions bishop Paulas, who died in 1110. The bishopric 
of Ermeland, founded in 1243. came to Poland only in 
1106. After the reign of Micislas II (1023-34), gen- 
eral anarchy ensued, and at the same time a general 
apostasy from the Christian faith. Bishops and priests 
were without authority, some were killed, and external 
ami civil wars robbed Poland of its wealth, and of a con- 
siderable part of its population. In 1039 the Bohemians 
destroyed Posen ami Unesen, and took away the body 
of St. Adalbert. A multitude of Poles crossed the Vis- 
tula and took refuge in Masowia ; wild beasts established 
their lairs in the churches of Si. Adalbert and St. Peter. 
Kasimitrz (Casimir) in that great distress arrived with 
a body of five hundred soldiers from Germany, and by 
his bravery and intelligence freed the country from for- 
eign occupation. lie retained the power until his death, 
which occurred in 1053. He promoted the interests of 
Christianity bv all the means in his power. He was 
succeeded by his son, Boleslas II, whose feats were not 
inferior to those of his ancestors; but his ambition and 
pride caused his ruin. At Christmas, 1076. he put the 
diadem on his head, and was anointed by the bishops 
of the kingdom. About the same time Gregory VII 
sent a legate to Poland. A few years afterwards, in 
1079, the king, being put under interdict by St. Stanis- 
las, bishop of Cracow, avenged himself by the murder 
of the prelate. Hereupon the nobility expelled him, 
ami be was obliged to take refuge in Hungary, where 
lie died. He was succeeded by bis younger brother, 
Boleslas Wladislas Hermann, wdio lived in peace with 
his neighbors and the clergy, to whom lie granted 
rights nml privileges. Having lived many years in 
childless matrimony with the Bohemian princess Ju- 
dith. a son was granted him. in consequence of the in- 
tercession, it was believed, of St. .Egidius. This son 
was afterwards Boleslas Krzywously. At this time 
i Mho, afterwards the apostle of Pomerania, lived at the 
Polish court. lie was instrumental in bringing about 
Wladislas Hermann's second marriage with Judith, the 
widowed sister of the emperor Henry IV. In 1099 the 
bishops of Poland dedicated the cathedral of Gnesen. 
On the day previous to that ceremony St. Adalbert is 
said to have appeared to the Poles in a battle with the 
Pomeranians, and given them victory. Wladislas di- 
vided his states during his lifetime between Boleslas 


POLAND 


337 


POLAND 


and another illegitimate son, Zbigniew. The latter had 
revolted a few years before, and was pardoned at the in- 
tercession of the bishops. Wladislas died in 1102, at 
Flock. The new ruler, Boleslas Ilf (1102-1139), mar- 
ried a Russian princess, and undertook expeditions, con- 
sidered in the light of crusades, against the pagan Pom- 
eranians. In 1103 Walo, chosen bishop of Beauvais, 
and, after his return, bishop of Paris, came to Poland as 
the legate of pope Paschal II, and in his zeal for justice 
deposed two bishops — “ nullo vel prece vel pretio sub- 
veniente.” In 1109 Boleslas reported such a complete 
victory over the Pomeranians that, of their 40,000 
warriors, 10,000 only escaped ; he took the stronghold 
of Xakel, thus preparing the way for the spiritual ex- 
pedition undertaken soon afterwards by Otho, bishop of 
Bamberg. In 1109 the emperor Henry Y was utterly 
defeated in his attempt to submit Poland a second time 
to the empire. In 1110 Boleslas fought successfully 
agaiust the Bohemians: the bishops, as usual, accom- 
panied the troops, and distributed the Eucharist to the 
whole army on the eve of an engagement. In 1120- 
1121 the Pomeranians, after a desperate struggle, were 
completely subdued and Stettin was taken. The con- 
quered foe promised tribute and conversion. It was 
then that Boleslas besought Otho of Bamberg to in- 
struct the Pomeranians. See Pomerania. The last 
years of the great king were less successful. In 1135 
Boleslas recognised at Merseburg the emperor Lothair 
as his liege lord for Pomerania and Eiigen ; promised 
a tribute for twelve years, and carried the sword of the 
emperor as the imperial procession proceeded to church. 
In 1 139 he divided his dominions among the four oldest 
of his sons, and died Oct. 28, 1139, In 1123 the papal 
legate JEgidius, bishop of Tusculum, sent by Calixtus 
II, had to establish more distinctly the limits between 
the dioceses, and this division of the temporal sover- 
eignty in nowise affected the Church. But the Church 
was far from enjoying in Poland the privileges she pos- 
sessed in other parts of Christian Europe. Her goods 
and subjects stood under the secular laws; there was no 
immunity from taxes, and the bishops were altogether 
dependent on the princes. Still at the beginning of 
the 13th century the princes disposed of the prebends 
of the cathedrals, and took hold of the goods of the 
bishops at their demise, as the patrons did of the heri- 
tage of curates. A number of priests lived in concu- 
binage. There were churches, the charges of which 
had become, in some sense, the possession of certain 
families. The dissensions of the successors of Boleslas, 
as was to be expected, dismembered the empire after a 
century of bloodshed. Prussians, Lithuanians, Mongols, 
and other tribes devastated the country. The authority 
of the Church grew among those ruins. Papal legates 
appeared more frequently, synods became more frequent 
too, and altogether the Church sought for herself the 
rights she had long attained elsewhere. The Templars. 1 
assisted by Crusaders from the West, attacked the pa- 
gans of Prussia, and the voice of the popes constantly 
called the Western Christians to arms against the bar- 
barians. In 1157 the emperor Frederick I indicted a 
crusade of the Germans against Poland, to re-establish 
the tie of vassalage that once united the land with Ger- 
many. The Poles were defeated, and Boleslas appeared 
at Krzvszkowo before the emperor barefooted, and with 
a naked sword tied around his neck. Wladislas died 
in Germany, and was succeeded by Boleslas IV, who 
died in 1173, leaving an only son, Leszek : but it was his 
brother Micislas who succeeded him. The people, led 
by Getka (Gedcon), bishop of Cracow, revolted against 
Micislas, and his younger brother, Casimir Sprawied- 
liwy (the Just), was put in his place. In 1180 there was 
a synod of Polish bishops. They threatened with in- 
terdict whoever should rob the peasants of their stores, 
appropriate the heritage of an ecclesiastic, or refuse to 
restore within a given time whatever of Church prop- 
erty had been taken. After Casimir, who died May 4, 
1194, at table, while talking with the bishops about sal va- 
YIII.-Y 


tion — “non sine veneni suspicione” — Fulko assembled 
the primates, and prevailed upon them to recognise the 
sons of Casimir. Helena, Casimir’s widow, made ar- 
rangements with Micislas, and, in the name of her 
minor sons, recognised him as archduke, and left him 
Cracow : her son Leszek was to be his successor. This 
Micislas died in 1202 at Kaliscli, and Leszek waived in 
favor of his son Wladislas his own rights to Cracow. I u 
these years the endeavors of the popes for the refor- 
mation of the Polish Church were crowned with some, 
success. Clement III sent in 1189 cardinal Giovanni 
Malabranca to collect contributions for a crusade, and 
reform the clergy of Poland; several regulations for that 
purpose were agreed upon at the Synod of Cracow. 
Cardinal Peter came in 1197 ; but when he published at 
Prague the edict against the matrimony of clergymen, 
the wrath of the clergy was so great that his life was 
put in danger. He held another synod at Cracow, where 
lie insisted on the same views; journeyed through the 
bishoprics, giving his attention to a dereliction of sound 
morals more deplorable than the marriage of ecclesias- 
tics, and traditional with the Poles : for he besought the 
laymen to seek some consecration for their wild copula- 
tions. lie made slow work of it, and it required all the 
energies of archbishop Henry Iventlitz to establish, little 
by little, a more Christianlike state of things. In 1212 
bishop Peter was freely elected by the chapter of Posen. 
The dukes at that time promised to touch nothing of 
the heritage of prelates save gold, silver, etc.,, and waived 
their judiciary rights on clergymen and their subjects. 
In 1231 Wladislas Odonicz became the only ruler of 
Great Poland. At this epoch some crusades against the 
Prussians took place, and the Poles, though slowly and 
reluctantly, had a part in them. We find the same 
bishoprics in the 13th and 14th centuries, but not in 
those firm metropolitan relations which the interest of 
the Church required (see Gregory Y1I, Epist. ad Bo- 
leslaum, Pol. regem , lxxiii). The first bishop of Posen, 
Jordan, and the duke Boleslas Chrobry distinguished 
themselves by their successful attempts to expand the 
Christian faith ; Bodzanta, archbishop of Gnesen, in 
the 14tli century, by the conversion of the barbarians 
of Lithuania and Samogitia. This prelate extended 
his diocese, augmented by a half, over Pomerellia and 
Ncringia, and added Silesia to his spiritual dominions: 
in one word, the country between the Netze River, the 
i sources of the Yistnla, the grand-duchies of Moscow 
j and Semgallen, constituted the territory of his archi- 
episcopal see. In consequence of these aggrandize- 
ments the new bishoprics of Wilna, in the grand-duchy 
of Lithuania, and of Wornie or Miedniki, in the duchy 
of Samogitia, were established — the first in 1387, the 
latter in 1417. 

The Reformation Period and Since . — In order to make 
( clear the history of the Polish Church in the Reformation 
period, it is necessary to retrace our steps to the 11th cen- 
tury. It was then that the neighboringchurches ofGer- 
many acquired a great influence over the Poles, while 
priests and monks flocked from France and Italy, but 
particularly from Germany, to Poland, built everywhere 
convents and churches, and at the same time used the 
Romish ritual in opposition to the simple worship of 
the Polish national churches, which, however, main- 
tained their ground till the 14th century. The Huss- 
ites (q. v.) from Bohemia found a favorable field in 
Poland for the propagation of their peculiar tenets, and 
the Romish clergy in consequence took active measures 
for the purpose of checking the spread of the obnoxious 
doctrines. With this view the parish priests were or- 
dered to seize and bring before the bishops all who 
were suspected of holding Hussite sentiments. Severe 
enactments were passed for the punishment of the her- 
etics. But in the face of all opposition the new doc- 
trines were embraced by some of the most influential 
families in the land, and the reforming party indeed 
v'as very numerous when their leader was slain on the 
field of battle. But although the doctrines of Huss 


POLAND 


338 


POLAND 


had found many supporters in Poland, the national 
foiling was still in favor of the dominant Church. Wo 
append an account of the progress of Protestantism in 
Poland dependent largely on Gardner, Dictionary of 
lieliyivns, p. 070 s<p : 

“In the commencement of the 15th century a powerful 
impulse was given to the cnu>c of Polish educatiou and 
literature hy the establishment of the University of Cra- 
cow, and the encouragement given in that seminary to 
native scholars. Already a goodly number of accom- 
plished literary men had issued from the University of 
Prague, some of whom were chosen to dll the chairs at 
t tar >w ; these again were generally selected to supply 
the vacant episcopal sees and thus in u short time there 
were found m the Polish Church not a few prelates dis- 
tinguished alike for their piety and learning. The en- 
lightened views which some of these ecclesiastical digni- 
taries eutertninod were speedily manifested in various 
projects started for reforming the Church. Thus Martin 
Troinba, the primate of Poland, ordered the liturgical 
books to be translated into the national language, that 
they might he understood hy the great mass of me peo- 
ple.’ Put the boldest step in the direction of Church re- 
form at this period was taken hy Otrowo, palatine of 
Posen, who presented to the Polish diet of 145'.i a propo- 
sal for introducing improvements of such a vital charac- 
ter that, had they been adopted, a separation of the 
Church of Poland’ from Home would have been the inl- 
ine I ate result. ‘In this plan,' says count Krasiiiski, 
‘of reforming the Church of Polaud’he maintained that, 
Christ having declared that his kingdom was not of this 
woild.the pope iiad no authority whatever over the king 
of Poland, and should not even’ be addressed hy the lat- 
ter in humble terms, unbecoming his dignity; that Home 
was drawing every year from the country large sums tin- 
der the pretence of 'religion, but, in fact, by means of su- 
perstition; and that the bishop of Home was inventing 
most unjnst reasons for levying taxes, the proceeds of 
which were employed, not for the real wants of Ihc 
Church, hut for the pope’s private interests; that nil the 
ecclesiastical lawsuits should be decided in the country, 
mid not at Home, which did not take “any sheep without 
wool , that there were, indeed, among the Poles people 
wh > i c*>p«N te l the Homan scribbling* furnished with red 
seals and hempen strings, and suspended on the door of 
a church ; but that it was wrong to submit to these Ital- 
ian deceits.* lie further says: ‘Is it not a deceit (lint 
the pope imposes upon us, in spite of the king and the 
senate, 1 don’t know what, bulls called indulgences? lie 
gets nioiuy by n-stiring pe >plc that lie absolves their sm ; 
hut G >d has said hy his prophet, “My son, give me thy 
heart, and not money. ” The pope feigns that he employs 
his Irens ires f«n* the erection of churches ; but he does it, 
in fact, for cur;chi"g his relations. 1 shall pass in silence 
things that are still worse. There arc monks who praise 
st 'I Midi fable*. There ate a great number of preachers 
mid c mfessors who only think how to get the richest 
harvest, and who indulge themselves, afie having plun- 
dered the poor people, lie complains of the great mini- 1 
her of monks unlit for the clerical olll e, saying, “After 
h ivirg shaven hi* head and endowed a cowl, a man 
thinks himself tit to correct the whole world, lie cries, 
and almost bellows, in the pulpit, hecntiM* he sees no op- 
ponent. 1 .earned men, and even tho*e who possess ail 
iiiie ior degree of knowledge, cannot listen without hor- 
ror to the nonsense, and ulmost blasphemy, uttered hy 
such preache s." ' 

“These sentiment* avowed hy a Polish senator in the 
assembly of the stales, plainly Indicated that public opin- 
ion, even in the 15th century’ was prepared for the great 
taa lesiast ical leformaiion which commenced n century 
•liter m Germany and Switzei land. As If still further 
to pave the way for that important movement, treatises 
were nt every little interval issuing from the pre*s 
m 1* and containing opinions which Home has always 
been accustomed to brand as heresies. One work, in 
parti ill ir, was published at (’meow in t ,’> 1 5, which openly ! 
»' lvo..e« 1 be great Protestant principle that the Il'Jy 
S- i | r • es mn-i he believed. mid all merely human ordi- 
nate e- in v be dispensed with. The date of ;he appear* 
in ce ■ f ties lieati»e was two years hefote Luther publicly 
nvowe 1 liis opposition to Home. No sooner, accord i ug- 
ly, d <1 the lie in in Itefoimer (oiniiieiiee his warfare witli 
the pope than he was joined hy many Poles, more os|*e- 
clallv belonging to the tow is of Polish Prussia; and so 
M| "Hy < d the ptimiples of the Kef irmution spread In 
li.int/.le. the ] im | ably of I hat prm lure, t lint, in 15*24. no 
fewe Hum live ( bun lies were occupied by the disciples of 
the \\ ittenheig Iteforme \ A very large part of the inhab- 
itant- of I la nt/. e, how ever, si'll • Hieed to the old Church; 
and, m x ions to test <>rc the am ieut order of things, they 
despatched a deputation to s gisninnd I, who at that 
time occupied the throne of Poland, Imploring his Inter- 

1'omi The m-Miiii h. moved bv the appeal made hv 

the deputation, who appeared hefote him messed in deep 
inoiirnlti proceeded m person to I»ast/i<. restored the 
former state of things, and either cxoouiel or banished 
the .principal leaders of the new movement. Hut while 


for purely political reasons Sigismund in this case acted 
in the most tyrannical and oppressive manner, he allowed 
the doctrines of Protestantism to spread in all the other 
parts of his dominions without persecuting those who 
embraced them. Even in DuuUic itself, wheu Luther- 
anism, in the course of a few years, begun to be again 
preached w ithin its walls, he refused to take a single step 
to check its progress, so that in the subsequent reign it 
became the dominant creed of that city, without, how- 
ever, infringing upon the icligious liberty of the Homan 
Catholics. 

"The works of Luther found many readers, and even 
admirers, in Poland, mid a scciet society, composed of 
both clergymen mid laymen, met frequently to discuss re- 
ligious subjects, including those points more especially 
which the ii*e of the Heformatioii brought prominently 
before the public mind. It was in connection with this 
society that Anlitrinitarian opinions were first adopted 
as a cieod hv several individuals, and the foundation laid 
in Poland for that sect whose members were afterwards 
known bv the name of Socinimis (q. v.). The spread of 
this hcresv, however, was limited to the upper classes of 
society, while among the great mass of the people the 
scriptural views of the Heformers found ready acceptance ; 
u result in no small degree owing to the arrival of Bohe- 
mian Brethren, to the number of about a thousand, who 
had boeu driven from their own country, mid found a 
home in the proviuce of Posen. This event happened in 
154S, mid the public worship of the Brethren being con- 
ducted in the Bohemian language, which was intelligible 
to the inhabitants of Posen, attracted towards them the 
sympathies of multitudes. The Hmnish bishop of Posen, 
alarmed at the influence which the Brethren were exer- 
cising over the people of his diocese, applied for and ob- 
tained a royal edict for their expnlsiou from the coun- 
try. This order they immediately obeyed, ami proceeded 
to’ Prussia, where they found full religions liberty. Next 
year, however, some of them returned to Poland, where 
"they had formerly received so much kindness, mid con- 
tinued their labors without being molested in any form. 
Their congregations rapidly increased, mid in a short t ime 
they reached the large number of eighty in the province 
of Great Poland alone, while mauy others were formed 
in different parts of the country. 

“A circumstance occurred about this lime which was 
providentially overruled for the still wider diffusion of 
Protestant principles in Poland. The studeuts of the 
University of Cracow, having taken offence at some real 
or imagined affront offered them hy the rector, repaired 
to foreign universities, put particularly to the newly erect- 
ed University of Kdnigsherg, from which the great, ma- 
jority of them returned home imbued with Protestant 
principles. The Reformed doctrines now made extraor- 
dinary progress, particularly in the province of Cracow. 
In vain did the Komish clergy denounce the growing her- 
esy; all their remonstrances were unavailing, uiid at 
length they convened a general synod in 1551 to consider 
the whole subject. Onthis occasion llosius, bishop of 
Ertncland, composed his celebrated Confession, which has 
been acknowledged by the Church of Rome as a faithful 
exposition of its creed. The synod not. only decreed that 
this creed should he signed by the whole body of the 
clergy, hut petitioned the king that a roval mandate 
should be issued ordering its subscription by the laity. 
It was now resolved that a violent persecution should he 
commenced against the heretics, mid this determination 
was strengthened by an encyclical letter from Home, rec- 
ommending the extirpation of heresy. Several cases of 
bloody persecution occnried; but the nobles, aroused to 
jealousy hy the high-handed measures of the clergy, 
openly declared their wish to restrict the authority of the 
bishops, and the people were unauimous in expressing a 
similar desire. 

“ Such was the slate of matters in Poland when the diet 
of l.Vrj was convened ; and scarcely had its deliberations 
been commenced, when a general hostility was evinced 
hy the members to episcopal jurisdiction. The result was 
that at this diet religions liberty for all confessions was 
virtually established in Poland.’ At the diet of 1555 the 
king was earnestly urged to convoke a national synod 
over which he him-elf should preside, and which should 
reform the ('lunch on the basis of the lloly Scriptures. 
Ii was proposed, also, to invite to this assembly the most 
distinguished Heformers, such ns Calvin, Bez’a. Me mc- 
tlion, mid Vergerins. But the expectations of the Prot- 
estants in Poland were chiefly tinned towards John ik 
Liibco or Lnski, who had been instrumental ill promoting 
the cause of the Heformatioii in Germany, Switzerland, 
and England. For n long time lie remained within the 
pale of the Komish Church, in the hope that it would lie 
possible to effect a reformation without seceding from 
her communion. In 1540 he declared his adherence to 
the Protestant Church on the principles ol'Zwiugli. The 
high reputation which Lnsoo had already gained, both as 
a scholar and a Christian, attracted the marked attention 
of the Protestant princes in various parts of Europe, sev- 
eral of whom invited him to take up his residence in 
their dominions. The sovereign of East Friesland, anx- 
ious to complete the reformation of the Chinch in that 
country, prevailed upon Losco to allow himself lobe num- 


POLAND 


339 


POLAND 


Inated superintendent of all its churches. To carry out 
the object of his appointment was a matter of no small 
difficulty, considering the extreme reluctance which pre- 
vailed to the entire abolition of Romish rites, but by en- 
ergy, perseverance, and uncompromising firmness he suc- 
ceeded, in the brief space of six years, in rooting out the 
last remains of Romanism, and fully establishing the 
Protestant religion throughout the whole of the churches 
of East Friesland. In 1548 Lasco received an earnest iu- 
vitation from Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury, to join 
the distinguished Reformers who had repaired to Eng- 
land from all parts of the Continent, that they might com- 
plete the reformation of the Church in that country. 
Having accepted Cranmer’s invitation, the Polish Reform- 
er left Friesland and weut to England, where he was ap- 
pointed, on his arrival in 1550, superintendent of the for- 
eign Protestant congregation established at London. In 
this important sphere he continued to labor with much 
comfort and success, until the demise of Edward VI and 
the accession of Mary arrested the progress of the Ref- 
ormation in England, and compelled Lasco with his con- 
gregation to leave the country. This little hand of ex- 
iles, headed by the Polish Reformer, were driven by a 
storm upou the coast of Denmark, where, on landing, 
they were received at first with hospitality and kindness, 
hut, through the influence of the Lutheran divines, they 
were soon obliged to seek an asylurn elsewhere. The 
same hatred on the part of the Lutheran clergy was shown 
to the congregation of Lasco at Lubeck, Hamburg, and 
Rostock. At length the remnants of the congregation 
found in Dantzic a peaceful asylum, while Lasco himself 
retired to Friesland, where he was received with every 
mark of respect and attachment. In a short time, how- 
ever, finding his position by no means so comfortable as 
at first, he removed to Fra*nkfort-on-the-Main, where he 
established a church for the Belgian Protestant refugees, 
and made various attempts, without success, to unite the 
Lutheran and Protestant churches. 

“Throughout all his wanderings Lasco’s thoughts were 
habitually turned towards Poland, and he maintained a 
constant intercourse with his countrymen, and also with 
his sovereign, Sigismmid Augustus,' who entertained a 
high regard for him. He returned to Poland in 1556, and 
no sooner did his arrival become known than the Romish 
clergy, taking the alarm, hastened to implore the king to 
banish from his dominions a man whom they described 
as an outlawed heretic, and the source of troubles and 
commotions wherever he went. To this representation 
the king paid no regard ; and, to the annoyance of the 
bishops and the papal nuncio, Lasco was soon after in- 
trusted with the superintendence of all the Reformed 
churches of Little Poland. Through his influence the 
tenets of the Swiss Reformers were extensively adopted 
by the higher classes of his countrymen. The chief ob- 
jects, however, which he kept steadily in view were the 
union of all Protestant sects, and the ultimate establish- 
ment of a Reformed National Church modelled on the 
plan of the Church of England, for which he had con- 
ceived a high admiration. But his exertions in the cause 
of reform were much weakened by the rise of Autitrin- 
itarian sentiments in some of the churches which he su- 
perintended. He struggled hard, and not without suc- 
cess, to check the progress of these opinions. In the 
public affairs of the Church he took an active part, and 
assisted in preparing the version of the first Protestant 
Bible in Poland. In the midst of his unwearied labors 
in the cause of the Polish Reformation, Lasco was cut off 
in 1560, before he had an opportunity ot' fully maturing 
his great designs. 

“One of the last objects on which the Polish Reformer 
had set his heart was the speedy convocation of a na- 
tional synod. This proposal, however, met with violent 
opposition from Rome and its partisans. The pope, Paul 
IV, despatched a legate to Poland with letters to the king, 
the senate, and the most influential noblemen, promising 
to effect all necessary reforms, and to call a general coun- 
cil. Lippomani, the papal legate, was an able man, and 
a devoted servant to the see of Rome. The Romish 
clergy were much encouraged by the presence of this 
dignitary in the country, who endeavored, but without 
effect, to prevail upon the king to adopt violent measures 
for the extirpation of heresy. The crafty emissary of the 
pope succeeded also by his intrigues in fomenting discord 
among the Protestants. lie assembled a synod of the 
Polish clergy, which, while it lamented the dangers which 
threatened the Church, both from within and from with- 
out, passed many resolutions for improving its condition 
and coercing the heretics. The extent to which the syn- 
od, instigated by Lippomani, pushed their jurisdiction 
may he seen from their proceedings in a case of alleged 
sacrilege recorded both by Romish and Protestant writ- 
ers. ‘ Dorothy Laszecka, a poor girl, was accused of hav- 
ing obtained from the Dominican monks of Socliaczew a 
host, feigning to receive communion. It was said that 
she wrapped that host in her clothes, and sold it to the 
Jews of a neighboring village, by whom she had been in- 
stigated to commit this act of sacrilege by the bribe of 
three dollars and a gown embroidered with silk. This 
host was said to have heen carried by the Jews to the 
synagogue, where, being pierced with needles, it emitted 


a quantity of blood, which was collected into a flask. 
The Jews tried in vain to prove the absurdity of the 
charge, arguing that, as their leligion did not permit them 
to believe in the mystery of trausnbstantiation, they never 
could be supposed to try a similar experiment on the 
host, which they considered as a mere wafer. The synod, 
influenced by Lippomani, condemned them, as well as the 
unfortunate womau,to be burned alive. The iniquitous 
sentence could not, however, he put into execution with- 
out the exequatur , or the confirmation of the king, which 
could not be expected to be obtained from the enlight- 
ened Sigismund Augustus. The bishop Przeremhski, 
who was also vice-chancellor of Poland, made a report- 
to the king of the above-mentioned case, which he de- 
scribed in expressions of pious horror, entreating the 
monarch not to allow such a crime committed against 
the Divine Majesty to go unpunished. Myszkowski, a 
great dignitary of the crown, who was a Protestant, be- 
came so indignant at this report that he. could not re- 
strain his anger, and was only prevented by the presence 
of the king from using violence against the prelate, the 
impiety and absurdity of whose accusation he exposed 
in strong language. The monarch declared that he would 
not believe such absurdities, and sent an order to the 
starost (chief magistrate or governor) of Sochaczew to 
release the accused parties; but the vice-chancellor forged 
the exequatur , by attaching the royal seal without 'the 
knowledge of the monarch, and sent an order that the 
sentence of the synod should he immediately carried into 
execution. The king, being informed of this nefarious 
act of the bishop, immediately despatched a messenger 
to preveut its effects. It was, however, too late, aud ihe 
judicial murder was perpetrated.’ This atrocious affair 
excited, of course, a great sensation throughout Poland, 
aud awakened such feelings of hatred against Lippomani 
that he lost no time in quitting the country, a step which 
was absolutely necessary, indeed, as his life was in dau- 
ger. 

“The Polish Reformation went steadily forward in spite 
of all the opposition of Rome and its emissaries. In 
Lithuania particularly it received a strong impulse from 
the influence exerted in its favor by prince Radziwill, 
who had heen intrusted by the monarch with almost the 
sole government of that province. Taking advantage of 
the facilities which he thus possessed for advancing the 
good work, he succeeded in establishing the Reformed 
worship both in the rural districts and in many towns, 
lie built also a splendid church and college in Vilua, the 
capital of Lithuania. To this enlightened aud pious no- 
bleman, besides, is due the merit of having caused to be 
translated and printed, at his own expense, the first Prot- 
estant Bible in the Polish language. It was published in 
1564, and is usually known by the name of the Radzi- 
willian Bible. The death of Radziwill the Black, as he 
was termed, which happened in 1565, was a severe loss 
to the Protestant came in Lithuania; hut happily his 
cousin and successor, Radziwill the Red, was also a zeal- 
ous promoter of the Reformed religion, and founded a 
number of Protestaut churches and schools, which lie en- 
dowed with landed property for their permanent support. 
The king of Poland was strongly urged, by a portion of 
the clergy, to reform the Church by means of a national 
synod, but he was of too irresolute a character to take a 
step so decided. He adopted, however, a middle course, 
and addressed a letter to pope Paul IV, at the Council of 
Trent, demanding the concession of the five following 
points: (1) The performance of the mass in the national 
language ; (*2) The dispensation of the communion in 
both kinds ; (3) The toleration of the marriage of priests; 

(4) The abolition of the annates or first-fruits of benefices ; 

(5) The convocation of a national council for the reform 
of abirnes, and the union of different sects. These de- 
mands, of course, were rejected by his holiness. But 
the Protestants in Poland, far from being discouraged by 
the conduct of the pope, became bolder every day in their 
opposition to the Romanists. At the diet of 1559 a pro- 
posal was made to deprive the bishops of all participation 
in the affairs of the government, ou the ground that they 
were the sworn servants of a foreign potentate. This 
motion, though strenuously urged upon the acceptance 
of the diet, was not carried : but a few years later, in 
1563, the diet agreed to convoke a general national synod, 
composed of representatives of all the religions parties 
in Poland — a measure which would, in all probability, 
have been carried into effect, had it not been prevented 
by the dexterity and diplomatic craft of cardinal Com- 
meudoni, who succeeded in dissuading the king from as- 
sembling a national council. 

“The establishment of a Reformed Polish Church was 
much impeded by the dissensions which divided the 
Protestants among themselves. At that time, in fact, no 
less than three parties existed in Poland, each adhering 
to its own separate confession. Thus the Bohemian or 
Waldensian Confession had its own ardent admirers, 
chiefly in Great Poland ; the Genevese or Calvinistic Con- 
fession in Lithuania and Southern Poland ; and the Lu- 
theran or Augsburg Confession in towns inhabited by 
burghers of German origin. Of these the Bohemian and 
the Genevese Confessions were so completely agreed on 
almost all points, that their respective supporters fouud 


POLAND 


340 


POLAND 


no dim «ilty •» formii g a 1 • *n in \Ut- '■ »t mdecd in- 
c » (hi • ia' it iit«> one bml> . I> it li* )*- 1 ' v low- 

slop together, while e.iMi l ■ Hi let im : .t- own 
n.le li erunhv. Tin- mii ->• I*eb sr the ti si winch took 
it u.c* among Prop - mi ■ Imr t.o- after llu* Reformation, 
cau-e l >*re • j.»v mii i g Hi" Hi fbrme-s in different parts 
of Fur«pe 'J lie tw > ( u he- t mis. united w ished to l»- 
nndV* the I. itln- a - * in me an -e, hut the doctnne 
i f the Aug-I n _ i • uf.— * .i) on the Mihject of the Enchn- 
ri.-t vfnned k< y t i | "ve mi insuperable obstacle in the 
w ’,y , f u \ m -n wi'li the Lutheran clumbes. An al- 
ter n' however, was made to effect so desirable an ob- 
j,. | j.., ,• jai. pose a synod of the Bohemian and 

, A, Wf , I ur he- of Poland was convoked in 15*7, and 
I , 1,' | o\ r hv John a Lasco. At this synod overtures 

v - m id- to tile Lnthe tins to join the union, but to no 
id . Mid tliev st' I continued to accuse the Bohemian 
l li of lu resv. The obstacles thus thrown in the way 
, f „ ,i mi among the Protestants of Poland only roused 
i • . It diemians to exert themselves still more actively for 
it- attab.nie it. Tliev forwarded copies of their Confes- 
sion of Faith to the l’rotestant princes of Germany, and 
to the chief Reformers, both of that country and of tRvitz- 
erl ml, and received strong testimonials of approval— so 
sir utr, indeed, as to silence for a time the objections of 
the Lutherans. Shortly, however, the good understand- 
ing which had begun was interrupted by the nnreason- 
ti ,* demands of some Polish Ltmierun divines that the j 
other Proie-tant denominations sliould subscribe the | 
Conft— ion of Augsburg. The Bohemians, therefore, in 
l.v,-, submitted their confession to the University of 

and received from that learned body a strong | 

fxj re— ion of their approbation, which so operated upon I 
tin* minds of the Lutherans that from that time they 
u .i-ed to charge the Bohemian Church with heresy. _ | 

"The long-desired union was at length effected in 1570. 
A svnod having assembled in the town of Sandomir, in 
April of that year, dually concluded and signed the terms 
of union under the name of the Consensus of Sandomir 
(q. v. . This important step excited the utmost alarm 
among the Romanists, who endeavored to bring it into 
di-credit. But the union it.-elf was essentially hollow' 
and imperfect- The confessions, betweeu which a dog- 
matic union had been effected, differed on a point of vital 
importance the presence of Christ in the Eucharist. The 
union, accordingly, was rather nominal than real; and 
many Lutherans directed their whole efforts towards 
bringing about a disruption of the alliance which had 
been established at Sandomir. This hostility of the Lu- 
therans to the other Protestant confessions was very in- 
jurious to the interests of Protestantism in general, and 
a number of noble families, followed by thousands of the 
common people, disgusted with the bitter contentious 
which raged among the Protestants of different denomi- 
nations, renounced the principles of the Reformation, and 
returned to the Church of Rome. Another circumstance 
which tended to weaken the Protestant Church of Po- 
i md w is the rise and rapid spread of a party who denied 
the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. Some learned di- 
vines of the Reformed churches combated these Anlitrin- 
itarian doctrines, and at length, in 1505, the professors 
of tlie.-e doctrines seceded from their brethren, forming 
themselves into a separate ecclesiastical organization, 
called by its members the Minor Reformed Church of Po- 
land. The arrival of Fa u.-tus Soeinus in Poland in 1579 
led to the tenets of the Autitrinitavians being thrown 
Into a definite form, and to the formation of Socinian 
congregations, chiclly composed of nobles, amoug whom 
there were many wealthy landowners. 

‘■When the Consensus of Sandomir was concluded in 
157", Piotc-tanti-m in Poland had reached its highest 
state of prosperity. Many churches and schools, belong- 
ing t>» Protestants of various denominations, had been 
e-tab ished ; I lie Scriptures had been translated and print- 
ed in the national language; and religions libertv was 
ci j we 1 In Poland to a degree unknown in any "other 
1 i ot Europe. These favorable circumstances attracted 
g ( i n i in burs of fore goe s, who sought an asylum from 
r - 1 ci -e uiion. Among these, besides many Rill- 

'd 1* re i li refugees, there were also n great number* 
li fun ic- sc' led in diffeient parts of Poland, 

•• • ml no - are f. and there at this day. 
li 1 pi* >d at which we have now arrived Romnn- 
'• *' ’ * r ‘* 11 < Meat, lo-t its hold of the Polish na- 

i < mo t o il ie in d portion of t lie nobility were 
s . f p r .t.-t u .'-m, wbl e many powerful fa in- 1 
d ten j> i at ion gene llv, of the eastern prov- 
' m e l to III- tiie< k i linr -h. N iv, even within 
i t bur h i* -elf, not only was the primate fa- 
voraii • to Reformed principles, but many even of the 
h fe or ergv and n r .* side-ruble proportion of the Initv, 
won <1 Iihvc w< h otued any proposal to cmrei lie tlmraht 
abuse- winch had In eonr-e of time crept into the Clmreh. 
la the senate, ul-o, the grett pn-por ion of the members 
we v either Prote-lant- ..r belonged t i the I, reek I luircli • 
an 1 even the kin* liim-elf showed a de ided l.-aiiiim 
t wards the adherents of the Prole- ml faith. The rA 
man Catholic Church In Poland, indeed, was on the ver-e 
of utter ruin hut m tills h. ur of It- c\tieme-i dim; er’it 
was mainly saved by the exertions f laidual llos.t> 


of •-. 


turn. 


b . - I . 
the nath 


one of the most remarkable men of his age. This zeftlous 
Romish dignitary had early made himself conspicuous 
ti v his hostility to the Protestants, and now that he bad 
been nominated a cardinal, he used every effort to check 
the progress of the Reformation in Polnud. Finding, 
however, that his owu Church was fast losing ground, 
and that Reformed principles were almost certain ere long 
to obtain the ascendency, he called to his aid the newly 
established Order of Jesuits, several of whom arrived from 
Rome iu 15(54, aud by their intrigues and agitation the 
whole couni ry was made for a long period tbe scene of 
the most unseemly commotions. 

“ During the life of Sigismuud Augustus the Protestants 
indulged the hope that, although naturally of a wavering 
and undecided character, lie might possibly decide on 
the establishment of a Reformed National Church; but 
the death of that monarch without issue, iu 157*2, put im 
end to ail such expectations. The Jagelloniau dynasty, 
which had governed Poland for two centuries, was now 
extinct. An earnest struggle commenced, therefore, be- 
tween the Protestants aud Romanists, each party being 
anxious that the vacant throne should be tilled by a zeal- 
ous supporter of their Church. The Romanists, headed 
by cardinal Coromendoiii, were anxious to confer the 
crown upon the archduke Ernest, sou of the emperor 
Maximilian II, aud weie even ready to secure their object 
by force. Coligny and the French Protestants had for 
some time, even before the death of Sigtemund Augustus, 
entertained tbe project of placing llenry of Vahfis, duke 
of Anjou, ou the Polish throne; and Catharine de’ Medi- 
ci, the mother of the duke, eagerly leut her approbation 
to the proposal. 

“The diet of convocation assembled at Warsaw in Janu- 
ary, 1573, for the purpose of taking steps for the mainte- 
nance or the peace and safety of the country during the 
interregnum. At this diet, notwithstanding tbe opposi- 
tion of the Romish bishops, instigated by Cominendoiii, 
a law was passed establishing a perfect equality of rights 
among all the Christian confessions of Poland, guaran- 
teeing the dignities and privileges of the Roman Catho- 
lic bishops, but abolishing the obligation of Church pa- 
trons to bestow* the lienetlces in their gift exclusively on 
Roman Catholic clergymen. The election of a new mon- 
arch was arranged to take place oil April 7, at Kaminietz, 
near Warsaw. The principal competitors for the throne 
of Poland were the two princes already mentioned ; and 
although meanwhile the horrid massacre of St. Barthol- 
omew had rendered the Polish Protestants somewhat 
afraid to commit their interests to a French prince, yet, 
being unwilling to involve their country in a civil war, 
they accepted llenry, duke of Anjou, who was according- 
ly elected king of Poland. 

“A deputation of twelve noblemen were immediately 
despatched to Paris to announce to llenry his election, 
and on Sept. 10, 1573, the ceremony of presenting the 
diploma of election took place in the church of Notre 
Dame. The circumstances attending the presentation 
are interesting as manifesting the intolerant spirit of the 
Polish Romanists. ‘The bishop Karnkoweki, a member 
of the Polish embassy, at the beginning of the ceremony, 
entered a protest against the clause for securing religious 
liberty inserted in the oath which the new monarch was 
to take on that occasion. This net produced some con- 
fusion, the Protestant Zborowski having interrupted the 
solemnity with the following words, addressed to Mont- 
lac: “Had yon not accepted, in the name of the duke, 
t lie conditions of religions liberty, our opposition would 
have prevented this duke from being elected onr mon- 
arch." Henry feigned to be astonished, ns if he did not 
understand the subject in dispnie; but Zborowski ad- 
dressed him, saying, “I repeat, sire, that if vour ambas- 
sadors bad not accepted the couditiou of liberty to the 
contending religions persuasions, our opposition would 
have prevented yon from being elected king; and that 
if you do not confirm these conditions, you shall not be 
our kin".’’ After this the members of tbe embassy sur- 
rounded their new monarch, and Herburt, a Roman Cath- 
olic, read tbe formula of the oath prescribed by tbe elect- 
ing diet, which llenry repeated without any opposition. 
The bishop Karnkows'ki, who had stood aside, approached 
the king after he had sworn, and protested that the relig- 
ious liberty secured by the royal oath was not to injure 
tbe authority of the church of Home ; and the king gave 
him a written testimony in favor of that protest.’ 

“Henry set out for Poland, but after what had passed 
the fears of the Protestants were far from being allayed, 
and they resolved carefully to watch the conduct of" the 
new monarch at his coronation. Firley, the leader of 
the Protestant party, insisted that on tliat solemn occa- 
sion the oath taken at Paris should be repeated; mid 
even in the midst, of the ceremony, when the crown was 
about to he placed on Henry’s head, Firley boldly ad- 
vanced forward and interrupted the proceedings, declar- 
ing in the name of the Protestants of Poland that, unless 
the Parisian oath was taken, the coronation would not 
be allowed to go forward. The scroll of the oath was 
put into the king’s hand as lie knelt on the steps of the 
altar, and Firley, taking the crown, said to Henry with a 
I- ml voice, ' If you will not swear, you shall not reign.' 
'1 he inti opid conduct of the Protestant leader struck the 


POLAND 


341 


POLAND 


whole assembly with awe, and the kin" had no alternn- ' 
tive but to repeat the oath. Thus the religious liberties 
of Poland were saved from utter overthrow, and the na- 
tion delivered from ail impending civil war. 

“The Polish Protestants were naturally suspicions of 
their new king, knowing that, haviug taken tiie oath by 
compulsion, he was not likely to respect their rights. 
The Romish bishops, on the other hand, supported by 
the favor of the monarch, formed projects for extending 
their influence, and an impression rapidly spread through 
the country that Henry had become a ready tool in the 
hands of the priests. This feeling, combined with dis- 
gust at his profligacy, rendered him so unpopular, and 
his subjects so discontented, that the country would un- 
doubtedly have been speedily plunged into a civil war 
had not the king fortunately disappeared, having secret- 
ly left Poland for France on learning that the death of 
his brother, Charles IX, had opened the way for his suc- 
cession to the throne of France. The crown of Poland 
was now conferred upon Stephen Batory. prince of Tran- 
sylvania, who had earned so high a reputation that, al- 
though an avowed Protestant, his election met with no 
opposition from the. Romish clergy. The delegation 
which announced to Stephen his election to the throne 
was composed of thirteen members, only one of whom 
was a Romanist : but this man, Solikowski by name, suc- 
ceeded iu persuading the new monarch that,” if be would 
secure himself on the throne, he must profess the Roman 
Catholic religion. Next day, accordingly, to the dismay 
of the Protestant delegates, Stephen was seen devoutly 
kneeling at mass. During his reign, which lasted ten 
years, he maintained inviolate the rights of the Anti-Ro- 
mnuist confessions, while at the same time, through the 
influence of his queen, who was a bigoted Romanist, he 
openly encouraged and patronized the Jesuits, by found- 
ing and endowing various educational institutions iu 
connection with their order. 

“Stephen Batory died in 15^6, and was succeeded by 
Sigismuud III, in whose reign the Romish party acquired 
much strength, while many of the Protestants had be- 
come dissatisfied with the general confession, aud sought 
to renew the former controversies which had so miich 
weakened their influence in the country. Poland was 
unhappily subjected to the rule of this infatuated mon- 
arch from 15ST to 1032, aud throughout the whole of that 
long period his policy was uniformly directed towards 
the promotion of the supremacy of Rome. The Jesuits 
exercised au unlimited influence over the government; 
aud all the offices of state and posts of honor were ex- 
clusively bestowed upon Romanists, and more especially 
upon proselytes, who, from motives of interest, had re- 
nounced the principles of the Reformation. The whole 
country was covered with Jesuit colleges and schools, 
thus euabling tiie disciples of Loyola most effectually to 
exercise dominion over all classes of the people. ‘The 
melancholy effects of their education,’ says count Kra- j 
sinski, ‘soon became manifest. By the close of Sigis- 
m u ml Ill’s reign, when the Jesuits had become almost 
exclusive masters of public schools, national literature 
had declined as rapidly as it had advanced during the 
preceding century. It is remarkable, indeed, that Po- 
land, which, from the middle of the 10th century to the 
end of the reign of Sigismuud III (1032), had produced 
many spleudid works on different branches of human 
knowledge, in the national as well as iu the Latin lan- 
guage, can boast of but very few works of merit from 
that epoch to the second part of the lSih century, the pe- 
riod of the unlimited sway of the Jesuits over the na- 
tional education. The Polish language, which had ob- 
tained a high degree of perfection during the 10th century, 
was soon corrupted by an absurd admixture of Latin ; 
and a barbarous style, called Macaronic, disfigured Polish 
literature for more than a century. As the chief object 
of the Jesuits was to combat the Anti-Romanists, the 
principal subject of their instruction was polemical divin- 
ity; and the most talented of their students, instead of 
acquiring sound knowledge, by which they might become 
useful members of society, wasted their time in dialectic 
subtleties and quibbles. The disciples of Loyola knew 
well that, of all the weaknesses to which human nature 
is subject, vanity is the most accessible ; and they were, 
as prodigal of praise to partisans as they were of abuse 
to antagonists. Thus the benefactors of their order be- 
came the objects of the most fulsome adulation, which 
nothing but the corrupted taste acquired in their schools 
could have rendered palatable. Their bombastic pane- 
gyrics, lavished upon the most unimportant, persons, be- 
came, towards the end of the 17th century, almost the 
only literature of the country-proof sufficient of the de- 
graded state of the public to which such productions could 
be acceptable. An additional proof of the retrocession 
of the national intellect and the corruption of taste un- 
der the withering influence of the Jesuits is that the most 
classical productions of the lGth century — the Augustan 
tera of the Polish literature— were not reprinted for more 
thau a century, although after the revival of learning in 
Poland in the* second naif of the ISth century they went 
through many editions, and still continue to be reprinted. 
It is almost superfluous to add that this deplorable con- 
dition of the national intellect produced the most perni- 


cious effects on the political as well as social state of the 
country. The enlightened statesmen who had appeared 
during the reign of Sigismuud III— the Zamovskis, tiie 
Sapiehas, the Zaikiewskis, whose efforts counterbalanced 
fl)i- a time the baneful effects of that fatal reign, as well 
as some excellent authors who wrote during the same 
period — were educated under another system; for that 
of the Jesuits could not produce any political or literary 
character with eularged views. Some exceptions there 
were to this general rule; but the views of enlightened 
men could not be but utterly lost ou a public which, in- 
stead of advancing in the paths of knowledge, were train- 
ed to forget the science and wisdom of its ancestors. It 
was therefore no wonder that sound notions of law and 
right became obscured, and gave way to absurd preju- 
dices of privilege aud caste, by which liberty degenerated 
into licentiousness; while the state of the peasantry was 
degraded into that of predial servitude.’ 

“Not contented with secretly imbuing the minds of 
the people with Romanist principles, the Jesuits connived 
sit the ill-treatment to which many Protestants were sub- 
jected, aud the courts of justice heing wholly under Jes- 
uit influence, it was vain for the injured to look for legal 
redress. Riotous mobs with complete impunity destroyed 
the Protestant churches iu Cracow, Posen, Wilna, and 
other places. The natural result of the adverse circum- 
stances iu which Protestants were placed under this long 
but disastrous reigu was that their numbers were daily 
diminished, and what was, perhaps, more melancholy still, 
those who held fast to Reformed principles were divided 
into contending factions; and although the Consensus of 
Sandomir maiutaiued an apparent union for a lime, that 
covenant even was finally dissolved by the Lutherans. 
An attempt was made without effect to arrange a union 
between the Protestants and the Greek Church at a meet- 
ing convened at Wilna in 1599, and although a confedera- 
tion for mutual defence was concluded, it led to no prac- 
tical results. 

“At tiie close of the long reign of Sigismuud III the 
cause of Protestantism was in a state of the deepest de- 
pression. But his son and successor, Wladislas I V, was a 
person of a very different character, and so opposed to 
the Jesuits that he would not allow a single member of 
that order to be near his court. He distributed offices and 
rewards solely according to merit, and, being naturally of 
a mild disposition, he discountenanced all persecution on 
account of religion. He endeavored in vain to effect a 
general reconciliation, or at least a mutual understand- 
ing, between the contending parties, by means of a relig- 
ious discussion held at Thorn in 1044. But the early 
death of this benevolent monarch changed the whole as- 
pect of affairs. His brother, John Casimir, who succeed- 
ed him, had been a Jesuit aud a cardinal; but Ihe pope 
had relieved him from his vows on his election to the 
throne. From a monarch who had formerly been a Rom- 
ish ecclesiastic the Protestants had everything to fear 
and little to expect. The consequence was that the ut- 
most discontent begau to prevail among all classes, and 
the country having been invaded by Charles Gnstavus, 
king of Sweden, the people were disposed to place him 
upon the throne of Poland. Elated, however, by the suc- 
cess of his arms, that haughty monarch declined to ac- 
cept the sovereignty in any other mode than by conquest, 
whereupon the Poles, rising as one man, drove him from 
the country. Peace was restored by the treaty of Oliva 
in 1000; but not until the Protestants had suffered lunch 
during the war. The king had taken refuge iu Silesia 
during the Swedish invasion, and on his return to Poland 
he committed himself to the special care of the Virgin 
Mary, vowing that he would convert the heretics by force 
if necessary. A considerable number of Protestants still 
remained after all the persecutions to which they had 
been exposed, and among them were several influential 
families, who, besides, were supported by the interest of 
the Protestant princes throughout Europe. The king, 
therefore, judged it best to direct the whole force of his 
persecution against the Sociuiaus, whom he banished from 
the kingdom, declaring it to be henceforth a capital crime 
to propagate or even profess Sociuianism in Poland. 

“The ranks of the Protestauts were now completely 
broken, and the Roman clergy acquired and exercised 
nearly uncontrolled power. John Sobieski, during his 
short reign, endeavored to put an end to religions perse- 
cution ; but he found himself unable to maintain tiie laws 
which still acknowledged a perfect equality of religious 
confessions. Augustus II, also, who succeeded to the 
throne in 1090, confirmed, in the usual manner, the rights 
and liberties of the Protestants, but with the addition of 
a new condition, that he should never grant them sena- 
torial or any other important dignities and offices. This 
monarch had renounced Lutheranism iu order to obtain 
the crown of Poland, aud now that he had secured his ob- 
ject, he allowed tiie Romish bishops to treat the heretics 
as they chose. Augustus haviug been expelled by Charles 
XII of Sweden, Stanislaus Leszczyuski was elected in 
1704, and the accession of this enlightened monarch re- 
vived the hopes of the Protestants. The treaty of alliance 
concluded hetween Stanislaus and the Swedish sovereign 
guaranteed to the Protestants of Poland the rights and 
liberties secured to them by the laws of their country, 


POLAND 


.342 POLAND, JEWISH MISSION IX 


n i. all 1 1 io rc-t riel ion* imposed in later limes. ' 

]j favorable circmnMaiict— were of short continu- 

: i Stanislaus was d i ! veil from his ilirone by Pete, 
i ie czar of Ru*sia, and Anguslu* II n^ain restored to his 
k n_' I an. Civil c iminntimis now arose, which were only 
terminated by the mediation of Peter the (heat, who con* 
c oiled a treaty al Warsaw in 1716, into which the Homan* 
i-i* had sufficient inllnence to pet a danse inserted to the 
following effect : ‘That all the Protestant churches which 
had been built since 1032 should be demolished, and ilml 
l ue Protest. mts should not he permitted, except in places 
win e they iiad churches previously to the ubove-men- 

• »i ed time, to have any public or private meetings for 

• ,c p i.-pose of preaching or singing. A breach »>f this 

_r it on was to he punished, for the rirst time by a 

.a Or the second by imprisonment, for the third by 
■ o'* mient. Foreign ministers were allowed to Intve 

• no- service in tlietr dwellings, but the natives who 
shoul I assist al it were to be subjected to the above-men- 
tioned penalties.* 

‘•The terms of this treaty excited feelings of discontent 
t.ml alarm, not only in the minds of the Protestants, but 
al*o of the more enlightened portion of the Hoimiii Cath- 
olics. Protests poured in from all quarters against the 
measure. Hut all remonstrance was vain; the Human- 
ists continued to prosecute the Protestants with invet- 
erate rancor, in sonic cases even to blood. The Protes- 
tant powers of Europe from time to lime made represen- 
tations in favor of the Polish Protestants: but, instead of 
allcvi iiing their persecutions, these remonstrances only 
increased their severity. In 1733 an act was passed ex- 

• ailing iliem from the’ general diet, and front all public j 
ollli es, but declaring at the same time their peace, their 
persons, and their property inviolable, and that they might 
hold military rank and occupy the crown-land*. 

“During the reign of Augustus 111, which lasted from 
1733 to 1 7 1)4, the condition of the Polish Protestants was 
melancholy in the extreme; and, despairing of relief from 
every other quarter, they threw themselves under t lie ’ 
protection of foreign powers, by whose interference they 
were admitted, in 1707, to equal l ights with the Homan 
Catholics. This was followed by the abolition of the I 
Order of Jesuits in 177!$. Augustus had throughout his 
reign kept Poland in a state of subserviency to Hussia, 1 
and that power placed his successor Poniatowski on the 
throne. When Catharine II, empress of Hussia, obtained 
possession of the Polish Hussiau provinces, part of the 
people became members of the United Creek Church, 
and part joined the Hussiau Church. Even the most 
bigoted Humanists were gained over in course of time, 
s > i hat at the Synod of Poloisk, in 1S39, the higher clergy 
of Lithuania and White Russia declared the readiness 
of 'heir people to join the Hiisso-Greck Church, and, ac- 
cordingly, tlie-e Uniates, or United Creek*, to the number 
of 2, bun, dim, were received back into the M uscovite branch 
of the Eastern church on t heir solemn disavowal of the 
p ipe's supremacy, and declaration of their belief iu the 
sole Headship of Christ over his Church.” 

The nnfortituate determination of pope Pins IX to force 
tiie infallibility dogma on the Church of Home has had 
its damaging consequences to papal Christianity in Hus- 
sia. After the encyclical of 1874 Hie czar’s government 
saw itself forced to nmr the union with the Russian 
t liurch of all Polish Christians not Protestant. Several 
P ipes had confirmed to the United Creeks the privileges 
of Hie use of the vernacular tongue and the marriage of 
Hie clergy. Ritualistic movements, however, had been 
introduced by some of the clergy, tending to assimilation 
to Home, mid the disputes engendered by the changes had 
fiequenily been referred to the Vatican. When the ency- 
clical came to the laity, only two ways seemed to lie open 

either to submit to the new orders'or openly defy them. 

1 i set! let/, the decision was prompt, ami one sixth of the 
wli b* population of the government determined to a*k 
the “ W bite t star" to ndmil them into his Church. Though 
H r )eiri*li priests iu no case commenced the movement, 
win n t had once taken root they joined their docks, 
'll) g ivcrnncnt took no notice of the tlrst petition sent 
1 lit e >>i v in imI that the movement was perfect Iv spou- 
t set i*. When the emperor t ithorized the governo. -geii- 
« “f W u».iw (.. admit them into the Hussiau Church; 

• 1 111 *1" tav. Jan. 24, the public ceremony wu* per 

I r 1 before an im mert *c rmvil in the town’of Sedlelz. 
(M Lie fti.fMMi 1 I *>|de admitted, ‘20 were prle«ts. The tlrst 
p -he . el was 111., i of Hit Isk, to which the archbishop 

• jf \\ li iw procee led, w'lli ill the convert priests iiinl 
d< a tic s fi im the fulv-tlve pari*he*. Mini where a so|- 

• l'lir * " ' " 1 »•>“(*• r.iMuu w. * jie f.irmnl in the parish 

1 1 <• lie a c ! espoiident of Hie Loudon Times, under 

dile .if June, 1*7:- Die or h<n] i\ movement Is 

Me idilv progressing In Pol ml. md will very hborilv lend 
to the rxtlmlloii of Hie 1 , it. . 1 (ireck* Nearly '25(1, fit 10 
person* In the province* nf Siediee. Lublin, Suviilkl. ami 
le»m«a have nheiidy emtiriiced the e* ldislied faith of Hie 

emidre. The l Iliad mi left i* estimated nt only 

. and a* the priests who me ndve-e to the move- 

nt are running away to Uallivn toe list trace or the 

sect will soon d I -appear. Tile political nil v mtage aenn- 
litg to the Russian government Lorn this whole-ale con- 


version of .a religions commuuily, half Roman Catholic 
and half Greek. cannot well be overrated. Not only are 
all their subjects of Hussiau blood brought within the 
pale of lie national Church, but a number of Poles being 
likewise included in the sweeping change of creed, a way 
is paved to a further and even more comprehensive con- 
quest in the same field.’’ In l i *7tj the Hussiau govern- 
ment, feeling that the Papists were intriguing against the 
union movement, occasionally interfered hv force for the 
transition of whole congregations from Home. In con- 
sequence several of the bishops and priests were brought 
into rebellions conditions to the czar’s government. 
More recently a concordat has been signed between the 
czar and the pope, which re-tores full diocesan authority 
to the bishops, together with the right to direct corre- 
spondence with Home. The nkase of isos is abolished, 
and appeals of the bishops will henceforth be transmitted 
to Home through tire metropolitan of Warsaw, instead of 
being sent to the synod nt Sf. Petersburg. On the oiher 
hand, the pope acknowledges the legal status of the St. 
Petersburg Synod, which is to form the conucil of a Cath- 
olic primate residing in the Hitssian capital. 

It is computed that the Protestant Poles amount in 
round numbers to 442, nun, the great majority of whom 
are found in the Prussian portion. There is a considera- 
ble number of Protestants in Poland itself, but these are 
chiefly German settlers. In that part of Poland which 
was annexed to Russia by the treaty of Vienna, it was 
calculated in 1845 that, iu a population of 4,857,250 souls, 
there were 252,000 Lutherans, 3700 Reformed, nml 540 
Moravians. In Prussian Poland, according to the census 
of 1846, there were in the provinces of ancient Polish 
Prussia, in a population of 1,010,105 souls, 502,148 Protes- 
tants; and in that of Posen, in a population of 1,304,399 
souls, there were 416,048 Protestants. As the Russian 
government is determined to make the Poles adopt its 
nationality, the Hussiau language oniv is tolerated in 
the churches where a popular tongue’ is used, and all 
hymn and prayer hooks, as well as school-books, must he 
iu the Russian tongue. The Prussian government, too, 
anxious to use all means of Germanizing its Slavonic 
subjects, caused the worship in almost all the churches 
of Prussian Poland to he conducted in the German lan- 
guage, and the service in* Polish is discouraged as much 
as possible. 

On the modern ecclesiastical history of the former 
kingdom of Poland, see Prussia and Hussia. See also 
Rbpoll, Cesch. Polens (ITamb. 1810) ; Leugnich, Diss. 
de Religion. Christ, in Pulonia initiis (1734) ; and Friese, 
Cesch. Polens (llreslau, ITSti). On the Reformation: 
Stanislaus Lubieniecins, Hist. Reformation^ Polonicm 
(Frcistadii, 11185); Krasiuski, Historical Sketch of the 
Reformation in Poland (Loud. 183.S, 2 vols. 8vo), part i 
treating of the introduction and progress of Christianity 
in that country; Macl car, Hist, of Christian Missions 
in the Middle Ages; C.ieseler, Kccles. Hist, (see Index 
in vol. iii) ; licit, and For. Kv. Rev. 1843, p. 502 stj. 

POLAND, Mission among tiiic J kws in. The 
Polish mission was commenced by the London Society 
for promoting Christianity among the Jews in the year 
1821. The lirst missionaries there were the late Dr. A. 
M’Canl (q. w), at that time a simple graduate of the 
University of Dublin, and the Rev. W. F. Pecker. The 
I centre of their operation was made in Warsaw. For a 
while all seemed promising, but the missionaries were 
compelled for a time to quit Warsaw. Early in the 
year 1822 the missionaries were summoned to appear 
before the “Commission of the Religious Confessions,” 
and had to sign a protocol as to what was their object, 
of which it was said that it would be sent to St. Pe- 
tersburg. Learning, however, that the answer which 
would be given them would be that foreign missiona- 
ries were not wanted in the country, and that if the 
Jews wished to he converted there were priests enough 
for that purpose, the missionaries — in order to avoid 
I being sent out of the country, and hoping to get per- 
mission from the emperor Alexander— left. Warsaw and 
went to Posen. The permission was obtained not only 
lor Poland, but also for Russia. The first two mission- 
aries were now joined by two others, Messrs. Wendt ami 
IbilT, and in the winter of 1822 missionary operations 
were fairly commenced at Warsaw. Iu the year 1823 a 
service according to the ritual of r he < 'hureh of England 
was established in the Reformed Church, Mr. M’Caul 
having received ordination in England; and this, iu 1824, 
was followed up by the commencement of a German 


POLE 


POLAND, JEWISH MISSION IN 343 


service in the same place in the afternoon. As the labor 
increased two more missionaries were sent, Messrs. 
Reichardt and Wermelskirch. Visits were paid to va- 
rious towns, and for a time Lublin was made the scene 
of missionary labor. The chief work of the winter of 
1825 was the preparation of a translation of the Word 
of God, for the use of Hebrew women more especially. 
It was completed by M'Caul, with the assistance of the 
other missionaries, as far as the end of the Pentateuch, 
by the spring of 1820, and has proved a work of con- 
siderable value. 

The death of the emperor Alexander rendered it nec- 
essary to apply to his successor for a confirmation of the 
permission which had been accorded to them. The 
answer to their application was of a modified character: 
it gave them liberty to labor among the Jews of Po- 
land, but was silent concerning Russia itself, and as was 
afterwards stated by the grand-duke Constantine, that, 
as far as Russia was concerned, the permission was with- 
drawn. All efforts to reobtain it were without success. 

In 1829 Lublin was permanently occupied as a mis- 
sionary station, and proved a success, for no less than 
forty-four Israelites were there admitted into the visible 
Church. The year 1830 was marked by some events 
materially affecting the state of the mission and the po- 
sition of the missionaries: by an 'order from St. Peters- 
burg the missionaries were placed under the General 
Protestant Consistory, and their correspondence with 
the committee was required to be laid before it, the 
Commission of the Interior, and the police. On Nov. 
29 in the same year the Polish revolution broke out, 
without affecting materially the missionary labors. 
This year may be regarded as marking the close of the 
second period in the history of the Polish mission, last- 
ing from the year 1823 to 1830. 

The event of most consequence that marked the fol- 
lowing years was the occupation of a new station, in 
1834, in the south of Poland. Kielce was the place se- 
lected, a place equidistant from Warsaw and Lublin. 
The main features of the work that now present them- 
selves are the missionary journeys to Suvaltri, Calvary, 
and other places. We have now arrived at the year 
1841, and up to that period, in connection with the mis- 
sion, there had been baptized at Warsaw 115, at Lublin 
33, and at Kalisch — selected in 1838 as the station — and 
other stations, occupied only for a short time. 5, making 
altogether a total of 153. During the year 1842 the 
missionaries made several journeys, and in spite of 
the “ Cherem,” or Jewish excommunication, pronounced 
against those who should have any intercourse with the 
missionaries, the work went on with great blessings, 
and in the year 1851 the number of those who were 
baptized through the mission in Poland was 326, some 
of the converts occupying the highest stations in life. 
We have now brought the history of the Polish mission 
down to that period when the door was closed against 
it. The war of England with Russia effected this 
change, for it could not reasonably be expected, while 
that war was carried on with the greatest vigor, that 
an English mission, however peaceful its object, would 
be tolerated in the very heart of the Russian empire, 
and indications were not wanting that soon its work 
was to cease. Various tracts about to be printed, which 
had already received the sanction of the Consistory, 
were unaccountably detained at the censor’s office ; 
and in the month of May, 1854, “the missionaries in 
Warsaw were summoned before the Russian authorities 
to receive various injunctions and restrictive orders 
on pain of being expelled from the country. One of 
these was to submit all their official correspondence 
with the committee to the Russian government, who 
promised to forward it to London ; and to circulate no 
books, not even the Bible, among Christians. The let- 
ters and journals were from that time submitted as pre- 
scribed, but never reached London. This state of things 
continued from the end of May till Dec. 28, when the 
missionaries were again summoned to appear before the 


1 Russian authorities to hear an imperial order read, which 
imposed upon them and their brethren in the eountrv 
: the discontinuance of all missionary work from that 
j day, and to be prepared to leave the country in three 
I weeks, viz. on Jan. 13, 1855, the New-year’s day of the 
Russian Church.” 

| Thus closed the Polish mission, just three weeks be- 
\ fore the death of the Russian emperor, a mission which 
had not been in vain, for, besides the 361 members of 
the house of Israel who were admitted by baptism into 
the Christian Church, more than 10,000 Bibles, in dif- 
ferent languages, and upwards of 10,000 New Testa- 
ments have been circulated, of which many had come 
into the hands of Jews. 

The missionary work which had thus been suspended 
for over twenty years was again resumed in the year 
1877, permission having been granted by the present 
emperor. To the Rev. J. C. Hartmann, one of the old- 
est missionaries of the society, was intrusted the tempo- 
rary charge of the mission-field at Warsaw, where about 
100,000 Jews reside, divided into Talmudists, Chasidim, 
and Reformers. According to the latest report of 1877, 
the Warsaw station is now occupied by the Revs. O. J. 
Ellis and II. II. F. Hartmann, son of the above, N. D. 
Rappoport, A. E. Ifland, and a colporteur. Comp, the 
Jewish Intelligencer and the Annual Reports of the Lon- 
don Society. (B. P.) 

Pole (D3, nts, a flagstaff, Numb, xxi, 8, 9; hence 
the flag or standard itself, “sign,” “banner,” etc., as 
elsewhere). 

Pole, Reginald, a famous English cardinal, who 
I figures so prominently in the English Reformation pe- 
riod, upon whose character rests the stigma of duplicity 
and selfishness, and against whom both Protestants and 
Romanists have written in censure or praise, was de- 
scended from royal blood, being a younger son of Sir 
Richard Pole, lord Montague, cousin - german of king 
Henry VII, and Margaret, daughter of George, the duke 
of Clarence, and younger brother to king Edward IV. 
Pole was born at Stourton Castle, Staffordshire, in the 
year 1500. When seven years old he was sent to the 
Carthusian monks at Sheen for instruction. At twelve 
he became a student at Magdalen College, Oxford, where 
the famous Linacre and Will. Latimer, two great mas- 
ters of Latin and Greek, were his teachers. At fifteen 
he took the B.A. and entered into deacon’s orders, and 
in 1517, the year that Luther began to preach against 
indulgences, Pole was made prebendary of Salisbury, to 
which preferment the deanery of Exeter and others 
were soon after added by king Henry VIII, who greatly 
admired Pole, and desired his elevation to the highest 
ecclesiastical dignity. At the age of nineteen Pole 
went to Italy, there to continue his studies, and was by 
the king afforded support suitable to his rank, lie vis- 
ited different universities, and finally rested at Padua, 
where he entered a distinguished group of scholars, 
among whom were Leonicus, a great philosopher and 
philologist, Longolius, Bembo, and Lupset, a learned 
Englishman. These masters were his constant com- 
panions, and they have told us how he became the 
delight of that part of the world for his learning, 
politeness, and piety. From Padua he went to Venice, 
where he continued for some time, and then visited 
other parts of Italy. Having spent five years abroad, 
he was recalled home; but being desirous to see the 
jubilee, which was celebrated this year at Rome, he 
went to that city: whence, passing by Florence, he re- 
turned to England, where he arrived about the end of 
1525. He was received by the king, queen, court, and 
all the nobility with great affection and honor, and was 
highly esteemed, not only on account of his learning, but 
for the sweetness of his nature and politeness of his 
manners. Devotion and study, however, being what 
he solely delighted in, he retired to his old habitation 
among the Carthusians at Sheen, where he spent two 
years in the free ’enjoyment of them. In 1529, when 


POLE 


344 


POLE 


king TIarrv determined upon hi- ivc>r< from Catha- 
rine of \ragon, Cole, foreseeing tin- troubles consequent 

this ami how he imi-t needs la- Involved in them. 

rc-Milvt.fl t<> w i tin I raw, ami . btnincil leave of his majesty 
to g, to Tarts. Her he < mtinnwl in quiet till the 
king. pr im eullng the aflair of tin divorce, ami sending 
to the most -Kite 1 universities in Europe for their opin- 
ion up >n the illegitimacy of his marriage, commanded 
him n> is.m-nr wu It Ins agents in procuring the approval 
for I is ■ out- mplateil step from the faculty of the Uni- 
Mrs'ty <-f Tar is. J’oh- left the aflair to the cnmniis- 
MMiitrs ( \ using himself to the king as unlit for the 
eiri i (V. since his studies had lain another way. llenry 
i\as a’u^ry, upon which l’«*le returned to England in 
onler to pacify him; but failing in this, and unwilling 
to make a tool of himself to the king in his questiona- 
ble designs, Tide returned to Nheen, where he continued 
two years. It has been asserted that scruple* of con- 
science and of religion were not his only motive: that, 
though a priest, he was not without lm|ie of marrying 
the princess Mary Tudor, and that it was not without 
Mich views that Catharine of Aragon had committed 
the education of her daughter to his mother, the count- 
ess of Salisbury, llenry at length perceiving that the 
court of Koine resolved to oppose the aflair of the di- 
vore*\ conceived a resolution to shake off their author- 
ity, an 1 to rely upon his own subjects. Tole was again 
pressed, hut as steadfastly refused as before, even under 
tin- temptation of being made archbishop of York if he 
should comply with the king’s demands. The king 
having dismissed Tide in anger, he consulted his safety 
by leaving the kingdom, and rejoined the company of 
the distinguished men he had known abroad. The first 
year he spent at Avignon: but as his health declined 
there he went to 1’adua, making now and then excur- 
sions to his friends at Venice. The literary circle in 
which he moved was formed hy Carafl'a ( Taul IV), Sa- 
ihdeto, t lilberto, Trcgosn, archbishop of Salerno, Bembo, 
ami ( ontarini. These men even embraced the doctrine 
of justification, and in their social meetings discussed 
the means of reforming the papacy — their great princi- 
ple being to preserve the unity of the t 'luirch under the 
papal government. In Italy, during t lie reign of Henry 
VIII, Ki-ginald Tole rose to great distinction, and on 
the nivcsMor. of Taul HI in I off! was raised to the ear- 
dinnlatc, as were his friends just mentioned. Thus the 
days passed verv agreeably in Italy, while fresh troubles 
Wi re rising in England. Henry had not only divorced 
Catharine, but married Anne Boleyti, and resolved to 
throw off the papal yoke and assert his right to the su- 
premacy, with the title of Supreme 1 lead of the t 'Inireli. 
To this end lie procured a hook to he written in defence 
of that title by Sampson, bishop of Chichester, which 
lie immediately sent to Tole for his eoitlirmation. Tole, 
taking courage from the security of t he pope’s protec- 
tion, not only disapproved the king’s divorce and sepa- 
rate n from l he apostolic see, hut shortly after drew up 
a tri aiise, entitled !h imi/ntt tcchsittstira, in which he 
i • nt r iM-rtcd the pretensions of Henry to the head- 
whip of tin- Church, ami compared him to Nehuchad- 
ni y/ir. lie forwarded a copy of it to the king, who, 
dis| 1* • id with Tole, under pretence of wanting some 
pas^M* 1 ' he explained, sent for him to England; hut 
Tule, an are that to deny the king's supremacy was 
high - 1 r« -i m there, nml considering the fate of More 
mid I islur. refused to obey the call. The king tliere- 
tore n-M <lvcil to ktep no aMires with him im longer, 
nml according!! his pension was withdrawn, lie was 
stripp<d ol nil his dignities in Knglaml, ami an act of 
attainder pa-M-d against him. 

/Tole was ahundautlv compensated for these losses and 
suflerin r s by the inanity i f the pope nml emperor. At 
the same lime Taul 111. having in view a general council 
for the reform of tin Church, railed to Komc several per- 
sons renowned for their learning, and among them Tole, 
to represent Knglaml. In vnm his mother, brothers, 
and friends tried to dissuade him from going to Komc. 


After some wavering, the exhortations of his friend 
Contarini prevailed over the fears of his family, and he 
went to Komc in 1536. There he was, against his ear- 
nest wish, created cardinal, Dec. 22, 1536. Two months 
afterwards (February, 1537) Taul appointed him his 
legate on the other side of the Alps, and sent him on a 
most delicate and dangerous errand. The rebellion of 
the northern Catholics against llenry VIII seemed to 
the pope a favorable occasion to attempt the reconcil- 
iation of Knglaml with the Koman see. The legate's 
instructions were to promote a good understanding be- 
tween the emperor and the king of France, to estab- 
lish himself in the Netherlands, and if circumstances 
allowed of such a course to pass over to Knglaml. 
Scarcely had he put his foot on the French territory 
when Cromwell, his persona! foe, claimed him in virtue 
of an article of a treaty concluded between Francis and 
Henry ; but, secretly put on his guard by the king him- 
self. he pursued bis journey with the utmost speed, and 
stopped only at Cambrai. The regent here refused to 
allow him to enter the Netherlands; ami, after a short 
stay with the prince-bishop of Liege, he was obliged to 
make his way back to Kome (August, 1537). At the 
same time llenry VIII set a price of fifty thousand 
crowns on his head, and promised to the emperor a sub- 
sidy of four thousand men in his war against Francis 
for his extradition. If the pope had tip to that time 
shrunk from extreme measures against the schism of 
Knglaml, it was because he felt powerless to put them 
into execution. Having succeeded in restoring peace 
between the two great rulers of the Continent, he at 
last published his bull of excommunication. Tole was 
sent in secret mission to the courts of Spain and France; 
but, forestalled by the Knglish agents, lie could only 
get evasive answers. Charles, at Toledo, declared that 
he had more urgent business to attend to, but that he 
was ready to ful til the promises made by him to the 
pope if Francis assisted him without afterthought. 
Francis, in his turn, protested his good-will, but be- 
sought the legate not to enter his states if lie did not 
bring some positive proof of the emperor’s sincerity. 
After carrying on negotiations for several months, Tole 
came to the conclusion that be was being deluded on 
both sides, and advised the pope to wait patiently for a 
better opportunity to turn up in the course of political 
events. 1 1 is share in these negotiations proved fatal to 
his relations. Henry wreaked his savage vengeance 
on him bv sending to execution his brother, lord Mon- 
tague, and his aged mother, lady Salisbury, who was 
dragged to the scaffold May 17. loll. The second 
brother of the cardinal. Sir (Jeoffrev, saved his life hy 
revealing the secrets of his relations and friends. In 
153!) cardinal Tole was sent to Viterbo, where, in the 
exercise of his functions, until 1512, lie distinguished 
himself by his piety, the encouragement he gave to let- 
ters, ami liis .tolerance towards the Troteslants. In 15-15 
he repaired to Trent, under strong escort, to superintend 
the works preparatory to the council. After the death 
of Henry (1517), lie wrote to the l’rivy Council in favor 
of the Catholic communion, and to Edward VI in justi- 
fication of his acts; hut his letters were left unopened. 
Cole's honk, be imitate eveh siastica. was published in 
Kome in 1536; and J hough, as Burnet says, it was 
more esteemed for the high quality of the author than 
for any sound reasoning in it." it yet gave the most 
certain proof uf his invincible attachment ami zeal for 
the see of Kome, and was therefore sntlicient to build 
the strongest confidence upon. Accordingly Tole was 
employed in negotiations ami transactions of high con- 
cern, was consulted hy the pope in all aflairs relating to 
kings nml sovereign princes, was made one of his legates 
at the Council of Trent, nml. lastly, his penman when 
occasion required. Thus, for instance, when the pope’s 
power to remove that council was contested by the em- 
peror’s ambassador, Tole drew up a vindication of that 
proceeding; and when the emperor set forth the interim, 
was employed to answer it. This was in 151- s , and 


POLE 


345 


POLE 


pope Paul III dying the next year, our cardinal was 
twice elected to succeed him, but refused both the elec- 
tions: one as being too hasty and without due deliber- 
ation, and the other because it was done in the night- 
time. This unexampled delicacy disgusted several of 
his friends in the conclave, who thereupon concurred in 
choosing Julius III, March 30, 1550. The tranquillity 
of Rome being soon after disturbed by the wars in 
France and on the borders of Italy, Pole retired to a 
monastery in the territory of Verona, where he lived 
agreeably to his natural humor till the death of king 
Edward VI in July, 1553. 

On the accession of queen Mary, Pole was appointed 
legate for England, as the fittest instrument to reduce 
that kingdom to an obedience to the pope ; but he did 
not think it safe to venture his person thither till he 
knew the queen’s intentions with regard to the re- 
establishment of the Romish religion, and also whether 
the act of attainder which had passed against him 
under Henry, and confirmed by Edward, was repealed. 
It was not long before he received satisfaction upon 
both these points; and he set out for England, by 
way of Germany, in October, 1553. The emperor, 
suspecting a design in queen Mary to marry Pole, 
contrived means to stop his progress; nor did he ar- 
rive in England till November, 1554, when her mar- 
riage with Philip of Spain was completed. (The Eng- 
lish ecclesiastical historian Soames thinks that Pole 
was delayed by bishop Gardiner, who himself desired 
this distinguished post.) On his arrival Pole was con- 
ducted to the archbishop's palace at Lambeth, Cranmer 
being then attainted and imprisoned; and on the 28th 
went to the Parliament anil made a long and grave 
speech, inviting them to a reconciliation with the 
apostolic see, for which purpose, he said, he was sent 
by the common pastor of Christendom. This speech 
of Pole occasioned some motion in the queen, which 
she vainly thought was a child quickened within her 
womb: so that the joy of the times was redoubled, 
some not scrupling to say that as John the Baptist 
leaped in his mother’s womb at the salutation of the 
Virgin, so here the like happiness attended the saluta- 
tion of Christ’s vicar. The Parliament being absolved 
by Pole, all went to the royal chapel, where the Te 
Deum was sung on the occasion; and thus, the pope’s 
authority being now restored, the cardinal, two days 
afterwards, made his public entry into London, with all 
the solemnities of a legate, and presently set about re- 
forming the Church and freeing it from heresy. In 
conformity with a pontifical bull, he published a decree 
by which, 1, churches, hospitals, and schools founded 
during the schisms should be preserved ; 2, persons who 
had married at unlawful degrees without dispensation 
should be considered as legitimately united ; 3, buyers 
of ecclesiastical property should not be disturbed in 
their possession. But such a triumph did not satisfy 
the fanatics. Encouraged by the chancellor, Gardiner, 
they filled England during four years with those hor- 
rors which left forever a bloody stain on Mary’s mem- 
ory. Pole had formerly been suspected of favoring the 
Reformation, because he had advocated in the Council 
of Trent (q. v.) and at Ratisbon (q. v.) the adoption by 
the Church of Rome of the doctrine of justification as 
held by the Protestants, and being now anxious to sat- 
isfy the Papists, altered in his actions, and became the 
severe opponent of all Protestants. In the cruel meas- 
ures which were adopted it is sometimes claimed for 
Pole that he had no direct part, as he was by nature 
humane and of good temper, and had ever previously 
proved most lenient to Protestants; but it would appear 
as if Pole, in his desire to please the pope and the queen, 
did adopt sterner measures than heretofore. The poet 
Tennyson has recently taken the favorable view of 
Pole’s conduct, and thus makes him speak of his de- 
cision how to reconcile the heretics: 

“For ourselves, we do protest 
That our commission is to heal, uot harm ; 


We come not to condemn, but reconcile; 

We come not to compel, but call agaiu ; 

We come not to destroy, but edify; 

Nor yet to question things already done: 

These are forgiven— matters of the past— 

And range with jetsam and with offal thrown 
Into the blind sea of forgetfulness” 

{Queen Mary, act iii, scene iii). 

In a later scene he makes bishop Gardiner (q. v.) the 
persecutor, and Pole the advocate and friend of the 
heretic : 

“Indeed, I cannot follow with your grace; 

Rather would say— the shepherd doth not kill 
The sheep that wander from his flock, but semis 
His careful dog to bring them to the fold” 

(Act iii, scene iv). 

There is somewhat to favor this interpretation of Pole’s 
acts. After the death of pope Julius, and his successor 
Marcellus, who rapidly followed him to the grave, the 
queen recommended Pole to the popedom; but Peter 
Caraffa, who took the name of Paul IV, was elected be- 
fore her despatches arrived. This pope, who had never 
liked our cardinal, was pleased with Gardiner, bishop of 
Winchester, whose temper exactly tallied with his own ; 
and therefore favored his views upon the see of Canter- 
bury in opposition to Pole, Avhose nomination to that 
dignity was not confirmed by him till the death of 
his rival, which happened Nov. 13, 1555. After Pole’s 
decease, pope Paul IV himself acknowledged that if 
the cardinal’s humane policy had been accepted, Eng- 
land might not have been lost again to Rome. 

After his elevation to the legateship of England, Tide 
had the sole management and regulation of ecclesiastical 
affairs in that country. His concurrence in the butch- 
eries of Protestants did not, however, secure him against 
j the attacks of his old enemy Paul IV, who upon various 
| pretences accused him as a suspected heretic, summoned 
; him to Rome to answer the charge, and, depriving him of 
J his legantine powers, conferred them upon Peyto, a Fran- 
1 ciscan friar, whom he had made a cardinal for that pur- 
pose. The new legate was upon the road for England 
| when queen Mary, apprised of his business, assumed some 
of her father’s spirit, and forbade him at his peril to set 
I foot upon English ground. Pole, however, was no sooner 
i informed of the pontiffs pleasure, or rather displeasure, 
than, out of that implicit veneration which he constantly 
and unalterably preserved for the apostolic see, he vol- 
untarily laid down the legate’s ensigns and forbore the 
exercise of its power, despatching his trusty minister 
Ornameto to Rome with letters clearing him in such 
submissive terms as melted even the obdurate heart of 
Paul. The cardinal was restored to his legantine pow- 
ers soon after, but did not live to enjoy them a full 
twelvemonth, being seized with a double quartan ague, 
which carried him off, Nov. 13, 1558. During his ill- 
ness he often inquired after her majesty, and his death 
is said to have been hastened by that of his royal mis- 
tress, which, as if one star had governed both their nativ- 
ities, happened about sixteen hours before. After lying 
forty days in state at Lambeth, Pole’s remains were car- 
ried to Canterbury, and there interred. He was a learned, 
eloquent, modest, humble, and good-natured man, of 
exemplary piety and chanty, as well as generosity be- 
coming his birth. Though l»v nature he was more in- 
clined to study and contemplation than to active life, 
yet he was prudent and dexterous in business, so that 
he would have been a finished character had not his 
superstitious devotion to the see of Rome led him from 
the path his own convictions marked out to him. Bur- 
net. who has drawn Pole in very favorable colors, ac- 
knowledges this fault in the great cardinal. Fronde’s 
delineation of Pole as a narrow-minded and fanatical 
bigot is precisely the reverse of the fact. Pole, like his 
friend Contarini, was a leading member of that moderate 
party of Romanists who, though they dreaded the dis- 
ruption of Christendom, desired a reform not only in 
the discipline but also in the doctrine of the Church. 
From this position he was only scared by fear of los- 
ing his mitre. This betrays a weakness, it is true, but 


POLE-AXES 


346 


POLEMICS 


rather ■ i ambition than of fanaticism or narrow-mind- 
edness. It is, besides, unjust to make Pule the sole re- 
sponsible party lor the persecutions which were inaugu- 
ral e< I ; for l’ox ( viii. 30*) lias furnished clear evidence 
against such an insinuation, lie even gives I wo in- 
stances where Pole personally interfered to save Prot- 
estants from execution. All that Pole did, even at the 
worst, was to sutler the law to take its course, and not 
preventing what he knew should not have U'eit done. 
Hut, of course, this is bail enough; we only desire that 
it he made no worse. Hook 1ms taken a view very 
much dependent on Pmudc. In the instructions which 
Pole was putting out at the time of his decease for the 
clergy, and in the devotional books which he was put- 
ting together for his people, it is hard to find anything 
but good-sense, deep piety, and hearty benevolence. 

Pole wrote various controversial and theological 
tracts, besides the work above referred to. Among 
these publications are. /.Hurtle t'oncilio (Yetiet. 1562. 
ft vo, and elsewhere); Hijnrinatio . I ugliea e.r /ferret is 
ipsins Snlis I poshdico /.tynti anno MPLY1 (Home. 
1562. -I to' ; one of the most elegant pieces of composi- 
tion hi the Latin language, and which, for perspicuity, 
good-sense, and solid reasoning, is eipial to the impor- 
tance of the occasion on which it was written i Phillips, 
Sam I l.itt ruturr) : he .Summit /• ontificis t’hristi in 
Terri* 1 "in trio it He ejus tff/icis et Totestute ; a Treatise 
of Justification Lovanii, 1 56'.i. ito); this work is report- 
ed to have been •■found among the writings of cardinal 
Pole.” Sec II nine. Hist, if T'lglaud. eh. xxxvii (very 
favorable ; 1 " rondo. Hist. of Eni/laml, vi. JjlSp sip; ( oi- 
lier, k'crles. Hist, of T.nglaml (see Index in vol, vii); 
Sdirockh. Kirc/nngisrh. st it Hi r H>f. ii. 575 sip ; Soanies. 
Hist, of tin /{•/. i, 251 s<].: ii. 1*5 sq., 221» sq., 327 sip. 
do 7 sip ; iv. tjl» sip. 77. 23*. l'J5, 515 sip, 577 sq., oho; 

I foulkes. hi visions in t hristenilum, i. § tbi ; Hook, Tires 
•f the . I rchbishops of f'u liter bun/ (Loud. 1 KiJii ), vol. iii; 
Hardwick, Hist, of the H< formation, p. til, et ah: Sec- 
hohm. Hist, of the Trot. /A liyiwi. p. P.il,2li6, 2 1 2 ; Sorth 
Hnt. Her. Jan. I s 70, p. 2*3; 1 1 istmiustsr Hi r. Aj»ril. 
1*"L p. -tit!; and especially the references in Allibone, 
/tin. of /irit. ami Amr. \uthars. s. v. (.1. I1.W.) 

Pole axes were the ensigns of 1 gates a la/ne, 
carried with silver pillars (t.al. ii, l»j before cardinals 
WoLey and Pole. 

Poleliampton. Henry Stedman, an l.nglish 
divine, was horn in I 1. an I eduralt il at Pembroke l ol- 
lege, Oxford. He took holy orders, and was ordained 
deaci.it hi 1*1*; in the year following became assistant 
curate of St. I ’hail’s, Shrewsbury; in I*.'i5 chaplain in 
the Ueiigal Presidency, lturing the great Sepoy re- 
bellion lie was shot through the bodv in the insurrec- 
tion at Lucknow, and died July ‘in, 1*57. He was a 
good man, and his loss was greatly deplored in nil Kng- 
l.ni'l. as well as among the Kuglisli of India. See J h- 
» *7r. /.ittn s, ami ftian/ of tin /ate Her. Ihnrij T oh - 
ham/iton. ami tin H>r. Thomas SuHman Toh /mm/iton 

• Loml. I *.’)*, *vo, and often;; /.onion I t/nnonm, 1*5* 

I". "• I-'I *•!■• > s ". 

Polehanipton, Thomas Stedman. brother of 
the j r< "iig.it h -si r note, died at Lucknow. See 
I’m til \mi*i*.\, Hi x i ; y S. 

Polemics t front roXf/nc r.irorlikh is the enntm- 
v p- d branch i I scientific tlieidogv. It is also sume- 
tiiu s c« lira 1 by Herman theologians ibnrhtics . and dif- 
fers fr mi life,! n/it irsl i { . in that it j s ,„ l( simply in- 
ten 1 to ih fen > t hristiniiity in general, hut aims to at- 
l/ti k a ri\.il or disputed system in parlieular, and is the 
direct i | nositc u| m fin ip \A, which aims to estahlish 
jica.e w it Inn the t'liristian fold. This distinction has 
not always Ini n observed in Christian theology, hut 
is of rather recent date. As « rule, the theologians 

• •I tin t Imreh mi xe.lt lie polemical and njH.logftieal eli- 

nunts in all theological controversy. In our own cen- 
tury, however, nod especially since the days of Si hlei- 
ermai Jur, tlieol igieal ettcvi lopaslMs have insisted iqHiti 


a strict severance of polemics from apologetics and 
symbolics (q. v.), and have dealt with it in an itt- 
de]»endent manner. In theory nothing can be more 
accurately delined and distinguished than apologetics 
and polemics; they bear the same relation to each other 
as in physical conflict the offensive and the defensive op- 
erations. In practice, however, it is impossible always 
to separate the apologetic and the polemical elements. 
See t lie art. Ai*oi.o<;y. In the ages of the Church 
lathers no great difficulty was encountered, because 
their object was to combat the Jewish or the heathen 
systems of religion, and their writings therefore bear a 
predominant polemical coloring. Put it is one thing to 
combat a single religious system like paganism, and it 
is quite another to attack heresy within the Church, 
or to make war on religious systems claiming a like 
foundation. Polemics, then, narrowed down to its prop- 
er sphere, is the controversy within the Christian fold 
regarding the essentials of the Church faith. In the 
early Church the polemical activity was confined to 
heresies and schismatics. Indeed, from the death of 
Origcn to John of Damascus (A.D. 254 730) — the time 
which elapsed between the Sabellian anil the 5Ionothe- 
lite controversies— the polemics of the Church were de- 
veloped much more prominently than either the apolo- 
getic tendency, as in the preceding period, or the sys- 
tematic tendency, as in the next period. The heresies 
which called out polemical activity from 730 till the out- 
break of the Reformation differed in tendency from those 
of the preceding period in their opposition to the whole 
ecclesiastical system rather than to any particular doc- 
trines. Put with the establishment of Protestantism 
the polemical activity began in real earnest, and from 
that time to this has continued to develop and expand 
in strength both among Humanists and Protestants. 
Among the former it has been specially cultivated by 
the Jesuits, who, on account of the many methods which 
they have proposed for attack of Protestants, have 
been given the appellation Methodists” (comp. Pelt, 
Then!. Encyldopudie, g 63. p. 386 sq.). They even pub- 
lished large works containing the modus operand i for 
controversies of a confessional nature, under the title 
I'lnofogia Tolemica (Vitus Pichlor, 1753; Gazzaniga, 
1778 sq.). The Protestants were not far behind, and 
provided material under the more appropriate title of a 
Synopsis t 'ontrorersiarum (Abraham ('alow, 1685; 51 u- 
sieiis, 1701). to which may he added Walch, Einleitung 
in die polemische t iottese/elahrt/u it (Jemi, 1752, 8 vo), and 
his other writings; Schubert, I nstifntiones Theologies 
Toll mine (1756-5* t; Paumgartcn. Titter such ung t/ieo- 
logischir Streitiykeiten (1762 64); Mosheim, Streittheo- 
logii (1763 sq.) ; Pock, /.eh rb. Jur (lie mueste Tolemik 
(17*2). No work of importance on the science of po- 
lemics appeared until Schleiermaeher treated of it in 
his Ihnsti Hung ties theol. Stadiums (Perl. 1811); and his 
ideas found further and fuller elucidation by his disci- 
ples Sack in his Christliche Tolemik ( Poim, 1838), and 
l»y Pelt in his Theol. Encyklopeidie (1*43); llagcnliach, 
Thud. Tnn/k/op. ( 1*64, and since); llill. System if Jfi- 
v in it;/ (N. ) . IN 17, 8vo) ; XlcClintock, Emyclop. and 
Ah thud of’ Thiol. Science (X. Y. 1873). 

1 lie literature of polemics is divided properly into: 

1. Ti eat isos on the Controversy between Protestants 
mid l{oni:mi>‘t«. 

1. (.'em*- il Treatises hv writers of I he Church of Rome. 

-• i (ciicntl Treatises agaiust Popery by Protestant Di- 
vines. 

H. Tn atises on the Arinn Controversy. 

jib '('realises on the Socininn Controversy. 

IV. Treatises occasioned by the Controve'rsies between 
the il inch of Kitglnud, and between them and Disscuters. 

1. The Itaugorimi Controversy. 

;• Siih-cri|iiiim to the 39 Articles. 

••• Map isimd Regeneration Controversy, 
t. t 'onjmveisial Treatises ou Dissent. * 

V . Treatises on Heresies. 

1 lie various publications on these divisions must be 
sought lor under their respective headings. We will 
rclcr the reader here for general treatises to the works 


POLEMICS 


347 


POLEMICS 


cited by Werner, Gesch. der apologet. u. polemischen TA- 
teratur , and to Spanheim, Conlrarersiarum de Religione 
cum Dissidentibus Hodie Christ ianis Prolixe et cum 
Judeis Elenchus Ilistorico Theologicus, and Horneck, 
Summit Controversiurum ; Clarisse, Encyclopaedia Theo- 
logicce Epitome (Lugd. 1835, 8vo), § 91, p.499 sq. Sec, 
also, Mohler’s Symbolik; I’iper, Monument al-Theologie, 
§ 135 sq. 

The principles which should govern the Christian 
theological polemic are those of an honest offensive 
warfare. They may be condensed into the following 
points: (1) The question is not about persons, but about 
things. Only when both stand and fall together may 
personalities be allowed. (2) The attack must be di- 
rected to the point where the strength of the enemy is 
most formidable: as soon as the principles of the ad- 
versary have been refuted the hostility must cease. 
(3) We must not impute to the adversary more wrong 
than lie is really guilty of; or else the attack itself 
assumes the appearance of a wrong, and will be con- 
sidered in that light by every third party, even if 
successful. Polemics, then, must take the cause of 
the adversary just as it is^ they must not attribute 
to him any opinions which can only be made his 
own by exaggerating his expressions, or even by put- 
ting false constructions upon them. (4) It is im- 
prudent to think too little of an adversary. The rea- 
sons given by him must be recognised in all their force, 
and on the basis of full acknowledgment the proof 
must be given that they are not convincing. (5) A 
struggle with unequal arms is not honorable. The po- 
lemic, then, will have to prove either that the weapons 
of his adversary are illegal, or, if this cannot be done, to 
inquire into his standpoint and his reasons, and to prove 
in error the cause in its very principles. (G) If the po- 
lemic thus succeeds in reducing his adversary ad ab- 
surdum, i. e. to an illogical condition, which, by reason 
of its untenabilitv, forces him hors du combat, the van- 
quished is turned into a friend and convert, and the 
truth has indeed triumphed, as Clod would have it. 
(J. H.W.) 

POLEMICS, Jewish. The friendly relation which 
existed at first between the Church and the Synagogue 
could not always last, and a separation became a matter 
of necessity. The result was that the non-idcntifica- 
tion of Christianity with Judaism gave rise to bit- 
terness and enmity, and some of the fiercest persecu- 
tions were instigated and encouraged by the Jews. The 
Christians were no more called so, but “ Minim,” or her- 
etics. So great became at last the enmity, that a cele- 
brated Jewish sage (Tarplion) declared that, although 
the (lospels and the other writings of the “Minim” 
contained the sacred names of the Deity, they ought to 
be burned; that heathenism was less dangerous than 
Christianity; that heathens offended from ignorance, 
while Christians did so with full knowledge; and that 
he would prefer seeking shelter in a heathen temple 
rather than in a meeting-place of the “Minim” (Tarph. 
Sabb. 110 a). Another and more moderate rabbi (lsh- 
mael) also recommended the burning of every copy of 
the Gospels, as in his opinion inciting to rebellion against 
God, and to hatred against the commonwealth of Israel 
(Aboela Sara , 43). By and by all friendly relations 
between the two parties entirely ceased, and the mutual 
estrangement was such that the ordinary civilities of 
life were not to be exchanged, and the bread, wine, oil, 
and meat used by Christians were declared polluted. 

One of the earliest polemics against Christianity is 
that of R. Siralai, of the 3d century, who became famous 
for his virulent opposition to Christianity. His polem- 
ics were especially directed against the doctrine of the 
Trinity (comp. Genesis Rabba, c. 8; Jerus. Berach. ix, 
11 d, 12 a). It has been suggested, and with apparent 
probability, that he had been chiefly engaged in con- 
troversy with Origen. Another polemic was R. Ab- 
bahu, of the 4tli century, who likewise attacked the 
Trinity and the ascension of Christ ( Jerus . Taanith , ii, 


G5 b ; Genesis Rabba, c. 29 ; Exodus Rabba, c. 29). Of 
this E. Abbahn, we also read ( Abodah Sarah, fol. 4 a) 
that he recommended a certain R. Saphra to a noble 
Christian. At this recommendation the Christian per- 
mitted R. Saphra an exemption for thirteen years. 
When the Christian asked R. Saphra about the mean- 
ing of the passage in Amos iii, 2, and perceived his ig- 
norance, he asked R. Abbahu about its meaning. Hav- 
ing received a satisfactory answer, the Christian asked, 
“ Why is R. Saphra, whom you recommended to me as 
a great man, so ignorant in the Scriptures, which thou 
didst explain right away?” To this R. Abbahu an- 
swered, “ We, who come in contact with you Chris- 
tians. are obliged, for our self-preservation, to study the 
Scriptures, because you dispute so often with us from 
the Scriptures, and because we know that you study 
the Scriptures : but the other Jews, who live among 
Gentiles, have no need of that, since they do not dispute 
with them concerning the Scriptures.” What a gloomy 
picture! The Jews read the Bible, not because they 
are concerned about the “one thing needful,” but only 
for the sake of controversy! Next in order are those 
passages of the Talmud which speak of Jesus, and have 
been expurgated in the earliest editions. Eiscnmcnger 
has collected a great many of these passages in his Xeu- 
entdecktes Judenthum, and also Meelfiihrer, in his Jesus 
in Talmude (Altorf, 1G99, 2 vols.). 

We now give an alphabetical list of such as wrote 
against Christianity, and who, for the most part, have 
been treated upon in this Cyclopaedia, to which refer- 
ence is made : 

.1 bendana, Jacob (q. v.), carried on a controversy with 
Hulsius (1699), and translated the Cusari into Spanish. 

Abrabanel, Jsaae (q. v.), whose commentaries contain 
the strongest invectives against Christianity; and so 
likiwisc his 2' ~ '2 ‘22 '2 and *R v i'd 

Albo, Joseph, who died in 1444, took part in the con- 
ference held with Jerome de Santa Fe, which took 
place at Tortosa in 1413-14 under the presidency of 
Peter de Luna, afterwards Benedict XIII. He is the 
author of the Sepher Jhkarim , "SO, i. e. “the 

Book of Principles.” “ This book,” says R. Wise, “ w as 
the first, and for a long time the only one which at- 
tacked the dogmas of the Roman Catholic Church. 
His opponents spoke, wrote, and argued so much against 
him that he became quite popular in Christian circles, 
and thus also a forerunner of the Reformation.” This 
effusion of the Cincinnati rabbi is of course only to 
be taken cum grano salis, for a personal acquaintance 
with the work would have told him that only the last 
division contains what can be called antichristian. 

Arama, Isaac, one of the Spanish exiles, impugns 
Christianity in his fT«p “"Tn, i. e. “the Heavy 
Vision.” 

Becliai ben - Asher's attacks upon Christianity can 
only be found in the earliest editions of his commentary 
on the Pentateuch. 

Earrissol, Abraham (q. v.), is the author of “"3 
E!"l~ZX. i. e. “the Shield of Abraham,” written against 
Christianity. 

Isaac-Jacob ben-Saul, of the 18th century, wrote his 
Buck der Yerzeichnung. Eine Unterweisung icie man 
seine Religion geyen die Angrijfe des Christenthums, und 
wie man iiberhanpt den EiniciirJ'en der Polemik antworten 
soli (Amsterdam, 1G93). 

Jechiel ben -Joseph (q. v.), author of mil, was a 
member of the conference held at Paris between Nico- 
laus Donin and some Jewish savans. Jechiel would 
not admit that the Jesus mentioned in the Talmud is 
Jesus of Nazareth, but another, a discovery which was 
copied by later writers. But Jews themselves acknowl- 
edge the failure of such an assertion; for, says Dr. Levin, 
in his prize essay, I)ie Religionsdisputation des R. Jechiel 
von Paris, etc. (published in Griitz’s Monatsschrift, 
1869, p. 193), “ We must regard the attempt of R. Jechiel 


POLEMIOI 


348 


POLEMO 


to ;i'. crtain that there wore two by the name of Jesus 
as u (fortunate, original as the idea may bo.” 

./•Intda/t ha-Levi bnt-Samtivl (q. v.) is the author of 
the famous < 'atari. 

Just pit ben-Sliemtob <(). v. . the commentator on Pro- 
fiat Duran's (q. v.) Kpistic. 

Jam j> ft ! bu-Jarhja (q. v.) attacks Christianity in his 
commentary on the I Ingiographa. 

A illicit i, f/aritl awl Joseph (q. v.), made their com- 
mentaries the arena of attacks. 

/.iptnami, l'otntvb (q. v. ), is the author of the well- 
known Sizzachon . 

I.npereio, haar , defended .Judaism against a monk 
of Seville in his . I/W 0 // 0 / (Ua*le. 165X). 

M achir of Toledo is tlie author of an eschatology of 
Judaism in three sections; the first ilolsius translated 
into Latin, with a refutation. 

Mmdalto, Flias (q. v,), wrote an apology of Judaism 
in his l.ivrti Fai/to. 

MurUra, Saul (q. v.V the teacher of Spinoza, was so 
virulent in his .“Vr~ : T that it could not be printed. 

A arh mini lit, J/o.«*.« tq. v. t. speaks against Christian- 
ity in more than one of his works. 

OJi n/tattsi n, Sal. /< iri (q. v. ). wrote his Jewish T fie- 
ri u a against Hrenz. 

(hii/ttenira, Inane < q. v.l. is the pretended editor of an 
antichrist ian work written by Joseph Nasi of Naxos. 

Ihubiu, Isaac (q. v.>. wrote, his Israel Yetuje and 
Sctipta mlrersiis Chrislianam Iltlir/ionrm. 

/‘rnfiaf Ihiran (q. v. is the author of the well-known 
satirical epistle entitled "T'lX: TT “He not 
like thy Fathers," which 15. Isaac Wise, of Cincinnati, 
published in English for the readers of his paper, under 
the pompous heading, "A Relic of Hrcat Significance," 
respec fully inscribed "to religion peddlers.” This last 
expression puts R. Wise on the side of these Jewish 
]Mih inies, but with the difference that “quod licet Jovi, 
lion licet liovi.” 

If' man , I brahntu, showed his animosity by publish- 
ing nntichristiiui works 1 Constantinople, 1710). 

Satnlia , (,'anii ftp v. ). devotes the second and eighth 
chapters of his philosophical work to attack Christianity. 

77 </./, Isaac In 11 -. 1 bruit am 1 q. v. ). is the author of the 
famous which has been made use of bv 

critical writers upon the New Testament from Voltaire 
to Strauss, Some years ago it was published, with 
a Herman translation I >v It. David Deutseh (‘2d ed. 
1x7.7 , under the patronage of M. Rothschild t !). of Paris. 
In hnglixh some chapters were puhlished by a New- 
Vork ralihi. 

In (he same year in which the second Herman edition 
of Tn.ki's work appeared, a similar work in live volumes 
was published at Warsaw, under the title Z entbfmhtf. 
"ri 1 11 by Lcbciisohn, under the patronage of Sir Closes 
M->i ti liore. of Loudon ; a work which, as reviewer says, 
bv tar surpasses the author of t he t 'hiz-ttk Fmitttah. It 
is cl aracti ri/.ed by coarse vituperation. 

1 tic literature on this subject is very meagre. For 
the b r literature, we would refer to De Rossi, Iliblio- 
lh / lain 1 Htihnstiuna 1 Parma*, lNiltl); Stein- 
• s > hi * r ./, ni f, / ,/ ran re, p. 122 S q.. 21 I sq. (15. |».) 

Polemioi. See svm mast k. 

Poleniius -r Su.uts ., r Svtvirsi. a Hallican 
eec|esi.i«|. of 1 be 7 (li omtiiry. tlonrislied as bishop of 
M irngi \ . 111 tin \ alats. lb- ix the author of a sacred 
cab- Iir drau iiiq.A.D. I I*. which is entitled / attreu- 
Itts h I fiittint I'l.'turih .and uhi.h includes hea- 
then ns w ell as t hrixtia,, f, x|,\ „]* \ portion of this 

l.nht ■ In \\ as pul.li lied by P.ollandus. u, tl.e general 
preface to the I eta Sanctorum 1. II. 1 . 7 1. and the whole 
util lie found, bill in it mutilated stale, m tin* seventh 
volume of the same work p. 17* . Mansi. \tl l a- 

brte. lubl. Mnl.it / at. \ul. vi ."elioucmatlll. liibl. 

I'atrtm /.at. vol. 11. $ . 70 . -smith, hot. .• ft,,. ami limn. 
Hint), and Mythol, s, v. 


Polemo, Axtonu's. a highly celebrated sophist 
and rhetorician, who flourished under Trajan, Hadrian, 
and file flrst Antoninus, and was in high favor with the 
two former emperors (Suid. s. v. ; Philostr. 1 77. .Sophist, 
p. 532 1 . He is placed at the sixteenth year of Hadrian, 
A.D. 133, by Eusebius (t'hron.'). Ilis life is related at 
considerable length by Philostratns (177. Sophist, ii, 25, 
p. 530 511). He was bom of a consular family at 
Lnodiecn. but spent the greater part of his life at 
Smyrna, the people of which city conferred upon him 
at a very early age the highest honors, in return for 
which lie did much to promote their prosperity, espe- 
cially bv his inflnenee with the emperors. Nor, in per- 
forming these services, did he neglect his native city 
Laodieea. An interesting account of his relations with 
the emperors Hadrian and Antoninus is given by Phi- 
lost rat us (p. 533, 534). Among the sophists and rhet- 
oricians whom he heard were Timocrates. Seopeliamts. 
Dion Chrysostom, and Apollophanes. Ilis most cele- 
brated disciple was Aristides. His chief contempora- 
ries were 11 erodes Attiens, Marcus Kvzantinus, Diony- 
sius Milesius, and Favoriims, who was his chief rival. 
Among his imitators in subsequent times was St.t Iregory 
Xazianzcn. Ilis style of oratory was imposing rather 
than pleasing, and his character was haughty and re- 
served. During the latter part of his life he was so 
tortured by the gout that he resolved to put an end to 
his existence : lie had himself shut up in the tomb of 
his ancestors at Laodieea, where he died of hunger, at 
the age of sixtv-flve. The exact time of his death is 
not known; but it must have been some time after 
A.D. 143. as he was heard in that year by Vents. The 
only extant work of Polemo is the funeral orations for 
Cvna'geirus and Callimachus, the generals who fell at 
Marathon, which are supposed to be pronounced by 
their fathers, each extolling his own son above tlie 
other. Philostratns mentions several others of his 
rhetorical compositions, the subjects of which are chief- 
ly taken from Athenian history, and an oration which 
he pronounced, by command of Hadrian, at the dedica- 
tion of the temple of Zens Olympitts at Athens, in A.D. 
135. Ilis Aiiyot irrird^iot were flrst printed by II. 
Stephanus, in his collection of the declamations of Po- 
lemo. Himcrius. and other rhetoricians (Paris, 1517, 4to; 
afterwards by themselves in Creek, Paris, 15X6, 4to; 
and in Creek and Latin, Tolosa?, 1637, Svo). The latest 
and best edition is that of Caspar and Conrad Orelli 
( Leips. 1X1«>. 8vo). See Fabricius. L’ibf. drive, vi. 2-4; 
Clinton. Fasti liomuui. s. a. 133, 135. 143. There is a 
coin of Hadrian, bearing the inscription HOALMDN. 
A \ EHH k 15 . ( W VPN A I OK . (Rasclie, Le.ric. /Id A uni. 
s. v. Polemo; Eckhel, Doctr. Xian. Yet. ii, 562). This 
coin belongs to a class which Eckliel has explained in 
a dissertation (vol. iv. c. PJ. p. 36X-3747, There is a 
question respecting the identity of this sophist with Po- 
lemo, i he author of a short Creek work on Physiogno- 
my, who, it is supposed, was a Christian, and must have 
lived in or before the 3d century. See the discussion 
on this question by Passow, I'eber Polemo's Zeitalter, in 
the Archie jiir I'/tiloloffie unci Pmlacjocfik (i,7-0). 1X25. 
— Smith. Diet, of dr. and Ilom, liiocj. and Mi/ 1 hoi. s. v. 

Polemo ( IloXf/iiue) ok Atiikns, (1) an eminent 
Platonic philosopher, and for some time the head of the 
Academy, was the son of Philostratns, a man of wealth 
and political distinction. In his youth Polemo was ex- 
tremely profligate; but one day. when he was about 
thirty, lie broke into the school of Xcnocrates at the 
head of a hand of revellers. Ilis attention was so ar- 
rested by tin- discourse, which the master continued 
calmly in spite of the interruption, and which chanced 
to be upon temperance, that he tore off his garland and 
remained an attentive listener, and from that day he 
adopted an abstemious course of life, and continued to 
frequent tin* school, of which, on the death of Xonoc- 
r.-.t *s f he became tlie head, in Ul. 116. K.C. 315. Ac- 
cording to Kusebius {('/mm.) lie died in Ol. 126. 4, 15.C. 
2i3. Diogenes also says that he died at a great age, 


POLENZ 


349 


POL1IILL 


and of natural decay. He was a close follower of Xe- 
nocrates in all things, and air intimate friend of Crates 
and Crantor, who were his disciples, as well as Zeno 
and Arcesilas ; Crates was his successor in the Academy. 
Polemo gave his attention mainly to ethics, and es- 
teemed the object of philosophy to be to exercise men 
in things and deeds, not in dialectic speculations. His 
character was grave and severe, and be took pride in 
displaying the mastery which he had acquired over 
emotions of every sort. In literature he most ad- 
mired Homer and Sophocles, and he is said to have 
been the author of the remark that Homer is an epic 
Sophocles, and Sophocles a tragic Homer. He left, ac- 
cording to Diogenes, several treatises, none of which 
were extant in t he time of Suidas. There is, however, 
a quotation made by Clemens Alexamlrinus, either from 
him or from another philosopher of the same name, tv 
rotg TTtpi tov Kara tyvoiv f3i ov (Strom, vii, 117), and 
another passage (Strom, ii, 410) upon happiness, which 
agrees precisely with the statement of Cicero ( De Fin. 
iv, 6), that Polemo placed the summinn bomtm in living 
according to the laws of nature. Cicero gives (Acad. 
Pr. ii, 43) the following as Polcmo’s ethical principles : 
“Honeste vivere, fruentem rebus iis, quas primas ho- 
mini natura conciliat.” See Diog. Laert. iv, 16-20; 
Suid. s. v. ; Plut. De Adul. et Amic. 32, p. 7 1 e ; Lucian, 
Bis Accusat. 16 (ii, 311); Atlien. ii, 44 e; Cic. Acad, i, 
9; ii, 35, 42; De Orat. iii, 18; De Fin. ii, 6, 11; iv, 
2, 6, 16, 18; v, 1, 5, 7, et al.; II orat. Serm. ii, 3, 253 fol. ; 
Yah Max. vi, 9 ; Menag. .4 d Diop. Laert. 1. c. ; Fabri- 
cius, Bill. Grcec. iii, 183 ; comp. p. 323, note hhh ; Smith, 
Diet, of Gr. and Pom. Bio;;, and Mythol. s. v. ; Ueber- 
weg, Hist, of Philos, i, 133-135; Butler, /list, of Anc. 
Philos, (see Index). 

(2.) Another Platonic philosopher was the disciple of 
Plotinus; but very little is known of him (Porphyr. 
Plot. Vit.; Fabricius, 1. c. ; Clinton, F. II. sub ami. B.C. 
315, vol. ii, 3d ed.). 

(3.) Of Athens by citizenship, but by birth either 
of Ilium or Samos or Sicyon, a Stoic philosopher and 
an eminent geographer, surnamed o mpigypryg, was 
the son of Euegetes, and a contemporary of Aristoph- 
anes of Byzantium, in the time of Ptolemy Epiph- 
anes, at the beginning of the 2d century B.C. (Suid. 
s. v. ; Athen. vi, 234: Clinton, F. II. vol. iii, suh aim. 
B.C. 199). In philosophy he was a disciple of Pana?- 
tius. lie made extensive journeys through Greece, to 
collect materials for his geographical works, in the 
course of which he paid particular attention to the in- 
scriptions on votive offerings and on columns, whence 
he obtained the surname of 1rt}\oKC7rag (Ath. 1. c.; 
Casaub. ad loc.). As the collector of these inscriptions, 
he was one of the earliest contributors to the Greek 
A nthology, and he wrote a work expressly, Iltpi tJjv 
Kara tGXeiq iniypappdTMV (Athen. x, 436 d, 442 e) ; 
besides which, other works of his are mentioned upon 
the votive offerings and monuments in the Acropolis 
of Athens, at Lacedaemon, at Delphi, and elsewhere, 
which no doubt contained copies of numerous epigrams. 
Hence Jacobs infers that in all probability his works 
formed a chief source of the Garland of Meleager (Ani- 
madv. in Anth. Grcec. vol. i, Procem. p. xxxiv, xxxv). 
Athenaeus and other writers make very numerous quo- 
tations from his works, the titles of which it is unneces- 
sary to give at length. They are ch icily descriptions 
of different parts of Greece; some are on the paintings 
preserved in various places, and several are controver- 
sial, among which is one against Eratosthenes. See 
Fabricius, Bill. Grcec. iii, 184; Vossius, De Hist. Grcec. 
p. 159 fol. ed. AVestermann; Clinton, F. II. iii, 524, 
where a list of his works is given. — Smith, Did. of Gr. 
and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Folenz, John, a Polish prelate of some note, flour- 
ished in the first half of the 16th century. He was of 
noble parentage, and having decided to give himself to 
the service of the Church, studied theology in the Uni- 
versity of Cracow, and in Germany and other Conti- 


nental high schools. He also visited Rome. After fill- 
ing various minor ecclesiastical offices, he was made 
bishop of Saalland, a province at that time paying fealty 
to Poland, but under the secular rule of prince Albrecht 
of Brandenburg. In 1522 this prince, who had refused 
homage to the new king Sigisinund, went to Germany, 
in company with bishop Jacob Dobeneck and bishop 
Polenz, to secure the independence of Poland and to 
accept the Protestant doctrines at the Diet of Nurem- 
berg, which they finally did in 1524. Bishop Polenz 
died shortly after this event. See Krasin ski, Sketch of 
the Rise and Progress of the Reformation in Poland, 
vol. ii ; Alzog, Kirchengesch, ii, 327, 328; Theiner, Her- 
zog Albrecht von Preussen, etc. (Augsb. 1846). See 
also Prussia. (J. H. AY.) 

Polhemus, Abraham, D.D., a minister of the 
(Dutch) Reformed Church in America, was a lineal de- 
scendant of the Rev. Johannes T. Polhemus, the first 
minister of the Dutch Church of Brooklyn, Long Island, 
who had previously been a missionary of the Reformed 
Church of Holland at Itamarca, Brazil. He came to 
this country in 1654, and died in 1676, But little more 
is known of him than these few dates and facts of his 
ministry. The subject of this notice was born at As- 
toria, L. I., in 1812; graduated at Rutgers College in 
1831, and at the theological semi nan' in New Bruns- 
wick in 1835. Immediately after his licensure by the 
Chassis of New A’ork, in 1835, he settled at Hopewell, 
Dutchess Co., N. Y., and remained there until 1857, 
when he removal to Newark. N. J., and took charge of 
the newly organized North Reformed Church in May of 
that year. In October following he died at Newburgh, 
N. Y., of fever, after an illness of several weeks. He 
was a man of majestic physical proportions, tall, broad- 
shouldered, handsome, of amiable instincts and attrac- 
tive manners. The attachment of his parishioners and 
friends to him was almost unbounded. He w r as modest, 
and yet energetic ; frank and cordial, but always dig- 
nified and commanding respect. His pastoral qualifi- 
cations were finely developed. As a preacher, he was 
easy, graceful, impressive in manner, solid and instruc- 
tive in matter, evangelical and catholic in spirit, and full 
of “an unction from the Holy One” which gave him 
great acceptance with the people. He was a leading 
man in the councils of the Church and in her benevolent 
and educational institutions, and, had he lived, would 
have been eagerly sought for other high positions. 
His piety partook of the characteristics to which it 
gave its own burnished splendor. His death was a 
scene of glorious Christian triumph, which reminds one 
of Pavson’s experiences. A few hours before he died 
he exclaimed aloud, “I see Jesus! Now that I have 
seen him, I never can come back again. I see Jesus! 
Did I not tell you I should see Jesus? My soul is 
ravished with the sight.” After a while he added, “I 
have perfect assurance; not a doubt, not a fear.” His 
last sermon w T as on the death of Stephen, and the sub- 
ject made a 'deep impression on his own heart. From 
the beginning of his sickness he felt that he would 
never recover, though with occasional encouragements 
to the contrary, and he prayed that, like Stephen, he 
might see Jesus. The answer came on his dying bed. 
A handsome memorial volume has been published, con- 
taining his biography and a selection of his sermons, 
i His memory has been an inspiration to the church 
whose foundations he laid with faith and prayer, and 
which, after only three short months of earthly labors, he 
was destined to lead in person to heaven. (AA r . J. R.T.) 

Polhemus, J ohamies T. See Polhemus, Abra- 
ham. 

Polhill, Edward, a learned English Calvinistic lay- 
man, flourished in the second half of the 17th century 
as justice of the peace at Burwast, Sussex. He wrote, 
The Divine Will considered in its Eternal Decrees, etc. 
(1673, 8vo); — Answer to Dr. Sherlock's Discourse (1675, 
8vo); — Precious Faith, considered in its Xature, Work- 


350 


rOLIGXAC 


roLIAXDEIi 


.m 1 (', ■’ ■Ih (107.'), 12mo : Speculum Theologim in ’ 
Christ ", <>r a Vinr of *<>me Divine Truths ( 107*, 4to) : — 
Christ s in t nrde, or Mystical Union In / mm Christ anti 
lielirrcrs console ret l (10*0. mu. Kvo, ami often) : — .1 rma- 
turti hi i, or a l'rt partition for Sufi ring in an Evil Day 
(|0*_\ *vo) : — 1 fisrourse on Schism 0*21. l2mo). Sev- 
eral of his works were published in Ward’s Library of 
Standard Jfirini/y. “Everything of 1’olhil! is evan- 
gelical and valuable,’’ was the testimony of Cotton 
Mather; and Williams says; “All the works of this 
hariied layman contain many excellent representations 
of t.ospel truths, intermixed with a strain of sublime 
devotion." l if course Arminians fail to see the consis- 
tency of his Jlible interpretations, but they nevertheless 
admire his miction and experience, and regard his writ- 
ini's as precious practical religious works. .See Eclectic 
lb r. Ith series, xviii, 2*>2. (.). 11. W.) 

Poliander, Johann (originally tiranmanu'). a (ier- 
nian theologian of the Reformation period, was horn at 
Ncustadt in 1-1*7. lie studied at l.eipsic. where in 
151 ti he became magistcr, and in l.VJtl baccalaureate of 
theology. When the famous disputation between Hr. 
Eek and Luther and t nrlstadt took place, he was Kck’s 
amanuensis. The disputation convinced him of the 
truth of the evangelical doctrine, and in 1520 he com- 
menced to preach in accordance with it. The conse- 
quence was that he had to leave l.eipsic. and in 1522 
went to Wittenberg. At the recommendation of Lu- 
ther, the duke Albrecht of Prussia called Poliander to 
K<inig.-berg, as pastor of the Altstadtkirehc, where he 
remained until his death in 1541. Poliander is the au- 
thor of the well-known hymn Xnn lob' mein' Seel ’ den 
lltrrn (Kiigl. trails!, by Mills, /form (lerinanicw, No. 75, 
p. 1T.1. “Now to the Lord sing praises’). See Koch, 
Cesc/i. des deutschen Kirchenliedes, i, 355 sq. ; Theolo- 
f/ischis ( ’nicersal-Lexifcon, s. v, ; Herzog. Ileal- Encyldop, 
xii, 1* 2ti. (R. P.) 

Polias (Flo, We), a surname given by the Athenians 
to Minen-a, or Athene, as being the goddess who pro- 
tected the city. 

Polidoro, Cai.daiia. called Caravaggio, from his 
birthplace, was an eminent Italian painter of the Prc- 
Uafl'aelites. He was horn in 1495, near Milan. He 
went to Rome at the time when Leo X was raising 
some new edifices in the Vatican, and not knowing how 
t<> get his bread otherwise, for Polidoro was very young, 
lie hired out as a day-laborer to carry stones and mor- 
tar fur the masons there at work, lie drudged this 
way till he was eighteen, when he was led to think of 
devoting his life to painting. It happened thus: Sev- 
eral young painters were employed by Rafiaelle in the 
same plan* to execute his de-igns. Polidoro, who often 
carried them mortar to make their fresco, was touched 
wi'h the sight of the paintings, and the pleasure, he 
t«. >k ( i see the painters work stirred up the talent which 
lie had lor painting. In this disposition, he was very 
olti i ms ami complaisant to the young painters, pushed 
Inn ll into their acquaintance, and opened to them his 
i' tm i ; whereupon they gave him lessons, which 

1 him to proceed, lie applied himself with 

all I might t > designing, ami advanced so rapidly 
tli I; like lie was astonished, ami set him to work with 
•l" 1 r ynug | -outers; and Polidoro distinguished 

I'iiiim I mu ll from all the rest, that, as lie had the 
gnat< • slum in executing hi- master’.- designs in the 
5 ato an. so lie had the greatest glory. The care he had 
peon Rathiollo taki in designing the antique sculptures 
•diowi d Imn the way to do the like, lie spent whole 
days and nights in dt igning those beautiful things, 
and studied antiquity to the nieesi exactness. The 
works with which he enriched the frontispieces of sev- 
eral buildings at Rome are proof.- of the pains he took 
in stmhing the antique, lie did very few e-isel pieces, 
most of hi- productions being in fresco, and of the same 
color, in imitation of the bliss-relicts, in this wav lie 
made use of the manner called scratching, consisting in 


the preparation of a black ground, on which is placed a 
white plaster, and where, taking off this white with an 
iron bodkin, we discover through the holes the black, 
which serves for shadows. Scratched work lasts long- 
est. but being very rough, is unpleasant to the sight, 
lie a-sociated himself at first with Maturino, and their 
friendship lasted till the death of the latter, who died of 
the plague in 1520. After this. Polidoro, having by Raf- 
faelle’s assistance filled Rome with bis pieces, thought to 
have enjoyed his ease and the fruits of his labors; when 
the Spaniards in 1527 besieging that city, all the men 
of art were forced to Hy, or else were ruined by the mis- 
eries of the war. In this exigency Polidoro retired to 
Naples, where he was obliged to work for ordinary 
painters, and bad no opportunity of making himself 
noted; for the Neapolitan nobility in those days were 
more solicitous to get good horses than good pictures. 
Seeing himself therefore without business, and forced to 
spend what he had got at Rome, he went to Sicily; 
and, understanding architecture as well as painting, the 
citizens of Messina employed him to make the trium- 
phal arches for the reception of Charles V coming from 
Tunis. This being finished, and finding nothing further, 
he set out lor Rome, but, scarcely out of the place, was 
murdered by bis servant for his money. This happened 
in 1513. Polidoro’s principal work was done at Messina, 
and represented Christ bearing his Cross. This, with 
several small pictures of sacred subjects, is now in the 
Studj (lallery at Naples. Ilis works have power, life, 
and passion, and he may lie said to have originated the 
style which in later time formed the basis of the Nea- 
politan school. See Spooner, Ding. Hist, of the Fine 
Arts, s. v. ; Mrs. Clement, Handbook of Painters, etc. p. 
171,172. (J.H.W.) 

Polieia (UoX/tin), a festival anciently observed at 
Thebes, in (ircccc, in honor of Apollo, when a bull was 
wont to be sacrificed. 

Polieus (HoXic/'c). a surname of Zeus, or Jupiter, 
under which he was worshipped at Athens, as the pro- 
tector of the city. The god had an altar on the Acrop- 
olis, on which a bull was sacrificed. 

Polignac, Meu-uiou he, Cardinal, was one of 
the most illustrious scholars and courtiers of France in 
the latter years of Louis XIV, and in the early reign 
of Louis XV; an ecclesiastic and high dignitary of the 
Roman Catholic Church; a distinguished diplomatist, 
archaeologist, philosopher, and poet. It is in the last of 
these characters that his reputation has survived, and 
is likely to survive, though with continually fading 
lustre. The elegant Latinist, whose name was for 
half a century in the mouths of the fashionable ladies 
of the court, and of the learned in their studious re- 
treats; whose verses passed current in the gay world 
for years before they were committed to the press, and 
continued in circulation for half a century after the 
death of their author and the oblivion of their source; 
furnishing to America an inscription in honor of Frank- 
lin— 

“ Eripnit fulmenque Jovi Phceboqne sagiltas 
whose poem was anxiously and frequently desired by 
Leibnitz, but who died without seeing it, thirty years 
before it saw the light— this elegant Latinist is now re- 
membered only by a few. and the work which gave him 
his renown is known to still fewer, being almost as in- 
accessible as it is unsought. Yet I’olignac can never 
be entirely forgotten, lor he linked himself by his 
poetic labors with Lucretius; and so long as the pro- 
found lint dreamy philosophy, and the exquisite but 
melancholy graces of the greatest of Roman poets are 
admired, so long will Polignac shine in the radiance 
reflected from the great luminary with which he is in 
opposition. 

Life. Melchior de Polignac. the descendant of one 
of the oldest houses of Auvergne, was born ( >ct. 1 1, Hit’ll, 
at Piiy-cn-Vclay. now Le Puy. the capital of the present 
department of llaute-Loirc, in France. Puy is in the 


rOLIGNAC 


351 


POLIGNAC 


heart of the mountainous region of Middle France, the 
region of which Puy-de-Dome is the centre. It lies at 
the foot of Mount Anis, in a rugged valley between the 
great arms of the Oevennes. It is on the left bank of 
the Upper Loire, and is watered also by its two small 
tributaries, the Borne and Dulaison. The situation 
is wild and romantic, and is consecrated by romantic 
associations. The ground on which the city stands 
is so ragged and broken that the streets in the higher 
town are unfit for wheels, and are often mere stairs, like 
those of Valetta. The cathedral is escaladed by an ap- 
proach of 118 steep steps. Within is a miraculous im- 
age of the Virgin Mary, carved by resident Christians 
of Lebanon from the cedars of that mountain, though 
sceptically suspected to have been an idol of the Egyp- 
tian Isis. In the suburb of L’Aiguille, the church of 
St. Michel crowns a basaltic rock 285 feet in height, 
and is gained by a flight of 216 steps hewn out of the 
rock. In the Dominican church of St. Laurent are the 
tomb and part of the remains of Bertrand Duguesclin, 
the great constable of France. Near by, and close to 
the village of Expailly, are the ruins of the ancient 
castle of Polignac, supposed to have been erected on 
the site of the temple of the Celtic Apollo. From this 
circumstance — the Templum Apolliniaciim — the family 
of Polignac claimed to have derived its appellation. The 
tremendous forces of volcanic action are manifest in the 
country round about, and the streets of Le Puy are 
partly paved with the volcanic breccia. The race and 
the birthplace of the future cardinal were thus encom- 
passed with the evidences on which >vere founded legends 
and traditions, pagan and Christian — antiquarian, clas- 
sical, ecclesiastical, chivalrous, and poetic— which might 
well inspire the quick fancy of the descendant of an 
ancient family in that marvellous land; and they were 
enclosed in scenes of natural beauty or sublimity which 
might feed his imagination in those years of youth which 
arc susceptible to all external influences. Who shall 
tell to what extent and in what modes the young mind 
is moulded by the circumstances in which infancy and 
boyhood are passed — in that impressible period of ex- 
ulting life when it is facile to all impressions'? There 
are no interesting recollections of Polignac’s boyhood. 
As the cadet of a noble house, he was destined for the 
Church, and was educated at Paris in the colleges of 
Clermont and llarcourt. He completed his courses by 
the stud) r of theology at the Sorbonne, and was early 
provided with a living through the intervention of his 
family. The young abbe soon attracted attention by 
the extent of his acquirements, the vivacity of his dis- 
position, the polish of his conversation, and the elegance 
of his manners. He is said to have added to "a distin- 
guished address and personal appearance a sweet and 
winning eloquence, which became masculine and pow- 
erful in the close of his harangues.” Madame de Sevigne 
described him in her Letters as “ a man of the world, 
of fascinating sprightliness, knowing all things and 
meditating all things; yet with all the gentleness, brill- 
iancy, and complaisance which could be desired in the 
intercourse of life” (March 18, 1690). Equally flatter- 
ing commendations were bestowed on him about the 
same time by Louis A IV and pope Alexander VIII. 
This pope was elected in a conclave attended bv the 
cardinal dc Bourbon, who had carried with him to Rome 
the young abbe, fresh from his theological studies. On 
this visit Polignac was charged with the discussion of 
the four articles of 1682 which asserted the liberties of 
the Gallican Church. He returned to France to report 
to Louis XIV the favorable results of the effort at con- 
ciliation between the French and Roman courts. In 
1691 he accompanied the cardinal de Bourbon a second 
time to Rome, on the occasion of the election of Inno- 
cent XII to the pontificate. On his return to France, 
he shut himself up in the monastery of “ Bons Eufants” 
to continue his studies. He was not suffered to remain 
long in this learned seclusion. The previous experi- 
ence of his adroitness recommended him as a suitable 


person to conduct the delicate negotiations in support 
of the candidature of the prince de Conti for the crown 
of Poland. He was accordingly sent to Warsaw as am- 
bassador extraordinary. This was his first diplomatic 
employment. On his journey he was wrecked on the 
Prussian coast ; and, to add to the misfortunes of the 
sea, he was plundered and his life imperilled by ma- 
rauders of Dantzic. He managed, however, to reach 
the court to which he was accredited, and was cordially 
welcomed by the heroic king, John Sobieski. In his’ 
confidential mission at Warsaw he displayed great dex- 
terity and capacity for intrigue, which were, however, 
frustrated of their expected fruit by the listlessness and 
delays of the French prince. But the sentiment of Po- 
land was expressed in an epigram cited by Leibnitz 
(Lett, vi it Burnet) : 

“ Per vivum Deum 
Nolumus Condseum.” 

The election resulted in placing the Polish crown on 
the head of Augustus, elector of Saxony, the first king 
of the Saxon line. Louis XIV manifested his disap- 
pointment by replacing Polignac at the court of War- 
saw by the abbe de Chateaunay, and ordered the dis- 
credited ambassador to return to his abbey of Bon Port 
(or Fair Haven). The rusticated diplomatist accepted 
his banishment with apparent gratification, and declared 
it altogether conformable to his wishes and fortunes. 
Here he remained during four years, closely occupied 
with those studies and labors which enabled him to 
merit the high but pedantic compliment of Voltaire: 

“Le cardinal, oracle de la France, 

Reunissam Virgile nvec Platon, 

Vengenr dti del etvaiuqueur de Lucrece.” 

To these years of tranquil application must be as- 
signed the conception and commencement of the poem 
by which his renown was mainly acquired, and by 
which it has been preserved. On his return from Po- 
land, Polignac visited the celebrated sceptic Bayle, 
with whom he had many and earnest conferences. 
Bayle, in replying to the theological arguments of his 
I clerical opponent, assumed to be a Protestant, and jus- 
tified the genuineness of his Protestantism on the score 
of protesting against everything usually said or done — 
against “tout ce qui se dit et tout ce qui se fait.” The 
French abbe could make no serious impression upon his 
astute and witty antagonist, but was much struck with 
the frequency and point of his citations from Lucretius. 
He determined in consequence to re-read the great Ro- 
man poet, and to refute his infidel and materialistic ar- 
guments. To this task he addressed himself at once in 
his retreat at Bon Port, and occasional passages of the 
incipient poem were communicated to his friends, were 
circulated from mouth to mouth, and excited gtneral 
expectation among scholars. 

Notwithstanding these diligent literary avocations 
and his professed enjoyment of the charms of contem- 
plative repose, Polignac was too much of a Frenchman 
and courtier not to sigh and scheme fora renewal of the 
delights of Paris and of royal favor. On the proclama- 
tion of the duke of Anjou as king of Spain, he wrote to 
Louis XIV : “ If your majesty’s prosperity does not put 
an end to mv misfortunes, at least it makes me forget 
them.” The compliment was graciously accepted. He 
was recalled from his rural banishment, and was wel- 
comed with the utmost cordiality. The king presented 
him with two additional abbacies. He seems to have 
recited at this time long passages from his growing 
poem to the king, the princes, and the learned. He 
was sent to Rome as auditor of the Rota; and was 
nominated to the English cardinalate by the Pretender, 
with whose interests he was intrusted. In 1706 he was 
joined with the cardinal De la Tremouille in the con- 
duct of the French negotiations. lie was recalled from 
Rome in 1710, and was commissioned, along with the 
marechal D’Uxelles, as plenipotentiary to the confer- 
ences of Gertruydenburg, being already cardinal in petto. 
The recent victories of Marlborough had rendered the 


POLIGXAC 


352 


POLIGXAC 


plenip"!* »»iiaries of the Dutch provinces arrogant, ex- 
act ug, and impracticalde. lie rebuked llieir domi- 
neering tone by remarking •• It is very evident, gentle- 
men, that you are unused to victory." Nothing was 
effected at thi* time towards the restoration of peace, 
but two years later he was sent to the Congress of 
I treeht, where he appeared in the habit of a layman, and 
under the name of the Comte tie 1’tdignae. The Dutch 
negotiators, suspecting the existence of secret articles 
between France and Kngland, threatened to expel the 
French ambassadors from their territory. Hereupon 
Polignac retorted, *• \\’e will not depart: we will treat 
of yon. among you, and without you." lie refused, 
however, to sign the treaty, as it excluded from the 
knglish throne the Stuart family, to whose head lie 
was indebted for his nomination to the eardinalate. 
Before the negotiations at I ’treclit were closed, the 
promotion of I’oligunc was promulgated, and he re- 
ceived the cardinal’s hat at Antwerp, Feb. 10. 17 Id. In 
the glimmer of l lie same year the h ret to was delivered 
to him at Versailles by Louis XIV himself. He did 
not neglect his poetic defence of Christianity even in 
the perplexity of diplomatic cares, lie added new 
passages to his poem during his sojourn at Ctrecht, and 
read Ills poetic labors to the eminent and aged scholar 
Le Clerc. Soon after his return to I’aris he received 
the appointment of master of the Koval Chapel, an olHce 
which lie resigned after three years’ tenure. 1 1 is influ- 
ence and acceptability at court declined after the death 
of the great monarch. 1 1 is stately manners belonged 
to the old r< gime, and were uncongenial to the license 
of the regency. lie was involved in the conspiracy of 
Cellamare through his attachment to the duke and 
ductless of Maine, and his opposition to the regent Or- 
leans. lie was exiled to his abbey of Ancliin, in Flan- 
ders; and though his arrival was distasteful to the sim- 
ple and uncultivated Flemish monks, he won their re- 
gard l»v bis gentleness and consideration, by the in- 
tegrity of his government, anti by the decoration of 
their church, lie employed himself here with the con- 
tinuation of his poem; but after three years returned 
to 1'aris on the death of the cardinal Dubois and of the 
regent. In 1721 he attended the conclave in Kome 
which resulted in the election of llcnedict XI] I, and 
rendered himself singularly acceptable to him and to 
his successor, t 'lement XI!. He was appointed shortly 
after his arrival in Kome ambassador of France at the 
papal court, mid at length brought to a happy termi- 
nation the long controversy of ( lie Galilean Church on 
the subject of the hull 1' nii/enilns. He returned to his 
native land in 17.TI, "laden with the spoils of Kome"— 
both the tributes paid to his dexterity, wit, eloquence, 
ami fascination of manner, and the anlitpic treasures 
brought from the capital of the ancient world. During 
his absence lie had boon appointed, in I72t>, archbishop 
ol A u di. ami in 1 7 ( 'out nuuulenr tits (tnlres tin Hoi. 

During this long political mid diplomatic career 
tit re ha 1 bun many intervals of literary retirement, 
ns w • 1 jvc sim n, which had been sedulously employed 
in Mi a 'piMtion and application of various knowl- 
' - 1 • II 1 ' I 1 et ic taste ami his learned labors he never 
• Ur ’ *' bn I a si. | •.hut rendered them profitable to him- 
sell mil .attru >\< t<> statesmen and courtiers wher- 
ever In u iinl« rin led him. His public avocations 
were lie lur fr-Mn tilling up tin- measure of his dis- 
tinct! i. In !<• I lie siica-e led the illustrious Bossuot 
as a nu min r ..f the Koval \cademy of France. His 

inaugural add this occasion was greatly admired. 

More than twiuiv vears alter its delivery the mnripiis 
D’Ugeusondreni. • it t, -r to nuv discourse delivered 
during the centurv in ui.Hi the Vadim v had existed, 
ami declared it to be -ihe most perle l model for those 
who have a like t > k I » fullil.” In |7l."> he was elected 
an honorary niem*n r of the Vadeiiiy of Sciences, and 
in 1717 of ihe V .a leinv of llelb s-|., itres. These hon- 
ors were fairly minted, lie bad through life I wen a 
diligent explorer and collector of niitiipiilics. Ik* gath- 


ered a large and valuable cabinet of coins and medals. 
He brought together at great expense a splendid assem- 
blage of archaic remains, due in great measure to his 
frequent and prolonged residences at Kome. He insti- 
tuted explorations iu its neighborhood, between Fras- 
cati and tirotta Ferrata, and discovered the villa of 
Marius, his conjectures being conlirmed by the exhu- 
mation of a fragment of an inscription recording the 
lifth consulship of the conqueror of the Teutoncs and 
Cimbri. From these diggings he obtained six statues 
representing the detection of Achilles at the court of 
Lycomcdes by L lysses. The palace of the Ciesars, in 
the Farnesc vineyard on the Palatine, was opened and 
examined iu his presence. The duke of Parma, who 
had ordered the excavations, presented Polignac with a 
bass-relief containing fourteen figures, embodying the 
legend of Ilacchus and Ariadne. It had formed the 
highest step of the state platform constructed for the 
imperial audiences. From the Columbarium of the 
Libertines of Livia he obtained several beautiful urns. 
He expressed the wish that he could be master of Kome, 
in order that he might turn the course of the Tiber lor 
a fortnight, and rifie its bed of the precious relics sup- 
posed to be concealed beneath its yellow stream. lie 
iiad surveys executed with the view to the gratification 
of such a desire. Could it have been satisfied, the proj- 
ect of Garibaldi would have been anticipated by one 
hundred and fifty years; but recent discussions have in- 
dicated the hopelessness of obtaining any considerable 
treasures by such a laborious procedure. The numerous 
relics which Polignac acquired by these and other op- 
portunities were arranged as a grand museum of an- 
tiquities at his hotel in 1‘aris. They ultimately met 
with a sorrowful fate. The cardinal had hoped to in- 
crease them by the examination of the ruins of the 
Tcmplum Pacis. burned in A.D. 191, in the reign of 
Commodus. lie expected to find amid the ashes and 
debris the sacred vessels carried off from Jerusalem by 
Titus. The hope and the expectation both remained 
ungratified. 

Polignac’s liberal studies were by no means restricted 
to poetry and classical archaeology. A portion of his 
time was always devoted to philosophy, mathematics, 
and physics. He thus gained that diversified and ex- 
tensive knowledge which is strikingly but not convinc- 
ingly displayed in bis Anti- Lucretius. The last decade 
of his life seems to have been chiefly consecrated to this 
graceful and remarkable poem ; but it was also occupied 
with the arrangement and study of his ample gallery of 
instructive curiosities, and enlivened by pleasant in- 
tercourse with his friends, and with the distinguished 
strangers who were attracted to his hotel by his wide 
and long-established reputation. For half a century he 
was one of the notabilities of Europe. He died at Paris 
Nov. 20, 17-11, and his collection was scattered at his 
death. His habits had been elegant and courtly — his 
living generous — his public employments and his pri- 
vate pursuits expensive— his ample means consumed in 
costly accumulations. He was embarrassed with debt, 
and after his decease his books, his gems, his medals, 
his sculptures, and his numerous articles of virtu were 
offered for sale. II is statues were purchased by Fred- 
erick the Great, and were transported to Berlin, where 
they were destroyed on the capture of that city in the 
Seven-Years’ War. All that remains as a memorial of 
Polignac is his confutation of Lucretius. 

Even that great work — for it merits the epithet of 
great both by its design and bv its execution— the great 
Latin poem which preserves his reputation, was left in 
as incomplete and fragmentary a condition as the an- 
cient. ruins from which he had recovered the shattered 
monuments of ancient art. lie never finished it — he 
never put its finished parts together (“ varias partes 
yariis teniporihus perpoliendo, dissohitas, ne dissipatas 
in nnum corpus revocare numquam curaverat ”). A few 
days before his death he consigned his u tarranged 
manuscripts to his long-tried companion and friend the 


POLIGNAC 


353 


POLIGNAC 


abbe de Rothelin, appointing him his literary executor, 
to revise, arrange, connect, complete the scattered leaves, 
or to suppress them, according to his discretion. The 
provision lor the performance of these duties seems to 
have been early made. The marquis D’Argenson re- 
ports it in his J femoires, published fifteen years before 
Polignac’s death: “A poem against Lucretius, of equal 
length with the original, and divided into nine books, 
requires the life of a man to carry it to perfection. The 
cardinal began too late, and cannot flatter himself with 
the hope of living to finish it. It is said that he means 
to charge the abbe de Rothelin with the task, who, 
from vanity, will not refuse it, and will think it an honor 
to put the work of his respectable friend in a state to 
appear before the public. But to this end the aid of 
some able professor of the university will be necessary : 
the abbe will never accomplish it of himself. . . . But 
who, at present, will read a Latin poem entirely philo- 
sophical, of five or six thousand lines? . . . Greek is 
entirely forgotten ; it is to be feared that Latin will soon 
be so, and that the cardinal de Tolignac, the abbe de 
Rothelin, and a certain M. Le Bean, coming up in the 
university, will be called the last of the Romans'' From 
vanity, from affection, from love of learning, from zeal 
for philosophy, or from all these motives combined, the 
pious task intrusted to him was faithfully and credita- 
bly discharged by the abbe de Rothelin. With the 
counsel and assistance of the abbate Cerati, rector of 
the University of Pisa, he prepared the work for the 
press, and wrote the dedication to pope Benedict XIV. 
He, too, died without seeing the fruit of his labors; and 
the long-expected work, which for forty jears it had 
been a mark of polite culture to know ( Anti-Lucretium 
nossepars urbanitatis'), appeared at Paris under the su- 
pervision of Prof. Le Beau, to whom the charge of edit- 
ing it had been consigned by Rothelin. It was repro- 
duced at London in 1748. D’Argenson thought that 
translations would be left unread ; but translations soon 
diffused the fame of the work among those who were 
ignorant of the classic tongues. At the commencement 
of the century, while the poem was in its crude infancy, 
a translation was begun by the dukes of Maine and 
Bourbon. The French version of Bougainville was is- 
sued in 1759, and the Italian of Ricci was produced in 
splendid form at Verona in 1767 (3 vols. 4to). 

The Anti-Lucretius, — The philosophical poem of car- 
dinal Polignac, as published by Le Beau, and, appar- 
ently, as originally designed by its author, consists of 
nine books; but it closes without epilogue, peroration, 
or envoy. Notwithstanding its length, its protracted 
gestation, and its elaborate execution, it ends like that 
canto of Butler’s Ifudibras which celebrates the Bear 
and Fiddle, but “ breaks off in the middle.” It wants 
alike completeness and completion. It is fragmentary 
and desultory, deficient and redundant. Its arguments 
are ingenious without being convincing, and its polem- 
ics are more dazzling than satisfactory. The blind and 
fanatical Cartesianism of the poet confines him in a lab- 
yrinth of bewildering errors, and conceals from him at 
once the vagaries and weaknesses of his master, and the 
strength and profundity of those who had risen up to 
confute his philosophic hallucinations. lie is dizzied 
by the vortices in which lie has involved himself. He 
forgets bis specific function as the antagonist of Epicu- 
rean ethics and physics, and devotes himself with more 
earnest energy to the refutation of all anti-Cartesians, 
whom he assimilates to and often identifies with the 
Epicurean herd. He is in consequence both undiscern- 
ing and unjust in the treatment of his brilliant prede- 
cessors and contemporaries. The statement and confu- 
tation of the doctrines of Spinoza might have been very 
acceptable to the Cartesians and theologians of his own 
day, when Spinoza was so little understood and so 
harshly appreciated (iii, 803-872; iv, 1295-1307). It 
may be highly approved even now by those who still 
retain the old fanatical delusions and the old animosi- 
ties in regard to Spinoza, and who cannot recognise in 
VIII. — Z 


him Coleridge’s “God-intoxicated sage.” See Spinoza. 
But surely the language in which the cardinal assails 
the Newtonian system, and proceeds to confute Newton 
himself, does equal discredit to his good-sense and to 
his scientific perspicacity (ii, 8G5-1006; iv, 933-1124). 
He does, it is true, allow a faint echo of the universal 
admiration for Newton to escape him : 

“ Dicam 

Tanti pace viri, quo non solertior alter 
Natnram rernm ad leges componere mot us, 

Ac Mnudi partes justa perpendere libra, 

Et radium solis transverso prismate t'ractum 
Septem in primigenos perniausnrosqne colores 
Solvere” (ii, S74-SS0). 

Yet how different is this deprecatory commendation 
from the enthusiastic eulogy bestowedon Des Cartes! 

“ Quo nomine dioam 

Naturae genium, Patriie decue, ac deens aevi 
Cartesinm nostri, quo se jactabit aluinno 
Gallia feeta viris, ac duplicis arte Minervae” 

(viii, 55-59). 

This is the manifest reflection of the tribute of Lucre- 
tius to the “ Grains homo," Epicurus. We may endure 
with patience Polignac’s contempt for the materialistic 
tendencies of Locke’s philosophy, and his omission of 
his contemporaries, Malebranche and the much greater 
Leibnitz (an omission which may be satisfactorily ex- 
plained), but we cannot fail to observe his utter inabil- 
ity to discern the scientific acumen, and the wonderful 
faculty of logical co-ordination and development, which 
characterized his chosen antagonist Lucretius. One of 
the most admired, and probably the most brilliant pas- 
sage in the Anti-Lucretius, is the opening, in which he 
announces his subject and its difficulties, and does ear- 
nest homage to the exquisite graces of the Roman poet. 
But this inauguration of his thesis does not prevent him 
from speaking of the spirit and doctrines of Lucretius 
in terms which reveal rather the controversialist eager 
to display his own powers in the best light than the 
sincere inquirer anxious to discover and to promulgate 
only the truth. With all our regard for the courtly 
and clerical poet, we must confess him to be more of a 
dilettante than a philosopher or adopt in science. 

But, while thus taking exception to the subslance 
and argumentation of the poem, and to the narrowness 
and fanaticism inseparable from the advocacy of fantas- 
tic and erroneous theories, attention may be justly called 
to the general execution of the difficult task, and to 
many episodical disquisitions, which assail by anticipa- 
tion the speculations of Darwin and the evolutionists, 
and present many topics and many suggestions which 
merit careful examination in connection with the scien- 
tific controversies that distract our own day by the re- 
vival of ancient hallucinations. 

Whatever deductions may be properly made from 
the Anti-Lucretius on the score of scientific superficial- 
ity and philosophic aberration, the work merits high 
praise on account of its design and execution ; and still 
deserves consideration as a memorable and singularly 
graceful production of the modern Latin muse. 

The versification and expression of Polignac have 
been unfavorably compared with the excellences of 
some of the earlier Latinists. In making the compari- 
son with Vida, one of the chief of those elders, some ad- 
vantage may be derived from a direct, though unequal, 
counterpart to one of his poems. The description of the 
game of chess in the Anti- Lucretius may be fairly con- 
sidered in connection with the Scacchia, Ludus, of the 
Cremonese poet. The same ingenuity in rendering the 
stiffness of classic Latinitv plastic, for the purpose of 
describing things and processes entirely unknown to 
the classical vocabulary, may be admired in both. In 
the one instance chess is employed only as an illustra- 
tion, and the description occupies only fifteen lines 
(Anti-Lucr. iii, 892-906); in the other it constitutes 
the thesis of a descriptive poem. In a few lines, and in 
a mere illustration, there is, of course, no opportunity 
for detail. Nor is there room for such elaborate intri- 
cacy of narration — such subtle twisting in and twisting 


POLISH DKETIIUEX 


354 


POLITIAX 


out of facile diction — nor for such surprising felicity of 
adaptation of old forms to new ami undesigned uses, in 
the later episode as in the earlier poem. There is noth- 
ing possible within the narrower lield which, for curious 
dexteritv, admits of being adduced as a parallel for Vi- 
da's marvellous explanation of the diverse movements 
of the pieces at chess (Search. 85-IG8), or for his expla- 
nation of the mameuvres and fortunes of the game. 
Uut it may be permitted to act upon the artist's maxim, 
u cr pede /L-rculem and we may discern in the episode 
of Polignnc (notwithstanding the deficiency of materi- 
als for an accurate ami minute comparison) a command 
over the resources of the Latin tongue which is not un- 
worthy of Villa, even in such fantastic sports of fancy 
and erudition. If the larger faculties of the poet arc 
considered, Vida's epic, the Christiad, fails to exhibit 
such compass of expression, such grace and dignity, and 
even melody of utterance, or such vigor of imagination, 
as the A nti-Lucndus. Loth Vida and Polignae, it is 
true, fall into the unclassieal frailty of terminating their 
hexameters too frequently with monosyllables and en- 
clitics. They are careless of their c:csuras, and repeat 
too often certain easy forms and mannerisms. There 
may he more liquidity and smoothness in Vida, but 
there is more elevation and a more masculine gravity 
in Polignae. If the former adheres with unconscious 
imitation to the transparent tluciicy of Virgil, the latter 
with equal success, but with deliberate endeavor, repro- 
duces the peculiarities, and not rarely the splendors, of 
Lucretius, in the very diction of t lie greater Koman 
poet. Hut. whatever judgment may be passed on cither 
the absolute or the relative merit of the Anti-Lucretius, 
it remains a very remarkable poem, which deserves to 
be reclaimed from the oblivion in which it has been 
suffered to remain so long. It was a praiseworthy and 
noble ell’ort to repel the advances of scepticism in the 
(lav of Spinoza and Locke and llayle ; “to justify the 
ways of (iod to man,” bv explaining the wonder of the 
universe in consonance with a lively and intelligent 
faith in a wise, beneficent, and sustaining Creator. De- 
spite of its imperfections, its disconnections, its disorder 
and incompleteness, the study of the poem may be ad- 
vantageously renewed after the lapse of a century, 
though other weapons may be required for the reno- 
vated eonilict between faith ami science than can thence 
be drawn, in consequence of the vast changes which 
have since been made in all the implements of intellect- 
ual warfare. 

Litmitan . It results from the long neglect, into 
which t lie Anti- Lucretius had fallen that the bibliogra- 
phy of the subject is exceedingly scant and unsatisfac- 
tory. The histories of philosophy pass it by with little 
<>r no notice ; the editors of Lucretius, and the commen- 
tators on the /)<• Xutura Hr rum, have scarcely bestowed 
m .re attention upon it. There is very littie to assist 
m vc.itigation which is not due to the contemporaries of 
1'i'ligiiac. 1 mler these circumstances, the only refer- 
' • ' winch it seems expedient to make are, Jiiogrn- 

V' 1 ' I mrrrst Ur, s. v. l’olignac; De Bozo, Eloge de. M. 

1 * ( "<!' it <!• /‘olignnr, pronoun- dims CAcadanie Hog- 
' Inscriptions rt dis Bdhs-Lrttres ; De Mairan, 
/' /• 'h M. /, < ardinul ile /> olignar , pronoun' duns 

I \cu,U<ni* Royal, dis Sri, „ns ; Toucher, Hist, du f’ar- 
df ,d , ]’, I it, nor Tans, 1772, 2 vols.) ; St. Simon, Me- 

rniiii . 1 1 \rgcn«-oii, Mi mains ; 1 nti-l.urrrtius, sire de 
/>t" it thin, l.ifiri A on in t Loud. 171*, 2 vols. 12mo). 

I lie r.c il l/i.'t.i, ,, of I nn, /, Lit, n, turn bv Van Laim. 
though exits ling over three octavo volumes, has not a 
w..r.| on To ign ie. so min h has Ins memory fallen into 
neglect, l or du- n Mien of Tohgnae to the important 
ecclesiastical events ,,| h,s time, see .lervis, Hist, of the 
( fuii h «;/ /■!•,, nn. n. 1*1, 221. and the art. Noaillks 
in tins L\,,,/opu*l„t. | . ||., 

Polish Brethren. .Vc Son mans. 

Politeness See < 'oritn-.sv. 

Politi, Adriano, an Italian writer, was born at Si- 


ena at the close of the IGth century. lie chose the ec- 
clesiastical career, and was attached as secretary to the 
cardinals Capisucchi, San Giorgio, and Serbelloni. He 
died about I lie middle of the 17th century. Politi ed- 
ited Upere di C. Tacito (Lome, 1GI1, 4 to), and another 
ami more satisfactory edition (Venice, 1(141, 4to) : — Di- 
zionario Toscano (ibid. 1GI5, 8vo) : this work, an abridg- 
ment of the iJizionario della Cruscn, caused him some 
tribulations: he was accused of having wittingly intro- 
duced into it some errors ami falsehoods, and was thrown 
into jail: — Or do Romanic historiai legendie (ibid. 1G27, 
4 to, and in vol. iii of Ilobcrti’s Miscellanea ), — Iloefcr, 
Xoue. Iiiog . Generale, xl, GIG. 

Politi, Alessandro, an Italian writer, was born 
July HI, 1G79, at Florence. After studying under the 
Jesuits, he entered at the age of lifieen the Congrega- 
tion of the Regular Clerks of the Pious Schools, and 
was conspicuous among its members by his rare erudi- 
tion. lie was called upon to teach rhetoric and peri- 
patetic philosophy at Florence in 1700. Barring a 
period of about three years, during which he was a pro- 
fessor of theology at Genoa (171G-18), he spent the 
greatest part of his life in his native city, availing him- 
self of the manifold resources he could timl there to im- 
prove his knowledge of Greek literature, his favorite 
study. In 1733 he was called to the chair of eloquence 
vacant in the University of Pisa. Accustomed to live 
among his books, aloof from the world, Politi was of an 
irritable disposition, and sensitive in the extreme to the 
lightest criticism. He was fond of displaying his eru- 
dition, and his useless digressions make the reading of 
his works a most harassing job. lie died July 25, 1752. 
lie left, R hilosophia Reripatetica, ex mente suited Tho - 
nice (Florence, 1708, 12ino) : — De pat rid in testamentis 
condendis potest ate, lib. ie (ibid. 1712, 8vo): — Eustathii 
Commentarii in Homeri Iliailem, with notes and Latin 
version (ibid. 1730-35,3 vols. fol.) : — Eustathii Commen- 
tarii in Diongsium Reriegetem, Greek and Latin (Co- 
logne, 1742, 8\*o) : — Orationes XII ad A cademiam Risa- 
nani (Lucca, 174G, 8vo): — Martgrologium Romanum 
east iga turn (vol. i, Florence, 1751, 8vo); and many un- 
published works. All his orations have been collected 
(Pisa, 1 774,8 vo). See Fabroni, Vita Italiorum, vol. viii; 
Tipaldo, Hiogr. degl't Ital. illuslri, vol. iv. — Iloefcr, Xouv. 
Biog. Generale, xl, G I G. 

Politi, Giovanni, an Italian canonist, was bom 
June 8, 1738, at Piuzano (Frioul). He studied at Padua, 
obtained in 17(53 the diploma as a doctor of civil and 
canon law, and was a professor of literature at the Sem- 
inary of Portogruaro, and also of ecclesiastical jurispru- 
dence, in which he was remarkably proficient. In 1800 
he repaired to Concordia, where the bishop provided 
him with a canonicate. He published one considera- 
ble work, Jurisprudential ecclesiastical unirersw, libri ix 
(Venice. 1787, 0 vols. 4to), which was approved by a 
brief ol Pius VI. — Hoofer, Xour. Biog. Generale, xl, G17. 

Politian or Poliziano, Angki.o, a noted scholar 
of the Renaissance period, flourished in France and 
Italy, and was the favorite of the Medici at Flor- 
ence. He was horn at Montcptilciano, in Tuscany, in 
1454, and was the son of Benedetto Ambrogini, a doctor 
of law. in after-life he dropped his paternal name, and 
assumed that of Poliziano, from his native town Mens 
Politiamis. Lorenzo de Medici took care of his educa- 
tion. placed him under good preceptors, and provided 
for all his wants. He afterwards entered into clerical 
orders, took his degree of doctor of law, ami was made 
by Lorenzo a canon of the cathedral of Florence. He 
was also intrusted with the education of the ducal chil- 
dren, as well as with the care of the duke’s library and 
collection ol antiquities, and he was his guest and com- 
panion tor the remainder of his life. Poliziano had 
studied Latin under Cristol'oro Lamlino. Greek under 
Amlronieus of Thossaloiiica, and philosophy under Fi- 
cino and Argyropulus of Constantinople. He was after- 
wards appointed professor of Latin and Greek at Flor- 


POLITY 


355 


POLITY 


ence. a chair which he filled with great reputation. He 
wrote scholia and notes on many ancient authors — Ovid, 
Catullus, Statius, Suetonius, Pliny the Younger, and the 
Script ores IJistorice Avgusta; he translated into Latin 
the history of Herodian, the manual of Epictetus, the 
aphorisms of Hippocrates, some dialogues of Plato, and 
other works from the Greek. The Miscellanea of Poli- 
ziano, published at Florence in 1489, consist chiefly of 
observations he had made on the ancient authors, which 
he arranged for the press at the request of Lorenzo. 
Merula made an attempt to depreciate this work, which 
led to an angry controversy between the two scholars, 
in the midst of which Merula died. Poliziano had also 
a violent controversy with Bartolomeo Scala. Polizi- 
ano was conceited and vain, and very irritable, and his 
temper led him into an unbecoming altercation with 
Madonna Clarice, Lorenzo’s wife, because she interfered 
in the education of her children, a thing which Polizi- 
ano seemed to think preposterous in a woman; and at 
last his behavior to her was so impertinent that she 
turned him out of her house in the country, and wrote 
to her husband at Florence to inform him of what she 
had done. Lorenzo, perceiving that a reconciliation 
between the offended woman and the irascible scholar 
was impracticable, gave Poliziano apartments in one of 
his houses at Fiesole, where he wrote his Latin poem 
Iiusticus. During Lorenzo’s last illness, Poliziano at- 
tended the death-bed of his patron, who gave him to- 
kens of bis lasting affection. Poliziano wrote an affect- 
ing monody on Lorenzo’s death, and not long after died 
himself, in September, 1494, and was buried in the 
church of San Marco, agreeably to his request.— English 
Cyclop, s. v. See Moller, De Polifiano (Altorf, 1698) ; 
Werner, Politianus (Magdeb. 1718); Mencken, Hist. 
Vita A. Politani (Leips. 1736, 4to); Bonafous, De Poli- 
tani Vita et Operibus (Paris, 1845, 8vo); Greswell, Me- 
moirs of Polifiano ; Iloscoe, Lives of Lorenzo de Medici 
and of Leo X ; Tiraboselii, Storia della Letterat. Ital. ; 
Christian Schools and Scholars (Loud. 1867, 2 vols. 8vo), 
ii, 321 sq., 829; Lawrence, Historical Studies (N. Y. 
1877, 8vo), p. 66. 

Polity, Civil, of tiie Jews. See Government. 

Polity (Gr. 7ro \ireia) is the term generally used to 
signify government or forms of government and admin- 
istration in the Christian Church. Church polity may 
be considered in reference to its historical development 
during successive centuries, and also in reference to the 
various systems of government heretofore and now rec- 
ognised in different branches of the Church. 

Historical Development. — Nothing is more obvious 
from the New -Testament record than the simplicity 
which characterized the primary organization of the 
Church. In this particular Christianity was in marked 
contrast with Judaism. Without temple, tabernacle, or 
altars, without priests or Levites, and almost without 
ceremonies, it made known at once its character and 
purposes as spiritual and not carnal, as, in fact, a king- 
dom of God “not of this world.” The first form of 
Church organization was that in which the Lord Jesus 
Christ was present as the visible Head of a body of be- 
lievers. At this stage the ordinances were established 
by direct appointment of the Saviour himself, who also 
gave the great command to his disciples to “Go teach 
all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, 
and the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to ob- 
serve all things whatsoever I have commanded you.” 

Following the crucifixion, the resurrection, and as- 
cension of the Lord Jesus, the Cburch had for a short 
period a second form of organization, in which the 
apostles were the only officers to teach and guide the 
followers of the Saviour. It was at this period that the 
promised gift of the Holy Ghost was miraculously im- 
parted and signalized by a great awakening at Jerusa- 
lem, in which “ the Lord added to the Church daily 
such as were saved.” This period of increase was fol- 
lowed by the appointment of deacons or officers of help, 


who were especiallv chosen to relieve the apostles of 
their minor duties of a semi-secular kind, that they 
might give themselves “to prayer and the ministry of 
the Word.” Notwithstanding their primary duties, 
some if not all of the deacons also devoted themselves 
to the preaching of the Word, as may be seen from the 
examples of Stephen and Philip. For a few years fol- 
lowing there appear to have been no other officers in 
the Church besides the apostles and deacons. The 
next phase of Church administration is that in which 
elders were appointed. As no specific account is given 
of the mode of their first appointment, we are left to 
infer that it may have occurred as a natural designation 
of respect for seniority either among the deacons or the 
influential members of the Church, somewhat after the 
analogy of eldership among the Jew's. Certain it is 
that as churches multiplied, the apostles recognised, pos- 
sibly appointed, and actually ordained elders who from 
the first had greater or less functions of government, 
and were also active agents of evangelization. Elders 
were known at Jerusalem about A.D. 41, or eight years 
after the Pentecost. A few years later they' were or- 
dained generally in all the churches (Acts xiv, 23). In 
the council at Jerusalem they were associated with the 
apostles and brethren (xv, 4, 6, 23). The elders of the 
New Testament appear to have been evangelists, teach- 
ers, and pastors, and in a collective capacity to have or- 
dained ministers of different grades. 

Near the close of the New -Testament period the 
term bishop is used a few times by the inspired writers 
Luke and Paul, indicating an additional office growing 
up out of the presbyterate, somewhat as the latter had 
done from the diaconate. On questions that have 
arisen respecting the office of bishop in the New-Tes- 
tameut Church modern controversies in reference to 
Church polity have largely centred. One theory is 
that the apostles appointed bishops to be their direct 
and only official successors having the prerogative of 
ordaining future ministers by divine right. An oppo- 
site theory is that the Ittutkottoi and TrpeafivTepoi of 
the New Testament were absolutely identical in office 
and order, and, consequently, that every elder was a 
bishop. The more probable theory lies between these 
extremes. It is that the episcopate w r as a natural se- 
quence of the presbyterate, not specially appointed, but, 
in fact, recognised by the apostles. Whereas for the 
work of evangelization not only an elder but elders 
w T ere ordained in the principal churches, there would 
exist in every body of ciders the necessity of a presi- 
dency or primacy for the purpose of general superin- 
tendence and direction. Thus one of the number would 
be designated, either by seniority or formal choice, as a 
primus inter pares, who should serve as overseer (tiruT- 
kottoq) of the body and the flock under them. Accord- 
ing to this theory, the episcopate w'as an office of su- 
perintendency rather than a distinct clerical order; and 
in this respect it was analogous if not identical in its 
functions with that of such apostolical legates as were 
Timothy and Titus. Nevertheless, it was an office of 
such importance in the administration of the affairs of 
the Church and so w r ell adapted to the necessities of 
the times that it soon became general. Nothing in its 
original character would prevent its being held in ro- 
tation by several elders in the same church or diocese, 
yet a successful administration of it would tend to its 
perpetuation in the same individual. Hence it soon 
became an office for life. 

The episcopacy of the primitive Church was dioce- 
san, and in many cases dioceses embraced only single 
churches. But as Christian influences radiated from 
those churches, and contiguous churches were estab- 
lished, the dioceses expanded, and the bishoprics grew 
in importance. At this early period an error crept into 
the Church which had a great influence upon its polity 
in after-ages. It was that of attributing priestly func- 
tions to the Christian ministry. Soon after the custom 
became current of calling presbyters priests, it also be- 


POLITY 


350 


POLITY 


came customary to call bishops high-priests, and dea- 
cons Levitcs, and tlms a full hierarchical system was 
i; it a ted in the Church. After the conversion of Con- 
stantine this system became gradually expanded, until 
it exceeded in pomp and detail of ceremony the whole 
ritual of dadaism, and threw the pontifical rites of Creek 
and 1 Ionian paganism far in the shade. From the dio- 
cesan bishop as the primitive centre, episcopal offices 
expanded upwards into archbishops, metropolitans, ex- 
archs, and patriarchs; downwards into chorcpiscopi, or 
country bishops, suffragans, titular bishops, and in the 
African churches intercessors or episcopal advocates. 

< orresponding to this expansion, the lower ranks of the 
clergy were similarly increased bv the addition of arch- 
presbyters, archdeacons, and subdeacons, together with 
acolotbists. exorcists, lectors, ostiarii. psalmistte, copiatsv, 
paraboiaiti, catechists, syndics, notaries, and still other 
officers in large churches. In the upward expansion of 
the episcopate, the (ireek Church stopped at the patri- 
archate, but the Homan Church was content with noth- 
ing short of a universal patriarchate or papacy (q. v.). 

To state somewhat more fully the organization of 
the Church in the Ith and 5th centuries, it may be said 
that the Church of that period consisted of several or- 
ders of men. Eusebius reckons three, viz. the 'Hyoi;- 
/iti’iu, Hurroi, and K«n/\oiyiEi'i>i, i. e. rulers, believers, 
and catechumens. ( irigen reckons tive orders; but then 
he divides the clergy into three orders, to make up the 
number, Eoth these accounts, when compared together, 
come to the same thing. I’nder the 'll yot fitvoi, or 
rulers, were comprehended the clergy, bishops, priests, 
and deacons; under the Il/oroi, or believers, the bap- 
tized laitv; and under the KaTti\ovfitvoi, or catechu- 
mens, t he candidates for baptism. The believers were 
called perfect Christians; the catechumens imperfect. 
The former, having received baptism, were allowed to 
partake of t lie Eucharist, to join in all the prayers of the 
Church, an<l to hoar discourses upon the most profound 
mysteries of religion: more particularly the use of the 
Lord’s Prayer was the sole prerogative of the believers, 
whence it was called 7roTr(<ji', the prayer of be- 

lievers. From all these privileges the catechumens 
were excluded. See CATiiriiiwiiiNS. The distinction 
between the laity and the clergy is by churchmen 
deduced from the very beginnings of the Christian 
Church; yet Higaltius, Salmasius, and Salden insist 
that there was originally no distinction, but that it is 
an innovation, and was called forth hv the ambition of 
the clergy of the 3d century, in which Cyprian and 
Tcrtullinn lived. See Cu:m;v. 

The various orders of the clergy were appointed to 
their several offices in the Church by solemn forms of 
consecration or ordination, and had their respective 
privileges, immunities, and revenues. The unity and 
worship of the Church were secured by laws both eccle- 
siastical and civil. The ecclesiastical laws wore cither 
rules and orders made by each hislmp for the better reg- 
ulation of his particular diocese, or laws made in provin- 
cial synods for the government of all the dioceses of a 
province ; or. lastly, laws respecting the whole Christian 

< h ir< li, miii Ir* in general councils or assemblies of hisli- 
oj.s from nil parts of the Christian world. See Synod. 
J In i in laws of l he Clmp’li were those decrees and 
« ilu - made from time to time by the emperors, cither 
n-sir in i ig the power of the t ’hureh. or granting it new 
pm il gi ur confirming the old. The breach of these 
laws was >i-\ i rally punished both by the Clmrcli and 
Siate. i tu < cclesiasiic.il censures respecting offenders 
among lln* rVrgv were ehictlv suspension from the of- 
fice anil deprivation nj the rights and privileges of the 
order. I hose ns|«viing (In laitv consisted ehictlv in 
excommunication, or njeetion from the communion of 
the Church, and penaiic both puttie- and private. See 
III 1 l.l.sl \srn m. I'm. i rv. 

The idea of the papacy or spiritual supremacy of 
Home was not fully developed before the middle of 
the 7th century, wlicu Theodore of Home, not content 


' with the title of oecumenical patriarch, assumed that 
of sovereign pontiff. From that period the successive 
claims of the papacy — viz. temporal sovereignty, the 
vicariate of Peter and Paul, of Christ and of God, the 
janitorship of the kingdom of heaven, and the theo- 
cratic monarchy of the world — went on progressively, 
until in 1*70 they apparently culminated in the official 
assumption of infallibility (q. v.). Meantime, as a sys- 
tem of ecclesiasticisra, the papacy has retained most of 
the offices of the ancient Church, and added to them 
that of cardinal (q. v.), nuncio, chancellor, chamberlain, 
prefect, referendary, auditor, inquisitor, and numerous 
others of a political and ceremonial character. Within 
the sphere of papal authority no serious controversy 
ever arose on the subject of Church polity. Ceremonial 
expansion, unchecked by any idea of scriptural exam- 
ple or restraint, was for centuries the order of progress. 
It was not till the Information was so far inaugurated 
as to feel the necessity of organizing churches after the 
type of the New Testament that any important discus- 
sions took place respecting the principles of' Church 
government. The informed churches on the Conti- 
nent generally rejected episcopacy and adopted Pres- 
byterianism. The Lutherans practically retained the 
episcopal office under the title of superintendent. Hut 
scarcely any two of the principal informed churches 
agreed in detail as to their plan of organization, nor 
were these minor differences regarded as of any serious 
importance. 

Systems of Church Government. — England is the 
country that has given birth to the chief controversies 
concerning Church polity which have prevailed in 
modern times. As the information in England was 
largely political in its character, it not only resulted in 
the transfer of the cathedrals, churches, colleges, etc., 
built under Homan supremacy, to the informed Church 
of England, but. also many Homan Catholic ceremonies 
and usages, lienee from the first that Church was 
divided into two parties in reference to Church polity. 
Had they been content with temperate discussion, and 
with the peaceful separation of those who could not 
harmonize their views, the result might have been very 
different. Hut unfortunately both parties bad inher- 
ited the principle of intolerance, either from the Homan 
Church or from preceding times, and also the theory of 
state rule in matters of religious faith and practice. To 
these false principles may be charged some of the most 
pitiable and disgraceful facts in the history of Great 
Hritain. The oppuguant legislation, the strifes, the 
persecutions, and t lie martyrdoms which took place in 
the successive reigns of Henry VIII, of Eloody Mary, 
of queen Elizabeth, of James I, of Charles I and II, 
and even under the protectorate of Cromwell, are suf- 
ficient to impress any mind with the extent of human 
misery, and of reproach to the Christian name caused 
by i lie errors alluded to. In all history there is not a 
more significant comment upon the sin of constraining 
men’s consciences by the arbitrary standards of human 
authority. It was not till after more than a hundred 
and tiftv years of party strife and bloodshed that in 
ItlNh the Toleration Act was passed, by which dissent 
from the faith and polity of the ICstablished Church 
was legalized. Even after that it was a long time be- 
fore many could see, and even yet it does not seem pos- 
sible for all to understand, that details of Church polity 
were never appointed hv divine authority, but design- 
edly left by the Head of the Church to be adjusted on 
the basis of great principles rather than to he governed 
by fixed and uniform precept*. Scotland hail adopted 
Presbyterianism from the Hefurmcd churches of the 
Continent as early as 1550, hut even after toleration 
was secured that form of Church government failed to 
become popular in England. Independency in various 
forms seemed to be preferred l»v the English Xnneon- 
1 formists and Dissenters. Eetween them and Presby- 
terians on the one band, and the advocates of prelacy 
i or episcopacy by divine right on the other, controversy 


POLITY 


357 


POLL A JUOLO 


has never ceased. But since the controversy has been 
limited to words it has been an innocent, though often 
an exciting one, owing to the many phases it has as- 
sumed from time to time. 

While the Church of England has continually an* 
tagonized the Church of Rome on the ground of papal 
supremacy, it has itself been in ceaseless agitation as 
between the High and Low Church parties within its 
own pale, and more especially since the period of the 
Oxford Tracts (q. v.) and the more recent ritualistic 
discussions. All the English controversies respecting 
Church polity have found their way to this country, 
but with greatly altered conditions of the various par- 
ties. Independency having escaped from persecution 
by way of Holland, itself established a species of theoc- 
racy and became a persecutor in New England. But 
its period of intolerance was brief : and, on the whole, 
the Christian churches of the United States have been 
remarkably free from the spirit and practice of intoler- 
ance. The free institutions of the country and the ab- 
solute separation of the State from all the churches have 
tended to place all on a common level, and to make all 
alike dependent upon good arguments and good prac- 
tice as means of securing public respect and increasing 
strength. 

Controversies on Church polity in America have 
chiefly prevailed in the rivalry of denominations. F or 
the most part, different churches, while commending 
their own forms of polity, have respected that of others. 
Discussions conducted after that manner have greatly 
extended the feeling of Christian fraternity, and at the 
same time made almost universal the opinion that par- 
ticular forms of Church government are of quite inferior 
importance as compared with the essential elements of 
Christian faith and practice. On the other hand, pre- 
tentions claims and intolerant practice have tended to 
defeat their own aims and to secure public disapproba- 
tion. Notwithstanding numberless varieties in unim- 
portant particulars, the distinctive systems of Church 
government are few. Designated by the highest au- 
thority recognised in each, they may be enumerated as 
the Congregational, the Presbyterian, the Episcopal, 
the Patriarchal, and the Papal. The details of these 
systems may be seen by reference to articles on the 
churches adhering to them severally. 

Literature. — The controversial literature of the sub- 
ject of Church polity is very nearly identical with that 
of the subject of ordination (q. v.). The general, his- 
torical, and didactic literature of Church polity is also 
quite extensive. The following list of books will at 
least fairly represent it in its different branches and 
phases: Migne, Dictionnaire des Ceremonies et des Rites 
sacres (Par. 3 vols. 8vo) ; also Dictionnaire de Discipline 
Ecclesiastique (2 vols. 8vo) ; Amyrald, Du Gouvernement 
de VEglise ; Marsden, Churehmanship of the New Test. ; 
Brokesby, Government of the Church for the frst Three 
Centuries ; Kay, External Government of the Church in 
the frst Three Centuries ; Parker, Church Government of 
the first Six Hundred Years ; Thorndike, The Forms of 
Church Government ; Cartwright, Directory of Church 
Government; Canons of the Church of England; Wil- 
berforce, Church Courts and Discipline ; Clergyman's A s- 
sista?it ; Clay, Essays on Church Policy ; Birk, Church 
and State ; Baptist Noel, Church and State ; Thompson, 
Church and State; Clergyman's Instructor; Bannerman, 
The Church of Christ ; Cunningham, Discussions on 
Church Principles; Canons of the Prot. Eqrisc. Church; 
Vinton, Manual Commentary on the Canon Law and 
Constitution of the Prot. Episc. Church ; Dobney, Three 
Churches; Uhden, New England Theocracy ; Upham, 
Ratio Disciplince ; Punchard, Congregationalism; Saw- 
yer, Organic Christianity; Smyth, Ecclesiastical Re- 
publicanism ; Miller, On Presbyterianism ; also Ruling 
Elders; Engles, Ruling Elders; Form of Government; 
Cambridge Platform of Church Discipline; Bacon, 
Church Manual; Cummings, Congregational Diction- 
ary; Lutheran Liturgy ; Kurtz, Why are you a Luther- 


an ? King, Presbyterian Church Government ; also On 
the Eldership ; Hiscox, Baptist Church Directory ; Way- 
land, Principles and Practices of the Baptists ; Ripley, 
Church Polity; Schmucker, Lutheran Manual; Grin- 
drod, Compendium of the Laws and Regulations of lUes- 
leyun Methodism ; Barrett, Ministry and Polity of the 
Christian Church ; Discipline of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church ; Baker, On the Discipline; Emory, Hist, 
of the Discipline; Sherman, Ilist. of the Discipline; 
Porter, Compendium of Methodism ; also Helps to Official 
Members; Bond, Economy of Methodism ; Stevens, Ch. 
Polity ; Hodgson, Polity of Methodism ; Morris, Church 
Polity ; Crane, Methodism and its Methods. (D. P. K.) 

Poliuchos (roXionyoc), a surname of several dei- 
ties among the ancient Greeks, who were believed to be 
the guardians of cities. 

Poliziano. See Politian. 

Polk, Leonidas, a noted American prelate of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church, and a general in the late 
war between the Northern and Southern States, was 
born at Raleigh, N. C., in 180G. He was educated for 
the army in the United States military academy at 
West Point, N. Y., but had served only a few months 
as lieutenant when he determined to take orders in the 
Protestant Episcopal Church. He was ordained deacon 
in 1830, and in 1831 took a rectorate. In 1838 he was 
made the missionary bishop of Arkansas and the In- 
dian Territory, south of 3G° 30', and in 1841 bishop 
of Louisiana. He then took up his residence at La- 
fourche parish, where he had extensive plantations. 
Being a man of wealth and enjoying a life of ease, he 
never paid very much attention to ecclesiastical labors, 
and did but little to strengthen the work of the Church 
within the range of his diocese. At the outbreak of 
hostilities against the North he was on the side of the 
planters, and did all in his power to further the seces- 
sion movement. Not only did he speak in public and 
contribute from his purse, but he offered his services to 
the Southern Confederacy as soon as established, and 
was made a general in their army. He early urged 
upon Jefferson Davis and the other Confederate author- 
ities the importance of fortifying and holding the stra- 
tegical points of the Mississippi Valley, and in other 
ways proved himself a far-seeing and skilful adviser of 
their cause. He took part in several battles, and though 
not always very prominent in action, was ever indis- 
pensable in council, and contributed greatly to what- 
ever success the Confederate cause achieved in his days 
and surroundings. During a reconnoissance near Mari- 
etta, Ga., he was killed by a cannon-shot, June 14, 1864. 
He had never resigned his episcopal dignity, hut was 
buried with military honors. Though bishop Polk gave 
his life in what we consider an unworthy cause, we 
must revere his memory for his sterling qualities as a 
man who was not afraid to do what he believed to be 
his duty. He was noted for his kindness of heart and 
the most devout Christian life, such as he understood 
it to be. See Men of the Times, s. v. ; American An- 
nual Cyclop. 1868, p. 679; Drake, Diet, of American 
Biography, s. v. 

Poll (rbi&a, gulguleth, Numb, i, 2, 18, 20, 22; iii, 
47 ; 1 Chron. xxiii, 3, 24), the head (as rendered in 1 
Chron. x, 10), or skull (as in Judg. ix, 53; 2 Kings ix, 
35). The verb <; to poll” in the A. V. is the rendering 
of TT5, nba, or C&3, all signifying to shear. 

Follajuolo, Antonio, a noted Italian artist of the 
Florentine school of painters and sculptors, flourished in 
the second half of the 15th century. He was the pupil 
of Lorenzo Ghiberti, and assisted this master in the cel- 
ebrated gates of the Baptistery of San Giovanni. Anto- 
nio is said to have been the first artist who studied the 
dead subject for the purposes of design. In 1484 he 
was invited to Rome by pope Innocent VIIT, to elabo- 
rate a monument of the then but just expired Sixtus 
JV, which is now in the chapel of the Sacrament of St. 


358 


POLLOK 


POLL A J POLO 


IVut’s, where is also the monument of Innocent VIII, 
which he afterwards elaborated. Ilis brother 1’ietiio 
was likewise an artist of some celebrity. The two 
brothers wrought many great productions jointly. Their 
best is the Martyrdom of St. Sihastiun , painted in 1 175, 
mid was for some time in the church De Servi at Flor- 
ence. 1 1 is now in the National t Jallerv at London, and 
it is engraved in the Etruria I'ittrice ol Lastri. It is a 
tine work, without being refined or in the least idealistic. 
See .Mrs. Clement, Handbook of Pointers, etc., p. -102; 
Spooner, Hioy. Hist, of the Fine Arts , s. v. 

Pollajuolo, Pietro. Sec Pollajiolo, Antonio. 

Pollajuolo, Simone, a distinguished Italian ar- 
chitect, noted as the builder of many beautiful ecclesi- 
astical structures, was born at Florence in 1451. lie 
was related to Antonio del Pollajuolo, and lived with 
him some time at Lome. Becoming a devoted follow- 
c r of Savonarola, lie was discarded by the churchmen, 
and in his later years was obliged to spend his talents 
iu secular labors, lie was one of the most prominent 
architects in the building of the Strozzi l’alacc. lie 
died in 1529. 

Pollard, William, an English Wesleyan minister, 
wa* born at (liiisborough.in Yorkshire, in 1702. lie was 
i inverted when but a youth, ami soon after felt called 
< t tlod to preach the (iospcl. He prepared himself for 
t he ministry, a work which he not only enjoyed, but one 
iu which his labors always met with success, lie was 
a man of great piety and sound faith, a faithful dis- 
penser of the Word of Life, and an exemplary teacher, 
lie possessed a strong memory and a cultivated mind, 
riehiv stored with divine truth. He died at Newport- 
l’agiicll April 3, 1N39. 

Pollinctorii, an appellation given by the Homans 
t > those who washed and anointed the dead prepara- 
tory to burial. 

Pollio, a name common to a number of Lutheran 
theologians, of whom we mention the following: 

1. .Joachim, who was born Aug. 20, 1577, at Breslau, 
in Silesia. lie pursued his studies at Loipsic, where 
lie became magistcr of philosophy in 1597. In 1002 he 
was pastor at Buutzlau, in 1007 provost of the Church 
of the Holy (Jhost and pastor of St. Bernard in Bres- 
lau: in 1015 he was made assessor of the evangelical 
consistory; in 101* he was appointed pastor of Ht. 
Mary Magdalene, and died Jan. 29, 1014. lie wrote 
Centurias duas tvnsiliorum theolot/icorum. 

2. Lit as, who was born at Breslau in 1530. lie 
studied at Frankfort and Wittenberg. In the latter 
place be especially attended the lectures of Mclancthon 
on the Creek language. In 1502 he was appointed 
pn fessor at the St. Elizabeth Cyninasium in Breslau; 
but three years afterwards, in 1505, he went to Leipsic 
l"r the study of Hebrew and theology. In the same 
yciir lie was appointed deacon of St. Elizabeth in his 
list in i place, ami iu 1507 he was made pastor of St. 
Mary Magdalene, lie died July 31, 1583. Lucas I’ol- 

■ i a number of sermons behind him. 

3. Li » \s, son of Joachim, who was born Aug. 4, 

1 »' at Itri-lau. lie studied at Leipsic, where he also 
was an !< b acon of St. Nicolai, lie died April 25, 1043. 

I’antke, Pastures d< r Kir. /t, ~tt St. F'isuixth in 
! < " . the a me, Eastons _u St. Maria Maydalene ; 

^ ' ;m n I ,r th ttinnan. < nnlifonnn, i, 15*; J ocher. 

hi W.,. S. V. ( |J. 1*.) 

Pollok, 15 miner, A. 51.. the noted author of the 
1 "J l • fl s « , < tcli bard of no mean order, and a 

minister ( » the ( linn h, was Urn at Muirlioii.se. parish 
of Kaglt sham. soutli-iaM of l dasgoNv, Oct. 19, 17;i,s of 
humble parentage. In Ins ymitli he worked on ’his 
father's farm, but evincing more than ordinary mental 
strength ami love (or study, he was encouraged to 
prepare for college, and was intend in the Uuiversitv 
of lila-goNv in 1*12. lb- gra hinted live years after, 
ami determined upon the lilc ol the holy ministry, for 


which he then began bis studies at the seminary of the 
United Sessions Church. He was ready for ordination 
iu 1*27. and was in that year licensed to preach. II is 
tirst public discourse, which was delivered on 5 1 ay 3, 
1*27. is spoken of as a most brilliant and interesting 
effort, which, while it evinced a mind of extraordina- 
ry power ami promise, at the same lime gave indica- 
tions that the Church would too soon be deprived of 
its service. Such was the fatigue occasioned by this 
single exertion that lie was immediately confined to 
his bed; and although in a few days he was partially 
restored, he preached only three times afterwards. Just 
before he had received his license, Bollok had finished 
the poem on which liis great literary reputation rests, 
the Course of Time. The object of the poet, whose 
sentiments are strongly Calvinistic, and whose piety is 
rather of a gloomy cast, is to describe the spiritual life 
and destiny of man ; and lie varies his religious specu- 
lations with episodical pictures ami narrations to illus- 
trate the effects of virtue or vice. A work so ambitious 
from the hands of a country student, attached to a small 
body of Dissenters, was not likely to find a patron among 
publishers. It happened to be shown to Prof. Wilson, 
of Edinburgh, as a curiosity; but this great man hes- 
itated not to recognise worth even in a young and un- 
known student, and the work was by him so heartily 
commended for its great poetic power that its publica- 
tion was undertaken by Mr. Blackwood, of Edinburgh. 
The Course speedily passed through several editions. 
It was a novelty in the class of evangelical religious 
literature to which it belonged, and besides pleasing 
those who arc partial to that class of religious litera- 
ture, it was a boon to many who are inclined to read 
religions books, but are repelled by their general dry- 
ness and insipidity, while it was warmly admired by 
the literary world at large, l’ollok's partial admirers 
expected for him a place on a level with Milton. After 
the novelty of such a phenomenon had, however, passed 
off, the book became neglected by purely literary read- 
ers; and at this day it may be said that it is estimated 
too highly by the religious and perhaps too insignifi- 
cantly by the literary world. It is certainly a work 
of great power, however meagre in fancy. There are 
many flashes of original genius which light up the 
crude and unwieldy design, and atone for the narrow 
range of thought and knowledge, as well as for the stiff 
pomposity that pervades the diction. There are in it 
a few passages which arc strikingly and most poetically 
imaginative, and some of which are beautifully touch- 
ing. It has also, however, a considerable amount of 
sentiment deeply tinged with religious asceticism, and 
whole pages of plain ami humble prose. These defects, 
it should be borne iu mind, Pollok would in all proba- 
bility have removed himself, guided by a more ripened 
judgment, in a careful revision, bad Providence been 
pleased to prolong his life. II is mind was evidently 
imbued with Paradise Lost, and lie follows Milton 
often to the verge of direct imitation; but even as 
the work stands it is the undoubted production of a 
poetic genius, and it will always be read with profit 
and delight. Before the publication of his poem 
Pollok had undermined his constitution by excessive 
mental labor, and lie scarcely lived to sec its success. 
On the recommendation and through the assistance 
of the friends his genius had secured him, he was 
preparing to set out for Italy, there to stay the inroads 
of consumptive tendencies; but while on the eve of 
leaving Britain he was so greatly reduced that he 
tarried at Devonshire Place, Shirley Common, near 
Southampton. lie there expired on Sept. 1*, 1*27. 
Although it. was painful at his early age to relinquish 
all the day-dreams of honorable fame which his young 
imagination had with so good reason been led to form, 
be acquiesced with unmurmuring submission in the 
will ot ( >od. lie enjoyed during his last illness in rich 
abundance the comforts and hopes of the (lospel. and 
his death was that of the true Christian, characterized 


POLLUX 


359 


POLYANDRY 


by a calm faith in that religion he had preached, and a 
cheerful hope in that redemption which had been the 
theme of his song. The reception which the Course 
of Time has met with from the public is a sufficient 
testimony to the talents of its lamented author. His 
name is now recorded among the list of those illustrious 
Scotsmen who have done honor to their country; who, 
from obscurity, have secured for themselves an unfad- 
ing reputation; and who will be remembered by dis- 
tant generations with enthusiasm and admiration. His 
earliest productions — Helen of the Glen, Ralph Gurnnell, 
and the Persecuted Family — were in prose, and were is- 
sued anonymously. They have been republished, with 
his name, in one volume, entitled Tales of the Covenant- 
ers, and have passed through several editions. A very 
inadequate memoir of Robert Pollok, by his brother, 
with extracts from his correspondence, has been pub- 
lished by Messrs. Blackwood (Edinb. 1842), and there 
is a short memoir prefixed to the Course of Time. 
One of the best American editions of this poem is by 
W. 0. Armstrong (Cine. 1846, 12mo). See Chambers, 
Cyclop, of English Lit. ii, 412 sq. ; id. Biog. Did. of 
Eminent Scotsmen , vi, 138 sq. (J. H. W.) 



Birthplace of Pollok. 


Pollux, a tutelary deity of mariners in ancient 
times (Acts xxviii, 11), whose image was placed either 
at the prow or stern of the ship. See Castor. 

Pollux, Julius (’louXtoc UoXvStvKgg), a celebrated 
Greek sophist and grammarian, who flourished near the 
close of the 2d century, was a native of Anacratis, in 
Egypt, and, after preparatory training under his father, 
studied at Athens under the rhetorician Adrian. He 
finally opened a school himself, and was subsequently 
appointed bj' the emperor Commodus to the chair of 
rhetoric. Several of his contemporaries thereafter at- 
tacked him, and in many ways aimed to detract from , 
liis scholarly repute. He was the author of several 
works, of which Stiidas has preserved the titles. None 
of them are of interest to ns except the ’OvoyaaTiKov 
tv B ifiXioig /, which has come down to us, and is valu- j 
able because it treats in the first part of the gods and 
their worship. See Fabricius, Bill. Grceca, vi, 141 ; 
Grafenliahn, Gesch. der class. Philologie, iii, 166 sq. 

Poloiies Praties. See Socinians. 

Folotzk (Polish, Polocz), Synod of, an important 
ecclesiastical gathering, was held on Feb. 12, 1839, and 
was attended by all the Greek Uniate bishops in Russia, 
assisted by several of the most distinguished of their 
clergy. Its most important action was a sj-nodal ordi- 
nance drawn up and signed by Joseph, bishop of Lithu- 
ania ; Vasili, bishop of Orsha ; Anthony, bishop of Brest, 
and twenty-one other dignitaries, in which they declare 
their “ firm and unalterable decision to acknowledge 
anew the unity of their Church with the orthodox 
Catholic Eastern Church ; and, consequently, thence- 
forth, together with the flocks committed to their care, 
to continue in the same sentiment with the holy East- 
ern orthodox patriarchs, and in obedience to the holy 
governing synod of all the Russias.” To this act was 


appended the declaration of thirteen hundred and five 
parish priests and monastic brethren, which number 
was afterwards increased to sixteen hundred and seven. 
Besides their act, a petition was drawn up to the em- 
peror Nicholas, praying him to sanction the union of 
the Uniate with the orthodox Church; which, together 
with the synodal aet above, w r as submitted to the holy 
governing synod for examination and approval. The 
synod shortly after issued its decree upon the subject, 
by which it w'as ordained : 

1. To receive the bishops, clergy, and flocks of the 
hitherto called Greek Uniate Church into full and com- 
plete eommunion with the holy orthodox Catholic East- 
ern Church, and so to be integrally and inseparably in- 
corporated with the Church of all the Russias. 

‘2. To confer the general blessing of the most holy svnod 
on the bishops aud clergy in particular, with prayer of 
faith and love to the supreme bishop of our confession, 
Jesus Christ, that he would eoufirm them from above iu 
the confession they have made, and that he would rightly 
direct the work of their ministry to the perfecting of the 
saints. 

ii. That in governing those flocks which are intrusted 
to them, they shall take as their fundamental gnide the 
Word of God, the canons of the Church, and the laws of 
the empire, and shall confirm the flocks intrusted to them 
iu the same sentiments with those of the orthodox faith; 
and that they exhibit an apostolical indulgence to any 
differences iu local customs which do not affect the doe- 
triues or the sacraments, and bring back their people to 
the ancient uniformity by free persuasion, without vio- 
lence, wdth gentleness and long-suffering. 

This decree was signed by Seraphim, metropolitan 
of Novgorod and St. Petersburg, by Philaret of Kief, 
Philaret of Moscow, and three prelates, besides two oth- 
er ecclesiastics. It w r as confirmed March 25, 1839, by 
the emperor’s own hand, with these words: “I thank 
God, and accept it.” See Blaekraore’s Mouravieff, 
Russian Church, Append, iv, p. 430. 

Folus, a Greek sophist, lived about B.C. 400. He 
was born in Agrigentum (Girgenti), and studied under 
the celebrated sophist Gorgias, a Sicilian like himself. 
In his dialogue Gorgias, or about Rhetoric, Plato intro- 
duces Socrates in discussion with some of his disciples, 
among whom is Polus. The point in contest is at first 
the nature of rhetoric, but as the debate progresses it 
expands its limits, and touches the question w'hether 
the unrighteous can be happy, and whether it is not 
preferable to suffer injustice rather than to infliet it. 
The notoriety of Polus rests exclusively on the part as- 
signed to him by Plato in this dialogue. There remains 
nothing of his writings. Yet he seems, as a true disci- 
ple of Gorgias, to have written a rhetorical treatise; for 
Plato puts the following words in the mouth of Socrates: 
“ To tell you the truth, Polus, I do not consider truth as 
an art, but only as a thing which you boast of having 
made an art of, in a wnriting which I have of late pe- 
rused.” 

Polwhele, Richard, an English divine noted as 
an antiquarian, historian, poet, and miscellaneous writ- 
er, whose works are exceedingly voluminous, -was bom 
at Truro in 1760, where he was also educated, and where, 
when a boy, with the assistance of the celebrated Dr. 
Wolcott, then a physician in that town, he first essayed 
as a poet. He took holy orders, and finally settled in 
his native place, w'bere he died in 1838. He is noted 
rather for his secular productions, though he published 
also on religious topics. His principal works are, The 
History of Cornwall (7 vols. 4to ): — The History of Dev- 
onshire (3 vols .) : — Traditions and Recollections (2 vols.) : 
— The Rural Rector (3 vols .): — Biographical Sketches 
in Cornwall (3 vols.) : — A necdotes of Methodism : — Illus- 
trations of Scriptural Characters : — several volumes of 
Sermons; with numberless poems, aud other writings 
of a miscellaneous character. See Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Polyandry (from tto\vq, many, and avijp, a man), 
that form of polygamy which permits a woman to have 
several husbands. See Marriage. The hot -bed of 
polyandry is Thibet. There a wife commonly is the 
wife of a whole family of brothers, the elder brother 


POLYANDRY 


360 


POLYCARP 


being chief husband. In the Himalayan and snb- 
Ilimalaynn regions adjoining and under t lie intiuence 
of Thibet it is of fre<|(iciiL occurrence, in t lie same form 
as in the valley of Cashmere, in Ladakh, among the 
Koech, and among the Tolingese, Farther south in 
India we tind polyandry among the Tudas of the Neil- 
gherrv Hills, the Coorgs of Mysore, and the Xavars of 
Malabar. We tind it again off the Indian coast in 
Ceylon; and, going eastward, strike on it as an ancient 
though now almost superseded custom in New Zealand, 
and in one or two of the Pacilic islands, doing north- 
ward, we meet it again in the Aleutian Islands; and 
taking the continent to the west and north of the Aleu- 
tians, it is found among the Koryaks, to the north of 
the Okhotsk Sea. Crossing the Kussian empire to the 
west side, we meet it among the Saporogian Cossacks; 
and thus have traced it at |>oints half round the globe. 
This is not all, however. It is found in several parts 
of Africa; and it occurs again in many parts of Amer- 
ica among the Wed men. We have the authority of 
Humboldt for its prevalence among the tribes on the 
Orinoco, and in the same form as in Thibet. “Among 
the Avaroes and the Mavpures,” he says, “brothers 
have often but one wife." Humboldt also vouches for 
its former prevalence in Laneerota, one of the Canary 
Islands. Thus polyandry is a phenomenon of human 
life independent of race and country. See Latham, 
Dtscriptire Ethnology (1859), i, 21. 2*; ii, 308, 406, 402 ; 
Humboldt, Personal Xurratire (Williams's translation, 
1*19), vol. v, pt. ii, p. 549 ; and vol. i, chap, i, p. 81 ; Ham- 
ilton, Xetr Account of the East Indies (Eilinb. 1 7 27), i, 
27l,o(i8; Kendo, Savage Africa, p. 43 ; Erman, Travels 
in Sibiria, ii, 531 ; Seignior day a, Marriage Ceremonies 
(translation) (2d ed. Loud. 1698), p. 70, 90; Emerson 
Tennant. Ceylon (3d ed. 1*59), ii, 429; “Legend of 
Kupe," drey’s Polynesian Mythology (1850), p. 81; .1 
Sum tm r Ramble in the Himalayas (1800), p. 202 ; Yigne, 
Kashmir , i, 37 ; Journal Asiut. Soc. of Bengal, ix, 831 ; 
A fiat, lit sear h. v, 13. 

From ancient history we learn that the area over 
which polyandry at one time existed was even more 
extended; while in certain cantons of Media, accord- 
ing to Strabo (ii. 798; and see doguet, vol. iii, bk. vi, 
c. i), polygynia was authorized by express law, which 
ordained every inhabitant to maintain at least seven 
wives; in other cantons precisely the opposite rule pre- 
vailed a woman was allowed to have many husbands, 
and they looked with contempt on those who had less 
than live. ( ’a?sar informs us that in his time polyandry 
of the Thibetan type prevailed among the Britons (be 
pello (inllico, lib. v. c. xiv). We lind direct evidence 
of its existence among the I’icts in the Irish Nennius 
(App. Ii). not to mention the traces of it remaining in the 
Piet i-di laws of succession. Indeed, to pass over com- 
munities in which something like promiscuity of inter- 
course between the sexes is said to have prevailed — 
stieli ns the Massage t;e, Agathvrsi, and the ancient 
Spartans we tind several among which polyandry, or 
a modili d promiscuity, must have been the rule. 'As- 
suming that the legal obligation laid on younger broth- 
ers in ’heir turn to marrv the wives of 'their deceased . 
eldtr brother is a n lie of polyandry of the Thibetan 
type, i ie i we must bol l that polyandry prevailed at 
one tune throughout India ( Institutes <f Menu, ch. iii 
§1.3. a i >. ix. .i7, 5s , among the ancient Hebrews 
(Dent. \\\,.» II ; in 8iam. Burmah. in Syria among 
the Minks. | be Ihu (Bodo,, the Knsia. and the Pu- 
liaries o| Gurl.u ,1. Traces of it m.lee.l remained in 

lhe ,lm< ’ u| 1 amnig the Germans (Tae. Gtrm. 

xx, LmhamS , lb*,,,, p. o7 I„ h i 11>rl . |lolvan<lrv 

may be regarded as one o| the transitional forms in the 
advance from a state of promiscuity, „„ the assumption 
that pure promiscuity ever existed, t if t| u . or i*nii of 
tins peculiar i ii-st it nt i . mi our space ffirl.ids ns to write; 
hut we believe it to L* connected with the want of 
balance between the numbers of the sexes, due to the 
practice of female infanticide, which is i (s almost inva- 


riable accompaniment. Tribes of warriors, wholly de- 
voted to a military life, tind women an incumbrance 
rather than a solace ; and from this cause, and probably 
from the difficulties of subsistence, formed the practice 
of killing their female children, sparing them only when 
they were the lirst-born. The disparity of the sexes 
would lead to polyandry', and once instituted, the custom 
would in many cases continue to exist after the habits 
and necessities which produced it disappeared. In sev- 
eral places, as in Ladakh, where polyandry prevails, the 
sexes are now either equally balanced, or the female 
sex predominates. In these eases polygynia and poly- 
andry are commonly found existing side bv side. The 
subject is one which demands, and as yet has not received, 
lull investigation. — Chambers, s. v. See also London 
Academy, Nov. 21, 1874, p. 557; Lubbock, Origin of 
Civilization (see Index); Blachwood's Magazine, Jan- 
uary. 1875, p. G9 sip, 82 sip 

Polycarp (l]o\v Kafrrog), a distinguished father 
of the Christian Church, is one of a small number who 
were distinguished from the rest by the term apostolic 
fathers, as having been contemporaries of some of the 
apostles. The period of his death is well ascertained to 
have been by martyrdom in A.l). 155, in the reign of 
Antoninus Titus (see Waddington, Me moires de I'Aca- 
demie des Inscriptions, tom. xxvi, pt. ii, p. 232 sq.). 
The period of his birth is not known, and we can only 
determine it by approximation. At the time of his 
martyrdom he was reputed to have been a Christian 
eighty-six years, and according to this statement was 
born probably about A.l). (59. But if with other critics 
we suppose him to have been converted at a riper age, 
he must be referred to the reign of Nero. However, 
there seems no reason to doubt that lie was contempo- 
rary with the apostle John, and known to him, the 
lengthened period of whose life connects so fortunately 
the men of the 2d century with those who had been in 
personal attendance on the Saviour. It is this circum- 
stance which gives its chief importance to the lives of 
these persons, and thence arises the main value of the 
few and in other respects unimportant writings which 
remain of the apostolic fathers. The lives form links in 
the chain of Christian tradition; and their compositions 
recognise by frequent quotations the writings which re- 
main of evangelists and apostles. (In the following ac- 
count of Polycarp we rely largely upon Smith’s Diet, of 
Class, Biog. s. v.) 

Life. — An ancient life, or rather a fragment of a life 
of I’olyearp, ascribed by Bollamlus to a certain Pionius 
of unknown date, and given in a Latin version in the 
Acta Sanctorum Januarii (a. d. 26), ii, 695, etc., dwells 
much on the earl}- history of Polycarp, but the record 
(if indeed it be the work of Pionins) is some centuries 
later than its subject, and is evidently false in several 
particulars. We arc inclined to think, however, that it 
embodies some genuine traditions of Polvcarp’s history. 
According to this account, the apostle Paul visited 
Smyrna in his way from Galatia, through the procon- 
sular Asia to Jerusalem (the writer apparently con- 
founding two journeys recorded in Acts xviii, 18-22, 
and 23, etc.), and having collected the believers, in- 
structed them in the proper time of keeping Easter. 
After Paul's departure, his host, Strativas. the brother 
of Timotheus, became bishop of the infant Church; or, 
for the passage is not clear, Straticas became an elder 
and Bncohis was bishop. It was during the episcopate 
of Bncohis (whether he was the contemporary or the 
successor of Straticas) that Callisto, a female member 
ol the Church, eminent for riches and works of charity, 
was warned of God in a dream to go to the gate of the 
city called the Ephesian gate, where she would lind a 
little bov (piiernlnm) named Polycarp, of Eastern or- 
igin, wlio had been reduced to slavery, and was in the 
hands of two men, from whom she was to redeem him. 

( allisto, obedient to the vision, rose, went to the gate, 
loiiml the two men with the child, as it had been re- 
vealed to her; and having redeemed the boy, brought 


POLYCARP 


361 


POLYCARP 


him home, educated him with maternal affection in the 
Christian faith, and, when lie attained to manhood, first 
made him ruler over her house, then adopted him as her 
son, and finally left him heir to all her wealth. Tolvcarp 
had been from childhood distinguished by his benefi- 
cence, piety, and self-denial ; by the gravity of his de- 
portment, and his diligence in the study of the Holy 
Scriptures. These qualities early attracted the notice 
and regard of the bishop, Bucolus, who loved him with 
fatherly affection, and was in return regarded by him 
with filial love. By Bucolus he was ordained first to 
the office of deacon, in which he labored diligently, con- 
futing heathens, Jews, and heretics; delivering cate- 
chetical homilies in the church, and writing epistles, of 
which that to the Philippians is the only extant speci- 
men. He was subsequently, when of mature age (his 
hair was already turning gray) and still maturer con- 
duct, ordained presbyter by Bucolus, on whose death he 
was elected and consecrated bishop. We omit to notice 
the various miracles said to be wrought by l’olycarp, or 
to have occurred on different occasions in his life. 

Such are the leading facts recorded in this ancient 
narrative, which has, we think, been too lightly esti- 
mated by Tillemont. That it has been interpolated 
with many fabulous admixtures of a later date is clear; 
but we think there are some things in it which indicate 
that it embodies earlier and truer elements. The diffi- 
culty is to discover and separate these from later correc- 
tions. The chief ground for rejecting the narrative al- 
together is the supposed difficulty of reconciling them 
with the more trustworthy statements of Ircnsens ( Epis - 
tola ad Florinum, apud Euseb. /list. Eccles. v, 20), who, 
in his boyhood, had known, perhaps lived with Polv- 
carp, and of other writers. According to Irenaens ( Epist . 
ad Victorem. Papam, apud Euseb. Hist. Eccles. v, 24), 
Polycarp had intercourse with “John and others of the 
apostles;” or still more expressly (Adv. Hceres. iii, 3, et 
apud Euseb. Hist. Eccles. iv, 14), he was instructed (per- 
haps converted, paSijrivStig) by the apostles, and con- 
versed familiarly with many who had seen Christ; was 
by the apostles appointed (icaraaraSei'e) bishop of the 
Church at Smyrna; and always taught what he had 
learned from the apostles. Tertullian (He Preescrip- 
tionibus Jf (Ere tic, c. 32) and Jerome (He Viris lllustri- 
bus, c. 17) distinctly mention John as the apostle by 
whom Polycarp was ordained. But w r e question if the 
expressions of IrenEeus, when critically examined and 
stripped of the rhetorical exaggeration with which his 
natural reverence for Polycarp has invested them, will 
prove more than that Polycarp had enjoyed opportuni- 
ties of hearing some of the apostles; and was, with their 
sanction, appointed bishop of the Church at Smyrna. 
That John was one of the apostles referred to by Ire- 
naeus there is not the slightest reason to doubt ; and we 
are disposed, with Tillemont, to regard Philip, whom 
Polycrates of Ephesus (apud Euseb. Hist. Eccles. v, 24) 
states to have ended his days in the Phrygian Hierap- 
olis, as another of those with whom Polvcarp had inter- 
course. We believe that intercourse with these apos- 
tles, and perhaps with some other old disciples who had 
seen Jesus Christ, is sufficient to bear out the statements 
of Iremeus, and is not inconsistent with the general truth 
of the ancient narrative given by Bollandus. His state- 
ment of the ordination of Polycarp by the apostles may 
perhaps be reduced to the fact that John, of whom alone 
Tertullian (l.c.) makes mention, was among “the bish- 
ops of the neighboring churches,” w'ho came, according 
to the narrative, to the consecration of Polycarp. This 
circumstance enables ns to fix that consecration in or 
before A.D. 104, the latest date assigned to the death 
of the venerable apostle, and which is not inconsistent 
with the narrative. It must be borne in mind, too, that 
the whole subject of the ordination of these early bishops 
is perplexed by ecclesiastical writers utterly neglecting 
the circumstance that in some of the larger churches 
there was in the apostolic age a plurality of bishops 
(comp. Phil, i, 1), not to speak of the grave and much 


disputed question of the identity of bishops and presby- 
ters. The apostolic ordination mentioned by Irenauis 
and Tertullian may, therefore, have taken place during 
the lifetime of Bucolus, and have been antecedent to 
the precedency which, on his death, Polycarp obtained. 
We are the more disposed to admit the early origin and 
the truth of the leading statements embodied in the 
narration, as the natural tendency of a forger of a later 
age would have been to exaggerate the opportunities 
of apostolic intercourse, and the sanctions of apostolic 
authority, which Polycarp certainly possessed. 

Polycarp w as bishop of Smyrna at the time when Ig- 
natius of Antioch passed through that city on his way 
to suffer death at Kome, some time between A.I). 107 
and 116. Ignatius seems to have enjoyed much this 
intercourse with Polycarp, whom he had known, appar- 
ently, in former days, when they were both hearers of 
the apostle John (Martyr. Ignatii, c. 3). The senti- 
ment of esteem was reciprocated by Polycarp (Epistol. 
ad Philipp, c. 13), who collected several of the epistles 
of Ignatius, and sent them to the Church at Philippi, 
accompanied by an epistle of his own. Polycarp him- 
self visited Kome while Anicetus v r as bishop of that 
city, whose episcopate extended, according to Tille- 
mont’s calculation, from A.D. 157 to 168. Irenaeus has 
recorded ( Ejnstol . ad Victor, apud Euseb. //. E. v, 14) 
the difference of opinion of these two holy men on the 
time of observing Easter, and the steadfastness of Polv- 
carp in adhering to the custom of the Asiatic churches, 
derived, as they affirmed, from the apostles; as well as 
their mutual kindness and forbearance, notwithstanding 
this difference. Indeed, the character of Polycaq) ap- 
pears to have attracted general regard : Irenreus retained 
for him a feeling of deepest reverence (Ejnstol. ad Flo- 
rin. apud Euseb. H. E. v, 21); Jerome speaks of him 
(He Viris Illustr. c. 17) as “totius Asia; princeps,” the 
most eminent man in all proconsular Asia. An anec- 
dote given elsewhere shows that even reputed heretics, 
notwithstanding his decided opposition to them, desired 
to possess his esteem ; and it is not improbable that the 
reverence excited by his character conduced to his suc- 
cess in restoring them to the communion of the Church. 
It has been conjectured that he was the angel of the 
Church of Smyrna to whom Jesus Christ directed the 
letter in the Apocalypse (ii, 8-11) ; and also that he was 
the bishop to whom the apostle John, according to a 
beautiful anecdote recorded by Clement of Alexandria 
(Liber “ Quis Hives salveturf" c. 42), committed the 
care of a young man, who, forsaking his patron, became 
a chief of a band of robbers, and was reconverted by the 
apostle: but these are mere conjectures, and of little 
probability. 

The martyrdom of Polycarp orenrred, according to 
Eusebius (//. E. iv, 15), in the persecution under the 
emperors Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus; and is 
recorded in a letter of the Church at Smyrna to the 
churches of Philomelium and other places, which is still 
extant, and of which Eusebius (ibid.') has given the 
chief part. The persecution began: one Germanicus, 
an ancient man, was thrown to the wild beasts, and 
several others, including some who were brought from 
Philadelphia, were put to death at Smyrna. Polycarp 
had at first intended to remain in the city and brave 
the danger of martyrdom ; but the entreaties of his flock 
led him to withdraw to a retreat in the adjacent coun- 
try, where he passed his time in prayer. Here, three 
days before his apprehension, he had a remarkable 
dream, which his anticipation of his fate led him to in- 
terpret as an intimation that he should be burned alive 
— a foreboding but too exactly verified by the event. 
Messengers having been sent to apprehend him, he 
withdrew to another hiding-place; but his place of re- 
treat was discovered by the confession of a child, who 
had been forced by torture to make knowm where he 
was. Polycarp might still have escaped by leaving the 
place on the approach of those sent to apprehend him ; 

, but he refused, saying, “ The will of God be done.” His 


POLYCARP 


362 


venerable figure and calm and courteous deportment 
commanded the respect of his captors; and a prayer of- 
fered by him affected some of them with remorse for 
their share in his apprehension. The officer into whose 
custody lie was delivered, with the usual laxity of pa- 
ganism, would have persuaded him, apparently through 
pit v, t<> offer divine honors and sacrifice to the emperor; 
but his steady refusal changed their pity into anger, 
and they violently threw him down from the carriage 
in which they were conveying him. On entering the 
amphitheatre where the proconsul, Stratius (Quadrat us, 
was, a voice which the excited feelings of the old man 
and his companions led them to regard as Irom heaven, 
exclaimed. •• He strong, O Polycarp! and quit you like 
a man." The proconsul was, like others, moved by his 
nppearanci 1 , and exhorted him to consider his advanced 
age, and comply with the requirements of government : 
•* Swear by the fortune of Ciesar. recant, and cry ‘Away 
with t ho godless (to vg Looking first round 

upon the heathen multitude, and then up to heaven, 
the old man sighed and said, “Away with the godless.” 
The proconsul again urged him, “ Swear by Cesar's for- 
tune, and 1 will release thee. Ucvilc Christ." “Eighty 
and six years have I served him.” was the reply, “and 
he never did me wrong: how then can I revile my King 
and my Saviour?” Threats of being thrown to wild 
beasts, and of being committed to the Haines, failed to 
move him; and his hold avowal that he was a Chris- 
tian provoked the wrath of the assembled multitude. 
“This man,’ they shouted, “is the teacher of impiety, 
the father of the Christians, the man that does away 
with our gods (o rwy iifitripuji’ v KaSaipirrjc ;) ; 
who teaches many not to sacrifice to nor to worship the 
gods.’’ They demanded that he should be thrown to 
wild beasts, and when the Asiarch, Philip of Tralles, 
who presided over the games which were going on, 
evaded the demand, on the plea that the combats with 
wild beasts were ended, they demanded that he should 
be burned alive. The demand was complied with; 
and the populace, in their rage, soon collected from the 
baths and workshops logs and fagots for the pile. The 
old man ungirded himself, laid aside his garments, and 
took his place in the midst of the fuel; and when they 
would have secured him with nails to the stake, said, 
“Let me remain as I am; for he that has enabled me 
to brave the lire will so strengthen me that, without 
vuiir fastening me with nails, 1 shall, unmoved, endure 
its fierceness.” After he had * ffored a short but beauti- 
ful prayer the fire was kindled, but. a high wind drove 
the flames oil one side, so that he was roasted rather 
than burned: and the executioner was ordered to de- 
spatch him with a sword. < hi his striking him with it, 
so great a quantity of blood (lowed from the wound as 
to quench the (lames, which wore, however, resuscitated, 
in order to consume his lifeless body. 1 1 is ashes were 
collected by the pious care of the Christians of his flock, 
and deposited iii a suitable place of interment. The 
day :n d year of Polvcnrp’s martyrdom arc involved in 

* table doubt. Samuel Petit places it. in A.L). 175: 

1 r. l’a i. and Hollandus in A.l). 1(10; Eusebius 
C / places it earlier, in t lie seventh yt*.*w of 
Mar. i- \un lins who acceded to the throne March 7, 
A.l’. I'd; Scaliger, Lc Moyne, and Cave place it in 
A.l*. Hu : I illeinoiit in 1 t»G ; the Chronicon Paschale in 
the cum •• 1 ip of .Eliaims and Pastor, AT). 163; and 
P' nr *n, who differs widely from all other critics, in 
ATh I L, m the fl-igii of Titus Antoninus Pins. Pear- 
.vii briu s various reasons in support of his opinion, 
wlii li r. asons are examined by Tillcmmit in one of his 
carflol ami elaborate notes. Polycarp is reverenced as 
a saint both by the Creek and Iiomish churches ; !>v 
the b'rmi r on 1 eb. 23, by the latter on .Inn. lit*, or (at 
Pari^, on \pril U7. The t .reeks of Smyrna, on his fes- 
tival, ii d t'lrim rly to visit devoutly what is shown as 
bis tomb, lie ir the ruins of an ancient church or chapel, 
on a lifll-side to the south-east of the city. Mr. Arun- 
del (Idsctnri s in Asia Minor, ii, 397) is disposed to 


POLYCARP 

think that the tradition as to his place of interment is 
correct. 

The principal authorities for the history of Polvcarp 
have been cited, 'flic account of Eusebius (//. E. iv, 
14, 15, and v, *20) is chiefly taken from Irenauis (ll. cc.), 
and from the letter of the Church at Smyrna, giving an 
account of his martyrdom, which will be noticed below, 
llalloix ( Illustr . Eccles. Orientalis Scriptorum PtV<p), 
Cave (.1 postolici , or the hires, etc., of the Primitive Fa- 
thers), and Tillcmont ( Memoires , vol. ii) have collected 
the chief notices of the ancients, and embodied them in 
their narrative. See also Ccillier, Hist, des .1 uteurs Su- 
cres, i, (572, etc. The English reader may consult (be- 
sides Cave’s work just mentioned) Lardner, Credibility , 
etc., pt. ii, cli. vi, vii ; Ncandcr, Church Hist, transl. by 
Pose, i, 106, etc.; Milman. Hist, of Chiistianity. bk. ii, 
cli. vii; and other ecclesiastical historians. 

Hock — There is extant only one short treatise by 
this father, Ilpi/c «Fi\i7r7n;<Tioi'£ t-rtcrroX//, Ad rhilip- 
peuses Epistola. That he wrote such an epistle, and that 
it was known in their time, is attested by Ireiuens (Trfr. 
Hares, iii, 3, and Kpistol. ad Florinum, apud Euseb. 
II. E. iv, 14, and v, 20), Eusebius (II. E. iii, 36; iv, 14), 
Jerome ( lie Viris Illustr. c. 17), and later writers whom 
it is needless to enumerate; and, notwithstanding the 
objections of the Magdeburg Centuriators (Cent, ii, c. 
10) ; of Daille (He Scriptis Ignatianis, c. 32), who, how- 
ever, only denied the genuineness of a part; of Mat- 
thieu de la IJoche; and, at a later period, of Sender, our 
present copies have been received by the great majority 
of critics as substantially genuine. Some have sus- 
pected the text to be interpolated; and the suspicion is 
perhaps somewhat strengthened by the evidence af- 
forded by the Syriac version of the epistles of Ignatius, 
lately published by Mr. Curcton, of the extensive inter- 
polation of those contemporary ami kindred productions. 

The Epistola ad rhilippenses is extant in the Greek 
original, and in an ancient Latin version; the latter of 
which contains, towards the conclusion, several chap- 
ters, of which only some fragments preserved by Euse- 
bius are found in the Greek. The letter partakes of 
the simplicity which characterizes the writings of the 
apostolic fathers, being hortatory rather than argumen- 
tative; and is valuable for the numerous passages from 
the New Testament, especially from the first Epistle of 
Peter and the epistles of l’anl, which are incorporated 
in it, and for the testimony which it consequently af- 
fords to the early existence and wide circulation of the 
sacred writings. It was first published in black letter 
in the Latin version by Jac. Faber .Stapulensis, with the 
works of the pseudo-Dionysius Areopagita and of Igna- 
tius (Paris, 1498, fol.), under the title of Theologia 17- 
r if cans; and was reprinted at Strasburg in 1502; at 
Paris, 1515; at Ilaslc, 1520; at Cologne, 1536; at In- 
golstadt, with the Clementina (4 to), 1546; at Cologne, 
with the Latin version of the writings of the pseudo- 
Dionysius, 1557 ; and with the Clementina and the Latin 
version of the Epistola of Ignatius (fob). 1569. It ap- 
peared also in the following collections; the Microprcs- 
hyticon (Ilaslc, 1550), the Orthodoxographa of Ilerol- 
dus (ibid. 1555), the Orthodoxographa of Grynauts (ibid. 
1569), the Mella Patrum of Francis Pons (Loud. 1650, 
8vo), and in the various editions of the Pibliofhcca 
Patrum, from its first publication by I>c la Higne in 
1575. The Greek text was first published by llalloix, 
subjoined to the life of Polycarp, in his Illustrinm Ec- 
clesia Oritntalis Scriptorum Vita et Documenta (vol. i, 
Douai, 1633, fob); and was again published by I'slicr, 
with the Epistola of Ignatius (Oxford, 1611, 4to), not 
in the Appntdix Ignat tuna (which came out in 1647), 
as incorrectly stated by Fabricius; by Marlerus (llelm- 
stiidt, 1653); and in the Putres A postolici of Cotelerius 
(Paris. 1672, 2 vols, fob; and Amsterdam, 1724b of lt- 
tigius ( Leipsic, 1699, Xvn). of Frey (Ilaslo, 1742). ami 
of liiissd (1716, 2 vols, Nvo). It is given likewise ill 
the editions of Ignatius by Aldrich (Oxford, 1708, 8vo) 
and Smith (ibid. 1709, 4 to). It is contained also in the 


POLYCARP 


363 


POLYGAMY 


J "aria Sacra of Le Moyne (vol. i, Leyden. 1G85, 4to), 
and in the Bibliotheca Patrum of Gallandius (vol. i, 
Veil. 17G5, fol.). Of more recent editions may be men- 
tioned those of Hornemann, Scripta Genuina Grceca 
Patrum Apostolicorum (Copenhagen, 1828, 4to) ; Routh, 
Scriptorum Ecclesiasticorum Opuscula Priecipua quon- 
dam (vol. i, Oxford, 1882, 8vo) ; Jacobson, Patrum A pos- 
tolicorum quee supersunt (vol. ii, ibid. 1838, 8vo); and 
Hefele, Patrum Apostolicorum Operu (Tubingen, 1889, 
8vo). There are English versions of this epistle by 
Wake and Clementson, and one in Cave’s Apostolici , or 
Lives of the Primitive Fathers. 

That Polycarp wrote other Epistolce is attested by 
Iremeus ( Epistol . ad Florin .): one, IIpoc ’AStjvaiovg, 
Ad Athenienses, is quoted by St. Maximus in his Prolo- 
gus ad Libras Dionysii Areopagitce, and by Joannes 
Maxentius, but is supposed to be spurious ; at any rate 
it is now lost: another, IIpoc ^iovvmov rbv ’AptoTra- 
yirqv, Ad Dionysium Areopagitum, mentioned by Sui- 
das (s. v. Ho\vKap 7 Tog), is supposed to be spurious also. 
The life of Polycarp, ascribed to Pionius, states that he 
wrote various Tractatus , Ilomilice , and Epistolce, and 
especially a book De Obitu S. Joannis ; of which, ac- 
cording to Halloix (/. c.), some extracts from a IMS. said 
to be extant in an abbey in Northern Italy had been 
given in a Condo de S. Joanne Evangelista by Francis- 
cos Humblot ; but even Halloix evidently doubted their 
genuineness. Some fragments ascribed to Polycarp, 
cited, in a Latin version, in a Catena in Quatuor Evan- 
gelistas by Victor of Capua, were published by Francis- 
cus Feuardentius subjoined to lib. iii, e. 3 of his Anno- 
tutiones ad Irenceum , and were subsequently reprinted 
by Halloix (l. c.), Usher (Appendix Jgnatiana, p. 31, 
etc.), Maderus (/. c.), Cotelerius (/. e.), Ittigius (/. c.), 
and Gallandius (/. c.), under the title of Fragmenta Quin- 
que e Responsionum Cupitulis S. Polycarpo adscriptis ; 
but their genuineness is very doubtful. See Cave, Hist. 
Lift, ad aun. 108, i, 44, etc. (Oxford, 1740, fol.) ; Ittigius, 
De Biblioth. Patrum, passim ; Fabricius, Bibl. Gnec. vii, 
47, etc. ; Ceillier, .4 uteurs Sucres, 1. c. ; Lardner, Credi- 
bility, pt. ii, bk. i, cb. vi, etc.; Gallandius, Biblioth. Pa- 
trum, proleg. ad vol. i, c. ix; Jacobson. 1. c. proleg. p. 1, 
etc., Ixx; Schaff, Church Ilist. vol. i ; Donaldson, Liter- 
ature (see Index) ; Bdhringer, Christl. Kirche, i, 30 sq. ; 
Illgen, Zeitschrift f. hist. Theol. 18GG, vol. i; Milman, 
Hist, of Latin Christianity (see ludex) ; Jahrb.f deutsche 
Theol. 1870, iii, 545; Jortin, Remarks, i, 323 sq.; Amer. 
Presb. Rev. iii, 517; Riddle, Christian Antiquities (see 
Index); Hefele, Patrum A postolicorum Opera, p. xviii ; 
Kitto, Cyclop, of Bib. Lit. i, 812; Alzog, Patrologie, § 1 
sq.; Killen, Anc. Church, p. 365 sq. ; Fisher, Beginning 
of Christianity (N. Y. 1877, 8vo), p. 321 sq., 552 sq. 

The T/'/c ~p vpraiiov tiacXtjoiag 7 rtpi paprvpiov tov 
ayiov noXivcdp— ov fc7noroXi) tyKVKAtKog is almost en- 
tirely incorporated in the Historia Ecclesiastica of Eu- 
sebius (iv, 15) ; it is also extant in its original form, in 
which it was first published by archbishop Usher, in his 
Appendix Jgnatiana (Lond. 1G47, 4to) ; and was re- 
printed in the Acta Martyrum Sinceru et Selecta of 
Ruinart (Paris, 1689, 4to), and in the Putres Apostolici 
of Cotelerius (vol. ii, Paris, 1672, fol.; Antwerp [or 
rather Amsterdam], 1698; and Amsterdam, 1724); it 
was also reprinted by Maderus, in his edition of the 
Ejnstola Polycarpi, already mentioned; by Ittigius, in 
his Bibliotheca Patrum A postolicorum (Leips. 1699,8vo); 
by Smith, in his edition of the Epistolce of Ignatius (re- 
printed at Rasle by Frey, 1742, 8vo) ; by Russel, in his 
Patres Apostolici (vol. ii, Lond. 1746, 8vo) ; by Gallan- 
dius, in his Bibliotheca Patrum (vol. i, Venice, 1765, 
fol.); and by Jacobson, in his Pati'um Apostolicorum 
qua, supersunt (vol. ii, Oxford, 1838, 8vo). There is an 
ancient Latin version, which is given with the Greek 
text by Usher; and there are modern Latin versions 
given by other editors of the Greek text, or in the 
Acta Sanctorum Januarii (ad d. 26), ii, 702, etc. There 
are English versions by archbishop Wake (Lond. 1693, 
8vo, ofteu reprinted), by Chevallier (Cambridge, 1833, 


8vo), and by Palrvmple, in his Remains of Christian 
Antiquity (Edinburgh, 1776, 8vo). See Cave, l. c. 
p. 65; Fabricius, l. c. p. 51 ; Lardner, l. c. c. 7 ; Ceil- 
lier, l. c. p. 695; Ittigius, Gallandius, and Jacobson, 11. 
cc. 

Folycarp the Ascetic. There is extant in Greek 
a life of the female saint Syneletica, which has been as- 
cribed to various persons. Some MSS. and the Greek 
ecclesiastical historian Nicephoros Callisti (//. E. viii, 
40) ascribe it to Athanasius; but Montfaueon, though he 
gives the piece with a Latin version in his edition of 
the works of Athanasius (ii, 681, etc.), classes it among 
the spurious works, and declares that the difference of 
style, and the absence of any external testimony for five 
or six centuries after Athanasius, leave no room to 
doubt its spuriousness. A copy, which was among the 
papers of Combefis, contains a clause, stating that the 
discourses or sayings of the saint had been reported by 
“the blessed Arsenius of Pegada?;” but this does not 
seem to describe him as the compiler of the narrative, 
but only as the author from whom part of the materials 
were derived. It is then most reasonable to follow the 
very ancient IMS. in the Vatican Library, which ascribes 
the biography to Polycarp the Ascetic or Monk, but 
where or when this Polvcarp lived cannot be deter- 
mined. The biography was first published in the Latin 
version of David Colvillus in the A eta Sanctorum Ja- 
nuarii, i, 242, etc. The original Greek text is said to 
have been published with some other pieces (Ingol- 
stadt, 1603, 4to) ; it is given with a new Latin version 
and notes in the Ecclesice Grcecce Monument u of Cotele- 
rius (Paris, 1677. 4to), i, 201, etc. The MS. used by 
Cotelerius contained neither the author’s name nor the 
final clause about Arsenius of Pegada?. The title of the 
piece is Biog Kai 7roXirsia rijc icrictg icai ciotdpov pi)- 
rpbg i)pw v (in Montfaucon’s edition, B. k. tt. rgc dying 
Kai yampiag icai didatrKciXov) SvyKXrjTucpc, Vita et 
Gesta sanctee celebrisque matris nnstree (or, according 
to Montfaueon, sanctce beateeque magistral) Syncleticce. 
See Fabricius. Biblioth. Grceca, x, 329. — Smith, Diet, of 
Class. Biot/, s. v. 

Polyeuct, the first martyr of Armenia, was a sol- 
dier in a Roman legion when converted to the Christian 
faith by one of his friends (Nearchus). For his faith 
he was sentenced to be beheaded. His martyrdom took 
place in 257. The Roman Catholic Church observes 
his memory on Feb. 13. The French poet, Pierre Cor- 
neille, made this case of martyrdom the subject of one 
of his most beautiful tragedies. — Hoefer, A ouv. Biog. 
Generate, s, v. 

Polygamy was anciently and still is a prevailing 
custom in the East (comp, of the Persians, Strabo, xv, 
733; Herod, i, 135; iii, 88; Rhode, Ileil. Sage, p. 443; 
of the Indians, Strabo, xv, 714; of the Medes, xi, 526; 
of the Getie, vii, 297 ; see also xvii, 835 ; on the Egyp- 
tians, see Herod, ii, 92; comp. Diod. Sic. i, 80; Ileng- 
stenberg, Mos. p. 210 sq.), which stands in close con- 
nection with the great fruitfulness of Eastern women ; 
and some have tried to show that it is connected with 
a preponderance of female births (Mariti, Reis. p. 14), 
but this is denied by Rurdach ( Physiol . i, 403 sq.) and 
the most recent authorities. Even the Mosaic law did 
not forbid polygamy (Polygyny'), which, indeed, existed 
among the Israelites from the beginning of their nation 
(Gen. xxviii, 9; xxix, passim; xxxvii, 2; xlvi, 10), 
but seems to - be expressly permitted (Dent, xxi, 16 sq. ; 
Exod. xxi, 9 sq.; Lev. xviii, 18) ; and there are several 
direct instances under the law (Judg.viii, 30), and more 
indirect ones (x, 4; xii, 9, 14), of polygamy, or at least 
bigamy, chiefly in the time of the Judges, let the 
lawgiver had certainly placed difficulties in the way of 
polygamy by many remarkable directions (comp, the 
Koran, iv, 3, which allows a Mussulman but four wedded 
wives, without, however, limiting the number of liis 
concubines !). The Mosaic law aimed at mitigating 
| rather than removing evils which were inseparable from 


POLYGAMY 


3G4 


POLYGAMY 


the state of society in that day. Its enactments were 
directed— 

(//. i To tlie discouragement of polygamy ; this object ! 
was forwarded by the following enactments: (1.) The 
castration of young men, which is usually associated j 
with polygamy, was forbidden (Dent, xxiii, 1), and thus 
attendants in the harem were not easily to be obtained; 
while marriageable women might reasonably expect 
each to obtain a separate husband. (2.) livery act of 
sexual intercourse rendered the man unclean for a day 
(Lev. xv, 1*1, which, with a considerable number of 
women, each of them having her peculiar claims upon 
him, would have been very burdensome. (3.) The fa- 
voring of one wife among several was forbidden (lixod. 
xxi, s sip), and the man was required to perform bis 
marriage obligations in equal measure to every wife. 
This limitation also would be oppressive to many. Be- 
sides all this, the mutual jealousy of the several wives 
of one man, which is the inevitable consequence of po- 
lygamy (l Sain, i, 2 sip; 2 Citron, xi, 21), renders home 
life unpleasant (Niebuhr, JStsr/inibunt/. \ i. 73 sip). The 
same reasott keeps some Turks from polygamy now’ 
(1 > - < Mtsson, ii. 3f-i; sip ; Voinov, ii. 3l!U sip). The result 
was that most Israelites contented themselves with a 
single wife (see I’rov. xii, I; xix, -11 ; xx.xi, It) stp), or 
at most took one or two concubines in addition. The j 
same appears to have been the case with the ancient 
Egyptians (Wilkinson. . I »c. Egyptians , ii, 02 sip). In , 
the age following the Captivity monogamy appears to 
have prevailed (comp. Tobit i, 1 1 : ii, 10; viii. 4, 13; ' 
Susan. 20, 03; Matt, xviii, 23; Luke i, 5; Acts v, 1). 
It became acknowledged, too, as a prescriptive obliga- 
tion, although the doctors of the law still held to their , 
old canon, that a man might marry wives at pleasure— 
a hundred if he would — provided that he had means of 
support for them, lienee we cannot in 1 Tim. iii, 2; ' 
Titus i, 0, think of a simultaneous polygamy (comp. ^ 
Vrspertr < Sruttig . [Amster. U5D8J, p. 125 sip), although it 
must be confessed that Paul’s expressions, taken alone, 
most naturally bear this interpretation. The Talmud- 
ists insist that no Jew can have more than four wives , 
at once, and a king, at most, but eighteen (Otho, Lex. 
Jiabhin. p. 52* stp; see csp. Selden, Jus. A 'at. et Cent, v, 
R; Ihixtorf, Spousal, p. 47 sq., in Ugolino, Thesaur. 
vol. xxx ; Michaelis, Mns. Hit. ii, 171 sq. ; John, 1, ii, 
235 stp ; comp. Selden, l)e Polygamia, bk. vii, in his 
t/tiii thiol, p. 343 sip). According to Deut. xvii, 17, 
kings were forbidden to take many wives; but in spite 
of this prohibition they (as e. g. David. 2 Sam. v, 13; 
Solomon, 1 Kings xi, 3; Uchoboam, 2 Cliron. xi, 21; 
Abijali, xiii, 21, and others; and so Herod the (ireat, 
Josephus. Ant. xvii, 1,3) had large harems, for whose 
service they procured eunuchs in foreign lands. See 
1 l.\i:i.M. 

i b.) The second object of the Mosaic regulations on 
the subject was to obviate the injustice frequently con- 
sequent upon the exercise of the rights of a father or a 
master. This was attained by the humane regulations 
rr ltivt to a captive whom a man might wish to marrv 
(Di'it. xxi, 10 lit, to a purchased wife (Exod. xxi, 
7 11, and to a slave who either was married at the 
lime of bis purrh.'uc, or who, having since received a 
wifr at the ban is of his master, was unwilling to Ik? 
parti I nn her xxi. 2 (I). and, lastly, by the law r 
rclaiiii to the legal distribution of property among 
tin- elnldri n of the dilli rent wives (Dent, xxi, 15-17). 

1 lit e pr i\ i»i tns embrace two quite distinct cases. ( 1.) 
The regulation* in I'xod. xxi. 7 11 deserve a detailed 
notice, as exhibiting the « \leut to which the power of 
the In-ad of a family might be carried. It must be pre- 
mised that the maiden was born of Hebrew parents, 
was nnthr age at the time of her sale (otherwise her 
father would have no power to sell), and that the object 
of tin* purchase was that when arrived m puberty she 
should become the wife of her master, as is implied j n 
the difference in the law relating to Imr t Lxod. xxi, 7) 
and to a slave purchased fur ordinary work i Dent, xv, 


12-17), as well as in the term amah, “maid-servant,” 
which is elsewhere used con vert ibly with “concubine” 
(Judg. ix, 1*; comp, viii, 31). With regard to such it 
is enacted ( 1) that she is not to “go out as the men- 
servants’ <i. e. be freed after six years’ service, or in 
the year of jubilee), on the understanding that her 
master either already has made, or intends to make her 
his w ife (vcr. 7); (2) hut, if he has no such intention, 
he is not entitled to retain her in the event of any other 
person of the Israelites being willing to purchase her of 
him for the same purpose (vcr. X) ; (3) he might, how- 
ever, assign her to his son, and in this case she was to 
l»o treated as a daughter, and not as a slave (ver. 9) ; (4) 
if either he or his son, having married her, took another 
wife, she was still to be treated as a wife in all respects 
(ver. 10) ; and, lastly, if neither of the three contingen- 
cies took place (i. c. if he neither married her himself, 
nor gave her to his son, nor had her redeemed), then 
the maiden w r as to become absolutely free without wait- 
ing for the expiration of the six years or for the year 
of jubilee (ver. 1 1). (2.) In the other case (Dent, xxi, 

10-14) we must assume that the wife assigned was a 
non-Israelitish slave; otherwise the wife woidd, as a 
matter of course, be freed along with her husband in 
the year of jubilee. In this case the wife and children 
would be the absolute property of the master, and the 
position of the wife would be analogous to that of the 
Koman eontubenialis, who was not supposed capable of 
any connubium. The issue of such a marriage would 
remain slaves in accordance with the maxim of the Tal- 
mudists, that the child is liable to its mother’s disqual- 
ification ( Kiddush . iii, 12). Josephus (Ant. iv, 8, 28) 
states that in the year of jubilee the slave, having mar- 
ried during service, carried off his wife and children 
with him : this, however, may refer to an Israelitish 
maid-servant. See Captive. 

(c.) The third object of the Mosaic statutes on this 
subject was to bring divorce under some restriction; 
and this was effected by rendering divorce a formal 
proceeding, not to be done by word of mouth as here- 
tofore, but by a “bill of divorcement” (Deut. xxiv, 1), 
which would generally demand time and the interven- 
tion of a third party, thus rendering divorce a less easy 
process, and furnishing the w r ife, in the event of its be- 
ing carried out, with a legal evidence of lier marriage- 
ability: we may also notice that Moses wholly prohib- 
ited divorce in case the wife had been seduced prior to 
marriage (xxii, 29), or her chastity had been ground- 
lessly impugned (xxii, 19). 

(r/.) The fourth object, which was to enforce purity 
of life during the maintenance of the matrimonial bond, 
forms the subject of one of the ten commandments 
! (Exod. xx, 14), any violation of which was punishable 
with death (Lev. xx, 10; Dent. xxii. 22). even in the 
ease of a betrothed person (Dent, xxii, 23, 24). See 
Adit.tkp.v. 

The practical results of these regulations may have 
been very salutary, but on this point we have but small 
opportunities of judging. The usages themselves, to 
which we have referred, remained in full force to a late 
period. We have instances of the arbitrary exercise of 
the paternal authority in the cases of Achsali (Judg. 
i, 12), Ibzan (xii. 9). Samson (xiv, 20; xv, 2), and 
Michal (1 Sam. xvii, 25). The case of Abisliag, and 
the language of Adouijali in reference to her (1 Kings 
i. 2; ii, 17), prove that a servant was still completely 
at the disposal of his or her master. Polygamy also 
prevailed, as we are expressly informed in reference 
to (lidenn (Judg. viii, 30), Elkannh (l Sam. i, 2), Saul 
(2 Sam. xii, 8), David (v, 13), Solomon (l Kings xi, 
3), the sons of Issachar (1 Citron, vii, 4), Shahnraim 
(viii. *. 9). Behohoam (2 Cliron. xi, 21), Abijali (xiii, 
21), and Joash (xxiv. 3); and as we may also infer 
from the number of children in the cases of Jair. Ibzan, 
and Abilon (Judg. x, 4; xii, 9, 14). It does not, how- 
ever, follow that it was the general practice of the 
country: the inconveniences attendant on polygamy 


POLYGAMY 


365 


POLYGAMY 


in small houses or with scanty ineomes are so great as ! 
to put a serious bar to its general adoption, anil hence | 
in modern countries where it is fully established the 
practice is restricted to comparatively few (Niebuhr, 
Voyage, p. 65; Lane, i, 239). The same rule holds 
good with regard to ancient times; the discomforts of 
polygamy are exhibited in the jealousies between the [ 
wives of Abraham (Gen. xvi, 6), and of Elkanah (1 
Sam. i, 6) ; and the cases cited above rather lead to the 
inference that it was confined to the wealthy. Mean- 
while it may be noted that the theory of monogamy 
was retained, and comes prominently forward in the 
pictures of domestic bliss portrayed in the poetical writ- 
ings of this period (Psa. cxxviii, 3; Prov. v, 18; xviii, 
22; xix, 14 ; xxxi, 10-29; Eccles. ix, 9). The sanc- 
tity of the marriage-bond was but too frequently vio- 
lated, as appears from the frequent allusions to the 
“ strange woman” in the book of Proverbs (ii, 1G ; v, 20, 
etc.), and in the denunciations of the prophets against 
the prevalence of adultery (Jer. v, 8; Ezek. xviii, 11; 
xxii, 11). 

In the post-Babylonian period monogamy appears to 
have become more prevalent than at any previous time; 
indeed, we have no instance of polygamy during this 
period on record in the Bible, all the marriages noticed 
being with single wives (Tob. i, 9; ii, li; Susan. 29, 
G3; Matt, xviii, 25; Luke i, 5; Acts v, 1). During 
the same period the theory of monogamy is set forth in 
Ecclus. xxvi, 1-27. The practice of polygamy never- 
theless still existed; Herod the Great had no less than 
nine wives at one time (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 1, 3) ; the 
Talmudists frequently assume it as a well-known fact 
(e. g. Ketub. x, 1 ; Yebam. i, 1) ; and the early Christian 
writers, in their comments on 1 Tim. iii, 2, explain it 
of polygamy in terms which leave no doubt as to the 
fact of its prevalence in the apostolic age. Michaelis 
(Laics of Moses, iii, 5, § 95) asserts that polygamy 
ceased entirely after the return from the Captivity; 
Selden, on the other hand, that polygamy prevailed 
among the Jews until the time of Honorius and Arca- 
dius (cir. A.D. 400), when it was prohibited by an im- 
perial edict (Ux. Ebr. i, 9). See Marriage. 

POLYGAMY, Christian Doctrine Concerning. 
Jesus does not directly forbid polygamy, nor even re- 
vert to the subject, since it had been almost universally 
given up. No case of polygamy among the Jews is 
presented in the Gospel narrative ; and when a wife is 
mentioned, it is stated or implied in the account that 
she is the only wife. The special evil of Jewish society 
was the facility of divorce — men putting away their 
wives for any, often a trifling, cause. Our Lord, when 
the Pharisees asked him (Matt, xix, 3-9) whether it 
was lawful for a man to put away his wife for every 
cause, replied that God at the beginning made them 
a male and a female (dpatv nai SijXy), thus indirectly 
condemning polygamy as contrary to the original in- 
stitution of marriage : with a male and a female only 
polygamy was impossible. He then declares that the 
bond of marriage is indissoluble; the husband and wife 
are no more twain, but one flesh ; and what God hath 
thus joined together let no man put asunder; and after- 
wards replies to their question on divorce: “Moses be- 
cause of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to 
put away your wives: but from the beginning it was 
not so.” The practice of polygamy then existed by 
permission, not by command. It was a positive tem- 
porary regulation of Moses as a political governor, not 
of God as a moral ruler. The Jew's had become hard- 
ened in their hearts; they were harsh and severe even 
to their own flesh. Their nearest relatives they treated 
with cruelty and injustice. Until the people could be 
brought into such a state that they could feel and un- 
derstand the force of law, it was necessary for their 
rulers meanw'hile to devise prudential regulations for 
the purpose of checking their lawlessness. All the evils 
of that early and idolatrous age of the world could not be 
remedied in a moment; and such was the state of soci- 


ety that not even until the advent of the Saviour was the 
institution of marriage restored to its primeval integrity 
by revoking the permission of polygamy and divorce. 
The teaching of the apostle Paul, too, is worthy of most 
serious attention, as the subject of polygamy must have 
come immediately before him. The Christian converts 
in the apostolic age may be divided into three classes : 
Jew’s, Homans, and Greeks. Polygamy, though not 
unknown among the Jews, had fallen, as we have said, 
into general disuse. It was positively forbidden by the 
Roman law, though divorce was even more frequent 
among the Homans than the Jews ; but it undoubtedly 
was the common usage of the Greeks. Thus Theodoret 
says: ndXat yat tiibSttoav nai"E\\T]veg teat 'lovSaloi 
tcai cvm Kai rptai teat 7r\t iom yvvai^i vvpty yd gov /card 
ravrbv avroactiv (Com. ini Tim. iii, 2). The epistles of 
Paul were generally addressed to Grecian converts; let 
us see, then, how he dealt with the question, which must 
have come directly before him. Two w'ays were open 
to the apostle: either a partial or temporary toleration, 
or an immediate and direct prohibition of the custom. 
The multitude of Greek converts were undoubtedly 
polygamists; it might seem a hard measure, and would 
produce much domestic discontent and misery, to com- 
pel converts to abandon their wives legally married 
according to the Grecian law. Did, then, the apostle 
permit the usage temporarily, either till that genera- 
tion had passed away, or until polygamists themselves 
were willing to conform to the higher Christian stand- 
ard? We most emphatically reply that the apostle 
■ never for even the briefest period tolerated polygamy 
among baptized or Christian disciples, and that it never 
existed in the Christian Church at all. Had it been 
tolerated even temporarily, some notice or reference to 
it would be found in the apostolic epistles. The sin- 
cerity of converts must have been put to a severe test: 
to give up their wives no doubt often involved a pain- 
ful sacrifice to Christian duty, yet so emphatic and 
peremptory must have been the apostle’s prohibition 
that not a murmur of opposition w r as heard from Cor- 
inth, Ephesus, Philippi, Thessalonica, and other Chris- 
tian communities. The apostle often censures Grecian 
converts for their violation of Christian duty, some of 
them having fallen from their regenerate state, and 
abandoned themselves to their old sins; but we find no 
reference to polygamy in his epistles, nothing which im- 
plies that it was continued or even known among them. 
There is no mention, however remote or indirect, of a 
believer’s vices. This .silence can only intimate the 
utter abandonment of the usage among Christians as 
clearly as the most emphatic statement. It could not 
have been tacitly allowed as indifferent, or permitted 
even for a brief period; since it must be remembered 
that the apostle had expressly forbidden polygamy, and 
if it existed at all in the Christian communities he 
planted, it could only have been in defiance of his 
I direct prohibition. No language can be plainer than 
that of 1 Cor. ch. vii : “Let every man have his own 
wife, and every woman her own husband ; let not the 
wife depart from her husband, let not a husband put 
away his wife.” Again, the non-existence of polyg- 
amy in the apostolic churches is implied in the same 
apostle’s comparison of marriage to the union of Christ 
|and his Church. The apostle says: “The husband 
is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the Head 
of the Church” (Eph. v, 23). But as Christ’s Church, 
j as Paul says, is one body (Eph. iv, 4), there woidd 
j be no meaning in the comparison, no similarity in 
the things compared, if the husband might have a 
! plurality of wives: the marriage union would not then 
have a typical representation of the union of Christ 
with the one body, which is his Church. Taking, 
again, the testimony of the Catholic Church, the evi- 
dence against polygamy will appear most positive and 
decisive. The mind of the divine Legislator was so 
clearly and ineffaceably stamped on his followers that 
i the usage in early and later ages of the Church was 


POLYGAMY 


36G 


POLYGAMY 


utterly unknown; there is no instance on record of 1 
a baptized polygamist for fifteen hundred years after 
Christ. Catholic, schismatic, and heretic, amid all their 
differences, agreed at lea-t on this point. No profess- 
ing Christian, however erroneous his belief or scanda- 
lous his life, ever ventured to revive the interdicted 
usage. The testimony of the Church, clearly brought 
before us by the consentient practice of Christians in 
all ages, is too explicit to leave room for further con- 
troversy, or any real doubt of the teaching of the New 
Testament on the subject. Besides, the practice of 
the whole world was strictly uniform, with one excep- 
tion in the 10th century, in an evil hour Luther un- 
happily gave permission to one of his followers to 
marry a second wife during the lifetime of the first — 
tin- landgrave of Hesse, lie was the lirst and the only 
Protestant polygamist of the Christian Church. 

In recent times the question of polygamy lias re- 
opened in the Christian Church, and has resumed great 
importance. Bishop Cnleuso in Africa, and mission- 
aries of several denominations in India, have deemed 
it expedient to allow heathen polygamists to retain 
their wives after baptism; though, on becoming Chris- 
tians, they are forbidden to add to the number of them. 
Polygamist converts are not allowed, as being it is sup- 
posed in an inferior state, to hear office in the Church.* 
Now this view of the subject and corresponding prac- 
tice can only he founded on an opinion or theory, which, 
if true, would render polygamy universally allowable 
among Christians. Let us ask ourselves the question. 
Is polygamy, according to the new dispensation, allow- 
able, or indifferent, or sinful V If allowable or indiffer- 
ent, why should it only be partially conceded, and not 
pcriniltcd at all time*? If it he wrong or sinful, how 
can we he justilied in allowing it even during the short- 
est period? Its temporary permission among heathen 
converts rests on no authority, scriptural or patristic, 
or any valid plea whatever: no primitive precedent 
can he quoted, though it is obvious that the same rea- 
sons for it might have been alleged in the a|«istolic 
age, and also, it may be added, hv missionaries in any 
subsequent period, as in modern times. In truth, its 
permission under any circumstances can only by logical 
sequence lead to its full sanction, ns in t lie foul and 
degraded system of Mormoni>m. But the defenders 
of modem polygamy will perhaps say that their strong- 
est argument in its defence has not yet been examined : 
they lay especial stress on the examples of the Old- 
Testament saints, which is probably the real reason 
why they venture to allow it, maintaining that Cod 
would not have permitted it for many ages had it been 
necessarily immoral or sinful. But are they prepared 
to say— which is the real question at issue — that in the 
New Testament there is no precept on the subject of 
marriage? If there he. the argument derived from 
the permitted usage of the old dispensation is of no 
value whatever, and may thus he stated: there was no 
positive law on t lie subject in the old dispensation, and 
hence many of the Jews were polygamists; there is a 




direct law' or precept in the New r Testament, and as 
such binding on believers, by xvhieh the Christian is 
limited to one wife. But should it he asserted that 
there is no positive precept on marriage in the New 
Testament, we shall thus have to fall hack upon the 
old dispensation for instruction and guidance ; in which 
case, w hy should we permit polygamy only for a time, 
or in the case of heathen converts, instead of allowing 
Christians universally to follow, if they please, the 
example of the patriarchs and saints of the Jewish 
Church? If polygamy be permitted to converts from 
heathenism, on the ground that there is no positive 
precept on the subject in the New Testament, and that 
we mav have recourse to the permission of the Jewish 
law. no reason most assuredly can be given why Chris- 
tians generally may not be permitted to avail them- 
selves of the sanction given to polygamy in the old 


dispensation, and by the example of its patriarchs and 
saints. “Experience,” says I)r. Spring, “has abun- 


* I i 1 *::4 the conference of missionaries of various de- 
i oini'Ciiions in ( nlnitlu, including those of llic Baptist, 
the London, and the Church Missionary Societies, of 
the i li n h of Scotland, and the American Presbyterian 
Board, «f*er having had the whole subject frequently tin- 
der dw tis-lon, ami after much mid serious deliberation, 
mion mini i agreed on the following propositions, though 
the e I id p eviously been much diversity of opinion 
among them on various points: “If a convert before be- 
comli g a i hrlstinii lias married more wives than one, 
in ae ndniiec with the practice of the Jewish ami early 
Christian churches, lie shall be permitted to keep them 
all. but such a person is not eligible to miy office in tin* 
Church. In no other case is polvgnmv to be tolerated 
among Christians" 1 Brown, Hint. iif Minnunm, ill, 3iV5, lira'.). 
If proof had been given that pnlvgnmv was allowed in 
the early Church, all controversy* on the subject would 
have been at an end; Its pei mission In modern times to 
converts from heathenism might have been allowed, or 
veu in many ca«es be desirable; (ml tin* statement it- 
elf has no support whatever either from Scripture or the 
writings of the fathers, or ecclesiastical history. 


dantly and painfully proved that polygamy debases 
and brutalizes both the body and the mind, and renders 
society incapable of those generous and refined affec- 
tions which, if duly cultivated, would be found to be 
the inheritance even of our fallen nature. Where is 
an instance in which polygamy has not been the source 
of many and bitter calamities in the domestic circle 
anil to the state? Where has it reared a virtuous, 
heaven-taught progeny? Where has it been distin- 
guished for any of the moral virtues; or, rather, where 
has it not been distinguished for the most fearful de- 
generacy of mankind? Where has it even been found 
friendly* to population? It has been reckoned that the 
number of inale infants exceeds that of females in the 
proportion of nineteen to eighteen, the excess of the 
males scarcely providing for their greater consump- 
tion by war, seafaring, and other dangerous or un- 
healthy occupations. It seems to have been ‘ the order 
of nature that one woman should be assigned to one 
man.’ And where has polygamy ever been friendly to 
the physical and intellectual character of the popula- 
tion? The Turks are polygamists, and so are the 
Asiatics; but how inferior a people to the ancient 
Greeks and Romans !” The practice of polygamy has 
sometimes been alleged to originate in the influence 
of climate, but. the fact cannot be denied that in the 
coldest as well as in the warmest climates it is found 
to exist. And though it must be admitted to prevail 
more extensively in regions situated towards the south, 
the more probable cause of this peculiarity will be 
found in ancient usage or religion, 'flic manners of 
different countries have varied in nothing more than 
in their domestic constitutions. Less polished and 
more luxurious nations have either not perceived the 
had effects of polygamy, or, if they did perceive them, 
they who in such countries possessed the power of re- 
forming the laws have been unwilling to resign their 
own gratifications. Polygamy is retained at this day 
in all Mohammedan countries, and throughout the 
whole Eastern world (sec a recent article on this sub- 
ject in the Westminster Herieir, Oct. 1 St>7. art. ij ; and 
even in countries like Algiers, where the French con- 
trolling inlluencc is manifest, the Jews practice polyg- 
amy to a large extent.* But among Western, or, bet- 
ter, Christian nations, it is universally prohibited. In 
Sweden it is punished with death. In England, be- 
sides the nullity of the second marriage, it subjects 
the offender to transportation or imprisonment and 
branding for the first offence, and to capital punish- 
ment for the second. About the middle of the Hit h 
century, Bernardos Ochinus, general of the < frder of 
Capuchins, anil afterwards a Protestant, published Di- 
alogues in favor of polygamy, to which Theodore Beza 
wrote a reply. In HiX2 a work entitled Pnltjffamia 
Triumphntrix appeared under the name of Theophilus 


* Since 1*70, when they were made citizens, they have 
been obliged to conform to the order of French law. 


POLYGAMY 


367 


POLYGLOT BIBLES 


Aletheus. The true name of the author was Lys- 
erus, a native of Saxony. In 1780 Martin Madan 
published Thelyphthora, or a Treatise on Female Ruin , 
in which he defended polygamy on the part of the 
male. The only exception in the West to monog- 
amous practice oecurs among the Mormons (q. v.). 
This strange sect teaches that the use and foundation 
of matrimony is to raise up a peculiar, holy people for 
the kingdom of God the Son, that at the millennium 
they may be raised to reign with him ; and the glory 
of the man will be in proportion to the size of his 
household of children, wives, and servants. Quoting 
the Scripture that “the man is not without the wom- 
an, nor the woman without the man,” they affirm that 
it is the duty of every man to marry at least once, and 
that a woman cannot enter into the heavenly king- 
dom without a husband to introduce her as belonging 
to himself. The addition of wives after the first to a 
man’s family is called a “sealing to him,” a process 
which constitutes a relation with all the rights and 
sanctions of matrimony. This introduction and con- 
tinuance of the baneful and immoral practice of polyg- 
amy is likely, sooner or later, to prove destructive to 
the whole system of Mormonism. 

The argument against polygamy from a strictly eth- 
ical and social standpoint is thus presented by Paley: 
“ The equality in the number of males and females born 
into the world intimates the intention of God that one 
woman should be assigned to one man ; for if to one 
man be allowed an exclusive right to five or more 
women, four or more men must be deprived of the ex- 
clusive possession of any; which could never be the 
order intended. It seems also a significant indication 
of the divine will that he at first created only one 
woman to one man. Had God intended polygamy for 
the species, it is probable he would have begun with 
it ; especially as by giving to Adam more wives than 
one the multiplication of the human race would have 
proceeded with a quicker progress. Polygamy not 
only violates the constitution of nature, and the appa- 
rent design of the Deity, but produces to the parties 
themselves, and to the public, the following bad ef- 
fects.: contests and jealousies among the wives of the 
same husband; distracted affections, or the loss of all 
affection in the husband himself; a voluptuousness in 
the rich which dissolves the vigor of their intellectual 
as well as active faculties, producing that indolence and 
imbecility, both of mind and body, which have long 
characterized the nations of the East; the abasement 
of one half of the human species, who, in countries 
where polygamy obtains, are degraded into instruments 
of physical pleasure to the other half; neglect of chil- 
dren ; and the manifold and sometimes unnatural mis- 
chiefs which arise from a scarcity of women. To com- 
pensate for these evils, polygamy does not offer a single 
advantage. In the article of population, which it has 
been thought to promote, the community gain nothing 
(nothing, I mean, compared with a state in which mar- 
riage is nearly universal) ; for the question is not 
whether one man will have more children by five or 
more wives than by one, but whether these five wives 
would not bear the same or a greater number of chil- 
dren to five separate husbands. And as to the care of 
children when produced, and the sending of them into 
the world in situations in which they may be likely to 
form and bring up families of their own, upon which 
the increase and succession of the human species in a 
great degree depend, this is less provided for and less 
practicable where twenty or thirty children are to be 
supported by the attention and fortunes of one father 
than if they were divided into five or six families, to 
each of which were assigned the industry and inherit- 
ance of two parents.” Thus far Dr. Paley. We shall 
close this article with the words of an excellent writer 
on the same side of the subject: “When we reflect,” 
he says, “that the primitive institution of marriage 
limited it to one man and one woman; that this insti- 


tution was adhered to by Noah and his sons, amid the 
degeneracy of the age in which they lived, and in spite 
of the example of polygamy which the accursed race of 
Cain had introduced ; when we consider how very few 
(comparatively speaking) examples of this practice there 
were among the faithful ; how much it brought its own 
punishment with it; and how dubious and equivocal 
those passages are in which it appears to have the sanc- 
tion of the divine approbation ; when to these reflec- 
tions we add another respecting the limited views and 
temporary nature of the more ancient dispensations and 
institutions of religion, how often the imperfections and 
even vices of the patriarchs and people of God in old 
time are recorded, without any express notification of 
their criminality — how much is said to be commanded 
which our reverence for the holiness of God and his law 
will only suffer us to suppose were for wise ends permit- 
ted; how frequently the messengers of God adapted 
themselves to the genius of the people to whom they 
were sent, and the circumstances of the times in which 
they lived; above all, when we consider the purity, 
equity, and benevolence of the Christian law, the ex- 
plicit declarations of our Lord and his apostle Faul re- 
specting the institution of marriage, its design and lim- 
itation; when we reflect, too, on the testimony of the 
most ancient fathers, who could not possibly be ignorant 
of the genera] and common practice of the apostolic 
Church; and, finally, when to these considerations we 
add those which are founded on justice to the female 
sex, and all the regulations of domestic economy and 
national policy, we must wholly condemn the revival of 
polygamy.” See Paley, Moral Philosophy, i, 319-325; 
Madan, Thelyphthora ; Towers, Wills, Penn, K. Hill, 
Palmer, and Haweis, Answers to Madan; Monthly Rev. 
Ixiii, 338 ; and also vol. lxix ; Beattie, Elements of Moral 
Science, ii, 127-129: Wuttke, Christian Ethics, ii, 30G 
sq. ; Harless, Eth ics (see Index); and the literature 
quoted in the article Maruiage. (.1. II. W.) 

Polyglot Bibles. Although the earliest speci- 
men of a polyglot was that of a projected work of the 
celebrated printer Aldus Manutius, of which one page 
only was published, the first of this kind was the Com- 
pluteimam Polyglot, entitled Bihlia Sacra Polyglotta, 
complecientia Yetus Testamcntum, Ilebraico, Chaldaico , 
Grceco, et Latino uliomate; Novum Testamenium Grce- 
cum et Latinum ; et vocabularium Hebraicum et Chal- 
daicum, cum grammatica Hebraica ; necnon dictionario 
Grceco. De mandato et suniptibus Cardinalis Francisci 
Ximenis de Cisneros (6 vols. fob, in Complutensi Uni- 
versitate, 1514-17). As the title already indicates, we 
are indebted for this work to the celebrated cardinal, 
statesman, and general, Francis Ximenes de Cisneros 
[see Ximenes], who published it at his own expense, at 
the cost of 50,000 ducats. It was commenced in 1502, 
completed in 1517, and published in 1522. The editors 
were .Eli us Antonins, Ducas, Pineianus, Stunica, Za- 
mora, Coronellus, and Johannes de Vergara. The last 
three were originally Jews. The first four volumes con- 
tain the O. T., with the Hebrew, Latin, and Greek, in 
three columns, the Targum, and a Latin version of the 
same. The position of the Latin between the Hebrew 
and the Greek was to indicate that just as Christ was 
crucified between two thieves, so the Roman Church, 
represented by St. Jerome’s version, is crucified between 
the synagogue, represented by the Hebrew text, and 
the Eastern Church, denoted by the Greek version. 
The fifth volume contains the Greek Testament, with 
the Latin Vulgate. The last volume consists of vocab- 
ularies, indexes, etc. The Greek Testament was fin- 
ished in 1517 ; but the MSS. were modern, and not of 
much critical value (see Dr. Bowring’s letter, Monthly 
Repository for 1827, p. 572). There is little doubt that 
the celebrated text of the Three Witnesses in this edi- 
tion was translated from the Latin. There were only 
600 copies printed of this splendid work, of which three 
were on vellnm. One of these was sold in England in 
1829 for 600 guineas. 


3C8 


rOLYIIISTOR 


POLYGLOT BIBLES 


The Antwerp Polyglot was published in 15G9-72, in 
8 vols. ful.. at the expense of Philip II, kin" of Spain, 
whence it is aP<» railed Biblia Ihgia. It contains, in 
addition to the < 'ompliiloiisian texts, a Chaldee para- 
phrase. the Syriac version, and the Latin translation of 
Arias M<*ntaim». which was a corre *tijn of that of Pag- 
ninns. ]i alvi contains lexicons and grammars of the 
various languages of the originals and versions. See 
Aim is Mom am s. 

The Paris J‘> hjglot, in addition to the contents of the 
former works, has a Syriac and Arabic version of both 
the i t. T. and X. T., with the Samaritan Pentateuch, 
now published for the lirst time, and edited by J. Mori- 
ons. fibs polyglot also contains the Samaritan version 
of the same. It was published in Hilo, in 10 vols. large 
folio. The editor of this valuable but unwieldy work 
was Michael le Jay, who was ruined by tile publication. 
See Lk Jay. 

The Lawton Polyglot, edited by Prinn Walton, after- 
wards bishop of Chester, is much more comprehensive 
than any of the former. It was published in 1657, in 6 
vols. fid. The lirst volume, besides prolegomena (pub- 
lished separately by A. 1 lathe, Lips. 1777V contains the 
Pentateuch, exhibiting on one page the Hebrew text, 
with the interlinear Latin version of Arias Montanos, 
the Latin Vulgate of the t'lenientine edition, the Sep- 
tuagint of the Homan edition, and the various read- 
ings of the Cod. Alex., the Latin version of I’lamin- 
ius Xobilius, the Syriac with a Latin version, the Tar- 
gum of t hikelns with a Latin version, the Samaritan 
Pentateuch with the Samaritan version of the same, 
and a Latin translation serving for both, and the Arabic 
with a Latin version. The second volume comprises 
the historical books, with the Targums of Jonathan. 
The third volume contains the books from Job to Mala- 
chi, ami, besides the versions in all the former lan- 
guages, the Psalms in Ethiopic, and a Latin translation. 
The fourth volume has all the 1 tentero-canonical books 
in (ireek, Latin, Arabic, and Syriac; the two Hebrew 
texts of Tobit, and two Chaldee and a Persian Targum 
on the Pentateuch, with Latin versions. The fifth vol- 
ume has the X. T., with Arias Montanus’s translation; 
tin 1 Syriac, Persic, Latin. Vulgate, Arabic, and Ethiopic 
versions. These, with separate Latin versions of the 
Oriental translations, are all given on one page. The 
sixth volume contains various readings and critical re- 
marks. The whole of this stupendous labor was com- 
pleted in four years. It was published by subscription, 
under the patronage of Oliver Cromwell, who died be- 
fore its completion. This gave occasion to the cancel- 
ling of two leaves of the preface, in order to transfer to 
king Charles II the compliments addressed to Crom- 
well. There are in consequence both republican and 
royal copies, the former of which are the most scarce 
and valuable. For the variations between these, see 
Sutler's Horn- Uiblinv and Adam Clarke’s Succession of 
Sncnd Lit/ ratine. This polyglot was accompanied by 
CiiMell’s Ih jitaglot Jjxicnn, in 2 vols. fol. .See Cas- 
t i. i-i ; Walton. 

I lie l.ii/isie or lit iw mins s Polyglot , published under 
the Mlo y.iVwi Sacra ( Intidrilioynirti |". Test, l/ebr. etc. 
(C L *’L J M'ls. lid.). | he X. T. was published iirst 
in Hid, and with a new title-page in 1747, while the 
It. I . was j m I »li >1 i«*d in 1750 51. The first volume eon- 
tams the historical books, the second the remaining 
lmoks ot tin n. I.. together with the apocryphal hooks. 
Pesides the Hebrew, the All xandriau version and Sob. 
Sell midi’s Latin and Luther’s t.crman translation are 
given. I lie Creek text i f the apocryphal books is that 
of Drain*. Hu- X. 1'.. c mprisiug ( he third volume, 
has. besides the Hre.-k. tin* Syria.*, the vulgar (ireek 
version, and >. S hmidt's Latin and Luther's Herman 
version. 

Resides Keiuereiiis’s version, we may mention the 
JltuhlUrg or lit rt ram's Polyglot (d vols.'fol.. ex ollieina 
Saiiet-Aiidreaiia, 15*6; 2d ed. l.V.i'i; dd oil. 1616), the 
Hamburg or Waitin' s Polyglot (Hamburg, 15D6, fol.). 


and Hutter's, of which only the Pentateuch, Joshua, 
Judges, and Ruth were published (Xorimbergse, 1599, 
fob), and the X. T. Put by far the best of all these 
small polyglots is Ilcineccius’s. 

Of the polyglots published in our century, w’C men- 
tion Mr. Pagster’s Polyglot (Loud. 1831, fob), containing 
in one volume the Hebrew text, the Samaritan Penta- 
teuch, the Septuagint, Vulgate, and Syriac versions, the 
< ireek text of Mill in the X. T., together with Luther’s 
Herman, Diodati's Italian, Ostervald’s French, Scio’s 
Spanish, and the English A. V. of the Pible. The pro- 
legomena of S. Lee are a very useful help to the student. 
The cheapest and most generally useful polyglot is one 
entitled Pnlgglotten - Bibel zum praktiseken llandge- 
brauch, edited by Drs. Stier and Theile. It contains 
the Hebrew, Septuagint, Vulgate, and German, in the 
O. T., and the ( ireek, Vulgate, and Herman, in the X. T. 
The latest polyglot edition is the Jlexuglot Bible, com- 
prising the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testa- 
ments in the original Tongues, together with the Septua- 
gint, the Syriac (of (he New Testament), (he Vulgate, the 
Authorized English and German, and the most approved 
French Versions, edited by II. Dc Levante (Loud. 1876, 
6 vols. royal 4to), 

There are also polyglots of several portions of the 
Pible, of which one of the most valuable is that pub- 
lished at Constantinople, in Hebrew’, Chaldee, Persian, 
and Arabic, in 1546. The Habbinieal Pibles (q. v.) are 
in many cases also to some extent polyglot. Resides 
the article Pnsi,E, see Ernesti, Be Bibliis Polyglottis 
(Wittenb. 16.S8); Darling, Cycloptedia Iiibliographica 
(Holy Scriptures), cob 39 sq. ; Ilosenmiiller, Uundbuch 
tier biblischen Literatur, iii, 281 sq. ; Le Long-Masch, 
Bibliotheca Sacra, i, 331 sq.; Eicbhorn, Einleitung in 
das A. Test . (Index in vol. v, s. v. Polyglotte) ; Simon, 
Hist. Critique du Vieux Testament (Rotterdam, 1685), p. 
514 sq.; Carpzov, Critica Sacra (Lipsia, 1748), p. 387 
sq. ; Kortholt, Tract, de variis Script urte edition, cap. 
xxxii, p. 374 sq. ; Teazel, Diatribe Philol. de Bibliis 
Polyglottis (Wittenb. 1686); Celsius, De Bibliis Poly- 
glottis dissertatio (Upsala. 1707); Wolf, Jliblioth. Hebr. 
vol. ii, § 10, p. 332 sq.; Walton, Prolegom. § 14; Ilot- 
tinger, Bibliothecur. Quudripartitum, p. 133 sq. ; Alter, 
Bibliograph. Xachrichten (Wien, 1779), p. 30 sq. ; Rcuss, 
Bibliotheca Novi Testaments, etc. (Prunsvigiue, 1872), 
§ 5; and bis art. Polyglotten-Bibeln in Herzog, lieal-En- 
cyklop. ; the art. Polyglott in Kitto; Diestel, Gesch. des 
Alien Test. (Jena, 1869), p. 207, 254, 255; and, as far as 
the Complutensiun Polyglot is concerned, the excellent 
monograph of Delitzsch, Studien zur Entsteh u ngsgesch . 
dev Polyqlotteu- Bibel des Cardinals Ximenes (Lr-ips. 
1871). (P. P.) 

Polyhistor, Alexander, a Homan writer whose 
works have been used by the Church fathers, a na- 
tive of Cotyamm in Phrygia, according to some, and of 
Miletus according to others, was a geographer and his- 
torian, who lived in the 7th century of Home, and was 
taken prisoner by the Homans in the war of Sulla against 
Mithridates. Being purchased by Cornelius Lentnlus, 
be was intrusted by him with the education of his chil- 
dren, and at last received his freedom. He then as- 
sumed the name of Cornelius, after that, of his patron, 
lie resided chiefly at Home, and had a country-house at 
Lnurentiim, in which, having taken fire while lie was 
there, lie perished in the flames. lie is often mentioned 
and quoted by Pliny the Elder, Diogenes Laertius, Cle- 
mens Alexandrimis, and Eusebius, as a man of very ex- 
tensive learning, in consequence of which he was styled 
Polyhistor. lie wrote a work in forty books, each book 
being the description of a distinct country. Stephanas 
Pyzantinus mentions his account of Piiliynia. Caria, 
Paphlagonia, Syria, Libya, Crete, and other countries. 
Clemens Alexandrimis quotes liis Treatise on the Jews, 
of which Eusebius lias inserted fragments in his ‘‘Chro- 
nograph}’.” Clemens Alexandrians mentions another 
work of Polyhistor, on the Symbtd of Pythagoras ; anti 
Cyril of Alexandria, in his work against Julian, quotes 


POLYHYMNIA 


3C9 


POLYNESIA 


his authority on the early history of the world. Unfor- 
tunately none of Pulvhistor’s works have come down to 
us. — English Cyclop, s. v. 

Polyhymnia, a daughter of Zeus, or Jupiter, and 
one of the nine Muses. She presided over lyric poetry, 
and was believed to have invented the lyre. 

Polynesia, or the region of many islands ( TroXiig , 
many, and vijaoc, an island ), is the name usually given, 
with more or less of limitation, to the numerous groups 
of islands, and some few single islands, scattered through- 
out the great Pacific Ocean, between the eastern shores 
of Asia and the western shores of America. In its widest 
signification, the term Polynesia might be understood as 
embracing, besides the groups hereafter to be mentioned, 
the various islands, large and small, of the Indian Ar- 
chipelago, in one direction, and the vast island of New 
Holland (q. v.) or Australia, with its dependency of 
Van Diemen’s Land, in another. Including these, the 
whole region has sometimes been called Oceanica, and 
sometimes Australasia — generally, however, in modern 
times, to the exclusion of the islands in the Indian Ar- 
chipelago, to which certain writers have given the name 
of Malaysia. In proportion, also, as the area of mari- 
time discovery has become enlarged, it has been thought 
convenient by some geographers to narrow still further 
the limits of Polynesia, to the exclusion of Australia and 
Van Diemen's Land ; while others, again, exclude Papua 
(q. v.) or New Guinea, New Ireland (q. v.), Solomon’s 
Isles (q. v.), the Louisiade group, the New Hebrides 
(q. v.), New Caledonia (q. v.), and certain other groups 
and single islands, together with New Zealand (q. v.). 
from the area of Polynesia, and give to these, in union 
with Australia, the collective designation of Australasia. 
To all these, with the exception of New Zealand, French 
writers have given the name of Melanesia, or the Black 
Islands; while a similar name, Kelenonesia, has been 
given to them by Priehard and Latham — purely, how- 
ever, on ethnological grounds, as we shall presently no- 
tice. Thus we have the three geographical divisions 
of Malaysia, Australasia, and Polynesia, the last men- 
tioned of which embraces all the groups and single isl- 
ands not included under the other two. Accepting this 
arrangement, still the limits between Australasia and 
Polynesia have not been very accurately defined; in- 
deed, scarcely any two geographers appear to be quite 
agreed upon the subject; neither shall we pretend to 
decide in the matter. The following list, however, 
comprises all the principal groups and single islands 
not previously named as coming under the division of 
Australasia — viz.: 1. North of the equator — the Ladrone 
or Marian Islands, the Pelew Islands, the Caroline Isl- 
ands, the Radack and Ralick chains, the Sandwich Isl- 
ands, Gilbert’s or Ivingsmill’s Archipelago, and the Ga- 
lapagos. 2. South of the equator — the Ellice group, 
the Phoenix and Union groups, the Fiji Islands, the 
Friendly Islands, the Navigator’s Islands, Cook’s or 
Harvey Islands, the Society Islands, the Dangerous Ar- 
chipelago, the Marquesas Islands, Pitcairn Island, and 
Easter Island. (In the former part of this article we 
largely depend upon Chambers’s Cyclopedia, ami in the 
latter part upon Gardner’s Faiths of all Nations.') 

Geographical Description. — These islands, which ex- 
tend from about 20° north of the equator to about 30° 
south of it, are some of them volcanic in their origin, 
and some of them coralline. The volcanic islands gen- 
erally rise to a considerable height above the level of 
the ocean, and are therefore called the high islands, in 
contradistinction to the coralline or low islands. They 
consist of basalt and other igneous formations. Of these, 
the principal are the Friendly Islands, one of which, 
Otaheite or Tahiti, has a mountain rising to the height 
of 10,000 feet; the Marquesas Islands (q. v.), also very 
high; the Samoan (q. v.) or Navigator’s Islands; and 
the Sandwich Islands (q. v.), of which Owyhee or Ha- 
waii possesses several both active and extinct craters, 
13,000, 14,000, and even 16,000 feet high. The Gala- 
VIII. — A a 


pagos group, nearest of all to South America, are like- 
wise of igneous origin, and have several still active 
craters. The remaining islands are for the most part 
of coralline formation. Of the islands generally, we 
need only further observe that, although situated within 
the tropics, the heat of the atmosphere is delightfully 
tempered by a succession of land and sea breezes. The 
soil is exceedingly fertile, and, besides the vegetable 
productions found growing when the islands were first 
discovered by Europeans, it has given a welcome home 
to the orange, lemon, sugar-cane, gnava, cotton, potato, 
melon, and other fruits and plants introduced by foreign 
visitants. The only native quadrupeds on any of the 
islands when first visited were pigs, dogs, and rats; but 
the ox, the sheep, the goat, and even the horse, have 
since been successfully introduced into many of the 
groups. The feathered tribes are numerous, likewise 
the inseets, and the coasts everywhere abound with a 
vast variety of fish and Crustacea, highly important as 
a matter of food to the inhabitants of those islands in 
which quadrupeds, whether native or introduced, are 
found in only a small number. For a more particular 
description of the several groups we refer to the dis- 
tinct articles of Fiji; Friendly Islands; Sandwich 
Islands, etc. ; and shall now proceed to speak of the 
Polynesians generally. 

Inhabitants. — This race of people, supposed at one 
time by certain writers to be of American origin, is 
now almost universally admitted to have a close af- 
finity with the Malays (q. v.) of the peninsula and In- 
dian Archipelago, and hence is classified with them by 
Dr. Latham under his subdivision of Oceanic Mongolidce. 
In physical structure and appearance, the Polynesians 
in general more nearly resemble the Malays than they 
do any other race, although differing from them in some 
respects, as, indeed, the natives of several of the groups 
also do from each other. In stature, they are generally 
taller than the Malays, and have a greater tendency to 
corpulence. In eolor, also, they more nearly approach 
that of the Europeans. The hair is often waved or 
curling, instead of long and straight, and the nose is 
frequently aquiline. These differences, however, which 
may all have been produced by lapse of time and differ- 
ent conditions of existence, offer no barrier to the strong 
presumption that at some long antecedent period these 
islands were colonized by Malay adventurers. The dis- 
tance between the more western groups of Polynesia 
and the eastern islands of the Indian Archipelago is not 
so great but that it could have been easily overcome by 
a hardy race of sailors, even although their vessels may 
not have been so well constructed as in modern times; 
and the same reasoning holds good with respect to the 
other groups extending still farther east, or still more 
to the north or south. Each island or group, as it was 
attained, would only form a convenient point of depart- 
ure in process of time for some other island or group 
more remotely situated. It is true that the affinities 
of language are not. great between the Malay-s and the 
Polynesians; still some affinity has been recognised 
by philologists; while in their manners and customs a 
strong resemblance has been shown to exist, as in the 
institution of caste, the practice of circumcision, the 
chewing of the betel-nut, and other things. Many other 
facts might be mentioned in favor of the theory of a 
Malay settlement, not only of Polynesia, but of the isl- 
ands called Melanesia or Keltenonesia as well ; the last 
mentioned being inhabited by a race almost identical 
with the Negritos [see Negrillos] or Pelagian Ne- 
groes of the Eastern Arehipelago. 

Dr. Latham, in treating of the Polynesians, divides 
them into two branches — viz.: 1. The Micronesian 
branch, and 2. The Proper Polynesian branch. His 
theory as to the probable line of migration is as fol- 
lows: “The reason for taking the Micronesian branch 
before the Froper Polynesian involves the following 
question : What was the line of population by which 
the innumerable islands of the Pacific, from the Pelews 


POLYNESIA 


370 


POLYNESIA 


to Faster Island, and from t ho Sandwich Islands to New 
Zealand, became inhabited by tribes different from, but 
still allied to, the Protonesian Malays? That line, 
whichever it be, where the continuity of successive isl- 
ands is the greatest, and whereon the fewest consider- 
able interspaces of ocean are to be found. This is the 
general answer a priori, subject to moditications from 
the counterbalancing phenomena of winds or currents 
unfavorable to the supposed migration. Now this an- 
swer. when applied to the geographical details regard- 
ing the distribution of laud and sea in the great oceanic 
area, indicates the following line: New tiuinea. Now 
Ireland, the New Hebrides, the Fijis, and the Tonga 
group, etc. From hence the Navigator’s Islands, the 
isles of the Dangerous Archipelago, the Kingsinill and 
other groups, carry the frequently diverging streams 
of population over the Caroline Islands, the Ladroncs, 
the 1 ’clews, Faster Island, etc. This view, however, 
so natural an inference from a mere land and sea survey, 
is complicated by the ethnological position of the New 
tiuinea. New Ireland, and Hew Hebrides population. 
These are not 1’rotonesian, and they arc not Polynesian. 
Lastly, they are not intermediate to the two. They 
break rather than propagate the continuity of the hu- 
man stream a continuity which exists geographically, 
hut fails cthnographically. The recognition of this 
conflict between the two probabilities lias determined 
me to consider the Microncsian Archipelago as that part 
of Polynesia which is most likely to have been first 
peopled, and hence a reason for taking it lirst in order. 
The islands comprised in the Microncsian branch are 
the Pelew Islands, the Caroline Islands, the Marian Isl- 
ands. and the Tarawan or Kingsmill group. In phys- 
ical appearance, the inhabitants of these groups more 
nearly resemble the Malays than is the case with the 
Polynesians Proper. In person, they are not so tall as 
the latter. Their language has numerous dialects, most 
of which would perhaps be unintelligible to the groups 
farther south and east. In religion, they are pagans; 
hut their mythology and traditions differ from those of 
the Polynesians Proper. Neither is the custom of the 
taboo and the use of kawa so prevalent as they are 
found to be among the latter. 

The Proper Polynesians, so called, are found in the 
Fiji Islands, but not to the same extent as in the fol- 
lowing viz., the Navigator's or Samoan Islands, the 
Society Islands, and Friendly Islands; also in the Sand- 
wich Islands, the Marquesas, the Dangerous Archipel- 
ago, etc. In physical appearance, they are the hand- 
somest and tallest of all the natives of the Pacific islands, 
with the exception, perhaps, of the New Zealanders or 
Maoris. 'I he aquiline nose is commonly seen among 
them, and there arc many varieties both of hair and 
complexion. Their face is generally oval, with largish 
ears and wide nostrils. In the islands nearest to the 

< qiiator the skin is said to he the fairest, and it is darker 
in the coral islands than in the volcanic. Their lan- 
guage is said to bear some affinity to the Tngaln, and is 
split up into numerous dialects, all, however, to a great 

< Mi nt mutually intelligible among the several groups. 

Previous to the introduction of Christian- 
i 1 v m Polynesia, in the end of the last and beginning of 
tiie promt century, the Polynesians were involved in 
groM heathen darkness and superstition. Their ob- 
jecis of worship were of three kinds — their deified 
ancestor*, their idols, and their l'.tu. Their ancestors 
were converted into divinities on account of the benefits 
wliieh they had conferred upon mankind. Thus one of 
their progenitors was believed to have created the sun, 
moon, and stars. “Another tradition.” says Mr. Will- 
iams, in bis A amitirr of M immury J.ntt r prises in the 
South Sen IslamU, “stated that t lie* heavens were orig- 
in 11 }' so close to the earth that men could not walk, 
but were compelled to crawl. This was a serious evil; 
but at length an individual conceived the sublime idea 
of elevating the heavens to n more convenient height. 
For this purpose he put forth his utmost energy; and. 


by the first effort, raised them to the top of a tender 
plant, called tore, about four feet high. There he de- 
posited them until he was refreshed; when, by a second 
effort, lie lifted them to the height of a tree called kaua- 
riki, which is as large as the sycamore. By the third 
attempt lie carried them to the summits of the moun- 
tains : and, after a long interval of repose, and by a most 
prodigious effort, he elevated them to their present sit- 
uation. This vast undertaking, however, was greatly 
facilitated by myriads of dragon-flies, which with their 
wings severed the cords that confined the heavens to 
the earth. Now this individual was deified; and up to 
the moment that Christianity was embraced, the de- 
luded inhabitants worshipped him as ‘the elevator of 
the heavens.’” The Polynesians had various other 
gods who were deified men. The chief of these deities, 
to whom mothers dedicated their children, were I/iro, 
the god of thieves, and Oro, the god of war. The idols 
worshipped were different in almost every island and 
district. Besides the numerous objects of adoration, 
the islanders generally, and the Samoans in particular, 
had a vague idea of a Supreme Being, to whom they 
gave the name ofTangaroa. The mode in which these 
gods were adored is thus described by Air. Williams: 
“The worship presented to these deities consisted in 
prayers, incantations, and offerings of pigs, fish, vegeta- 
ble food, native cloth, canoes, and other valuable prop- 
erty. To these must be added human sacrifices, which, 
at some of the islands, were fearfully common. An idea 
may be formed of their addresses to the gods from the 
sentence with which they invariably concluded. Hav- 
ing presented the gift, the priest would say, ‘Now, if 
you are a god of mercy, come this way, and be propi- 
tious to this offering; but if you are a god of anger, go 
outside the world, von shall neither have temples, offer- 
ings, nor worshippers here.’ The infliction of injuries 
upon themselves was another mode in which they wor- 
shipped their gods. It was a frequent practice with the 
Sandwich Islanders, in performing some of their rites, to 
knock out their front teeth, and the Friendly Islanders 
to cut off one or two of the bones of their little fingers. 
This, indeed, was so common that scarce an adult could 
be found who bad not in this way mutilated his hands. 
On one occasion, the daughter of a chief, a fine young 
woman about eighteen years of age, was standing by 
my side, and as I saw by the state of the wound that 
she had recently performed the ceremony. I took her 
hand, and asked her why she had cut off her finger. 
Her affecting reply was that her mother was ill, and 
that, fearful lest her mother should die, she had done 
this to induce the gods to save her. ‘ Well,’ said I, 
‘ how did you do it V’ ‘ Oh,’ she replied, ‘ I took a sharp 
shell, and worked it about till the joint was separated, and 
then I allowed the blood to stream from it. This was 
my offering to persuade the gods to restore my mother.’ 
When, at a future period, another offering is required, 
they sever the second joint of the same finger; and when 
a third or fourth is demanded, they amputate the same 
hones of the other little linger; and when they have no 
more joints which they can conveniently spare, they rub 
the stumps of their mutilated lingers with rough stones, 
until the blood again streams from the wound. Thus ‘are 
their sorrows multiplied who hasten after other gods.’” 

The most affecting of the religious observances of the 
Polynesians was the sacrifice of human victims. This 
horrid custom did not prevail at the Navigator Islands; 
but it was carried to a fearful extent at the Harvey 
group, and still more at the Tahitian and Society 
Islands. At one ceremony, called the Feast of Restora- 
tion, no fewer than seven human beings were offered in 
sacrifice. On the. eve of war, also, it was customary to 
offer human victims. It may be interesting to notice 
the circumstances in which the last sacrifice of this kind 
was offered at Tahiti. “Pomare was about to fight a 
baitlo. which would confirm him in. or deprive him of, 
his dominions. To propitiate the gods, therefore, by the 
most valuable offerings lie could command, was with 


POLYNESIA 


371 


POLYNESIA 


him an object of the highest concern. For this pur- 
pose rolls of native cloth, pigs, fish, and immense quan- 
tities of other food were presented at the maraes ; but 
still a tabu, or sacrifice, was demanded. Pomare, there- 
fore, sent two of his messengers to the house of the vic- 
tim whom he had marked for the occasion. On reach- 
ing the place, they inquired of the wife where her 
husband was. She replied that he was in such a place, 
planting bananas. ‘Well,’ they continued, ‘we are 
thirsty ; give us some cocoa-nut water.’ She told them 
that she had no nuts in the house, but that they were 
at liberty to climb the trees, and take as many as they 
desired. They then requested her to lend them the o, 
which is a piece of iron-wood, about four feet long and 
an inch and a half in diameter, with which the natives 
open the cocoa-nut. She cheerfully complied with their 
wishes, little imagining that she was giving them the 
instrument which, in a few moments, was to inflict a fa- 
tal blow upon the head of her husband. Upon receiv- 
ing the o, the men left the house, and went in search of 
their victim; and the woman, having become rather 
suspicious, followed them shortly after, and reached the 
place just in time to see the blow inflicted and her hus- 
band fall. She rushed forward to give vent to her 
agonized feelings and take a last embrace; but she w r as 
immediately seized and bound hand and foot, while the 
body of her murdered husband was placed in a long 
basket made of cocoa-nut leaves and borne from her 
sight. It appears that they were always exceedingly 
careful to prevent the wife or daughter, or any female 
relative, from touching the corpse, for so polluted were 
females considered that a victim would have been des- 
ecrated by a woman’s touch or breath to such a degree 
as to have rendered it unfit for an offering to the gods. 
While the men w r ere carrying their victim to the rnarae, 
he recovered from the stunning effect of the blow, and, 
bound as be was in the cocoa-nut leaf basket, he said to 
his murderers, * Friends, I know what you intend to do 
with me: you are about to kill me, and offer me as a 
tabu to your savage gods; and I also know' that it is 
useless for me to beg for mercy, for you will not spare 
my life. Yon may kill my body, but you canuot hurt my 
soul; for I have begun to pray to Jesus, the knowledge 
of whom the missionaries have brought to our island : 
you may kill my body, but you cannot hurt my soul.’ 
Instead of being moved to compassion by his affecting 
address, they laid him down upon the ground, placed a 
stone under his head, and with another beat it to pieces. 
In this state they carried him to their ‘savage gods.’ ” 
This was the last sacrifice offered to the gods of Tahiti; 
for soon after Christianity w'as embraced, and the altars 
of their gods ceased to be stained with human blood. 

The Polynesians, in their heathen state, had very pe- 
culiar opinions on the subject of a future world. The 
Tahitians believed that there were two places for de- 
parted spirits. Among the Rarotongans paradise was 
a very long house encircled with beautiful shrubs and 
flowers, which never lost their bloom or fragrance. The 
inmates, enjoying perpetual youth and beauty, spent 
their days in dancing, festivity, and merriment. The 
hell of the Rarotongans consisted in being compelled to 
crawl around this house, witnessing the enjoyment of 
its inmates without the possibility” of sharing it. The 
terms on which any one could find an entrance into 
paradise, as Mr. Williams informs us, w'ere these: “In 
order to secure the admission of a departed spirit to fut- 
ure joys, the corpse was dressed in the best attire the 
relatives could provide, the head was wreathed with 
flowers, and other decorations were added. A pig was 
then baked whole, and placed upon the body of the de- 
ceased, surrounded by a pile of vegetable food. After 
this, supposing the departed person to have been a son, 
the father would thus address the corpse: ‘Mv son, 
when you were alive I treated von wfith kindness, and 
when you were taken ill I did my best to restore you to 
health ; and now you are dead, there’s your nomae o, or 
property of admission. Go, my son, and with that gain 


an entrance into the palace of Tiki’ (the name of the 
god of this paradise), ‘and do not come to this world 
again to disturb and alarm us.’ The whole would then 
be buried: and if they received no intimation to the 
contrary within a few days of the interment, the rela- 
tives believed that the pig and the other food had ob- 
tained for him the desired admittance. If, however, a 
cricket was heard on the premises it was considered an 
ill omen, and they would immediately utter the most 
dismal howlings, and such expressions as the following: 
‘ Oh, our brother ! his spirit has not entered the par- 
adise; he is suffering from hunger — he is shivering 
with cold !’ Forthwith the grave would be opened and 
the offering repeated. This was generally successful.” 

The Maori of New' Zealand form a branch of the 
Polynesian family, and as they seem to have been pre- 
served uncontaminated by intercourse with other na- 
tions, w'e may discover in their superstitions some of the 
primitive notions of the great mass of the islanders of 
the Pacific Ocean. They regarded the origin of all 
things as Night and Nothingness, and even the older 
gods themselves were supposed to have sprung from 
Night. Another series of divinities are gods of light, 
and occupy the highest and most glorious of the ten 
heavens. The Etu of the other districts of Polynesia 
was called Aiua in the language of New Zealand, and 
instead of being worshipped like the Etu, was simply 
regarded as a powerful adversary, skilled in supernat- 
ural arts, and rendered proof against all ordinary wor- 
ship. lienee arose the charms and incantations which 
form the chief element in Maori worship. The souls of 
their departed ancestors w'ere ranked among the Atuas. 
An institution, which is common to the Maori and to 
all the Polynesian tribes, is the Taboo, which is applied 
both to sacred things and persons. Among the Maori, 
the head-chief being sacred almost to divinity, his 
house, his garments, and all that belonged to him w'as 
Taboo, his spiritual essence having been supposed to be 
communicated to everything that he touched. The re- 
ligion of the Sandwich Islanders, before they embraced 
Christianity, w'as almost entirely a Taboo system — that 
is, a system of religious prohibitions, which had extend- 
ed itself very widely, and been used by their priests and 
kings to enlarge their own pow er and influence. Tem- 
ples or maraes existed in the South Sea Islands, but nei- 
ther temples nor altars existed in New Zealand, nor in 
the Samoas nor Navigators Islands. The form of super- 
stition most prevalent at the Samoas was the worship 
of the Etu, which consisted of some bird, fish, or reptile, 
in which they supposed that a spirit resided. Relig- 
ious ceremonies were connected Avith almost every event 
of their lives. They presented their first-fruits to their 
gods, and at the close of the year observed a festival as 
an expression of thanksgiving to the gods for the mer- 
cies of the past year. 

Paganism is becoming rapidly extirpated through 
the efforts of the missionaries, principally English and 
American, as in the Samoan, Sandwich, and Society 
groups, where but few absolute pagans now remain. 
Under date of December, 1876, a correspondent of the 
Manchester Guardian writes: “Heathenism is mainly 
confined to the islands in the western part of the 
Pacific. The missionary societies, whose efforts have 
been so greatly blessed in other parts of Polynesia, 
are combining their labors upon this western section. 
The London Missionary Society has undertaken the 
work on New Guinea and the islands at its eastern 
end. The Melanesian Mission will extend its labors 
to the Hanks and Solomon Islands. The Presby- 
terians will enlarge their w'ork on the New' Hebrides. 
The Wesleyaus have included New Britain and New 
Ireland in their field. The American Board, in connec- 
tion with the Hawaiian churches, is enlarging its opera- 
tions in Micronesia. The history of the Polynesian 
missions warrants ns in expecting large results from 
this concentration of Christian influence upon numerous 
island groups, some of which have as yet been only par- 


372 


POLYTHEISM 


POLYPHEMUS 

tiallv explored.” The superstition of the taboo, the use 
of kawa as an intoxicating drink, cannibalism, infanti- 
«'ide, tattooing, and circumcision are now fast disap- 
pearing under the influence of Christianity. I nfor- 
tuiiatclv, however, the contact <4 these inlanders with 
civilization lias not been always productive of mmiixed 
good; the introduction among them of (lie use of ardent 
spirit*. and of t lie vices and diseases of Europeans, hav- 
ing thinned the population to a lamentable extent, 
f urther particulars with respect to the natives of Poly- 
nesia » ill be found in some of our articles on the groups 
regarded as Ix-ing t he most important. See Lit (ell's 
I.iriny Aye, 1 siol ( No. 513), art. iii ; The /.owl. Her. 1*54, 
pt. ti, p. 13 sip; F.dinb. Her, duly. l*7d, art. ix; Miss. 
World, No. t;;ii >. p. UI7 sip; No. 4.7s ; Loud. A end. July 
i;>, |*7t;, p. 52 sip : t iardner. Diet, of Hefty. Faiths, s. v. ; 
Lubbock, tiny, of Civilization (see Index). 

Polyphemus, in the Homeric mythology, the 
son of Po>eid<>n and the nymph Thoosa. the most cele- 
brated of the fabulous Cyclopes who inhabited the isl- 
and of Sicily, lie was of immense size, and had only 
one eye. When 1 ’lysates lauded on that island, he en- 
tered the eavc of Polyphemus with twelve companions, 
of which number this tremendous cannibal ate six. The 
others stood expecting the same fate, but their cunning 
leader made Polyphemus drunk, then burned out his 
single eye with a blazing torch, and so escaped, leaving 
the blinded monster to grope about in the darkness. 

Polystaurion (many crosseil), a name given to 
the cloak of the (Ireek patriarchs, on account of the 
many crosses which ornament it. 

Polytheism, a general name for those systems of 
religion which involve a belief in more deities than one. 

I. Maine. Neither this word nor the similar ones, 
atheism, monotheism, theism, are to he found in the or- 
dinary t ireek or Latin dictionaries. Philo the Jew 
employs such words as the neuter adjective tto\v- 
lyiov with the article to express the idea; also the 
forms To\o$idri/c, and in Philo dd’furtjg, occur with 
t lie sense now attached to endings in /tor. Polytheism 
denotes the belief that there is a plurality of gods, and 
for the sake of convenience may include dualism, which, 
however, can he used also to signify the doctrine of two 
principles that are not necessarily both divine. If it he 
asked what is intended hv gods, we answer: (1.) That 
in the word polytheism the notion of gods does not in- 
clude absolute attributes or creative efficiency, owing 
to the fact that the human mind cannot readily admit 
the idea of more than one such being. While, then, 
monotheism generally means the doctrine of one abso- 
lute inliuite being, polytheism is not its exact opposite, 
except in putting many for one, since the attributes of 
(be many are conceived of as inferior to those of the 
one. This is an accommodation to the s»atc of facts; 
but in philosophical writing monotheism may itself be 
divided into absolute and relative, as Schelling lias 
done, with whom the latter denotes the worship of one 
being, thought of not as inliuite, but as limited in bis 
lint arc. Atheism, again, denies the real existence of 
any kind uf gods; it is alike opposed to polvthcism and 
t" monotheism. The idea of (bid, the infinite one, is 
iioi transferable to gods many, and hence there is a 
iiei'c ary 'Agueness in the heathen conception of their 
denies. H, it respects power, knowledge, duration, es- 
pecially «i parti anti, and other properties. The ques- 
tion, then, arises ns to gradations of gods, and as to the 
dillerenco between them and demigods, heroes, etc. 
The I, reek worshipped these latter; and they had in 
their mythologies upotln uses such as that of *1 lereulcs, 
the sou of /.eiis by a mortal mother. lienee worship 
is not a criterion of godship. Hut although the line 
cannot he drawn accurately between gods and .super- 
human beings, who stood below gods hut above men, 
ami had .some local agency in human affairs, it may he 
anid that great but not infinite power ami knowledge, 
ability to answer prayer, special functions ami agencies 


’ in providence, with immortality, entered generally into 
the conception or definition of a god or divine being. 
Holythcism is used synonymously with heathenism and 
paganism, only that the two latter are wider terms, de- 
noting not a mere religious system, but including also 
the state of things connected with such a system, 
l’aganism comes from the Latin word payus, a country 
, district, a canton, the adjective from which, payanus, 
denoted pertaining to such a payus, then not a soldier, 
then boorish or unlearned, and finally, among the Chris- 
tian writers, one not a Christian or Jew, from the fact, 
apparently, that Christianity came last into the rural 
districts. In Augustine’s time this sense, though al- 
ready it may not have been uncommon, was new enough 
for him to say, “The worshippers of gods false and many 
we call payans .” I Ieathenism, from heathen, is generally 
taken, as being a derivation from heath, to have meant 
a dweller in lonely or remote uncultivated parts of a 
, district, and may have been a translation of payau into 
the northern languages of the Germanic stock. From 
yentes, finally, as a Latin equivalent of the Hebrew 
word denoting in the Old Testament the other 

nations who were polytheists, as opposed to the Jews, 
and from tSvrj, with the same sense as used in the 
Septuagint, are derived yeutilism and the ethnic relig- 
ious. An interesting inquiry is whether the lower 
races of the heathen world can properly be called poly- 
theists, or whether their spirit-worship is not so unlike 
the worship of gods among the higher pagan races as 
to require the putting of them into another class. A 
full answer to this question can only be given at a later 
stage of our way, and it is embarrassed by traces of the 
worship of one or more gods, strictly so called, which 
appear in the religions of this part of mankind. We 
shall adopt the plan of considering them by themselves, 
only remarking here that if their worship is more vague 
than that of the more highly endowed or more culti- 
vated races, it is equally divided between a great num- 
ber of objects. Polytheism is generally found in com- 
pany with idolatry; but it can be shown that within 
the Aryan or Indo-European races all the branches 
were not primevally idolators. It is probable, there- 
fore, that for a long period, in some parts of the world, 
the worship of divinities by means of visible forms was 
unknown ; while in the dualist ic religion of Iran, or the 
Persian religion, idol-worship was opposed with almost 
fanatical hostility. Another of the nations belonging 
to the same race, the Homans, had only symbols at first; 
their temples were without images for more than 170 
years (Varro, in Auyustin. lie Civ. Dei, iv, 31); and, 
according to a tradition, Etrurian artificers made the 
tirst for them out of wood or clay. 

History. — A very important question, therefore, re- 
specting polytheism relates to its origin. What did 
mankind first worship? And among heathen objects of 
worship, which were the earliest? What is the genesis 
of the gods of the higher races? 

1. The first question that here arises is, Was poly- 
theism earlier, in the order of time, or later than mono- 
theism? The answers to this question rest either on 
historical or philosophical grounds, or on the authority 
of revelation, (a) The rudest nations now, and the 
whole world, as far as we can go back, have had some 
form of polytheism, if we include the worship of spir- 
its in this term. The Jews are the only strictly mon- 
otheistic nation of antiquity: and when Abraham left 
his clan to go westward, they had already begun to 
worship other gods (Josh, xxiv, 2). Some traces of 
the worship of one god appear in the. history of Mcl- 
chiscdok and of Balaam. Vet all the nations with 
whom the .lews came into contact worshipped not only 
more gods than one, hut worshipped them hv means of 
images, with the exception of those addicted to the re- 
ligion ol Zoroaster. Approaches towards monotheism 
among heathen nations were the results of philosophical 
relleclion, as in Brnhminism, where a pantheistic doc- 


POLYTHEISM 


373 


POLYTHEISM 


trine of the universe prevailed; or in Iran ism, where ' 
the reforms attributed to Zoroaster show a progress 
from the earlier Yedic religion, or from something like 
it. So much the more wonderful is it that the one 
small people of the Jews clung, amid innumerable 
temptations to idolatry and defections from their an- 
cestral faith, to an exalted monotheistic idea of the 
Godhead, which has been the origin of all the mono- 
theism now existing in the world. ( b ) Philosophers 
are divided on the point of the priority of the two re- 
ligious systems, the belief in one or many gods. Al- 
though some deists of a former age regarded monothe- 
ism as the earlier of the two, the only consistent ground 
for those who deny supernatural revelation is that of 
Mr. Hume. This is, in brief, that the natural progress 
of human thought is from the less perfect through ab- 
straction to the more perfect; that polytheism was 
universally diffused, and that monotheism, if earlier, 
could not have been lost. It is needless to say that a 
great part of the thinking of the present age runs in 
the same channel. Man was a savage before he be- 
came possessed of arts or settled any of the problems of 
the universe, just as species are evolved out of earlier 
less finished forms. The many gods were lost out of 
popular worship, according to Mr. Hume, by adulation, 
or the zealous attempt of some worshippers to exalt 
their god above the rest, which is an unfortunate way 
of accounting for a result that has never been reached, 
unless it can be shown that an elimination took place 
in the Jewish system. Opposite to this is Schilling's 
view iu his lectures on mythology, written after he had 
left, his first philosophical position : this was, in brief, 
that monotheism was prior in the order of time, but 
without any dogmatic definition or distinct view of the 
divine attributes. At the same time man was awake 
to all impressions from the material world, in which the 
great objects seemed to him full of power and life. 
Here w ere the beginnings of a worship of nature, which 
at length drew a part of men away from the worship 
of the God above nature. This defection made those 
who resisted it aware, as they were not before, of the 
vastness, the absoluteness of the one God. Thus the 
human mind, in the case of those who adhered to the 
primeval worship, was enlarged in its religious concep- 
tions : it may even be regarded as a part of the scheme 
of Providence that the apostasy of some helped the 
infantile race to take grander views of the Supreme 
Being, (c) The account given in the Scriptures is 
that God revealed himself to mankind at the creation, 
but, as man fell away from God, he did not like to re- 
tain him in his knowledge, and that the teachings of 
the world itself concerning him were rejected (llom. i, 
19-20). He therefore devised a religion and an idol- 
atry of his own, which were consistent with foul wick- 
edness. As the world became darker in its apprehen- 
sions of God, God began a new revelation of himself to 
Abraham, when primeval monotheism w'as in danger 
of utterly fading out of human belief. If now we may 
suppose that polytheism arose when men were but 
children in art, and had no science, those who went 
farthest from the central points of the primeval w'orld 
would easily hill into barbarism, and their religions 
might show the influences of their new and less favor- 
able situations, (cl) Have any traces remained in the 
world of this primeval monotheism? A number of 
Christian writers have given an affirmative answer, 
but they put their reasons for their opinions on diverse 
grounds. First, we may notice such writers as Cud- 
worth, who in an uncritical way collect together the 
expressions of writers of every age, and give as much 
weight to later philosophers as to earlier authors. 
There is no doubt that philosophers like Plato reached 
a first principle of the world, or that, before him, Anax- 
agoras conceived of mind putting already existent mat- 
ter into appropriate forms. But their voice is not that 
of popular religion. Next to these we may rank those 
writers who have noticed a subordination among the 


objects of worship. The supreme god of Greece is a 
monarch, father of gods and men, with very great 
powers, the head of moral order, the chief agent in 
providence. Some of the poets speak of him in terms 
truly sublime. There are passages in the Suppliants 
of yEschylus and in the Antigone of Sophocles which 
breathe the spirit of the Scriptures. But all that can 
be fairly drawn from such evidence is what Naegelsbach 
draws from it in his Posthomeric Theology — that there 
was in the best age of Grecian authors a certain monothe- 
istic tendency which had no decisive control over Greek 
faith. “This tendency,” to use his words, “was an al- 
most unconscious, a naive one, an obscure impulse, a 
light that shinetli in darkness, but the darkness com- 
prehendeth it not.” “The religious consciousness, on 
the one hand, so to speak, reduced the world of gods to 
Zeus, but on the other could not shake off the plurality 
of divine forms which nature first furnished to it.” 
If there was any monotheism in the Greek religion 
it had its representative in Zeus. But what kind of a 
representative was he? He was not eternal, but born ; 
he was not a creator, for the Greek theology never em- 
braced a creation. He was not all-powerful, but was 
generally represented as controlled by fate. He had in 
the popular faith and mythology attributes most unlike 
those of a divine being. He was, in short, a monarch 
surrounded by gods of his own kindred, and very far 
from the conception of a holy or an absolute being. 
How could a holy and absolute being become so com- 
pletely changed in the faith of a nation as to lose not 
only liis absolute character, but also what ought natu- 
rally to be fixed in the minds of men — his purity and 
holiness? We can conceive of men changing their 
gods, passing from one to many, or from many to one, 
but we cannot conceive of one and the same god as un- 
dergoing such utter transmutations. Still further it 
has been urged, with justice, that monotheism and 
polytheism rest on different bases. The first separates 
divinity from nature; the second identifies it with 
nature, and incorporates it in natural objects. The 
two are entirely different, : how can the one slide into 
or retain characteristics of the other? This argument, 
how r ever, does not derive its force from the oneness or 
manifoldness of the objects of worship, but from their 
essential relations to the world, so that a passing over 
from the worship of one not absolute god to that of 
more than one, also not absolute, is far from being in- 
credible. Hence, if we could accept Schelling’s view 
of the character of original monotheism, we could ad- 
mit of addition to or subtraction from the number of 
divinities. Nor can we maintain that traces of a primi- 
tive monotheism are certainly preserved in the religions 
of the other nations of antiquity. The earliest records 
of the Aryan race, as they appear in the Vedas, give 
us no indication that one god was of a higher class 
than the rest. Indra, as Prof. "Whitney ( Orient . and 
Ling . Studies, p. 3G) remarks, “stands at the head of 
the Vedic divinities. By this is not meant, however, 
that he is king among them, endowed with any author- 
ity over the rest: no such reduction to system of the 
religion had taken place as should establish a relation 
of this kind among its gods. They are as independent, 
each in his own domain, as the natural phenomena of 
which they are the personifications.” And the further 
remark is made that the nature of Varuna’s attributes 
and of his concern with the affairs of human life place 
him decidedly above Indra. Further, in the later 
stages of the Indian religions, a deity, comparatively 
subordinate, Vishnu, has reached a chief place, while 
the old gods have fallen more or less out of worship. 
The Iranian or Persian religion contains very exalted 
conceptions of its supreme divinity, Ormazd, or Ahura 
Mazda, i. e. the wise lord — called also Spentomainyus, 
or the holy-thinking one — the holy spirit, according to 
Spiegel, while Hang explains this name as denoting 
the white spirit. lie is also a creator; and in many 
respects this religion stands very far above all others 


374 


POLYTHEISM 


POLYTHEISM 


of the same nee. Hut if t Irtnnzd is a creator. Ahriman 
(or Angraniaitivii'*), the bad spirit, is a creator also; 
ami while there is an evident effort of philosophical re- 
tlection to elevate Ortnazd, who perhaps represents 
Vanina, above the other mythological beings of the 
older faith such, for instance, as Mithra— the religion 
has not succeeded in attaining to the position of a pure 
monotheism, but is a dualism with decided remains of 
|H,lvt hci*m. Once more the supreme divinity of the 
i ■ reeks ami lh mans. Zeus or Jupiter, i. e. Diov-patcr, 
i«. now thought l»v the best etymologists to answer to 
1 h aiis-pitfi, a mythological conception of the A edas, 
r\im is spoken of ns the father of linlra. but who either 
dropped out of or never fully entered into the Yedic 
religious system. If he dropped out, we find him re- 
tained by other portions of the Indo-European race: 
if he had" not entered into it, we tind other members of 
the same family bringing forward this personality as 
their chief god. While the tireek and Italic branches 
did this, we tind in Scandinavian mythology a god Tyr. 
answering, as Jacob tirimm {Deutsche MythoL ch. i.\) 
shows, to Z in or Zio. with a genitive Zinwas or Ziewes, 
in Did lligh-t ierman, and thus standing for the same 
being ns Zeus or Jupiter, llow can we believe that 
the representative of monotheism was tints raised or 
depressed, that he took the place of another displaced 
supreme god, or himself gave way to Odin (Wuotan) ? 
The true explanation is that the head of the gods, dif- 
fering in rank but not in nature from the rest, rose and 
fell in his station, or even dropped out of worship alto- 
gether, owing to changes within a nation or race which 
wo cannot now explain. This is only one of the many 
changes through which polytheism passed, it never 
had any stability or permanent condition. We only add 
that if Zens can be explained, as etymology points out, 
to bo the personification of the bright sky or daylight, 
this again must prevent us from regarding such a di- 
vinity as handing down the monotheistic idea, because 
this was only one of the most prominent of visible ob- 
jects. The same remarks in general may be made in 
respect to the religions of all cultivated races — the As- 
syrian and Babylonian, the Egyptian and the Mexican 
religions, for instance. We do not deny that individual 
reflection may have risen above the level of the re- 
ligions themselves, or that, philosophical doctrine may 
have sought to mix itself with the prevailing my- 
thologies. but that the polytheistic religions, including 
their highest divinities, did not hand down a distorted 
monotheism, but stood on essentially another founda- 
tion. (e) (Jan the actual monotheistic religions be 
explained on the hypothesis of elimination V This 
would mean that all the gods except one faded out of 
the religions system of a nation, or of certain nations. 
It is a matter of fact that there has been but one such 
nation. All the monotheism in the world came from 
Judaism into Christianity and Mohammedanism. Can 
the worship of one god in Judaism be accounted for on 
the hypothesis just spoken of, that there was a time 
when several gods divided the allegiance of the nation 
among them, and that one, by the adulation, as Mr. 
lluiiie calls it, or the superior zeal of Ids worshippers, 
crowd* <1 out the others from the minds of the people, 
lli'ti ricullv there is very small ground for such a hy- 
pothcM . 1 he descendants of Jacob had such a hank- 

ering afi* r polvtheisin and idolatry that their whole 
history is a mi vi»sii>n <*t apostasies; now objects of 
worship wm adopted continually, notwithstanding the 
efforts of prophets to inculcate what all regard as a 
vastly more exalted religion. The tradition carried 
hack the worship o| Jehovah not perhaps under that 
name, but ns the Almighty Cod, the maker of heaven 
and earth to Ahralinm and to his progenitors, nav, to 
the very lieginiung ; and the very idea of Judaism, 
that which has given to the race its historic impor- 
tance. is its separation, as the people of Jehovah, from 
all the rest of the world. “Thou s],alt have no gods 
before me, *• 1 hon shall not make any graven image," 


are the two “articuli stantis vel cadentis Judaism!.* 
Without entering into this subject at length, we will 
( only add that no hypothesis of the rise of Judaism can 
stand which derives it from a previous polytheism. It 
must have come from philosophical rejection, or from 
primeval tradition, or from revelation. Its unique 
character shows that it is no work of man, and its 
place in the education of the human race shows that it 
had an important place in the scheme of Providence 
(comp. O. PHeiderer, Das 1 1 'csen der Religion , i, 11). 

2. Among the objects worshipped by polytheists, 
which were the earliest? However we may answer 
this question, it ought to be laid down, before we at- 
tempt an answer, that the objects of worship must have 
been thought of as having personal qualities and rela- 
tions to mail. AVorship, the recognition of a divine 
superintending power, did not begin, could not begin, 
in the adoration of dead matter; of a sun invested with 
material qualities, for instance, then personified, and 
finally converted into a person with will, feeling, and 
agency in the world. AVe must start with attributing 
to mail a religious sense or sentiment. The world, 
to the first polytheists, was full of divine pow’er and 
agency; they did not create to themselves the divine 
life in nature, quickening it into life by a personifying 
imagination, but it was there for them to recognise; 
they felt their dependence upon it; it surrounded them 
on every side. Hut it was broken up to their minds 
into the many great objects on which they depended; 
it met them everywhere, and they worshipped this 
divine power and will in its parts as the source of 
benefits. AVitli this premised, we may say that the 
heavenly bodies, the phenomena of day and of light, 
the earth itself, the sea, the sky or heaven, were among 
the primeval objects of heathen w orship. The sun, for 
instance, not only as a sun-god, but also, in what was 
perhaps an earlier form of religion, the visible luminary 
itself, was among the first divinities of heathenism. 
The luminary was considered as alive, and possessed of 
the power of seeing things upon the earth. When 
Hades snatched away the virgin Proserpine, and car- 
ried her to his realms below through a chasm of the 
earth to be his w ife, no one heard her cries for help 
except Helios, sou of Hyperion and Hecate. Zeus, to 
whom she cried for help, “was sitting apart from the 
gods in a thronged temple, and receiving choice offer- 
ings from mortal men,” so he did not hear her ( Hymn . 
in Cer. 2. r >-29). The attributes of Helios in the (ircek 
religion, in which he was by no means a very im- 
portant deity, are all to he referred to the heavenly 
body, endowed with perception, and noticing as well as 
hearing what takes place here below. The people be- 
lieved that the sun was n living being, and the philos- 
ophers had the same faith. Anaximander is said to 
have ascribed a fiery body and a vital principle to it; 
and Anaxagoras so offended the Athenians by his doc- 
trine that the sun was a red-hot stone or mass of 
metal that he was accused of impiety, and, although 
di fended by Pericles, was fined five talents and ban- 
ished (Plat. Apol. Soer. 20 D ; Ding. Lacrt. ii, vj 12 
sq.). In the same maimer the worship of the sun. as 
distinguished from the sun-gods, appears in the A'cdas, 
although of less importance than these latter; the 
(ireeks attributed the same worship to this luminary 
among the Persians; and Plato makes Socrates use the 
following words: “ It seems to me that the earliest in- 
habitants of <; recce held those only to be gods— whom 
many of the barbarians nmv regard as such — snn, moon, 
stars, and heaven” (('rufyl. 997 (’). in the Scriptures 
the worship of the heavenly bodies is spoken of as an 
apostasy from Hod to which Israel would he tempted: 
“Take ye good heed to yourselves . . . lest thou lift up 
thine eyes unto heaven, and when thou seest the sun, 
and the moon, and the stars, even all the host of heaven, 
shonldost he driven to worship them, and serve them” 
(Pent, i\\ l.'i I'd). And in fact they were driren into 
this kind of worship at as late an age of their history as 


POLYTHEISM 


POLYTHEISM 


3 ^ 

the reign of Josiali, who put ilown “them that burned 
incense to the sun, and to the moon, and to the plan- 
ets, and to all the host of heaven.” AA'e hardly need to 
refer to the prevalence of such worship, especially of 
the planets, in Babylonia and Assyria, nor to the fact 
that sun-worship was the foundation probably of the 
honors paid to Baal and Moloch among the Ammonites, 
in Canaan and in Carthage, nor to the importance of 
this element in the Egyptian religion. We only add 
that the religion of Peru — that is, the religion of the 
Incas, which superseded an older religion — was direct 
sun-worship, and that the same was spread over a 
large part of this continent, among the tribes even 
of the Red men in North America. The heathen 
part of the Dakotas still have their sun-dances, and as 
late as 1872 one of their practices was to look steadily 
many minutes at the blazing orb, as an act, it was un- 
derstood, of religions worship. This is only one of 
those objects of nature to which were paid divine hon- 
ors. The earth, as the general nursing mother, the 
sea, the sky, the life in the air, in trees, even in ani- 
mals, all seemed to be divine. The Earth particularly 
— as the Great Mother, the Syrian goddess Cvbele, De- 
meter, Ceres — although exalted into a person separate 
from the dead earth, as the cause of life to vegetables, 
and ultimately to man, was worshipped, and in some 
countries, as in Asia Minor, with the most frantic rites. 

3. But polytheism would have been comparatively 
dead, and possessed of fewer attractions to the religious 
sentiment of many, if it had stopped short in its devel- 
opment of the divine in nature. The next step was to 
convert these comparatively fixed objects, exhibiting 
superhuman agency to the eyes of men, into persons 
separated from the objects themselves. The sun, re- 
garded as a god, in this process became a sun-god ; that 
is, his personality was no longer identified with the 
sun, and confined to its orb, but he became free to go 
whithersoever he would, and to exercise supernatural 
powers away from the sun, his proper seat. This was 
a very great stage through which the religions of all 
the higher races passed. The spirit of the sun, pos- 
sessed of will and feelings like a man’s, but of more 
than human power, is now free to move abroad, to 
mingle in human affairs, and thus to transcend his 
first agency by a very much wider and more varied 
new one. It is possible for him thus to become mytho- 
logical ; that is, the effects which he produces become 
events in history. The sun-god’s rays to the imagina- 
tion become darts, and as the rays of the sun in summer 
cause malignant fevers, so he is conceived of as shoot- 
ing his arrows at men and beasts, the cause being some 
offence or dishonor done to his sacred rites or to his ser- 
vants. The beginning of the Iliad will illustrate what 
we mean, it being assumed, what is now generally ad- 
mitted, but what some eminent scholars have denied, 
that Apollo is indeed a sun-god. This the Greeks of the 
time of Sophocles and Euripides held, but they held it 
more as an inference than from any traditional opinion. 
But, furthermore, the sun-god might become the espe- 
cial object of worship of a city or a tribe — their tutelary 
god ; and thus he acquired a new character, and stood 
in new relations to a part of a people. From them his 
worship might spread over the whole of a tribe or of a 
race, and his old original nature would be almost lost 
out of sight; he would have outgrown, so to speak, his 
youthful properties. In this way it could happen that 
a war-god could be developed out of the divinity of a 
nation of warriors, although his attributes at first might 
have had no relation to armed strife. Thus the Roman 
god Mars was the divinity of an agricultural people, it 
seems probable, a god of spring and of fructification, 
before he became a god of war. Apollo also, if a god 
of the sun and of light at first, had from this source 
naturally the attributes of a destroyer and of a healer 
(the latter attribute being shown in the names Apollo 
and Paean, the averter and healer ), of a pure one ar.d a 
purifier ; to which were added his connection with mu- 


o 

sic and poetry, as well as his prophetic office of giving 
forth oracles as a mediator between Zeus and mortals. 
The relations of Apollo to social life in its various de- 
partments, and his connection with Delphi, where the 
religion of Greece found its centre, made him the most 
important of all the Greek divinities, Zens only except- 
ed. Ilis attributes may possibly all be evolved from 
the original conception of him as a nature-god ; but it 
is hard to see how this can be done. 

AYe have reached the point where w r e can state in 
brief several laws, as they may be called, of polytheism, 
which might be illustrated by an infinite number of 
facts, but will, we trust, commend themselves to our 
readers, after what has been said, without much ex- 
planation. (1.) To a great extent, polytheism at its 
foundation is the worship of nature, i. e. of objects in 
nature which strike the attention of man, and are 
important aids to his well-being in the world. (2.) 
These objects are conceived of as living existences, 
and as having, together with superhuman power, the 
feelings and the will of men. (3.) In the course of 
time, the living thing or god in the natural object 
becomes detached from it, is conceived of as an agent 
in human affairs, and may greatly enlarge its sphere 
of operations. (4.) This process changes the attributes 
and functions of the divinities. In this way, or by 
the mythological processes, the religions of heathen- 
ism may for some time be in a constant flux, and this 
will last as long as faith in the gods and the mytho- 
logical spirit lasts. (5.) Among the changes may be 
mentioned the following : (o) the god of a clan or 
district becomes the god of a race ; (6) foreign gods 
are introduced ; (c) the same divinity, through the 
help of a new name, becomes a new personality by 
the side perhaps of the old one ; ( d ) old divinities 
drop out of worship ; (e) the relative importance 
of different gods may change ; (f) what is called 
theocrasia , that is, a confusion of gods, takes place, but 
generally this is due to philosophical reflection : this 
is sometimes a pantheistic process, and in the later 
stages of Greek history it is carried so far that all the 
leading gods are considered to be forms or expressions 
for one and the same potence ; (g) in the most cultiva- 
ted nations of heathenism there came on a time when 
the mythology was rejected as being immoral, or was 
explained on various principles so as to bring it within 
the limits of the natural ; and the religion, under the 
attacks of a scepticism produced by moral feeling or 
philosophical doctrine, lost its hold on the national 
mind. This would naturally destroy the life of the 
nation, unless some new religion should take its place. 

To illustrate the changes through which the heathen 
religions can pass, we refer, first, to Hinduism, which 
appears in the A'edas as a simple worship of the gods 
of light, fire, etc. ; then passes intoBrabmiuism, where 
A'ishnu, an inferior god of the A'edas, and Siva, perhaps 
the same as the storm-god Rudra of the A'edas, take the 
principal place, and divide in their ramified mythol- 
ogies the worship of the nation between their respec- 
tive religions. A second instance is presented by the 
religion of Rome, which in its early stage was a punc- 
tilious, superstitious veneration of certain divinities, 
somewhat allied to those of Greece, together with other 
vague, shadowy powers, and in its second stage adopted 
many of the gods and much of the mythology of Greece, 
so as to throw its own indigenous religion into the shade. 
Then, in its third stage, Rome almost entirely lost its 
old religion, and was a common harbor for all Oriental 
superstitions — the worship of Cybele and Isis and Mi- 
thras, and the Virgo Coelestis from Carthage, and the 
Moloch- Jupiters of Syria. A third instance, with less 
clear outlines, is presented by Mexico, the religion of 
which seems to be a composite made up of parts from 
^he religion of the Mayas, from that of the Toltecs, 
from that of the Aztec conquerors, and of a residuum 
perhaps from other quarters. (6.) From this exposition 
( it would seem safe to affirm that few religions preserve 


POLYTHEISM 


376 


POLYTHEISM 


anything more than the spirit of their original form. 
Thov continue to In.* religions of nature, that is, of divine 
power as it appears in the diversified objects of nature. 
Hence the philosophy whic h arises in heathen countries 
will lie apt to he pantheistic toe mfoiindGod and nature. 

Polytlici-m, in any true view of it. must he consid- 
ered in its relations to mythology ; but we must speak 
on this bran, h ofour subject with the greatest possible 
brevi'v. as wc have already considered mythology by 
itself. Mvthology takes up the raw material, so to 
speak, furnished by heathen theology, and converts it 
inti hist< ry. mingling with it much of poetic inven- 
tion, but all iu good faith ; for there can be uo doubt 
that the earliest successors of the mythological age be- 
lieved in their religion in this shape, as presented to 
them bv the imaginations of a prior ago unconsciously 
coloring what they received for true. Mythology starts 
with attributing to its divinities human form and feel- 
ings (anthropomorphism and anthropopathism); and, 
of course, from these premises infers in regard to events 
of life certain specific feelings on the part oftlie gods, 
resentful or kindly, out of which the events grew. It 
attributes sex to the gods on natural principles, for in 
every language the gender of different objects in nat- 
ure differs. Not always is the sun masculine nor the 
moon feminine, but all things are alive, and, according 
to the especial mode of thinking in each nation, are male 
or female, ('ausation, again, is conceived of under the 
image of procreation ; and where the gods were thought 
of as coming into being, they themselves were begotten 
by parents, until the mind landed in a first cause, which 
was blind and impersonal. Thus theogonies arose, 
such as we find iu Greece, Phoenicia, Scandinavia, and 
even among the passive races of this continent. See 
Mythology. A room was thus opened for the im- 
pure imagination, which, not content with imputing to 
the gods love and lust towards each other, without 
regard to the laws of kindred or wedlock, represented 
them as enamoured of men or women also, and as thus 
the progenitors of extraordinary persons, demigods or 
heroes. From this conception the way was easy to- 
wards attributing tc extraordinary persons soni^ divine 
sire or mother, and of allying them to the celestials. 
And as thus the gods were only a little higher than 
mortals, the distance was bridged over, so that demi- 
gods were both mortal and divine. Hence it became 
easier to fall down into the worship of men of great 
power or skill, until in the old age of some of the 
religions we find kings receiving divine honors even 
in their lifetime, and deified after their death. This 
vagn -n-ss oftlie line between the divine and the hu- 
man reacted on religions theory, so that a doctrine like 
that of Eucmerus had easy currency when the divine 
had sunk so low— the doctrine, namely, that nil the 
gods were originally dead men, and were deified on 
aeeomit of great achievements and services to mankind. 

This is only one theory of mythology, which, indeed, 
is a wilderness w here one is in danger of getting lost, 
an 1, if one would attempt explanations, must do so 
w ith amt ion. There are many forms of explanation. 
I lu-rc i-> the physical, whore phenomena of nature are 
turned into events, and here the dilliculty, not easily 
*°1 v * 1, meets us of explaining how an event of nature 
which happens every day is represented iu mythology 
n« a u lib | tie occurrence in history. There is, again, 
historical mythology, that in which some fact is the 
basis, and the drup ry is nn thological invention. Put 
iu adding this drapery and in ether such inventions, 
th* po ts did not te 1 that they were chargeable with 
fraud, any more than Milton blamed himself for uniting 
his own poetical threads with the woof of Scripture 
truth. 1 hero was also a mythology breathing ail alle- 
gorical spirit, and dictated perhaps bv the desire to 
teach moral truth in the form which religious truth as- 
sumed. This was more consciously fictitious. Theo- 
logical mythology, again, concerned itself chiefly w ith 
the births and life of tho gods before they came into 


the religions system. We have in Greek a working 
up of this that goes under the name of Hesiod, and 
may belong to the 8th century P.C. ; and the frag- 
ments of another also ascribed to a primeval poet, Or- 
pheus, but later by one or two centuries than that of 
Hesiod. A comparison of these seems to show that 
the theological poets were free in changing the myths 
which they had to deal with, cither inventing in part, 
or drawing their materials from earlier poems where 
a different religious philosophy was exhibited. The 
mythology of Greece was full) - grown in th; age of 
Homer; it is not true that he and Hesiod created it, 
but rather they and others like them gathered it, and 
gave it a form of greater beaut}’. Nor is it true, as 
we think, that a priestly class gave the first form to 
mythology. More true is it to sa}’ that a nation did 
t his, and an age — a very long age, perhaps. We are 
not to conceive of a body of philosophers teaching in 
figures, the shadows of tilings real, those realities that 
lay in sunshine before their own minds ; on the contra- 
ry, the mythological spirit was spread over all ; it was 
the way in which all conceived of things supernatural. 

A word or two may not be inappropriate here in re- 
gard to objects of worship that may be called second- 
ary, that is, such as do not attain to the rank of 
principal divinities, or even of divinities at all, but 
still played a not unimportant part in some heathen 
religions. Among these we name, (1) the representa- 
tives or personifications of the life in tlic interior ob- 
jects of nature, like those which went by the title of 
nymphs in the Greek mythology, as the nymphs of 
the w-ood, of fountains, of the sea — beings having a 
narrow’ range of habitation and of attributes. Some 
of these spirits inhabited the object or (dement after 
which they were called, but were thought of as more 
or less able to disengage themselves from it. Thus 
the sea-nymphs wandered over the coasts, the wood or 
mountain nymphs over the mountain. Some of them, 
being personifications oftlie life of perishable objects — 
as the hamadryads — were supposed to die when the 
tree, their substratum, died. (2) The spirits of the de- 
parted. Such w-ere the heroes and demigods of Greece ; 
the spirits of ancestors or of other mortals, who might 
be causes of good or of harm, might be believed to be 
present on earth, to he under the ground, and capable 
of being raised by rites of evocation, or to inhabit the 
stars, like the Fravashis in the Persian religion. Faith 
in the continued existence of itien after deatli was very 
widely diffused over the world, and furnished a support 
for such arts as necromancy, and an explanation for the 
phenomena of dreams. Nations in which the family 
feeling was strong were especially addicted to the ven- 
eration of ancestors, as the Chinese and the Ilomans. 

(3) The attendants on other gods, who sometimes were 
almost deities in the popular mind. Such wore the 
Fauns; Kilvnnus, among the Homans; Satyrs among 
the Greeks, the subordinate sea-gods of the latter, etc. 

(4) Abstract notions personified, which presuppose the 
tendency to give full personality to real objects. Ex- 
amples of these are furnished by the Greek religion, 
such as Thermis and Dike, personified !:;w and justice ; 
Metis, Mnemosyne, Thanatos, the dsemons of battle; 
and a groat number in the tlieogony of Hesiod. The 
Homan religion is full of vague, misty shapes floating 
between reality and abstraction, such as Pavor and 
Pallor, to whom in a battle the third king of Home 
vowed to erect shrines; Honor and Virtus, Pax and 
Victoria, to the two last of whom important temples 
were built in the later days of Homan history. (5) 
The personified forces of inanimate nature. Here, as 
in the case of the abstractions just now mentioned, the 
cause or force was conceived of as an agent. Thus the 
winds, especially Boreas, were more or less worshipped 
in Greece; and the same is true of volcanic or other 
subterranean phenomena. In India, and even among 
our Hed men, a similar kind of nature-worship prevail- 
ed ; in some of the North American Indian tribes the 


POLYTHEISM 


377 


POLYTHEISM 


north-west wind attained to a high rank among the 
divinities, was confounded even with the Great Spirit, 
and played quite an important role in the mythologies. 
(G) Evil, that is malevolent, spirits, had a place in some 
religions of the more cultivated races, but in general 
not a very important place, nor were they worshipped 
except by way of propitiation. Such were the rakshas 
of India, the dcevas of Iran, the god Typhon of Egypt, 
th elarvcc and lemures of Roman superstition — the former 
of whom were bad spirits of departed men, and scarcety 
to be distinguished from the latter, to whom the propi- 
tiatory rites of the Lemuria on the ninth of May were 
offered. (7) Finally we mention certain house-spirits, 
who may be included under (3) as the attendants of 
family gods, such as the Roman Vesta. Such were the 
penults, the spirits presiding over the penus or the fam- 
ily stores and inner part of the houses of the Romans ; 
and the lares , protectors of the house, the cross-road, 
etc. Such, too, may have been the U raphim of Scrip- 
ture, or rather the beings represented by the teraphim, 
a kind of family gods answering somewhat to the pro- 
tecting saints of the Roman Catholic Church. 

We have come in the course of our subject to the 
religions of the uncultivated races, a department of 
the religions of mankind, where it is difficult to solve 
all the problems or to get upon entirely satisfactory 
ground. These religions have been divided, as by 
Wuttke ( Gesch . d. Jleidenth. vol. i.), into Jetichism and 
shamanism; but as authors differ greatly in the mean- 
ing which they attach to the first of these words, and 
as what is called shamanism maj' be found everywhere, 
we cannot make much headway in our subject by 
the help of these words. We shall come upon fetich- 
ism again when we speak of worship ; at present 
we content ourselves with saying that a fetich, as 
first used by Des Brosses in his Essai sur le Culte des 
Diettx Fetiches (1760), signified any object, however 
worthless, in which a god or spirit was supposed for 
the time to reside, and which might be used as a pre- 
servative against evil or malignant influences. The 
word — in the Portuguese form feiligo, connected with 
the Italian fattizlo , made by art, from the Latin facticius 
— denoted a charm, or object employed as a charm ; and 
it was used to set forth a striking characteristic of the 
religions of Western Africa with which the Portuguese 
at an early day came into contact. Wuttke ( u . s.~), 
after Stuhr, in his Religious Systems of the Heathen 
Peoples of the East (Berlin, 183G, p. 257), regards a fe- 
tich as an outward object of worship, selected at will 
or bj 1, accident. The fetich -worshipper chooses and 
discards, according to a freak, the object in which his 
divinity'- is supposed to lodge. To use Wuttke’s lan- 
guage, while in sun or star worship the heavenly 
body says to the man, “ I am thy god,” the worship- 
per of a fetich says to the worshipped object, “ thou 
mayest be, I will permit thee to be, m} r god”(?*. s. vol. i, 
§ 36). Others, as Meiners {Ally. Geschichte d. Religion 
[Hanover, 1806], vol. i, bk. ii) and J. G. Miiller (Amer. 
Urrelig. p. 74, 75), regard the fetich as in the belief of 
the worshipper a divine essence ; not a symbol of divin- 
ity, but, like the sun or moon, a god. The fetich-wor- 
shipper carries his subdivision of nature, which is di- 
vine to the rude heathen, further down than the higher 
races do ; he -worships many worthless objects. These 
definitions are not satisfactory to us, nor do they 
point out any generic difference between the fetich- 
worshipper and the worshipper of an image of Athene 
I’olius by a principal artist of Greece. For (1) if the 
fetich were a precious thing in itself, doubtless the Ne- 
gro would be constant in the respect he paid it. The 
selection and rejection need to be accounted for, but 
the worthlessness of the object must greatly contribute 
to the inconstancy of the devotee; (2) There are vil- 
lage as well as house fetiches in Africa, and these seem 
to have a more fixed hold on the religious feeling. 
(3) The use of the fetich as a charm or amulet is not 
essentially unlike the use of saints’ bones for the same 


purpose, and the feeling is like that of the cultivated 
heathen towards his graven image. This feeling is to 
be accounted for in part by a confusion of the subjec- 
tive and the objective. The sense of security, caused 
by the realization of the presence of a protector, is at- 
tributed to the object itself. (4) Some fetiches have 
the rude beginnings of likeness to men. Here, cer- 
tainly, there is image-worship in its infancy. (5) The 
belief in spirits which — to say the least — very many 
rude races have, is inconsistent with Miiller’s view 
that the fetich-worship is worship of a detached part 
of nature. The spirit has the fetich for its house, it 
dwells there, as the Greek god was conceived by the 
mass of the people to inhabit the statue, and as the 
pictures of saints in some Catholic lands wink with 
their eyes because the saint is there in the belief of 
the superstitious. The fetich is discarded, perhaps, 
because it ceases to awaken certain religious feelings 
which it awakened for some reason at first, and so the 
Negro looks for some other reminder of the spirit’s or 
the divinity’s presence. (G) Some fetiches are living 
animals, and here the inquiry arises, which we must 
dismiss for the present, whether these are conceived of 
as tenanted by higher beings, or as symbols of higher 
beings. The same answer, as it appears to us, must 
be given as it regards Egyptian or Indian animal-wor- 
ship, and as it regards that which prevails in Africa or 
America. 

We conclude, then, that fetich-worship is not essen- 
tially distinct from idol-worship, and we may find all 
the characteristics of it in the religions of the cultiva- 
ted men. Among the Greeks, as belonging to an early 
period of their religion before sculpture had made 
much proficiency, we find such memorials of gods as 
three-cornered pillars in the temples of the Charites at 
Cyzieus, conical pillars of Apollo, the pillar of Hera at 
Argos, and a plank of wood sacred to her at Samos, 
not to mention the sacred stones called bcctyli, and the 
stone of the mother of the gods, transferred from Pes- 
sinus to Rome, and there venerated and carried about 
in processions. These were fetiches, and so were 
wrought images, as long as the faith continued that 
the god was present in the outward object. The most 
characteristic mark of fetich-worship — as it seems to 
us — was that which struck the e} r es ol the first trav- 
ellers in Africa — its connection with charms, and in 
general the prevalence of witchcraft, and of various 
magic arts. The religions are religions of fear, in 
which a small body of men governs the rest by terror, 
and thus stands in the way of the higher religious 
ideas. This cannot have been coeval with the relig- 
ions themselves. It must have taken some time, per- 
haps ages, to develop the system of witchcraft or magic 
art b}' which so many rude people have been kept down 
in their degradation, bv which, according to the natural 
course of things, their degradation has been increased. 

Shamanism may be defined as the worship of spirits, 
so called from the Shaman or priest-conjurer of many 
religions in the northern parts of the world. The 
spiritual world seems to embrace all things that have 
life, and in some parts the spirit detaches itself from 
the tree or other living thing at will, to retu:n there 
again. This kind of religion has prevailed, or once 
prevailed, among the Finns, Huns, ancestors of the 
Magyars, Mongols, Japanese, Chinese, and in Thibet. 
Something like it is found among the Red men and 
other aborigines of this western continent. 

Some of the Northern Asiatics make a threefold di- 
vision of spirits : first, the souls or powers which have 
taken a concrete form in physical objects ; secondly, 
the spirits of deceased ancestors ; thirdly , spirits, some 
of which may have been human souls, which have a 
wider sphere of action, such as have relations to a whole 
tribe or as protectors in certain undertakings. These 
may be kindly or malignant. 

Besides these spiritual beings, the Finns believed in 
a supreme god, Jumala, whose name, as Castren thinks, 


378 


POLYTHEISM 


POLYTHEISM 

may have drnot .1 at first place of thunder, heaven, 
then god of heaven, then god in general. The Lapps 
of Norwav had three classes of spirits— those in the air, 
those in the lieav *ns. and others above the heavens. | 
Among the last is a higher god, who creates e\ery- 
tlijng 'through his son which must be a conception 
borrowed frun the Christians in their neighborhood. 
Anion.- the Timgii-cs there are several ranks ami 
sphere ~ i f operation in the spirit system; but above 
t||, M i all is a god of heaven, lioa, who knows all tilings, 
luit 1 m s not concern himself with what comes to pass, 
n r p inis.li the wicked; and, besides him. a spirit of 
tin in, more powerful than the rest, to whom prayers 
arc ottered ; a spirit of the moon, from whom dreams 
come; spirits of the stars, who are protectors of par- 
ticular men, etc. (( .'amp. Cast roll’s lectures on Finnish 
mythology, translated from the Swedish.) In the re- 
ligimis of our continent the Great Spirit has been sup- 
posed, without reason, to have corresponded with God, 
the sun, north-west wind, etc. The spirits arc supposed 
to be capable of detaching themselves from their cor- 
por al frame, ami of taking various forms as they see 
tit. 

It is a most interesting inquiry, but one in which it 
is dillicult 1 1 reach certainty, whether there are in the 
uncultivated races remembrances of a primeval mono- 
theistic faith. The dilHculty is due to several causes, 
the lirst of which is their reserve, often extreme, in- 
communicating with persons higher in the scale of 
civilization, and their readiness to agree for the mo- 
ment to what such persons mav say. Another cir- 
cum.-tanee to be considered is the propagation of relig- 
ious ideas from foreign sources — in Africa on both 
sides of the continent from the Mohammedanism 
which has long been making progress, and in this con- 
tinent from Christianity. The lied men near the 
whites have forgotten their former human sacrifices 
and cannibalism, and neglect of parents in extreme 
old age ; and they seem to have imbibed some relig- 
ious notions from the white men which have modified 
their religions. Wc find, also, this to be sometimes 
confessed by some tribes in Africa that the}* believe in 
n being above all, but neglect him because ho is too 
fur ort‘, too high to concern himself with their affairs. 
This m iv he an excuse for neglect of worship of such 
a being, or it may be conformed to a real but obscure 
tradition. Wo may suppose the supreme god to have 
been in the primeval religion :>f their fatlieis, and to 
have been thrust out of worship bv the spiritual weak- 
ness and imbecility of fallen man. In some tribes, 
again, there appear to be no such faint traces of mono- 
theism. A missionary, who lived over thirty years in 
Southern Africa, once told the present writer that he 
never found any such embers of nil early religion 
among those with whom he was conversant. The 
question is thus one not so easily settled. We close 
what we have to sav of it bv a brief citation from the 
i npurt: it work of Waitz ( Anthropol . d. XaiiirvMker , 
l ,f •», p. I 1 *"). He is speaking of the religion of the 
Negrui s. Aft -r deny ing the justice of imputing to them 
a pc uliar and rude form of polytheism, lie adds that 
tli ■ il< cji r penetration into their religions, to which 
•fl'l a number of conscientious investigators have 
at in d. lead' to the surprising result that a number 
of Negro t il> among whom the intlnencc of nations 
that '( ind higher in point of culture cannot be pointed 
out nor 'imi-i lv be Mispectcd. have made much great- 
er .idv.m es in the development of their religions con- 
ception*. than alum t all other nations in a state of 
nature. \»d this to such a degree that, if we mav 
not call them monotliei ts, still we may assert of them 
that they stand on the borders of monotheism ; while 
yet their religion is mingled with a great amount of 
gross superstition, which in the case of other peoples 
where it is found seems entirely to cover up with its 
rank growth the purer religious conceptions." 

H. (tbatrvancrt. — We have considered polytheism 


thus far on the side of its nature and origin. We pro- 
ceed next to a brief exposition of its practical side, or 
its outward worship, including priests, images, altars, 
and temples, liturgical services, and offerings. 

(1.) Throughout paganism it lias been felt that the 
gods must be approached in a certain way, and the 
knowledge of that way lias been in the hands of a cer- 
tain tribe or class. If there were written records, sa- 
cred songs, or formula?, the knowledge of these per- 
tained to this class alone. Moreover, a method of 
ascertaining the divine will grew up of which they 
alonc had the knowledge. Whatever rites were nec- 
essary to propitiate the anger of the gods, or to secure 
their favor, they alone could authoritatively tell. 
If any occult science relating to human destiny or 
the divine will existed, they possessed it exclusively. 
They had from their position such advantages that 
they first would have the literature, science, philoso- 
phy, and history of the nation in their keeping. Thus 
to a great extent they controlled the progress of events, 
stood by the side of rulers to direct their counsels, 
trained the people, shaped the theory of religion, 
turned it perhaps into a new- direction. 

The influence and standing of the priests varied 
with the freedom of the nation, with the compactness 
of the priestly order, and with various other causes. 
In some countries, as in Egypt and in India, they 
formed one of the leading castes, and all knowledge, 
secular or religious, was in their hands. In the Per- 
sian or Zoroastrian religion the priest, called Athrava 
in the records, has also in the inscription of liehistun 
(of the time of Darius Ilystaspcs), and in the Greek 
and Latin writers, the name of Magus. The Magi, ac- 
cording to Herodotus, were a Median tribe, which, be- 
coming necessary for the olliees of religion, was dif- 
fused over Persia also, and perhaps over East Iran or 
Uactria. They resembled the tribe of Levi in their 
living in villages, and had no great political power, 
owing perhaps to the almost religious authority of the 
Persian king. The A vesta consists, to a great degree, 
of long prayers, of invitations to the gods to be present 
at acts of worship, and the like, and religion entered 
into all the important concerns of life. Frequent pur- 
gations, and the maintenance also of the sacred fire, 
fell to their office. It is difficult to explain the con- 
nection between these Magi and the practice of magic, 

, for there were lkibylonian Magi also; but the word 
was probably indigenous in Iran. lMincker, the his- 
torian, finds the connection in the formula? of conjura- 
tion which they used in order to drive away the davas 
or dn's , the evil-minded spirit-servants of Aliriman, 
which formula* had a kind of constraining power over 
the spiiits, ju.>t as prayer in India was conceived of as 
putting a force on the gods. 

Greece differed from the nations already mentioned 
in having no order of priests : any one might assume 
the office, and discharge the duties which the priest per- 
formed, and “there is no trace of a priestly discipline 
propagated by instruction through generations, nor is 
there any trace of an abiding connection between the 
priests of different cities” (1\. Ottfricd Midler, rrolcg. 
p. 2-10, 250). At Koine the religions institutions took 
stronger root, in conformity with the regard for prec- 
edent, the formality and the superstition which char- 
acterized the early Koman people. The public priest- 
hoods were originally in patrician hands, and the priests 
long monopolized the knowledge of the calendar and 
the legal formula*. Moreover, the private rites of 
families seem to have been thought of more impor- 
tance than was the case among the Greeks. Hut there 
was no caste, there were no hereditary public priestly’ 
offices, and politics, becoming a vastly more inviting 
field, drew to itself tlie attention and etlbrts of all men 
who aspired to influence. The magistrates themselves 
observed the signs in the heavens and regulated the 
meeting of public bodies in accordance with their own 
wishes, under pretence of religious scruples. North 


POLYTHEISM 


379 


POLYTHEISM 


of Rome lay the Etruscans, belonging to another race, ' 
who had a gloomy religion, in which the art of divina- | 
tion plaj'ed a more important part than in that of any 
other nation of which we have knowledge. Here the 
leading men held the office of priests, and the princi- 
pal priesthoods were hereditary. Beyond the Alps, in 
Gaul, the Druids formed a great corporation, at the j 
head of which was a kind of pope; while Julius Caesar 
was struck by the want of a compact priestly class in 
Germany, and says that the race was not given to 
sacrifices. Of the nations inhabiting this continent, 
the Mexicans had a very numerous body of priests, 
some five thousand of whom are said to have belonged 
to the great temple at the capital. Over the hierarchy 
of priests two chiefs selected from leading families pre- 
sided, whose position gave them high authority in state 
affairs. Under these chiefs a third, with his subordi- 
nates, had superintendence over the lower priests and 
the seminaries. There were also monks in Mexico, 
as well as in other adjoining countries, who have been 
compared with the similar bodies in Buddhist coun- 
tries. In Peru, owing to the sacred dignity of the 
Incas, the priests, unless they pertained to the race of 
the Children of the Sun, had less independent weight 
than the similar class in Mexico, and the simplicity 
of the religion may have conduced to the same result. 
A remarkable institution of this country was that of 
the virgins of the sun, who, like the Roman vestals, had 
to keep alive the sacred symbol of fire. 

(2.) The objects of worship were either invisible, or 
distant and yet visible, or something near at hand, 
in which a divine power was thought to reside. In 
the first case especially there was a longing in the 
pagan mind for some representation or image which 
might keep the presence of the deity in mind, and 
thus give a sense of protection to the worshipper. 
Image-worship, idolatry, arose from a desire, it seems 
probable, of feeling the nearness of the unseen power, 
or from conceiving that the divine power is lodged in 
or belongs to the object present before the eyes as 
being inherent or represented by it. Image-worship 
has been diffused over the heathen world, but some 
nations have rejected it. The religion of Ormuzd re- 
jected images and even temples with a kind of fanat- 
ical hatred. We believe that there are no traces of it 
in the Vedas. The Romans at first had only symbols 
and not forms in the houses of their gods. The prob- 
ability is therefore that through the w hole of the Indo- 
European race idol-worship was not known at the 
first ; but in Egypt, in Greece, in the Hamitic and in 
some of the Shemitic peoples, on this continent, in Af- 
rica, and over the world, no earlier period can be traced 
than one in which either image symbol or fetich-wor- 
ship was a part of the religions. As for direct wor- 
ship of nature, one would suppose that images would 
not be needed by the pagan religious sentiment. The 
heavenly bodies especially are so great a part of the 
time in sight that no memorial of them would be need- 
ed. Thus w f e find that in Babylonia and Assyria, where 
sun and star worship, as distinguished from the wor- 
ship of sun and star gods, prevailed, idols were com- 
mon. Yet we find images of Bel, Nebo, and Merodach 
(Mercury and Jupiter) spoken of by the prophets (Isa. 
xlvi, 1 ; Jer. 1, 2), while the Phoenician and Canaanite 
sun-god Baal is represented by pillars (of stone and 
wood? 2 Kings x, 2G, 27), and Asherah, probably the 
same as Astarte, by w r ooden posts (groves in our ver- 
sion, passim . ). It seems not unlikely that in pro- 
portion to the pagan mind’s separation of a divinity 
from the object out of which it grew r , the tendency to 
represent it by images, and especially “after the fig- 
ure of man ” (Isa. xliv, 13), would become more con- 
trolling, but to this there seem to be exceptions. As 
for the direct worship of other objects of nature, as 
trees and animals, especially snakes, there is no rea- 
son w f hy this kind of worship should need images. 

And here we come to the difficult inquiry whether 


the animal is a symbol or a fetich, that is, a tenement 
of a god ; and we may doubt also whether in different 
parts of the world, as in Egypt and on this continent, 
the same conceptions lay under this species of cultus. 
In Egypt the sacred bulls Apis and Mnevis were cer- 
tainly regarded as incarnations ; but may not symbol 
have preceded and given rise to this belief? The rep- 
resentations with which the Egyptian religion abounds 
of gods in a composite form, partly human, partly bes- 
tial, hawk- or jackal-headed, etc., show a symbolizing 
! of particular qualities united to the expression of in- 
telligence like that of man. But, on the other hand, 
the worship of animals elsewhere, the great number 
| of sacred animals in Egypt, which it was a crime to 
| kill, and the mummies of which were preserved, seem 
j to point to a stage of worship in that strange country 
where the marvellous instincts and powers of animals 
pointed to a god within them all. 

After what has been said in another place we need 
not speak at length of fetich-worship. The vagueness 
of the word ought to be cured by definitions, or it ought 
to be driven out of works on the pagan religions. If 
a fetich is a material in which a god or spirit is con- 
< ceived to dwell for the time, a spell-bound protector 
and coadjutor of those who offer him worship, this is 
a distinct idea ; or if it is a tenement chosen by the 
worshipper for his god, that too is distinct enough ; 
but when we find, together with stones, mountains, 
water, wind and fire, plants, animals, and men, heav- 
enly bodies also in a certain stage of human culture 
reckoned as fetiches, it seems as if fetich-worship 
might be made to include everything. In Greece 
the Thessalian sorceresses were thought to be able 
to bring the moon down out of the skies, and to work 
magic arts by her help. That is, Hecate, the mocn- 
goddess, was believed to be wandering abroad at 
night, and, being identified with the moon, was 
thought to come down from the skies. The same 
general notion of power over objects of nature ap- 
pears in the rude fetich-worship of Africa. A clear 
line cannot be drawn between the religious con- 
ceptions of paganism in the lower and in its higher 
culture. 

We have spoken of mixed human and animal 
forms, where the symbol was the main idea. The 
highest attainment of idol-worship is to represent the 
divinity under the form of man. God made man in 
his image ; the pagan lover of beauty makes his god in 
man’s image, a reversal of the true idea, and yet ex- 
pressive of a relationship. The Greek, by his anthro- 
pomorphic representations of his divinities, employed 
the highest conceptions of beauty in the service of re- 
j ligion ; and thus, while he laid the foundation of the 
| highest art, subjected himself to the condemnation, 
“thou thoughtest that I was altogether such a one as 
thyself.” 

The image and symbol brought the god into mind, 
and gave him a visible connection with the worship- 
per. Hence, in part, the fascination of idolatry. To a 
j great extent, even in the most refined countries of 
I paganism, the divinity was thought — not indeed by the 
l philosopher, but by the vulgar — to inhabit the statue, 
and to this both the Scriptures and the early Chris- 
i tian writers constantly allude. The idol was not only 
J used at places of common worship, but in families, and 
j gave the feeling of protection a certain vividness, as if 
the divine shape were there. 

(3.) The images of the gods, rather than the desire of 
| shelter for the worshipper, gave rise to the temples, 
which were houses of a divinity; thus vaog is a god’s 
dwelling, from a root meaning to dwell, and c edes, in 
Latin, in the singular is usually a temple, but in the 
plural a human abode. But neither image nor temple, 
was as important for worship as the altar, which might 
stand afar from any temple, or near a temple and out- 
I side of it, or, it might be, within the temple’s walls, with 
no roof, or with an opening in the roof, for the purpose 


POLYTHEISM 3 SO POLYTHEISM 


of giving free passage to incense ami the smoke of 
sacrilie -s into the upper air. When the altar ut the 
god ami his statue were near ■ ne another, the statue 
generally stood above, that the worshipper might look 
upwards to the representation of the divinity. The 
temple as « II as the statue, in the progress ol refine- 
ment and oi the reualistic spirit, gained an importance 
that did i t belong to them in the earlier times. It 
is in In i tuple principally that architecture in most 
h atln i 1 in I' has found the motive for its cultivation, 
as tt n o i In* images of the gods chiefly which promoted 
th | r _oi -s of sculpture. We have already had occa- 
m . i to say that in the Persian religion there were 
properly no altars nor temples. The veneration be- 
stowed on fire and light was an obstacle in the way of 
coiitining religious rites within the walls of temples, 
and the pure original faith of Iran had little need of 
altars. 

(1.) Worship, in the narrow sense of the word, may 
include puhiie and private prayers and other liturgical 
services, with offerings unbloody or bloody, and their 
atten Ian t lustrations or purgations. Some of these 
rites, especially such as symbolized certain mythological 
events, might be secret, but of these mysteries we have 
no tunc to speak. 

Prayer, t he natural voice of the being who realizes 
his dependence, might he informal in the family re- 
ligion of the pagan, or attended with formalities; it 
might need the presence of a priest, especially on cer- 
tain important occasions of family life, or the head of 
the household might act as priest. In public religion 
a class of priests look the lead; it was felt that a cer- 
tain form of words bail a peculiar cllieacy. and from 
this notion perhaps belief in incantations derived its 
birth. In some religions the liturgical forms have 
been excessively minute and elaborate. We have al- 
ready referred to the religion of Iran as an example of 
this. The A vesta is chiefly liturgical. The first part 
of the Vacua, and a smaller collection, the Yispercd, 
consist principally of praises, thanksgivings, and invita- 
tions addressed to various superior beings to he present 
ai the offerings of l ho llaoma and at other celebrations. 
I’lie Yeshts or Vasts, a part of the Khorda-Avesta 
(lesser A vesta), consist of prayers and praises addressed 
to particular objects of veneration, as to Mithras, Ye- 
rethragna or Bhr.'mi, and the souls of the good. In 
the early religion of India the three first Yedas are 
chiefly liturgical. The Uig-Ycda contains about a 
thousand hymns in ten hooks, the first seven of which 
consist of hymns addressed to Agni, the tire-god, to 
ludra. and others. In the ninth hook are classed hymns 
intended to be sung while the Soma offering is in prep- 
aration. I he Sama-Yoda takes most of its materials 
from the Hig, and adapts them to the purposes of 
chanting. 1 he I ajur-Yeda consists of formulas proper 
to a< company the various actions of religious worship, 
an l belongs to a time when the worship had become 
complicated and the importance of the priest had in- 
ert ■ • I. d he Womans were in their early days a de- 
vout ... i reverential, hut also a formal people. The 
.sam ■ a lln r< m c to legal precedent which built up their 
law • ••in <1 in the minute observances of their re- 
li— 1 1 1 • »rn»ii Uis of words had a certain independent 
pow r. ,a hreadi of silence at prayer and sacrifice was 
"mm 'i the evocations addressed to the divinities of 
coiiipien . t wi* that Huy would leave their old abodes 
wen ce, 'M\ i I to have the force of a charm; and they 
were nlrM'l to | t it he known vvliat god was the especial 
guardian of W« nm. h«t their oiiemu s should practice the 
same < voeatn.iis again*! them. In India, also, prayer 
was thought of as having a magical power. The old 

the sun, called the Gavatri. is of such po- 

tence, ]| IS Mild, that the 1 Srahinm can obtain happiness 
by it whether lie performs m her religious services or 
not. d he repeating of it in the morning dawn until 
the sun appears remove* every miper.iived fault of 
the night, an I a similar repetition in the evening twi- 


' light is equally effectual (Wiittkc, u. s. vol. ii, § 106, 
from Mann, ii. #7, 101, 102). 

The offerings and sacrifices of a public nature were 
usually attended by lustrations, which are not to he 
confounded with purgations of a propitiatory char- 
acter practiced by those who sought cleansing from 
guilt. Both kinds of lustrations, however, had the 
same moral idea, the necessity of a pure mind, for their 
‘ foundation. In or near the Greek temples, and mark- 
ing the division line between profane and sacred ground, 
stood the vessel of holy water ( perirrhanierium ), for 
the uses of those who entered the pure interior. After 
this preparation came the offerings with prayers and 
praises. In some nations there was a time when these 
offerings were only unbloody, or at least the bloody of- 
ferings or sacrifices played a small part. The institu- 
tions of Numa sanctioned only such things as the fruits 
of the field, and the mola salsa, or broken grains of 
spelt mixed with salt. Not even incense was then 
used by the simple Homans. The usages changed 
greatly in this particular at a later time, owing to the 
influence of the Greek settlements in Southern Italy. 
Among the Hindus horses and horned cattle were fre- 
quent victims in the earlier times, but afterwards be- 
came less common. In the hooks of the A vesta little 
or nothing is said of animal sacrifices, but it is pre- 
scribed that for certain offences (as a fine or an atone- 
ment?) a hundred smaller cattle should be offered up. 
But in Persian history, whether in accordance with or 
in violation of the precepts of the religion, mention is 
made of animal victims. Xerxes on his inarch towards 
Greece honored the Trojan Athena by sacrificing a 
thousand cows. At the Strymon the Magi offered up 
white horses, and at a spot in Thrace called the Nine 
Hoads nine hoys and nine girls from among the native 
inhabitants were buried alive. Strabo remarks t hat no 
pieces of tlie victim were given, as elsewhere, to the 
gods, since they had need only of the auimars soul. 
Instead of victims, the great offering in the Indian re- 
ligion of the Yedic period was that of the Soma, an as- 
clepias or some other plant of the milk-weed tribe, the 
stalk of which was crushed between stones, and the 
narcotic juice, mixed with butter, was left to ferment. 
This mixture was supposed to nourish, strengthen, and 
even intoxicate the gods. The most absurd supersti- 
tions were connected with this sacred substance: it was 
originally in heaven, and came down with the rain to 
the earth ; it was something that a man might offer to 
the higher gods only, and could feel that lie had ren- 
dered a favor by it, and had a right to a return. Final- 
ly the Soma became identified with the moon-god as 
the cause of fruit fulness. An offering called by a cor- 
responding name in Iran, the llaoma, and obtained from 
the same or similar plants, played a great part in the 
services of the old religion of that country. Similar 
notions that the divine powers partook of and enjoyed 
sacrifices which were offered to them may he found 
elsewhere in many religions, but probably none so ex- 
travagant. 

Sacrifices of victims, or bloody offerings, were sooner 
or later almost universal. What victim should be se- 
lected depended on a variety of considerations. Some- 
times it was an animal tlial injured the gilts presented 
to a god. or injured that which he protected, as a goat, 
the destroyer of the vine, was offered to Dionysus, and 
a swine, which rooted in the ground, to Demeter. Some- 
times it was an animal under the god's protection. 
Sometimes, again, there was a symbolism in the sacri- 
fice, as when a black-colored animal was offered to the 
Dii Manes at Home, or a heifer never yoked to Minerva. 
In Kgypt, notwithstanding that the number of sacred 
animals was very considerable, other victims were se- 
lected for offerings. Thus a pig was presented to the 
god answering to Hercules and .Ksoulapins, but not to 
Sara pis; a sheep to the mother of the gods, but not to 
Isis; a eat to Horns; a cockroach. or some kind ufblatta 
at least, to the goddess identified with Thetis. 


POLYTHEISM 


3S1 


POLYTHEISM 


Throughout a large part of the world human beings 
were offered as sacrifices to the gods of the heathen, 
and the farther back we penetrate into antiquity the 
more common is this horrid practice. There are two 
forms of it, the sacrifice of children, especially of the 
first-born, and that of grown-up men. The first appears 
in countries where the worship of Moloch — perhaps of 
Baal and other kindred gods — prevailed, as in Phoeni- 
cia, the land of Canaan, Moab, perhaps, and Carthage, 
and traces of the same may be found in the island of 
Crete. Also in some parts of this continent the same 
practice seems to have gained some footing. To this 
the prophet Mieah (vi, 7), the law of It Loses (Lev. xx, 
2-5), the historical books (2 Kings xvi, 3; comp. Dent, 
xii, 31), and other parts of the Scriptures refer, unless 
in some of these passages simple lustration by fire with- 
out burning may be intended. But far more common 
was the sacrifice of grown-up men. As nations grew 
more humane, this practice was softened down; either 
men condemned to death, who had to die at any rate, 
were selected as the victims, or a person was scourged 
or cut only until the blood ran, or the rite was per- 
formed upon an image substituted for a human being. 
Such substitution can be traced in Egypt, Greece, and 
Borne. In India human sacrifices were introduced, 
when the obscene and cruel Siva religion spread among 
the people, into his worship and that of his wife Durga, 
or Kali. The Kalika-Purana is cited by Ward and 
others as sa} r ing that Kali “felt a pleasure for a month 
in the blood of fish offered to her; for nine months in 
that of wild animals; for a hundred years in that of a 
tiger; and in that of a lion, a stag, or a man, for a thou- 
sand years. Three men’s blood appease her for a hun- 
dred thousand years. The offering of blood is like the 
drink of the gods (the Soma) ; Brahma and all the gods 
assemble at the offering” (Ward, iii, 174 ; Wuttke, ii, 355; 
A si at. Res, v, 371). In other countries, as in Gaul, in 
Mexico, in Peru, above all in Mexico, this practice as- 
sumed frightful proportions, showing how man can he 
debased and made savage by his religion. There is 
ground for believing that cannibalism may have grown 
out of the sacrificial feasts after battle, when an enemy 
was slaughtered to the gods who gave the victory. 

We ask at this stage of the subject, what was the 
meaning of pagan offerings? As they understood their 
religious rites, the unbloody were expressions of grati- 
tude and acknowledgment for protection. Whatever 
the form of offering was, the god was conceived of as 
being pleased with them. How did they account for 
this pleasure? There are traees of the conception that 
the gods enjoyed offerings as we enjoy food. The faith 
of the Aryan race in regard to the Soma offering, and 
the idea that the smoke of burning sacrifices was agree- 
able to the divinities, show the grosser forms of anthro- 
pomorphism. Sacrifices of a public nature may be re- 
garded as feasts to which a god or gods were invited; 
the altar was the public hearth ; the victim was par- 
taken of by all the worshippers after due purgations, 
libations, and other preparations; the god had his share 
of the meal, which went up to him in the skies. At 
the bottom of all this, however, the feeling no doubt 
was that the worshipper gave up something of value, 
and thus showed his devotion to his protector. But 
this explanation does not exhaust the entire meaning 
of animal sacrifices. Thus certain animals not used for 
food, as dogs, horses, wolves, bears, and even asses, were 
in some Greek rites the appropriate victims, the prob- 
able reason for which is given by K. Ottfried Muller 
( Dorier , i, 279) that animals hated by a particular god 
he would be pleased to see bleeding at his altar. The 
sacrifice of a dog to Ilecate may be accounted for from 
the dog’s baying at the moon, and of a stag to Artemis 
because she was a huntress. 

But there were also propitiatory sacrifices required 
by a feeling of guilt and of dread. Here life is given 
for life. It seems impossible to put less meaning into 
such rites than that the worshipper acknowledged his 


life to he forfeited, and hoped hy something which not 
only had value but v r as also a living object, to avert 
through confession made in this way the divine wrath. 
Human sacrifices were still more significant. In the 
case of children, especially of the first-born, the suppo- 
sition that the first-fruits were consecrated and devoted, 
as an expression of gratitude, does not seem at all natu- 
ral. It was, in short, a sacrifice made for the benefit 
of the family, caused bv a painful sense of ill desert ; it 
was giving the fruit of the body for the sin of the soul. 
The more general sacrifices of human beings, especially 
of grown-up men, which took place most frequently 
where some great crime had been committed by persons 
unknown, or when pestilence or defeat by enemies bc- 
j tokened the wrath of protecting divinities, must bo re- 
garded as an acknowledgment of sin, and a way of 
transferring and appeasing divine anger. Wrath de- 
manded or exposed to death. The death of one or 
more freed the rest. In the Greek myths, the self-de- 
votion of an innocent virgin, like Macaria in the Ilera- 
clidie of Euripides, and in Roman history more clearly 
the act of the two Decii, father and son, their self-con- 
seeration, and in the ease of the younger the devotion 
of the hostile army, point to a faith that victory might 
be secured by voluntary death for others. This is the 
highest form that human sacrifice took in heathen an- 
tiquity. 

It remains to give the briefest possible estimate of 
the heathen religions in their influences on man. With 
regard to their lower forms, as seen in wild races, they 
are to a great extent religions of fear; dread of supe- 
rior powers weighs on the minds even of light-hearted 
African negroes. A feeling of sin, and yet a very faint 
and half- conscious one, must be presupposed in their 
minds in order that this dread may exist; but the 
dread is greatly increased by magic practices which 
are kept up by priestly imposture. In the higher 
races it would be follj r to deny that in the course of 
time, and partly by the help of moral sentiments which 
must grow up in well-ordered civil communities, the 
religions of paganism have been elevated in their moral 
tone ; that under them men have more or less risen into 
art, freedom, philosophy; that great individual char- 
acters have appeared in such countries, and that toler- 
ably high standards of moral excellence have counter- 
acted depraving influences from bad religions or bad 
institutions. But there are some necessary evils in 
polytheism, owing to its very nature. They honor 
power rather than character, since it was divine power 
in objects of nature that, impressed itself chiefly on the 
minds of men. Hence absolutism and ambition were 
under the protection of the religious sentiment. It was 
the worship of beings of limited attributes, more or less 
under the control of fate, who were for the most part 
not from eternity — not authors of the world, but parts of 
the world, local in their spheres of operation and func- 
tions. There could therefore be no universal religion. 
Buddhism spread because it was an atheism which 
abolished caste and limited transmigration, and which 
allowed the cult ns in the countries where it travelled 
to continue. There was, further, a want of allegiance 
on the part of the w’orshipper to his divinity; even rid- 
icule of them in the comic mimes of the Greeks was 
allowed, and sometimes the people treated the idols 
with great indignity. These religions could not resist 
any increase of knowledge, but gave way to scepticism, 
and this brought on national ruin. But the heaviest 
charge almost everywhere against paganism was its 
sensuality, not in the lower races only, but in the higher; 
not so much in earlier times as at the acme of refine- 
ment. The mythologies were impure. The gods were 
depraved, and examples of wickedness. Licentiousness 
was put under the protection of religion. On this 
point a long chapter might be written; but it is better 
to pass over this in silence, and to close with saying 
that the Apostle to the Gentiles was no maligner when 
he wrote the first chapter of the Epistle to the Romans. 


382 


POMAKAXCIO 


POLYTHEISM 

111. Literature.’ From the immense mass of works 
relating to the pagan religions we can only make a 
selection. 

I. U’nrk* on th> Phi! us phy °f Ji * ,i, t’ ,m or °f P(1 f/ an ~ 
t'oii-tant. />• in /.'< /// i •**. He. ( Paris, 1824-1831, 5 
voK ; ll.g- 1. <2 vols. ; in Werke, 

vol-. xi. mi. lltrlin. 1 « l<» : Wuttke, Gesch. </. Jhitfcn- 
tln > l!r 'law. 18.72. ix.7;i. 2 vols.. unlinislieil ) ; Selicl- 
li, p ; ■. ,/. Myihaloyit in Wrrke, pt. ii. vols. i, ii, 

,st 1 1 _ -i r 1 . 1 s.'ji; 1857); Ptleidcrcr, thus Wtsuitl. /irliyion 
1,-. ». isi.-i 2 vols.); several works of Max Muller, as 
In- > i ' of ' Reliyion, etc. 

/• i /, mntions of Mythology.— (a.) From the Old 
Tr-t ament, its events and characters, as hy Vossius, he 
thu'io/jUi i/ndili (Amsterdam, 1G12); 1 1 net. J/emonstr. 
rrtunjii. I Paris, 1G72); and others of that school, now 
nearly forgotten. (It.) K. <U(f. Muller. Prohgom. zti 
t itu r trissi nsrhaftl. Mythologie «< hitting. 182.7 ; Max 
Midler in his second course of Lecture# on Language. 

3. (it n> nil Pragmatical Tread#** on Heathen Religions 
or Mgthdogus. Battier (Paris. 17llt-l738) and .lacoh 
Bryant. now forgotten; Creuzer, Symbolif; (1st ed. 1819- 
lsj|. 4 vols. i. with Moue’s II* i*lcnth. *1. ttordl. Etiropas 
(l„cips. nn«l Darmstadt, 1822, 1823. 2 vols.); Mciners, 
All'll nine Gtsrh.d. R* liginnen (Hanover, 181)6, 1807, 2 
v -Is.) ; Stuhr, Relig. Sgstt me tie* (h unts (licrlin, 1835- 
|s38. 2 vols.t; Sell wet ik, Mylhologie (Frankf.-on-thc 
Main, is 13 Us.73. 7 vols.); Kckcrntann, Lchrb. der Re- 
ligb nsgesch. u. Myfholoyie ( llalle, 1818, 1849, 4 vols.). 

4. 'The I licit nt M ythiographers . — («.) Heal hen authors, 
as I.ucian. he lha Myra; Plutarch, he Isidi et 0#iri 
(Part hoy's ed., Berlin. 18.70). (A.) The attacks on hea- 
thenism hy early Christian writers, as Clement of Alex, 
in his Protnpt. and in part of I he Stromata ; Theodoret, 
h* lira cor. ajict. cur., with the Latin writers, esp. Ar- 
noliius. Augustine in parts of the City of God, Julius 
1'irrnicus, Minucius Felix, Laetantius, etc. 

a. Writers on the Greek Religion and Mytholot/y. Lo- 
beck ,i 1 i/laojihainu* on the Mysteries, etc. t Kiinigsb. 1820, 
2 vols.); Jacobi. Ilandicdrterh. d. yr. ?/. rom. Mythoi. 
(Leips. 183.-1. 2 vols.) ; Preller's he meter u. Persephone 
( llamb. 1837), his articles in Pauly’s Encgklap., and his 
Gritch. Mythoi i3d ed. edited by Plow, licrlin, 1872- 
l«7ti. 2 vols. : \\ elcker’s Gritch. Gotterlehre (Gottingen, 
18.77 1 m'i 2, vols.); Gerhard, Gritch. Mythoi (licrlin, 
1801. 18.75, 2 vols.); Uraun, G riechi#che Gotterlehre 
(llamb. n. Gotha. 18.54 ; the second vol. of Hermann’s 
J.ehrb. d. Grierhischen .1 f tort hums (1st cd. Heidelberg, 
18 hi : (i rote’s Greece, vol. i: and the writers on Creek 
art. 

(!. Writers on the Roman and Italic Religion#. K. O. 
Muller, hie Pt ntsker (licrlin, 1828. 2 vols.); (ierhanl. 
hit Gnthr d. P.trnsker; llarlimg, hie Relig. d. Router 
(Krlangen, 1836, 2 vols.); Constant, hit Polgtheisme 
Rom. Paris. 1833, 2 vols.); klaiiscn, . 1 cneas u. die /V- 
uati l iotha. |83'.i ) ; Ambrosch, Studied ( llreslan, 1839) : 
Mi rkt IV ed. of Ovid’s Fasti t Berlin. 1841); Marcpiardt. 
in \ -1. iv of the liekker-Marijuardt Ifatidb. d. Rom. Alt. 
(l.i' 1 8.76 ; I ’reller's Rout. Mythologie (Berlin, 18.78). 

>. i nil tan Mythology. Jablonskis Pant In on .Fyygt, 
Iriukt. on -the- Oder. 17.7(1 17.72); Pepsins, Peine d. 
- */■ g. (,'tthrk is i in the "Trans, of the Berlin 

7 a I 8., i ; aNo his 'J'ndh iibnch Leips. 1842): Bun- 
N L 'it '•# St. lb, etc. i in Conn, and Kngl.; bk. i 
e-p- ’ r " ' ibe religion . Himcker, (,*sch. dts Aifrrth. 

(1st id. lit rl. 18. *2: vol. i treats <4 Kgypt ; four editions 
lone nppi are I ■ Both, (••sch. dtr ahnulldnd. Philos. 
(in \ I. i. Maiinlu-im, 1*62 ; a) o works of M ilkinson 
and others on l.giptian nulng., Brugsch. etc. 

8. S/amtite R I i/if , M, V< rs. ho Phonm*v ( Berl. 

ii. Bonn, 1 8 1 .) Is ,0, o voK. , 1 >uncker < nt sup. in vol. 
ii ) ; tin* writers on \-»*vr. and Balnl. monuments, as 
I*n> ard. tin Raw linsons, t ippert, ( i. >1111111, Lc Normaut. 
Schrader, in his \#*yi,-bahyhni. A < dinschriftm 1 Leips. 
1872 , and K> iiinsc/ii. it. das I //< Jisfamvut (Giessen 
1872 . 

9. Iranian Religion,— Spiegel, in his .1 vesta, with in- 


troductions, and in other works : Wiudischman’s Zoro- 
astrische Stud. (Basle, 1831); Both (ut sup. in vol. i) ; 
Hang, F.ssay # (Bombay. |8i>2) : Duncker (ut sup. in vol. 
ii, of which the third ed. [1807 appeared also with the 
title, Gcsch. d. .1 ryer.). 

10. Indian Religions. — Besides the writers on the Vcdic 
literature and transl. of the Vedas, Lassen, Jnd. Alter- 
thumsknnde (4 vols.; in vol. i. p. 735-792); Duncker 
(nt sup. in vol. ii); Max Midler, ill several works; 
Whitney, Or. and Ling. Sfudits (Xew York. 1873); 
Wuttke (ut sup. in vol. i); Ward’s Vieic, etc. (Loud. 
1822, 3 vols.); with the writers on Buddhism, as llour- 
uoii f, Kiippcn, etc. 

11. Chinese Religions. — Wnttkc (ut sup. in vol. ii); 
a number of transl., as of the Shu-King, by (iaubi and 
Dc (luignes (Paris, 1770); of Meng-Tsen, by Stanislas 
Julien (Paris, 1824); the Y-King, by Mold (1834); 
Tshuhi, by Neumann (1837); Legge’s Chinese Classics ; 
also Stulir’s Reich s- Religion d. Chiuesen ; Plath, Relig. w. 
Culttis d. alien Chiuesen (2 pts., reprinted from “Trans- 
actions of the Koval Bavarian Academy”); together 
with works of Du liable, (iutzlnff, Williams, De Mailla, 
etc. 

12. Northern European and Asiatic Religions. — (a.) 
Celtic: Davies, Myth, of the Druids (Lond. 1809): Mone 
and Fckermann (ut sup.). ( b .) Herman: J. Hrimm, 
Deutsche Mythoi. (1st ed. tiottingen, 1835); transl. of 
the Edda ; Anderson, Northern Mythoi. (Chicago, 1874). 
(e.) Slavic: Mone, Ackermann, Schwenk (ut sup.'). (</.) 
Finnish: Castren, Yorlesttugen iiherd.jin. Mythoi. 

13. Religions of Loxrer Races. — Waitz, .4 nthrop. ( Leips. 
1859-1872, G vols., the last, hy (larlar.d) ; Tyler’s Primi- 
tive Culture (Ixmd. 1871, 2 vols.); J. G. M idler, .liner. 
Urreliy. (Basle, 18G7) ; Briuton, Myths of the New World; 
Wuttke (nt sup. in vol. i) ; Mciners (ut sup.) ; l)es Bros- 
ses, Itieux Fetiches; Schultzc, Eeiischismus (Leips. 1871); 
Morgan, .1 nc. Society (N. Y. 1877) ; accounts by School- 
craft, Catlin, and earlier writers on the Amor. Indians; 
Galitziu’s transl. of "Wrangell, Le Nord et la Siberie; 
histories of Mexico and Pern; travellers in Africa: Di- 
li s’s Polynesia, etc. In Waitz copious lists of voyagers 
and travellers arc given. (T. D. W.) 

Pomaraucio is the surname of Chistoforo Kox- 
cai.i.i, a painter of the h'lorentine school. He was 
born in 1552 at Pomaraucio, and was a pupil of Xiccolo 
Circignani, who took him to Borne ipiitc young to assist 
him in his works. At the same time, under the direc- 
tion of Ignazio Dauti, he helped, with Tempest i, llafael- 
lino da Reggio, the younger Palma, and some others, 
in finishing the logge of Baffaelle. This work being 
achieved, lie painted, on slate, for Santa Maria dcgli 
Angeli at Borne, a heath of Ananias and Sapphira, a 
masterpiece tliat was deemed worthy to be copied on 
mosaic for the basilica of St. Peter. After painting at 
San Giovanni di Latrano The Baptism of Constantine, 
at San Giacomo The Resurrection of Christ, at San Gre- 
gorio a St. Andrew, one of his best works, he was select- 
ed to paint the cupola of the church of Lorctto. getting 
the preference of Guido and Caravaggio. The hitter 
avenged himself by having his rival’s face disfigured hy 
a spadassin. The cupola of Lorctto, in the ornamenta- 
tion of which Roncalli was assisted by Jaeonetti, Pietro 
Lombardo, and Lorenzo Garbiori, oilers a great variety 
and abundance of subjects. Although these paintings 
have suffered niueli, some heads of uncommon beauty 
are still discernible. Some subjects from the life of the 
Virgin, executed hy Pomaraucio, were the occasion of 
his being made a knight of the Order of Christ hy 
Paul V. lie worked in divers other places of the 
Pirciitino: there is a Noli me tangerc nt the Krmitaui 
of San Severinn; a St. Francis in Prayers, at San 
Agnstinn of Ancona; a St.Paiatia at O.-inm; and at the 
Palazzo Galli of the same place is a Judgment of Solo- 
mon, which Lanzi asserts to he his best fresco. During 
a rather protracted stay at Genoa, lie embellished its 
churches and palaces villi works fit to compete with 
the best of the century. Wc mention further among 


POMARANCIO 


383 


POMEGRANATE 


his paintings The Martyrdom of St. Simon , at the 
Pinacothek of Munich, and a Virgin shedding Tears 
over the Body of her Son, at the Museum of Madrid. 
His manner is very variable, and reminds now of the 
Roman, now of the Florentine school; sometimes it 
comes near to the Venetian school. Ilis colors are 
brighter and more brilliant in his frescos than in his 
oil-paintings. He likes to adorn his subjects with 
beautiful landscapes of great effect. Unfortunately, 
following the example of his masters, he was too often 
assisted by his pupils; hence some weak parts in his 
works. He is charged also with some errors of per- 
spective. He died at Rome in 1626. See Lanzi, Hist, 
of Painters (see Index) ; Spooner, Biog. llist. of the Fine 
A rts , s. v. Roncalli. 

Pomarancio is also a surname by which Ntccolo 
Circtgxaxi is generally known, lie was a painter of the 
Florentine school of the 16th century, and was born at 
Pomarancio, near Volterra. He was probably a disci- 
ple of Titian, whose assistant he w r as in his works in 
the great room of the Belvedere, in the Vatican. He 
arrived at Rome quite young, and painted there a 
number of frescos, among which we mention the cu- 
pola of St. Pudentiana, The Lord surrounded by Angels 
(tribune of S. Giovanni Paolo), St. John the Baptist 
(church of the Consolazione), and thirty-two horrible 
Scenes of Martyrdom (San Stefano Rotondo), vigorous, 
but executed with little care. It is probable that 
Pomarancio spent the last years of his life in his native 
place, where he died after 1591; for the works which 
must be referred to his last period are all among nu- 
merous paintings of his preserved in Volterra. At S. 
Giusto a Descent from the Cross is signed “Nicolaus 
Circinianus di Ripomarance pingebat A.D. 1580;” and 
at the Battisterio, on an Ascension, one of his best 
works, we read, “Nicolaus de Circignanis Volaterranus 
pingebat anno 1591.” In the cathedral of the same city 
there remains of the frescos with which he had adorned 
the tribune a God-Father ; at St. Pietro, in Selci, an 
Annunciation (oil-painting), and at San Francesco a 
Pieta. Pomarancio was frequently aided by his pupils, 
the best known of whom are Cristoforo Roncalli, called 
also Pomarancio, and his own son, Antonio Circignani, 
who remained in obscurity during his father’s lifetime, 
and came suddenly into repute by the paintings with 
which he adorned a chapel of Santa Maria Traspontina 
at Rome: they exhibit some features successfully bor- 
rowed from Baroccio. At Florence, under the portico 
of the hospital of S. Matteo, he painted some frescos in 
1614: The J)isputation with the Doctors; The Massacre 
of the Innocents; The Adoration of the Kings ; and The 
Nativity. Called at a mature age to Citta di Castello, 
Antonio lived there several years, painting for churches 
and private persons. It is believed that at the age of 
sixty years he settled again in the village of Poma- 
rancio, the cradle of his family, where he died in 1630. 
See Lanzi, Hist, of the Painters ; Spooner, Biog. JJist. of 
the Fine A rts, s. v. 

Pomarius, Samuel Baumgarten, a German Lu- 
theran divine, w r as born April 26, 1624, near Wintzig, 
in Silesia. His father, a miller, was opposed to his pre- 
dilection for study, and he had many obstacles to sur- 
mount before he could get through his course of studies 
at the college. He pursued his studies at Breslau, Frank- 
fort, and Wittenberg. On Jan. 1, 1653, he w r as called 
to Beshin, in Silesia, but soon went to that portion of 
Berlin then known as Cologne-on-the-Spree as deacon 
of St. Peter’s, and from thence to Magdeburg as pastor 
of St. Jacobi. In 1665 he was made rector and professor 
of theology at Eperies, in Upper Hungaria. On account 
of the persecution against the evangelical party, he had 
to leave that position in 1673, and went to Wittenberg, 
where he lectured on theology, preaching at the same 
time. In 1674 he went as pastor and superintendent to 
Lubeck, where he died, March 2, 1683. Almost all the 
writings of Pomarius are of a polemical nature, and in- 


tended to defend the Lutheran tenets. He was engaged 
in many theological disputes with Jesuits, and even with 
Protestant theologians. We mention among his works, 
De Noctamhdis (Wittenberg, 1649, 1650, 4to): — De 
moderatione theologicd (ibid. 1674, 4to) : — Dissertatio 
de veritate religionis Lutherans: — Comment, in episto- 
lam Judw: — Analysin et exegesin articulorum Aug. 
Confessionis : — De majestafe S. Scripture*, etc. See 
Jdcher, Gelehrten- Lex ikon, s, v. ; Chaufepie, Diet. Ilist. 
s. v. ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirch. -Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Pome (Lat. pomum, i. e. an apple) is in ecclesias- 
tic language (1) a cup or ball filled with perfumes; (2) 
a ball of metal filled with hot water, and used by the 
priest to warm his hands at the altar. It was some- 
times made four-footed and with rings of silver. 

Pomegranate, the Punica granatum of Linnaeus, 
is by universal consent acknowledged to denote the 
Heb. rimmon also ‘jX:'?, so called, according to 

Gesenius, from an Arab, root signifying marrow; but 
according to Fiirst, from one signifying blood-red; Sept. 
pod, po id, poioKog, Ktofitiiv, Vulg. malum punicum, ma- 
lum granatum , malogranatum ), a word which occurs 
frequently in the O. T., and is used to designate either 
the pomegranate-tree or its fruit. It is described in the 
works of the Arabs by the name roman. The pome- 
granate is a native of Asia; and we may trace it from 
Syria, through Persia, even to the mountains of North- 
ern India. It is common in Northern Africa. The 
pomegranate is not likely to have been a native of 
Egypt ; it must, however, have been cultivated there 
at a very early period, as the Israelites, when in the 
desert, lamented the loss of its fruit in the wilderness 
of Zin (Numb, xx, 5) — this “is no place of figs, or of 
vines, or of pomegranates.” The tree, with its charac- 
teristic calyx-crowned fruit, is easily recognised on the 
Egyptian sculptures (Wilkinson, Anc. Egyptians, i, 36, 
ed. 1854). That it was produced in Palestine during 
the same early ages is evident from the spies bringing 
some back when sent into Canaan to see what kind of a 
land it was; for we are told that they “came unto the 
brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch 
with one cluster of grapes, etc., and they brought of the 
pomegranates and of the figs” (Numb, xiii, 53; comp, 
also Dent, viii, 8). The villages or towns of Rimmon 
(Josh, xv, 32), Gath -rimmon (xxi, 25), En-rimmon 
(Neh. xi, 29), possibly derived their names from pome- 
granate-trees which grew in their vicinity. These trees 
suffered occasionally from the devastations of locusts 
(Joel i, 12; see also Hag. ii, 19). Mention is made of 
“an orchard of pomegranates” in Cant. 3v, 13; and in 
iv, 3 the cheeks (A. V, “temples”) of the Beloved are 
compared to a section of “pomegranate within the 
j locks,” in allusion to the beautiful rosy color of the 
fruit. Carved figures of the pomegranate adorned the 
tops of the pillars in Solomon’s Temple (1 Kings vii, 18, 
20, 42; 2 Kings xxv, 17 ; 2 Chron. iii, 16; iv, 13); and 
worked representations of this fruit, in blue, purple, and 
scarlet, ornamented the hem of the robe of the ephod 
(Exod. xxviii. 33, 34; xxxix, 24). This is explained 
mystically by Philo {Opera, ii, 153, 226), and differently 
by Meyer {Blatter f. hohere Wahrheit, x, 85; see also 
Bahr, Symbolik, ii, 123 sq.). The pomegranate seems 
also to have been used as a holy symbol in heathen re- 
! ligions (see Bahr, Symbol, ii, 122). Among the later 
Jews the pomegranate was used in some cases as a 
measure (Mishna, Chelim, xvii, 1, 4). Mention is made 
! of “spiced wine of the juice of the pomegranate” in 
j Cant viii, 2; with this may be compared the pome- 
I granate-wine {poirgg o'ivog) of which Dioscorides (v, 

; 44) speaks, and which is still used in the East. Char- 
din says that great quantities of it were made in Per- 
sia, both for home consumption and for exportation, in 
his time ( Script . Herb. p. 399; Ilarmer, Obs. i, 377). 
Being common in Syria and Persia, it must have early 
S attracted the attention of Eastern nations. In the 
| present day it is highly valued, and travellers describe 


384 


POMERANIA 


POMEGRANATE 


the pomegranate as being delicious throughout Persia. 
The late sir A. Humes stales that the famous pome- 
granates without seeds are grown in gardens under the 
snowy bills, near the river » abul. It is still found in 
Palestine 'vied/. /,'• is. p. 1 10 . Ara!>ia i Niebuhr, Peschr. 
p. Ids . Eg\ | i Pom eke. hast, i, 319). Past and West 
Indies, anil* also m the southern countries of Europe 
tnunp. lit < r. hrdknmb. xi, 519 sq.). The pomegran- 
ate W.1-. \u known to the I. reeks, being the pod of 
l'lit ophra-t n- an I of Dioscoridcs (i, 151). It was om- 
|,t,. v .'d as a medicine by Hippocrates, and is mentioned 
by IIoiim r under the name side, supposed to be of I’hoe- 
i io.au origin; ikeot. moj (Athen. xiv, bob), and called 
by Pliny ] ‘uniat arbor (xiii, 38i. The Homans gave it 
the name of /‘uniat because the tree was introduced 
from Curtilage; its English name is derived from the 
poutuin gratia turn ("grained apple”) of the Homans. 
Various parts of the plant were employed medicinally, 
as, for instance, the root, or rather its bark, the flowers 
which are called tciVii'ot; by Dioscoridcs, and the double 
flowers fiaXurariuv: also the rind of the pericarp, called 
malicorium by the Homans, and aictov by Dioscoridcs. 
Some of the properties which these plants possess make 
them useful both as drugs and as medicines. In a nat- 
ural state it is but a bush, eight or ten feet high, with 
a straight stem and a large number of branches, a red 
bark, lauce-fortned leaves of a bright-green color, each 
on its own stem; and bears flowers which stand sepa- 
rate, star-shaped, and without odor, of a deep-red color, 
and producing around fruit, green and partly red on the 
surface, hut yellow within (comp, ('ant, iv, .3, and Cel- 
sius i, 275. The Homans called this fruit malum pu- 
uirtim , the Punic apple, but sometimes also malum gra- 
uatum. l’lin. xiii. 31 ; xvi, 30; Marcell. Med. c. 27). It 
is of the shape and size of an orange, three or four inches 
in diameter, divided into longitudinal apartments, in 
which the grains lie as compactly as corn on the cob, 
and look much like a pale-red Indian corn, save that 
they are nearly transparent. They ripen about, the 
middle of October, and remain in good condition all 
winter f Thomson, Land and Pool:, ii, 392; but in 
August, according to Ktissell, Xal. Hist, of Aleppo, i, 
107). They are uncommonly fleshy, juicy, and sweet to 
the taste < Pliny, xiii, 3-1), and arc much enjoyed by the 
Orientals as a refreshment (Larne, i. 8). l he rind is 



I used in the manufacture of morocco leather, and, to- 
gether with the bark, is sometimes used medicinally to 
expel the tape-worm. Husscll (A ’at. Hist, of Aleppo, 

i, 85, 2d ed.) states that ‘•lemons have by no means 
superseded the pomegranate; the latter is more easily 
procured through the winter, and is often in cooking 
preferred to the lemon. The tree is much cultivated in 
the gardens and orchards of Palestine and Northern 
Syria. The fruit is seldom ripe earlier than the end of 
August, when most families lay in a stock for winter 
consumption. There are three varieties of the fruit — 
one sweet, another very acid, and a third, in which both 
qualities are agreeably blended. The juice of the sour 
fruit is often used instead of vinegar. The others are 
cut open when served up to table; or the grains, taken 
out and besprinkled with sugar or rose-water, arc 
brought to table in saucers. The grains likewise, fresh 
as well as dried, make a considerable ingredient in 
cookery.” lie adds that the trees are apt to suffer 
much in severe winters front extraordinary cold. See 
Celsius, Hierobot. i, 271 sq. ; Oken, Lehrbuch der Po- 
tiinik, II, ii, 917 sep; Geiger, Pharmaceulische Potanik, 

ii. 1417 sq.: Plenk, Plant. Med. Tab. p. 373; Layard, 
Nineveh, ii, 233, 

Pomerania, a province of Prussia, situated in the 
north-east, and bordering on the Baltic, was once the 
possession of the Slaves and Swedes, and has such a pe- 
culiar ecclesiastical record that we here take space to 
detail it. In the Gth century some Slavic tribes settled 
in Northern Germany, and called the coast along the 
Baltic Sea Pomorze, i. e. on the sea-coast. The foremost 
deities of this Weiulish people were Belbog, Czernibog, 
Hadogost, Swantcwit, Herovit, Gcrovit, and Triglav. 

I. Introduction of Christianity. — About the year 1000 
the bishopric of Colberg was founded as a dependence 
of the archbishopric of Gnescn, and Heinbcrn appoint- 
ed bishop; but Heiuberii having gone to Kief to at- 
tend the celebration of the nuptials of the daughter 
of Boleslaus with the son of the czar Wladimir, and 
stopping at the Hussian court, this commencement proved 
fruitless. The attempt of Bernhard, a Spanish monk, to 
introduce Christianity, which was made a century after- 
wards, was equally unsuccessful. But Boleslaus Krzv- 
vousti, king of Poland, having subjected to his rule part 
of Pomerania, atul wishing to make Christians of his 
new subjects, desired Otto, bishop of Bamberg, to bring 
those heathens the light of I be Gospel. Otto, having ob- 
tained the agreement of pope Calixtus II, set on his way, 
April 19, 1124, over Prague, Breslau, Posen, and Gnesen, 
where he stopped seven days and celebrated Whitsun- 
tide. Wratislav, the Pomeranian chief, who, as a boy, 
bad been christened at Merseburg, came to meet the 
apostle, and gave him two of his warriors to guide him 
to Pyritz. In this place the pagans were engaged in 
the celebration of one of their feasts. ( Mto preached to 
the 4000 men assembled at that solemnity, and a week 
bad scarcely elapsed, during which lie and bis associates 
were busy instructing the daily increasing crowd in the 
Christian doctrines, when the bishop prescribed a three 
days’ fasting, after which more than 7000 heathens 
were admitted to baptism. After erecting an altar, 
and leaving one of his priests, ( Mto went via Stargard 
to Kammin, the residence of the prince. The wife of 
the latter received the apostle with great joy. He 
Mopped liftv days, converted 3585 persons, laid the 
| foundation of a church, and left a priest, for whose 
1 maintenance the prince had granted sonic lands. Julitt, 
afterwards called Wollin, mostly inhabited by pirates, 
was not so favorably disposed towards the new religion ; 

, but, after more or less persecution, the Christians were 
permitted to leave the town unscathed and cross the 
1 livenow. 1 lore ( >tto. after resting a few days, entered 
upon negotiations with the inhabitants: but all he could 
obtain front the chiefs of the city was that they would 
Hi root themselves by the example of Stettin, the oldest 
mid tiobUst city of Pomerania. Thither Otto repaired, 
trussing the Ilaff, in company with Hcdanur, a citizen 


POMERANIA 


385 


POMERANIA 


of Julin, anil his son. The Stettinians at first turned a 
deaf ear to Otto’s exhortations. Twice a week, on the 
market-days, he proceeded to the market-place with his 
eighteen priests in sacerdotal ornaments, ami preached 
before the multitude. The people from the country 
listened to his words less reluctantly than the denizens 
of the city; yet, after two months had thus elapsed, the 
latter declared that they would accept baptism, if Poland 
would consent to diminish the tribute, to grant to the 
country a permanent peace, and to draw up a deed of 
the transaction. The bishop, whose meek ways, friend- 
ly behavior, and works ol charity had won every heart, 
obtained those concessions from the Poles, and on Oct. 25 
he christened both sons of the prominent citizen Domiz- 
lav, the father soon afterwards; then five hundred rela- 
tions and other connections of that powerful family — 
an example which considerably influenced the people 
generally. The four temples of the city were destroyed, 
and Otto sent to the pope the three heads of the idol 
Triglav. After establishing two churches, one in honor 
of St. Adalbert — the patron saint of the Slaves — the 
other under the name of Peter and Paul, Otto, leaving 
two of his priests in the city, visited the towns of Garz 
and Liibeziu, left a priest in each, and repaired to Julin, 
where the intelligence of Stettin’s conversion had al- 
ready been received. The inhabitants came to meet 
him on his way, and begged his pardon for their former 
conduct. Otto consecrated two altars in the city, inter- 
dicted the burying of the dead in forests, prohibited 
piracy, the intercourse with idolators, polygamy, and 
the inveterate custom of killing new-born girls when 
there were some girls already in the family. In the 
ensuing winter Otto, passing through Dodona (now 
Dodow), where he laid the foundations of two churches, 
went to Colberg and Belgard, the inhabitants of which 
did not prove open to his teachings, lienee he re- 
turned to Pyritz, Stettin, and Julin, where he confirmed 
the proselytes, inaugurated the building of churches, and 
then journeyed over Dodona and Belgard to Colberg, 
where he buried the deacon Hermann, drowned in the 
Persante. On Ash- Wednesday he set on his way home- 
wards, having converted 22,166 persons and founded 
eleven churches ; he travelled through Poland, Silesia, 
and Bohemia, and arrived at Bamberg on the Saturday 
before Easter, March 29. Epidemics and great mortality 
having afflicted Stettin, the idolators pointed at those 
plagues as being the punition visited by the gods upon 
the apostates. This caused a general relapse, and made 
Otto sensible of the necessity of interfering in person, 
and of converting the cities of Demmin, Gbtzkow, Use- 
dom, and Wolgast, still left to idolatry. He set out April 
19, 1128, crossed Saxony and Mecklenburg, carrying on 
fifty wagons tbe articles required for fitting out the 
churches. June 10 Wratislav assembled at Usedom the 
nobles of the left bank of the Oder : they were bap- 
tized, and promised to protect the Christian faith in 
their dominions. Otto longed to gain also to Christian- 
ity the inhabitants of the island of Iliigen, but insuper- 
able obstacles lay in his way. In Stettin, where a very 
few had remained faithful, Otto was threatened with 
death; he at once repaired to the church of Paul and 
Peter, and while the song of hymns filled the vaults of 
the church, the sound of arms was heard outside. The 
crowd calmed down by and by, and dispersed; a ser- 
mon in the market-place, whither the clergy repaired 
in procession under the protection of Wirtska, retrieved 
the strayed flock. Julin followed again the example 
of Stettin. The saint now visited again all the places 
of Pomerania where he had worked, and, journeying 
through Poland, reached Bamberg Dee. 20. Though 
he did not again see the country he had converted, he 
watched from afar over these young Christian commu- 
nities to the time of his death, which occurred June 30, 
1139. The conversion of Pomerania, and its accession 
to the German empire in 1181, induced a number of 
monks and colonists to emigrate to the country of the 
Wends, depopulated by long wars. Wratislav, the first 
Till. — B n 


Christian prince, was in 1134 murdered by a heathen at 
Stolpe, near Anelam. On the spot where the deed had 
been committed a little church was built, and in 1153 
the first monastery was founded there, and occupied 
by Benedictines from Berg, near Magdeburg. We men- 
tion some other notable monasteries: Kolbatz, 1163; 
Belbuck, 1170; Eldena, 1207; Brukow and Neucamp, 
1231; lliddeusee, 1299; Pudagla, 1308; all of which 
stood under “ abbates baculati.” The following places 
of pilgrimage were distinguished: 1. The Golleuberg, 
near Cbsliu, celebrated throughout Europe, with a church 
consecrated to the Virgin, the spire of which served as a 
light-liousc; 2. The Bevekolil, near Schmolsin (circle 
of Stolpe), a mountain on which a church had been 
founded in honor of St. Nicholas, the patron of mariners ; 
3. The Holy Mountain, south of the city of Pollnow, 
from 1290; 4. Bernstein; 5. Wusseken, near Coslin, from 
1395; 6. Kenz, near Barth, from 1405; 7. Werben, from 
1474. While the largest part of the duchy of Tonicra- 
nia, with part of the Ukcrmark, the Neumark, and of 
what is now called Western Prussia, was a dependency 
of the bishopric of Kammiu, the western part of the 
country belonged to the diocese of Schwerin, and the 
island of Biigen, connected with Pomerania in 1325, re- 
sorted to the Danish bishopric of Rbskilde. The names 
cf the bishops of Kammin are as follows: 1. Adalbert, 
a Franconian (1128-1162), resided at Julin. 2. Conrad 
(1162-1185). The seat of the bishops was transferred to 
Kammin, because Julin was destroyed by the Danes in 
1175. 3. Siegfried (1186-1202). Under "his administra- 
tion there was a considerable immigration of Germans, 
who founded a number of cities. Jacob Beringer, a 
knight from Bamberg, who settled in Stettin, built in 
1187 for the Germans the church of St. Jacob, with 30 
altars. 4. Sigwin (1202-1217) preached himself. While 
he was bishop Stralsund was built, in 1209 ; ami in 1214 
the Templars arrived in Pomerania, and, owing to the 
great esteem they enjoyed, became counsellors of the gov- 
ernment. In November, 1216, Christian, the apostle and 
bishop of Prussia, visited Pomerania, his native coun- 
try, and dwelt a few days with the old, sickly Sigwin at 
Kammin. Duke Casimir, in company with a number 
of Templars, undertook a pilgrimage to the Holy Sep- 
ulchre, where he died, in 1217. 5. Conrad II (1218- 

1238). Anastasia, the pious widow of Bogislav I, 
founded in 1223 the nunnery of the Virgins at Treptow, 
endowed it, and was buried in it. 6. Conrad HI, count 
of Giitzkow (1233-1248). The abbot of Eldena, Wigard, 
founded in 1233 the city of Greifswalde. In 1240 Fran- 
ciscans settled at Stettin, and in 1244 a nunnery was 
founded in the same city. 7. Dr. Wilhelm, resigned in 
the following year. Under his administration the nun- 
nery of Marienfliess was built by Wratislav III, whose 
daughter Barbara was the first abbess. 8. Hermann, 
count of Gleiehen (1249-1288), a relation of the mar- 
graves of Brandenburg, piomoted German civilization, 
and preserved a predilection for Brandenburg. In 1263 
a chapter composed of twelve canons was erected in the 
church of St. Mary at Stettin, and confirmed by Urban 
IV. In 1270 was founded the nunnery of Mary at 
Coslin, and in 1277 Baruim presented the diocese of 
Kammin with the town of Colberg. 9. Jarimar, prince 
of Kiigen (1288-1296), directed the worldly business, 
while the Dominican Dr. Petrus administered the eccle- 
siastical affairs as a vicar, until 1299. 10. Henry of 
Waehliolt (1299-1317), a Saxon, founded six archdea- 
conries (1303) — at Kammin, Stargard, Stettin, Demmin, 
Usedom, and Stolpe. The possessions of the suppressed 
Templars were given to the Joannites; the latter had 
their house first at Rbrike, and in 1382 at Wildenbruek. 
In 1313 Wratislav IV presented the Augustines with 
his mansion at Anelam. 11. Conrad IV (1317-1322) 
was a learned and eloquent prelate, zealous defender of 
the independence of his see, and a faithful ally to the 
dukes in agitated times. 12. lie was succeeded until 
1329 by Dr. Wilhelm. 13. Frederick, count of Eieh- 
stiidt (1329-1343), assisted the dukes in their wars, and 


POMERANIA 


38 G 


rOMERIUS 


was intrusted with diplomatic negotiations. 11. John, 
duke of Saxe - Laucnburg, grandson of Wratislav IV 
( 1343-1 37(M. In 134G the collegiate church of St. Otto, 
with a deacon and twelve cations, was founded near the 
castle of Stettin. In 13 JO the pest swept away two 
thirds of the inhabitants of the country; troops of 
Flagellants walked through the land. In 1300 the 
Carthusian monastery of Stettin was founded. The 
bishop held a synod ; and in 1303. when Charles IV, 
em|KTor of tiermatiy, married Elizabeth, the daughter 
of It tgislav V, lie appeared at court at Cracow. 15. 
Philip l.unibaeh (1370-I3*G), an active pastor. After 
his death Wenccslas (although expelled from the em- 
pire) invested his chancellor with the episcopal dig- 
nity. 10. John, canon of Ccbus. 17. Bogislav VI 11 
administered the diocese for a short time. is. John of 

< tppeln changed sees with the bishop of Kulm. Nicolas 

Puck (139* 1410). 11). Magnus, duke of Lower Saxe- 

I^tueiiburg, a son of Eric (14 10-1 422), was at the Council 
of Constance. He was called to the sec of llildcshoim. 
and is buried in the cathedral of that city. 20. Siegfried 
linck, from stolpc (1422-1440), accompanied, in 1 423, 
king Eric of Denmark. Norway, and Sweden on a pil- 
grimage to the Holy Land, and went in 1433 to the 
Council of llasle. lie held a synod, in which he inter- 
dicted the game of dice and the sport to his clergy. In 
143* the Hussites, attracted bv Bogislav IN, penetrated 
as far as Stettin, and plundered Kolbatz. In 1410 the 
Putzkaller sect arose near Barth, and subsisted during 
thirty years. 21. Henning Jven, a very benevolent 
prolate, was greatly beloved for his Christian indul- 
gence. He used to say, ‘*Aiit snmus, ant fuimus, ant 
possum i is esse quod hie est.” In 1450 Barnim VIII un- 
dertook a pilgrimage to Home with his wife, at the oc- 
casion of the jubilee. In 1454, on the Sunday Jndica, 
the bi-hop held a synod at tiillzow: the resolutions have 
been preserved, tin Oct. 17, 145f>, he inaugurated, in 
common with bishop Albert of Sydow, the Academy of 

< ireif-walde, and was appointed its chancellor and con- 
servator. 22. Lewis, count of Ebcrstein, who resigned 
in MHO. 23. The Italian. Marino di Eregcno, till 1482. 
The see of Kammin remained vacant for live years, 
Vrolinns Westfal being administrator. 24. Benedict, 
Bohemian baron of Waldstein, canon at Olmiitz (14*0- 
1400). Encouraged by him, Andrew, abbot of Michaels- 
berg at 1 in m berg, wrote in 14*7 the life of St. Otto in 
Latin. In ( tetober, 1402, a synod met at Stargard. 25. 
Martin Carith. from Colbcrg. archdeacon at Arenswalde 
(MOO 1521), resided at Co.-liu : accompanied, in MOG- 
MO*. Bogislav X to the Holy Land; held Oct. 5. lot)0, 
a synod in the church of St. Marv at Stettin ; and or- 
dered the synodal statutes and the Breviary to be print- 
ed. 150.5. lie- died Nov. 20, 1521, at Stettin. 20. Eras- 
mus of Manieufel, the last Catholic bishop of Kammin, 
died in his mansion at Bast, Jan. 27, 1544. 

II.// tin hut imi of /’rot est autism . — The duke Barnim. 
"ho had studied at Wittenberg during the tirst efler- 
ve-ivnee of the Reformation (1518-1520), and who had 
m« n be i n chi'scn rector of the university, took in hand 
th*- r< m- of government, together with li’is elder brother 
• "■'r/t, in I and t a cored Protestantism. I icorge, 
ul - -\ in j at Iocs remained with the old Church, died 

i-uh. an 1 In- son Philip foil iwed his uncle's example. 
A ii'inib. r . t | r a, lo r- travelled through Pomerania. 
nr_o. on tin- | i • lo the nece-sity of returning to the 
purity ol l 1 1 r • -i ( luireli. Among these apostles of the 
new ereid \wn Paul of Rhodn, from Mansfold. who 
s*op].e.l at St tt n. John Amandus. who exerted hitn- 
m H Mr. ‘Hi.ui.ly at K. nig-berg, Stolpc. Stettin, and 
dually went m «.o4ir No. da- Klein, at C.dherg and 

< • "din ; Paul Klotze.nl Marieiuhron : John Kniepstrow, 
at Stargard, Mein. I .r. tl'-walde. and Sirnlsnnd; Peter 
Swawe, at Creif-wnlde; John Ifomenliagcii, Christian 
Kettelhodt , and John Kiiroko, at Siral-imd. At the 
time of the wars of the peasants Pomerania was not 
exempt from civil and ecclesiastical troubles, and 
bloody riots took place, especially at Stettin and Stral- 


snnd. The bishop Erasmus von Manteufel invited his 
clergy to assemble at Stargard Aug. 2<», 1525, in order 
to deliberate on the measures by which the progress of 
the Ileformation could be stopped. The princes, to ac- 
complish the ecclesiastical revolution, convoked a diet 
at Treptow Dec. 13, 1534, and invited the chapters 
thereto, with the threatening remark that, whether 
they attended or not, the resolutions should be law for 
them in any case. The bishop, the abbots, prelates, and 
a considerable part of the nobility, protested against the 
resolutions ofilie diet, and retired before its close. The 
remainder of the assembly declared for the Ileformation. 
Bugenhagen composed a liturgy, and Erasmus was of- 
fered. if he would submit to the decision of the diet, to re- 
main the chief of the new Church, and to preserve his 
dignity and the possessions connected with it; but he 
declined. ( July a tenth of the monasteries was spared : 
the nunneries of Maricntlicss, Stolpc, Bergen, Kammin, 
and Colberg — amt these also had to undergo great modi- 
fieations. Almost all the monks left the country. Care 
was taken, however, of those whom old age kept back ; 
the younger monks were sent to Wittenberg, to study 
there at public expense, and those who were willing to 
marry were similarly assisted. After Erasmus's death, 
the two dukes could not at tirst agree on the choice of 
his successor. At last Bartholomew Swawe, Barnim’s 
chancellor, united both suffrages. 1 le was ordained, and 
invested in 1545 by three superintendents, in the pres- 
ence of seven ministers; but part of the clergy, object- 
ing to his being a married man, complained at the court 
of Charles V, and obtained in 154* a decree of suspen- 
sion. Bartholomew in this distress sent a prelate, Alar- 
tin Weihcr, to pope Paul 1 II, in order to obtain the papal 
confirmation. The bishop's legate came back with let- 
ters from the apostolic legate and from the emperor, by 
which the chaprer was empowered to elect Martin him- 
self. Weihor was elected, ami Julius III confirmed his 
election by a brief of Oct. 13, 1551. But Oct. 24, 1552, he 
was inaugurated again, this time according to the Prot- 
estant rite. After Martin’s death, the princes, to avoid 
the difficulties resulting from further elections, deter- 
mined to establish in the episcopal see only members of 
the ducal house. This noble family (it was live centuries 
old) was condemned to early extinction : in a period of 
a few years six princes died without posterity. Rogi- 
slav XIV, the last of them, by his alliance with (liis- 
tavus Adolphus, who succeeded in making himself the 
master of Pomerania, had so exhausted all his resources 
that his funeral ceremonies could be celebrated only 
seventeen years after his death, which occurred in IG37. 
1 1 is nephew, son of his sister, Ernst Bogislav. duke of 
Croy, had sold the bishopric of Kammin to Frederick 
William, elector of Brandenburg (1G50). But, if we 
except the episcopal election, everything remained un- 
changed. See Milman, Mitslar, or the Conversion of 
Pomerania (1*54). The history of Pomerania after this 
time is clearly Protestant, and will be treated in the art. 
Phissja (cpv.). 

Pomeranus. See Bickniiaokn. 

Pomerius, Jii.iaxls. a noted Spanish prelate, 
flourished in the latter part of the 7tli century as 
archbishop of Toledo, about A.D. (180-1190, while Spain 
was still under the dominion of the (laths, before the 
Saracen invasion. That he was of Jewish extraction 
may be seen from what Mariana (vi, 1*) says of him: 
“• Brat Jiilianus eruditionis lamlc en a'tato Celebris, ut 
ejtis libri testantnr. Fuit ex Jmkvorum sanguine prog- 
natus, Eugenii tertii discipulus. ()uiriiii Tolctani Pr:e- 
snlis successor, ingenis facili, copioso. suavi, probitatis 
npinione .-ingulari.” (Beat praise is awarded to him liy 
the historians of that period, especially for his writings 
and labors as a bishop. He took part in the great mon- 
othelite disputes of his time concerning the twofold will 
of Christ— a question on which this bishop, or rather 
the Council of Toledo, at which he presided, declared 
quite independently of the bishop of Borne: ‘“Nobis 


POMEROY 


POMFRET 


387 


(Juliam disputatio) aliquanto liberior visa est, quatn 
ut Juliani modestiam erga Romanum pontiticera sum- 
m® Ecclesiae rectorem, deceret.” Without going any 
further into details concerning this theological dispute, 
we shall only speak of Pomerins’s writings concerning 
Jews and Judaism. At the instigation of king Er- 
vigius, he wrote a work, which he dedicated to the 
king, entitled De Sexto, sEtutis comprobatione adversus 
Judaos , reprinted in the Bibl. Maxim. Patrum, vol. xii. 
His aim was to demonstrate that the Messiah must have 
already come, although the Jews claimed that the Mes- 
siah was to come 0000 years after the creation of 
the world; on the other hand, he wished to strengthen 
the Christians in their faith, for said he in his modesty, 
“Ut si non corrigatur Judaeus, saltern proficiat Christi- 
anus.” Besides this work, he left as the fruit of his la- 
bors, Responsionam liber in Defensionem Canonum et Le- 
gum , quibus prohibentur Christiana mancipia injidelibus 
deservire: — Prognosticorum futuri sceeuli (Leips. 1535) 
lib. Hi: — Ilistoria Wamba Regis Toletani de expedifione 
et victona, qua rebellanten contra se Gallia, Provincium 
celebri triumpho perdomuit : — De A nima (which reminds 
us of a work by Xemesius): — De Contemptu mundi ac re- 
rum transiturarum : — De Vitiis et Virtutibus :~—De Yir- 
ginibus instituenda, etc. See Sacrorum Coneiliorum nova 
et amplissima collectio, ed. Mansi (Yen. et Flor. 1759), 
xii, 9 ; Andr. Duchesne, Rerum Gallicarum et Fraud - 
carum Scriptores (Par. 1739), ii, 707 sq. ; Antonii Bibl. 
Hisp. Vttus , ii, 303; Ferrara, Hist, of Spain (Germ, 
transl.), ii, 453, etc.; Griitz, Gesek. d. Juden.v, 140-140; 
the same, Die icestgothische Gesetzgebung in Betreff d. 
Juden (Bresl. 1858), p. 14 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
xii, 51; Jdcher, Allgemeines Gelehrten-Lex. s. v. ; Da 
Costa, Israel and the Gentiles, p. 309 sq. ; Basnage, Hist, 
des Juifs (Engl, transl. by Taylor), p. 582; Ivalkar, 
Israel und die Kirche, p. 19 sq.; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 
111 ; Pick, in the Evangelical Review, July, 187G, p. 
359; Gennadius, De T 7m illustribus, c. 98; Fabricins, 
Bill. med. et irfim. Latinit. v. Julumus Pomerius ; Tille- 
mont, Memoires, xvi, 29 sq. (B. P.) 

Pomeroy, Benjamin, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born at Suffield, Conn., in 1704. He 
graduated at Yale College in 1733, and was ordained in 
December, 1735, pastor in Hebron, Conn., where he la- 
bored during his life. During Whitefield’s revival he 
preached with great zeal and power. In 1742 he was 
brought before the General Assembly to answer under 
the new law for “having committed great disorders,” 
but was acquitted. Some time after he was punished 
for lecturing to the people in a grove at Colchester, the 
parish minister having refused his permission ; and in 
1744 he was convicted of denouncing the recent eccle- 
siastical laws as cruel, and bound for fifty pounds to 
continue in “good behavior” during the year. He was 
a chaplain in the French and Revolutionary wars, and 
was an excellent scholar, a man of real genius, and one 
of the best preachers of his day. He died Dec. 22, 1784. 
See Sprague, .4 nn. of the A mer. Pulpit, i , 394. ( J. H. W.) 

Pomeroy, Medad, an eminent Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born in Southampton, Mass., April G, 1792. 
He was early left an orphan, but was blessed with pru- 
dent and kind relatives, by whom he was taught the 
way of life. He Svas educated at Williams College 
(Mass.), where he graduated in 1817. Soon after this 
he taught the academy at Aurora, N. Y., for two years, 
during which time and for some months after he studied 
theology under the direction of Dirck C. Lansing, D.I)., 
pastor of the First Church of Auburn, X. Y. In 1820 
he began preaching at Sherwood’s Corner, where he 
labored ten months, and was then settled at Cayuga 
Bridge. For six years he preached at that place and 
at the “ Stone Church,” between Cayuga and Spring- 
port; for six additional years at Cayuga only; in Feb- 
ruary, 1833, he accepted a call to Elbridge, X. Y., w'here 
he remained for nearly eight years; in November, 1840, 
he returned to Cayuga, and ministered to that people 


for another twelve years, resigning on account of im- 
paired health ; in 1854 he removed to Wellsburg, Che- 
mung County, X. Y., and served a church there; in 
1850 he was called to Otisco, Onondaga County, X. Y., 
where he was pastor for five years, and 1801 he re- 
moved to Auburn, to spend the remainder of his days 
in rest, lie died June 20, 18G7. Mr. Pomeroy was a 
man of acute mind, penetrating discernment, and tena- 
cious thought. His style was compact and lucid, and 
his preaching earnest and searching. His ministrations 
were greatly blessed. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A l/nanac, 
18G8, p. 223; Appleton's Annual Cyclopadia (1807), vii, 
500. (J. L. S.) 

Pomeroy, Swan L., D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, and a man of more than ordinary scholarship, was 
born in 1799. He was a graduate of Brown University, 
and of Andover Theological Seminary, where he com- 
pleted his course in 1824. He was settled for some 
years as a pastor in Bangor, Me., and was called thence 
to a secretaryship of the American Board of Commis- 
sioners of Foreign Missions. He displayed great abil- 
ity and energy in this position for a number of years, 
but terminated his connection with it about 1800. lie 
did not after that, we believe, have any pastoral charge. 
He died at Sunderland, Mass., March 24, 1809. See 
Appleton’s A nnual Cyclopadia, ix, 503. 

Pomfret, John, an English clergyman, more noted 
as a poet than as a divine, was the son of a clergyman, 
who held at the time of John’s birth the rectory of 
Luton, in Bedfordshire. He was born about 1GG7, and 
was educated at a grammar school in the country, and 
thence sent to Cambridge, but to what college is un- 
certain. He devoted himself especially to the study of 
polite literature, wrote most of his poetical pieces, and 
took both the degrees in arts. After that he took holy 
orders, and was presented to the living of Malden, in 
Bedfordshire. About 1703 he went to London for in- 
stitution to a larger and very considerable living; but 
was stopped some time by Compton, then bishop of 
London, on account of these four lines of liis poem en- 
titled The Choice: 

“And as I near approach’d the verge of life, 

Some kind relation (for I’d have no wife) 

Should take upon him all my worldly care, 
While I did for a better state prepare.” 

The parenthesis in these lines was so maliciously rep- 
resented that the good bishop was made to believe from 
it that Pomfret preferred a mistress to a wife; though 
no such meaning can be deduced, unless it be asserted 
that an unmarried clergyman cannot live without a 
mistress. But the bishop was soon convinced that this 
representation was nothing more than the effect of mal- 
ice, as Pomfret at that time was actually married. The 
opposition, however, which his slanderers had given 
him was not without effect; for, being by this obliged 
to stay in London longer than he intended, he caught 
the small-pox, and died of it in 1702. “ The Choice ,” 

says Dr. Johnson, “ exhibits a system of life adapted to 
common notions, and equal to common expectations; 
such a state as affords plenty and tranquillity, without 
exclusion of intellectual pleasures. Perhaps no com- 
position in our language has been oftener perused than 
Pomfret ’s Choice. In his other poems there is an easy 
volubility; the pleasure of smooth metre is afforded to 
the ear, and the mind is not oppressed with ponder- 
ous or entangled with intricate sentiment. He pleases 
many, and he who pleases many must have merit.” A 
volume of his poems was published by himself in 1099, 
with a very modest and sensible preface. Two pieces 
of his were published after his death by his friend Phi- 
laletlies; one entitled Reason, and written in 1700, when 
the disputes about the Trinity ran high ; the other, Dies 
Xovissima, or The Last. Epiphany, a Pindaric ode. II is 
versification is not unmusical, but there is not the force 
in his writings which is necessary to constitute a poet. 
A dissenting teacher of his name, who published some 
rhymes upon spiritual subjects, occasioned fanaticism 


POMIS 


388 


POM PA 


to be imputed to him; but his friend Thilakthcs has 
justly cleared him from this. Pomfrct had a very strong 
mixture of devotion, but no fanaticism. 8ee Allibone, 
Diet, of Jirit. and A mer. A uth. s. v. ; Gen. Iliog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Pomis, Christian de, a converted Portuguese 
Jew, flourished in the 17th century. In 1008 he was 
baptized at Nuremberg, and in 1009 he was made teach- 
er of the Hebrew and Talmudic language at the Uni- 
versity of Altorf. lie wrote Compa ratio agni Paschalis 
Yet. Test, cum ugno Paschalis Xovi Test, oratione He- 
ir tea memoriter proposita , in Hebrew, with a Latin 
transl. (Altorf, 1069). See Cod. Senut. Lips, xix, 4; 
Delitzsch, Wissenschaft u. Kunst d. J udenthums (Grim- 
ma, 1838), p. 302; Jbcher, Gelelirten-Lex. s. v. (15. P.) 

Pomis, David de, a Jewish savant of note, was 
bom in 1525 at Spoleto, of the celebrated family call- 
ed in Hebrew -TV.srn, which, like the families *| - 
and traced their origin to those Jews 

who were led into captivity after the destruction of Je- 
rusalem by Titus and Vespasian. 11 is father gave him 
his first instruction, initiating him in all the cycle of Bib- 
lical and Talmudic lore in Meccnia. After his father’s 
death I)c Pomis studied medicine, and greatly distin- 
guished himself in that department. In 1545 he went 
to Perugia, where he remained till 1552, prosecuting 
his studies in medicine, philosophy, and philology. He 
then entered into ofiicial service at Maghatis in Sabio- 
netta till 1555; became physician to count Nieolo Ur- 
sino (1555-1560), and to prince Sforza (1500-1503); 
went to Rome, and then to Venice, where lie died. Of 
I)e Pomis we have the following works : T1 JT2S, i. e. 
The Offspring of David , a Hebrew and Talmudic Lex- 
icon in Hebrew, Latin, and Italian (Veil. 1587), dedi- 
cated to Sixtus V:— r~np, an Italian commentary on 
Ecclesiastes (ibid. 1571) t—Discorso a Vhumana misera , 
etc., being a supplement to the commentary on Ec- 
clesiastes (ibid. 1572): -a commentary on Job and a 
commentary on Daniel, which are still in MS. See 
Fiirst, Hill. .hid. iii, 111 sq. ; Basil age, Hist, des J tiffs 
(Engl, transl. by Taylor), p. 724; Kitto, Cyclop, s. v. ; 
Jahrbuch dev Gesch. d. Juden, ii, 359; De Bossi, Dizio- 
nario storico degli Autori Kbrei (Germ. transl. bv Ilam- 
berger), p. 200 sip; Acosta, Israel and the Gentiles, p. 
4*7 ; Etheridge, Hebrew Literature, p. 454. (B. P.) 

Pommel [an old English term, derived from the 
French pomme , an apple, and signifying anything round, 
but now applied only to a part of a saddle] (H5S, gul- 
luh, a globular or round thing, a bowl, which it signifies 
in Eccles. xii, 0; Zcch. iv, 3), the ball or round orna- 
ment on the capital of a column (2 Chron. iv, 12, 13; 
“bowl,” 1 Kings vii, 41, 42). ,Sec Column. 

Pommeraye, Jkan-Fran t c;ois, a French Benedic- 
tine monk, was born in 1017 at Buucu. He entered in 
1637 the Congregation of Saint-Maur, made his profes- 
sion at Tumieges, and renounced voluntarily all charges 
of his order to devote himself to study. He died at 
Rouen Oct. 28, 1087. lie left several works, more re- 
markable for erudition than sound criticism. We men- 
tion, Hist, de VAbbaye de Saint-Ouen de Ilouen, de 
Paint- A mand, et de Paintc-Catherine de la me me Ville 
(Rouen, 1002, fol.) Hist, des A rcheveques de /(o«e»(ibid. 

1 007 , fol. ). t he best of his works Hist, de la Cathedrale 
de Pouen (ibid. 1080, Ito). Pommeraye published after 
the demise of Dom Jean Anger Godin, its true author, 
a Derucil des Conciles et des Pyuodes de Pouen (1007, 4to) ; 
but this collection was put into the shade by the excel- 
lent work fondles d> Xormandie, published by Dom 
Bcssin (1717, fol.). Hoofer, Xoitv. Uiog. Generate, s. v. 

Pomona, a female deity among the ancient Romans, 
who presided over fruit-trees. Her worship was under 
the superintendence of a special priest. 

Pomoiani. See Pomoryans. 


Pomoryans are a small body of Russian Dissent- 
ers, so called from their proximity to the Lake Ladoga 
and the White Sea, or from Poniori, a village in the 
government of Olonetz, where they appear to have 
originated. They believe that Antichrist has already 
come; reigns in the world unseen, that is. spiritually ; 
and has put an end in the Church to everything that is 
holy. This belief they found upon the assertion by' 
John (1st Epist. iv, 3). “This is that spirit of Anti- 
christ whereof ye have heard that it should come, and 
even now already is it in the world.” It is probable 
; that Russian Dissenters, as well as others, consider the 
secular spirit of their Church establishment as the very 
spirit of Antichrist, blasting everything that is truly 
spiritual and holy. They are zealous in opposing the 
1 innovations of Nikon with regard to the Church books; 
prefer a life of celibacy and solitude, and rebaptize their 
converts from other sects. See Pinkerton, Greek Church, 
p.330; Platon, Greek Church (see Index). 

Pomp, Nicholas, one of the earliest and most 
prominent ministers of the Herman Reformed Church 
in this country, was a native of Germany, where he 
was born Jan. 29, 1731. He prosecuted his studies, 
classical and theological, in the University of Halle; 
came to America under the auspices of the Church of 
Holland in 1709, and took charge of the German Re- 
formed Church in Faulkner Swamp, Montgomery Coun- 
ty, Pa., where he labored with much success. In 1783 
he received a call to Baltimore, Md., where he exercised 
his ministry for six years, when he returned again, in 
1789, to the scene of his first labors; but in the follow- 
ing year he removed to Indianfield, in Bucks County, 
l’a., where he continued iu the faithful discharge of his 
pastoral duties up to the close of the last century, when 
failing health compelled him to retire from the active 
duties of his office. From that time onwards he resided 
with his son, the Rev. Thomas Pomp, pastor of the Ger- 
man Reformed Church in Easton, I*a., where lie died, 
Sept. 1, 1819. In the early part of his ministry he pub- 
lished an able little work in reply to a “ mischievous book 
on Universalism” which was circulated among the Ger- 
mans, entitled The Everlasting Gospel. Father Pomp 
occupied a prominent position iu the Reformed Church 
of this country. See 1 larbaugh, Fathers of the Rtf. 
Church, ii, 131 138. (1). Y. 11.) 

Pomp, Thomas, an amiable and eminent minister 
of the German Reformed Church, son of the former, 
was born in Montgomery County, Pa., Feb. 4. 1773. 
“llis literary and theological studies he pursued prin- 
cipally, if not wholly, under the immediate care and 
supervision of his devoted and accomplished father.” 
He entered the ministry when only twenty years of 
age. For a short time he was pastor of some congrega- 
tions in his native county. In 1790. three years after 
being licensed, he accepted a call from the Reformed 
Church in Easton, Pa. Here, in connection with some 
country churches, he labored earnestly and with sin- 
gular fidelity for considerably more than half a century, 
up to near the close id' his quiet and beautiful life, April 
22, 1852, when he was transferred from the Church mil- 
itant on earth to the blessed “inheritance of the saints 
in light.” Mr. Pomp was naturally gifted; but he was 
principally distinguished for his singular amiability, 
gentleness, meekness, and peaceful relations with all 
mankind, lie retained to the, last moment of his life 
the unabated confidence of his people and the warm- 
est esteem of all who knew him. See lleisler, Fathers 
of the Rtf. Church, iv, 15-25. (D. V. 11.) 

Pompa, a solemn procession among the ancient 
heathens, on the occasion of a sacred festival, a funeral, 
a triumph, or for any special reasons. 

Pompa Cikcknms, the sacred procession with 
which the Circensian games were introduced. On this 
occasion the statues id' the gods, placed on wooden plat- 
forms, were borne upon the shoulders of men, and when 
very heavy they were drawn along upon carriages. 


POMPxEI 


389 


POMPONIA 


Pompaei (irofiiraloi), certain gods among the an- 
cient Greeks, who received this name as being conduct- 
ors by the way; but what gods are specially referred to 
is uncertain, unless Mercury be meant, whose office it 
was to conduct souls to Hades. On certain days, called 
Apopompse, sacrifices were offered to the Pom pa- i, 

Fompignan, Jean- Georges le Franc de, a 
French prelate, brother of the poet Pompignan, was born 
at Montauban Feb. 22, 1715. After finishing his stud- 
ies at the College Louis le Grand and at the Seminary 
of St. Sulpice, he was made canon in his native dio- 
cese, hut he had scarcely taken his license when he was 
appointed bishop of Le Buy (Dec. 25, 1742). In 1747 he 
obtained in commendam the abbey of St. Chaffre in his 
diocese, and was sent as a deputy to the assembly of the 
clergy held in 1755. He sided, in the strife which di- 
vided at that time the Church of France, with the party 
of the FeuiUants, so called because they adopted the prin- 
ciples of the cardinal De la Rochefoucauld, the new min- 
ister of the portfolio of the prebendaries, in opposition 
to the party of the Theatins. who sided with the Theatine 
Boyer, previously bishop of Mirepoix. Pompignan was 
sent by the assembly to address the pope on the articles 
drawn up by both parties. He was one of the presidents 
of the assembly of 17G0, and the author of the remon- 
strances to the king in favor of the members of the 
clergy banished by Parliament. lie was untiring in 
writing against the vices and incredulity of his epoch — 
works which made him many enemies, among whom 
was Voltaire. In 1774 Louis XV made him archbishop 
of Vienne. In 1788 he sided with the tiers-etat in the 
etats of the Dauphine, and this conduct caused him to 
be deputed to the Etats Generanx. He was true there 
to the same line of conduct, and was conspicuous at the 
head of the members of the clergy who, June 22, 1789, 
joined the tiers-etat. The consequence was that he 
became one of the first presidents of the National As- 
sembly. On Aug. 4 of the ensuing year the king in- 
trusted him with the roll of the prebendary, and 
the following day he was appointed minister of state, 
and took his seat in the council. Being aware that 
he could not reside in his diocese, he resigned the 
episcopal see, and received in exchange the abbey of 
Buzai. The suspension of the nomination to the pre- 
bendaries, Nov. 9, 1789, left him minister without port- 
folio, and was followed by considerable changes in- 
troduced into the Church of France by the decree of 
July 12, 1790, on the civil constitution of the clergy. 
Pius VI addressed to Pompignan a bull, in which he 
condemned the new decrees, and exhorted him to bring 
his whole influence to bear upon the king to prevent him 
from giving them his sanction. This bull was result- 
less, as the king sanctioned the decrees on Aug. 24. 
Pompignan had nothing to do with this decision of 
Louis XVI, inasmuch as he had not attended the meet- 
ings of the council since Aug. 17, suffering already of 
the disease of which he died at Paris, Dec. 30, 1790. 
Besides a number of Mandements, pastoral letters, and 
reports to the assembly of the clergy, he left Questions 
diverses sur l' Ineredulite (Paris, 1753, l2mo) : — Le veri- 
table Usage de I'A utorite seculi'ere dans les Matieres qni 
eoneernent la Religion (1753, 1784, 12mo) : — L' Ineredulite 
convaineue j)ar les Prophetes (1759, 3 vols. 12mo): — La 
Religion vengee de V Ineredulite par l' Ineredulite elle- 
meme (1772, 12mo) : — L'Oraison funebre de la Danphine 
(1747, 4to) : — L'Oraison funebre de la Reine Marie Lec- 
zinska (17G8, 4 to) : — Lettres it nn Eveque sur plusieurs 
Points de Morale et de Discipline (1802, 2 vols. 8vo). 
See biographical sketch in his posthumous publica- 
tions; Iloefer, iXouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. ; Jervis, Hist, 
of the Church of France, ii, 371 ; Van Laun, Hist, of 
French Lit. (N. Y. 1877, 3 vols. 8vo). 

Fomponatius, Peter. See Pompon a zzr. 

Pomponazzi, Pietro, a famous Italian philoso- 
pher, was born at Mantua in 1462, and after studying 
at the University of Padua became a professor of phi- 


losophy in his alma mater. He also taught and wrote 
at Bologna with the highest distinction. Although 
small in stature — for he was almost a dwarf— he yet as- 
tonished his contemporaries by his remarkable intel- 
lectual power, and became one of the most eminent men 
of his times. He had frequent disputations with the 
famous Acliillini, whose puzzling objections would have 
confounded him had it not been for his skill in parry- 
ing them by his keen wit as well as by a sharp-cutting 
logic. He used to apply himself to the solution of diffi- 
culties so very intensely that he frequently forgot to 
eat, drink, sleep, and perform the ordinary functions of 
nature; nay, it made him almost distracted, and a 
laughing-stock to every one, as he himself tells us. He 
died in 1525. He wrote De Immortalitate Aninwe (151 G), 
in which he maintains that the immortality of the soul 
cannot be proved by philosophical (or natural) reasons, 
but depends solely on revelation, which he accepts. 
This precaution, however, did not save him from at- 
tacks, and many adversaries rose up against him who 
did not scruple to treat him as an atheist; and the 
monks caused his book, although he wrote several apol- 
ogies for it, to be burned at Venice. Another work of 
his on Incantations was also regarded as dangerous. 
He shows in this that he does not believe in magic and 
sorcery, and lays a prodigious stress on occult virtues in 
certain men by which they produced miraculous effects. 
He gives a great many examples of this, but his adver- 
saries do not admit them to be true, or free from magic. 
See Bayle, Diet. Hist. s. v. ; Niceron, Memoires, vol. 
xxv ; Olearius, De Pomponatio (Jena, 1705, 4to) ; Buhle, 
Geschichte der neueren Philosophic, vol. ii; Ueberweg, 
Hist, of Philos, (see Index); Neander, Christian Dogmas 
(see Index) ; Lecky, I list, of Rationalism, i, 370; Fish- 
er, Hist, of the Reformation, p. 542; Alzog, Kirchen- 
gesch. ii, 222; Morell, Hist, of Philosophg (see Index) ; 
Ranke, Hist, of the Papacy, i, G3, 64, 377. 

Pomponia, Gilecina, the wife of Plautius, a 
Roman general who commanded in England in the 
year 45, is thought, from a sentence in the Annals of 
Tacitus (xiii, 32), to have been a Christian, and the first 
in Britain. Tacitus says: “Also Pomponia Grajcina, an 
illustrious woman, married to Plautius (who on his re- 
turn from Britain entered the city with the pomp of an 
ovation), but accused of a foreign superstition, was left 
to the decision of her husband.” She was tried, ac- 
cording to custom, for her abandonment of the national 
worship, by her own husband, Plautius, in the presence 
of her kindred, and was acquitted. She lived to a great 
age, apparently in sorrow, and wearing “no habit but 
that of mourning.” This was attributed to grief for the 
fate of Julia, the daughter of Drusus, who was put to 
death by Messalina fourteen years before the accusa- 
tion was brought against Pomponia. But this alone 
would not account for the charge of forsaking the Ro- 
man religion ; and the supposition that she was a Chris- 
tian, and that her mode of life grew out of her religions 
faith, is certainly quite probable. The wife of Plautius 
and Claudia Iluffina are supposed to be of the saints 
that were in Caesar’s household, mentioned by Paul 
(Phil, iv, 22). Claudia is celebrated by Martial for her 
admirable beauty and learning in the following epi- 
gram : 

“ From painted Britons how was Claudia born ! 

The fair barbarian ! how do arts adorn ! 

When Roman charms a Grecian sonl commend, 

Athens and Rome may for the dame contend.” 
Speed, a very ancient British author, says that “ Claudia 
sent Paul’s writings, which she calls spiritual manna, 
unto her friends in Britain, to feed their souls with the 
bread of life; and also the writings of Martial, to in- 
struct their minds with those lessons best fitting to pro- 
duce moral virtues” — which Speed thinks was the occa- 
sion of this line in Martial’s works : 

“And Britons now, they say, onr verses learn to sing.” 
Gildas, the most ancient and authentic British historian, 
who wrote about A.D. 5G4, in his book called De Viet. 


POMPONIUS LyETUS 


390 


PONCE 


Aurelii Ambrosii, affirms that the Britons received the 
Gospel under Tiberius, the emperor under whom Christ 
suffered; and that many evangelists were sent from the 
apostles into this nation, who were the first planters 
of the Gospel; and who, he elsewhere says, continued 
with them until the cruel persecution of Diocletian, the 
emperor, about A.D. 201). .See Ivimey. Hist, of the Eng- 
lish Baptists ; Fisher. Beginnings of Christianity (X. V. 
1877. Kvo), p. 521. (J.li.W.) 

Pomponius Laetus, Jr tits, a distinguished Ital- 
ian humanist, was born in 1425 at Amendolara. in Upper 
Calabria, lie seems to have been a bastard of the illus- 
trious house of Sanseverini, in the kingdom of Naples, 
So far from being proud of this relationship, he shunned 
every reference to it; and when, in later times, his parents 
invited the admired writer to acknowledge them, he an- 
swered, “ Pomponius Lietus cognat is et propinquis suis 
sahitem. Quod petitis fieri non potest. Vale.” lie was 
still very young when he arrived at Borne, where he 
studied literature under Pietro di Monopoli, a clever 
grammarian of the time. At the death of Lorenzo 
Valla, his last master (1457), he was deemed lit to suc- 
ceed him. lie founded an academy, where several lit- 
erary men, devoted like himself to the study of an- 
tiquity, assembled. Most of them were young men. 
Their enthusiasm for the classics made them renounce 
their Christian names, and adopt in their stead names 
borrowed from the classical languages. Perhaps these 
comparisons between the institutions of the past and 
of their own time may have resulted in depreciat- 
ing criticisms of the latter. Malignity knew how 
to transform these, in the eyes of pope Paul II, into 
contempt for religion, complot against the Church, 
and finally conspiracy against its chief. Those of the 
academicians who could be got hold of were put to the 
rack— one of them died during the proceedings. Pom- 
ponius, who was at the time a resident of Venice, was 
arrested there, brought to Borne, and tortured like the 
others; but no avowal of his imagined crime could be 
pressed out of him. After interrogating him twice, Paul 
II declared that in future every one should be held for a 
heretic who, even in jest, pronounced the word “acad- 
emy’’ (comp, on this point De Bossi, Jlonia Sotteranea , 
vol. i). In 1471 Sixtus IV, Paul’s successor, allowed 
Pomponius to resume his professorship in the Boman 
college, where he met with the same favor he had for- 
merly enjoyed, the students crowding to his lectures. 
Among those disciples (they were called Fomponiani) 
some were men of merit, as Alessandro Farnesc, pope 
under the name of Paul III, Andrea Fulvio of Prameste, 
and Conrad Pcntinger. No one ever was fonder of 
manuscripts, medals, and inscriptions than Pomponius 
Latus; he was constantly seen pacing the streets of 
Borne in search of some monument of those pagan times 
in which he wished he had lived. There was no dark 
corner, no trace of antiquity, but he had carefully ex- 
amined it, and could give an account of it. In his little 
house on the Jauicnlan, with some chosen friends, he 
solemnized the anniversary of the foundation of Borne 
and the birth of Bomulus. Pomponius was of a mild 
and kind disposition, always ready to help or to please, 
and of charming modesty. Nature made him a stam- 
merer, but he completely conquered this defect, lie 
was often seen in the streets with a lantern in his hands, 
like Diogenes, whose customs and habits he had taken 
to imitate, lie died at Borne 31 ay 21, 141)7. lie left 
several works, monuments of a profound and rare erudi- 
tion. They were published at Ilagenau (1520). II is 
Opera vuria were edited at. Mcntz (1521, Kvo) ; they 
Comprise, Be S/tcerdotiis , Be Jurisperitis, Be llomano- 
rum /gist rations : Be f.egihns and Be Antiquitatibus 
urbis Ii> mar ; — along with Compendium Hist or i/e Jlo- 
mamr ah interitu Oonliaui usque ad Justinnm 111 , orig- 
inally edited at Venice (14DK, 4to). lie explained and 
commented besides on several classical authors, and de- 
voted his care to editions of Sallust, Columella, Varro, 
Festus, Nonnius Marcellus, and Pliny the younger. Ilis 


I commentaries on A'irgil were printed at Basle (148G. 
fob). See Christian Schools and Scholars, ii. 316, 370 ; 
Tiraboschi, Storia della Letter. Jtal. vol. vi, pt. i ; Gin- 
gnene, Hist, litter, d' Italic ; Ilallam, Lit. Hist, of Eu- 
rope (Harper’s ed.), i, 2GG; Sabellicus, Vita Pomponii 
Leeti (Strasb. 1510, 4to).— Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, 
s. v. 

Pomps of the Devii., a term used in the form of 
solemn renunciation which preceded baptism in the 
ancient Christian Church. The form referred to is 
given by the author of The A postolicul Constitutions in 
these words, “ I renounce Satan, and his works, and his 
pomps, and his service, and his angels, and his inven- 
tions, and all things that belong to him, or that are sub- 
ject to him.'’ By the pomps of the devil appear to 
have been meant the shows and games of heathen idol- 
atry. And even after idolatry was in a great measure 
destroyed, and the public games and shows in honor of 
the gods were discontinued, the expression “pomps” 
was still used in the form of renunciation to eradicate 
the vanity, lewdness, and profaneness which so exten- 
sively prevailed. Some have attempted to trace this 
renunciation hack to apostolic times, founding it on the 
exhortation of Paul to Timothy: “Lay hold on eternal 
life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a 
good profession before many witnesses.” Others, again, 
are content to derive it from ancient tradition. That it 
existed from a remote period in the history of the Chris- 
tian Church is admitted on all hands; and such was the 
importance attached to this renunciation that, as soon 
as baptisteries were built, a place was assigned peculiarly 
to this service, the porch or anteroom being set apart 
for this purpose. The catechumens on entering were 
placed with their faces to the west, and then command- 
ed to renounce Satan and all his pomps, with some gest- 
ure and rite expressing indignation, as by stretching out 
their hands, or folding them, or striking them together; 
and sometimes by exsnffiation, or spitting at him as if 
he were present. In this ceremony the faces of the 
catechumens were turned towards the west as being 
the place of darkness, and therefore suitable for the re- 
nunciation of him who is the prince of darkness. The 
form of renunciation was repeated three times, either 
because there were three things which were renounced 
in their baptism — the devil, his pomps, and the world — 
or to signify the three Persons of the Trinity, by whom 
they were adopted as sons upon renouncing .Satan : or 
because it was usual in eases of civil adoption and eman- 
cipation of slaves for the master to yield up his right 
by a triple renunciation. See Bingham, Christian An- 
tiquities; Biddle, Christian Antiquities; Staunton, L coles. 
Bict. s. v. 

Ponce, Pei»i:o, a Spanish Benedictine monk in the 
convent of Ona, in Old Castile, was born about 15oO. 
He is considered the inventor of the art of teaching the 
dumb to speak, which he carried to considerable perfec- 
tion. According to Ambrosio Morales (. I nti<pn dudes de 
Esptina [Alcala, 1575], fol. 38), Ponce had to instruct 
two brothers and one sister of the constable of (’astile, 
and a son of the gran justicia of Aragon, all of whom 
were born deaf and dumb. These pupils made such 
progress that, after some time, they not only were able 
to write correctly, but also to answer any questions put 
to them. One of them, Don Pedro de Velasco, who 
i lived to be only twenty years of age, spoke and wrote 
Latin as well as his mother tongue, and was nt the time 
of his death making considerable progress in the Greek 
language. Another of Ponce’s pupils became a Benedic- 
tine monk, and was able to make confession and explain 
his creed by word of mouth. These facts were attested 
by the best Spanish writers of the time, as well as by 
Sir Konelm Digby, who, in his Two Treatises concerning 
(he Body and Soul of Man ( Paris, 1G44, cap. xxviii, note 
K), says, “This priest brought the young lord to speak 
as distinctly as any man whatsoever; and I have often 
discoursed with him whiles I wayted upon the priuce 


PONCE DE LA FUENTE 


391 


PONCE DE LA FUENTE 


of Wales in Spaine.” According to the same author (p. 
251), and to Juan de Castaniza ( Vida de San Benito), 
Ponce wrote a treatise in Spanish, in which he ex- 
plained his method, and laid down certain rules as the 
result of his observations ; but this interesting work has 
been lost, though it is generally believed that Juan Pa- 
blo Bonet, who in 1620 published his Reduccion de las 
Letras , y A rte para ensehar a hablar los Mudos (4to) , saw 
and consulted it. Ponce died in 1584, and was buried in 
the convent of his order. — English Cyclop, s. v. 

Ponce de la Fuente, Constant ink, a Span- 
ish martyr to the Protestant cause, was a native of San 
Clemente de la Mancha, in the diocese of Cuenca. Pos- 
sessing a good taste and a love of genuine knowledge, 
he evinced an early disgust for the barbarous pedantry 
of the schools, and an attachment to such of his country- 
men as sought to revive the study of polite letters. 
Being intended for the Church, he made himself master 
of Greek and Hebrew, but at the same time learned to 
write and speak his native language with uncommon 
purity and elegance. Like Erasmus, with whose writ- 
ings he was early captivated, he was distinguished for 
his lively wit, which he took pleasure in indulging at 
the expense of foolish preachers and hypocritical monks. 
But he was endowed with greater firmness and decision 
of character than the philosopher of Rotterdam. Dur- 
ing his attendance at the university Ponce’s youthful 
spirit had betrayed him into irregularities, of which his 
enemies afterwards took an ungenerous advantage ; but 
these were succeeded by the utmost decorum and cor- 
rectness of manners, though he always retained his gay 
temper, and could never deny himself his jest. Not- 
withstanding the opportunities he had of enriching him- 
self, he was so exempt from avarice that his library, 
which he valued above all his property, was never large. 
His eloquence caused his services in the pulpit to be 
much sought after; but he was free from vanity, the 
besetting sin of orators, and scorned to prostitute his 
talents at the shrine of popularity. He declined the 
situation of preacher in the cathedral of Cuenca, which 
was offered him by the unanimous vote of the chapter. 
When the more honorable and lucrative office of preacher 
to the metropolitan church of Toledo was afterwards 
tendered to him, after thanking the chapter for their 
good opinion of him, lie declined it, alleging as a rea- 
son “that he would not disturb the bones of their an- 
cestors,” alluding to a dispute between them and the 
archbishop Siliceo, who had insisted that his clergy 
should prove the purity of their descent. Whether it 
was predilection for the Reformed opinions that induced 
him at first to fix his residence at Seville is uncertain, 
but once there we find him co-operating with Egidius 
in his plans for disseminating scriptural knowledge. 
The emperor, having heard him preach during a visit 
to that city, was so much pleased with the sermon that 
he immediately named Ponce one of his chaplains, to 
which he added the office of almoner; and he soon alter 
appointed him to accompany his son Philip to Flanders, 
“to let the Flemings see that Spain was not destitute 
of polite scholars and orators.” Constantine made it a 
point of duty to obey the orders of his sovereign, and 
reluctantly quitted his residence in Seville, for which 
he had hitherto rejectec^we most tempting offers. His 
journey gave him the miportunitv of becoming person- 
ally acquainted with lime of the Reformers. Among 
these was Jacob SchoAer, a learned man of Biberach, in 
Suabia, by whose conversation his views of evangelical 
doctrine were greatly enlarged and confirmed. In 1555 
Ponce returned to Seville, and his presence imparted a 
new impulse to the Protestant cause in that city. A 
benevolent and enlightened individual having founded 
a professorship of divinity in the College of Doctrine, 
Ponce was appointed to the chair; and by means of 
the lectures which he read on the Scriptures, together 
with the instruction of Fernando de St. Juan, provost 
of the institution, the minds of many of the young were 
opened to the truth. On the first Lent after his return to 


Seville he was, besides, chosen by the chapter to preach 
every alternate day in the cathedral church. So great 
was his popularity that, though the public service did 
not begin till eight o’clock in the morning, yet, when he 
was announced to preach the church would be filled by 
four, and even by three o’clock. Being newly recovered 
from a fever when he commenced his labors, he felt so 
weak that it was necessary for him repeatedly to pause 
during the sermon, on which account he was allowed to 
recruit his strength by taking a draught of wine in the 
pulpit, a permission which had never been granted to 
any other preacher. 

While Constantine was pursuing this career of honor 
and usefulness, he involved himself in difficulties by 
coming forward as a candidate for the place of canon 
magistral in the cathedral of Seville, which had be- 
come vacant by the death of Egidius. Ponce did not 
want the office, but his friends pressed him to lay aside 
his scruples; and an individual who had great influ- 
ence over his mind represented so strongly the services 
which he would be able to render to the cause of truth 
in so influential a situation, and the hurtful effects 
which would result from its being occupied by some 
noisy and ignorant declaimer, that he consented at last 
to offer himself a candidate. In spite of all manner of 
accusations and opposition he carried his election, was 
installed in his new office, and commenced his duty as 
preacher in the cathedral with high acceptance. From 
[ his visit abroad Ponce, like many other preachers whom 
, the Spanish Romanists sent to the Netherlands “ to give 
light to others, returned home blind, having followed the 
example of the heretics” (Juescas, Hisioria Pontifical , ii, 
837, b). In 1555 he had embraced the Protestant faith. 
Now that he had dared to assume the responsibilities of 
the Seville cathedral canonate, the envious priests, disap- 
pointed in their own seekings, boldly confronted Ponce 
with his heretical opinions, and loudly urged the Inqui- 
sition to take its aim at this new-made cathedral digni- 
tary ; and when, in 1559. the familiars were let loose on 
the Protestants of Seville, Ponce was among the first 
who were apprehended. Among his books was found a 
treatise, in his own handwriting, on the points of con- 
troversy between the Church of Rome and the Protes- 
tants, and as Ponce had chosen to take sides with Luther 
and Calvin, and, when shown the work, not only acknowl- 
edged its authorship, but added, “ You have there a full 
and candid confession of my belief; I am in your hands — 
do with me as seemeth to you good,” his doom was sealed. 
Though put to the torture to reveal his associates and 
fellow-believers, he refused steadfastly to bring suffering 
upon any one else. After two years of imprisonment, 
oppressed and worn out by a mode of living so differ- 
ent from what he had been used to, he died before his 
enemies could bring him to public execution. It was 
slanderously reported that he had committed suicide, 
but a young monk and fellow-prisoner denied the cal- 
umny. Dec. 22, 1560, his effigy and bones were brought 
out in the public auto-da-fe, but the people, who had 
always greatly revered Ponce, rose up in rebellion, and 
the services were continued in private. In the charac- 
ter of Ponce’s writings we have one of the clearest indi- 
cations of the excellence of his heart. They were of 
that kind which were adapted to the spiritual wants of 
his countrymen, and not calculated to display his own 
talents, or to acquire for himself a name in the learned 
world. They were composed in his native tongue, and 
in a style level to the lowest capacity. Abstruse spec- 
ulations and rhetorical ornaments, in which he was 
qualified both by nature and education to excel, were 
rigidly sacrificed to the one object of being understood 
by all, and useful to all. Among his works were a Cat- 
echism, whose highest recommendation is its artless and 
infantine simplicity; a small treatise on The Doctrine 
of Christianity , drawn up in the familiar form of a dia- 
logue between a master and his pupil, which, without 
being deficient in simplicity, is more calculated to in- 
terest persons of learning and advanced knowledge; an 


POXCET 


302 


POXD 


Exposition of the First Psalm, in four sermons, which 
show that liis pulpit eloquence, exempt from the com- 
mon extremes, was neither degraded bv vulgarity nor 
rendered disgusting by affectation and effort at display; 
and the Confession of a Sinner, in which the doctrines 
of the Gospel, poured from a contrite and humbled 
spirit, assume the form of the most edifying and devo- 
tional piety. See Antoni us, Bibl. 1/isp. A or. i, 25G; 
M'Crie, /list, of the lief, in Spain, p. 154-150, 207 sq., 
262 sq. (J. if.W.) 

Poncet, Machice, a French prelate of the 16th 
century, nourished as curate of St. Pierre des Arcis. 
lie was a divine of great eloquence and considerable 
learning, though not remarkable for refinement of taste 
or diction. lie was a Gallican, and when llenrv III 
pursued that imbecile policy which finally cost France 
the loss of her best citizens for conscience’ sake, Poncet 
ridiculed the Leaguers [see Lkaoce], and especially 
visited with the full power of his sarcasm the grotesque 
processions of the Confreries ties Penitents. 1 1 e made the 
walls of his church ring with denunciations of these 
hypocritical devotees, who, after parading the streets 
barefoot, arrayed in sackcloth, and displaying ostenta- 
tiously the outward signs of austere asceticism, were 
accustomed to pass the night in riotous feasting and 
gross debauchery. Henry, resenting this exposure, 
banished the offender to his abbey of St. Pere at 3Ie- 
lun; but he was released after a brief confinement, and 
returned to Paris by the king's permission, his majesty 
remarking that “he had always believed the good doctor 
to have a zeal for (iod, but not according to knowledge ; I 
and that there was much excuse for him, since he was 
not quick enough of apprehension to see through the 
artifices of those by whom he was instigated, lie had 
plenty of scholarship, but was grievously deficient in 
judgment.” Poncet, unsubdued by the king’s leniency, 
resumed his usual incisive style of pulpit oratory, and 
persevered in it till his death, which happened in 1586. 
See Jervis, I list . Church of France, i, 181 sq. (J. II. \V.) 

Poncher, Etienne, a French prelate, noted also as 
a diplomatist, was born at Tours in 1446. lie was the 
son of a magistrate, studied law, and while yet a youth 
was provided with several canonicates. In 1485 he ob- 
tained the charge of counsellor-clerk at the Parliament 
of Paris, and in 1498 he became President aux Enqnefes. 
lie was elected bishop of Paris Feb. 25, 1503, in compli- 
ance with the request of king Louis XU, whom he was 
at that time accompanying to Milan. The same prince 
intrusted him in 1506 with several diplomatic missions 
to Germany; and Poncher, in the following year, being 
again in Italy with the king, was alone hold enough to 
speak in contradiction to the angry feelings of the king 
against the Venetians, and to oppose the confederation 
of Cambrai. Louis XII, who had already appointed 
Poncher chancellor of the duchv of Milan, bestowed 
on him in 1509 the abbey of Fleuri, and in 1512 made 
him the guardian of the seal of France, which office he 
kept till the death of the king, Jan. 1, 1515. Francis I 
appointed him, with Arthur (Jouflier, one of the pleni- 
potentiaries who signed, on Aug. 16, 1517, the treaty of 
Xovon between Francis and Charles V. In the same 
year Poncher went to Spain as ambassador of France, 
and in 1518 he was sent to Henry VIII of England, with 
whom he signed a new treaty of alliance. In virtue 
of the concordat he was transferred, March M, 1519, 
to the arcliiepiseopal see of Sens. He died at Lyons, 
Feb. 24, 1521. Poncher published Constitutions sytto- 
dales, which are still hold in great esteem, especially in 
regard to the sacraments. — Hoofer, A'omc. Stop, Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Poacher, Frantjois, a French prelate, nephew of 
the preceding, was born at Tours about 1480. II is fa- 
ther, Louis Poncher, secretary of the king and receiver- 
general of the finances, was hung for embezzlement. 
Made counsellor at the Parliament of Paris (1510), 
Frai^ois Poncher obtained soon afterwards the curacy 


of Issy, a canonicate at Xotre Dame of Paris, the ab- 
bey of St. M an r-Ies- Fosses, and March 14, 1519, became 
bishop of Paris. So far from treading in the steps of 
his uncle, he was a simoniac and scandalous prelate, 
lie forged documents to get possession of the abbey of 
Flenry-sur- Loire, but was balked in his design. While 
the king was a prisoner at Madrid, Poncher fell out with 
the queen-regent, the duchess of Angouleme, Francis’s 
mother, plotted to deprive her of the regency, and by 
treacherous negotiations with the Spanish court tried 
to prolong the captivity of his sovereign. As soon as 
Francis was free again Poncher was arrested and ac- 
cused of high-treason. While his process Avas in abey- 
ance lie died in the dungeon of Vincennes, Sept. 1, 1532. 
He wrote some commentaries on civil law, dedicated to 
his uncle, Etienne Puncher.— Hoeler, Xouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Pond is the rendering in the A. V. of “ 5S, again 
(literally a collection of water), in Exod. vii, 19; viii, 15, 
where it probably denotes the putrescent reservoirs or 
swampy pools left by the inundation of the Nile (Sept. 
cubpvytQ, Vnlg. paludes). Again, in Isa. xix, 10, 

which the A. V, translates “ponds for fish,” fol- 
lowing the Vulg. “lacunas ad capiendos pisces,” Dio- 
dati and Luther, is rendered by the Sept, roc \pv\dc 
Trorierovoi . This rendering is supported by the au- 
thority of Gesenius, Vatablus, and Ewald. alle Lohnar- 
beiter (“E’J "w" — “they that earn wages”), sind see- 
lenbetriibt ; C5X being taken as equivalent to (Job 
xxx, 25), “to be sad,” Many interpreters, however, 
think that it designates fish-ponds. We have abun- 
dant evidence from the paintings in the tombs that the 
Egyptians were celebrated for their fish-ponds, and it 
appears that almost every villa possessed one, where the 
master of the house occasionally amused himself in fish- 
ing. The Jews, it seems, likewise constructed similar 
ponds, as in describing Ids bride in the Canticles (vii, 
4) Solomon says, “Thine eyes are like the fish-pools in 
lleshbon.” See Ftsti. The word occurs several times 
of marshy pools, in contradistinction to the dry sands 
of the desert (Psa. evii, 35; cxiv, 8) ; “standing water” 
(Isa. xxxv, 7; xli, 18), “a pool." Such pools being 
commonly reedy, it is rendered “reeds” (Jer. li, 32). 
See Pool. 

Pond, Enoch, D.D., a noted Congregational minis- 
ter and writer, was born at Wrentliam, Mass., July 29, 
1791, and was educated at Brown University, where he 
graduated in 1813. He then decided to enter the min- 
istry, and began a course in theology with the celebrated 
Dr. Emmons. In June, 1814. young Pond was licensed 
to preach, and in the spring of the following year was 
ordained pastor of the Congregational Church at Au- 
burn, Mass, lie left this charge in 1828 to become the 
conductor of the Spirit of the Pilgrims, a monthly pub- 
lication in Boston, lie was made professor of theology 
in the theological seminary at Bangor in September, 
1832, and continued in that responsible position until 
1856, when lie became president, and changed to the 
professorship of ecclesiastical history, and lectured on 
pastoral duties. He died Jan. 21. 1882. Dr. Pond pub- 
lished reviews of .Jtnlson on Baptism: — Monthly Concert 
Lectures (1824) : — Memoir of /'resident Buries ( i827): — 
Memoir of Susanna .1 nthong (1827) : Memoir of Count 
Zinzendorf (1839): — Memoir of John Wivllije (1841): 
— Morning of the /tr formation ( 1842. 12mo): .Vo Fel- 
lowship with Eomanism (18 13); The Young /’ asfor's 
Guide (Portland, 1814, 12mo) ; — The Mather Family 
(1814, 12mo): The World's Salration (18451; — Pope 
and Pagan, or Middleton's CeUbrated Letters (Portland, 
1846, 1 8 mo) [see Mimh.icton. < ’onyi.us 1 : — Siredenbor- 
gianism llericired (new ed. 1 8 16 ) : — Siredenborgianism 
Examined (X. Y. 1861. 16mo): — Pluto, his Life, 1 1 'orhs. 
Opinions , and Influence (1816); — Jit fit to of Bush nelfs 
God in Christ (1849) : — The .1 licit nt Church (1851): — 
Memoir of John Knox (1856): — Bangor Lectures on 


PONE LUCTUM 


393 


PONSARD DE GISI 


Pastoral Theology (Andover, 18G3, l2mo Lectures on 
Christian Theology (Boston, 1868, 8vo ) Lectures on 
Pastoral Theology (N. Y. 187-) also separate Sermons, 
and articles in the Bill. Sacra, Bibl. Repos., Lit. and 
Theolog. Rev., Lord's Lit. and Theolog. Rev., Xeiv-Eng- 
lander, and more than a dozen other periodicals. 

Pone luctum, Magdalena. This is the begin- 
ning of a famous Easter hymn of uncertain date. Un- 
doubtedly it belongs to the Middle Ages, for in this 
hymn, as well as in the Dies Ira; (q. v.) and other Latin 
hymns, the same identification of Mary Magdalene with 
“ the woman that was a sinner’’ (Luke vii, 37), which 
runs through all the theology of the Middle Ages, is ex- 
pressed. This hymn may be found in almost all collec- 
tions of Latin hymns, and the first verse runs thus : 

“Pone luctum, Magdalena, 

Et serena lacryinas; 

Non est jinn Simonis coena. 

Non cur fletum exprimas; 

Causae mille sunt Imtaudi, 

Causa mille exultaudi: 

Alleluja resonet. 

For the original, see Daniel, Thesaurus Tlymnol. ii. 365 ; 
Trench, Sacred Latin Poetry, p. 159; Bassler, Auswahl 
altchristl. Lieder, p. 237 ; Simrock, Lauda Sion, p. 188; 
Konigsfeld, Hymnen u. Gesdnge, i, 230. English trans- 
lations are given in SchafTs Christ in Song, p. 256. For 
German translations, see Bassler, 1. c. p. 135 ; Simrock, 
Konigsfeld, and Fortlage, Gesdnge christl. Vorzeit, p. 142. 
(B.P.) 

Ponet. See Poynet. 

Pongilupus, Hermannus. an Italian monastic, 
flourished near the middle of the 13th century at Ferrara. 
He practiced great austerity as one of the Consolati, 
and died in 1269. Several years after his death (1300) 
charges of heresy were brought against him, and a ju- 
dicial process having been declared, his bones were ex- 
humed and burned, and his tomb demolished by order 
of pope Boniface Till. His tomb, in the principal 
church at Ferrara, had been the object of great venera- 
tion, and many miracles were said to have been wrought 
there. Some think that the process was instituted and 
the tomb demolished to put an end to the extravagant 
devotion paid to his memory. The Franciscans attrib- 
ute to Pongilupus the origin of the Fratricelli (q. v.), 
but Mosheim considers this an error, and believes him 
to have been one of the Bagnotians. Natalis Alexan- 
der (Hist. Eccles. viii, 87) speaks of Pongilupus as re- 
viving several vile practices of the Gnostics. Sec Wad- 
ding, A mial. Minor. Fratr. vi, 279; Milman, / list, of 
Latin Christianity, vii, 37 sq. (J. H. W.) 

Fongol, a Hindu festival in honor of the sun, which 
is celebrated annually on Jan. 9. The high-caste Brah- 
mins look upon this as a lucky and propitious day, but 
the Sudras hold it as sacred, and visit one another with 
presents. They boil rice on this day with milk outside 
the house, in some place exposed to the sun’s rays, and 
when that luminary withdraws they cry out “ Fongol!” 
and repeat it four times. The rice thus boiled is re- 
garded as very holy, and kept as long as possible. The 
day after the Pongol the cows and buffaloes are led out 
early into the country, having their heads adorned with 
crowns and cakes. 

Foniatowa, Christine, a German female vision- 
ary, was bom in 1610 at Lessen, Western Prussia. Her 
father, Julian Poniatowa, was a Polish gentleman, who, 
having escaped from a monastery and embraced the 
Protestant communion, was at first minister at Duch- 
niek, in Bohemia, then librarian of a nobleman. He 
probably brought up his daughter in mystical ideas, for 
he is said to be himself the author of a Latin disserta- 
tion on the knowledge which the angels may have of 
God. Christine had been intrusted to the care of the 
baroness of Zelking, who had taken a liking to her, 
when, Nov. 12, 1627, after severe pains, she fell into a 
trance, attended with visions and prophetic utterances 


relating to the future of the Beformed Church. This 
strange state returned at regular intervals for a whole 
year, always attended with the same phenomena, and a 
number of people testified to its genuineness. Jan. 27, 
1629, the young visionary fell into so heavy a lethargy 
that she passed for dead, but when she finally recovered 
her senses she declared that her mission was fulfilled, 
and that she should thenceforth have no more visions. 
In 1632 she was married to a Moravian minister, Daniel 
Vetter, and died Dec. 6, 1644, at Leszno, near Posen. 
Her revelations, written by herself, were translated into 
Latin, and published by Amos Comenius, with those of 
Christopher Kotter and Nicolas Drabicki, under the 
title Lux in Tenebris (1657, 1659, 1665, 4to). They were 
retranslated into German by Benedict Balmsen (Am- 
sterdam, 1664, 8vo). See Feustking, Gynaec. fanat. 
kanst. p. 238 sq. ; Witsius, Miscell. Sacra, pt. iii, ch. 
xxii; Arnold, Kirchen - u. Ketzerhistorie ; Mosheim, 
Eccles. Hist, iii, 391, 392. (J. H. W.) 

Foniatowa, Julian. See Poniatowa, Chris- 
tine. 

Foils, Jean, a French Protestant writer, was born 
at Nismes May 15, 1747. He u r as brother-in-law to Ila- 
baut- Dupuis. Intimately connected with Babaut St. 
Etienne, he had a narrow escape from sharing his sail 
fate: he owed his life to the 9th Thermidor. lie was 
afterwards justice of the peace at Nismes, and then di- 
rector of the post department in the same city. He 
published Reflexions philosophiques et politiques sur la 
Tolerance religieuse (Paris, 1808, 8vo) ; besides Xotices 
[ biographiques sur Paul Rabaut and Xotices biographiques 
sur Rabaut-Dupuis. Pons died at Nismes Jan. 15, 1816. 
— Hoefer, A 'our. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Ponsard de Gisi of Patens, a Crusader of the 
Order of the Knight Templars, flourished near the open- 
ing of the 14th century. He was a most earnest advo- 
cate of the order, and when, in 1309, it was brought to 
trial, and the papacy was questioning the feasibility of 
suffering its existence, Ponsard boldly declared him- 
self ready to undertake its defence. All the enormous 
charges against the order were utterly, absolutely false; 
false were all the confessions, extorted by terror and 
pain, from himself and other brethren before the bishop 
of Paris. Those tortures had been applied by the sworn 
and deadly enemies and accusers of the order, by the 
prior of Montfalcon and William Boberts the monk. 
He put in a schedule : “ These are the traitors who have 
falsely and disloyally accused the religion of the Tem- 
ple — William Boberts the monk, who had them put to 
the torture ; Esquiu de Florian of Beziers, prior of 
Montfalcon ; Bernard Pelet, prior of Maso, Philip’s en- 
voy to England ; and Gervais Boy sol, knight of Gisors.” 
Had Ponsard himself been tortured? He had been 
tortured before the bishop of Paris three months ere he 
made confession. He had stood thus in a pit for the 
space of an hour. He protested that in that state of 
agony he should confess or deny whatever they would. 
He was prepared to endure beheading, the stake, or the 
caldron for the honor of the order; but these slow, ex- 
cruciating torments he could not bear besides the hor- 
rors of his two years’ imprisonment. He w r as asked if 
he had anything to allege wherefore the court should 
not proceed. He hoped that the cause would be de- 
cided by good men and true. The provost of Poitiers 
interposed : he produced a schedule of charges advanced 
by Ponsard himself against the order. “Truth,” an- 
swered Ponsard, “ requires no concealment. I own that 
in a fit of passion, on account of some contumelious 
words with the treasurer of the Temple, I did draw up 
the schedule.” Those charges, however, dark as were 
some of them, were totally unlike those now brought 
against the brotherhood. Before he left the court, 
Ponsard expressed the hope that the severily of his 
imprisonment might not be aggravated because he had 
[ undertaken the defence of the order. The court gave 
instructions to the provost of Poitiers and De Jamville 


POXTAXO 


394 


POXTAS 


that he should not he more harshly treated; but he was 
finally condemned to death, and was burned at the 
stake. See Milman, Hint, of Latin Christianity, vi. 
429 sq. ; Porter, Hist, of the Knights of Malta (sec In- 
dex). (J. 11. W.) 

Pontano, Giovansi-Giovaso (Lat. Pontanus\ a 
celebrated Italian statesman, noted as a writer on mor- 
als, was born December, 1420, in the environs of Cer- 
reto, l'mbria. II is father having perished in a riot, 
his mother tied with him to Perugia, where he received 
a careful education. Having in vain asserted his claim 
to the heritage of his parents, he entered the army of 
Alfonso, king of Naples, then at war with the Floren- 
tines (1447), and followed that king to Naples, where 
he became acquainted with the celebrated Panormita, 
who took him along in his embassy to Florence, and 
had him appointed royal secretary. Pontano' s verses, 
highly esteemed by all competent judges, seemed to 
entitle him sufficiently to a seat in the academy which 
Panormita, under the king’s auspices, established at 
Naples. Ferdinand I, successor of Alfonso (1457), main- 
tained him in his office of secretary, and appointed him 
tutor of his son Alfonso, duke of Calabria. He followed 
Ferdinand in his campaign against the duke of Anjou, 
and distinguished himself by his bravery. Taken pris- 
oner on different occasions, lie was always brought hack 
without ransom to the camp of Ferdinand, out of respect 
for his genius. On his return to Naples the king lav- 
ished his favors upon him, bestowed upon him riches 
and dignities, and intrusted him with the conduct of 
the most important matters of state. In 14N2 a war. 
which hade fair to become general, having broken out 
between the Venetians and the duke of Ferrara, Poii- 
tano brought about a reconciliation of the belligerents, 
lie was equally successful in compounding the difficul- 
ties that had arisen between Ferdinand and pope Inno- 
cent VIII. Put on bis guard against the negotiator, 
the pope exclaimed, “ I treat with Pontano: is it meet 
that truth and good faith should abandon him who 
never abandoned them?” He became at that time 
first minister, and remained in that high position under 
Alfonso 11 (who erected to him a statue) and Ferdinand 
II. When t .’lmrles AT 1 1 of France approached Naples at 
the bead of a French army, Pontano sent him forthwith 
the keys of the city, harangued the king at his corona- 
tion, and dishonored himself by the insults and asper- 
sions which he cast in this speech at bis royal benefac- 
tors. When Ferdinand returned, he contented himself 
with depriving Pontano of his offices. The fallen min- 
ister found in his retreat more happiness than he had 
enjoyed in the tumult of public business, and when 
Louis XII, after the conquest of the kingdom of Naples, 
offered to put him again at the bead of the government, 
this new Diocletian preferred his literary life to royal 
grandeur. It was in his retreat that he wrote most of 
the works lie has left. lie died at Naples in August, 
1503, Most of his works deal with moral subjects, and 
abound in sound precepts and judicious reflections. II is 
history of the Neapolitan war is a masterpiece, suffi- 
cient alone to immortalize its author. 1 1 is Latinity is 
pure and elegant, his style noble and harmonious. 11 is 
poetical works excited envy and conquered it. He an- 
nounced himself, like Horace, the eternity of his fame: 
“The remotest posterity,” he said, “will speak of Pon- 
tano, ami celebrate his name.” Frasmus, though a par- 
simonious distributor of praise to the Italians, has ac- 
knowledged Pontano’s merit, in the Ciceronians, It 
must be recorded also that Pontano had the merit of 
correcting the manuscript, then the only one, of Catul- 
lus; that we owe to him the discovery of Donat's com- 
mentaries on Virgil, ami of Rhemnins Pnhvmon’s Gram- 
mar. In his physical treatises he first signalled the law 
of continuity, and seems to have been the first among 
the moderns who, after Democritus, declared the milky 
way to be composed of an infinity of small stars. Ilis 
poems, some of which unfortunately are spoiled by ob- 
scenities, were published at Venice (1505-8,2 vols. 8vo) 


and at Florence (1514, 2 vols. 8vo). Ilis prose writings 
were published at Venice (1518-19, 3 vols. 4to) and at 
Florence (1520, 4 vols. 8vo). Ilis 1 1 'orks were edited at 
Naples (1505-12, 6 vols. fob), and more completely at 
Basle (1550, 4 vols. 8vo), Ilis prose writings comprise 
the following works: I)e Obedient ia : — l)e Fort it udine : — 
He Principe : — lie Liberal it ate : — lJe Bencjieeiitiu : — He 
Magnif cental : — He Splendore : — He Conrmitnlia : — He 
Prudent ia : — He M agnunimitate : — He Fortuna : — He 
I mmanitate: — He A spiratiune : — Hialogi r ; full of spirit, 
but blamed for their obscenity by Frasmus himself: — 
He Sermone: — Belli tihri vi quod Ferdinamlus AY upoli- 
tanorum rex cum Joanne Andoyarense duce gessil ; this 
pamphlet was printed separately (Venice, 1519, 4 to), and 
has been translated into Italian : — Centum Plolenieei sen- 
t cnti<e comnu ntariis illustrake : — He rebus eeriest ibus : — 
He. luna. The poetry of Pontano comprises, Urania , 
seu de stellis : — Meteoraz—He horlis Ilesperidarum 
Pastorales pomjue : — Jinculiea : — A monnn libri H : — 
He amore conjuyali: — Tnmulorum libri ii: — JJe dirinis 
laudibus : — Ilendecasyllaba : — Lyrici versus : — Fridani 
libri ii: — Fpigrammata . — Iloefer, Xour. Biog, Generate, 
s. v. Sec Ilallam, Literary History, i. 129 sq. ; Roscoe, 
Leo X, ch. ii and xx; Niccron, Memoires, vol. viii; 
Tiraboschi, Storia della Letter. Ilal. s. v. 

Pontanus, Georg- Barthold vox Braitenberg, 
a learned Bohemian prelate, was born at Brux about 
the middle of the 10th century, lie had scarcely taken 
orders when he achieved a reputation by bis eloquence 
in the pulpit, as well as for his remarkable Latin verses, 
for which last-named attainment he was in 1588 crowned 
with the poetical laurels by the emperor Rudolph. Ap- 
pointed canon of the cathedral of Prague in 1582, he 
afterwards became provost and vicar-general in the 
same city. He exercised a great and happy influence 
on the important questions then under debate in Bohe- 
mia. He died in 1016. Ilis works are, Her Triumph 
des Podagra (Frankf. 1005, 4 to): — Bibliolhek der Pre- 
diglen tins alien nnd neuen Schriftstellem (Cologne, 
1008. fob): — Das from me Bbhmen (Frankf. 1008, fob); 
a selection of the most remarkable acts of piety of the 
princes and prelates of Bohemia: — Bcanderbergus, sen 
vita Georgii Castriotee (llanan, 1009, 8vo): — a number 
of Latin poems: — a good edition of the treatise He ge- 
minis rerum proprielatibus of Bartholomeus Anglicus 
(Frankf. 1001, 8vo), — Iloefer, Xour. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Pontard, Pierre, a French prelate, was born at 
Mussidan Sept. 23, 1749. He was curate of Sarlat when 
the Revolution broke out. He then embraced the new 
principles with an enthusiasm that was rewarded by his 
appointment as constitutional bishop of the Dordogne 
in 1791. A few* months later he was elected deputy of 
this department to the Legislative Assembly, lie spoke 
in favor of divorce, attacked the dogmas of the Catholic 
Church, authorized the marriage of priests, and finally 
took a wife himself. It is this same Pontard who in- 
duced the visionary Suzanne Labrousse to go to Paris. 
LTuler the consulate lie kept a boarding-school at Paris, 
but bis institution waned after a few years. He was 
intimate with Pigault-Lebrun. and aided him, if the 
report be true, in the composition of some of his novels. 
After the Restoration, the duchess-dowager of Orleans, 
to whom he had rendered some services during the 
Reign of Terror, on hearing of his precarious situation, 
bestowed on him a life-rent, which enabled him to enter 
the institution of St. IVrine at Chaillot, where he died, 
without apparent contrition, Jan. 22, 1832. He loft, 
Jtecueil des Ourrages de la celebre Mile. Labrousse (Bor- 
deaux, 1797, 8vo) : — Grammaire Mecaniqne elementaire 
de rOrlhographe Frunqaise (Paris. 1812. 8vo). He is 
also the author of the Journal prophet iqne, which w'as 
edited at Paris in 1792 and 1793. — Iloefer, Xour. Biog. 
Generale, s. v. 

Pontas, Jean, a French prelate, was born Dec. 31, 
1G38, at Saint-I lilaire-du-Ilarcouet (diocese of Avran- 
ches). Brought up by his maternal uncle, M. d’Arque- 


PONT-AUDEMER 


395 


PONTIFEX 


ville, he studied successively under his eyes in his na- 
tive city, then at the Jesuits’ College of Iiennes, finally 
in Paris at the College de Navarre. In 1603 he re- 
ceived, for reasons unknown, in the space of ten days, 
all the orders, inclusive of that of priesthood, from the 
bishop of Toul, with the consent of the bishop of Av- 
ranclies. lie was scarcely twenty-four years old. In 
1668 he obtained the titles of doctor of canon and of 
civil law. The archbishop of Paris, Perefine, appointed 
him vicar of the parish of Sainte-Genevieve-des-Ar- 
dents, an easy place, which left him time enough for his 
learned pursuits, lie next became sub-penitentiarv of 
Notre Dame, and retired to the Petits-Augustins of the 
faubourg Saint-Germain, where he died, April 27, 1728. 
His principal work is the Dictionnaire des Cas de Con- 
science (Faris, 1741, 3 vols. fob). It is the completest 
on this subject, in the treatment of which Pontas dis- 
played uncommon sagacity and great caution. His 
decisions, founded on imposing authorities, are equally 
distant from loose morality and narrow rigorism — 
a twofold danger which works of this description sel- 
dom avoid altogether. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, 
s. v. 

Pont- Audemer, Council, of ( Concilium Pons- 
audemarense ), an ecclesiastical council, was held in 1279 
by William de Flavecour, archbishop of Rouen, who 
presided ; twenty-four canons were published. Among 
these : 

5. Recommends the observance of the canons of Lat- 
eran (“oinues ntrinsqne sextis") upon confession and 
communion. 

i). Forbids Christians to dwell with Jews. 

10. Forbids the keeping of vigils and assemblies, and 
all dancing, in churches and churchyards. 

10. Forbids rural deans to deliver any sentence of ex- 
communication or suspension, unless in writing. 

23. Forbids all those of the clergy who have taken the 
cross to abuse the privileges granted to them. 

See Labbe, Condi, xi, 1144. 

Pontb riant, Henri -Guillaume -Marie, Du 
Bkkil de, brother of the two following, was born at 
Rennes in 1709. lie was a canon, grand ebantre of 
the cathedral of Rennes, and abbe of Lanvaux, in the 
diocese of Yannes. He died at Rennes in 1767. He 
left, Po'eme sur l’ Abus de la Poesie, crowned at the Jeux 
Floraux in 1722 : — Sermon sur le Sucre du Roi (Toulouse, 
1722, 4to) : — Essui de Grammaire Francaise (1754, 
8vo) : — Projet d'une Histoire de Bretagne depuis 1567 
jusqu'en 1754 (Rennes, 1754, fob). — Hoelcr, Xouv. Biog. 
Gene rale, s. v. 

Pontbriant, Henri-Marie, Du Bkeil i>e, broth- 
er of the preceding, was born at Yannes in 1711. lie 
was canon of Rennes, lie early entered ecclesiasti- 
cal life, and after several promotions was made bishop 
of Quebec, April 9, 1741. lie set out for Quebec shortly 
after, and arrived there Aug. 17. He died at Montreal 
(Canada) June 29, 1760. A pastoral letter which he 
issued on the approach of the English to Quebec in 1759 
is in Smith’s Hist, of Canada. 

Pontbriant, Kene-Frangois, Du Bkeil de, a 
French priest, was born at Rennes near the opening of 
the 18th century. Appointed abbe of Saint-Marien- 
d’Auxerre, he was one of the most zealous promoters of 
the institution of the Petits-Savoyards. The first idea 
of that institution is due to the abbe Joly, canon of 
Dijon, who founded at Paris, towards 1665, in the in- 
terest of those poor children, an establishment which, 
taken up by Claude Ilelyet, could not support itself af- 
ter his death in 1686. The abbe of Pontbriant, touched 
with pity at the sight of the misery of those poor lit- 
tle Savoyards, came to their help towards 1737, and de- 
voted to them during the remainder of his life his 
time, his energies, and his fortune. The abbe de Fe- 
uelon, who died on the revolutionary scaffold in 1794, 
succeeded him in this task. Pontbriant died in 1760. 
He left, Projet d'un Etablissement deja commence pour 
clever dans la Piete les petits Savoyards qui sont dans 
Paris, with several appendices (Paris, 1735-43, 4 parts, 


8vo): — Pelerinage du Calvaire sur le Mont Valerien 
(ibid. 1745, 12mo; 1751, 16mo; 1816, 12mo): — L'lncre- 
dule detrompe et le Chretien affenni dans la Foi (1752, 
8vo), a work which met with uncommon favor. — Hoe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Ponte, Luis de, a Spanish Jesuit, noted as an as- 
cetic writer, was born at Valladolid Nov. 11, 1554. He 
belonged to a noble family, but renounced all the ad- 
vantages the world offered him, and at the age of 
twenty entered the Society of Jesus. He was during 
many years a teacher of philosophy and theology, but 
his failing health compelled him at last to monastical 
retirement. In his retreat he divided his time between 
prayer, good works, and the composition of pious writ- 
ings, by which he obtained throughout Europe the 
reputation of an excellent master of spiritual life, lie 
died Feb. 17, 1G24. Most of his numerous writings 
were translated into Latin by Melchior Trevinnia. We 
mention Meditaciones de los Mysferios de nuestra Santa 
Fe (Valladolid, 1605, 1613, 2 vols. 4to). This work was 
translated into several languages: into Arabic by F. 
Fromave, and into French by F. Brignon (1613, 3 vols. 
4to) : — Guida Fspiritucd de la Oracion , J\I editacion, y 
Conlemplacion (ibid. 1609, 4to) : — Be la Perfeccion Cris- 
tiana (ibid. 1612-16, 4 vols. 4to): — Vida del B. Baltha- 
sar Alvarez (Madrid, 1615, 4to) : — Expositio moralis et 
mystica in Cauticum Canticorum (Cologne, 1622, 2 vols. 
fob; Paris, 1646, fol.) : — Biredorio Fspiritual (Madrid, 
1625, 8vo). He also wrote the first part of Vida Mara- 
villosa de Marina de Escobar (ibid. 1665, fol.), which 
was finished and published by a member of his order, 
Miguel Orena. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. See 
Antonio, Bibliotheca Ilispana Xova, s. v. 

Pontianus, St., a pope of the 3d century, was a 
native of Rome, and descended from the gens Calpurnia, 
if we may believe the ancient writers. He succeeded 
Urban I in the pontificate in 230. Platina and others 
assert that he introduced the singing of psalms into the 
Church, but this custom must he older. The first years 
of his pontificate under Alexander Scverus were quiet, 
hut the persecutions commenced again under Maximi- 
nus, and Pontianus, together with a presbyter by the 
name of Ilippolvtus, suffered sentence of deportation to 
the usual place of exile, the island of Tavolato, near 
Sardinia, where he died from want and exposure, Sept. 
28, 235. Ilis body was carried to Rome by order of 
pope St. Fabian. Two epistles are falsely attributed to 
him. St. Anterus was his successor. See Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Gene rale, s. v. ; Platina, Vitas Pontificum, s. v. ; 
Montor, I list, des Papes (see Index) ; Milman, Hist, of 
Latin Christianity, i, 80. 

Pontier, Gedeox, a French theologian, was born 
near Alais (Languedoc), near the middle of the 17th 
century. Though brought up in the Protestant com- 
munion, he embraced Roman Catholicism, entered the 
ecclesiastical state, and obtained the title of apostolic 
prothonotarv. He died at Paris in 1709, at an advanced 
age. He left, Le Cabinet, on la Bibliotheqne des Grumls 
(1680-89, 3 vols. 12mo); the last vcliimc contains in 
addition, Les Questions de la Princesse Ilenriette de la 
Guiehe, Buchesse d'Angouleme et Comtesse d’ Alais, sur 
toutes Sortes de Sujets , avec les Reponses (1687, l2mo) : — 
Lettre (le Saulx, Premier Eceqne cT Alais (1696, 12mo), 
etc. La Bruvere gives a portrait of I’onticr in his 
“ Caracteres,” under the name of Dioscurus, and makes 
very much of him. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Pontifex (I), a priest among the ancient Romans. 
The pontifices were formed into a college, and all mat- 
ters of religion were placed under its exclusive super- 
intendence. Their functions and duties were minutely 
detailed in the pontifical books, which were drawn up in 
the reign of Numa Pompilins, and contained the names 
of the gods and the various regulations for their wor- 
ship, as well as a detailed description of the functions, 
rights, and privileges of the priests. The pontifices 
were not priests of any particular divinity, but of the 


TOXTIFEX 


396 


PONTIFICALIA 


worship of the gods generally. Their duties embraced 
the regulation of all the religions rites ami ceremonies 
(both public ami private) of a state — c. g. how the gods 
should be worshipped, how burials should be conducted, 
how the souls of the dead (manes) should be appeased. 
To them was intrusted the care of the calendar, the 
proclamation of festival days, etc. They also saw that 
every religious and every judicial act took place on the 
right day. “As they thus had," says Dr. Mommsen, 
“an especial supervision of all religious observances, it 
was to them in case of need (as on occasion of marriage, 
testament, or avroe/atio ) that the preliminary question 
was addressed, whether the matter proposed did not, in 
any respect, offend against divine law.” In matters of 
religion they were the supreme authorities; from their 
decisions there was no appeal, and they themselves were 
responsible neither to the senate nor the people; fur- 
ther, they had power to inflict punishment on such 
priests as dared to disobey their injunctions and devi- 
ate into schismatical courses. The words of Festus arc : 

Hernm qua? ad sacra et religioncs pertinent, judices et 
t indices." The head of the college was called Pont if ex 
Maximus. The pontiffs, according to Homan tradition, 
were instituted by Numa — a mythical person, to whom 
the origin of nearly all the religious institutions of 
Home is ascribed. Hut as they appear in all the Latin 
communities, they are regarded by Mommsen as a 
“thoroughly national Italian institution.” and probably 
found a place in the earliest religious organization of 
the Latin race. Their number was originally four, or, 
including the pontifex maximus, live, all of whom were 
taken from the patricians. In B.C. 300, the Ogulnian 
Law raised the number to nine, four of whom were to 
be plebeians. The flrst plebeian, however, who attained 
the dignity of pontifex maximus was Tib. Coruncanius, 
B.C. 25-1. Sulla, in B.C. SI, again increased the number 
to fifteen, and Julius Caesar to sixteen. During the 
empire, the functions of pontifex maximus were generally 
discharged by the emperors themselves; and when at 
length the emperors dropped the name, it was picked 
up by the Christian bishops of Home; and now this 
title, borrowed from a pagan cult, forms one of the sa- 
cred designations of his holiness the pope. 

Pontifex (2) is lienee also the title in the Homan 
( ’at.holic t 'hnrch of the archbishop or bishop of a diocese. 
The pope himself is styled the sovereign pontifex, or 
pontiff (q. w). (.1. II. W.) 

Pontifex M axT.mi s. Before the time of Constan- 
tine the clergy were not recognised as holding any dis- 
tinct rank in the state; but when Christianity was 
adopted as the religion of the Homan empire, its min- 
isters were considered as occupying the place of those 
heathen priests whose superstitions had fallen into dis- 
repute. According to Zosimus, Constantine himself, in 
the year 325, assumed the title of Pontifex Maximus, 
which the heathen emperors before him had appropri- 
ated, because it contributed to exalt at once the impe- 
rial and episcopal dignity, and served to justify the in- 
terference of the emperor in ecclesiastical councils and 
in the nomination of bishops. Constantine’s .successors 
followed his example until the days oftlratian, who was 
the last emperor to whom the title was applied. Some 
scholars doubt Zosimus's assertion, notwithstanding the 
fact that the medals of Constantine mid his successors, 
down to (Jratian, and the inscriptions relating to them, 
give them the title of Pontifex Maximus, on the ground 
that it may have been one of those traditional titles 
which the power of habit preserved, without any mean- 
ing being connected with them. As to the use of the 
sacerdotal garment, Zosimus may not be quite trust- 
worthy in tliat respect. But even if the emperors bad 
accepted the pontifical robes, brought to them by the 
pagan priests at their accession to the throne, it does not 
follow that they actually wore them, or even officiated 
as “ I’ontitiees Maximi.” It has been supposed by some 
authors that the lirst Christian emperors adopted this 
pogan title only as a means of proclaiming themselves 


the guardians and protectors of the Christian religion. 
At an early period of his reign Constantine issued edicts 
in favor of the Christian clergy, by which they were 
put on a footing, with respect to civil rights, with the 
heathen priests: these edicts were soon followed by 
others, which gave to the clergy some special and pe- 
culiar privileges. See Bingham. Orie/ines Eceles. (In- 
dex in vol.ii) ; Biddle, Christian Antiquities, ft. 337 ; El- 
liott, Romanism , p. 620; Alzog, Kirchengesch. i, 244, 
251. 

Pontiff, or IIigii-Pwest, a person who has the 
superintendence and direction of divine worship, as the 
offering of sacrifices, anil other religious solemnities. 
The Homans had a college of pontiffs, called by them 
“pontifici.” See Pontifex. 

Pontiffs, Confuateunitier of, were in the 12th 
century guilds of associated masons for the building of 
churches. They appeared first at Chartres, in France, 
and spread thence throughout that country and Eng- 
land, Switzerland, and (Germany. When their Christian 
character died out they became lodges of Freemasons. 

Pontifical (i. e. belonging to a pontiff or bishop) 
is a book of rites and ceremonies appertaining to the 
office of a high-priest, pope, or prelate; therefore the 
name of a book used by a bishop at consecration 
of churches, etc. Thus the Homan Pontifical (Ponti- 
ficate. Romanian) is the book giving directions as to 
those acts of worship which Homan Catholic bishops 
exclusively perform, or at least a priest delegated by 
the bishop. Several mediaeval pontificalia arc extant, 
but they have merely a historical value. The edition 
published Feb. 10, 15%, by pope Clement VI II, has re- 
mained up to our day the rule of the Homan Catholic 
ceremonial. “ Statucntes,” says the pope, “ Pontifiealc 
prediction nolle nnquam in toto vel in parte mutan- 
dum, vel ci aliquid addendum, ant omniuo detrahendum 
esse, ac quoscunque qui pontificalia tniuiia excrcere, vel 
alia, qua* in dicto Pontificali continentnr, facere ant ex- 
cqui dehont, ad ea peragenda et priestanda ex luijns 
Pontificalis pra?scripto et ratione leneri, neminemque 
ex eis . . . nisi formulis, qua? hoc ipso Pontificali con- 
tinent ur, servatis satisfacere posse.” It may be seen 
by this quotation how stringent the prescriptions of the 
Pontifical are. The Pontifical contains the services 
for ordinations, for religious professions and receptions 
of monks and nuns, consecrations, benedictions, etc., as 
well as of the solemn administration by a bishop of 
those sacraments which are ordinarily administered by 
priests. Besides the prayers to be recited, the Pontifi- 
cal also lays down the ceremonial to be observed. The 
rules of this ceremonial are of two kinds — preceptive, the 
literal observance of which is obligatory ; and directive , 
which admit of a certain interpretation. The ceremo- 
nies must be performed as described in the several ser- 
vices without any omission, addition, or modification, 
whether in the administration of sacraments or the per- 
formance of public worship, in which the bishop exclu- 
sively, or a priest delegated by the bishop, officiates. 

Another of the service-hooks of bishops is called the 
Ceremoniale, but it is chiefly confined to a description 
of the peculiar ceremonial with which bishops are re- 
quired to celebrate solemnly those offices, as of the mass, 
vespers, the funeral office, etc., which are common to 
them with priests. The most prized editions of both 
these service-books arc those published by authority of 
the learned pope Benedict A IV. 

In England the Pontifical is not by authority pub- 
lished separately from the Liturgy, so that it is never 
called by that name; though the offices of confirmation 
and ordination, in fact, compose the English Pontifical. 
For the consecration of churches and churchyards there 
is no office appointed by sufficient authority. See Pible 
and Missal, p. 217; Coleman, J’rimitive Ch. (Index). 
See C’oNSKritATioN of CnritcitEs. 

Pontificalia, properly the ensigns of a pontiff's or 
bishop’s office, is a term loosely used for any ecclcsiasti- 


397 


PONTUS 


PONTIFICATE 


cal vestment or other ornament, wherein either of these 
functionaries performs divine service. 

Pontificate means the state or dignity of a pontiff, 
or high-priest; but is more particularly applied in mod- 
ern times to the reign of a pope. 

Pontiuus, Council ok. See Pont vox. 

Pontius, a deacon of the African Church, the tried 
friend and constant companion of Cyprian, drew up a 
narrative of the life and sufferings of the martyred 
bishop, which is styled an excellent production {egre- 
f/ium volumen) by Jerome. If the piece extant under 
the name of Pontius, entitled De Vita et Pussione S. 
Cypriuni , be genuine, it certainly does not merit such 
high commendation, since it is composed in an ambi- 
tious declamatory style, full of affectation and rhetor- 
ical ornaments. Perhaps the original work may have 
formed the basis of what we now possess, whieh has 
probably been built up into its present form by the labor 
of various hands. It will be found attached to all the 
most important editions of Cyprian, and is contained 
also in the Acta Primorum Marty rum of Kuinart 
(Paris, 1690, 4to; Amsterd. 1713, fol.). The A eta Pon- 
tii are preserved in the Miscellanea of r>aluze (Paris, 
1678, Svo), ii, 124, and in the .1 eta Sanctorum under 
March 8, the day marked as his festival in the Homan 
Martvroiogies. See Jerome, De Viris III. p. 68 ; Scho- 
nemann, Bill. Patrum Lat. vol. i, c. iii, § 6. — Smith, 
Diet, of Class. Bioy. s. v. 

Pontius, Paul, a celebrated Belgian engraver, was 
born at Antwerp in 1596, according to some accounts, 
according to others in 1603. He was the pupil of Vors- 
termann, and is chiefly distinguished for his excellent 
prints after Kubens, which he executed under that great 
painter’s inspection. He engraved also a celebrated set 
of portraits after Vandyck, including those of many of 
the most distinguished Flemish painters. He appears 
to have adapted himself wonderfully to whatever artist 
he copied. The date of liis death appears not to be 
known. The Slaughter of the Innocents, after Kubens, ; 
one of his principal works, is dated 1653. 

Pontius (Pilate). See Pilate. 

Poutoppidan, Erik Erik c en, also called Pont- 
oppidan the Elder, a Norwegian prelate, was born in 
1616 at Brobv (town-bridge =pons oppidanus ), in Fiih- 
nen, in Denmark, from which he took his Latin name. 
He was for many years minister in Kjbge, but after- 
wards became bishop of the Trondhjem diocese in Nor- 
way. For his many Latin poems he had the honor 
of being crowned poet by the old Westliof, who had 
himself been crowned poet, in Germany. Pontoppidan's 
funeral sermons are very famous. But what especially 
entitles him to an honorable name in history is his 
Danish Grammar, which was published in 1668, while 
he was still minister at Kjoge. It w r as the first Danish 
grammar ever published. He died in 1678. See Bar- 
fod, Fort cell inger, p. 542. (K. B. A.) 

Poutoppidan, Elik L., son of the nephew of 
the foregoing, also called Poutoppidan the Younger, was 
born Aug. 24, 1698. in Aarhus, in Denmark, where his 
father was dean. lie became a student in 1716 at Fre- 
dericia, and afterwards at Copenhagen ; after this he was 
tutor in the house of general LiUzow, in Norway ; trav- 
elled in foreign lands with a son of Iver Ilvitfeldt, and 
then became tutor in the family of the last duke of Hol- 
stein-Plon. In 1723 he was appointed chaplain of the 
palace chapel at Nordborg; in 1734 chaplain of the 
palace chapel at Fredericksborg; and in 1735 he became 
court-chaplain in Copenhagen. In 1738 he was elected 
professor of theology in the Copenhagen University; 
was appointed bishop of Bergen in 1747 ; received the 
degree of doctor of theology in 1749; and in 1755 became 
chancellor of the Copenhagen University. He died 
Dee. 20, 1764. As a theologian he was semi-pietistie, 
but not at all fanatical. He was cheerful, and disap- 
proved the severe pietistie laws that were enforced by 
the Danish government in his time. During the reign 


of Christian VI he had the courage to write, (: God never 
permits the laws of nature to be violated for the sake of 
advancing the cause of the Church. When the Church 
of Christ consisted exclusively of volunteers, it had liv- 
ing members.” Some fault lias been found with him, 
and perhaps justly, in his direction of the affairs of the 
university; but at the same time he did much to ad- 
vance the cause of science, and lie was ever on the alert 
to see that the several professors did not neglect any 
portion of their duty to the university. As a German, 
Danish, and Latin author he exercised a great influence, 

I especially in theology, history, natural history, and po- 
litical economy. Of his numerous works, the following 
are the ones most known: An Explanation of Luther’s 
Catechism (1737), a book that was for a long time the 
text-book in Denmark and Norway in the religious ed- 
ucation of the children, and is as such used very widely 
yet : — Marmora Lanica (1739-41, 2 vols. fol.), in which 
i lie copies a number of inscriptions of various ages whieh 
I elucidate the history of his country: — Gesta et Vestigia 
Danorum extra Daniam (1740-41, 3 vols.): — Annales 
I Ecclesue Danue (1741-52, 4 vols.), in German; a good 
history of the Danish Church: — Menoza, an Asiatic 
Prince, who Travelled around the World in Search of 
Christians (1742-43,3 vols.). This is a philosophical 
work, written in Danish, and has been translated into 
Dutch, German, and other languages; it has recently 
been republished in Denmark by V. Birkeda: — The 
Power of Truth in Conquering Infidelity (1758) : — Col- 
legium Pastorale Preeticum (1757): — Origines I I af men- 
ses (1760): — Danish Atlas (1763-1781, 4 vols.). The 
fourth volume was completed by his brother-in-law, 
Hans de Holman. He also published a Hymn-book, and 
wrote several short treatises. II is Natural History of 
Norway (1752-54) was translated into English and 
German. He published Economical Balance in 1759, 
and a. Magazine of Political Economy, from 1757 to 1764. 
See Barfod, Forteellinger , p. 542 ; Nordish Conversations- 
Lexikon, s. v. (R. B. A.) 

Pontormo, Jacopo da (or Jacopo Carrucci), a 
distinguished Florentine painter, was born at Pontormo 
in 1493. He was a short time the pupil of Leonardo 
da Vinci, and studied under Albcrtinelli, Pietro di Cosi- 
mo, and Andrea del Sarto. He painted for some time 
in a similar style to Andrea, and was that painter’s 
rival ; but he frequently changed his manner, and three 
distinct styles are ascribed to him, the last imitated 
from the works of Albert Dlirer. Towards the close of 
his life he spent eleven years in painting some frescos 
of the Deluge and the Last Judgment in the church of 
San Lorenzo, in the manner of the. imitators of Michael 
Angelo, but they have long since been washed over. 
He died at Florence in 1558. 

Pon'tus (ndj'rof, the sea), a large district in the 
north of Asia Minor, extending along the coast of the 
Pontus Euxinus, from which circumstance the name w r as 
derived. It is mentioned in the New Testament as 
furnishing a portion of that audience which listened to 
the apostles on the day of Pentecost (Acts ii, 9), as the 
birthplace of Aquilajxviii, 2), and as one of the dis- 
tricts through which “ the strangers” addressed by Pe- 
ter in his first epistle “tvere scattered abroad” (1 Pet. i, 
1). All these passages agree in shoiving that there 
were many Jewish residents in the district. The term 
Pontus signified a country of very various extent at dif- 
ferent times, and while the boundaries of all the prov- 
inces of Asia Minor were continually shifting, none were 
more affected by the changes of the times than those 
of Pontus. In the earlier period of its history it was 
merely a province of Cappadocia, which then extended 
from Mount Taurus to the Euxine; and tradition states 
that the petty kingdoms of which it was composed were 
subdued and consolidated by Ninus. It then fell under 
the alternate dominion of the Medes and Persians, the 
latter of whom divided it into satrapies; and in the 
| reign of Darius Hystaspis the country of Pontus was 


toxtus 


398 


POOL 


bestowed by that prince on Artabazes, a mernber of his j 
own family, who henceforth assumed the title of king of 
Pontus, and was the ancestor of a long line of princes 
rescued from oblivion by the genius, the crimes, and 
the vicissitudes of Mithridates VII, sometimes called 
“the Great.” The kingdom of Artabazes was comprised 
between 41 and 43 X. lot., and between 35 and 4*2° 
E. long.; and was bounded on the north by the Euxine, 
on the south by Armenia Minor, on the east by Colchis, 
and on the west by the river llalys. The inhabitants 
were a bold, active, and warlike race, and in the reign of 
Ariobarzanes they shook off the yoke of Persia, to whose 
sovereigns their own had from the time of Artabazes 
been tributary, and established the complete indepen- 
dence of their country. From this period the kingdom 
of Pontus prospered. Its monarchs gradually added to 
their dominions the whole of Cappadocia and Paplda- 
gonia and a large part of Bithynia, thus dividing Asia 
Minor with the Attalian dynasty, which ruled at lVr- 
gamos. Mithridates VI formed an alliance with the 
Homans, sent a fleet to aid them in their wars against 
Carthage, and when, on the death of Attains, who left 
his kingdom of lVrgamos to the Roman people, Ariston- 
ieus contested the legacy, and attempted to make him- 
self king of Pergamos, Mithridates espoused the cause 
of Koine, and aided in driving the usurper out of Asia. 
The policy of this able prince was reversed by his son 
and successor. Mithridates VII ascended the throne at 
the age of eleven years, and early began a career of en- 
mity towards the Romans, the ultimate result of which 
was the entire subjugation of the country over which 
he ruled, and its reduction to the condition of a Roman 
province. Mithridates did, however, succeed so far 
as to make himself master of all Lesser Asia and of 
many of the adjacent islands. At Cos he plundered the 
Jews of a large sum of money, he annexed Athens it- 
self to his kingdom, while his son Ariarathcs overcame 
Macedonia and Thrace. At this period of his reign he 
was the master of twenty-five nations; and so great 
were his accomplishments as a linguist, that he is said 
to have been able to converse with the natives of all 
without the aid of an interpreter. He determined ut- 
terly to root out the Roman dominion from Asia, and in 
order to compromise the inhabitants of the country be- 
yond the possibility of return, he issued orders that on 
a certain day throughout his dominions every Roman 
should be put to death, not excepting even women and 
children. This atrocious decree, which has covered the 
name of Mithridates with infamy, was carried out, and 
the number of persons who perished in the massacre is 
variously estimated at from eighty to one hundred and 
sixty thousand. From this time his real power began 
to decline; and after a romantic series of vicissitudes 
he was killed at his own request in the seventy-first 
year of his age, B.C.04. After the death of Mithridates, 
his son Pharnaces submitted to the Romans, lie was 
made king of Bosphorus, and proclaimed the ally of 
Rome; but after the return of Pompey he regained his 
hereditary kingdom, and ventured to oppose the Ro- 
mans with as much obstinacy as his father, but with 
less success. Julius Ca'sar marched against him and 
reduced the country to the condition of a province. 
Marc Antony restored Darius, the son of Pharnaces; 
and a short line of princes, none of whom require any 
notice in this place, governed the country till the time 
of Nero. The last of these, Polemo II. was the father 
of that Berenice who married Ilerod Agrippa II, before 
whom Paul pleaded his cause with so much eloquence. 
From this time Pontus ceased to be an independent 
state, constituting a province or dependency of the Ro- 
man empire. On the east it was hounded by Colchis, 
on the south by t'appadocia and part of Armenia, and 
on the west bv Paphlagonia and tialatia. Ptolemy 
(jCeoy. v, 5) and Pliny (/fist. A 'at. vi, 4) regard Pontus 
and Cappadocia as one province; hut Strabo (Ceoy. xii, 
540 rightly distinguishes them, seeing that each formed 
a distinct government with its own ruler or prince. Ptol- 


emy divides what may be called the true Pontus into 
three districts — Pontus Galaticus, Pontus Cappadoeius, 
and Pontus Polemoniacus. This last was imagined to 
be the country of the Amazons. 

The climate of Pontus is hot in summer, but severe 
in winter, especially along the shores of the Euxine. 
The soil is fertile, but less so than in the more southern 
parts of Asia Minor; yet it abounds with olives and 
cherry-trees, and the valleys produce considerable quan- 
tities of grain. These advantages it owes to its being 
watered by many small rivers, while the great river 
llalys flows far into the interior. The inhabitants 
were a hardy and industrious race; deriving their ori- 
gin, according to tradition, from Tubal Cain. They 
were industrious as well as warlike, ami addicted to 
commerce, and the inhabitants of Pontus Cappadoeius 
were celebrated for their skill in the manufacture of 
arms, and for working in metal in general. They had 
many convenient harbors on the Euxine, and abundance 
of fine timber for ship-building, and of these they seem 
very early to have taken full advantage. They retained 
more of the Eastern elements in their language and re- 
ligion than the inhabitants of Lydia and Pergamos, who 
were brought more entirely under the influence of Creek 
art, literature, and philosophy. They spoke a dialect of 
the Persian, largely corrupted with Greek: and their re- 
ligion seems to have been a compound of Greek, Scyth- 
ian. and Persian. Demeter, Zeus, and Poseidon were 
their chief deities; but this comes to iis on Greek au- 
thority; and they sacrificed to the last-named deity 
white horses, by harnessing them four abreast to char- 
iots, and driving them into the sea, where they were 
drowned. The principal towns of Pontus were Amasia, 
the ancient metropolis, and the birthplace of Strabo, 
Themiseyra, Cerasus, and Trapezus; which last is still 
an important town under the name of Trebizond. See 
Celiarius, Notit. ii, 287; Mannert, vi, 350; Eosenmiillcr, 
Bill. Ceoy. iii, 5-9; Encyclop. Methodique, sect. (Hog. 
.1 ncienne, s. v. Pontos; Smith, Diet, of (Jr. and Bom. 
deny. s. v. Pontus; Conybeare and Howson, Life and 
Epistles (X. Y. ed.), i, 247. See Asia Minor. 

Fontyoii, Cocxcn, of (Concilium Poniiyonense ), 
was held in June and July, 870, by the Cisalpine bish- 
ops, the emperor Charles and the Roman legates being 
present. The pretensions of Ansegisus. metropolitan of 
Sens, whom pope John VIII, at the request of the em- 
peror, had nominated primate vicar apostolic in Gaul 
and Germany (in violation of the canons and of the 
rights of the metropolitans), were brought before the 
council, and so resolutely opposed by the bishops that 
the affair, for the time, came to nothing; i. e. the pon- 
tifical rescript in favor of Ansegisus remained practically 
null and void. The archbishop of Sens, it is true, from 
that time forward assumed the title of “ Primate of 
Gaul and Germany." but it was a mere nominal distinc- 
tion, unattended by jurisdiction or authority. The acts 
of the Synod of Pavia, in t he beginning of the year, 
were confirmed by the Council of Pontyon. Fifty-two 
bishops and archbishops subscribed the acts, together 
with five abbots. See Labbe, Concif. ix, 280; 1 Icicle, 
Concilienyesch. vol. i, iv. and v ; Sirmond, Condi. Andy. 
Call. vol. iii; Jervis, Hist, of the Church of France, i, 
38 sq. 

Pool is the rendering in the A. V. of the following 
Ileb. and Greek words: 

1. Usually n-“Z. hereldh (Sept. Kpijvij or K~o\vp- 
(3>l5pa\ or her ah uh (Psa. Ixxxiv. ti, see Bera- 

t iiaii), from ““Z. “ to fall on the knees’’ (see Judg. vii. 
1 5.0). This word is akin to the Arabic Etrkeh, and its 
Spanish form . 1 l-lxrca. In the Old lest, it stands for 
the larger reservoirs of rain or spring water; while 
/*»#■,“ cistern,” is used for the smaller domestic tanks, 
of which every house had one or more. Some are sup- 
plied by springs, and some are merely reeeptaeles for 
rain-water (Burckhardt, Syria , p. 314). It is thus ap- 


POOL 


POOL 


399 


plied to the large pnblic reservoirs, corresponding to 
the tanks of India, belonging to the towns of Gibeon 
(2 Sam. ii, 13), Hebron (iv, 12), Samaria (1 Kings xxii, 
38), and Jerusalem; “the upper pool,” 2 Kings xviii, 
17 ; Isa. vii, 3 ; xxxiv, 2 (now the “ Birket el-Mamilla”) ; 
“ the lower pool,” Isa. xxii, 9, 11 (“ Birket es-Sultan”) ; 
“Hezekiah’s pool,” 2 Kings xx, 20 (“Birket el-Ham- 
mam”); “the king’s pool,” Neh. ii, 14 (“the fountain 
of the Virgin”) ; “ the pool of Siloah,” Neh. iii, 15 (“Bir- 
ket Silwan”); and “the old pool,” Isa. xxii, 11. We 
read also (Eccl. ii, 6) of the “pools” or cisterns made by 
Solomon to irrigate his gardens. The importance of 
these reservoirs in a country possessing scarcely more 
than one perennial stream, and where wells are few 
and inconsiderable, can hardly be estimated by those 
accustomed to an unfailing abundance of the precious 
fluid. In Jer. xiv, 3 we have a powerful description 
of the disappointment caused by the failure of the wa- 
ter in the cisterns (C“ , "3 ; A. V. “pits;” comp. Isa. xlii, 
15; Jer. ii, 13). In modern Palestine they are often 
very filth}', although in constant use (Thomson, Land 
and. Book , i, 31G). See Water. 

2. Again , Q5X (Isa. xiv, 23; xxxv, 7; xli, 18; xlii, 
15) ; elsewhere “ pond” (q. v.). 

3. Mikveh , PPp 1 ? (Exod. vii, 19), a gathering together 
(i. e. of water), as rendered Gen. i, 10. 

4. In the New Test. KoXvpfiiftpa, only in John v, 2; 
ix, 7. 

The following are the principal reservoirs mentioned 
in the Bible : 

a. A pool of Uezekiah, 2 Kings xx, 20 (comp. Sirach, 
xlviii, 17 [19]). It was a basin which that king had 
opened in the city, and fed by a watercourse (ilb^tl, 
“ conduit”). In 2 Chron. xxxii, 30 it is said more def- 
initely that Hezekiali conducted the water from the 
upper pool of Gihon in the west of the city. This pool 
of Hezekiali, called by the Arabs Birket el-IIammd/n, is 
pointed out by tradition in the north-western part of 
the modern city, not far east of the Jaffa gate (Robin- 
son, ii, 134 sq.). And there is no doubt that this is the 
true location, since the waters of the upper pool of Gi- 
hon (Birket el-Mamilla) flow through small, roughly 


built aqueducts in the vicinity of the Jaffa gate, and 
thus reach the Birket el-IIammam (Robinson, i, 396). 
See Hezekiah’s Pool. 

b. The upper pool (n:*r?r and the lower 

pool (nrnnn Hr'na), the former lying near the full- 
er’s field, and on the road to it, outside of the city (Isa. 
vii, 3; xxxvi, 2; 2 Kings xviii, 17), and connecting 
with a watercourse. The lower pool is named in Isa. 
xxii. 9. There still remain in the west of the city two 
water- basins, an upper and a lower; the one called 
Birket el-Mamilla , at the head of the valley of Gihon, 
and the other Birket es-Sultan, somewhat farther down 
the valley southward, almost in a line with the south 
wall of the city (Robinson, ii, 129 sq.). They are gen- 
erally known as the upper and the lower pool of Gihon. 
It supports the identification of these with “the upper 
and lower pools” that there are no other similar or 
corresponding reservoirs in the neighborhood ; and the 
western position of the upper pool suits well the cir- 
cumstances mentioned in Scripture (see Isa. xxxvi, 2; 
2 Kings xviii, 17 ; comp. Ivnobel, Isa. p. 153, 257). 
It may be added that a trustworthy tradition places 
the fuller’s field westward of the city (Robinson, ut 
sup. p. 128). See Gihon. 

c. The old pool (PE'-T? nr'na), not far from the 
double wall (Z'P^n, “ two trails”), Isa. xxii, 11. This 
double wall was near the royal garden (2 Kings xxv, 
4; Jer. xxxix, 4), which must be sought in the south- 
east of the city, near the fountain of Siloam (Neh. iii, 
15). Near the mouth of the Tvropceon there are still 
two reservoirs or cisterns (Robinson, i, 384; ii, 146), 
a smaller one hollowed out in the rock, and the other, 
a little larger, lying a short distance to the south of the 
former, and receiving its water. The water flows from 
an opening in the rock a few feet north of the lesser 
basin ; i. e. from the fountain of Siloam. The larger 
of these basins is doubtless the pool of Siloam, and 
the smaller is possibly the “old pool,” and the same 
with the artificial pool named in Neh. iii, 16 as in this 
vicinity (Robinson, ii, 146; comp. Thenius, in Illgen’s 
Zeitschr. 1844, i, 22 sq.). Perhaps, however, we may 
rather understand the passage in Isaiah as referring to 



Pool of Hezekiah. 


TOOLE 


400 


POO] 


a mere damming up of the Tyropoeon itself between the 
two parallel parts of the old wall lining the sides of the 
valley, for the purpose of containing (temporarily dur- 
ing the siege) the waters of the then “old" (i.e. super- 
seded) pool of Hihon outside the city, thus diverted 
into a new channel. See Jerusalem. 

d. The king's pool (“5"cn rr"2, Xeh. ii, 11) is prob- 
ably to be found in the fountain of the Virgin Mary, 
on the east side of Ophel (Kobinson, ii, 102, MO), and is 
perhaps the same with the pool of Solomon (tcoXvp- 
fiifipa HoXopwroc) mentioned by Josephus as on this 
side of the city (IPtir, v, 4, 2; comp. Thenius, op. cit. 
p. 25). With less probability Schultz (Jems. p. 5K) takes 
the pool which lies south of Siloam, and which is now 
half choked with earth, for the king’s pool. See Jeru- 
salem. 

In Josephus, besides the foregoing, we find the spar- 
row's pool (to 'ErpovSiov, which may have a different 
meaning: see Bookman, Erjiail. iv, 19), opposite the 
Castle of Antonia, in the north of the city ( IPirir, v, 1 1, 
4), now Birket Israil.or perhaps Birkot el-llejjah; the 
pool of almonds (dpvyCaXov), on the east side, at 
some distance from the city ( War, ut sup.); the pool 
of serpents (Ko\vp(M\bpa ruin otynov), near Herod’s mon- 
ument (Joseph. U ’’«»■, v, 3, 2), between Scopus (a hill 
seven stadia, or a mile, from the city. Joseph, ll'ctr, ii, 
19,4) and the city, and hence to the north, perhaps 
near the road to Shechem (Kobinson, i, 400; ii, 43, 1N0 
sq.). This must, then, be different from the dragon well 
(serpent well) in Xeh. ii, 13, which lay between the 
dung-gate in the south-west and the valley (comp. 
Thenius, op.cil. p. 17). There is no trace of it now to he 
found, for Hirket el-Mamilla is to be identilied with the 
upper pool, as above (Schultz, p. 07). See Jerusalem. 

For the pools of (iibeon, Hebron, Samaria, Solomon, 
Bethesda, and Siloam, see those words respectively. 
See also Fountain. 

Poole, Matthew, an eminent English Xonconform- 
ist minister, was horn in York in 1(124. lie received 
his education and took his degree at Emmanuel College, 
Cambridge. Having attached himself to the Presby- 
terians, he entered the ministry, and about the year 
Kiln became rector of St. Michael IcQuerne, in London. 
In J657, when Kichard Cromwell succeeded his father 
in the chancellorship at Oxford, Mr. Poole was incor- 
porated master of arts in that university. lie soon be- 
came famous and of influence among bus brethren, es- 
pecially after BIOS, when he published .1 Model for the 
Maintaining of Students of Choke Abilities at the Uni- 
versity, and principally in order to the Ministry , which 
was accompanied with a recommendation from the uni- 
versity, signed by several Cambridge professors and sa- 
vans, among whom were Cudworth, Witchcot, Worth- 
ington, Dillingham, etc. In 1660, after the restoration 
of Charles II. lie published a sermon upon John iv, 23, 
24, preached before the mayor of London, against re- 
establishing the Liturgy of the Church of England ; and 
refusing to comply with the Act of Uniformity, in 1602, 
he was ejected from his rectory. He published on this 
occasion I 'ox via mantis in JJesertn, but submitted to 
t he law with a commendable resignation, and retired 
t<» bis studies at bis paternal estate, resolving to em- 
ploy bis pen in t lie service of religion in general, re- 
gardless of the particular disputes among Protestants, 
lie now devoted himself to a laborious and useful work 
entitled Synopsis Criticornm Jiiblicunt, which was pub- 
lished in 1 1 Hi!) and the following years. The design 
was nothing less than to bring into one view whatever 
bad been written bv critics of all ages and nations on 
the books (if llolv Scripture. The work when finally 
brought out was probably as good as any of the kind 
can be, and few will deny that it is a very valuable and 
useful abridgment; but. synopses and abridgments are 
rather for the multitude than for scholars, who are rare- 
ly satisfied with tin* opinions of any author which are 
thus presented to them at second-hand, without the 


fulness of illustration which the author himself had 
given; yet being written in Latin, it is manifest that 
the compiler contemplated a work adapted to the ne- 
cessities and tastes of Biblical scholars. Its chief use is 
as a convenient body of exegetical criticism for Biblical 
students who are placed in situations which cut them 
off from convenient access to large libraries, and for them 
it has been rendered to a great extent obsolete by the 
important results of recent research. But in its day it 
was a great work. In the midst of this employment he 
testified his zeal against popery in a number of works, 
the principal one of which is entitled The Xnllity of the 
Romish Faith concerning the Church's Infallibility (1666, 
8vo), When Oates’s depositions concerning the Popish 
plot were printed in 1679, Poole found his name in the 
list of those that were to be cut off; and an incident be- 
fell him soon after which gave him the greatest appre- 
hensions of his danger. Having passed an evening at 
the house of his friend, alderman Ashurst, lie took one 
Mr. Chorlcy to hear him company home. When they 
came to the narrow passage which leads from Clerken- 
well to .St. .John’s Court, there were two men standing 
at the entrance ; one of whom, as Poole came along, cried 
out to the other, “Here he is!” upon which the other re- 
plied, “ Let him alone, for there is somebody with him.” 
As soon as they had passed, Poole asked his friend if he 
heard what those men said; and upon his answering 
that he had, “Well,” replied Poole, *• 1 had been mur- 
dered to-night, if you had not been with me.” It is 
said that, before this incident, lie gave not the least 
credit to what was said in Oates’s deposition ; but he 
soon thought proper to retire to Holland, where he 
died, in October, 1679, not without a suspicion of being 
poisoned, as Calamv relates. lie published several 
small pieces, besides what has been mentioned; and he 
also wrote a volume of English Annotations npon the 
Holy Scriptures ; but was prevented by death from go- 
ing farther than the 5Nth chapter of Isaiah. That 
work was completed by others, and published (168S) in 
two vols. fol. Poole is spoken of as profound in learn- 
ing, strict in piety, and universal in his charity. He 
was more especially distinguished as a commentator. 
Mr. Cecil observes, ** Commentators are excellent where 
there are lnit few difficulties ; but they leave the harder 
knots still untied; but after all, if we must have com- 
mentators, as we certainly must, Poole is incomparable, 
and I bad almost said, abundant of himself.” Wood 
observes that “ he left behind him the character of a 
very celebrated critic and casuist;” and Calamv tells 
ns that “lie was very facetious in conversation, very 
true to bis friend, very strict in his piety, and universal 
in his charity.” See Allibono, I)ict. of Hr it. and A mer. 
Anth. s. v.; Middleton, Evangel. JJiogr, vol. iii; Gen. 
Iiiogr. Diet. s. v. 

Poor. This word, in the Scriptures, often denotes 
not so much a man destitute of the good things of this 
world, as a man sensible of his spiritual wants. In this 
sense the greatest and richest men of the world are on 
a level with the poorest in the eyes of Hod. In the fol- 
lowing treatment of the subject we make considerable 
use of the art. in Smith’s J)iet. of the Diblr, 

1. Hebrew and Creek terms so rendered in t lie A. V. 
These are; l.*'"2X, ebgun (Sept. TTT(o\ic; Yulg. pau- 
per); 2. bl, dal (t rn'i/c: pauper); 3. chelekuh 

(Trrwyoc; pauper); 4. *)222. miskvn (i rtVi/c; pauper ), 
a word of later usage; f>. n:2. andh, Chald. ( Dan. iv, 
27) (ttm'ijc? pauper); from same root as, 6. “ir, end, 
the word most usually “poor" in A. Y. (irH-^pdc, 
7 rrai\(ic, win/c ; indigens, pauper. Also Zecli. ix, 9, 
and Isa, xxvi, 6, —pave ; pauper); 7. 2.'", rush, part, 
of 2. 1? P (rt»-fn'6f; paupo). In 2 Sam. xii. 
rrfj’jjc, 7rrwY"{,’. S. Poverty: machsur, lack 

(fvhia; igestas\ In the X. T.. — nu\or, pauper, and 
irivijc ; (genus, once only (2 Cor. ix. 9). “ Poor” is alsc 


POOR 401 POOR 


used in the sense of “afflicted,” “humble,” etc., e. g. 
Matt, v, 3. 

II. J eivish Enactments. — The general kindly spirit of 
the law towards the poor is sufficiently shown by such 
passages as Dent, xv, 7, for the reason that (ver. 11) 
“the poor shall never cease out of the land;” ami a re- 
markable agreement with some of its directions is 
expressed in Job xx, 19; xxiv, 3 sq., where among 
acts of oppression are particularly mentioned “ taking 
(away) a pledge,” and withholding the sheaf from the j 
poor (vers. 9, 10; xxix, 12, 16; xxxi, 17), “eating 
with” the poor (comp. Deut. xxvi, 12, etc.). See also . 
such passages as Ezek. xviii, 12, 16, 17 ; xxii, 29; Jer. 
v, 28 ; xxii, 13, 16 ; Isa. x, 2 ; Amos ii, 7 ; Zech. vii, 10, 
and Ecclus. iv, 1, 4 ; vii, 32 ; Tobit xii, 8, 9. See Alms. 
Among the special enactments in their favor the fol- 
lowing must be mentioned : 

1. The right of gleaning. The “corners” of the iield 
w’ere not to be reaped, nor all the grapes of the vine- 
yard to be gathered, the olive-trees not to be beaten a 
second time, but the stranger, fatherless, and widow to 
be allowed to gather what was left. So, too, if a sheaf 
forgotten was left in the field, the owner was not to re- 
turn for it, but leave it for them (Lev. xix, 9, 10; Deut. 
xxiv, 19, 21). Of the practice in such cases in the times 
of the Judges the story of Ruth is a striking illustra- 
tion (Ruth ii, 2, etc.). See Corner; Gleaning. 

2. From the produce of the land in sabbatical j’ears 
the poor and the stranger were to have their portion 
(Exod. xxiii, 1 1 ; Lev. xxv, 6). 

3. Re-entry upon land in the jubilee year, with the 
limitation as to town homes (Lev. xxv, 25-30). See 
Jubilee. 

4. Prohibition of usury, and of retention of pledges, i. e. 
loans without interest enjoined (Lev. xxv, 35, 37 ; Exod. 
xxii, 25-27 ; Deut. xv, 7, 8 ; xxiv, 10-13). See Loan. 

5. Permanent bondage forbidden, and manumission 
of Hebrew’ bondsmen or bondswomen enjoined in the 
sabbatical and jubilee years, even when bound to a for- 
eigner, and redemption of such previous to those years 
(Dent, xv, 12-15; Lev. xxv, 39-42, 47-54). See Slav- 
ery. 

6. Portions from the tithes to be shared by the poor 
after the Levites (Deut. xiv, 28; xxvi, 12, 13). See 
Tithes. 

7. The poor to partake in entertainments at the feasts 
of Weeks and Tabernacles (Deut. xvi, 11, 14; see Neh. 
viii, 10). 

8. Dail}’ payment of wages (Lev. xix, 13). 

On the other hand, while equal justice was com- 
manded to be done to the poor man, he w T as not allowed 
to take advantage of his position to obstruct the admin- 
istration of justice (Exod. xxiii, 3; Lev. xix, 15). 

On the law of gleaning the Rabbinical writers founded 
a variety of definitions and refinements, which, notwith- 
standing their minute and frivolous character, were on 
the wdiole strongly in favor of the poor. They are col- 
lected in the treatise of Maimonides’s Mithnotli Ainim , 
translated by Prideaux (Ugolino, viii, 721), and speci- 
mens of their character will appear in the following 
titles: There arc, he says, thirteen precepts, seven af- 
firmative and six negative, gathered from Lev. xix, 
xxiii; Deut. xiv, xv, xxiv. On these the following 
questions are raised and answered : What is a “ corner,” 
a “ handful ?” What is to “ forget” a sheaf? What is 
a “stranger?” What is to be done when a field or a 
single tree belongs to two persons; and further, when 
one of them is a Gentile, or when it is divided by a road 
or by water; when insects or enemies destroy the crop? 
How much grain must a man give by way of alms? 
Among prohibitions is one forbidding any proprietor to 
frighten away the poor by a savage beast. An Israelite 
is forbidden to take alms openly from a Gentile. Un- 
willing almsgiving is condemned, on the principle ex- 
pressed in Job xxx, 25. Those who gave less than their 
due proportion w ere to be punished. Mendicants are di- 
vided into two classes, settled poor and vagrants. The 
Till. — C c 


former were to be relieved by the authorized collectors, 
but all are enjoined to maintain themselves if possible. 
Lastly, the claim of the poor to the portions prescribed 
is laid down as a positive right. 

Principles similar to those laid dow r n by Moses are 
inculcated in the N. T., as Luke iii, 11; xiv, 13; Acts 
vi, 1 ; Gal. ii, 10 ; Jas. ii, 15. In later times mendican- 
cy, which does not appear to have been contemplated 
by Moses, became frequent. Instances actual or hypo- 
thetical may be seen in the following passages: Mark 
x, 46; Luke xvi, 20, 21; xviii, 35; John ix, 8; Acts 
iii, 2. See Beggar. 

But notwithstanding this, the prophets often com- 
plain of the prevalent hardheartedness towards the 
poor, and especially of judicial oppression practiced 
upon them (Isa. x, 2; Amos ii, 7; Jer. v, 28; Ezek. 
xxii, 29; Zech. vii, 10). Among the later Jews kind- 
, ness to the poor was regarded as a prominent virtue 
| (Job xxix, 16; xxx, 25; xxxi, 19 sq. ; Tobit ii, 15; iv, 

\ 11; xii, 9; Luke xix, 8), and pharisaic self-righteous- 
I ness often took this form (comp. Matt.vi, 2; Otho, Lex. 
i Rabb. p. 512). See Alms. Beggars, in the proper sense, 
are unknown in the Mosaic economy (Deut. xv, 4; 

I comp. Michaelis.J/os./fecj^,ii, 456 sq.), yet such extrern- 
! ity of w T ant is threatened in Psa. cix, 10 as a punish- 
| ment from God. In the New Testament, however, they 
are mentioned, as Mark x, 46 ; Luke xviii, 35 ; John ix, 
8 ; Acts iii 7 2, but only in the case of infirm persons. 

On the whole subject, besides the treatise above 
named, see Mishna, Feafi, i, 2-5; ii, 7 ; Pesach. iv, 8; 
Selden, De Jure Natur. vi, 6, p. 735, etc. ; Saalschiitz, 
Archdol. d. Ileb. ii, 256; Michaelis, vol. ii, § 142, p. 
248; Otho, Lex. Rabb. p. 308. See Poverty. 

POOR, Christian Care of tiie. In the early 
Church great regard was had for those in want. As 
duly as the Lord’s day returned, and as soon as they 
had brought their sacred duties to a close, the lists of 
orphans, w idow s, aged, and poor were produced for con- 
sideration, and forthwith a donation was ordered out of 
the funds of the Church. No heart-stirring appeal was 
necessary to touch the sympathies of the people of God, 
and no cold calculations of prudence regulated the dis- 
tribution of alms: wdierever there was an object of mis- 
ery, or a proved necessity, there the treasures of the 
Church were expended. When the poor in any place 
were numerous, and the brethren in that place were un- 
able to afford them adequate support, application was 
made to some richer Church in the neighborhood ; and 
never w T as it known that the application was fruitlesslj r 
received. After the more complete organization of the 
Church, the poor had one fourth part in the distribu- 
tion of the revenues, the other three parts going re- 
spectively to the bishop, the clergy, and the mainte- 
nance of the edifice. In Antioch, in the time of Chry- 
sostom, three thousand poor people W'ere thus provided 
for, and half that number were similarly supported at 
Rome in the days of Cornelius. In times of famine the 
plate of the church was sometimes melted down to sup- 
port the poor. How pointedly Ambrose replies to the 
charge of sacrilege brought against him on this account 
by the Arians: “Is it not better that the bishop should 
melt the plate to sustain the poor, w r hen other suste- 
nance cannot be had, than that some sacrilegious enemy 
should carry it off by spoil and plunder? Will not our 
Lord expostulate with us on this account? ‘Why did 
you suffer so many helpless persons to die with famine 
when 3 'ou had gold to provide them sustenance? Why 
were so many captives carried away and sold without 
redemption? Why w’ere so many suffered to be slain 
by the enemy? It had been better to have preserved 
the vessels of living men than lifeless metals.’ What 
answer can be returned to this? For what shall a man 
say? I was afraid lest the temple of God should want 
its ornaments. But Christ will answer, ‘Mv sacra- 
ments, which are not bought with gold, do not require 
gold, nor please me the more for being ministered in 
gold ; the ornament of my sacraments is the redemption 


poor 


402 


poor 


of captives; ami those are truly precious vessels which 
redeem souls from death.’ ” The very poor were often 
placed in the portico of the church to ask alms. Severe 
censure was also directed against those who permitted 
the poor to starve, or defrauded the Church of those 
dues which were set apart to maintain them. Many 
instances arc recorded where churches in the early ages 
of ( ’hristianity, alter providing for their own poor, gave 
to neighboring and foreign churches in distant parts. 
On intelligence of any pressing necessity, ministers and 
people would hasten with their treasures to the relief 
of those whom they had never seen, but with whom 
they were united by the strong ties of the same faith 
and hope. Thus when a multitude of Christian men 
and women in Numidia had been taken captive by a 
horde of neighboring barbarians, and when the churches 
to which they belonged were unable to raise the sum 
demanded for their ransom, they sent deputies to the 
Church in the metropolis of North Africa, and no sooner 
had Cyprian, who was at the head of it. heard the state- 
ment of distress than lie commenced a collection in be- 
half of the unfortunate slaves, and never relaxed his 
exertions till he had obtained a sum equivalent to about 
XI 000, which he forwarded to the Numidian churches, 
together with a letter full of Christian sympathy and 
tenderness. 

“In the Homan Catholic stales of Europe at the pres- 
ent day, the Church still remains, to a great extent, the 
public almoner. In Home, a Commission of Aids has 
the general direction and administration of the principal 
public charities. It is composed of a cardinal-president 
and fifteen members, among whom is the pope’s chap- 
lain. The city is divided into twelve districts, over 
each of which a member of the central council presides. 
Each parish is represented by its cure and two depu- 
ties — a layman and a dame de charite, named for three 
years — and has a secretary and a steward or treasurer, 
who are paid. The alms arc given in money, tools, and 
clothes. Hcquests for assistance are addressed to the 
parochial body, from which they arc sent to the district, 
and thence to the central council. The more urgent 
cases are referred to the cardinal-president, or the cure 
of the parish. Three brotherhoods search out cases of 
hidden poverty; and not only do all the religious asso- 
ciations, convents, and monasteries distribute relief, but 
there is hardly a noble or wealthy house which does not 
take a regular part in the assistance of the poor. 

“In Spain, the state supports several asylums for 
lunatics, the blind, and the deaf-and-dumb. It also 
distributes a large sum annually among the provinces 
for the relief of the poor— each province being hound 
to raise double the amount received from the state. 
The state also steps in for the relief of great calamities, 
and devotes a certain sum annually for the assistance of 
unfortunate Spaniards abroad. A general directory of 
the charitable and sanitary services superintends the 
parochial bodies charged with the distribution of assist- 
ance to the poor. 

“In Austria, each commune is charged with the re- 
lief of its poor. All who have legal domicile, or, being 
unable to prove their domicile, are resident in the com- 
mune, are entitled to relief out of the general assess- 
ment. There is no special rate, and the administration 
is strictly municipal. In many provinces private char- 
ity is associated with public assistance, administered l»v 
the cure, a few chosen inhabitants, who are called ‘Fa- 
thers of the l’oor.’ and an officer accountable to the 
commune. This system is called the ‘ Hour’s Institutes;’ 
and their funds arc principally derived from private 
sources; but they receive a third part of the property 
of ecclesiastics who die intestate, and certain lines, etc. 
Applicants arc subjected to minute inquiry as to the 
cause of poverty, and a weekly allowance is made on a 
scale according to age and necessity. The infirm poor, 
who have no relatives to reside with, are taken into 
hospitals established in almost every commune, where 
they receive, besides lodging, fire and light, clothing, 


medical care, and a small allowance in money to provide 
for their food and other wants. Children are either 
provided for in the homes of their parents, put into asy- 
lums, or boarded with people of probity, who receive a 
monthly payment, as in Scotland. The welfare of these 
children is superintended by the cures, the mayors, and 
the sanitary officers of the commune. Foundlings, lu- 
natics, the blind, the deaf-and-dumb, are provided for by 
the state. Vagrancy is punished, and parents permit- 
ting children under fourteen to beg are liable to three 
months’ imprisonment. Able-bodied vagrants arc sent 
to bouses of correction, and kept to work. Hawnbrok- 
ing is a charitable institution in Austria, under govern- 
ment control; and many pawnbroking establishments 
rest on endowments, and lend without interest. The 
trade is forbidden to private persons. 

“ In France, the relief of the poor is not compulsory, 
in so far as its distributors may, after making inquiry, 
refuse relief, except in the case of foundlings and luna- 
tics. The minister of the interior has a general super- 
intendence of the machinery of relief, as well as the im- 
mediate administration of many large hospitals and 
refuges. He also assists a great number of private 
charities. The other ministers of state give assistance 
on the occurrence of great calamities. The depart- 
mental funds are called upon for the compulsory relief, 
but the commune is the main source of public assistance. 
Its duty is to see that no real suffering remains unre- 
lieved, and that the nature of the relief is such as can 
most easily be discontinued when the necessity ceases. 
The commune encourages ami stimulates voluntary 
charities, and receives gifts for the benefit of the poor’s 
funds. Except in Haris, the administration of the hos- 
pitals, and of the relief given at the homes of the poor, 
arc under different management, the communes only 
interfering to supplement the funds of the hospitals, 
when these arc insufficient. The mayor is president 
both of the administration of the hospitals and of the 
body for giving out-door relief (the bureau de bienfui- 
sance). During industrial calamities the poor are some- 
times employed in workshops supported by the public, 
and in public works. In Haris, since J S If), there lias 
been a responsible director set over all the charities of 
the city, lie manages the out-door relief through the 
medium of the committees of assistance, formerly called 
bureaux de bieufiisance , in each arrondissement. lie is 
under the inspection of a council, composed as follows: 
the prefect of the Seine (president), the prefect of po- 
lice, two members of the Municipal Council, two maires 
or dcputy-maircs, two members of the committees of 
assistance, one councillor of state or a master of re- 
quests, one physician and one surgeon practicing at the 
hospitals, one professor of medicine, one member of the 
riiamber of Commerce, one member of the Council of 
Hrnd’hommos. and live members taken from other classes 
than those above mentioned. Hogging is forbidden, 
and punished, wherever there are establishments for the 
relief of the poor” (Chambers). 

The poor-law of England, and recently of Scotland, 
too, is a civil enactment. Formerly, in Scotland, many 
shifts were tried, llcggary was often resorted to, and 
as often condemned by statute. In Scotland, at the 
end of the 17th century, Fletcher says, there were 
•200.000 beggars — more on account of national distress 
at that time than at other times — but. never less, be 
allirms, than 100,000. Various severe acts had been 
passed from time to time, and cruel punishments threat- 
ened such as scourging and branding with n hot iron. 
The famous act of 1(>79, in enumerating the various 
classes of beggars condemned, has the following: “All 
minstrellcs, snngsters, and tale-tellers, not avowed in 
special service, by some of the lords of Harliameut or 
great burrowes, or by the head burrowes and cities, for 
their commoun minstrellcs; all commotm labourers, be- 
ing persones nbill in bodic, living idle, and tleeing la- 
bour; all counterfaicters of licences to beg, or using the 
same, knowing them to be eounterfaieted ; all vaga- 


poor 


403 


POPE 


bound scliollers of the universities of Saint Andrewcs, 
Glasgow, and Abirdene, not licensed by the rector and 
deane of facultie of the universitie to ask alines; all 
scbipmen and mariners, alledging themselves to be 
schipbroken, without they have sufficient testimonials.” 
The fines levied for ecclesiastical offences were often 
given to the poor, as may be seen in the notes to prin- 
cipal Lee’s second volume of Church History. In 1613, 
1644, and 1645, the general session of Edinburgh gives 
the following to the poor : 

“ 1643. 

Feb. 10.— Penalties and gifts for the use of the poor: 


Given by Dr. Pont as a voluntary gift 100 merits. 

Penalty for Neill Turner and his purtie. . . 16 merks. 

Feb. 15.— Given in by Geo. Stuart, advocat, for 

not coming to the ile 20 merks. 

Given by Col. Home’s lady for private mar- 
riage with young Craigie 20 merks. 

Giveii by Sir Johu Smyth as a yearlie vol- 
untary gift 100 merks. 

Given by Mr. Robt. Smyth for private 
marriage 20 merks. 


The six sessions ordain the ordinal- poor enrolled to 
be threatened if they learn not the grouuds of re- 
ligion, and to fee deprived of their iveeklie pensione 
if they cannot answer to the Catheehisc. 


May 9. — By' Mr. Litis Stuart aud Isbell 

Geddes, for fornication 21 lib. 6s. Sd. 

By Robert Martin, for his private mar- 
riage 20 merks. 

“1645. 

March 13 Given for Wm. Salmond, relapse 

in fornication 53k Cs. Sd.” 


See Pauperism. 

In the United States, the poor who are members of 
any ecclesiastical organization are usually provided for 
by that body. Besides, the churches voluntarily as- 
sume very frequently the care of non-believers. In the 
Trotestant Episcopal and in the Methodist Episcopal 
churches collections for the poor are taken on commun- 
ion Sundays. Many churches make it the practice to 
take the poor collection every first Sabbath in the 
month. 

Poor, Daniel, D.D., a Congregational minister and 
missionary to India, was born June 27, 1780, in Danvers, 
Mass. He graduated at Dartmouth College in 1812; 
was ordained June 21, 1815, with the intention of be- 
coming a missionary, and sailed Oct. 23 for Ceylon, 
which lie reached March 22, 1816. He commenced to 
labor at Tillipallv, Jaffna, and remained until July, 
1823, when he went to Batticotta, to superintend the 
missionary seminary. In 1836 he went to Madras, on 
the mainland, and returned to Ceylon in 1841. He 
came home in 1848, and spent about two years in the 
service of the American Board of Commissioners for 
Foreign Missions, visiting various parts of the country, 
delivering addresses, and otherwise stimulating mission- 
ary enterprise. He sailed again to Ceylon in 1850, and 
took his station at Mampy, where he died of cholera, 
Feb. 2, 1855. He is the author of various publications 
in the Tamil and English languages. See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, ii, 617. (J. II. W.) 

Poor Catholics. See Wallenses. 

Pooree is the name of the little town situated near 
the temples where the Juggernaut worship is performed 
by the Hindus. It is situated in the province of Orissa 
(q. v.), in the south-eastern part of India, and is a dirty 
little town, with a district of about ten miles of like 
name, within which the temples are located. It con- 
stitutes a part of the endowment of the temple, nobody 
being allowed to enter the territory without paying a 
prescribed fee. The population of the town is about 
seventy-five thousand, there being among the number 
about four thousand priests, who attend daily upon the 
temple. Here is found probably one of the greatest 
strongholds of superstition in India, and it might be 
called the greatest seat of Brahminical power. The 
stone wall enclosing the great temples is about thirty 
feet high, and the area forms a rectangle of six hundred 
aud fifty feet by six hundred and sixty. Within this 


wall are a number of smaller temples. A visit to these 
temples is enjoined upon a Hindu as one of the most 
important acts in the ritual of his religion, and year 
after year this Mecca is resorted to by representatives 
from every section of the country. See the literature 
quoted under the article Jaggernaut. (J. II. W.) 

Poor Men’s Box is a chest put up usually at 
the church entrance for the deposit of alms (q. v.). It 
is found on the continent of Europe not only in the 
churches, hut also in the synagogues. In England the 
Poor Men's Box ( unicnlus , pyxis ad oblationes faciendas') 
is a box affixed near the lrigh-altar, and was introduced 
there by archbishop Cranmer, to serve in lieu of pilgrim- 
age. In 1559 it was enjoined in every church in Eng- 
land. As architectural specimens, many ofthese ‘“boxes” 
are a curiosity. Thus there is a curious alms-box in St. 
Helen’s, Bishopsgate, supported by the figure of a men- 
dicant, and another at Outwell, with a grinning mouth. 
The idea for the style of these boxes was probably de- 
rived from such objects as the bracket of the 15th cen- 
tury adjoining the tomb of Edward II at Gloucester, 
and the oaken box with a slit for alms used at St. Rich- 
ard’s shrine at Chichester, which is of the 16th century, 
although the iron-work dates hack three hundred years 
earlier. There is a wooden alms-box of the 14th cen- 
tury at Fribourg. There is a stone box at Bridlington. 
A flasket or box of wood for collecting alms is mentioned 
in England in the 17 tli century. At Selby there is a 
chest made out of the hole of a single tree. In 1292 
such hutches were forbidden at Chichester, as the obla- 
tions hitherto made at the altar were placed in them. 
At St. David’s, two centuries ago, old people could re- 
member having seen basinfuls of oblations made by sea- 
men and passengers. See Walcott, Sacred A rchaology , 
s. v. 

Poor of Lyons. See Wai.denses. 

Poor Pilgrims, an order that started up in the 
year 1500. They came out of Italy into German}' bare- 
footed and bareheaded, feeding all the week, except on 
Sundays, upon herbs and roots sprinkled with salt. 
They remained not above twenty-four hours in a place. 
They went hv couples, begging from door to door. 
This penance they undertook voluntarily — some for 
three, others for five or seven years, as they pleased, 
and then returned home to their callings. See Wal- 

DENSES. 

Poor Priests were those of the Lollards who in 
the 14tli and 15th centuries wandered about the country 
holding what are called in modern times “missions” 
wherever they pleased, without any cure of souls being 
given to them, or license by the bishop of the diocese. 
The name poor seems to show an association of idea 
with the Pauperes Catholici (q. v.), or the Poor of Lyons. 

Pope. Having treated in the article Papacy of 
the rise and development of the papal dignity and 
power, we shall speak in the present article of the per- 
sonal attributes of the incumbent of the Roman see. 

I. The Title . — The word pope is derived from the 
Latin papa, Greek TrcnriraQ , ancl means father. While 
the Greek word was used in the Greek Church to desig- 
nate both bishops and priests, and has gradually come 
to he reserved for the priests exclusively, the Latin 
term was for several centuries a title applied to all bish- 
ops, and was finally reserved for the bishops of Rome. 
As far as is known, bishop Siricius, in the 4th century, 
was the first to use the word as a title. After the 5th 
century it came into more general use, and after the 7th 
it gradually disappeared from ecclesiastical language 
for every ecclesiastical dignity except that of the bishop 
of Rome. It was expressly made the exclusive prerog- 
ative of the Roman bishops by Gregory VII. In a like 
manner several other titles, which at first were applied 
to the bishops of the principal seats, such as apostolicus, 
dominus apostolicus, sedes apostolica, were gradually mo- 
nopolized by the bishops of Rome. The designation 


POPE 


404 POPE 


/terms serrorum Dei was first used by Gregory I, and 
though occasionally also bishops, priests, and emperors 
adopted it, it likewise remained in the course of time 
the prerogative of the popes. During the 8th and the 
following centuries it was common to call the bishop of 
Home rt’earius Petri. The expression occurs in the 
I’seudo-lsidurian Decretals, in the oath which was taken 
in 7 22 by Boniface to Gregory 11, in the oath taken by 
Gregory VI l to the king of Germany, in the conclusion 
of peace between Alexander III and the emperor Fred- 
erick Barbarossa; but from the time of Innocent III, 
when the power of the popes had become more absolute, 
the vicar ins Petri gave way to the ricarins Christ i. 
The title Sanctitas tun or Jieutitudo tun, which came 
into use in the 3d or 4th century, the pope shares even 
now with the bishops of the Kastern Church. It is ac- 
corded to him even by Protestant governments. (Sec 
Brit, and For. Ei\ Per. Jan. 1SGG, p. 48 sq.) 

1 1. liights and Functions. — 1. Personal Prerogatives . — 
The rights claimed by the popes within the Homan 
Catholic Church, and accorded to them by the bishops, 
priests, and laity of the Church, have of course greatly 
varied according to the degrees of power which the in- 
cumbents of the Homan see attained in various periods 
of Church history. For a long time they claimed and 
received as bishops of Home and patriarchs of the West 
only those rights and honors which also belonged to 
other bishops and patriarchs. See Bishop; Patri- 
Aitf’il. When their superiority over other bishops and 
patriarchs came finally to be recognised and established, 
the popes were by no means regarded as absolute rulers 
of the Church, but their rights were limited and cir- 
cumscribed by general councils and secular princes. 
While the popes were with an unyielding consistency 
endeavoring to develop the extreme papal system 
which now prevails, many of the greatest scholars of 
the Church defended an episcopal system which as- 
signed to the pope a position similar to that of a con- 
stitutional monarch, and, in particular, maintained the 
superiority of a general council over the pope. At the 
general councils of Constance and Basle the friends of 
this view had an undisputed majority; and in the fol- 
lowing centuries the history of Gallicanism, of Fcbro- 
nius, of Joseph II, are some of many proofs that in 
several countries the episcopal system had numerous ad- 
herents, even among bishops. After having been long 
on the decline, the episcopal system within the Homan 
Catholic Church was totally extinguished by the Vat- 
ican Council, and the extensive rights which the popes, 
in the course of many centuries, had claimed as their 
exclusive monopoly, were recognised by the entire 
Church. A common division of the papal rights is that 
into prinmtus juvisdictionis and primatus honoris. The 
former comprises the sovereign law of legislation, the 
supreme administration and the final decision on all 
subjects relating to ecclesiastical otliccs, especially the 
right of confirming, consecrating, transferring, and de- 
posing bishops; the regulation of all religious institu- 
tions, especially of the religions orders; the supreme 
ecclesiastical jurisdiction, the supreme right of super- 
vision, and the supreme management of ecclesiastical 
finances and property; the highest authority in all doc- 
trinal questions. In the decision of doctrinal questions 
the popes have long claimed infallibilitg (q. v.), and the 
Vatican Council has recognised this claim as a doctrine 
of the Homan Catholic Church. The pope has also the 
supreme right of regulating the divine worship, of grant- 
ing indulgences (q. v.), and the sole right of beatifying 
and canonizing deceased members of the Church. Sec 
Bkatific ation ; Canonization. The primatus hono- 
ris comprises the following distinctions: 1. The tiara , 
also called mitra turbinata cum corona, triregnum, reg- 
timn, diadenut, phn/ginm. consisting of the bishop’s cap 
(mitra) encompassed with a triple golden crown. It is 
for the first lime mentioned in the forged donation of 
Constantine (8th century), and was for the first time 
used at the coronation of Nicholas 1[ (8o8). The third 



Regalia of the Pope of Rome. 


crown was added to the mitra by Urban V (13G2-1370). 
The pope receives it on the day of coronation in the 
loggia of St. Peter’s Church from two cardinal deacons, 
who place it upon his head with the words, “Accipe 
liaram tribus coronis ornatatn et scias, patrem te esse 
principum ct regnm, rcctorem orbis in terra, vicarium 
salvatoris liostri Jcsu Christi, cui est honor in specula 
srecttlorum.’’ The pope only wears the tiara at great 
ecclesiastical festivities and processions, but not during 
the performance of ecclesiastical functions. 2. The so- 
called pedum rectum, the straight bishop’s staff orna- 
mented with a cross, but not the crooked episcopal pas- 
toral staff. 3. The pallium, a vestment having the 
form of a scarf, composed of white wool, and embroid- 
ered with six black silken crosses. The pope sends it 
as a mark of honor to patriarchs, primates, metropol- 
itans, and sometimes to bishops, all of whom are only 
allowed to wear it within their own dioceses and on 
certain occasions, while the pope, wears it always and 
everywhere on saying mass. 1. The so-called adoratio, 
a homage which in the old Oriental Church was shown 
to bishops and priests generally. It consists in kneel- 
ing down and kissing the pope’s foot. Gregory VII 
still demanded it from princes, the Dictatus Gregorii 
saying on this subject, “Quod soli ns pa pic pedes omnes 
principcs dcosculentur.” The kiss upon the cross on the 
pope’s shoes is still demanded from clergymen and lay- 
men, but an exception is made with princes and persons 
of higher rank. Sovereign princes only kiss the hand, 
cardinals the foot and the hand, after which they are 
admitted to an embrace; archbishops and bishops the 
foot and the knee. f>. During the Middle Ages the 
popes received from the princes the ojjicium strepee, the 
princes holding the stirrups when the pope mounted 
the horse, and leading the horse for a while. Among 
the princes who nre recorded to have rendered this 
homage were Ixniis II, Henry VI, Ilenrv VII. Frederick 
III, Charles V, and Philip IV of France. Of Frederick 
Barbarossa. pope Adrian IV complnincd that he held the 
left, instead of the right stirrup. 

2. Dress, etc. — At. home the pope’s habit is a white silk 
cassock, rochet, and scarlet mantle. In winter he wears 
a fur cap; in summer a satin one. When he celebrates 
mass, the color of his habit varies according to the so- 


POPE 


405 


POPE 



The Pope seated in the Pontifical Chair. 

lemnity of the festival. At Whitsuntide, and all festi- 
vals of the martyrs, he officiates in red; at Easter, and 
all festivals of virgins, in white; in Lent, Advent, and J 
eves of fasting-days, in violet; and on Easter-eve, and , 
at all masses for the dead, in black. All these colors 
are said to be typical : the red expresses the cloven 
tongues and the blood of the martyrs; the white, the 
joy caused by our Saviour’s resurrection and the chas- 
tity of virgins; the violet, the pale aspect of those who 
fast; and the black, grief and mourning. The tiara is 
a council-cap, with three coronets, rising one above an- 
other, and adorned with jewels. Paul II was the first 
who added the ornaments of precious stones to his 
crown. The jewels of Clement VIII’s crown were val- 
ued, they say, at 500,000 pieces of gold. That of Mar- 
tin V had five pounds and a half weight of pearls in it. 
“ Nor is there anything unreasonable in this (says Fa- 
ther Bonani), since the pope governs the kingdom of 
Christ in quality of his viceroy; now this kingdom is 
infinitely superior to all the kingdoms of the universe. 
The high-priest of the Jews wore on his head and 
breast the riches which were to represent the majesty 
of the Supreme God. The pope represents that of the 
Saviour of the world, and nothing better expresses it 
than riches.” We must not omit that the two strings 
of the tiara are said to represent the two different man- 
ners of interpreting the Scriptures, the mystical and 
the literal. The pope has two seals. One is called 
“ the fisherman’s ring,” and is the impression of Peter 
holding a line with a bait to it in the water. It is used 
for briefs sealed with wax. The other seal bears the 
figures of Peter and Paul, with a cross on one side ; and 
on the other an effigy, with the name of the reigning 
pope. This is used for the bulls, which are scaled with 
lead. On the decease of a pope these seals are defaced 
and broken by the cardinal-chamberlain in the pres- 
ence of three others. When the pope goes in procession 
to St. Peter’s, the cross is carried before him on the end 
of a pike about ten palms long. “ Many reasons,” says 
Father Bonani, “authorize this custom. It is a mon- 
ument of the sufferings of Jesus Christ, and of the pope’s 
adherence to the Saviour of the world. It is the true 
mark of the pontifical dignity, and represents the au- 
thority of the Church, as the lloman fasces did that of 
the consuls.” At the same time two grooms bear two 


fans on each side of his holiness’s chair, to drive away 
the flies. This (according to the above-cited author) 
represents the seraphim covering the face of God with 
their wings. 

3. Officers. — The pope has a Vicar who is always 
a cardinal. He who manages that charge has juris- 
diction over the priests and regulars, over the lav-com- 
munities, hospitals, places of piety, and Jews. His place 
may be worth to him two hundred ducats per month. 
He has two lieutenants, one for civil and the other for* 
criminal affairs, and a vicegerent, who is a bishop, for 
the exercise of episcopal functions. 

The Penitentiary has jurisdiction in cases referred to 
the pope; and gives to approved confessors power to 
absolve. At solemn feasts he goes into one of the 
churches of Rome, where, sitting in a high chair, he 
has a switch in his hand, and hears the confession of 
particular cases. This place is worth eight thousand 
crowns a year. 

The Chancellor was properly secretary to the pope, 
ah intimis. This charge is now bestowed upon none 
but a cardinal, and it may be worth to him fifteen or 
sixteen thousand crowns a year. His business is to 
despatch the apostolic letters, except those signed by 
the pope, which are despatched by a brief sub annulo 
piscatoris. He has under him a regent, and twelve 
abbreviators di parco mayyiore, who are all prelates. 
The regent has power to commit all causes of appeal to 
the rota and referendaries. The abbreviators di parco 
mayyiore draw the bulls, and send them when they 
are written. Besides these, there are abbreviators di 
parco minore, who are scriveners, and other officers 
of the chancery, appointed to receive and sign bulls. 
The vice-chancellor keeps a register of the collation of 
titles given to cardinals, and of promotions to bishop- 
rics and consistorial abbeys. 

The Chamberlain is always a cardinal, and has for 
substitutes the clerks of the apostolic chamber, a treas- 
urer, and a president. This office is worth to him four- 
teen thousand crowns a year. He takes cognizance of 
all causes within the verge of the apostolic chamber, 
and, besides, judges of appeals from the masters of the 
streets, bridges, and edifices. When the see is vacant, 
the chamberlain remains in the palace, in the pope’s 
apartment, goes through the streets with the Swiss 
guards attending him, coins money with his own arms 
thereon, and holds a consistory. He is one of the three 
chief treasurers of the Castle of St. Angelo, whereof the 
dean is another, and the pope the third. 

The Prefect of the signature of justice is also one of 
the cardinals, and has two hundred ducats in gold per 
month. His business is to make rescripts of all the pe- 
titions and the commissions of causes which are dele- 
gated by the court. Every Thursday the signature of 
justice is held in the palace of the cardinal-prefect, 
where assist twelve prelates -referendaries, that have 
votes, and all the other referendaries, with power to 
propose each two causes ; as also an auditor of the rota, 
and the civil auditor of the cardinal-vicar, having no 
vote, but only to maintain their jurisdiction in what 
relates to them. The prefect of the signature of grace 
signs all the petitions and grants which the pope be- 
stows in the congregations held in his own presence 
once a week. The prefect of the briefs is always a car- 
dinal; he revises and signs the copies of the briefs. 

The General of the Holy Church is created by a brief 
of the pope, who gives him the staff himself in his 
chamber, and takes his oath. In time of peace he has 
allowed him a thousand crowns per month, and three 
thousand in time of war. He commands all the troops 
and all the governors in the places and fortresses of the 
1 ecclesiastical estate. His lieutenant has three thousand 
crowns a year, and is made also by a brief from the 
pope, as is the general of the artillery, who has twelve 
| hundred crowns per annum. 

The governor of the Castle of St. Angelo has six thou- 
I sand crowns per annum. 


POPE 


406 


POPE 


The pope lias four Masters of Ceremonies, who are 
always clad in purple, and have great authority in pub- 
lic affairs. Besides these, there arc other masters of 
the ceremonies, which are in the congregations of privi- 
leges, whereof one discharges the office of secretary, and 
the other despatches orders. 

The Master of the Sacred Palace is always a Do- 
minican. lie reviews and approves all the books that 
arc printed, being assisted by two priests of the same 
order. The palace, besides a table, allows him a coach. 

The Major-domo , or steward to the household of the 
pope, is always a prelate. The chamberlains of honor 
arc persons of quality, who come to the palace when 
they please. 

The Master of the Stables is a gentleman who has 
the office of master of the horse, without the title of it; 
lbr the pope bestows no such upon any person, lie is 
sword-bearer, and sometimes one of the greatest. lords 
in Home, as was Pompey Frangipani under Leo II. 

The Vestry -keeper is an Augustine monk, who has 
the same allowance as the master of the palace, lie 
takes care of all the riches in the pope's vestry, lie 
goes like a prelate; and if he be a titular bishop, takes 
place among the assistant bishops. 

The pope's Secretary is always a cardinal, and very 
often his nephew. This place is united to that of su- 
perintendent of the ecclesiastical estate. He writes and 
subscribes all the letters sent to the princes and nuncios. 
All ambassadors and all ministers at Home, after having 
negotiated with the pope, are obliged to give him an 
account of their negotiations. The secretaries of state 
are subject to the secretary superintendent, or cardinal- 
patron, whose orders they receive, and to whom they 
send their letters to be subscribed. They live in the 
palace, and are prelates clad in purple. 

There are twenty-four Secretaries of Briefs, the chief 
of whom lives in the palace. Their business is to sub- 
scribe ami despatch all the briefs that are received by 
the cardinal -prefect of the briefs. The secretary of the 
secret briefs takes care to prepare them when the car- 
dinal-patron or some one of the secretaries of state com- 
mands him. These briefs are shown to nobody, nor 
signed bv the prefect of the briefs, except when they are 
scaled sub nnnulo piscatoris , and accompanied with a 
letter from the cardinal-patron. The copies of these 
briefs arc carefully kept ; and, when the pope is dead, 
they are carried to the Castle of St. Angelo. 

The Mareschal of Home has under him two civil 
judges, one of whom is called the first collateral judge, 
and the other the second collateral, with a judge for 
criminal affairs, lie, together with these judges, takes 
cognizance of matters between the citizens and inhab- 
itants of Home, lie is always a foreigner, and lives in 
the Capitol: while in the discharge of his office he ap- 
pears dad like an old senator, having a robe of cloth of 
gold that hangs down to the earth, with large sleeves 
to it lined with red taftety. 

■1. Official Powers. — As we have seen above, the pope 
of Home is now the supreme head of what is known as 
the Roman Catholic world. Held to be the successor 
of the apostle l’eter, the pope is claimed to be Christ's 
vicar on earth. The Council of Florence, 1439, says: 
“ Dcfmiinus, Sanctam npostolieam Sedcm ct Ilomauum 
I’ontiliccm in universum orbem tenere prirnatum, et 
ipsum 1’ontificem Romanum snecessorem esse 15. l’etri 
principis apostolornm. et vcrnm t’hristi viearium, to- 
tiusipie Kcelesiaj caput et omnium Christianorum pa 
trem ac doctorcm existore, et ipsi in 15. Retro pnsecudi, 
rcgcndi ac gubernandi imiversaloin Kcclesiam a Domino 
Nostro .lean Christo plenum potestatem traditam esse, 
quemadmodum ctiam in gestis (ecumenicorum eoneilio- 
rnm ct in sacris canonihus rontiuetur" ( Bullarium I'o- 
maiaim ( cd. l.uxemb.], i, 33G). A similar doctrine is 
proclaimed hv the fifth Lateral) Council of 1512 (c. i, 
J)e Conciliis in F, iii, 7), in the Roman Catechism, pt. 
i, c. x, (pi. 11, and in (he Profession of Faith of the 
Council of Trent: “Sanctam Catholicam et apostolicain 


Romanam Ecclesiam omnium Ecclcsiarum malrem et 
magistram agnosco; Romauoquc Rontifici, beati I'etri 
apostolornm principis successori ac Jesu Christi vicario, 
veram obedientiam spondco ac jnro.” As such he is to 
be invested with all power necessary for the govern- 
ment of the Universal Church. This embraces author- 
ity to examine and decide authoritatively all contro- 
versies. to convoke councils, to revise and confirm their 
decrees, to issue general decrees, whether upon discipline 
and morals or upon doctrine, to appoint bishops in all 
parts of the Church, to confirm the election when made 
by the clergy or by the civil authorities, no matter how 
it may have been made; he can also depose bishops, and 
set others in their place, and even, in cases of great 
emergency, suppress bishoprics, and change their eccle- 
siastical limits according to his judgment of the exist- 
ing requirements of the Church ; he is also to judge of 
the doctrines taught in particular books or by particular 
individuals, and to pronounce infallibly as to their con- 
formity with the Catholic faith, or the contrary. In 
addition to these powers, it is still further claimed for 
him by the Ultramontanes, as we have seen above and 
in the article Ink.yi.uijiuty, that he is endowed by 
(iod with infallibility; so that what he says ex cathe- 
dra, i. e. officially and as pope, is of divine authority, 
and cannot be questioned or dented; -and that also, as 
the vicar of Christ, he has a supreme authority over all 
civil rulers and civil jurisdiction, the allegiance of all 
the faithful to him being superior to that which is due 
to their respective governments. See Rbijiacv. 

The principal scriptural authority for the papacy re- 
lied upon by the Roman Catholic Church is Matt, xvi, 
IS, 19. Without entering into a discussion of the mean- 
ing of this famous passage, we may here quote from Ab- 
bott’s Commentary on the New Testament a statement 
of the Roman Catholic interpretation, and the grounds 
on which that view is rejected by all l’rotcstants: 

“The ordinary Roman Catholic view of this passage is 
that Christ declared his purpose to found a great ecclesi- 
astical organization; that this organization was to be 
built upon Peter and his successors as its true founda- 
tion ; that they were to represent to oil time the author- 
ity of God upon the earth, being clothed, hy virtue of their 
office, with a continuous inspiration, and authorized by 
the Word, and fitted by the indwelling Spirit of God, to 
guide, direct, illumine, and command the disciples of 
Christ, with the same force and effect as Christ himself 
(see Phillips, Kirchewccht, i, 140). See art. Petek. This 
view is untenable for the following reasons: 1. Christ 
does not, as we have seen, refer to a definite ecclesiastical 
organization by the word church , and would not be so 
understood by his disciples. 2. Peter was not by nature 
rock-like; he* was, on the contrary, characteristically im- 
pulsive anil unstable. There must be, therefore, some 
other significance in the words ‘Thou art a rock’ which 
the Roman Catholic interpretation loses. 3. Neither he 
nor the other disciples understood that Christ invested 
him with any such authority ami position, lie did not 
occupy any such place in the Church while he lived. In 
the first council at Jerusalem (Acts xv, 7-11) he was sim- 
ply mi adviser, the office of chief or president being ap- 
parently held by James; Paul withstood Peter to Ids' face, 
as no disciple ever withstood Christ, or would have with- 
stood his acknowledged representative (Gal. ii, 11-14) ; 
and throughout the N. T. the apostles are all treated as 
co-equals (Matt, xviii, 1 ; xix, 2s ; xxiii, S; John xv, 1-5 ; 
Rev. xxi, 14). 4. There is neither here nor anywhere else 
in the N. T. any hint of a successor to Peter, or of any au- 
thority in him to appoint a successor, or of any such au- 
thority vested in any of the apostles, or exercised, or as- 
sumed to be exercised, by any of them. fi. The N. T. 
throughout, and t lie O. T. in all its prophecies, recognises 
Christ, as t lie chief corner-stone, the foundation on which 
the kingdom of God can alone be built. 0. Mark and Luke 
omit from their account this utterance of Christ ; if it 
really designated Peter as the foundation of the visible 
Church, and was thus essential and not Incidental to the 
right understanding of the whole incident, it would not 
be omitted from their accounts.” See Rock. 

Few Christian governments have ever been willing 
to recognise to their full extent the rights claimed by 
and for the Roman popes. The plant (q. v.) was intro- 
duced in the Middle Ages by most of the states, and 
without it no papal bull could be promulgated: and the 
popes found it necessary to consent to the conclusion 
of special concordats (q. v.) or conventions, which, in 


POPE 


407 


POPE 


the way of compromise, regulated the papal rights 
which a state government bound itself to recognise. 

Many popes in the Middle Ages also claimed the 
power of deposing kings, of absolving the subjects of 
excommunicated princes from their oath of allegiance, 
and, in general, an unlimited power over temporal as 
well as spiritual affairs. That a number of popes as- 
sumed this right is a fact admitted on all sides; but it 
is quite common among Roman Catholics to deny that 
this is a right inherent in the papal dignity, and also 
• that it was ever claimed by the popes as a right be- 
longing to them in virtue of their office. A few sam- 
ples of pontifical arrogance may suffice for illustration 
here : 

Pope Paschal II, in 1099, deprived Henry IV, and excited 
enemies to persecute him; telling them that they could 
not “ offer a more acceptable sacrifice to God than by im- 
pugning him who endeavored to take the kingdom from 
God's Church.’' Pope Gregory VII says: “For the dig- 
nity and defence of God’s holy Church, in the name of Al- 
mighty God, the Father, Son, aud Holy Ghost, I depose 
from imperial and royal administration king Henry, son 
of Ilenry sometime emperor, who too boldly and rashly 
hath laid hands on thy Church ; and I absolve all Chris- 
tian subjects to the empire from that oath whereby they 
were wont to plight their faith linto true kings; for it is 
right that he should he deprived of dignity who doth en- 
deavor to diminish the majesty of the Church. Go to, 
therefore, most holy princes of the apostles, and what I 
said, by interposing your authority, confirm; that ail men 
may now at length understand, if ye can bind and loose 
iu heaven, that ye also can upon earth take away and give 
empires, kingdoms, ami whatsoever mortals can have ; for 
if ye can judge things belonging unto God, what is to be 
deemed concerning these inferior and profane things? 
And if it is yom* part to judge angels, who govern proud 
princes, what becometh it you to do towards their ser- 
vants? Let kings now, and all secular princes, learn by 
this man's example what ye can do in heaven, and in what 
esteem ye are with God; and let them henceforth fear to 
slight commands of holy Church, but put forth suddenly 
his judgment, that all men may understand that not cas- 
ually, but by your means, this' son of iniquity doth fall 
from his kingdom.” Pope Boniface VIII, in 1294, has a 
decree extant in the canou law running thus: “We de- 
clare, say, define, pronounce it to be of necessity to sal- 
vation for every human creature to be subject to the Ro- 
man pontiff. One sword must be under another, aud the 
temporal authority must be subject to the spiritual power, 
whence, if the earthly power doth no astray, it must be 
judged by the spiritual power.” Before him, pope Inno- 
cent III affirmed “the pontifical authority so much to 
exceed the royal power, as the sun doth the moon;” and 
applies to the former the words of the prophet Jeremiah — 
]£cce, const itui te fsv]j?r gentes et regna — “See, 1 have set 
thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out 
and to pull down, and to destroy and to throw down,” etc. 
Of this power that pope made experiment by deposing 
the emperor Otho IV, “whom,” says Nanclerns, “as re- 
bellious to the apostolical see, he first did strike with an 
anathema; then him persevering iu his obstinacy, did, in 
a council of prelates held at Rome, pronounce deposed 
from empire.” This monstrous authority was avowed by 
that great council under this pope which, according to the 
Council of Trent, did represent or constitute the Church, 
when it was ordained that if a “ temporal lord, being re- 
quired and admonished by the Church, should neglect to 
purge his territory from heretical filth, he should, by the 
metropolitan and the other comprovincial bishops, be 
uoosed in the band of excommunication; and that if he 
should slight to make satisfaction within a year, it should 
be signified to the pope, that he might from that time de- 
nounce the subjects absolved from their fealty to him, and 
expose the territory to he seized ou by Catholics,” etc. 
Pope Pius V, in 1570, begins his bull against queen Eliz- 
abeth in these words : “lie that reigneth on high, to whom 
is given all power in heaven and in earth, hath committed 
the one holy catholic and apostolic Church, out of which 
there is no salvatiou, to one alone on earth, namelv, to 
Peter, prince of the apostles, and to the Roman pontiff, 
successor of Peter, to he governed with a plenitude of 
power. This one he hath constituted prince over all na- 
tions and all kingdoms, that he might pluck up, destroy, 
dissipate, ruinate, plant, and build.” And in the same 
bull he declares that “he thereby deprives the queen of 
her pretended right to the kingdom, and of all dominion, 
dignity, and privilege whatsoever; and absolves all the 
nobles, subjects, and people of the kingdom, and whoever 
else have sworn to her, from their oath, and all duty what- 
soever, in regard of dominion, fidelity, and obedience.” 
The bull of pope Sixtus V, in 15S5, against Henrv, king of 
Navarre, aud the prince of G'ond^, begins thus: '“The' au- 
thority giver, to St. Peter and his successors, by the im- 
mense power of the Eternal King, excels all the powers 
of earthly kings and princes. It passes uncontrollable 


sentence upon them all ; and if it find any of them resist- 
ing God’s ordinance, it takes more severe veugeance of 
them, casting them down from their thrones, though never 
so puissant, and tumbling them down to the lowest parts 
of the earth, as the ministers of aspiring Lucifer.” He 
then proceeds to thunder against them, “We deprive 
them aud their posterity forever of their dominions and 
kingdoms;” and accordingly he deprives those princes 
of their kingdoms and dominions, absolves their sub- 
jects from their oaths of allegiance, aud forbids them to 
pay any obedience to them. “ By the authority of these 
presents, we do absolve and set free all persons, as well 
jointly as severally, from any such oath, and from all duty 
whatsoever in regard of dominion, fealty, and obedience: 
and do charge and forbid al! aud every of them that they 
do not dare to obey them, or auy of their udmouitious, 
laws, aud commands.” 

For a full review of this question, see Gallican 
Church; Investiture; Temporal Power. 

III. The Election of the rope . — In the 2d and 3d cen- 
turies the bishops of Rome were, like all the bishops of 
the ancient Church, elected by the clergy and the peo- 
ple. When Christianity was declared to be the religion 
of the state, the emperors claimed a share in the elec- 
tion of the pope. The clergy of Rome greatly disliked 
the interference of the emperors in the election of their 
bishops, and. after the destruction of the Western Roman 
empire in 409, a Roman synod under bishop Sym- 
machus vindicated to the Roman clergy the exclusive 
right of electing the bishop. Three years later, 502, the 
Roman synod declared a decree issued by Odoacer, who 
as successor of the Roman emperor demanded that no 
bishop of Rome should be elected “ sine nostra consult a- 
tione,” to be an unwarranted encroachment upon the 
rights of the Church. That Odoaccr paid no attention 
to these resolutions is proved by the fact that in 514 he 
had a share in the election of Felix III. The Gothic 
kings Theodoric and his successors, as well as Justinian 
I and the Byzantine emperors, likewise disregarded the 
occasional protests of the Roman bishops. They are 
known to have appointed or confirmed several popes — 
as Vigilius, Pelagins I, and Pelagius II. The so-called 
Liber diurnus, a collection of formulas of the Roman 
Curia, which relates to the time froth the 6th to the 
8th century, and received its present shape in the 8th 
century, expressly mentions that the Roman bishops 
elected by the clergy and the people were confirmed by 
the Greek emperor, or his representative, the exarch of 
Ravenna. The weak rule of the last Longobardian 
kings, and the impotence of the emperors in Constanti- 
nople, greatly favored the endeavors of the popes to ex- 
clude altogether the influence of princes from the papal 
elections. During the reign of Pepin the Short and 
Charlemagne the elections were entirely free, and the 
report that a Roman synod under Adrian I conferred 
upon Charlemagne the right of confirming the elected 
pope is a forgery. The popes of this time only notified 
Pepin and Charles of the result of the elections. The 
baneful influence which was soon after obtained by the 
Roman nobility upon the elections of the popes in- 
duced again an interference of the imperial power, and 
in 824 Lothaire, the son of Louis le Debonnaire, entered 
into an agreement with Eugenius II, according to which 
the consecration of a newly elected pope was not to take 
place without the concurrence of an imperial delegate. 
This agreement remained in force throughout the fol- 
lowing century. In the 10th century Otho the Great 
rescued the Church from the most disgraceful condition 
in which it had yet found itself, and rid it of some 
of the most wicked popes which have ever disgraced 
the see of Rome. It was quite common in the Church 
then to look upon the emperor as the chief pillar of re- 
form, and it is therefore not to be wondered at that a 
greater influence was accorded to him than had been 
possessed by any of his predecessors. When he entered 
the city of Rome, the people, according to Liiitprand, 
had to take an oath “ mimquam se papam electuros aut 
ordinaturos prater consensum atque electionem domini 
imperatoris Ottonis Ciesaris Augusti tiliique regis Otto- 
ms.” After the Synod of Sutri had, in 1046, deposed 


POPE 


408 


POPE 


all the three popes, the Homan people conferred upon 
Ilenrv III, for himself and his successors, the right 
“in electione semper ordinandi pontiticis principatinn.’' 
Henry availed himself of this in the appointment of the 
German popes Clement II, Leo IX, and Victor II, for 
which he consulted only his German advisers, as if it 
had been an allair of the German empire. After the 
death of Henry III, the influence of Hildebrand upon 
the popes of that time soon brought on the beginning j 
of a new icra in the history of the papacy. One of the 
events which mark the beginning of this new jera is the 
radical change which was made in the papal elections 
by t he famous decree of Nicholas II and the Lateral) 
Synod in 1059. The essential points of the decree are 
the transfer of the papal election to the cardinal-bish- 
ops, the total abolition of the former concurrence of the 
Homan people and nobility, and virtual abolition of the 
former imperial right; for the words “salvo debito 
honore et reverentia' 1 do not appear to imply more than 
the right of the emperor to demand a notification of the 
result of the election. The emperors were to possess 
the insignificant rights which were left to them only as 
a personal privilege, for the conferring of which every 
new emperor had to make an application. The decree 
of Nicholas I was further developed and defined by that 
of Alexander III and the Lateran Synod of 1179, which 
made the validity of the papal election contingent upon 
a two-thirds vote of the cardinals. The defeat of the 
emperor Frederick liarbarossa in his struggle with the 
papacy put an end forever to even the nominal rights 
of the emperors in regard to the papal elections. The 
first provisions concerning the conclave were made by 
Gregory X and the Council of Lyons in 1271. The 
town for holding the conclave (q. v.) was not to be ex- 
clusively Home, but the city in which the pope died ; 
and in case this city was under an interdict, the next 
adjacent city. The. place for the conclave was the epis- 
copal palace. The provisions of the decree of Gregory 
X wore somewhat, though not essentially, modified by 
Clement V ( 1 305 — 1311) and Clement VI (1342 — 135G). 
The councils of Pisa, Constance, and Basic elected new 
popes, without binding themselves to the papal provi- 
sions concerning the conclaves; but in this as in many 
other respects their proceedings were of an exceptional 
character, ami were without abiding consequences in 
the law of the Church. In 1(521 Gregory XV issued 
the constitution . Eterni Pntrisfdins, which contained 
all the principal provisions in regard to the conclave 
that are now in use. In a few points only it was sup- 
plement] by bulls of Urban VIII (1025) and Clement 
Xll (1732). 

The present mode of electing a pope has been fully 
described in the article Conclave. The right of vot- 
ing is limited to the cardinals who have been ordained 
deacons. The lack of this ordination may, however, be 
supplied by a special privilege of the pope. The car- 
dinals do not lose their right of voting even by excom- 
munication, hut they can cast their voles only if they 
are personally present in the conclave. Those who live 
outside of the city of Home are not specially invited. 
Since Boniface IX (1389) all the popes have been taken 
from the College of Cardinals, hut in a legal point of view 
the eligibility of the pope is not conditioned hv his be- 
ing a cardinal. The decree of Nicholas II abolished a 
former provision by a Homan synod which demanded 
it, and since then a number of popes have been elected 
who were not cardinals. Urban 111, elected in 1185, was 
only archbishop of .Milan; Urban TV (12(51) was patri- 
arch of Jerusalem; Clement V (1305), archbishop of 
Kordcaux; Urban VI, with whose election in 1378 the 
papal schism began, was archbishop of Bari. (’destine 
V (1291 1 was an eremite, who after a long conclave was 
agreed upon by two contending parties as a mere figure- 
head, and Urban V (13150) was abbot of St, Victor in 
Marseilles. No pope is allowed to appoint his own suc- 
cessor, and the election by a conclave is an indispensable 
condition. In troublesome times some popes, as l’ins 


VI (died 1799) and Pius VII (died 1823), provided that 
at the election of their successors some of the regula- 
tions for the holding of the conclave might be dispensed 
with. Pius IX is reported to have made similar ar- 
rangements for the election of his successor. The em- 
peror of Austria, as the successor of the Homan emperor, 
ami the governments of France and Spain, have exer- 
cised, and the governments of Naples and Portugal 
have claimed, the right of excluding some particular 
cardinal, as persona minus grata, from the papal throne. 
The right is exercised before an election through a 
member of the College of Cardinals, who is commissioned 
for that purpose by the government, and it is limited 
to one veto at each conclave. It is generally believed 
at the time of this writing (1877) that, on the death of 
pope Pius IX, the empire of Germany M ill claim this 
right, in order to prevent the election of the candidate 
of the Jesuits. Long usage causes the selection of the 
candidate from the Italian cardinals. Several popes, like 
Celestine V, have resigned the office; quite a number, in 
the course of the Middle Ages, have been deposed by the 
emperors; and in the 15th century the councils of Pisa, 
Constance, and Ilasle claimed and exercised the right 
of deposing the pope. The principle, first enounced by 
the Pseudo-Isidorian Decretals, and ever since main- 
tained by the advocates of the extreme papal system, 

I that the apostolical see is not judged by any one 
j (“apostolica scdcs a nomine judicatnr”), has more and 
! more been accepted by the Church; and after the Vati- 
can Council it would appear to be impossible that the 
Catholic world would ever recognise any vacancy of 
the papal see except those caused by the voluntary 
resignation or the death of the incumbent. 

The coronation and consecration ceremonies attend- 
ing the inauguration of the pope are of a very solemn 
and impressive character. We give a description in 
the words of an eye-witness; 

“About eleven o'clock the procession began to arrive 
from the Qnirinal Palace. It Mas immensely long. The 
cardinals were in their state carriages, and "each Mas ac- 
companied by several carriages full of attendants. The 
senator and governor of Home formed part of the tiain. 
The pope was in a state conch drawn by six black horses, 
and preceded by a priest riding on « white mule, and hear- 
ing a large crucifix. The procession wpnt round by the 
back of St. Peter’s, and the pope went it]) to the Sistine 
Chapel, M’here various ceremonies M ere performed which 
I did not see. In about half an hour the procession en- 
tered the centre door of St. Peter's. In all these proces- 
sions the lowest orders of the clergy came first, then bish- 
ops, archbishops, cardinals, and, lastly, the pope, lie was 
borne aloft on his throne, carried by twelve bearers, the 
choir singing, Eire sacerdos 'mug mis — ‘Heboid the great 
priest At the chapel of the Santissiino he slopped and 
adored the host, lie was then borne forward to the high- 
altar, anil, passing by the north side of it, alighted in a 
space enclosed tor the use of the pope and the cardinals 
on the east side, lie walked tip to the altar, prayed at 
the foot of it, ascended the steps, and seated himself on 
the middle of the altar, on the very spot where the cibo- 
rium or pyx, containing the host, usually stands. The car- 
dinals in succession went through the ceremony of ado- 
ration. This ceremony is performed three times: first, 
before quitting the conclave , AecontUg, in the Sistine ( Imp- 
el before the procession came into St. Peter’s; and hum-, 
for the th ini time, each cardinal prostrated himself before 
the pope, then kissed his toe, or rather his slipper, next 
kissed his hand, which was not bare, but covered by the 
cape of his robes; and, lastly, the pope embraced each 
twice, and when all had gone through this ceremony, the 
pope rose and bestowed his blessing on the people’pres- 
ent, and retired in a sedan chair, oh the back of which 
there is embroidered in gold a dove, to represent the Holy 
Spirit.” On the Sabbath after his solemn installation his 
holiness performs mass at an altar of the richest decora- 
tion, the pontifical mantle being placed on him by the old- 
est cardinal-deacon, who addresses hint thus: “Heceive 
the holy mantle, the plenitude of the pontifical offices, to 
the honor of Almighty (Jod, and of the most glorious Vir- 
gin Mary, his mother, and of the blessed apostles Peter 
and Paul, and of the holy Homan ('liurch." After this 
conies the public coronation on the balcony above the 
great door of St. Peter’s. Ills mantle as n priest Is taken 
off, and his triple crown as a king is put on, with these 
words : “ Heceive the tiara adorned with three crowns, and 
know that thou art the father of princes and kings, the 
governor of the world, on earth vicar ofoiir Saviour Jesus 
v hrist, to whom is liouor and glory for ever and ever. 


POPE 


409 


POPE 


Amen.” His holiness then pronounces this prayer : “ May 
the holy apostles Peter and Paul, in whose power and au- 
thority we confide, intercede for ns with the Lord. By 
the prayers and merits of the blessed Mary, always a vir- 
gin, of the blessed Michael, the archangel, of the blessed 
John the Baptist, and the holy apostles Peter and Paul, 
and all the saints; may Almighty God have mercy upon 
you, and may Jesus Christ, having remitted all your sins, 
lead you to life everlasting. Amen.” “ May the Almighty 
and merciful Lord grant you indulgence, absolution, and 
remission of all your sins, space for true and fruitful re- 
pentance, a heart always penitent, and amendment oflife, 
the grace and consolation of the Holy Spirit, and final per- 
severance in good works.” Two keys are also given him 
in the church of St. John Laterau. 

(See also Wesleyan Mag. 1851.) 

IV. List of the Roman Popes.— In the article Papacy 
we have referred to the uncertainty prevailing in regard 
to the first bishops of Home. Homan Catholic writers 
themselves quite generally admit that the statements 
of ancient Church-writers on the subject are entirely 
irreconcilable, and that it is impossible to establish with 
any degree of certainty the order in which they fol- 
lowed each other, the years of their accession to the see 
of Rome, and the year of their death. The following 
table is given from the Homan almanac entitled Ge- 
rarckia Cattolica (with the original names of the popes, 
and notices of antipopes, from other sources), and al- 
though it is so uncritical in its first part that even the 
Homan historians do not adopt it, it is of some value, 
as presenting the claims of the Church of Home : 

[52. stands for Saint, B. for Blessed, M. for Martyr.'] 


No. Name. Place of Birth. Term. 


1. St. Peter, .1/ 

..Bethsaida in Galilee 

42-67 

2. St. Linns, 1/ ...... 

. .Volterra 

67-78 

3. St. Cletns, M 

. . Rome 

7S-90 

4. St.. Clement 1, M 

..Rome 

90-100 

5. St. Anacletus, M. 

. .Athens 

100-112 

6. St. Evaristus, M 

..Syria 

112-121 


. . Rome 

121-132 


. . Rome 

132-142 

9. St. Telesphorus, M. . . 

..Greece 

142-154 

10. St. Hvgiiius, M 

..Greece 

154-15S 

11. St. Pius 1, M. 

..Aquileja 

158-167 

12. St. Auicetus, M 

..Syria 

167-175 

13. St. Soterus, M 

..Campania 

175-1S2 

14. St. Elentherius, M — 

. .Epirus 

1S2-193 

15. St. Victor 1, M 

..Africa 

193-203 

16. St. Zephyrinus, M 

17. St. Calixtns I, M. 

. . Rome 

203-220 

. .Rome 

221-227 

IS. St. Urban I, M. 

. . Rome 

227-233 

19. St. Pontianns, M 

..Rome 

233-238 

20. St. A uterus, M. 

. . Greece 

23S-239 

21. St. Fabian, M. 

..Rome 

240-253 

22. St. Cornelius, M 

. . Rome 

254-255 

[Novatian, first antipope.] 

23. St. Lucius I, M. 

. . Rome 

255-257 

24. St. Stephen I, Jf 

..Rome 

257-260 

25. St. Sixtus 11, M 

..Athens 

260-261 

26. St. Dionysius 

..Italy 

261-272 

27. St. Felix I ,M. 

..Rome 

272-275 

2S. St. Eutychianus 

..Tuscany 

275-283 

29. St. Caius, M 

..Dalmatia 

283-296 

30. St. Marcellinus, M 

. .Rome 

296-304 

31. St. Marcellas I, M. . . . 

. .Rome 

304-309 

32. St. Eusebius 

. .Calabria 

309-311 

33. St. Melchiades 

. .Africa 

311-314 

34. St. Sylvester 

. .Rome 

314-337 

35. St. Marcus 

. .Rome 

337-340 

36. St. Julius I 

..Rome 

341-352 

37. St. Liberius 

. . Rome 

352-363 

3S. St. Felix II 

. .Rome 

363-365 

39. <S't. Damasus 

. .Spain 

366-384 

[Ursicinus, antipope.] 

40. St. Siricius 

. .Rome 

3S4-B9S 

41. St. Anastasius 

. .Rome 

399-402 

42. St. Innocent I 

..Albano 

402-417 

43. St. Zosimus 

. .Greece 

417-41S 

44. St. Boniface I 

..Rome 

41S-423 

45. St. Celestine I 

. .Campania 

423-432 

46. St. Sixtus 111 

. .Rome 

432-440 

47. St. Leo I, Hie Great. . . 

48. St. Hilary 

. .Tuscany 

440-461 

. .Cagliari 

461-168 

49. St. Simplicius 

..Tivoli 

46S-1S3 

50. St. Felix III 

. .Rome 

483-492 

51. St. Gelasins I 

..Africa 

492-496 

52. St. Anastasius II 

. .Rome 

490-49S 

53. St. Symmachus 

. .Rome 

49S-514 

54. St. Ilormisdas 

. .Frosiuone 

514-523 

55. St. John I, M 

56. St. Felix IV 

. .Tuscany 

523-52G 

..Beuevent 

526-530 

57. Boniface II 

..Rome 

530-532 

58. John 11 

..Rome 

532-535 

59. St. Agapetus I 

. . Rome 

535-536 


No. Name. Place of Birth. Term. 

GO. St. Sylverius, M Frosinoue 5CG-53S 

61. Vigilins Itome 53S-555 

62. PeTagius I Rome 555-560 

63. John 111 Rome 500-573 

64. Benedict I Rome 574-578 

65. Pelagius II Rome 57S-590 

66. St. Gregory I, the Great. Rome 590-604 

67. Subiniauiis Volterra 604-G06 

68. Boniface III Rome 607-607 

69. St. Boniface IV The Marches 60S-615 

70. St. Adeodatus I Rome 615-619 

71. Boniface V Naples 619-625 

72. Honorins I Campania C25-63S 

73. Severinus Rome 640-640 

74. John IV Dalmatia 640-642 

75. Theodoras 1 Greece 642-649 

76. St. Martin I, M Todi 649-655 

77. St. Eugenius I Rome 655-656 

7S. St. Vitalianns Segui 657-672 

79. Adeodatus II Rome 672-676 

50. Donns I Rome 676-678 

51. St. Agathon .Greece 67S-6S2 

82. .St. Leo II Sicily 6S2-6S3 

83. St. Benedict II Rome GS4-GS5 

S4. John V Autiochia 6S5-6S6 

85. Conon Thrace 6S6-6S7 

SO. St. Sergius I ? 687-701 

S7. John VI Greece 701-705 

S3. John VII Greece 705-707 

S9. Sisinnius Syria 70S-70S 

90. Constantine Syria 70S-715 

91. St. Gregory II Rome 715-731 

92. St. Gregory III Syria 731-741 

93. St. Zachary Greece 741-752 

94. St. Stephen II Rome 752-752 

95. Stephen 111 Rome 752-757 

96. St. Paul I Rome 757-767 

97. Stephen IV Syracuse 7GS-771 

98. Adriau I Rome 771-795 

99. St. Leo III Rome 795-S16 

100. Stephen V Rome 816-817 

101. St. Paschal I Rome S17-S24 

102. Eugenius II Rome S24-S27 

103. Valentinus Rome S27-S27 

104. Gregory IV Rome 827-S44 

105. Sergius II Rome 844-847 

106. St. Leo IV Rome S47-S55 

[Fabulous anti pope Joan.] 

107. Benedict III Rome 855-S5S 

10S. St. Nicholas I, the Great . Rome S5S-SG7 

109. Adrian II Rome 867-S72 

110. John VIII Rome 872-883 

111. Marinus I Gallese 882-884 

112. Adrian III Rome 8S4-SS5 

113. Stephen YH Rome SS5-S91 

114. Formosus Ostia S91-S96 

[Sergius, antipope.] 

115. Boniface VI Rome S96-89G 

116. Stephen VII Rome 897-898 

117. Romanus Gallese S9S-S9S 

11S. Theodoras II Gallese S9S-S98 

119. John IX Tivoli 898-900 

120. Benedict IV Rome 900-903 

121. Leo V Ardea 903-903 

122. Christopher Rome 903-904 

123. Sergius III Rome 904-911 

124. Anastasius III Rome 911-913 

125. Lando Sabine 913-914 

126. John X Ravenna 915-928 

127. Leo VI Rome 928-929 

12S. Stephen VIII Rome 929-931 

129. John XI Rome 931-936 

130. Leo VII , Rome 936-939 

131. Stepheu IX Rome 939-942 

132. Marinus II Rome 943-946 

133. Agapetns II Rome 946-956 

134. Johu XII* Rome 956-964 

(Octavian Conti.) 

[Leo VIII, antipope.] 

135. Benedict V Rome 964-965 

136. John XIII Rome 965-972 

(Bishop John of Ravenna.) 

137. Benedict VI Rome 972-973 

13S. Bonus II Rome 973-975 

139. Benedict VII Rome 975-9S4 

(Conti, bishop of Sutri.) 

140. John XIV Pavia 9S4-9S3 

(Peter, bishop of Pavia.) 

141. Boniface VII ? 9S5-9S5 

(Cardinal Boniface Franco.) 

142. John XV Rome 9S5-996 

143. John XVI ? 996-996 

144. Gregory V Germany 996-999 

(Bruno, court chaplain of the emperor.) 

145. John XVII ? 999-999 

146. Sylvester II France 999-1003 

(Gerbert.) 


* The first pope who changed his name on ascending the papal throne. 


POPE 


410 


POPE 


No. Name. Place of Birlh. Term. ' No. 

14T. John XVIII Rome 1003-1003 200. 

148. John XIX Rome 1003-1009 

14'J. Sergius IV Rome 1000-1012 201. 

150. benedict VIII Rome 1012-1024 

(Conti.) 

151. Joint XX Rome 1024-1033 202. 

(Conti, a brother of the preceding.) 

152. Benedict IX Rome 1033-1044 203. 

(Tbcaphylncl, nephew of the two preceding.) 

[Sylvester, iintipope.] 204. 

153. Gregory VI Rome 1044-104G 

(Archpriest John Gralianus.) 205 

154. Clement II Germany 1040-1047 

(Bishop Suidger of Bamberg.) 206. 

155. Datuasus II Germany 104S-104S 

(Bishop Puppo of Brixen.) 207. 

156. St. Leo IX Germany. 1049-1055 

(Bishop Bruno of Toul.) 

157. Victor II Germany 1055-1057 

(Bishop Gebhard of Eichbtadl.) 

15S. Stephcu X Germany 1057-1053 

(Abbot Frederick of Montecusdino.) 

159. Benedict X ? 1058-1059 

(.lohii Mincius Conti, bishop of Vellelri.) 20S. 

ICO. Nicholas II France 1059-10G1 

(Bishop Gerard of Florence.) 209. 

161. Alexander II Milan 10C1-1073 

(Anselm Badagio, bishop of Luccn.) 210. 

162. St. Gregory VII Soana 1073-10S5 

(Cardinnl Hildebrand.) 211. 

[Clement III, anlipope.] 

1C3. Victor III Bcnevent 10S7-10S7 212. 

(Ih-hiderius, duke of Capua, abbot of MonLecassino.) 

1C4. Urban II France 10SS-1099 213. 

(Otto de Lagers, cardinul-bishop of Ustia.) 

105. Paschal II Bieda 1099-I11S 014 

(Cardinal Rainer.) j 

[Albert and Theodoric, antipopes.] 

ICC. GelasiuslI Gaeta 111S-1119 215. 

(Cardinal Johannes Cajelaui.) 

107. CalixlnsII France 1119-1124 210. 

(Guido, count of Burgundy, archbishop of Vienne.) 

ICS. Honoriusll Bologna 1124-1130 217. 

(l.niuherl, cardinal-bishop of Ostia.) 

109. Innocent II Rome 1130-1143 21S. 

(Cardinal Gregory Papv.) 

[Annr Ictus, nntipope.] 219 

170. (Vlestine II Citta di Gastello 1143-1144 

171. Lucius II Bologna 1144-1145 220. 

(Caccianeniici.) 

172. B. Etigcuius III Montemagno 1145-1153 221. 

(Beruardus, abbot at Rome.) 

173. Anastnsius IV. Rome 1153-1154 222. 

174. Adrian IV England 1154-1159 

175. Alexander III Siena 1159-llsl 223. 

(Roland Bnndinelli.) 

[Victor, Paschal, and Cnllixtus, anlipopcs.] 224. 

170. Lucius III Lucca 1 1^1—1 1 S5 

177. Urban III Milan 1185-tlST 225. 

(Bishop Humbert of Milan.) 

173. Gregory VIII Rencvctilum 1 1^7-1 1S7 22C - 

179. Glement III Rome 1187-1191 

150. Celcsiine III Rome 1191-1193 - 2u 

151. Innocent 111 Anagni 1198-1210 

(Cardinal Conti.) 22S. 

182. ITouorius III Rome 1210-1227 „„„ 

(Savelli.) 229. 

I S3. Gregory IX Anagni 1227-1241 on . 

(Conti.) 2o0. 

154. Celcsiine IV .Milan 1241-1241 

(C'asligOonc.) 231. 

185. Innocent IV Genoa 1243-1254 „„„ 

(Firsclii.) 232. 

ISO. Alexander IV Anagni 1251-1201 

(Conti.) # 2 o3. 

1S7. Urban IV France 1201-1204 

(Jacob Panlalean, patriarch of Jerusalem.) 2o4. 

155. Glement IV France 1265-1209 noK 

(Guido Fulcodi.) 235. 

189. B. Gregory X Piacenza 1271-1270 0 „ r 

(Theobald Visconti, archdeacon at Liege.) 230. 

190. Innocent V Savoy 1276-1270 

(Peter de Tnrnntaisc.) 

191. Adrian V Genoa 1270-1270 

(Fiesrhi.) 

192. John XXI Portugal 1270-1277 2 n( ) 

(Peter Julian, bishop of Tusculuin.) 

193. Nich< las III Home 1277-12S0 240. 

(Citrdinol John Cajetan Orfini.) 

194. Martin IV France 12S1-12S5 241. 

(Simon de Brie.) 

195. Honoring IV Rome 12S5-12S7 242. 

(Savelli.) 

190. Nicholas IV. Ascoli 12SS-1292 243. 

(Cardinal Jerome, bishop of Tnsculum.) 

197. St. ('destine V Iseniia 1294-1294 244. 


198. Boniface VIII Anagi 

(llem-diri Cnjeta 

199. B. Benedict XI Trevis 

(Boccasiui.) 


. 1294-1303 245. 


Name. Place of Birth. Term. 

Clement V France 1305-1314 

(De Gout, archbishop of Bordeaux.) 

John XXII France 131G-1334 

(Cardinal Jacob de E*De.) 

[Nicholas, antipope.] 

Benedict XII France 1334-1342 

(Cardinal Jacob Fournier.) 

. Clement VI Fiance 1342-1352 

(Cardinal IVter Roger.) 

Innocent VI France 1352-1302 

(Cardinal Stephen Aubert.) 

B. Urban V France 1302-1370 

(Abbot at Marseilles.) 

Gregory XI France 1370-1373 

(Cardinal Peter Roger.) 

Urban VI Naples 137S-13S9 

(Prignano, archbishop of Bari.) 

[From 13*8 to 1410 occurs the great Western Schism, during which, 
in conflict with the line of popes inserted in the catalogue, is found 
a rival line residing at Avignon— Clement VII, 13*8-1384 ; Bene- 
dict XIII, lb!<4-1410. The Council of Pisa, 1410, deposed both ri- 
val popes ; but Benedict XIII remained in schism till bis death in 
*4-4. J 

Boniface IX Naples 13S9-1404 

(Cardinal Peter Tomacelli.) 

Innocent VII Snlmoua 1404-1400 

(Migliorati.) 

Gregory XII Venice 1400-1409 

(Coriario.) 

Alexander V Bologna 1409-1410 

(Cardinal Peter Philargi.) 

John XXIII Naples 1410-1415 

(Cardinal Cossn.) 

Martin V Rome 1417-1431 

(Cardinal Otto Colonna.) 

Engeuins IV Venice 1431-1447 

(Coodultnero.) 

[Felix, anlipope.] 

Nicholas V Snrzann 1447-1455 

(Thomas de Sarzano.) 

Calixtus III Spain 1455-I45S 

(Cardinal Alphons Borgia.) 

Pills II Siena 1458-1404 

(.Eneas Sylvius Piccolomini.) 

Paul II Venice 1464-1-471 

(Barbo.) 

Sixtus IV Savona. 1471-1484 

(Cardinal Francesco della Rovere.) 

Innocent VIII Genoa 14S4-1492 

(Cardinal John Baptist Cibo.) 

Alexander VI Spain 1492-1503 

(Cardinal Rodrigo Borgia.) 

Pius III Siena 1503-1503 

(Cardinal Francis Piccoloinioi.) 

Julius II Savona 1503-1513 

(Cardinal Rovere.) 

Leo X Florence 1513-1521 

(Cardinal de’ Medici.) 

Adrian VI Netherlands 1522-1523 

(Adrian Florenl.) 

Clement VII Florence 1523-1534 

(Cardinal de’ Medici.) 

Paul III Rome 1534-1549 

(Cardinnl Alexander Fnrnese.) 

Jlllins III Tuscany 1550-1555 

(Cardinal del Monte.) 

Marcel lus II Mouieptilciauo 1555-1555 

(Cardinal Cervino.) 

Paul IV Naples 1555-1559 

(Cardinal Cnraffn.) 

Pius IV Milan 1559-1565 

(Cardinal de’ Medici.) 

St. Pins V Bosco 1500-1572 

(Michael Ghislcri, cardinal of Alessandria.) 

Gregory XIII Bologna 1572-1585 

(Cardinal Hugo Ruontoinpngno.) 

Sixtus V Mareliigiano 15S5-1590 

(Felix Peretli,rnnlinal Montallo.) 

Urban VII Rome 1590-1590 

(Cardinal Cnstngna.) 

Gregory XIV Cremona 1590-1591 

(Cnrdinnl Sfondruti.) 

Innocent IX Bologna 1501-1592 

(Cardinnl Fachinelli.) 

Clement VIII Florence 1592-1005 

(Cardinal Aldnbrundini.) 

Leo XI Florence 1005-1005 

(Cardinnl Octal inn de’ Medici.) 

Paul V Rome 1005-1021 

(Cardinal Cnmilln Bnrghese.) 

Gregory XV Bologna 1021-1023 

(Cardinal Alexander I.ndovislo.) 

Urban VIII Florence 1023-1044 

(Cardinal Mntfeo Bnrberiui.) 

Innocent X Rome 1044-1055 

(Cardinal John Pumtili.) 

Alexander VII Siena 1055-1007 

(Cardinal Faldo Cliigi.) 

Clement IX Pistoia 1007-1009 

(Curdinnl Rospigliosi.) 

Clement X Rome 1670-1076 

(Cardinal Allieri.) 


411 


POPE 


POPE 


No. Name. Place of Birth. Term, i clergv anrl laitv in opposition to Cornelius; the last, 

J47. Innocent XI ...... .. . . .€°mo. . . .. 1676-16S9 Fel ; x y : v }, 0 was elected in opposition to Eugenius IV. 

Qig Alexander VIlY*! 1 .^!. ^Venice?.*. °. . ! 1GS9-1691 j Sometimes the whole Church was for a number of years 

(Cardinal Peter otioboni.) divided by the rival claims of two popes, and m one 

: 49 . Iunocent XII ....Naples..... 1691-1700 instauce division continued for thirty-nine years 

(Cardinal Anthony Pignatelli.) | .. . 

’50 Clement XI Urbiuo 1700-1721 (lo/8-14h). See Anti popes. . 

(Cardinal Aibani.) The story that at one time, in the 9th century, the 


250. 

251. Innocent XIII 

252. Benedict XIII 


253. Clement XII.. 


(Cardinal , 

Rome 1721-1724 

(Cardinal Conti.) 

Rome 1724-1730 

(Cardinal Orsini.) 


papal chair was tilled by a woman, the popess Joan, was 
quite generally credited from the latter part of the 11th 
until the opening of the lGth century, but it is now ad- 
(CwdinafcorefnSf) 6 1*30-1(40 f near ]y a n writers to be a fable. See Joan. 

254 . Benedict XIV .'".Bologna. .. 1 740-1 75S 1 On tlic several Latin titles given to the popes, see 

(Cardinal Prosper Lamberlini.) _ _ Dtieailge, tiloSSai'lUm. (Jit tile rights 311(1 luilCtioilS 

255. Clement XIII (Card’inaiRezzonko'.) 1 *5S-17G9 ^ t ^ e p () p ef ^ see t f, e manua i s 0 f ecclesiastical laws, es- 

256. Clement XIV ....!. St. Anpelo in Vado. 1769-1774 peeiallv those by Richter, Lehrbuch des Kirchenrechts 

(Cardinal Gangaiieili.) _ ^7tli ed., bv Dove, Leipsic, 1874) ; Meier , Lehrbuch des 

257. Pills VI (Cardin aLBraatld. ) 1775-1799 Kirche nrechta (3d ed. Gutting. I8G9) ; Schulte, Lehrbuch 


ngS Pins VII Cesenii 1S00-1S23 des hath. Kirchenrechts (3d ed. Giessen, 1873) ; Phillips, 

(Cardinal chiaramonte.) Firchenrecht (Uatisbon, I845-G9, 7 vols.). The princi- 

25!). Leo XII (Cardinal defuGenga.) 1S23-1S.9 ^ WO rk on the papal elections is by Zopffel, Die Papst- 

. . . .Cingoli 1S29-1830 imhlen (1872). See also Camarda, Synopsis eonstitulio- 

liuai Castigiione.) num opost. cum ceremoniali Greyoriano de pertinent ibus 

, 1 Vlaf.ro Ca^Uarif) 4 ad elect ionem Papce (1732); Menselien, Ceremonialia 


259. Leo XII 

260. Pius VIII 

261. Gregory XVI. 

262. Pins IX... 

263. Leo XIII. . 


(Cardinal .V 


Capellari.) 

Siiiigaglhi 1S40-1 

(Cardinal Mastai Ferretti.) 

Carpinetto 1878- 

(Cardinal Gioacchino Pesci.) 


elect ionis et coronationis Pontif. Rom. (Frankfort, 1732) ; 
Adler, Ceremonien v.nd Feierlichkeiten bei der Wahl und 
Kronuny eines Papstes (Vienna, 1834) ; Pipping, Lie 



text-book of Church history than any other Roman gon ^ papacy and the Civil Potcer (N. Y. 1877, 12mo); 
Catholic’s work. It gives (ii, G49) the catalogue of the Brotvnson's Rev. July and Oct. 1855; North Brit. Rev. 


lirst Roman bishops, as follows : 


vol. xi; Caih. World, Aug. 1870, art.xi; Lond. Quar. 
Rev. April, 1871 ; Oct. 187G, art. iii; Princeton Rev. Jan. 
1871, art. ix; Bill. Sac. Jan. 1871, art. iv; Kdinb. Rev. 
July, 1871, art. v; July, 1872, art. iv. (A. J. S.) 

POPE is the title given in the Russian Church to 
the secular clergy, and corresponds in import to the 
(Latin) word curate used in the English Church. \Ye 
tind full information about Russian curates or popes in 
the earliest times. A passage of Nikon (i, 198) shows 
plainly that about the year 1094, when Wewolod died, 
there were priests in Russia. They formed, with the 
deacons, subdeacons, and the persons belonging to 
an inferior degree of the ecclesiastic order, what was 
called the secular clergy, the highest, office of it being 
that of archpriest or protopopc. The verger, the bell- 
ringer, the lamb-baker, were counted also with the ec- 
clesiastic order, and formed together a special class, 
It will be seen that, according to this list, one of the distinguished from the regular and secular clergies as 
Roman bishops, whom the Roman list calls St. Felix II, well by their cloth as by their peculiar privileges. The 
was neither a saint nor even a legitimate pope. conditions required for admission into the ecclesiastic 

In the Roman list of popes, 80 are enumerated as ' state had been set down, among others, by the metro- 


St. Peter, 42-67 or 6S. 

“ Linus. 

“ Anacletus (or Cletus). 

“ Clement I, 92-101. 

“ Evaristns. 

“ Alexander, until 119. 

“ Xvstns or Sixtus, until 
127. 

“ Telesphorns, 127-139, 

“ II y gin ns, 139-142. 

“ Pius 1, 142-157. 

“ Auiceius, 157-16S. 

“ Soter, 168-177. 

“ Eleutherins, 177-192. 

“ Victor, 192-202. 

“ Zephvrinns, 202-219. 

“ Callistus, 219-223. 

“ Urbnnno, 223-230. 

“ Pontiauus, 230-235. 


Sf.Anterns, 235-236. 

“ Fabianns, 236-250. 

“ Cornelius, 251-252. 

“ Lucius, 253. 

“ Stephen I, 253-257. 

“ Xystus or Sixtus II, 257 
25S. 

“ Dionvsius, 259-269. 

“ Felix I, 269-274. 

“ Eutychianus, 274-2S8. 

“ Cuius, 283-296. 

“ Marcelliuus, until 304. 

“ Marcelhis, 30S-310. 

“ Eusebius, 310. 

“■ Melehiudes, 311-314. 

“ Sylvester I, 314-335. 

“ Marcus. 336. 

“ Julius I, 337-352. 
Liberius, 352-366. 


Felix, 355 {anti pe>pe). 


saints, 4 as blessed, and 32 as martyrs. In regard to politan Cyrillus (1274) at the Synod of Whulimir on the 
their nationality, 14 were Frenchmen, 11 Greeks, G Ger- Kliisma. celebrated in Russian history. It was decreed 
mans. G Syrians and natives of Asia Minor, 3 Africans, there: “If the bishops wish to ordain a pope, let them 
3 Spaniards, 2 Dalmatians, 1 Thracian, 1 Englishman, first examine his life from his childhood ; only he who 
1 Portuguese, 1 Dutchman ; all the remainder were Ital- has lived temperately and chastely, who has married 
ians. The last non-Italian pope was Adrian VI (1522- a virgin, who is proficient in the art of reading and 
23): the last saint, St. Pius V (15GG-72). As the Ro- writing, who is neither a gambler nor a cheat, who is 
man legend claimed that the apostle Peter had been not addicted to drinking, swearing, or cursing, who is 
25 years bishop of Rome, although it is very doubtful not quarrelsome, shall receive the consecration.” The 
whether he ever even visited Rome [see Peteii], a be- right to appoint a pope belonged to the bishop in bis 
lief gained ground within the Church that no pope diocese, and the community seem to have had orig- 
would reign 25 years until the last, under whom the inally no share whatever in the choice of their pastor, 
world would come to an end; but the pontificate of But it was one of the directions of the Stoglawnik (of 
Pius IX, which in 1877 had already lasted 31 years, put the year 1551) that the parishioners should elect their 
an end to this tradition. Besides Pius IX, only the pastors and deacons themselves. As the revenue of the 
following nine popes reigned 20 years or more: Syl- popes accrued either from special properties or from the 
vester I, 23 years; Leo I, 21; Adrian I, 23; Leo Ilf, voluntary gifts of the parishioners, it would seem that 
20; Alexander III, 21; Urban VIII, 20; Clement XI. in the first case tbe right of nomination was exercised 
20; Pius VI, 24; Pius VII, 23. Sixty-four popes by the bishop, and in the other ease by the people, 
reigned from 10 to 20 years each ; and forty-five reigned The pope was chosen from the deacons, the deacons 
each less than one year. from the subdeacons, and the latter were taken from 

The see of Rome was frequently disputed. The first among the sons of the secular clergy. Ordination was 
antipope was Xovatianus, who was chosen by some of bestowed by the bishop, who received as a eompensa- 


POPE 


412 


POPE 


tion the so-called ordination money. This practice 
was opposed in Novgorod and Pskow, and occasioned 
the formation of the sect called Strigolniks (q. v.). 
At the present time the priests are appointed by the 
bishop, archbishop, or metropolitan to whose eparchy 
they belong. Vet the right of the bishop is not of a 
quite unlimited description: he has to make sure of 
the consent of the church patron, i. e. the proprietor 
of the ground on which the church stands, or of the 
colonel, if the pope to be appointed is to officiate in a 
regiment. The lower servants of the Church are ap- 
pointed by the priest or the patron, seldom by the 
higher dignitaries. 

The official duties of the Greek popes are the follow- 
ing: Kverv Sunday and holyday, and at least three 
times in t he week, they officiate mechanically and dis- 
tribute the Eucharist: they give their blessing to con- 
fined wives, christen new-born children, administer con- 
fession. marry betrothed couples, recite their prayers in 
uninterrupted series before the bodies of the deceased 
until they are under ground, and visit from time to time 
their parishioners in their houses for the purpose of be- 
stowing their benediction, etc. Extemporaneous preach- 
ing is severely prohibited. Once in a while they read 
for the assembled people after worship a homily of the 
fathers, or some composition sent to them by the bishop. 
Many liturgical acts cannot be done by the pope alone 
without the assistance of the deacon. Every pope must 
have married already as subdeacon, and the reputation 
of his bride must have been unblemished. If his wife 
dies, his usefulness as a pastor comes to an end, and, as a 
rule, he retires to some monastery, where, as a priest- 
monk, he enjoys special honors. Hut, according to more 
modern rules, popes of good repute are allowed to re- 
main in office after the death of their wives; blit a sec- 
ond marriage is entirely out of the question. If the 
widowed priest marries again, he renounces ipso facto 
the ecclesiastical state, for one marriage only is allowed 
and prescribed to him. 

The honors paid to the secular priests do not follow 
them into private life. Their religious duties per- 
formed, the borrowed nimbus falls, and the boyar who 
devoutly kissed their hand at the altar ignores them in 
the street. The cause thereof is mostly to be found in 
their licentious conduct, their coarseness, their ignorance 
of worldly and spiritual things — in short, in their vices, 
against which the metropolitans, bishops, and even the 
councils have accumulated in vain all kinds of prohib- 
itory measures. Witnesses relate that the ignorance of 
the < Jrcck clergy is indescribable ; that, out of a thousand 
priests, scarcely ten are able to sign their names, and 
that he who can do it can pass himself off for a scholar: 
it does not seem that the Russian popes can lay claim 
to a much higher degree of consideration. Most of 
those who are destined to the t 'hurch belong to the low- 
est class of the population— they are generally the sons 
of the lower clergy. The sad predicament of the dis- 
trict schools and colleges allows of an inference as to the 
studies preparatory to them. The first son of a pope 
belongs by law to the clerical career; and if the necessi- 
ties of the ( 'hurch require it, two of his children receive 
orders. The embryo pastor gets his tirst education in 
the church, where he performs the lower church duties, 
and in the ecclesiastical schools of the district. Then 
he spends two years in a clerical seminary, where he 
learns reading, writing, elementary arithmetic, and the 
ritual : at this stage of his development the black cloak 
is thrown on his shoulders, and the priest is made. Now 
he has to marry, if he docs not cherish the idea of re- 
tiring to a monastery. He has not the least smattering 
of Latin or Greek, nor indeed any kind of knowledge. 
The sum of his acquirements is the ability to read and 
write the liturgy of the Church. Even the little he has 
learned in school is slowly obliterated bv the frequent 
mechanical performance of ceremonies and the toils of 
agriculture, to which he must devote his spare time to 
avoid starvation. 


The income of the popes and inferior ecclesiastics is 
very scanty. As a rule they dwell in a house belonging 
to the parish, till with their own hands the land con- 
ceded to them fur their maintenance, and have mostly 
to depend on their casual fees. It follows that every- 
thing — baptism, blessings, exorcisms, visits to the sick, 
celebration of the Eucharist, even confessions — must 
be paid for according to the rank and wealth of the pa- 
rishioner, else the pope could not maintain himself and 
his family with a salary of &10t> at the utmost. The 
dress of the popes differs little from that of laymen. 
Their long beard (which they consider sinful to shave 
off), their uncombed hair, hanging wildly about their 
neck and shoulders, give them an untidy appearance. 
In the church alone the popes appear bareheaded ; out- 
side they wear a kind of cap or a round hat, with a 
broad, Hat border. A long stick is their constant com- 
panion. 

The ordination of popes (hierey, presbyters, priests) 
is observed in the following way: The bishop makes 
the sign of the cross over the head of the candidate, 
while the latter kisses the bishop’s knees. lie then, 
with the other ecclesiastics, walks three times proces- 
sionallv around the altar, kneels down before the same, 

1 and lays his forehead between his hands, which he 
| rests crosswise on the altar. The bishop lays his right 
hand on the head of the young priest, and says, “The 
divine grace promotes the most pious deacon to the 
order of priesthood.” Then the ordinated youth re- 
ceives the benediction, and kisses the hand of the 
bishop. As to priestly garments, he receives, instead 
! of the c rarioii, a similar stripe, four inches wide and four 
ells long, around the neck: this ornament is called epi - 
Irachelion; further, a belt and a round cloak, the great 
phelonion (the casula of the Latins), which reaches to 
his feet. 

The secular clergy stand under the control of the di- 
ocesan bishop, but are in many respects also amenable 
to the worldly authorities. See fur literature the art. 

lil'SSI A. 

Pope, Alexander, the celebrated English poet of 
the ixth century, deserves a place here as the writer of 
poems of a decidedly religious cast, for the speculative 
character of some of his productions, and their peculiar 
philosophical tendency, l’ope was bom in May, ltl.SX, 
in London, of rather humble parentage, of the Romish 
communion. A sickly child, Alexander’s early educa- 
tional advantages were scanty, but notwithstanding all 
deficiencies his poetic talent was manifest at a most 
tender age, though it is true that his celebrity is chiefly 
due to his satirical power, which was displayed in the 
writings of his maturer years. We would not. how- 
ever, bo understood as underestimating Pope’s poetical 
qualifications; for, although he confined himself to the 
didactic style — leaving untouched the two higher or- 
ders of poetry, the epic and dramatic— he was yet in 
this department the master unsurpassed. No other 
English poet, not even (‘owper, has combined such 
powers of reasoning with such splendid decorations of 
fancy; and Pope’s works have been more frequently 
edited than those of any other Ilritish poet except 
Shakespeare. When but fifteen years old. Pope pre- 
pared poetical translations of several Latin poets, and 
thereby proved his attainments in the classical lan- 
guages. Prom the age of twelve he had himself formed 
a plan of study, to which he rigidly adhered, and com- 
pleted with little other incitement than the desire of 
I excellence. 11 is general reading, too, was uncommonly 
extensive and various, and at. twenty-live he was one 
j of the best -informed men of his generation. When only 
eighteen years old he produced his Missiah, a sacred 
eclogue in imitation of Virgil's Pvllio. Pollio was a 
Roman senator in the time of Augustus, and celebrated 
not only as a general, but as a patron of letters and the 
tine arts. Virgil addressed to him his fourth eclogue at 
a time (I5.C. 40) when Augustus and Antony had rati- 
fied a league of peace, and thus, as it was thought, es- 


POPE 


413 


TOPER 


tablished the tranquillity of the empire, as in the times \ 
of the “golden age.” In this eclogue Virgil is most 
eloquent in the praise of peace, and in some of his 
figures and expressions is thought to have imitated 
the prophecies of Isaiah, which he had possibly read 
in the Greek Septuagint. But, however this may be 
as regards Virgil, Roseoe well remarks of this produc- 
tion of Pope, that “the idea of uniting; the sacred 
prophecies and grand imagery of Isaiah with the mys- 
terious visions and pomp of numbers displayed in the 
Pollio, thereby combining both sacred and heathen 
mythology in predicting the coming of the Messiah, is 
one of the happiest subjects for producing emotions of 
sublimit}’ that ever occurred to the mind of a poet.” 
Pope’s next remarkable work was his Essay on Criti- 
cism (written in 1709), which displays such extent of 
comprehension, such nieetv of distinction, such ac- 
quaintance with mankind, and such knowledge both of 
ancient and modern learning, as are not. often attained 
by the maturest age and longest experience. About 
1713 he set about a translation of Homer’s Iliad and 
Odyssey, which he published from 1715 to 1720, and 
secured by it a world -wide renown. It was received 
with admiration, and well deserved the praises of his 
contemporaries. But the w r ork which gives him special 
interest in our line of study is his Essay on Man (1733), 
a philosophical didactic poem in vindication of the 
ways of Providence, in which the poet proposes to 
prove that, of all possible systems, Infinite Wisdom has 
formed the best; that in such a system coherence, union, ' 
subordination, are necessary; that it is not strange that j 
we should not be able to discover perfection and order i 
in every instance; because, in an infinity of things mu- ' 
tually relative, a mind which sees not infinitely can 
see nothing fully. Thus we see Pope setting forth, 
after Bolingbroke, a theory of optimism (q. v.), the con- j 
sequences of which he probably did not fully under- ' 
stand. The Essay aspires to be, like Leibnitz’s cele- 
brated work, a theodicy, and is really a poetical ver- 
sion of the religious ereed of Pope’s age — of that deism 
which took various shapes with Clarke, Tindal, and 
Shaftesbury, and which Bolingbroke seems to have 
more or less put into shape to be celebrated in poetry 
by his friends. The poem is didactic, and not only 
didaetive, but ratiocinative. The emotion is always 
checked by the sense that the Deity whose ways are 
indicated is after all but a barren abstraction, in no 
particular relation to our race or its history. He never 
touches the circle of human interests. Considered as a 
whole, this production, though Pope’s most ambitious, 
remains radically unsatisfactory; yet there are, it must 
be granted, many brief passages marked by Pope’s spe- 
cial felicity of touch ; many in which the moral senti- 
ment is true and tender; many in which he forgets for 
a moment the danger of open heterodoxy, and utters 
with genuine force some of the deeper sentiments that 
haunt us in this mysterious universe. Of his other 
works, none interest us here. One of the most admira- 
ble of Pope’s religious poems is “The Universal Prayer,” 
beginning with 

“ Father of all ! in every age, 

In every clime adored.” 

Pope’s celebrated lyric, “ Vital spark of heavenly flame,” 
like some other productions of his pen, is an imitation, 
'five original source of this hymn is supposed to be a 
poem composed by the emperor Adrian, who, dying I 
A.I). 138, thus gave expression to his mingled doubts 
and fears. His poem begins: Animulum vagula blan- 
dula, Ilospes comesque corporis (“Sweet spirit, ready 
to depart, guest and companion of the body”). It is 
afterwards found freely rendered in a piece by a poet 
of some note in his day — Thomas Flatman, of Lon- 
don, a barrister, poet, and painter. Flatman’s poem 
is called “A Thought of Death;” and as he died in the 
year Pope was born, 1688, and the poems are very sim- 
ilar, there can be little doubt that Tope has imitated 


his predecessor. From Pope’s correspondence we learn 
that on Nov. 7, 1712, he sent a letter to Mr. Steele for 
insertion in the Spectator on the subject of Adrian's last 
words; to which Steele responded by asking him to 
make of them an ode, in two or three stanzas of music. 
Pope replied immediately, saying that he had done as 
required, and sent the piece. To show how close is the 
parallel between the poets, we print a stanza of each : 

FT. ATM AX. 

“ Full of sorrow, full of anguish, 

Fainting, grasping, trembling, crying, 

Panting, groaning, shrinking, dying — 

Methinks I hear some gentle spirit say, 

‘ Be not fearful, come away '.’ ” 
rorK. 

“Vital spark of heavenly flame! 

Quit, oh, quit this mortal frame ! 

Trembling, hoping, lingTing, flying, 

Oh, the pain, the bliss of dying ! 

Cease, fond nature, cease thy strife, 

And let me languish into life 1” 

! It has been urged by critics that it is inconsistent and 
inconceivable that a dying man should hold such a so- 
liloquy with his soul— it is altogether too studied and 
rhetorical, too artificial. Although undoubtedly a grand 
poem, yet it cannot be regarded strictly as a hymn, any 
more than Tophuly’s famous production, “Deathless 
principle! arise,” judged by the rule of St. Augustine, 
who tells us, “A hymn must be praise — the praise of 
God, and this in the form of a song.” 

Pope died May, 1744. He does not seem to have been 
a very lovable character, if we may judge him by his 
caustic satires. His person was small and deformed ; and 
his temper of mind often also crooked, as we learn from 
one of his best friends, bishop Atterburv, who once, re- 
ferring to Pope’s irraseibility, described him as “ mens 
curva in corpore curvo.” The best edition of his IForfo 
is by Roseoe (Lond. 10 vols. 8vo). It is one of the 
choicest contributions to English literature of the pres- 
ent century. See Life by Dr. Johnson prefixed to Pope’s 
I Vorks ; Stephen, Hist, of English Thought, ii, 348-360 
et al. ; Chambers, Cyclop, of Engl. Lit. vol. ii ; Warton, 
Essay on the Genius and Writings of Pope ; Macdonald, 
England's Antiphon, p. 285. See also the excellent notes 
on the literature of Pope by Superintendent Winsor, of 
Boston, in his Catalogue of the Boston Public Library 
(2d ed. July, 1873), p. 221, col. i; IFcstwiast. Rev. xcii, 
149; Lond. Qu. Rev. Oct. 1875, art. iii. (J. II. \V.) 

Pope, Fielding, a Presbyterian divine, noted es- 
pecially as an educator, was born in Virginia in 1800. 
lie was educated in Marysville College, Tenn., studied 
divinity at the Southern and Western Theological Sem- 
inary, was licensed and ordained in 1826, and began his 
labors as stated supply for Mars’ Hill, Columbiana, and 
Shilo churches, near Athens, Tenn. This relation ex- 
isted until 1833, when he accepted a professorship in 
Marysville College, Tenn.; in 1844 he resigned this po- 
sition and devoted all his time to the ministry; in 1852 
he was connected as president with the Masonic Fe- 
male Institute of Marysville ; and in 1857 he took 
charge of New Providence Church in Marysville, in all 
of which labors he was earnest and faithful. He died 
March 23, 1867. Air. Pope was a man of great power 
and popularity in the pulpit. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
Almanac, 1868, p. 365. (J. L. S.) 

Poper, IIexry, a clergyman of the Church of Eng- 
land and missionary among the Jews, was born of Jetv- 
ish parentage, in the year 1813, at Breitenbach, in Elec- 
toral Hesse, Germany. At Hildesheim, the native place 
of his mother, he received his early education at the fa- 
mous school which flourished under the superintendence 
of the Jewish rabbi Wolfsolin. Besides, he was also pri- 
vately instructed that he might prepare himself for the 
office of a teacher. When about the age of eighteen 
(May, 1831), Poper received an appointment as Jewish 
teacher and reader in the synagogue, having also occa- 
sionally to lecture in the synagogue. During the period 
of eight years he filled this office in two places in the 


POPERY 


414 


POPERY 


kingdom of Hanover, when, at last, by reading the 
X.-T. Scriptures and Christian intercourse, that change 
was brought about which was decisive lor his whole 
future life. July 1 5, 1 Sob, he received Christian baptism. 
When in the following year the London Society for 
Propagating Christianity among the Jews opened the 
Hebrew college for the purpose of training up mission- 
aries to work among Hod’s ancient people, I’oper was 
enrolled as one of the lirst students. In June, 1*12, 
Pnper was appointed by the committee to labor at 
Franklhrt-on-the-Main, was subsequently ordained to 
the ministry of the Church of England, and continued 
to be engaged in the Master’s service in that city until 
his death, April 22. 1*70. I'oper was a very active mis- 
sionary, and was highly esteemed for his zeal and efforts 
both, among Jews and Christians. When, on April 25, 
1870, his earthly remains were carried to their resting- 
place. all the Protestant pastors of the city, accompanied 
by many Hebrcw-Christiaiis and Jews, followed to the 
grave. A rabbi of a reformed synagogue, when in- 
formed by a missionary of Popcr’s death, said, “Mr. 
Poper was a very good man. I have known him well, 
lie was greatly respected among my friends, who were 
also his friends. 1 liked him very much, although he 
was a convert to Christianity” — a remarkable testimony 
for a Jew to make of an apostate. See Jewish Intelli- 
gencer, 1*70; M issionsblatt /Hr Israel , 1*70; JJibreh 
Emeth (Breslau, 1*70). (D. P.) 

Popery literally means attachment to the religion 
or to the party of the pope; and in this sense the word 
is synonymous with the profession of the Homan Cath- 
olic religion. In its use, however, it has come to in- 
volve either the idea of contempt or disparagement, 
or is intended to designate what are regarded bv Prot- 
estants as the most exaggerated and superstitious among 
the doctrines and practices which they ascribe to Homan 
Catholics, and of which the principal are the infallibility 
of the Church ; the supremacy of the pope ; the doctrine 
of the seven sacraments — namely, baptism, confirma- 
tion, the Eucharist. penance, extreme unction, orders, and 
matrimony; the celibacy of tbe clergy; the worship of 
saints and the Virgin Mary, of pictures and images; 
prayers for the dead, intercession of saints, purgatory, 
unwritten traditions, etc. A proper distinction is made 
by some writers between popery and the papacy. Pop- 
ery is the erroneous principle — salvation by man - in op- 
position to the truth of the Cospel, which is salvation 
by grace . The papacy is the secular organization in 
which this error is embodied. The one is the body, the 
other the animating and controlling spirit. Sec Porisii 

Yl KW. 

The Church of Home is charged with having depart- 
ed from apostolic Christianity by requiring all who com- 
municate with her to believe, as necessary to salvation: 

1. That that man is accursed who docs not kiss and 
honor and worship the holy images. 

2. That the Virgin Mary and other saints are to be 
prayed to. 

3. That, after consecration in the Lord's Supper, the 
bread is no longer bread, and the wine no longer wine. 

4. That ihe clergyman should he excommunicated who, 
in the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, gives the cup to 
the people. 

5. That they are accursed who say that the clergy may 
marry. 

<’>. That there is a purgatory— that is.a place where souls 
which had died in repentance are purified by suffering. 

7. That the Church of Home is the mother and mistress 
of all churches. 

8. That obedience is due from all churches to the bish- 
op of Home. 

9. That they arc accursed who denv that there are sev- 
en sacraments. 

From these doctrines, contrary to Scripture and the 
primitive Church, have resulted these evil practices: 

Erom the veneration of images has sprung the actual 
worship of them. 

The invocation of the Blessed Virgin, and of other 
saints, has given rise to the greatest blasphemy and 
profaiicness. 


The bread in the Eucharist lias beeu worshipped as 
it were the eternal Clod. 

From the doctrine of purgatory has sprung that of 
indulgences, and the practice of persons paying sums of 
money to the Homisli bishops and clergy to release the 
souls of their friends from the fabulous tire of purgatory. 

We append a list of these principal heresies of the 
Church of Horne, and tbe time at which they were in- 
troduced : 

Invocation of saints first taught with authority by a 
Council of Constantinople, A.D. 754. 

L’se of images and relies in religions worship first pub- 
licly affirmed uud sanctioned iu the Council of Xicaea, 
A.D. 787. 

Compulsory relibaqi of the elcrgu first enjoined publicly 
at the lirst Council of Lnternn, A.D. 1123. 

Papal supremacy first publicly asserted by the fourth 
Council of Lateral), A.D. 1215. 

Auricular confession first enjoined by Innocent III, at 
the fourth Council of Lnternn, A.D. 1215. 

Prayers in a foreign tongue first deliberately sanctioned 
by the Council of Trent, A.D. 1562. 

Transulstantiation was first publicly insisted on by the 
fourth Council of Lnternn, A.D. 1215. 

Purgatory and indulgences first set forth hy the Council 
of Florence, A.D. 1 138. 

Judicial absolution authorized by the Council of Trent, 

■ A.D. 1551. 

Apocrypha received as canonical at the Council of Treul, 

■ A.I). 1547. 

| Communion in one kind only, first authoritatively sanc- 
I tioned by the Council of Constance, A.D. 1414. 

The Roman number of the sacraments fiist settled by the 
j Council of Trent, A.D. 1515. 

This system of doctrine will be best understood by a 
reading of the creed of popery as adopted by pope Fius 
IV (q. v.), and published in 15G4. See I’ltoi-Kssio Ft- 
DKi. It embodies the decisions of the Council of Trent. 
Every Homan Catholic is bound by it, and Homisli clli- 
cials swear to it. After repeating the Apostles’ Creed, 
the form of the oath goes on : 

“I mosl firmly admit and embrace apostolical and ec- 
clesiastical traditions, ami all other constitutions and ob- 
servances of the same Church. 1 also admit the sacred 
Scriptures according to the sense which the holy mother 
Church has held and does hold, to whom it belongs to 
judge of the true sense and interpretation of the holy 
Scriptures; nor will I ever take ami interpret them other- 
wise than according to the unanimous consent of the fa- 
thers. I profess, also, that there are truly nnd properly 
seveu sacraments of the new law, instituted by Jesus 
Christ our Lord, and for the salvation of mankind, though 
nil are not necessary for every one— viz., baptism, con- 
firmation, Eucharist, penance, extreme unction, order, 
and matrimony; nnd that they confer grace; and of 
these, baptism, confirmation, aud order cannot be reit- 
erated without sacrilege. 1 also receive and admit the 
ceremonies of the Catholic Church, received and approved 
in the solemn administration of nil the above-said sacra- 
j ments. I receive ami embrace all and every one or the 
things which have been defined and declared in the holy 
Council of Trent concerning original sin and justification. 
I profess likewise that in the mass is offered to Hod a 
true, proper, mid propitiatory sacrifice for the living and 
the dead; and that in the most holy sacrament of the 
Eucharist there is truly, really, and substantially the 
body and blood, logelher with the soul and divinity, of 
our Lord Jesus Christ; and that there is made a conver- 
sion of the whole substance of the bread into the body, 
and of the whole substance of the wine into the blood, 
which conversion the Catholic Church calls tnmsubstaii- 
tiation. I confess, also, that under either kind alone, 
whole and entire, Christ and a true sacrament is received. 
I constantly hold that there is a purgatory, mid that ihe 
souls detained therein are helped by the suffrages of the 
faithful. Likewise that the saints reigning togeilier with 
Christ are to be honored and invocated, that they offer 
prayers to Hod for us, and that their relics are to ho ven- 
craied. I most firmly assert that the images of Christ 
and of the mother of God, ever virgin, ami also of the 
other saints, are to be had and retained, nnd that due 
honor and veneration are to be given to them. ] also 
affirm that the power of indulgences was left by Christ in 
the Church ; and that the use of them is most wholesome 
to Christian people. 1 acknowledge the holy Catholic 
and Apostolic Homan Church, the mother and misitessof 
all churches: and I promise and swear true obedience to 
the Homan bishop, the successor of St. Peter, prince of 
the apostles, and vicar of Jesus Christ. I also profess 
and undoubtedly receive all other things delivered, de- 
fined, and declared hy the sacred canons and general 
councils, nml particularly by the holy Council of Trent; 
and likewise I also condemn, reject, nnd anathematize all 
things contrary thereto, and nil heresies whatsoever, eou- 


POPISH PLOT 415 POPLAR 


demited and anathematized by the Church. This true J 
catholic faith, out of which none cau be saved, which I 
now freely profess and truly hold, I, N., promise, vow, 
and swear most constantly to hold and profess the same 
whole and entire, with God's assistance, to the end of my 
life. Amen.” 

For literature, see Romanism. 

Popish Plot, the name given to an imaginary 
plot oil the part of the Roman Catholics in England 
during the reign of Charles II. the object of which was 
believed to be a general massacre of the Protestants. 
See Oates, Titus. 

Popish View of Christianity. The supporters 
of this view regard the Church as the mediator between 
God and the individual : the Church (by which some 
of them seem to mean “the clergy”) is a sort of char- 
tered corporation, by belonging to or by being at- 
tached to which any given individual acquires certain 
privileges. The opponents of such a view regard it as 
a priestcraft, because it lays the stress not on the rela- 
tions of a man’s heart towards God and Christ, as the 
Gospel does, but on something wholly artificial and for- 
mal — his belonging to a certain so-called Society ; and 
thus, whether the Society be alive or dead, whether it 
really help the man in goodness or not, still it claims to 
step in and interpose itself, as the channel of grace and 
salvation, when it certainly is not the channel of salva- 
tion, because it is visibly and notoriously no sure chan- 
nel of grace. The opponents of the popish views ac- 
knowledge that, where the Church is what it should be, 
it is so great a means of grace that its benefits are of 
the highest value; yet they regard relation to any 
Church as a thing quite subordinate and secondary, the 
salvation of a man’s soul being effected by the change 
in his heart and life wrought by Christ’s Spirit; and 
because all who go straight to Christ (their baptism 
into the communion of the Church being assumed) do 
“ manifestly and visibly receive grace, and have the seal 
of his Spirit, and therefore are certainly heirs of salva- 
tion.” They adopt this view of Christianity because it 
seems “simple and scriptural,” while any other is com- 
plex in its character and human in its source. Accord- 
ing to this view, all seems plain : “ we are not to derive 
our salvation through or from the Church, but to be 
kept or strengthened in the way of salvation by the 
aid or example of our fellow-Christians, who are formed 
into societies for this very reason that they might help 
one another, and not leave each man to fight his own 
fight alone; the Scripture notion of the Church being 
that religious society should help a man to become bet- 
ter and holier, just as civil society helps us in civiliza- 
tion.” See Popery. 

Popkin, John Sneering, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born June 19, 1771, in Boston, Mass. lie 
graduated at Harvard College in 1792, and held the 
office of tutor of Greek from 1795 to 1798. Having en- 
tered the ministry, he was ordained pastor of the 
Federal Street Church, Boston, July 16, 1799, which 
charge he resigned in 1802, and became pastor of the 
First Parish in Newburgh Sept. 19, 180-4. In 1815 he 
was elected professor of Greek in Harvard College, and 
served until 1826, when he accepted the professorship 
of Greek literature. lie resigned it in 1833, and lived 
in retirement until his death, March 2, 1852. Dr. Pop- 
kin published Three Lectures on Liberal Education 
(1836), and a number of occasional sermons. Some of 
his lectures and sermons, with a Life by Prof. Felton, 
were published in 1852. See Sprague, .1 nnals, ii, 434; 
North Amer. Rev. 1875, p. 473; Christian Examiner , 
vol. liii. 

Poplar (nisb, libneh ; Sept. orvpaKivog, in Gen. 
xxx, 37; XevKij, in Hos. iv, 13; Vulg. populus ), the 
rendering of the above-named Hebrew word, which oc- 
curs only in the two places cited. Peeled rods of the 
libneh were put by Jacob before Laban’s ring-streaked 
sheep. This tree is mentioned with the oak and the I 


terebinth, by Hosea, as one under which idolatrous Is- 
rael used to sacrifice. 

Several authorities, Celsius among the number ( Hie - 
rob. i, 292), are in favor of the rendering of the A. V., 
and think the “white poplar” ( Populus alba) is the 
tree denoted. The Hebrew name libneh, being sup- 
posed to be derived from (to be white), has been 
considered identical with the Greek Xsi'kjj, which both 
signifies “white” and also the “white poplar.” This 
poplar is said to be called white, not on account of the 
whiteness of its bark, but of that of the under surface of 
its leaves. It may perhaps be so designated from the 
whiteness of its hairy seeds, which have a remarkable 
appearance wffien the seed-covering first bursts. The 
poplar is certainly common in the countries w'here the 
scenes are laid of the transactions related in the above 
passages of Scripture (comp. Belon, Obs. ii, 106). Itau- 
wolf also mentions the white poplar as abundant about 
Aleppo and Tripoli, and still called by the ancient Ar- 
abic name hanr or hor, which is the word used in the 
Arabic translation of Hosea. 

Others, however, have been of opinion that libneh 
denotes the storax-tree rather than the white poplar. 
Thus, in Gen. xxx, 37, the Sept, has pafidov orvpaKt- 
vi]v , “ a rod of styrax ami the Greek translation of 
the Pentateuch, according to Rosenmiiller, is more an- 
cient and of far greater authority than that of Ilosea. 
So R. Jonah, as translated by Celsius, says of libneh, 
“ Dicitur lingua Arabum Lubna;” and in the Arabic 
translation of Genesis lubne is employed as the repre- 
sentative of the Hebrew libneh. Lubne, both in Arabic 
and in Persian, is the name of a tree, and of the fra- 
grant resin employed for fumigating which exudes from 
it, and which is commonly known by the name of sto- 
rax. This resin was w r ell known to the ancients, and 
is mentioned by Hippocrates and Theophrastus. Dios- 
corides (i, 79) and Pliny (Nat. Hist, xu, 17 and 25) both 
speak of the styrax. Pliny says, “That part of Syria 
which adjoins Judaea above Phoenicia produces storax, 
which is found in the neighborhood of Gabala (Jebeil) 
and Marathus, as also of Casius, a mountain of Seleucia. 
. . . That which comes from the mountain of Amanus, 
in Syria, is highly esteemed for medicinal purposes, and 
even more so by the perfumers.” Dioscorides describes 
several kinds, all of which were obtained from Asia Mi- 
nor; and all that is now imported is believed to be the 
produce of that country. But the tree is cultivated in 
the south of Europe, though it does not there yield any 
storax. It is found in Greece, and is supposed to be a 
native of Asia Minor, whence it extends into Syria, ami 
probably farther south. It is therefore a native of the 
country which was the scene of the transaction related 
in the above passage of Genesis. From the description 
of Dioscorides, and his comparing the leaves of the sty- 
rax to those of the quince, there is no doubt of the same 
tree being intended: especially as in early times, as at 
the present day, it yielded a highly fragrant balsamic 
substance which was esteemed as a medicine, and em- 
ployed in fumigation. From the similarity of the He- 
brew name libneh to the Arabic lubne, ami from the 
Sept, having in Genesis translated the former by styrax , 
it seems most probable that this w r as the tree intended. 
It is capable of yielding white wands as well as the 
poplar; and it is also well qualified to afford complete 
shade under its ample foliage, as in the passage of Hos. 
iv, 13. IVe may also suppose it to have been more par- 
ticularly alluded to from its being a tree yielding in- 
cense. “ They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, 
and burn incense upon the hills, under the terebinth 
and the storax trees, because the shadow thereof is 
good.” 

Storax (aro| 0 «£) is mentioned in Ecclus. xxiv, 15, 
together with other aromatic substances. The modern 
Greek name of the tree, as we learn from Sibthorpc 
(Flor. Grwc. i, 275), is ffrovpdici, and is a common wild 
shrub in Greece and in most parts of the Levant. The 


rOPLICAXI 


416 


porcii 


resin exudes either spontaneously or al ter incision. This 
property, however, it would seem, is only lor the most 
part possessed by trees which grow in a warm country; 
for English specimens, though they dower profusely, do 
not produce the drug. Mr. Daniel Ilaubiiry, who has 
discussed the whole subject of the storax plants with 
much care (see the Pharmaceutical Journal and Trans- 
actions for Eeb. 1857 ), tells ns that a friend of his quite 
failed to obtain any exudation from Styrax officinale, 
by incisions made in the hottest part of the summer of 
1850, on specimens growing in the botanic garden at 
Montpellier. “The experiment was quite unsuccessful; 
neither aqueous sap nor resinous juice flowed from the 
incisions.” Still Mr. llanbury quotes two authorities 
to show' that under certain favorable circumstances the 
tree may exude a fragrant resin even in France and 
Italy. The Styrax officinale is a shrub from nine to 
twelve feet high, with ovate leaves, which are while 
underneath ; the flowers are in racemes, and are white 
or cream-colored. The white appearance agrees with 
the etymology of the Hebrew lihneh . The liquid storax 
of commerce is the product of the Liquidambar Orien- 
tate , Mill, (see a fig. in Mr. Ilanbiirv’s communication), 
an entirely different plant, whose resin was probably un- 
known to the ancients.— Kitto; Smith. See Sr act t;. 



Poplicani, a name applied to the A Ibiycnscs (q.v.). 

Poppaea. Sec Sabina. 

Popoftchins, or Popovshchins, a name given 
to the different sects of Hussian dissenters who recog- 
nise the validity of ordination as given in the Estab- 
lished Church, and receive most of their popes (q.v.), 

i. e. priests, from that communion. The l’opoftchins arc 
divided into live principal sects: the Starobertzi, or Old 
t'eremonialists, the Diaronoftschins, the l’ereinavan- 
oftschins, the Epefanoftschins, and the Tschernaboltsi. 
Those who have no priests at all, or who do not ac- 
knowledge the validity of Church ordination, are termed 
Jtez-Popnfteh ins, or Xo-l’ricstcrs. See Mosheim, A ccles. 
History, vol. iii ; 1 Mat on, Creek Church (see Index). 

Popogano is the name by which the primitive in- 
habitants of Virginia designated hell, which they imag- 
ined Hunting in the air between heaven and earth. 

Poppie, Corny, Pordv-iikao (from Er. poupe — a 
doll, or Eat. puppis — the “poop” of a ship), an archi- 
tectural term designating an elevated ornament often 
used on the tops of the upright ends, or elbows, which 
terminate seats, etc., in churches; they are sometimes 


merely cut into plain fleurs-de-lis or other simple forms, 
with the edges chamfered or slightly hollowed, but are 
frequently carved with leaves, like fmials, and in rich 
work are sculptured into animals and figures, and are 
often extremely elaborate. No examples are known to 
exist of earlier date than the Decorated style, and but 
lew' so early ; of Perpendicular date specimens are to be 
found in very many churches, especially in the cathe- 
drals and old abbey churches.— Parker, Glossary of A r- 
chitecture, s. v, bee Stall; Standard. 



Poppy-head. See Forrir:. 

Populonia, a surname of Juno (q. v.) among the 
ancient Homans, as being the protectress of the whole 
Homan people. 

Por'atha (Ileb. Poratha', prob. Persian, 

perhaps a lot bestowed ; Sept. HapfaSa v. r. <bapac a3"d), 
the fourth named of the ten sons of llaman, slain by the 
Jews in the palace of Ahasuerus (Esth. ix, 8). I1.C. 

473. 

Porch is the rendering in the A. V. of the following 
words : 

1. or -“X, iddm (from 5-“X, before'), a vestibule 
or hall (Sept. arXeip ; Yulg. porticus [1 Citron. xxviii, 
11]; yaoQ ; porticus). It is used of the entranee-hall 
of a building (Ezek. xl, 7, 48); of the place where the 
throne was placed, and where judgment was adminis- 
tered (1 Kings vii, 7 [see Pa lack J) ; and of the veran- 
da surrounding a court (Ezek. xli, 15). It is especially 
applied to the vestibule of the Temple (1 Kings vi. vii ; 
Joel ii. 17). See Tkmtlk. “The porch of the Lord” 
(2 Citron, xv, 8; xxix, 17) seems to stand for the Tem- 
ple itself. 

2. «. misderon, a sort of colonnade or balcony 
with pillars (Jndg. iii, 23); probably a corridor connect- 
ing the principal rooms of the house (Wilkinson, ,4n- 
cient Kyyptians, i, 11). It may have been a sort of ve- 
randa chamber in the works of Solomon, open in front 
and at the sides, but capable of being enclosed with 
awnings or curtains, like that of the royal palace at Is- 
pahan described by Chardin (vii. 38t>, and pi. 30). The 
word is used in the Talmud (Middoth, iii, 7). 

3. Ilr\(5i' (Matt, xxvi, 71), probably the passage 
from the street into the first court of the house, in 
which, in Eastern houses, is the mastubah, or stone 
bench for the porter or persons waiting, and where also 
the master of the house often receives visitors ami trans- 
acts business (bnc, Mod. F.y. 5, 32; Shaw, True. p. 
207). The word rendered “porch” in the parallel pas- 
sage (Mark xiv. 08) is irpoai'Xwi’, the outer court. 
The scene therefore of the denial of our Ix»rd took place 
either in t lmt court or in the passage from it to the 
house-door. See llorsE. 

4. The term orod is used for the colonnade or portico 


PORCH 


417 


PORCH 


of Bethesda, and also for that of the Temple called Sol- 
omon’s porch (John v, 2; x, 23; Acts iii, 11; v, 12). 
Josephus describes the porticos or cloisters which sur- 
rounded the Temple of Solomon, and also the royal por- 
tico {Ant. viii, 3, 9 ; xv, II, 3, 5 ; War, v, 5, 2). These 
porticos are described by Tacitus as forming an impor- 
tant line of defence during the siege {Hist, v, 12). See 
Solomon’s Porch. 

POUCH (Lat. porticus) is the term applied in eccle- 
siastic architecture to the adjunctive erection placed 
over the doorway of a church. In the early ecclesias- 
tical structures, raised after infant baptism became prev- 
alent in the West, and the discipline of the catechumens 
(q. v.) had fallen into desuetude, the narthex (q. v.) was 
given the form of a vestibule, frequently closed, and 
sufficiently capacious to contain a large number of per- 
sons and permit the celebration of different ceremonials. 
This was really what we now' understand by porch. 
Few churches, cathedrals, conventual or parochial, w ere, 
until the middle of the 12th century, unprovided with a 
central porch in front of the principal entrance ; 
but after the 13th century they were not so com- 
mon. 

The earliest porches in the West, dating from 
the 8th to the 11th century, are shallow, and ex- 
tended across the church front, as at Clermont. 

One of the earliest is at St. Font, Perigueux. In 
some cases they were recessed under the tower, as 
at St. Germain-des-Pre's (Paris), Limoges, Poissv, 
of the 9th or 10th century, St. Benet-sur-Loire, 
Moissac, and St. Savin. During the 11th century 
this became the rule; in the 13tli it v'as rare, but 
at a later date it reappeared at Caen, Fribourg, 
and Cranbrook. At St. Savin the porch is defen- 
sible and protected by a ditch, just as the castel- 
lated palace stands in front of the western en- 
trance of Cashel Cathedral. The giant porch of 
Vienna, imposing as it is, is far exceeded by the 
three magnificent Early English porches of Peter- 
borough, which accord with the entire work, while 
those of many of the great French cathedrals are 
mere afterthoughts, noble but accidental addi- 
tions. At Fribourg, Rlieims, and Chartres (1250-80) the 
porches are covered with statuary. 

Towards the close of the 12th century the ceremonies 
performed within them fell into desuetude, and they in 
consequence dwindled into a mere appendage of the 
nave. Then, from the exclusive use of western doors, 
large lateral porches, usually in cathedrals, as at Char- 
tres, Mans, Bayeux, Puy-en-Velay, C’halons-sur-Marne, 
Wells, Salisbury, Lincoln, and Hereford, were built for 
the convenience of worshippers when entering or leav- 
ing the church, for benedictions, and the preliminaries 
of marriages and baptism, and the passage of funerals. 
The monastic churches in towns imitated the arrange- 
ment. These porches were usually closed at the sides, 
as in the Norman examples of Kelso, Selby, Southwell, 
Sherborne, and Malmesbury, although that of Alen^on 
is open. At Hereford the outer porch (cir. 1513) is 
open, but the inner Decorated porch is closed. Until 
the close of the 14th century porches, generally of open 
form, were commonly built. The lateral porch fronted 
the side which faced the more populous portion of the 
city — at Gloucester, Canterbury, Malmesbury, Chester, 
and St. David’s, on the south ; at Durham, Hereford, 
Exeter, Christchurch (Hants), and Selby, on the north. 
At Chichester it is on the south side, opening on the 
cloister to admit processions to the shrine; at West- 
minster (called from its beauty Solomon’s Porch) it 
stood in advance of the north front of the transept ; at 
Lincoln the bishop's porch is in the presbyter}'. There 
are Early English porches at St. Alban’s and Barnack, 
the latter, like All Saints’, Stamford, Albury, and St. 
Mary’s, Nottingham, having external and internal stone 
roofs. At Tewkesbury the vast western arch may have 
formed a gigantic porch. At Lincoln three recessed 
porches exist, as once at St. Alban’s. 

VIII.— D i> 


"Wooden porches occur at all dates, and of these also 
fine examples remain. At Chevington, Suffolk, is a 
wooden porch of Early English date, but much impaired 
by modern work. In the Decorated style wooden 
porches are not unfreqnentlv found; they are of one 
story only in height, sometimes entirely enclosed at the 
sides, and sometimes with about the upper half of their 
height formed of open screen-work; the gables have 
barge-boards, which are almost always feathered, and 
more or less ornamented : good specimens remain at 
Warblington, Hampshire; Horsemonden and Ilrookland, 
Kent; Aldham, Essex; Haseoinbe, Surrey; Northfield, 
Worcestershire, etc. Stone porches of this date have, 
not unusually, a room over them, as they have also in 
the Perpendicular style. Of this last-mentioned style 
there are many wooden porches, which differ but little 
from those of the preceding, except that the upper half 
of the sides is almost always formed of open screen- 
work: examples remain at Halden, Kent; Albury, Sur- 
rev, etc. 



Bicester, Oxfordshire, c. 1420. 

It is common to find porches of all ages consider- 
ably ornamented; those of the Norman style, and per- 
haps also the Early English, have the decorations prin- 
cipally on the inside and about the doorway; those of 
later date are often as much enriched externally as in- 
ternally, and sometimes more so: the room over the 
porch frequently contains a piscina, which shows that 
■ it once contained an altar, and was used as a chapel, 
1 and is sometimes provided with a fireplace, as if it had 


served for a dwelling-room. There are large porches at 
Tours, Pol, St. Leon, and Ulrichsk, and smaller speci- 
mens in several churches at Cologne. English cathe- 
drals and minsters are remarkable for the homeliness 
of their doorways, resembling those of parish churches 
on an enlarged scale. The cathedral, in distinction to 
a minster, in the 12th century, was built with many 
porches and western doors opening directly on the 
I close, as if inviting the entrance of crowds. Noyon, at 
the end of the 13th or beginning of the 14th century, 
is a solitary exception to this rule in possessing large 
porches in advance of its principal front. 

Up to the 6th century children were exposed in the 
porch, and the Council of Arles required those who 
adopted them to place in the priest’s hand a letter of 
contestation with regard to the sex and age of the 
child ; and the Council of Vaison, complaining that the 
children were exposed to dogs, for fear of scandal re- 
quired the priest at the altar to announce on Sundays 
the name of the adopter. Kings and princes were per- 
mitted to be buried in porches by the Council of Nantes 
(658), and interments were forbidden within church 
walls till the 1 2th century. At Ely, as in many ascer- 
tained examples in France, probably the recesses above 
the arcading were used as charnels, fenced in with an 
iron screen; and at Chichester there are still lateral 


POUCH 


418 


PORDAGE 



Great Addington, c. 11S0. 

tombs. Gradually incense was used and litanies were 
chanted in porches. Fonts and basins for the ablutions 
of the faithful before entering the church were erected, 
and exhibitions of relics and sacred images were made. 
Markets were permitted, just as objects of piety arc still 
sold in foreign porches on festival days. Feudal and 
other courts were held. At Sandwich a school was 
taught and books sold, and even, in 1519, pedlers hawked 
their wares at Biccald. Chapters and religious bodies 
appealed to the civil power to put an end to such irreg- 
ularities, and the great abbeys of Clugny, Maulbronn, 
and Citeaux, about the beginning of the 12th century, 
began to erect large enclosed porches iu front of their 
churches. The Clngniacs built large ante-churches of 
two stories, as at Lewes; at Tonrnus, near the close of 
the 11th century. At the latter place they consisted of 
a nave and aisles of thirteen bays, with an upper chapel 
of St. Michael, in which the altar was used for a mass 
attended by penitents. At Clugny in the 13th century 
an altar and pulpit adjoined the church door. Their 
influence is perceptible in the large upper chapel over 
the porch at Puy-en-Volay and Autun,and the tribune 
for an altar at Chute! Montague, Monreale, and Dijon, 
which are said to have been used by women and 
minstrels. In many instances the view into the nave 
was unimpeded. 

The Cistercians built western porches deep and longi- 
tudinal, in imitation of the narthex, according to the 
desire of St. Bernard, at Tonrv, Moutier, Charitc-sur- 
Loirc, Fountains, and Beaulieu. At Vezelay, in the 
13th century, the porch, of two bays in length, forms a 
nave with aisles, lateral galleries, and a tribune for an 
altar over the minster door. Iu many French parish 
churches this plan was followed in order to accommo- 
date mourners at funerals. In England an upper cham- 
ber sometimes occurs over porches, as at Southwell, 
Christchurch (Hants), and in parish churches used as a 
school-room or a chaplains’ or watchers’ dormitory. 1 ’la- 
centia, Parma, and Modena have porches of two stories. 

In the foreign examples pilgrims or penitents were 
marshalled on the ground-floor in order to hear an ad- 
dress from the pulpit, or mass said at the upper altar, 
while those who came from a distance found shelter iu 
these vaulted porches, just as the country people on the 
eves of great festivals pass the night under the porticos 
of St. Fetor’s at Lome. At Paidinzclle, cir. 1 150, there is, 
and at Sherborne there was, a largo parochial ante- 
church. At Glastonbury and Durham the Lady-chapel 
was placed in a similar position. 


It is possible that these outer buildings 
served the same purpose of a place of pre- 
vious assembly, just as the great western 
transept of Ely or Lincoln may have been 
also occupied on occasions when large mul- 
titudes tlocked to the church. In some 
monastic churches it served as the foren- 
sic parlor for conversation with persons in- 
admissible within the inner portions. The 
children of the abbey serfs were baptized 
and the ntliee at which their domestic ser- 
vants and laborers attended was said. In 
all large churches the processions were ar- 
ranged iu the porch on Palm-Sunday, on 
lloly-cross I >ay. and in Bogations. Some- 
times it formed a sanctuary, containing a 
ring in the door to which the fugitive 
clung, as at Durham, and at Cologne there 
was an inscription to this effect, ‘‘litre 
stood the great criminal.” — Walcott, Sa- 
cred Archeology, s. v. ; Parker, Glossary 
of A related ure, s. v. 

Porchet, Joseph, a converted Jew, 
flourished in the 14th century in Spain, 
and by bis learning rendered great service 
to the Church of Christ in that day. lie 
was acquainted with Martini (q. v.), the 
author of Ptigio Fidei, and transcribed a great part of it 
into a work which he himself composed under the title 
of Victoria adrersus Ihbneos ( 1 520), and which is one 
of the ablest polemics of the Christian Church against 
.1 udaism. See M ‘Crie. Hist, of (he It formation in Spain, 
p. GO. 

Porcius l'li STL'S. See Flstls. 

Porcq, Jean ijs, a French Oratorian, was born near 
Boulogne -sur-Mer in 1G36. Professor of theology for 
fifty years at the school founded at Saumur by tlie Ora- 
torians, he was one of the most active adversaries of the 
Janscnists, and published against them I.es Sentiments 
de Saint- A ugustine snr la Grace (Lyons, 1082, 1700, 4to). 
Although he abstains from all personalities, bis adver- 
saries spoke of it with the utmost contempt. Abbe 
Goujct acknowledges Porcq's piety, and says that be 
always carefully avoided anything that was akin to 
sectarianism, but that lm wrote against Jansenism be- 
cause lie considered it wrong. He wrote as a true po- 
lemic against doctrines, and not persons. See Dupin, 
Bill, des Ant. Eccles. du IS i'eme Si'ecle, ii, 385. 

Porcupine. See Bittkkx. 

Pordage, John, an English mystic, who, with Jane 
Leade and Thomas Bromley, founded the so-called 
‘•Philadelphian” society, was born in London in 1008. 
lie studied theology and medicine at Oxford, and be- 
came a curate at Beading; but, after a short pastorate, 
was settled at Bradlield. in Berkshire. From the works 
of Boh me, which Charles 1 bad caused to be published 
in English, Pordage derived the germs of bis strange 
and incoherent mysticism. A time of such sudden 
veering from the extreme of chnreliliness to the mildest 
independentism as was the case under Charles 1 and 
Cromwell is very favorable to sporadic outbursts of fa- 
naticism. Hence, as Pordage was very susceptible in 
this direction, it was not long until lie found himself 
the centre of a group of disciples. The effect of asso- 
ciation was to intensify bis delusion and to brighten his 
imagination. This culminated in a series of t lie wild- 
est prctendcdly supernatural visions. In the night of 
Jan. 3, 1051, lie assumed to have had throe of these, 
l'lie tirst was that of a being with clothes, heard, and 
hat, who drew hack his hed-nirtains, and then myste- 
riously vanished. Hardly had Pordage fallen asleep 
again when he saw a giant with an uprooted tree on 
his shoulder and a sword iu bis band. lie threw the 
tree to the earth, and then liegan to wrestle with Por- 
dage, but was successfully resisted bv the latter with 


PORDENONE 


410 


PORPIIYRIANS 


spiritual weapons. The third vision was that of an im- 
mense dragon, which vomited fire upon him, and left 
him exhausted upon the floor. On occasion of such 
visions a session of the “Philadelphians” was held. 
Those in attendance also now fell into a state of ecstasy, 
and had visions of the heavenly and of the infernal 
world. As these visions continued for a period of three 
weeks, day and night, Pordage affirmed that they could 
not be mere fanatical imaginations, but were a heavenly 
admonition to them to break off from the world, and to 
enter upon a life of complete devotion to God. But 
their meetings called for the intervention of the police. 
The matter was investigated, but led to no other serious 
result than the deposition of Pordage from his priestly 
office. A very venomous book was now written against 
Pordage — Dcemoniuni Meridianum (Lond. 1(555) — by 
one Fowler, a preacher in Reading. Pordage defended 
himself in Innocency Appearing. Thereupon Fowler 
retorted, with fresh accusations, in a new volume (1656). 
Meantime the enthusiasts had gone to London, but, 
driven away by the plague, they returned to Bradfield. 
On the death of Mrs. Pordage, in 1670, they went again 
to London. It was now that, in accordance with a vision 
granted to Jane Leade, the “ Philadelphians” became an 
organized society. The members of the society were 
to live according to the laws of Paradise. Pordage 
opened to the society his own house in London. The 
membership reached near a hundred. Upon these the 
frequent visions of Pordage and Leade exerted a mag- 
netic effect. In the close of 1671 Pordage fell into a 
trance, in which he affirmed that his spirit, breaking 
loose from his soul and body, was translated to the 
mountain of eternity. There he saw heavenly and 
eternal things with direct, naked vision. 

Pordage lays claim to three degrees of revelation : 
(1) Visions placed before the human spirit by the Holy 
Ghost; (2) Illuminations shed directly by the Holy 
Spirit into the immortal part of man, making him to 
see the thoughts of the Spirit; (3) Translations of the 
mortal spirit into the very heart of the Deity, whereby 
it is enabled to behold and read the secret mysteries of 
the Trinity itself. The voluminous writings of Pordage 
contain a very elaborate and fantastic system of mystical 
theology. Throughout he claims to be in harmony with 
the Scriptures; he simply penetrates below the letter, 
and unveils their deeper meaning. Among the curios- 
ities of his teaching are the following: The immortal 
spirits of men have a cylindrical form, and resemble a 
transparent whiff of mist; their movements are as rapid 
as thought; they can traverse mountains, rocks, ocean, 
earth, and have about the size and contour of a human 
body. Angels are sexless, or rather they arc man and 
woman entirely merged into one person — the spirit being 
the male, and the soul the female element. Adam was 
also primarily a man-woman, and bore within himself 
the faculty of procreation. Christian perfection is a 
state of absolute celibacy, in which the soul is married 
to the heavenly sophia. 

The whole system of Pordage claimed to rest upon a 
series of supernatural visions. With the other “ Phila- 
delphians,” he regarded the actual state of the Church 
as one of utter degeneration, and as incapable of refor- 
mation. Even the Quakers he regarded as among the 
antichristian sects. He believed himself called to or- 
ganize and restore the primitive Church. Up to his 
death, Pordage was the most influential of the “ Phila- 
delphians.” When he died, in 1698. the society seemed 
ready to perish. But it lingered awhile, as will be seen 
by reference to the art. Leade, Jane. See the litera- 
ture there quoted. See also Morell, Modern Philosophy , 
p. 213; Mosheim, Eccles. Piet, iii, 481 ; Neal, Hist, of 
the Puritans; Haag, Les Dogmes Chretiennes ; Blackey, 
Hist, of Philosophy , ii, 414. (J. P. L.) 

Pordenone, Giovanni Antonio Licin(i)o Re- 
gili.o da, generally called simply “ II Pordenone ,” an 
Italian painter ot great celebrity, was born at Porde- 
none, in Friuli, in 1484. From the vigor of conception, 


the elevation of mind, and the style of execution which 
distinguish his works, it has been presumed, though it 
is not certain, that he frequented the school of Gior- 
gione. Though on the whole inferior to Titian, he 
presumed to be his rival. Pordenone chiefly excelled 
in fresco, llis composition was very simple, his heads 
rarely speak of deep passion, and his chief excellence 
was color. He -painted flesh with a marvellous soft- 
ness. Ilis portraits were fine, and he frequently rep- 
resented several persons on one canvas. It is difficult 
to see on what qualities his competition with Titian is 
founded; for though Pordenone painted lifelike and rich- 
toned portraits, and grouped his compositions in a spir- 
ited manner, he is not by any means to be compared 
with Titian, of whom he professed himself in such dread 
that he painted with his shield and poniard lying at 
his side. Certainly the saints and virgins of Pordenone, 
which hang in the gallery of Venice beside the works 
of Titian, do not look as if it had cost the latter much 
trouble to distance his competitor. As Pordenone prin- 
cipally painted frescos in North or Upper Italy, he was 
known in Lower Italy only by his tine oil-paintings. 
Ilis most splendid work in oil is the altar-piece of Santa 
Maria dell’ Orto at Venice, representing a San Lorenzo 
Giustiniani surrounded by other Saints, among whom 
are St. John the Baptist and St. Augustine. The frescos 
of Pordenone are spread over the towns and castles of 
Friuli ; some are at Genoa, Mantua, and Venice, but the 
best-preserved are on N.-T. subjects at Piacenza, and 
especially in the cathedral at Cremona. He was highly 
esteemed by the emperor Charles V, who ennobled him. 
Hercules II, duke of Mantua, called him to Mantua to 
paint cartoons for tapestry to be made in Flanders, but 
lie soon afterwards died (in 1539), as it was suspected, 
of poison. We have very few easel pictures by Por- 
denone, and those which are attributed to him in gal- 
leries are oftentimes proved not to be his, or are under 
so much doubt that it is unsafe to risk a list of them. 
The Glory of S. Lorenzo Giustiniani, in the Academy 
of Venice, is one of his finest works. Much has been 
said of The Woman taken in Adultery, in the Berlin 
Museum, but it is so repainted (the heads of the Sav- 
iour and the woman being almost new) that it can do 
little honor to any artist of the 16th century. Several 
of Pordenone’s pictures are in England. In the Nation- 
al Gallery is a colossal figure of A n Apostle. See Mrs. 
Clement, Handbook of Painters, Sculptors, etc., s. v. ; 
Radcliffe, Schools and Masters of Painting, p. 209 sq., 
et al. ; Vasari, Lives of the Painters; Lanzi, History of 
Painting in Italy ; Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the Fine 
A rts, s. v. (J. ii. W.) 

Poree, Charles, a noted French Jesuit, was born 
in 1675. He became a member of the Society of Jesus 
in 1692, and flourished as a trainer of youth all his life, 
and it is presumed that no man ever exceeded him in 
this work. Voltaire says of him that “he was eloquent 
after the style and taste of Seneca, a very beautiful 
poet ; but that his greatest merit consisted in inspiring 
his pupils with the love of learning and virtue.” He 
died in 1741. His writings are of a secular character. 

Forodaklista is a personage of the Persian my- 
thology, the father of the famous hero Eshevand. He 
is to be one of the assistants of Sosiasli, son of Zoroaster, 
in his great work, the resurrection of the dead. 

Porpliyrians was the name given to the Arians in 
an edict of the emperor Constantine issued in the year 
325, the reason stated being that, as they had emulated 
the impiety of Porphyry in their errors, so they ought 
to be named after him (Socrat. Hist. Eccles. i, 6). This 
decree was afterwards quoted as a precedent by Theo- 
dosius the Younger, who ordered that the Nestorians 
should, in a similar manner, be called Simonians. It 
may be doubted whether either name extended much 
beyond the four corners of the edicts in which they were 
given. See Baronius, Annales, ad ann. 325, vol. lxxxiv, 
lxxxv. 


PORPHYRY 


420 


PORPHYRY 


Porphyry ( Uoptfirpiot ;), a celebrated heathen phi- 
losopher, the ablest expounder and defender of Neo- 
Platonism as taught by Plotinus (q. v.), and one of the 
most sagacious and learned antagonists of Christianity 
under the Homan empire, flourished in the secoud half 
of the 3d century. 

Life, — Porphyry was born A. I). 233, Eunapius and 
Suidas (following, no doubt, Porphyry himself, 17/. 
Plot, viii, lt>7) in their biographies call him a Tyrian; 
but both St. Jerome (Prof. Kpist. ad Gal.') and St. 
Chrysostom (1 Jamil. IV in I ad Corinth, p. 58) term 
him BaTuvEionjij, a word on the fancied correction of 
which a good deal of ingenuity has been unnecessarily 
expended; some imagining that it is a corruption of 
some term of reproach (such as fiorainibrijr, herb-eater, 
fit o9a razor, or fiaXartthrijc). The more reasonable 
view is that the word is correct enough, and describes 
more accurately the birthplace of Porphyry— Batanea, ; 
the Bashan of Scripture. To account for his being called | 
a Tyrian some have supposed that he was originally of 
Jewish origin, and having first embraced, and after- I 
wards renounced Christianity, called himself a Tyrian i 
to conceal his real origin, llenmann, making a slight , 
alteration in the text of Chrysostom, supposed that Por- 
phyry falsely assumed the epithet Bara retbzijr, to in- 
duce the belief that he was of Jewish origin, so that his ] 
statements with regard to the Jewish Scriptures might 
have the more weight. None of these conjectures 
seems in any degree probable. The least improbable 
view is that of Jonsius, who is followed by Fabricius, ' 
Brucker, and others, that there was a Tyrian settlement 
in the district of Batanca, and that Porphyry was born 
there, but, from the neighborhood of the more important 
place, called himself, and was called by others, a Tyrian 
( Brucker, Hist. Crit. Phil, ii, 2 10 ; Harless, A d Fabricius 
JJilil. Gr. v, 725). 

The original name of Porphyry was Malchns{N oXyoc , 
the Creek form of the Svro-Phunician J/eM), a word, 
as he himself tells us, which signified king. Ilis father 
bore the same name, and was a man of distinguished I 
family ( Porph. 17/. Idol. c. xvi). Aurelius, in dedicating 
a work to him, styled him B«m\£r£. The more eu- 
phonious name Ilop^iynot; (in allusion to the usual ( 
color of royal robes) was subsequently devised for him 
by his preceptor, Longinus (Eunapius, Porph. p. 13 ; 
►Suidas, s. v.). Suidas states that he lived in the reign 
of Aurelian, and died in that of Diocletian. Eunapius 
says, more explicitly, that he lived in the reigns of C.al- 
lienus, Claudius, Tacitus, Aurelian, and Probus. Por- 
phyry himself tells us that he was thirty years of age 
when he first became the pupil of Plotinus, which was 
in the tenth year of the reign of Callienus (17/. Plot. 
iv, 1(9); the date of his birth was, therefore, A.D. 233. 
Exhibiting in his earliest youth a thirst for knowledge, 
a quickness of mental perception, combined with indica- 
tions of intellectual vigor, his father provided the very 
best instruction for him, especially in philosophy and 
literature. From Porphyry himself, as quoted bv Euse- 
bius (//. E. iii, 19; comp. Proelus, in Tim. i, p. 20), it 
appears that when very young he was placed under the 
instruction of ( trigen. This could not have been, as 
some have imagined, at Alexandria, for about the time 
of the birth of Porphyry Origen quitted Alexandria, 
ami did not return to it. It was most likely at Ciesa- 
rea that Porphyry attended the instructions of Origen. 
Eunapius has been charged with a gross blunder in 
making Origen the fellow-student of Porphyry; but it 
does not seem necessary to suppose that he meant the 
celebrated ( lnirch father of that name. Porphyry next 
removed to Athens, and became the pupil of Apollonius 
(Porph. (Jua-st. Horn. 25), and of the much-celebrated 
Longinus, whose reputation for wisdom and skill in in- 
struction brought him scholars from all parts of the 
then civilized world. Under his tuition he received that 
early moulding which subsequently secured such vigor 
of thought and elegance of style, and the tutor was so 
much pleased with his scholar that he not oulv warmly 


commended him, but applied the name to him by which 
alone posterity has known him. At the age of twenty 
he went to Pome to study under Plotinus (q. v.), but as 
that philosopher was not then teaching. Porphyry re- 
turned to the care of his former preceptor. At the age 
of thirty he went again to Pome, this time in the com- 
pany of Antonins of Phodes, and he now studied philos- 
ophy with the great exponent of Neo- Platonism, and 
with Plotinus’s oldest disciple, Amelius ( 17/. J y lot. c. iv). 
Porphyry remained six years, and became thoroughly 
attached to his master — a man endowed with an ex- 
traordinary understanding and vigorous imagination, 
who as a teacher of the eclectic philosophy capable of fe- 
licitously unfolding the sublime ideas of Plato had ob- 
tained a great reputation. Under such guidance the 
pupil, by nature well endowed for study, and led on by 
his zeal for distinction and acquirements, very soon came 
to be regarded as one of the chief ornaments of the 
school, lie wrote and disputed with great freedom and 
masterly ability. Thus, e. g., when, having some doubts 
respecting a dogma which Plotinus had inculcated, 
Porphyry hesitated not to call the philosopher’s dicta 
in question, and wrote a treatise endeavoring to estab- 
lish in reply bn t£o> zor vov v<f>tozi]Kt zd vot/za, hoping 
to get a rejoinder, which Amelins wrote by request of 
Plotinus. Porphyry, still unsatisfied, again wrote, and 
was once more replied to by Amelius, who this time 
succeeded in pacifying the inquisitive pupil. Porphyry 
now evinced his manliness by a public recantation of 
his erroneous criticisms. This generous action gained 
so thoroughly the approbation and confidence of l’lotinns 
that he was admitted by him to terms of close intimacy, 
and frequently had assigned to him the task of refuting 
opponents, and was besides intrusted with the still 
more difficult and delicate duty of correcting and ar- 
ranging the writings of Plotinus (17/. 77 of. vii, 107; 
xiii, 115; xv, 117; xxiv, 139), So closely did Por- 
phyry apply himself to these studies that his health 
became impaired, and, naturally of hypochondriacal dis- 
position, a cloud, settling into confirmed melancholy, 
was cast over his mind. While in this state he formed 
a resolution of putting an end to his life, hoping by this 
method, according to the Platonic teaching, to release 
the soul from the prison of the body. From this mad 
design, however, he was dissuaded by his master, who 
advised a voyage to Sicily. Complying with this ad- 
vice, Porphyry recovered his bodily vigor and serenity 
of mind, and devoted himself to authorship, lie then 
wrote, according to Eusebius (/list. Jiccles. vi, 19) and 
Jerome ( Fatal . Script. Illust.), his treatise against the 
Christian religion (see below, under Hunts), on which 
account St. Augustine {Retract, ii, 31) styles him Sicu- 
lum ilium cvjus ccleberrima fama est. The notion that 
this work was written in Bitliynia is quite without foun- 
dation, being merely derived from a passage of Lactan- 
tins (v, 2), referring to somebody whose name is not 
mentioned, and who wrote against the Christians, and 
which was supposed by Baronins to refer to Porphyry. 
But the account does not suit him in any respect. It 
was very likely about this period that Porphyry took 
occasion to visit Carthage. That he also went to 
Athens after the death of Plotinus has been inferred 
(by llolstenins) from a passage quoted by Eusebius, 
where, as the text stands, Porphyry is made to speak 
of celebrating the birthday of Plotinus at Athens with 
Longinus. There can be little doubt, however, that the 
reading should be, as Brucker (/. c. p. 14s ) suggests, 
IlXarwi’tia, and that the incident refers to the earlier 
part of the life of Porphyry, otherwise the allusion will 
not accord with the history either of Porphyry or Lon- 
ginus. 

< )f the remainder of the life of Porphyry we know 
very little. According to Eunapius he returned to 
Home, where lie taught, and gave frequent public ex- 
hibitions of his acquirements and talents as a speaker, 
and was held in high honor by the senate and people 
1 till he died. But his mind again lost its balance, for ho 


PORPHYRY 


421 


PORPHYRY 


pretended to be not only a philosopher “endued with 
superior wisdom, but a divine person, favored with su- 
pernatural communications from heaven.” lie avers 
that in the sixty-eighth year of his age (lift Plot. c. 
xxiii) he had a vision of the Supreme Intelligence, the 
God superior to all gods, without an image— the result, 
as Augustine thought, of the agency of evil spirits, but 
more probably an entire fiction, employed to offset the 
supernatural elements of Christianity, or a mere phan- 
tasm of an overwrought brain. When probably at a 
somewhat advanced period of his life, he married Mar- 
cella, the widow of one of his friends, and the mother of 
seven children ( Ad Marc. 1), with the view, as he 
avowed, of superintending their education. About ten 
months after his marriage he had occasion to leave her 
and go on a journey; and to console her during his ab- 
sence he wrote to her an epistle, which is still extant. 
The date of his death cannot be fixed with any exact- 
ness ; it was probably about A.D. 305 or 306. 

His Philosophy . — It appears from the testimony even 
of antagonists, and from what we have left of Porphyry’s 
writings, that he was a man of great abilities and very 
extensive learning. Eusebius speaks of him as one 
tuiv paXiora diatyavuiv icai ttcloi yvoipipojv, icXiog re 
ov fwepov tpiXoaoijiiaQ Trap’ "EXXi)<r tv cnrevijveyptvov 
( Prcep . Ev. iii, 9) ; and Augustine styles him “ hominem 
non mediocri ingenio prreditum” (De Civ. Pei, x, 32; 
comp, xix, 22). The philosophical doctrines of Por- 
phyry were in all essential respects the same as those 
of his master, Plotinus. To that, system he was ardent- 
ly attached, and proved himself one of its most ener- 
getic defenders. His writings were all designed direct- 
ly or indirectly to illustrate, commend, or establish it. 
His rhetorical training, extensive learning, and compar- 
ative clearness of style, no doubt did good service in the 
cause of his school. Thus Eunapius ( Vita Porph. p. 8, 
Boiss) ascribes to Porphyry as his principal merit that by 
his perspicuous and pleasing diction he brought within 
the range of the understanding of all men the doctrine 
of Plotinus, which in the language of its author had 
seemed difficult and obscure. Indeed, Porphyry lays 
himself less claim to originality than to the merit of an 
expositor and defender of the doctrine of Plotinus, which 
he regarded as identical with that of Plato, and sub- 
stantially also with that of Aristotle. Porphyry is, 
nevertheless, charged with inconsistencies and contra- 
dictions; his later views being frequently at variance 
with his earlier ones (Eunapius, Yit.Porjih. fin.; Euse- 
bius, Prcep. Ev. iv, 10; Iambi, ap. Stoboeum, Ed. i, 866). 
The reason of this may probably be found in the vacil- 
lation of his views with respect to theurgy and philoso- 
phy — a vacillation which would doubtless attract the 
greater attention, as it was in opposition to the general 
tendencies of his age and school that he ranked philoso- 
phy higher than the thenrgic superstitions which were 
connected with the popular polytheism. With the lat- 
ter, some features of his doctrines had considerable affin- 
ity. He insisted strongly on the contrast between the 
corporeal and the incorporeal, and the power of the lat- 
ter over the former. The influence of the incorporeal 
was, in his view, unrestricted by the limits of space, and 
independent of the accident of contiguity. When free 
from intermixture with matter, it is omnipresent, and 
its power unlimited. His doctrine with regard to d;e- 
mons.pointed in the same direction. Over both them 
and the souls of the dead power could be obtained by 
enchantments(/)eAis/.ii,38,39,41,43,47). Yet these 
notions seem to have been taken up by him rather in 
deference to the prevalent opinion of his times than as 
forming an essential part of his philosophy. Though at 
first somewhat disposed to favor theurgy, he still ranked 
philosophy above it, considering, with Plothnis, that the 
true method of safety consisted in the purgatibn of the 
soul and the contemplation of the eternal Deity. The 
increasing value set upon theurgy, and the endeavors to 
raise it above philosophy itself, probably produced some- 
thing like a reaction in his mind, and strengthened the I 


doubts which he entertained with regard to the popular 
superstition. These doubts he set forth in a letter to 
the Egyptian prophet Anebos, in a series of questions. 
The distrust there expressed respecting the popular no- 
tions of the gods, divinations, incantations, and other 
theurgic arts, may have been, as Bitter believes ( Gesch . 
der Pkilosophie, iv, 678), the modified opinion of his later 
years, provoked, perhaps, by the progress of that super- 
stition to which at an earlier period he had been less 
opposed. The observation of Augustine is, doubtless, in 
the main correct: “Ut videas etira inter vitium sacri- 
lege curiositatis et philosophise professionem flnetuasse, 
et nunc hanc artem tamquam fallacem, et in ipsa actione 
poriculosam, et legibus prohibitam, cavendam monere, 
nunc autem velut ejus landatoribus cedentem, utilem di- 
cere esse mundane parti anime, non quidem intellec- 
tuali qua rerum intelligibilium pereipiatur veritas, nul- 
las habentium similitiulines corporum, sed spirituali, 
qua rerum corporalium capiantur imagines.” The let- 
ter to Anebos called forth a reply, which is still extant, 
and known under the title ntpi Mt lonipitov, and is the 
production probably of Iamblichus (q. v.). 

So many are the variations of Porphyry in his philo- 
sophic views from those of Plotinus, that Porphyry must 
really be assigned to a class of his own rather than called 
an exponent of Plotinus. Not only did Porphyry popu- 
larize the Neo- Platonism of Plotinus, but he distin- 
guished it by the more practical and religious charac- 
ter which he gave to the system. Understanding the 
power of the Christian religion, which was fast super- 
seding the national creeds, he felt the necessity for an- 
tagonizing it. He therefore undertook to spiritualize 
the old creeds, and to harmonize them with philosophy 
by treating them as symbolic. He perceived the national 
craving for a theology (Farrar, p. 57) which rested on 
some divine authority, or revelation from the world in- 
visible (comp. Augustine’s criticism on him in De Civ. 
Dei, x, c. 9, 11, 26, 28); and hence he drew such a system 
from the real or pretended answers of oracles in his 
7 repi riig tic Xoyttov tjnXoooQiag, of which fragments 
exist in Eusebius and Augustine (Fabricius, Bibl. Gr. 
v, 744). Heathens, it would seem, had consulted oracles 
on this very subject of Christianity; and it is these, the 
genuineness of which may be doubted, that he uses. 

The end of philosophizing, according to Porphyry, is 
the salvation of the soul (?) rrjg ipvxpg ootrripia). The 
cause of evil is to be found in the soul, in its desires after 
the low and base, and not in the body as such (Ad Marc. 
29). The means of deliverance from evil are self-puri- 
fication (icdSapiTic) through asceticism and the philo- 
sophical cognition of God. To divination and theurgical 
initiations Porphyry conceded only a subordinate signif- 
icance; in his later years, especially, he was instant in 
warning his followers against their misuse (see, in par- 
ticular, his epistle to Anebos, the Egyptian priest). He 
acknowledged one absolute, supreme Deity, who is 
to be worshipped with pure words and thoughts (Ad 
Marc. 18). lie also, however, distinguished two classes 
of visible and invisible gods, the former being composed 
of body and soul, and consequently neither eternal nor 
immutable (De Abst. ii, 34, 36, 37-39). He also distin- 
guished between good and evil daemons, and held that 
the latter ought to be appeased, but that it should be 
the object of the philosopher to free himself as much as 
possible from everything placed under the power of evil 
daemons. For that reason, among others, he rejected all 
animal sacrifices (De Abst. ii, 38, 39, 43). The ascetic 
tendency of his philosophy, as connected with his ex- 
alted ideas of the power of reason, which is superior to 
nature and the influence of daemons, conduced to raise 
him above the superstitious tendencies of his age; the 
spirit of the philosopher being, in his view, superior to 
all impressions from without. The object of the philos- 
opher should be to free himself as much as possible 
from all desires of or dependence on that which is ex- 
ternal, such appetites being the most hateful tyrants, 
from which we should be glad to be set free, even with 


PORPHYRY 


422 


PORPHYRY 


the loss of the whole body (.-1 d M arc. 34). We should, 
therefore, restrain our sensual desires as much as possi- 
ble. It was mainly in this point of view that he reject- 
ed all enjoyment of animal food (see Bernays. Tlieosoph . 
Sckr. uber Frommigkcit , mi/ lcrit. u. erkl. Jiemerk. zu 
Porph. Schr, iiber Knthaltsamkcit. p. 4-38). 4 hough 
bad genii have some power over us, yet through absti- 
nence and the steady resistance of all disturbing influ- 
ences we can pursue the good in spite of them. If we 
could abstain from vegetable as well as animal food, he 
thought we should become still more like the gods (lie 
A bo/, iii, 27). It is by means of reason only that we are 
exalted to the supreme God, to whom nothing material 
should be offered, for everything material is unclean 
(De Abst. i, 3'J, 57; ii, 34; Ad M arc. 15). lie distin- 
guishes four degrees of virtues, the lowest being politi- 
cal I'iriue, the virtue of a good man who moderates his 
passions. Superior to this is pur if pint; virtue , which 
completely sets the soul free from affections. Its object 
is to make us resemble God, and by it we become da?- 
monical men or good divmons. In the higher grade, 
when entirely given tip to knowledge and the soul, man 
becomes a god, till at last he lives only to reason, and so 
becomes ihe father of gods, one with the one Supreme 
Being (Sent. 34). Porphyry appears to have taught (in 
his six hooks rrepi fX/jt;) more distinctly than Plotinus 
the doctrine of the emanation of matter from the super- 
sensuous, and proximately from the soul (Procl. in Tim. 
p. 1U9, 133, 189). The doctrine that the world is without 
beginning in time was defended by Porphyry against 
the objections of Atticus and Plutarch (Procl. in Tim. 
p. 119). 

His Attacks ayainsi Christianity . — Porphyry has es- 
pecial interest for us, however, not so much as a philos- 
opher of the New-Platonic school, great as he was as 
such, but as the constructor of a new philosophy, the 
aim of which was not merely speculation and the en- 
chantment of reason, but its acceptance as a national 
creed, and its dethronement of Christianity. When 
made aware that his system could not of itself accom- 
plish all that he desired, he left the apologetic domain, 
and became the most determined of heathen polemics 
the world ever beheld or Christianity ever encountered. 
I.ucian and Celsns, a hundred years earlier, had vainly 
striven to stay the rising fortunes of the Gospel, lie 
now came forward to attempt the death-grapple, and it 
must be confessed that he made a most vigorous effort 
to retrieve a sinking cause, to turn back the tide of new 
ideas, and to reinstate in the minds of the people of the 
Homan empire the principles of ail elfote religious sys- 
tem, of a waning ami insufficient philosophy. As al- 
ready indicated above, Porphyry was a man of remark- 
able powers of mind and of high culture, of a calibre 
altogether above that of Lucian and Celsns. Lneinn, 
though endowed with keen wit, was a careless jester, 
and Celsns, in liis attacks on the Gospel, often reminds 
us of the vulgar gibes and ribald remarks of Thomas 
Paine ; but nothing of this is found in Porphyry. 
Speaking in the name of philosophy, he assumes a dig- 
nity. an elevation of tone, an apparent candor in the 
treatment of his subject, akin to that of the judge, who 
is supposed impartially to survey the whole field of ev- 
idence, and to give weight to no doubtful statements, to 
no specious arguments. Undoubtedly honest in bis con- 
victions and in his attachment to the philosophy of his 
master, lie brought the resources of a great, a cultured 
mind to hear against the more vulnerable points of the 
Christian system, testing it by weapons of the highest 
temper. Porphyry certainly enjoyed a vantage-ground 
in the school of philosophy to which he belonged. Pla- 
tonism, as already suggested, approximated more nearly 
than any of the other philosophic systems of antiquity 
to the elevated teachings of the Gospel. But during 
the past century or two, while Christianity had been 
spreading through the Homan world, this philosophy, 
under the teachings of Plotinus, had been drawing 
nearer to the doctrines of the New Testament, inso- 


much that to a casual observer the two streams of 
thought and speculation seemed likely to unite and 
flow on in a single channel. Like Christianity, Pla- 
tonism opened a spiritual world superior to that of 
sense, and revealed a Supreme Being, if not absolutely 
free, yet capable of giving shape to the visible as the 
architect of the universe. It awakened also in man the 
consciousness of the supernatural, the divine, so that 
man was attracted towards the supreme spiritual exist- 
ence, was permitted to have cognition of fellowship 
with it ; not absorbed on the one band in the depths of 
the infinite spirit, nor sunk on the other into the mate- 
rial. The one radical point of separation between the 
philosophy of the schools and that of the Church seemed 
to he the views of matter entertained by the former — 
that it was eternal, and the scat of evil in opposition to 
God. But even this view was softened as the system 
came in contact with the Gospel. Plotinus held that 
the evil principle is only apparent, and that only the 
good has a substantial and permanent existence. The 
opposers concluded that as the teachings of Christianity 
could not be entirely ignored or disproved, the philo- 
sophical system must be brought upon the same plat- 
form as a rival of the Gospel. 

All former attacks against Christianity bad proved 
futile because the Gospel could claim supernatural ori- 
gin, and demonstrate its claims by the response which 
its teachings found in the depths of the human soul. 
Instead, therefore, of denying the grand ethical and re- 
ligions principles of the evangelical scheme, Porphyry 
sought supernatural surroundings for his own system, 
and then moved in bold attack against the supernatural 
in Christianity, seeking to disprove, not the substance of 
the Gospel teachings, but the records in which that 
substance is delivered — an attack so general in our day 
among the disbelievers of the supernatural claims of 
I Christianity. See H.vnox.\us:u. Porphyry's course 
was in all respects a novel one. Indeed, it was the re- 
verse of that pursued by all other opponents of the new 
religion who bad preceded him. By them the facts, 
the records of the Gospel were acknowledged, but the 
facts were held to be wrong, and to have been produced 
by an unauthorized agency, to have been the Mork of 
magic or charms; now the lapse of a hundred years has 
convinced the enemy that the method of attack afford- 
ing any hope of success is the direct one against the 
authority, the inspiration of the documents of the Gos- 
pel. If by the trenchant knife of criticism these sup- 
ports could he cut away, the system would be left to 
sink down upon a level with philosophy, with all merely 
human sj'stems of speculation. 

Of the nature and merits of the work by Porphyry 
against Christianity it is not easy to judge, as it has not 
come down to us. lie is reputed to have written it about 
the year 270, while in retirement, in Sicily. It was enti- 
tled Kora Xpirrriai’ibv. In A. 1). 435 all the copies extant 
Mere burned by order of the emperor, and its contents 
are only preserved to us in part by the lengthy extracts 
made of it in the numerous refutations which were pub- 
lished by the Christian apologists of the early Church. 
The entire work consisted of fifteen books, but only con- 
cerning five of these is information thus afforded. From 
these we learn that the first book of his work dragged 
to light some of the discrepancies, real or supposed, in 
Scripture. The examination of the dispute between 
Peter and Paul was (putted as an instance of the ad- 
mixture of human ingredients in the body of apostolic 
teaching. His third book was directed to the subject 
of Scripture interpretation, especially, with some incon- 
sistency, against the allegorical or mystical tendency 
which at that time marked the whole Church, and espe- 
cially the Alexandrian fathers. The allegorical method 
coincided with, if it dill not arise from, the Oriental in- 
stinct of symbolism, the natural poetry of the human 
mind. But in the minds of .lews and Christians it had 
been sanctified by its use in the Hebrew religion, and 
had become associated with the apocryphal literature 


PORPHYRY 


423 


PORPHYRY 


of the Jewish Church. It is traceable to a more lim- 
ited extent in the inspired writers of the New Testa- 
ment, and in most of the fathers; but in the school of 
Alexandria it was adopted as a formal system of inter- 
pretation. It is this allegorical system which Porphyry 
attacked, lie assaulted the writings of those who had 
fancifully allegorized the Old Testament in the pious 
desire of finding Christianity in every part of it, in spite 
of historic conditions; and he hastily drew the infer- 
ence, with something like the feeling of doubt which 
rash interpretations of prophecy are in danger of pro- 
ducing at this day, that no consistent sense can be put 
upon the Old Testament. His fourth book was a criti- 
cism on the Mosaic history, and on Jewish antiquities. 
But the most important books in his work were the 
twelfth and thirteenth, which were devoted to an ex- 
amination of the prophecies of Daniel ; and in these he 
detected some of those peculiarities on which modern 
criticism has employed itself, and arrived at the conclu- 
sions in reference to their date revived by the English 
deist Collins in the last century, and by many Herman 
critics in the present. It is well known that half of 
the book of Daniel is historic, half prophetic. Each of 
these parts is distinguished from similar portions of the 
Old Testament by some peculiarities. Porphyry is not | 
recorded as noticing any of those which belong to the ' 
historic part, unless we may conjecture, from his theory 
of the book being originally written in Greek, that he 
detected the presence of those Greek words in Nebu- 
chadnezzar’s edicts which many modern critics have 
contended could not be introduced into Chahliea ante- 
cedently to the Macedonian conquest. The peculiarity 
alleged to belong to the prophetical part is its apoca- 
lyptic tone. It looks, it has been said, historical rather 
than prophetical. Definite events, and these in a dis- 
tinct chain, are predicted with the precision of his- 
torical narrative; -whereas most prophecy is a moral 
sermon, in which general moral predictions are given, 
with specific historic ones interspersed. Nor is this, 
which is shared in a less degree by occasional prophe- 
cies elsewhere, the only peculiarity alleged, but it is af- 
firmed also that the definite character ceases at a par- 
ticular period of the reign of Antiochus Epiphanes, 
down to which the very campaigns of the Seleucid and 
Ttolemaic dynasties are noted, but subsequently to 
which the prophetic tone becomes more vague and in- 
definite. Hence the conjecture has been hazarded that 
it was written in the reign of Antiochus by a Palestin- 
ian Jew, who gathered up the traditions of Daniel’s life 
and wrote the recent history of his country in eloquent 
language in an apocalyptic form, which, after the liter- 
ary fashion of his age, he imputed to an ancient seer, 
Daniel; definite up to the period at which he composed 
it, indefinite as he gazed on the future. It was this pe- 
culiarity, the supposed ceasing of the prophecies in the 
book of Daniel at a definite date, which was noticed by 
Porphyry, and led him to suggest the theory of its au- 
thorship just named. He seems also to have entered 
into some examination of the specific prophecies, for he 
objects to the application of the words “the abomina- 
tion of desolation” to other objects than that which he 
considers its original meaning (see Jerome on Matt, 
xxiv, 15). These remarks will give an idea of the crit- 
ical acuteness of Porphyry. A few other traces of Por- 
phyry’s views remain, which are of less importance, and 
are levelled against parts of the New Testament: e. g. 
the change of purpose in onr blessed Lord (John vii), 
[Jerome, vol. iv, pt. ii, p. 521 {Dial, adv. Pelag.'); Ep. 
(101) ad Pammach. Several are given in Holsten. 

( Vii. Porphyr. p. 86)], the reasons why the Old Econ- 
omy was abrogated if divine [August. Epist. (102, olim 
49, Benedict, ed. 1689), ii, 274, where six questions 
are named, some of which come from Porphyry] ; the 
question what became of the generations which lived 
before Christianity rvas proclaimed, if Christianity was 
the only way of salvation ; objections to the severity of 
Peter in the death of Ananias; and the inscrutable 


mystery of an infinite punishment in requital for finite 
sin (August. Retract, bk. ii, c. 31, vol. i, p. 53, con- 
cerning Matt, vii, 2). His objections are not, it will be 
observed, founded on quibbles like those of Celsns, but 
on instructive literary characteristics, many of which 
are greatly exaggerated or grossly misinterpreted, but 
still are real, and suggest difficulties or inquiries which 
the best modern theological critics have honorably felt 
to demand candid examination and explanation. 

It was by no means an easy matter to reply to such 
a critique as Porphyry adopted, and it may be said that 
he never was answered as he should have been. The 
reply which Origen made to Celsus set aside all the ob- 
jections of the heathen disputant, but the thirty sepa- 
rate replies to Porphyry, among which the best are those 
by Methodius, Eusebius, and Apollinarius, very insuffi- 
ciently solve the intricate and deep problems proposed 
by the most successful exponent of Neo- Platonism. 
That he made a profound impression on the Church is 
seen in the fact that to all Christians his name became 
hateful, odious, the synonym for all that is vile and 
dangerous in unbelief, like that of Turk or Moslem or 
Papist in later ages. When Constantine wished to 
blacken the reputation of the Arians, he only had to at- 
tach to them the epithet of Porpbyrian. That name 
carried in it a Satanic import, a heavj r curse, able to 
I sink to irretrievable infamy any individual or sect who 
bore it. A great deal of discussion has taken place re- 
specting the assertion of Socrates (//. E. iii, 23), that 
in his earlier years Porphyry was a Christian, and that, 
having been treated with indignity by the Christians, 
he apostatized, and revenged himself by writing against 
them. The authority is so slight, and the improbabil- 
ity of the story so great (for it does not appear that any 
of his antagonists charged him with apostasy, unless it 
w r as Eusebius), while it may so easily have arisen from 
the fact that in his early youth Porphyry was instructed 
by Origen, that it may confidently be rejected. An 
able summary of the arguments on both sides is given 
by Brucker (ii, 251. etc.). A doubt has been raised as 
to the identity of the assailant of Christianity with the 
Neo-Platonic philosopher, but it is totally without foun- 
dation. 

Other Works. — Of the very numerous writings of Por- 
phyry the following are extant: 1. IIu$ayopou jiioQ ; 
supposed by many to be a fragment of his larger history 
of philosophers. 2. ntpi nXomVou jSioi; icat rgg ranting 
rwv flifiXiwv avrov. See Plotinus. 3. nepi utto- 
Xpg rwv tpipvxwv, in four books, dedicated to his friend 
and fellow-disciple Firmus Castricius. 4. Fragments of 
his epistle npo£ ’Artflw rov Aiyo-rmov. Large quota- 
tions from this work are made by Eusebius in his Prce- 
paratio Erangelica. 5. npo? rd votjrd capoppai. 6. 
'Opgpuca ZpriipaTa, addressed to Anatolius. 7. nrpi 
rov iv 'O Umoeici tujv N vp<piov dvrpov, a fanciful alle- 
gorical interpretation of the description of the cave of 
the nymphs in the Odyssey , showing both the ingenuity 
and the recklessness with which Porphyry and other 
writers of his stamp pressed writers and authorities of 
all kinds into their service, as holders of the doctrines 
of their school. 8. A fragment from a treatise nepi 
’S.rvyvQ, preserved by Stobieus. 9. EiVaywyi), or IJfpi 
tcov TrivTf iptovwv, addressed to Chrysaorius, and writ- 
ten by Porphyry while in Sicily. It is commonly pre- 
fixed to the Organon of Aristotle. 10. A commentary 
on the Categories of Aristotle, in questions and answers. 
11. Some fragments of a commentary on Aristotle’s 
books rif-pi (pimKyg aKpociatiog. 12. A commentary on 
the Harmonica of Ptolemreus, leaving off at the seventh 
chapter of the second book. 13. lltpi irpooipciag (see 
Villoison, Anecd. Greeca, ii, 103-118). 14. Scholia on 

the Iliad, preserved at Leyden among the books and 
papers of Is. Yossius. A portion of them was published 
by Valckenaer, in an appendix to Ursinus’s Virgil, with 
a copious account of the scholia generally. Other scho- 
lia on the Iliad, preserved in the Vatican library, were 
published by Villoison (Anecd. Grceca, ii, 266, etc.), and 


PORPHYRY 


4 24 


PORST 


in his edition of the Iliad. 15. Portions of a commen- 
tary, apparently on the Ethics of Aristotle, and of one 
on the Organon. 10. Two books on the philosophy of 
Plato were aflirmed to be extant by Gesner. 17. An 
epistle to his wife Marcella. This piece was discovered 
by Angelo .Mai in the Ambrosian library, and published 
at Milan in 1816. The letter is not quite complete, as 
the end of the MS. is mutilated. The contents of it are 
of a general philosophical character, designed to incite 
to the practice of virtue and self-restraint and the study 
of philosophy. The sentiments are a little obscure here 
and there, but many of the maxims and remarks ex- 
hibit great wisdom, and a considerable depth of very 
pure religious feeling. Porphyry considers sorrow to be 
a more wholesome discipline for the mind than pleasures 
(c.7). With great energy and some eloquence he urges 
the cultivation of the soul and the practice of virtue, in 
preference to attention to the body. Jlis views of the 
Deity, of his operations, and the right mode of contem- 
plating and worshipping him, are of a very exalted 
kind, some reminding the reader strongly of passages 
in the Scriptures. The laws under which mail is placed 
he distinguishes into natural, civil, and divine, ami 
marks out their respective provinces with considerable 
beauty and clearness. 18. A poetical fragment, from 
the tenth book of a work entitled Iltpi rgg Ik Xoyiiov 
<pt\ooo<piag , is published at the end of the preceding 
work. lb. An introduction to the Tetrabiblos of Ptole- 
mieus is also attributed by some to Porphyry, by others 
to Antioclius. The iiriropog cn)yijai g tig rag tea? 
'Qpijpov irXdvag too ’(Jcvoariog, the production of 
Nicephorus Gregoras, has also been attributed by some 
to Porphyry. 

Desides these we have mention of the following lost 
works of Porphyry: 20. llepi dyaXpariov (Kuseb. 
Preep. Ev. iii, 7 ; .Stub. Eel. Phys. i, 25). 21. llepi avb- 
lov \pi>x>jg (August. De Cir. Dei, x, 910, etc.). 22. 
Ilqoi rob piav float ti)v HXtlrwroc uai ’AptaroriXovg 
a'iptmv (Suidas, s. v. llop^.). 23. A commentary on 
Aristotle's treatise llepi ippijvtiag (Docthius, ad loc. ii). 
21. Ilpoc ’ApuTTOTtXpv, iripi rob rival rr/v 4wx > ) v 
TtXt'xtiav (Suidas). 25. 'Egi'iyi/mg rwi' Kurpyoptuiv, 
dedicated to Gedalius (Kustath. Ad 11. iii, 293). 26. 

llepi dp\iuv (Suidas). 27. llepi daiopdriov (ibid.). 28. 
llepi rob yvuiSt otuvrbv (ibid.). 29. VpappartKai diro- 
piai (ibid.). 30. A reply to the Apology for Alcibiades 
in the < Symposium of Plato, by Diophaues (Porph. Yit. 
Plot. 15). 31. ’E irtypappara (Kustath.). 32. llepi 

too rip’ iipiv , dedicated to Chrysaorius (Stub. Eel.). 33. 
A treatise against a spurious work attributed to Zoro- 
aster (Porph. Yit. Plot. 16). 34. llepi Se<W dvoparutv 

(Suidas). 35. Ei£ to Ototypaarov irtpi Karaipdatojg 
icai diroipdmujg (Boethius in Arist. De lnterpr.). 36. 
Eig to Bo vkvciCov irpooipiov, irpbg ’AptortiCijv (Sui- 
das). 37. llepi ictm>, irpbg Aoyyivov (Porph. J’iV. Plot. 
20). 38. ‘O itpbg ydpog, a poem composed for the 

birthday of Plato (ibid. 15). 39. Ei<; ti) v rou MouXia- 

vob \a\eaiov QiXoaoipov 'loropiav (Suidas). 40. E ig 
t))v Mti'oiiKearoo reyj'pr (ibid.). 41. 'O irpbg 'Stjptp- 
tio)’ Xuyog (t’yrill. c. Julian, iii, 79, etc.). It appears 
to have been a treatise on the providence of God. 
42. "On i£oj rob vov b<plar>)Kt to vbijpa (Porph. 17/. 
Plot. 18), 43. llepi rpg 'O pi;pov (fnXoooipiag (Suidas). 

44. llepi rip: i£ 'Opijpov ioiptXttag ribv fiaaiXiiov, in 
ten books (ibid.). 45. llepi irapaXtXtippivoji' Tip 
iron)T\ j bvopdriov. This and the iwo preceding were 
probably only parts of a larger work. 16. llepi nor 
k-ard lliviapov rob NeiXoy miyibv (ibid.). 47. Com- 
mentaries on several of the works of Plotinus (Eunap. 
1 it. Porph.). 48. Eu; rbv Xixpior/iv too llXaruii'oi; 
(Boethius, J)c Jtiris. Pr;ef.). 49. ZbppiKra Zi)T>ipuTa, 
in seven books ^Suidas). 50. T« rig too 'Yipatov biro- 
pta'ipaTa, a commentary on the Tima us of Plato (Ma- 
crob. In Somn. Seip. ii, 3; Prod us, In 'Ti mount ). 51. 

llepi rXijt, in six books (Suidas). 52. <l»t\oXoyi>c iaro- 
pia , in live books (ibid.; Kuseb. Prop. Er. x, 3, who 
quotes a passage of some length from the lirst book). 


53. 4>i\6ffo<pog ioropia, in four books, a work on the 
lives and doctrines of philosophers (Socrates, II. E. iii, 
23; Eunap. Pr. p. 10). 54. llepi in five books 

(Suidas; Euseb. Prop. Er. xiv, 10). 55. llepi ribv 

4>v X iig cvvdptmv (Stob. Eclog.). 

See Eusebius, Dem. Eeang. iii, 6; Fabricius, Bill. 
Grae. v, 725, etc.; llolstenius, lJe Yita et Script is Por- 
phyrii; Iiitter, Gesch. d. Philos, iv, 666 sq.; Lardner, 
Credibility of the Gosp. Hist. pt. ii. ch. xxxvii ; Jortin, 
Remarks, ii, 389; Schall', Ch. Hist, i, 190 sq.; Neander, 
Ch. I/ist. i, 170 sq. ; ITlman, in Stud. it. Krit. 1854; Ne- 
ander, Dogmas, i, 85, 202; ii, 467; Donaldson, Greek 
Lit. ch. liii ; Leckv, Hist, of European Morals, i, 344 
sq. ; Degerando, Hist, de la Philos, iii, 383 sq.; Vale- 
rien Parisot. Dissert at io historiea de Porphyria (1845); 
Uobenveg, Hist, of Philos, i, 251 sq.; Mosheim, Ilist. 
of the First Three Centuries, ii, 103 sq. ; Theol. Quar- 
terly , 1865, i, 59; Rerue des Deux Motides, May 15. 1866, 
p. 435; Farrar, Crit. Hist, of Free Thought, p. 56 sq. ; 
Journal of Speculative Philosophy, vol. iii, No. 1, art. 
iii; Fisher, The Beginnings of Christianity (N. Y. 1877, 
8vo), p. 178 sq. ; Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman 
Biog. and Mythol. (of which large use has been 
made). 

Forree, Gilbert de la. See Porretanl 

Porreta, Margareta, one of the numerous victims 
of religious intolerance in the Middle Ages, was born in 
Haiuanlt, and published at Paris a book which, accord- 
ing to the decision of the theologians who examined it, 
contained a number of errors and heresies, “et inter 
cameras (ha*reses) quod anima annihilata in amore con- 
ditoris sine reprehensione conscientite vel remorsu potest 
et debet naturae, qnidqnid appetit et desiderat concedere.” 
These errors the foolish woman refused to retract, and 
as she also scorned the excommunication visited upon 
her by the Inquisition, the Church delivered her up to 
the secular arm for execution. At the stake she is said 
to have changed her mind, and to have died with great 
signs of repentance; but for this we have only the testi- 
mony of the priests who attended her in her last hours 
as her persecutors. 

Porretani, a name for the followers of Gilbert de 
la Pokree, bishop of Poitiers, a metaphysical divine 
of the 12th century, who held opinions respecting the 
personality and the essence of the Iloly Trinity analo- 
gous to those of the Letratheitic or Damianists of the 
6th century. Porretanus attempted to distinguish the 
divine essence from the Deity, and the properties of the 
three divine Persons from the Persons themselves, not 
in reality, but by abstraction. In consequence of these 
distinctions, he denied the incarnation of the divine nat- 
ure, respecting which he ventured to set forth the prop- 
osition, “Quod Diviua n at lira non esset incarnate.” 
Porretanus was accused by two of his clergy of teach- 
ing blasphemy, and at their instigation St. Bernard 
brought the matter before Eugenios III, the pontiff, who 
was then in France. The case was discussed first in the 
Council of Paris in A.I). 1147, and then in the Council 
of Hheims, which was held in the following year. To 
put an end to the contest, Porretanus yielded his own 
judgment to that of the council and the pope. It does 
not appear that any large party was formed by Porreta- 
nus, but some are spoken of under bis name as his fol- 
lowers. See. Gallia Christiana, ii, 1175; Ilarduin, Con- 
cil. VI, ii, 1297 ; Mansi, Coneil. xxi, 712. 

Poist, Johann, a Lutheran minister, was born Dee. 
11, 1668, at Oberkot/.au. not far from Ilof. In 1689 be 
went to Leipsic for the study of theology. In 1695 he 
was appointed pastor at Malchow, near Berlin; in 1704 
he was called to Berlin as preacher at Friedrichswcr- 
der and Dorotheeustadt ; in 1709 he was made court- 
preacher, and in 1712 provost of St. Nicolai, pastor pri- 
marius, and inspector. He died Jan. 9, 1728, having 
occupied since 1717 the position as counsellor of consis- 
tory. Of his many writings, none is so well known as 
his hymn-book, published in 1713, and which is still in 


PORT 


425 


PORTA 


use in some churches at Berlin. See Jocher, Gelekrten- 
Lexikon , s. v.; Winer, Ilandbuch der theolog. Literatur , 
p. 113 and index; Koch, Gesch. des deutscken Kirchen- 
liedes, iv, 297 sq. ; Kurtz, Lehrbuck der Kirchengesck. 
(7th ed.) § 166, 2 ; Staudt, In gottliche Fuhrung (Stuttg. 
1850) ; Bachmann, Zur Geschichte der Berliner Gesang- 
biicker (Berl. 1856) ; id. Die Gesangbiicher Berlin's (ibid. 
1857). (B. P.) 

Port is the rendering in Neh. ii, 13 of the Heb. 
sha'ar, “1SU, elsewhere rendered “gate” (q. v.), as 
twice in the same verse. These gates of the cities, and 
the unoccupied spaces on which they opened, served in all 
Hebrew antiquity for places of public assembling of the 
citizens (comp, the forum, ciyopd, of the Greeks and 
Romans). In the East this is still the custom, the gates 
taking the place of the coffee-houses and other places of 
resort among the Western nations (Gen. xix, 1 ; 1 8am. 
iv, 18; ix, 18; Job xxix, 7; Jer. xxxvii, 7). There the 
people came together in great numbers when any public 
calamity occurred (2 Macc. iii, 19), there the judges 
heard causes and complaints (Dent, xxi, 19 sq.; xxii, 
15 sq.; Isa. xxix, 21; Job xxi, 21; Psa. cxxvii, 5; 
Amos v, 12, 15; Zech. viii, 16; Prov. xxii, 22), and 
there deeds which required legal sanction, especially 
important contracts, were performed (Gen. xxiii, 10, 18; 
Deut. xxv, 7 ; Ruth iv, 1, 11 ; comp, the early Germans, 
Grimm, Deutsche Recktsaltertkiimer, p. 104 sq. ; and see 
Host, Maroklco , p. 239). There princes stood to receive 
homage (2 Sam. xix, 8; but see below), or for public 
discussion of important affairs (1 Kings xxii, 10), and 
markets were held in the vicinity (2 Kings vii, 1 ; Ar- 
vieux, Nachr. v, 186; Rosen m tiller, Morgenl. vi, 272; 
Jacobi, Deforo in partis [Leips. 1714], in Ugolino, Thes. 
vol. xxv). At the gate public announcements were 
made (Jer. xvii, 19; Prov. i, 21; viii, 3). Idolatries, 
too, were sometimes practiced here (2 Kings xxiii, 8), 
just as in Catholic cities altars are placed at the gates. 
On the whole, we must consider the gate, not as a mere 
port or entrance, but as a strong defence, and as con- 
nected with an open place within ; perhaps even with 
benches (Host, Maroklco, ut sup.). They were barred 
with strong bolts and posts [see City], and often built 
over (2 Sam. xviii, 33) with watch-towers (ver. 24 sip). 
Gate-keepers are mentioned, at least in Jerusalem, with 
some political duties and powers (Jer. xxxvii, 13; Neh. 
xiii, 19). On the other hand, in 2 Sam. xv, 2 (and per- 
haps in xix, 8), the allusion is not to a city gate, but to 
that of a palace in the royal city; and in Esth. iii, 2; 
Dan. ii, 49, the word is used, according to a usage still 
customary in the East, for the king’s court ( aula regia, 
in Latin, is a similar synecdoche; comp, also the Ara- 
bic Gate of Rashid for court, in Elmacin, Ilist . Sarac. 
p. 120; see Liideke, Turk. Reich, i, 281). To sit at the 
palace door or gate (Esth. ii, 19, 21 ; iv, 2; v, 9, 13 sq. ; 
vi, 10), among the Persians, was to wait in the hall or 
vestibule of the king. Not only courtiers and attend- 
ants, but even high officers of the government were 
found there (Herod, iii, 20). — Winer. See Door. 

Porta, Baccio della, more generally known as 
Fra Bartolomeo, an Italian monastic of the Dominican 
order, distinguished as a painter of the Florentine school, 
and much noted for his intimate relation to Raffaelle and 
the other Umbrian painters of his time, was born at Sa- 
vignano, not far from Florence, in 1469. He was a pu- 
pil of Cosimo Roselli in Florence, and lived near the gate 
of S. Piero, from which circumstance his name of “ Della 
Porta” was derived. We have no detailed narrative of 
his youthful life, except that he was early brought under 
Roselli’s tuition, where he formed a close friendship with 
Mariotta Albertinelli, his associate student, and showed 
such natural and artistic proclivities towards “sweetness 
and light” that the beauty of his Madonna faces and the 
sunny fervor of his coloring won the approbation even 
of the critical Florentines. He acquired such great 
fame that he was commissioned to execute a fresco of 
The Last Judgment in the convent of S. Marco, about 


the time when Savonarola went to Florence to preach 
against the sinfulness of the city. Bartolomeo became 
the earnest friend of the preacher, and was so carried 
away by his influence that he burned all his studies and 
drawings of profane subjects, and those which repre- 
sented nude figures. He abandoned his art, and spent 
his time in the society of the enthusiast. When, at 
length, Savonarola ■was seized, tortured, and burned, 
Bartolomeo took the vows of a Dominican friar, and left 
his unfinished pictures to be completed by Albertinelli. 
During four years he led a most austere life, never 
touching his pencil. His superior finally commanded 
his practice of the art, and he resumed it with languor 
and entire want of interest. About this time Raffaelle 
arrived in Florence. He was then but twenty-one years 
old, yet was already noted as a great painter. He vis- 
ited the friar’s cell, and the consequence was a deep 
friendship between the two, to which the world owes the 
afterworks of Fra Bartolomeo. Raffaelle instructed his 
monastic friend in perspective, and he in turn gave new 
ideas of drapery to Raffaelle. Fra Bartolomeo was the 
first to employ lay figures in the study of drapery ; he 
also imparted to Raffaelle his mode of coloring. The 
examination of the works of these painters will prove 
that from this time both of them produced more excel- 
lent pictures than they had done before ; the friar had 
caught an intellectual grace from his young friend, and 
Raffaelle had advanced in color and drapery. About 
1508 Fra Bartolomeo was allowed to go to Venice, 
where his coloring was greatly improved, and in 1513 
he went to Rome. This visit was doubtless a deep joy 
to him, but the beauties of what he saw so far exceeded 
his imaginations that he seems to have been stupefied ; 
he made no attempt to equal or excel the artists about 
him, and only commenced two figures of SS. Peter and 
Paul, which Raffaelle finished after his return to Flor- 
ence. When once more in his convent, Bartolomeo 
showed the benefit he had received, and executed some 
of his most important works, among which are a Mar- 
riage of St. Catharine , now hanging in the Louvre, and 
the unfinished Conception of the Uffizi. But it is in his 
later days, when his mind had broadened and strength- 
ened and his touch grown firm, that we find such mas- 
terpieces as the Pieta of the Pitti — the most purely 
beautiful Pieta ever painted ; The Presentation in the 
Temple, at Vienna; and The Madonna della Miseri- 
cordia, now at Lucca, and considered by many as his 
most important work. It had been said that lie could 
do nothing grand : he now painted the St. Mark, which 
is in the Pitti Palace, and is so simply grand as to be 
compared to the remains of Grecian art. He lived only 
four years after going to Rome, and died at a time when 
his powers seemed daily increasing. His character was 
impressed on all his works. When Savonarola was 
seized, Porta hid himself, and vowed that if he escaped 
he would become a monk. This want of courage and 
energy in his nature we must admit; but he was enthu- 
siastic, devout, and loving. His saints and virgins are 
tender, mild, and full of sweet dignity, and if we char- 
acterized his pictures in one word, holiness is what we 
should use, for it is that which they most express. His 
boy-angels were beautifully painted, and his representa- 
tions of architecture were rich and grand. His works 
are rare. The Louvre has two of his pictures, and the 
Berlin Museum one; but he is best studied in Florence, 
where the larger number of his works remain. See Mrs. 
Clement, Handbook of Painters, Sculptors, etc., s. v. ; 
Meehan, Lives of the Most Eminent Painters, etc., of the 
Order of St. Dominic (Dublin, 1852, 2 vols. 12mo), vol. 
ii, ch. i— viii ; Radcliffe, Schools and Masters of Painting 
(N. Y. 1877), p. 120 sq., et al. ; Schlegel, y Esthetic and 
Miscellaneous Notes, p. 7 sq. ; Taine, Travels in Italy 
(Florence and Venice), p. 158 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Porta, Conrad, a Lutheran divine, was born in 
1541 at Osterwick, near Halberstadt. Having completed 
his studies, he was called in 1566 as rector to Osterwick. 
In 1567 he went as conrector to Eisleben ; in 1569 he 


PORTA 


426 


PORTAL 


was made deacon of St. Nicolai; in 1575, pastor of SS. 
Peter and Paul and assessor of t lie consistory, at the 
same time supplying the spiritual wants of the Church 
of the lloly Ghost and lecturing at the Gymnasium. 
When in 157:2 the Flacian controversy took place, he 
sided with the Kisleben theologians against Spangen- 
berg. Porta died in 1 5*5. lie wrote, Pastorale Lu- 
theri (Kisleben, 1582): — Oratio tie assidua lectione 
operum Lut fieri (ibid.), etc. .See Winer, Ilandbuch dir 
tkeoloff. Literatur , ii, 2‘J; Jocher, Gelehrten-Lexikon , s. v. 

(13. p!) 

Porta, Egidio di, a Homan Catholic monastic, 
flourished in the period of the great Reformation move- 
ment of the 10th century, lie had early taken the 
black cowl of the August Lilians, moved thereto, as he 
himself tells us, “under the impulse of a certain relig- 
ious feeling, but not according to knowledge.” For 
seven years he discharged the office of a preacher of the 
Word of God in deep ignorance; then, enlightened by 
the writings of the Swiss reformer Zwingli, which Prov- 
idence had thrown in his way, he imparted the knowl- 
edge of the truth to his brethren of the same convent. 
It is to be. regretted that we can learn nothing of his 
personal history beyond this period. 

Porta, Guglielmo della, an Italian sculptor of 
the lGth century, was a noted follower of Michael An- 
gelo. His most important work was the monument 
to Paul III in the tribune of St. Peter's. Two statues, 
of Peace and Abundance, which formerly made a part 
of this work, are now in the Farnese Palace. 

Porta, Simon, an Italian philosopher of the first 
half of the HJth century, was a pupil of Pomponatius, 
and is celebrated especially as the author of Mui/ia A n- 
turulis (Naples, 1589, and since). In 1512 the Lateral! 
Council condemned both those who taught that the hu- 
man soul was not immortal and those who asserted that 
the soul is one and identical in all men. It condemned 
also the philosophers who affirmed that these opinions, 
although contrary to faith, were philosophically true. 
It enjoined professors of philosophy to refute all heret- 
ical doctrines to which they might allude, and prohib- 
ited the clergy from studying philosophy for a course 
longer than rive years. Indeed, Averroism as early as 
the 13th century had become hostile to the doctrines 
of the Church, and in 1271, and again in 1277, it was 
condemned by Stephen Tempier, archbishop of Paris, 
who caused its principles to be embodied in distinct 
propositions. Among these were the following : “Quod 
sermones theologici sunt fundati in fabulis. Quod nihil 
plus scitur propter scire theologian). Quod labukc et 
falsa sunt in lege ( 'hristiana, sieut et in ali is. Quod lex 
Christiana impedit addisccre. Quod sapientes muudi 
sunt philosophi tnutum.” Notwithstanding the con- 
demnation of the Church, these ideas seemed to have 
taken bold of the philosophical mind of the age, and 
long continued to find favor among teachers and stu- 
dents. Like his preceptor. Pomponatius, Porta wrote, in 
agreement with the Alexandrians on the question of 
immortality, a work entitled De rerum natnralibus prin- 
cijnis , de anima ft mente summa (Flor. 1551). Among 
other works of Porta, we mention J)e humuna mente 
disputatio (1551): — De dolore : — An homo bonus vel 
malus rolensfiat (1551). lie died in 1555. See Uebcr- 
weg, Hist. i>/' Philos, ii, M, -107. 

Porta- Leone (fP-N: “"’i’*;), Ahkaiiah, also 
called Arje Abraham , a Jewish savant, was born in the 
year 1512. He belonged to a family which excelled in 
medical science to such a degree that one of the mem- 
bers of the family was employed as physician in the 
service of king Ferdinand 1 of Naples and duke Ga- 
lea/.zo Maria Sforza of Mailatid. Abraham received 
an excellent education, and attended the lectures at the 
University of Pavia, where lie especially betook himself 
to the study of Aristotle, 1 lippocrates, Galeuus. and the 
Arabic writers, lu the year 1503 he received the doc- 
torate and became a member of the medical college at 


Mantua. lie died in the year 1G12. Porta-Leone takes 
a prominent place in .Jewish literature, as he is the au- 
thor of the Z “ “ * Z 5 n an extensive work on Jew- 

ish antiquities, in which lie minutely treats on the Tem- 
ple and its structure — the holy of holies, the altar, candle- 
stick, table, music, etc. The whole is divided into ninety 
sections, to which is appended a list of ninety-eight 
works, which lie perused for his work, and an essay on 
the use of the Hebrew language, etc. This excellent 
work, which is now very scarce, was first published in 
the year 1G12. A Latin translation, which Wagenseil 
pronounced a “librum optimum,” “antiquitates Juda- 
icas solide cxplicantem,” “librum aureum,” and Me- 
nasseh ben-1 srael as an “ingeniosuin opus,” was pub- 
lished by Ugoliuo in his Thesaurus antiquitatum sa- 
erarum (vol. ix, xi, xiii, xxxii). Iken used Leone’s 
work in his antiquities to a great extent, and he promised 
a translation of the whole, w hich never appeared. See 
Fi'irst, Hibl. Juduica, iii, 114 sq. ; Ue Rossi, Dizionario 
storico der/li Autori Kbrei (German transl.), p. 2G8 sq. ; 
Wolf, Hibl. llebr. i, iii, iv, G3; Jahrbuch fiir (Icschichte 
der Juden ?/. des Judenthums, ii, 345 sq.; Wolf, Studien 
zur dubelfeier der Wiener Uuiversitiit (Wien, 18G5), 
p. 172 ; Debt /.sell and Zunz, Addit. ad Cod. Hibl. Senut. 
(Lips.), xxvii. (13. P.) 

Portable Altars (viatica, rjestatoria, itineraria). 
During the Crusades the bishops and ecclesiastics who 
took part in them carried an “itinerant altar.” The 
portable altar-stone or table was used on uncouseerated 
altars in private chapels. J3edc mentions a consecrated 
table in lieu of an altar. The monks of St. Denis car- 
ried a table of wood, covered with a linen cloth, in 
Charlemagne’s campaign against the Saxons. There 
were examples also of stone, metal, and terra-cotta. 
The reposoir is used in the street to rest the Sacrament 
on in the procession of the Fete Dieu in France. One 
is preserved at Santa Maria, in the portico d’ Campitelli; 
and another, of carved porphyry, at Conques, cir. 110G. 
See Altai:. 

Portable Bells. 1 land-bells were of Celtic origin, 
and were used in Brittany, in St. Patrick's time in Ire- 
land, and in that of St. Selio in Wales. Unlike the small 
altar-bells, which were square, these were hexagonal or 
oval, without clappers, like the original cloc, usually of 
bronze, and sometimes jewelled, being regarded as spe- 
cially sacred, and possessed of miraculous powers, as 
St. Iltyd’s, the bell of Armagh of the close of the 11th 
century, the golden bell of St. Scuniius, St. Ewin’s 
at Monastereven, which was tied with a chain to 
prevent its automatic tlight, and used as an ordeal for 
swearing criminals by the justices of Munster. The 
cloc was cylindrical, and in the 8th, 9th. and 10th cen- 
turies often gemmed. At Caorleon, in Wales, the bangu 
was used at a funeral recently. Hand-bells are pre- 
served at Perros, Guirec, and St. Symphorien’s, Cotes- 
du-Nord. See Bell. 

Portail, Antoine, a French priest noted for his re- 
lation to the “Congregation of Priests of the Mission,” 
which body he joined immediately after their institution 
by Vincent de Paul, nourished in the first halfofthc 17th 
century. Nothing is known of his personal history, but 
he is reputed to have been not only Paul’s first compan- 
ion, but also his most devoted coadjutor. See Jervis, 
Hist, of the Church of France, i, 320 sq. 

Portal (i. e. nrant-portail), an architectural term, 
designates an external canopy raised in front of the 
principal doors of a church by way of shelter, whereas a 
porch is a projecting outwork independent of the door. 
See Poucti. There are fine examples of portals in 
the cathedrals of Rheims, Paris. St. Ouen’s, and Rouen, 
Amiens, Soms, Senlis, and Bourges, Westminster, and 
of smaller dimensions at churches in Salisbury, Lich- 
field. and Verona and other Italian towns. “Penniless 
porch,” the resort of beggars, was the local name of the 
cemetery -gate of Wells. 


PORTER 


PORTAS VESTRAS JETERNALES 427 


Portas vestras aeternales. This is the begin- 
ning of one of the few Ascension hymns which we have 
in the Latin language. “Nothing is poorer,” says 
Trench, “throughout the whole Christian Church than 
the hvmnology of the Ascension. Even the German 
Protestant hymn-book, so incomparably rich in Passion 
ancl Resurrection and Pentecost hymns, is singularly ill- 
furnished with these. . . . The Latin forms no excep- 
tion; it does not possess a single first-rate hymn on the 
Ascension.” This hymn, which strangely enough has 
never found its way into any of the more modern collec- 
tions of Latin hymns, runs thus: 

“Portas vestras Eeternales, 

Triumphiiles, priucipales, 

Angeli, attollite. 

Eja, tollite actutum, 

Venit Doniinus virtutum, 

Rex aeternae glorias.” 

An English translation is given by Benedict in The 
Hymn of Hildebert, etc., p. 81 (N. Y. 1867) ; for the orig- 
inal copy, see Trench, Sacred Latin Poetry , p. 172 sq. 

Portatile Altare is the name of a square portable 
stone framed in wood, at the angles and in the middle 
of which there is a cross, and the cavity of which re- 
ceives the relics. The portatile is consecrated by the 
bishop, and can be used after this ceremony for the pur- 
pose of saying mass in private chapels. See Portable 
Altars. 

Portatives is the technical term applied to candle- 
sticks used in churches and carried by hand. 

Forteous Mob. This tragical incident is intro- 
duced here from its connection with the ecclesiastical 
history of Scotland. Some new custom-taxes were felt 
to be odious and galling in Scotland, and revenue-offi- 
cers were specially obnoxious in some of the seaports. 
Two men, named Wilson and Robertson, who had robbed 
the collector of Pittenweem, in Fife, were apprehended 
and condemned. Some attempts to break out of jail, 
after sentence had been passed upon them, had proved 
abortive. On the Sabbath before the execution the 
criminals, as usual, were taken to church, under custody 
of four soldiers of the city guard, when, as the congrega- 
tion was dismissing, Wilson, laying hold of two of the 
soldiers, one in each hand, and seizing the third with 
his teeth, called on Robertson to run. The latter at once 
knocked down the remaining guard and fled, without 
any one trying to arrest him. The romantic pity of 
Wilson for his junior accomplice, and his successful de- 
liverance of him, created great sympathy for him. At 
his execution, April 14, 1736, the mob became unruly, 
rushed to the scaffold, and cut down the dead man. 
Captain Porteous, of the city guard, who was at that 
time surly and excited, ordered his men to fire — nay, 
fired a musket himself on the crowd. Six or seven per- 
sons were killed by the first volley, and more by the 
second. Some respectable citizens were shot as they 
were looking out from their windows. Captain Porteous 
was tried before the High Court of Justiciary, and con- 
demned to death. Queen Caroline, in the absence of 
George II on the Continent, sent down a reprieve. The 
populace were filled with terrible indignation, and re- 
solved to take the law into their own hands. On Sept. 
7 a crowd assembled under some unknown command, 
secured all the military posts, locked the gates, opened 
the prison, took out captain Porteous, entered a shop, 
brought away a halter, leaving a guinea on the counter 
to pay for it, and hanged him on a dyer’s pole. The 
mob dispersed with perfect order, and did no other vio- 
lence. The riot is enveloped in mystery — no one of the 
parties was ever apprehended. But a bill of great and 
vindictive penalties was prepared, and though shorn of 
many of its original terrors in passing through Parlia- 
ment it contained the enactment that every minister 
in the Church of Scotland was to read a proclamation 
against the rioters from the pulpit, during public worship, 
on the first Sabbath of each month during a whole year. 
If any minister refused, he was, for the first offence, to be 


declared incapable of sitting and voting in any Church 
court, and, for the second, he was pronounced incapa- 
ble of “taking, holding, or enjoying any ecclesiastical 
benefice in Scotland.” The majority of the ministers 
bowed to this edict, some used ludicrous shifts to evade 
it, and only a few pointedly refused. The act was felt 
by many to be a wanton infringement on the rights of 
the Church — a dictation to which none but an Erastian 
community could submit. The Parliament had assumed 
the power of declaring what ministers should do, and 
of inflicting discipline if they should refuse. Compliance 
with the enactment raised commotion in many parishes, 
and aided the spread of the first Secession. The seced- 
ers were accused of disloyalty, because they unanimous- 
ly, and without hesitation, refused to read the edict. 
In Carlyle’s Autobiography will be found a graphic ac- 
count. Carlyle saw the rescue and witnessed the exe- 
cution. — Scott, Heart of Mid-Lothian. 

Porter. This word, when used in the A. V., does 
not bear its modern signification of a carrier of burdens, 
but denotes in every case a gate-keeper, from the Latin 
portarius, the man who attended to the porta. In the 
original the word is "ISH'j or shoer, from “1513, 

shdar, a gate ; once (Ezra vii, 24) Chald. r'lpl, tar a', 
the same (Sept. Bvpojpog and irvXwpog ; Vulg. porta- 
rius and janitor). This meaning is evidently implied 
in 1 Chron. ix, 21 ; 2 Chron. xxiii, 19; xxxv, 15; John 
x, 3. It is generally employed in reference to the Le- 
vites who had charge of the entrances to the sanctuary, 
but is used also in other connections in 2 Sam. xviii, 26: 
2 Kings vii, 10, 11 ; Mark xiii, 34; John x, 3; xviii, 16, 
17. In two passages (1 Chron. xv, 23, 24) the Hebrew 
word is rendered “doorkeeper,” and in John xviii, 16, 
17, y) Svj oajpog is “she that kept the door.” Thus, in 2 
Kings vii, 10, 11, and 2 Sam. xviii, 26, we meet with 
the porter at the gates of a town. In the palace of the 
high-priest (John xviii, 17) the porter was a female, y) 
nadiaicr], y) SvpwpoQ. See also Acts xii, 13. A porter 
seems to have been usually stationed at the doors of 
sheepfolds (John x, 3). According to Stier and others, 
this Svpwpog corresponds to the Holy Spirit , who opens 
the way for the true ministers of Christ. See Door. 

The porters of the Temple, who were guards as well 
as porters, were very numerous in David’s time; for in 
1 Chron. xxiii, 5 no less than 4000 are mentioned. 
They were divided into courses (1 Chron. xxvi, 1-19), 
and had their post assigned them by lot (ver. 13). Be- 
sides attending to the gates and keeping order there, 
they seem, as Lightfoot says, to have had charge of 
certain treasures (ver. 15, comp, with 2 Chron. xxv, 24, 
and Lightfoot’s Prospect of the Temple, c. v, § 6). Prop- 
erly speaking, their office was in some respects military: 
they were the soldiers of Jehovah, and the guards of his 
Temple. The stations that were guarded were not all 
occupied by the same number — some being guarded by 
six, some by fouT, and others by two persons only. 

1 They were relieved every Sabbath-day bv others who 
took their places (2 Kings xi, 5; 1 Chron. ix, 17-29; 
xvi, 42; 2 Chron. viii, 14; xxiii. 4; xxxi, 14; xxxv, 
15). Their service was required by night as well as by 
day, and a man called “the Man of the Mountain of 
the House” went round every night to see that all were 
in their places, and that none of them slept. If he 
found any one asleep he struck him, and had liberty to 
burn his clothes. To this Lightfoot thinks there is a 
reference in Rev. xv, 16: “ Blessed is he that watcheth 
and keepeth his garments” ( Temple Se?’vice, c. vii, § 1). 
See Temple. 

Porter, David, D.D., a Congregational minister 
of some note, was a native of Hebron, Conn., where he 
was bom May 27, 1761. He was educated at Dartmouth 
College, class of 1784, and, having been duly ordained, 
became pastor of the Congregational Church at Spcncer- 
town, N. Y., in 1787. In 1803 he removed to Catskill, 
N. Y., as pastor of the Presbyterian Church, and retained 
his relation to this Church until 1831. He died in that 


PORTER 


428 


PORTER 


place Jan. 7. 1851. lie served nearly a year in the 
Revolutionary army. lie published Dissertation on 
Baptism (1809), and some Sermons, lie was, after his 
dissolution of the pastorate, the agent of several benevo- 
lent societies, member of the American Hoard of Com- 
missioners fur Foreign Missions, and, though eccentric, 
a man of great influence. See Sprague, Annals of the 
A mer. l'ulpit , iii, 49G-5UG. 

Porter, Ebenezer, D.I)., an eminent Congrega- 
tional minister, was born Oct. 5, 1772, in Cornwall, 
Conn. Alter graduating at Dartmouth College in 1792, 
he taught school some months ; then studied divinity, 
and entered the ministry in 1794, and was ordained pas- 
tor at Washington, Conn., Sept. G, 179G, where he re- 
mained until April 1, 1812, when, his health becoming 
impaired, he removed to Andover to take the Bart let 
professorship of pulpit eloquence in the theological sem- 
inary. In 1817 he was chosen professor of divinity in 
Yale College, but did not accept, and during the same 
year refused successively the presidency of Hamilton 
College, of Middlebury College, and of the University 
of Ceorgia. In 1827 he was made president of the sem- 
inary, and held that office until his death, April 8, 1834. 
As a theological instructor, Dr. l’orter had few equals, 
lie was remarkably well endowed for the training of 
young men intended for the holy ministry. Thus Dr. 
Dewey writes: “A friend of mine attended service in 
the (Andover) seminary one morning some years after 
I left it, and heard one of Dr. Porter's grand discourses; 
and, as the audience was leaving the chapel, professor 
Stuart in his deep tone said, ‘This is the majesty of the 
Cospel.’ It was indeed the majesty of the Oospel !” Dr. 
Porter published, The Young Preacher's Manual (1819; 
2d ed. 1829): — .1 Lecture on the A nalysis of Vocal In- 
flections (1824): — .4 m A na lysis of the Principles of 
Rhetorical Delivery as applied in Reading and Speaking 
(1827): — The Rhetorical Reader (1831): — Lectures on 
Revivals of Religion (1832) : — A Lecture on the Cultiva- 
tion of Spiritual llabits and Progress in Study (1833) : 
—Lectures on Homiletics , Preaching, and Public Prayer 
(1831): — and a large number of occasional Sermons. 
{Since his death The Biblical Reader and Lectures on 
Eloquence and Style have also been published. Dr. 
Porter was a contributor to the Quarterly Register , and 
the translator of many sacred Herman poems. See 
notices of this excellent man and eloquent preacher in 
Sprague, Annals of the American Pulpit, ii, 351 ; Rev. 
Lyman Matthews, Memoir of E. Porter, D. IK (Boston, 
1837, 12mo); Amer. Quar. Reg. ix, 1; Christ. Month. 
Spec, i, 79 ; Lit. and Theolog. Rev. v, 101 (by \V. Lord) ; 
Meth. Rev. liii, 191 ; Ware, Biogr. of Unitarians, vol. i. 
(J. II. W.) 

Porter, Eliplialet, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter of Unitarian tendency, was born at North Bridge- 
water, Mass., June 11, 1758. lie was educated at Har- 
vard University, class of 1779, and, after studying 
theology with his father, Rev. John Porter, minister 
of North Bridgewater from 1740 till 1802, he was or- 
dained Oct. 2, 1782, over the Congregational Society 
of Roxbury, and there continued lifty-one years. In 
1830 the Rev. tleorge Putnam was settled with him 
as colleague, lie died in that place Dec. 7, 1833. lie 
was a member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences, 
lie published a Eulogy of Washington (1800), and nine 
single Sermons. See Sprague, A nnals of the .1 merican 
Pulpit, viii, 157. 

Porter, George D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Juniata Co., Pa., March 1, 1805. He was edu- 
cated for the medical profession, but subsequently felt 
called to the ministry. He graduated at the Western 
Theological Seminary at Alleghany, Pa., was licensed 
in 1832, and for a time preached in Monougahela City. 
Pa., but afterwards removed to Ncwburg and Roxbury. 
Pa., and was ordained by Huntingdon Presbytery in 
Nov., 1833. When the questions which led to the dis- 
ruption of the Church came up, he took a lively inter- 


est in the controversy, having a fondness for discussion, 
lie subsequently became pastor of Centre and Upper 
Miller st own churches; in 1851 he removed to the West, 
and engaged in the great missionary work there, locat- 
ing at Tipton, Iowa, which, together with the Church 
at Red Oak, adjoining, constituted his charge for nearly 
eight years. From this he moved to Crow Meadow 
Church, 111., where he labored for four years, after which 
he returned to his former home in Tipton. For two 
years he now gave attention to his farm, and preached 
as an occasional supply; and in 18GG he arranged to 
supply statedly the churches of Blairstown and West 
Irving, where he labored more than his strength would 
justify, and died Dec. 17, 18G7. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac, 18G8, p. 133. (J. L. S.) 

Porter, Huntington, D.I)., a Presbyterian min- 
ister of some note, was horn in 1755, and was educated 
at Yale College. After having completed his theolog- 
ical studies, he was made minister at Rye, New Hamp- 
shire, from which place he removed to Lynn, Mass., 
where he died in 1844. lie published, Century, a ser- 
mon (1802): — Funeral, a sermon: — A ’em- Year, a ser- 
mon : — Sickness, a sermon (1803). 

Porter, James C., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Abbeville District, S. C., iu 1809. He was edu- 
cated in Jefferson College, Canonsbnrg, Pa., studied the- 
ology for some time with his father, and then finished 
his course in the Alleghany Associate Reformed Semi- 
nary. In 1834 he was licensed, and in 1835 was or- 
dained and installed by Ohio First Associate Reformed 
Presbytery as pastor of the Church at Piqua, Ohio. In 
1841 he removed to Illinois, and took charge of the con- 
gregations of Cedar and Pope Creek, in Mercer Co., 111. ; 
in 1850 he surrendered his charge of the congregation 
of Pope Creek, and his labors were confined to the con- 
gregation of Cedar Creek till the year 18G2, when he 
resigned on account of ill-health. He died Nov. 15, 
18G3. See Wilson. Presb. Hist. Almanac, 18GG, p. 278. 
(J. L. S.) 

Porter, John, a Congregational minister, father of 
Dr. Kliphalet Porter, was born about 171G, and was ed- 
ucated at Yale College. He was first minister of North 
Bridgewater, Mass., until his death, in 1802. He pub- 
lished, Sermon (ordination of S. Brett): — Sermon on 
Justification (1794): — Reply to Mr. Bryant's Remarks 
on Sermon on Justification (1751). 

Porter, Lemuel, D.D., a Baptist minister, was 
born near the beginning of our century. His ministry 
extended over a period of thirty years, and included a 
long and successful pastorate at Lowell, Mass., and sub- 
sequently at Pittsfield, in the same state. He was a 
man of line culture, an excellent preacher, and the au- 
thor of several religious works. A short time previous 
. to his death he was appointed associate secretary of the 
Western Department of the American Tract {Society, ami 
during the brief period which he served in that capac- 
ity won the esteem of all with whom he was brought 
in contact. He died at Chicago, 111., Oct. 17, 18G4. {See 
Appleton’s Am. Cyclop, iv, G20. 

Porter, Nathaniel (1), D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born Jan. 14, 1745, atTopsfield, Mass, lie 
graduated at Harvard College in 17G8, and was ordained 
pastor in New Durham, N. II., Sept. 8, 1773. In 177G 
lie was chaplain to Col. J. Wingate’s regiment, in which 
he served six months. Leaving Durham on account of 
inadequate support, lie became pastor in Conway Oct. 
29, 1778, which charge he gave up in 1814, and died 
Nov. 11, 1837. lie published .4/1 Address at the Open- 
ing of an Academy at Ergeburg (180G), and a few occa- 
sional Sermons. See Sprague, .4 minis of the A merican 
Pulpit, ii, 53. 

Porter, Nathaniel (2), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Worcester, Mass., A.D. 
1800. lie studied at the Wesleyan Seminary in New 
York, and in 1823 was admitted to the New York An- 


PORTER 


429 


PORTEUS 


nual Conference, from which time till his death, in 1832, 
lie labored in that and other fields, chietiy in the Middle 
States. For two years of this time he was principal 
of tlie'aeademy at Cazenovia, giving great satisfaction. 
Mr. Porter was an excellent preacher, and a zealous 
and consistent Christian. See Minutes of Conferences , 
ii, 161. 

Porter, Samuel, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Ireland in 1760, came to this country in 1790, and ac- 
cepted a pastorate at Poke Pun in 1 < 90, and in 1/98 at 
Congruity, Pennsylvania. He published several Ser- 
mons (1793, 1805, 1811), which were reprinted with two 
Dialogues in 1853, with a biographical sketch of the au- 
thor by Rev. David Elliott, D.D. He was also contrib- 
utor to several periodicals. See Sprague, Annals of the 
A mer. Pulpit , iii, 539-550. 

Porter, Thomas, an English dissenting divine, 
flourished in the second half of the last century. 
Scarcely anything is known of his personal history. 
He published, A Defence of Unitarianism ; intended as 
an Answer to Dr. Hawker on his Reply (1793, 8vo) : — 
Serious Thoughts on the Birth of a Child (1805). 

Porter, Walter, an English musician of some 
note, flourished in the first half of the 17th century as 
gentleman of the Chapel Royal of Charles I, and master 
of the choristers of Westminster. He was killed dur- 
ing the civil war. lie published, Madrigals and Aires 
(Lond. 1682) : — Aires and Madrigals (1639). 

Porter, William Henry, an American divine 
of some note, was born at Rye, New Hampshire, in 
1817, and was educated at Yale College, class of 1841. 
After having studied theology he became pastor of the 
Presbyterian Church at Litchfield, N. J., in 1845. In 
1851 he united with the Swedenborgians, and took a 
pastorate at Boston, Mass. He died at Roxbury, Mass., 
in 1861. He published, Common and Scriptural Prov- 
erbs Compared (Dost. 1 845, 12mo) : — The Heavenly Union , 
or New Jerusalem on Earth (1850, 12mo). 

Portesse, Portasse, Porteus, or Portifori- 
um, are technical terms applied to the Breviary , or a 
portable book of prayer used in the Church of Rome, 
and containing the mass and the other parts of the 
Church service to be said through the year at canonical 
hours, with the exception of the marriage service. The 
terms are derived from the Latin portiforium ( a portan - 
do foras ), through the French porte-hors, hence portasse, 
portas. The foreign breviaries were divided according 
to the four seasons, but in England into winter and sum- 
mer parts. 

Porteus, Beilbv, an eminent English prelate, was 
born at York in 1781. lie passed several years at a 
small school in his native city, and at the age of thir- 
teen was sent to a school at Ripon, and entered at an 
earlier age than usual Cambridge University, where he 
was admitted a sizar of Christ’s College. Ilis personal 
worth, united with his superior attainments, both clas- 
sical and mathematical, soon procured for him a fellow- 
ship in his college, and by the exertions of his friends he 
was made esquire-beadle of the university. This office 
he did not long retain, but chose rather to give his un- 
divided attention to private pupils. In 1757, at the age 
of twenty-six, he was ordained deacon, and soon after 
priest; and only a little while later was appointed lect- 
urer at Whitehall. He first became known as a writer 
by obtaining Seaton’s prize for the best English poem 
on a sacred subject. On this occasion the topic was 
“ Death,” and the production of Mr. I’orteus was univer- 
sally regarded as one of great merit. In 1761 his fame 
was still further increased by a sermon which he preached 
before his alma mater on the character of David, king 
of Israel. Archbishop Seeker was so much pleased with 
Porteus that he made him in 1762 his chaplain. Porteus’s 
first preferments were two small livings in Kent, which 
he held a while and then took the rectory of Hunton in 
the same county. Hunton was his favorite residence. lie 


delighted in the quiet of that rural retirement, and still 
more in exercising the duties of the ministry among its 
simple and attached people. He was most indefatiga- 
ble in performing all the duties of the parish — preached 
in some district of it daily; and by his pastoral visits to 
the poor, as well as to the rich, secured the affections 
and esteem of all his parishioners. Ilis high character 
for propriety and talents brought him into general no- 
tice, and he was soon appointed prebendary of Peter- 
borough, and not long afterwards, in 1767, he became 
rector of Lambeth. In the same year lie took the de- 
gree of D.D. at Cambridge, and in 1769 was made chap- 
lain to king George III, and master of the hospital of 
St. Cross, near Winchester. In 1773 Dr. Porteus, with 
a few other clergymen, joined in an unavailing applica- 
tion to the bishops, requesting that they would review 
the Liturgy and Articles for the purpose of making some 
slight alterations. In 1776 Dr. Porteus, without any so- 
licitation on his part, was made bishop of Chester; and 
in 1787, on the death of bishop Lowth, he was promoted 
to the diocese of London, over which he presided till his 
death. This appointment, with the new duties to which 
it called his attention, put a temporary stop to the im- 
mediate prosecution of several important undertakings 
he had contemplated; but they were resumed shortly 
after. The first of these was the publication of his ex- 
cellent Summary of the Principal Evidences of the Truth 
and Divine Origin of the Christian Revelation , designed 
chiefly for the instruction of young persons. Besides, 
as a member of the Legislature, he pursued a long-formed 
plan for improving the condition of the negro slaves in 
the West Indian islands, and particularly for their in- 
struction in religions knowledge. He was for many 
years one of the vice-presidents of the British and For- 
eign Bible Society, and took a lively interest, as well 
as an active part, in the Society for Promoting Christian 
Knowledge. In short, his public influence, as well as 
private patronage, were constantly exerted in devising 
or supporting measures for the diffusion of pure and un- 
defiled religion. In 1798 he began a course of lectures 
on St. Matthew’s Gospel, which he delivered at St. 
James’s Church on the Fridays in Lent. These lect- 
ures, which he afterwards published, have been per- 
haps the most popular of all his works. He died May 
14, 1808. Though bishop Porteus cannot be called a 
profound scholar or divine, he was a man of consider- 
able learning and ability; and he pursued through life 
a steady course of pious exertion for the benefit of his 
fellow-creatures, which procured him a high reputation 
among men of all parties, lie was a prelate of liberal 
and enlarged views, one proof of which maybe adduced 
in the fact that when a bill was introduced into Parlia- 
ment for the relief of dissenting ministers and school- 
masters, he pronounced it “ a measure no less consonant 
to the principles of sound policy than to the genuine 
spirit of the Gospel.” He was in private life distin- 
guished by a cheerful disposition, affable manners, great 
benevolence, and deep and unaffected piety. As a 
preacher, few in his day surpassed him either in elo- 
quence or pathos. He is conspicuous for sound judg- 
ment, solid argument, great knowledge of the human 
heart, accurate observation of the world, an unshrinking 
reprobation of vice, the most persuasive exhortations to 
piety, and an unqualified avowal of all the essential, 
fundamental truths and doctrines of the Gospel. His 
works, consisting of sermons and tracts, with a Life of 
Archbishop Seeker, and the poems and lectures already 
mentioned, were collected and published, w r ith his Life, 
making another volume, by his nephew, the Rev. Rob- 
ert Hodgson, aftenvards dean of Carlisle (1811, 6 vols. 
8vo, and often). There are a few T letters, sermons, etc., 
not included in this collection (see Darling, Cyclop. 
Bibliogr. i, 2425). Besides Hodgson’s Life of Bishop 
Porteus (also published separately, 1810, 8vo), see 
Churchman's Magazine, vol. viii; Jones, Christum Biogr. 
s. v. ; Perry, Ch . Hist, of Engl, iii, 428, 476; Clissold, 
Lamps of the Church, p. 69 sq.; Chambers, Cyclop. Engl. 


PORTIIAISE 


430 


PORTIFOIUUM 


Lit. ii, 654; Lornl. Quar. Review , March, 1812, p. 34- 
38; British Critic, 1811; North American Review , x, 
41, 396; Mathias, Pursuits of Literature (ed. 1812), 
p. 270 sq. 



Fortliaise, Jeax, a French Franciscan monk of 
the 16th century, noted for his decided polemics 
against Protestantism, was bom at Saint-Dcnis-de-C.a- 
tines, near the beginning of that tera. In 1564 we lind 
him in the monastery of Sables d’Olonne, where he 
probably made his profession, lie was more than once 
conspicuous by the vehemence of his speeches and the 
extravagance of his conduct. A certain Jean Tri- 
oche, minister of the Heformed Church at Chateauneuf, 
near Sable, in Anjou, had distinguished himself by his 
preaching. I’orthaise, as soon as informed of it, went 
to a place where he might meet his adversary; but 
Jean Trioclie failed to put in an appearance. Por- 
thaise forthwith drew' up a list of questions, to which he 
requested the Calvinist minister to reply. The answers 
came two months afterwards. Fortbaise’s rejoinder to 
these declarations of his adversary are extant. At- 
tached to the Church of Tours in 1566, Fortliaise was 
meditating a great enterprise; it was nothing loss than 
an assault upon heresy in the very stronghold of its 
power. For this purpose he repaired to the Nether- 
lands, and hurled from several pulpits the most virulent 
imprecations against the doctrines and practices of the 
ministers. Hut his success was not equal to his cour- 
age ; he returned to Tours in 1568. 1 1 is enemies quoted 
this amusing passage from one of his sermons. “ \Ye 
hear with sorrow that there are people abandoned 
enough to commit adultery while they have in their 
houses wives so good-looking that we, for our part, 
should be quite contented with them.” In 1582 a dif- 
ference arose between the general of the Franciscans 
and the monks of the monastery of Paris on account 
of the election of the brother guardian. Fortliaise had 
been appointed by the general to preside at this elec- 
tion; but his powers had been recognised neither by 
the king nor by the superior of the monastery; thus, in 
the absence of the commissary -president, the monks 
chose a certain T. Duret. The nuncio of the pope ex- 
pressed his dissatisfaction, but the Parliament supported 
the Franciscans of Faris. Their superior was suspend- 
ed. At last the general of the order came to Paris to 
conclude a compromise. Hut Fortliaise continued in 
his violent protestations. lie was summoned before 
Parliament, lint did not appear. Summoned a second 
time, he appeared, only to inveigh against the court. 
He w f as ordered to leave Faris. Nevertheless he was 


in the ensuing year elected provincial of his order. In 
1594 he was theological instructor at Poitiers. 1 Ie mixed 
in the disorders of the League, which conduct he expiated 
subsequently by public penance. After the rendition 
of Paris he went to Saumur, solicited from Duplessis- 
Mornav the pardon of his past errors, and obtained per- 
mission to celebrate in the church of St. Peter the vir- 
tues of the king against whom lie had uttered such 
violent imprecations. He left, Les Calkcliques, Demon- 
strations sur certains Discours de la ltoctrine ecclesias- 
tique (Faris, 1567, 8vo ) : — De I 'erhis Domini: “ Hoc Jucite 
in meant commemoration! in" (Antwerp, 1567, 8vo), a 
pamphlet on the Lord’s Supper :—Chretienne Declaration 
de I'F.glise et de V Kucharistie (ibid. 1567, 8vo ): — De la 
Vault e et I V rite de la vraie et fausse Astrologie contre 
les Abuseurs de notre Steele (Poitiers, 1578): — Defense 
it la Reponse fuite aux Interdits de Bernard de Pardieu 
par les J finis! res de la Religion pretendue nformee 
(ibid. 8vo ) : — De V Imitation do l' Fuehurislie (ibid. 1602, 
8vo ) : — Paraseve gene rale a Veract Kxamen de V In- 
stitution de V Kucharistie (ibid. 1602, 8vo ): — Traitc de 
r Image et de VIdole (ibid. 16U8). See Wadding, Script . 
ord. Minorum; Scaligerana (2d ed.), p. 192; Liron, 
Singularity hist.et litter, iii, 84; Desportes, Ribliogr. dn 
Maine; llaureau, Hist. lift, du Maine, i, 306. — lloefer, 

' Xour. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Portico is an architectural term designating a 
range of columns in 
the front of a build- 
ing. When of four 
columns it is called 
tetrastyle ; when of 
six, hex a style ; of 
eight, octostyle ; of 
ten, decast yle. The 
Latin porticus. how- 
ever, from which the 
Italian portico and 
the French portique 
are derived, has a 
more extended sig- 
nification in mediae- 
val writers ; compre- 
hending, in fact, ev- 
ery kind of covered 
ambulatory of which 
one or more sides are 
opened to the air, by 
rows of columns or 
arches, whether it be 
attached to the front 
of a building or to its 
sides, or to the inner 
sides of an area, so as 
to form a cloister. — 

Parker. Glossary of 
A rchitecture, s.V. In 
an ancient church 
the porticos were the 
cloisters about the 
area, otherwise call- 
ed the exterior nartliex (q. v.), and the place of the 
mourners. See Por.cn. 

Portier, Michael, I).P.,an American Homan Cath- 
olic prelate, was born near tlw? opening of our century, 
and was of French descent. lie was educated in this 
country and at the Propaganda at Home, and was con- 
secrated to the priesthood Nov. 5, 1826. After holding 
various ecclesiastical appointments. he was made bishop 
of Mobile. lie died May 14. 1859. As an ecclesiastic 
he was greatly beloved by his own denomination, and 
as a citizen lie was highly respected by all classes, 
lie was more tolerant towards those who differed from 
him in religious belief than is apt to be the case among 
Humanists. 

Porti forium, otherwise called the Pie (q. v.), is a 



Temple of Vesta, Tivoli. 


PORTIO CANONICA 


431 


PORT-ROYAL 


book of rubrical directions to instruct the clergy as to 
the due performance of divine service and the adminis- 
tration of the sacraments. Sometimes, however, the 
word is used to signify a Breviary. This was made the 
title of the Breviary in England as soon as the latter 
title was used abroad. See Proctor, Comment . on Book 
of Common Prayer , p. 11. See Portesse. 

Portio Canonica is an ecclesiastic term applied 
to different things: (1) the share which falls to the 
members of a congregation in the daily distributions in 
money or in kind; (2) the funeral tax (quota funer alls, 
or mortuarium ) which, at the death of an ecclesiastic in 
office, must be paid to the bishop; finally (3), the casu- 
alty paid to the curate for the funeral service of a parish- 
ioner. If the funeral has not taken place in the paro- 
chial church, part of the profit which by it has accrued 
to the church chosen by the deceased must be paid to 
the parochial church. This also is callcd^ou/io canonica 
or quarto funeraria. 

Portio Congriia, the name given in the canon 
law to the suitable salary which was anciently allotted 
to the priest or minister of a parish. 

Portion (p?n, clielelc). In addition to the sense 
of dividing or allotting, this word is used in reference 
to a custom still prevalent among princes and rich peo- 
ple in the East, not only to invite their friends to feasts, 
but to send a portion of the banquet to those that can- 
not well come to it, especially their relations and those 
in a state of mourning. This sending of portions to 
those for whom nothing was prepared is alluded to in 
Neh. viii, 10, where it is said, “ ( lo your way, cat the fat 
and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for 
whom nothing is prepared, for this day is holy unto our 
Lord : neither be ye sorry ; for the joy of the Lord is 
your strength.” The historian is here describing a 
national festival where every one was supposed to be 
equally concerned; those then for whom nothing was 
prepared, it would seem, means those that were in a 
state of mourning; mourning for private calamities be- 
ing here supposed to take the place of rejoicing for public 
concerns. But it is not only to those that are in a state 
of mourning that provisions are sometimes sent; others 
are honored by princes in the same manner who could 
not conveniently attend the royal table, or to whom it 
was supposed not to be convenient. M. D’Arvieux 
mentions that in Syria, when the grand emir of the 
Druses, with whom he resided, found it incommoded 
him to eat with him, he politely desired him to take his 
own time for eating, sending him what he liked from 
his kitchen, and at the time he chose. Thus David it 
may be presumed did to Uriah, for it is recorded “ there 
followed him a mess of meat from the king” (2 Sam. xi, 
8, 10). We likewise read in the book of Esther (ix, 19) : 
“Therefore the Jews of the villages, that dwelt in the 
unwalled towns, made the fourteenth day of the month 
Adar a day of gladness and feasting, and a good day, 
and of sending portions to one another.” See Inherit- 
ance. 

Portion (Parociiiae) is the mediety of a parish 
which was divided into several vicarages or parsonages. 

Fortionist, a term employed to designate a ben- 
eficed person in a cathedral who received only half or a 
moiety of his prebend, called in France a ilemiprebendary , 
and in Spain a rationero, Bursarius, in Scottish univer- 
sities, and the German Burseh were portions of money 
given to poor students, while the Cambridge pensioner 
lives at his own cost. 

Portiuncula, the Indulgence of. In the vicin- 
ity of Assisi there stood a little church Nostra Signora 
degli Angeli, called also Portiuncula, which St. Francis, 
after his conversion, repaired, and soon afterwards re- 
ceived as a present for himself and his congregation, at 
the hands of the benedictine abbot of the Monastery of 
Monte-Subazio. A legend widely spread in the 14th , 
century says that in this little church, the cradle of the ! 


Franciscan Order, Christ himself granted to the saint 
his prayer for plenary indulgence for all those who, 
after partaking worthily of the sacraments of penance 
and of the altar, should visit Portiuncula. Christ made 
it a condition of his absolution that the consent of 
him to whom he had committed the power of binding 
and unbinding should also be obtained. Honorius III, 
who was then at Perugia, was willing to grant one or a 
few years, but demurred at the request of a plenary in- 
dulgence, inasmuch as the practice of the Bom an see did 
not warrant such a thing. But as soon as the pope was 
informed that the saint was speaking in the Saviour’s 
own name, he thrice exclaimed, “ Thy will be done !” 
The cardinals did not approve of the pope’s decision, 
as this indulgence, which could be gained so easily, 
would put a check to the ultramontane pilgrimages and 
to the crusades, the only means by which, up to that 
time, a plenary indulgence could be obtained. Honorius, 
being made sensible of these dangers, compromised mat- 
ters by making it a condition of the obtention of plenary 
indulgence that the visit to Portiuncula be made from 
the evening of August 1st to the evening of the 2d. 
At this decision of the pope Francis bowed his head in 
humility, and was about to leave the room, when the 
pope called him back, saying, “ Foolish man, whither 
art thou going? what security hast thou for that which 
has just been granted to thee?” Whereupon the saint 
replied, “ Your word, holy father, is enough for me. Let 
Jesus Christ be the notary, the Virgin Mary the deed, 
and the angels the witnesses; I need no other docu- 
ment.” Some writers deem it a most doubtful matter 
that pope Honorius, contrary to the pontifical practice, 
which was not to grant indulgences for more than a few 
years, should have so liberally dealt with St. Francis, 
especially as no bull to that effect can be shown. But 
the testimonies of the 13th and 14th centuries in cor- 
roboration of the historical nucleus of the legend are too 
numerous to allow of any doubt. The Portiuncular in- 
dulgence was, besides, acknowledged not only by the 
popes of the 14th, but also by those of the 13th century; 
for instance, Alexander IV (1254-G1) and others. Pope 
Innocent XII, in 1695, extended the indulgence to all 
days of the } r ear. Besides, inasmuch as many Koman 
Catholics could not afford to visit Portiuncula, the popes 
extended said indulgence (obtainable from the 1st to 
the 2d of Aug.) to all the churches of the Franciscans 
and Capuchins. In our time the Portiuncular indulgence 
can be obtained in some countries on the first Sunday of 
August, not only in the Franciscan, but in all churches 
where Catholic worship is held regularly on Sundays 
and holidays. 

Port-Royal, Recluses of, occupy a most impor- 
tant position in the ecclesiastical and literary history of 
France, especially in the 17th century, and are largely 
identified with the Jansenistic controversy. 

Port-Boy al (Porrigium, Portus Regis, Porreal) lay in 
the vicinity of the hamlet of Chevreuse, three leagues 
from Versailles, and six from Paris. Here occurred a 
memorable reproduction of the austerities of the Thebaid 
and the ascetic labors of Lerins. The monastery of Port- 
Iioyal des Champs, an abbey of the Order of Citeaux. 
was founded in 1204 by Matilda, wife of Matthew I of 
Montmorency -Marly, during her husband’s absence in 
the fourth crusade. It lay on the left of the high-road 
from Rambouillet to Chartres, in a damp, low spot, which 
had once been called, from its natural features, Porrois 
(from Porra or Borra, dog-Latin for a woody valley 
with stagnant water: cavus dumetis plenus ubi siugnut 
aqua). Abandoned for a long time to the far niente 
existence of ordinary convents, it fell at length, in the 
beginning of the 17th century (1608), under the direc- 
tion of the family of Arnauld. Angelique Arnauld was, 
through family interest, appointed abbess when only 
seventeen and a half years old (some declared that she 
was only eleven, and that her relatives falsely stated 
her age). Touched by grace as she grew to woman- 
hood, she undertook the reform of the convent. Her 


POllT-ROYAL 


432 


PORT-ROYAL 


mother, five of her sisters, and six nieces became her 
spiritual children. Mere Angelique’s change to such 
pious devotion is said to have been occasioned by a 
sermon on the death of Christ which was preached by 
a wandering Capuchin friar, father Basil, who had 
learned the truth of the Gospel of Christ, and had re- 
solved formally to quit the communion of Borne, and, in 
passing the convent of Port-Royal while on his journey 
to the Protestant countries of the North, had secured 
permission to address the nuns. With love and kind- 
ness, but with unyielding firmness and great wisdom, 
the converted young woman restored the rule of the or- 
der in all its severity — as the strict observance of relig- 
ious poverty, abstinence from meat, complete seclusion, 
and the most severe ascetic exercises. The abbey of 
Port-Boval dcs Champs had been erected for but a small 
number of nuns; in consequence, however, of the celeb- 
rity which it attained through the reforms and guid- 
ance of Mere Angelique, the number increased greatly, 
so that, instead of twelve, there were more than eighty- ; 
and thus the buildings of the abbey became overcrowd- 
ed and unhealthy. In 1G2G it was found necessary to 
make additional provisions. A house was purchased in 
Paris in the Faubourg St. Jacques (in great part at the 
expense of the Arnauld family), to which the nuns re- 
moved. This their new abode was called I'ort-Royal 
dr Paris. In 1633 more spacious quarters were secured 
in the Bue dc Boulai, near the Bue Coquillicre, where 
they also owned a church, which was dedicated with 
great solemnity by the archbishop of Paris. 

In 1223 the pope had conferred on the convent the 
right of affording an asylum to such lay personages as, 
being disgusted with the world, and being their own 
masters, should wish to live in monastic seclusion with- 
out binding themselves by permanent monastic vows. 
This privilege had not availed the Port-Bovalists much 
until now. But the gradual transformation of Mere 
Angelique, under the influence of St. Francis de Sales, 
with whom she had been brought in contact, and who led 
her to accept the doctrine of perfection in the form of 
the possibility of a complete transformation of the human 
heart even before death, had become so manifest in her 
influence over her nuns and the severity they reached, 
that, inspired by this example, a number of learned and 
pious men, desirous of living in religious retirement, 
sought in 1638 the privilege of occupying the desert- 
ed establishment of Port-Boval dcs Champs. The lead- 
er of this new movement was the inflexible St. Cyran, 
who had been first an examiner and later the spiritual 
director of the nuns of Port-Royal. See Di vkihjiku de 
IIaukanxe. lie was a Jansenist, and a most intimate 
friend of the founder of these doctrines, and as the head 
of this new lay community instituted the new opinions 
and made Port-Royal des Champs the home of Jansen- 
ism in France. A whole colony of illustrious penitents 
joined him : the three brothers of La Mere Angelique; 
her nephew, the celebrated advocate La Maitre, and his 
brothers Sericourt and De Sacy; Pierre Nicole; Claude 
Lancelot, the grammarian; Tillemont, the historian; 
Pascal, the philosopher; Bacine, the poet, and Antoine 
Arnauld (q. v.), the “great Arnauld,” the youngest 
brother of the abbess, the learned and impetuous Doctor 
of the Sorbonne, whose condemnation by that body oc- 
casioned Pascal's Provencals. 

This religious movement of the I7tli century in 
France is as remarkable as the philosophical for which 
that a,*ra is noted. Janscnists and Jesuits undertook 
the re-establishment of that spiritual power which had 
suffered from the attacks of philosophy; but between 
those two parties there was bitter strife. Port-Boval 
had now become the headquarters of Jansenism, which 
has been called “ < 'alvinistic Catholicism.” The attempt 
of the Port-Boyalists at reconstruction embraced exactly 
those parts of mediaeval religion which the Jesuits had 
neglected. 'Wholly abandoning what the Jesuits had 
taken hold of — the social and political side of Catholi- 
cism — they clung to its personal, mystical, and ascetic 


side. They did not quarrel with the Church ; they de- 
sired to remain Catholic in spite of the pope, believing 
in the priesthood and the sacraments. They arrived 
at a metaphysical and moral reform, and pointed to St. 
Paul and St, Augustine as their inspirers. The Jesuits 
adopted directly antagonistic views on grace and pre- 
destination, and proclaimed the opinions of the Spaniard 
Molina, who had undertaken, in his I)e Concordia Gra- 
tia - ct lAberi Arbitrii , to reconcile free-will and predes- 
tination. The solitaires of Port-Boval now became the 
Janscnists of France, insisted upon predestination, and 
taught that good works were without merit ; that grace 
alone, arbitrarily given or refused, made saints — a Chris- 
tianity os terrible as the Fate of the ancients. They 
pursued human nature, corrupted by the fall, with on 
implacable hatred, and the logical conclusion of such a 
doctrine was the salvation of the few — i. e. the Church 
of Jansenism became an aristocracy of grace. See J.vx- 
skxism. However much we may find in Jansenism to 
take exception to, the men who espoused its doctrines 
were actuated by the noblest of motives, and deserved 
success in their undertaking, which aimed principally at 
the freedom of France from the trammels of the papal 
devotees — the Jesuits— and the spread of practical piety 
among the French people. 

The Jesuits, who were prominent at this time in 
the Church of France, and effectually controlled the 
court, obtained under the ministry of Richelieu, and 
especially of Mazarin, repeated condemnatory acts 
against the teachings of the Janscnists in general, and 
the Port-Boyalists especially. Persecution, however, 
only stimulated the growth of the new opinions. 
Duvergicr, a Port -Royalist, was thrown into prison, 
and kept there until the death of Richelieu, in 1G42. 
But the very time of his liberation was marked by a 
most noteworthy production. Antoine Arnauld, bet- 
ter known as “Le grand Arnauld,” then wrote his 
Frequent Communion, the first work of that scientific 
school of religious philosophy of which Port-Boval was 
the. focus and Pascal the principal exponent. Indeed, 
the best claim which the community of Port-Koyal has 
upon our notice is this literary war which it waged 
against the scholastic theology, and against the Jesuits 
in particular. The Society of Jesus had, ever be it 
said to its credit, devoted itself to the education of 
youth; but whatever danger there was in their general 
teaching was thus intensified in the eyes of those who 
distrusted them. Port-Boval determined to meet them 
on this ground, by establishing schools and by issuing 
text-books of their own. The grammar, logic, and rhet- 
oric of Port-Boval — the first by Arnauld, the second by 
Nicole — were the fruits of this resolve. They set them- 
selves also, and not unsuccessfully, to countermine the 
power of the Jesuits in the confessional; for the integ- 
rity and piety which characterized the Port-Boyalists 
causer! them to be much sought after as confessors. 
They discovered and maintained the famous distinction 
uf/ait and droit in respect to papal infallibility. As to 
doctrine, the pope could not err; as to facts he might. 
See Gaij.k wxissi ; Inf.m.uisiutv. When required, 
they were willing to condemn, ns doctrines, the five 
propositions which were said to comprise the Jansenistic 
heresy; but they denied that these conclusions were to 
be found in or inferred from Jansen’s Augustinus. No 
papal bulls or persecution could make them recede from 
this position. In their maintenance of Jansen’s real 
doctrines, in their refusal to acknowledge papal infal- 
libility as to facts, in their continual warfare against 
the Jesuits, they were exposed to constant persecution. 
For the Jesuits were not inert in the face of this oppo- 
sition and defiance. They plotted incessantly at Rome, 
in order to bring the thunders of the llolv 8ee to bear 
upon the over-bold Janscnists. 

The persecution brought about a result, the Jesuits 
hardly anticipated. Blaise Pascal was induced to step 
into the arena in defence of the Port-Boyalists. One 
of the most independent minds of his age, Pascal had 


P011T-R0YAL 


433 


PORTUGAL 


never yet up to this point submitted himself to the act- 
ual guidance of Jansen, any more than he had frankly 
accepted the logical consequences of the discoveries of 
Descartes. He had felt the force of both these power- 
ful influences; but a third feeling had exerted authority 
over his unwilling mind: he had been swayed by the 
sceptical influence of Montaigne. As a sort, of refuge 
from the yawning abyss which had thus threatened 
to drown him, this stanch and devotional spirit threw 
him. as by a sudden and irresistible impulse, into the 
arms of the Jansenists, and he became a recluse at 
Port-Royal, and its champion against the world. See 
Pascal. 

In the meantime the number of nuns and novices of 
Port-Roval de Paris having greatly increased, the ab- 
bess Angelique Arnauld determined in 1648 to transfer 
part of them to Port-Royal des Champs. The school 
of Port-Royal was therefore removed from the latter 
place to Paris, Rue St. Dominique, F aubourg St. Jacques, 
but after three years the teachers were restored to Port- 
Roval des Champs, where they no longer occupied the 
monastic building, but a farm-house, called Les Granges, 
on the neighboring hill. In 1653, pope Innoeent I 
having condemned five propositions in the book of 
Jansenius, Arnauld wrote to prove that these propo- 
sitions did not exist in the book of Jansenius, at least 
not in the sense attributed to them. Upon this Arnauld 
was aecused of Jansenism. The nuns of Port-Roval, 
with their abbess Angelique, having refused to sign 
the formulary acknowledging that the five alleged 
heretical propositions were contained in the work of 
Jansenius, preparations were begun by the Jesuits for 
scattering the community of Port-Royal, and placing 
them in close captivity, so as to bring them to sub- 
mission. It seemed a strange spectacle that a body of 
women, and a few others who agreed with them in sen- 
timent, should withstand the power of the decrees of 
Rome and all the pertinacity of the Jesuits in carrying 
out those decrees. On March 30, 1656, two months af- 
ter the condemnation of Dr. Arnauld, the civil authori- 
ties proceeded to carry out an order in eouncil that every 
scholar, postulant, and novice should be removed from 
Port-Royal. But, for some unknown reasons, the exe- 
cution was suddenly interrupted and delayed several 
years. It is said that Mazarin’s unpleasant relations 
with the papacy were the principal cause of this sudden 
suspense of procedure against the recluses. In 1660 the 
king himself ordered the sehool to be broken up. The 
nuns still continuing refractory, Perefixe, archbishop of 
Paris, sent a party of police-officers in 1664, who arrest- 
ed the abbess, her niece Angelique Arnauld the Young- 
er, or Angelique de St. Jean, the mistress of the novices, 
and other nuns, and distributed them among several 
monasteries, where they were kept in a state of confine- 
ment. See Arnauld, Ang Clique. 

Previously some of the nuns who had remained at 
Port-Roval de Paris intrigued with the government in 
order to become independent of Port-Royal des Champs, 
and Louis XIV appointed a separate abbess to Port- 
Royal de Paris. In 1669 a compromise was made be- 
tween the pope and the defenders of Jansenius, which 
was called “the Peace of Clement IX.” The nuns of 
Port-Roval des Champs with their own abbess were then 
restored to their convent, but Port-Roval de Paris was 
not restored to them: a division of property was effected 
between the two communities, by order of the king, 
which was confirmed by a bull of Clement X dated 1671. 
Each convent retained its own abbess. Several disputes 
took place between the two communities, in which the 
archbishop of Paris and the Jesuits took an active part. 
At last, in March, 1708, a bull of pope Clement XI sup- 
pressed the convent of Port-Roval des Champs, and gave 
the property to Port-Royal de Paris. In 1709 Le Tellier 
had obtained from king Louis XIV a decree for the ex- 
ecution of the papal bull, and D’Argenson, the lieuten- 
ant of police of Paris, was sent with a body of men to 
Port-Royal des Champs, and he removed from thence 
VIII. — E k 


the nuns, who were distributed among several eonvents. 
The convent and church of Port-Roval des Champs were 
stripped of all their valuables, which were transferred to 
Port-Roval de Paris, and the former building was lev- 
elled with the ground, by order of Louis XIV, as a nest 
of Jansenists and heretics. The sacred relics of the 
Church were borne from the altar, the bodies disin- 
terred from the cemetery, and every trace of the estab- 
lishment destroyed, the very soil being abandoned to 
the plough. 

Literature . — Besoigne, Racine (1767,2 vols.),Cle'men- 
cet, Du Fosse, Fontaine (Col. 1738, 2 vols.), and others 
have written of Port-Royal. Dr. Reuehlin has published 
one of the most elaborate treatises, entitled Geschickte von 
Port-Royal (Hamb. 1839-44,2 vols.); and other and more 
recent works to be consulted are, Saint-Benve, Hist, de 
Port-Royal (Paris, 1840-58, 4 vols.) ; Beard, Port-Royal 
(Loud. 1860, 2 vols.); Schimmelpenninck, Memoirs of 
Poi't-Royal (ibid. 1855). On Reuchlin’s work, see Sir 
James Stephen, Essays , vol. i ; Wilkens, Port -Royal, 
oder der Jansenismus in Frankreich , in the Zeitschrift 
fur wissenschuftliche Theolor/ie, 1859: Met h. Quarterly , 
1855. See also Jervis, Hist. Ch. of France (Lond. 1872), 
vol. i and ii, and his History of France (Student’s Edi- 
tion), p. 469-472; Ranke, Hist, of the Papacy, ii, 251, 
259 ; Tregelles, Hist, of the Jansenists, p. 1 1 sq. et al. ; 
Martin, Hist, of France (age of Louis XIV); Bridges, 
France under Richelieu and Colbert, lect. iv ; Villemain, 
Discours et Melanges Littercdres ; Voltaire, Si'ecle de 
Louis A IV, ch. xxxvi; Bridge, Hist, of French Liter- 
ature, p. 172 sq. ; Van Laun, Hist, of French Literature 
(see Index) ; Lond. Quar. Rev. Oct. 1871, p. 173; Brit. 
Quar. Rev. April, 1873, p. 284 ; Edinb. Rev. April, 1841 ; 
A mer. Theol. Rev. April, 1860, p. 162, 356. (J. II. W.) 

Portugal, the most westerly kingdom of Europe, 
a part of the great Spanish peninsula, lies in 36° 55'- 
42° 8' N. lat., and 6° l5'-9° 30' \V. long. Its greatest 
length from north to south is 368 miles, and its average 
breadth from east to west about 100 miles. The king- 
dom of Portugal proper is bounded by the Atlantic on 
the S. and W., and by Spain on the N. and E. Its dis- 
tinctive subdivisions, with their several areas and popu- 
lations, are given in the following table : 


Continental Portugal. 


Provinces. 

Districts. 

Ares iu 
Sq. Miles. 

Pop., 1871. 

Minuo, 

Vinna, 

Braga, 

2S0T 

971,001 


Porto. 



Tras ob Montes, 

Brngnnzn, 

Villa-Real. 

42SS 

365, S33 

Beira, 

Aveiro, 

Coimbra, 

9245 

1,294,2S2 


Viseu, 

Guard a, 

Castello-Branco. 



Estremaucra, 

Leiria, 

Snntnreni, 

Lisbon. 

6S73 

839,691 

Alemtejo, 

Portalegre, 

Evora, 

Beja. 

9416 

331,341 

Ai.garve, 

1S73 

1SS,422 


Faro. 




34.502 

3,990,570 


The insular appendages of Portugal are — the Azores, 
1996 square miles, pop. (1871) 258,933; Madeira, ete., 
315 square miles, pop. (1871) 118,379. Total home ter- 
ritories, 36.813, and the population (1871), 4,367,882. 
The colonial possessions of Portugal are — in Africa: 
Cape Verd Islands, 1630.02 square miles; pop. 67,347. 
Senegambia, 35,437.50 square miles ; pop. 8500. Islands 
of San-Thome and Principe, off Guinea, 448.56 square 
miles; pop. (1868) 19,295. Angola, Benguela, 200,602.50 


PORTUGAL 


434 


PORTUGAL 


square miles; pop. 2,000.000. [Mozambique and depend- 1 
elides, 283,500 square miles; pop. 300,000. In - I sia : 
Goa, Salcete, 1140.6 square miles; pop. 174,234. Da- 
mao, Din, 94.08 square miles; pop. 53,283. In the In- 
dian A rchipelu go, 2877 square miles; pop. 850,300. In 
China: Macao, 1 1.70 square miles ; pop. (1800) 100.000. 
Total of colonies. 520,041.48 square miles; pop. 3,872,- 
959. 

Christianity was established in this country at the 
same time as in Spain, from which it is only politically 
separated : it therefore had its share of the misfortunes 
which, at the time of the great barbarian invasions, 
under the Alans, »S neves, Wcstgoths, and afterwards 
under the Arabs, came over the Christian Church. The 
weight of these calamities was made a little lighter for 
Portugal by the circumstance that, partly through the 
influence of the Roman bishops Anacletus and Auicetus, 
partly through the decrees of Constantine, which made 
metropolitan seats of the chief cities of the provinces, 
the diocesan system had been developed at an early pe- 
riod. In the country now called Portugal, in the prov- 
ince Galicia, Bracara, now Braga, was the metropolis. 
We learn from Garcia Louisa, in his remarks on the 
Council of Luco, that the bishops of Astoriea, Portncale 
(Porto), Colirnbria (Coimbra), Egitania (Idanha), Kmin- 
ium (Agueda, in Est remad lira), Lameco (Lamego, on the 
I)ouro), Loco (Lugo, on the sources of the Alin ho), Tria 
(El Padron, in Galicia), Veseo (Yiseu), Auria (Orense), 
Tude (Tuy), Magneto or Britonia (Mondoncdo), and 
Dumio, near Braga, were suffragans of Bracara. At the 
Council of Luco, A. I). 599, a second metropolis w r as es- 
tablished at Luco. but it remained dependent on Bra- 
cara. Veseo, Colirnbria, Egitania, Lameco, and Magneto 
were then suffragan seats of Bracara, and Tria, Auria, 
Tude, Astoriea, and Britonia formed the ecclesiastical 
province of Luco: it ceased to exist when the domina- 
tion of the Sueves, in 585, was overthrown by the West- 
goths. In Lusitania, Merida, on the Guadiana, was the 
metropolis ; the ecclesiastical province included Numan- 
tia. Pax Tulia, Ossonoba, Olysippo, Caurio, Avila, and 
Elbora. Calixtus II transferred the metropolitan dignity 
to the bishop of Compostella. In the 7th century some 
changes appear to have taken place. The beginning 
of the 8th century saw the downfall of the Wcstgothic 
empire, and the invasion of the Arabs, invited by the 
sons of the expelled king, and by their uncle, Oppas, 
archbishop of Hispalis, for the purpose of driving from 
the throne the newly elected king Roderick. The land 
between the Douro and the Pyrenees, a small portion of 
the peninsula, remained under Christian rule. Ferdinand 
II (1038-65) wrenched from the Arabs Lamego, Veseo, 
Coimbra, etc. Though the. Arabs had allowed the in- 
habitants the free exercise of their religion, many of 
them passed over to Mohammedanism, and thus, by 
degrees, bishoprics and monasteries disappeared. Even 
Bracara lost her metropolitan dignity ; and when, 
in 1083, Alphonso VI took Toledo, which under the 
Arabian rule had continued still during two cen- 
turies to be the residence of an archbishop, there was 
scarcely a Christian to be found in the city. In con- 
sideration of these circumstances, and with the consent 
of pope John A III, Ovetum, in Galicia, was made a 
metropolis, including the bishoprics Anca, Legio, As- 
torica, Salmantica, Caurio, Coimbria, Lamego, Veseo, 
Portueale, Bracara. Tude, Auria, Tria, Luco, Britonia, 
and ( 'a-saraugusta. ( tviedo was the city of t lie bishops 
in part Urns injitlt linm ; but the former suffragans of Tara- 
cona did not acknowledge the archbishop of Ovetum, 
but that of Narbonne as their metropolitan. The dignity 
of the metropolitan of Ovetum was extinguished when 
Al| houso VI took Toledo and Castile, the old ecclesias- 
tical provinces of Toledo, Braga, and Tarragona being 
then established anew by Gregory VI 1 anil l’rban II. 
The long time during which the .Spanish peninsula 
had stood under Mohammedan rule, Christianity being 
obliterated everywhere, justified, in the ideas of those 
times, the measures taken by the Church for the pur- 


pose of securing the rule and purity of the Roman Cath- 
olic religion. The complete expulsion of Mohammedans 
and Jews seemed commanded by the circumstances, and 
it was executed with pitiless energy. In 153G a tribunal 
of Inquisition was established in Lisbon, and special 
severity was displayed against the Jews accused of prac- 
ticing their old worship under the garb of Christianity. 
They formed, under the name of New-Christians (q. \\), 
a suspicious class, and many of them, in 1506, had been 
victims to the hatred and prejudices of the multitude. 
The power of the Church increased rapidly, and with it 
the pride of some of the bishops, for there soon arose be- 
tween the crown and the clergy difficulties greatly detri- 
mental to the influence of the latter, as it gave occasion 
to the people to get an insight into and speak freely of its 
sad condition, as well as of that of the Bomau court. 
By the laws of 1822-26 every naturalized foreigner 
was granted civil and political rights regardless of his 
religion ; they authorized every kind of private worship, 
and prohibited every religious persecution. The Catholic 
clergy were treated with the greatest distrust, and their 
riches were seized upon to till the treasure of the state. 
It was not until 1843 that the government was recon- 
ciled with the pope, and the wounds of the Boman 
Church were long in healing even after that. The Por- 
tuguese Church is (since 1741) under the special juris- 
diction of a patriarch, who is always a cardinal, and 
who is, to some extent, independent of Rome. Portu- 
gal is divided into three dioceses, which are presided 
over by the cardinal-patriarch of Lisbon. Ills suffra- 
gan seats are Castollo-Braneo, Guarda, Lamego, Leiria, 
and Portalegre. There are several colonial bishops : at 
[Madeira, the Azores, and other islands. Besides the 
patriarchate or archbishopric of Lisbon, there is the 
archbishopric of Braga, who is primate of the kingdom, 
and whose suffragan seats are Porto, Viseu, Coimbra. 
Bragan^a-Miranda, Aveiro, and Pinhel; and the arch- 
bishopric of Evora, with the bishoprics Elvas, Beja, and 
Algarve. The archbishops have the rank of a marquis, 
the bishops of a count. They all belong to the gran- 
deza, or higher nobility. The bishops are appointed 
by the king, and confirmed by the pope. No bull can 
be published without the agreement of the king. The 
number of clergy holding cures is given at 18,000. The 
total number of parishes is 4086. The monasteries were 
dissolved in 1834, but a few religious establishments 
still exist. At the time of the dissolution Portugal was 
possessed of 360 monasteries, with 5760 monks, and 126 
nunneries, with 2725 nuns. 

There are six orders of knighthood, viz. the Order 
of Christ, founded in 1319; St. Benedict of Avis; the 
Tower and Sword, founded in 1459, and reorganized in 
1808; Our Lady of Villa Vii^osa, established in 1819; 
and the Order of .St. John of Jerusalem, which was sep- 
arated in 1802 from that of Malta. In addition to these, 
there is one civil-service order, founded in 1288. Por- 
tugal stands below the other countries of Europe in re- 
gard to education. There is one university at Coim- 
bra; there are military, naval, trade, and navigation 
schools, and many classical and higher schools; and in 
1861 there were 1788 public schools, with 79,172 pupils, 
uncontrolled by the Church. There is an Academy of 
Sciences and a School of Arts at Lisbon, the former of 
which has a library of 50,000 volumes. The other pub- 
lic libraries are the Central Library, with 300.000 vol- 
umes; various royal libraries, as that of Lisbon, with 
86.000 badly preserved volumes and 8000 MSS.; that 
at the Neecssidades Palace, with 28.000 volumes; and 
that at the Ajnda Palace, with 20, 000 volumes; and the 
University Library at Coimbra, with 45.000 volumes. 
The administration of the management of general edu- 
cation is conducted by a superior council of education 
at Coimbra, under the supervision of the ministry of the 
Home Department. See Schuler, Ccsch. ran Portugal 
(Ilamb. 1836, 3 vols. 8vo); Schubert, J/andbiich dvr 
titautenknnde von Kuropa, i, 8 sq. : Busk, Hist, of Portu- 
gal (1831); Dunham, Hist, of Portugal (1832); Andcr- 


435 


POSCIIEL 


PORTUGUESE VERSION 


sen (II. C.), In Spain, and a Visit to Portugal (1870); 
Chambers's Cyclop, s. v. 

Portuguese Version. The oldest known Portu- 
guese version is that of the Psalms, which was published 
at Oxford in 1G95, together with a translation of the 
English liturgy, under the title, 0 Lino da Oragao 
commune Administragao dos Sacramentos e outros Ritos 
c Ceremonias da Igreja , conforme o Oso da Igreja de In- 
glaterra, iuxtamente com o Salterio ou Salmos de David 
(Oxford, na estampa do Teatro, anno de Christo, 1695). 
This translation is said to be very defective. Next in 
chronological order is the New Testament, or 0 Novo 
Testamento , istohe, todos os sacro sanctos Livros e Es- 
critos evangelicos e apostolicos do novo Concerto de 
nosso Fiel Senhor Salvador e Redemptor Jesu Christo : 
traduzido em Portugues pelo Patre Joam Ferreira a 
d' Almeida, Ministro Pregador do Sancto Evangelho. 
Com todas as Licengas necessanus (em Amsterdam, por 
Joam Crellius, 1712, 8vo). Seven years later the first 
part of the Old Testament, or the Pentateuch, was 
published under the title, Os cinro Livros de Moyses, 
chamados: 1, Genesis; 2, Exodn ; 3, Levitico ; 4, Nume- 
ros ; 5, Deuteronomio (con privilegio real; Tranquebar, 
em India Oriental, na eosta del Coromandel, em a estam- 
pa da Real Missaon de Dennemark, No anno de 1719, 
4to). Then followed: 0 Livro dos Salmos de David, 
com toda diligentia traduzido de Texto original na Lingua 
Portugueza, conferido com as outras Translagoens e em 
multos Passos declarado pelo Padre Benjamin Schultze, 
Missionario del Rey de Dinamarca e Ministro da Pala- 
vra de Deus (Trangambar, em India Oriental, na eosta 
de Coromandel, na estampa da Real Mission, No anno de 
1721, 12mo) ; Os doze Prophetas Menores , convem a 
saber, Iloseas, Joel, Amos, Obadias, Jonas, Micheas, 
Nahum, Ilubacuc, Sophonias, Ilaggeo, Zacharias, Ma- 
lachias (com toda diligentia traduzido na lingoa Por- 
tngueza, pelos Padres Missionaries de Trangambar. 
Trangambar, na officina da Real Missaon de Dinamar- 
ca, anno de 1732, 4to) ; and Os Livros historicos do Velho 
Testamento, convem a saber, o Livro de Josue, o Livro 
dos Juizes , o Livro de Ruth, o primeiro Livro dos Reys, 
o segundo Livro dos Reys, o primeiro Livro das Chroni- 
cas, o segundo Livro das Chronicas, o Livro de Esdras, 
o Livro de Nehemias, o Livro de Esther, traduzido na 
Lingoa Portugueza, pelo Reverendo Padre Joum Fer- 
reira d 1 Almeida, Ministro Pregador do Santo Evangelho 
na Cidade de Batavia (revistos e conferidos com o tex- 
to original pelos Padres Missionaries de Trangambar. 
Trangambar, na officina da Real Missaon de Dinamarca, 
anno de 1738, 4to). In the preface to the historical 
books, which is dated April 21, 1738, we are told that 
the ministers of Batavia sent this translation of Job. 
Ferreira d’Alraeida to Tranquebar to have it printed 
there, which was done at the expense of the Dutch 
governor-general, Theodor van Cloon, and his widow, 
Antonia Adriana Lengcle. The Pentateuch is not pre- 
ceded by any introduction, but the translation is accom- 
panied by notes. The same is the case with the histor- 
ical books. The whole is preceded by a Latin preface, 
in which the translator says that his predecessors, the 
two missionaries Bavthol. Ziegcnbalg and Johann Ernst 
Grundler, translated the Pentateuch into Portuguese; 
but in continuing their work he did not follow the com- 
mon order of the Biblical books, but rather preferred to 
translate first the Psalms, because, of all the books of 
the Old Testament, they are best adapted for public 
and private devotion. These are all the parts of the Bible 
which were translated and known in the 18th century. 
A revised edition of Almeida’s Bible under the joint 
editorship of R. Holden and the Rev. R. C. Girdleston 
was issued in 1876 (see the “73d Report of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society” [Lond. 1877], p. 89 sq.). 
Complete editions of the Bible in the Portuguese lan- 
guage were published by the American and British and 
Foreign Bible societies. See Rosemniiller, Ilaudbuch 
der biblischen Literatur, iv, 298 sq. (B. P.) 


Portumnalia, a festival celebrated among the an- 
cient Romans in honor of Portumnus, the god of har- 
bors. It was kept on the seventeenth day before the 
kalends of September. 

Portumnus (Lat. portus, “a harbor”), the deity 
supposed among the ancient Romans to preside over 
harbors. A temple w r as erected in honor of him at the 
port of the Tiber, and he was usually invoked by those 
who undertook voyages. 

Posadas, Fuancisco, a Spanish monk and preach- 
er, was born at Cordova in 1644. He entered the Do- 
minican Order, and, after teaching theology and exe- 
gesis, devoted himself to preaching with the greatest 
success. He was often prompted by his zeal to preach 
in public places and wherever he chanced to be, and 
even old age could not abate his fervor in teaching the 
poor of the country'. Nothing equalled his charity and 
love of the degraded. He refused on several occasions 
the honors of the episcopate. He died at Cordova 
Sept. 20, 1713. lie was beatified in 1817 by Pius VII. 
He left some works of edification : The Triumph of 
Chastity, against the Errors of Molinos : — Life of St. 
Dominic: — Sermons (3 vols. 4to). — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Poschel, Philipp F., a German Protestant divine, 
was born Sept. 23, 1769, at Ansbach. In 1797 he was 
minister at Bulenheim, and in 1817 city' pastor in Augs- 
burg, where he died, Feb. 6, 1838. lie wrote, Meine 
M ussestunden, odcr Result ate tneines Nachdenkens iiberdie 
ivichtigsten Gegenstdnde aus dem Gebiete der Re/igions- 
wissenschaft (Nuremb. 1804): — Freimuthige Gedanken 
zur Beantwortung der Frage: ivie hann einzig u. allein 
der gesunkenen Achtung der Religion u. Hirer Lehrer aufge- 
holfen werden ? (ibid. 1803) :—Wiinsche u. Vorschldge zur 
kirchl. Verfassung in Baiern (Augsb. 1823): — Idecn 
iiber Staat u. Kirche. Kultus, Kirchenzucht u. Geistlich- 
keit, etc. (Nuremb. 1816): — Erhebungen des Ilerzens in 
Predigten (Augsb. 1825, 1826, 2 parts) :— Predigten avf 
alle Feste des Jahres, etc. (ibid. 1826). See Winer, 
Ilandbuch der theolog. Literatur, p. 954. 

Poschel, Thomas, a German religious enthusi- 
ast, was born March 2, 1769, at llbritz, in Bohemia. 
He entered the ministry, and was ordained Sept. 6, 
1796. While he was vicar at Braunau he had to pre- 
pare for death the unfortunate bookseller Talm, and to 
accompany him to the place of execution (Aug. 26, 1806). 
This incident seems to have exercised a detrimental 
influence on his mind, so naturally' inclined to mysticism. 
When, in 1809, Braunau passed from Austria to Bavaria, 
Poschel was placed under the dependency of the bishop 
of Salzburg; and in 1815, when the city became Austrian 
again, he returned to the diocese of Linz. Soon after- 
wards his insane behavior caused him to be sent from 
Braunau to a country' place called Ampfelwang. He now 
considered himself a martyr of the faith, and preached 
his “new revelation.” Christ, he says, dwells in the 
hearts of such as are pure, and directs all their actions. 
To them appear God and the Virgin, and make them 
the recipients of their revelations. He wdio does not get 
purified incurs damnation, and deserves death, which 
alone can purify him. This doctrine must be obeyed 
even if it should exact the sacrifice of life itself, if the 
fruit of the new revelation is not to be lost and given 
to the Jews. For God has determined that the Jews 
shall be converted. Judaism and Christianity melted 
together into one general, catholic religion, the millen- 
nial kingdom is to commence when these events have 
taken place. The new doctrine found proselytes not 
only in Ampfelwang, but in the surrounding localities 
— Azbach, Unkenach, Gampern, Schafling, etc. The 
Pbschelians affected great piety', prayed with deeply 
bowed heads, some stretched on the ground ; they' made 
uncommon use of all religious practices, as pilgrimages, 
fasting, communion, with or without previous confes- 
sion, solemn invocations of the Virgin and the saints. 
But the tide of extravagance rose apace. Women 


POSCIIELIAXS 


430 


POSEY 


heard confessions and gave absolution. They are said 
to have committed most indecent acts in their assem- 
blies. The ceremony of purification preceded the ad- 
mission of new members: a kind of oil or a powder i 
which the proselyte was made to swallow produced j 
dreadful convulsions, while a crowd of maddened fe- i 
males performed a savage dance around the sufferer, to j 
expel the devil, who had hitherto held possession of ' 
the new member. The escape of Napoleon from Elba 
strengthened the belief that he was the Antichrist, and | 
that, as a consequence, the millennium was at hand. 
Disorderly tramps roamed about, prophesying and 
preaching, held themselves for chosen members of the 
kingdom of God, and resisted both the ecclesiastical and 
civil authorities. At last government took the matter 
in hand, nightly raids were made upon their assemblies, 
their doings were investigated, and Pdschcl was put 
into custody at Salzburg. This intervention of the po- 
lice did not appease the fanaticism of the sectarians, 
who were misled several times even to sanguinary ex- 
cesses. A mother tried to torture her child to death, 
to honor the Lord; a father to kill his child in prison. 
The insanity of these people reached its pitch in the 
llolv Week of 1817. In the night that followed Palm 
Sunday it was resolved, in a meeting held near Amp- 
felwang, to offer a sacrifice to the Lord. A peasant, of 
the name of Haas, was to be the victim. 1 1 is mother 
and an old man were dragged to the scene of the- holo- 
caust : the woman was killed with one stroke, while the 
man died only a few days afterwards of his wound, the 
ceremony becoming by t his postponement devoid of ef- 
fect. Haas prevailed on bis adopted daughter, a girl 
of nineteen years, to give her life for him. The mon- 
sters killed her most cruelly, and are even said to have 
drunk her blood, as being the blood of ('brist. The 
scene of these horrors was on the ensuing day occupied 
by the militia and the actors arrested, but only six if 
the leaders were kept in custody. The sect, which did 
not count over 12(5 members, thereafter disappeared 
rapidly. Pdschcl, who had always condemned the hor- 
rors committed by bis disciples, was transferred to Vi- 
enna, where, his insanity being clearly demonstrated, 
he was placed under severe ecclesiastical custody, lie 
died in 1837. In a wider sense, the name of Pdsche- 
lians was for some time used to designate fanatics of 
PbscluTs and the Pbschelians’ description. See Alzog, 
Kircheiif/esc/i. ii, G80; Giesebreeht, Kirchent/esch. der 
neuesten Zeit (Bonn, 1855), p. 338 sq. (J. 11. W.) 

Poschelians. See Posciiee. 

Poseidon, the god who was considered among the 
ancient Greeks as presiding over the sea. He was the 
son of Chronos and Plica, and had his palace at the 
bottom of the sea, where the monsters of the deep play 
around his dwelling. This deity was believed to be 
the author of storms, and to shake the earth with his 
trident or three-pronged spear. His wife was Amplii- 
trite. When the universe was divided between the 
brothers, the sea was given to Poseidon, lie was equal 
to Zeus in dignity, blit not in power, lie once con- 
spired with llera (Juno) and Athena (Minerva) to put 
Zeus in chains, but usually lie was submissive to the 
more powerful god. lie rides over the waves in a char- 
iot drawn by horses with brazen hoofs and golden manes, 
and the sea becomes smooth at his appearance, while 
the monsters of the deep gambol and plav around him. 
Herodotus affirms that the Greeks derived the worship 
of Poseidon from Libya; but, from whatever quarter it 
was received, it spread all over (Ireece and Southern 
Italy. It prevailed more especially in the Peloponne- 
sus. The usual sacrifices offered to this god were black 
and white bulls, and also wild boars and rams. At 
Corinth horse and chariot races were held in his honor. 
The Panionia, or festival of all the Ionians, was cele- 
brated also in honor of Poseidon. The Homans identi- 
fied him with their own sea-god Neptune. Troy was 
called Xeptuna Pergamtj, because Poseidon assisted 


Apollo to surround it with walls for king Laomedon, 
who refused to give them their promised reward, and 
Poseidon sent a sea-monster to ravage the country, 
which was killed by Hercules. lie always hated the 
Trojans, and assisted the (ireeks against them. He 
prevented the return of Ulysses, in revenge for his hav- 
ing blinded Polyphemus, the son of Poseidon. In art 
he is easily recognised by his attributes, which are the 
trident, horses, and dolphins. See Nf.ptune. 

Poseidonia, a festival celebrated annually among 
the ancient (ireeks in honor of Poseidon. It was kept 
chiefly in the island of .Egiua. 

Poseidonius. See Posidonius. 

Posen, a Polish province, that portion of ancient 
Poland which fell to Prussia in the partition of the king- 
dom, has an area of 11,200 square miles, and a popula- 
tion (close of 1871) of 1,583, 08-1. The territory is di- 
vided into two departments, that of Posen and Brom- 
berg, and its principal cities are, besides the respective 
capitals named after the departments, Gnesen, Lissa, 
and Tnowraclow. The principal river is the Wartlia, 
which is navigable, but the commerce of the province 
is very light. For education little has been done as yet. 
The Prussian government is determined to force German 
culture. There are six gymnasia, several normal and 
training schools, a seminary for the training of priests, 
and about two hundred bnrglicr or national schools. 

| Nearly half the population belong to the Roman Cath- 
! olic Church, which is under the spiritual jurisdiction of 
j the archbishop of Gnesen and Posen, while 7-1,000 of the 
remainder are Jews. The inhabitants may still be said 
to be Poles, more than 800,000 persons employing Polish 
as their mother-tongne. 

Posen formed an integral part of Poland till 1772, 
when, at the first partition of the Polish territory, the 
districts north of the Netze were given to Prussia. At 
the second and third partitions, which were made twenty 
years later, the remainder was incorporated in the Prus- 
sian kingdom under the name of South Prussia. In 
1807 Posen was included in the duchv of Warsaw; but 
by the act of the Congress of Vienna it was separated 
in 1815 from Poland and reassigned to Prussia under 
the title of the Grand Duchy of Posen. In 1818 the 
Poles, who had never amalgamated with their new Ger- 
man compatriots, took advantage of the general politi- 
cal excitement of that period to organize an open rebell- 
ion, which gave the Prussian government considerable 
trouble, and was not put down till much blood bad been 
spilled oil both sides. Oil the cessation of disturbances, 
tiie German citizens of the province demanded the in- 
corporation of Posen with those Prussian states which 
were members of the German Confederation, and the 
Berlin Chambers gave their approval of the proposed 
measure in 1850; but on the subsidence of revolution- 
ary sentiment in Germany the subject was dropped, 
and Posen returned to its former condition of an extra- 
German province of the Prussian monarchy. For the 
ecclesiastical history, see Poland; see also Prus- 
sia. 

Poser is the term applied to the bishop’s examining 
chaplain. The animal examiner at Winchester and 
Eton still bears this name. 

Posey, Alexander, a colored minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was horn al«>ut the year 
1*14. lie came from the African Methodist Episcopal 
Church March 20, 1809, at which time the Washington 
Conference was sitting in Winchester. Va. He was re- 
ceived into full connection, and the same year (1809) 
was appointed to Jolmmann Street Chapel, Winchester, 
Va. lie was reappointed in 1870 to Winchester, Va. ; 
j in 1871 to Harrisoiibnrgh, Va., and in 1872-73 to Lex- 
ington, Va. In 1874 he was appointed to Abingdon, 
Va., but did not reach his work, lie being sick at the 
time he received bis appointment. lie never recov- 
ered. but died Aug. 1, 1874. See Minutes of Annual 
' Conferences , 1875, p. 14. 


TOSEY 


437 


POSITIVISM 


Posey, John Henderson, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born Sept. 17, 
1819, in Breckinridge County, Ky.; emigrated with his 
parents in early life to Illinois, and settled in Morgan 
Countv. His tirst. religious impressions were at about 
the age of seventeen. When he attained to the years 
of manhood he came to Missouri, and there connected 
himself with the Methodist Church. He was licensed 
to preach July 16, 1853, and retained the local relation 
for some time. In I860 he joined the Illinois Confer- 
ence, and was appointed to Barry Circuit. In 1868 he 
was appointed to Lima Circuit. Shortly after the next 
year’s Conference his health failed, and he died Nov. 13, 
1869. He ever regarded the ministry as the most sa- 
cred vocation on earth. His high appreciation of its 
sanctity and responsibility was such at times as almost 
to overpower his own spirit. He was a true itinerant 
in heart and practice. See Minutes of the Annual Con- 
ferences. , 1870, p. 518, 519. 

Posido'nius (llooidun'iog'), an envoy of the Syr- 
ian general Nicanor to Judas Maccabauis (2 Macc. xiv, 
19). 

Posidonius (ITotrEitfwi'tog), a distinguished Greek 
Stoic philosopher, was a native of Apameia in Syria, but 
a citizen of Rhodes, where he resided the greater part 
of his life (Strabo, xiv, 655; Athen. vi, 252 e). The 
dates of his birth and death are unknown ; hut he must 
have been born during the latter half of the 2d century 
before the Christian sera, as he was a disciple of Panaj- 
tius, who probably died about B.C. 100, and whom he 
succeeded as the head of the Stoic school. He removed 
to Borne in the consulship of Marcus Marcellus (Suidas, 
Position. ), B.C. 51, and probably died soon after. He 
lived, according to Lucian (Macrob. c. 20), to the age 
of eighty-four, and was one of the most celebrated phi- 
losophers of his day. Cicero, who had received instruc- 
tion from him (Cicero, De Fato. e. 3; De Nat. Dear, i, 
3; De Fin. i, 2), frequently speaks of him in the highest 
terms. Pompev also appears to have had a very high 
opinion of him, as we read of his visiting him at Rhodes 
shortly before the war against the pirates, B.C. 67 (Strabo, 
xi, 492), and again in B.C. 62, after the termination 
of the Mithridatic war (Plutarch, Pomp. c. 42; Pliny, 
Hist. Nat. vii, 30). He must have been a man of very 
extensive and varied information in almost all the de- 
partments of human knowledge. Strabo calls him, avtjp 
Tot v Ka^' i)fidg <pi\o(ro<po)i> i ToXvfiaSkoTarog. Besides 
his philosophical treatises, he wrote works on geography, 
history, and astronomy; but none of them have come 
down to us, with the exception of their titles, and a few 
sentences quoted by Cicero, Diogenes Laertius, Strabo, 
and others. He seems to have travelled in different 
parts of the world for the purpose of collecting informa- 
tion. We learn incidentally from Strabo (xiii, 614; iii, 
165; iv, 197) that he had been in Spain, Liguria, and 
Gaul. Plutarch was also indebted to Posidonius, among 
others, for the materials of several of his lives. This is 
the case in the Lives of Marcellus, Paul us /Emilius, the 
Gracchi, and others; but particularly in the Life of Ma- 
rius, with whom Posidonius had been personally ac- 
quainted (Pint. Marius, e. 45). Posidonius wrote Me- 
teorologica. Cicero mentions (Nat. Deor. ii, 34) his ar- 
tificial sphere, which represented the motions of the 
heavens. Posidonius was a much stricter Stoic than 
his master Paine this. He maintained that pain was 
notan evil, as we learn from an anecdote which Pompey 
frequently related respecting his visit to the philosopher 
at Rhodes (Cicero, T use. Disp. ii, 25). As a physical 
investigator he was greatly superior to the Stoics gen- 
erally, attaching himself in this respect rather to Aris- 
totle. Indeed, although attached to the Stoic system, 
he was far less dogmatical and obstinate than the ma- 
jority of that school, refusing to admit a dogma because 
it was one of the school if it did not commend itself to 
him for its intrinsic merits. His works on divination 
and the nature of the gods are referred to by Cicero, 


who probably made use of them in his works on the 
same subject (Cicero, De Div. i, 3, 30, 64 ; De Nat. Deor. 
i. 44). Strabo says (xi, 492) that Posidonius wrote an 
account of the wars of Pompey, hut did not pay much 
attention to accuracy. This account was, however, prob- 
ably contained in bis historical work, of which Athe- 
nseus quotes (iv, 168 d) the 49th hook (comp. Athen. iv, 
151 e). For further information respecting the opinions 
and writings of Posidonius, see Posidonii Reliquiae Doc- 
trinte ; Collegit atque illustravit Janus Balce ; A ccedit 
D. Wyttenbachii A nnotatio (Lugduni Bat. 1810, 8vo). 
See also Smith, Diet, of (Jr. and Itom. Biog. andMythol. 
s. v. ; Fabricius, Bill. Grace, iii, 572; Vossius, De Hist. 
Greec. p. 193 ; Bitter, Gesch. der Philos, vol. iii, bk. xi, c. 
6, p. 700 ; Ueberweg, Hist, of Philos, vol. i. (J. II. W.) 

There was another Posidonius of Alexandria, who was 
a pupil of Zeno, and consequently was prior to Polybius. 
Suidas, however, by mistake, ascribes to this Posidonius 
a continuation of Polybius in fifty-two books, which is 
evidently the work of the younger Posidonius. 

Positive Philosophy, a recent scheme of phi- 
losophy, on the basis of phenomenalism, founded by 
Auguste Comte of Paris. See Comte; Positivism. 

Positivism, a distinct, scientific habit of mind, reg- 
ulated by a characteristic principle, which was made the 
basis of an extensive and ambitious scheme of philos- 
ophy by Auguste Comte (see Comte), and which has 
matured, according to the intention of its author, into a 
sect, a creed, and a church, since the article on Comte 
was written. The term is applied to the intellectual 
habit, the characteristic principle, the philosophical 
procedure, and the consequent body of doctrine. The 
English Positivists, who have latterly been the most 
zealous propagators of the positive philosophy, and 
have very recently issued a complete translation of the 
Sy steme de la Politique Positive, revolt from some of the 
later speculations of their founder and hierophant, by re- 
jecting his theological and ecclesiastical reconstructions, 
and all the sentimental mimicry of the papal organiza- 
tion, which was elaborated under the quaint influence 
of Mme. Chlotilde de Vaux. They adhere rigidly to 
the distinctive principle of the positive philosophy, 
which constitutes its sole ratio essendi and determines 
its consistent developments and applications. It is the 
first duty, then, to ascertain what this principle is. 

The epithet Positive has been employed in various 
significations in the history of philosophy, as will be 
shown at the close of this notice. The term Positivism 
is employed by the school of the Positivists and by its 
founder to denote the strict confinement of speculation 
and the rigorous limitation of knowledge to observed 
facts, and to their habitual antecedences, concomitances, 
and sequences. It eschews all laws but those of recog- 
nised association. It involves the exclusion of causes 
and effects; of supernatural, spiritual, or metaphysical 
agencies; of hidden forces, latent qualities, and imma- 
terial essences. It contracts the intelligible universe 
within the sphere of the phenomenal. It refrains from 
investigating the intrinsic constitution of things, and 
prohibits any expat iat ion beyond the reach of purely 
scientific analysis and construction. It does not deny, 
but it ignores, extrudes, and repudiates as inaccessible 
and imaginary whatever transcends the observed facts 
and the logical deductions therefrom. It is the pure 
method of inductive science, accepted as practically suf- 
ficient and complete, though without asserting that it is 
necessarily exhaustive. "Whatever lies beyond this cir- 
cle is not only unknown, but incognizable and inappre- 
hensible — not merely imperfect and uncertain, but im- 
palpable and delusive. 

It is impossible to give a sharp, precise, and formal 
definition of Positivism, because it is chiefly discrim- 
inated from other philosophical schemes by what it ex- 
foliates, by its limitations rather than by its comprehen- 
sion. One of the most eminent and earnest of living 
Positivists has within the, late months given an cx- 


POSITIVISM 


438 


POSITIVISM 


{donation of the character of the doctrine, which it may * 
be well to cite as an authoritative testimony : 

“Suffice it that we mean by the positive method of 
thought (and we will now use the term in a sense not 
limited to the social construction of Comte) that method 
which would base life and conduct, as well as knowledge, | 
upon such evidence as can be referred to logical canons 
of proof, which would place all that occupies man in a ho- 
mogeneous system of law. On the other hand, this method 
turns aside from hupotheses, not to be tested by any known 
logical canon familiar to science, whether the hypothesis 
claim support from intuition, aspiration, or general plaus- 
ibility. And again, this method turns aside from ideal 
standards which avow themselves to be lawless, which 
profess to transcend the field of law. We say, life and 
conduct shall stand for ns wholly on a basis of law, and 
must rest entirely in that region of science (not physical, 
hut moral and social science) where we are free to use our 
intelligence in the methods known to us as intelligible 
logic, methods which the intellect can analyze” (Frederic 1 
Harrison, The Soul and Future Life, in The Nineteenth Cen- 
tury, No. 4, June, 1S77, ark vii, p. 024, 025). 

Mr. Harrison’s contemplation is here, as will be read- 
ily conjectured, directed specially to the ethical devel- 
opments of Positivism; but such language so applied 
reveals the severity with which everything but the proc- 
esses and products of scientific observation and logical 
conclusion is excluded from the arena of the Positivist. 
This accords perfectly with the determination of the 
dogmatic principle originally formulated in the Philo- 
sophic Positive (tome i, p. 4, 5). 

“Iu fine, in the Positive state the human mind, recog- 
nising the impossibility of attaining absolute notions, re- 
nounces the investigation of the origin and destination of 
the universe, and inqniry into the intrinsic causes of phe- 
nomena, and attaches itself instead solely to the discov- 
ery, by judicious combination of reasoning and observa- 
tion, of their effective laws— that is, to the discovery of 
their invariable relations of succession and resemblance. 
The explication of facts thus reduced to its real terms is, 
thenceforward, nothing more than the connection estab- 
lished between the diverse phenomena and certain gen- 
eral facts whose number tends to be constantly diminish- 
ed by the progress of science." 

This procedure has long been regarded as alone ap- 
propriate in the domain of physical science, and as 
equally appropriate, within the limits of its applicabil- 
ity, in speculative science. It forms what is commonly 
regarded as the Baconian philosophy or the Baconian 
redintegration of philosophy. Positivism, however, 
both in the conception of the father of the system and 
in the doctrine and practice, of his followers, extends its 
range so as to embrace and enclose all departments of 
knowledge and action, to profess itself the sole and ex- 
clusive method, and to stigmatize and repudiate what- 
ever will not submit to its jurisdiction or remains be- 
yond its reach. Indeed, in the elaboration of the sys- 
tem by Comte all its applications to the exact sciences 
were regarded as merely preliminary to social recon- 
struction, and to the establishment of a comprehensive 
and diversified ethical doctrine for public and private 
guidance. In this light it is still viewed by the exist- 
ing school of Positivists, notwithstanding their rejec- 
tion of much of the theological reverie of Comte. 

It will readily be recognised that Positivism, as so 
understood, revives under strangely modernized aspects 
the old dogma of Protagoras that, man is the measure 
of the. universe. The ancient contrast and analogy of 
the macrocosm and the microcosm are reproduced iu 
quaint disguise and more plausible form by limiting the 
intelligible universe (tumulus intellirjibilis) to its retlec- 
tion from the mirror of the human mind so far. and 
so far only, as an image of it can he formed through 
the instrumentality of the bodily senses and of rea- 
soning on the phenomena observed thereby. We will 
not he tempted into the easy misrepresentation of 
alleging that all is denied which is not so rclloctod, 
but the practical effcci is nearly the same; for it is ig- 
nored, cashiered, and extruded from the field of specula- 
tion. Thus, the universe and all its marvels, the mind 
of man and its measureless potencies, the heart of man 
with its boundless duties, its multitudinous aspirations 
and its unfathomable mysteries, arc shrivelled up into 


the narrow dimensions of the science of the day. Sure- 
ly we require a philosophy of the unknown as well as 
of the known ! 

“Yere scire cst scire per eausas,” said Aristotle, and 
the schoolmen after him. The maxim was unquestion- 
ably pressed bv the latter to hazardous uses, and em- 
ployed to authenticate hallucinations which obstructed 
science for centuries. “ Yere scire cst scire apparentias” 
— true knowledge is the knowledge of appearances — is 
the shibboleth of the Positivists, and is even more dan- 
gerous than the misapprehension which it has under- 
taken to dethrone. It results in pure phenomenalism, 
and renders man and the universe alike hollow, decep- 
tive, and spectral. This tendency of Positivism, and 
the length to which it may be and has been carried, arc 
well illustrated by the remarkable and exquisitely writ- 
ten article of Mr. Frederic Harrison on The Soul and 
Future Life, from which wc have already made a cita- 
tion, and by the very recent discussions provoked by 
it. Mr. Ilarrison, like bis Coryphaeus, will not endure 
“thoughts that wander through eternity,’' except it be 
a human eternity, lie will not suffer them to travel 
“extra flammantia moenia mundi.” He compresses 
those flaming walls to the limits of the earth’s horizon. 
He does not deny the existence of the human soul: he 
only starves it out and dissipates it into a technical ab- 
straction. “The combined activity of the human pow- 
ers,” he says, “ organized around the highest of them we 
call the soul.” Again, “ the consensus of human facul- 
ties, which we call the soul, comprises all sides of human 
nature according to one homogeneous theory.” 

“She, mouldering with the dull earth's mouldering sod, 
Inwrapt tenfold in slothful shame, 

Lay there, exiled from eternal dud, 

Lost to her place and name.” 

The future life is still more vacant, unreal, and inap- 
prehensible than even the sublimated soul. It is in- 
deed the shadow of a shade. Dir. Harrison docs not 
give such distinct utterance to his conception of the 
post-mortem existence as to enable us to grasp it lirmlv. 
lie employs phrases which indicate his acceptance of 
the Panliumanistic immortality, by absorption into the 
aggregate humanity of subsequent generations, if he 
refuses to adore with Comte le Nouveau Grand- Ft re — the 
New Supreme (lod — humanity itself. But the abstract 
term — the unsubstantial and unessential conception of 
humanity — docs not become a more real being — a more 
capable receptacle of souls or extinct consensuses of hu- 
man powers— by being stripped of the tawdry trappings 
and tinsel fringes with which Comte had decorated it, 
to set it up as an idol in place of Jehovah. Strange 
that the Positivists should reject as unphilosophical and 
invalid all that religion teaches and our instincts accept 
as true, and should recur to such a factitious and ficti- 
tious abstraction as this humanity must be! Waiving 
the divine attributes of creation, ordinal ion, and gov- 
, eminent, and regarding only the functions of the Divin- 
j itv as a moral intluencc exerted over men — as “ the rc- 
warder of them that diligently seek him" — it may well 
he asked what restraint or encouragement could a de- 
ified and posthumous humanity exercise retrospectively 
on the conduct of men in society or as individuals. The 
fancy is as futile as it is absurd, lloelic Boyle’s comic 
exclamation would recur to every transgressor — “What 
has posterity done for us!” 

It may he frankly conceded that the ideas of duty, 
of obligation, of justice, of temporal responsibility — per- 
haps even of right and wrong, of righteousness and sin, 
of beauty and of jest hot ic emotion maybe translated 
from the language of religious belief into the language 
of Positivism. M. Comte made a travesty of the rites 
and ceremonial of Catholic Christianity, and commend- 
ed it to his devotees ns the Positive religion. This in- 
vention has been abnegated, in form at least, by his fol- 
lowers, hut it is a similar procedure by which Mr. Ilar- 
rison and the rest profess and hope to retain the essen- 
, tial characteristics of a divine cited, after excluding 


POSITIVISM 


439 


POSITIVISM 


from the universe all recognition of divinity. It is mis- 
taking the shell for the organism, after the substance 
and life, which were enclosed by the shell, and which 
informed the shell, have perished out. We can see the 
very nice distinction demanded by Positivism between 
the absolute negation of the divine and the supernat- 
ural and the mere declaration of its incognizabilitv, and 
of its consequent elimination from the domain of faith, 
as of knowledge. But the practical effect in both eases 
will be nearly the same. The discrimination is very 
refined and theoretical, and may be perfectly valid in 
abstract reasoning. But it is only the purest and most 
intellectual natures whieh can pereeive it and act upon 
it, and even they will forget it or lose their hold upon 
it in moments of passion and temptation. It cannot be 
adequately apprehended by dull minds, coarse temper- 
aments, and undisciplined characters, and will conse- 
quently be wholly inoperative where most required. 
The defect— the fatal defect— is the absence of any im- 
perative and extrinsic authority to secure effective re- 
sponsibility and obedience to right. The injury to hu- 
manity thus portended is very evident: the advantage 
to be anticipated is indiscernible. 

This notice proceeds on the same plane with that adopt- 
ed by the Positivists, and the discussion of their prin- 
ciples does not travel beyond the domain of the human 
understanding. The danger of Positivism springs from 
the same source as that whence have issued the dangers 
of so many kindred schemes of philosophy in onr day — 
the disposition to regard a partial truth as the complete 
body of truth — to make one principle the sufficient ex- 
planation of all things, and to render human knowledge 
eo-extensive with all knowledge and, practically, with 
all truth. The unknown must always transcend the 
known : it must remain higher in dignity and in influ- 
ence, as well as ampler in all dimensions. The temper 
of the present day, however, is to humanize the uni- 
verse — to restrict all valid knowledge to purely scientific 
knowledge — to cramp the realm of the apprehensible 
within the narrow mould of the demonstrable. Pos- 
itivism is true in its place and in its degree, as evolu- 
tion is true under the like limitations, but it is not all- 
comprehending. It does not include all truth, and is far 
from embracing all reality. Its error and its pernicious 
consequences arise from the attempt to make it all-suffi- 
cient and exclusive. As a method of science it is true 
and valuable in all the applications of phvsieal science, 
and of ethical science too, so far as the latter can appro- 
priately employ observation and induction. But be- 
yond all this stretch the unfathomable spaces of the un- 
known, including that which is known only by its ef- 
fects ; and we cannot wisely or safely leave this vast en- 
closing sphere out of our contemplation, for it is the 
main regulator of our conduct, by constant appeal to 
our highest sensibilities. If the hypothesis of the as- 
tronomer be true, that there is a mighty eentral sun in 
the unsounded depths of heavenly space, round whieh 
our sun, with all its attendant planets, revolves in a reg- 
ular but measureless orbit, it would be neither logical 
nor prudent to deny the existence of sueli a centre of 
attraction, because it remains, and may forever remain, 
unattainable by human sense. It seems even more 
illogical and indisereet to repudiate a moral centre of 
the universe, attracting and governing all things, and 
radiating its influences over the whole physical and ra- 
tional world, because it lies beyond the limits of scien- 
tific observation, and cannot be measured, analyzed, or 
determined by the forms of science. 

The factitious blindness or wilful shortsightedness of 
the Positive dogma is strangely illustrated by the his- 
tory of the term Positive, and of the philosophy whieh 
it has been employed to designate. St. Thomas Aqui- 
nas ( Sumin . Theol. ii, 57) employs Positive in accord- 
ance with its juridical usage as opposed to Natural— 
“jus naturale et jus positivum.” Accordingly, lie uses 
it to denote that which is commanded, assumed, laid 
down, postulated, taken for granted ; hence, arbitrary, 


not in the sense of wilful or fantastic, but of determined 
as a condition precedent. “ Illud dicitur esse positivum 
quod ex voluntate humana procedit,” etc. This mean- 
ing is frequently given to it by others of the school- 
men, and is sufficiently accordant with its etymology 
and with its classical usage. “Est hsee res posita, quae 
ab adversario non negator” (Cicero, Pro Ctecin. xi). As 
in the scholastic reasoning the most absolutely deter- 
mined principles — the starting-points of speculation — 
were the dogmas of revealed truth, the positions au- 
thoritatively determined by religion, the transition was 
natural to the aeeeptanee of Positive in the sense of re- 
ceived as a command, established by faith, in contrast 
to that which was believed on sensible evidence or dem- 
onstration. lienee it is found with this signification, 
or with one closely analogous to it, in a remarkable pas- 
sage of Bacon, whieh furnishes an apt censure for the 
Positive philosophy and for the misapplication of the 
term, though supplying a step in the direction of Pos- 
itivism. “Nil enim philosophiam persequo corrupit, ae 
ilia inquisitio parentum Cupidinis: hoe est, quod plii- 
losophi prineipia rerum, quemadmodum in natura in- 
veniuntur, non receperunt et amplexi sunt,nt doetrinam 
quandam positivain, et tamquam tide experimentali” 
(Par men. Teles, et Democr. Phil.). 

There is here a coalescence and conciliation of both 
the earlier and the later meanings of the term — a re- 
striction of investigation within the range of human ob- 
servation, but an aeeeptanee by faith of the principles 
beyond it, whieh must regulate human conduct and hu- 
man speculation alike. 

In like manner, Kant, while denying to the under- 
standing the possibility of reaching any positive (de- 
monstrable) knowledge in regard to things purely intel- 
ligible (vovptva), asserts the determination of the moral 
law in a positive (conclusive, assured) manner, through 
the faeulty of intuition ( Kritih der reinen Yernunft , 

i,D. 

This employment of the term in both its applications, 
while the conclusion is contradictory to the speculations 
of the Positive school, acquires peculiar significance 
from the faet that the scheme of Positivism had been 
indicated and condemned by the sage of Konigsberg as 
a possible but mutilated and delusive project of philos- 
ophy. The originality of Comte lay simply in the nar- 
rowness and defectiveness of his principles, and in the 
bardihoodaml vigor with whieh they were applied by him 
in his Syst'eme de la Pkilosophie Positive. II is exclusion 
of the largest and most important half of human knowl- 
edge and experience (undefined and often shadowy as 
that knowledge and that experience may be) consti- 
tutes the latent and deadly malady of Positivism, and is 
prefigured as such in the vaticinations of Kant. 

But instead of referring to the numerous passages in 
the Critical Philosophy in whieh Positivism is antic- 
ipated and censured before its appearance, we may suit- 
ably close these remarks with a citation from a scientific 
writer, whom we may presume to have been Sir David 
Brewster : 

“A third dogma, whieh has of late been placed in prom- 
inence, much, as we couceive, to the detriment of philos- 
ophy, is that of the so-called, or rather miscalled, positive 
philosophy— au extravagant and morphological transfor- 
mation of that rational empiricism whieh professes to 
take experience for its basis, resulting from insisting on 
the prerogatives of experience in reference to external 
phenomena, and ignoring them in relation to the move- 
ments and tendencies of our intellectual nature; a philos- 
ophy which, if it do not repudiate altogether the idea of 
causation, goes far at least to put it out of view r , and with 
it everything whieh can be called explanation of natural 
phenomena, by the undue predominance assigned to the 
idea of law; which rejects, as not merely difficult, not sim- 
ply hopeless, lint as utterly absurd, nnphilosophical, and 
derogatory, all attempt to render any rational account of 
those abstract, equation-like propositions, in which it de- 
lights to embody the results of experience, other than 
their inclusion in some more general proposition of the 
same kind. Entirely persuaded that in physics, at least, 
the inquiry into causes is philosophy, that nothing else is 
so, and that the chain of causation upwards is broken by 
no solution of continuity, eoustitutiug a gulf absolutely 


POSNER 


440 


POSSESSED 


impassable to human faculties, if duly prepared by famil- ! 
iarity with previous links, we are far from regarding the ; 
whole oltice of experimental philosophy as satisfactorily 
expressed by declaring it to consist m the discovery and i 
generalization of laws'' ( lldinb . llev. Jan. 15 * 48 , art. v, p. 
ISO, ISt). 

Literature. — To the references given at the close of 
the article Comti-: may now be added: Comte, System 
of Posit ire Polity, or Treatise upon Sociology, transl. by 
Bridges, Harrison, Beeslv, Congreve, and Hutton (Bond. | 
1*76, 4 vols. *vo) ; Harrison, Order and Progress (1 vol. 
*vo) ; Congreve, Assays, Political, Social, and Ilcligious 
( 1 vol. *vo); Estasen y Cortada, El Positivismo, 6 Siste- 
via de las Ciendas experimentales (Barcelona, 1*77, 8vo) ; 
Cordier. Expose el Critique du Posit iv isme prolonye (Bar. 
1*77, 8vo) ; Adrian, Essais sur quelques Points de la Phi- 
losophic positive; The Nineteenth Century, No. 4. June, 
1*77, art. vii; No. 5, July, 1877, art. vi {The Soul and 
Future Life, by Frederic Harrison); ibid. No. 7, Sept. 
1877, art. xi (.4 Modern Symposium, by It. H. Hutton, 
Prof. Huxley, Lord Blacliford, IIou. Hubert Noel; subj. 

“ The Future Life , ”) ; ibid. No. 8, Oct. 1877, art. ix (.1 
Modern Symposium, by Lord Selborne, Kev. Canon Bar- 
ry, \V. It. Greg, ltev, Baldwin Brown, I)r. W. G. Ward, 
Frederic Harrison: subj. [concluded] “ The Soul and 
Future Lift"). (G. F. 11.) 

Posner, Aiol'si ls Sikcmuxh (formerly Simon), a 
German minister of tbc Lutheran ( ’liureh, a convert from 
Judaism, was born May 19, 1805, at Auras, in Lower 
Silesia. Ilis early education he received at the pub- 
lic schools of Breslau. When seventeen years of age, 
he went to Berlin to continue his studies. There he 
became acquainted with a Hebrew Christian, who sowed 
the first seed of the Gospel. In the year 1828 he re- 
ceived public baptism, assuming the name of Augustus 
Siognnmd. He betook himself to the study of theology, 
ami upon its completion tilled several situations as tutor 
in private families. In the year 1838 he received a call 
to proceed as a missionary to the Fast, and accordingly 
set out for Berlin to prepare for his journey. On the 
road his intention became the subject of conversation 
with a fellow-traveller, a gentleman holding a high sit- 
uation under government, and to his no small surprise 
he was informed by the latter that be must relinquish 
the intention of becoming a missionary, as he had just 
been appointed by the government chaplain of the Pen- 
itentiary at Sagan (in Silesia), and the necessary docu- 
ments respecting it were nearly completed. In Sep- 
tember, 1838, be entered on his new charge, which be 
discharged as becoming a faithful disciple of Christ. In 
addition to the discharge of his heavy duties, Posner 
edited a monthly publication under the title The Prodi- 
gal Son, which became a great blessing to many readers. 
In the year 1810 be was formally ordained by the con- 
sistory. Seeing that bis duties at Sagan were far be- 
yond bis strength, the government made the offer to 
him of another ministerial charge at Lcbenthnl — adding, 
however, that if it were practicable his remaining at his 
present post would he regarded with great satisfaction. 
The expression of such a wish was sufficient to lead Pos- 
ner to consider it his duty to remain. Thus he labored 
and suffered on. In t lie beginning of the year 1*46 Pos- 
ner was invited by the congregation of a newly erected 
church in Berlin to become their pastor; but the consis- 
tory refusing to comply with Posner's wishes to adhere 
to the formularies of t he Lutheran Church instead of 
those of the Prussian National Church, Posner had to 
relinquish the appointment. Broken health, in connec- 
tion with domestic nfllictions, hastened his end. and on 
Monday. Jan. 22, 1819, he was called to his eternal rest, 
enunciating with a weak voice the words, 4f Make an 
end, make an end. t > Lord ! Come. Lord Jesus! — -come, 
come, come quickly ! Lead my soul out of darkness." 
See .4 . S. Posner, lhr treue Zeuge Codes, xreiland Pastor 
an der konigl. Strafanstalt zu Sagan ; l ’on einem Freunde 
(Sehreiberschau, 1*51, 2d od.); and the biography pre- 
pared by a brother of the deceased in the Sonutags-JJib- 


liothek, vol. iv, pt. iii (Bielefeld, 1850); Jewish Jntelli- 
gencer (Loud. 1853); Zueliold, Bibliotheca Theulugica,\\, 
1201. (B. P.) 

Posselt, ArtitsTt s, a German Lutheran theologian, 
was born Jan. 6, 1058, at Zittau, in the Oberlausitz. 
lie studied at Wittenberg, Kiel, and Jena, and for a 
long time he preached at Hamburg. In 1088 be was 
appointed preacher at SS. Peter and Taul in his native 
place; in 1714 he was made archdeacon, and in 1718 
pastor primarius of St. John, in which position he died, 
Nov. 23, 1728. He wrote, Jlirhtige Frk/drung der Fpistel 
St. Pauli an die Homer : — Xuchricht von den in J/iinden 
habenden biblischen Fxemplaren. See J ocher, Oelehrten- 
Lexihon, s. v. 

Possessed with Devils, the usual Tendering in 
the A. V. of the Greek catpoviZvfitvot (but also eai- 
poviabh'Tte, Mark v, 18; comp, caipona t\ar, Luke 
viii, 27; m-tvpa Caiporiov UKaxdpTOv t\tir, iv, 33), 
Matt, iv, 24; viii, 10; xv, 22; Acts viii, 7 ; Luke viii, 2. 
These were persons alllicted with disease, as epilepsy 
(Matt, xvii, 15; Luke ix, 39), paralysis (Luke xiii, 11, 
16), dumbness (Matt, ix, 32; xii, 22), and especially 
with melancholy and insanity (Matt, viii, 28; Mark v, 
2 sq. ; Luke viii, 27 sq.); whence the healed are said to 
be of sound mind (auxfiporovvTtc, Mark v, 15; Luke viii, 

I 35). It is not necessary to suppose that the epilepsy or 
the dumbness, when this was the main feature of the 
case, was complicated with peculiar physical disorders, 
although epilepsy is very commonly connected with 
something of the kind (see Farmer, Fers. p. 89; Hip- 
pocrat. Virg. Morb.c. i ; Esquirol. Path. u. Therap. d. Sre- 
lenstorungen [Lcips. 1827], p.73 : comp. p. 503). Indeed, 
while these special disabilities of men in other respects 
in sound and vigorous health were naturally referred to 
' a supernatural cause, this would be especially the case 
' with the sudden attacks of epilepsy, falling at irregular 
intervals and without premonition. Everything of this 
kind the Jews, like the Greeks ami Homans, referred to 
evil spirits taking possession of men (see Acts x, 38; 
Luke xiii, 16; comp. Josephus, Ant. vi, 8, 2, on 1 Sam. 
xvi, 14, 23; see also Lightfoot, p. 388; Eisenmenger, 
Kutdecktes Jndentk. ii, 454; Maimonides, Schab. ii, 5; 
Frub. iii, 4 ; Creuzer, Sgmbolik, iii, 4 sq.). The case 
was the same among the ancients with those extraor- 
dinary events and achievements, accomplished by men, 
which seemed too great to proceed from the natural hu- 
man powers— they were referred to the operation of a di- 
vinity. Not only hallucinations, melancholy, and epi- 
lepsy (called hv Herodotus the sacred disease, iii, 33), 
but also the ravings of Bacchantes and Corvbautes were 
viewed as proceeding from superhuman inspiration (He- 
rod. iv, 79 ; Enrip. Parch. 298 sq. ; Dion. Hal. De Demos- 
then. c.xxii; see also Herod, iii, 33 ; Heliod. .Eth. iv, 10; 
Bos, Fxercit. Phil. p. 62 sq.). Hence to demonize ( cat - 
porar) is the common Greek expression meaning to he 
insane (.Esch. Chceph. 564; Sept. c. Tin b. 1003: Enrip. 
Phan. *99 ; Aristoph. Thesmoph. 1060; Plutarch, Mar- 
sell. 20; Lucian, Philopseud. o. xvi; ami Wetst. i, 2*2; 
csp. Arcta?i Caussa Morb. dint. i. 4). But these diemons 
wore generally viewed as the spirits of the deceased 
(Philostr. A poll, iii, 3*; Horace, Fpod. v, 91; comp. 
Josephus, IFf/r, vii, 6. 3: and on exorcising them, see 
Plutarch, Sympos. vii, 5; Lucian, Philopseud. c. xvi; on 
the Syriac and Arabic usage of speed), see Jalm, Sach- 
trdge. p. 173 sq.). The practice of exorcism upon such 
nu n, for the purpose of driving out the du*mous. was 
very common (comp. Lucian, Philopseud, c. xvi; and 
sec Matt. xii. 37; Luke ix, 49; Acts xix, 13 sq. ; comp. 
Justin Mart. Apol. ii, 7). The exorcists made use of 
magical formula*, said to have descended from Solomon 
(Josephus, Ant. viii. 2, 5), in connection with certain 
roots, stones, etc. ( id. I lor, vii. 6, 3; Mislma, C it tin. lx vii, 
2; Plutarch, De Flur. xvi, 2). Afterwards these men 
were found also in other countries (Lucian, Philopseud. 
e. xvi). Many suppose that Jesus simply adopted the 
popular inode of speech in his age in speaking of 


POSSESSED 


441 


POSSE VINO 


moniac possession, and healed the unfortunate sufferers 
without sharing in the view commonly taken of their 
disease (P. von Hemert, Accommodat. in N. T. p. 51 sq.; 
Ilase, Leben Jesu , p. 71 sq.), just as the physicians in 
the time of Origen, who did not at all believe in real 
possession by devils (comp, the principles of Maimoni- 
des; Jahn, kacktrage, p. 185). On his method of heal- 
ing, comp. Panins, i, 4:23; ii, 621 ; and on Mark ix, 29, 
against the view of Paulus, Fritzsche on Matt. xvii. 21. 
Where prayer and fasting are recommended to the apos- 
tles as means of exorcism, Porphyry (Abstinen. ii, 204, 
417 sq.) may be compared. It was very natural that 
the sufferers, when healed, wished to remain in the vi- 
cinity of the Great Physician (Luke viii, 38 ; comp, viii, 
2); for there they considered themselves most safe 
against the return of the daemons. 

The symptoms recorded of individual daemoniacs 
agree with those which are noticed in diseases of the 
kinds mentioned above, (a.) On Matt, xvii, 15, comp. 
Paid. ^Egin. iii, 13, where he speaks of a morbus comi- 
fialis, in which the whole body is convulsed; which 
affects chiefly boys, sometimes young men; and in 
which the convulsion is accompanied with a sudden in- 
articulate cry. The chief distinguishing mark, how- 
ever, is a foaming at the mouth (comp. Luke ix, 39; 
Lucian, Philopseud. c. xvi). Ccel. Aurelian ( Morb. 
Citron, i, 4) speaks of a class of diseased persons, epilep- 
tics, who fell in public places (from which the disease is 
still sometimes called falling-sickness, and in German 
Fidlsucht ; comp. Rabb. ^£*3 or !“i££3, an epileptic), or 
even into rivers or the sea. Aretieus (J)e Morbo JCpil. 
5) speaks of some who fell in weakness into the river. 
It was early observed that this affliction seemed to have 
some connection with the changes of the moon (Doug- 
tiei A naled. ii, 5 ; Bartholin, Morb. Bibl. c. xviii ; comp. 
Aret. Morb. Chron. i, 4; Origen, in Matt, iii , p. 577 ; Lu- 
cian, Tox. c. xxiv; Isidor. Grig, iv, 7). Hence the use 
of the word Matt, iv, 24; xvii, 15; comp. 

Suicer, Thesuur. ii, 94G. In Latin, too, epileptics were 
called lunutici, or moonstruck. Again, epilepsy, in con- 
nection with partial insanity, was the disease of the man 
mentioned in Mark i, 23 sq.; Luke iv, 33 sq.; comp. esp. 
Mark i, 2G. ( b .) On Matt, viii, 28, comp. Wetstein, i, 

354 sq. The proofs of vast strength, and of a violent 
rage against himself (Mark v, 4, 5 ; comp. Acts xix, 16), 
leave no doubt that this man was a maniac. The fact 
that he avoided society, and wished to dwell alone 
among tombs, point to the peculiar mania which Sau- 
vages calls Mania misanthropica, or that which Iveil 
(Rhapsodie iiber die Anwend. d, psyck. Kurmetkode, etc. 
[Halle, 1803], p. 363) calls Mania errahtnda. Yet his 
mania was but temporary, though the delusion which it 
accompanied was permanent, showing itself in settled 
ideas (Mark v, 9; Luke viii, 30). Thus, according to 
the principles of llcinroth ( Lehrbuch der Seelenstorun- 
gen, i, 3G0 sq.), the case is one of delusion joined with 
melancholy, and sometimes heightened to mania. Men- 
tal as well as physical diseases are often thus compli- 
cated with each other (Esquirol, p. 73) ; comp, further, 
Tar gum Jerus. Terumoth , xl, 2, where an insane man 
(il^^'j) is thus described: “He goes forth and spends 
the night among the tombs ; and tears his clothing, and 
destroys whatever is offered him.” The leaping down 
of the swine, perhaps a part only of the herd, was pro- 
duced, as some think, by the violent running towards 
them of the demoniacs, under the fixed impression that 
the diemons could not leave them save by finding an- 
other dwelling-place in the unclean beasts (comp. Jose- 
phus, Ant. viii, 2, 5; see esp. Eichhorn, Bibl. vi, 835 sq.; 
Grimm, Exeget. Aufs. i, 123 sq. ; Schmidt, Exeget. Beitr. 
ii, 85 sq. ; Greiling, in Henke, Mus. i, 620 sq. ; Friedrich, 
Vers, einer lAteraturgesch. d. Pathol, u. Thera pie d. psych. 
Kraukh. [Wiirzb. 1830], p. 7 sq. ; Schlciermacher, Pre- 
digteu, iii, note 3, on Acts xri , 16). The view of the 
earlier theologians and physicians was that in the case 
of the diemoniacs healed by Jesus there had been an 


actual bodily indwelling of evil spirits. From this view 
(set forth by J. Marckius, Textual Exercit. p. 257 sq.; 
Devling, Observat. ii, 371 sq.; Ernesti, Aeue theol. Bibl. 
iii, 799 sq. ; Zeibich, Verm. Betracht. iii, 306 sq. ; Storr, 
Opusc. i, 53 sq. ; Eschenbach, Scripior. Med. Bibl. p. 41 
sq.) many dissented long ago, following a hint of St. 
Augustine, De Genesi ad lit. xii, 17 (see Ilobbes, Le- 
viathan, c. viii and xlv; Bekkcr, Byzunt . 1 1 Alt, bk. iv, c. 
vii sq. ; Wetstein, i, 279 sq. ; Bartholin, De Morb. Bibl. 
c. xix). It was formally combated by Mead, Bibel- 
krankh. p. 63 sq. See Sender, Com. de Donnoniacis 
quorum in N. T.Jitmentio (Halle, 1760); Unistdndliche 
Untersucliung der Diimon-Leute (ibid. 1762); Gruner, 
De Dcemoniucis a Chr. Percuratis (Jena, 1775); Lind- 
linger, in his Schr. de Ebrceor. vet. Arte Med. translated 
into German by Colin, with preface by Semlcr (Brem. 
1776) ; his Briefe iib. die Damonischen in d. Evung., with 
additions bv Sender (Halle, 1783) ; Zimmerman, Diatr. 
de Lkernonicis Evang. (Rinteln, 1786) ; M edicin.-hermen. 
Untersuch. p. 15 sq. Comp. Cams, Psychol, d. Ilebr. p. 
393 sq. ; Baur, Bibl. Theol. d. A. T. i, 213 sq. ; Jahn, A r- 
chaol. I, ii. 400 sq. (omitted in the 2d ed. ; comp. A 'ach- 
trage to Jahn’s Theol. Werke, p. 451 sq.). — Winer. Ad- 
ditional literature is cited by Yolbeding, Index Pro- 
grammatum, p. 41; Base, Leben Jesu, p. 99; Darling, 
Cyclop, col. 830, 923, 926, 1872, 1882; Danz, Bibl. The- 
ologiie, p. 125, 204. See also Woodward, Demoniacal 
Possession (Loud. 1839, 1856); Meth. Quar. Rev. July, 
1857; Free-will Bapt. Quar. April, 1858; Prcsb. Rev. 
Oct. 1865. Comp. D.e.moniac. 

Fossevino, Antonio, a celebrated Italian Jesuit, 
noted for the diplomatic services he rendered the 
Church of Borne, was born at Mantova in 1534. He 
belonged to a noble but poor family. Sent to Rome at 
the age of sixteen, he was in a short time proficient 
in the classical languages and literature, and cardinal 
Ercole di Gonzaga made him his amanuensis, and in- 
trusted to his hands the education of his nephews, Fran- 
cis and Scipio di Gonzaga. Fossevino followed his pa- 
tron to Ferrara, then to Padua, and gained by his merit 
the esteem of Paolo Manucci, Bartolomeo Ricci, and 
Sigonio. Although he had been rewarded by the Gon- 
zagas with the donation of the rich commanderv of 
Fossano, in Piedmont, he preferred to join the Jesuits. 
He had not finished his novitiate when he was sent on 
a very delicate errand to the duke of Savoy, Emanuel 
Philibert (1560). The object of this mission was to 
stop the progress of heresy, which, coming from France, 
threatened to invade Italy through Savoy and Pied- 
mont. The Roman court, either to reward his services 
or to give full scope to his talents, employed him in 
several negotiations. The first of these missions was to 
Sweden. He arrived in Stockholm in December, 1577. 
The king received him with great favor, abjured sev- 
erally all his heresies, made a general confession, and 
promised obedience to the apostolic see. The ensuing 
day, May 17, 1578, the mass was celebrated after the 
Roman rite in presence of the king. Possevino returned 
to Rome, and the queries and propositions of the king 
were examined by an ecclesiastical commission. The 
mass in the vulgar tongue, the chalice for the laymen, 
: the marriage of priests, the omission of the invocation 
! of saints and of the prayers for the dead, the suppression 
I of holy water and other ceremonies were rejected ; seven 
other proposals were accepted. On Possevino’s return 
! to Stockholm (July, 1579), the king, who was of a very 
fickle disposition, showed great dissatisfaction at the 
negative answer he had met with on the live points 
above mentioned, broke up all negotiations, and would 
not even consent to the establishment of a Church for 
Romanists. In February, 1580, the regsdag of Wad- 
stena, at which Possevino was present, took a threaten- 
ing attitude, and king John was compelled to publish 
an edict against the introduction of Roman Catholic 
works, and to promise to promote only Protestants to 
the professorships. In the same year Possevino returned 
I to Rome. King John, having lost his wife Catharine in 


POSSEYIXO 


442 


rossmius 


1583, married in 1585 Gtmilla Bjelke, who became for 
the Lutherans what the former queen had been for the 
Catholics. 

Soon afterwards Possevino was sent on a similar er- 
rand to Poland and Russia. The czar, Ivan Vasili- 
vitch II (1533-1584), called the Terrible, had vastly 
aggrandized his empire in all directions. In 158U lie 
had made the conquest of Livonia. Here he met Ste- 
phen Batliori, king of Poland (1575- 1585), who de- 
feated him and compelled him to retreat. To stop the 
Polish invasion the czar invoked the mediation of pope 
Gregory XIII. Possevino was sent to the headquarters 
of the king of Poland at Wilna. Batliori consented to 
receive the envoys of the czar, but rejected their con- 
ditions. Hereupon Possevino set on his way to the in- 
terior of Russia under an escort of Cossacks. The czar 
received him at Stacilza, and gave him a solemn audi- 
ence, A ng. 8. Ivan sat on his throne, surrounded with 
Oriental pomp, dressed in a long robe interwoven with 
golden threads and covered with pearls and jewels; he 
bore a kind of tiara on his head, and belli a golden 
sceptre in his left hand. Senators, bojars, and army- 
ofiicers tilled the rooms; gold and precious stones glit- 
tered everywhere. The rest was in accordance. After 
five days of feasting the negotiations commenced; dur- 
ing the whole proceedings the czar gave frequent evi- 
dence of astuteness and duplicity. Possevino subordi- 
nated his intervention to the following conditions: free, 
passage through Russia for the apostolic nuncios and 
missionaries; free exercise of the Roman Catholic wor- 
ship for foreign merchants, and admission of Catholic 
priests to administer to them the sacraments. Finally, 
as the czar himself had proposed an alliance against the 
Turks, the papal envoy hinted at the fusion of the two 
churches as being the best means to bring it to pass. 
Possevino was brimful of hope, while the czar gave only 
evasive answers. Thus a month elapsed in resultless 
debate, when the news of the siege of Pleskau (Pskov), 
the possession of which city would have opened Russia 
to the Poles, brought matters to a rapid conclusion. 
Ivan consented to the admission of Roman Catholic 
merchants, and Possevino repaired to the Polish camp. 
Through his exertions a congress of plenipotentiaries 
of both belligerents was held at Porchau. in which the 
mediator presided. Batliori demanded the cession of 
the whole of Livonia, and as Possevino knew that the 
king of Poland would not swerve from his purpose, he 
prevailed on the Russians to consent. But when the 
Poles demanded also the town of Weliki, ami the life of 
the Russian envoy was at stake, the papal legate had 
to pledge his own life to obtain their signature. At 
last peace was concluded, Jan. 15, 1582. When Posse- 
vino, after a truly triumphal journey, reached Moscow, 
he found the court in consternation and the czar beside 
himself: lie had killed his son with a blow of his golden 
sceptre. Five weeks after the conclusion of the peace 
a conference was held in the Kremlin, when the czar 
declined the proposal of a fusion of the churches, but 
consented to the passage of the missionaries, and grant- 
ed religious freedom to foreign merchants and priests. 
During these latter negotiations Ivan at one time had 
lifted his sceptre, still red with his sou’s blood, against 
the Jesuit. Failing to intimidate Possevino. he laid a 
snare for him, trying to prevail on him to kiss the hand 
of the patriarch : his purpose was to make believe that 
the pope had submitted to the patriarch. But the 
clerical diplomatist remained faithful to his task, and 
succeeded. 

lie was scarcely returned when he was sent to Livo- 
nia and Transylvania to combat Protestantism, which 
was fast gaining ground in those provinces. Possevino 
held a conference with the sectarians at Ilermannstadt. 
On the same occasion he increased the importance of 
the colleges of his order in those parts, and founded a 
seminary at Clausenbnrg. In 15S3 he took his seat, in 
bis quality of a papal nuncio, at the great Diet of War- 
saw. As Possevino several times interposed his media- 


tion between Poland and the German empire, he was, 
as coidd be expected, accused of partiality by both par- 
ties. The general of his order, Agnaviva, hereupon in- 
sisted on his being recalled, and Gregory XIII com- 
plied with the demand. Possevino was glad to leave 
his political toils. He journeyed about as a simple 
missionary in Livonia, Bohemia, Saxony, and Upper 
Hungary. While thus engaged he was called to Padua 
to hold lectures: there he became acquainted with the 
young count of Sales, whom he prevailed upon to leave 
the law for the Church, and who became St. Francis do 
Sales. After four years spent at Padua, he was called 
to Rome, where he took some pains in trying to recon- 
cile Henry IV with the pope. This direction of his zeal 
displeased the Spanish party and his superiors, and he 
was sent to Bologna as rector of the college, lie was 
at Venice when Paul Vput the city under interdict; and 
here was a new case of mediation for the old man. lie 
died at. Ferrara Feb. 2G, 1611. Among his works are, 
Pel Maori fizio dell' A It are (Lyons, 1563, 8vo) : — 11 Mol- 
dato Crisiiano (Rome, 1569, 12mo), written at Pius Vs 
request, when this pontiff sent troops to Charles IX 
against the Huguenots: — Musroria, sen de rebus Mos- 
eovitieis (Wilna, 1586, 8vo; Cologne, 1587-95, fob; Ital. 
transb 1596, 4to): — Judicium de qvatnor seriptoribus 
(Rome, 1592, 12mo; Lyons, 1593, 8vo). The four au- 
thors are Le Xoue, Jean Bodin. Dnplessis -Mornay, 
and Machiavelli. Possevino was here misled by his 
zeal against the Protestants; amt as to Machiavelli, he 
refuted him without reading his works: — Bibliotheca 
selecta de rationc Stndioruiu (Rome, 1593, 2 vols. fob; 
new ed. with correct, and addit., Cologne. 1607, 2 vols. 
fob): — Apparatus sacer (Venice, 1603-6, 3 vols. fob; 
Cologne, 1607, 2 vols. fob) ; this is the greatest cat- 
alogue of ancient and modern authors that bail been 
seen at that time. Although he had especially in view 
the interest of the Roman Catholic Church, yet lie did 
not, like Bellarmin, Sixtus of Siena, and others, coniine 
his task to the enumeration of ecclesiastical writers — 
his plan includes the profane too. lie treats of nearly 
eight thousand writers — their lives, works, influence, 
editions : — 1 7 ta di Lodorico Gonzaya , Ducer di Xerers, 
di Eleonora , Jhiehessa di Mantova (1604, 4 to). See 
Ranke, flint, of the Papacy, i, 434 sq. ; ii, 21 sq. ; Alzog, 
Kirchenyesch. ii. 341, 425, 466; Moshcim, Peeks. Jlist. 
voh iii ; Ilocfcr, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Possidius, Sr., a prelate of the early Eastern 
Church, nourished at the close of the 4th and the com- 
mencement of the 5th century. lie was a disciple of 
St. Augustine, and lived on intimate terms with him all 
his life. On being raised in 397 to the episcopal sec of 
Calamo, a town in Xumidia, at no great distance from 
Ilippo-Regius, he endeavored to oppose the assemblies 
which pagans and Donatists wore continually bolding 
in spite of the imperial decrees. The pagans avenged 
themselves by setting lire to his church and compelling 
him to lloe to Hippo. Recalled after a few years, Pos- 
sidius was a member of all important assemblies held in 
Africa about Church matters, especially of the famous 
conference at Carthage in 411, in which none after St. 
Augustine played a more prominent part than himself, 
lie was also at the Councils of Carthage and of Miletus, 
where IVlnsgus and Celestius were condemned. He 
was also sent abroad on important missions. Thus in 
A.D. 410 he was one of four prelates despatched hv the 
orthodox party in Africa 10 Hoiiorius for the purpose of 
soliciting a repeal of the law which had been passed by 
their heretical opponents. Expelled from ('alamo in 
428 by Gensorie. king of the Vandals, be assisted St. 
Augustine in bis late moments, and wrote the life of the 
great saint, with a list of bis works. He died after 431. 
The Roman Catholic Church has consecrated the 17th 
of May to his memory. Two tracts by Possidius, to 
which reference was made above, are still extant. They 
are entitled, 1 it a A uynstinn ; Jndieulus Snip toman .4 u- 
yustini. These are attached to all the host editions of 
Augustine. The best edition of the Vita, in a separate 


POST 


443 


POST 


form, is that of Salinns (Rome, 1731, 8vo) and Aug. 
Vinclel (1768) ; of the Indiculus, that published at Ven- 
ice (1735, 8vo). — Hoefer, Nour. Biog. Generate, s. v.; 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. 

Post (conrant) is the rendering of j^, rats (Sept. 
fiifiXiopopog, Vulg. cursor, 2 Chron. xxx, 6, 10; Esth. 
iii, 13, 15; viii, 10, 14; Job ix, 25; Jer. li, 31), a runner, 
or “ guard,” as elsewhere rendered ; a courier or carrier 
of messages, such as is common in Oriental countries. 
See Axgareuo. The term post is used to indicate pri- 
marily the person who conveyed with speed any message; 
and subsequently the means of regular postal communi- 
cations. Some writers have thought that the use of posts 
as a sj'stem originated with the Persians. Diodorus Si- 
culus observes that the kings of Persia, in order to have 
intelligence of what was passing through all the prov- 
inces of their vast dominions, placed sentinels at emi- 
nences at convenient distances, where towers were built. 
These sentinels gave notice of public occurrences from 
one to another, with a very loud and shrill voice, by 
which news was transmitted from one extremity of the 
kingdom to another with great expedition. But as 
this could not be practiced except in the case of general 
news, which it was expedient that the whole nation 
should be acquainted with, Cyrus, as Xenophon relates, 
appointed couriers and places for post-horses, building for 
the purpose on all the high-roads houses for the recep- 
tion of the couriers, where they were to deliver their 
packets to the next, and so on. This they did night and 
day, so that no inclemency of weather was to stop them : 
and they are represented as moving with astonishing 
speed. Herodotus owns that nothing swifter was known 
for a journey by land. Xerxes, in his famous expedi- 
tion against Greece, planted posts from the iEgean Sea 
to Shushan or Susa, to send notice thither of what might 
happen to his army; he placed also messengers from 
station to station, to convey his packets, at such dis- 
tances from each other as a horse might easily travel. 
The regularity and swiftness of the Roman posts were 
likewise admirable. Gibbon observes, “The advantage 
of receiving the earliest intelligence, and of conveying 
their orders with celerity, induced the emperors to es- 
tablish throughout their extensive dominions the regu- 
lar institution of posts. Houses were everywhere erect- 



ed at the distance only of five or six miles; each of 
them was constantly provided with forty horses; and 
by the help of these relays it was easy to travel a hun- 
dred miles a day along the Roman roads.” In the time 
of Theodosius, Cesarius, a magistrate of high rank, went 
by post from Antioch to Constantinople. He began his 
journey at night, was in Cappadocia (165 miles from 
Antioch) the ensuing evening, and arrived at Constan- 
tinople the sixth day about noon. The whole distance 
was 725 Roman, or G65 English miles. This service 
seems to have been very laxly performed till the time 
of Trajan, previous to whose reign the Roman messen- 
gers were in the habit of seizing for the public service 
any horses that came in their way. Some regularity 
was observed from this time forward, as in the Theo- 
dosian code mention is made of post-horses, and orders 
given for their regulation. Throughout all this period 
posts were only used on special occasions. Letters from 
private persons were conveyed by private hands, and 
were confined for the most part to business of sufficient 
urgency. Yet the correspondence of ancient times, if 
we may judge from the immense number of Egyptian, 
Babylonian, and Persian seals still in existence, must 
have been far from inconsiderable. The institution of 
posts disappeared from Europe with the breaking up 
of the Roman empire, and its re-establishment is gen- 
erally attributed to Louis XI of France, in the middle 
of the 15th century. 

Post ( stationary ) is the rendering in the A. Y. of 
the following words: 

1. dyil (Sept, to a’iSrpioi', Vulg. frons), proper- 
ly a ram (as in Gen. xv, 9, and often) ; hence perhaps 
a pilaster or buttress (Ezek. xl, 9-49; xli, 1,3; “lin- 
tel,” 1 Kings vi, 31). In the Sept, it is sometimes left 
untranslated (a iX, aiXev, at’Xdfi); and in the Chaldee 
version it is represented by a modification of itself. 
Throughout the passages of Ezekiel in which it occurs 
the Vulg. uniformly renders it by frons : which Gese- 
nius quotes as favorable to his own view, provided that 
by frons be understood the projections in front of the 
building. The A. V. of 1 Kings vi, 31, “lintel,” is 
supported by the versions of Aquila, Symmachus, and 
Theodotion of Ezek. xl, 21; while Kimelii explains it 
generally by “post.” The Pesh i to - Syriac uniformly 
renders the word by a modification of the Greek 
TraparrraStg, “pillars.” Jarchi understands by 
ay it a round column like a large tree; Aquila 
(Ezek. xl, 14), having in view the meaning “ram,” 
which the word elsewhere bears, renders it Kplmga. 
apparently intending thereby to denote the vol- 
utes of columns curved like rams’ horns. J. D. Mi- 
chaelis ( Supj y. ad Lex. s. v.) considers it to be the 
tympanum or triangular area of the pediment 
above a gate supported by columns. Geseuius 
himself, after reviewing the passages in which the 
word occurs, arrives at the conclusion that in the 
singular it denotes the whole projecting frame- 
work of a door or gateway, including the jambs 
on either side, the threshold, and the lintel or ar- 
chitrave, with frieze and cornice. In the plural it 
is applied to denote the projections along the front 
of an edifice ornamented with columns or palm- 
trees, and with recesses or intercolumniations be- 
tween them sometimes filled np by windows. Un- 
der the former head he places 1 Kings vi, 31 ; 
Ezek. xl, 9, 21, 24, 26, 29, 31, 33, 34, 36-38, 48, 49; 

1 xli, 3; while to the latter he refers xl, 10, 14, 16; 

' xli, 1. Another explanation still is that of Bott- 
cher (quoted by Winer, Realm, ii, 575), who says 
that ayil is the projecting entrance and passage 
wall— which might appropriately be divided into 
compartments by panelling; and this view is 
adopted by Fiirst ( Handle . s. v.). Akin to this 
is eylam, “an arch,” only used in the plur. 

(Ezek. xl, 16, etc.), probably a portico, and so ren- 



TOST 444 POSTEL 


dered by Symmachus and Syriac versions (Gesen. The- 
saur. p. 48), 

2. r. "X, ammdh (Sept. v7r?pSvpov, Vulg. superlimi- 
nare ), literally, mother, or cubit, as the fundamental re- 
lation; a foundation (Isa. vi, 4). 

3. n’“7*2, nuzuzuh (Sept. ora^pw, (fKia \ Vulg. pos- 
tis), the door-post (the usual term). Sec Mkzi*z.ui. 
The ceremony of boring the ear of a voluntary bonds- 
man was performed by plac ing the car against the door- 1 
post of the house (Exod. xxi, 6; see Jnven. Sat. i, 103, 
and Plant. Pan. v, 2. 21). The posts of the doors of 
the Temple were of olive-wood (L Kings vi, 33). 

4. ?3, saph (Sept. <p\iu, Trpo7rv\or\ Vulg. limen. su- 
per/ intinare), the threshold (2 Chron. iii, 7 ; Ezek. xli, 
1G; Amos ix, 1; elsewhere “threshold,” “door,” or 
“gate”). Sec Dooti. 

Post, Christian Frederick, a distinguished but 
somewhat erratic Moravian missionary, was born in 
1710 at Conitz, in Polish Prussia, lie immigrated to 
America in 1742. lie preached, after his arrival in this 
country, among the Indians, with whom he was con- 
nected bv marriage, his first wife, llachel, having been 
a baptized Wompanoag, and his second wife, Agnes, a 
baptized Delaware. 1 1 is earliest missionary labors ex- 
tended over parts of New England and New York. In 
1745, while among the. Mohawks, he was arrested on 
the false charge of being a French spy, sent to New 
York, and there confined for seven weeks in the jail 
of the City Hall. 1 1 is companion, David Zeishergcr 
(q. v.), shared the same lot. 'Flic protest of Governor 
Thomas and other influential Pennsylvanians at last 
secured their release. After the death of his second 
Indian wife— his third wife was a white woman — he 
returned to Europe, and thence, in 1752, sailed to Lab- 
rador, attempting to bring the Gospel to the Esqui- 
maux. Having come back to Pennsylvania in 1754, 
he established himself in the Wyoming Valley, where 
he instructed the Indians and entertained travelling 
missionaries until the breaking out of the French and 
Indian War. In the course of this war, in the summer 
of 1758, at the instance of the government of Pennsyl- 
vania, he undertook a perilous journey through the 
Indian country as far as Ohio, inducing the Western 
tribes which were in league with France to bury the 
hatchet and send deputies to a congress at Easton. 
This congress resulted in a general pacification, which 
embraced all the nations except the T wight wees. Un- 
daunted by the dangers of his first tour, he thereupon 
visited the Indian country a second time, and induced 
the Twightwecs also to conclude peace. Post thus 
conferred an incalculable benefit upon the colonics, and 
indirectly helped to bring the North American conti- 
nent under the sway of the Anglo-Saxon race. 'Flic 
journal of his first tour, which caused a great sensation 
at the time, was published in London in 1 7 5D, in a work 
entitled . I u /inquiry into the Causes of the Alienation of 
the Delaware and Shawnee Indians from the British 
Interest, etc. It is also found in the Penn. Archives, 
iii, 520-514. After the war Post began (1701) an in- 
dependent mission on the Tuscarawas, Ohio. The 
breaking out of the Pontiac conspiracy compelled him 
to retire, lie went to the South, and in the beginning 
of 1701 sailed from Charleston to Mosquitia, where he 
preached to the natives. In 17G7 he visited the colo- 
nies, but returned again to Mosquitia. After that we 
lose sight of him until 1784, when lie is found residing 
in Germantown, Pa. There he died, April 23, 1785. and 
was buried in the Lower Graveyard of that place by 
the Lev. William White (afterwards bishop While), 
rector of Ghrist Church, Philadelphia. (E. de S.) 

Post, Henry Albertson, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Brooklyn, N. Y., Sept. 2, 1855. He 
received a careful parental training, enjoyed all the ad- 
vantages of the academies of New England, and grad- 
uated at the New York Free Academy. lie studied 


theology in the Union Seminary', New York, and sub- 
sequently in the Princeton Seminary, N. J., where he 
graduated in 1858, and was licensed and ordained over 
the Church in Warrensburgh, N. Y., Jan. 10, I8ti0: this 
was his only charge, for he died Nov. 12, 18G1. Mr. 
Post died in the very midst of his active work; still his 
short ministry gave full proof of his calling, and many 
souls were added to the Church. Sec Wilson, I’resb. 
Hist. Almanac, 1SG3, p. 308. (J. L. S.) 

Post, Reuben, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Cornwall, Vt., in 1792. He received a good academ- 
ical training, and graduated with honor at Middlcbury 
College, Vt., in 1814, and at the Theological Seminary 
at Princeton, N. J., in 1818. On leaving the seminary, 
he spent some time as a missionary in Virginia, then 
accepted a call from the First Presbyterian Church, 
Washington, D. C., and was ordained in 1819. In 1836 
he accepted a call from the Circular Church, Charleston, 
S. C., where lie labored faithfully for twenty-three years, 
when he was taken ill, and died Sept, 24, 1858. Sec 
Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 18G0, p. 77. (J. L. S.) 

Postel, Guii.i.aume, one of the most learned 
Frenchmen of his time, is celebrated especially as one 
of the wildest religious visionaries the world has ever 
encountered. lie was born May 28, 1505 (according to 
some historians, 1510), at Dolerie, near Barenton, in 
Normandy. He lost his parents early, and poverty 
compelled him to leave his country. At the age of 
thirteen years he found at Say, near Pontoisc, a modest 
situation as schoolmaster. lie saved some money, and 
went to Paris to pursue his studies. There lie was the 
victim of a robbery, which reduced him to extreme mis- 
ery, and he was confined by sickness to a hospital for 
two years. When he was restored to health, his pov- 
erty and the high price of living compelled him to leave 
Paris, and to support himself by gleaning in the Benucc. 
Afterwards he entered the College of Saintc-Barbc in 
the quality of a servant; there he became by private 
study one of the most learned Hebraists of his time. 
No less remarkable was his proficiency in the Greek 
language, lie lived successively in Amiens and liouen, 
ami then went back to Paris to become a tutor. lie 
accompanied La Forest to Constantinople to transact 
some political business, lie wqnt a second time to the 
capital of Turkey with the heirs of a citizen of Tours, 
who had died leaving 300,000 ducats as a deposit in 
the hands of Ibrahim Pasha. Postel improved these 
occasions to study the Arabic language, and brought 
back with him a number of manuscripts in Arabic and 
Syriac. The New Testament in Syriac, which he was 
the first to bring to Europe, was printed at the expense 
of the emperor Ferdinand I. Shortly after this Postel 
published an alphabet in twelve languages, and some 
other writings. His learning was now acknowledged 
by king Francis I, and he was given in 1539 a professor- 
ship of mathematics and Oriental languages, with a sal- 
ary of 200 ducats, which allowed him much leisure to 
devote himself to linguistic studies; but he lost his 
chair when chancellor Poyet, his benefactor, fell into 
disgrace. Postel thereupon repaired to Vienna, where 
he helped Job. Alb. Widmnnstadt in the publica- 
tion of his New Testament in Syriac (printed in 1555). 
Compelled to leave that city for motives unknown, lie 
was mistaken for a murderer who had some likeness to 
him, and arrested on the frontier of the Venetian terri- 
tory. lie succeeded in escaping his captors, and went 
to l!omc in 1544. lie there made the acquaintance of 
Ignatius de Loyola, and determined to enter the Order 
of the Jesuits. But the head of the neophyte was full 
of fantastic ideas, due to the study of the rabhins, and 
also to the study of the stars. After a two-years’ novi- 
tiate he was expelled from the order, and Ignatius pro- 
hibited all intercourse with him. Postel having ex- 
posed in some writings his mystical ideas, he was im- 
prisoned. Escaping to Venice, he was denounced to the 
Inquisition, but was dismissed by that tribunal, being 


POSTEL 


445 


POSTEL 


considered more a fool than a heretic. lie afterwards lived 
in Genoa and Basle. Beza asserts that Postel offered 
to abjure his errors and to enter one of the Protestant 
communities, which seems doubtful. It appears that in 
1553 he was a teacher of mathematics at Dijon, when 
his obnoxious opinions compelled him again to flee. 
He lived for some time at the court of the emperor Fer- 
dinand I, whence, after a public abjuration of his opin- 
ions, he was recalled to his former situation at the Col- 
lege of France by Francis I, but. soon lost it again, and 
spent the last eighteen years of his life in the monastery 
of Saint-Martin des Champs. “ In his old age,” says a 
contemporary, “princes and men of science paid their 
visits to the venerable recluse at Saint -Martin des 
Champs, where he lived. He there sat in his chair, 
his white beard falling down to his girdle; and in his 
deportment was such a majesty, such gravity in ev- 
erything he said, that no one ever left him without a 
wish to see him again, and without astonishment at 
what he had heard.” He died Sept. 6, 1581. It was 
during his life at the monastery that Postel published 
in 1572 his ideas about the comet which appeared in 
that year, and in 1575 a new edition of his Histoires 
Oriental.es , dedicated to Francis of Valois. He says in 
the dedication that Catharine de’ Medici had made 
choice of him for preceptor of her son Francis, and that 
lie declined the position on account of the dangers of 
the court, which he had painfully experienced in his 
own life. It is related by contemporaries that when he 
lectured at Paris, at the College of the Lombards, he 
drew such crowds that, the great room of the institute 
being too narrow, he caused his auditors to go down into 
the yard, and spoke to them from a window. Mahlo- 
natus says that “ there came out of his mouth as many 
oracles as words.” He may have been wrongly accused 
of atheism, but he entertained strange theological opin- 
ions. Among the wild and extravagant notions that 
he entertained, one was that he had died, and risen 
again with the soul of Adam; whence he called him- 
self “Postellus restitutus he also maintained that 
women shall have the dominion over men, and that his 
writings were revealed to him by Jesus Christ. He 
was therefore confident of being able to explain by rea- 
son and philosophy all Christian dogmas, inclusive of 
the mysteries, his personal reason having become so su- 
perior to that of other men that by its means he would 
convert all nations to the Christian faith. “ Christ has 
given,” he said, “the excellence of faith to the apostles; 
but faith being now almost extinct, he gave us, and es- 
pecially to me, instead of the faith, nay, with the faith, 
reason, so powerful and victorious, as never did the 
apostles have it. And thus innumerable things in the 
Scripture and in nature, which never were understood, 
by said victorious reason will be understood.” He as- 
serted that the human soul of Christ was created and 
united with the eternal Word before the creation of the 
world. He affirmed that everything that w r as in nat- 
ure was described in the heavens in Hebrew characters, 
formed by the arrangement of the stars. The world 
was to subsist only for GOOO years, an opinion he had 
taken from the Jewish Cabala. The end of the world 
will be preceded by the restoration of all things into the 
state they w’ere in before the fall of Adam. He dreamed 
of the fusion of all religions into one creed; and in his 
desire to reconcile Christians, Jews, and Mohammedans, 
undertook to explain the most extravagant opinions. 
But, w'hatever judgment we may pronounce on his opin- 
ions, justice compels ns to recognise that all historians 
commend the purity of his life, the wisdom of his con- 
duct, and the benevolence of his character: he often 
neglected his own interests to take care of others’. He 
left, Lingnarum XII characteribus differ entium alpha- 
betum introductio ac legendi methodus (Paris, 1538, 4to) : 
— De originibus seu de l lehr dices Ungues et gentis antiqui- 
tate atque variarum lingnarum affniteite (ibid. 1538, 
4to) : — Grammatica Arabica (ibid. 1538, 4to) : — Sgries 
descriptio (ibid. 1540, 8vo): — De magistratibus Atheni- 


ensium (Basle, 1543, 8vo; Leipsic, 1591, 8vo, with the 
notes of John Frederick Hekelius ) : — Alcoraui sen legis 
Mahomed et evangelistarum concordies liber { Paris, 1543, 
8vo) : — Sacrarum eipodexeon, seu Euclidis Christiani 
libri it (ibid. 1543 ): — IV librorum de orbis terree con- 
cordia primus (ibid. 8vo) : — De radonibus Spiritus 
Seincti (ibid. 1543, 8vo) ; in this work Postel endeavors 
to prove that there is nothing in religion that is not in 
accordance with nature and reason: — De orbis terree 
concordies libri iv (Basle, 1544, 8vo) ; it is the best of 
Postel’s w r orks, and expounds with much talent his fa- 
vorite ideas about the conversion of all the nations of 
the world : — De nativitate Mediatoris ultima, nunc fu- 
tura et toti orbi terrarum in singulis ratione preedifis 
manifestanda opus (ibid, 1547, 8vo ): — Absconditorum a 
constitutione mundi clavis, qua mens hunuina tarn in tlivi- 
nis quam in humanis pertinget ad interiora velamina ester- 
nee t'm‘fuft‘s(ibid. lGmo ; and with appendix, Amst. 1G4G, 
16mo ) : — Candelubri typici in Mosis tabernaculo jussu 
divino expressi interpretatio (Venice, 1548 — Hebrew, 
Latin, and French ) : — De Etruries regionis, gues prima 
in orbe Europeso habitat a est, originibus, institutis, reli- 
gione, et moribus (Florence, 1551, 4to ): — Les Raisons de 
la Monarcliie, et quels Moyens sont necessaire pour y 
parvenir (Paris, 1551, 8vo): — Abretlianii patriarches 
liber Jesirah, sice formationis mundi, patribus quidem 
Abrahanii tempora prescedentibus revelatnr, etc. (ibid. 
1552, lGmo ): — De causis seu de principiis et originibus 
natures utriusque (ibid. 1552, lGmo ): — Erersio fedsorum 
Aristotelis dogmatum (ibid. 1552. lGmo): — L'/Iistoire 
memorable des Expeditions elepuis le Deluge, faites par 
les Gauloys ou Franqoys depuis la Frunce jusques en 
A sie, ou en Thrace, et en I'orientale Partie de I Europe 
(ibid. 1552, 16mo) : — De Phesnicum litteris, seu de prisco 
Latinos et Grceces lingues charactere (ibid. 1552, Svo) : — 
Tubules in astronomiam, in arithmeticani theoricam et 
in musicam tlieoriceim (ibid. 1552 ): — La Loi Salique , 
licret de la premiere humaine Verite (ibid. 1552, lGmo; 
Lyons, 1559, lGmo) : — Proto-Evangelium Jacobi, fratris 
et potissimum orbi Latino ad hanc diem incognita aut 
inconsiderata historia (ibid. 1553, Svo): — Descriptio 
Domini (Basle, 1552, Svo ) : — De Originibus, seu de varia 
des Gaules (Paris, 1553, fol .) : — Signorum ccelestium vera 
confguratio et signifeationum expositio (ibid. 1553, 
Svo): — La Doctrine du Siecle dore, ou de Vevangelique 
R'egne de Jesus, Roy des Roys (ibid. 1551, lGmo; re- 
printed with the following): — Les tres-marveilleuse$ 
l let o ires des Femmes du Nouveau- Monele ; et comme 
elks doivent a tout le Monde par Raison commander, et 
memo a ceux qui auront la Monarchic du Monde Vieil 
(ibid. 1553, lGmo). This book has become very rare 
and precious. Postel declares that he speaks in the 
name and by the inspiration of a certain mere Jeanne, 
whom he had known in Italy, and whose substance has 
been absorbed by his own : — Des Merveilles des hides et 
du Nouveau-Monde oil est demontre le Lieu du Paradis 
terrestre (ibid. 1553, lGmo ): — Description de la Terre- 
Sainte (ibid. 1553, lGmo ): — Le prime nove dell ’ altro 
mondo, eioi Vammirabile storia intitolata: La Vergine 
Venetiana (1555, 12mo) : — De la Republiqne des Turcs et 
des Mceurs et Logs de tous les Mohumedistes (Poitiers, 
15G0, 4to) : — Cosmographies disciplines Compendium, cum 
synopsi rerum toto orbe gestarum (Basle, 1561, 4to) : — 
La Concordance des quatre Evangiles (Paris, 15G2, 
lGmo ) : — Les premiers Elements d'Euclhle Chretien en 
Vers (ibid. 15G2, 8vo ): — De universitate sen cosmogra- 
phia (ibid. 1563, 4to ; reprinted several times) : — De 
raris historiis et de admirandis rebus qurs a quinqua- 
ginta amis contegerunt (1553-83 ; Paris, 1563, 4to). Pos- 
tel is one of the authors to w horn the celebrated work 
De tribus impostoribus has been attributed. — Hoefer, 
Now. Biog. Generals, s. v. See Ittig, De Postello 
(Leips. 1704) ; Desbillons, Sur la Vie de Postel (Liege, 
1773); Sainte - Marthe, Eloges ; Thevet, Ilist. des 
Ilommes illustres; Desbillons, Nouveaux Eclaircissements 
sur la Vie de Postel; Collomieo, Gallia Orientalis ; De 
Thou, Eloges dis Savants ; Sallengre, Memo ires de la Lit- 


rOSTIL 


446 


POSTULATION 


terature, vol. i and ii ; Marrier, Hist, tie Saint-Martin 
des Champs; Nieeron, Me moires, vol. viii; Chaufepie, 
Remarques sur Postel ; Gonjet, Mem. hist, sur le College 
Royal. Lelong also names a Vie de Postel by the abbe 
Jolv, canon at Dijon. See also Brunet, Manuel du Li - 
hraire , iii, 822 : Erere, Manuel du Jiihliographe Xor- 
mand ; Dallam, Tut rod. to the Literature of Europe 
(Harper’s ed.), i, 240, 400. 

Postil (Latin postilla ) originally designated in the 
ecclesiastical language of medievalism explanatory re- 
marks accompanying the text of the Bible, mostly in 
the form of sermons or homilies. The name sprung 
from the fact that these were usually delivered imme- 
diately after the reading of the Gospel, and were explan- 
atory of it. Its etymology is to be found in the words 
“post ilia verba textus” or “sacra; scripturie,” the first 
two words being combined in one, which is used as 
noun and verb ( postilla , postilla re). Charlemagne or- 
dered a homiliarinm to be composed for the clergy of 
his empire, in which the pericopos or texts of the Sun- 
days and holvdavs are followed by a homily from one 
of the celebrated ancient preachers. This collection was 
long in use in the German empire, and was often called 
Postilla. Iiut the meaning of the word became more 
comprehensive in the latter part of the Middle Ages, 
when a running commentary of Scripture was called 
Postilla, because the text was tir.st exhibited, and jiost 
ilia (after the words of the text) the comments of the 
writer. Thus we find “ l’ostillavit evangelia, epistolas 
rauli,” etc. The most remarkable of these postillic is 
that of the celebrated cxegete Nicolas de Lyra (q. v.), 
under the title “Postilla; perpetua; in Iliblia,” or “Pos- 
tilla in nniversa Biblia.” Luther, by his well-known 
“Postilla,” introduced the word among the Protestant 
communions. It is still, but less frequently, employed, 
and only in the Church of Rome or of England, for col- 
lections of sermons connected with the perieopes of Sun- 
days and holvdavs. See Siegel, Christliche A Iterthumer 
(see Index in vol. iv) ; Whcatly, On the Boole of Com - j 
mon Prayer, p. 272. 

Post-Millennialists, the name applied to the 
large body of Christians belonging to all denominations 
who believe that the second coming of Christ will not 
precede, as the Prc-Millennialists allege, but follow after 
the Millennium (q. v.). 

Post-Pridie (or the Cou.kctio tost Mysterium 
or Post S ecu eta, as it is called in the Gallienn office) 
is the prayer of the Anaphora; (q. v.) of the Mozarabic 
liturgy. Various opinions are entertained regarding 
the belief of the Eastern Church on the doctrine of the 
Invocation of the Holy Ghost (q. v.) in the consecration 
of the elements. These opinions may be summarized 
in the following three: (1) That the Eastern Church 
gives it no effect in the act of consecration, believing 
that to take place solely, entirely, and properly in the 
words of institution. (2) That it believes both the 
words of institution and those of invocation to be co- 
ordinately efficacious to the same end. (3) That the 
whole force of the consecration is vested in the invoca- 
tion. (For the history of the controversy, see Neale, 
Inf rod. i, 493 sq.) Neale, than whom there is no better 
authority on the subject, believes “that the sense of 
the Oriental Church may be thus expressed : The bread 
and wine offered on the altar arc transmuted into the 
body and blood of Christ bv the words of institution, 
and by the invocation of the Holy Ghost by the Church ; 
and if either of these things be wanting, the Eucharist, 
so far forth as the orthodox Eastern Church is concerned, 
is not valid. I make the limitation because the Orien- 
tal Church has not condemned her Roman sister for the 
omission of the invocation” (Pit rod. i, 49G). 

The Post-Pridie varies with the festival on which it 
is used. Thus, e. g., the prayer said on the first Sunday 
after apparition is as follows: 

“Mindful, O Lord, of thy precepts. we earnestly pray 
thee that thon wouldst pour forth on these sacrifices the 


plenitude of thy Iloly Ghost, that while we receive (hem 
blessed of thee, we may in all ways rejoice that we are 
filled with all manner of benediction, and are freed from 
the bonds of our sins. Amen. Through tiiy gift, holy 
Lord, for thon createst all these things very good for us, 
thy unworthy servants, sanctifiest them "t, qnickeuest 
them t, blessest them t, and errantest to us that they may 
be blessed of thee, our God, to ages of ages. Ameu.” 

Cardinal Bona, who calls the belief of the Greeks a de- 
testandus error, though be denies it to be more than an 
opinion held by some members of the Eastern Church, 
is rather baffied by the Mozarabic office. lie tries to 
prove that it is only to be taken relatively to the re- 
ceiver, and quotes the Mass for the first Sunday after 
Pentecost: "Be pleased to bless and sanctify to us the 
gifts,” etc. By parity of reasoning it might be argued 
that the Roman Church only believes in a relative 
change, because the prayer in the canon runs, respect- 
ing the yet nnconseerated bread and wine, “that to us 
they may become the body and blood of Jesus Christ.” 
The Post-Pridie in the Gotlio- Hispanic rite seems 
always to have contained this invocation; but in the 
mutilation and changes to which that ollice lias been 
subjected comparatively few masses have retained it in 
direct terms. The Post-Pridie for Easter-day, though 
not containing a direct invocation of the llolv Ghost, 
has a most remarkable prayer for change: “ Ut hie tibi 
panis cum hoc calico ohlatus in Eilii tni Corpus et tian- 
guinem, te benediccnte, ditescat.” This may be profit- 
ably compared with the Ximcnian Post-Pridie for Cor- 
pus Christi ; the difference is astonishing: “Ut panis 
hie transmutatus in Carnem, ct calix transformatus in 
Sanguinem,” etc. In some instances the prayer for the 
descent of the Holy Ghost is changed into a prayer for 
the descent of Christ; as, for example, in the first 
(=seeond) Sunday after Easter: “ Christe . . . his 
saeriiiciis propitius illabcre, bisque benedicturns de- 
scende.” The corruption sometimes takes a curious 
turn : thus on July 25 the Post-Pridie prays that by the 
intercession of St. Christopher the offerers may be tilled 
with the Holy Ghost. We may gather on the whole 
that Ximenes, who (like Bona) must have considered 
the prayer for any change after the words of institution 
a detestable error, softened the expression in many 
cases, and omitted it in many others; though enough 
is still left to show us what the original design of the 
prayer was. See Liturgy. (J. H . W.) 

Post-Sanctus. See Post-Pridie. 

Postulate ( airqpa , postulatum, that which is asked 
or assumed to prove something else). “According to 
some, the difference between axioms and postulates is 
analogous to that between theorems and problems: the 
former expressing truths which are self-evident, and 
from which other propositions may be deduced ; the lat- 
ter, operations which may easily be performed, and by 
the help of which more difficult constructions may be 
effected.” There is a difference between a postulate 
and a hypothesis. When }'ou lay down something 
which may be, although you have not proved it, and 
which is admitted by the learner or the disputant, you 
make a hypothesis. The postulate, not being assented 
to. may be contested during the discussion, and is only 
established by its conformity with all other ideas on the 
subject. 

Postulation (Lat. i. e. an asking) is a term in ec- 
clesiastical law designating a presentation or recom- 
mendation addressed to the superior to whom the right 
of appointment to any dignity belongs, in favor of one 
who has not a strict title to the appointment. Tims, 
if a chapter elect for bishop a person who wants one of 
the canonical requirements, or if there is a canonical 
impediment, the act of the chapter is not properly an 
election, but a request to the pope for dispensation and 
admission. It can only take place when the wanted re- 
quirements are of a trifling description. It is also used 
in the ease of the presentation of candidates for the 
episcopacy as it exists in the Roman Catholic Church 


POSTURES 


447 


POT 


in Ireland. See Neller, De postulatione prcelatorum , in 
Schmidt, Thes.jur. can. ii, 733. 

Postures are the bodily attitudes assumed in the 
various parts of divine worship, whether public or pri- 
vate. No act whatever can be performed without the 
body taking some posture. This is the case in divine 
worship as well as in matters of less consequence. The 
only question, therefore, is whether all possible postures 
are’equally appropriate in that worship and in its differ- 
ent departments. Reason, Scripture, and universal con- 
sent testify that they are not. Kneeling and prostra- 
tion seem peculiarly expressive of penitent humility; 
bowing, of deep veneration ; standing, of joy and thanks- 
giving. They are all the natural expressions of the 
feeling which accompanies or characterizes the partic- 
ular devotion in which they are employed, and are used 
by supplicants to man as well as to God. The four pos- 
tures above mentioned are found to have been used by 
the ancient Christians in their prayer— standing, kneel- 
ing, bowing, and prostration. Standing was the posture 
generally observed on the Lord’s day, and the fifty days 
between Easter and Pentecost, in memory of the 
Saviour’s resurrection. This custom is traced up to 
an early period, and the reason assigned by Justin 
Martyr is, “Forasmuch as we ought to remember both 
our fall and our sin, and the grace of Christ by which 
we rise again from our fall, therefore we pray, kneeling, 
six days, as a symbol of our fall by sin ; but our not 
kneeling on the Lord’s daj r is a symbol of the resurrec- 
tion, whereby, through the grace of Christ, we are de- 
livered from our sins, and from death that is mortified 
thereby.” Kneeling was the customary posture of de- 
votion. Bowing down the bead was chietly used in re- 
ceiving the bishop’s or priest’s benediction, and in all 
formal addresses to God for his mercy and favor on the 
people, whether catechumens, penitents, or others. In 
the paintings of the catacombs, and on the ancient 
enamelled glasses found therein, the standing posture in 
prayer is accompanied by outstretched and upraised 
hands. The bowing posture was rather a special act of 
reverence accompanying a particular address or a par- 
ticular part of an address than a sustained posture. It 
occurred at frequent intervals in the ancient liturgy, 
and is still used in the Roman mass as well as (even 
more profusely) in those of all the various rites, Greek, 
Syrian, Coptic, Armenian, and Russian. Prostration 
was taken from the Jewish Church, and was chiefly 
appropriated to deep humiliations and expressions of 
shame or sorrow on particular occasions, and was mainly 
used by the Penitents (q. v.), especially in that grade 
of public penance which was known under the name 
“ prostration.” It is also used still in the solemn ordi- 
nation of subdeacons, deacons, and priests, as performed 
in the Roman Catholic Church. The question as to the 
use of particular postures was a subject of much con- 
troversy between the Puritans and the Church of Eng- 
land, and has recently been revived in the Presbyterian 
Church of Scotland. See Attitude; Prayer. 

Fostvorta, a surname of the Roman goddess Car- 
menta, indicating her knowledge of the past, just as 
Antevorta denotes her knowledge of the future. 

Pot, a term applicable to so many sorts of vessels 
that it can scarcely be restricted to any one in particu- 
lar. See Basin; Cup, etc. But from the places where 
the word is used we may collect the uses, and also in 
part the materials of the utensils implied. This vessel, 
so necessary in cooking and serving up food (Numb, 
xi, 8; Judg. vi, 19; 1 Sam. ii, 14; 2 Kings iv, 38 sq.; 
2 Chron. xxxv, 13; Isa. lxv, 4; Mic. iii, 3; Ezek. xi, 
3; xxiv, 3 sq.), derives its ordinary names from its use 
in boiling. It was commonly, among the Israelites, 
made of clay (Heb. “V2n, Gr. 7n)\og ; comp. Isa. xxix, 
1G; xlv, 9; Jer. xviii, 4). But there were also brazen 
pots (Lev. viii, 28), especially in the sanctuary (1 Kings 
vii, 45; 2 Kings xxv, 14). The trade of the potters, 


called (comp. Gesenius, Monumenta Phcen. p. 1G1) 

or (Jer. xix, 1), in Greek Kfpaptig, was a 

separate pursuit, to whose mysteries allusions are often 
made (Jer. xviii, 2 sq. ; Sirach xxxviii, 30 sq., 33 sq.). 
It was necessary first to work the clay with the feet, 
to make it plastic (Isa. xli, 25), and then to shape it 
with the hand (Jer. xviii, 4, G; Sirach xxxiii, 13; 
xxxviii, 30) and the Oriental potter’s wheel (E?:DX, 
Jer. xviii, 3 ; see Gesenius, Thesaur. i, 16). The vessels 
were glazed (Sirach xxxviii, 31 ; Prov. xxvi, 23), and 
then burned in the oven ( Kctpivog , Sirach, l. c.). Biihr 
( Symbolik , ii, 293) and Sommer ( Bill . Abhandl. i, 213) 
assume, indeed, that the Hebrews were ignorant of 
glazing, and explain the passages (Lev. vi, 21 ; xi, 
33; xv, 12; which command the breaking of earthen 
vessels made unclean by this want of glazing. There 
are, indeed, no pots extant from Egyptian antiquity, 
but earthen figures show a glazing upon them ; and it 
would be unreasonable to suppose that the Egyptians 
had failed to apply the art to their vessels. There is 
nothing inexplicable in the command to break the de- 
filed vessels, inasmuch as they were of little value ; and 
any of them might easily have lost part of its glazing, 
and so taken in some of the unclean substance ; so that 
breaking was the safest method of disposing of them. 
Such a command would also produce more care in house- 
keeping to avoid uncleanness (comp. Descript, de VEgypte , 
vol. ii, pi. 87 sq. ; v, pi. 75 ; Wilkinson, iii, 1G4). — Winer. 
See Pottery. 

The following are the words so rendered in the Eng- 
lish Bible : 

1. asuk (Sept, nyystov). applied to holding 
oil (2 Kings iv, 2), probably w'as an earthen jar, deep 
and narrow, without handles, apparently like the Roman 
and Egyptian amphora, inserted in a stand of wood or 
stone (see Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 47; Sandys, Trav. 
p. 150). See Pitcher. 

2. E"E‘\, gabia (Sept. Ktpd/uov, Vulg. scyphus, Jer 
xxxv, 5; elsewhere “bowl” or “cup”), probably a bulg- 
ing jar or bowl for liquids. See Bowl. 

3. Tl'H, dud (Sept, Hxpivog, Job xli, 20; Psa. lxxxi, 
G; elsewhere “basket,” “caldron,” “kettle”), a vessel 
for culinary purposes, mentioned (1 Sam. ii, 14) in con- 
junction with “caldron” and “kettle,” and so perhaps 
of smaller size. See Kettle. 

4. bPH, cheres (“potsherd,” Job ii, 8; Psa. xxii, 15; 
Prov. xxvi, 23; Isa. xlv, 9; elsewhere “earthen,” etc.), 
an earthen vessel for stewing or seething. Such a ves- 
sel was used for baking (Ezek. iv, 9). It is contrasted 
in the same passage (Lev. vi, 28) with a metal vessel 
for the same purpose. See Potsherd. 

5. "^5, keli (Sept. (Tictvog, Lev. vi, 28), a vessel of any 
kind (as usually elsewhere rendered). See Vessel. 

G. “PD, Hr (only once and in the dual, Lev. xi, 35, 
“ ranges for pots”). See Range. 

7. “PD, sir (Sept. Xtfitjg, Vulg. o lla, the most usual 
and appropriate word, Exod. xxxviii, 3; 2 Kings iv, 
38-41; xxv, 14; 2 Chron. iv, 11, 16; xxxv, 13; Job xli, 
31; Psa. lviii, 9; Eccles. vii, G; Jer. i, 13; Ezek. xxiv, 
3, G; Mic. iii, 3; Zech. xiv, 10, 21). It is also used, 
combined with other words, to denote special uses, as 
with WSS (Jer. i, 13), “a seething-pot;” with “1—3 
“flesh” (Exod. xvi, 3); j f nP, “washing” (Psa. lx, 8); 
r"!DD, “fining-pot” (Prov. xxvii, 21). The blackness 
which such vessels would contract is alluded to in Joel 
ii, 6. See Caldron. 

8. “|!H5, parur (Sept. \a\KHOv, Vulg. cacabus, Judg. 
vi, 19; 1 Sam. ii, 14; “pan,” Numb, xi, 8), apparently 
an open flat vessel. See Pan. 

9. r333:2, tsintse'neth (Sept, arapvog, Vulg. vas, 
Exod. xvi, 33), a covered vessel for preserving things 
(comp. Heb. ix, 4). See Manna. 


POTAMIAXA 


448 


POTENTIAL 



10. -“rt'r, shephatta'yim (Sept. leXijpoc, Fsa.lxviii, 
13; “hooks,” Ezek. xl, 43), opposite rows, as of sheep- 
folds. 

11. fMark vii, 4, 8), properly a sextarius or 
sixteenth part of the medius or “ bushel,” — nearly one 
pint English ; hence a cup generally. See Measiki;. 

12. ordproQ (lleb. ix, 4), an earthen jay or jar,- No. 
9 above. 

13. vSpia (John ii, G, 7; iv, 28), a “water-pot'' for 
any liquid. The water-pots of Cana appear to have 
been large amphoric, such as are in use at the present 
day in Syria (Fisher, 1 dews, p. 5G ; Jollifl'e, i, 33). These 
were of stone or hard earthenware; but gold, silver, 
brass, or copper was also used for vessels both for do- 
mestic and also, with marked preference, for ritual use 
(1 Kings vii, 45; x, 21 ; 2 Citron, iv, 1G; ix. 20; Mark 
vii, 4; Michaelis, Laws of Moses, § 217, iii, 335, ed. 
Smiths. The water-pot of the Samaritan woman may 
have been a leathern bucket, such as Bedawin women 
use (Burekhardt, Xotes, i, 45). See 'Water-rot. 

POT, “ I Ioi.v -water Pot” or “ IIoly-water Vase,” 
and Sprinkle (-sprinkling- 
brush), are implements used in 
Homan Catholic churches for 
sprinkling the altar and priest 
and people with the holy water 
on Sunday. Holy- water pots, 
such as is represented in the cut, 
are from five and a quarter to 
seven and a half inches in diam- 
eter. 

Potamiana, a Christian 
martyr in the time of Sevcrus, 
in the beginning of the 3d cen- 
tury, was a slave of rare personal 
beauty; but for not reciprocat- 
Il .lv-water Pot il, K t!,c P assio11 of her master she 
was given up as a Christian to 
the prefect of Egypt. She was scourged ; and, unmoved 
hv threats, was led to the lire and burned, together with 
her mother, Marcella. Scalding pitch was poured upon 
her body, which she bore with great patience. Ba- 
silides, her executioner, embraced Christianity, and 
suffered martyrdom. See Schaff, Church History, i, 1G9. 

Potamius, an ecclesiastic of Spanish birth, flour- 
ished as bishop of Eisbon in the middle of the 4th cen- 
tury; and if the lirst of the pieces mentioned below be 
genuine, he must, in the early part of his career, have 
been a champion of the Catholic faith. Subsequently, 
however, he was a zealous Arian, and it is believed that 
he drew up the document known in ecclesiastical his- 
tory as The Second Sirmiun Creed. The writings usu- 
ally ascribed to Potamius are, Fpistolu ad Afhanasium 
Fpiscoptnn Alexandrian in de. Consnbstantialitate Filii 
Dei , in some MSS. entitled Fpistolu Potamii ad A t lia- 
na sia in a b Ariunis (ini petitum?) postquam in Concilio 
Ariminensi subscr ipse runt, composed in the year A.l). 
355, while the opinions of the author were yet orthodox. 
The authenticity of this piece, however, which is char- 
acterized by great obscurity of thought and of expres- 
sion, and often half barbarous in phraseology, is very 
doubtful. It was first published by the Benedictine 
D’Achery, in his Spiciloyium reterum aliquot Scripto- 
rtnn (Paris, 1GGI, 4to), ii.oGG, or iii. 299 of the new edi- 
tion by Baluzc (1717, fob), ami will be found in its best 
form in ( ialland’s Bibliotheca I 'at ram (Venice, 17G9,fol.), 
v, 9G: Sermo de Luzaro: — Sermo de Martyrio Ksuitv 
Prophettr. These are two discourses resembling in style 
the epistle to Athanasius, long attributed to Zeno, 
bishop of Verona, and published, without suspicion, 
among his works, until the brothers Bulleriui (S. Ze- 
nonis St minuet j ibid. 1739, fob), p. 297 3113) proved 
that they must be assigned to Potamius, whom, how- 
ever, they supposed to be a person altogether different 
from the bishop of Lisbon, and belonging to a different 


age. The arguments which they employ to demon- 
strate this last position arc founded upon the second 
title of the Fpistolu ad A thunasium as given above, but 
tliis title Gnllaml, Hchbuemaun, and others hold to be 
the blunder of an ignorant transcriber. The Sevmoncs 
will be found in Gallatid, and the discussions with re- 
gard to the real author in the Prolegomena to the vol- 
ume, ch. x, p. xvii. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Dioy. 
and Mythvl. s. v. See Ueberweg, Hist, of Philosophy, 
vol. i; Ilefele, Concilienyesch. vol. i. 

Potamo ( Hordftwv ), a Greek philosopher of the 
Alexandrian school, lived in the 3d century of the Chris- 
tian a^ra, and was a native of Alexandria. According 
to Suidas, under XipeaiQ and llord/iwi', he was a con- 
temporary of the emperor Augustus; but Porphyry, in 
his life of Plotinus, states positively that Plotinus de- 
lighted in listening to Potamo's exposition of a new 
philosophy, of which he was laying the foundations. 
What was the purport of this new philosophy? It was 
developed in two treatises, one of which was a commen- 
tary on Plato’s Timceus, the other a treatise on the 
first principles, ^roi\e(dxric. Both works are lost : but 
something is known of the second by a passage of Di- 
ogenes Laertius in the introduction to his book On the 
Life and Doctrines of Illustrious Philosophers. “Of 
late,” says the biographer, “an eclectic school, inXeKn- 
ki) tuj dipeeng, was founded by Potamo of Alexandria, 
which makes a choice among the doctrines of all sects. 
Two things, so he explains in his Treatise on the First 
Principles (^roi^fiwff(c)j are required to discern the 
truth: that which judges, reason (ro i/yepopiKor), and 
that by the means of which we judge, i. e. the accurate 
representation of the objects of our judgments. As to 
the principles of things, he recognises four of them — 
matter, quality, action, and place (n)v re v\ijv, Kai rb 
7roiov, 7T0i?/(Tii' re, Kai roTror); in other words, out of 
what, and by whom, how, and where a thing is done 
(ti; o v yap, Kai vij>’ on. aai j tuic, Kai ip ip). The aim 
towards which everything should tend, according to 
him, is a life perfect in virtues, without discarding, how- 
ever, the good of the body, nor general material inter- 
ests.” It follows from this passage of Diogenes Laertius, 
combined with the testimony of Porphyry, 1st, that 
Potamo was the founder of the eclectic school at Home; 
2d, that he combined the doctrines of Plato with the 
Stoical and Aristotelian, and was not without original 
views of his own; 3d, that in ethics he attempted a 
kind of conciliation of Stoicism and Epicurism. — Iloe- 
fer. But Potamo had no followers in his peculiar com- 
binations. They were supplanted by the school that 
endeavored to engraft Christianity upon the older sys- 
tem of philosophy. See Porphyry, 1 it a Platini, e. g. 
in Fabricius, Bill. Grcec. ii, 109; Diogenes Laertius, 
Procem. § 21 : but especially Brucker, J/isforia Critivee 
Philosophic, ii, 193 sq. ; Glbckner, De Potumonis Alex. 
I'hilosophia Fclectica, recentiorum Platonicornm Disci- 
pline admodum dissimi/i, Disput. (Leips. 1745, 4(o), an 
abstract of which is in Fabricius, iii, 184 sq. For the 
statement that there were two or three Potamos there 
is no ground. See the examination of this point in 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Dioy. ii, 513. 

Potent, Cross, in heraldry, a cross crutcli-sbaped 
at each extremity. It is also called 
a Jerusalem cross, from its occur- 
rence in the insignia of the Chris- 
tian kingdom of Jerusalem, w hich 
arc, Argent a cross potent between 
four erosslets or. This coat is re- 
markable as being a departure from 
the usual heraldic rule which pro- 
hibits the placing of metal upon 
metal.— Chambers. 



Potent. 


Potential is opposed to actual. This antithesis is 
a fundamental doctrine of the Peripatetic philosophy. 
“Aristotle saitli that divided they (i. e. bodies) be in 
infinitum potentially, but actually not” (Holland’s Plu- 


POTHIEIi 


449 


POTIPHERAH 


torch, p, 667). “Anaximander’s infinite was nothing 
else but an infinite chaos of matter, in which were either 
actually or potentially contained all manner of qualities” 
(see Cudworth, Intellectual System, i, 128). 

Pothier, Remi, a French theologian, was born at 
Kheims in 1727. After entering the service of the Church 
he was successively curate of Betheniville and canon of 
Laon. At the outbreak of the Revolution he retired to 
Belgium. After his return to his native country he did 
not again discharge any sacerdotal functions. He en- 
tertained original and often strangely bold opinions, and 
his obstinate character and polemical mania made him 
the terror of all who approached him. He was con- 
vinced that no one before him had made out the true 
meaning of the Bible; he undertook to make it known 
to the world, and started with his alleged Explication 
de V Apocalypse, the plan of which, published in 1773, 
was burned by order of the Parliament of Paris at the 
requisition of the advocate-general Seguier, who pro- 
nounced it a masterpiece of human extravagance. Nev- 
ertheless Pothier had his work clandestinely printed 
in extenso (Douai, 1773, 2 vols. 8vo); he translated it 
into Latin (Augsburg, 1797, 2 vols., and 1798, 12mo), 
and published an extract of it, with the title Les Trois 
Dernieres Plaies — The Three Last Plagues (1798, 12mo), 
in which he calls Bonaparte the precursor of the Anti- 
christ. In 1802 he published in Latin an Explanation 
of the Psalms of David (Augsburg, 8vo). LTnder the 
empire two of his pamphlets against the four articles of 
the Galliean Church were confiscated by the police. 
Pothier died at Rheiras June 23, 1812. — Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Pothimis, St., a prelate of the Church in the 2d 
century, who died a martyr, was probably born at 
Smyrna in A.D. 87. He was a disciple neither of Pe- 
ter nor of John, as some writers have asserted, but of 
Polvearp, bishop of Smyrna. He went to Rome with 
the latter while Anicetus was bishop of Rome, in 158, 
and was sent by that pontiff to evangelize the Gauls. 
Pothinns established himself at Lyons, and founded 
there a flourishing Church. He had presided over it 
twenty years when, in the reign of Marcus Aurelius, 
the persecutions against the Christians broke out with 
renewed violence. II is hoary age did not protect the 
bishop from persecution. He was brought before the 
governor, and was asked who was the God of the Chris- 
tians. “ If j'ou are worthy,” said the old bishop, “you 
will know him.” He was severely beaten, and dragged, 
half dead, to a dismal dungeon, w here he expired two 
days afterwards, June 2, 177. At the same time with 
the apostle of Lyons, forty-seven faithful sealed their 
faith with their blood. These w'ere the first martyrs 
of the Gauls: their remains were buried beneath the 
altar of a church built under the invocation of the holy 
apostles, now consecrated to St. Nizier. The Church 
celebrates on June 2 the memory of the martyrs of Ly- 
ons. Their history was written in Greek, in the name 
of the faithful of the churches of Lyons, and attributed 
to Irenaeus, successor of Pothinns. It is one of the 
most precious monuments of the first centuries of Chris- 
tianity. We owe its preservation to Eusebius, who in- 
serted it partly in his Hist. Eccles. (lib. v, cap. i). — Hoe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. See Longueval, I list, de 
I'Eglise Gallicane. liv. i ; Gallia Christiana, vol. v ; Co- 
lonia, Antiquit es de Lyon, p. 38; Du Terns, Le Clerge de 
France, vol. iv; Schaff, Ilist. of the Christian Church, i, 
167 ; Mosheim, Commentaries, and Eccles. Hist. vol. i ; 
Alzog, Kirchengesch. i, 129, 138. 

Potlios (rio-jof), a personification among the an- 
cient Greeks of love or desire, and usually regarded as 
a companion of Aphrodite. 

Pot'iphar (Heb. Potiphar', “iBuis, contraction of 
“T 1 *? Poti-pherah [q. v.] ; Sept. UtTe<ppi)g), an 

officer of Pharaoh, probaldv the chief of his body-guard 
(Gen. xxxix, 1). B.C. eir. 1890. Of the Midianitish 
VIII.— F p 


merchants he purchased Joseph. The keeper of the 
prison into whieh the son of Jacob was eventually east 
treated him with kindness, and confided to him the 
management of the prison (Gen. xxvii, 36 ; xxxix, 1); 
and this confidence was afterwards sanctioned by the 
“captain of the guard” himself, as the officer responsi- 
ble for the safe custody of prisoners of state (Gen. xl, 
3, 4). It is sometimes denied, but more usually main- 
tained, that this “captain of the guard” was the same 
w’ith the Potiphar who is before designated by the 
same title. It is possible that this “captain of the 
guard” and Joseph's master were the same person. It 
would be in accordance with Oriental usage that offend- 
ers agaiust the court, and the officers of the court, should 
be in custody of the captain of the guard; and that 
Potiphar should have treated Joseph well after having 
cast him into prison is not irreconcilable with the facts 
of the case. After having imprisoned Joseph in the 
first transport of his eholer, he might possibly discover 
circumstances which led him to doubt his guilt, if not 
to be convinced of his innocence. The mantle left in 
the hands of his mistress, and so triumphantly produced 
against him, w T ould, when calmly considered, seem a 
stronger proof of guilt against her than against him; 
yet still, to avoid bringing dishonor upon his wife, and 
exposing her to new temptation he may have deemed 
it more prudent to bestow upon his slave the command 
of the state prison than to restore him to his former 
employment. — Ivitto. See Joseph. 

Potiphar is described as “an officer of Pharaoh, chief 
of the executioners (S^nSe^ “VJ 0“HD), an 

Egyptian” (Gen. xxxix, 1 ; comp, xxxvii, 36). The 
word w T e render “ officer,” as in the A. V., is literally 
“eunuch,” and the Sept, and Vulg. so translate it here 
(oTrdcuiv, eunachus ); but it is also used for an officer 
of the court, and this is almost certainly the meaning 
here, as Potiphar was married, whieh is seldom the case 
with eunuchs, though some, as those which have the 
custody of the Kaaba at Mecca, are exceptions, and 
his office was one which would not usually be held by 
persons of a class ordinarily wanting in courage, al- 
though here again we must except the occasional usage 
of Muslim sovereigns, whose executioners were some- 
times eunuchs, as Harun er-Rashid's Mesru, in order 
that they might be able to carry out the royal com- 
mands even in the harems of the subjects. Potiphar’s 
office was “ chief of the executioners," not, as the Sept, 
makes it, “of the cooks” (dpxipaysipog), for the prison 
was in his house, or, at least, in that of the chief of the 
executioners, probably a successor of Potiphar, who com- 
mitted the disgraced servants of Pharaoh to Joseph’s 
charge (xl, 2-4). He is called an Egyptian ; and it is 
to be noticed that his name contains that of an Egyp- 
tian divinity 1 '. He appears to have been a wealthy 
man, having property in the field as well as in the 
house, over which Joseph was put, evidently in an im- 
portant post (xxxix, 4-6). The view we have of Pot- 
iphar’s household is exactly in accordance with the 
representations on the monuments, in whieh we see 
how carefully the produce of the land was registered 
and stored up in the house by overseers, as well as 
the liberty that women of all ranks enjoyed. When 
Joseph was accused, his master contented himself with 
easting him into prison (ver. 19, 20), probably being a 
merciful man, although lie may have been restrained 
by God from acting more severely. After this we hear 
no more of Potiphar, unless, whieh is unlikely, the chief 
of the executioners afterwards mentioned be he.— Smith. 
If he were actually a eunuch, we may the more easily 
account for his wife’s conduct. See Eunuch. 

Potiph'erah (Heb. Poti-phera , 5na "aiS), the 
priest of On, or Heliopolis, whose daughter Asenath be- 
came the wife of Joseph (Gen. xli, 45, 50: xlvi, 20). 
B.C. eir. 1880. The name is Egyptian, and is in the 
Sept, accommodated to the analogy of the Egyptian 
language, being in the Cod. Vatican. UtTecppi ] ; Alex. 


POTITII 


450 


POTT 


UtTTtippii, v. r. Utvretppp, Utvretppi ; which corresponds 
to the Coptic Pete-phrah, belonging to the Hun, which is 
written in hieroglyphics thus: 

aE ? N& 

Name of Pot-pherali, Pet-phre, or Pet-re. 

(Champollion, Precis, Tull. General, p. 23). For the va- 
rious forms, see Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1094, from Bosel- 
lini, Monum. Htorici, i, 117. The name is the full form 
of that borne by Potiphar, Joseph's former master, Sec 
Asenatii; Ox. 

Potitii, a distinguished family among the ancient 
Homans, who are said to have received Hercules when 
he went into Italy, and treated him hospitably on the 
very spot where Home was afterwards built. The Po- 
titii were in return invested with the honor of being in 
all future time the hereditary priests of the god. They 
continued accordingly to enjoy this privilege until B.C. 
312, when they sold their knowledge of the sacred rites 
for 50,000 pounds of copper. For this remuneration 
they instructed public slaves in the worship of Hercu- 
les; whereupon the deity was so enraged that the whole 
family of the Potitii perished within thirty days. See 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Horn, liiog. s. v. Potitia Gens. 

Potkeil, Joiiann, a German Homan Catholic eccle- 
siastic who flourished in the lGth century, is noted in 
the literary world as the editor of the lirst printed edi- 
tion of the Psalms in the Ethiopie language. In 1511, 
while at Home, he betook himself to the study of the 
Ethiopie language, and two years later, in 1513, he pub- 
lished the Psalms in quarto. The book has no title, 
but on the lirst page a likeness of David with the harp 
is given. On the second page of the book commences 
the preface in Gothic letters, in which he states the 
reason for the edition of the Psalter in Ethiopie, or, as 
lie calls it, in the Chaldee language: “Qua: res mihi 
bienuio vix elapso Korme accidit. Nam cum nonnullos 
habitu et colore /Etliiopes, qui se Indos appellabant, 
psallentes, ac Dei gcnetricern et sanetos quant plures, 
pra*scrtim Apostolos, per cos inter psallendum nominari 
advertissem, non sine dillicultate ab iis didici, ipsos in 
corum sacris Chaldieis literis uti qua:rcns itaqne inter- 
pretem, per quern cumeis loqui plenius possern, nee il- 
ium in urbe gentium olitn domina, ctiam ncque inter 
llebraos quidem reperiens idoneum, demum ab ipsis 
erudiri, qnoqno modo lieri posset, statui. Nee me mea 
1'efellit spes. Tantnm namquc me ab eis didieissc mihi 
persnadeo, lit dco duce Psalterium David in ipsa vera 
iingua Ghaldiea imprimi curare, in corum qni peregrinas 
linguas nosse cupinnt, oblectationeni valcam.” As to 
the edition itself, the text is printed on a very fine pa- 
per, which is very surprising for those times. The su- 
perscriptions over each psalm arc printed with red color. 
At the end of the Psalter is printed, “ Impressum est 
opusculum hoc ingenio et impensis Joannis Potfcen pre- 
positi ccclesia* sancti Georgii Coloniensis ; Bonne per Mar- 
celhun Hiller, alias Prancl:, et finitum die ultima Junii, 
anno salutis MDX11I." Then follows the Hong of 
Hongs on eight pages, and on four pages the alphabet 
of the language, together with a short grammar, is 
given. This edition is now very rare. In 151.S Potken, 
after having returned from Home, published a new edi- 
tion of the Psalter, with the Hebrew text and Greek 
and Latin translations, under the title Psalterium in 
gnatnor Unguis, J/ibnra, Grteca, Chaldaica, Latina. 
These two editions form the basis of the Ethiopie ver- 
sion of Walton’s Polyglot, published in 1G57. See Jd- 
cher, Gelehrten- Lexikun, s. v. ; Alter. Dibliographische 
Nachrichten, p. 79; Le Long-Mash, Libliutheca Sacra, 
ii, 1-lG; Hosenmilller, Handbuvh, iii, GG sq. ; Winer, 
llaudbuch tier thvolog. Litrratur, p. 714; Fiirst, Hill. 
Judaica, iii, 118; Steinsehneider. Jiibliogr. Handbuvh, 
p. 112; id. Catalogus Lihrorum J/tbr, in Dili. Ludhiana, 
p. 8,. ii. 32 a. (B. P.) 


Potrimpos is the name of an important deity of 
the Lithuanians and ancient Prussians previous to the 
conquest of their country by the Teutonic Order ; the 
second person in the Northern triad — Perkunos, Potrim- 
pos, and Pikollos. It was lie who granted victory in 
war and fertility in time of peace: he also dispensed the 
bliss of domestic happiness. His image stood in a 
cavity of the holy oak at Homowc; it looked smilingly 
at Perkunos, and represented, as far as the rough art 
of those times would allow, the features of a cheerful 
youth. If Perkunos was the god of the warming and de- 
stroying lire, Potrimpos w as t lie god of the fecundating 
and devastating water. Corn and incense were the of- 
ferings he preferred ; a wreath of ears adorned his head. 
But he was not always content with these unbloody 
sacrifices: sometimes children had to be immolated in 
his honor, and reduced to ashes in burning wax. A 
snake was kept in his honor in an urn of clay, fed with 
milk, and always covered with ears of corn. For this 
reason the snake was a holy animal among the ancient 
Prussians. Warriors, marching to the blood}' encounter, 
if they chanced to meet a serpent, fancying they beheld in 
it Potrimpos himself, were hopeful of his assistance, and 
thought themselves invincible. When a solemn sacri- 
fice was to be offered to him, the priests remained three 
days stretched on the ground, fasting, and at intervals 
throwing wax and incense into the flames. It does 
not appear that particular places, lakes and woods, were 
consecrated to him, nor can any trace of the expansion 
of his worship into other countries be ascertained, un- 
less we admit with Mone that he is one person with the 
priapic field-god l’riygo worshipped at Epsala; but this 
I is very doubtful. Home modern historians assert that 
it was a female deity, the wife of the thunder-god ; they 
assimilate him with the mother of the gods mentioned 
by Tacitus as solemnly worshipped by the .Esthians. 

: Sec Anderson, Northern Mythology, s. v. 

Potsherd (-“H, cheres, from the root C“H, to 
scrape or scratck ; Sept, uorpanov ; Vulg. testa, ras 
\ fictile; “sherd” in two places, once “stone,” often 
“earthen vessel”), a bit of pottery ware (Job ii, 8), is 
figuratively used in Scripture to denote a thing worth- 
less and insignificant (Psa. xxii, 15; I’rov. xxvi, 23; 
Isa. xlv, 9). It may illustrate some of these allusions 
to remind the reader of the fact that the sites of an- 
cient towns are often covered at the surface with great 
quantities of broken pottery, usually of coarse texture, 
but coated and protected with a strong and bright- 
colored glaze, mostly bluish-green, and sometimes yel- 
low. These fragments give to some of the most ven- 
erable sites in the world the appearance of a deserted 
pottery rather than of a town. The fact is, however, 
that they occur only upon the sites of towns which 
were built with crude brick; and this suggests that 
the heaps of min into which those had fallen being 
disintegrated, and worn at the surface by the action of 
the weather, bring to view and leave exposed the broken 
pottery, which is not liable to be thus dissolved and 
washed away. It is certainly remarkable that of the 
more mighty cities of old time, nothing but potsherds 
now remains visible at the surface of the ground. Towns 
built with stone, or kiln-burnt bricks, do not exhibit 
this form of ruin, which is therefore not usually met 
with in Palestine. — Kitto. See Potter. 

Pott, David Julius, D.D., a German theologian, 
was born at Eimbeckhausen, in Ilanover, in 17(10. In 
1787 be was appointed professor of theology at Ilclm- 
stiidt, from which place lie removed to occupy the same 
chair at Gottingen. While professor at the former place 
he, with Huperti, edited the Hglloge Comment a tinman 
Thtologicarum (8 vols. 1X00-7), and afterwards at Gottin- 
gen undertook, as joint continuator with Heinrich, an 
edition of Koppe’s Testamnitinn .Vo rum, a commentary 
on the Catholic epistles (1810-1G). I le died about. 1820. 
See Illgcn, Zeitschrifl fir historischc Theologie , 18G8, 
p. 5G8. 


POTT 


451 


POTTER 


Pott, Joseph Holden, an English divine, noted 
especially as a Biblical scholar, was born about 1759, and 
was educated at Eton and at St. John s College, Cam- 
bridge, where lie graduated B.A. in 1780, M.A. in 1<83; 
was made prebendary of Lincoln in 1785; rector of St. 
Ola vc Jewry, and St. Martin, Ironmongers Lane, m 
1787; ’archdeacon of St. Alban’s in 1789; rector of Lit- 
tle Burstead, Essex, in 1797 ; rector of Northall, Middle- 
sex, in 180G; vicar of St. Martin’s-in-tlie-Fields in 1813; 
archdeacon of London in 1813 ; prebendary of London 
in 1822 ; vicar of Kensington in 1824, and chancellor of 
Exeter in 1826. He died in 1847. This exemplary di- 
vine published many separate sermons, collections of 
sermons, charges, theological treatises, and in early life 
some poems, etc., for a list of which we refer the reader 
to the Land. Gent. Mag. Aug. 1847, p. 210-12, see also 
p. 659. We notice : Two Sermons for the Festivals and 
Fasts (Lond. 1790, 4to) -.—Elementary Discourses , etc., 
after Confirmation (1790, 16mo ) Three Sermons on 
the Festivals and Fasts (1794, 12mo) -.—Christian Cov- 
enants (1803. 8 vo ; 1807, 2d ed.) -.—Controversies respect- 
ing Baptism { 1810, 12mo) -.—Sermons for the Lord's Day 
(1817,2 vols.8vo; lS18,3d ed.) : 

— Course of Sermons for the Fes- 
tivals and Fasts (1821, 8vo): — 

Testimonies of Si. Paul concern- 
ing Justification (1846, 8vo). (J. 

H.W.) 

Pottage (TT3, nazid, some- 
thing boiled, Gen. xxv, 29, 34). 

The red pottage for which Esan 
profanely bartered his birthright 
was prepared, as we learn from 
this chapter, by seething len- 
tiles in water [see Lex-tile]; 
but the common pottage in the 
East, at the present day, is made 
by cutting their meat into little 
pieces, and boiling them with 
Hour, rice, and parsley, all which 
is afterwards poured into a prop- 
er vessel. See Thomson, Land 
and Book, ii, 397. 

Potter (“2 : T, yotser, a 
fashioner ; Chald. “IHS, pe- 
chdr; Kepaptvg). This artifi- 
cer, and the produce of his la- 
bors, are often alluded to in the 
Scriptures. The fragility of his 
wares, and the ease with which 
they are destroyed, supply apt 
emblems of the facility with 
which human life and power 
may be broken and destroyed. 

It is in this figurative use that 
the potter’s vessels are most 
frequently noticed in Scripture 
(Psa. ii, 9; Isa. xxx, 14; Jer. 
xix, 11; Rev. ii, 27). In one 
place, the power of the potter to 
form with his clay, by the im- 
pulse of his will and hand, ves- 
sels either for honorable or for 
mean uses, is employed with 
great force by the apostle to il- 
lustrate the absolute power of 
God in moulding the destinies 
of men according to his pleasure 
(Rom. ix, 21). The first distinct 
mention of earthenware vessels 
is in the case of the pitchers in 
which Gideon’s men concealed 
their lamps, and which they 
broke in pieces when they with- 
drew their lamps from them 
(Judg.vii, 16, 19). Pitchers and 


bottles are indeed mentioned earlier; but the “bottle” 
which contained llagar’s water (Gen. xxi, 14, 15) was 
undoubtedly of skin; and although Rebekali’s pitcher 
was possibly of earthenware (xxiv, 14, 15), we cannot be 
certain that it was so. The potter’s wheel is mentioned 
only once in the Bible (Jcr. xviii, 2) ; but it must have 
been in use among the Hebrews long before the time of 
that allusion ; for we now know that it existed in Egypt 
before the Israelites took refuge in that country (Wil- 
kinson, Anc. Egypt, iii, 165, large ed.). The art of 
pottery is one of the most common and most ancient 
of all manufactures. The modern Arab culinary ves- 
sels are chiefly of wood or copper (Niebuhr, l'o^. i, 188). 
The processes employed by the Hebrew's were probably 
not in any way dissimilar to those of the Egyptians, 
from whom the use of the wheel may be supposed to 
have been adopted. They had themselves been con- 
cerned in the potter’s trade in Egypt (Psa. lxxxi, 6). 
The clay, when dug, was trodden by men’s feet so as to 
form a paste (Isa. xli, 25; Wisil. xv, 7) [see Brick] ; 
then placed by the potter on the wheel beside which 
he sat, and shaped by him with his hands. It consisted 



POTTER 


452 


POTTEI 



Modern Egyptiau Potters. 

of a wooden disk placed on another larger one, and 
turned by the hand by an attendant, or worked by a 
treadle (Isa. xlv, 9; Jcr. xviii, 3; Keclus. xxxviii, 29, 

30; see Tennant, Ceylon, i, 452). The vessel was then 
smoothed and coated with a glaze, and finally burned 
in a furnace (Wilkinson, .1 nc. Egypt. ii, 108). We find 
allusions to the potsherds, i. e. broken pieces of vessels 
used as crucibles, or burst by the furnace, and to the 
necessity of keeping the latter clean (Isa. xxx, 14; xlv, 

9; Job ii. 8; Psa. xxii, 10; Prov. xxvi, 23; Ecelus. 
xxxviii, 29). The materials, forms, and manufacture 
of earthenware vessels are still very similar throughout 
Western Asia, and are also the same which were an- 
ciently in use. This we know from the comparison of 
ancient paintings and sculptures with modern manufact- 
ures, as well as from the vast quantities of broken pot- 
tery which are found upon the sites of ancient cities. 

The ancient potters ‘•frequently kneaded the clay with 
their feet, ami after it had been properly worked up, they ! advocate of scientific pursuits, lie gave his influence 
formed it into a mass of convenient size with the hand, j both by precept and example to the cause of temper- 
and placed it on the wheel, which, to judge front that j ancc. Each of these subjects he advanced with great 
represented in the paintings, was of very simple eon- J ability, sometimes by a course of public lectures, some- 
struetion, and turned with the hand, 'flic various forms times by a written discourse, but more frequently an 
of the vases were made by the finger during the revo- i extempore address, in all which he was pre-eminently 
lution; the handles, if they had any, were afterwards successful, llis engagements in these various objects, 
affixed to them ; and the devices and other ornamental ' with his incessant parochial duties, constituted a vast 
parts were traced with a M-ooden or metal instrument, amount of labor too great to be borne for a long time, 
previously to their being baked. They were then suf- i Exhaustion from this amount of work, together with 
fered to dry, and for this purpose were placed on planks other causes not under his control, compelled him to re- 
ofwood; they were afterwards arranged with great care sign his rectorship in 1831. No rector was ever more 
on trays, and carried, by means of the usual yoke, borne deeply loved by the people of his charge, or mourned 


1800. His parents, who belonged to the 
Society of Friends, were country-people of 
good blood, honestly devoted to the best 
interests of home and friends. They were 
remarkably well educated for their times 
ami surroundings, and highly esteemed in 
the vicinity. After securing a good ele- 
mentary training at the district school, 
Alonzo went, at twelve years of age, to an 
academy in Poughkeepsie, and three years 
after was admitted to Union College, where 
he at once took the highest rank in his 
class. Upon the completion of his college 
course he connected himself with the Epis- 
copal Church, and soon after decided to 
prepare for holy orders in that communion, 
lie commenced his theological studies un- 
der the direction of the llev. Dr. Samuel 
11. Turner, hut before Potter was one-and- 
twenty years old he reluctantly accepted 
the appointment of tutor in his alma mater. 
Within a twelvemonth he was promoted to 
the professorship of mathematics and nat- 
ural philosophy, and at the age of twenty- 
three first appeared in print as the author of a treatise 
on Logarithms, which is said to have been a highly 
creditable scientific performance, lie still continued 
his studies for the ministry, was admitted to deacon’s 
orders by bishop Hobart, and was advanced to the 
priesthood by bishop Hrowncll in 1821. In the year 
1826 he quitted the college to become rector of St. 
Paul’s Church. Poston, a position in which he gained 
a wide influence hv the simplicity and earnestness of 
his character, the fidelity of bis ministrations, and the 
contagious fervor of his religious sympathies. The 
preaching of Hr. Potter opened a new a-ra. With 
no spirit of dogmatism or controversy, he set forth the 
cardinal doctrines of the Church, appealing equally to 
the intellect and the heart, and drawing many within a 
new circle of religious associations. “He was always 
ready,” says his biographer, “ to aid in promoting the 
interests of education and sound learning, lie was an 


on men’s shoulders, to the oven” (Wilkinson, A nc. Eyypt. 
ii, 107 sq. ; Pireh, Hist, of Pottery, i, 152; fcaalschiitz, 
A rchiiol. d. llehr. i, 14, 1 1). For a description of pottery 
as now, and from ancient times, practiced in Palestine, 
see Thomson, Land and Jioolc. ii, 281 sq. Earthen ves- 
sels were used, both by Egyptians and Jews, for various 
purposes besides culinary. Heeds were kept in them 
(Jer. xxxii, 14). 'Files with patterns and writing were 
common both in Egypt and Assyria, and were also in 
use in Palestine (Ezek. iv, 1). There was at Jerusalem 
a royal establishment of potters (1 Chron. iv, 23), from 


with a deeper sorrow when he left them. Taken in all 
its aspects, his ministry in Poston was a marked success. 
It gave an impetus to vital religion which is still felt 
and will extend to the distant future." In 1831 Dr. 
Potter accepted the chair of moral and intellectual phi- 
losophy in Union College, which was urged upon him 
as soon as it was known that lie would consent to sever 
his pastoral relations. He at once identified himself 
with the college as one who looked for nothing beyond 
it. lie applied himself to study and instruction with 
the cheerful earnestness which was an attribute of his 


whose employment, and from the fragments cast away ' nature. lie was eminently an educator, calling out the 
in the process, the. Potter’s Field perhaps received its power of thought and language in his pupils and exert- 
'Jsa. xxx, 14). Whether the term “potter” (Zcch. ing his own. He was distinguished for his rare power 


name (I; 

xi, 13) is to he so interpreted may he doubted, as it may 


of analysis, and his peculiar terseness and felicity of ex- 


he taken for “artificer” in general, and also “ treasurer,” | pression. He had a wonderful power of impressing 


as if the coin mentioned were to he weighed, and per- 
haps melted down to be recoined (Goson. Thesaur, p. 
619). See Cl.AV. 

Potter, Alonzo, I ).!)., LL.I).. bishop of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church, was born in the town of Heck- 
man (now La Grange), Dutchess County, X. V., July 6, 


himself upon those with whom he had to do. lie trans- 
fused himself into their nature, took possession of their 
minds and wills, and imbued them with his own ideas 
and principles of action. In 1838 he was appointed 
vice-president of the college, and, with the advanced 
age of Dr. Nott, who had become his father-in-law, Dr. 


POTTER 


453 


POTTER 


Totter naturally took a leading share in the administra- 
tion. lie had an inborn aptitude for government, and, 
though more rigid and uncompromising in his measures 
than president Nott, understood the art of graciously 
blending suavity with decision. On the suspension of 
bishop H. U. Underdonk (q. v.) in 1845, and after a pro- 
tracted balloting between the supporters of the liev. 
Drs. Bowman and Tyng, Dr. Potter was elected bishop 
of Pennsylvania on May 23, and consecrated in the month 
of September of the same year. Henceforth his life is 
thorough^ identified with the interests of the Church 
he served. Says bishop Stevens: 

“His idea of the office and work of a bishop was very 
high; regarding him not merely as an ecclesiastical offi- 
cer, but as one who, from his position and opportunities 
and influence, had vast means, withiu and around him, of 
guiding that Church and shaping great institutions of 
charity or learning, moulding the clergy aud being a lead- 
er of the Israel of God in its attacks upon the stronghold 
of siu, Satan, and death. Few men cared less for the 
honors of the episcopate; few used the office more as the 
instrument of largest good, and, as a necessary conse- 
quence following the divine law of God, who has said, 
‘Them that honor me I will honor,’ few men were more 
honored in their episcopate ; not by his own Church alone, 
but by all denominations of Christians, aud by all the 
good and intelligent classes of the state. He made no 
show of power; it rather emanated from him than was 
wielded by him ." — Funeral oration. 

By his prudence and discretion he fused together ele- 
ments of strife that had long wrangled with each 
other. He inaugurated great schemes of Christian 
benevolence and education, and carried them forward to 
almost complete success. He was diligent in cultivating 
all portions of the diocese, laboring when he should 
have been resting, and not sparing himself when the 
providential warnings of God were calling to him to 
pause and recruit. Although endowed with an admirable 
physical constitution, he was at length compelled to ab- 
stain entirely from intellectual exertion, and decided to 
accept an invitation from the Pacific Steamship Co. to 
take passage in one of their vessels for San Francisco by 
the way of the Strait of Magellan. He arrived in the 
harbor of that city on the 1st of July, 1865, but was 
already prostrate with a fever which he had contracted 
by landing on the Isthmus and passing a night at Aspiu- 
wall, and was too weak to be removed from the ship. 
He died J uly 4. 

Sincerely attached to the Church in which he held 
a position of eminent honor and dignity, bishop Alonzo 
Potter was singularly free from ecclesiastical prejudice 
and narrowness. He was a man of no less conspicuous 
mark as a citizen than as a churchman. He was a friend 
of wholesome reforms, without the tenacious adherence 
to the past which dreads the progress of light in novel 
manifestations, lie was a patriot of the purest type, a 
man of the antique virtue which seasoned our republic 
with salt in the days of her noblest development. In 
the darkest hours of our great national struggle he was 
always decided and hopeful. lie took strong ground in 
behalf of the government, and never cherished a doubt 
of the justice or the success of the national cause. From 
his youth he took a lively interest in the welfare of the 
African race, and was ever ready to recognise the man- 
hood of the negro and his claims to advancement to a 
higher sphere, and he was forced to a public declaration 
of these principles in order to silence the pro-slavery 
assumptions of bishop Hopkins of Vermont. The zeal, 
however, which bishop Potter exhibited on these occa- 
sions for the extension of equal rights to all orders aud 
conditions of men, was no sudden impulse of feeling, but 
a couviction which was formed in his early days, and 
strengthened by subsequent experience and reflection. 
His influence, which extended to a wide circle, was due, 
in a great measure, to his weight of character rather 
than to any extraordinary brilliancy of intellectual en- 
dowment. He possessed talents of a solid and mascu- 
line order, llis mind was eminently discriminating, 
clear in its perceptions, and sound in its deductions. 
He had great powers of reasoning, his judgment was al- 


most unerring, and his habits of thought remarkable for 
justness aud accuracy. Ilis gifts of imagination were 
subordinate to the intuitive and logical faculty. He 
never sought to produce illusions by the pomp of words, 
but to generate convictions by the power of argument 
and illustration. But it was the singular probity of his 
nature, the temperate candor of his judgments, and the 
purity and elevation of his purposes which inspired 
such universal confidence in his character, and gave 
him such marked eminence among the eminent men of 
his day. Bishop Potter was especially identified with 
the organization of the hospital of the Protestant Epis- 
copal Church and the establishment of the Divinity 
School of the Church in Philadelphia. He published, 
The Principles of Science applied to the Domestic and 
Mechanic Arts (1841): — Political Economy (1841): — 
Handbook for Readers and Students (1847) : — Dis- 
courses, Charges, Addresses, etc. (1858): — Reliyious Phi- 
losophy (1870) : — Plan of Temperance Organization for 
Cities: — aud, with Geo. B. Emerson, The School and 
Schoolmaster (1844), which was widely distributed, es- 
pecially in New York and Massachusetts, and greatly 
aided the cause of popular education. He edited six 
vols. of Harper’s “Family Library;" Wilks’s Christian 
Essays (1829); Maria James’s Poems (1839), and Fif- 
teen Lectures on the Evidences of Christianity by Clergy- 
men of the Protestant Episcopal Church (1855, 8vo). 
Between 1845 and 1853 be delivered five courses of 
“Lowell Institute Lectures’’ on subjects connected with 
natural theology. Of these efforts bishop Stevens takes 
occasion to say : 

“As a philosopher he would have been known with a 
European repntation had he published but one of the un- 
finished volumes which lie in the seclusion of his library. 
I refer to his ‘Lowell Institute Lectures.’ These lectures 
showed that he had studied deeply the physiology aud 
psychology of man ; that he comprehended the varying 
forms of philosophy, aud the profound ethics of the old 
masters of that science. They evinced his boldness and 
his ability in grappling with the great questions that 
grow out of man’s relations to God, to man, and to a 
fallen world. They were full of thoroughly digested 
thought, calm and 'logical reasoning, expressed with al- 
most aphoristic terseness, illuminated by the most apt 
and forcible illustrations, and rose at times to a degree 
of eloquence which, even as read in the printed pages of 
a newspaper report, makes the mind glow and. tingle with 
delight. These sixty lectures, ranking in the public mind 
as among the best of the many good ones which that in- 
stitution has called forth, were delivered without any 
written page, and only occasionally did he use brief notes 
to guide his course.” 

See Memoirs of the Life and Services of the Rt. Rev . 
Alonzo Potter, D.D., LL.D., by M. A. De Wolfe Howe, 
D.D. (Phila. 1871, 12mo); Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
Amer. Anth. s. v. ; Drake, Diet, of Amer. Biog. s. v. ; 
Church Rev. 1865, p. 499, 500. (J.H. W.) 

Potter, Barnabas, an English divine of note, was 
born in Westmoreland in 1578. He was educated at 
Queen’s College, Oxford, where he was first chosen a 
scholar, then a fellow, and afterwards provost. After 
leaving college, he was for a time lecturer at Abington 
and at Tot»ess,-in Devonshire. In the following year 
he determined to enter the ministry, and was installed 
pastor at Devonshire. He was next unanimously elect- 
ed provost of Queen’s College, and also made chaplaiu- 
iu-ordinarv to prince Charles, and was called at court 
“the penitential preacher.” He held this position for 
ten years, when he decided to return to his former 
charge at Devonshire. King Charles, who held him in 
high esteem, promptly nominated him bishop of Car- 
lisle, in 1628. In the episcopate he was a man of few 
words, and a very affecting preacher; his custom was 
to write his sermons in parts and commit them to mem- 
ory. He was a close student, and possessed a remark- 
able memory. He became very proficient in the He- 
brew language. He preached at Westminster, and so 
strongly did he attack the corruptions which had sprung 
into the Church that he was censured as popish ; and 
this accusation, it is said, he took so much to heart that 


POTTER 


454 


POTTER’S FIELD 


he fell sick and died, in 164*2. He published, The Bar- 
onet's Burial (Oxford, 1613), a sermon -.—Easter Tues- 
day , another sermon : — Lectures on some Chapters of 
Genesis. See Wood. .1 theme Oxon.; Fuller, Worthies of 
Westmoreland ; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A u- 
thors, s. v. ; Middleton, Evany. Bioy. iii, 15*2 sq. (J. IIA\ .) 

Potter, Christopher, D.D., a learned English 
Arminian divine, nephew of the preceding, was born in 
Westmoreland about 1591. lie was admitted to Queen’s 
College, Oxford, in 1606, where he took, in due time, 
both the degrees in arts and divinity, lie was first 
made fellow, and in 1G26 succeeded his uncle in the 
provostship of his college. Though a zealous puritan- 
ical preacher, he became at length an adherent of Laud. 
In 162« he preached a sermon at Ely House upon the 
consecration of his uncle, who, i; though a thorough- 
paced Calvinist,” says Wood (.1 then. Oxon .), was made 
bishop of Carlisle by the endeavors of Land. In 1633 
Christopher Totter published, A n A nsiver to a late Popish 
Piimphlet entitled “ Charity Mistaken ,” which he wrote 
by the special order of Charles I, whose chaplain he was. 
In 1635 he was promoted to the deanery of Worcester, 
and in 1640 became vice-chancellor of Oxford, in the 
execution of which office he met with some trouble from 
the members of the Long Parliament. Upon the break- 
ing-out of the civil wars he sent all his plate to the king, 
and declared that he would rather, like Diogenes, drink 
out of the hollow of his hand than that his majesty 
should want; and he afterwards suffered much for the 
royal cause, lie was nominated to the deanery of Dur- 
ham January, 1646; but was prevented from being in- 
stalled by his death, which happened at his college in 
the March following. He was learned, ami of exempla- 
ry life and conversation. lie published, Father Paul's 
Jlist. of the Quarrels of Pope Paul U with the State of 
Venice (Loud. 16*26. 4to): — Sermons (1629. 8vo): — IU um/ 
of Charitie (Oxf. i <»33, 12mo4 ; to this publication ref- 
erence was made above: — Vindication of Myself touch- 
ing the Doctrine of Predestination (1651, T2rno, and often 
since). See Hook, Eccles. Bioy. viii, 135; Fuller, lPor- 
thies of 11 ’estmoreland ; Allibono, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
Authors, s.v. (J.II.W.) 

Potter, Francis, an English divine, was born in 
1591 at Myre, in Wiltshire, and was educated at Trinity 
College, Oxford. He took holy orders, and, after suc- 
cessively lilling various preferments, became in 1637 rec- 
tor of Kilmington. He died in 1678. lie was a man 
of learning and mechanical ingenuity. lie published. 
An Interpretation of the Humber 666, etc. (Oxf. 164*2, 
4to; in Latin, translated by Thomas Oibbot and oth- 
ers, Amst. 1677, 8vo; also translated into French and 
Dutch). It was attacked by Kev. Lambert Morehouse, 
to whom Potter wrote a reply; but neither the attack 
nor reply was ever published. A great authority (Jo- 
seph Mede) thus commends Potter’s Interpretation: 
“ This discourse of the Number of the Beast is the hap- 
piest that ever yet came into the world, and such as 
cannot be read (save of those that perhaps will not be- 
lieve it) without much admiration." See A then. Oxon.; 
Aubrey’s MSS., in Letters of Eminent Persons (1813,3 
vols. 8vo): — General Dictionary ; Walker, Sufferings of 
the Clergy. 

Potter, Isaiah, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Plymouth, Conn., in 1746. He was educated 
at Yale College, class of 1767, studied theology with Dr. 
Smalley, of Berlin. Conn., ami was the first settled min- 
ister at Lebanon, N. 11., from July 6, 1772, to his death, 
July 2, 1817. lie published some occasional Sermons. 

Potter, John, an Anglican prelate of much note, 
was born in 1674 of very humble parentage. He was. 
however, given all the educational facilities as if of su- 
perior rank, ami. manifesting a more than usual aptitude 
for study, was sent at fourteen to the University Col- 
lege of Oxford; took the degree of B.A. in 1692, and in 
1694 became fellow of Lincoln College. He had by this 
time made great attainments jn classical learning, and, 


though still very young, was encouraged by Dr. Char- 
let t, the master of University College, to publish in 
1694 a collection which he had made of various read- 
ings and notes on Plutarch’s treatise De Audiendis 
Poetis, a work which he followed soon after by va- 
rious readings and notes on an oration of Basil. His 
greater works appeared soon after: his edition of Ly- 
cophron, ami his .4 rchteologia Graca ( 1097), the former 
gaining him a world-wide reputation. In 1698 he en- 
tered into holy orders, and from that time his studies 
appear to have been almost exclusively professional, and 
he passed from one preferment in the Church to an- 
other, till at last he reached the highest dignity. Arch- 
bishop Tenison made him his chaplain, and gave him 
the living of (treat Mongeliam in Kent, and subse- 
quently other preferment in Buckinghamshire and Ox- 
fordshire. He became chaplain to Queen Anne and 
regius professor of divinity in the University of Oxford 
in 1708. In the same year lie published an excellent 
edition of the works of Clemens Alexandrinus (2 vols. 
fol.). 1 1 is other publications were ASermons and Charges, 
and A Discourse on Church Government . In 1715 he 
was made bishop of Oxford, and in 1737 archbishop of 
Canterbury, which high station he supported with much 
dignity to the time of his death, Oct. 21, 1747. His 
theological works were published at Oxford (1753, 3 
vols. 8vo). Archbishop Potter was a mail of much in- 
dustry, but hardly a great scholar; a compiler rather 
than an original investigator, and hence his works are 
of little value in our day. As ail ecclesiastic he was 
haughty and overzealous, as well as excessively narrow. 
See Hook, Eccles. Bioy. viii, 142; Bioy. Brit. s. v. ; 
English Cyclop, s. v. ; Allibono, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
A nth. s. v. ; Perry, Eccles. Hist, of the Ch. of England, 
iii, 199, 360 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Potter, John W., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Beaver Co., Pa., July 30, 1832. lie was the 
child of pious parents, and early made a profession of 
religion. He graduated at Jefferson College, Canons- 
burg, Pa., in 1859; studied divinity in the Western 
Theological Seminary, Alleghany. I*a. ; was licensed by 
Alleghany City Presbytery ; and, after supplying some 
churches for a time, he accepted a call to the Church 
of Plains, Pa., ami was ordained and installed Sept. 8, 
1863. Subsequently he was earnestly solicited, and, 
after prayerful consideration, consented to take charge 
of Fairniomit Church, Pa., in connection with that of 
Plains, which relation existed till he died, June 10, 
1866. Mr. Potter was a favorite pastor and an excel- 
lent preacher. His preaching was plain, pointed, and 
scriptural, lie always carefully prepared his sermons. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A hnanac, 1 867. p. 191. (J. L. S.) 

Potter, Robert, an Anglican divine, noted some- 
what as a poet, was horn in 1721 ; was educated at 
Emanuel College, Cambridge, and was for some years 
vicar of Seaming, after which be obtained the livings 
of l.o we st oft and Kessiuglaml, and a prebend in the 
cathedral of Norwich, lie died in 1801. 1 1 is original 

poetry consists of a volume of Poems, and two Odes from 
Isaiah (a translation of The Oracle concerning Babylon 
and The Song of Exultation ), and is much above medi- 
ocrity. Blit lie is best known by bis spirited versions of 
aEschvlus, Sophocles, and Euripides. 11c also published 
.4 Sermon on the Thanksgiving for the Peace (180*2). 

Potter’s Field (dypbQ tov KtpnpUoc; Yulg. oyer 
ftguli ), a piece of ground which, according to the 
statement of Matthew (xxvii. 7), was purchased by the 
priests with the thirty pieces of silver rejected bv Judas, 
imd converted into a burial-place for Jews not belong- 
ing to the city. In the narraiive of the Acts (i, 18, 
19) the purchase is made hy Judas himself, and neither 
' (lie potter’s field, its connection with the priests, nor 
its ultimate application is mentioned. That. Matthew 
was well assured of the accuracy of his version of the 
occurrence is evident from his adducing it (ver. 9) as a 
fulfilment of an ancient prediction. What that prcdic- 


POTTER’S GATE 


455 


POTTS 


tiou was, and who made it, is not, however, altogether 
clear. Matthew names Jeremiah ; but there is no pas- 
sage in the book of Jeremiah, as we possess it (either 
in the Hebrew or Sept.), resembling that which he 
gives: and that in Zechariah, which is usually sup- 


posed to be alluded to, has 
to it. 

Matt, xxvii, 9. 

Then was fulfilled that 
which was spoken by Jer- 
emy the prophet, saying, 
And they took the thirty 
pieces of stiver, the price of 
him that was valued, whom 
they of the children of Is- 
rael did value, and gave 
them for the potter’s field, 
as the Lord appointed me. 


not a very perfect likeness 


Zech. xi, 12. 

And I said unto them, 
ir ye think good, give my 
price; and if not, forbear. 
So they weighed for my 
price thirty pieces of silver. 
And Jehovah said unto me, 
Cast it unto the potter; 
a goodly price that I was 
prized at by them ! And 
I took the thirty pieces of 
silver, and cast them to the 
potter in the house of Jeho- 
vah. 


Even this coincidence is somewhat doubtful; for the 
word above translated “potter” (rijEV-ij) is in the Sept, 
rendered “furnace,” and by modern scholars (Gesenius, 
Fiirst, Ewald, De Wette, Herxheimer — following the 
Targum, Peshito-Syriac, and Kimchi) “ treasury” or 
“ treasurer.” Supposing, however, this passage to be 
that which Matthew refers to, several explanations 
suggest themselves: 

1. That the evangelist unintentionally substituted 
the name of Jeremiah for that of Zechariah, at the same 
time altering the passage to suit his immediate object, 
in the same way that Paul has done in Horn, x, 6-9 
(comp, with Deut. viii, 17 ; xxx, 11-14), 1 Cor. xv, 45 
(comp, with Gen. ii, 7). See Jowett, St. Paul's Epistles 
(Essay on Quotations, etc.). 

2. That this portion of the hook of Zechariah — a 
book the different portions of which have been thought 
by some to he in different styles and by different au- 
thors — was in the time of Matthew attributed to Jer- 
emiah. 

8. That the reference is to some passage of Jere- 
miah which has been lost from its place in his book, 
and exists only in the evangelist. Some slight support 
is afforded to this view by the fact that potters and the 
localities occupied by them are twice alluded to by 
Jeremiah. Its partial correspondence with Zech. xi, 
12, 13, is no argument against its having at one time 
formed a part of the prophecy of Jeremiah; for it is 
well known to every student of the Bible that similar 
correspondences are continually found in the prophets. 
See, for instance, Jer. xlviii, 45, comp, with Numb, xxi, 
27, 28; xxiv, 17 ; Jer. xlix, 27, comp, with Amos i, 4. 
For other examples, see Dr. Pusey’s Commentaiy on 
Amos and Micah. — Smith. 

4. The name “Jeremiah” may have been added by 
some later hand. This is the most probable view. See 
Jeremiah, Book of. 

There are several potteries now in Jerusalem, as there 
seem always to have been. On the present spot shown 
as “ the Potter’s Field,” see Aceldama. 


Potters’ Gate (r^p^nfl "l? ’j), a gate in Jeru- 
salem which led to the valley of Hinnom (Jer. xix, 2). 
It is therefore to be sought on the west side of the city, 
and is perhaps the same with the Valley gate, so named 
from that valley; and with the Bethlehem or Jaffa 
gate of the present day, if not with the Dung gate (see 
Ewald, Gesch. Israel's, iii, 66). The Hebrew name seems 
to be derived from DgH, chores, a pot (see Gesen. The- 
saur. i, 522). Perhaps the potteries were in the vicin- 
ity. Others, as Buxtorf and Ewald, would render the 
word East gate, but this would not lead to the valley 
of Ilinnom. If the custom had obtained so early of 
casting useless things into the valley of Hinnom or 
Topheth, the word might be rendered accurately Pot- 
sherd gate, or Refuse gate. The reference in Zech. xi, 
13 is probably not to this gate (Gesen. Thesaur. p. 619). 
See Jerusalem, 


Pottier, Francois, a French missionary, was born 
at Loclies in 1718. He was educated at Paris in the 
Seminary of Saint-Esprit. In 1753 he was sent as a 
missionary to the countries of Western China. His 
zeal was rewarded with the apostolic vicariate of Tse- 
tchouan, and subsequently honored with the title of 
bishop in partibus of Agatliopolis. In 1769 he visited 
the Chen-si (more to the north), and there made more 
than sixty thousand proselytes. He died Sept. 28, 1792. 
Pottier wrote several letters on his peregrinations in the 
Celestial Empire. They abound in curious information 
about the principal Chinese' provinces, about Southern 
Tartary, and even Thibet. The author describes the 
mountain-ranges of Sine-Ling, in which he often found 
a refuge in times of persecution. There is little flattery 
for the Chinese in his account of their manners, hut he 
thinks that they are not incorrigible. It is to be re- 
gretted that Pottier neglected altogether to give ns in- 
formation about the natural history of those countries. 
His purpose was to write a journal of his life and of the 
progress of Romanism, rather than a work useful to the 
learned.— Hoefer, None. Biog. Generate, s. v. See Saint- 
Martin, Eloge de P. V. Pottier ; XouveUes Lettres edifi- 
antes, vol. i and iii. 

Potts, George, D.D., an eminent Presbyterian 
divine, was horn in Philadelphia, Pa., March 15, 1802. 
In liis father’s family lie enjoyed some of the best oppor- 
tunities for forming his mind and heart. These were 
derived not only from parental counsels and instructions, 
but also from the frequent presence in his father’s hos- 
pitable dwelling of refined Christian society. He had 
a good training for college, and graduated at the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania in 1819. He studied theology 
at Princeton Seminary, and was licensed even before 
graduation in 1823, and ordained as an evangelist Oct. 7, 
1823; was pastor of a Church in Natchez, Miss., 1823- 
35; of the Duane Street Church, New York, 1836-44; 
and of the University Place Church from 1845 till his 
death. Sept. 15, 1864. Dr. Totts was an eminent 
preacher. He was a man of fine presence, and possessed 
of great oratorical abilities. But his aim in preaching 
was practical rather than doctrinal; his style full, and 
bordering on the figurative; his executive ability was 
remarkable. He engaged at one time in a controversy 
with the Rev. Dr. Wainwright, on the rites and disci- 
pline of the Episcopal Church, in a pamphlet entitled 
Xo Church without a Bishop. Strongly attached to the 
doctrines of his own Church, and laboring zealously 
for the promotion of its interests, yet he ever cherished 
the most kindly and fraternal feelings for the follow- 
ers of Christ in every communion. lie was, during 
his ministry, connected with various literary, benevo- 
lent, and religions institutions, and rendered efficient 
service in the cause of humanit}'. He published single 
Sermons, A dd cesses, Letters, etc. (1826 - 54), and con- 
tributed two Discourses to The Xational Preacher , The 
Character of Jezebel to Dr. Wainwright’s Women of the 
Bible, and Introductions to Potts’s Mary, Nos. 1 and 2. 
See Wilson, Presb. I/ist. Almanac, 1866, p. 161 ; Apple- 
tons’ .4 mi. Cyclop. 1864, p. 680; Wainwright, Women 
of the Bible; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Auth. 
s. v. ( J. L. S.) 

Potts, John, an eminent minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, flourished near the opening of this 
century. lie began to preach in 1812 within the bounds 
of the Philadelphia Annual Conference, of which body 
lie became a member in the following year. For a 
quarter of a century he continued in this connection, 
filling many of the most important posts, and always 
giving great satisfaction. He died Sept. 22, 1837, after 
a long and very painful illness. Mr. Potts was a man 
of varied talent, an efficient business man, an able and 
dignified presiding officer, a useful pastor, and a suc- 
cessful preacher. — Minutes of Conferences, ii, 577. 

Potts, William Stephens, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was horn in Northumberland County, Pa., 


vou m: logoi 


456 


POUGET 


Oct. 13, 1802. Ilis early education was limited. After 
learning the printer’s trade in Philadelphia, he finally, 
in 1825, entered the Princeton Theological Seminary, 
which ill-health, the result of too dose application to 
his studies, compelled him to leave in November, 1827. 
lie was, however, licensed by the Presbytery of Phila- 
delphia, and went to St. Louis, laboring on the way as 
opportunity offered, and was finally ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of the only Presbyterian Church then in 
St. Louis, Oct. 20, 1828. Here he labored faithfully 
and successfully for the extension of the Church until. 
Illarion College having been organized, he was elected 
president of that institution by the trustees in 1835, and 
entered at once upon this new field of labor. After four 
years of intense labor, the success of the enterprise not 
being equal to his expectations, he accepted another 
call to St. Louis. In 1841 his health obliged him to 
travel, and he went to Europe, whence he returned in 
October of the same year, greatly invigorated. Early 
in 1852 sickness compelled him to discontinue his la- 
bors, and he died March 27, 1852. lie published a large 
number of occasional Sermons, Addresses, and contro- 
versial pamphlets. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , iv, 723. 

Pou de logoi (ITou ci Xoyoi TTTtpem’Tf.0 is the 
beginning of one of Gregory of Nazianzum’s (q. v.) 
hymns, which he probably composed during the eight 
years that he spent in retirement. “When his work 
was done, the Church of the Anastasia had arisen, and 
father, mother, brother, and sister, all were dead. In 
the depths of its natural fears, and the firmness of the 
hope to which at last it rises, it tells the history of 
those solitary years, and echoes well the music of those 
ancient psalms which soar so often ‘out of the depths’ 
into the light of God” (Mrs. Charles). Want of space 
does not allow us to give this beautiful hymn, of which 
the first stanza runs thus in Airs. Charles’s translation : 

“ Where are the winged words? Lost in the air. 

Where the fresh flower of youth and glory? Gone. 

The strength of well-knit limbs? Brought low by care. 

Wealth ? Plunder’d ; none possess hut God alone. 

Where those dear parents who my life first gave, 

And where that holy twain, brother and sister? In the 
grave.” 

Comp. Biissler, Ausicahl altchristlicher Lieder, p. 11, 
157; Eortlage, Gesiinge ehrist l icher Vorzeit, p. 3(10 sq. ; 
Mrs. Charles, Christian Life in Song, p. G5 sq. (B. I’.) 

Pouget, Antoine, a French Benedictine monk, 
was born in 1050 in the diocese of Beziers, lie en- 
tered the Congregation of St. Maur in 1074, and de- 
voted himself to the study of mathematics, in which he 
is said to have been very proficient, although he pub- 
lished nothing about that science. lie was a professor 
of the Hebrew language, and taught distinguished pu- 
pils, among others Dom Gunrin. While teaching this 
language, he composed a very’ easy method, under the 
title Iustitutiones lingua; Ihhraiea'. The work was not 
printed, but. there are numerous copies of it. Pouget 
published, in collaboration with Montfaucon, the Latin 
translation of a volume of Analecta Greeca (1088, 4to). 
lie made, together with Dom Martianay, an edition of 
the works of Jerome, called the edition of the Benedic- 
tines ( Paris, 1003-1700,5 vols. fob), of which he directed 
alone the first volume. He died at Soreze Oct. 14, 
1700. Iloefer, Xouc. Jiiog. Generate, s. v. See Le Cerf, 
Jiibl. <les Auteurs tie l<i Congreg. de St. Maur; Fisquet, 
Jiiog. ( inedite ) de l' II eranlt. 

Pouget, Bertrand de, a French cardinal, was 
born in 1280 at Le Pouget, now the commune of Aynac. 
If we may believe Villain and Petrarch, it was rumored 
in Italy that lie was the natural son of pope John XXII, 
who was born in the same diocese (Cali or*) ; others af- 
firm that the pope was his uncle. A simple deacon 
of Castelnau Montratior and canon of Saint-Sauveur 
d’Aix, lie was comprised in the first promotion of cardi- 
nals, made Dec. 17, 1310, by’ John XXII, who, three 
years afterwards, sent him to Italy with the most un- 


limited powers for the purpose of retrieving the domin- 
ions of the Church. At the head of a small army, Ber- 
trand, together with Philip of Valois, who afterwards 
became king of France, directed his first blows against 
Matteo Visconti, the nominal chief of the Lombard 
Ghibellines. lie was, however, unsuccessful, and was 
obliged to resort to the anathemas of the Church, and 
to preach a crusade against Mattco. This attempt be- 
ing unsuccessful also, he determined to unite with the 
Guelphs and oppose Galea Visconti, who had succeeded 
his father. Genoa and Piacenza took his part, Milan 
revolted, and the whole signoria was nearly lost to the 
Visconti, when the arrival of Louis of Bavaria, victo- 
rious at Miihldorf, changed the state of things. After 
some brilliant rather than real victories, Louis was com- 
pelled to return to Germany, leaving the field in pos- 
session of the cardinal, whom the pope had appointed 
bishop of Ostia and of Velletri. Parma and Beggio 
had surrendered to him in I32G: Bologna, Modena, and 
the other cities of the Romagna followed their example. 
But as he had neither the virtues nor the talents requi- 
site to preserve his conquests, Bertrand had in 1329 to 
repress at Parma and Beggio several revolts against his 
authority. Towards the close of 1330 John of Luxem- 
burg took, iu the name of the emperor Louis V, Cremo- 
na, Parma. Pavia, and Modena. An interview held by 
the cardinal with the king of Bohemia excited the dis- 
trust of the Italians, and Bertrand, who had recently 
obtained the titles of marquis of Ancona and count of 
Romagna, saw the tide of ill-will and hostility’ rise all 
around him. The marquis of Este. whom he had basely 
deceived, defeated his armv near Ferrara, and Bologna 
expelled him in March, 1334. He was fain to accept 
the mediation of the Florentines, and retired to Avi- 
gnon, where the death of John XXII (Dec. 4, 1334) de- 
prived him of all hopes of being put at the head of a 
new’ expedition. From that time he devoted himself 
entirely’ to religious matters. He died at Avignon Feb. 
3, 1352, and was buried in the church of the Clarissc 
Nuns, a congregation founded by’ him. — Iloefer, A our. 
Jiiog. Generate, s. v. See Aubery, Hist, des Cardin, vol. 
i ; Sismondi, 7 list, des Uepubliques Jtaliennes. 

Pouget, Fran9ois-Aime, a French theologian, 
was born at Montpellier Ang. 28, 1GGG, Almost imme- 
diately’ after his ordination he was appointed vicar of 
Snint-Roche at Paris, and it was in this capacity’ that 
he administered the last sacraments to La Fontaine (see 
his account in the Mem. de Utter, of the P. Desmolets, 
vol. i, pt. ii). He was made doctor, and entered in 1090 
the Congregation of the Oratory. Colbert, bishop of 
Montpellier, gave him the direction of his seminary. 
He returned to Paris, and held at the Seminary of Saint- 
Magloire public lectures on the conscience. He was 
appointed member of the commission charged with the 
liturgical reform of the diocese of Paris. The Cate- 
cltisme de Montpellier, the principal work of Pouget, was 
published at Paris in 1702 (4to, or 5 vols. 12mo) ; it was 
at once adopted in all parts of France, has gone through 
many editions, and has been translated into several lan- 
guages. At the time of his death Pouget was publish- 
ing a Latin edition of it, in which the passages merely 
indicated in the French work were extensively tilled out. 
This edition, when in the printing-office, was seized at 
the request of cardinal de Bissy’, and was published after 
examination by doctor Clave], with his comments. The 
work was completed by the P. Desmolets, and published 
under the title of lustitutiones Catholicte (1725, 2 vols. 
fol., and Ven. 1708). There are few works of this kind 
in which the Christian dogmas, the religions morals, 
the sacraments, prayers, ceremonies, and customs of the 
Church are set forth with greater distinctness and sim- 
plicity. The other writings of Pouget are some Letters 
to Colbert and to cardinal Noailles, Instructions sur tes 
principanx Heroics des Chevaliers de Matte (Paris, 1712, 
12mo), and various manuscripts, especially' a work on 
the Grecian/ of Narbonne, part of which had been 
printed in 1708. Pouget died at Paris April 4, 1723. — 


POULARD 457 POUSSIN 


Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. See Richard et Gi- 
raud, Biblioth'eque Sacree; Journal de Dorsanne, vol. 
iv ; Diet, des Ecrivains eccles. ; Fisquet, Biog. ( inedite ) 
de V Her ault : Haag, Hist, des Dogmes (see Index). 

Foulard, Thomas -Just, a French prelate, was 
born at Dieppe Sept. 1, 1751. He was ordained priest, 
and enjoyed an early renown as a preacher. His tal- 
ents were rewarded by the Church with several preb- 
endships, and a curacy in the diocese of Lisieux. At- 
tached to the clergy of Saint-Roch, he submitted in 
1791 to the law that exacted the oath to the civil con- 
stitution, and became episcopal vicar of the Orne. On 
the 27th Brumaire, an. ii (Nov. 17, 1793), he renounced 
the Catholic faith in the presence of the Convention, 
but in spite of this abjuration he was, after the Reign 
of Terror, appointed constitutional curate of the parish 
of Aubervilliers, near Paris, and took his seat as a dep- 
uty of the Haute-Marne in the council held at Paris in 
17*97. The Constitutionals made him bishop of Saone- 
et-Loire June 11, 1801, but he lost his see by the Con- 
cordat, and retired to Paris. Shortly before the Revo- 
lution of July he published a pamphlet under the title 
Moyen de nationaliser le Clerge de France (Paris, 1830, 
8vo). At that same epoch he conferred orders on two 
young men, and on three in 1831. Poulard persevered 
in his opinions, and chose to die an vrai constitutionnel. 
lie declined the assistance of the curate of his parish, 
and his body was carried directly to the cemetery. Pou- 
lard died at Paris March 9, 1833. The two following 
books have been most plausibly attributed to his au- 
thorship: Ephemerides religieuses pour serrir a VHis- 
toire ecclesiastique de la Fin du dix-huitieme Si'ecle et du 
Commencement du dix-neuvieme: — Sur VEtat actuel de la 
Religion en France. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s, v. 

Poulle, Nicolas -Louis, a French preacher, was 
born Feb. 10, 1703, at Avignon. He was destined to the 
magistracy, and studied law. But he did not allow 
those grave pursuits to interfere with his poetical tastes, 
and presented at the Jeux Floraux several poems which 
were crowned. Towards 1735 he received orders, and 
from that time devoted himself entirely to oratory. 
Encouraged by the favor some of his panegyrics and ser- 
mons had met with at the hands of liis countrymen, he 
repaired to Paris in 1738, and preached in nearly all the 
great pulpits. In 1745 a life-rent of a thousand francs 
on the abbey of l’Argentiere was bestowed upon him; 
in 1748 he was nominated commendatory abbe of No- 
gent-sous-Coucy, after pronouncing the panegyric of 
Saint-Louis before the French Academy. He was sub- 
sequently honored with the titles of ordinary preacher 
of the king and of grand vicar of Laon. Some writers 
have compared the abbe Poulle with Massillon : such a 
parallel can only be made by those who mistake brill- 
iancy of style for eloquence. He might be more prop- 
erly compared with the abbe De Boismont, his contem- 
porary; they have the same qualities and the same de- 
fects. The abbe Poulle did not aspire to the honors of 
authorship: he was not in the habit of writing his ser- 
mons. In 1776, complying with the wishes of his neph- 
ew, Louis Poulle, grand vicar of Saint-Malo, he dictated 
to him eleven sermons which he had preserved in his 
memory for forty years, and these sermons were pub- 
lished, after he had corrected them himself, in Paris in 
1778, 1781, 1818, 1821 (2 vols. 12mo). This edition con- 
tains also his Panegyrique de Saint-Louis (1748, 4to) 
and a Discours pour la Prise d' Habit de Mine, de Rupel- 
monde aux Carmelites (1752, 12mo). The Bibliotheque 
des Orateurs Chretiens edited a volume of (Euvres Choi- 
sies of the abbe Poulle (1828, 18mo), preceded by a bio- 
graphical notice. He died at Avignon Nov. 8, 1781. — 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. See De Sainte- 
Croix, Eloge de Poulle (Avignon, 1783, 8vo). 

Pound ( weight ) is the rendering of one Heb. and 
one Greek word in the A. V. 

maneh' (1 Kings x, 17; Ezra ii, 69; Neb. 
vii, 71, 72). See Maneh. 


2. Air pa, liira (John xii, 3 ; xix, 39), is a Roman 
pound of twelve ounces, a libra. This pound, as used 
in trade and authorized by the Roman government, 
contained 6165 Paris grains, according to Boeckh (J letal- 
lurg. Unters. p. 160 sq.). The word Xirpa was adopted 
in the Arama;an dialect, 50 7? “’I? (Buxtorf, Lex. Rabb. 
col. 1138). — Winer. See Weight. 

Pound (money), a value (pva, mind) mentioned 
in the parable of the Ten Pounds (Luke xix, 12-27),- 
as the talent is in the parable of the Talents (Matt, 
xxv, 14-30), the comparison of the Saviour to a master 
who intrusted money to his servants wherewith to trade 
in his absence being probably a frequent lesson in our 
Lord’s teaching (comp. Mark xiii, 32-37). The refer- 
ence appears to be to a Greek pound, a weight used as 
a money of account, of which sixty went to the talent, 
the weight depending upon the weight of the talent. 
At this time the Attic talent, reduced to the weight of 
the earlier Phoenician, which was the same as the He- 
brew, prevailed in l’alestiue, though other systems must 
have been occasionally used. The Greek name doubt- 
less came either from the Hebrew maneh or from a com- 
mon origin; but it must be remembered that the He- 
brew talent contained but fifty manehs, and that we 
have no authority for supposing that the maneh was 
called in Palestine by the Greek name, so that it is 
most reasonable to consider the Greek weight to be 
meant. — Smith. See Mina. 

Pounds, John, an English philanthropist, flour- 
ished in the second half of last century. He was born 
at Portsmouth in 1766 of very humble parentage, and 
enjoyed himself no educational advantages worth men- 
tioning. But, endowed with a remarkably active mind 
and generous disposition, he used his leisure hours from 
the busy trade he plied as a shoemaker for the amelio- 
ration of the poor children of his surroundings. He 
collected a number of them in his shop, and there taught 
them the elements of education he had been able to 
master successfully, and thus became the founder of 
what are now called the Ragged Schools. He died in 
1839. 

Pourchot, Edmonde, a French philosopher of 
some note, was born at Poillv. near Sins, in 1651. About 
1678 he became professor of philosophy in the Univer- 
sity of Paris, of which he was chosen rector seven times. 
He was a friend of Racine and Boileau. He died in 
1734. He published histitutiones Philosophic (e (1695), 
which was highly esteemed by his contemporaries. 
Pourchot was really the first of modern philosophers 
who taught by a rational method. 

Poussin, Nicolas, a French painter of great ce- 
lebrity, was born near Le Grand-Andely, in Normandy, 
in 1593 or 1594; was first a pupil ofQuintin Varin, then 
painting pictures for the Church of Grand-Andely, but 
at the age of eighteen went to Paris, studied under 
Ferdinand Elle, the Flemish painter, and others; but 
chiefly improved himself by drawing from casts and 
drawings and prints after Raffaelle and Julio Rotnano 
in the collection of M. Conrtois, who accorded him ac- 
cess to them. After a long and hard struggle, he at- 
tained the object of his desire — namely, the means of 
visiting Rome. He was thirty years of age when he 
arrived there, and a considerable period elapsed after 
that before he obtained much employment. At length, 
however, he received several important commissions 
from the cardinal Barberini, which he executed so suc- 
cessfully that he afterwards rapidly acquired fame and 
fortune. After an absence of sixteen years he returned 
to Paris with 31. de Chantelou, and was introduced by 
cardinal Richelieu to Louis X ID, who appointed him 
his painter in ordinary, and gave him apartments in the 
Tuileries. But w’hile away at Rome, preparatory to re- 
moval to Paris, the king died, and Poussin abandoned 
the proposed return to France. He died at Rome in 
1665, after a most successful career. His pictures have 


POUSSIXES 


4 

been compared with colored bass-reliefs, a term not in- 
expressive of his style. II is peculiar leaning to this 
sculpturesque treatment may in some measure be ex- 
plained by his close intimacy with his friend Duques- 
nov. the sculptor, known as Flammingo: they lived in 
the same house together at Home. 1 1 is coloring, com- 
pared with his drawing, is inferior and mannered, which 
is somewhat remarkable, considering that he studied in 
the school of Domenichino at Koine, whom he regard- 
ed as the best painter of his time. The Seven Sac- 
raments, painted twice by Poussin, are among his most 
celebrated works, and both are now in England — one 
at Bel voir Castle, the other in the Bridgewater Gallery, 
London. 1 1 is works are very numerous; the prints that 
have been engraved after his principal pictures only 
amount to upwards of two hundred. Some of his best 
works are in the British National (iallerv, as, The Plague 
among the Philistines at Ashdod, The Bacchanalian Fes- 
tival, No. 42, finely engraved by Doo, which constitutes 
an excellent exponent of his style, with all his merits 
and peculiarities in perfection, lie was especially re- 
markable as a skilful landscape-painter. II is sacred 
drawing entitled The Finding of A loses has been made 
popular by autotype, but it is by no means one of his 
best productions. Poussin has been called a classical 
painter by Sir Joshua Reynolds, so successfully did he 
imitate the works of antiquity'. See Mrs. Clement, Paint- 
ers, Sculptors , .1 rchitects, etc., p. 407 ; Spooner, Jiiog. 
I)ict. s. v.; Bellori, 1 '»'(</ di Xicolo Poussino, etc. (Home, 
1672); Wornum, Descriptive and Historical Catalogue 
of the Xational Gallery, etc. 

llis brother-in-law, Caspar Poussin, also quite a 
celebrated painter, was born in 1013, and was a pupil of 
Nicolas. Caspar devoted himself principally to secular 
art, but his Sacrifice of Isaac is a notable production, 
lie died in 1075. (J. II. \V.) 

Poitssines, Pierre, a French Jesuit, was born in 
1009 at Laurac (diocese of Narbonne). After studying 
at Beziers, he entered the Society of Jesus at Toulouse 
in 1024, and was in the latter city' and at Montpellier 
professor of humanities, of rhetoric, and of theology*. 
Called to Home in 1004 to continue The History of the 
Society, interrupted by' the death of Sacchini, he de- 
voted several years to that work, and was subsequently' 
professor of excgetical theology at the Koman College. 
Many* illustrious personages honored him with proofs 
of their esteem, among others queen Christina of Sweden 
and cardinal Barberini, who committed to him the in- 
terpretation of the works of Pachymeres. Ponssines 
was chosen to give Creek lessons to the young prince 
Orsini and to the abbe Albani, who afterwards became 
pope under the name of Clement NI. lie returned to 
Toulouse towards the end of 1082, and continued his lit- 
erary* activity in spite of his failing health. He died 
at Toulouse Feb. 2. 1G80. lie left, Xiceta Laudatio 
sanctorum archangelorum Mickuelis f t Gabrielis (Tou- 
louse, 1037, 8vo): — Polemonis Sophist a Ovationes (ibid. 
1037, 8vo) : — Anna? Comnena Porphyrogenita Alexias 
(Paris, 1051, fob): — Saudi Xili Optra qnadam (ibid. 
1039, 4 to): — Xicephori Hryenun Connnentarii de Rebus 
Dyzantinis (ibid. 1601, fob): — Georgii Pachymcris Mi- 
chael Pala’ologus (Rome, 1000, fob) : — G. Pachimeri A n- 
dronicus Pala’ologus (ibid. 1609, fob): — Saudi Methodii 
Convivium Yirginum (Paris, 1057, fob) Catena Gra- 
corum Pat rum in Fvangelinni secundum Marcum (Kome, 
1073, fob) : — Thesaurus Asceticus (Paris, 1084, 4to): — I 
Theophylucti Institntio llegia (ibid. 1011, -I t o'). All these 
editions are accompanied with commentaries and notes 
full of erudition. Ponssines is the author of a consider- ( 
able number of lives of saints of Creece, of Languedoc, 
and of Gascoyne, inserted in the collection of t lie Bol- 
landists; of a Latin translation of the letters of St. 
Francis Xavier, and of a number of other works, the list 
of which is given in the 1 iiblioth. Soc. Jesu. See Lom- 
bard, Klogr hist, du P. Poussines, in the Me moires de 
Trerour (Nov. 1750), and in the Diet, of Moreri (ed. 
1759); De Baeckcr, Hibliotk, des Ecnvains de la Com- 


58 POVERTY 

j pagnie de Jesus, vol, i. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , 
s. v. 

Poverty is that state or situation opposed to riches 
in which we arc deprived of the conveniences of life. 
Indigence is a degree lower, when we want the neces- 
saries, and is opposed to superlluity. Want seems rath- 
er to arrive by r accident, and is opposed to abundance. 
Need and necessity relate less to the situation of life 
than the other three words, but more to the relief we 
expect or the remedy we seek; with this difference be- 
tween the two, that need seems less pressing than ne- 
cessity. Poverty has been sanctified by our blessed 
Lord in bis own person, and in that of bis parents; in 
that of his apostles, and of the most perfect of his dis- 
ciples. Solomon besought the Lord to give him neither 
poverty nor riches (Prov. xxx, 8), regarding each ex- 
treme as a dangerous rock to virtue. Poverty of mind 
is a state of ignorance, or a mind void of religious prin- 
ciple and enjoyment (Rev. iii, 17). Poverty* of spirit 
consists in an inward sense and feeling of our wants 
and defects, with a dependence on divine grace and 
mercy' for pardon and acceptance (Matt. v,3). It is the 
effect of the operation of the Divine Spirit on the heart 

i (John xvi, 8). It is attended with submission to the 

| divine will; contentment in our situation; meekness 
and forbearance to others, and genuine humility* as to 
ourselves. It is a spirit approve 1 by* Hod (Isa. lxvi, 
2), an evidence of true religion (Luke xviii, 13), and 
terminates in endless felicity (Matt, v, 3). See Poor. 

! POVERTY, Mona Stic. The Roman Catholic Church 
exacts of its monastic orders, besides other privations, 
that of absolute abandonment of worldly* possessions. See 
Monastioism. To a certain extent this obligation was 
recognised even from the first origin of Monasticism ; but 
it was enforced with far greater strictness than before by 
the two great Mendicant orders, the Franciscans and 
Dominicans, which took their rise in the beginning of the 
13th century*; one of the fundamental rulesofthese orders 
being that their members must possess no property, but 
be wholly* dependent on alms for their support. Until 
the rise of the Mendicants, the individual members 
of the various monastic orders were bound to deny* 
themselves the enjoyment of personal property*, but the 
community* to which they* belonged might possess am- 
ple revenues. Even the Dominicans, though under a 
strict vow of poverty*, allowed their convents to enjoy* 
in common small rents in money*. But St. Francis pro- 
hibited bis monks from possessing either an individual 
or a collective revenue, and enforced a vow* of absolute 
poverty. When asked which of all the virtues he 
thought was the most agreeable to God, be replied, 
“ Poverty is the way to salvation, the nurse of humility, 
and the root of perfection. Its fruits are hidden, but 
they* multiply* themselves in ways that are infinite.” 
In accordance with this view of the importance and 
value of poverty, the Franciscan monks for a time ad- 
hered strictly to the rule of their founder; but ere long 
a division broke out among them ns to the precise in- 
terpretation of the rule, and in consequence a relaxation 
of its strictness was made, first by Gregory* IX in 1231, 
and then by* Innocent IV in 1245. About a century* 
afterwards a dispute arose between the Franciscans and 
Dominicans in regard to the poverty* of Christ and his 
apostles— the Franciscans alleging that they possessed 
neither private property nor a common treasure, while 
the Dominicans asserted the contrary opinion. The 
pope decided in favor of the followers of Dominic, and 
many of the Franciscans, still adhering to their opin- 
ions, were committed to the flames. See Mendicants. 
For this practice there is not the least authority in the 
early practices of celibates (see Eca, Sacerdotal Celi- 
bacy, p. 104, 1144; and, however rigidly it may* have 
been accepted bv the monastic orders at their first in- 
stitution, it has in modern times existed only* in name. 
Convents of monks and nuns have succeeded in becom- 
ing rich communities. In England they* laid hold of 


POWELL 


459 


POWELL 


the greater part of the riches of the kingdom ; their 
possessions were so vast that the monopoly became the 
occasion to enact laws preventing the increase of their 
wealth or depriving them of their ill-gotten pelf. In 
the United States the monastics of Rome threaten to 
become the most powerful possessors of wealth. In 
New York they own property mounting up to several 
millions, and even in smaller cities are last accumulat- 
ing immense possessions. How admirably their rules 
are adapted to seize upon the property of unsuspecting 
individuals and to transfer it to some rich fraternity! 
Already in several states civil enactments have become 
necessary in order to restrain the inordinate acquisition 
of landed and other property by Roman Catholic insti- 
tutions, and to prevent an undue interference by priests 
in the bequests of the sick. 

The Fakirs and Dervishes of Mohammedan coun- 
tries are under a vow of poverty, and go about asking 
alms in the name of God, being wholly dependent for 
their support upon the charity of the faithful. The 
Mohammedan monks trace their origin to the first year 
of the Hegira; and it is said that there are no fewer 
than thirty-two different orders existing in the Turkish 
empire, all of them grounding their preference of the 
.ascetic life upon a saying of Mohammed, “Poverty is 
my glory.” The monks of the East, particularly those 
of Buddha, are not allowed to partake of a single morsel 
of food not received by them in alms, unless it be water 
or some substance used for the purpose of cleaning the 
teeth. Hence the Buddhist monk is seen daily carrying 
his alms-bowl from house to house in the village near 
which he may happen to reside. The Agyrtce of the 
ancient Greeks were mendicant priests of Cybele, and 
their origin is supposed to have been Eastern. The 
same priests among the Romans went their daily rounds 
to receive alms with the sistrum in their hands. The 
institutes of Manu lay down explicit rules for the Brah- 
min mendicant: “Every day must a Brahmin student 
receive his food by begging, with due care, from the 
houses of persons renowned for discharging their duties. 
If none of those houses can be found, let him go beg- 
ging through the whole district around the village, 
keeping his organs in subjection and remaining silent; 
but let him turn away from such as have committed 
any deadly sin. . . . Let the student persist constantly 
in such begging, but let him not eat the food of one 
person only; the subsistence of a student by begging is 
held equal to fasting in religions merit. . . . This duty 
of the wise is ordained for a Brahmin only; but no such 
act is appointed for a warrior or a merchant.” In the 
same sacred book the householder is enjoined to make 
gifts according to his ability to the religious mendicant, 
whatever may be his opinions. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
World, ii, 688, 689; Elliott, Delineation of Romanism, 
p. 744; Barnum, Romanism, p. 287, 293 sq. 

POVERTY, Voluntary. See Poverty, Monastic. 

Powell, Baden, an Anglican divine, noted rather 
as a scientific student than as a theologian, was the son 
of a London merchant, and was born at Stamford Hill, 
near London, Aug. 22, 1796. He studied at Oriel Col- 
lege, Oxford, where he graduated M.A., with first-class 
mathematical honors, in 1817 ; took holy orders in 1820, 
and was appointed vicar of Plumstead,in Kent, in 1821. 
In 1824 he was elected a fellow of the Royal Society; 
and three years later was appointed Savilian professor 
of geometry, a chair which he held till his death, which 
took place in London June 11, 1860. 

As a professor, Powell’s great aim was to bring about 
a larger recognition of the importance of physical and 
mathematical science in the curriculum of learned study 
at Oxford. To the “Philosophical Transactions,” the 
“Reports” of the British Association, and other vehi- 
cles of scientific instruction, he contributed numerous 
valuable papers: but he is perhaps best known by his 
strenuous exertions to obtain for modern science the 
right of modifying the views of nature and the origin 


of the world, regardless of the views expounded in the 
O.-T. Scriptures, especially in The Study on Evidences 
of Christianity in Essays and Reviews (1860). In 
this perilous department of controversy he displayed 
great learning, logical power, moderation of tone, and 
philosophic urbanity ; but his conclusions were too un- 
mistakably rationalistic to be acceptable to orthodox 
Christianity. Powell does not exactly place himself 
on the same theoretical ground with Hume and Spi- 
noza, but the moral effect of his attack upon miracles as 
an evidence of Christianity is not less antagonistic than 
the theories of either of these authors. “Spinoza,” says 
Dr. Hurst (Hist, of Rationalism, p. 487 sq.), “held that 
miracles are impossible, because it would be derogatory 
to God to depart from the established laws of the uni- 
verse, and one of Hume’s objections to them was their 
incapability of being proved from testimony ( Replies to 
Essays and Reviews , p. 135). Prof. Powell objects to 
them because they bear no analogy to the harmony of 
God’s dealings in the material world ; and insists that 
they are not to be credited, since they are a violation 
of the laws of matter, or an interruption of the course 
of physical causes. The orthodox portion of the Church 
are laboring under the egregious error of making them 
an essential doctrine, when they are really a mere ex- 
ternal accessory. Reason, and not ‘our desires,’ must 
come to our aid in all examination of them. The key- 
note to Prof. Powell’s opposition is contained in the fol- 
lowing statement: ‘From the nature of our antecedent 
convictions, the probability of some kind of mistake or 
deception somewhere, though we know not ichere, is 
greater than the probabilitj r of the event really hap- 
pening in the way and from the causes assigned’ (Essays 
and Reviews, p. 120). The inductive philosophy, to 
which great respect must be paid, is enlisted against 
miracles. If we only knew all about those alleged and 
held as such, we should find them resolved into natural 
phenomena, just as ‘the angel at Milan was the aerial 
reflection of an image on a church; the balls of fire at 
Plausac were electrical; the sea-serpent was a basking 
shark on a stem of sea -weed. A committee of the 
French Academy of Sciences, with Lavoisier at its head, 
after a grave investigation, pronounced the alleged fall 
of aerolites to be a superstitious fable’ (ibid. p. 155). 
The two theories against the reality of miracles in their 
received sense are, first, that they are attributable to 
natural causes ; and, second, that they may involve more 
or less of the parabolic or mythic character. These as- 
sumptions do away with anj' real admission of miracles 
even on religions grounds.” The animus of the whole 
essay may be determined by the following treatment 
of testimony and reason: “Testimony, after all, is but 
a second-hand assurance; it is but. a blind guide; tes- 
timony can avail nothing against reason. The essen- 
tial question of miracles stands quite apart from any con- 
sideration of testimony ; the question would remain the 
same if we had the evidence of our own senses to an al- 
leged miracle; that is, to an extraordinary or inexplica- 
ble fact. It is not the mere fact, but the cause or ex- 
planation of it, which is the point at issue” (ibid. p. 
159). This means far more than Spinoza, Hume, or any 
other opponent of miracles, except the radical Ration- 
alists of Germany, has claimed — that we must not be- 
lieve a miracle, though actually witnessed. The differ- 
ent replies which this Essay on the Study of the Evi- 
dences of Christianity (in Essays and Review's) elicited 
are : No A ntecedent Impossibility in Miracles — some Re- 
marks on the Essay of the late Rev. Baden Powell, etc. 
(1861, 8vo); An Ansiver to Mr. Baden Powell's Essay , 
etc., by William Lee, D.I). (1861 , 8vo) ; Examination of 
Mr. Baden Powell's Tractate on Miracles (1861, 12mo); 
and are defended in, A Few Words of Apology for the 
late Prof. Baden Powell's Essay, etc., by a Lay Graduate 
(1861, 8vo); The late Prof. Powell and Bishop Thirl- 
wall on the Supernatural, etc., by the Rev. R. B. Ken- 
nard (1864, 8vo). See also Farrar, Crit. Hist, of Free 
Thought, lect. iv, v; Moberley, Sermons on the Beati - 


POWELL 


460 


POWER 


tudes (186ft), Preface; Young, Science Elucidated by 
Scripture (1XG3, fcp. Xvo); Goodwin, American Theol- 
ogy (1861 ), p. 438 ; Christian Remembrancer, July, 1861 ; 
Brit. Quur. Tier. Nov. 1861; London Header , 1865, i, 
77 ; Journ. of Speculative Philosophy, vol. xxxii; Chris- 
tian Examiner , June to May, 1858; North lirit. Rev. 
Nov. 1859; Smitli (II. W.), Essays Theol. and Philos., 
edited after liis death (N. Y. 1877, 8vo). 

Among Prof. Powell’s other works may be mentioned, 
Revelation, and Science (Oxf. 1 833) : — A Historical 1 'iew 
of the Progress of the Physical and Mathematical Sci- 
ences [ 1/oiul. 1834): — The Connection of Natural and 
Divine Truth, or the Study of the Inductive Philosophy 
considered as Subservient to Theology (ibid. 1838) : — Tra- 
dition Unveiled, a Candid Inquiry into the Tendency of 
the Doctrines advocated in the Oxford Tracts : — A Gen- 
eral and Elementary 1 iew of the Undulatory Theory as 
applied to the Dispersion of Light, etc. (ibid. 1841): — 
The Unity of Worlds and of Nature: — Essays on the 
Spirit of the Inductive Philosophy, the Plurality of 
Worlds, and the Philosophy of Creation (ibid. 1855): — 
Christianity without Judaism (1857): — The Order of 
Nature considered with Reference to the Claims of Rev- 
elation (1859). (J. II. W.) 

Powel(l), David, a British clergyman, was a na- 
tive of Denbighshire, and was born about 1552. lie 
was educated at Oxford, and took holy orders after 
1576, the year lie quitted the university, lie was suc- 
cessively vicar of Ruabon and rector of Llanfyllin ; in 
1579 vicar of Mivod. and in 1588 rector of Llansaintfraid. 
He died in 1598. 1 1 is studies were principally in British 
antiquities, and are of a secular character. See Biog. 
Brit. s. v. ; AUibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A utli. s. v. 

Powell, Edward, D.D., a learned English Ro- 
man Catholic divine, who flourished early in the 16th 
century, was educated at Oxford, and considered one of 
the ornaments of the university. He was made fellow of 
Oriel College in 1495. After taking holy orders, divers 
prebendships were bestowed on him, and lie was re- 
ceived among the canons of Salisbury and of Lincoln. 
So great was his fame that Henry VIII employed him 
to write, in refutation of Luther, the work Propugna- 
culum summi sacerdotii erangeliri ac septenarii sacra- 
mentorum numeri (Loud. 1523, 4to). There is extant a 
letter addressed to the king by the University of Ox- 
ford to express their gratification at his excellent choice 
of a defender of the faith. But Henry could not forgive 
him for defending Catharine of Aragon in his book De 
non dissolvendo l/eurici regis cum Catharina matrimonio 
(which was printed, but of which no copy is known) ; 
and for his advocacy of the supremacy of the Holy See 
he was arrested, and executed at Smithficld June 30, 
1540. Sec Wood, Athena Oxon.; Dodd, Church Hist.; 
Perry, Hist, of the Church of England. 

Poweli'l), Gabriel, an English clergyman, son 
of David (see above), was born in 1575, ami was edu- 
cated at Jesus College, Oxford. He became in 1609 
prebend of Portpoole, in 1610 vicar of Northall, and 
died in 1611. He is noted as the author of several 
treatises against Romanism (1602 to 1607); but he is 
best known by Gabrielis Poweli, Ordorids Britanni, 
1 far id is /•’., Disputationum Tlieologicarum et Scholasti- 
carttm de Antichristo ct ejus Ecclesia, Libri duo (Loud. 
1605, Xvo). Bliss says that he was a zealot and a stiff 
Puritan, and was esteemed a prodigy of learning in his 
time. Wood, .1 theme Oxon. q. v. 

Powell, Griffith, an English educator and phi- 
losopher, was Iwirn in 1561, and was a native of Llansa- 
well. lie was educated at Jesus College, Oxford, and 
became its principal in 1613. He died in 1620. He 
wrote, Analysis A na/y tiro nun Poster iorum sen Libro- 
rum A ristotclis de De monst rat tone, cum Scholiis optimo- 
runi Interpretnm (Oxon. 1594. Xvo) : — Analysis Libri 
A ristotclis de Sophisticis Elenchis (1594 ; reprinted 1598, 
1664). “Accounted by all a most noted philosopher or 
subtle disputant." — Wood, Athene e Oxon. q. v. 


Powell, Howell, a Welsh Presbyterian minister, 
was born about 1820, and was a native of Glamorgan, 
South Wales, where he was educated for the ministry, 
lie came to this country with his wife, and, settling in 
Ohio, began preaching. In 1851 he became pastor of 
the Welsh Presbyterian Church in Cincinnati, Ohio, 
where he labored prosperously for nineteen years. Ac- 
cepting the call of the Welsh Presbyterian Church iu 
Thirteenth Street, New York, he came to that city in 
1870, and was actively engaged in the duties of his pas- 
torate until his death in 1875. He was greatly beloved 
by bis Welsh coreligionists both in this country and at 
home. 11c discharged his pastoral duties with zeal and 
diligence, and did many generous acts for the humbler 
members of his flock. 

Powell, Thomas, an Anglican divine, flourished 
in the 17th century, lie was born about 1608, and 
after taking holy orders was canon of St. David’s, Lon- 
don. lie died in 1660. His publications are of a sec- 
ular character. 

Powell, Vavasor, a Welsh Puritan preacher, who 
was born in 1617, was educated at Jesus College, Ox- 
ford, but left the Establishment and became an itiner- 
ating minister. He was very zealous for the Church of 
God, was very outspoken and gave much annoyance to 
Churchmen, and was often iu trouble. He died in Fleet 
Prison, London, in 1671. lie published a number of 
Sermons, Theological Treatises, etc. (between 1646 and 
1671), for lists of which and notices of their author, see 
Strena Yavasorensis (1654), Varasoris Examen et Pur- 
gamen (1654, 4to), and Life and Death of Vavasor Pow- 
ell (1671, 8vo). llis Concordance to the Bible, completed 
by N. P. and J. F., etc., was published in 1671 (8vo). 

Powell, William Samuel, an English divine 
of remarkable ability, was born at Colchester Sept. 27, 
1717; was admitted to St.John’s College, Cambridge, 
in 1734 ; and. having taken the degree of bachelor of 
arts in 1738-9, was elected fellow of it in March, 1740. 
In 1741 he was taken into the family of lord Towns- 
hend as private tutor to his second son, Charles, after- 
wards chancellor of the Exchequer; was ordained dea- 
con and priest at the end of the year, and instituted to 
the rectory of Colkirk, in Norfolk, on lord Townshend’s 
presentation, lie returned to college the year after, 
began to read lectures as an assistant to the principal 
tutor; but became himself principal tutor in 1744. lie 
took the degree of bachelor of divinity in 1749, and of 
doctor in 1756. In 1765 he was elected master of his 
college, obtained the archdeaconry of Colchester the 
year after, and in 1768 was instituted to the rectory of 
Freshwater, in the Isle of Wight, lie died Jan. 19, 
1775. lie published, De/bice of the Subscriptions re- 
quired in the Church of England (Loinl. 1757, 4to) : — 
Observations on Miscellanea Analgtica (1760): — Ser- 
mons on 1 Cor. i, 23, 24 (1767, 4 to): — Charge (1772, 
■ 8vo; 1773): — Discourses on 1 ’arious Subjects (published 
with Life by Thomas Bulguv, I).D., 1776, 8vo). Dr. 
Powell’s and Thomas Fawcett’s Discourses, thirty-four 
in all, delivered before the University of Cambridge, 
were republished in 1832 (8vo) in Divines of the Church 
of England. These discourses of Powell, says bishop 
Watson, “are written with great acuteness and knowl- 
edge of the several subjects.” “ It would be impossible 
to produce a more eminent instance of the happy alliance 
of taste and genius with learning and good sense than 
in the sermons and charges of Dr. Powell; of whom, in- 
deed, on every account, the whole society over which 
he presided might justly join with me in saying, * Sem- 
per honos, nomenque tuum, lamlcsqiie manebunt’ ” (Prof. 
Mainwaring). Powell’s discourses are also highly com- 
mended by Mathias. See Pursuits of Literature (ed. 
1822), p. 225, 371 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
.4 ut hors, s. v. ; Gen. Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Power, or the ability of performing, is in an essen- 
tial degree an attribute of Deity: God is emphatically 
styled All-powerful. Power signifies sometimes a right, 


POWER 


461 


POWERS 


privilege, or dignity (John i, 12); sometimes absolute 
authority (Matt, xxviii, 18); sometimes the exertion or 
act of power, as of the Holy Spirit (Ephes. i, 19), of 
angels, or of human governments, magistrates, etc. 
(Korn, xiii, 1), and perhaps it generally includes the 
idea of dignity and superiority. So, the body “is sown 
in weakness, it is raised in power” (1 Cor. xv, 43). 
The “prince of the power of the air” (Ephes. ii, 2) is a 
figurative representation of Satan (q. v.). See Am. 

Power, Francis Herron, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Alleghany County, Pa., July 14, 1829. 
He received a careful academical training; graduated at 
Washington College, Washington, Pa.; studied theology 
in the Western Theological Seminary, Alleghany City, 
Pa., and was licensed by Redstone Presbytery. Being 
deeply interested in the efforts of the government to 
suppress the rebellion, he became a delegate of the 
United States Christian Commission. Joining the “Ar- 
my of the Cumberland,” he was zealous in his efforts in 
the hospitals and in the field to administer to the per- 
sonal and spiritual wants of the sick and wounded of 
the Republic; but the extraordinary exposure to which 
he subjected himself broke down his system, and he 
died in the hospital at Nashville, Tenu., Oct. 17, 1863. 
Mr. Power was never ordained, but he was an earnest 
and faithful missionary. Forgetful of self, in his zeal 
for the good of others he sacrificed even his life to a 
work that had enlisted his whole soul. See Wilson, 
Presb. Ilist. Almanac , 1864, p. 190. (J. L. S.) 

Power, John H., D.D., a noted minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Montgom- 
ery Co., Kv., March 15, 1798; was converted at a very 
early age; united with the Methodists in 1819; was 
licensed to preach two years after, and joined the Ken- 
tucky Conference, where his appointments were, Mount 
Sterling and Hinkston circuits, in Kentucky; Little 
Kanawha, Charleston, and Parkersburgh, in Virginia ; 
Columbus, Salt Creek, Brush Creek, Chill icothe, and 
Deer Creek, in Ohio; Burlington Circuit, Old Zion, 
Muscatine, and South Burlington, in Iowa — embracing 
a period of eighteen years. As presiding elder, he 
served on Norwalk, Wooster, Mount Vernon, Delaware, 
and Mansfield districts, in Ohio; Burlington, Musca- 
tine, and Keokuk districts, in Iowa— filling up twenty- 
eight years. In 1848 he was elected assistant agent of 
the Western Book Concern, where he remained until 
1852. Failing health then necessitated rest, and he 
maintained a supernumerary relation until 1856, when 
he resumed the pastoral work by transfer to the Iowa 
Conference, and there held appointments (as above 
mentioned) until his death, which occurred Jan. 19, 
1873. In manner Dr. Power was reserved. He shrank 
instinctively from that general acquaintance aud no- 
toriety in which persons differently constituted find 
pleasure. His friendship, though not demonstrative, 
was strong and enduring. As a preacher he was suc- 
cessful : enlightening the mind, directing the judgment, 
and influencing the will of his auditors — thereby win- 
ning souls to Christ. He was a prudent legislator, and 
as an administrator of discipline he had but few equals. 
Notwithstanding the exhaustive labors of an itinerant 
fifty years ago, at the age of forty-two he had acquired 
a liberal education, including Greek and IIebrew r , so as 
to make the original available in the literal rendering 
of the Word of Life. He had also completed a course 
in law, with the view of meeting every demand that 
might he made upon him as a servant of the Church. 
As an author he holds a reputable place. His writings 
(On Universalism : — Doolittle and Poicer ; a discussion 
on the same subject: — Domestic Piety : — and Letters to 
Dr. Smith on Slavery ) are all attractive in style, and 
are models of logical clearness. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1873, p. 103, 104. (J. H. W.) 

Powers OF THE Mind are those faculties by winch 
we think, reason, judge, etc. See God ; Soul. “ They 
are so various,” says Dr. Reid, “so many, so connected 


and complicated in most of their operations, that there 
never has been any division of them proposed which is 
not liable to considerable objections. The most com- 
mon division is that of understanding and will. Under 
the w ill we comprehend our active powers, and all that 
lead to action, or influence the mind to act — such as ap- 
petites, passions, affections. The understanding com- 
prehends our contemplative powers, by which we per- 
ceive objects; by which we conceive or remember 
them ; by which we analyze or compound them ; and 
by wdiich we judge and reason concerning them. Or, 
the intellectual powers are commonly divided into sim- 
ple apprehension, judgment, and reasoning.” Locke 
divides powers into those “ able to make, or able to re- 
ceive, any change; the one may be called active, and 
the other passive power” (Essay on Human Understand- 
ing, bk. ii, ch. xxi). But Reid takes exception to this 
division, and passes the following stricture upon it: 
“Whereas he (Locke) distinguishes power into act- 
ive and passive, I conceive passive power to be no 
power at all. He means by it the possibility of being 
changed. To call this power seems to be a misapplica- 
tion of the word. I do not remember to have met with 
the phrase passive poiver in any other good author. 
Mr. Locke seems to have been unlucky in inventing it; 
and it deserves not to be retained in our language.” 
“This paragraph,” says Sir W. Hamilton (Iteid’s Works, 

р. 519, note), “is erroneous in almost all its statements.” 
The distinction between power as active and passive is 
clearly taken bj r Aristotle. But he says that in one 
point of view they are but one powder (Metaphys. lib. v, 

с. 12), while in another they are two (ibid. lib. ix, 
c. 1). lie also distinguishes powers into rational and 
irrational — into those which w'e have by nature, and 
those which we acquire by repetition of acts. These 
distinctions have been generally admitted by subse- 
quent philosophers. Dr. Reid, however, only used the 
word power to signify active power. That we have the 
idea of power, and how we come by it, he shows in op- 
position to Hume (.4 ct. Poto. css. i, ch. ii, iv). 

According to Hume, we have no proper notion of 
power. It is a mere relation which the mind conceives 
to exist between one thing going before aud another 
thing coming after. All that we observe is merefy an- 
tecedent and consequent. Neither sensation nor reflec- 
tion furnishes us with any idea of power or efficacy in 
the antecedent to produce the consequent. The views 
of Dr. Brown are somewhat similar. It is when the 
succession is constant — when the antecedent is uniform- 
ly followed by the consequent — that we call the one cause 
and the other effect; but we have no ground for believ- 
ing that there is any other relation between them or any 
virtue in the one to originate or produce the other — that 
is, that we have no proper idea of power. Now, that our 
idea of power cannot be explained by the philosophy 
which derives all our ideas from sensation and reflec- 
tion is true. Power is not an object of sense. All that 
we observe is succession. But when we see one thing 
invariably succeeded by another, we not only connect 
the one as effect and the other as cause, and view them 
under that relation, but we frame the idea of power, 
and conclude that there is a virtue, an efficacy, a force 
in the one thing to originate or produce the other; and 
that the connection between them is not only uniform 
and unvaried, but universal and necessary. This is the 
common idea of power, and that there is such an idea 
framed and entertained by the human mind cannot be 
denied. The legitimacy and validity of the idea can 
be fully vindicated. 

“ In the strict sense, power and agency are attributes 
of mind only; and I think that mind only can be a cause 
in the strict sense. This power, indeed, may be where 
it is not exerted, and so may be without agency or 
causation ; but there can be no agency or causation 
without, power to act and to produce the effect. As far 
as I can judge, to everything we call a cause we ascribe 
power to produce the effect. In intelligent causes, the 


POWERS 


462 


POYA 


power may be without being exerted; so I have power 
to run while I sit still or walk. Hut in inanimate causes 
we conceive no power but what is exerted, and, there- 
fore, measure the power of the cause bv the effect which 
it actually produces. The power of an acid to dissolve 
iron is measured by what it actually dissolves. We get 
the notion of active power, as well as of cause and effect, 
as I think, from what we feel in ourselves. We feel in 
ourselves a power to move our limbs, and to produce 
certain effects when we choose. Hence we get the no- 
tion of power, agency , and causation in the strict and 
philosophical sense; and this I take to be our first no- 
tion of these three things” (Keid, Correspondence, p. 
77, 78). 

“ The liability of a thing to be influenced by a cause 
is called passive power, or more properly susceptibility; 
while the eflieacy of the cause is called active power. 
Heat has the power of melting wax; and, in the lan- 
guage of some, ice has the power of being melted” (Day, 
On the Will, p. S3). See Cause. 

It is usual to speak of a power of resistance in mat- 
ter, and of a power of endurance in mind. Doth these 
are passive power. A efire power is the principle of ac- 
tion, whether immanent or transient. Passive power is 
the principle of bearing or receiving. See l’eiil, On the 
Active Powers ; Id. On the Human Mind, and the Intel- 
lectual Powers; Locke, On the Understanding ; Stewart, 
Brown, and Abercrombie. See also Mint*. 

Powers, Grant, a Congregational clergyman, was 
born at Hollis, N. II., May 31, 1781; was educated at 
Dartmouth College, class of 1*10; studied theology; 
was minister at Haverhill in 1815-29, and at Goshen 
from Aug. 27, 1829, to his death, April, 1841. lie is the 
author of an Essay upon the In fluence of the Imagina- 
tion on the Xerrous System, contributing to False Hopes 
in Religion : History of the Coos Country (1841, l2mo) : 
— and Centennial Address at Hollis (1830, 8vo). — Drake, 
Piet, of A mer. Fiog. s. v. ; Allibone, Piet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A nth. s. v. 

Powers, Hiram, an American sculptor, son of a 
farmer, and the eighth of nine children, was born at 
Woodstock, Vt., July 20, 1805, and acquired the rudi- 
ments of education at a free district school. While still 
a boy, be went to Cincinnati, Ohio, where be became 
an apprentice to a clock-maker, and about the same 
time formed the acquaintance of a German sculptor, 
who taught him to model in plash r. Subsequently 
he was employed for several years making wax-figures, 
and fitting them with machinery, for the Cincinnati 
Museum, where his Infernal Regions horrified thousands 
of visitors. It is a hideous scene representing hell filled 
with terrific figures, moved by machinery, and acting 
the supposed agonies of the damned. In 1835 he went 
to Washington, where he executed the busts of several 
distinguished persons. By the. aid of Mr. Nicholas 
Longworlh, be went to Florence, Italy, in 1837, to con- 
tinue bis art-studies. lie resided in that country until his 
death, which took place at Borne in 1876. In 1838 Bowers 
produced his statue of Fee, which excited the admira- 
tion of Tliorwaldsen. Ilis other works were of a sec- 
ular character, but they gave him great renown. See 
H. I'. Lee, Familiar Sketches of Sculpture and Sculptors 
(Boston, 1851, 2 vols. 12mo), vol. ii, eh. xxvii ; Tucker- 
man, Book of the A rtists , s. v. ; Living Age, Oct. 1847. 

Powers, Jesse K., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in the comity of 
Albemarle, Ya., June. 8, 1801, In May, 1826, while 
engaged in teaching a classical school, he was convert- 
ed, and united with the Methodist Episcopal Church. 
Shortly after be joined the travelling connection, at the 
session of the Virginia Conference (held at Balcigh in 
February, 1826). In 1830 be was admitted into full 
connection and ordained deacon, and in 1832 was or- 
dained elder. He was a plain, faithful, earnest minister 
of the Gospel, always conscientiously discharging the 
duties of a Methodist preacher. Being unencumbered 


with a family, he readily and cheerfully entered on 
whatever field of labor was assigned him, and every- 
where endeared himself to the people whom lie served 
by bis unaffected and consistent piety, l’or upwards of 
twoscore years he gave full proof of his ministry. In 
the latter part of his life, through affectionate regard 
for his welfare, and in consideration of his infirmities, 
his brethren of the Conference placed him on the list 
of supernumeraries; but so anxious was he to be in the 
regular pastoral work that he appealed to the Confer- 
ence to place him among the effective men, and lie was 
appointed to the New Kent Circuit; but the work was 
beyond bis strength ; be soon began to fail in health, 
and died March 1, 1869. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences of the M. F. Church, South, 18 lib, p. 3l)3. 

Powers, John B., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born May 16, 1814, in 
I Union District, S. C. ; as a boy, removed to Alabama, 
and shortly after was converted; and, feeling called of 
God to preach the Gospel, accepted license iu 1845. In 
1856 he entered the itinerant ranks of the Alabama 
Conference, and was appointed to the 'Weewokaville 
Circuit. He filled successively the llnrpcrsville and 
the Moscow circuits. In 1861 be entered the Confed- 
erate army in command of a company. His health 
failed, however, and he returned. Erom 1863 to 1866 
he was presiding elder of the Jasper District. In 1867 
he served the Ely ton Circuit; 1868-69, the Murfree’s 
Valiev Circuit ; 1870, the Jonesborongb Circuit. In 1871 
he was appointed to the Monticello Circuit, but died 
March 30. lie was a conscientious and pious man. 
II is administration as presiding elder was marked by 
promptness and great faithfulness in the discharge of 
all the duties pertaining to his office. Ilis broad com- 
mon-sense and acquaintance with men gave him wis- 
dom in council. As a preacher, he had great control 
over the emotions of men, and was eminently successful 
in seasons of revival. See Minutes of Annual Confer - 
| owes of the M. E. Church, South , 1871, p. 5G5. 

Powtai is the name of a Chinese divinity signify- 
ing contentment. 



POYDRAS 


463 


PRACTICAL THEOLOGY 


four pova days in each month. I. The day of the new I 
moon. * 2. The eighth day from the time of the new ' 
moon. 3. The day of the full moon. 4. The eighth 
day from the time of the full moon. It is said by I’rof. 
II. Wilson that the days of the full and the new moon 
are sacred with all sects of the Hindus; but according to 
the institutes of Mann the sacred books are not to be 
read upon these days. — Gardner, Faiths of the World , 
ii, 683. 

Poydras, Julien, an American philanthropist of 
French descent, who flourished in the early days of our 
republic, and was first delegate to Congress from the 
territory of Orleans (1809-12), gave $100,000 for the 
founding of a French orphan asylum, and left $20,000 
for a college at Point Coupee, La. He died there Jan. 
25, 1824. 

Poynet (or Ponet), John, an English prelate of 
the Reformation period, was born about 1516 in lvent- 
shire. lie enjoyed a distinguished education, learned 
Italian and Flemish, was proficient in mathematics, and 
constructed in his youth a clock the complicated ma- 
chinery of which was the admiration of Henry Vlll’s 
court. He graduated at King’s College, Cambridge; 
was made doctor of theology and chaplain of archbishop 
Cranmer. At the age of thirty-three he was appointed 
bishop of Rochester (1549). In 1551 he succeeded at 
Winchester the deposed Gardiner, and was appointed to 
take a share in the redaction of the new code of ecclesi- 
astical laws. He was indebted for these distinctions to 
his zeal for the cause of reform ; he defended it in the 
pulpit and in his books, and explained its doctrines in 
liis Catechism, adopted under the name of “ King Ed- 
ward’s Catechism.” At Mary Tudor’s accession to the 
throne he repaired to foreign parts, either dreading per- 
secution for having had a share in Wyatt’s Rebellion, or 
because he had been deprived of his see for having 
married. He died April 11, 1556, at Strasburg. He is 
spoken of as a man of great erudition and eminent 
piety. In his theology he was a decided Calvinist. 
Other works of his are, Defence for Marriage of Priests 
(1549, 8vo) : — Short Treatise of Politic Power (1556, 
8vo; reprinted 1689 and 1642): — and De Eucharistia 
(1557, 8vo). See Strype, Life of Cranmer; Dodd, 
Church History; Fuller, Worthies of England; Milner, 
History of Winchester, i, 346 ; Lecky, History of nation- 
alism, ii, 174; Hook, Eccles. Biography, viii, 158; Col- 
lier, Eccles. Hist, of England (see Index in vol. viii). 
(J. II. W.) 

Pozzi, Giovanni Battista, a Milanese painter 
who flourished in the latter part of the 16th century, was 
employed by Sixtus V in the palace of St. John of Lat- 
eral; and in the library of the Vatican. In the Sistine 
Chapel lie painted the Visitation of the Virgin and the 
Angel appearing to St. Joseph in his dream ; in II Gcsii, 
a Choir of Angels. lie died in the pontificate of Sixtus 
V, aged twenty- eight, deeply lamented as the most 
promising young artist of his time. He was considered 
the Guido of his day; and had lie survived to the time 
of the Caracci, it is impossible to say what degree of 
perfection he might have attained. 

Pozzi, Stefano, an Italian painter, born at Rome 
in the 18th century, studied first under Carlo Maratti 
and afterwards with Agostino Masucci. Lanzi says he 
was more noble in his design than Masucci, and more 
natural and vigorous in his coloring. He acquired con- 
siderable distinction, and executed several works for the 
churches at Rome, one of which, an altar-piece, repre- 
sents the Death of St. Joseph. In the pontifical palace 
of Monte Carallo is a fine picture by him representing 
St. Gregory. He died in 1768. 

Pozzo, Andrea, an eminent painter and architect, 
was born at Trent in 1642. While studying at Milan 
he fell into vicious company and became extremely dis- 
solute, until, disgusted by his course of life, he joined 
the Society of the Jesuits, who placed him under the 


instruction of Scaramuccia. Afterwards, at Rome and 
Venice, he studied design and color, and the w r orks of 
Raffaclle and other great masters, llis oil and fresco 
works at Rome, Genoa, and other places gained him the 
reputation of one of the ablest artists of the time, llis 
pictures arc composed in grand style, and he is excelled 
by few artists in perspective and architecture, the prin- 
ciples of which he perfectly understood, and pub- 
lished a treatise on them. Among his best works in 
oil are, St. Francesco Borgia, in the church of II Gesii- 
at Rome; the Wise Men's Offering, at Vienna, and four 
pictures from the life of Christ, in the church at Genoa. 
The ceiling of the church of St. Ignazio at Rome is re- 
garded as one of the ablest productions of his time, be- 
cause of its animated execution. As an architect he 
gained some distinction, and executed, among other 
works, the altar of St. Ignazio in the church of II Gesii 
at Rome, which is said to be the richest altar in all Eu- 
rope. He died at Venice in 1709. 

Pracrat is, in the Indian mythology, one of the 
revelations of divinity as the supreme original being, 
and especially as the cause of all phenomena of 
change in the visible world. Pracrat is the essence of 
the three gods Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva; he is three- 
colored, because he is creative like Brahma (red) ; con- 
servative like Vishnu (white) ; and destructive like 
Siva (black). Pracrat, in consequence, is also the being 
which unites and separates these three divinities, as 
through him there is a perpetual vicissitude of life 
and death, of birth and annihilation. 

Pracriti is the by-name of Parwati, the wife of 
the Indian god Siva: it means Nature. The Hindus 
make of her the wife of the destroyer, because, accord- 
ing to them, all life originates in death, there being no 
destruction, no annihilation, in the true sense of the 
word: matter only describes, in the course of its dura- 
tion, an eternal circle, in which it undergoes a perpetual 
change of forms, while its substance remains the same. 

Practical Religion is that department of practi- 
cal theology which aims at the promotion of Christian 
| practice, and the writings which are brought out to 
: contribute to such an end are called Practical JPorfa. 
They are from their very nature of a more temporary 
character than any other theological productions. Gen- 
erally speaking, they are, and must be, adapted to the 
peculiar circumstances of their own age ; they must be 
specially addressed to correct its prevailing evil tenden- 
cies; they must pre-eminently promote those parts of 
the Christian character which arc least cultivated. Such 
as are founded on a deep knowledge of human nature, 
and animated with genuine piety, must indeed benefit 
other ages, since human nature remains essentially the 
same; but their most direct influence belongs to the 
age in which they are written. Subsequently they may 
often form individuals : transfused into their minds, they 
are reproduced in other shapes, but are themselves with- 
drawn from circulation. Their body perishes ; while the 
soul which gave it life migrates into another and an- 
other frame, and thus continues often to diffuse an ex- 
tensive blessing, when the verj r name under which they 
originally appeared is forgotten. See Pusey, Historical 
Inquiry, p. 11-180. See also Practical Theology; 
i Religion ? Theology. (J. II. W.) 

Practical Theology is one of the departments 
j of theology, and aims principally at the treatment of 
the functions of Church life. For centuries the term 
| was abused and confused, and the sphere of practical 
theology in the organism of theological science was an 
ill-understood question until the proper conception of 
its nature and limits was given by that master-mind of 
German theology, Schleicrmacher ; and, thanks to his 
clear-sightedness, practical theology is no longer to be 
confounded with a diluted, popularized edition of scien- 
tific theology “for students incompetent to leani the 
theoretic science” (Planck), nor is it any longer used as 
, a synonym of Christian ethics or pastoral theology, but 


PRACTICAL THEOLOGY 


464 


PRADO 


it has taken its place in the circle of theological sciences 
as an independent department, co-ordinate with exeget- 
ical, historical, and systematic theology. 

The Christian religion presents itself to the student 
under four aspects— as a divine revelation, as a history, 
as a system of doctrines and duties, and, finally, as a 
corporate life. As now the department of exegetical 
theology embraces all those sciences which in any way 
treat of the Iloly Scriptures; that of historical theology, 
all which in any way treat of sacred or Church histo- 
ry: that of systematic theology, all which set forth the 
doctrinal and ethical systems of Christianity ; so practi- 
cal theology comprehends all the practices and hourly 
needs of the Church, and as such this department em- 
braces the subordinate sciences of Church government, 
edification, and worship. It includes and covers such 
special branches as Pastoral Theology, Homiletics, Cate- 
chetics, Christian Pedagogics, etc. Being the science of 
the collective functions of the Church regarded in her 
unity, it is able to give due attention and prominence 
to each of those functions— the regulative, the educa- 
tional, and the edifying, a thing impossible, under the 
old-fashioned arrangement [see Theology], to com- 
pass within the limits of a Pastoral Theology (q. v.). 
Says Dorner, “It is since the idea of the Church, and 
of her essential functions and attributes, has been more 
clearly recognised that practical theology, which was 
formerly for the most part an aggregate of rules and 
regulations without any organic connection between its 
several precepts, has been reconstructed. Nitzsch’s 
practical theology, in particular, brings forward its con- 
nection with the other branches of theology. , Syste- 
matic theology , which is based upon exegetic theology 
and faith, and developed by the history of doctrines, 
exhibits Christian truth in the abstract, and therefore 
the ideal of faith and practice. Historical theology, fin- 
ishing with a delineation of the present state of the 
Church, sets the empiric reality and its defects over 
against this ideal. The contrast between the two, the 
variance between the ideal and the real, produces the 
effort to reconcile this opposition by means of theologi- 
cal usages, in conformity with the requirements of the 
age. Thus practical theology, as a science, owes its or- 
igin to the ecclesiastical procedure of the times; and, 
as this is necessarily technical, practical theology is also 
a technical study.” 

Schleiermacher called practical theology the crown of 
a theological course of study, and, as we have already 
said, was the first to bestow upon it a scientific organi- 
zation. In this labor he was laudably followed by the- 
ologians of the most diverse schools, as, e. g., Roman 
Catholic Von Drey, Protestant Nitzsch, Hegelian Mar- 
heineke, compromising Ilagenbach, Lutheran Harless, 
and such other noted men as Ehrenfeuchter, Moll, 
Palmer, and Schweizer. Most are agreed in describing 
practical theology as a science for the clergy, and thus 
not doing lull justice to the vocation of the believing 
laity in Church work. Their rights in this respect 
have chiefly been made apparent bv the hitherto much 
neglected theory of Church government, and by volun- 
tary associations for domestic missions. On the other 
hand, the just notion that, since the Church’s exist- 
ence and increase are brought about by constant re- 
production, it is necessary to start from the origin of 
the Church in individuals, to proceed to their gathering 
together, and thence to the Church, may be designated 
as the prevailing tendency in the construction of a 
practical theology. Hence the theory of missions (called 
also Ilalieutics) and catechisation, the aim of which is 
a preparation for confirmation, form the first or main 
division. The second embraces the doctrine of worship, 
or of the construction of the public services of the Church 
( liturgies , with hymnology and sacred music and homi- 
letics), the superintendence of the spiritual interests of 
individuals (cure of souls), and the direction of the flock 
(the pastoral oflicc); while the organization of the 
Church, and the entire system of Church law, by which 


J the activity, whether of the individual or of the commu- 
nity, must be limited, form a third division. See Nitzsch, 
Praktische Theologie ; Dorner, Gesch. d. protestantischen 
I Theolagie ; Bickcrsteth, t'hristmn Student's Jiihlical 
| Assistant, p. -ION ; and especially Moll, Das System der 
praktischen Theologie (Halle, 18G4, Nvo), which is a 
i compendious but very systematic and thorough treatise, 
covering the whole field of practical theology as now 
understood. See also M’Clintock, Encyclopaedia and 
' Methodology of Theol. Science, pt. iv ; Met It. Qu. Per. 
Jan. 1K64, p. 159 sq. The Hermans support a Zeit- 
schrift fur praktische Theologie, which is printed at 
Leipsic and has a wide circulation. (J. 11. W.) 

Prades, Jean Martin i>e, a French theologian, 
was born about the year 1720 at Castel-Sarrasin. He 
was destined to the ecclesiastical career, studied first in 
the country, then went to Paris and lived there in sev- 
eral seminaries, among others in that of Saint-Sulpice. 
lie became acquainted with the authors of the Encyclo- 
pedic, and furnished several articles to their work. lie 
came into repute by a thesis which he defended at the 
Sorbonne for the doctorate of theology (Nov. IN, 1751). 
It contained the boldest assertions concerning the nature 
of the soul, the origin of good and evil, the origin of 
society, natural ami revealed religion, the miracles, etc. 
His parallel of the cures performed by Jesus and those 
of ^Esculapius seemed particularly scandalous. The 
thesis was condemned forthwith by several prelates and 
by pope Benedict XIV. The Sorbonne, after having at 
first approved it, reconsidered its action, and declared it 
impious. Parliament ordered the arrest of the author 
at the request of the advocate -general D’Ormesson, 
whereupon De Prades fled to Holland (1752), and there 
published his Apology (1752, 3 pts. Nvo), to which Dide- 
rot added a refutation of a mandement of the bishop of 
Anxerre. Voltaire recommended Prades to the king 
of Prussia, who appointed him his lector, and bestowed 
upon him a life-rent and two canonries, one at Oppeln, 
the other at Glogan. The bishop of Breslau finally 
prevailed upon him to retract solemnly the principles 
lie had defended (April G, 1751). He became archdea- 
con of the chapter of Glogau. He died in 17N2. Prades 
left, besides, an Abrege de I'/Jistoire ecclesiastique de 
Fleuri (Berlin, 17(17. 2 vols. small Nvo), supposed to be 
translated from the English, and to which Frederick II 
wrote a preface. — lloefer, Aouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 
See Brotier, Examen de I'Apologie de VAbbe de Prades 
(1753); Feller, Diet. Hist. s. v. ; Jervis, Hist, of the 
Church of France, ii, 332-334. 

Pradier, Jacques, a Swiss artist of note, was bom 
at Geneva in May, 1792; went as a youth to Paris, and 
finally to Rome, where he studied for over five years, 
especially under Canova. lie devoted himself princi- 
pally to sculpture, and produced some remarkable works. 
In INI 9 he settled at Paris, and died there in 1N52. 
Satyrs, Bacchantes, Venuses, and the like, make up 
principally the list of his works; but he also devoted 
himself to sacred subjects, and produced, among others, 
a colossal figure of Christ on the (Voss, a Piet a (now at 
Toulon), a Marriage of the Virgin (for the Madeleine, 
Paris), four Apostles, a Virgin (for the cathedral of 
Avignon), etc. One of his greatest works is the tomb 
of Napoleon I at the Hotel lies lnvalidcs in Paris. See 
Mrs. Clement, Handbook of Sculptors, Painters, etc., s. v. 

Pradjapat is, in the IlindA mythology, the embod- 
ied creative desire of the original Being, or of that man- 
ifestation of this Being which includes the earthly ele- 
ments. 

Prado, Bi.as del, a Spanish painter, was l»orn at 
Toledo in 154 1. He was a pupil of Francisco Commit os. 
Philip II sent him to Morocco, where he painted the 
emperor Maloy- Abdallah, his favorites, his children, 
and principal otlieers. lie returned to Spain a wealthy 
man. But, as he aflccted Oriental customs, and showed 
himself in public dressed in the Moorish attire, the In- 
quisition summoned him before her tribunal, lie was 


PRADT 


465 


PEJ3LATI 


Grand- Duchi de Vcirsovie (Paris, 1815, 1826, 8vo). hi 
this amusing and witty composition he holds a review 
over the personages of the empire with uncommon satir- 
ical sharpness. We find in it the following regarding 
the principal figure : “ The genius of Napoleon was fitted 
at the same time for the stage of the world and for that 
of the mountebanks; it was represented by royal attire 
mixed with the dress of a clown. The god Mars was 
nothing but a kind of Jupiter-Scapin, the like of which 
Holt/ Family (in the monastery of Guadalupe), etc. — I the world had never seen — Memoires historiques sur 
Hoofer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. See Palomino, El j la Revolution d'Espagne (Paris, 1816, 8vo ): — Lies Colo- 
Museo’pittorico (Cordova, 1713, 3 vols.); Quilliet, Diet. '■ nies,et de la Revolution actuelle de VA merique (ibid. 1817, 
des Peintres Espagnols, s. v. ; Mrs. Clement, Handbook 2 vols. 8vo ) : — Les Quatre Concordats (ibid. 1818-20, 3 
of Sculptors, Painters, etc., s. v. vols. 8vo), one of his most curious writings: — L' Europe 

Piadt, Dominique Dufour de, a French prelate apres le Congres d'Aix-la-Chapelle (ibid. 1819, 8vo): — 
and diplomatist, was born at Allanches, in Auvergne, Le. Congres de Catlsbad (ibid. 1819, 8vo ):—L' Europe et 
April 23, 1759. He studied for some time at the mili- VAmerique depuis le Congres d'Aix -la-Chapelle (ibid, 
tarv school, but gave the preference to the ecclesiastical 1821-2, 2 vols. 8vo) :—V Europe et VAmerique en 1821 


discharged on condition of painting exclusively relig- 
ious subjects. He died about 1605. Prado is distin- 
guished by the purity of his design and the majesty of 
his compositions, which are simple, but carefully worked 
out in all their details. There are of his works at 
Madrid, in the royal palaee, an Assumption ; a Virgin 
with the Child ; St. Anthony; St. Blasius ; St. Maurice ; 
a Descent from the Cross ; St. Catharine. At Toledo, 
St. Blasius, bishop ; St. Anthony; The Presentation : a 


Rouen, bestowed upon 
and one of the richest prebends of his cathedral. 


the elergy of the diocese sent him to the Etats-Gene- 
raux, where he sided with the clerical and monarchical 
minority. He followed his patron into exile, and at- 
tended him at Munster, in 1800, in his last hours. In 
1798 Pradt published anonymously his most celebrated 
work, L' Antidote au Congres de Rastadt (Hamburg, 
8vo). In 1800 he published, again anonymously, La 
Prusse et sa Neutralite (8vo). His opinion, as ex- 
pressed in these writings, was that the Revolution 
would prove fatal to France. Cancelled from the roll 


n 1789 an Diet. hist, de Feller; JaufFret, Mem. hist, sur les 


Affaires eccles. de France; Rabbe', etc., Biog. unit', et 
portat. des Contemporains ; Querard, La France litter . — 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. ; Lond. Qu. Rev. Jan. 
1816; Monthly Rev. vol. lxxx (1816). 

Praeadamites. See Pkeadamites. 

Praebend. See Prebend. 

Fraecentor. See Precentor. 

Praecones (i.e. heralds ) is a name sometimes given 
to deacons, because it was their duty to pronounce the 


of the emigrants, he returned to Paris, and was intro- usual formularies of exhortation, etc., during the ccle- 
duced by his relation, general Duroc, to the lirst consul. ! bration of divine service. The word preeco corresponds 
The latter was given to understand that military des- j to the Greek Kt)pv%, and gave rise to the English Church 
potisrn could find no more faithful servant. De Pradt term bidding prayer. The deacons were required to bid 
was appointed chaplain of the new emperor and bishop prayer in the congregation, i. e. to dictate to the people 
of Poitiers; he was, as such, consecrated by pope Pius l the usual forms of prayer in which they were to join, 
VII himself, in the church of Saint-Sulpice, Feb. 2, 1805. ! and to act as their director and guide in all the other 
The “chaplain of the god Mars,” as he called himself, I parts of divine service. . The word prcedico is used in a 
followed his master to Milan. In 1808 he was at Ba- similar signification. See Bidding Prayer. 


yonne as one of the negotiators of the convention which 
removed the Bourbons from the throne of Spain, and 
was rewarded with a bounty of fifty thousand francs 
and the areliiepiscopal see of Mechlin (May 12, 1808). 
lie was one of the nineteen bishops who, March 25, 
1810, solicited from the pope the dispensation which 
Napoleon wanted for his marriage with Maria Louisa. 
In 1811 he was a member of the second commission ap- 


Praefatio is, in the mass, the prayer which imme- 
diately precedes the canon, an exhortation to thankful- 
ness, commencing with the words “ Sursum corda.” In 
the Gothic or Mozarabic liturgy the pnefatio is called 
Illatio ; in the Gallican, Immolutio and Contestatio. It 
is also called I/ymnus Angelicas. Originally there was 
but one pnefatio for all days and feasts (Prof it io Com- 
munis ) ; since the 12tli century a number of praefationes, 


pointed for the purpose of preparing the questions to be ad ted t0 the variet y 0 f the feasts, the use of which is 

nmnnctnl Ia tno Yofinnoi iVkiinnil mill t lio nmnorAr Ann* , T v . * r , , i • 

indicated by the Directory of the Church, have been in- 
troduced. Every pnefatio ends with the triple “Sanc- 
tus,” the introduction of which is attributed to Sixtus I. 
See Mass; Prefaces. 

PraefTcee, a name for the monrning-women of the 

^ ^ ancients. They were hired to make lamentation at Ro- 

and ^he was' sen' t'back'to'liis*' diocese? “He’ returned man Gerais, and were so called because they generally 


proposed to the National Council, and the emperor, Aug. 
20, appointed him member of the deputation sent to Sa- 
vone to submit the decrees of that council for the pope’s 
approbation. In the ensuing year he was sent as am- 
bassador to Warsaw, where he opened with a speech 
the Polish diet, June, 1812. It was here that a spirit 
of opposition commenced to stir in the supple priest, 


to France with the allies, who, he says, by his advice, 
“determined to break entirely with Napoleon and his 
dynasty, and re-establish the Bourbons on the throne.” 


preceded the funeral processions in order to lament and 
sing the praises of the deceased. The early Christians 
verv earnestly condemned the imitation of this custom 


De Pradt owed to his relations with Talleyrand his in thei . r fl,nerals - The J r kerned immoderate grief un- 


nomination as grand-chancellor of the Legion of Honor, 
and the dignity of grand-cross of the order. In 1815 he 
retired to Auvergne, and in 1816 he accepted a life- 
rent of 12,000 francs from William, king of the Nether- 
lands, in exchange for his archbishopric. In the reign 
of Louis XVIII he was pleased to side with the opposi- 
tion. He wrote some brilliant pamphlets against the 
government: one of them brought him before the Cour 
d’Assises of the Seine, where he was defended bv the 
elder Dupin. In 1827 he was elected deputy of Cler- 
mont-Ferrand. After the revolution of July his opin- 
ions underwent a new change: he again declared for 
unmitigated royalty and against the liberty of the press, 
lie died at Paris March 18, 1837. We mention, among 
his numerous writings, Histoire de VAmbassade dans le 
VIII. — G g 


becoming the character and profession of a Christian 
whose conversation is in heaven, and whose hope and 
expectation was a crown of life that fadeth not away. 
Chrysostom inveighed with great indignation against 
the introduction of heathenish practices into the Chris- 
tian Church, and threatened those who should persist 
in the imitation of the funeral customs of the heathen 
with the highest ecclesiastical censures. 

Praelati (i . e. preferred), in the larger sense of the 
word, is the name of all higher officers of the Church 
with whose functions is connected a jurisdiction in their 
own name — -jure ordinario — i. e. a jurisdiction belong- 
ing essentially to the office, not conferred by a higher 
dignitary of the Church. In this meaning of the word 
we distinguish between praelati primigenii and secunda- 


4C6 


PILE LECTOR 


PR.ESTIMOX1A 


rii. In a more restricted sense, pradati is the name 
given tu the local superiors or directors of the congre- 
gations and abbeys of many ecclesiastical orders, espe- 
cially to those who enjoy, either bv privilege or tradi- 
tion, the right of wearing the pontifical ensigns. 

Preelati nullius dioceseos is the title of abbots or other 
high dignitaries who are not amenable to the jurisdic- 
tion of the bishop, but enjoy themselves jurisdictionem 
quasi-episcopalein, which as a rule extends only to the 
ecclesiastics subordinated to them, not to the laymen 
of their monastic district, except in cases where thev 
may enjoy even such a spiritual jurisdiction in virtue 
of a special iudult, as in consequence of prescription. 
See I Mu-: late. 

Preelector is the ecclesiastical term for the divinity- 
reader in some cathedrals. Sometimes he is attached 
to the prebend (q. v.), and sometimes lie lectures, as on 
saints’ days, in Lent, and other important Church sea- 
sons.- -Walcott, tittered Archceoloyy. s. v. See Lec- 
tor; Ke.\i>er. 

Fraemonstrants. See Pkemoxstratexsiaxs. 

Praemunire is a term used in English canon law 
as well as Ilritish common law to designate a species of 
offence of the nature of a contempt of the ruling power, 
for which enactments were passed, and was so called 
from t lie mandatory words with which the writ direct- 
ing the citation of a party charged with the offence 
commences. The different statutes of prajmnnire were 
originally framed in order to restrain the encroachments 
of the papal power. They begin with the 27 Edward 
III, st. i, c. Land continue from that period down to 
the reign of Henry VIII, when the kingdom entirely re- 
nounced the authority of the Koman pontiffs. The ex- 
orbitant powers exercised by the pope in presenting to 
benefices and in other ecclesiastical matters, and the 
privileges claimed by the clergy, who resisted the au- 
thority of the king's courts, and recognised no jurisdic- 
tion but that of the court of Home, rendered some 
enactments absolutely necessary to uphold the law' of 
the country and the independence of t he nation. This, 
then, is the original meaning of the offence termed 
prcvnitmire — viz., introducing a foreign power into the 
land, and creating an imperium in imperio by paying 
that obedience to the papal process which constitution- 
ally belonged to the king alone. Its penalties have 
been subsequently applied to other heinous offences, 
some of which bear more and some less relation to this 
original offence, and some no relation at all, as a chap- 
ter refusing to elect as bishop the person nominated by 
the sovereign, neglecting to take the oath of allegiance, 
transgressing the statute of habeas corpus (by tJ Anne, 
c. 7), the asserting by preaching, teaching, or advised- 
ly speaking that any person other than according to the 
Acts of Settlement and L T nion has any right to the 
Ilritish throne, or that the sovereign and parliament 
cannot make laws to limit the descent of the crown. 
The knowingly and wilfully solemnizing, assisting, or 
being present at any marriage forbidden by the lloyal 
Marriage Act is declared by 12 George 111, c. 11, to 
infer a pncinnnirc. The penalties for the offence arc no 
less than the following, as shortly summed tip by Sir E. 
Coke (l lust. p. 12!) ) : “That from the conviction the 
defendant shall he out of the king’s protection, and his 
lands and tenements, goods and chattels, forfeited to the 
king, and that his body shall remain in prison during 
the king’s pleasure, or (as others have it) during life.'’ 
The offender can bring no action nor recover damages 
for the most atrocious injuries, and no man can safely 
give him comfort, aid, or relief. (See 11a x ter, Ch. Hist. 
p. 291 ; Hardwick, Hist, of the lt<f. p. IS7, 3lil.) In 
very recent times the dissenters have labored for the 
addition of the statute of pnemiiiiire (see London filobe. 
Nov. I860). 

Fraepositivus, 1’iktro, an Italian theologian, who 
flourished near the opening of the 1,‘lth eentnrv, was a 
native of Cremona, taught theology in the schools of 


’ Haris, and was at the close of 120G chancellor of iVi 
church of Notre Dame. In 1209 we find Jean de Can- 
delis in his place, llis chief work is a tiumma Theolo - 
fficp, of which two or three pages only were printed; 
they are in the Penitential of 'i’ll cod ore. There are nu- 
merous copies of it at Oxford and in the National Li- 
brary at 1’aris, Pra*positivus died at Haris in 1209 or 
1217. See Tiraboschi, titoria della Letter. Hal. iv, 120; 
H istoire lift . de la Prance, xvi, 583-5S6.— Hoe for, Xour, 
Bioy. Gene rale, s. v. 

Praeposltus (i. e. set orer') is an ecclesiastical term 
usually employed to mean a bishop (q. v.j, but also used 
to signify a presbyter. The same titles being applied to 
both is a proof that they were at one time considered of 
the same order. The corresponding titles in the script ■ 
ural appellations are TTpoiardpiroi fl Thcss. v, 12) and 
TTpoeorutriQ (l Tim. v, 17). In Spain, in the time of 
the Gothic kings, about the end of the 4th century, it 
was a custom lor parents to dedicate their children at a 
very early age to the service of the Church, in which 
case they were taken into the bishop’s family and edu- 
cated under him by a presbyter whom the bishop de- 
puted for that purpose and set over them by t lie name 
of propositus or superintendent, his chief business being 
to inspect their behavior and instruct them in the rules 
and discipline of the Church. See Kiddle, Christian 
A ntiquitus, p. 21 1 ; ( ’oleman, . I nc. Christianity Exempli- 
fied, p. 130, *185. See also the art. Prelacy. (J. 11 AV.) 

Propositus, Jacobus. See Sprung. 

Propositus Domus was the name applied to the 
person whose duty it was to manage the revenues of the 
Church. See (Ecoxo.mi. 

Praesanctificatio is in the Roman Catholic Church 
the mass celebrated on Green-Thursday, when two hosts 
are consecrated, whereof the priest tastes one at the 
communion, reserving the other for the next day, when 
the missn preesanetifieatorum is to be solemnized. In 
the Greek Church missa preesanetifieatorum (mass of the 
loaves blessed in advance) is the mass celebrated on the 
Wednesdays and Fridays of Lent; it consists in the 
communion of the holy elements which have been con- 
secrated on the preceding Sundays. See Mass. See 
Siegel, Christliche Alterthiimer (Index in vol. iv). 

Fraesides, or Presidents, was the name some- 
times applied to bishops of the early Church, alter the 
word irpoH'poi, derived from irfioeepia, the elevated 
seat which the bishop occupied in the synod and in the 
religious assemblies of the people. See Coleman, .l«c. 
Christianity Exemplified, p. 131. 

Frostimonia were originally stipends derived 
from special foundations for theological candidates, to 
help them during their studies, or to give them the 
means, after their consecration, to enjoy the teachings 
of some distinguished theological establishment. The 
chapters, abbeys, universities, etc., in which such foun- 
dations existed, or which w ere possessed of the right of 
collation or presentation, granted these stipends, after 
examination of the testimonies with which the compet- 
itors accompanied their request, to the candidate who 
seemed to be the most worthy of such a favor, unless 
the deed of the foundation limited their choice to the 
individuals belonging to certain families. Sometimes 
the pnestimonia were granted to ordained priests, as, 
for instance, in cathedral and collegiate churches to 
young ecclesiastics without prebend, but who, in the 
expectation nflienetiees to come, served in the choir and 
| in other ecclesiastical ministries; in this case the pne- 
stiiuouia were sometimes considered as real benefices, 
and, like these, connected with determined functions. 
The question ventilated in more recent times, whether 
these pra-stimonia were rightly considered as prebends, 
can only in this latter case he answered in the affirm- 
ative, as no private foundation can be lawfully consid- 
ered as a benefice before it lias been admitted by the 
competent tkrical authorities in titulum bemfieii. Al- 


PPwETORirM 


467 


PlwETOIillM 


lowances to ecclesiastics given otherwise than as benefi- 
cial revenue for ecclesiastical duties, or to laymen even 
for ecclesiastical services, are no prebends in the canonic 
meaning of the word. 

PrEeto'rium is the rendering in Mark xv, 16 of the 
Greek notation npamoptov of the Latin word pree- 
torium, which properly meant the tent of the Roman 
general in the field, and hence the house of the Roman 
governor in his province (see Livy, xxviii, 27 ; xlv, 7 ; 
Valcr. Max. i, 6, 4; Cicero, Verr. ii, 4, 28; ii, 5, 12, 35; 
comp. Walter, Gesch. d. Rom. Rechls , i, 340). In Matt, 
xxv ii, 27 the common version renders the same word 
common hull; in Phil, i, 13, palace; in John xviii, 28, 
hull of judgment; and elsewhere, once in the same verse 
in John, in v, 33, in xix, 9, and Acts xxiii, So.jn^gment- 
hall. It. is plainly one of the many Latin words to be 
found in the New Testament [see Latinisms], being 
the word preetorium in a Greek dress, a derivative from 
praetor; which latter, from praeeo, “ to go before,” was 
originally applied by the Romans to a military officer — 
the general. But because the Romans subdued many 
countries and reduced them to provinces, and governed 
them afterwards, at first by the generals who subdued 
them, or by some other military commanders, the word 
praetor came ultimately to be used for any civil governor 
of a province, whether he had been engaged in war or 
not; and who acted in the capacity of chief-justice, hav- 
ing a council associated with him (Acts xxv, 12). Ac- 
cordingly the word praetorium , also, which originally 
signified the general’s tent in a camp, came at length to 
be applied to the. residence of the civil governor in prov- 
inces and cities (Cicero, Verr. ii ; v, 12) ; and being prop- 
erly an adjective, as is also its Greek representative, it 
was used to signify whatever appertained to the prajtor 
or governor ; for instance, his residence, either the whole 
or any part of it, as his dwelling-house, or the place 
where he administered justice, or even the large enclosed 
court at the entrance to the praetorian residence (By- 
naeus, Be Morte Jesu Christi [Amsterd. 1696], ii, 407). 
There dwelt not only the commandant and his family 
(Josephus, Ant. xx, 10, 1), but a division of the troops 
occupied barracks there, and the prisoners who awaited 
hearing and judgment from the chief were there de- 
tained (Acts xxiii, 35). The pnetorium in the capital 
of a province was usually a large palace ; and we see by 
Josephus (War, ii, 14, 8; comp, xv, 5; Philo, Opp. ii, 
591) that the procurators of Judaea, when in Jerusalem, 
occupied Herod’s palace as a praatorium, just as in Caesarea 
a former royal residence served the same purpose. Yet 
the rendering of the Latin praetorium. in general by the 
word palace (by Schleusner and Wahl) is wrong. The 
places in Suetonius misquoted refer only to the imperial 
palaces out of Rome. Verres as pneses or praetor of Sicily 
resided in the domus praetoria, which belonged to king ' 
lliero (Cicero, Verr. ii, 5; xii, 31). See Jerusalem. 

1. As to the passages in the Gospels referred to above, 
tradition distinguishes the judgment- hall of Pilate, 
which is pointed out in the lower city (Korte, Reisen, 
p. 75 ; Troilo, p. 234 sq.), from the palace of king Herod ; 
and others have believed (as Rosenmiiller, Alterth. II, ii, 
228) that the procurator took up his quarters in Jerusa- 
lem in the tower of Antonia, and sat in judgment t here. 
The tradition has no weight; yet on general grounds 
we may believe, since the palace of Ilcrod stood vacant 
and was roomy and suitable, that the procurators usual- 
ly resided there, surrounded by a body-guard, while the 
troops with their officers occupied the tower of Antonia 
(comp. Faber, Arckceologg, i, 321 sq.). A description of 
that marble palace of Herod, which joined the north 
wall of the upper city, and was so large and well forti- 
fied, is given by Josephus (War, v, 4, 4 ; comp. Ant. xv, 
9, 3). The Roman procurators, whose ordinary residence 
was at Gesarea (Acts xxiii, 23, etc.; xxv, 1, etc.), took 
up their residence in this palace when they visited Je- 
rusalem, their tribunal being erected in the open court 
or area before it. Thus Josephus states that Floras 
took up his quarters at the palaee (5< roig fiamXfioir 


auXi'^trat ) ; and on the next day he had his tribunal 
set up before it, and sat upon it ( War, ii, 14, 8). Philo 
expressly says that the palace, which had hitherto been 
Herod’s, was now called rijv olidav tuiv t7rirpo7rwn, 
“ the house of the praetors” (Legat. ad Caium [ed. Franc.], 
p. 1033). It was situated on the western or more elevated 
hill of Jerusalem, overlooking the Temple (Josephus, 
. I nt. xx, 8, 1 1 ), and was connected with a system of forti- 
fications the aggregate of which constituted the irap- 
fpfioX t], or fortified barrack. It was the dominant po T 
sition on the western hill, and — at any rate on one side, 
probably the eastern — was mounted by a flight of steps, 
the same from which Paul made his speech in Hebrew 
to the angry crowd of Jews (Acts xxii, 1 sq.). From 
the level below the barrack a terrace led eastward to a 
gate opening into the western side of the cloister sur- 
rounding the Temple, the road being carried across the 
valley of the Tyropoeon (separating the western from 
the Temple hill) on a causeway built up of enormous 
stone blocks. At the angle of the Temple cloister just 
above this entrance, i. e. the northwest corner [see Tem- 
ple], stood the old citadel of the Temple hill, the fiapic, 
or Byrsa, which Herod rebuilt and called by the name 
Antonia. after his friend and patron the triumvir. After 
the Roman power was established in Judaea, a Roman 
guard was always maintained in the Antonia, the com- 
mander of which for the time being seems to be the offi- 
cial termed (TTpartjyug too itpot) in the Gospels and 
Acts. The guard in the Antonia was probably relieved 
regularly from the cohort quartered in the TrapepfioXi], 
and hence the plural form arparpyoi is sometimes used, 
the officers, like the privates, being changed every 
watch; although it is very conceivable that a certain 
number of them should have been selected for the ser- 
vice from possessing a superior knowledge of the Jewish 
customs or skill in the Hebrew language. Besides the 
cohort of regular legionaries there was probably an 
equal number of local troops, who when on service 
acted as the “supports” (fitZioXafioi. coverers of the 
right funk, Acts xxiii, 23) of the former, and there w'ere 
also a few squadrons of cavalry ; although itseems likety 
that both these and the local troops had separate bar- 
racks at Jerusalem, and that the t raoepfioXi], or praito- 
rian camp, was appropriated to the Roman cohort. The 
ordinary police of the Temple and the city seems to 
have been in the hands of the Jewish officials, whose 
attendants (vTrpptrat) w'ere provided with dirks and 
clubs, but without the regular armor and the discipline 
of the legionaries. When the latter were required to 
assist the gendarmerie, either from the apprehension of 
serious tumult, or because the service was one of great 
importance, the Jew's w'ould apply to the officer in com- 
mand at the Antonia, who would act so far under their 
orders as the commmander of a detachment in a manu- 
facturing town does under the orders of the civil mag- 
istrate at the time of a riot (Acts iv, 1 ; v, 24). But 
the power of life and death, or of regular scourging, 
rested only with the praetor, or the person representing 
him and commissioned by him. This power, and that 
which would always go with it — the right to press what- 
ever men or things w ere required bv the public exigencies 
— appears to be denoted by the term t^overia, a term per- 
haps the translation of the Latin imperium, and certain- 
ly its equivalent. It was inherent in the praetor or 
his representatives — hence themselves popularly called 
tlZovoiat, or voiai viriprepai (Rom. xiii, 1, 3) — and 
would be communicated to all military officers in com- 
mand of detached posts, such as the centurion at Ca- 
pernaum, who describes himself as possessing summary 
powers of this kind because he w r as v~ ' s£n vaig. — cov- 
ered by the privilege of the imperium (Matt, viii, 9). 
The forced purveyances (v, 40), the requisitions for 
baggage animals (v, 41), the summary punishments 
following transgression of orders (v, 39) incident to 
a military occupation of the country, of course 
must have been a perpetual source of irritation to the 
peasantry along the lines of the military roads, even 


piLETomrM 


4G8 


PK.ETOIUUM 


when the despotic authority of the Unman officers 
might be exercised with moderation. Iiut such a state 
of things also afforded constant opportunities to an un- 
principled soldier to extort money under the pretence 
of a loan, as the price of exemption from personal ser- 
vices which he was competent to insist upon, or as a 
bribe to buy off the prosecution of some vexatious 
charge before a military tribunal (Matt, v, 12; Luke iii, 
14). See Al'.MV. 

The relations of the military to the civil authorities , 
in .Jerusalem come out very clearly from the history of 1 
i lie Crucifixion. When Judas lirst makes his proposi- 
tion to betray Jesus to the chief-priests, a conference is 
held between them and the OTparpyoi as to the mode of 
effecting the object (Luke xxii, 4). The plan involved 
the assemblage of a large number of the Jews by night, 
and Homan jealousy forbade such a thing, except under 
the surveillance of a military officer. An arrangement 
was accordingly made for a military force, which would 
naturally be drawn from the Antonia. At the appointed 
hour Judas comes and takes with him “the troops” 
(colled -})v rr-upav, although of course only a detach- 
ment from the cohort), together with a number of police 
(v7rt}oirai) under the orders of the high-priests and 
Pharisees (John xviii, 3). When the apprehension of 
Jesus takes place, however, there is scarcely anv refer- 
ence to the presence of the military. Matthew and 
Mark altogether ignore their taking any ps*.t in the 
proceeding. From Luke's account one is led to suppose 
that the military commander posted his men outside 
the garden, and entered himself with the Jewish author- 
ities (xxii, 52). This is exactly what might be ex- 
pected under the circumstances. It was the business of 
the Jewish authorities to apprehend a Jewish offender, 
and of the Homan officer to take care that the proceed- 
ing led to no breach of the public peace. Hut when 
apprehended, the Homan officer became responsible for 
the custody of the offender, and accordingly lie would at 
once chain him by the wrists to two soldiers (Acts xxi, 
33) and carry him off. Here John accordingly gave 
another glimpse of the presence of the military: “the 
troops then, and the chilinrch and the officers of t lie Jews, 
apprehended Jesus, and put him in bonds, and led him 
away, tirst of all to Annas” (xviii, 12). The insults 
which Luke mentions (xxii. U3) arc apparently the bar- 
barous sport of the ruffianly soldiers and police while 
waiting with their prisoner for the assembling of the 
Sanhedrim in the hall of Cniaphas; but the blows in- 
dicted are those with the vine-stick, which the cen- 
turions carried, and with which they struck the soldiers 
on the head and lace (Juvenal. Sat. viii, 247), not a 
flagellation by the hands uflictors. When Jesus was 
condemned hv the Sanhedrim, and accordingly sent to 
I’ilate, the Jewish officials certainly expected that no 
inquiry would be made into the merits of the ease, but 
that Jesus would be simply received as a convict on the 
authority of his own countrymen’s tribunal, thrown into 
a dungeon, and on the lirst convenient opportunity exe- 
cuted. They are obviously surprised at the question, 
“What accusation bring ye against this manV" and at 
the apparition of the governor himself outside the pre- 
cinct of the priotorium. The cheapness in which he 
had held the life of the native population on a former 
occasion ( Luke xiii, 1 ) must have led them to expect a 
totally different course from him. Ilis scrupulousness, 
most extraordinary in any Homan, stands in striking 
contrast with the recklessness of the commander who 
proceeded at once to put St. I 'mil to torture, simply to 
ascertain why it was that so violent an attack was made 
on him by the crowd < Acts xxii, 24). Vet this latter is 
undoubtedly a typical specimen of the fcelingwhich pre- 
vailed among the conquerors of JmUva in reference to 
the conquered. The order for the execution ol'a native 
criminal would in ninety-nine instances out of a hun- 
dred have been rcgnrded by a Homan magnate as a sim- 
ply ministerial act — one which indeed only he was com- 
petent to perforin, but of which the performance was 


unworthy of a second thought. It is probable that the 
hesitation of Pilate was due rather to a superstitious fear 
of his wife’s dream than to a sense of justice or a feeling 
of humanity towards an individual of a despised race; 
at any rate, such an explanation is more in accordance 
with what we know of the feeling prevalent among his 
class in that age. When at last Pilate's effort to save 
Jesus was defeated by the determination of the Jews to 
claim Iiarabbas, and lie had testitied. by washing his 
hands in the presence of the people, that he did not 
consent to the judgment passed on the prisoner by the 
Sanhedrim, hut must be regarded as performing a mere- 
ly ministerial act, be proceeded at once to the formal im- 
position of the appropriate penalty. His lictors took Je- 
sus and inflicted the punishment of scourging upon him 
in the presence of all (Matt, xxvii, 2<>). This, in the 
Homan idea, was the necessary preliminary to capital 
punishment, and had Jesus not been an alien his head 
would have been struck off by the lictors immediately 
afterwards. Put crucifixion being the customary pun- 
ishment in that ease, a different course becomes neces- 
sary. The execution must take place by the bands of 
the military, and Jesus is handed over from the lictors 
to these. They take him into the pra-torium, and mus- 
ter the whole cohort not merely that portion which is 
on duty at the time (Matt, xxvii, 27; Mark xv, 10). 
While a centurion's guard is told off for the purpose 
of executing Jesus and the two criminals, the rest of 
the soldiers divert themselves bv mocking t lie reputed 
king of the Jews (Matt, xxvii. 2<S-30; Mark xv, 17-1‘J; 
John xix, 2, 3), l’ilate. who in the meantime has gone 
in, being probably a witness of the pitiable spectacle. 
His wife’s dream still haunts him. and although he has 
already delivered Jesus over to execution, and what is 
taking place is merely the ordinary course, he comes out 
again to the people to protest that he is passive in the 
matter, and that they must take the prisoner, there be- 
fore their eyes in the garb of mockery, and crucify him 
(John xix, 4-0). On their reply that Jesus had as- 
serted himself to be the Son of Hod, Pilate’s fears are 
still more roused, and at last he is only induced to goon 
with the military execution, for which he is himself re- 
sponsible, by the threat of a charge of treason against 
(Aesar in the event of his not doing so (John xix, 7-13). 
Sitting, then, solemnly on the bema, and producing 
Jesus, who in the meantime has had his own clothes 
put upon him, he formally delivers him up to he eruci- 
tied in such a manner as to make it appear that he is 
acting solely in the discharge of his duty to the emperor 
(John xix, 13-lti). The centurion’s guard now proceed 
with the prisoners to Holgotha. Jesus himself carrying 
the cross-piece of wood to which his hands were to be 
nailed. Weak from loss of blood, the result of the 
scourging, he is unable to proceed; but just as they are 
leaving the gate they meet Simon the (’yrenian, and at 
once use the military right of pressing (dyyopu'on’) 
him for the public service. Arrived at the spot, four 
soldiers are told off for the business of the executioner, 
the remainder keeping the ground. Two would be re- 
quired to bold the bands, and a third the feet, while the 
fourth drove in the nails. Hence the distribution of the 
garments into /oH/- parts. The centurion in command, 
the principal Jewish officials and tlioir acquaintances 
(lienee probably John [John xviii, 15 '), and the nearest 
relatives of Jesus (xix. 2t>, 27), might naturally be ad- 
mitted within the cordon — a square of perhaps one 
hundred yards. The people would be kept outside of 
this, but the distance would not he too great to read the 
title, “Jesus the Nazarene, the King of the Jews.” or at 
any rate to gather its general meaning. The whole 
acquaintance of Jesus, and the women who had followed 
him from tlalilee — too much atllicted to mix with the 
crowd in the immediate vicinity, ami too numerous to 
obtain admission inside the cordon- looked on from a 
distance (cia*6 /i«*7>o3*r). The vessel containing vin- 
egar (John xix, 2!»t was set within the cordon for the 
beticlit of the soldiers, whose duty ii was to remain utt- 


PRAGALADEN 


469 ' 


PRAISE 


dcr arms (Matt, xxvii, 36) until the death of the prison- 
ers, the centurion in command being responsible for 
their not being taken down alive. Had the Jews not 
been anxious for the removal of the bodies, in order not 
to shock the eyes of the people coming in from the 
country on the following day, the troops would have 
been relieved at the end of their watch, and their place 
supplied by others until death took place. The jealousy 
with which any interference with the regular course of 
a military execution was regarded appears from the ap- 
plication of the Jews to Pilate — not to the centurion — 
to have the prisoners despatched by breaking their legs. 
For the performance of this duty other soldiers were de- 
tailed (John xix, 32), not merely permission given 
to the Jews to have the operation performed. Even 
for the watching of the sepulchre recourse is had to 
Pilate, who bids the applicants “take a guard'’ (Matt, 
xxvii, 65), which they do, and put a seal on the stone 
in the presence of the soldiers, in a way exactly analo- 
gous to that practiced in the custody of the sacred robes 
of the high-priest in the Antonia (Josephus, Ant. xv, 11, 
4). See Crucifixion. 

2. The prtetorium in Rome, mentioned in Phil, i, 13, 
where Paul lay imprisoned, has occasioned much dis- 
cussion among the interpreters, and formed the theme 
of a learned dispute between Jac. Perizonius and Ulrich 
Huber (see Perizonii Cum U. Hubero Disquisitio de Prce- 
torio [Lugd. Bat. 1696]). It was not the imperial pal- 
ace (j; oiKia Kairrapog, Phil, iv, 22), for this was never 
called preetorium in Rome; nor was it the judgment- 
hall, for no such building stood in Rome, and the name 
preetoria was not until much later applied to the courts 
of justice (see Perizonius, l.c. p. 63 sq.). It was probably 
(as Catnerarius perceived) the quarters of the imperial 
body-guard, the praetorian cohort, which had been built 
for it by Tiberius, under the advice of Sejanns (Sueton. 
Tib. 37). Before that time the guards were billeted in 
different parts of the city. It stood outside the walls, 
at some distance short of the fourth milestone, and so 
near either to the Salarian or the Nomentanc road that 
Nero, in his flight by one or the other of them to the 
house of his freedman Phaon, which was situated be- 
tween the two, heard the cheers of the soldiers within 
for Galba. In the time of Vespasian the houses seem 
to have extended so far as to reach it (Tacitus, Annul. 
iv, 2; Sueton. Ner. 48; Pliny, //. X. iii, 5). From the 
first, buildings must have sprung up near it for sutlers 
and others. An opinion well deserving consideration 
has been advocated by Wieseler, and by Conybeare and 
Howson ( Life of St. Paul, ch. xxvi), to the effect that 
the proetorium here mentioned was the quarter of that 
detachment of the Praetorian Guards which was in im- 
mediate attendance upon the emperor, and had barracks 
in Mount Palatine. Thither, wherever the place was, 
Paul was brought as a prisoner of the emperor, and de- 
livered to the prefect of the guard, according to the 
custom (Acts xxviii, 16; see Pliny, Ep. x, 65; Philostr. 
Soph, ii, 32), as the younger Agrippa was once impris- 
oned by this officer at the express command of the em- 
peror Tiberius (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 6, 6). This office 
was then filled by Burrhus Afranius (Tacitus, Annul. 
xii, 42; see Anger, Temp. Act. Ap. p. 100 sq.). Paul 
appears to have been permitted for the space of two 
years to lodge, so to speak, “within the rules" of the 
prajtorium (Acts xxviii, 30), although still under the 
custody of a soldier. See Olshausen, Topogr. des ulten 
Jerusalem, § iii, p. 9; Perizonius, De Oriyine et Signi- 
fications et Usu Yocum Prcetoris et Preetorii (Frank. 
1690) ; Shorzius, De Prcetorio Pilati in Exercit. Phil. 
(Hag. Com. 1774); Zorn, Opuscula Sacra, ii, 699. — 
Winer; Kitto; Smith. See Paul. 

Pragaladen, a particular and holy worshipper of 
the Hindu god Vishnu, who was for a long time tortured 
by the demon Tronya, until Vishnu, in his fourth incar- 
uation, as man-lion, killed the giant. See Vishnu. 

Pragmatic Sanction was a general term (from 


irpaypa, business) for all important ordinances of Church 
or State — those perhaps more properly which were en- 
acted in public assemblies with the counsel of eminent 
jurisconsults or pragmatici. The term originated in 
the Byzantine empire, and signilied there a public and 
solemn decree by a prince, as distinguished from the 
simple rescript which was a declaration of law in answer 
to a question propounded by an individual. But the 
most familiar application of the term is to the impor- 
tant articles decided on by the great assembly helcPat 
Bourges (q. v.) in 1438, convoked and presided over by 
Charles VI I. These articles have been regarded as the 
great bulwark of the French Church against the usurpa- 
tion of Rome. King Louis IX had drawn up a prag- 
matic sanction in 1268 against the encroachments of the 
Church and court of Rome. It related chiefly to the 
right of the Gallican Church with reference to the se- 
lections of bishops and clergy. But the great articles 
of 1438 entirely superseded those of Louis IX ; for though 
they reasserted the rights and privileges claimed by the 
Gallican Church under that monarch, the articles were 
chiefly founded on the decrees of the Council of Basle. 
Some of them relate to the periodical assembling and su- 
perior authority of general councils; some to the cele- 
bration of divine offices and other matters not connected 
with papal prerogation ; but of the rest it has been truly 
said that the abuses of the papal prerogation against 
which they were directed were chiefly eonneeted with 
its avarice. This was the most unpopular of the vices of 
the holy see, and was at the bottom of more than half the 
grievances which alienated its children from it. Pope 
Pius II succeeded in obtaining the abrogation of this 
sanction for a time; but the Parliament of Paris refused 
to sanction the ignominious conduct of Louis XI in set- 
ting it aside, and he was compelled to restore it to its 
original influential position. Accordingly the prag- 
matic sanction continued in force till Francis I’s con- 
cordat in 1516 supplanted it. Although by the con- 
cordat privileges were given and received on both sides, 
yet the real advantages were on the side of Rome, which 
advantages it has ever since been her constant aim to 
improve. See Jervis, Ilist. Ch. of France, i, 23 sq. ; 
Hist, of Popery, p. 202; Gieseler, Eccles. Hist, (see Index 
to vol. iii) ; Fisher, Hist, of the Ref. p. 48, 49; Moslieim, 
Eccles. Hist. vol. iii; Mihnan, Hist. Latin Christianity 
(see Index to vol. viii); Hardwick, Hist, of the Church 
in the Middle Ages, p. 272, 358, 362; id. Ref p. 7, 353; 
Waddington, Eccles. Hist. p. 576; Ranke, Hist, of the 
Papacy, i, 28 sq. ; Alzog, Kirchengesch. ii, 48, 180, 189, 
191; El ward, Dogmengesch. iv, 206; Brit. Quar. Rev. 
April, 1873, p. 273. 

Prague, Council of ( Concilium Pragense ), an im- 
portant ecclesiastical gathering, was convened by arch- 
bishop Ernest of Prague in 1346, and passed among 
other regulations one relating to the proper observance 
of the Christian faith, the abuses arising from the use of 
rescripts from Rome, the impropriety of allowing strange 
priests to assist at communions without letters from 
their own bishop, the rights of Roman delegates upon 
subjects of interdicts, and the private life and morals 
of the clergy. (See Mansi, Condi, iii, col. 543 sq. ; Ile- 
fele, Conciliengesch. vol. vi.) How little these efforts 
for the purifying of the Church and strengthening of 
the Christian cause availed is but too well known to the 
historical student of the Hussite movement which fol- 
lowed in the next century and finally brought about 
many strong reforms in Bohemia, besides preparing the 
way for the great Reformation. See Hussites. 

Praise, an acknowledgment made of the excellency 
or perfection of any person or action, with a commenda- 
tion of the same. “The desire of praise,” says an ele- 
gant writer, “ is generally connected with all the finer 
sensibilities of human nature. It affords a ground on 
which exhortation, counsel, and reproof can work a prop- 
er effect. To be entirely destitute of this passion be r 
tokens an ignoble mind on which no moral impression 


PRAISE OF GOD 


470 


PKATEXSIS 


is easily made, for where there is no desire of praise ' 
there will also be no sense of reproach; but while ir is . 
admitted to be a natural and in many respects a use- 
ful principle of action, we are to observe that it is en- 
titled to no more than our secondary regard. It has its 
boundary set, by transgressing which it is at once trans- 
formed from an innocent into a most dangerous passion. 
When, passing its natural line, it becomes the ruling 
spring of conduct; when the regard which we pay to 
I he opinions of men encroaches on that reverence which 
we owe to the voice of conscience and the sense of duty, 
the love of praise, having then gone out of its proper 
place, instead of improving, corrupts, and instead of 
elevating, debases our nature.” See Young, Love of 
Paine; Blair. Sermons , vol. ii, scr. (5; Jortin, Diss. No. 

4 passim; Wilbcrforce, Pract. 1 'iew, cli . iv, § 3; Smith, 
Theory of Moral Sent, i, 233; Fitzosborne, Letters, No. 
IS. — Buck, Theol. Diet . 

Praise of God is a reverent acknowledgment of 
the perfections, works, and benefits of God, and of the 
blessings flowing from them to mankind, usually ex- 
pressed in hymns of gratitude and thanksgiving, and 
especially in the reception of the Holy Eucharist, that 
‘■sacrifice of praise’’ and sublimest token of our joy, 
and which has received the name purrin') because 
it is the highest instance of thanksgiving in which 
Christians can be engaged, l’raise and thanksgiving 
are generally considered as synonymous, yet some dis- 
tinguish them thus: “Praise properly terminates in God, 
on account of his natural excellences and perfections, 
and is that act of devotion by which we confess and ad- 
mire his several attributes; but thanksgiving is a more 
contracted duty, and imports only a grateful sense and 
acknowledgment of past mercies. \Yc praise Cod for all 
his glorious acts of every kind that regard either us or 
other men— for his very vengeance, and those judg- 
ments which he sometimes sends abroad in the earth; 
but we thank him, properly speaking, for the instances 
of his goodness alone, and for such only of these as we 
ourselves are some way concerned in.” — Buck, Theol. 
Diet. .See Attcrburv, Sermon on Psalm l, 14; Saurin, 
Sermons, vol. i, scr. 14 ; Tillotson, Sermons, ser. 146 
(conclusion). See Thanksgiving. 

Praise-meeting, a meeting recently inaugurated 
in this country, first in New England, for a service of 
song by (lie congregation. The people gather, and, un- 
der the lead of some competent precentor, unite in a ser- 
vice which is wholly, or almost wholly, musical, and in 
which all participate. 

Pra Mogla is, in the mythology of the Siamese, a 
celebrated disciple of Sommonaoodom, their great saint 
and protector. 11 is statue, which represents two bodies, 
is often found beside the statue of his master, lie was 
so compassionate and benevolent that he attempted to 
extinguish the lire of hell by turning the earth upside 
down, and gathering in his hand all burning things he 
found; but the tire destined to punish t he lost for their 
sins was so violent that it burned to ashes everything 
that was near, and dried up rivers and seas. In his 
distress Pra .Mogla recurred to his master himself. "The 
saint could easily have fulfilled his wishes, but he feared 
lest mankind, free from that salutary terror, should fall 
into greater depravity, and the lire was suffered to keep 
burning. l'he wisdom of the god was admired, but the 
love of the disciple was memorialized by numberless 
images and statues. 

Pian is, in Hindi! mythology, the breath, the vital 
principle, which dwells in every man, and has its seat 
in the heart; it is the. divine principle of motion that 
spreads everywhere life and activity, through which 
alone the whole nature can subsist, and which manifests 
itself in the animal world by the act of breathing. 

Plan Natliis, a sect among the Hindus which was 
originated by Pran Noth, who, being versed in Moham- 
medan as well as Hindi! learning, endeavored to recon- 


cile the two religions. With this view he composed a 
work called The Mahitdnyal, in which texts from the 
Koran and the Vedas are brought together, and shown 
not to be essentially different from each other. Bundcl- 
kund is the chief seat of the sect, and in Pitnna they 
have a building in one apartment of which, on a table 
covered with gold cloth, lies the volume of the founder. 
“As a test of the disciple’s consent,” says Prof. 11. II. 
Wilson, “ to the real identity of the essence of the Hindu 
and Mohammedan creeds, the ceremony of the initiation 
consists of eating in the society of members of both 
communions; with this exception, and the admission of 
the general principle, it does not appear that the two 
classes confound their civil or even religions distinc- 
tions; they continue to observe the practices and ritual 
of their forefathers, whether Mussulman or Hindu, and 
the union, beyond that of community or that of eating, 
is no more than any rational individual of either sect is 
fully prepared for, or the admission that the God of both 
and of all religions is one and the same.” 

Pranzinias, a name for destiny among the Lithu- 
anians, which, according to immutable laws, directs 
the gods, nature, and men, and whose power knows no 
limit. 

Pra Rasi are, in the mythology of the Siamese, her- 
mits who live in complete seclusion, and, by many years 
of a contemplative existence, have acquired a knowl- 
edge of the most recondite mysteries of nature. Those 
mysteries are described on the wall which encircles the 
world, and thence the Pra Masi gathered their knowl- 
edge. Thus they possess the secret of flying, of assum- 
ing any form at their pleasure, of making precious met- 
als, etc. As they know also the means of giving their 
body indefinite duration, they could enjoy eternal life; 
yet every thousand years they make a voluntary sacri- 
fice of their life by burning themselves on a heap of 
wood, with the exception of one, who awakens the saints 
again to renewed life. There are religious writings 
which indicate the means of getting to these hermits, 
but it is said to be a very dangerous enterprise. See 
Vollmer, Mytholoyischcs Wdrterbuch, s. v. 

Fratensis, Fi:ux, is noted as the famous editor of 
the editio princeps of Bomberg’s Babbinic Bible. Little 
is known of his personal history beyond that he was 
born a Jew, was corrector of the press in Bomberg’s fa- 
mous print ing-oflicc. embraced Christianity in Borne in 
1513, was created magister theologus in 1523, and that 
be died in 153'J. The Babbinic Bible, which immortal- 
ized him, was published in four parts (Venice, 1516-17) 
four years after his embracing Christianity; and, be- 
sides the Hebrew text, contains as follows: 1. In The 
Pentateuch, the Chaldee paraphrase of Onkelos and the 
commentaries of Bashi. 2. The Prophets, the Chaldee 
paraphrase and the commentaries of Kiraclii. 3. The 
Ilugiographa, the Chaldee paraphrase and Kimchi's com- 
mentary on The Psalms, the Chaldee paraphrase and 
Ibn-Jachja's commentary on Proverbs, the Chaldee par- 
aphrase and Nachmanides’s and Farissol’s commentaries 
on Job; the reputed Chaldee paraphrases of Joseph the 
Blind and Bashi's commentary on The Five Megilloth ; 
Levi ben-Gershom’s commentary on Daniel; Basin’s and 
Simon Darshan’s T) commentary on Ezra, 

Xehemiah, ami Chronicles, the latter consisting of ex- 
cerpts from the Jalkut Shimoni. See C.\u.\ ; Mihisasii. 
Appended to the volume are the Targum Jerusalem on 
the Pentateuch, the Second Targum on Esther, the va- 
riations between Ben-Asher and Ben-Naphtdi, the dif- 
ferences between the Eastern and Western Codd.. Aaron 
• b.-Asher’s Dissertation on the Accents, Maimonidcs’s 
thirteen articles of faith see JI.mmoxipks], the six 
hundred and thirteen precepts [see Pm.cKfTs], a Ta- 
ble of the Parshoth and llaphtaroth, both according 
to the Spanish and German ritual. Considering that 
this was the first effort to give some of the Masoretic 
apparatus, it is no wonder that the work is imperfect, 
and that it contains many blunders. Pralensis also 


PRATILLI 


471 


PRAXEANS 


published a Latin translation of the Psalms, with anno- 
tations, first printed at Venice in 1515, then at Hazenau in 
1522, and at Basle in 1526. See Wolf, Bibliotheca IJebrai- 
ca , ii, 363; iii, 935 sq.; Masch’s ed. of Le Long’s Biblio- 
theca Sacra , i, 96 sq. ; Steinschneider, Catalogus Libr. 
llebr. in Bibliotheca Bodleiuna, col. h. 2111 sq.— Kitto, 
Cyclopeedia, s. v. 

Pratilli, Fraxcesco-Maria, an Italian ecclesiastic, 
noted especially as an antiquarian, was born November, 
1689, at Capua. He received holy orders, and was at 
once provided w ith a canonry at the Cathedral of Capua. 
He died at Naples Nov. 29, 1763. Among his archeo- 
logical works we mention, Della Via Appia riconosciuta 
e descritta da Roma a Brindisi (Naples, 1745, 4to) ; this 
work is ornamented with plans and maps, and is full of 
varied erudition : — Di una Monet a singolare del Tiranno 
Giovanni (ibid. 1748, 8vo) ; explanation of a medal, the 
only one of its kind, of a usurper who was proclaimed 
emperor in 423 : — Della Oriejine della Metropolia ecclesi- 
astica di Capoa (ibid. 1758, 4to). Pratilli published an 
edition, enriched with unpublished documents, disserta- 
tions, and a life of the author, of the Ilistoria Principum 
Longobiudorum of C. Pellegrini (ibid. 1719-54, 5 vols. 
4to). He left in manuscript a History of the Xorman 
Princes , in 6 vols. See Xomi illustri del Regno di Xa- 
poli, vol. ix. — Iloefcr, Xouv. Biog. Generule , s. v. 

Pratorius, Abdias, a German theologian of some 
renown, was born in 1524 in the Brandenburg territory. 
He was master of many languages, and especially noted 
as a Greek scholar. He was at first rector of a school at 
Magdeburg, lived then at Frankfort-on-the-Oder, w’as 
called in 1560 to the electoral court of Brandenburg, 
and died in 1573 as professor of philosophy at Witten- 
berg. He attacked the Lutheran distinction between 
law and Gospel, and the definition of the latter as an 
unconditional message of grace. The most distin- 
guished of his adversaries was Andrew Musculus, one of 
the authors of The Formula of Concord. 

Pratorius, Stephen, a German minister, flour- 
ished at Salzwedcl towards the close of the 16th cen- 
tury. He v r as involved in various disputes in conse- 
quence of some doctrines professed or approved by Lu- 
ther, or which seemed to him logical conclusions to be 
drawn from Luther’s theory of justification. He as- 
serted that between righteousness and beatitude there 
was no difference; that every man who received bap- 
tism and believed in Christ was saved, and could dis- 
pense with seeking the means to be saved; that the 
law was useless; that faith and justification obtained by 
it could be darkened and benumbed by sin, but never 
lost. John Arnd, the Fe'nelon of the Lutheran Church, 
published a collection of the writings of Pratorius, and 
Martin Statius (1655), minister at Dantsic, edited ex- 
tracts from them under the title Geistliche Schatzkam- 
mer der Glaubigen. 

Pratt, Albert L., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Wilmington, Yt., in 1828, 
and was converted and joined the Methodist Episcopal 
Church in 1851. lie was licensed as a local preacher in 
1853. In 1855 he was received into what was then the 
Oneida but is now the Central N. Y. Conference, and 
was stationed successively at Union Village, Bellows 
Falls, Brattleborough, Guilford, Woodstock, Bradford, 
Rochester, Windsor, and Colchester, where he finished 
his earthly work. Though constitutionally frail, his 
pastoral labors were prosecuted with great diligence un- 
til near his death, which occurred July 17, 1870, at Col- 
chester, Vt. He was a good man, and succeeded well 
in the cause of his Master. 

Pratt, Almon Bradley, a Congregational min- 
ister, was born in North Cornwall, Conn., June 3, 1812, 
received his preparatory training at South Cornwall, 
Conn., and then entered Yale College. He was not, 
however, able to complete his collegiate studies, as his 
health failed him. From 1839 to 1841 he was at the 


Union Theological Seminary in New York City. April 
13, 1852, he was ordained as evangelist at Genesee, 
Mich., and acted in that place as pastor until 1865, w'heu 
he removed to Flint, Mich. In 1868 he w r as called again 
to the work, and accepted the pastorate at Berea, Ohio. 
In 1873 he was made acting pastor at Camp Creek, Ne- 
braska, and there he died, Dec. 28, 1875. See The Con- 
greg. Quar. July, 1876, p.432. 

Pratt, Enoch, a Congregational minister of some 
note, was born at Middleborough, Mass., in 1781, and 
was educated at Brown University, where he graduated 
in 1803. lie taught for a while and studied theology, 
and was finally ordained to the work of the holy minis- 
try Oct. 28, 1807, as pastor of the Congregational Church 
at West Barnstable, Mass., and held this position until 
1837. He never took another pastorate, but preached 
and wrote occasionally. He devoted himself principally 
to secular historical studies, especially local subjects, 
and published in 1844 a Comprehensive History , Eccle- 
siastical and Civil , of Eastham, Wellfeet, and Orleans, 
Massachusetts (Yarmouth, 8vo). He died at Brewster 
Feb. 2, 1S60. 

Pratt, James C., an Irish Wesleyan minister of 
some note, w r as born in Queens County, Ireland, in 1780. 
Ills parents were respectable members of the Church 
of England. In his twenty-first year he was converted, 
and joined the Wesleyans. He was licensed to preach 
in 1804, and four years later was accepted by the Con- 
ference as a travelling preacher and appointed to the 
Ballinamallard Circuit, in 1809 to Lisburn, in 1810 to 
Carrickfergus, and in 1811 to the city of Armagh, etc. 
He continued to travel regularly as a preacher, with 
“zeal, acceptance, and usefulness,” until 1842, when he 
took a supernumerary relation and settled in Enniskil- 
len, where he had been twice before stationed. In 1846 
he removed to Wexford; but as several of his children 
had settled in New York, he decided to come to this 
country, and obtained full permission from his Confer- 
ence, held in Dublin in 1848, to emigrate. He came 
here in the fall of that year, and for nearly twenty-two 
years resided in different places in this country, adorn- 
ing by his holy life the religion of his Saviour that he 
loved so well to preach. He died at Jersey City March 
II, 1875. 

Piatt, Job, a minister of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, w'as born about 1790, and was admitted in 1814 
a member of the New England Annual Conference. At 
the organization of the Maine Conference he joined that 
body, and remained a member of it till his death, which 
occurred at Rumford Feb. 22, 1833. Mr. Pratt was a 
generally acceptable preacher. — Minutes of Conferences, 
ii, 216. 

Pratt, John Bennett, LL.D., a Scottish Episco- 
pal clergyman, antiquarian, and author, was born in the 
parish of New' Deer in 1791. He took the degree of 
M.A. at Aberdeen, and, after his ordination as deacon 
in 1821, was sent to Stuartfield, where he served with 
acceptance four years, and was then chosen as pastor of 
St. James’s Church, Criulen. There he became widely 
known for his theological learning, literary accomplish- 
ments, and professional zeal, and received from bishop 
Skinner the appointment of examining chaplain. He 
died at Crudcn, Aberdeenshire, 31 arch 20, 1869. He 
was the author of several volumes, among which are, 
Old Paths — Where is the Good Way ? (Oxford, 1840): — 
Buchan, w ith illustrations (Aberdeen, 1858) : — The Dru- 
ids (Loiul. 1861) : — Letters on the Scandinavian Churches, 
their Doctrine, Worship, and Polity: — and several Ser- 
mons. 

Fraxeans is the name of a sect of Monarchians, so 
called after Praxeas, the originator of their views. The 
heretical tenet that there is no distinction of persons in 
the Godhead, coupled with the acknowledgment of a 
divine nature in Jesus, leads logically to the conclusion 
that the Father was incarnate and suffered. Hence, 


PRAXEANS 


472 


PRAXEANS 


although he himself shrank from the inference, Praxeas 
is reckoned with the Patripassians. lie did not form a 
schismatical party. Philaster states that the Sabellians, 
calle«l also Patripassians and Praxeans, were cast out of 
the Church ( Herr . c. liv), but we cannot infer from this 
that Praxeas himself was excommunicated. 

Our knowledge of Praxeas is derived almost entirely 
from Tertullian’s treatise against him. Augustine, as 
well as Philaster, names him and his followers under 
the heresy of Sabellius; and, exeepting from Tertullian, 
we have only the bare mention of his name as a heretic. 
From Tertullian it appears that he went to Home from 
Asia, and the words of Tertullian, “ceconomiam intelli- 
gere nolunt etiam Graeci,” appear to contain reference 
to his nation. It is probable that he learned his heresy 
from a school in Proconsular Asia which produced No- 
etus (q. v.). If Praxeas held his heresy while in Asia, 
he can scarcely have been, as he is often said to have 
been, a Montanist. There was a connection between 
the later Montanists and the Sabellians; but the earlier 
Montanists were free from Sabelliauism. Tertullian’s 
words imply no more than that Praxeas had in Asia 
become acquainted with the character of Montanist 
pretensions and doctrine. Sec Montaxism. In Asia 
Praxeas had suffered imprisonment (“de jaetatione 
martyrii iutlatus, ob solum et simplex et breve carceris 
ta*dium,” is the polemical notice of it), and with the 
credit attaching to a confessor lie preached his false 
doctrine at Rome. Whether the doctrine met with re- 
sistance, toleration, or favor is not told, but that Prax- 
eas’s endeavors to propagate it had but little effect we 
are entitled to infer from the silence of ilippolytus. 
There is, however, very great difference of opinion re- 
garding this point : (Jieseler says that Praxeas appears 
to have been unmolested in Rome on account of his 
doctrine ( Compend . i, 2 IS) ; Newman, that he met with 
the determined resistance which honorably distinguishes 
the primitive Roman Church in its dealings with heresy 
(/fist, of A rians, p. 130) ; Milman, that the indignation 
of Tertullian at the rejection of his Montanist opinions 
urged him to arraign the pope, with what justice, to 
what extent, we know not, as having embraced the Pa- 
tripassian opinions of Praxeas (Hist, of I Ait in Christian- 
ity, i, -If) [ed. 1 St»7”}). The two latter mention, as if in- 
clined to it, Beausobre’s supposition that, in the words 
of the eontinuator of the De Preescr. l/airct., “ Praxeas 
quidem luercsim introduxit, quam Victorious corrobo- 
rate enravit,” we should read Victor for Victorious. 
One would be rather inclined to substitute Zcphvrmus. 
The Refutation of Heresies was called forth bv this 
very controversy, and Ilippolytus details carefully the 
tenets of Noetus, and the action of the bishop of Rome 
with regard to them. Had Praxeas prepared the way 
to any considerable extent for Noetus, some notice of 
bis influence would surely have been given, whereas all 
that can be said is, that in the separate tract agaiiist 
Noetus the opening words will include, but without 
naming, disciples of Praxeas joining Noetus. It is easy 
to suppose that Victor, discovering the heresy of Prax- 
eas, and not wishing, for his own sake, to disgrace one 
upon whose information he had acted, and by ■whom 
perhaps he had been influenced in the matter of the 
Montanists, quietly sent Praxeas from Rome. From 
Rome. Praxeas went into Africa. (We take “ hie quo- 
que” in Tertullian’s ** Fruticaverant aveniv l’raxeana?; 
hie qtioquc supcr.se mina lie,” etc., to mean Carthage; 
and that Tertullian speaks of himself in “per quem tra- 
duct:e,” etc.) The (late at which Praxeas arrived at 
Rome, and the length of his stay there, are not accu- 
rately known, but he reached Africa before Tertullian 
became a Montanist (Tertull. A dr. /'rax. c. i). dif- 
ferent dates, from A. 1 ). 199 to 205, are assigned for this 
latter event. The history of the Montanists is best un- 
derstood by supposing Praxeas to have been at Rome 
in Victor's time, and the date of Tertullian’s Montanism 
to have been the earlier date. In Africa Praxeas held 
a dispute, probably with Tertullian, acknowledged bis 


error, and delivered to the Church a formal recantation. 
But he returned again to his errors, and Tertullian, now 
a Montanist, wrote his tract in confutation of them. 

Praxeas taught that there is only one divine Person, 
that the Word and the Holy Ghost are not distinct 
substances; arguing that an admission of distinct Per- 
sonalities necessarily infers three Gods, and that the 
identity of the Persons is required to preserve the di- 
vine monarchy. He applied the titles which in IIolv 
Scripture are descriptive of deity to the Father alone; 
and urged particularly the words from the Old Testa- 
ment, “I am God, and beside me there is no god,” and 
from the New Testament the expressions, “ I and my 
Father are one,” “ He who hath seen me hath seen the 
Father,” “1 am in my Father, and my Father in roe.” 
While Tertullian unhesitatingly charges Praxeas with 
holding Patripassian tenets as necessarily following 
from his principles. Praxeas himself appears not to have 
gone so far. “Frgo nee compassus est Pater Filio; sic 
enim directnm blnsphemiam in Patrem veriti, diminui 
earn hoc modo sperant, coneedcntes jam Patrem et Fi- 
lium duos esse; si Filins quidem patitnr, Pater vero 
compatitnr. Stulti et in hoe. Quid est enim compati, 
quam cum alio pati? Porro, si impassibilis Pater, uti- 
que et incompassibilis. Aut si compassibilis, utique 
passibilis” (Tertull. A dr. Prax. c. xxix). 

The course of controversy brought out. in the exam- 
ple of the Praxeans, the second and altered position 
which Monarchians are obliged to assume when pressed 
by the difficulties of their original position. It is shown, 
as Tertullian remarks, that they are driven to conclu- 
sions involving the elements of Gnosticism. The Prax- 
eans, when confuted on all sides on the distinction 
between the Father and the Son, distinguished the 
Person of Jesus from the Christ. They understood “the 
Son to be tlesh — that is, man — that is, Jesus; and the 
Father to be spirit — that is, God — that is, Christ.” 
Thus Tertullian says, “They who contend that the Fa- 
ther and the Son are one and the same do in fact now 
begin to divide them rather than to unite them. Such 
a monarchy as this they learned, it may be, in the 
school of the Valentinus” (Hid. c. xxvii). Now this 
separation of Jesus from Christ was common to all 
the Gnostics. They were unanimous in denying that 
Christ was born. Jesus and Christ wore to them two 
separate beings, and the a>on Christ descended upon 
Jesus at his baptism. The difference between them 
and the Praxeans appears to be that they would not say 
that Jesus was the Son of God, whereas the Praxeans 
are represented as arguing from the angel's words to 
Mary that the holy thing born of her was the flesh, 
and that therefore the tlesh was the Son of God. Ter- 
tullian shows in opposition to them that the Word was 
incarnate by birth. In I’raxean doctrine, then, in its 
second stage, we have Jesus called the Son of God, 
solely, it will follow, on account of a miraculous birth: 
Christ, or the presence of the Father, residing in Jesus: 
Jesus suffering, and Christ (=thc Father) impassibiltm 
sed computmitem. The interval between this and Gnos- 
tic doctrine is easily bridged over; and we have the 
cause of the comparisons and identifications that are 
often made of Sabellianism with Gnosticism. See Mo- 

N.\ ItCItIA NS. 

The heresy of Praxeas. as distinguished from that of 
Noetus, did not make much progress. It was almost 
unknown in Africa iu the time of Optatns (i, 37). See 
Schnff, Church /list. vol. i; Neandor. Church Hist. vol. 
ii : id. Hist, of Dogmas, i, It! I ; Gicseler, Krebs. Hist. 
(see Index in vol. iii); Baur. Dn ieiuiykt itsldire , i, 245- 
254; hidden, Divinity of Christ (see Index'); Allen, 
Ancient Church, p. 455; Al/.og, Kircfu nytsch. i. 1X2; 
Prcssense, Church Hist. (Heresies), p. 139 si j. ; Kaye, 
Tertullian. p. 403 sq.; Milman, Hist, of La fin Chris- 
tianity, i, 70; Ceberweg, Hist, of Phi/os. i. SOX; Mos- 
heim, Commentary on Kccles. I/ist. (see Index in vol. 
i) ; Lardncr, 1 1 ’orks (see Index in vol. viii); Water- 
land, H o/Xw, vol. vi; Biblical Repository, v, 339; and 


PI l AXE AS 


473 


PRAY Eli 


especially Blunt, Diet . Hist. Theol. s. v., of whose article 
we have freely availed ourselves. 

Praxeas. See Praxeans. 

Praxedes, St., was an early convert to Christian- 
ity, according to some accounts, of the apostle Peter ; 
but this is, of course, very doubtful, since we do not 
even know whether Peter was ever at Borne. The acts 
of her life are so surrounded by traditions as to be al- 
most entirely devoid of trustworthiness; but from these 
we learn that she was the daughter of St. Pudentius, a 
Roman senator, and sister of St. Pudentiana (q. v.). 
According to the legendary account, Praxedes, with her 
sister Pudentiana, devoted herself, after Peter had suf- 
fered martyrdom, to the relief and care of the suffering 
Christians, and to the burying of the bodies that were 
slain in the persecutions. They had the assistance of a 
holy man named Pastorus, who was devoted in their 
service. They shrank from nothing that came in the 
way of their self-imposed duties. They sought out and 
received into their houses such as were torn and muti- 
lated by tortures. They visited and fed such as were 
in prison. They took up the bodies of the martyred 
ones which were cast .out without burial, and, carefully 
washing and shrouding them, they laid them reverently 
in the caves beneath their houses. All the blood they 
collected with sponges, and deposited in a certain well. 
Thus boldly they showed forth the faith which was in 
them, and yet. according to the most trustworthy ac- 
counts, they escaped persecution and martyrdom, and 
died peacefully and were buried in the cemetery of 
Priscilla. Pastorus wrote a history of their deeds and 
virtues. Their house, in which the apostle is reported 
to have preached, was consecrated as a place of Chris- 
tian worship by pope Pius 1. Their churches are among 
the interesting remains of ancient Rome. In the nave 
of the church of Santa Prassede is a well, in which she 
is said to have put the blood of those who suffered on 
the Esquiline, while the holy sponge is preserved in a 
silver shrine in the sacristy. In the church of St. Pu- 
dentiana there is a well, said to contain the relics of 
3000 martyrs. In Christian art they have frequently 
been made the subject of the painter’s brush, and the 
two sisters are usually represented together, richly 
draped. The sponge and cup are their especial attri- 
butes. They are commemorated on the days on which 
they are supposed to have died — July 21 and May 19, 
A.D. 148. See Schaff, Church History , vol. ii; Butler, 
Lives of the Saints. (J. H. W.) 

Praxidice, a surname of Persephone among the 
Orphic poets, but at a later period she was accounted a 
goddess who w'as concerned with the distribution of 
justice to the human family. The daughters of Ogyges 
received the name of Praxidices, and were worshipped 
under the figure of heads of animals. 

Praxiphanes (TIpa^Kpdvgg), a Peripatetic philos- 
opher, was a native either of Mytilene (Clem. Alex, i, 
365, ed. Potter) or of Rhodes (Strabo, xiv, 655). He 
lived in the time of Demetrius Poliorcetes and Ptolemy 
Lagi, and was a pupil of Theophrastus, about B.C. 322 
(Proclus, i, In Timesum ; Tzetzes, Ad Hesiod. Op. et 
Dies, 1). He subsequently opened a school himself, in 
w hich Epicurus is said to have been one of his pupils 
(Diog. Laert. x, 13). Praxiphanes paid especial atten- 
tion to grammatical studies, and is hence named along 
with Aristotle as the founder and creator of the science 
of grammar (Clem. Alex. 1. c. ; Bekker, Anecdota, ii, 
229, where Upa^iepdrovg should be read instead of 
’ETriepdrovg). The writings of Praxiphanes appear to 
have been numerous, but have no special interest to- 
day. See Preller, Disputatio de Praxiphane Peripa- 
tetico inter antiquissimos grammaticos nobili (Dorpat, 
1842). — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Iiom. Biog. s. v. 

Pray, Georges, a Hungarian Jesuit, noted as a 
historian, was born at Presburg in 1724. In 1740 he 
entered the Society of Jesus, taught in several of their 


schools, and became, after the suppression of his order, 
historiographer of the kingdom of Hungary, and con- 
servator of the library of Buda. In 1790 he obtained a 
canonry at Grosswardein. lie died near the close of 
the 18th century. Pray wrote, Annules veteres Hun- 
norum, Avarorum et II ungaro rum ad annum Chnst. 
M DX CVII deduct i (Vienna, 1761, fob, followed by Sup- 
plementa, ibid. 1775, fol.): — Annules regum Hungarian 
ad annum Chr. MDLXIV deducti (ibid. 1764-70, 5 pts. 
fol.): — De sacra dextera divi Stephani Hungarue regis 
(ibid. 1771, 4 to) : — De Ladislao llungarias rege (Pesth, 
1774, 4to) : — De Salomone rege et Emerico duce Hunga- 
ries (ibid. 1774, 4to) : — Specimen hierarchies Hungaricce, 
complectens seriem chronolvgicam archiepiscoporum et 
episcoporum Ilmgaries, cum diocesium delineutione (Pres- 
burg, 1778, 4to) : — Index librorum ruriorum bibliotheeee 
universitatis Budensis (Buda, 1780-81, 2 pts. 8vo): — 
Ilistoria regum Hungarian, cum notitiis ad cognoscendum 
referem regni statum (ibid. 1800-1, 3 pts. 8vo). — Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generale , s. v. See Horanyi, Memories 
Ilungarorinn, vol. iii ; Luca, Gelehrtes Oesterreich ; Roter- 
mund, supplement to Jocher, Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. 

Prayer. The words generally used in the O. T. 
are PT2nPl, tchinnah (from the root "j2n, “to incline,” 
“to be gracious,” whence in Hithp. “to entreat grace 
or mercy Sept, generally, cirjmg ; Vulg. deprecatio), 
and K^EPl, tephilldh (from the root “to judge,” 
whence in Hithp. “to seek judgment;” Sept. TTpoaev\i] ; 
Vulg. oratin'). The latter is also used to express interces- 
sory prayer. The two words point to the two chief ob- 
jects sought in prayer, viz. the prevalence of right and 
truth, and the gift of mercy. A very frequent formula 
for prayer in the O. T. is the phrase PIPP C 12 
to call upon the name of Jehovah. The usual Greek 
term is er\o/tai, which originally signified only a wish; 
but Stopai, to beg (properly to want), is a frequent ex- 
pression for prayer. 

I. Scriptural History of the Subject. — 1. That prayer 
was coeval with the fallen race we cannot doubt, and it 
was in all probability associated with the first sacrifice. 
The first definite account of its public observance occurs 
in the remarkable expression recorded in the lifetime 
of Enos, the son of Seth : “ Then began men to call 
upon the name of the Lord” (Gen. iv, 26). From that 
time a life of prayer evidently marked the distinction 
between the pious and the wicked. The habit was 
maintained in the chosen family of Abraham, as is evi- 
dent from frequent instances in the history of the He- 
brew patriarchs. Moses, however, gave no specific 
commands with reference to this part of religious ser- 
vice (comp. Spanheim, Ad Callimach. Pallad. p. 139; 
Creuzer, Symbol, i, 164 sq.), and prayer was not by law 
interwoven with the public worship of God among the 
Hebrews (but comp. Deut. xxvi, 10, 13, and the pra3 r er 
of atonement offered by the liigh-priest, Lev. xvi. 21). 
We do not know whether, before the exile, prayer w r as 
customarily joined with sacrificial offerings (Iliad, i, 
450 sq. ; Odys. xiv, 423; Lucian, Dea Syr. 57 ; Curtins, 

iv, 13, 15 ; Pliny, II. X. xxviii, 3 ; see lamblich, Myster. 

v, 26). Yet, at least in morning and evening worship, 
those present perhaps joined in prayer, either silently 
or with united voices (see Luke i, 10). About the time 
of the exile onr records begin of the custom of the Le- 
vites reciting prayers and leading others (1 Chron. 
xxiii, 30; comp. Neh. xi, 17; Berach. xxvi, 1; see 
Otho, Lex. Bab. p. 164). An extraordinary instance 
of public prayer occurs in 1 Kings viii. 22. We see 
that prayer as a religious exercise, in the outer court of 
the sanctuary, though not expressly commanded, was 
yet supposed and expected. (Psa. cxli, 2; Rev. viii. 3, 
4, seem to indicate that incense was a symbol of prayer; 
but see Biihr, Symbolik, i, 461 sq.) As private devo- 
tion prayer was always in general use (comp. Isa. i, 15; 
Credner, On Joel, p. 192, supposes from Joel ii, 16, and 
Matt, xviii, 3; xix, 14; Psa. viii, 3, that especial virtue 


PRAYER 


474 


PRAYER 


was ascribed to the prayers of innocent children ; but ; 
without ground). After the time of the exile prayer i 
came gradually to be viewed as a meritorious work, an 
opus ope rat urn. Prayer and fasting were considered the 
two great divisions of personal piety ( l ob. xii, 9; Ju- 
dith iv. 12). It was customary to oiler prayer before 
every great undertaking (Judith xiii, 7 ; comp. Acts 
ix, 40; /Had, ix, 172 ; xxiv, 308; Pvthag. Carmen A ur. 
48) ; as in war before a hat tie (l Mace, v, 33; xi, 71 ; 2 
Macc. xv, 20; comp, viii, 29). Three times a day was 
prayer repeated (Dan. vi, 11; comp. l'sa. lv, 18; Tun- 
chum, ix, 4, in Schbttgen, Ilor. J/ebr. i, 419): namely, 
at the third hour (9 A.M., Acts ii, 1 the time of the 
morning sacrifice in the Temple) ; at mid-day, the sixth 
hour (12 M., x, 9); and in the afternoon, at the ninth 
hour (3 P.M., the time of the evening sacrifice in the 
Temple; comp. Dan. ix, 21; Josephus, Ant. xiv, 4, 3; 
see also Acts iii, 1 ; x, 39 ; Thilo, Apocr. i, 352: Schbtt- 
gen, Op. cit. p. 418 sq.; Wetstein, ii, 471). Compare 
the three or four fold repetition of songs of praise by the 
Egyptian priests each day (Porphyr. A bstin. iv, 8). The , 
Mohammedans, too, are well known to have daily hours 1 
of prayer. It was usual, too, before and after eating to 
utter a form of prayer or thanks (Matt, xv, 3G; John 
vi, 11; Acts xxvii, 35; Philo, Opp. ii, 481; Porphyr. 
Abstinev. iv, 12; see Kuinid, Ve precum ante et post 
cibum up. Judteos et. Christ, faciendum m genere, anti- 
qnitate , etc. [Lips. 17G4]). The Pharisees and Essenes 
especially ascribed great importance to prayer. The 
former, indeed, made a display of this form of devotion 
(Matt, vi, 5), and humored their own conceit by mak- 
ing their prayers very long. See Pharisee. Perma- 
nent forms of prayer were already customary in the 
time ol Christ (Luke xi, 1), perhaps chiefly the same 
which are contained in the Mishna, Veruchoth (comp. 
Pirkt A both, ii, 13), The Lord’s Prayer, too, has sev- 
eral, though not very important, agreements with the 
forms in the Talmud (see Schbttgen, i, 1G0 sq.; Vi- 
tringa, Ve Synug. Yet. p. 9G2; Otho, Lex. Rub. p. 539; 
Tholuek, Vergpredigt, p. 337 sq.). Private prayer was 
practiced by the Israelites chiefly in retired chambers 
in their houses (Matt, vi, G), especially in the “upper 
room” (Dan. vi, 11 ; Judith viii. 5; Tub. iii, 12; Acts i, 
13; x, 9), and on the roof. If in the open air, an emi- 
nence was sought for (Matt, xiv, 23; Mark vi, 46; 
Luke vi, 12; comp. 1 Kings x viii, 42). The inhabitants 
of Jerusalem were fondest of going to the court of the 
Temple (Luke xviii, 10; Ac's iii, 1; comp. Isa. lvi, 7 ; 
see Arnob. A dr. Cent, vi, 4; Lakemaeher, Antiq. Or, 
Suer. p. 425). lie, however, who was surprised by the 
hour of prayer in the street stood there and said his 
prayer on the spot. In every case the face was turned 
towards the holy hill of the Temple (Dan. vi, II; 2 
Citron, vi, 34; 3 Esdr. iv, 58; Mislma, Vernc/t. iv, 5), 
but by the Samaritans to Heri/.im. In the court of the 
'fem pic the face was turned to the Temple itself (1 
Kings viii, 38), to the Holy of Holies (Psa. v, 8; see 
Thilo, A poor, i, 20). Thus the Jews praying then faced 
the west, while the modern Jews in Europe and Amer- 
ica face the east in prayer. It was an early custom 
among Christians, too. to turn the face towards the east 
in praying (t)rigen. Horn. 5. in Xnm., in Op. ii, 28 1 ; Clem. 
Al«*x. Strom, vii, 724; comp. Tcrtul. A pot. xvi). The 
Mohammedans turn the face towards Mecca (Bosen- 
inhller, Morgent. iv. 3G1 ). The usual posture in prayer 
was standing (I Sam. i, 2G ; 1 Kings viii, 22; Dan. ix, 
2b; Matt. vi. 5; Mark xi, 25; Luke xviii, 11; comp. 
Hind, xxiv, 30G sq. ; Martial, xii, 77, 2 ; A1 Koran, v,8; 
Mishna, Vtruch. v, 1 ; Philo, Opp. ii, 481 ; Wetstein, i. 
321). Put in earnest devotion, bending the knee, or 
actual kneeling, was practiced (2 Cliron. vi, 13; 1 Kings 

viii, 54; Esdr. ix, 5; Dan. vi, 10; Luke xxii, 41; Acts 

ix, 40), or the body was even thrown to the ground 
((Jen. xxiv, 2G ; Nch. viii. 0 ; Judith ix, 1 ; Matt, xxvi, 
89). The hands before prayer must be made clean. 
Says the Mishna. lie that prays with unclean hands 
commits deadly sin ( Sobur I)eut. f. 101, 427 ; comp. 1 


Tim. ii, 8; Odys. ii, 2GI ; Clem. Alex. Strom, iv, 531; 
Chrysost. I/orn. 43. in 1 Cor.). The hands were then, 
in standing, often lifted up towards heaven (1 Kings 

viii, 22; Neh. viii, 7 ; Lam. ii, 19; iii, 41; Psa. xxviii, 2; 
cxxxiv, 2; 2 Mace, iii, 20; 1 Tim. ii, 8; Philo, Opp. ii, 
48], 534; Iliad, i, 450; Virgil, xEn. i, 93; Horace, Od. 
iii, 23, 1 : Plutarch, .1/ex. p. G82; Aristotle, Mund. vi; 
Seneca, Ep. 41 ; Wetstein. ii, 323; Doughtad Analect. ii. 
135); sometimes were spread out (Isa. i, 15; Ezra ix, 5); 
and in humble prayers of penitence were laid meekly on 
the breast, or sometimes the breast was struck with them 
(Luke xviii, 13). A posture peculiar to prayer was 
dropping the head upon the breast (Psa. xxxv, 13), or 
between the knees (1 Kings xviii, 42). This was done 
in great sorrow. The former is still customary among 
the Mohammedans (see the figs, in lieland’s Ve Rvlig. 
Muh. p. 87). See Attitihks. Extensive treatises 
on the kinds of prayer, and their order and conduct, are 
given in the Mishna (treatise Veruchoth) and the double 
(lemara (in Herman by Babe [Halle, 1777]; see also 
Otho, Lex. Rab. p. 537 sq.). One species of prayer 
was intercession. Almost infallible virtue was ascribed 
to it when offered by a holy person (see James v, 16; 
comp. Diod. Sic. iv, 61 ; Apollod. iii, 12, G; (Jen. xx, 7, 
17; Exod.xxxii, 1 1 sq.; 1 Kings x vii, 20 sq.; Josephus, 
Ant. xiv, 2, 1 ; 2 Cor. i, 11 ; 1 Tim. ii, 1 sq. ; Phil, i, 19). 
Hence it was common to request the prayers of others 
(1 Thess. v, 25; 2 Tbess. iii. 1; lie!), xiii, 18; comp. 
Deyling, Obserr. ii, 587 sq.). See Jonatb. On den. xxvi, 
27 ; and csp. Suieer, Obserr. Suet', p. 149 sq. ; Schroder, 
Viss. de Precib. I/ebrteorum [Marb. 1717] ; Saubert, Ve 
Precibtts Ihb.; and I’oleman, De ritn prcecandi vet. 
Heb., both in Ugolini Thesuur. vol. xxi; Carpzov, A p- 
pur. p. 322 sq. ; Baur, Gottesd. I "erf, i, 357 sq. ; Behin, 
Historia Precum Viblicu ((hitting. 1814); Hartmann, 
Yerbind. d. A. it. X. T. p. 23G sq., 28G sq. ; and on the 
whole subject, Brover, de Nicdek, Ve popular, vet. et 
recent. Adorationib. (Amsterd. 1713). The Homeric 
prayers are treated in Naegelsbacli’s Homer. Theol. p. 185 
sq. — Winer. See Proseuchk; Synagogue. 

2. The only form of prayer given for perpetual use in 
the O. T. is the one in Dent, xxvi, 5-15, connected with 
the offering of tithes ami first-fruits, and containing in 
simple form the important elements of prayer, acknowl- 
edgment of Hod’s mercy, self-dedication, and prayer for 
future blessing. To this may perhaps be added the 
threefold blessing of Numb, vi, 24 26, couched as it is in 
a precatory form ; and the short prayers of Moses(Numb. 
x, 35, 3G) at the moving and resting of the cloud, the 
former of which was the germ of the G8th Psalm. 

Indeed, the forms given, evidently with a view to 
preservation and constant use, are rather hymns or 
songs than prayers properly so called, although they 
often contain supplication. Scattered through the his- 
torical books wc have the Song of Moses taught to the 
children of Israel (Dent, xxxii, 1-43); his less impor- 
tant songs after the passage of the Bed Sea (Exod. xv, 
1-19) and at the springing out of the water (Numb, xxi, 
17, 18); the Song of Deborah and Barak (Jndg. v); the 
Song of Hannah in 1 Sam. ii, 1 10 (the ( fleet of which 
is seen by reference to the Magnificat); ami the Song 
of David (Psa. xviii), singled out ill 2 Sam. xxii. But 
after David’s time tiie existence ami use of the Psalms, 
and the poetical form of the prophetic hooks, ami of the 
prayers which they contain, must have tended to fix 
this psalmic character on all Jewish prayer. The effect 
is seen plainly in the form of llezekiah’s prayers in 2 
Kings xix, 15-19; Isa. xxxviii, 9-20. 

But of the prayers recorded in the (). T. the two most 
remarkable are those of Solomon at the dedication of 
die Temple (1 Kings viii, 23-53) and of Joshua the 
high-priest and bis colleagues alter the captivity (Neh. 

ix, 5-38). The former is a prayer for (Jod’s presence 
with his people in time of national defeat (ver. 33, 34), 

i famine or pestilence (ver. 35-37), war (ver. 44, 45), and 
captivity (ver. 46-50), and with each individual Jew 
and stranger (ver. 41-43) who may worship in the Tern- 


PItAYEIi 


475 


PUAYEli 


pie. The latter contains a recital of all God’s blessings 
to the children of Israel from Abraham to the captivity, 
a confession of their continual sins, and a fresh dedica- 
tion of themselves to the covenant. It is clear that 
both are likely to have exercised a strong liturgical in- 
fluence, and accordingly we find that the public prayer 
in the Temple, already referred to, had in our Lord’s 
time grown into a kind of liturgy. Before and during 
the sacrifice there was a prayer that God would put it 
into their hearts to love and fear him ; then a repeating 
of the Ten Commandments, and of the passages written 
on their phylacteries [see Frontlets] ; next, three or 
four prayers and ascriptions of glory to God ; and the 
blessing from Numb, vi, 24-26, “ The Lord bless thee,” 
etc., closed this service. Afterwards, at the offering of 
the ineat-offering, there followed the singing of psalms, 
regularly fixed for each day of the week, or specially 
appointed for the great festivals (see Bingham, bk. xiii, 
ch. v, §4). A somewhat similar liturgy formed a regu- 
lar part of the synagogue worship, in which there was a 
regular minister, as the leafier of prayer n 

legatus ecclesice ) , and public prayer, as well as private, 
was the special object of the 1 ’rose uc hoe. It appears, 
also, from the question of the disciples in Luke xi, 1, 
and from Jewish tradition, that the chief teachers of 
the day gave special forms of prayer to their disciples, 
as the badge of their discipleship and the best fruits of 
their learning. See Forms of Prayer. 

All Christian prayer is, of course, based on the Lord’s 
Prayer ; but its spirit is also guided by that of his prayer 
in Gethsemane, and of the prayer recorded by St.John 
(ch. xvii), the beginning of his great work of intercession. 
The first is the comprehensive type of the simplest and 
most universal prayer; the second justifies prayers for 
special blessings of this life, while it limits them by 
perfect resignation to God’s will ; the last, dwelling as it 
does on the knowledge and glorification of God, and the 
communion of man with him, as the one object of prayer 
and life, is the type of the highest and most spiritual 
devotion. The Lord’s Prayer has given the form and 
tone of all ordinary Christian prayer; it has fixed, as 
its leading principles, simplicity and confidence in our 
Father, community of sympathy with all men, and prac- 
tical reference to our own life; it has shown, as its true 
objects, first the glory of God, and next the needs of 
man. To the intercessory prayer we may trace up its 
transcendental element, its desire of that communion 
through love with the nature of God which is the se- 
cret of all individual holiness and of all community' with 
men. 

The influence of these prayers is more distinctly 
traced in the pravers contained in the Epistles (see Eph. 
iii, 14-21 ; Bom. xvi, 25-27; Phil. i. 3-11; Col. i, 9-15; 
lleb. xiii, 20, 21 ; 1 Pet. v, 10. 1 1, etc.) than in those re- 
corded in the Acts. The public prayer, which from the 
beginning became the principle of life and unity' in the 
Church (see Acts ii, 42; and comp, i, 24, 25; iv, 24-30; 
vi, 6; xii, 5; xiii, 2, 3; xvi, 25; xx, 36; xxi, 5), 
probably' in the first instance took much of its form and 
style from the pray T ers of the synagogues. The only' 
form given (besides the very r short one of Acts i, 24, 25), 
dwelling as it does (Acts iv, 24-30) on the Scriptures 
of the O. T. in their application to our Lord, seems to 
mark this connection. It was probably by degrees that 
they' assumed the distinctively Christian character. 

3. In the record of prayers accepted and granted by' God, 
we observe, as always, a special adaptation to the period 
of his dispensation to which they belong. In the patri- 
archal period they have the simple and childlike tone 
of domestic supplication for the simple and apparently 
trivial incidents of domestic life. Such are the prayers 
of Abraham for children (Gen. xv, 2, 3); for Ishmael 
(xvii, 18); of Isaac for Bebekah (xxv, 21); of Abra- 
ham’s servant in Mesopotamia (xxiv, 12-14) ; although 
sometimes they take a wider range in intercession, as 
with Abraham for Sodom (Geu. xviii, 23-32), and for 


Abimelech (xx, 7, 17). In the Mosaic period they as- 
sume a more solemn tone and a national bearing, chiefly 
that of direct intercession for the chosen people, as by 
Moses (Numb, xi, 2; xii, 13: xxi, 7); by Samuel (1 
Sam. vii, 5; xii, 19, 23); by David (2 Sam. xxiv, 17, 
18); by llezekiah (2 Kings xix, 15-19); by Isaiah (2 
Kings xix, 4; 2 Chron. xxxii, 20 ) \ by T Daniel (Dan. ix, 
20, 21): or of prayer for national victory, as by Asa (2 
Chron. xiv, 11); Jehoshaphat (2 Chron. xx, 6-12). 
More rarely are they' for individuals, as in the prayer 
of Hannah (1 Sam. i, 12); in that of llezekiah in his 
sickness (2 Kings xx, 2) ; the intercession of Samuel for 
Saul (1 Sam. xv, 11, 35), etc. A special class are those 
which precede and refer to the exercise of miraculous 
power, as by Moses (Exod. viii, 12, 30; xv, 25); by 
Elijah at Zarephath (1 Kings xvii, 20) and Carmel (I 
Kings xviii, 36, 37); by Elisha at Shunem (2 Kings iv, 
33) and Dothan (vi, 17, 18); by' Isaiah (2 Kings xx, 
11): by' St. Peter for Tabitha (Acts ix, 40); by the 
elders of the Church (James v, 14-16). In the New 
Testament they have a more directly' spiritual bearing, 
such as the prayer of the Church for protection and 
grace (Acts iv, 24-30) ; of the Apostles for their Samar- 
itan converts (viii, 15); of Cornelius for guidance (x,4, 
31); of the Church of St. Peter (xii, 5); of St. Faul at 
Philippi (xvi, 25); of St. Paul against the thorn in the 
flesh answered, although not granted (2 Cor. xii, 7-9), 
etc. It would seem the intention of Holy' Scripture to 
encourage all prayer, more especially' intercession, in all 
relations and for all righteous objects. — Smith. See 
Lord's Prayer. 

II. Christian Doctrine on the Subject. — 1. Prayer is a 
request or petition for mercies; or it is “an offering-up 
of our desires to God, for things agreeable to his will, in 
the name of Christ, by the help of his Spirit, with con- 
fession of our sins, and thankful acknowledgment of his 
mercies.” Nothing can be more rational or consistent 
than the exercise of this duty'. It is a divine injunc- 
tion that men should always pray, and not faint (Luke 
xviii, 1). It is highly proper we should acknowledge 
the obligations we are under to the Divine Being, and 
supplicate his throne for the blessings we stand in need 
of. It is essential to our peace and felicity', and is the 
happy means of our carrying on and enjoying fellowship 
with God. It has an influence on our tempers and con- 
duct, and evinces our subjection and obedience to God. 

2. The object of prayer is God alone, through Jesus 
Christ as the Mediator. All supplications, therefore, to 
saints or angels are not only useless, but blasphemous. 
All worship of the creature, however exalted that creat- 
ure is, is idolatry, and is strictly prohibited in the sacred 
law of God. Nor are we to pray to the Trinity as three 
distinct Gods; for though the Father, Son, and Holy 
Ghost be addressed in various parts of the Scripture 
(2 Cor. xiii, 14 ; 2 Thess. ii, 16, 17), yet never as three 
Gods, for that would lead us directly to the doctrine of 
polytheism: the more ordinary mode the Scripture 
points out is to address the Father through the Son, 
depending on the Spirit to help our infirmities (Eph. 
ii, 18; Bom. viii, 26). 

3. As to the nature of this duty, it must be observed 
that it does not consist in the elevation of the voice, the 
posture of the body, the use of a form, or the mere ex- 
temporary* use of words, nor, properly speaking, in any- 
thing of an exterior nature: but simply the offering up 

i of our desires to God (Matt, xv, 8). (See the definition 
above.) It has generally' been divided into adoration , 
by which we express our sense of the goodness and 
greatness of God (Dan. iv, 34, 35); confession, by which 
we acknowledge our unworthiness (1 John i, 9) ; suppli- 
cation, by* which we pray for pardon, grace, or any' 
blessing we want (Matt, vii, 7) ; intercession, by' which 
we pray for others (James v, 16); and thanksgiving, by 
which we express our gratitude to God (Phil, iv, 6). 
To these some add invocation, a making mention of 
one or more of the names of God ; pleading, arguing our 
case with God in a humble and fervent manner; dedi- 


PRAYEI 


476 


PI1AYEE 


cation, or surrendering ourselves to Cod; deprecation, 
by which we desire that evils may be averted; blessing, 
in which we express our joy in Cod, and gratitude for 
his mercies; but as all these appear to be included in 
the lirst live parts of prayer, they need not be insisted 
on. 

4. The different kinds of prayer are. (1.) Ejaculatory, 
by which the mind is directed to Cod on any emergen- 
cy. It is derived from the word ejaculor, to dart or 
shoot out suddenly, and is therefore appropriated to de- 
scribe this kind of prayer, which is made up of short 
sentences, spontaneously springing from the mind. The 
Scriptures afford us many instances of ejaculatory pray- 
er (Exod. xiv, 15; 1 Sam. i, 13; Horn, vii, 21, 25; (Jen. 
xliii. 23; Judges xvi, 28; Luke xxiii, 42, 43). It is 
one of the principal excellences of this kind of prayer 
that it can be practiced at all times, and in all places; 
in the public ordinances of religion; in all our ordinary 
and extraordinary undertakings; in times of aflliet ion, 
temptation, and danger; in seasons of social inter- 
course; in worldly business; in travelling; in sickness 
and pain. In fact, everything around us, and every 
event that transpires, may afford us matter for ejacula- 
tion. It is worthy, therefore, of our practice, especially 
when we consider that, it is a species of devotion that 
can receive no impediment from any external circum- 
stances, that it. has a tendency to support the mind, and 
keep it in a happy frame; fortifies us against the temp- 
tations of the world; elevates our affections to Hod; 
directs the mind into a spiritual channel; and has a 
tendency to excite trust and dependence on Divine 
Providence. 

(2.) Secret or closet prayer is another kind of prayer 
to which we should attend. It has its name from the 
manner in which Christ recommended it (Matt, vi, 6). 
lie himself set us an example of it (Luke vi, 12); and 
it has been the practice of the saints in every age ((Jen. 
xxviii, xxxii; Dan. vi, 10; Acts x, 9). There are 
some particular occasions when this duty may be prac- 
ticed to advantage, as when we are entering into any 
important situation; undertaking anything of conse- 
quence; before we go into the world; when calamities 
surround us (Isa. xxvi, 20); or when ease and prosper- 
ity attend us. As closet prayer is calculated to inspire 
us with peace, defend us from our spiritual enemies, ex- 
cite us to obedience, and promote our real happiness, we 
should be watchful lest the stupidity of our frame, the 
intrusion of company, the cares of the world, the insinua- 
tions of Satan, or the indulgence of sensual objects, pre- 
vent us from the constant exercise of this necessary and 
important duty. 

(3.) Family prayer is also another part not to be neg- 
lected. It is true there is no absolute command for this 
in Hod’s Word; yet, from hints, allusions, and exam- 
ples we may learn that it was the practice of ancient 
saints — Abraham (Hen. xviii, 19), David (2 Sam. vi, 
20 ), Solomon (Prov. xxii, Ii), Job (i, 1, 5), Joshua (xxiv, 
15). (See also Kph. vi, 4 ; Prov. vi, 20; Jer. x, 25; Acts 
x, 2, 30; xvi, 15.) Family prayer, indeed, may not be 
essential to the character of a true Christian, but it is 
sundy no honor to heads of families to have it said that 
they have no religion in their houses. If we consider 
what a blessing it is likely to prove to our children and 
our domestics; what, comfort it must afford to ourselves; 
of what utility it may prove to the community at large; 
how it sanctifies domestic comforts and crosses; and what 
a tendency it has to promote order, decency, sobriety, 
and religion in general, we must at once see the propri- 
ety of attending to it. The objection often made to 
family prayer is want of time; but this is a very friv- 
olous excuse, since the time allotted for this purpose 
need be but short, and may easily be redeemed from 
sleep or business. Others say they have no gifts; 
where this is the case, a form may soon be procured and 
used, but it should be remembered that gifts increase 
by exercise, and no man can properly decide unless he 
make repeated trials. Others are dcte;red through 


shame, or the fear of man : in answer to such, we re- 
fer them to the declarations of our Lord (Matt, x, 37, 
38; Mark viii, 38). As to the season for family prayer, 
every family must determine for itself; but before break- 
fast every morning, and before supper at night, seems 
most proper: perhaps a quarter of an hour or twenty 
minutes may be sufficient as to the time. 

(4.) Social prayer is another kind Christians are 
called upon to attend to. It is denominated social be- 
cause it is offered by a society of Christians in their col- 
lective capacity, convened for that particular purpose, 
either on some peculiar and extraordinary occasions, or 
at stated and regular seasons. Special prayer-meetings 
are such as are held at the meeting and parting of inti- 
mate friends, especially churches and ministers: when 
the Church is in a state of unusual deadness and bar- 
renness; when ministers are sick, or taken away by 
death; in times of public calamity and distress, etc. 
Stated meetings for social prayer are such as are held 
weekly in some places which have a special regard to 
the state of the nation and churches; missionary prayer- 
meetings for the spread of the Uospel; weekly meet- 
ings held in most of the congregations, which have a 
more particular reference to their own churches, minis- 
ters, tlie sick, feeble, and weak of the flock, t hristians 
are greatly encouraged to this kind of prayer from the 
consideration of the promise (Mott, xviii, 20), the bene- 
fit of mutual supplications, from the example of the most 
eminent primitive saints (Mai. iii, ll»; Acts xii, 12), the 
answers given to prayer (Acts xii, 1 12; Josh, x; Isa. 
xxxvii, etc.), and the signal blessing they are to the 
churches (I’hil. i, 19; 2 Cor. i, 11). These meetings 
should be attended with regularity; those who engage 
should study simplicity, brevity, Scripture language, 
seriousness of spirit, and everything that has a tendency 
to edification. We now come, lastly, to take notice of 
public prayer, or that in which the whole congregation 
is engaged, either in repeating a set form or acquiescing 
with the prayer of the minister who leads their devo- 
tions. This is both an ancient and important part of 
religious exercise; it was a part of the patriarchal wor- 
ship ((Jen. iv, 50); it was also carried on by the Jews 
(Exod. xxix, 43; Luke i, 10). It was a part of the 
Temple-service (Isa. lvi. 7 ; I Kings viii. 59). Jesus 
Christ recommended it both by his example and in- 
struction (Matt, xviii, 20; Luke iv, 10). The disciples 
also attended to it (Acts ii, 41. 42), and the Scriptures 
in many places countenance it (Exod. xx. 24 ; l’sa. lxiii, 
1, 2; lxxxiv, 11; xxvii, 4). Sec Wilkins, Henry, 
Watts, On Prayer; Townsend. Sine Sermons on Prayer; 
Tilley, Moral Philosophy, ii. 31; Mather, Student and 
Pastor, p. 87; Wollaston, Religion of Nature, p. 122, 
123 ; Hannah More. On Education, voi. ii, ch. i ; Harrow, 
1 1 ’oris, voi. i, ser. 0; Smith, System of Prayer ; Scamp, 
Sermon on Family Religion; Wnll'ord, On Prayer . — 
Henderson’s Hack. See Wonsnti*. 

HI. J’hilosophical 1 Rjjiculties . — 1. Scripture docs not 
give any theoretical explanation of the mystery which 
attaches to prayer. The difficulty of understanding its 
real eflieacv arises chiefly from two sources: from the 
belief that man lives under general laws, which in all 
cases must he fulfilled unalterably; and the opposing 
belief that he is master of his own destiny, and need 
pray for no external blessing. The lirst difficulty is 
even increased when we substitute the belief in a per- 
sonal Hod for ihe sense of an impersonal destiny; since 
not only docs the predestination of Hod seem to render 
prayer useless, but his wisdom and love, giving freely 
to man all that is good for him, appear to make it need- 
less. 

The difficulty is familiar to all philosophy, the former 
element being far the more important : the logical in- 
ference from ii is the belief in the absolute in el ess ness 
of prayer. Hut the universal instinct of prayer, being 
too strong for such reasoning, generally exacted as a 
compromise the use of prayer for good in the abstract 
(the *• mens sana in corpora sano’’); a compromise the- 


PEAYEIJ 


477 


PKAYEIi 


oretieallv liable to tlie same difficulties, but wholesome 
iu its practical effect. A far more dangerous compro- 
mise was that adopted by some philosophers, rather 
than by mankind at large, which separated internal 
spiritual growth from the external circumstances that 
give scope thereto, and claimed the former as belonging 
entirely to man, w r hile allowing the latter to be gifts of 
the gods, and therefore to be fit objects of prayer. 

The most obvious escape from these difficulties is to 
fall back on the mere subjective effect of prayer; and to 
suppose that its only object is to produce on the mind 
that consciousness of dependence which leads to faith, 
and that sense of God’s protection and mercy which 
fosters love. These being the conditions of receiving, 
or at least of rightly entering into, God’s blessings, it is 
thought that in its encouragement of them the entire 
use and efficacy of prayer consist. 

Now, Scripture, while, by the doctrine of spiritual in- 
fluence, it entirely disposes of the latter difficulty, does 
not so entirely solve that part of the mystery which de- 
pends on the nature of God. It places it clearly before 
us, and emphasizes most strongly those doctrines on 
which the difficulty turns. The reference of all events 
and actions to the will or permission of God, and of all 
blessings to his free grace, is indeed the leading idea of 
all its parts, historical, prophetic, and doctrinal; and 
this general idea is expressly dwelt upon in its applica- 
tion to the subject of prayer. The principle that our 
“ Heavenly Father knoweth what things we have need 
of before we ask him” is not only enunciated in plain 
terms by our Lord, but is at all times implied in the 
very form and nature of all Scriptural prayers; and, 
moreover, the ignorance of man, \viu> “ knows not what 
to pray for as he ought,” ami his consequent need of the 
divine guidance in prayer, are dwelt upon with equal 
earnestness. Yet, while this is so, on the other hand 
the instinct of prayer is solemnly sanctioned and en- 
forced in every page. Not only is its subjective effect 
asserted, but its real objective efficacy, as a means ap- 
pointed by God for obtaining blessing, is both implied 
and expressed in the plainest terms. As we are bidden 
to pray for general spiritual blessings — in which instance 
it might seem as if prayer were simply a means of pre- 
paring the heart, and so making it capable of receiving 
them — so also are we encouraged to ask special bless- 
ings, both spiritual and temporal, in hope that thus (and 
thus only) we may obtain them, and to use intercession 
for others, equally special and confident, in trust that an 
effect, which in this case cannot possibly be subjective 
to ourselves, will be granted to our prayers. The com- 
mand is enforced by direct promises, such as that in the 
Sermon on the Mount (Matt, vii, 7, 8), of the clearest 
and most comprehensive character; by the example of 
all saints and of our Lord himself; and by historical 
records of such effect as granted to prayer again and 
again. 

Thus, as usual in the case of such mysteries, the two 
apparently opposite truths are emphasized, because they 
are needful to man’s conception of his relation to God; 
their reconcilement is not, perhaps cannot be, fully re- 
vealed; for, in fact, it is involved in that inscrutable 
mystery which attends the conception of any free action 
of man as necessary for the working out of the general 
laws of God’s unchangeable will. 

At, the same time it is clearly implied that such a rec- 
oncilement exists, and that all the apparently isolated 
and independent exertions of man’s spirit iu prayer are 
in some way perfectly subordinated to the one supreme 
will of God, so as to form a part of his scheme of prov- 
idence. This follows from the condition, expressed or 
understood in every prayer, “ Not niv will, but thine be 
done.” It is seen in the distinction between the grant- 
ing of our petitions (which is not absolutely promised) 
and the certain answer of blessing to all faithful prayer; 
a distinction exemplified in the case of Paul’s prayer 
against the “ thorn in the flesh,” and of our Lord’s own 
agony in Gethsemane. It is distinctly enunciated by 


John (1 John v, 14, 15) : “If we ask anything accord- 
ing to his will , he hearetli us; and if we know that he 
hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the 
petitions that we desired of him.” 

It is also implied that the key to the mystery lies in 
the fact of man's spiritual unity with God iu Christ, and 
of the consequent gift of the Holy Spirit. All true and 
prevailing prayer is to be offered “in the name of 
Christ” (John xiv, 13; xv, 16; xvi, 23-27), that is, not 
only for the sake of his atonement, but also in depen- 
dence on his intercession ; which is therefore as a cen- 
tral influence, acting on all prayers offered, to throw off 
whatever in then) is evil, and give efficacy to all that is 
in accordance with the divine will. So also is it said of 
the spiritual influence of the Holy Ghost on each in- 
dividual mind, that while “we know not what to pray 
for,” the indwelling “Spirit makes intercession for the 
saints, according to the trill of God" (Korn, viii, 26, 27). 
Here, as probably in all other cases, the action of the 
Holy Spirit on the soul is to free agents what the law's 
of nature are to things inanimate, and is the power 
which harmonizes free individual action with the uni- 
versal will of God. The mystery of prayer, therefore, 
like all others, is seen to be resolved into that great cen- 
tral mystery of the Gospel, the communion of man with 
God in the incarnation of Christ. Beyond this we can- 
not go. — .Smith. See Providence. 

2. The discussion provoked by Prof. Tyndall’s so-called 
“ Prayer-test” (q. v.) has given a fresh interest to the 
question, How far are v r e entitled to expect the divine in- 
terference with the ordinary course of nature in answer 
to prayer? The question practically resolves itself into 
another and simpler one, Have miracles ceased in the 
present age of the Church? This latter is properly a 
question of fact ; and it is very generally answ'ered 
in the affirmative. The modern instances of miracle- 
working are too few and uncertain to vrarrant any other 
conclusion. All those who of late years have come for- 
ward with claims to the power have sooner or later 
proved themselves miserable pretenders, and hence the 
world has justly abandoned all hope in this direction. 
Whether the power of working miracles was intended 
to be only a temporary grant to the apostolic age, and 
whether therefore it need have been lost out of the 
Church, is an entirely different question. For aught 
we can see, there is no limit set in the N. T. for its pos- 
session and exercise, save the implied one of its neces- 
sity ; and whether this condition has yet wholly passed 
away admits of grave doubt, especially in view of the 
fact that large portions of the earth are yet nnchristian- 
ized. But it would be of little avail to argue this ab- 
stract question. Unless we can bring recent and well- 
authenticated cases of miracles wrought publicly and 
indubitably, few, if any, will believe that we have now 
the right to look for then). This, W'e apprehend, is really 
the settled and universal conviction of Christian people 
of the present day — of Protestants at least, lienee to 
Prof. Tyndall’s challenge that we should test the effi- 
cacy of prayer by a miraculous answer, we simply reply 
that we do not expect any such thing, nor do w f e feel 
ourselves authorized to pray for it. This is not now 
the legitimate scope or province of Christian prayer. 

We are well aware that a certain class of well-at- 
tested and indeed not infrequent facts is commonly ap- 
pealed to iu order to maintain at least the vestiges of 
this power as still extant in the Church. Most striking, 
perhaps, among these occurrences are the remarkable 
cases of recovery from an apparently incurable sickness, 
some of which have transpired within the knowledge of 
almost every one. These have sometimes taken place 
in a very marked manner in answer to the prayers of 
friends and congregations. Far be it from us to deny 
the efficacy of prayer in such eases, or to say a word 
that would discourage prayer in other like cases. But 
none of these cases — we mean those of which we have 
sufficient details and full authentication — at all come up 
to the idea and definition of a proper miracle. They all 


PRAY El 


478 


PRAYEF 


lack at least three of the essential circumstances of such 
an event: 1st. They are not obvious, palpable, direct, 
ami instantaneous reversals of the established laws of 
nature. Many persons have been raised from a seeming 
bed of death as low as any of these, when all hopes ami 
means of restoration had beer, abandoned, and yet no 
one thought of a miracle; perhaps no one had even 
prayed for recovery. The eases are not clearly super- 
natural. 2d. These cures are not effected by any indi- 
vidual consciously and avowedly authorized to exercise 
the divine power in the case. In a miracle there must 
be no misgiving, no hesitation, no shifting of responsi- 
bility on the part of the operator, lie must positively 
know and explicitly assert that he is ‘‘the linger ol 
(rod;" otherwise his act becomes the most blasphemous 
assumption. 3d. (leonine miracles have only been 
wrought as an ocular demonstration of the commission 
of a divine messenger or teacher; they have in all in- 
stances been resorted to solely in personal attestation of 
sacred truth. No new doctrine or fresh communication 
from Heaven purports to be made in connection with 
the remarkable cases under consideration. The cures 
are besought as a personal favor, out of regard for pri- 
vate feeling or public usefulness. But these were not 
the motives which induced our Lord or his apostles to 
work miracles. They simply wrought them to prove 
the truth of Christianity. Just here, if anywhere, may 
doubtless be discovered the reason why miracles have 
not been perpetuated. There remains no longer any 
fresl) revelation of Hod's will to man; no new dispensa- 
tion or even agencies are to be established on the divine 
part; and therefore no such special credentials are is- 
sued from the court of heaven. Its ambassadors have 
only the common seal of the Hospel— the fruits of their 
ministry. 

The same kind of argument disposes of all the other 
special providences often cited in proof of a divine in- 
tervention in answer to prayer. These likewise are not 
miracles, nor are they commonly so regarded. There 
is, however, thus much of valuable truth in the assump- 
tion of their pertinency here, namely, that they are 
really and purposely interferences of Hod on behalf of 
those interested, and at the request of the petitioners. 
That Hod is able to introduce himself at any and every 
point in mundane affairs, whether great or small, is one 
of the. dearest doctrines of the Bible: in fact.it is a nec- 
essary supposition in any religion. But that he is able 
to do this without disturbing the order usually styled 
‘•the laws of nature” is with equal certainty his prerog- 
ative as Creator and Preserver of all. To argue other- 
wise is either to dethrone him from the dominion of the 
universe, or to confound government with revolution. 
Providence is not miraculous; it may be special, or even 
extraordinary, but it is not therefore out of or contrary 
to lixed rule. Just here, on the other hand, we must 
be permitted to enter our protest against the specious 
reasoning in BushncU's Xature ami the Supernatural , 
which, in our judgment, virtually does away with all 
miracle hv reducing it to an imaginary, higher, and 
hitherto unknown law of divine establishment, called 
“ moral," so as to save it from the odium of con llict with 
nature. A miracle, bv its very definition, must be a 
Mipcrsedtire or a temporary violation, if you please — 
of a well-known ami fixed law of nature. It is upon 
precisely this point that its whole significance depends, j 
Eliminate this element, ami you destroy its entire moral 
force. Thai the laws of physical nature are adminis- 
tered in ultimate subservience to those of the moral 
universe is the economy approved no less by reason 
than by Scripture. But these must not. be merged the 
one in the oilier, even if they should he imagined in 
any case to collide. Especially must we not assume the 
intrusion of n superior moral law into the domain of 
nature, supplanting it. in that sphere, and so divesting 
a miracle of its real inirnculoiisncs*. When Hod works 
a miracle he sets aside, we must suppose, a certain law 
or series of laws of nature for t lie time being, and in 


that particular respect, by virtue of his own superior 
right as creator. It is not merely the s|>ontaneoiis su- 
pervention of a mightier countervailing law up to that 
time held in abeyance for such conjunctions. The lat- 
ter assumption is only an insidious form of modern ra- 
tionalism, which would fain, at all hazard, divest the 
miracles of the Bible of their supernatural character. 
We must never forget that a miracle is a physical fact, 
but one in its very nature abnormal from a scientific 
point of view. 

Nor do we overlook the argument derived from the 
moral change effected by t lie Holy Spirit in regener- 
ation and sanctification. These are often claimed as 
miracles of grace. That they are supernatural, in the 
sense of being wrought by a power beyond and superior 
to human nature, is certainly true; but the fact that 
they are specially, or even immediately, the work of 
Hod does not prove them to be properly miraculous. 
For, in the first place, in this respect they are merely 
analogous to any act of particular divine providence, 
and in like manner they lack all the essential charac- 
teristics of a miracle, namely, a point-blank contradic- 
tion of natural law. the authoritative behest of an oper- 
ator, and a moral truth to be sanctioned. They are 
answers to prayer which await the divine pleasure, on 
the performance of certain well-known and universally 
fixed conditions. They are in no sense special or arbi- 
trary. On the contrary, they are most fully under the 
dominion of law, and can be counted upon with the 
most invariable certainty. They are as sure to follow 
the diligent use of t lie appointed means as any other 
effect is to How from its appropriate cause. Indeed, all 
the healthful and legitimate infiucnces of the Spirit are 
normal and in the regular line of our own mental action 
(John iii. N). Even the afilatus of inspiration is no ex- 
ception to this rule (1 Cor. xiv, 32). But, in the second 
place, the spiritual character of the revolution at con- 
version places it altogether outside the category of mi- 
raculous events. These latter always have reference, 
more or less intimately, to the realm of physics; they 
appeal to the senses; they must be susceptible of ocu- 
lar. audible, tangible proof. This is their only security 
against imposition or self-delusion. If in any case, as 
in the instance of the miraculous “gift of unknown 
tongues” in the early Church, and the expulsion of dse- 
mons from the possessed, they have their seat in the 
mind, yet they exhibit palpable evidences through the 
organs and acts of the body, namely, the language of 
the endowed, and the rational behavior of the dispos- 
sessed. In short, miracles are material evidences of a 
supernatural authority. 

In the discussion of this whole question we would do 
well to see what Scripture says on the subject. 'There 
is a large class of passages, chiefly in the words of our 
Lord Jesus himself, which seem to give the believer the 
broadest privilege in this respect. For example, lie 
said to his disciples on one occasion, ‘*If ye have faith 
as a grain of mustard-seed, ye shall say unto this moun- 
tain, Bcmove hence to yonder place; and it shall re- 
move: and nothing shall he impossible to you” (Matt, 
xvii, 20) ; and on another occasion he told them. •* If ye 
have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only do that 
which is done to the tig-tree, but also if yc shall say 
unto this mountain. Be thou removed, and he thou cast 
into the sea, it shall he done; and all things whatsoev- 
er ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive" 
(Matt. xxi. 21. 22). Elsewhere he adds another condi- 
tion to this grant: “Whatsoever ye shall ask in my 
name, that will I do. that the Father may lie glorified in 
the Son. ll' ve shall ask anything in my name, 1 will 
do it” (John xiv, 13. I I); and again. •* Whatsoever ye 
shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you” 
(xvi, 23). The force of these declarations is usually 
parried, as to the question under consideration, by the 
explanation that they were addressed to the apostles as 
such, and intended to apply in their full sense only lo 
them in their ollicial capacity, or at furthest only to 


PRAYER 


479 


PRAYER 


Christian teachers in the apostolic age. Tt is true there 
is nothing in the language that thus limits them, but it 
is claimed that the fact of the cessation of the miracle- 
working power proves that such was the intention of 
the Grantor. We suggest the query whether this very 
interpretation has not clipped the wings of that faith 
upon which the believer is here authorized to soar into 
the higher region of Christian privilege. For aught 
that legitimately appears to the contrary, if the grant 
has been revoked, it has been precisely and solely in 
consequence of unbelief in these identical promises. 
But, be that as it may, in point of fact, we repeat, few 
if any sane and orthodox Christians nowadays profess 
to have the requisite faith to venture upon such acts; 
and therefore the question is narrowed down, whether 
rightly or wrongly, to the commonplace sphere of noil- 
miraculous subjects of prayer. 

There is one passage of Scripture, however, that ap- 
pears to have escaped the general attention of writers 
and speakers on this topic, but which is. as it seems to 
us, peculiarly apposite, if not conclusive of the whole 
ground of controversy. It is as follows in the ordinary 
English version: “The effectual fervent prayer of a 
righteous man availeth much” (James v, 16). The con- 
text shows that this language bears most appropriately 
on the points we have been discussing. The apostle 
had just been speaking of the prayer of the united 
Church on behalf of the sick, assuring them that these 
would be efficacious; and he goes on immediately to 
speak of the miracle-working prayers of Elias, taking 
care to observe that this noted prophet was after all 
only “a man subject to like passions as we are,” and 
hence obviously inferring that prayer was still as avail- 
able as it had been in his case. Unfortunately the com- 
mon rendering of the passage as above has confused, if 
not wholly perverted, its real meaning. As it now 
stands, it contains a palpable tautology, for “effectual 
prayer,” of course, “availeth much.” and the epithet 
“ fervent” likewise thus becomes superfluous, as well as 
the qualification “of a righteous man.” The single 
Greek word translated by “effectual fervent” (inpyov- 
pevoi;) literally means inwrought. The only question 
among interpreters is whether it may not be reflexive 
(middle voice), and thus signify inworking itself’, that 
is, operative or effective. This was evidently the view 
of our authorized translators, and they have been fol- 
lowed by many scholars, including Robinson ( Lexicon 
of the X. T.) and Alford ( Greek Test.'), the latter of 
whom renders the passage after the order of the Greek 
words, “The supplication of the righteous man availeth 
much in its working,” that is, as be explains it from 
Huther, “The prayer of the righteous can do much in 
its energy.” But this leaves the tautology about the 
same. Lange’s note (Commentary, ad loc.), after re- 
viewing the other instances of the use of the word in 
the N. T., approaches the true idea, “The full tension of 
the praying spirit under its absolute yielding to the di- 
vine impulse;” but Humbert's gloss (in the American 
edition), “ Absolute submission to the will of God,” com- 
pletely neutralizes its meaning. The passire sense of 
the participle is required by its grammatical form, and 
is justified by every passage where this form occurs: 
e. g. sinful passions are inwrought (Rom. vii, 5) ; salva- 
tion is inwrought by endurance (2 Cor. i, 6) ; death is 
inwrought (2 Cor. iv, 12); faith is inwrought by love 
(Gal. v, 6) ; God’s power is inwrought (Eph. iii, 20, pre- 
cisely parallel with our text, as also in Col. i, 29), and 
similarly his word (1 Thess. ii, 13), and on the other 
hand the “mystery of iniquity" (2 Thess. ii, 7). The 
thought of the apostle James, therefore, is, as Michaelis 
(after the Greek fathers) interprets, that the saint’s 
prayer prevails when its earnestness is divinely inspired. 
To this sense the illustration of Elijah is most apt, as we 
may see by referring especially to the history alluded 
to (1 Kings xviii, 42-45). The scene is graphically 
described by Stanley (Lectures on Jewish History, 2d 
series, p. 337, Amer. ed.), but as usual he misses the 


spiritual import. The seven-times bent form of the 
prophet, with his head between his knees, was not mere- 
ly “the Oriental attitude of entire abstraction;” it de- 
noted the intense struggle of his soul after the boon 
which Jehovah inwardly urged him to crave. It was 
an agony of prayer that would not be denied, similar, 
though less exhaustive, to that of onr Saviour in the 
garden, which we learn (lleb. v, 7) was effectual as to 
its main object (Luke xxii, 43). Another example of 
the same energized prayer for which Elijah is adduced 
by the apostle occurs earlier in the account of the rais- 
ing to life of the son of the widow of Zerephath, where 
the praying prophet “stretched himself upon the child 
| three times” (l Kings xvii, 21), as if he would infuse 
; his own ardent soul into the lifeless form (compare the 
! more detailed narrative in the parallel case of Elisha and 
t the Shunammite’s son, 2 Kings iv, 34). He has had a 
■ very shallow experience of “ the deep things of God” (2 
Cor. iii, 10, the passage having reference to this very 
point) who has not felt “the Spirit itself making inter- 
cession with groan nigs which cannot be uttered” (Rom. 
viii, 26). At such times the veil between the natural 
and the miraculous becomes thin indeed, rice Cocker, 
Theism (N. Y. 1876, 12mo); Dawson, Xature and the 
Bible, p. 59, 66; Farrar, Crit. Hist, of Free Thought, p. 
395; Blackwood's Magazine, June, 1867, p. 680; Meth. 
Quar. Her. Oct. 1854, p. 526; Xew-Englander, Oct. 1873, 
art. i ; Ch. Monthly, June, 1866, p. 330; Bond. Quar. 1 lev. 
Oct. 1854, p. 32; Tresb. Her. April, 1870; Rapt. Quar. 
Oct. 1873, art. iv; Brit, and For. Er. Quar. Her. Oct. 
1873, art. iii; Theol. Medium, Jan. 1874, art. iii; Bill. 
Sacra, Jan. 1870, p. 199; Jan. 1875, art. v; Contemp. 
Her. July, Aug., Oct. 1872; South. Quar. Rev. April, 
1875, art. iv. Comp. Miracle. 

PRAYER, Christian Attitudes of. 1 . The first 
Christians prayed standing, with hands outstretched 
and raised towards heaven. Their face was turned 
towards the east. The proof of this appears everywhere 
in the primitive monuments. The freseos, sarcophagi, 
tombstones (especially those of the Roman catacombs), 
the painted glasses which are found there in abundance, 
the old mosaics with which the old basilicas were orna- 
mented, etc., represent both sexes, especially women, in 
; that attitude (Aringhi, passim, and especially ii, 285). 
These figures are generally called orantes. They are 
distinguished by the rich elegance of their garments; 
they wear long tunics or dalmatics with wide folding 
sleeves, trimmed with embroideries and purple borders; 
they are adorned with collars, bracelets, and other jew- 
elry (Bottari, tab. 19, 153). These splendid garments, 
might at lirst seem in contradiction with the well-known 
modesty of the women of the early Church ; but in thus 
adorning their image the aim of the artist was not to 
show what they had been in life, but what glory sur- 
rounded them in heaven. In the sepultures of all kinds, 
the orante, generally standing between two trees — the 
emblem of Paradise — was the symbol of the soul who 
had become the bride of Jesus Christ, and as such was 
admitted to the celestial banquet. This explains the 
magnificenee of the garment of St. Priscilla, represented 
as an orante in the cemetery of her name (l’erret, Cuta- 
combes, vol. iii, tab. 3). Thus we find St. Praxedis, in 
a beautiful Roman mosaic, covered from head to foot 
. with precious stones (Ciampini, Vet. Momnn. vol. ii, tab. 

. 47). In a celebrated vision St. Agnes had appeared to 
her parents, a week after her martyrdom, clothed in 
precious robes, and, to use the Bollandists’ expression, 
auro textis cycladibus indutu. This text became the 
type of most of the images of the young martyr: the 
most beautiful speeimen is a gilded glass, published 
by Boldetti (Cemet. tab. 3, fig. 3, p. 194). Several of 
these female orantes, who were probably noble Roman 
matrons, as if fatigued by a prolonged prayer, have 
their arms supported by men, who, by their garments, 
must be supposed to be servants (Bosio, p. 389, 405; 
Aringhi, ii, 175, w hich reminds ns of Moses supported 
by Aaron and llur in a similar manner (Exod. xvii, 12), 


PKAYEI 


4S0 


PRAYER-DAYS 


We know this custom not only hv the pictures, but also 
by the written monuments of Christian antiquity. The 
Christians, says Tertullian (.1 pol. xxx), while praying, 
raise their eyes to heaven, stretch out their hands, 
because they are innocent; they pray bareheaded, be- 
cause we have not to blush — “Blue suspicientos (in cce- 
lum) Christ iani manibus expansis. quia iunocuis, eapite 
undo, quia non erubescimus.” To pray with uplifted 
hands is an attitude natural in the mail who addresses 
himself to the Deity; it is a supplicatory posture which 
is found in all nations, even pagan, as among the 
Kgyptians, where we meet it in funerary monuments; 
among the Etruscans there are in the Museo Campana 
two statues of Chiusi in terra-cotta, which have the 
arms raised in that way; among the I tomans, as we see 
by the reverse of a number of imperial medals, especial- 
ly those of Trebonianus Callus, the praying Figure is 
accompanied with the legend “ l’ietas Augg.” (Mionnet, 
Ihirete dex Medailles Itomaines , ii, 13). lint Tertullian 
remarks that the attitude as well as intention of the 
faithful was quite different from those of the pagans. 
“ As to us,” says this father, “ we do not content ourselves 
with raising our hands, we stretch them in memory of 
the passion of our Lord.” They meant to imitate the 
posture of Christ on the cross, as did several martyrs at 
their execution, for instance. St.Montanus. disciple of 
St. Cyprianus (Kuinart, p. *235), and SS. Fructuosus, Au- 
guritis. and Eulogius (L’suard. xii, Kal. Febr.) : “Mani- 
bus in moduli) erueis expansis orantes.” Several other 
fathers gave expression to the same idea. It is there- 
fore easy t > tell the t ’hristian orantes from similar pagan 
pictures. The latter raise their bauds vertically, the 
curve of the elbow forming a right angle, while the 
arms of the Christians are almost, in a horizontal posi- 
tion. Tertullian (De Oral, xiii) describes this difference 
most minutely, to remove all idea of idolatrous imita- 
tion: “We do not raise our hands with ostentation, but 
with modesty, with moderation.” Now, the. priest alone 
observes at mass this rite of venerable antiquity, which 
has preserved its primitive character in the liturgy of 
the Church of Lyons, for there the priest expands com- 
pletely his arms in the form of a cross while reciting 
the oration which immediately precedes the elevation. 
It is to be observed that in the primitive Church the 
catechumens prayed standing like the rest of the con- 
gregation, with this dilTercnce, that the latter held their 
face somewhat raised to heaven (Tertull. I)c Cor on. iii), 
while the former inclined slightly their heads, not hav- 
ing obtained yet, by baptism, the divine adoption, the 
title of children of the Father who is in heaven. 

2. The practice of standing erect in prayer was not 
exclusive, and the lirst Christians sometimes prayed 
kneeling. We have an example of it in the Acts (xxi, 
5): “And we kneeled down on the shore and prayed;” 
and another in the life of St. .lames Major, whose knees, 
by dint of prolonged praying, had become as callous 
as those of a camel; and another, of great celebrity, in 
the acts of the martyrdom of St. Ignatius (Kuinart, vii, 
lit, ed. Yeron,). In less ancient, times this custom be- 
comes more frequent. We know by the testimony of 
Eusebius (17/. Constant, iv, 21, (>l) that Constantine 
often bowed his knees to oiler his prayer to Clod. St. 
•Fcrome writes to the virgin 1 >vmetrias. “ Frequently the 
solicitude of thy soul prompted thee to bond thy knees;” 
and to Marcella! A 'pixt. xxiii, De legrot. Blcsilhe), “She 
bends her knees on the naked soii.” It is likely that 
the custom of kneeling was borrowed by the Christians 
from the Hebrews. We read in the Scripture that Solo- 
mon, while dedicating bis Temple to God, knelt down 
on both knees ( 1 Kings viii, 51). and that Daniel thrice 
a day knelt down in prayer (Dan. vi, 10). It is said 
also that St. Stephen, while suffering martyrdom (Acts 
vii, 5'.D. knelt down and prayed for iiis murderers. St. 
Luke tells us that our Redeemer in the garden of Gcth- 
semane prayed in this humble posture (Luke xxii, 11). 
It is natural that, in conformity with this divine ex- 
ample, the Christians should have adopted this way of 


praying as a mark of affliction, a demonstration of sad- 
ness and sorrow. This is what we are led to conclude 
from these lines of Prudent ins, one of the most trust- 
worthy interpreters of Christian antiquity (Cat hem. 
hymn, ii, 50) : 

“To voce, te canto pio 
ltogare rnrvato g vu 
Flendo et canciido discinnis." 

This is also shown by the custom of the primitive 
Church in the liturgical practice. The Church bad di- 
rected from the earliest time that prayers should be said 
standing on Sundays and during the paschal period, in 
sign of joy, and kneeling all the rest of the year in sign 
of penitence. This rule was already in force at the 
time of Justin ( (Ineest. ad orthodox, resp. 115); it is 
mentioned by Tertullian (De Coron. milit. iii), and 
stated by St. Jerome in that curious passage where be 
speaks of St. Paul ( Comment . Epist. ad Ephes. Protem.): 
“St. Paul stayed at Ephesus until Pentecost, that time 
of joy and victor}* when we bend not our knees, nor 
bow to the ground, but when, resuscitated by the Lord, 
we raise ourselves to heaven.” The same custom be- 
came a canonic law at the Council of Xiuea (Can. ult.). 
It is interesting to road what Pamclius, in bis notes on 
the treatise of Tertullian ( l)e Coron. c. iii, ». 3X), and 
Suiccr (Thesaur. cedes, s. v. yovv) wrote on the subject 
of this manner of praying common to the Jews and 
Christians. We have no pictures at all representing 
Christians on their knees, which speaks in favor of 
those who assert that the orantts arc images of the 
glorilied soul. In conformity with tlie apostolic pre- 
scriptions the men attended public prayers in the 
churches bareheaded ami the women veiled. I 11 some 
churches of Africa the virgins had exempted themselves 
from this custom. Tertullian recommends it anew to 
their observance in his treatise l)e velandis rirginibus. 

We must add, as a general observation, that the 
fathers endeavored, with all their might, to exclude from 
tlie prayers of the faithful all gestures and exterior prac- 
tices hearing some strong features of paganism. Thus 
Tertullian (De Orut. xii) blames sternly such Christians 
as, in imitation of the pagans, thought lit to make their 
prayers acceptable to God by putting down their penula?. 

Martigny, Diet. Chret. s. v. See Attitudks. 

Prayer-book. Since the article on this subject was 
written (vol. ii) the Church of England has considered 
the propriety of purging the Book of Common Prayer 
of the Athanasian (Teed. which tin* American Church 
rejected. In the Irish Church (Protestant Episcopal), 
recently disestablished, the Athanasian Creed is purged 
of the damnatory clauses, and retained in that moditied 
form. Since the organization of the Keformcd Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church, the Prayer-book originally 
framed for the (American) Protestant Episcopal Church 
was made the basis of another Book of Common Prayer, 
from which all language that seems to justify the ritu- 
alism of the Iligh-Clnirch party has been carefully ex- 
punged. Decent literature on this subject may he found 
in I he Edinb. Iter. Oct. 1X7-1, art. vi ; Jirit. Qnar. Jan. 
1x75, p. Ill; Church Journal (N. V.), June 17, 1X75; 
Blunt, Keif to the Knowledge and Use of the Hook of 
Common Prayer (Loud. lX(iO); Contemporary Iter. Dec. 
1X72, art. vii. See Common Puayick. 

Prayer of Consecration is offered in the com- 
munion service for t lie elements served to the people as 
memorials of Christ's crucifixion. Iii the Church of 
Koine and other ritualistic bodies, this prayer is ac- 
companied with much ceremony. In other Christian 
churches the form prescribed or adopted is in harmo y 
with the grave occasion which it commemorates. See 
linen's Si itkk. 

Prayer-days. There can he no doubt that the ser- 
vice in the Book of Common Prayer is intended to be 
daily; yet in the Tinted States this practice lias never 
come to prevail. As a substitute for this, and the near- 
est approximation the times will allow to the original 


PRAYER-TEST 


PRAYER FOR TIIE DEAD 481 


usage, certain days of the week are selected on which 
morning and evening service is publicly held. Such 
days are denominated “ Prayer-days,” and are thus dis- 
tinguished from the usual “holydays.” See the rubrics 
before the order of public baptism. — Staunton, Ecclesi- 
astical Dictionary , p. 540. 

Prayer for the Dead. See Dead, Prayers for 

the; Pl'RGATORY. 

Prayer, Formula of. See Forms of Prayer. 

Prayer, Lord’s, See Lord’s Prayer. 

Prayer to Saints. See Invocation. 

Prayer-test. This was a proposal anonymously 
put forth in the name of science in the Contemporary 
Review for July, 1872, with the strong endorsement of 
Prof. Tyndall, and couched in the following terms : 

“I ask that one single ward or hospital, under the care 
of first-rate physicians aud surgeons, contaiuiug certain 
numbers of patieuts afflicted with those diseases which 
have been best studied, and of which the mortality rates 
are best known, whether the diseases are those which are 
treated by medical or by surgical remedies, should be, 
during a period of not less, say, than three or five years, 
made the objects of special prayer by the whole body of 
the faithful ; and that at the end of that time the mortal- 
ity rates should be compared with the past rates, and also 
with the rates of other leading hospitals similarly well 
mauaged duriug the same period.” 

This proposal is open to several grave objections. 

1. It is not warranted by the Scriptures nor by the nat- 
ure of prayer. Neither religion nor science is under 
any obligation to accept all challenges. No system of 
truth does that. The true man of science comes to nat- 
ure, not as a dictator, but as the humblest of learners. 
He does not invent tests and demand that she shall ac- 
cept them ; he ingeniously finds out what tests she pro- 
poses to him. It is his office, not to alter nor to criticise, 
but to interpret her hieroglyphics. 

In the same spirit we must study Christianity. The 
Bible is our text-book. We compare its parts with each 
other, and the whole with human consciousness and ex- 
perience. We come to the book as learners. We are to 
accept and try the tests it offers, and not to set up tests 
of our own. It teaches a doctrine of prayer; it makes 
prayer to be a real and mighty power — a power produc- 
ing physical results — but efficient only under prescribed 
conditions. These conditions, so far as they relate to 
the special case before us, are sufficiently indicated in 
these words: “The fervent, effectual prayer of a right- 
eous man availeth much “ the prayer of faith shall 
save the sick.” The promise is attached only to the 
earnest, importunate supplication of a righteous man, 
offered with full faith in God. The prayer proposed to 
us vacates the essential conditions of prayer. It aims 
not directly at the result it asks, but indirectly to test 
God. It says, “Will he?” Faith says, “ He will.” The 
thing it seeks is not really the healing of the sick, but 
“to confer quantitative precision on the action of the 
supernatural in nature.” 

This sort of challenge is not new in substance, if it is 
in form. How do the Scriptures treat it? On a cer- 
tain occasion a personage of very acute intellect and 
large intelligence conducted the perfect man to a pre- 
cipitous height, and challenged him to prove his claims 
by casting himself down, trusting to be borne up on 
angels’ wings; and he quoted Scripture to enforce the 
test. The reply was simply, “ Thou shalt not tempt the 
Lord thy God.” When that perfect and divine man 
hung on the cross the minions of the arch-tempter pro- 
posed another test, “Let him now come down from the 
cross, and we will believe in him but he came not 
down. When once a miracle was demanded of Jesus he 
said, “You have already more convincing proofs than 
sufficed for t lie Ninevites and for the queen of Sheba; 
an evil and an adulterous generation seeketh after a 
siyn .” A lost spirit, himself convinced at last by the re- 
sistless argument of liell-torment, prayed for the resur- 
rection of a dead man to convince his brothers, but was 
VIII. — H h 


assured on the highest authority, “ If they hear not 
Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded 
though one rose from the dead.” 

2. The test proposed would be nvyatory. Suppose it 
were admissible, and that the Christian world should 
gladly accept it, and that the results should be all that 
believers could desire. The hospital is selected — St. 
Luke’s, the west wing; one hundred patients of the 
kinds indicated are entered. The same surgeons, phy- 
sicians, and nurses have charge of both wings ; the tem- 
perature, treatment, and diet are the same ; there is per-, 
feet scientific exactness in all the conditions, except that 
the patients in the west wing arc made the subjects of 
daily prayer wherever prayer to the God of the Bible is 
offered. After three or five years the hospital records 
are inspected and compared with other records, and it is 
found that twenty-nine and a half per cent, more recov- 
eries have taken place in the wards which prayer has 
overshadowed than, in similar cases, anywhere else in 
the world. 

Now, what will the sceptical men of scienec say? 
“The Lord, he is the God ; prayer is vindicated forever; 
we have found a new force?” Not at all. We should 
hear such suggestions as these: “It may be the morn- 
ing sun is bad, or the clatter of wheels and hoofs on the 
avenue has injured the patients in the east wing;” “We 
more than suspect some of the nurses and physicians 
in the west wing have a bias towards Christianity;” 
“ Probably some new remedy lias been secretly used ; 
at all events, though there is something mysterious 
about it, this we know, nothing can contravene the laws 
of nature.” Let not such a supposition be thought slan- 
derous. The prototypes of such men were not convinced 
by miracles. Some of the persons who witnessed the 
resurrection of Lazarus went about from that very day 
to kill Jesus— yes, and to kill Lazarus too, lest the sight 
of him might convince others. 

The test proposed would he nugatory for another rea- 
son — prayer could not be so offered. It is impossible so 
to dam up Christian sympathy. It would burst overall 
such artificial banks like a spring freshet. Such forms 
of prayer would be mere magical incantations, impious 
shams, which would either be dinned over with no 
thought of their scope, or else would paralyze the lips 
that uttered them. Imagine the w hole Church on earth 
thus to pray, “Grant, O Lord, thy special mercy to the 
one hundred sick persons in the west wing of St. Luke’s 
Hospital. New York, IT. S. of America.” If any influence 
could move the Church to begin a three years' course 
of such prayer, long before the time was tip the Spirit 
of God would be searching many hearts with questions 
like this : “ Who taught you so to limit your petitions?” 
“ Professor Tyndall.” “ Why do yon confine such sup- 
plications to one hundred of my needy millions, individ- 
uals towards whom you have no reasons for special sym- 
pathy?” “To prove thee, Lord, whether thou hearest 
prayers for the sick.” “If you doubt it, you cannot 
offer such prayers acceptably ; and if you believe it, why 
test me thus at the dictation of unbelievers? Thou 
shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.” 

Answers are promised only to sincere, single-minded 
prayer, which looks simply for the object it asks. Such 
prayer must be double-minded — one eye resting faintly 
on the hospital, the other intently scanning the scien- 
tific world. Under such circumstances faith would be 
impossible; for faith rests solely on God’s promise, and 
God has nowhere promised to answer any prayer offered 
as a test of himself. 

8. Our final objection to the proposition before us is 
that it proposes an unnecessary test. There are allow- 
able experiments which afford abundant proof of the 
mooted point. What these are must be determined by 
the Word of God and the experience of praying men. 
For a scientific atheist, or pantheist, or deist, or mere 
nominal Christian to insist on other tests is as unscien- 
tific — we say not as irreligious, but as unscientific — as it 
would be for us to say, “If electricity be so powerful as 


PREACHERS 


4S2 


PREACHING 


you assert, let it run along this hempen cord as you 
claim it does along the telegraphic wires,” or, ‘‘Make 
your magnet attract copper.” The prompt reply would 
be, “The laws of nature forbid.” Our reply is, “The 
economy of grace forbids.” 

We can conceive of a strictly scientific test which 
might have been proposed by t lie author of this inad- 
missible. nugatory test. lie might have sent out a cir- 
cular letter to ten thousand of the ablest, most expe- 
rienced. and most devout ministers of the Gospel and 
other I 'hristians in all lands, explaining his object, and 
inviting careful answers to these questions: How many 
cases have von ever known of persons desperately sick 
who were made the subjects of fervent, importunate 
prayer? What were the particulars, and what the re- 
sults? The candid and unbiassed collation of the facts 
so obtained from witnesses whose capacity and honesty 
would give their testimony on all other matters the 
highest credit, might or might not cast some light upon 
the subject. But it would not convince unbelievers, for 
unbelief is a matter of the heart more than of the intel- 
lect; and very probably the secret and unsearchable 
workings of the divine providence would remove the 
whole business beyond the range of the laws of induc- 
tion. The scientists discard faith, while the Bible tells 
us that only by faith can we know either the person 
or the providence of <Jod. A scientific test, in what- 
ever pertains to the divine action, is impossible and 
absurd — a truth that Christians need to understand 
scarcely less than sceptics . — Christian Advocate. See 
Prayer ; Providence. 

Preachers, Local. See Local Preachers. 

Preaching is usually and with literal correctness 
defined as the act of delivering religious discourses. 
But this definition fails to suggest the most important 
signification of the term. That can only he reached hv 
considering it as designating the objective idea of a 
great and peculiar appointment of the Lord Jesus Christ. 
In this broad but legitimate sense, preaching means 
more than an individual act or series of acts. It rep- 
resents an institution of Christianity which has been in 
existence some nineteen centuries, and an agency of re- 
ligious influence destined to continue in action through- 
out the whole period of human affairs. 

I. The Proper Character and Design of Preaching . — 
As Christ himself was the Divine Word made flesh, so, 
designing to employ human agency for the promotion 
of his kingdom among men, he made a special appro- 
priation of man’s distinguishing faculty of speech by 
appointing it as the primary ami principal means of 
diffusing Cod’s word of truth and message of salvation 
throughout the world. Having chosen disciples from 
among his own earliest hearers, ‘*he ordained twelve, 
that they should be with him, and that lie might send 
them forth to preach” (Mark iii, 14). To those disci- 
ples he said, “What I tell you in darkness that speak 
ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear that preach ye 
upon the house-tops” (.Matt, x, 27). As had been fore- 
shadowed in prophecy, so t ’hrist represented the preach- 
ing of the ( lospel to the poor as the distinguishing char- 
acteristic of his kingdom. The great Preacher himself, 
having completed his earthly mission, crowned it with 
the ever-binding command given to liis disciples. “ C.o 
ye into all the world, and preach the (lospel to every 
creature” (Mark xvi, 15). Christian preaching, there- 
fore, implies not only preachers, hut hearers. It pre- 
supposes a personal conviction and a deep sense of truth 
in the mind of the preacher, accompanied by a purpose 
to transfer his convictions to the minds and hearts of 
his hearers. Although preaching is designed to embody 
an important element of instruction, vet, if properly exe- 
cuted, it rises in character superior to lecturing, or any 
ot the forms of didactic discourse. It. resembles the best 
forms of demonstrative address, but transcends all secu- 
lar oratory in t lie moral grandeur of its themes, and es- 
pecially in its specific design of enlightening and quick- 


ening the consciences of men as a means of affecting 
their earthly character and their eternal destiny. 

II. Jlistoncal Development. Trior to Christ, preach- 
ing was but little more known among the Jews than 
among the Gentiles. It had been to some extent an- 
ticipated by several of the prophets, the greatest and 
last of whom was John the Baptist ; but, from the time 
that (’hrist began his public ministry, preaching became 
common and constant. Following our Lord’s ascension, 
the apostolic ministry of preaching was elevated and 
vitalized by the gift of the Holy Ghost. The gift of 
tongues and the manifestation of the tongues of lire 
were alike designed to aid and encourage them in their 
work of evangelization. Hence, whether in the Temple, 
in synagogues, or in prisons, they preached Christ and 
him crucified as the power of God and the wisdom of 
God; and, when scattered abroad by persecution, “ they 
went everywhere preaching the Word” (Acts viii, 4). 
It was thus that the Gospel became rapidly difl'used 
throughout the Boman empire, which, in an important 
sense, represented “all the world" of that period. 

It seems safe to believe that, had the apostolic zeal 
and fidelity in preaching been maintained without in- 
terruption, the triumphs of the Gospel would have been 
continuous, and perhaps ere this coextensive with the 
habitable world. But, unfortunately, the 2d and 3d 
centuries witnessed the introduction into the Church of 
two classes of influences which had a tendency to reduce 
the number of preachers and limit the work and influ- 
ence of preaching. The first was that of asceticism 
(q. v.), which, by a powerful but mistaken impulse, sent 
into deserts and caves, and afterwards into monasteries, 
thousands of earnest men, whose lives were thus with- 
drawn from evangelical activity and wasted in penances 
and self-torture. The second was that of ceremonialism 
[see Ceremony], by which the preaching office was 
taken away from the majority of the clergy, and for the 
greater part limited to bishops. Bingham states the 
limitation in these words: 

“Preaching anciently was one of the chief offices of a 
bishop; insomuch that in the African churches a pres- 
byier was never known to preach before a bishop in his 
cathedra! church till Austin’s time, and St. Austin was 
the first presbyter in that part of the world that ever was 
allowed to preach in the presence of his bishop. ... It is 
true, in the Eastern churches presbyters were sometimes 
allowed to preach in the great church before the bishop; 
but that was not to discharge him of the duty, for still he 
preached a sermon at the same time after them. ... In 
the lesser churches of the city and country nhoui, this of- 
fice was devolved upon presbyters as the bishop’s proper 
assistants; and the deacons, except in the forementioued 
cases (of reading the homilies of the fathers, and when 
the presbyter was sick or infirm), were not authorized to 
perform it” (Autiq. Christian Chinch, bk. xiv, ch. iv). 

Xot only was preaching shorn of its aggressive power 
bv being thus limited and subordinated under the influ- 
ence of a growing ceremonialism, but in some places it 
was for long periods scandalously neglected. Sozomen, 
the historian, “relates of the Church of Borne in his 
time that they had no sermons either by the bishop or 
any other.” Some have thought Sozomen mistaken ; 
but Cassiodorus, who was a senator ami consul at Borne, 
quotes the same out of Sozomen in his IJistoria Tri- 
partite, r, without correction, and further says that no 
one can produce any sermons preached to the people by 
any bishop of Borne before those of Leo. The revival 
of preaching by Leo appears to have been but tempo- 
rary ; for, according to Surius, a Boman writer, it was 
afterwards discontinued for five hundred years together, 
till Tins Quintus, like another Leo, revived the practice. 
Not merely at Borne, but through large portions both 
of the Latin and Greek churches, preaching, instead of 
being a constant custom, was rare and exceptional dur- 
ing the long period between the (1th and lfitli centuries. 
It ceased to he a regular part of the services of the Sab- 
bath, although it was retained as a part of the ceremo- 
nial of ordinations, while on festival days it took the 
form of panegyrics or eulogies upon the Virgin and the 
saints. 


PREACHING 


483 


PREACHING 


The preaching of the Crusades (q. v.) by Peter the 
Hermit, St. Bernard, and others, and the organization 
of the Dominicans (q. v.) as a preaching order of monks, 
may be considered as exceptional to the usual practice 
of the mediaaval Church. Some other exceptions, how- 
ever, of a far better character, and followed by better 
results, are also to be credited to the Church of the Mid- 
dle Ages, while on the other hand it was disgraced by 
Tetzel and others, who used preaching as an agency for 
the sale of indulgences. But preaching never again be- 
came general till after the Reformation. It was seized 
upon by Luther and the other reformers as a means of 
propagating scriptural truth and exposing the corrupt 
doctrines and practices which had crept into the Church, 
and from that time forward preaching became frequent 
and universal among Protestants. Its influence in the 
Protestant world has reacted upon Romanism, so that 
long since, in all Protestant countries, and to some ex- 
tent elsewhere, preaching has become a regular Sunday 
service in Roman Catholic churches, performed not only 
by bishops, but by presbyters and deacons, as well as by 
monks of several different orders. 

III. Preaching-places and Customs. — In New-Testa- 
ment times our Lord and his apostles found places for 
preaching wherever people could be assembled. The 
mountain-side, the shores of seas and rivers, the public 
street, private houses, the porch of the Temple, the 
Jewish synagogue, and various other places were found 
available for the proclamation of the Gospel. So far as 
the preaching customs of the first period of Christianity 
can be inferred from authentic records, they were simple 
in the extreme. Sometimes the message of the preach- 
er was communicated in conversation, and when deliv- 
ered in a more formal manner it rarely had any other 
accompaniments than the reading of the Sacred Word 
and prayer. For a considerable time there could have 
been no Church edifices adapted to the convenient 
preaching and hearing of the Word; but the earliest 
structures erected for Christian worship doubtless had 
that design in view. It was, therefore, a corruption in 
practice when churches began to be constructed for cer- 
emonial display — as with altars for the celebration of 
mass, niches for images, and long-drawn aisles for pro- 
cessional parades. The conversion of heathen temples 
and basilicas into Christian churches, which in the 4th 
century became common, tended largely to foster and 
extend that form of corruption. At the period named, 
the most common form of preaching was that of the 
exhortation and the homily. A few of the great 
preachers, like Cyril, Chrysostom, and Augustine, de- 
livered courses of homilies in daily succession, espe- 
cially during Lent. More commonly short exhortations, 
sometimes two. three, or even four in succession, were 
delivered either at morning or evening prayer, or both. 
This was more particularly true in cities and the large 
churches, and it was only when presbyters and deacons 
were authorized to preach that preaching could be fur- 
nished with frequency or regularity in villages or coun- 
try-places. Sometimes large assemblies were gathered 
at the graves of martyrs to hear panegyrics upon the 
virtues of those who had snffered death in persecution. 

The custom of preaching extempore was at first gener- 
al, but after a time yielded, in the case of ordinary preach- 
ers, to that of reciting discourses not unfrequently com- 
posed by others. Preachers frequently preceded their 
discourses by a brief prayer for divine assistance. Fol- 
lowing prayer was the salutation “Peace be unto you,” 
or “ The Lord be with you to which the people re- 
sponded, “Peace be with thy spirit.” Sometimes the 
salutation gave place to a benediction, as may be seen 
in several of Chrysostom’s homilies. Sometimes a text 
of Scripture was taken as a basis of the discourse, some- 
times several were taken for the same object, and some- 
times none. Generally the discourse was concluded with 
a doxology. It was usual for preachers to sit and the 
people to stand during the delivery of the discourse. It 
was common for the people when pleased by the utter- 


ances of a preacher to give applause by clapping their 
hands and by vocal acclamations. Sometimes handker- 
chiefs were waved and garments tossed aloft. At other 
times groans and sobs and tears were the responses made 
by sympathetic hearers. So great value was attached 
to the discourses of some of the more venerable and elo- 
quent preachers that ready writers were employed to 
report the words they uttered. Copies of reported dis- 
courses were circulated among those who prized them, 
and were held for reading to other assemblies. In this 
way the homilies of the fathers descended to later times, 
when they could be better preserved and more rapidly 
multiplied by printing. During the medieval period, 
where preaching was not wholly abandoned, sermons 
and homilies were to a great extent substituted by pos- 
tils (q. v.), which were very brief addresses delivered at 
the conclusion of the mass, and holding about the same 
relation to the preceding ceremonies of worship that a 
postscript holds to a letter, or a marginal note to the 
text of a book. 

The preaching customs of modern times differ in mi- 
nor particulars somewhat with reference to differences 
of national habits, but more with reference to the pre- 
dominance of the idea of worship or of religious address. 
In a certain class of churches the services are conducted 
with primary reference to forms of worship. In churches 
of that class, by whatever name designated, preaching 
is made subordinate. In other churches the leading 
idea of a Sabbath assembly is that of an audience gath- 
ered together to receive instruction from the Word of 
God, both as read from the sacred page and as declared 
by his appointed messengers. In the latter, preaching 
is regarded as of principal importance, prayer and psal- 
mody being anxiliary to it. 

The principal places for preaching in modern times 
are churches constructed with primary reference to that 
object. It may be here remarked that even in Europe 
church architecture has been greatly modified since the 
period of the Reformation, in a perhaps unconscious 
adaptation to the more general practice of preaching. 
Few large cathedrals have been built, but many churches 
of smaller proportions, and more available as auditori- 
ums. Protestant churches in all countries are supplied 
with permanent seats for audiences, and, with rare ex- 
ceptions, the pulpit occupies the central position allot- 
ted in Roman Catholic countries to the principal altar. 
On the continent of Europe movable seats only are used 
in the Roman Catholic churches, but in countries dis- 
tinctively Protestant, pews or fixed sittings are gen- 
erally introduced to accommodate hearers during the 
preaching services. But preaching, especially among 
Protestants, has by no means been limited to churches. 
While maintained with regularity in them, it has been 
extended as a missionary agency to highways and mar- 
ket-places, to public commons, to natural amphitheatres, 
to groves, to ships’ decks, to extemporized tabernacles, 
and even to music-halls and theatres. In short, zealous 
evangelists show themselves ready, both in civilized and 
heathen countries, to preach wherever and whenever 
their fellow-men can be gathered to hear them. 

IV. Literature. — The literature of preaching may be 
divided into two classes — the first embracing publica- 
tions relating to the art and science of preaching, and 
the second embracing the printed products of preaching, 
whether postils, homilies, or sermons. Of the first class, 
an extensive list is given in connection with the article 
on Homiletics (q. v.). Of the second, it would be easy 
to enumerate authors and books by hundreds. For se- 
lect and classified lists, see arts. Pulpit Eloquence; 
Sermons. Of recent books of the first class, the follow- 
ing may be named: Mullois (M. l’Abbe Isidore; trans- 
lated by George Percy Badger), The Clergy and the Pul- 
pit in their Relations to the People (N. Y. 1867, 12 mo); 
Hood, Lamps , Pitchers , ami Trumpets : lectures on the 
Vocation of the Preacher (1st and 2d series, ibid. 1869, 2 
vols. 12mo); Parker, Ad Clerum: Advices to a Young 
Preacher (Bost. 1871. 12nio); Broadus, Preparation and 


PREACHING FRIARS 


484 


PR EA DA MITE 


Twlirery of Sermons (Phila. 1871, 12mo); Beecher, 
Yule Lectures on Preaching (1st. "id, aiul 3d series. X. V. 
1x72 7 1, 3 vols. 12mo) ; Storrs, Preuching without Sates 
(ibid. 1X77), l2mo); Hall, Cod's Word through I* reach- 
ing (ibid. 1X75. 12rao) ; Broad us, Lectures on the History 
of Preaching (ibid. 1X70, 12mo); Taylor, The Ministry 
of the Word (ibid. 1X70. l2mo) ; Brooks, Lectures on 
Preaching (ibid. 1X77, 12mo); Dale, Sine Lectures on 
Preaching (ibid. 1X78, 12mo). (D. B. Iv.) 

Preaching Friars. See Dominicans. 

Preadamite. Under this head we propose to 
consider, first, the question of the existence of men 
older than the Biblical Adam ; second, Prehistoric tribes 
in general. 

I. Preadamic Men. — Whether men existed upon 
the earth before Adam is a question first made promi- 
nent in Europe by Isaac Peyrerius (La I ’ey re re), II is 
reasoning in support of the affirmative is embodied in 
a work published anonymously in Baris, in 1G55, and en- 
titled PmadamiUe : sive Pxercitutio super rersibns 
duodecimo , decimotcrtio et decimoquetrto capitis quin/i 
Fpistobe X. Pauli ad Romanos , quibus inducuntur 
Primi homines ante A damn m conditi. Very soon after- 
wards appeared, from the same author, the following: 
Systemu Thtologiann ex Prceadamifurum Ilypothesi: 
Pars prime Both works are now very rare (see Sol- 
geri Jiibl. ii, 91; Frey tag, A nett. p. (571; Pibl. Feuerlin, 
p. 5xx ; Brunet, Manuel, et al.). The most accessible 
edition embraces the two works bound in one volume, 
lXmo, and published, without place, “anno salmis 
MDCLY.” A work appeared in English the next year 
with the following title: Man before Adam , or a J)is- 
course upon the Twelfth. Thirteenth, and Fourteenth Verses 
of the. Fifth Chapter of the Fpistle of Paul to the 
Romans: by which are prov\l that the First Men were 
created before .1 dam (Loud. 1G5(J, lXmo, pp. 351. It pur- 
ports to he a “ Eirst Part”). The novel teaching of Pey- 
rcrius was at once bitterly denounced, and a consider- 
able number of treatises were written in opposition. A 
list of these has been compiled by Ebert (iJidionuain . ( 
Xo. Hi, 555\ The following are the most important : 
Auiinudcersiones in Librum Preeadamiturum in quibus 
confutatur nuperus scriptor, et primum omnium fuisse, 
A daw u in defend it nr , authore Eusebio Romano (Phil. 
Priorio, Paris, 1G5G, 8vo, and in Holland in the same 
year, sm. P2mo); A 'on ens Praadamiticum : sire t’on- 
futatio rani cujusdam somnii , quo Sacra; Scripture v 
prat ex.'ii iucautioribus nuper imponere conut us est qni- 
dttm anonym us Jinyens, ante .1 da mu in primum fuisse ho- 
mines in mu ndo ; authore Ant. tlulsso (Lngd. Bat. apud 
Joan. Elzevir. 1G5G, sm. 12mo); Responsiu exetas/dv 
ad trnefatum cui ti/ulus Pru-udaiiiitw libri duo, auctore 
J. Pnthio (Lngd. Batavor. apud Johan. Eizivirium. 1G5G, 
sm. 12mo). The argument on both sides, as might he 
supposed, was almost wholly Biblical and dialectic. 

’1 lie nature of the proofs employed by Peyrerius, and 
of his “theological system” built upon the fundamental 
doctrine of preadamic men. may be condensed in the 
following propositions: 1. The “one man” (Bom. v. 
P2) hv whom “sin entered into the world” was Adam, 
lor in vcr. M that sin is called “Adam’s transgression." 
2. “Transgression" is a violation of “law;” therefore 
‘"the law” t vcr. 13) signifies the law given to Adam — 
natural law, not that given to Moses. 3. The phrase 
** nut il the law" (vcr. 13) implies a time before the law 
— t lint is, before Adam; and as “sin was in the world” 
during that time, there must have been men in ex- 
istence to commit sin. 4. The sin committed before the 
enactment of the natural law was “material.” “actual;” 
the sin existing after Adam, and through him, was 
“imputed,” “formal.” “legal,” “adventitious.” and 
“after the similitude of Adam’s transgression.” 5. 
Death entered into the world before Adam, but it was 
in consequence of the imputation “backwards" of 
Adam’s prospective sin— “ peecatum Adnmi fuisse retro 
iinputatum primis hominibus ante Adammn comlitis;” 


and this was necessary, that all men might partake of 
the salvation provided in Christ — “oportnerat primos 
illos homines peceavisse in Adamo, ut sanctiiicarentur in 
Christo” ( Fraud, . cap. xix). Xcvcrthcless, death before 
Adam did not “ reign.” “ Peecatum tunc temporis erat 
mortuum; mors erat mortua, et nullus erat sepulchri 
aculcus” {ibid. cap. xii). f>. Adam was the “ first 
mail” only in the same sense as Christ was the “second 
man," for Adam “was the figure of Christ” (Bom. v, 14). 
7. All men arc of one blood in the sense of one sub- 
stance — one “ matter,” one “ earth." The Jews are de- 
scended from Adam, the Centiles from Preadamites 
{System. Theot. lib. ii, cap. vi-xi). The first chapter of 
(ienesis treats of the origin of the (Jentiles, t lie second 
of the origin of the Jews {ibid. lib. iii, cap. i, ii). The 
(•entiles were created aborigines “ in t ho beginning," by 
the “word” of Cod, in all lauds; Adam, the father of the 
Jews, was formed of “clay" by the “ hand” of Cod {ibid. 
lib. ii, cap. xi). Ccncsis, after chap, i, is a history, not 
of the first men. but of the first Jews {ibid. lib. iv, cap. 
ii). 8. The existence of Preadamites is also indicated 
in the Biblical account of Adam’s family, especially of 
Cain {ibid. lib. ii, cap. iv). 9. Proved, also, by the “ mon- 
uments” of Egypt and Chaldxa, and by the history of 
the astronomy, astrology, theology, and magic of the 
Centilcs (ibid. lib. iii, cap. v xi) : as well as by the racial 
features of remote and savage tribes, and by the recent- 
ly discovered parts of the terrestrial structure (ibid. 
Proeem.'). 10. Hence the epoch of the creation of the 
world does not date from that “beginning” commonly 
figured in Adam. “Vidctur enim altius et a longis- 
sime rctroaetis sceulis petendum illud principium (ibid. 
Proeem.). 11. The deluge of Noah was not universal, 
and it destroyed only the Jews (ibid. fib. iv. cap. vii-ix); 
nor is it possible to trace to Xoah the origin of all the* 
races of men (ibid. lib. iv, cap. xiv). Some of these po- 
sitions were far in advance of the age, and it ought to he 
said were defended with knowledge and candor which 
were not appreciated by the adversaries of Peyrerius. 

The question of Preadamites admits of discussion in 
our day from quite another standpoint. Bccognising it 
as a question of scientific fact, we should unhesitatingly 
appeal to anthropology for a final answer. Ethnologists 
are generally agreed that the civilized nations of Eu- 
rope, Northern Africa, and Western and Southern Asia 
belong to one race, which was designated Caucasian by 
Blumenbaeh, hut which, with recent authorities, is 
known under the name of the Mediterranean Nations. 
They are recognised as constituting three groups of 
peoples, commonly called llamitcs. Shemiles, and Indo- 
Europeans or Japhotitcs. These designations are de- 
rived from the names of t he three sons of Noah, to 
whom, through the invaluable aid of the Biblical eth- 
nology, the learned have traced the pedigree of these 
three types of people. They may, therefore, he desig- 
nated collectively as Noaehitcs. (1.) The llamitcs are 
known to have distributed themselves through the north 
of Africa, the Nile valley, and t lie east of the continent 
as far as the Strait nf Bah cl-Mandeb. The ancient 
Egyptians are pure llamitcs, and are generally regarded 
as the founders of the oldest civilization. They are still 
more or less perfectly represented by the ITUahin, or 
peasantry of the lower Nile, and especially l>v the Cop- 
tic Christians of the towns. The llamitic Berbers, in- 
eluding Libyans, Moors. Numidians, and (ketnlians. arc 
spread, intermingled with Nhomites and Europeans, 
through the countries smith of the Mediterranean and 
through the Sahara. ( fiber llamitic nations, possessing 
a civilization far beyond that of miv of the purely black 
races, occupy some of the regions about the Nile, es- 
pecially in Nubia, and are scattered in distinct tribes, 
united by common linguistic elements, through Abys- 
sinia. and in one direction as far as the heart of Africa, 
from 8 north to 3 smith, and in the other direction 
from near Bah el-Maudeh to Juba mi the Indian < Icean. 
The antiquity of the llamitic civilization in Egypt is 
indicated by the evidence in our possession that the 


485 


PREAD AMITE 


PREADAMITE 

heliacal rising of Sirius must have been observetl (ap- | 
parentlv) as early as 13.C. 4242 (Lepsius, Chronol. der 
Aogypter , pt. i, p* 1G5 sq.).* (2.) The Shemites, from 

the date of earliest records, have inhabited Western 
Asia, whence they have taken possession of parts of 
Eastern Africa. They are represented by the Jews, the 
Arabs, the Abvssinians, the Aramaeans, the Canaanites, 
and the Assy rio-Baby Ionian s. Linguistic researches 
lead to the belief that the Hamites and Shemites de- 
veloped their languages in a common primeval home, 
and lienee arc nearly related. This view is favored by 
Genesis, where (Sliemitic) Sidon is described as the 
eldest son of Canaan, who was descended from Cush, 
and thus from Ham (Gen. x, 1-15), the father of the 
Hamites. (3.) The Indo-Enropean (Japhetic) family 
appear to have dwelt originally, according to the con- 
clusions of Peschel, along the slopes of the Caucasus, 
and through the gorge of Dari el, within reach of both 
the Enxine and the Caspian Sea (. Races of Man, Amer. 
ed. p. 507). Hence a migration westward of a portion 
of them led to the separation into Asiatic and European 
Aryans. Some of the Asiatic Aryans crossed the Hidfi- 
Kush, according to Max Muller and others, and dis- 
possessed the aboriginal population of the territory along 
the Ganges, transplanting there the religion of Brali- 
minism, while those left behind developed the Zoroas- 
trian religion. The European Aryans swept over Eu- 
rope in successive waves. The Celts displaced in Spain 
and France an older population, the Basques— perhaps 
also Aryans — and were succeeded by the other nations 
of southern Aryans — Greeks, Albanians, and Italians. 
The northern Aryans are represented by the Letts, the 
Slavonians, and the Germanic nations. 

We thus discover the posterity of Noah in all their , 
ramifications; but in this survey the Mongoloid nations 
and the black races do not seem to be embraced. The : 
Mongoloids are spread widely over the earth’s surface. 
The best modern authorities unite here the Malay tribes j 
which are dispersed over South-eastern Asia and many 
of the islands of Polynesia; certain southern Asiatics, 
embracing Chinese, Siamese, Burmese, and races in 
Thibet and the Himalayas; Coreans and Japanese; the 
Ural-Altaic race in several European and Asiatic divis- 
ions; the tribes on both sides of Behring’s Strait and 
the aborigines of America — including as well civilized 
nations of both parts of the continent as the wild hunt- 
ing tribes. The Dravida, also, according to modern eth- 
nology, should be recognised as a race distinct from the 
posterity of Noah. These aborigines of western India ( 
have dark skins, long, black, curly hair, somewhat in- 
tnmcscent lips, but nothing of the prognathism of some 
of the black races. They linger in some parts of Belu- 
chistan, in the extreme south and south-west of Ilin- 
dostan, and in the northern half of Ceylon. One of 
their languages is the Tamul, spoken by not less than i 
ten millions, and possessing an ancient literature. Other 
tribes occupy a belt along the east coast of Hindostan, 
and even stretching into the interior. The Mongoloids 
and the Dravida, which may be designated as the Dusky 
Races, cannot be very far removed from the Noachitcs. 
Their common ancestor was an antediluvian — perhaps 
Setli, or some one of bis descendants older than Noah. 
It is open to conjecture that their father was Cain, the 
brother of Seth, or some other son of Adam. In any 
event, as Noah was the parent of the White Races, and 
as these are so closely allied to the Dusky (including 
copper-colored) Races, it seems quite possible that the 
Biblical Adam was removed sufficiently far in the past 
to be the progenitor of both the White and the Dusky 
Races. The name Adam, signifying red, would imply 
that he was not the parent of the Black Races. Cain, 

*In our article Manetho we have shown the nntrnst- 
worthiuess of many of these astronomical data as founda- 
tions for Egyptian chronology. The English Egyptolo- 
gists in general reduce the beginning of the first'dynasty 
to 13. C. 2717 (Lane, Poole, Wilkinson), and even this is 
unnecessarily far back. There is good reason for dating 
the reign of Menes from B.C. 2417.— Ei>. 


moreover, as he went out from his native country, found 
other nations already in existence. The natural infer- 
ence from these considerations would be that the Black 
Races existed before Adam. * Snch a conclusion is sus- 
tained by other anthropological considerations. The 
Black Races — a term used only for present convenience 
—may be regarded as comprising (1) Negroes, (2) Hot- 
tentots and Bushmen, (3) Papuans, (4) Australians. 
They possess in common a dark or black skin and a 
marked degree of dolichocephalism, as well as much 
greater prognathism than the White and Dusky races. 
They are further characterized by long thigh-bones, 
sometimes long arms, lean shanks, oblique pelves, and 
deficiency of secondarj' sexual characters. The Negroes 
are distinguished generally by short crisped hair, with 
a flattened section, scanty or absent beards, thick lips, 
flattened nose, retreating forehead, and projecting jaws; 
and they inhabit Africa from the southern border of the 
Sahara to the territory of the Hottentots and Bushmen, 
stretching from ocean to ocean save where the Hamites 
have intruded on the extreme east. The Bantu or 
southern Negroes embrace the Zanzibar and Mozam- 
bique nations, and the well-known Betchuans and Kaf- 
firs. The Soudan or northern Negroes embrace the 
tribes speaking a variety of languages, and stretching 
from the coast well into the interior. The Hottentots 
and Bushmen occupy the southern parts of Africa nearer 
the Atlantic Ocean, and are characterized by the tufted 
matting of their hair, and among the women by the pe- 
culiar formation known as steatopygy. The Bushmen 
have a leathery -brown skin, which becomes much 
wrinkled with age. The Koi-Koin (Hottentot) lan- 
guage possesses great ethnological interest, as it has 
been thought by Moffat, Lepsius, Pruner Bey, Max 
Muller, Whitney, and Bleek to present affinities with 
the ancient Egyptian. Though other authorities have 
pronounced against any relationship, it is certain that 
we find among these savages linguistic elements which 
belong to a refined civilization, and which leave the 
question open whether they have lived in contact with 
the Egyptians or have descended from them, or from 
some common stock not very remotely removed. But 
even if it should appear probable that the Hottentots 
(and, inferentially, the Bushmen) are descended from the 
Hamitic Egyptians, we are not in possession of evidence 
indicating any immediate relationship between the 
other black races and the Adamites; so that the resid- 
ual probability remains that these races are more an- 
cient than the (perhaps Adamic) father of the White 
and Dnsky races. The Papuans are intermingled with 
the population of Australia, and inhabit New Guinea, 
the Pelew Islands, New Hebrides, New Caledonia, the 
Loyalty Islands, and the Fiji Archipelago. They pos- 
sess peculiarly flattened, abundant long hair, which 
I grows in tufts surrounding the head like a crown eight 
inches high. The beard is abundant, the skin very 
dark, varying to chocolate color in New Guinea and 
bluc-black in Fiji. The jaws are less projecting than in 
Negroes, and the nose is broad and aquiline, giving the 
features a Jewish cast. The Australians occupy the 
continent of Australia and the islands contiguous, in- 
cluding Tasmania. Their body is thickly pilose; the 
hair of the head is black, elliptical in section, and stands 
out around the head in a shaggy crown less striking 
than that of the Papuans. Though less gifted than the 


11 We call the attention of the reader to the fact that these 
positions of our respected contributor are purely inferences 
from the presumption that the ethnographical list in Gen. 
x is iuteuded to specify all the posterity of Noah as now 
or historically known to exist on the earth, whereas it is 
evidently meant only as a catalogue of those tribes with 
which the Hebrews were more or less acquainted. The 
black races were certainly included under the Cushites 
(q.v.), and this disposes at once of the argument that 
Noah is the progenitor of the whites only. Indeed, if any- 
thing is to he inferred from the meaning of the name 
Adam, it would go to make him the parent, not of the 
Caucasian, but of the copper-colored or Tartar tribes.^ 
Ei>. 


PREAD AMITE 


486 


PREADAMITE 


Papuans, they arc higher in the psychic scale than for- 
merly represented. They were, indeed, found living in 
the age of rude stone implements, and used simple tree- 
trunks for boats; but their language reflects a consider- 
able degree of refinement and grammatical perfection. 
Viewing the Black races from either a psychic, a zoolog- 
ical, or an archaeological standpoint, we discover evi- 
dence that they diverged from the White and Dusky 
races at a period which, compared with the epoch of 
Egyptian and Assyrian civilization, must be exceeding- 
ly remote. The conclusion is indicated, therefore, that 
the common progenitor of the Black and the other races 
was placed too far back in time to answer for the Bib- 
lical Adam. This view has been maintained by M*Caus- 
land (.1 dam and the. .1 damite [ Bond. 1872]; The Guilders 
of Babel, ch. v), and was recently favored by Dr. Whcdon 
(Mcth. Quar. Rev . Jan. 1871, p. 153, and July, 1872, p. 
526). Sec also an article entitled H'«s Adam (he First 
J Ian? in Scribner's Monthly, Oct. 1871; and Pozzy, La 
Terre et le Fecit Biblique de la Creation , liv. iii, c. xii. * 
To those who think the language of the Bible con- 
templates Adam as “ the tirst being who could be called 
a man” — not alone the progenitor of the races which 
figure in Biblical history — it may be conceded that 
such is its meaning, in case it shall appear allowable, 
on Biblical grounds, to carry back the advent of man 
sufficiently far; and provided, further, that a progenitor 
having the complexion which seems to be indicated by 
the term Adam can be reasonably regarded as the pro- 
genitor also of races of black color, and seemingly much 
lower in the organic and intellectual scale than the fa- 
ther of Seth and his civilized posterity not far removed.! 
The time-question involved is admittedly serious. In 
reference to the difficulty presented by the color of Ad- 
am's skin, it will be borne in mind that color alone is 
one of the most untrustworthy of ethnological characters 
(Peschel, Races of Man, p. 88). In reference to the 
inferior psychic and bodily endowments of the Black 
races, it may also be observed that degradation and de- 
terioration of tribes are phenomena familiar to ethnol- 
ogy. But there are strong objections to the assump- 
tion that the Black races represent, in general, a degen- 
eracy. Wc have no knowledge of the degeneracy of 
entire races, but only of tribes and fragments of tribes. 
Nor has tribal degeneracy taken place, except where 
the oppression of superior tribes has driven the weaker 
into the midst of natural conditions unfriendly to exist- 
ence. But the Black races have been free to roam over 
entire continents in search of the most congenial condi- 
tions. Yet, on the healthful and luxuriant table-lands 
of Central Africa the black man is marked by an infe- 
riority as real and almost as great as along the pesti- 
lential borders of the west coast, or in the least-favored 
regions of Australia and New Guinea. The structural 
peculiarities of the Black races, moreover, are inheri- 
tances of lower grade rather than reminiscences of a 
higher. The black man is not on a descending grade, 
but is ascending, according to the organic and psychic 
law of existence, llis remotest progenitor was lower 
rather than higher. All these considerations militate 
against the idea that Adam, the father of the Noachian 
races, was low enough in the scale of organization, and 
remote enough in the genealogical line, to be the father 
also of the Melanie races. Thus, while the conflicting 
nature of the insufficient evidences forbids our dogma- 
tism, the balance of proof seems rather to sustain the 
opinion that the Melanie races are descendants of real 
Preadamitcs.t 


II. Prehistoric Men . — By prehistoric peoples we com- 
monly understand the ancestors of the historic peoples: 
and, in a still stricter sense, the ancestors of the Aryan 
nations. In fact, most that has been directly learned 
respecting prehistoric men concerns the predecessors of 
the historic nations of Europe. It should be borne in 
mind, however, that questions respecting primeval 
man — his antiquity, endowments, condition, and birth- 
place — are to be clearly distinguished from similar 
questions concerning the Caucasian race — the race with 
which, as we have seen, onr revealed Scriptures are pri- 
marily concerned. What may be true of this race may 
be very wide of the truth respecting mankind at large. 
See Spkciks. In discussing prehistoric man wc are 
constrained to confine ourselves to the predecessors of 
the modern Caucasians, both because discoveries of 
prehistoric monuments have been chiefly restricted to 
Caucasian countries, and because the non - Caucasian 
races (especially if we except the Mongoloids) can 
hardly be said to possess any indigenous history; so 
that their prehistoric period reaches to the present. 
This circumstance, nevertheless, is fortunate for an- 
thropological research, since it enables ns, by compari- 
son, to draw inferences respecting the prehistoric con- 
ditions of the Caucasian race. 

1. Sources of Information. — (1.) Caverns. — Nearly 
every country of Europe contains caverns in which 
have been discovered either the bones of human beings 
or the relics of their industry. More than forty of 
these were explored by Dr. Sehmorling in Belgium 
( Recherches sur les Ossemens fossiles decourerts dans les 
Carernes de la Province de Lieye [1833-34]), and others, 
more recently, by M. E. Dupont ( Les Temps Prehisto- 
riques ; see also Le lion, LTIomme Fossile [2d ed. 1877]). 
The most important Belgian caverns arc those of Engis, 
Engihoul, Chokier, Naulettc, and Frontal (or Furfuoz). 
Dr. Buckland published in 1823 (Reliquiae Bilu liana) 
accounts of the contents of several English caverns; 
I and, in later times, further details have been given by 
Evans (Ancient Stone Implements of Great Britain 
[1872]), Owen ( History of British Fossil Mammals and 
Birds [1846]), Dawkins ( Cave lluntiny [1875]), Lub- 
bock (Prehistoric Times [Lond. 1865]), Lyell ( The 
Gcoloyical Evidences of the Antiquity of Man [4th ed. 
1873]), Sanford, Falconer, Austen, Pcngclly. and others 
whose works arc scattered through the publications of 
the geological and palaeontological societies and period- 
icals. The most important English caverns are those 
of Kent and Brixham (near Torquay), Wokev Hole in 
Somersetshire, Kirkdale in Yorkshire, and those in the 
Gower Peninsula of South Wales. The British caverns 
have afforded thirty-seven species of mammals, of which 
| eighteen are extinct. A large number of French cav- 
erns and “rock-shelters” have proved fruitful in archae- 
ological and anthropological remains. As early as 1826 
M. Tournal, and in 1829 M. Christol, had announced dis- 
coveries in the south of France. Later investigations 
have been made bv Lartet and Christy (Reliquia Aqui- 
tanica [Lond. 1865-69]), Desnoycrs, Murtillet. Kivicre, 
Garrigon, and many other French and English anthro- 
pologists. Nearly a hundred bone- and flint-producing 
caverns have been described in France, the greater 
number of which arc situated in the Department of the 
Dordogne (e. g. Mousticr, Eyzies, Madeleine, Eaugerie- 
Ilaute, and Laugerie-Bassc) and the north flanks of the 
Pyrenees (e. g. Aurignae. Lourdes, Izestc, and Lortct). 
51. Garrigon states that lie has explored two hundred 
and seventy-five caverns in the Pyrenees. Others 


* Such a conclusion, however, has in onr judgment a 
very slender foundation, and cannot for a moment stand 
In comparison with the arguments in favor of the common 
origin of man adduced under onr article Aoam.— Eh 
t The question rather is simply a philological one. The 
statements of Scripture must stand or fall by themselves, 
when fairly expounded by the usual laws of exegesis, and 
we are not at liberty to warp them into an accommodation 
with discoveries in other fields.— Ki>. 

i From this conclusion we beg leave to dissent tnto calo, 
and wc especially disagree with the view that the Black 


equally important, however, occur in the departments of 
llerault (Pondres), Aricgc (Massal, Bouicheta'l, A tide 
(Bizo), Tarn-et-Garonne (Brnniqnel), and on the Mcdi- 


rnces are in any essential point inferior to the others. 
We judge it far more philosophical to argue that their 
unfavorable surroundings have produced their present 
degradation, rather than to make it an evidence of inher- 
ent lack of capacity. Had the latter been the real cnn«e, 
it must forever operate; whereas we know that under 
better auspices they have been able to snrmouut it.— E d. 


PREAD AMITE 


487 


PREAD AMITE 


terranean coast (Mentone). The most celebrated cav- 
erns of Germany are those of Gailenreuth in Bavaria, 
Kabenstein in Franconia (Bav.), Eggisheim (near Col- 
mar), and Neanderthal (near Dlisseldorf [respecting the 
Engis, Neanderthal, and Borreby skulls, see Lvell, l. c. 
pt. i, ch. v]). Other ossiferous caverns occur in Den- 
mark, Switzerland (near Geneva), Italy (in the north, 
and along the north coast of Sicily), Spain (southern 
flanks of the Pyrenees), Portugal, Austria, Algeria. 
Egypt, Syria, Australia, and other countries. Dr. 
Lund explored eight hundred caverns in Brazil. 

Human remains occur in caverns promiscuously in- 
termingled with the bones of wild animals. Very rarely 
is a human skeleton found complete. Bones are often 
associated with implements of stone, bone, or reindeer’s 
horn, and with traces of ancient fires. The bones of 
animals useful for food are frequently marked by the 
teeth of carnivorous quadrupeds, and the long ones are 
generally split and broken, as if for the extraction of 
the marrow. In some cases human bones have been 
similarly treated. All these relics are found imbedded, 
sometimes in beds of stalagmitic material, and some- 
times in deposits of loam and of pulverulent material 
known as bone -earth. The aggregate depth of the 
various accumulations reaches, in some cases, ten to 
twenty feet, or even more. The deposits in Kent’s 
Cavern may serve as an illustration. We find here, 
beneath the fragments fallen from the roof— I. “Black 
mould,” consisting mainly of vegetable matter, and con- 
taining various articles of mediaeval, Roman, and pre- 
Roman date, three to twelve inches deep; 2. Stalag- 
mite, varying from a mere film to upwards of five feet 
in thickness, containing fragments of limestone, a hu- 
man jaw, and the remains of extinct animals; 3. A 
“black band,” in a certain place about thirty-two feet 
from the entrance, consisting mainly of charcoal, and 
containing bone and flint implements; 4. Red “cavc- 
earth,” with stone implements and bones and teeth of 
extinct animals, including the cave -lion. 5. Stalag- 
mite, three to twelve feet, and enclosing only bones of 
the cave-bear ; 6. Cave-earth, known as “ breccia” — be- 
ing a dark-red sandy loam, and containing bears’ bones. 
Three flint implements and one flint chip have been 
found also in the lowest layer. Another example may 
be taken from the rock-shelter of Aurignac, a shallow 
grotto opening on a hill-side, which seems to have been 
employed for burial. Until 1852 the opening was con- 
cealed by materials washed down the hill-slope. When 
uncovered, the cavity within afforded the remains of 
seventeen human beings. In I8G0 M. Lartet discovered 
outside of the grotto, underneath the sloping talus, a 
layer containing the remains of extinct animals and 
some works of art; and beneath this, resting on a slop- 
ing terrace, a layer of ashes and charcoal, about six 
inches thick, covering an area of six or seven square 
yards, and terminating at the entrance of the grotto. 
In the midst of this were fragments of a sandstone red- 
dened by heat, and resting on a levelled surface of lime- 
stone, which appears to have been used as a hearth. 
From the ashes and the overlying layer was obtained 
a great variety of bones and implements, including two 
hundred flint articles — knives, projectiles, sling-stones, 
and chips, as well as a curious tool for working flints. 
The bone instruments embraced arrows without barbs, 
other tools of reindeer’s horn, and a bodkin of the same. 
In the stratum overlying the ashes were found numer- 
ous bones of carnivora, also of reindeer, ox, rhinoceros, 
one hundred and sixty-eight human bones, and many 
fragments of sun-dried or half-baked and hand-made 
pottery. The extinct species found here were the cave- 
bear, cave-lion, cavc-hvona, mammoth, two-horned rhi- 
noceros, and stag; but the remains of living species, 
especially of the fox, horse, reindeer, and aurochs, were 
much more abundant. Within the grotto, after the re- 
moval of the skeletons, there remained only about two 
feet of earth, with a subjacent band of lighter tint, and 
a bottom layer of yellowish color. 


(2.) River-drifts. — These are thick beds of sand and 
gravel lining the valleys of certain rivers, and contain- 
ing a great variety of stone implements, chiefly of flint, 
with occasional occurrences of human bones, and more 
abundant remains of extinct quadrupeds of the species 
just cited, together with a smaller proportion of remains 
of living mammals; and, along the valley of the Somme, 
of fresh-water and marine shells, of species still living 
in France and along the contiguous coast. The river- 
valleys most celebrated for such discoveries are those- 
of the Somme, Seine, and Oise in France, and the 
Thames, Ouse, and Avon in England. The facts re- 
specting the valley of the Somme have been chiefly de- 
veloped by M. Boucher de Perthes {Antiquit es Celiiques 
et. Antediluviennes [1847]), JIM. Rigollot, Pouchet, Gau- 
dry, Hebert, and the English savans Falconer, Prest- 
wich. Evans, and Lvell. We should mention here the 
delta of the Tiniere on the Lake of Geneva, investigated 
and described by Morlot, and more lately by Dr. An- 
drews of Chicago (Amer. Jour. Sci. [2] xlv, 180). In 
the deeper parts of these deposits remains of extinct 
quadrupeds predominate; at higher levels, those of 
living quadrupeds. Rude flint implements abound be- 
low, improved forms above, and still higher occur some- 
times relics of Gallo-Roman times. 

(3.) Loess and Moraines. — In the loess or loam, as 
well as in other deposits overlying the glacial drift, 
have been found occasional remains of man — as at Lahr, 
near Strasburg; at Maestricht, where human bones were 
associated with those of the mammoth and other ex- 
tinct animals; at Kreuzberg, in the suburbs of Berlin; 
at Bournemouth, England, on the top of a sea-cliff one 
hundred feet high, where flints occur in gravel ; in the 
drift-covered cliffs of Hampshire, and many other local- 
ities. At the bottom of an ancient glacier-moraine at 
Ravensburg, near Lake Constance, was found, in 1866, a 
great quantity of bones and broken instruments. Of 
the bones ninety-eight hundredths were those of rein- 
deer. The moraine, therefore, dates apparently from 
the “second glacial epoch.” 

(4.) Volcanic Tuff. — In 1844 an account was pub- 
lished by M. Avmard of the discovery of the remains 
of two human beings imbedded in a volcanic tuff eject- 
ed, during its last eruption, by the mountain of Denise, 
in Le Puy, Central France. In ejections of the same 
age have been found remains of the cave-hyena and a 
hippopotamus. 

(5.) Peat Bogs. — The peat bogs of Denmark, ranging 
from ten to thirty feet in depth, have afforded a large 
quantity of human remains, mingled with those of ani- 
mals contemporary with man (Morlot, Etudes Geologico- 
archeologiques en Danemark et en Suisse"). In the lowest 
portion of the bogs are found remains of the Scotch fir, 
a tree no longer growing in Denmark; and with these 
are associated implements of flint. Above are found 
remains of the common oak, now very rare in Denmark, 
and associated therewith implements and ornaments of 
bronze, as well as stone; while in the still newer peat 
occur remains of the existing becchen forest, mingled 
with relics of an age of iron. The bogs of Ireland have 
been similarly productive, affording, among other things, 
many skeletons of the great Irish elk. From the bogs 
of the Somme, newer than the river-drifts, many human 
relics have been exhumed, as well as from those in the 
neighborhoods of Brussels and Antwerp. 

(6.) Kitchen - middens (Danish I'jdkhenmddding ). — 
These are heaps of earth and human relics occurring 
along the Baltic shore of Denmark. They vary in 
height from three to ten feet, and some are 150 to 200 
feet wide, and 1000 feet long. They are largely made 
up of the shells of the oyster, cockle, and other edible 
mollusks, but. plentifully mixed with the bones of vari- 
ous quadrupeds, birds, and fish, which seem to have 
served as food for rude sea-side inhabitants. Inter- 
spersed with the animal remains are flint knives, hatch- 
ets, and other instruments of stone, horn, wood, and 
bone, with fragments of coarse pottery, mixed with 


PREAD AMITE 


48S 


PREADAMITE 


charcoal and cinders, but never with implements of 
bronze or iron. The stone hatchets and knives, never- 
theless, have been polished and sharpened by grinding, 
and are thus less rude than those of the river-drifts and 
many of the caverns. Kitchen-middens also oceur in 
England, Scotland, France, the United States, and other 
countries. 

Very similar are the refuse-heaps (“ terramarcs”) far- 
ther inland, accumulated (according to a custom still 
prevailing in Ecuador, Mexico, and other Spanish coun- 
tries) upon the outskirts of ancient palustrinc villages 
in the north of Italy. They embrace, naturally, relics 
of everything pertaining to the life of the ancient vil- 
lagers, including implements for weaving, mill-stones, 
and spear-heads, hatchets, and ornaments of bronze. 
They occur especially over the plain bounded by the 
l’o, the Apennines, the Adda, and the Keno (Strobel 
and I'igorini, Les Terramarcs et les Pilotages e he Par- 
mesan, Milan, 1MG1). Similar palustrinc settlements 
have recently been discovered in Moravia and Meck- 
lenburg. They arc said to exist also on the coasts of 
Africa and Brazil. Certain mounds along the coasts of 
Holland, containing Homan and Carthaginian antiqui- 
ties, seem to have served as earthworks, or places of 
refuge. 

(7.) Megaliths and Tumuli. — Unde structures of huge 
rough stones, whose origin is fixed in the night of pre- 
historic times, are known to exist in nearly all the 
countries of Europe, and even of Asia, and were long 
regarded as druidical remains. Those called “dol- 
mens" consist of a huge more or less flattened rock, 
resting on stones planted upright in the ground — the 
supposed stone-altars of the Cauls. .Sometimes a scries 
of massive slabs rests on two lines of upright stones, so 
arranged as to form a covered passage. In other cases 
the entire dolmen is covered to the depth of several 
feet by earth, and thus becomes a tumulus-dolmen. 
Some tumuli enclose two or more stone-covered pas- 
sages. The passages seem to have been burial-crypts, 
for wc often find within them human skeletons placed 
originally in a sitting posture. In one tomb hundreds 
of skeletons were discovered. Sometimes the crypts 
are divided into numerous compartments, each contain- 
ing a skeleton. With the skeletons were deposited 
weapons and implements (generally of stone) and earth- 
en vessels. The pottery was of a finer character than 
that of the kitchen-middens (Leguav, Sepultures de 
I'Age de la Pierre, 1<SG5). Some of the tumulus- 
dolmens attain colossal proportions. That of Silbury 
Hill, England, is nearly 200 feet high. The Egyptian 
pyramids belong properly in this connection. Sec 
Stunk. 

The structure known as a “cromlech” is a dolmen 
surrounded by one or more circles of stones planted like 
posts in the ground. Cromlechs occur singly or in 
groups. These erect, roughly hewn stones arc known 
as “ menhirs,” and also occur either singly or in long 
parallel ranges, as at Uaruac, in Brittany. Thousands 
of the various sorts of mcgalithic structures arc known 
in Brittany and the south and south-west of France, in 
England, in Denmark, and, in less abundance, in all the 
other countries of Europe, except Southern (iormany, 
Spain, Italy, Greece, the Danubian principalities, and 
IhlSMil. 

(«.) Lake-dwellings. — The pile-habitations (Pala- 
fittis, Pfahlbauten) were cabins erected on piles in the 
bottoms of lakes. First discovered and most abundant 
in the lakes of Switzerland (l)esor . Palnjittes, ou Con- 
structions Li tens ties dn Lac de Xuichatel; Troyon, Ha- 
bitations Lnrnstres des Temps unciens et moderues), they 
are now known in the existing and the peat-tilled lakes 
of several other countries (the Italian lakes Varese and 
Mercurago are especially rich); and Herodotus (lib. iv, 
cap. Ifi) states that such habitations were anciently 
employed bv a tribe dwelling in l‘;e<uiia, now a part of 
Koumelin. By dredging the lakes which contained the 
Swiss lake-dwellings an enormous quantity of relics has 


been brought to light, embracing the different varieties 
of stone weapons and implements, industrial and orna- 
mental articles in bronze, remains of plaited cloth, stores 
of wheat and barkw — in one instance baked into flat, 
round cakes — carbonized apples and pears, and the 
stones of the wild plum, and seeds of the raspberry and 
blackberry, together with the nuts of the beech and 
hazel. In a few instances implements of iron have 
been discovered ; and in one instance bronze and silver 
coins and medals of Greek production, and some iron 
swords, but all of prc-Homan origin. The bones of 
twenty-four species of wild mammals have been dredged 
up, besides eighteen species of birds, three of reptiles, 
and nine of fish, all of which have lived in historic 
times (Kiltimovcr, Pie Fauna der Pfahlbauten in der 
Schweiz, Basel, l*<il). 

In some instances, as on the north bank of Lake Xcu- 
chatel, where the bottom was rocky, heaps of stones were 
thrown down, among which piles were fixed. The piles 
thus served to retain further supplies of stones, and by 
this means artificial islands were formed, on which cab- 
ins were built. These are designated as tenevieres. The 
transition from these to the “crannogcs” of Ireland is 
easy, for the latter are simply artificial islands formed 
of piles, stones, and earth, or sometimes of a framework 
of oaken beams mortised together, and made to serve 
as a crib for the retention of masses of stones (Wylie, 
A rcheeologia, vol. xxxviii, 1859). The buildings erected 
on these islands are now sometimes covered with peat, 
as in the Drumkcllin bog, to the depth of fourteen feet. 
The Irish crannoges have afforded va^t quantities of 
bones of domestic animals, and works of human indus- 
try in stone, bronze, and iron. 

(9.) Modem Savages. — Since, beyond controversy, 
prehistoric man existed in a condition similar to that 
of rude and primitive peoples of historic times, it ap- 
pears that the study of modern savages should afford 
important aids in the interpretation of prehistoric mon- 
uments, and the determination of the condition and ca- 
pacities of prehistoric peoples. For instance, the flint 
arrow-heads of the American Indian arc fashioned pre- 
cisely like some of those found in European caverns 
and lake-habitations. To understand the ancient lake- 
dwellings and their occupants, wc have not only the 
historical account of Herodotus, but D’Urville’s narra- 
tive of the lake-dwellers of New Guinea. As illustra- 
tive of the kitchen-middens, wc may turn to the modern 
shell-heaps on the north-west coast of Australia, and 
the citv-border offal-heaps of Guayaquil and Mexico. 
In India some of the hill-tribes still erect cromlechs. 
Prehistoric monuments even receive a light shed from 
the accounts of early historic times. Thus “Jacob took 
a stone and set it up for a pillar” (Gen. xxxi, 45; see 
further, vcr. 40-52); and at Mount Sinai, Moses erected 
twelve pillars — menhirs (Exod. xxiv, 1 ; see also Josh, iv, 
21,22). In connection with tumuli, it may be remembered 
that Scmiramis raised a mound over her husband ; stones 
were piled up over the remains of La'iens; Achilles 
raised to Patrodus a mound more than 100 feet in di- 
ameter; Alexander erected one over the ashes of 1 1 e- 
phiestio which cost 81.200,000; and in Iloman history 
wc meet with several similar instances. So. finally, the 
small bronze chariot exhumed from a tumulus of Meck- 
lenburg recalls the wheeled structures fabricated for Sol- 
omon by Hiram of Tyre (1 Kings vii, 27-97). 

2. Interpretation of the Facts . — (1.) Divisions of Pre- 
historic Time. — The voice of all civilized nations has 
given expression to the belief in the existence of three 
great ages in the unwritten history of mankind: the 
ages of Stone, of Bronze, and of Iron. The concurrent 
indications from the relics of prehistoric limes sustain 
this ludief. In the Age of Stone the metals were un- 
known. and all implements, weapons, utensils, ami or- 
naments were of stone, bone, horn, shells, or moulded 
and unbaked clay. In the Age of Bronze, arms and 
cutting instruments were made largely of that alloy, 
though stone continued long in use. In the Age of 


PREAD AMITE 


489 


PREADAMITE 


Iron that metal had superseded bronze for arms, axes, 
and knives, though bronze continued in use for orna- 
ments, and often for the handles of weapons. This suc- 
cession, which is confidently traced for European popu- 
lations. probably holds good, modified by various cir- 
cumstances, for mankind at large. It must not by any 
means be supposed, however, that the social condition 
implied by the Stone Age, or either of the others, an- 
swers to any particular period of absolute time in the 
history of the world. One race or nation has emerged 
from the condition of its Stone Age at a much earlier pe- 
riod than another, and some races and tribes still re- 
main in their Stone Age. These three conditions of 
society are generally regarded as prehistoric, and it is 
certain that bronze and iron were already known to the 
northern nations of Europe when the Roman armies in- 
vaded them; but it appears also that the weapons used 
in the Trojan War, at the dawn of history, were mostly 
of bronze, though iron was beginning to appear, ami 
that in the time of Joshua knives of stone were in use. 

A closer examination of the relics of the Stone Age 
indicates a division into three epochs. In the Palaeo- 
lithic, or Rude Stone Epoch, all implements were of 
stone, and shaped by chipping, without grinding. In 
the Reindeer Epoch, bone and reindeer's horn displaced 
flint to a large extent : while in the Neolithic, or Pol- 
ished Stone Epoch, multitudes of stone implements 
were ground to an edge (“ celts”). Mortillet makes the 
following classification, based on implements from the 
cairns of France: A. Flint implements predominant 
(Palajolithic), (u.) Epoch of Moustier — the flints chipped 
only on one side, and having somewhat an almond 
shape. ( b .) Epoch of Solntre — the flints chipped on 
both sides, and the extremities brought to a good point. 
The almond shapes wanting. B. Bone implements 
predominant, (c.) Epoch of Aurignac (Early Rein- 
deer) — the lance- and arrow-heads slit at the base, so 
that the tapering shaft enters the bone, (d.) Epoch of 
the Madeleine (Late Reindeer) — the lower extremity 
of the lance- or arrow-head enters the shaft. Many im- 
plements of flint still remain. Some recognise three 
divisions of Palaeolithic flints : («) the type of St. Acheul 
— large, thick, oval, roughly chipped on both sides; 
(b) the type of Moustier — thinner, and wronght on one 
side; ( c ) the type of Solutre — smaller, finely wrought, 
with thin borders and symmetrical form. 

The Palaeolithic Epoch is further characterized by a 
nearly complete absence of pottery and of attempts at 
ornamentation or artistic delineation, as also by the 
contemporaneous existence of several quadrupeds now 
extinct — especially the cave-bear, the cave-hyena, 
cave-lion, tichorhine rhinoceros, and hairy elephant, or 
mammoth. The Reindeer Epoch, with a colder cli- 
mate, witnessed the disappearance of these animals, and 
the advent of several species now native in the north 
of Europe or at Alpine elevations — such especially as 
the reindeer, musk-ox, elk, chamois, ibex, hamster-rat, 
lemming, grouse, and snowy owl. With them existed 
the horse, the urns, the deer, and various rodents. The 
Neolithic Epoch was marked by the presence of many 
species of domesticated animals — especially the dog, 
sheep, goat, ox, horse, and hog. The domestic cat and 
fowl, and the crooked-horned sheep, did not appear till 
the epoch of the very latest lake-dwellings (Neville and 
Chavannes), generally referred to the 6th century. 

The Palaeolithic Epoch is illustrated chiefly by the 
finds of the river-gravels, the caverns of Belgium and 
England, the volcanic tuff of Denise, and a few of the 
caverns and rock - shelters of France; the Reindeer 
Epoch by a majority of the French caverns and rock- 
shelters; and the Neolithic Epoch by a few caverns in 
the south of France, the kitchen-middens, crannoges, 
dolmens, the lowest portion of the Danish bogs, and the 
lake-dwellings of Eastern Switzerland. The Bronze 
Age is represented by the finds of the lake-dwellings of 
Western Switzerland, many of the tumuli and the mid- 
dle portion of the Dauisli bogs ; and the Iron Age by 


the upper portion of the Danish bogs, and some of the 
latest Swiss lakes (as Bienne and Nenchatel). 

(2.) Geological Conditions . — The physical conditions 
of Europe have changed to a remarkable extent since 
the first advent of man. At the epoch of the oldest 
finds Europe was just emerging from a secular winter 
which had buried all the mountains and plains beneath 
a mantle of glacier material, as far south, probably, as 
the Pyrenees. England and Scandinavia had been con- 
nected with the Continent; the English Channel and 
the German Ocean had been dry land, and the Thames 
had been a tributary of the Rhine. A subsidence now 
took place, which made Great Britain an island. An 
amelioration of the climate caused a rapid melting of 
the glaciers; the land was extensively flooded, and the 
drainage of the Continent now began to mark out and 
excavate the river-valleys of the modern epoch. The 
cave-bear, mammoth, and other quadrupeds of Pliocene 
time still survived; and now man appeared in Europe 
to dispute with them the possession of the forests and 
the caverns. The swollen rivers flowed at elevations 
of twenty to fifty feet above their present levels, and 
the relies of the stone -folk were mingled with the 
deposits along their borders. The Reindeer Epoch wit- 
nessed another elevation, and a new invasion of cold. 
England was again joined to the Continent. The cave- 
bear and mammoth dwindled away. The reindeer anil 
other northern quadrupeds were driven south over the 
plains of Languedoc and through the valleys of Peri- 
goril. The hyena went over to England and took pos- 
session of the caverns. But the men of Europe had 
made a slight advance in their industries. Next, an- 
other subsidence resulted in the isolation of England 
and the Scandinavian peninsula; the climate was again 
ameliorated, and the reindeer and other arctic species 
retreated to Alpine elevations and northern latitudes. 
Now the modern aspects of the surface of the land be- 
gan to appear, and now appeared various species of 
mammals destined to domestication — or, more probably, 
already domesticated in their Oriental home. The ages 
of Bronze, Iron, and authentic history succeeded.* 

(8.) Character of Prehistoric Europeans. — Physi- 
cally, the men of the Paleolithic Epoch, judging from 
the few skeletons and skulls discovered in Belgium and 
England, were of rather short stature, and of a Mongo- 
loid type, like modern Finns and Lapps. In the Rein- 
deer Epoch, the remains of Southern Europe indicate 
men nearly six feet in stature; but the men of Belgium 
were still small and round-headed, and such they con- 
tinued to be to the end of the Stone Age. The Neo- 
lithic men of the Swiss lakes were much like the modern 
Swiss. The Palaeolithic men were not decidedly diver- 
gent from the Caucasian type, but a jaw-bone found at 
Naulette has several marks of inferiority, being some- 
what thick and small in height, and having molar teeth 
increasing in size backwards, the wisdom teeth being 
largest instead of smallest, and having, moreover, five 
fangs instead of two, while the chin also is deficient in 
prominence. The famous Neanderthal skull has a low 
forehead and prominent brow-ridges; but the cranial 
capacity was seventy-five cubic inches — about the av- 
erage of modern races, and “in no sense,” as Huxley 
says, “ to be regarded as the remains of a human being 
intermediate between man and the apes.” The Engis 
skull exhibits no special marks of inferiority. The 
Cro-Magnon skull of the Reindeer Epoch had a capacity 
of ninety-seven cubic inches — far above the human av- 
erage. There was no prominence of the jaws or the 
cheek-bones, but the tibia was much flattened (platy- 
cnemic), as in most primitive men. The Neolithic Bor- 
reby skull belonged to the type of Neanderthal. 

Socially and intellectually, Palaeolithic man, in the 


* The reader should uote the conjectural character of 
these changes, especially of the cause of the climatic re- 
verses ; these may have been due to far more ordinary 
and recent vicissitudes than geological subsidence ana 
elevation.— Ed. 


PRE AD AMITE 


490 


PREADAMITE 


regions in question, seems to have existed in a most 
primitive condition. Dwelling in wild caverns, lie 
hunted the beasts with the rudest stone implements, 
and clothed himself in their skins. We find no evidence 
of the use of fire, though probably known, and there are 
some indications that he made food of his own species 
(on anthropophagy, see Congres International , d'A n- 
thropologie et d'A rcheologie Prehistoriques , 1X<J7, p. 158; 
Fliegicr, Z.ur rriihistorischen Ethnologie It aliens, Wien, 
1*77. p. 7. x). Few attempts at pottery have been dis- 
covered, and in these the product was rude, hand-made, 
and simply sun-dried. In the Ileindeer Epoch tire was 
in general use, and it was employed in baking (imper- 
fectly) a better style of hand-made pottery, and in cook- 
ing food employed in funeral, and quite possibly canni- 
balistic, feasts. Many pieces of highly ornamented 
reindeer’s horn, pierced with one, two, or three holes, 
discovered in Pdrigord, are regarded as staves of author- 
ity, either civil or priestly. Here also occur numerous 
phalangeal bones of the deer so pierced with a hole as 
to serve for whistles. Bone and reindeer's horn were 
now wrought into barbed harpoons and arrow-heads. 
On one of the bones from the cavern of La Vache (Ari- 
egc) were graven some peculiar characters, which, as 
suggested, may have been a first attempt at writing, 
though this is very questionable. In the Neolithic 
Epoch cereals were cultivated, and ground into Hour for 
cakes; cloth was formed for clothing, and bone combs 
for the hair; stores of fruits were preserved for winter’s 
use; garden-tools w r ere fashioned from stag’s horn; log- 
canoes were employed in navigation; planks and tim- 
bers of oak were made by splitting tree-trunks with 
stone wedges; log cabins were constructed on piles or 
artificial islands; fortifications were employed in war; 
fish-nets, well made from flaxen cords, have been dredged 
at Bobcnhausen, and the abundant debris of numerous 
flint-workshops, implying a degree of division of labor, 
have been discovered at Grand-Pressigny and other 
places in Belgium and France. As to intelligence and 
manual dexterity, a surprising amount is developed in 
the working of flint implements, especially in the north 
of Europe, 

yEsthetically, Palaeolithic man had advanced no fur- 
ther than the use of necklaces formed of natural beads, 
consisting of fossil foraminifera from the chalk. Some 
flints from the river-drift of St. Achcul present rough 
sketches which, it has been conjectured, may have been 
prompted by the artistic feeling. Some of them bear 
remote resemblances to the human head, in profile, 
three-quarter view, and full face; also to animals, such 
as the rhinoceros and mammoth. If the cavern of 
Massat (Ariegc) is Palaeolithic, it affords us the most 
ancient known successful attempt at portraiture, for M. 
Fontan found there a stone on which was graven a won- 
derfully expressive outline of the cave-bear. In the 
Ileindeer Epoch the taste for personal adornment had 
become considerably developed. They manufactured 
necklaces, bracelets, and pendants, piercing for these 
purposes both shells and teeth, and the bony part of 
t he ear of the horse. Amber also came into use. The 
esthetic feeling was specially developed in the south. 
Some of the curious pieces of reindeer’s horn supposed 
to be staves of authority are handsomely enchased. 
Some remarkable illustrations of primeval art belong- 
ing to this epoch are the following: («.) Sculptures . — 
Handsomely wrought spoons of reindeer’s horn ; hilt of 
a dagger carved in the form of a reindeer; two ivory 
daggers, artistically executed, representing reindeer; a 
harpoon in the shape of an animal's head; the head of 
a stall' of authority, consisting of reindeer’s horn carved 
into a faithful representation of a pair of steers; another 
representing the head of a mammoth; a pair of pieces 
representing the chase of the aurochs on one a rude 
aurochs fleeing from a mail casting a lance (remarkably 
well done), on the other piece a figure of a bovine ani- 
mal different from the first; a serpent in relief on rein- 
deer’s horn. Many of these from Laugcrie-Bassc. (5.) 


I Carvings on slate, ivory, horn, and bone. — A staff of au- 
thority, with representations of a man, two horses, and 
a fish ; a stag graven on reindeer’s horn ; part of a large 
: herbivorous animal; head of lion on a staff of author- 
ity ; reindeer-fight on slate ; some horned animal on 
reindeer’s horn ; slates bearing other unknown animals; 
a young reindeer at full gallop; a hare; a curious ani- 
mal with feline characteristics; a spirited profile of a 
horse on bone; human head in profile on a bone spat- 
ula. in the style of a child’s work; finally, the entire 
outline of a mammoth on ivory (Madeleine), and an- 
other on reindeer’s horn, forming the hilt of a poniard 
(Brnniquel). Most of these from Laugcrie-Bassc. The 
Neolithic Epoch seems to have been marked by a de- 
cline of the artistic feeling. The ornamentation of the 
pottery is more elaborate, and the finish of the stone 
and bone implements more symmetrical and neat, but 
we discover few relics of carving and engraving. 

Kcligiously, there is little to be affirmed or inferred 
of the I’akeolithic tribes. Some of the curiously wrought 
flints may have served as religious emblems; and occa- 
sional discovery of deposits of food near the body of the 
dead may very naturally be regarded as evidence of a 
belief in the future life. In the Beindeer Epoch this 
class of evidences becomes very greatly augmented, as 
shown in the systematic and carefully provided burials 
in some of the tumulus-dolmens, and in the traces of 
funeral repasts in those and the rock-shelters of Auri- 
gnac, Bruniquel, and Fnrfooz. The numerous specimens 
of bright and shining minerals found about many set- 
tlements— as of hydrated oxide of iron, carbonate of 
copper, fluor-spar — may have been used as amulets, and 
thus testify to the vague sense of the supernatural 
which characterizes the infancy of human society. The 
Neolithic people add to such indications the erection of 
mcgalithic structures, some of which, surrounded by 
their cemeteries, as at Abury, England, must naturally 
be considered as their sacred temples. 

Prehistoric man, in brief, represented, in Europe, the 
infancy of his race. All his powers were undeveloped 
and uneducated. Every evidence sustains us in thf 
conclusion that he was not inferior in psychic endow’- 
ments to the average man of the highest races; but ho 
was lacking in acquired skill, and in the results of ex- 
perience accumulated through a long series of genera- 
tions, and preserved from forgetfulness by the blessings 
of a written language. 

(4.) Antiquity of Prehistoric Europeans. In debat- 
ing this question, social and intellectual considerations 
signify nothing, since all conditions have existed in 
all ages. As to the geological antiquity of European 
i man, we have stated that he dates from some part — 
probably an early part — of the Champlain period. It 
has been earnestly maintained, however, and is still be- 
| lieved by some, that man appeared in Europe before the 
! epoch of the last general glaciation. The following are 
the grounds on which the opinion has been based: (n.) 
Preglacial remains erroneously supposed human. — Some 
bones found at Saint-Prcst (Loir-et-Cher) in stratified 
sand and gravel bore cuts, notches, and scratches sup- 
posed to indicate the use of flint implements. The bones, 
however, were associated with those of Eltpkas mendi- 
onulis, which ranged from the Later Pliocene to the lie- 
ginning of the Quaternary age. But it was proven by 
experiment that very similar markings arc made upon 
bones by porcupines; while in the beds containing the 
bones in question were abundant remains of a large 
rodent, quite capable of causing the supposed human 
markings. Again, the shell-marls ( faluns ) of Leognan, 
near Bordeaux, enclose bones of an extinct manatee 
and of certain cetaceans and cheloneans, which bear 
marks appearing to have been made by human imple- 
ments. The manatee in question is of Miocene age. 
But in the same deposits occur the remains of a carniv- 
orous fish (Saugus serratus) whose serrated teeth fit 
exactly the markings on the fossil bones. A similar 
explanation probably awaits the furrowed J/alithenum 


PREADAMITE 


491 


PREADAMITE 



COMPARATIVE TABLE OF PREHISTORIC TIMES IN EUROPE. 


PREADAMITE 


492 


PREADAMITES 


bones of Pouance (Mainc-ct- Loire), as well as the 
notched and scratched bones of a cetacean ( lialecnotus ) 
described from Pliocene deposits in Tuscany by Prof. 
Capellini ( L'Uomo pliocenico in Toscana [1*70]). Fi- 
nally, at Thenay (Loir-et-Chcr) occur Hints in certain 
Lower Miocene limestones which were at first declared 
to be the works of human hands ( Congres International 
[1807], p. 07); but that opinion is scarcely entertained 
at present. (6.) Human remains erroneously supposed 
preylaciul. — -A human skeleton found in volcanic breccia 
near the town of Lc Puy-cn-Yelay, in Central France, 
was fur a time supposed to have been enclosed by the 
same eruption that buried, in the same neighborhood, the 
remains of the Pliocene Elephas meridionalis. The ele- 
phant-bearing lava, nevertheless, was of a different 
character; and exactly the same lava as that contain- 
ing human remains was subsequently observed at an- 
other point. This enclosed the bones of the mammoth 
and other animals of the Champlain period, and thus 
demonstrated that the “man of Denise” was post-gla- 
cial. Again, the river-drifts of the Somme have been 
set down as glacial or preglacial; but that opinion is 
now almost wholly abandoned, for abundant localities 
are known in which it appears to a demonstration that 
the river-valley was excavated after the glacial drift 
was laid down ; while the Hint-bearing drifts have been 
subsequently deposited along the chalk-slopes of the 
valley. Examples are seen in the sections at Mcnche- 
conrt and other places; and the same is shown in Eng- 
land at Biddcnham and Summerbonn Hill, in the valley 
of the Ouse, and at Icklingham, in the valley of the 
Lark. In 1850 a human skull and numerous bones of 
the same skeleton were cxhnmed (but now mostly lost) 
from the Colic del Yento, in Liguria (Issel, Congres In- 
ternational [1807], p. 75, 15G), said to be associated with 
extinct species of oyster of the Pliocene age. The age 
of the bones is questioned by Pruner Bey; and as no 
naturalist saw the remains in situ, we must candidly 
await further investigation. Similarly, the celebrated 
pelvic bone of Matches, in Mississippi, once thought to 
have been derived from a preglacial deposit, is now gen- 
erally believed to have fallen down the bluff from an 
Indian grave at the surface; and the human remains 
of California reported to have come from beneath a bed 
of Tertiary lava are perhaps not sufficiently well authen- 
ticated to form the subject of speculation (Blake, Con- 
gres International [1807], p. 101 ; Whitney, (leoloyical 
Surrey of California, i, 243-252). As, however, pre- 
historic men in America were non-Caucasian, and there- 
fore probably of preadarnic origin, we must expect to 
tind their remains attaining a much higher antiquity 
than those of Europe. 

As to the absolute measure of the time which sepa- 
rates Palaeolithic man from the present, it is likely that 
a medium judgment will be reached at last. (Consult 
on tliis question Southall, The Recent Oriyin of Man 
[1875] ; and Andrews, A mer. Journ. of Science [2], xlv, 
180 ; Trans, of the Chicago A cad. of Science, ii, 1 ; Metli. 
Quar. Iter. Dec. 187G, and dan. 1877.) The impression 
of his high antiquity has been derived from the magni- 
tude of the geological changes which have transpired 
since his advent. But the time required for these, in 
the judgment of the writer, has bv some been greatly 
exaggerated. The contemporaneous existence of man 
with animals now extinct has little bearing on the ques- 
tion, since it has been ascertained that extinctions have 
been occurring throughout historic periods, even down 1 
to the present century. The disappearance of the gla- 
ciers does not seem enormously remote when we re- 
member that their stumps are still visible in the valleys I 
of the Alps, in the gulches of the Sierra Nevada, and 1 
even in the ice-wells of Yermont and Wisconsin. The 
elevation requisite to join England to the Continent 
cannot be thought to require a vast period after learn- 
ing the rate of oscillations in actual progress upon vari- 
ous shores, and the enormous changes in the hydro- 
graphical features of China within 3000 years (Pum- 


pelly, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, vol. xv, 
art. iv). The calculations based on the rate of erosion 
of modern river- valleys, and the growth of sphagnous 
peat, are very misleading, since it is certain that these 
processes went forward with indefinitely greater rapid- 
ity in the pluvial and palustrine conditions of the 
Champlain period. (For the results of sundry calcula- 
tions, sec Lc lion, V Homme Fossile , p. 217.) Further- 
more, the extreme opinions entertained within a few 
years on all these points have more recently been greatly 
modified (see King, Catastrophism and Evolution, in 
the *!/««*. Naturalist, Aug. 1877). At the same time, 
the evidences seem to tend towards the conclusion that 
the advent of man in Europe occurred from 5000 to 
7000 years ago; still more, that the Oriental stock from 
which he had descended came first into existence more 
than G000 years ago.* Such a conclusion would not be 
alarming on Biblical grounds, since it does not appear 
that the absolute age of Adam is stated either directly 
or by clear inference; and there is room to suspect that, 
in those singular cases in which the ages of the patri- 
archs as given in the Hebrew text differ as they do 
from the Septuagint, the integrity of the Greek text 
has been better preserved than that of the Hebrew, 
since the Jews had a direct interest in the abbreviation 
of the time before Christ, to make it appear that the 
epoch always assigned by their rabbins for the advent 
of the Messiah had not yet arrived.* Moreover, there 
are some indications that Paleolithic man in Europe was 
not of the Adamic (Caucasian) type, though it is pretty 
certain that he was succeeded, probably as early as the 
Reindeer Epoch, by an Eastern tide of Caucasian im- 
migration. 

We must remind the reader, in conclusion, that our 
condensed discussion of prehistoric peoples relates only 
to the European continent, and that the primitive his- 
tory of the men of other quarters of the world may have 
differed in some important respects; while it is certain, 
since European man seems to have immigrated from 
the east, that the first appearance of his Oriental ances- 
tors must have been considerably more remote; and 
still further, in view of the probable common origin of 
the Adamic and the other races of man, the first advent 
of the human species upon the earth must have taken 
place at an epoch removed perhaps into the Tertiary 
age of the world’s history. [See, however, Gkoi.o<;y.] 

In addition to the works already cited, see Figuier, 
L' Homme Primitif; translation, Primitive Man (X. Y. 
1870); Quatrefagcs, Rapport sur le Progres de I'An- 
I thropologie (18GS); Ran, Early Man in Europe (X. Y. 
187G) ; Tylor, Researches into the Early History of Man- 
kind and the Development of Civilization (Loud. 18G5) ; 
Nilsson, Les Ilabitans Primitif s de la Scandinarie ; 
Yogt, Lectures on Man (ibid. 18G4), translation of 
Yorlesungen tiler den Mensvhen ; Pozzy, La Terre et le 
Recit J iihlique de la Creation, bk. i, ch. vi-ix; bk. iii, 
ch. xi, xii ; Lubbock, The Ongin of Civilization and the 
Primitive Condition of Man (Amer. ed. 1871) ; Morgan, 
Ancient Society (X. Y. 1*77, 8vo); Caspari, Die Urge- 
schichte der Menschheit (Leips. 1873) ; Tvlor, Primitive 
Culture: Researches into the Development of Mythology, 
Philosophy, Religion, Art, and Custom (Bind. 1871. 2 
vols.) ; Erang. Quar. Rev. April, 18GG. Figuier, <)ua- 
trefages, and Pozzy oppose the doctrine of the deriva- 
tive origin of man. For information respecting Amer- 
ica, see Foster, Prehistoric Races of the United States 
(3d cd. Chicago, 1874). (A. W.) 

Freadamites is the name of a Christian sect 
which was originated in the 17th century by Isaac La 
Peyrere (q. v.) upon the publication of two small trea- 
tises of his in 1G55, the chief object of which was to 
show that Moses had not recorded the origin of the liu- 

* These figures arc evidently little more than guesses, 
not to be placed in comparison with the definite data of 
Bible chronology. — En. 

t A careful examination leads to the opposite conclu- 
sion. See Chronology ; 8ei*tcagint.— Ei>. 


PREBEND 


493 PRECEDENCE 


man race, but only of the Jewish nation ; ami that other 
nations of men inhabited our world long before Adam. 
Ilis views were espoused by many people, especially at 
Groningen and other places in Holland. At Brussels, 
however, he was seized as a heretic, and only escaped 
punishment by renouncing the Reformed opinions and 
embracing the Roman Catholic faith; and at the same 
time he, of course, also retracted his Preadamite views. 
See PliE AD AMITE. 

Prebend (from the Lat . preebenda, provender , i. e. 
an allowance of food, from preebere, to furnish), in its 
common acceptation signifies an allowance or provision 
of any sort. As an ecclesiastical term it denoted orig- 
inally any stipend or reward given out of the ecclesias- 
tical revenues to a person who had by his labors pro- 
cured benefit to the Church. See Benefice. When, 
in the course of the 10th century, the cathedral churches 
— having then become well endowed — left off receiving 
the income of their lands into one common bank, and 
the members of most cathedral and collegiate churches 
ceased living in common and separated from the epis- 
copal mensal property, certain shares or portions fell to 
all those so entitled. Besides, the lands were parcelled 
out in shares, and the income thus obtained was used 
for the support of all the clergymen within the cathe- 
dral territory. After the definite constitution of chap- 
ters for the maintenance of the daily religious services 
in the bishop’s church, or in other churches similarly 
established, endowments were assigned to them, which 
were to be distributed ( priebendee ) in fixed proportions 
among the members. These portions were called por- 
tiones canonical or prebenehe. Hence arose the dif- 
ference between a prebend and a canonri/ (q. v.). A 
canonrv was a right which a person had in a church to 
be deemed a member thereof, to have the right of a 
stall therein, and of giving a vote in the chapter; but a 
prebend was a right to receive certain revenues appro- 
priated to his place. The number of prebends in the 
several cathedral churches is increased by the benefit 
of the revenues of the rural clergy, and oftentimes by 
exonerating the lands of prebends from paying tithes 
to the ministers of the parishes where they lay. To 
the prebend was commonly attached a residence; and 
when an insufficient number of houses existed, the 
oldest prebendaries enjoyed their advantages in ex- 
change for a fixed tax, until it became the practice to 
pay small indemnities to those who had no houses, and 
these payments were called distribut tones. In England 
there is a trace, previous to the arrival of William I, of 
the tenure of distinct lands, afterwards made prebendal, 
at St. Paul’s; but the definite name of prebends is not 
much earlier than the time of Edward I. In the time 
of Henry III the bursaries, prebends paid out of the 
bishop's purse, were reconstituted at Lichfield, and en- 
dowed with lands. It is a separate endowment impro- 
priated, as distinguished from the communa, manors or 
revenues appropriated to maintain all the capitular 
members. At Lincoln, in the 11th century, forty-two 
prebends were founded; in the 12th century, at Wells, 
the prebends were formally distinguished and the dig- 
nities founded; in the 13th century fourteen prebends 
were founded at Llandalf. At York archbishop Thomas 
divided the lands of the common fund into separate 
prebends; these were augmented by archbishops Grey 
and Romaine, who added the last stall in the 13th cen- 
tury. In the 16th century bishop Sherborne founded 
four stalls at Chichester, the latest endowed in England. 
The prebends were divided into stalls of priests, deacons, 
and subdeacons, a certain number coming up to reside 
in stated courses; but in 1343 all the stalls of York 
were declared to be sacerdotal. Dignitaries almost in- 
variably held a prebend attached to their stall. — Wal 
cott, Sacred Archeeology, s. v. 

Prebendary is the name applied to a clergyman 
who is attached to a cathedral or collegiate church and 
enjoys a prebend (q. v.), in consideration of his offici- 


ating at stated times in the church. See Dean and 
I Chapter. 

Precarium (from the Lat. precciri, to request, be- 
seech), in the language of civil law, is a compact by 
which one leaves to another by request the use of a 
thing, or the exercise of a right, without compensation, 
but the grantor reserving to himself the power of a re- 
claimer. The receiver, as a rule, obtains thus the jtidi- 
| cial use of the object in question ; but the giver can 
| regain possession at any time; and he can, if the sur- 
render be refused, recur to the interdict De precario, or 
: to the Actio prescript is verbis. Hence the expression, 
, Precarie possidere, to possess precariously. In canonic 
I law, precarium has not exactly the same meaning, 
j Here the word is feminine (precar ia, a), and is never 
I applied to movable goods, but always to real estate, 
which is not necessarily bestowed gratuitously, but gen- 
erally for the obligation of paying certain taxes, or ren- 
dering certain services, and as a consequence it cannot 
be taken away at pleasure. The origin of the ecclesi- 
astical precariee is found in the Gth century, when the 
custom began to prevail, especially in the country, of 
giving the priests the use of portions of land. Rope 
Gelasius, in 496, had disapproved of this custom, yet a 
few years afterwards we find it widely spread. This 
transfer of real estate to the priest at first depended on 
the bishop, and was entirely personal, not essentially 
connected with the office. The ecclesiastical usufruct- 
uary had sometimes to recognise its revocabilitv by a 
special deed, this declaration being accompanied with 
the promise of paying interest. But little by little the 
Frankish legislation made these cessions permanent, and 
the possession of the land was so intimately connected 
with the performance of duties that it passed uninter- 
ruptedly from every occupant to his successor. Thus 
the precariee took in the course of time the character 
of real benefices. See Benefice. It was not of rare 
occurrence that ecclesiastical property of that kind was 
given for services rendered, or to be rendered, or against 
payment of a tax, even to laymen. These possessions 
also were called precariee, for not only did their colla- 
tion depend on the bishop, but the deed had to be re- 
newed every five years. But this also took in course 
of time the character of a real lease. Still another 
meaning given to the word precaria is that of deed— an 
instrument donating property to the Church, but stipu- 
lating for the grantor the use of it during the remainder 
of his life. The deed of consent given by the other 
side was called preestaria. Formularies of precaries 
and prestaries may be found in Marculfi Formed, lib. ii, 
no. 5, 40, and in t lie Append. Formed, no. 27, 2#, and 41, 
42. See Walter, Corp.jur. Germ, antiq. vol. iii. 

Precedence, a recognition of superiority in cer- 
tain acts due to one person over another. Thus in the 
ecclesiastical order recognised in the hierarchies of 
Rome, England, and Russia, or wherever such distinc- 
tions of clergy exist, priests precede deacons; and rec- 
tors, vicars; and vicars, perpetual curates; and incum- 
bents, assistant-stipendiary curates. Rectors rank with 
each other according to the size and importance of their 
livings or the date of their induction ; bishops accord- 
, ing to the precedence of their sees, as in the Anglican 
establishment, e. g. in the case of London, Durham, 
and Winchester, and of Meath in Ireland, where the in- 
cumbent bears the title of Most Reverend; or, other- 
wise, of the date of consecration, by the councils of 
j Milevi (416), Braga (573), Toledo (G33), and London 
(1075), unless their sees were privileged by ancient cus- 
tom. Priests and deacons rank according to the date 
of their ordination. For a cathedral of the old founda- 
tion in England the order runs — dean, pnecentor, chan- 
cellor, treasurer, archdeacons, canons residentiary (sub- 
detjri, onbehanter of canons), and canons non-resident. 
In chapter the bishop sits with the dean, chancellor, 
archdeacon, and residentiaries on the right, and the 
prseceutor, treasurer, archdeacon, and residentiaries on 


PRECEXTOIi 


494 


PRECEPTS 


the left ; the rest of the canons in order of installation. 
At Salisbury two extra archdeacons sat on either side 
of the entrance. In all processions the members walked 
two and two, at regular distances — dignitaries in copes, 
canons priests in chasubles, canons, deacons, and subdea- 
cons in dalmatics, with one pace between collaterals, 
and three paces between each rank; juniors lirst and 
seniors last in going, but in reverse order on their re- 
turn ; the right-hand side is the place of honor. At St. 
Paul’s the dean walked last, between two dignitaries. 
The parish clergy go first, then follow vicars, canons, 
dignitaries, the dean, the bishop, and last the lay per- 
sons. Each parish had its cross or banner. Abbots 
took precedence according to the date of their benedic- 
tion; Glastonbury, St. Alban’s, and Westminster at va- 
rious times challenged the first place among those who 
were mitred, Rural deans and honorary canons have 
only local precedence in a ruridecanal meeting or cathe- 
dral respectively. — Walcott, Sacred Archieoloyy , s. v. 

Precentor ((Jr. Trpioro^dXrpc, Karorupxa ; Eat. 
domesticus cuntornm ; Fr. yrand chant re; Sp. chuntre, 
or capis col) was in the ancient and mediteval churches 
the person who led the singing, lie generally com- 
menced the verse of the psalm, and the people joined 
him in the close. The versicles were divided into two 
parts, and sung alternately, the singers answering to 
one another; but ordinarily the precentor commenced, 
and the people joined in the middle, and sometimes at 
the end of the verse. This was called singing acros- 
tics. See Ac rostics. The precentor was the digni- 
tary collated by the diocesan and charged with the 
conduct of the musical portion of divine service, and 
required on great festivals and Sundays to commence 
the responses, hymns, etc., to regulate processions, 
to distribute the copes, to correct offences in choir, 
and to direct the singers. In France, England, Ger- 
many, and Spain he ranked next to the dean. Me gave 
the note at mass to the bishop and dean as the succen- 
tor did to the canons and clerks, lie superintended the 
admission of member* of the choir and tabled their 
names for the weekly course on waxen tablets. lie ' 
corrected and had charge of the choir books. In Eng- 
land when he ruled the choir he wore a rochet, camel 
or cantor’s cope, ring, and gloves, and carried a staff; 
and the rectors followed him in soutanes (often of red 
color), surplices, and copes, lie installed canons at 
Exeter, at York the dean and dignitaries, and at Lich- 
field the bishop and dignitaries, lie attended the 
bishop on the left hand, as the dean walked on the 
prelate’s right hand. At Paris he exercised jurisdic- 
tion over all the schools and teachers in the city and 
respondents in the universities. In French cathedrals, 
upon high festivals he presides over the choir at the 
lectern, and carries a baton of silver as the ensign of his 
dignity. At Rodez, I'uy-en-Velay, and Brionde he, 
like the other canons, wears a mftre at high mass, and 
at Cologne was known as ehorepiscopus. At Chartres 
during Easter week all the capitular clergy go to the 
font, with the subchanter preceding the junior canons, 
carrying white wands, in allusion to the white robes 
of the baptized. At Rouen the chanter carries a white 
wand in certain processions, and no one without his 
leave could open a song-school in the city. In England 
his stall faces the dean, being on the north-west. In 
foreign cathedrals he occupied either the same position 
or sat next to the dean. The Greek precentor at Christ- 
mas wore white, and the singers violet. The exarch 
was the imperial protospaltes. The dignity of precen- 
tor was founded at Amiens in 1211); at liouen in 1110; 
at Exeter, Salisbury, York, Lincoln, in the 11th cen- 
tury; at Chichester, Wells. Lichfield, Hereford, in the 
12th; and at St. Paul’s in the 13th century. The pre- 
centor was required to he always resident, and usually 
held a prebend with his dignity. The Clugniac pre- 
centor was called armarius because he was also libra- 
rian, the treasurer being aprocrisiarius. The singers 
of the primitive Church were regarded as a minor order 


by pope Innocent III, by the Council of Laodicea (3G0), 
and by that of Trullo. When the service of song was 
intrusted to lay persons in course of time, the title of 
chanter was preserved in cathedral chapters and colle- 
giate churches as that of a capitular dignitary, having 
precedency, rights, and duties. 

In modern times the name is applied to those who, 
in non-ritualistic churches, lead the congregation in 
singing. This office, lately revived, appears, from Bing- 
ham’s Antiquities, to be of a very early date; the pre- 
centor, or pkonascus (q. v.), as he was called in the 
early Church, either leading the congregation, or sing- 
ing one part of the verse, the other part being sung bj' 
the congregation in response. See Music. In the med- 
iaeval churches the p?-ecentor was one of the officers be- 
longing to the old religious houses, whose office was af- 
terwards continued in collegiate and cathedral churches 
in the capacity above first referred to. In Scotland the 
duties of the precentor have been greatly curtailed, lie 
seems to have succeeded to the reader (q. v.) of earlier 
times. It was the habit of the precentor to repair to 
church about half an hour before the minister came, and 
read to the people several passages of Scripture. When 
the minister entered the precentor gave out a psalm and 
led the singing. After the beginning of last century he 
ceased by degrees either to read the Scriptures or pre- 
scribe the psalm. But his desk is still, from its original, 
use, called by the old people the lectern — that is, read- 
ing-desk. — Walcott, Sacred A rchecoloyy, s. v.; Hook, 
Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; Eadie, Eccles. Diet. s. v. See Desk ; 
Lkctern; Simjing; Wonsinr. 

Precept is a direction, command, or rule enjoined 
by a superior. Religious precepts are divided into 
moral and positive. The precepts of religion, says Sau- 
rin, are as essential as the doctrines: and religion will 
as certainly sink if the morality be subverted, as if the 
theology be undermined. The doctrines are only pro- 
posed to ns as the ground of our duty. A moral precept 
derives its force from its intrinsic litnoss; a positive pre- 
cept from the authority which enjoins it. Moral pre- 
cepts are commanded because they are right; positive 
are right heeanse commanded. The duty of honoring 
our parents and of observing the Sabbath are instances, 
respectively, of each kind of precept. Sec Law. 

Preceptories (or Commanderies) are estates 
or benelices anciently possessed by the Knight Tem- 
plars. ( )n these lands they erected churches for relig- 
ious service and convenient houses for habitation, and 
placed some of their fraternity, under the government 
of one of those more eminent Templars who had been 
by the grand-master created preceptores templi. to take 
care of the lands and rents in that neighborhood. All 
the preceptories of a province were subject to a provin- 
cial superior, called Grand Preceptor; and there were 
three of these who held rank above all the rest— the 
grand preceptors of Jerusalem, Tripolis, and Antioch. 
Other houses of the order were usually called com- 
manderies. 

Precepts, tiie Six Hundred and Thirteen, or 
rill- In the preface to his Jad Ilaehezalca 

(fol. 2, col. 2), Moses Maimonides (q. v.) writes thus: 
*• The number of the precepts of the law is 013, of which 
there arc 248 affirmative precepts, or precepts of com- 
mission, fTwJ r’U*2, corresponding to the 248 mem- 
bers of the human body, and 3G5 negative precepts, or 
precepts of omission, STL* IT N2 nisi, corresponding 
to the number of days of the solar year." The rabbins 
assert that the multiplicity of precepts which God has 
given to the nation of Israel in preference to all others 
is a sign of his predilection for them, for, says rabbi 
Chanania ben-Akashiah, “The Holy One (blessed be 
he!) has been pleased to render Israel meritorious; 
therefore he multiplied to them the law and the com- 
mandments, as it is said. ‘The Dird is well pleased for 
his righteousness’ sake; he will magnify the law, and 


PRECES 


405 


PRECIPIANO 


make it honorable”’ (Isa. xlii, 21). If we may believe 
Jewish notions, we also learn that the patriarchs already 
fulfilled the G13 precepts. The Jewish commentator 
Kashi (q. v.) thus comments very gravely on Gen. 
xxxii, 5: tf,, ni 3 ‘pb E", ‘I have sojourned with La- 
ban:’ the word "TH3, according to the Gematria [comp, 
the art. Cabala, vol. ii, p. 4], amounts to 613 (i. e. 
i = 10 , n = 400, 1 = 200, 3=3, or 10+400 + 200+3 = 
613), by which he (i. e. Jacob) wished to communicate 
(to his brother Esau), ‘It is true I have sojourned with 
the wicked Laban, but still I observed the 613 precepts, 
and I have not been infected with his evil deeds;’ or, 
as the original reads, ZV 1E"bE 3‘ 1 H "*3E TH3 

->nT 2 b atbi ■'r.iE'j maia 3-nn‘i Mi3 eejih *pb 

EWn T’i'EEE the same is the remark of Baal 
Haturim , ad loc. Strictly orthodox Jews make their 
children commit to memory all the 613 precepts, as they 
consider a thorough knowledge of them to be a key to 
the oral law, though the majority of them are unintelli- 
gible to a child. Rabbi Gedaliah, of Amsterdam, pub- 
lished a catalogue of them in 1745, which he designated 
■jEp min, Torath Katon, or The Laic in Miniature. He 
sa} T s in his preface, “Which children are to learn in 
their infancy, to know them off by heart; which will 
be a great introduction for them to learn the oral law; 
and also that what they have learned in their youthful 
days they may remember in their old age; that they 
may know to do them, and live by them in this world 
and in the world to come.” The arrangement of these 
precepts is different. Some, as Maimonides, arrange 
them according to the matter, and the same has been 
followed by Jon. Evbenschiltz, who put them in verse 
(Prague, 1765). Another is that by Gedaliah, of Am- 
sterdam, who gives them according to the order of the 
Pentateuch, which is by far more preferable. As it 
would be tedious and fruitless to enumerate them, we 
will refer the reader who may feel interested to Jost, 
Geschichte d. Juden n. s. Selcten, i, 451 sq. ; JBodenschatz, 
Kirchliehe Verfassung der heutigen Juden (Erlangen, 
1748), iv, 181 sq. (where the Hebrew is also given); 
Margoliouth, Modern Judaism Investigated (Lond. 1843), 
p. 115 sq. ; and The Home and the Sgnagogue of the 
Modem Jew (ibid. 1843), p. 202 sq. (B. P.) 

Preces (i. e. prayers) are the versos and responses 
said in the Roman Catholic, English, and other churches 
at the beginning of matins and even-song . 

Pieces Dominicales females. The preces 
Dominicales , so called from the Dominica or Lord’s Day, 
when they are usually recited, are those prayers which 
are added as a complement of devotion to prvn and com- 
pletorium, after the regular psalms. These preces are 
not recited at all dnplices (double feasts), nor within the 
“octaves,” nor in the “vigil of Epiphany,” in the ferice 
sexta, nor in sahbato, after the “octave of Ascension.” 
The preces feriales take place in penitential times, and 
on the days of penitence. They are prayed kneeling at 
laudes, and at every single hora (time of the day) at 
all ferial offices in Advent, in the forty days of Lent, in 
the Ember days, and vigils connected with a day of 
fast; with the exception of the vigil of Christmas, the 
vigil of Pentecost, and the ensuing Ember days. These 
preces are also omitted on the vigils of Epiphany and 
Ascension, as these feasts have no day of fast. The 
preces feriales begin with the “ lvyrie eleison” and a 
whispered “ Pater-noster;” then, at laudes and vespers, 
follow, “in versiclcs” and “ responsories,” prayers for 
the clergy, sovereign and people, for the community, 
for the deceased, for the absent brethren, the oppressed, 
and prisoners. Then follows the psalm “ De profundis,” 
so full of abnegation and contrition (at laudes'), or 
“Miserere” (at vespers), with some suitable final ver- 
sicles and the oration of the day. 

Prechtl, Maximilian, a German Benedictine, noted 
as a theologian and renowned as a student of canon 


law, was born Aug. 20, 1757, at ilahubach, in the 
Bavarian Palatinate ; he studied first under the Jesuits 
at Amberg, and was at the age of eighteen years admit- 
ted to the college of the Benedictines at Michael feld, 
where he studied philosophy and theology, and was 
consecrated in 1781. In 1782 his monastery sent him 
to Salzburg, •where he acquired a knowledge of the law, 
which served in good stead to his congregation in sev- 
eral lawsuits. He was then a professor of dogmatics 
and morals ; in 1790 he was called to Amberg as teacher 
of dogmatic and ecclesiastical history, and in 1798 he 
was rector in the same city. Jan. 14, 1800, he was 
elected abbot of the monastery of Michaelfeld. After 
the suppression of his monastery he lived at Yilseck, 
entirely devoted to study and to acts of benevolence. 
He died Jan. 13, 1832. The following are his -works: 
Positiones juris ecclesiastici itniversi, Gemianive ac Ba- 
varia ? accommodati (Amberg, 1787): — Succinct a series 
theologice tlieoreticce , quam in monasterio Michaelfeld de- 
fended, etc. (ibid. 1791) : — Historia Mnnasterii Michael- 
feldensis: — Trauerrede auf das Ilinscheiden Carl The- 
odors : — 1 Vie sind die oberpfahischen Abteien bn Jahre 
1669 abermal an die geistlichen Ordensstande gekommen ? 
(1802) : — Friedensu’orte an die katholische und protes- 
tantische Kirclie fiir ihre Wiederi'ereinigvug (Salzb. 
1810): — Seitenstiicke zur 1 Veisheit Dr. Martin Luthers 
an den neuesten Herausgeber seiner Streitschrift : Das 
Papstthum zu Pom vom Teufel gestiftet (ibid. *1817) : — 
Abgedrungene Antwort auf das zweite Sendschreiben Dr. 
Martin Luthers an den Herausgeber, etc. (ibid. 1818) : 
— Kritischer Riickblick auf Urn. Chr. Buberts kritische 
Beleuchtung der Seitenstiicke zur 1 Veisheit Dr. M. Lu- 
thers (ibid. 1818). Prechtl, it will be noticed from the 
list of his works, entered into a controversy on the 
questions at issue between Romanists and Protestants. 
His own desire was a union of all Christians, and he 
first wrote for this purpose; but, like all Romanists, he 
was unwilling to acknowledge the corrupt condition of 
his own ecclesiastical body, and was therefore assailed 
by the Lutherans. The result was a decided polem- 
ical cast in his later writings, and a proportionate 
decline of scholarship and increase of haste and acri- 
mony. (J. II. W.) 

Precipiano, Humbert William, Count of a 
Spanish prelate of French birth, was a native of Besan- 
9011 , where he was born in 1626. He came from an an- 
cient family, originally from Genoa. He was canon at 
Besan^on, counsellor-clerk at the Parliament of Dole, 
and abbe of BcIIevaux in 1649. In 1661 he was elected 
high-dean of the chapter, but the validity of his elec- 
tion was contested by the Holy See. He found a com- 
pensation in the confidence of king Philip IV of Spain. 
In 1667 he was delegated by the states of Burgundy, 
with his brother Prosper- A mbroise, to the Diet of Rat- 
isbon. The talents which he displayed on that occasion 
were rewarded five years later by his nomination to the 
dignity of supreme counsellor of Charles II for the af- 
fairs of Burgundy and the Netherlands. His nomina- 
tion to the episcopal see of Bruges in 1682, whence he 
passed in 1689 to the archiepiscopal see of Mechlin, was 
the reward of his devotion to Don Juan of Austria. His 
zeal for the consolidation of the ultramontane doctrines 
was so great that he imagined a formulary more exact- 
ing than that of Alexander VII. Two decrees of the 
Inquisition (Jan. 28 and Feb. 6 , 1694) condemned the 
new formulary. The prelate refused to submit to the 
decrees. Innocent XII enjoined all bishops of Belgium 
to abandon those quarrels, which had already lasted too 
long, and which the fanaticism of Precipiano endeav- 
ored to revive. In 1696 he recommended, somewhat 
harshly, a little more moderation to the archbishop of 
Mechlin. The great blot in Precipiano’s life is his con- 
sent to the Jesuits for the arrest of Quesnel (q. v.), May 
30, 1703, at Malines. The cities of Bruges, Besan^on. 
Brussels, Mechlin, and the abbey of Bellevaux are in 
possession of monuments of the magnificence and piety*- 
of this prelate. He died at Brussels June 9, 1711. See 


PRECISIANS 


496 


PREDESTINATION 


Hist, eccles. du 18/ne Steele, vol. i ; Calendrier eccles. atm. 
1757; Fuller, Diet. Hist. s. v. — Ilocfcr, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
net- ale, s. v. 

Precisians, one of the names given to the Puritans, 
or those who, about the time of the Commonwealth, 
evinced by their conduct that they were in earnest on 
the subject of religion. They were called precise be- 
cause they condemned swearing, plays, gaming, drink- 
ing, dancing, and other worldly recreations on the 
Lord's day, as well as the time-serving, careless, and 
corrupt religion which was then in fashion. 

Precist (from the Latin precista') is the name of a 
candidate who applies, by means of the primer jtreces, 
for a vacant spiritual prebend. Sec Pkebenij. 

Preconization (i. e. publication, from preeco, “a 
herald”). The appointments to all higher offices of the 
Church, especially episcopal and archiepiscopal sees, 
whether they be made by canonical election or by nom- 
ination, are subject as causes majores to the papal con- 
firmation. This confirmation, according to the resolu- 
tions of the Council of Trent, and the closer directions 
given by pope Gregory XIV in 1591, is preceded by a 
double examination, called informative process and de- 
finitive process. The latter is gone through with at 
Lome by the congregation of cardinals established by 
Sixtus X pro erect ione ece/esiurum et provisionibns apo- 
stolicis; the cardinal protector of the nation in which 
the appointment is to be made acts as referent, and is 
assisted by three other cardinals. The opinion, written 
h)' the protector, and signed by the three assessors, is 
brought immediately before the “ S. Congregatio Con- 
sistorialis,” where it is prepared for the consistory in 
which the confirmation is to take place. In one of the 
ensuing secret consistories the cardinal referent repeats 
his complete account of the matter, whereupon all the 
cardinals present give their vote as to the worthiness 
of the elected or nominated bishop. If the majority 
pronounces in his favor, the pope passes, in the same as- 
sembly, his solemn confirmation in the customary for- 
mula. This declaration of the pope is called prceco- 
nisatio ; it is posted ad valcos ecclesiee, and a deed of it, 
“the bull of preconization,” or continuation, is sent to 
the confirmed nominee. In France, where the pro- 
motion of an ecclesiastic to a bishopric is by nomination 
of the king, the person nominated, after receiving his 
warrant from the crown, is furnished with three letters 
— one from the king to the pope, another to the cardinal 
protector of France at Home, and the third to his maj- 
esty’s ambassador at the pope's court. When this is 
done, a certificate of the life and behavior of the person 
nominated is given in to the pope’s nuncio. 11c like- 
wise makes profession of his faith, and gives in a sched- 
ule of the condition of the bishopric to which he is nom- 
inated. The letters being transmitted to Home, the 
cardinal protector declares in the first consistory that at 
the next consistorial meeting he intends to propose 
such a person for such a see, which declaration is called 
j) re conization. See Bisnoe. (J. II. W.) 

Predestinatians. A sect which arose in (Jaul 
shortly after the time when the Pelagian and Semi- 
Pelagian disputes commenced. They held that God 
not only predestinated the wicked to eternal punish- 
ment. but also to the guilt and transgression for which 
they are punished; and that thus all the good and bad 
actions of men are determined from eternity by a divine 
decree, and fixed by an invincible necessity. In the 9th 
century the tenets of this sect were revived by Gotts- 
chalk, a German, whose followers were termed Pre- 
desfinatians. They taught what Gottschalk himself 
termed a double predestination — that is, a predestina- 
tion of some from all eternity to everlasting life, and 
of others to everlasting death. On promulgating this 
doctrine in Italy, Gottschalk was charged by L’abanus 
Maurus with heresy, and thereupon hastened to Ger- 
many to vindicate his principles. A council accord- 
ingly assembled at Mentz in A.D. 848, when Maurus 


procured his condemnation and his transmission as a 
prisoner to llincmar, archbishop of Hheims, to whose 
jurisdiction he properly belonged. On the arrival of 
* Gottschalk, Hincmar summoned a council at Quiercy, in 
A.D. 849, when, although his principles were defended 
by the learned Katramnus, as well as by Pemigius, arch- 
bishop of Lyons, he was deprived of his priestly olfice, 
ordered to be whipped, and afterwards to be impris- 
oned. Worn out with this cruel treatment, and after lan- 
guishing for some years in the solitude of a prison, 
this learned and thoughtful man died under excom- 
munication, but maintaining his opinions to the last 
While Gottschalk was shut up within the narrow walls 
of a prison his doctrines were the subject of a keen and 
bitter controversy in the Latin Church. Katramnus 
and Kcmigius on the one side, and Scotus ICrigena on 
the other, conducted the argument with great ability. 
The contention was every day increasing in violence, 
and Charles the Ilald found it necessary to summon an- 
other council at Quiercy, in A.D. 853, when, through 
the influence of llincmar, the decision of the former 
council was repeated, and Gottschalk again condemned 
as a heretic. But in A.D. 855 the three provinces of 
; Lyons, Vienne, and Arles met in council at Valence, 
under the presidency of Pemigius, when the opinions 
of Gottschalk were approved, and the decisions of the 
two councils of Quiercy were reversed. Of the twenty- 
three canons of the Council of Valence, five contain the 
doctrinal views of the friends and defenders of Gotts- 
chalk. Thus in the third canon they declare, “ We 
confidently profess a predestination of the elect unto 
life, and a predestination of the wicked unto death. 
But in the election of those to be saved, the mercy of 
God precedes their good deserts; and in the condemna- 
tion of those who are to perish, their ill-deeds precede 
the righteous judgment of God. In his predestination 
God only determined what he himself would do, either 
in his gratuitous mercy or in his righteous judgment.” 
“In the wicked he foresaw their wickedness, because 
it is from themselves; he did not predestine it, because 
it is not from him. The punishment, indeed, conse- 
quent upon their ill-desert he foresaw — being God, he 
foresees all things — and also predestined, because he is 
a just God, with whom, as St. Augustine says, there is 
both a fixed purpose and a certain foreknowledge in re- 
gard to all things whatever.” “ But that some are pre- 
destinated to wickedness by a divine power, so that 
they cannot be of another character, we not only do not 
believe, but if there are those who will believe so great 
a wrong, we, as well as the Council of Orange, with all 
detestation, declare them anathema.” The five doctri- 
nal canons of the Council of Valence were adopted with- 
out alteration by the Council of Toul, in A.D. 859, which 
last council was composed of the bishops of fourteen 
provinces. But on the death of Gottschalk, which 
happened in A.D. 8G8, the contention terminated. See 
PniillKSTIX AVION. 

Predestination, a doctrine upon which great di- 
vision of opinion prevails among Christians. 

1. Definition . — The word predestinate properly signi- 
fies to destine (i.e. to set apart, or devote to a particular 
use, condition, or end) beforehand. It therefore denotes 
a mere act of the will, and should be carefully distin- 
guished from that exercise of power by which volitions 
are actualized or carried into effect. Etymologically 
it would be proper to say that God before the founda- 
tion of the world predestinated the sun to be luminous, 
the loadstone to attract, the atmosphere to perform its 
varied ministries. In theological language, however, 
God would he said to have “foreordained” or “decreed” 
these things, the term “predestinate” being restricted 
to God’s supposed determinations respecting the desti- 
nies of men in the future world. The early Lutheran 
divines generally distinguished prerdestinatio stnete 
dicta, or predestination in its narrower sense, and pree- 
destinatio late dicta . or predestination in its wider sig- 
nification. The former was God’s decree to save all 


PREDESTINATION 


497 


PREDESTINATION 


persevering believers in Christ; the latter was that 
original redemptive volition in which he “will have all 
men to be saved” (1 Tim. ii, 4). In the Reformed Church 
the word has sometimes been employed as synonymous 
with election (q. v.), sometimes as covering both elec- 
tion and reprobation (q. v.). Arminius, in his Ibth Pub. 
Disputation, seems to prefer the former usage as more 
scriptural, but he is not followed in this respect by his 
remonstrant successors. Calvin and most of his follow- 
ers employ the term as applying to the reprobative de- 
crees of God as much as to the elective (see this point 
discussed under Calvinism in vol. ii, p.43, col. 2). 

II. Is Predestination Absolute or Conditional ? — The 
cardinal point of the predestination controversy has al- 
ways been this question: Are the decrees by which cer- 
tain individuals are elected to eternal life and other 
individuals doomed to everlasting misery respective or 
irrespective— that is, were these decrees based upon God’s 
foreknowledge (q. v.) of the different use individuals 
would make of their moral agency, or were they not? 
The Arminian takes the affirmative, the Calvinist the 
negative. The former reasons in this wise : Divine pre- 
destination in its widest sense is God’s free and perfect 
foreplanning of creation and providence. It was ante- 
cedent to the production of the first created thing. So 
viewed, it must be evident to any rational tlieist 
that predestination was objectively absolute but sub- 
jectively conditioned — absolute objectively because there 
existed nothing extraneous to the divine mind to limit 
its action; conditioned subjectively because the essential 
perfections of God demand that his will should always 
act in strict conformity with the dictates of his own in- 
finite wisdom, justice, and benevolence. But though 
predestination, regarded as the complete, all-embracing 
plan of God, was objectively absolute, it is obvious that 
the various individual decrees which are conceived of 
as components of that plan must mutually limit and 
condition each other. Thus the divine determination 
that “while the earth remaineth seed-time and harvest 
shall not cease” was not an absolute decree, but one con- 
ditioned upon the divine determination, antecedent to 
it in the order of nature, that there should be an earth 
with planetary motion, etc. Were not each decree ad- 
justed to every other they could not conspire to the 
attainment of a common end. Instead of being inte- 
grating elements of one wise and self-consistent plan, 
some might be found superfluous, some perhaps in direct 
collision. Hence no individual decree can be regarded 
as irrespective or unconditioned; each is conditioned on 
the one hand by the perfections of God, on the other by 
the whole system of divine pre-volitions of which it 
forms a part. Now an absolute, irreversible decree, 
continues the Arminian, either electing an individual to 
eternal life or dooming him to everlasting death, fails 
to answer to either of these essential conditions or char- 
acteristics of a divine decree. It would be palpably in- 
consistent with the divine perfections on the one hand, 
and absolutely irreconcilable with known determina- 
tions of God on the other. Such an elective decree 
would be incompatible with God’s rationality and im- 
partiality, while such a reprobative one would directly 
conflict not only with his benevolence, but even with his 
justice. Both would be at open war with the known 
design of the Creator that men should enjoy the endow- I 
ment of moral agency and shape their own eternal des- 
tinies. Hence an unconditional, irrespective election 
of some unto life, and an unconditional, irrespective rep- | 
robation of others unto death, cannot be maintained. 
If any are individually elected or reprobated, they must ' 
have been elected or reprobated with reference to the 
foreseen use they would make of their moral agency, for 
only on this principle can any theory of predestination 
be constructed which shall not compromise the divine 
character or conflict with known determinations respect- i 
ing man. 

So just and conclusive is this reasoning that the long 
task of the absolute predestinarians has been to devise 

VIII.— I i 


I some expedient by which unconditional election and 
! reprobation may be shown to be compatible with the 
| divine attributes and with all known divine decrees. 
Several have been tried. (1.) Perhaps the most legit- 
imate of them all is that adopted by those divines who 
consider the divine will the ground of all rational and 
moral qualities and distinctions. If, as these divines 
affirm, nothing is rational or irrational, just or unjust, 
right or wrong, except that for the time being it is 
God’s -will that it should be so, then evidently an arbi- 
trary damnation of innocent beings may be just as right 
and proper an act as any other. If lie wills it to be 
right, then it is right, however it may seem to us. 
Hence, on this scheme, we have only to suppose that 
God wills an act to be right to render it perfectly prop- 
er and consistent for him to perform it. Only on this 
hypothesis can irrespective predestination be success- 
fully defended. (2.) Another class of divines, unable to 
adopt this bold principle (according to which God is 
able to abrogate the moral law as easily as the old cere- 
monial one of the Jews), yet forced to mitigate in some 
way the revolting horrors of an irrespective reprobation, 
have sought relief in the following scheme: Men, con- 
sidered in puris naturalibus, in themselves only, were in- 
capable of anything supernatural. Only by the aid of 
supernatural and divine grace could their nature be con- 
firmed and strengthened if it should remain in its integ- 
rity, or restored if it should become corrupt. To illus- 
trate his grace, God determined by an immutable de- 
cree to elect certain men, so viewed, to participancy in 
his grace and glory. To show his sovereign freedom, he 
determined to pass by the remainder (preeterition), and 
not communicate to them that divine aid requisite to 
keep them from sin; then, when the persons passed by 
become sinners, he proposes to demonstrate his justice 
bv their damnation. How much real relief this device 
affords may be seen by consulting Arminius, Declaration 
of Sentiments, or Watson, Institutes, pt. ii, ch. xxviii. (3.) 
Another expedient sometimes employed in the construc- 
tion of a predestinarian theodicy is to regard sin as a 
mere negation. As brought forward by Dr. Chalmers 
( Institutes , pt. iii, ch. v), it might be viewed as a mod- 
ification of the last-mentioned. Both fail to vindicate 
even the justice of God, since in each case the finally 
damned are damned solely for failing to do what they 
have no ability, natural or vouchsafed, to perform. (4.) 
A fourth scheme is called sublapsarianism. In this the 
fall of man was antecedent in the order of the divine 
decrees to election and reprobation. All men are viewed 
as personally guilty of Adam’s sin and justly obnoxious 
with him to eternal death. From this mass God sov- 
ereignly and graciously elected some unto life for a dem- 
onstration of his mercy; the rest he reprobated to ever- 
lasting woe for a demonstration of his justice. In all 
this it is claimed that there was nothing inconsistent 
with God’s character, since all might justly have been 
damned. It happens, however, that few are ready to 
acquiesce in this all-important premise, to wit, that 
all the descendants of Adam are justly obnoxious to 
eternal death on account of his sin, hence the conclu- 
sion avails nothing to most men. Failing in all these 
ingenious contrivances to harmonize unconditional pre- 
destination with God’s known attributes and principles 
of administration as moral governor, the abettors of the 
doctrine usually come finally (5) to bare assertion. They 
maintain the unconditionality of election and reproba- 
tion on the one hand, and on the other the perfect jus- 
tice and benevolence of God and adequate agency of 
man, without attempting to reconcile the two. They 
resolve the palpable contradiction into a mere “mys- 
tery,” and imperiously shut every opponent’s mouth 
with the misemployed Scripture, “ Who art thou that 
repliest against God ?” 

As our limits do not admit of a methodical examina- 
tion of the various passages of Scripture in which Cal- 
vinists find their doctrine asserted or assumed, we shall 
be obliged to refer the reader to Watson, and to those 


PREDESTINATION 


498 


PREDESTINATION 


commentators who have not devoted themselves to Bib- 
lical interpretation merely as an advantageous polem- 
ical agency. We only remark, in passing, that no fact 
is more striking or significant in the whole history of 
Scripture exegesis than the steady gravitation of all 
sound expositors to the exegetical views of the early 
Remonstrants. Tholuck gratefully acknowledges his 
obligation to them, and even Prof. Stuart quite as often 
follows Grotius as Calvin. Indeed, he confesses that he 
cannot find irrespective election in Kom. viii, *28-30, nor 
can he see “how it is to be made out” on rational 
grounds (Com. Excursus , x, 477). In like manner he 
adopts the interpretation of Kom. vii, 5-25, which it cost 
Arminius so much to establish, and believes the time is 
coming “when there will be but one opinion among in- 
telligent Christians about the passage in question, as 
there was but one before the dispute of Augustine with 
Pelagius” ( Excursus , vii). 

III. History of the Doctrine. — The unanimous and 
unquestioned doctrine of the Church on this point for 
more than four hundred years was, so far as developed 
into distinctness, precisely identical with that which 
owes its scientific form and name to Arminius (q. v.). 
The early fathers often expressed themselves unguard- 
edly, and, in so doing, sometimes laid themselves open 
to the charge of a leaning towards the erroneous views 
afterwards systematized bv Pelagias (q. v.) and his co- 
adjutors [see Pulagianism] ; but. their general senti- 
ment was soundly evangelical and capable of an enun- 
ciation entirely free from every suspicion of consanguin- 
ity with that heresy. “In respect to predestination,” 
says Wiggers, “ the fathers before Augustine differed en- 
tirely from him. . . . They founded predestination upon 
prescience. . . . Hence the Massilianswere entirely right 
when they maintained that Augustine’s doctrine of pre- 
destination was contrary to the opinion of the fathers 
and the sense of the Church” (.1 uyustinism and Pelayian- 
ism , transl. by Prof. Emerson). Justin Martyr, Irenauis, 
Clement of Alexandria, Origcn, and Chrysostom — all in 
clear and decisive statements — gave their adherence to 
the theory of conditional predestination, rejecting the 
opposite as false, dangerous, and utterly subversive of 
the divine glory. It is evident that they did not in- 
vestigate the subject to the depth to which it is requi- 
site for the full discussion of it to go, and that various 
questions, which must be put before it can be brought 
completely before us, they either did not put or hastily 
regarded as of very little moment; but it is enough to 
dwell upon the fact that they did employ their thoughts 
upon it, and have so expressed themselves as to leave 
no doubt of the light in which it was contemplated by 
them. Justin, in his dialogue with Trypho, remarks, 
that “they who were foreknown as to become wicked, 
whether angels or men, did so not from any fault of 
Cod, amp too Bern", but from their own blame;” by 
which observation he shows that it was his opinion 
that Cod foresaw in what manner his intelligent creat- 
ures would act, but that this did not affect their lib- 
erty, and did not diminish their guilt. A little after 
he says more fully that “(lod created angels and men 
free to the practice of righteousness, having planted in 
them reason, through which they knew by whom they 
were created and through whom they existed, when be- 
fore they were not, and prescribed to them a law by 
which they were to he judged, if they acted contrary 
to right reason. Wherefore we, angels and men, are 
through ourselves convicted as being wicked, if we do 
not lay bold of repentance. But if the Logos of Hod 
foretells that some angels and men would go to be pun- 
ished, lie does so because he foreknew that they would 
certainly become wicked ; by no means, however, be- 
cause God made them such.” Justin thus admits that 
man is wholly dependent upon (lod, deriving existence 
and everything which he has from the Almighty ; but 
he is persuaded that we were perfectly able to retain 
our integrity, and that, although it was foreseen that we 
should not do so, this did not abridge our moral power, j 


or fix any imputation on the Deity in consequence of 
our transgression. Tatian, in his oration against the 
(Ireeks — an excellent work, which, although composed 
after the death of Justin, was written, in all probability, 
before its author had adopted the wild opinions which 
he defended towards the conclusion of his life — ex- 
presses very much the same sentiments avowed by Jus- 
tin. He says, “Both men and angels were created free, 
so that man becoming wicked through his own fault 
may be deservedly punished, while a good man, who, 
from the right exercise of his free will, does not trans- 
gress the law of (lod, is entitled to praise; that the 
power of the divine Logos, having in himself the knowl- 
edge of what was to happen, not through fate or un- 
avoidable necessity, but from free choice, predicted fut- 
ure things, condemning the wicked and praising the 
righteous.” Irenams, in the third book of his work 
against heresies, has taken an opportunity to state his 
notions about the origin of evil. The seventy-first chap- 
ter of that book is entitled, “A proof that man is free, 
and has power to this extent, that of himself lie can 
choose what is good or the contrary.” In illustration 
of this he remarks, “ God gave to man the power of elec- 
tion, as he did to the angels. They, therefore, who do 
not obey are justly not found with the good, and receive 
deserved punishment, because (iod, having given them 
what was good, they did not keep it, but despised the 
riches of the divine mercy.” The next chapter is en- 
titled, “A proof that some men are not good by nature 
and others wicked, and that what is good is within the 
choice of man.” In treating on this subject, Irenaeus 
observes that “if the reverse were the case, the good 
would not merit praise nor the wicked blame, because, 
being merely what, without any will of theirs, they had 
been made, they could not be considered as voluntary 
agents. But,” he adds, “since all have the same nat- 
ure, and are able to retain and to do what is good, and 
may, on the other hand, lose it and not do it, some are, 
even in the sight of men, and much more in that of 
God. deservedly praised and others blamed.” In support 
of this he introduces a great variety of passages from 
Scripture. It appears, however, that the real difficulty 
attending the subject had suggested itself to his mind, 
for he inquires in the seventy-third chapter why God 
had not from the beginning made man perfect, all things 
being possible to him. lie gives to this question a 
metaphysical and unsatisfactory answer, but it so far 
satisfied himself as to convince him that there could 
not, on this ground, be any imputation justly cast on 
the perfections of the Almighty, and that, consequently, 
a sufficient explanation of the origin of evil and of the 
justice of punishing it was to be found in the nature of 
man as a free agent, or in the abuse of that liberty with 
which man had been endowed (see Irenams, iv,31ki; Jus- 
tin, c. Trypho, e. 140). 

In the Western Church all the early theologians and 
teachers were equally unanimous. While the Alexan- 
drian theologians laid special stress on free vill, those 
of the West dwelt more on human depravity and on the 
necessity of grace. On the last-named point all agreed. 
It was conceded that it was conditioned by fne vill. 
rneonditional predestination they all denied. This stage 
of (’hiirch doctrine is represented by Hilary of Poitiers 
and Ambrose of Milan, as well as by Tertullinu (.1 dr. 
Marcion. ii. G), who, much as he sometimes needed the 
doctrine of irresistible grace, would never so much as 
adopt an unconditional election, much less an uncon- 
ditional reprobation. Tcrtullian had also speculated 
upon the moral condition of man, and has recorded his 
sentiments with respect to it. lie explicitly asserts the 
freedom of the will; lays down the position that, if this 
be denied, there can be neither reward nor punishment ; 
and in answer to an objection that since free will has 
been productive of such melancholy consequences it 
would have been better that it had not been bestowed, 
he enters into a formal vindication of this part of our 
constitution. In reply to another suggestion that God 


PREDESTINATION 


499 


PREDESTINATION 


-might have interposed to prevent the choice which was 
to be productive of sin and misery, he maintains that 
this could not have been done without destroying that 
admirable constitution by which alone the interests of 
virtue can be really promoted. He thus thought that 
sin was to be imputed wholly to man, and that it is 
perfectly consistent with the attributes of God, or rather 
illustrates these attributes, that there should be a sys- 
tem under which sin was possible, because without this 
possibility there could have been no accountable agents. 
From what has been stated on this subject, it seems un- 
questionable that the apostolic fathers did not at all 
enter upon the subject of the origin of evil; that the 
writers by whom they were succeeded were satisfied 
that, in the sense in which the term is now most com- 
monly used, there was no such thing as predestination; 
that they uniformly represented the destiny of man as 
regulated by the use or abuse of his free will ; that, with 
the exception of Iremeus, they did not attempt to ex- 
plain why such a creature as man, who was to fall into 
sin, was created by a Being of infinite goodness; that 
the sole objection to their doctrine seemed to them to 
be that prescience was incompatible with liberty', and 
that, when they answered this, they considered that noth- 
ing more was requisite for receiving, without hesitation, 
the view of man upon which they often and fondly 
dwelt, as a free and accountable agent, who might have 
held fast his integrity, and whose fall from that integ- 
rity w r as to be ascribed solely to himself, as it did not at 
all result from any appointment of the Supreme Being. 
So Hilary of Poitiers declares that the decree of elec- 
tion was not indiscretus , and emphatically asserts the 
harmonious connection between grace and free will, the 
powerlessness of the latter, and yet its importance as a 
condition of the operation of divine grace. “As the 
organs of the human body,” he says (De Trinit. ii, 35), 
“cannot act without the addition of moving causes, so 
the human soul has indeed the capacity for knowing God, 
but if it does not receive through faith the gift of the 
Holy Spirit it will not attain to that knowledge. Yet 
the gift of Christ stands open to all, and that which all 
want is given to every one as far as he will accept it.” 
“ It is the greatest folly,” he says in another passage 
( Psa . Ii, § 20), “ not to perceive that we live in depen- 
dence on and through God, when we imagine that in 
things which men undertake and hope for they may 
venture to depend on their own strength. What we 
have, we have from God; on him must all our hope be 
placed.” Accordingly he did not admit an unconditional 
predestination ; he did not find it in the passages in Bom. 
ix commonly adduced in favor of it respecting the elec- 
tion of Esau, but only a predestination conditioned by 
the divine foreknowledge of his determination of will; 
otherwise every man would be born under a necessity 
of sinning (Psa. hit, § 3). Neander, in portraying his 
system, says: “ Hilary considered it very important to 
set forth distinctly that all the operations of divine 
grace are conditioned on man’s free will, to repel every- 
thing which might serve to favor the notion of a nat- 
ural necessity, or of an unconditional divine predes- 
tination” (ii, 5G2). So Ambrose, w r ho lived a little 
later, and even Jerome, who exhibited such zeal in be- 
half of Augustinism, declares, without reservation, that 
divine election is based upon foreknowledge. True, 
Augustine cites two passages ( De Dono Perseveraniue, 
19) from Ambrose as favoring his scheme, but all com- 
mentators upon this father assure us that these passages 
by no means give ground for attributing to him the 
Augustinian view of election. Ambrose carries the 
approximation to Augustine a step further. He says 
(Apol. David, ii, § 76) : “ We have all sinned in the first 
man, and by the propagation of nature the propagation 
of guilt has also passed from one to all; in him human 
nature has sinned.” A transfer of Adam’s guilt may 
seem to be here expressed, but in other expressions it 
is disowned (Psa. xlviii,§ 9). Ambrose admitted nei- 
ther irresistible grace nor unconditional predestination; 


lie made predestination to depend on prescience (De 
Fide, lib. v, § 83). In other places, however, hislanguage 
approaches more nearly to that of Augustine (see Hase, 
Dogmatik,§ 162; Gieseler, Dogmengesch. § 39 ; Neander, 
History of Dogmas, i, 343, 344). To quote Neander 
again: “Although the freedom of the divine election 
and the creative agency of grace are made particularly 
prominent in these passages, still they do not imply any 
necessary exclusion of the state of recipiency in the in- 
dividual as a condition, and accordingly this assertion 
of Ambrose admits of being easily reconciled with the 
assertion first quoted. In another place, at least (De 
Fide, lib. v, § 83), he expressly supposes that predesti- 
nation is conditioned by foreknowledge (ibid, ii, 564).” 
The substantial doctrines of the fathers as to the extent 
of grace before Augustine was that Christ died, not for 
an elect portion of mankind, but for all men, and that 
if men are not saved the guilt and the fault are their 
own (Gieseler, Dogmengesehichte, § 72). 

Thus we see that for more than four hundred years 
not a single voice w'as heard, either in the Eastern or 
Western Church, in advocacy of the notion of an uncon- 
ditional divine predestination. At this point Augustine, 
already in very advanced old age, and under controver- 
sial pressure, took the first step towards Calvinism by 
pronouncing the decree of election unconditional. In ex- 
plaining the relation between man’s activity and deci- 
sive inti uenee, Pelagius had denied human depravity, and 
maintained that, although God gives man the power to 
do good, the will and the act are man’s. He denied 
that there was any divine energy in grace that could 
impair the operations of free will. Augustine, on the 
other hand, maintained that grace is an internal opera- 
tion of God upon those whom he designs to save, im- 
parting not only the power, but also the will to do good. 
The fact that some are saved and others lost he attrib- 
uted to the will of God. Hence his doctrines of uncon- 
ditional predestination, of particular redemption, and of 
special and irresistible grace. Reprobation, he granted, 
was based upon foreseen guilt, but apparently uncon- 
scious of the inconsistency, he ilenied the applicability 
of the same principle to election. In 529 the system 
of Augustine was established as Church doctrine by the 
Council of Arausio (Orange), but the reaction against 
the strictly logical yet essentially immoral nature of his 
dogma has been perpetually manifested. See Augus- 
tin ic. 

Four hundred years more passed away before a man 
could be found bold enough to complete Augustine’s 
theory by declaring that, as God has sovereignly and 
immutably elected whomsoever he has pleased unto 
life, without any foresight of faith and obedience, so he 
has of his own good pleasure freely and unchangeably 
predestinated whomsoever he has pleased unto ever- 
lasting misery, without any reference to foreknown sin 
and guilt on their part. This anticipator of Calvin was 
a Saxon monk named Gottsehalk (Godeschalcus). His 
novel view brought down upon him not merely ecclesi- 
astical censure, but even persecution. His doctrine was 
condemned by a council which archbishop Babanus 
Manrus had called at. Mavence, A.D.848 (Mansi, Concil. 
xiv, 914), and Gottsehalk, who was then travelling, was 
sent to his metropolitan, archbishop Hincmar of Bheims, 
who called another council at Quiercv in 849. Here he 
was defended by Batramnus, the opponent of Paschasius 
Badbertus in the Eucharistic controversy, and also by 
Bemigius, afterwards archbishop of Lyons; but not- 
withstanding these powerful supporters, he was con- 
demned a second time, and ordered to undergo the pen- 
alty of flogging, w hich the rule of St. Benedict imposed 
upon monks who troubled the Church. After this con- 
demnation he was imprisoned in the monastery of Ilant- 
villers, where he died, without having recanted his opin- 
ions, about the year 868. See Gottsciialk. 

M’hile the friends of Gottsehalk were endeavoring to 
obtain his absolution and release, Ilincmar put forward 
Johannes Scotus Erigena (q. v.) to answer his predesti- 


PREDESTINATION 


500 


PREDESTINATION 


nation theory, which Erigena did in 851. in his treatise 
De Pnedestimitione, in winch he raised up a cloud of 
adversaries by the freedom with which he contradicted 
the established doctrines of the Church as to the nat- 
ure of good and evil. Further controversy being thus 
aroused, Jlincmar summoned a second council at Quier- 
cy in 853, which contirmed the decision as to the real 
doctrine of the Church arrived at by the previous 
council (Mansi, Concil. xiv, 995). A rival council was 
called by the opposite party from the provinces of 
Lyons, Vienne, and Arles, w hich met at Valence in 855. 
Hut instead of fnllv confirming the opinion of Gotts- 
chalk, this council considerably modified it by declaring 
that although sin is foreknown by God, it is not so pre- 
destined as to make it inevitably necessary that it should 
be committed (ibid, xv, 1). Hincmar now wrote two 
works on the subject, one of which is not extant; the 
other is entitled De Pnedestimitione Dei et Libera Arbi- 
trio adversus t Sottsckalcum et caeteros Pneilestimitianos. 
Having thus explained his views at length, they were 
substantially accepted, in the form of six doctrinal can- 
ons, by the Synod of Langres, and by that of Toni (A.D. 
859), held at Savonieres a few days afterwards (Mansi, 
Concil. xv, 525-27), and thus the controversy termi- 
nated. See Mangnin, Collect, nuctor. de Pnedest. et 
Gratia (1650); Ussher, Gotteschulci et Pnedest. Control \ 
llist.; Cellot, i list. Gotteschalci Pnedest. (1655). 

No authoritative or influential teacher appeared to 
support Gottschalk’s views for seven hundred years. 
The most conspicuous of those who did so was Thomas 
Jiradwurdine (A.D. 1290-1349), warden of Merton Col- 
lege, and afterwards archbishop of Canterbury. 1 1 is 
w'ork on the subject is entitled lie Causa Dei contra 
Pelarjium et de Yirtute causarum ad suos J fertonenses, 
and in this he gave free will so low a place that he may 
be almost called a necessitarian. Thomas Aquinas, who 
nourished during the 13th century, wrote largely upon 
the nature of grace and predestination. His opinions 
upon these subjects were nearly the same with those of 
Augustine; and so much, indeed, was he conceived to 
resemble in genius and understanding that distinguished 
prelate, that it was asserted the soul of Augustine had 
been sent into the body of Aquinas. lie taught that 
God from all eternity, and without any regard to their 
works, predestinated a certain number to life and hap- 
piness; but he found great delight in endeavoring to 
reconcile this position with the freedom of the human 
will. His celebrated antagonist, .John Duns Scotus, an 
inhabitant, of Britain, surnamed, from the acuteness and 
bent of his mind, the Subtile Doctor, also directed his 
attention in the following century to the same thorny 
speculations, but he took a different view of them from 
Aquinas; and we find in the works of these two brill- 
iant lights of the schoolmen all that the most learned 
in the dark ages thought upon this question. 

In the midst of the ferment of the Reformation, 
the subject of predestination was revived by a con- 
troversy between Erasmus and Luther, the former 
writing an able Diatribe de Libero A r hi trio in 1524, and 
Luther following it up with his halting treatise De 
Serro A rbitrio, in which he went so near to the predes- 
tinarians as to deny that any free w ill can exist in man 
before he has received the gift of faith. Hut at this 
stage stepped forth John Calvin (q. v.) as the champion 
of predesiinarianism. He found the Reformed churches 
in a perfectly chaotic state as respects doctrines. They 
possessed no coherent creed or system. They were hold 
together by agreement in mere negations. They needed 
nothing so much as a positive system. Calvin, a strip- 
ling of twenty-five, gave them one. It answered all the 
essential conditions. It was anti-popish, anti-Lutheran, 
anti-Socinian. In the pressing exigency it was seized 
upon, and Calvin became the dictator of all the lie- 
formed churches. Scotland sent her voting men to him 
to be educated, so also did Holland, the Puritans of 
England, and the Protestants of France. Among the 
Romanists, the Molinists (q. v.), ami Jansenists (q. v.), 


in their controversy on the subject of free w ill, carried 
on with great acrimony, the opinions of Gottschalk 
were discussed anew, but without lessening the major- 
ity of the Arminianists (see Sismondi, Hist. Pnedest. in 
Zacharinsls Thesaur. Theol. ii. 199). 

In the Church of England the later Low-Church party 
have tempered down the opinions of their Puritan pred- 
ecessors, ami are not often disposed to go beyond the 
doctrine of “predestination to life” as stated in the 
seventeenth of the Thirty-Nine Articles of Religion, 
which carefully excludes the double predestination of 
Gottschalk and the predcstinarians. This article of the 
Church of England is often adduced by Calvinists as 
favorable to their peculiar views of absolute predestina- 
tion ; but such a representation of it is rendered plausi- 
ble only by adding to its various clauses qualifying 
expressions to suit that purpose. In our articles 
Ciiiitcn of England, Confessions, and Calvinism, 
have been exhibited the just and liberal views of 
Cranmer and the principal English reformers on this 
subject, the sources from which they drew' the Arti- 
cles of Religion and the public formularies of devotion, 
and some of the futile attempts of the high predestina- 
rians in the Church to inoculate the public creed with 
their dogmas. Cartwright ami his followers, in their 
second “Admonition to Parliament” in 1572, complained 
that the Articles speak dangerously of “falling from 
grace;” and in 1587 they preferred a similar complaint. 
The labors of the Westminster Assembly at a subse- 
quent period, and their abortive result, in relation to 
this subject, are well known. Long before Arminius 
had turned his thoughts to the consideration of general 
redemption, a great number of the English clergy had 
publicly taught and defended the same doctrine. It 
was about 1571 that Dr. Peter IJaroe, “a zealous anti- 
Calvinian,” was made Margaret professor of divinity in 
the University of Cambridge, and he went on teach- 
ing in his lectures, preaching in his sermons, determin- 
ing in the schools, and printing in several books, divers 
points contrary to Calvinism. And this he did for sev- 
eral years, w ithout any manner of disturbance or inter- 
ruption. The heads of the university, in a letter to 
lord Burleigh, dated March 8, 1595, say he had done it 
for fourteen or fifteen years preceding, and they might 
have said twenty; for he printed some of his lectures in 
1574, and the prosecution he was at last under, which 
will be considered hereafter, was not till 1595. In 158 1 
Mr. Ilarsnet, afterwards archbishop of York, preached 
against absolute reprobation at St. Paul's Cross, the 
greatest audience then in the kingdom; as did the ju- 
dicious Mr. Hooker at the Temple in the year following. 
In the year 1591 Mr. Barret preached at St. Mary’s in 
Cambridge against Calvinism, with very smart reflec- 
tions upon Calvin himself, Beza, Zanelii, and several 
others of the most noted writers in that scheme. In 
the same year Dr. Baroe preached at the same place to 
the same purpose. By this time Calvinism had gained 
considerable ground, being much promoted by the 
learned Whitaker and Mr. Perkins; and several of the 
heads of the university being in that scheme, they com- 
plained of the two sermons above mentioned to lord Bur- 
leigh their chancellor. Their determination was to bring 
Barret to a retraction, lie modified his statements, but 
it may reasonably be doubted whether he ever submitted 
according to the form they drew up. When the matter 
was laid before archbishop Whitgift, he was offended at 
their proceedings, and wrote to lord Burleigh that some 
of the points which the heads had enjoined Barret to 
retract were such as the most learned Protestants then 
living varied in judgment upon, and that the most an- 
cient and best divines in the land were in the chiefcst 
points in opinion against the heads and their resolu- 
tions. Another letter he sent to the heads themselves, 
telling them that they had enjoined Barret to atlirm 
that which was contrary to the doctrine held and 
expressed by many sound and learned divines in the 
Church of England, and in other churches likewise men 


PREDESTINATION 


501 


PREDESTINATION 


of best account ; and that which for his own part he 
thought to be false and contrary to the Scriptures; for 
the Scriptures are plain that God by his absolute will 
did not hate and reject any man. There might be im- 
piety in believing the one, there eould be none in be- 
lieving the other; neither was it contrary to any article 
of religion established by authority in this Church of 
England, but rather agreeable thereto. This testimony 
of the archbishop is very remarkable; and though he 
afterwards countenanced the Lambeth Articles, that is 
of little or no weight in the case. The question is not 
about any man’s private opinion, but about the doctrine 
of the Church ; and supposing the archbishop to be a 
Calvinist, as he seems to have been at least in some 
points, this only adds the greater weight to his testi- 
mony, that the English Church has nowhere declared 
in favor of that scheme. The archbishop descended to 
the particulars charged against Barret, asking the heads 
what article of the Church was contradicted by this or 
that notion of his; and Whitaker in his reply does not 
appeal to one of the articles as against Barret, but forms 
his plea upon the doctrines which then generally ob- 
tained in pulpits. His words are, “ We are fully per- 
suaded that Mr. Barret hath taught untruth, if not 
against the articles, yet against the religion of our 
Church, publicly received, and always held in her maj- 
esty’s reign, and maintained in all sermons, disputa- 
tions, and lectures.” But even this pretence of his, 
weak as it would have been though true, is utterly 
false, directly contrary, not only to what has been al- 
ready shown to be the facts of the case, but also to what 
the archbishop affirmed, and that too, as must be sup- 
posed, upon his own knowledge. As to Dr. Baroe, he 
met with many friends who espoused his cause. Mr. 
Strype particularly mentions four — Mr. Overal, Dr. 
Clayton, Mr. Harsnef, Dr, Andrews — all of them great 
and learned men, men of renown, and famous in their 
generation. How many more there were nobody can 
tell. The heads in their letter to lord Burleigh do not 
pretend that the preaching against Calvinism gave a 
general offence, but that it offended many— which im- 
plies that there were many others on the opposite side; 
and they expressly say there were divers in the anti- 
Calvinistic scheme, whom they represent as maintain- 
ing it. with great boldness. But what put a stop to this 
prosecution against Baroe was a reprimand from their 
chancellor, the lord Burleigh, who wrote to the heads 
that as good and as ancient were of another judgment, 
and that they might punish him, but it would be for 
well-doing.” But Dr. Whitaker, regius professor of di- 
vinity in Cambridge, eould not endure the further prev- 
alence of the doctrines of general redemption in that 
university; he therefore, in 1595, drew up nine affirma- 
tions, elucidatory of his views of predestination, and ob- 
tained for them the sanction of several Calvinian heads 
of houses, with whom he repaired to archbishop Whit- 
gift. Having heard their ex parte statement, his grace 
summoned bishops Elecher and Vaughan, and Dr. Tvn- 
dal, dean of Ely, to meet Dr. Whitaker and the Cam- 
bridge deputation at his palace in Lambeth, on Nov. 10, 
1595; where, after much polishing and altering, they 
produced Whitaker’s affirmation, called the “Lambeth 
Articles” (q. v.). Dr. Whitaker died a few days after 
his return from Lambeth with the nine articles to which 
he had procured the patronage of the primate. After 
his demise, two competitors appeared for the vacant 
king’s professorship — Dr. Wotton, of King’s College, a 
professed Calvinist, and Dr. Overal of Trinity College, 
“almost as far,” says Heylin, “from the Calvinian doc- 
trine in the main platform of predestination as Baroe, 
Harsnet, or Barret are eonceived to be. But when it 
came to the vote of the university, the place was car- 
ried for Overal by the major part; which plainly shows 
that though the doctrines of Calvin were so hotly 
stickled here by most of the heads, yet the greater part 
of the learned body entertained them not.” “ The Lam- 
beth Articles,” it is well observed, “ are no part of the 


doctrine of the Church of England, having never had 
any of the least sanction either from the parliament or 
the convocation. They were drawn up by Prof. Whit- 
aker; and though they were afterwards approved by 
arehbishop Whitgift, and six or eight of the itiferior 
clergy, in a meeting they had at Lambeth, yet this 
meeting was only in a private manner, and without any 
authority from the queen ; who was so far from approv- 
ing of their proceedings that she not only ordered the 
articles to be suppressed, but was resolutely bent for 
some time to bring the archbishop and his associates 
under a preemunire , for presuming to make them with- 
out any warrant or legal authority.” Such, in brief, 
was the origin and such the fate of the Lambeth Arti- 
cles, without the countenance of which the defenders 
of Calvinism in the Church of England could find no 
semblance of support for their manifold affirmations on 
predestination and its kindred topies. At the census 
of 1851 two congregations calling themselves “ Predes- 
tinarians” were returned. 

Through the Puritans the Calvinist ic notions were 
spread all over New England, and by the Reformed 
Duteli and other Presbyterian bodies earried through 
most of the Middle and Western States of America. In 
some quarters they have been either outgrown [see 
Oberlin Theology] or so modified by outside Armin- 
ian influences as to be scarcely discernible; still, in the 
creeds and standards of several large denominations of 
the world the peculiar doctrines of Calvinism are unequiv- 
ocally enunciated. From that celebrated synod known 
as the Westminster Assembly came forth the Calvinistie 
Confession and its eatecliisms, and its form of Church 
government. These wonderful documents have been 
preserved unchanged to the present time. The formu- 
las ol‘ the Presbyterian Church of America at this time 
are essentially the same that were promulgated by the 
Westminster Assembly of Divines more than two hun- 
dred years ago. These forms of doctrine must be as- 
sented to, at. least tacitly, by all the members of that 
Church. They must be distinctly professed by all its 
ministers and office-bearers. They are taught from the 
chairs of its theological schools, and they are elabo- 
rately systematized and ably defended in its noble “bod- 
ies of divinity” — of which the best and ablest, by Dr. 
Hodge, of Princeton, has recently been issued. That 
these teaeh the doctrines of predestination nobody de- 
nies ; that to unsophisticated minds they exalt the divine 
sovereignty at the expense of his justice and his grace 
has seemed to be the case to Arminianists, who hold 
that, to make them agree with the language of Holy 
Scripture, entirely illegitimate methods of accommoda- 
tion have had to be resorted to. See Akminianism ; 
Calvinism. 

IV. Connection of Predestination u-ith other Doctrines. 
—Much confusion and obscurity has arisen in the prog- 
ress of the predcstinarian controversy from failing to 
keep the real issue always distinctly in view. The 
point in controversy is not whether or not God had a 
plan when he entered upon creation. See Foreknowl- 
edge; Providence. Neither is it whether or not that 
plan embraced a positive preappointraent of every in- 
dividual event in the whole range of futurity. Nor 
yet is it whether or not an exercise of divine energy is 
inseparably connected with any or all of God’s predeter- 
minations so that they are “effectual” decrees. See 
Calling; Grace. The real question is: Has God by 
an immutable and eternal decree predestinated some of 
the human family unto eternal life, aqd all the others 
unto everlasting perdition, without any reference what- 
ever to the use they may make of their moral agency ? 
This the Calvinist affirms, usually basing his affirmation 
solely on what he regards as Scripture authority, and 
often admitting that the human mind cannot reconcile 
it with the character of God or the dictates of human 
reason. Among the deniers, some have repudiated the 
supposition ofanv “decrees” at all respecting individual 
salvation, maintaining only the general ones, “He that 


PREDICABLE 


502 PRE-EXISTENCE OF CHRIST 


belie veth shall be saved, he that believeth not,” etc. 
Others allow an individual or personal election, but, 
like Watson, understand by it “an act of God done in 
time, subsequent even to the administration of the 
means of salvation” (Inst, ii, 338). Others, as the older 
Arminians generally, suppose that specific individuals 
were eternally predestinated to life and death, but 
strictly according to their foreknown obedience or diso- 
bedience to the Gospel. 

V. Literature. — The bibliography of this subject is 
blended with that of Arminianism, Election, Free 
Will, (in ace, Remonstrants, Renton ation, and 
will be found under these titles. In addition to the 
works there cited, the following may be referred to as 
treating specifically of predestination: respecting the 
views of the Reformers, consult the symbolic writings 
of Mulder and lhichmann; Staudenmaver, In Behalf 
of the Religious Peace of the Future (Freib. im I »r. 181(5, 
1st pt. 1 vol.) ; id. Theol. F.ncycl. (Menu, 1840, fol.), p. 
622; Vatke, Die menschliche Freiheit in ihrem Yerhiilt- 
niss zur Siinde und zur gottlichen Cnade (Berl. 1841); 
Muller, Die christliche Lekre von der Siinde, ii, 2 11-301 ; 
Diihnc, De preescientiee divinm cum libertate humana 
concordia (Lcips. 18530); Braun, De Sacra Script lira 
preescientiam docente , etc. (Mogunt. 1820) ; Anselm, De 
concordia preescientiee et preedestinationis nec non Dei 
cum lib. orbit, etc.; Augustine, De Preedestinatione Sanc- 
torum, and De Dono Perseveraniiie ; Wiggers, .1 ugits- 
tinism and Pelagianism, and art. in Illgen’s (Niedner’s) 
Zeitsch. fur hist. Theol. pt. ii, 1857; llagenbaeh, Hist, 
of Doctrines, § 183 (Lcips. 1857); the works of Calvin, 
Beza, Zanchi, Perkins, Goniar, Turretin ; Arminius, Dec- 
laration of Sentiments , Friemlly Discussion with Prof. 
Junius, and Review of Perkins; id. Scripta Synodalia 
Remonstrantium ; the works of Kpiscopius, Cnrcelheus, 
Limborch; l’laifere (early Eng. Armin.), Apello Evan- 
gelium ; id. Tracts on Predestination (Camb. 1809) ; Wo- 
mack, Calvinistic Cabinet Unlocked (very rare) ; Exam- 
ination of Tilenus, printed in Nicholl's Calvinism and 
Arminianism Compared (Bond. 1821); Wesley, Predes- 
tination Calmly Considered; Fletcher, Checks; Mozlev, 
A ufjustiniun Doctrine of Predestination (ibid. 1857). A , 
curiosity of the subject is Ilenry Bleby’s Script. Predest. I 
not Fatalism ; Two Cemversations on Rom. viii , 29, 30, | 
and Kphes. i, 5, designed to show that the Predestination 
of the Bible refers chie fly awl primarily to the Restora- 
tion awl Perfection of the Physical Mature of the Saints 
at the Last Day (ibid. 1853, lOmo). The best exposition 
of Calvinistic predestination is of course by I)r. Hodges, 
the Nestor of American theology of that type. See, 
therefore, his Systematic Theology, and compare Pope, 
Compendium of Christian Theology (ibid. 1875, 8vo); 
Raymond, Systematic Theology (Cincinnati, 1877,2 vols. 
8vo). See also B'tbl. Sac. Oct. 1803; Oct. 1865, p. 581; 
North British Rev. Feb. 1803; Journal Sac. Lit. vol. 
xvi, xviii; Contemp. Rer. Aug. 1872, art. vii; Meth. 
Quar. Rev. July, 1857, p. 352; Oct. 1867; July, 1873; 
Studien u. Kritiken, 1838-47 ; Theol. Medium, July, 1873, 
art. iv; Brit. Quar. Rev. Dec. 1871, p. 202 sq.; Jahrb. 
f ir deutsche Theologie, 1860, ii, 313: Christian Remem- 
brancer, Jail. 1856, p. 132; 18(51, p. 188. 

Predicable is a term of scholastic logic, and con- 
nected with the scheme of classification. There were 
live designations employed in classifying objects on a 
systematic plan: genus, species, difference (differentia), 
property (pruprium), and accident (aceidens). 'l’he first 
two — genus and species— name the higher and lower 
classes of the things classified; a genus comprehends 
several species. The other three designations — differ- 
ence, property, accident — express the attributes that 
the classification turns upon. The difference is what 
distinguishes one species from the other species of the 
same genus; as, for example, the peculiarities wherein 
the cat differs from the tiger, lion, and other species of 
the genus f -lis. The property expresses a distinction 
that is not ultimate, hut a consequence of some other 
peculiarity. Thus, “the use of tools” is a property of 


man, and not a difference, for it flows from other assign- 
able attributes of his bodily and mental organization, or 
from the specific differences that characterize him. The 
accident is something not bound up with the nature of 
the species, but chancing to be present in it. For in- 
stance, the high value of gold is an accident; gold 
wotdd still be gold though it were plenty and cheap. It 
was by an arbitrary and confusing employment of the 
i notion of predication that these various items of the 
first attempt at a process of systematic classification 
were called predicables, or attributes that might be 
“predicated,” that is, affirmed, of things. All that is 
needful to affirm is that a certain thing belongs to a 
given species or genus; and that to belong to the spe- 
cies is to possess the specific differences; and to belong 
to the genus is to possess the generic differences. We 
may also, if we please, affirm (or predicate) that the 
thing does belong to the species, or does possess the spe- 
cific difference; but this power of affirming has no need 
to be formally proclaimed, or made the basis of the 
whole scheme. The allied term “predicament" is an- 
other case where an abusive prominence is given to the 
idea of predication. The predicaments, or categories, 
were the most comprehensive classes of all existing 
things — under such heads as substance, attribute, quan- 
tity, quality, etc. ; and it could be predicated of any- 
thing falling under any one head that it does so fall un- 
der. Thus, “ virtue" is an attribute ; and therefore we 
might say that “attribute” can be predicated of “vir- 
tue.” But the notion of predicating does not indicate 
the main fact of the process in this case, any more than 
“predicable” in the foregoing. Classification, and not 
predication, is the ruling idea in each.— Chambers, 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Pre-eminence of Christianity, i. e. the higher 
power and honor due to Jesus the Christ. This doctrine 
is laid down in Colossiansi, 18. In all things in nature, 
in person, in office, work, power, and honor, Christ has 
(he pre-eminence above angels and men, or any other 
creature. But a man has no pre-eminence above a beast 
as to his body; he is liable to the same diseases and 
death (Eccles. iii, 19). See Bibliotheca Sacra, 1863, 
p. 681 ; Church Remembrancer, Jan. 1856, p. 132 sq. 

Pre-established Harmony. Sec Leibnitz. 

Pre-existence of Jesus Christ is his existence 
hefore he was born of the Virgin Mary. That he really 
did exist, is taught plainly in John iii, 13; vi, 50, 62, 
etc.; viii, 58; xvii, 5, 21; 1 John i, 2; but there are 
various opinions respecting this existence. Some, ac- 
knowledging, with the orthodox, that in Jesus Christ 
there is a divine nature, a rational soul, and a human 
bod}’’, go into an opinion peculiar to themselves. His 
body was formed in the Virgin's womb; but his human 
soul — the first and most excellent of all the works of 
God — they suppose was brought into existence be- 
fore the creation of the world, and subsisted in happy 
union in heaven with the second Person of the Godhead 
till his incarnation. The doctrine is thus clearly set 
forth by bishop Bull in his Defence of the Nicene Creed: 
“All the Catholic orators of the first three centuries 
taught that Jesus Christ, he who was afterwards so 
called, existed before he became man, or before he was 
born, according to the flesh, of the Blessed Virgin, in 
another nature far more excellent than the human nat- 
ure; that he appeared to holy men, giving them an 
earnest, as it were, of his incarnation; that he always 
presided over and provided for the Church, which in 
time to come he would redeem with his own blood, and 
of consequence that, from the beginning, the whole or- 
der or thread of the divine dispensation, as Tertullian 
speaks, ran through him; further yet, that he was with 
the Father before the foundation of the world, and that 
by him all things were made.” 

Those who advocate this doctrine differ in their 
eliristological views from those called Arians, for the 
latter ascribe to Christ only a created deity, whereas the 


PRE-EXISTENCE OF CHRIST 503 


PRE-EXISTEXTS 


former hold his true and proper divinity. They differ 
from the Socinians, who believe no existence of Jesus 
Christ before his incarnation ; they differ from the Sabel- 
lians, who only own a trinity of names; they differ also 
from the generally received opinion, which is, that 
Christ’s human soul began to exist in the womb of his 
mother, in exact conformity to that likeness unto his 
brethren of which St. Paul speaks (Heb. ii, 17). The 
writers in favor of the pre-existence of Christ’s hu- 
man soul recommend their opinion by these argu- 
ments : 1. Christ is represented as his Father’s messen- 
ger, or angel, being distinct from his Father, sent by his 
Father, long before his incarnation, to perform actions 
which seem to be too low for the dignity of pure God- 
head. The appearances of Christ to the patriarchs are 
described like the appearance of an angel, or man really 
distinct from God; yet one in whom God, or Jehovah, 
had a peculiar indwelling, or with whom the divine nat- 
ure had a personal union. 2. Christ, when he came 
into the world, is said, in several passages of Scripture, 
to have divested himself of some glory which he had be- 
fore his incarnation. Now if there had existed before 
this time nothing but his divine nature, this divine nat- 
ure, it is argued, could not properly have divested it- 
self of any glory (John xvii, 4, 5; 2 Cor. viii, 9). It 
cannot be said of God that he became poor: he is infi- 
nitely self-sufficient ; he is necessarily and eternally rich 
in perfections and glories. Nor can it be said of Christ, 
as man, that he was rich, if he were never in a richer 
state before than while he was on earth. 3. It seems 
needful, say those who embrace this opinion, that the 
soul of Jesus Christ should pre-exist, that it might have 
an opportunity to give its previous actual consent to the 
great and painful undertaking of making atonement for 
man’s sins. It was the human soul of Christ that en- 
dured the weakness and pain of his infant state, all the 
labors and fatigues of life, the reproaches of men, and 
the sufferings of death. The divine nature is incapable 
of suffering. The covenant of redemption between the 
Father and the Son is therefore represented as being 
made before the foundation of the world. To suppose 
that simple Deity, or the Divine Essence, which is the 
same in all the three Personalities, should make a cov- 
enant with itself, is inconsistent. 

Dr. Watts, moreover, supposes that the doctrine of 
the pre-existence of the soul of Christ explains dark and 
difficult Scriptures, and discovers many beauties and 
proprieties of expression in the Word of God, which on 
any other plan lie unobserved. For instance, in Col. i, 
15, etc., Christ is described as the image of the invisible 
God, the first-born of every creature. His being the 
image of the invisible God cannot refer merely to his 
divine nature, for that is as invisible in the Son as in 
the Father ; therefore it seems to refer to his pre-exist- 
ent soul in union with the Godhead. Again, when man 
is said to be created in the image of God (Gen. i, 2), it 
may refer to the God-man, to Christ in his pre-existent 
state. God says, “ Let us make man in our image, after 
our likeness.” The word is redoubled, perhaps to inti- 
mate that Adam was made in the likeness of the human 
soul of Christ, as well as that he bore something of the 
image and resemblance of the divine nature. Dr. Sam- 
uel Clarke, it will be borne in mind by the well-read 
student of Christologv, did not accept the general 
orthodox view of the Trinity doctrine, but endeavored 
to form a theory holding an intermediate place between 
the Arian and orthodox systems, neither allowing Jesus 
to be called a creature nor admitting his equality with 
the Father. He held that from the beginning there ex- 
isted along with the Father a second Person, called the 
Word or Son, who derived his being, attributes, and 
powers from the Father. The Jews uniformly main- 
tained the pre-existence of the Messiah. In English 
theology, Dr. Watts was the ablest espouser of this doc- 
trine. In American theology the Rev. Noah Worcester 
advocated Dr. Watts’s theory, but with decided mod- 
ifications fouuded on the title “ Son of God,” which is so 


frequently applied to Christ in the N. T., and which 
Worcester alleged “must import that Jesus Christ is 
the Son of the Father as truly as Isaac was the son of 
Abraham ; not that he is a created intelligent being, but 
a being who properly derived his existence and nat- 
ure from God.” Mr. Worcester thus maintains that 
Jesus Christ is not a self-existent being, for it is impos- 
sible even for God to produce a self-existent son ; but 
as Christ derived his existence and natnre from the 
Father, he is as truly the image of the invisible God as 
Seth was the likeness of Adam. He is therefore a per- 
son of divine dignity, constituted the creator of the 
w r orld, the angel of God’s presence, or the medium by 
which God manifested himself to the ancient patriarchs. 
According to this theory the Son of God became man, or 
the Son of man, by becoming the sonl of a human body. 

Those who object to the doctrine of the pre-existence 
of the human sonl of Christ do so on the principle that 
such a doctrine w-eakens and subverts that of his divine 
personality, and assign as grounds for such a position 
that— 1. A pure intelligent spirit, the first, the most an- 
cient, and the most excellent of creatures, created before 
the foundation of the world, so exactly resembles the 
second Person of the Arian Trinity that it is impossible 
to show the least difference except in name. 2. This 
pre-existent Intelligence, supposed in this doctrine, is so 
confounded with those other intelligences called angels 
that there is great danger of mistaking this human soul 
for an angel, and so of making the person of Christ to 
consist of three natures. 3. If Jesus Christ had nothing 
in common like the rest of mankind except a body, how 
could this semi-conformity make him a real man? 4. 
The passages quoted in proof of the pre-existence of the 
human soul of Jesus Christ are of the same sort with 
those which others allege in proof of the pre-existence 
of all human souls. 5. This opinion, by ascribing the 
dignity of the work of redemption to this sublime hu- 
man soul, detracts from the deity of Christ, and renders 
the last as passive as the first is active. 6. This notion 
is contrary to the Scripture. St. Paul says, “In all 
things it behooved him to be made like unto his breth- 
ren” (Heb. ii, 17): he partook of all our infirmities ex- 
cept sin. St. Luke says, “He increased in stature and 
wisdom” (Luke ii, 52). Upon the whole, this scheme, 
adopted to relieve the difficulties which must always 
surround mysteries so great, only creates new ones. 
This is the usual fate of similar speculations, and shows 
the wisdom of resting in the plain interpretation of 
the Word of God. See Robinson, Claude, i, 214, 311; 
Watts, Hocfe, v, 274, 385 ; Gill, Body of Divinity , ii, 51 ; 
Robinson, Plea, p. 140; Fleming. Christology ; Simpson, 
Apology for the Trinity, p. 190; Hawker, Pennon on the 
Divinity of Christ, p. 44, 45 ; Haag, llistoire des Dogmes 
Chret.; Mar tensen, Dogmatics ; Midler, Doctrine of Pin ; 
Lid don, Divinity of Christ; Hagen bach, Hist, of Doc- 
trines; Ptudien u. Kritiken, 1860, No. 3. Comp. In- 
dwelling Scheme; Jesus Christ. 

Pre-existents (or Preexistiani) is the name 
given to those who hold the In’potliesis of the pre- 
existence of souls, or the doctrine that, at the beginning 
of creation, not that of this world simply, but of all 
worlds, God created the souls of all men, which, how- 
ever, are not united to the body till the individuals for 
whom they are destined are begotten or horn into the 
world. According to this theory, says Schedd, “Men 
were angelic spirits at first. Because of their apostasy 
in the angelic sphere, they were transferred, as a pun- 
ishment for their sin, into material bodies in this mun- 
dane sphere, and are now passing through a disciplinary 
process, in order to be restored, all of them, without 
exception, to their pre-existent and angelic condition. 
These bodies to which they are joined come into exist- 
ence by the ordinary course of physical propagation ; so 
that the sensuous and material part of human nature 
has no existence previons to Adam. It is only the ra- 
tional and spiritual principle of which a preadamic life 
is asserted.” 


PR E- K X ISTE NTS 


504 


PREFACES 


The doctrine of pre-existence first found its advocates 
in the Christian Church in the 2d century. The fathers 
Justin Martyr, Origen, and others espoused it, particu- 
larly Origen, who became its principal exponent and 
advocate. It was a belief very prevalent anciently, and 
is still widely spread throughout the East. The Creek 
philosophers, too. especially those who held the doc- 
trine of transmigration (q. v.), as the Pythagoreans, 
Empedocles, and even Plato— if with him pre-existence 
is not simply a symbolical myth — were familiar with 
the conception; and so were the Jews, especially the 
cabalists. It is generally received by the modern 
Jews, and is frequently taught in the writings of the 
rabbins. One declares that “ the soul of man had an 
existence anterior to the formation of the heavens, they 
being nothing hut. fire and water.” The same author 
asserts that “ the human soul is a particle of the Deity 
from above, and is eternal like the heavenly natures.” 
A similar doctrine is believed by the Persian Sajis 
(q. v.). With the pre-existents should also be classed 
the metcmpsychosists, for pre-existence is connected 
with the idea of metempsychosis (q. v.), according to 
which doctrine the soul was, in a former life, in punish- 
ment for sin, united with a human body, in order to 
expiate, by the miseries of earthly existence, anterior 
transgressions. Therefore St. Augustine, invoking Cice- 
ro’s authority, says ( Contra Julian . iv, 15) : “Ex quibus 
lmmanai vitae erroribns et aerumnis fit. ut interdum 
veteres illi sivc vates sive in saeris initiisque tradciulis 
divinae mentis interpretes, qui nos ob aliqua scelera 
snsccpta in vita superior! poenarum lncndarum causa 
esse natos dixerunt, aliquid vidissc vidcantur.” Nc- 
mesius, as a philosopher, and Prudcntius, as a poet, seem 
to have been the only defenders of the pre-existence 
theory, which was condemned formally in the Council 
of Constantinople, in A.D. 540. But the doctrine has 
been embraced by mystics (q.v.) generally, both in an- 
cient and modern times; and has since been revived, in 
a modified form, in German theology, by Julius Muller, 
and forms the basis of his work on The Christian iJoc- 
trine of Sin, one of the deepest works in modern theol- 
ogy. In American theology it has its able advocate in 
Dr. Edward Beecher ( The Conflict of Ayes), but the 
Christian Church generally has thus far failed to give 
its assent to it. In the domain of philosophy, direct in- 
tellectual interest in this doctrine has nearly ceased in 
modern times; yet the dream — for, whether true or 
false, it is and can be nothing but a dream in our pres- 
ent state, and with our present capabilities of knowl- 
edge — has again and again haunted individual thinkers. 
Wordsworth has given poetical expression to it. in his 
famous ode, Intimations of Immortality from Recollec- 
tions of Early Childhood : 

“Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting. 

The sou 1 that rises with ns— our life’s star, 

Hath had elsewhere its setting, 

And comcth from afar. 

Not in entire forgetfulness. 

And not in utter nakedness, 

But trailing clouds of glory do we come 
thorn God, who is our home.” 

The latest philosophy of Germany— that of Hegel and 
of the younger Fichte ( Psycholoyie [ I8G4 J) — has moder- 
ately revived the doctrine, and, with the alliance of such 
theologians as M idler, may crowd it into prominent 
consideration upon the Church. It remains for us to 
sav here that the name Preexist iani was given to the 
advocates of this belief to distinguish them from the 
Creatiani, those who hold to the immediate creation of 
the human soul at the moment of the production of the 
body; and to distinguish them from the Traducianists , 
who held that children received soul as well as body 
from their parents. See Cudworth, Intellectual Devel- 
opment of the Universe; Dclitzsch, Biblical Psychol, p. 
4L-43; Lawson, Chnrch of Christ ; Goodwin, U'or/vi ; 
Begister, Sludieii u. Kritiken , 1*21 > 37, s. v. Seele ; West- 
minster Rev. April, l<%5; liibliotheca Sacra, Ann. 1855. 
p. 15G; Methodist Rev. Oct. 1833, p. 5G7. (J. II. W.) 


Prefaces (Immolatio ; the Gallican Coniestatio 
missce ; the priest’s witness to the vere diynum of the 
people; the Mozarabic and Gallican illatio or iulatioi), 
certain short occasional forms in the communion-service 
of the Church of England, which are introduced in par- 
ticular festivals, more cs|>ecially Christmas, Easter, As- 
cension, and seven days after; also Whit-Sunday and six 
days after, together with Trinity-Sundav. They are 
introduced bv the priest immediately before the an- 
them beginning, “Therefore with angels, archangels,” 
etc. “This anthem is a song of praise, or an act of 
profound adoration,” says dean Comber, “ equally proper 
at all times; but the Church calls upon ns more ct.pe- 
cially to use it on her chief festivals, in remembrance of 
those events which are then celebrated. Thus, on Christ- 
mas-dav, the priest, having said ‘ It is very meet, right, 
and our bounden duty that we should at all times, and 
in all places, give thanks unto thee, O Lord [Holy Fa- 
! therj Almighty, everlasting God,’ adds the proper pref- 
ace which assigns the reason for peculiar thankfulness 
on that particular day, viz.: 1 Because thou didst give 
Jesus Christ, thine only Son, to be born as at this time 
for ns; who, by the operation of the Holy Ghost, was 
made very man, of the Virgin Mary his mother, and 
that, without spot of sin, to make us clean from all sin; 
therefore, with angels,’ etc. 

“The antiquity of such prefaces may be estimated 
from the fact that they are mentioned and enjoined by 
the 103d canon of the African code, which code was 
formed of the decisions of many councils prior to the 
date of 418. The decay of devotion let fall the apostol- 
! ical and primitive use of daily and weekly communions, 
and the people in the later ages did not receive but at 
the greater festivals; upon which custom there were 
added to the general preface mentioned before some 
special prefaces relating to the peculiar mercy of that 
feast on which they did communicate, the Church think- 
ing it fit that, since every festival was instituted to re- 
member some great mercy, therefore they who received 
on such a day, besides the general praises offered for all 
God’s mercies, should at the Lord’s table make a special 
memorial of the mercy proper to that festival; and this 
seemed so rational to our reformers that they have re- 
tained those proper prefaces which relate to Christmas, 
Easter, Ascension-day, Whit-Sunday, and Trinity-Sun- 
dav, so as to praise God for the mercies of Christ’s birth, 
resurrection, and ascension, for the sending of the Holy 
Ghost, and for the true faith of the holy Trinity. On 
the greater festivals there are proper prefaces appointed, 
which are also to be repeated, in case there be a com- 
munion, for seven days after the festivals themselves 
(excepting that for Whit-Sunday, which is to be repeat- 
ed only six days after, because Trinity-Sunday, which 
is the seventh, hath a preface peculiar to itself) ; to the 
end that the mercies may he the better remembered by 
often repetition, and also that all the people (who in 
most places cannot communicate all in one day) may 
have other opportunities, within those eight days, to 
join in praising God for such great blessings.” “The 
reason,” says bishop Sparrow, “of the Church’s length- 
ening out these high feasts for several days is plain; 
the subject-matter of them is of so high a nature, and 
so nearly concerns our salvation, that one day would 
be too little to meditate upon them, and praise God 
for them as we ought. A bodily deliverance may just- 
ly require one day of thanksgiving and joy; but the 
deliverance of the soul by the blessings commemorated 
on those times deserves a much longer time of praise 
and acknowledgment. Since, therefore, it would be in- 
jurious to Christians to have their joy and thankful- 
ness for such mercies confined to one day, the Church, 
upon the times when these unspeakable blessings were 
wrought for us, invites us, by her most seasonable com- 
mands and counsels, to fill our hearts with joy and 
thankfulness, and let them overflow eight days togeth- 
er.” “ The reason of their being fixed to eight days," 
says Wheatley ( Book of Common Prayer ), “ is taken 


505 


PREJUDICE 


PREHISTORIC }IAN 


from the practice of the Jews, who by God’s appoint- 
ment observed their greater festivals, some of them for 
seven, and one— namely, the Feast of Tabernacles — for 
eight days. And therefore the primitive Church, think- 
ing that Uie observation of Christian festivals (of which 
the Jewish feasts were only types and shadows) ought 
not to come short of them, lengthened out their higher 
feasts to eight days.” 

These prefaces are very ancient, though there were 
some of them as they stood in the Latin service of later 
date. For as there are ten in that service, whereof the 
last, concerning the Virgin Mary, was added by pope 
Urban (1095), so it follows that the rest must be of 
a more remote antiquity. The Church of Rome 
holds that they were composed by Gelasius in memory 
of Christ’s singing a hymn with his disciples after the 
Last Supper, the Jews at their Paschal supper singing 
seven Psalms (Psa. cxiii-cxix). Pope Sixtus added to 
them the Ter Sanctus. Pope Victor calls them capitula. 
From the Gth to the 11th century the Western Church 
had prefaces for every festival, but after that date they 
were reduced to nine, and are enumerated by pope Pela- 
gius and Alexander as Easter, the Ascension. Pentecost, 
Christmas, the Apparition of Christ (Epiphany), the 
Apostles, Holy Trinity, Cross, and Quadragesima. The 
eucharist of Paul (! Cor. xiv, 16) and St. Justin is prob- 
ably the germ of the Western preface and the long 
thanksgiving prayer corresponding to it in the Greek 
Church. The Greeks, by the way, use only one pref- 
ace. The Church of England has retained five, and 
those upon the principal festivals of the year, which re- 
late only to the Persons of the Trinity, and not to any 
saint. “ In this • preface’ a distinction is made between 
ceremonies which were introduced with a good design, 
and in process of time abused, and those which had a 
corrupt origin, and were at the beginning vain and in- 
significant. The last kind the Reformers entirely re- 
jected, but the first w T ere still used for decency and edi- 
fication. Some well-disposed Christians were so attached 
to ancient forms that they would, on no account, suffer 
the least deviation from them; others were fond of in- 
novation in everything. Between these extremes a 
middle way had been carefully observed by the Re- 
formers. Many ceremonies had been so grossly abused 
by superstition and avarice that it was necessary to re- 
move them altogether; but since it was fit to use some 
ceremonies for the sake of decency and order, it seemed 
better to retain those that were old than to invent new. 
Still, it must be remembered that those which were kept 
rested not on the same foundation as the law of God, 
and might be altered for reasonable causes; and the 
English Reformers, in keeping them, neither condemned 
those nations which thought them inexpedient, nor 
prescribed them to any other nation than their own” 
(Carwithen, Hist, of the Church of England ). See, 
besides the authorities already referred to, Walcott, 
Sacred Archceologg , s. v. ; llook, Church Dictionary, 
s. v. 

Prehistoric Man. See Pkeadamite. 

Preissler, Johann Justinus, a German painter 
and engraver of repute, was born at Nuremberg Dec. 4, 
1698. His father, Johann Daniel, was his early master; 
then he spent eight years in Italy, and after his return 
to Germany succeeded his father in the direction of 
the Academy of the Fine Arts at Nuremberg (1742). 
Among his works, several of which were engraved, 
we mention the Burial of the Lord , the Ark of the 
Covenant, the Transfiguration , Christ crowned with 
Thorns, Christ before llerod , the Cure of the Lame. 
He engraved the paintings of Rubens in the church of 
the Jesuits at Antwerp, twenty drawings (Nuremberg, 
1734, fob); a collection of fifty of the most jbeautiful 
statues of Rome, after the drawings of Bouchardon 
(ibid. 1732, fob); and Ornamenti d’ Architettura. He 
died at Nuremberg Feb. 17, 1771. — lloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 


Preissler, Johann Martin, an engraver, brother 
of the preceding, was born at Nuremberg March 14, 
1715. After learning, under the direction of his father 
and his brothers, the arts of drawing and engraving, he 
went to Paris in 1739, where he made several engrav- 
ings for the Galerie de Versailles. In 1744 he was called 
as professor of the art of engraving to Copenhagen, was 
subsequently honored with the title of engraver fo the 
court, and received other honorable distinctions. Among 
his numerous and much esteemed engravings we men- 
tion, of sacred subjects and ecclesiastical historic in- 
terest, the Cardinal of Bouillon; J. Andrew Cramer; 
Balth. Munter; Struensee ; J/. Luther; Gellert ; Juel’s 
A lopstock ; Raffaelle’s Madonna of the Chair, & work in 
which we find in the highest degree all the excellent 
qualities of Preissler; Paul Veronese’s Carrying of the 
Cross; Rosa's Jonah preaching to the Hitlerites; Guido’s 
Hunts and Semiramis ; Rubens's Mary, Mother of Grace, 
and St. Cecilia; the Adoration of the Shepherds, after 
Vanloo; the Judgment of Solomon and the Happy Meet- 
ing, after his own sketches; the Inoculation of the Coun- 
tess of Bermtorf ; Moses, after Michael Angelo. Preiss- 
ler made several engravings for the Museum of Florence 
and for the antique marbles of Dresden. He died at 
Copenhagen Nov, 17, 1794. — Hoefer, Hour. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. See Will, Hiirnbergisehes Lexikon, and 
Supplement of Nopitsch.-Fuessli, Allgem. Kunstlerlexi- 
kon; Nagler, Hates Alfgem. Kihistlerlexikun. 

Preiswerk, Samuel, Dr., a Swiss theologian, was 
born Sept. 19, 1799, at Ittimlingen, Switzerland. After 
having completed his theological studies at Basle, he 
was appointed in 1824 a minister at the Orphan-house, 
and in 1828 he succeeded R. Stier (q. v.) as professor at 
the Mission-house. He had hardly entered upon a new 
field of ministerial labors in 1830 at Muttenz, when the 
revolution broke out, which compelled him to leave the 
place, and two years afterwards he was appointed pro- 
fessor of Old -Testament exegesis and Oriental lan- 
guages at the l£cole de Theologie of the Evangelical 
Society at Geneva. In 1837 he returned to Basle, was 
appointed deacon in 1840, and in 1845 pastor of St. 
Leonhard, occupying at the same time the chair for 
Old -Testament exegesis at the university. From 
1859 he occupied the position as antistes, or super- 
intendent, of the Church at Basle, till he was called to 
his rest in 1871. Preiswerk was an excellent preacher 
and poet, and his fine missionary hymn, “ Dies isf der 
Gemeinde Starke ,” has been translated into English by 
Airs. Wiukworth (Lyra Germ, ii, 88 — “Hark! the 
Church proclaims her honor”). lie also published, Das 
alie. and neve Morgenland fur Freunde der he Hi gen 
| Schrift (Basle, 1834-40): — Die Hestorianer oder die 10 
\Stamme Israels (ibid. 1843); this is a translation of 
The Hestorians, or the Lost Tribes, by A. Grant (q. v.) : 
— Grammaire H ebra ique, precede e d’un Precis historique 
snr*la Langue Hebraiqve (3d ed. 1871). See Fiirst, 
Bibliotheca Judaica, iii, 120; Zuchold, Bibliotheca Thc- 
j ologica , iii, 1012; Steinschneider, Bibliogr. Ilandbuch, p. 

| 112; Peck, Samuel Preiswerk, in the “Evangel. Mes- 
senger” (Cleveland, Ohio, 1877); Koch, Geschichte des 
deutschen Kirchenliedes, vii, 99 sq. ; Knapp, Evangelischer 
Liedersehatz, s. v. (B. P.) 

Prejudice ( prajudico , to judge before inquiry) is 
a prejudging, that is, forming or adopting an opinion 
concerning anything before the grounds of it have been 
fairly or fully considered. The opinion may be true or 
false; but in so far as the grounds of it have not been 
examined, it is erroneous or without proper evidence. 
“ In most cases prejudices are opinions which, on some 
account, men are pleased with, independently of any 
conviction of their truth ; and which, therefore, they 
are afraid to examine, lest they should find them to be 
false. Prejudices, then, are unreasonable judgments, 
formed or held under the influence of some other motive 
than the love of truth. They may therefore be classed 
according to the nature of the motives from which they 


PRELACY 


506 


PRELACY 


result. These motives are either, 1, pleasurable, inno- 
cent, and social; or, 2, they are malignant” (Taylor, 
Elements of Thoughts. Dr. Reid (Intel/. Powers, essay 
vi, ch. viii) has treated of prejudices, or the causes of 
error, according to the classification given of them by 
lord Bacon, under the name of idols. Locke ( Essuy on 
the Human Understanding, bit. iv, ch. xx) has treated 
of the causes of error. Some excellent observations on 
the prejudices peculiar to men of study may be seen in 
Ulnlebrnnche (Search after Truth). See Christian Ex- 
aminer and Gen. Per. iv (1830), 280. 

Prelacy. The organization of the Christian Church 
was in the beginning eminently simple, free, and popu- 
lar. The government of the Church was at first a pure 
democracy, allowing to all its constituents the most en- 
larged freedom of voluntary religions association. Prel- 
acy takes its name and character from the assumed pre- 
rogatives of the bishop as a distinct order or rank — prie- 
lati, preferred, promoted over others. It began in the 
2d century with the distinction between preshgter and 
bishop, which were originally identical, merely different 
names for the same office. In the New Test, the appel- 
lations as titles of bishops and presbyters are the same. 
They are required to possess the same qualifications and 
to perform the same official duties; neither was there 
in the apostolical churches any ordinary and permanent 
class of officers superior to the presbyters. 

I. In the Earlg Church. — Various circumstances con- 
spired to give certain of the clergy influence and dis- 
tinction over others. The pastors of churches founded 
by the apostles took precedence of presbyters of later 
and subordinate churches. The churches of Jerusalem, 
Antioch, Ephesus, Corinth, etc., became central points 
of influence which gave importance to their incumbents. 
'They were the principal agents in appointing new sta- 
tions for the extension of the Christian Church and in 
the organization of new churches dependent on the par- 
ent institution. With the increase of these chapels a 
parochial system of churches arose, more or less relying 
on the central Church for support and spiritual instruc- 
tors— all of which gave to the prelate of the metropolis 
importance and pre-eminence over his subordinate pres- 
byters. 

In their persecutions the feebler churches relied for 
relief and protection on the parent Church. In their 
ecclesiastical assemblies the bishop of the metropolitan 
Church was of course the leading spirit, the moderator 
of the assembly, giving direction to their deliberations 
and the results of the council. 1 Ie was still only primus 
inter pares, foremost among his equals in rank in the 
ministry. Prelacy had not yet taken form and char- 
acter by asserting the rights and prerogatives of the 
bishop, but the concessions granted began in time to be 
claimed as an official right. Baptism was one of the 
rights of the bishop in the 2d century (“Dandi baptis- 
mum quidem liabet summits sacerdos qui est episcopus,” 
Tertuliian, De Cup. § 7). The imposition of hands by 
the bishop in baptism and ordination soon followed as a 
prescriptive right of the bishop. This right was soon 
accorded to the presbyters and deacons by the authority 
of the bishop — non tamen sine episcopi uuctoritate. In 
the unity of the Church and its officers Cyprian sought 
safety and defence both from the schismatic efforts of 
Kelicissimus and Xovatian and the persecution of De- 
cius, A.D. 231. “No safety but in the Church” — extra 
eccfesiam nulla salus. As is the branch to the tree, the 
stream to the fountain, and the members to the body, 
so is the constituency to the Church. Moreover, the 
bishop is the embodiment of the Church, and there 
can be no Church without a bishop (Cyprian, De Unit. 
Eccles. ep. 4,5). The Bishop is appointed of Cod and 
invested with inviolable authority to rule over the 
Church. Such arc the divine rights which were as- 
sumed by Cyprian as prelate of the Church, invested 
with divine authority and power over the Church of 
Christ. The bishop now claimed affinity with the Jew- 
ish priesthood, a daysman of the laity, the medium of 


grace from God to man, and the recipient of spiritual 
illumination and divine guidance. The synodical letter 
of the Council of Carthage contains similar pretensions 
(“Placuit nobis, Saneto Spirito suggerente, et Domi- 
no per visiones multas et imiuifestas admouentc”). A 
sacerdotal caste was formed by Cyprian about A.I). 250, 
who claimed the prerogative of a distinct order of the 
priesthood, separate from and superior to the presby- 
ters. I’radati, bishops, diocesan bishops were the titles 
designating the assumed prerogatives. 

Provincial synods began now to be held, in which the 
presbyters were for a time admitted, but the predom- 
inant influence of the bishops directed the deliberations 
and enacted the laws of the synod. Thus they became 
the law-makers of the Church by the exercise of their 
prelatical authority under the guidance of the Divine 
Spirit — Spiritu Divino suggerente. Gradually they con- 
stituted themselves at once the enactors and the ex- 
ecutors of the ordinances of the Church. 

The rule of the priesthood was made more stringent 
over private members of the Church. In their travels 
they were required to have letters of recommendation — 
literep formutce, clericee, canonicre — from the bishop of the 
diocese. A long course of catechetical instruction and 
probation was required for admission to the Church. 
Rigorous an* relentless was the discipline of offending 
constituents. Subordinate orders of the clergy were 
created — subdeacons, acolytes, readers, exorcists, door- 
keepers, etc. — all having the effect to exalt the rank of 
the prelate as prominent above all. But the prelatical 
aspirations of bishops were restricted by the controlling 
influence which the laity still retained over the elec- 
tions of the Church. This was gradually restricted by 
a crafty policy of having the candidates nominated by 
the subordinate clergy and their election confirmed by 
the bishop. 

But a master stroke of policy was requisite to obtain 
control of the revenues of the Church. It was accom- 
plished by successive expedients through a period of 
considerable time. The apostolic injunction was care- 
fully urged on the Church to lay aside for charitable 
purposes “ on the first day of the week or of the month 
a store as God had prospered them” (I Cor. xvi, 2). At 
their love-feasts and sacramental seasons contributions 
were required as voluntary offerings — indeed, as late as 
Tertuliian (“Nam nemo compellitur, sed sponte confert,” 
A pol. § 35)). Tithes began to be urged upon the mem- 
bers of the Church as early as the 3d century, but to 
the honor of the Church the offerings and contributions 
continued to be voluntary on the part of its members. 
Whatever taxes were imposed in later times for the 
maintenance of public worship and of the clergy were 
effected by the relations of the Church to the State 
under the Christian emperors. On the rules of the 
Church requiring the gratuitous performance of relig- 
ious offices the following references may be consulted : 
Condi, lllibtr. c. 48; Gelasius, Epist. 1, al. 9, c. 5; Gre- 
gorius Naz. Orat. 10; Gratian, Deer. e. 1, qn. i, c. 8; 
Concil. Trullan. ii, c. 23 ; Jerome, Quasi. I/ebr. in 
Gen. 23. 

The Council of Braga, in Portugal. A.D. 503, ordered 
a tripartite division of the property of the Church — one 
for tlie bishop, one for the other clergy, and the third 
for the lighting and repairs of the church. According 
to another authority four divisions were made, of which 
one portion was for the poor. 

1 1. Under the Emperors. — When Christianity was the 
religion of the State, various other revenues accrued to 
the Church and the bishop. I'pon the abolition of the 
heathen rites, under Theodosius the Great and his sons, 
the property of the heathen temples and priests which 
fell to the State was delivered over to the Christian 
clergy, or at least was appropriated to eeclesiastical 
uses (Cod. Theodos. lib. xvi, tit. 10, leg. 19-21; comp. 
Sozom. Hist. Eccl. lib. v, c. 7, 1G). On the same 
principle the ecclesiastical property of heretics was con- 
fiscated anti made over to the Catholic Church, as, for 


PRELACY 


507 


PRELACY 


instance, in the case of the Novations {Cod. Theodos. 
lib. xvi, tit. 5, leg. 52; Socrat. Hist. Eccl. lib. vii, c. 7). 
It was also enacted that the property of such of the 
clergy as died without heirs, and of those who had re- 
linquished their duties without sufficient cause, should 
lapse to the Church funds {Cod. Theodos. lib. v, tit. 3, 
leg. 50 ; Cod. Justin, lib. x, tit. 3, leg. 20, 53 ; Cod. Nor. 
5, c. 4 ; 123, c. 42). The Church was also made the heir 
of all martyrs and confessors who died without leaving 
any near relatives (Euseb. Vit. Const, lib. ii, c. 36). 
The clergy enjoyed many privileges by which on the 
one hand they were in a measure shielded from the 
operations of the law, and on the other were intrusted 
with civil and judicial authority over the laity. Three 
particulars are stated by Planck: 1. In certain civil 
cases they exercised a direct jurisdiction over the laity. 
2. The State submitted entirely to them the adjudica- 
tion of all offences of the laity of a religious nature. 3. 
Certain other cases, styled ecclesiastical, causee ecclesias- 
tics , were tried before them exclusively. The practical 
influence of these arrangements and their effects upon 
the clergy and the laity are detailed by the same au- 
thor, to whom we must refer the reader {Gesell.- V erf ass. 
i, 308 sq.). The laity were ultimately separated from 
the control of the revenues which they contributed for 
the maintenance of the government of the Church and 
for charitable purposes. All measures of this nature, in- 
stead of originating with the people, as in all popular 
governments, began and ended with the priesthood 
{Cone. Gan. Can. 7, 8 ; Bracar. xi, c. 7 ; the canons al- 
luded to clearly indicate the unjust and oppressive 
operations of this system). The wealth of the laity was 
now made to flow in streams into the Church. New 
expedients were devised to draw money from them. 
(It was a law of the Church in the 4th century that the 
laity should every Sabbath partake of the sacrament, 
the effect of which law was to augment the revenues of 
the Church, each communicant being required to bring 
his offering to the altar. Afterwards, when this custom 
was discontinued, the offering was still claimed [Cong. 
Agath. A.D. 585, c. 4]). Constantine himself contrib- 
uted large sums to enrich the coffers of the Church, 
which he also authorized, A.D. 321, to inherit property 
by will {Cod. Theodos. 4, 16, tit. 2, leg. 4 ; Euseb. lib. x, 
c. 6; Sozomen, lib. i, c. 8; lib. v, c. 5). This permis- 
sion opened new sources of wealth to the bishops, while 
it presented equal incentives to their cupidity. With 
what address they employed their newly acquired rights 
is apparent from the fact stated by Planck, that “ in the 
space of ten years every man at his decease left a legacy 
to the Church, and within fifty years the clergy in the 
several provinces, under the color of the Church, held in 
their possessions one-tenth part of the entire property of 
the province. By the end of the 4th century the em- 
perors themselves were obliged to interpose to check the 
accumulation of these immense revenues — a measure 
which Jerome said “he could not regret, but he could 
only regret that liis brethren had made it necessary” 
(Planck, Gesell.~Verfass. i, 281; comp. Pertsch, Kir- 
chengesch. c. 9, § 11). 

Prelacy also gained great power from the Church by 
controlling the elections of the clergy. The sovereign 
rights of the people in their free elective franchise began 
at an early period to be invaded. The final result of 
these changes was a total disfranchisement of the laity 
and the substitution of an ecclesiastical despotism in 
the place of the elective government of the primitive 
Church. Of these changes one of the most effective 
was the attempt, by means of correspondence and eccle- 
siastical synods, to consolidate the churches into one 
Church universal , to impose upon them a uniform code 
of laws, and establish an ecclesiastical polity adminis- 
tered by the clergy. The idea of a holy catholic Church 
and of an ecclesiastical hierarchy for the government 
of the same was wholly a conception of the priesthood. 
Whatever may have been the motives with which this 
doctrine of the unity of the Church was first promul- 


gated, it prepared the way for the overthrow of the 
popular government of the Church. 

Above all, the doctrine of the divine right of the 
priesthood aimed a fatal blow at the liberties of the 
people. The clergy were no longer the servants of the 
people, chosen by them to the work of the ministry, but 
an independent and privileged order, like the Levitical 
priesthood, and, like them, by divine right invested 
with peculiar prerogatives. This independence they 
began by degrees to assert and to exercise. The bishop 
began in the 3d century to appoint at pleasure his own 
deacons and other inferior orders of the clergy. In 
other appointments, also, he endeavored to disturb the 
freedom of the elections and to direct them agreeably to 
his own will (Pertsch, Kirchengesch. des drit. Jahrhund. 

р. 439-454; Planck, Gesell.-Verfass. i, 183). Against 
these encroachments of ecclesiastical ambition and 
power the people continued to oppose a firm but in- 
effectual resistance. They asserted, and in a measure 
maintained, their primitive right of choosing their own 
spiritual teachers (Gieseler, i, 272; for a more full and 
detailed account of these changes of ecclesiastical policy 
and of the means by which they were introduced, the 
reader is referred to the volume of J. G. Planck, Gesch. 
der christ.-Kirchl. Gesellschaftsverfassung, i, 149-212, 
433 sq.). There are on record instances in the 4th, and 
even in the 5th century, where the appointment of a 
bishop was effectually resisted by the refusal of the peo- 
ple to ratify the nomination of the candidate to a vacant 
sec (Gregorius Naz. Orat. 10; comp. Orat. 19, p. 308; 
21, p. 377 ; Bingham, bk. iv, ch. i, § 3; Planck, i, 440, 
n. 10). The rule had been established by decree of 
councils, and often repeated, requiring the presence and 
unanimous concurrence of all the provincial bishops in 
the election and ordination of one to the office of bishop. 
This afforded them a convenient means of defeating any 
popular election by an affected disagreement among 
themselves. The same canonical authority had made 
the concurrence of the metropolitan necessary to the 
validity of any appointment, llis veto was accordingly 
another efficient expedient by which to baffle the suf- 
frages of the people and to constrain them into a reluc- 
tant acquiescence in the will of the clergy {Cone. Ate. 

с. 4: Cone. Antioch, c. 16; Cur thug. A.D. 390, c. 12; 
Planck, i, 433-452). 

Elections to ecclesiastical offices were also disturbed 
by the interference of secular influence from without, in 
consequence of that disastrous union of Church and State 
which was formed in the 4th century under Constantine 
the Great. During this century (1) the emperors con- 
vened and presided in general councils; (2) confirmed 
their decrees; (3) enacted laws relative to ecclesiastic- 
al matters by their own authority; (4) pronounced de- 
cisions concerning heresies and controversies; (5) ap- 
pointed bishops; (6) inflicted punishment on ecclesias- 
tical persons. Agitated and harassed by the conflict of 
these discordant elements, the popular assemblies for 
the election of men to fill the highest offices of the holy 
ministry became scenes of tumult and disorder that 
would disgrace a modern political canvass. 

To correct these disorders various but ineffectual ex- 
pedients were adopted at different times and places. 
The Council of Laodicea (A.D. 361, c. 13) denied to the 
multitude — roff o^Xoi^, the rabble — any vote in the 
choice of persons for the sacred office. Justinian in the 
6th century sought, with no better success, to remedy the 
evils in question by limiting the elective franchise to a 
mixed aristocracy composed of the clergy and the chief 
men of the city. These were jointly to nominate three 
candidates, declaring under oath that in making the 
selection they had been influenced by no sinister mo- 
tive. From these three the ordaining person was to or- 
dain the one whom he judged best qualified (Justin. 
Novell. 123, c. 1 ; 137, c. 2; Cod. lib. 1, tit. 3; Be 
Episcop. leg. 42). The Council of Arles (A.D. 452, c. 
54) in like manner ordered the bishops to nominate 
three candidates, from whom the clergy and the people 


PRELATE 


50S 


PREMICE 


should make the election; and that of Barcelona (A.l). 
599, c. 3) ordered the clergy and people to make the 
nomination, and the metropolitan and bishops were to 
determine the election by lot. But even these ineffec- 
tual efforts to restore measurably the right of the peo- 
ple show to what extent it was already lost. 

The doctrine that to the clergy was promised a divine 
guidance from t he Spirit of God had its influence also in 
completing the subjugation of the people. Resistance 
to such an authority under the infallible guidance of 
(lod's Spirit was rebellion against High 1 leaven, which 
the laity had not the impiety to maintain. The gov- 
ernment and discipline of the Church by the priesthood 
was but the natural result of their control of the elective 
franchise. It. established and commemorated the in- 
dependence. the supremacy of prelacy. The bishops, no 
longer the ministers and representatives of the Church, 
are the priests of God to dictate the laws and admin- 
ister the discipline of the Church (Mosheim, lJe Rebus 
Christ. s;ec. ii, § 23). By the middle of the -It li century 
prelacy, by various expedients, acquired the control of 
the whole penal jurisdiction of the laity, opening and 
closing at pleasure the doors of the Church, inflicting 
sentence of excommunication, prescribing penances, ab- 
solving penitents, and restoring them to the Church by 
arbitrary authority (Planck, Gesell.- Verfass. ii, 509). 

III. Under the Papacy. — Such are the various causes 
— influential in different degrees, perhaps, in the several 
organizations — in supplanting the popular government 
of the primitive Church and substituting in its place 
prelacy, which, under different forms of centralization, 
finally culminated in the pope of Borne. This culmina- 
tion, and the craft by which it was accomplished, re- 
quire a fuller detail than our limits will allow. We can 
only affirm that this important period in history, when 
the foundation was laid for rendering the hierarchy in- 
dependent both of clerical and secular power, has not 
been noticed by historians so particularly as its impor- 
tance requires. They seem not to have noted the fact 
that Hildebrand, who A.l). 1073 became Gregory VII, 
concerted measures for the independence of the Church. 
“ It was the deep design of Hildebrand, which he for a 
long time prosecuted with unwearied zeal, to bring the 
pope wholly within the pale of the Church, and to pre- 
vent the interference in his election of all secular influ- 
ence and arbitrary power. And that measure of the 
council which wrested from the emperor a right of 
long standing, and which has never been called in ques- 
tion, may deservedly be regarded as the masterpiece 
of popish intrigue, or rather of Hildebrand's cunning. 
The concession which disguised this crafty design of 
his was expressed as follows: That the emperor should 
continue to hold , as he ever had held, the right of confirm- 
ing the election of the pope derived from him. The covert 
design of this clause was not perceived, but it expressed 
nothing less than that the emperor should ever receive 
and hold from the pope himself the right of confirming 
the appointment of the pope” (Voigt, Hildebrand f Wei- 
mar, 1815, 8vo], p. 54, cited by Augusti, i, 209). 

As might have been expected, the lofty claim of the 
pope was resisted ; but lie had the address to defend his 
usurped authority against all opposition, and proudly 
proclaimed himself “the successor of St. Peter, set up by 
God to govern, not only the Church, but the whole 
world.’’ The gradations of ecclesiastical organization 
through which prelacy has passed are from congrega- 
tional to parochial, parochial to diocesan, diocesan to 
metropolitan, metropolitan to patriarchal, patriarchal to 
papal— from the humble pastor of a little flock to the 
pope of Borne, the supreme and universal prelate of the 
Ghurch of Ghrist on earth. See Coleman, Prelacy and 
Rituulism; National Repository, Feb. 1S78 ( Fx Cathe- 
dra). (L. C.) 

Prelate (hat. prielatus, i. e. promoted) is an eccle- 
siastic who has direct authority over other ecclesiastics. 
The term is a general one, and includes not merely 
bishops of various degrees, but also in Roman Catholic 


countries the heads of religious houses or orders and 
\ other similar ecclesiastical dignitaries. These, for the 
most part, are privileged to wear the insignia of the 
| episcopal rank. In the Roman court many of the offi- 
cials, although not possessing episcopal or qnasi-episeo- 
pal jurisdiction, have the insignia and the title of prel- 
ate. They arc of two classes— the higher, called del 
mantelietto (“of the little mantle”), and the secondary, 
called del munfellone (“of the great mantle”), from the 
robe which they respectively bear. The same root un- 
derlies other ecclesiastical terms in which all the clergy 
are on an equality, and are governed by a representa- 
tive body or by the local church ; prelutic and prelat- 
icul. i. e. pertaining to a prelacy or a prelate, as pre- 
latical authority. Prelates are confined to those churches 
which recognise in the bishop (q. v.) a distinct and su- 
perior order of clergy. See Pkklacy. 

Premare, Joseph- IIrxki, a French Jesuit, was 
born about 1G70 in Normandy. March 7, 1(198, he em- 
barked with several other Jesuits at La Rochelle to 
preach the Gospel in China. lie arrived Oct. G at 
Suneian, and addressed, Feb. 17, 1G99, a relation of his 
journey to pere La Chaise, with a descriptive notice of 
the countries he had visited. As soon as he had mas- 
tered the Chinese language he made a careful study of 
the antiquities and literature of the country. Though 
he expressed some strange ideas, it cannot be denied 
that his erudition was considerable, and that he thor- 
oughly knew’ the philosophical works of the Chinese. 
He died at Peking about 1735. lie left, Recherches sur 
les Temps anterhurs a ceux dont parle le Chou- King et 
sur la Mythologie Chinoise, published by Dcgiiignes in 
the translation of the Chou- King, by pi-re Gaubii, in the 
form of a preliminary discourse (Paris, 1770, 4to) : — a 
number of other works, three of them in Chinese: — The 
Life of <S7. Joseph, the Lou-chou-chii, or true sense of 
the six classes of characters, and a small treatise on 
the attributes of God, inserted in the Notitia lingua 
sinicte, which is the best of all those composed hith- 
erto by Europeans on this subject : — several other 
treatises in Latin and in French, preserved among the 
manuscripts of the National Library of Paris, where we 
find also the originals of several letters of pere Pre- 
mare. Three letters of this missionary were published 
in the Retires edifiantes, ami a fourth in the. Annales 
encyclopediques of Klaproth, lie translated also a dra- 
ma, Tchao chi Kou-cul (the Orphan of the House of 
Chao), which furnished to Voltaire some ideas for his 
Orphelin de la Chine. See Retires edifiantes, vols. xvi 
and xxi; Catalogue de Fourmont Vaine. — lloeftr, Nouv. 
Ring. Gene rale, s. v. 

Prentice (pr unit hr or prima rnissie) is the first 
mass celebrated by the newly ordained priest ( neo - 
mysta), with the help of an assistant. 1'lie solemnity 
begins thus: the new priest sings on the steps of the 
altar “Veni Sanete Spiritns,” performs the correspond- 
ing ovation, and then distributes the holy water, if this 
is prescribed bv the rubrics of the day. It is an open 
question among the rubricists if at a premiee the mass 
of the day or a votival mass is to be read. The proba- 
ble solution of the difficulty is that, on simple Sundays 
and ordinary “festis dnplicibus,” a votival mass may be 
said, such a mass being permitted on such days pro re 
gravi ct publica, to which a premiee solemnity may be 
said to belong; but the mass of the day must be pre- 
served on high feasts, ami on such Sundays on which 
votive masses are never admissible. The solemnity 
ends with the sacerdotal benediction, given by the new 
priest to the people by the imposition of bauds (Loliner, 
Instructio pructica de SS. .1/ issir sacrificio, pt. iv, tit. a*; 
and Vogt, Instructio practica de Missis votivis, p. 197 
sq.). The festivities connected with a premiee, and 
not belonging directly to the ecclesiastical celebration, 
vary with the customs of countries ami jdaces, and are 
not seldom regulated by special prescriptions of the ec- 
clesiastical authorities. 


PREJIICE SERMONS 


509 PRENORMAN ARCHITECTURE 


Premice Sermons are discourses preached on 
the occasion of the first mass of an incipient priest. 
Their aim is to call the attention of both ecclesiastics 
and laymen to the dignity and importance of the sacer- 
dotal state, and the duties which it imposes on both 
classes. Therefore the object of the sermon can only 
be some truth which relates to the clerical state : e. g. 
the dignity, the importance, of the priestly career; the 
priesthood of the Romish Church, its destination, or the 
duties arising from it, etc. According to the theme 
chosen, the sermon enlarges upon the object of the 
priestly functions, or the qualities, conditions, mode of 
action of the priesthood, or its duties and beneficial in- 
fluences, etc. At the end of the sermon there may be 
a prayer, or an exhortation to prayer. 

Premonstratensians or Premonstrants is the 
name of a monastic order which was founded at Pre- 
montre (Lat. Prcemonstratnm), in the diocese of Laon, 
France, about 1120, by St. Norbert of Cleves, afterwards 
archbishop of Magdeburg, with a view to restore the 
discipline of the regular canons, which had greatly 
deteriorated. The order followed the rule of St. Au- 
gustine, and was confirmed by popes Honorius II and 
Innocent III. The ground on which the order was es- 
tablished was given to St. Norbert by the bishop of 
Laon, with the approbation of Louis the Cross, king of 
France, who gave the Premonstratensians a charter of 
privileges. The place was called Pra?monstratum, be- 
cause it was pretended that the Blessed Virgin herself 
pointed out ( prcemonstravit ) beforehand the site for the 
principal house of the order. According to these legen- 
dary authorities, the members of the order were at the 
same time commanded to wear a white habit, and con- 
sequently the White Canons wore a white cassock and 
rochet and a long white cloak. The abbots never wore 
pontificals; and any member promoted to the cardinal- 
ate or popedom retained his habit. At the time of the 
founding of the order St. Norbert had thirteen compan- 
ions, but as the popes and kings of France granted it 
many privileges, and were very liberal to the Premon- 
stratensians, they rapidly increased, and counted among 
their number many persons of distinguished birth, deep 
piety, and great scholarship. In the early history of 
the order there was such strict adherence to the rule of 
poverty that they had nothing they could call their 
own but one ass, which served them to carry wood, 
cut down by them every morning and sent to Laon, 
where it was sold to purchase bread; but in a short 
time they received so many donations, and built so 
many monasteries, that thirty years after the founda- 
tion of this order they had above a hundred abbeys in 



Prenionstrant Monk. 


France and Germany. The order has likewise given the 
Church a great number of archbishops and bishops. It 
once had 1000 abbeys and 500 nunneries (until 1273 
their monasteries were double, a house of women always 
adjoining the convent of men), but it is now the mere 
skeleton of what it was. Of the sixty-five abbeys which 
they had in Italy not one now remains. These monks, 
vulgarly called White Canons, went, first to England in 
the year 1140, where the first monastery, called New'- 
house, was built in Lincolnshire by Peter de Saulia, and 
dedicated to St. Martialif. In the reign of Edward I, 
when that king granted his protection to the monaster- 
ies, the Premonstratensians had twenty-seven houses in 
different parts of the country. They were commonly 
called '• White Friars.” They had six monasteries in 
Scotland— four in Galloway, one at Dry burgh, and one 
at I<erne, in Ross-shire. They had also several houses 
in Ireland. In England their churches and conventual 
buildings were at Eastby, Leiston, Bayham, Weudling, 
and Eggleston. They were very irregular in plan, the 
greater portion of the minster being aisleless and the 
transept unimportant, as they eschewed all processions. 
There is a fine ruin at Ardaines, near Caen, which gives a 
vivid illustration of the farming arrangements of the or- 
der — homely and retired lovers of the country, and enter- 
prising farmers. The principal houses were Torre, East 
Dereham, and Hales Owen. They carried the almuce 
over the right arm ; the Canons of St.Victor wore it like 
a tippet round the neck. See Fosbroke, Ancient Mon - 
achism (see Index); Herzog, Real-Encykl. xii, 82 sq. ; 
Helyot, Hist, des Ordres, s. v. 

Premord, Charles -Leonard, a French priest, 
was born at Ilonfleur July 30, 1760. He obtained in 
1790 a canonry in the college of St. Ilonore at Paris. 
Deprived of it soon afterwards, he retired to England, 
where he began by giving French lessons. Madame 
de Levis-Mirepoix went with some French Benedictine 
nuns to establish herself at Cannington Court, and in- 
trusted Premord with the spiritual direction of the 
community. In 1816 he established himself at Paris, 
where cardinal Talleyrand - Perigonl appointed him 
honorary canon of Notre Dame and chaplain of Charles 
X (1825). Premord was also appointed vicar-general of 
Strasburg and of Quimper. After the Revolution of 
July he returned to England to rejoin the Benedictine 
community which he had so long directed. He left an 
English edition of Rules of a Christian Life, and a pub- 
lication of the (Euvres choisies de M. Asseline, eveque 
de Boulogne (Paris, 1823, 6 vols. 12mo), accompanied with 
an incomplete notice. He died Ang. 26, 1837, at Col- 
wich, Staffordshire. See L'Ami de la Religion, 1837. — 
Hoefer, None. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Prenorman Architecture. In a large class of 
English ecclesiastical structures reared anterior to the 
Norman invasion the style is so peculiar that it should 
be classified as distinctively Prenorman. The walls are 
of rag or rubble, frequently of herring-bone work, and 
unlmttressed ; the quoins present long and short work; 
strips of stone or pilasters bisect or relieve the towers; 
the imposts of the shafts are rude, massive, and orna- 
mented either with classical mouldings or rude carv- 
ings; the arches are round or angled, and sometimes 
constructed of bricks; and baluster-like pillars are in- 
troduced in the windows, which are often deeply splayed 
within and without. Two pillars from Reculver Ba- 
silica are standing in the Green Court of Canterbury. 
The churches of Lvminge, Barnack, Bosham, Bradford 
(Wilts), Brixworth (the oldest remaining church in 
England, and possessing a basilican type), Stanton La- 
cy. Dover Castle, Brytford, Corhampton, Dunham Mag- 
na, Caversfield, and part of the crypt of York, those of 
Ripon and Hexham, the towers of Deerhurst, Barton, 
St. Benet’s (Cambridge and Lincoln), Cholsey, St. Mary 
(York), Bolam, Brigstock, Earl’s Barton, and the stee- 
ples of Bosham and Sompting, and portions of mr.ry 
other churches, exhibit some or other of these peculiar- 


PRENTISS 


510 


PRESBYTER 


ities. The base story of the tower of Barnack formed 
a judicial and council chamber, with an angle- headed 
sedile on the west, with stone benches for t lie assessors 
on either side. They were erected either by the Eng- 
lish, or possibly by the Danes under Canute, as that 
king ordered churches of stone and lime to be built in 
all places where the minsters had been burned by his 
countrymen, and out of the hundred, which is the num- 
ber of these buildings, two thirds are in the eastern 
counties and Lincolnshire, where the compatriots of the 
French Normans settled before the latter arrived. In 
the lirst half of the 11th century churches so rapidly 
multiplied in France and Italy that a chronicler says 
the world seemed to be putting on a new white robe. 
Westminster Abbey was built by the Confessor in the 
Norman style; while in Lincolnshire the l’renorman 
mode was preserved late in the 1 1th century, just as the 
Perpendicular lingered in Somerset in the time of Eliz- 
abeth, and produeed Wadham College chapel by the 
aid of west country masons.— Walcott, Sacred Arche- 
ology, s. v. 

Prentiss, Erastus L., a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, was born at New Loudon, Conn., 
in 1825, was converted at the age of fifteen, and, after 
joining t lie Methodists, was licensed to preach in 1848. 
Seeing the necessity of thorough educational training 
for the great work of the (lospel, he prepared for college 
at Amenia Seminary, and then entered Wesleyan Uni- 
versity. Failing health interrupted his studies for a 
time, but he finally graduated at Amherst College in 
1855. The following year he entered New York Con- 
ference, and took a position from the lirst which he ever 
maintained, as will be seen in reviewing his fields of la- 
bor. His lirst appointment, 1856, was the Second Meth- 
odist Church in Kingston; the next year, 1857, at St. 
Paul's, New York City, as assistant to the lamented Dr. 
John AFClintock, the late editor of this Cyclopedia. In 
1858 and the following year Prentiss was stationed at 
the Second Methodist Church in Newburgh; in I860 
and l*l>I at Chester; in 1802 and 18113 at Matteawan; 
in 18114, 1805, and 1800 at Tuekahoc; in 1809 and 1870, 
Camion Street Church, Poughkeepsie; in 1870 and 1871, 
St. Paul’s Church at Peekskill. In the spring of 1872 
he received his last appointment, which was Warwick. 
There he was received with open arms, engaged in his 
ministerial duties with great delight, and was exceed- 
ingly useful, as his name was “like ointment poured 
forth,” until the day of his death, Feb. 28, 1873. Pren- 
tiss possessed rare outward attractions. His tine and 
delicate form, his noble brow, his bright eye, and his 
genial features made him a beautiful specimen of hu- 
manity that it was refreshing to behold; but they were 
far surpassed by the inward adorning, his childlike 
spirit, the kindness of his heart, the gentleness of his 
disposition, the warmth of his affections, and his pure 
and unspotted life. II is ministry was evangelical and 
practical in its character to a pre-eminent degree, and 
was a success. Heaven put the broad seal of its appro- 
bation upon his labors. See Christian Advocate (N. Y. 
May 8, 1873); Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1873. 

Prentiss, Thomas, I ).!)., a Congregational min- 
ister, was born Oct. 27, 1747. at Ilolliston, Mass. He 
graduated at Harvard College in 1 7 <*<?, entered the min- 
istry in 1769, and was ordained < let. 30, 1770, pastor in 
Modlicld, where he continued until his death, Feb. 28. 
1811. During the Revolutionary struggle he was for a 
time chaplain in the army. He was also identified with 
different reform movements, and was a leader in tem- 
perance reform. He established a public library in the 
place of bis pastorate, and greatly benefited the com- 
munity in many ways, lie published, .4 Sermon on 
the Duty of t) fending ami Offended Brethren (1773): — 
Religion and Morality Cvited in the l)nty of Man. two 
sermons (1802): Professed Christians Cautioned, and 
Evil Speakers Admonished, a sermon (18(H) : — The Sin 
and Danger of Strengthening the /lands of Evil-doers , a 


sermon (1805); and several occasional Sermons . — 
Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 678. 

Preparation (irnpatTk-evij) in Mark xv, 42; Luke 
xxiii, 54; John xix, 42, and Matt, xxvii, 62, is doubt- 
less the day or evening before the commencement of the 
Sabbath, with which, at that time, according to the 
Synoptical ("iospels, coincided the first day of the Pass- 
over. (But Schneckcnbiirger [Beitrage zur Einleit. ins 
X. T. p. 1 sq.] supposes the “• preparation” in Matthew 
1 to mean the feast-dav of the blaster period, and which 
was viewed as a preparatory festival to the Passover.) 
This day was devoted to preparation for the hojydav 
— especially preparing food for the Sabbath. Mark 
explains the word by “the day before the Sabbath” 
(Trpoad/i/iaror ; comp. Judith viii, 6; Josephus, .In/, 
xvi, 6, 2). The Jewish expression for it is 
(see Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. col. 1660). So, too, the l’eshito 
renders in the places quoted above. Every feast, like 
the Sabbath, had a preparation -day before it, which is 
often mentioned by the Talmudists (Devling, Observ. i, 
162 ; with this may be compared irapaoKtvi) rob irtur-^a, 
John xix, 14; Preparation for Easter, the 14th of 
Nisan; comp. Block, Beitrage zur Ecangelienkritik, p. 
114 sq.). — Winer. See Passover. 

Prepoll, an early Marcionite, was a native of As- 
syria, and flourished at the close of the 2d century. 
The Mareionites were then divided into several fac- 
tions, some of which admitted two original principles, 
as Pot it iis and Basilicas; others three (llhodon, in Eu- 
sebius, IHst. Eccles. v, 13). To the latter belonged Pre- 
pon, who held that, besides what is good and evil, there 
is what constitutes a third principle, viz. what is just. 
This intermediate principle Hippolytus identifies with 
the “Musa,” or impartial Reason of Empedocles, a myth 
to whom is attributed the restoration to the good power 
Unity of what is disturbed by the wicked power Dis- 
cord (llippol. /Per. Refut. vii, 19). A letter from Pre- 
pon to the Armenian Bardesancs is mentioned ( Philos . 
I, viii, 253). 

Prerogative Court of the archbishop is, in Ro- 
man Catholic countries where the Church is granted 
extraordinary privileges, a court of that ecclesiastic 
wherein all testaments are proved and all administra- 
tions granted, when a party dying within the province 
has bona notabilia in some other diocese than where he 
dies; and is so called from having a prerogative through- 
out his whole province for the said purposes. 

Presanctified. See Pr.esanctificatio. 

Presburg, Corxcu. or ( Concilium Prcsoniense), an 
j ecclesiastical gathering which convened on Nov. 10, 
j 1309, and was presided over by the papal legate cardi- 
nal (lentil, of Hungary. Nine canons of discipline were 
published, of which the eighth forbids Christian women 
| to marry infidels, heretics, or schismatics. See Labbe, 

I Concil. ix, 2153. 

Presbyter (<lr. Trpefffiortpog) is the title of an of- 
fice or dignity in the Jewish synagogue CjJTT). It was 
introduced into the Christian Church, and designated nu 
oiliccr whose functions in the apostolic period are dis- 
puted by different ecclesiastical bodies. In the Roman 
Catholic and in the English hierarchy, the title has 
been the occasion of a protracted controversy as to the 
respective claims of the bishop (q. v.) and the presby- 
j ter. Those who maintain the presbyter as on equality 
with the episeopos argue as follows: With respect to 
the successors of the apostles, they seem to have been 
placed on a footing of perfect equality, the finrovot, or 
deacons, not being included among the teachers. They 
were inferior officers, whose province it originally was 
to care for the poor, and to discharge those secular du- 
ties arising out of the formation of Christian communi- 
ties which could not be discharged by the ministers 
without interfering with the much higher duties which 
they had to perform. These ministers are sometimes 


PliESBYTEIi 


511 


PRESBYTEli 


in the New Testament styled 7rps(r(3i'’rtpoi, or presby- 
ters, at other times iTnovoirot, or bishops; but the two 
appellations were indiscriminately applied to all the pas- 
tors who were the instructors of the different churches. 
Of this various examples may be given from the sacred 
writings. The apostle Paul, upon a very affecting oc- 
casion, when he was convinced that he could never 
again have an opportunity of addressing them, sent 
for the elders, or presbyters, of Ephesus, the persons to 
whom the ministry in that Church had been committed ; 
and after mentioning all that he had done, and intimat- 
ing to them the sufferings which awaited him, lie ad- 
dressed to them what may be considered as his dying 
advice, and as comprehending in it all that he judged 
it most essential for them to do: “Take heed, there- 
fore, unto yourselves, and to all the flock over which the 
Holy Ghost hath made you bishops or overseers, to feed 
the Church of God” (Acts xx, 17, 28). Here they whose 
duty it was to feed the Church of God, as having been 
set apart through the Holy Spirit for that interesting 
w'ork, are termed by the apostle presbyters and bishops, 
and there is not the slightest reference to the existence of 
any other &TriaK07rog, or bishop, superior to those Itt ia- 
kottoi, or bishops, to whom he gives the moving charge 
now recorded. In his epistle to Titus, Paul thus writes : 
“ For this purpose I left thee in Crete,” where, as yet, it 
is probable that no teachers had been appointed, “ that 
thou shouldest ordain elders, or presbyters, in every 
city.” lie then points out the class of men from which 
the presbyters ivere to be selected, adding, as the reason 
of this, “for a bishop must be blameless as the steward 
of God” (Titus i, 5, 7). It is quite plain that the term 
bishop is here applicable to the same persons who were 
a little before styled elders, and both are declared to be 
the stewards of God, the guardians and instructors of 
his Church. The apostle Peter, in his first epistle ad- 
dressed to the Jewish converts, has these words : “ The 
elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an 
elder, 6 <TujLt7rpsa/3er€pof, and a witness of the sufferings 
of Christ: feed the flock of God which is among you, 
taking the oversight of it, kTnmcoirovvTtg, being bishops 
of it, not by constraint, but w’illinglv” (l Pet. v, 1, 2). 
This passage is a very strong one. The apostle speaks 
of himself in his extraordinary capacity, a witness of 
the sufferings of Christ, and in his ordinary capacity as 
a teacher; showing, by the use of a very significant 
term, that as to it he w'as on a footing of equality with 
the other pastors or presbyters. He gives it in charge 
to them to feed the flock of God; the charge which, 
under most particular and affecting circumstances, he 
had received from the Lord after the Resurrection, and 
which includes in it the performance of everything req- 
uisite for the comfort and the edification of Christians; 
and he accordingly expresses this by the word tTrurKo- 
7rovvTtg, being bishops over them. It cannot, with any 
shadow of reason, be supposed that the apostle would 
exhort the elders, or presbyters, to take to themselves 
the office, and to perform the duties, of a bishop, if that 
term really marked out a distinct and higher order; or 
that he would have considered the presbyters as fitted 
for the discharge of the whole ministerial office, if there 
were parts of that office which he knew that it was not 
lawful for them to exercise. See Elder. 

It seems, by the passages that have been quoted, to 
be placed beyond a doubt, that, in what the apostles said 
respecting the ministers of Christ's religion, they taught 
that the kTimcoTrot and the 7 rpttjfivTtpot w r ere the same 
class of instructors; and that there were, in fact, only 
two orders pointed out by them, bishops or presbyters, 
and deacons. This being the case, even although it 
should appear that there were bishops, in the common 
sense of that term, recognised in the apostolic age, all 
that could be dedneed from the fact would be, that the 
equality at first instituted among the teachers had, for 
prudential reasons, or under peculiar circumstances, been 
interrupted; but it would not follow either that the 
positive and general declarations on the subject by the 


inspired writers were not true, or that it w as incumbent 
at all times, and upon all Christians, to disregard them. 
It has been strenuously contended that there were such 
bishops in the infancy of the Church, and that allusion 
is made to them in Scripture; but, without directly op- 
posing the assertion, this much must be admitted, that 
the proof of it is less clear than that bishops and pres- 
byters were represented as the same in rank and in au- 
thority. Indeed, there does not appear to have been 
any occasion for this higher order. To presbyters was 
actually committed the most important charge of feed- 
ing the Church of God, that is, of promoting the spiritual 
improvement of mankind; and it is remarkable that 
their privilege of separating from the people by ordina- 
tion the ministers of religion is explicitly acknowledged 
in the case of Timothy, whom the apostle admonishes 
not to neglect the gift that was in him, and which had 
been given by prophecy, and by the laying-on of the 
hands of the presbytery; by which can be meant only 
the imposition of tlic hands of those who were denomi- 
nated presbyters or bishops. But although all the parts 
of the ministerial duty had been intrusted to presbyters, 
it is still contended that the New Testament indicates 
the existence of bishops as a higher order. There has, 
however, been much diversity of opinion in relation to 
this point by those who contend for the divine institu- 
tion of Episcopacy (q.v.). Some of them maintain 
that the apostles, while they lived, were the bishops of 
the Christian Church; but this, and upon irrefragable 
grounds, is denied by others. Some urge that Timothy 
and Titus were, in what the}' call the true sense of the 
term, bishops; but man}' deny this, founding their de- 
! nial upon the fact that these evangelists did not reside 
within the bounds, and were not limited to the admin- 
istration, of any one church, but were sent wherever it 
was resolved to bring men to the knowledge of divine 
truth. Many conceive that, the question is settled by 
the epistles in the hook of Revelation being addressed 
to the angels of the respective churches named by the 
apostle. But it is far from being obvious what is im- 
plied under the appellation angel. There has been much 
dispute about this point, and it is certainly a deviation 
from all the usual ruies by which we are guided in in- 
terpreting Scripture to bring an obscure and doubtful 
passage in illustration of one about the import of which, 
if we attend to the language used, there can be no doubt. 

It may, therefore, be safely affirmed that there is 
nothing clear and specific in the writings of the New 
Testament which qualifies the positive declarations that 
bishops and presbyters were the same officers; that the 
ground upon which the distinction between them is 
plaeed is, at least, far from obviously supporting it; and 
that there is not the slightest intimation that the ob- 
servance of such a distinction is at all important, much 
less absolutely essential, to a true Christian Church, in- 
somuch that where it is disregarded the ordinances of 
divine appointment cannot be properly dispensed. If, 
therefore, it be established — and some of the most learn- 
ed and zealous advocates for the hierarchy which after- 
wards arose have been compelled to admit it — that 
Scripture has not recognised any difference of rank or 
order between the ordinary teachers of the Gospel, all 
other means of maintaining this difference should be 
with Protestants of no force. Says Coleman, “ Even 
the most zealous advocates of the episcopal system in 
the Greek, Roman, and English Church are constrained 
to recognise and admit the identity of the terms hriotco- 
7 rog and TTptofii'Ttpog, according to the vsus Ivquendi 
of the ancient Church. They are constrained to admit 
that the distinction between the office of bishop and 
presbyter, which prevailed about the 3d and 4th centu- 
ries, and to a period still later, was unknown in the first 
tw r o centuries.” It may be shown that the admission 
of the distinction is not incompatible with the great 
ends for which a ministry was appointed, and even in 
particular cases may tend to promote them ; but still it 
is merely a matter of human regulation, not binding 


PRES BYTE [i 


512 


PRESBYTER 


apon Christians, and not in any way connected with 
the vital inHueiice of the (lospel dispensation. The 
whole of the writers of antiquity might he urged in sup- 
port of it, if that could be done; and, after all, every 
private Christian would be entitled to judge for himself, 
and to be directed by his own judgment, unless it be 
maintained that where Scripture has atlirnied the ex- 
istence of equality, this is to be counteracted and set at 
naught by the testimonies and assertions of a set of 
writers who, although honored with the name of fa- 
thers, are very far, indeed, from being infallible, and who 
have, in fact, often delivered sentiments which even 
they who, upon a particular emergency, cling to them 
must confess to be directly at variance with all that is 
sound in reason or venerable and sublime in religion. 
It also follows, from the Scriptural identity of bishops 
and presbyters, that no Church in which this identity 
is preserved can on that account be considered as hav- 
ing departed from the apostolic model, or its ministers 
be viewed, at least with any good reason, as having less 
ground to hope for the blessing of Cod upon their spir- 
itual labors; because if we admit the contrary, we must 
also admit that the inspired writers, instead of properly 
regulating the Church, betrayed it into error by omit- 
ting to make a distinction closely allied with the essence 
of religion. What is this but to say that it is safer to 
follow the erring direction of frail mortals than to fol- 
low the admonitions of those who, it is universally al- 
lowed, were inspired by the Holy Spirit, or commis- 
sioned by him to he the instructors of the world? It 
is to he observed, however, that although bishops and 
presbyters were the same when the epistles of the New 
Testament were written, it would be going too far to 
contend that no departure from this should ever take 
place; because, to justify such a position, it would be 
requisite that a positive injunction should have been 
given that equality must at all times be carefully pre- 
served. There is, however, no such injunction. Unlike 
the Old Testament, which specilied everything, even 
the most minute, in relation to the priesthood, the New 
only refers in general terms, and very seldom, to the 
ministry; and the reason probably is, that, being in- 
tended for all nations, it left Christians at liberty to 
make such moililications in the ecclesiastical constitu- 
tion as in their peculiar situation appeared best adapted 
for religious edification. The simple test to be applied 
to the varying or varied forms of Church government 
is that indicated by our Lord himself: “By their fruits 
yc shall know them.” Wherever the regulations re- 
specting the ministry are such as to divert it from the 
purposes for which it was destined, to separate those 
who form it from the (lock of Christ, to relax their dili- 
gence in teaching, and to destroy the connection be- 
tween them and their people, so as to render their ex- 
ertions of little or of no use, there we find a Church not 
apostolical. But wherever (he blessed fruits of Gospel 
teaching arc in abundance produced, where the people 
and the ministers are cordially united, and where every 
regulation is calculated to give efficacy to the labors of 
those who have entered into the vineyard, we have an 
apostolical Church, or, to speak more properly, a Church 
of Christ built upon a rock, because devoted to the be- 
neficent objects for which our Saviour came into the 
world (Watson, Theol. Did. s. v. Presbyterians), 

Sch a If, in his Hist, of the Christum Church (i, 41# sq.), 
adduces, in favor of the view which denies the apostolic 
origin of the episcopate as a separate office or order, the 
following facts: “ 1. The undeniable identity of presby- 
ters and bishops in the New Testament, conceded even 
by the best interpreters among the Chureli fathers, hv 
Jerome, Chrysostom, and Theodoret. 2. Later, in the 
2d century, the two terms are still used in like manner for 
the same office, 'flic Human bishop Clement, in his lirst 
epistle to the Corinthians, says that the apostles, in the 
newly founded churches, appointed the lirst-fruits of the 
faith, i.e. the first converts. t7n<TKo7roi>c uai ookto-oi'C- 
lie here omits the Trptafivrfpoi, as Paul docs in Phil, i, 


1, for the simple reason that they are in his view iden- 
tical with i7r«7k'07rot ; while, conversely, in eh. lvii, he 
enjoins subjection to presbyters, without mentioning 
bishops. Clement of Alexandria distinguishes, it is 
true, the deaeonate, the presbyterate, and the episco- 
pate; but he supposes only a twofold official character, 
that of presbyters and that of deacons^a view which 
found advocates so late as the Middle Ages, even in 
pope Urban II, A.D. 1001. Lastly, Irenanis, towards the 
close of the 2d century, though himself a bishop, makes 
only a relative difference between cpiscopi ami presby- 
teri: speaks of successions of the one in the same sense 
as of the other; terms the office of the latter episcopa- 
tus ; and calls the bishops of Home 7rpuTilv-ipot. Some- 
times, it is true, he appears to use the term TrpftrA/'Tfpoi, 
in a more general sense, for the old men, the fathers. 
But, in any case, his language shows that the distinction 
between the two offices was at that time still relative 
and indefinite. 3. The express testimony of the learned 
Jerome is that the churches originally, before divisions 
arose through the instigation of Satan, were governed 
by the common council of t lie presbyters, and not till a 
later period was one of the presbyters placed at tho head 
to watch over the Church and suppress schisms. lie 
traces the difference of the office simply to ecclesiastical 
custom as distinct from divine institution. 4. The cus- 
tom of the Church of Alexandria was, from the evangel- 
ist Mark down to the middle of the 3d century, that the 
twelve presbyters elected one of their number president 
and called him bishop. This fact rests on the authority 
of Jerome, and is confirmed independently by the .ln- 
nuls of the Alexandrian patriarch Eutvchiiis of the 1 0th 
century.” 

Killen, in his Ancient Church , asserts: “Though the 
senior presbyter presided in the meetings of his breth- 
ren, and was soon known by the name of bishop, it does 
not appear that he originally possessed any superior 
authority, lie held his place for life; but as he was 
sinking under the weight of years when lie succeeded 
to it, he could not venture to anticipate an extended 
career of official distinction. In all matters relating 
either to discipline or the general interests of the broth- 
erhood, he was expected to carry out the decisions of 
the eldership; so that, under his presidential rule, the 
Church was still substantially governed by ‘the com- 
mon council of the presbyters.’ The allegation that 
presbyterial government existed in all its integrity to- 
wards the end of (he 2d century does not rest on the 
foundation of obscure intimations or doubtful inferences. 
It can he established hv direct and conclusive testimo- 
ny. Evidence has already been adduced to show that 
the senior presbyter of Smyrna continued to preside 
until the days of Iremeus, ami there is also documentary 
proof that meanwhile he possessed no autocratical au- 
thority. The supreme power was still vested in the 
council of the elders. This point is attested by Ilip- 
polytus, who was now just entering on his ecclesiastical 
career, and who, in one of his works, a fragment of 
which has been preserved, describes the manner in 
which the rulers of the Church dealt with the heretic 
Noetus. The transaction probably occurred about A.I). 
11)0.” It shows that the presbyters then exercised epis- 
copal functions, even to excommunication. 

Says I)r. Blakie ( The Presbyterian Churches through- 
out the World [ Kdinb. 1877], p. I): “It is admitted even 
hv many Episcopalians that, so far as Scripture indicates, 

I the primitive Church constituted under the apostles was 
governed by elders. The office of apostle was tempo- 
rary, and some other temporary arrangements were re- 
sorted to in the peculiar circumstances of the Church. 
But everywhere in settled churches there was a body 
of presbyters or elders; the terms presbyter and bishop 
were applied freely to the same individuals; ai.d when 
the presbyters More addressed together, as those of 
Ephesus M-ere addressed at Miletus, there u-as no hint 
of one of them having authority over the rest ; they 
M'crc called equally to feed ami care for the Church 


PRESBYTER 5] 

over which the Holy Ghost had made them over- 
seers.” 

The offices of presbyter and bishop, according to the 
Roman Catholic theory, belong both, though in differ- 
ent degrees, to what Roman Catholics regard as the 
priesthood of the New Law. They teacli that the pres- 
byter is, in the sacerdotal order, an intermediate degree 
between the deacon and the highest functionary of the 
hierarchy, the episcopos. They also maintain stoutly 
that Scripture and tradition attest alike the divine in- 
stitution of the presbvteriate. “Besides the apostles, 
the Lord marked out of the troop of his followers seven- 
ty (according to the Yulg. seventy-two;, whom he sent 
out before him, two by two, into the cities and towns he 
intended to visit, with the mission of healing the sick 
and proclaiming the kingdom of God. These seventy 
men were, in consequence, the assistants of the apostles, 
but subordinated to them. Soon their number proved 
insufficient, and the apostles established in every city of 
some importance, at the foundation of the community, 
or when it had reached a certain degree of development, 
besides the bishop, whom they intended for their per- 
manent representative and successor, a number of pres- 
byters, w ho assisted the bishop in his functions.” The 
Roman Catholic Church, as she considers the bishops 
the successors of the apostles, so she holds the presby- 
ters to be the successors of the seventy assistants chosen 
by Christ himself. Inasmuch as they are entitled to 
perform the highest function of the priesthood, the ad- 
ministration of the Eucharist, they are called also sacer- 
dos (itpeug) ; yet this denomination, if not specified, ap- 
plies only to the bishop : therefore we find frequently 
the summits sacerdos, or sneerdos primi ordirtis . i. e. the 
bishop, thus distinguished from the simple priest, who 
is sacerdos secundi ordinis. The presbyters of an epis- 
copal church had a share in the government, not indi- 
vidually, but as a college, presided over by the bishop; 
they had no jurisdiction of their own, and were merely 
assistants to the bishop. The bishop took their advice 
on the admission of higher clerical functionaries, on the 
management of discipline, especially of penitence, etc. 
They were themselves amenable to the spiritual juris- 
diction of the bishop, and depended on him in the dis- 
charge of their duties as teachers and as priests. Ac- 
cording to Roman Catholics, the bishop alone possesses 
the priesthood in its fulness, while the presbyter pos- 
sesses it only in part. The functions, however, which 
belong to that part are discharged alike b} r the bishop 
and the presbyter. What those functions are will be 
detailed under the head Priest (q. v.). It is, of course, 
an easy matter for the prelatical churchmen to prove 
that by the end of the 2d century the bishop was above 
the presbyter. Even before the end of the 2d century 
the Church had departed from her early simplicity, and 
soon the episcopacy became the only prevalent govern- 
ment of the Church, although in some cases, as among 
the Culdecs or the Waldenses, government by presby- 
ters continued to prevail during the Middle Ages. The 
Church fathers of the 3d and 4th centuries point to the 
superiority of the episcopos. Thus Clement of Rome 
points out clearly three different hierarchical degrees — 
bishops, priests, and deacons; and Ignatius of Antioch 
lays particidar stress on the superior power of the bish- 
ops ( Epist . ad M agues, e. 6 ; Smyrn. c, 8, etc.). Affir- 
mations of the same kind are given by Tertullian, Ire- 
nseus, Clement of Alexandria, Origen, Cyprian, etc. “ It 
is true,” say the Romanists, “that the bishops, in the 
fathers as well as in Scripture, are sometimes called 
merely priests, but there is not one passage in which a 
simple priest is called bishop.” Those who accept the 
authority of St. Jerome for the equality of the bishop 
and presbyter because he says ( Comment . on the Epistle 
to Titus'), “ Noverint episcopi, se magis consuetudine 
quam dispositione Dominica presbyteris esse majores, 
et in commune debere ecclesiam regere, imitantes Mov- 
sen, qui cum haberet solus prieesse populo Israel, septua- 
ginta elegit, cum quibus populum judicaret,” are replied 
VIII.— K k 


3 PRESBYTER1AL CONSECRATION 

to by Romapists that (1) “even this parallel between 
Moses and his seventy, and the bishop and his presby- 
ters, implies the pre-eminence of the bishop,” and (2) 
that, “in the passage in question, St. Jerome is up- 
braiding a number of deacons who, in several places, 
and especially at Rome, had committed several en- 
croachments on the rights of the presbyters in the ad- 
ministration of the ecclesiastical possessions, lie, on 
this occasion, exalts the presbyters as much as he can, 
and in such cases where an abuse is to be eradicated, it 
frequently happens to this father to fall into the oppo- 
site extreme, as he does in his treatise De Yirginitate 
adi\ Juvimanum, in which, as an encomiast of virginity, 
he deems fit to treat matrimony with the most cruel 
contempt. He shows in other places his sense of the 
superiority of the episcopate: ‘Quod Aaron et filii ejus 
atque Levine in templo, hoc sibi episcopi et presbyteri 
et diaconi vindicant.’ The bishops have the same au- 
thority over priests and deacons that Aaron had over 
his sons and Levites. He speaks still more pointedly 
in his work against the Luciferians: ‘Ecclesia? salus in 
sunmii sacerdotis (i. e. episcopi) dignitate pendet, eui si 
non exsors qiuedam et ab omnibus eminens detur potes- 
tas, tot in ecclesiis efficientur schismata, qnot sacer- 
dotes.’ But even if Jerome’s opinion wore contrary to 
the episcopal supremacy, what could it avail against the 
uninterrupted and unanimous tradition of so many fa- 
thers and ecclesiastical writers of the early centuries V If 
really the episcopate had not been originally distinct 
from the presbvteriate, we should then have to under- 
stand that a sudden and uniform change in the consti- 
tution of the Church took place in the whole extent of 
its expansion— that in all the communities, and at the 
same time, some ambitious and proud individualities sot 
themselves above their colleagues.” “ But how.” ask 
Romanists, “could this have come to pass without a 
long and desperate struggle; and how Could this strug- 
gle, if it did take place, end so uniformly, in all the 
churches without exception, with the victory of the 
usurpers? History does not mention the least fact that 
anything of that kind ever took place. When several 
presbyters were attached to a single church, of which 
there were some instances, one of the i. umber received 
the title of proto-presbyter , or archi-presbyter ; but it is 
quite certain that this office bore no analogy to that of 
the bishop.” To these arguments of Roman Catholics 
it is readily replied that the New Testament (as above 
seen) does explicitly refer to the original equality of 
presbyters and bishops, and that history contains not a 
few nor obscure indications of the usurpation of exclu- 
sive prerogatives by the latter. See, for Roman Cath- 
( olic views, Wetzer ti. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon ; for High- 
Church Anglican views, Blunt, Diet. Hist. Theol. ; for 
Low-Church views, Herzog, Ileal- Ency Mop., the author- 
ities already quoted, and the Lond. Quar. Ilev. Jan. 
1878, art. v; Princeton Rev. Jan. 1878, art. iv. See 
Prelacy. 

Fresbyterial Consecration, in the Roman 
Catholic Church, comprises the ceremonies and relig- 
ious acts by which a deacon is invested with the pres- 
byterial power — the power over the true and the sym- 
bolic body of Christ. The exterior apparatus of the 
ceremony consists in the oil of the catechumens, a chal- 
ice with wine and water, a paten with a host, some 
crumbs of bread, a vessel for the washing of the hands, 
some linen towels. The eeremony performed is as fol- 
lows: The bishop, after consecrating the deacons, reads 
the Tractus (and the Sequence.) to the last verse, exclu- 
sively. Then he advances with the infula to the mid- 
dle of the altar, where he sits down on the faldistorium 
(chair). At this moment the archdeacon calls all to be 
ordained priests with the words, “Accedant qui ordi- 
nandi sunt ad ordinem presbyteratus.” The notary reads 
their names ; they proceed, each with taper in hand, 
to form a half- circle (in moditm coronev ) in front of the 
bishop, to whom they are introduced by the archdeacon 
with the words, “Reverend father, the holy Catholic 


PKESBYTERIAL CONSECRATION 514 PRESBYTERIAL CONSECRATION 


Church requires that you consecrate the deacons here 
present for t he burdensome office of priesthood.” Where- 
upon the bishop asks, “Doest thou know that they are 
deserving of it?” The archdeacon answers, “ So far as 
human weakness allows me a knowledge of it, I know 
and declare that they are worthy to take upon them 
the burden of that office.” The bishop says, “ Clod be 
thanked 1” and turns to the clergy and people with these 
words: “lieloted brethren! as the pilot of a ship and 
those who travel on it share together both security and 
danger, they must in matters concerning their common 
interest share the same convictions. Not without good 
reason, the fathers have directed that the people also 
should be consulted on the choice of those who arc to 
be admitted to the service of the altar; for sometimes a 
few can give information about the way of life and hab- 
its of those who present themselves for consecration not 
known to the masses, etc. If, therefore, any one have 
objections of importance, let him step out before (lod, 
and for Clod’s sake speak fearlessly ; vet let him not for- 
get that he is only a man (that lie may err).” After a 
short, expectant pause, the people assenting by their 
silence, the bishop turns to the candidates and addresses 
them thus: “Conseerandi, filii dilectissimi, in presbv- 
tcratus oflicium, illud digue suscipere, ac snseeptum 
lautabiliter exequi studeatis,” etc. In the course of this 
allocution, mention is made of the high purpose of the 
New-Testament priesthood, and after a comparison with 
the priesthood of the Old Covenant, follow these words : 
“lliic certe mira varietate ecclesia sancta circnmdatnr, 
ornatnret regitur: cum alii in ea pontifices, alii mino- 
ris ordinis sacerdotos, diaconi ct snbdiaconi, diversornm 
ordinum viri consecrantnr, et ex multis et alterme dig- 
nitatis membris unum eorpns officitur.” If no deacons 
or subdeacons have been consecrated, the Litany of All- 
Saints is recited, while the ordinands are on their knees. 
Hereupon they step, in pairs, into the presence of the 
bishop, who, standing erect (with the infula), lays both 
his hands on the head of each of them, without speak- 
ing or singing. The same is done by all the priests 
present, dressed in the stola,and of whom there must be 
at least three. Then the priests and the bishop hold 
their right hands extended over the ordinands, and the 
bishop, standing with the infula, thus addresses the 
clergy: “Beloved brethren! let us implore (lod Al- 
mighty that he may pour over these, his servants, 
whom he has chosen for the olfice of priesthood, heav- 
enly gifts in abundance, so that, with his help, they 
may be able to perform the duties which they have been 
deemed worthy of assuming. Amen.” The bishop lays 
down the infula, turns towards the altar, and says, 
Oremus.” The ministri add, “ Klcctamus genua.” The 
responsorium is “ Levate !" Then he turns to the ordi- 
nands, saying, “Exaudi nos, quiesumus, Domino l)eus 
nostcr.” After the conclusion — “in imitate ejusdem 
spiritns sancti Dens” he extends his hands, saying, 
“ Per omnia siecula,” etc. Now follow long prayers, af- 
ter which the bishop sits down with the mitre, seizes 
that part of the stola which hangs backwards from the 
left shoulder of the ordinaml, lays it over his right 
shoulder, and puts both parts crosswise over each other 
on the chest, saving, “Take the yoke of the Lord upon 
thee; for his yoke is easy and his burden is light.” 
Hereupon the bishop dresses each of them in the missal 
garment, which hangs loose in front, but is rolled or 
pinned up behind, saying, “Take the priestly garment, 
which means love ; Ibr ( lod is mighty to increase love in 
thee and make thy work perfect.” 1 {espouse, “Thanks 
to (lod.” Now the bishop rises, lays down the infula, 
and prays, while all kneel, “Dens sanctiticatiomim om- 
nium auctor,” etc. After this the bishop kneels, facing 
the altar, and begins the hymn, “Vein Creator Spi- 
ritus,” etc., which the choir sings. As soon as the 
first verse is sung the bishop rises, sits down on the 
chair, with the infula on his head, pulls oil’ his gloves, 
puts on his ring, takes a white linen towel on his 
knees, and anoints the hands of each of the ordinands 


kneeling before him with the oil of the catechumens, 
passing with his thumb dipped into the holy oil cross- 
wise from the thumb of one hand to the index of the 
other, with this prayer: “Consecrate and sanctify, O 
Lord, these hands by this anointment and our bless- 
ing.” Then, with his right hand, he makes the sign of 
, the cross over the hands of the candidate whom he con- 
secrates, and continues: “ In order that everything that 
they bless may be blessed, anil what they consecrate may 
be consecrated and sanctified, in the name of our Lord 
Jesus Christ.” Each of the ordinands says “Amen.” 
(Prom this anointment the thumbs and forefingers of a 
priest are called the canonic fingers; and as this anoint- 
ment is performed on the inner side of the hand, the 
priests to whom the last sacraments are administered 
are anointed on the outside of the hand.) Then the 
bishop joins the hands of each of them, and one of the 
ministrants ties them together with a piece of linen. 
When all hands are anointed, the bishop wipes his 
thumb with crumbs of bread; then he presents to each 
of them a chalice with wine and water, with the paten 
j placed over it, anil containing a host. The ordinands 
' touch the top of the chalice and the paten with the in- 
dex and middle linger, and the bishop says to each in 
particular, “ lleceive the power of offering God the sac- 
rifice, and to say mass for the living as well as for the 
dead, in the name of the Lord.” lJesponse: “Amen.” 
Now the bishop washes his hands, returns to his chair, 
and reads the last verse of the Tractns, anil then the 
Gospel. Meanwhile one of the newly consecrated dea- 
cons steps in front of the altar with the book of the 
Gospels, prays the “Munila cor meum,” and reads the 
Gospel, after receiving the benediction thereto. The 
newly consecrated priests wipe their hands with bread- 
crumbs, wash them, and dry them with the linen with 
which they were bound. The water used for washing is 
poured into the piscina. As all consecrated receive the 
Eucharist at the hands of the bishop, there must be as 
many hosts prepared as there are candidates for ordina- 
tion. After the reading of the offertorinm (short, prayer 
preceding the sacrifice of the bread and wine), all those 
who have been consecrated — first the priests, then the 
deacons, then the others according to their rank— step 
in pairs into the presence of the bishop, who sits on his 
chair with the infula on his head, kneel down, kiss his 
hand, and present a burning taper as an offering. The 
bishop, after receiving the offerings, washes his hands, 
lays down the infula, rises, and, the chair being re- 
moved, continues the ceremony of the mass. The con- 
secrated priests kneel down behind the bishop on the 
prie-dieus prepared for them, each his mass-book open 
before him; they say with the bishop the prayers ac- 
companying the offering of the bread and the wine, and 
the whole mass. The bishop speaks slowly and some- 
what loud, so that the consecrated priests can at the 
same time pronounce the same words, especially the 
words of consecration. The “secreta” (silent prayer) 
for the consecrated ones is pronounced with the scereta 
of the mass of the day under one formula of conclusion : 
“ l‘cr 1 himimim nostrum,” etc. The seen (a pro ordinan- 
dis is, “We ask thee, <) Lord! let thy holy mysteries 
effect that we offer thee these offerings with a worthy 
disposition, through onr Lord Jesus Christ, thy Son,” 
etc. After the paternoster and the prayer “Domine 
Jesu ( 'hristc, qni,” etc., which follows the “Agnus Dei,” 
the bishop kisses the altar; and after the first of the 
newly consecrated has done the same, he kisses him at 
each step, with the words “ Peace he with you.” The 
new priest answers, “And with vonr mind.” Each of 
the consecrated ones gives the kiss of peace to the other 
person ordained to the same rank and standing next. 
After the communion of the bishop, the deacons and 
snhileacons (if there are any) pray “ Conti teor” in a sub- 
dued voice, the bishop, facing them, pronouncing the 
“ M isereat ur vestri" and “ Iniliilgcntiain.” 1 ( priests only 
have been ordained, they do not receive absolution, as 
they perform the sacrifice together with the bishop. All 


PRESBYTERIAL CONSECRATION 515 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


proceed, two by two, to the highest step of the altar, 
and receive the sacrament in the form of the bread. 
The bishop says, “The body of our Lord Jesus Christ 
preserve you for eternal life.” Each answers “Amen.” 
When alf have partaken of the communion, the bishop 
removes the paten from his chalice, moistens his fingers, 
takes the ablution, puts on the infula, and washes his 
hands. Then he lays down the infula again, and, stand- 
ing at the epistle side of the altar, sings the responso- 
riuni, “ Henceforward I shall no more call you my ser- 
vants, but my friends, because you have known every- 
thing which I have done among you. Alleluia,” etc. 
Then the bishop, with the infula, turns to the newly 
consecrated priests, who recite the credo. This done, 
the bishop sits down on his chair in the middle of the 
altar, and puts both hands on the head of each of them, 
who kneel before him, saying, “Take the Holy Spirit; 
they whom thou shalt forgive their sins, they shall be 
forgiven ; and they,” etc. Then he pulls down the mis- 
sal garment, saying, “In the garment of innocence the 
Lord dresses thee.” Then each of the young priests ap- 
proaches again, kneels before the bishop, puts his folded 
hands into the bishop's hands; and he, if he is the dioce- 
san bishop, says to each, “ Doest thou promise to me and 
rnv successors reverence and obedience?” Answer: “ I 
promise.” If the newly consecrated belongs to another 
diocese, the bishop says, “Docst thou promise to thy 
bishop,” etc. After the answer “ I promise,” the bishop 
kisses each of them, holding still his hands in his, and 
says, “ The peace of the Lord be with thee always.” 
Now the bishop takes his cross and gives, sitting, the 
following admonition to the new priests: “Quia res 
quam traetaturi estis satis periculosa est,” etc. Finally 
he pronounces, standing, the triple benediction over the 
kneeling priests: “The blessing of the Father, and the 
Son, and the Holy Ghost come upon you, that you may 
be blessed in }’our priesthood, - and olfer expiatory sac- 
rifices for the sins and transgressions of the people of 
God, to whom glory and praise be given in all eternity. 
Amen.” The bishop continues the mass, and connects 
with the last missal prayer the prayer for the conse- 
crated ones : “ Qnos tuis, Domine, reficis sacramentis,” 
etc., under one formula of conclusion. Then follows the 
“ Ite, missa est” or the “ Benedicamus Domino,” as the 
time may require. This is followed by the “ Placeat 
tibi sancta Trinitas;” and the bishop, the infula on his 
head and the cross in his hand, pronounces the benedic- 
tion in the usual manner: “The name of the Lord be 
blessed,” etc. Response : “ Now and in all eternity.” 
“ Our help comes in the name of the Lord.” Response : 
“ Who hath created heaven and earth.” “ The bless- 
ing of the Almighty God, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost 
descend upon you and remain with you. Amen.” 
Then the bishop holds a parting address to the newly 
consecrated: “Beloved sons, consider earnestly what 
consecration you have received and what burden has 
been put on your shoulders. Let it be your foremost 
endeavor to lead a holy, godly life, and to please God 
Almighty,” etc. Finally the archdeacon turns to the 
clergy and people and announces an indulgence. Here- 
upon the bishop reads the last Gospel, returns to his seat, 
and lays doivn the pontifical robes. The consecrated 
priests repair to the vergery and put down the missal 
garments. It must not be overlooked that the or- 
dained priests, after the offertorium, from the sacrificial 
act, “ Suscipe, sancte Pater,” say all the missal prayers 
with the bishop — concelebrate with him. This concel- 
ebration is in use also in the Greek Church. It is diffi- 
cult to ascertain the age of this custom. It seems to 
have been adopted at different times in different places. 
The Synod of Carthage, in 398, in the accurate descrip- 
tion it gives of the consecration, does not mention the 
anointment, neither does Isidore of Spain ; but the rite 
was known to Theodulph of Orleans and Amalarius of 
Treves. The rite of the consecration differs consider- 
ably in the Eastern Church from the account given 
above; but the imposition of the hands is also the es- 


sential part of it. According to Goar’s description, the 
principal parts of the Greek rite are the following: 
Two deacons lead the ordinand to the church-door; 
here they leave him ; he is received by two priests, who 
walk thrice with him around the communion-table, 
singing, “Sancti martyres pra?clare pricliati.” Passing 
before the bishop, they bow, and the ordinand kisses his 
knee. The bishop rises, the ordinand approaches, and 
the bishop makes three times the sign of the cross over 
the candidate’s head. The deacon exclaims, “ Attenda- 
mus 1” and the bishop lays his right hand on the candi- 
date’s head, saying, “Divina gratia, quse semper infir- 
ma curat, et ea qua? desunt adimplet, promovet N. de- 
votissimum diaconum in presbyterum : oremns pro eo, 
ut veniat super enm sanctissimi Spiritus gratia.” The 
people present say thrice, “Domine, miserere.” The 
bishop makes again the sign of the cross and puts his 
right hand on the candidate, saying, in an undertone, 
while the deacon exclaims “Dominnm precemur,” the 
prayer, “ Deus prineipio et fine carens, omni creatura 
antiqnior . . . ipse omnium Domine, istnm quem tibi 
a me promoveri complacuit,in conversatione inculpata, 
et fide indeficiente ingentem etiam hanc gratiam Sancti 
tui Spiritus recipere complacent,” etc. Again the bish- 
op implores the gift of the Holy Ghost for the newly 
consecrated, extending his hand over him, v r ith the 
words, “Deus in virtute magnus, intellectu investiga- 
bilis . . . ipse Domine, etiam et istnm, quem tibi pres- 
bvteri gradum subirc complacuit, dono sancto tni Spiri- 
tus adimple, ut inculpate sancto tuo altari assistere dig- 
nus fiat,” etc. This short extract shows that the Greek 
rite resembles greatly the Latin ceremony, and differs 
from it specially in this, that it prescribes only the im- 
position of one hand. The traditio instrumentorum is 
not part of the Greek rite. — Wetzer n. Welte, Kirchen - 
Lexikon , s. v. Presbvteriatsweihe. See Foye, Romish 
Rites (Lond. 1851). 

Presbyterian Churches. The different bodies 
into which the Presbyterians are divided will here be 
treated as nearly in the historical relation which they 
sustain toivards each other as it is possible to place 
them. We begin w r ith the Presbyterians of Scotland, 
because they are, among all English-speaking nations, 
the only ones directly allied with the state by establish- 
ment, and because it is from Scotland that English and 
American Presbyterianism has obtained nourishment 
and succor, rather than from the Continent, however 
true it be that Presbyterianism had there its origin. See 

Pit ESBYTERI AX ISM ; PRESBYTERIANS. 

1. Presbyterian Church in Scotland. — A histo- 
ry of the Presbyterian Church in Scotland would be, in 
effect, a history of that country; for since its establish- 
ment by the Reformation its political and religious his- 
tory have flowed on in one and the same channel. Chris- 
tianity was planted in Scotland about the beginning of 
the 3d century ; and it is claimed that the early churches, 
particularly those of the ancient Culdees, were non-prela- 
tical. Under the vigorous missions of Palladius and Au- 
gustine they were, however, reduced to conformity with 
the rule of Rome, and so remained until the period of 
the Reformation. At that time the. corruption of the 
hierarchy, its encroachments on the civil power, and its 
greedy appropriation of the right of patronage to ben- 
efices, had created a wide-spread dissatisfaction, and 
prepared the way for the favorable reception of the 
principles of the Reformation. For twenty years per- 
secution followed, and many were burned at the stake, 
among whom were Patrick Hamilton and George Wis- 
hart. The first general and public movement leading 
to the organization of the Presbyterian Church of Scot- 
land was the drawing-up of a common bond or covenant, 
known as “ The First Covenant,” and subscribed at Ed- 
inburgh, Dec. 3, 1557, by several of the most powerful 
of the Scotch nobility and a large number of lesser 
barons and influential country gentlemen, known sub- 
sequently (on account of their frequent use of the word 
congregation to designate those for whom they pro- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 516 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


fessed to act) as lords of the congregation. The signing 
of the covenant was followed by a proclamation from 
the queen regent forbidding any one to preach or ad- 
minister the sacrament without the authority of the 
bishop. At length, however, the party of the Reform- 
ers triumphed, and in the year 1560 (Aug. 17-24) the 
Parliament abolished the Roman Catholic worship, 
adopted a confession of faith agreeing with the confes- 
sions of the Reformed churches on the Continent, ap- 
pointed ministers of the Protestant religion in eight 
principal towns, and assigned the remaining portions of 
the country to live other ministers as superintendents, 
who were to take temporary charge of the interests of 
religion in their several districts. 

On Dec. 20, 1500, the first General Assembly of the 
Church of Scotland was constituted in Edinburgh, con- 
sisting of six ministers and thirty-four laymen. Up 
to this period, the Scottish Reformers had followed, as 
their rule of worship and doctrine, the Book of Common 
Order used by the English Church at ( Jeneva. In April, 
1500, however, the Privy Council appointed a committee 
of live persons, including Knox, “to commit to writing 
their judgments touching the reformation of religion.” 
This First Book of Discipline, set ting forth a polity adapt- 
ed to the existing condition of affairs, though adopted 
by the Church, was rejected by the nobles, who wished 
to appropriate to themselves the patrimony of the old 
Church. In 1581 the Second Book of Discipline , drawing 
its system directly from the Scriptures, was adopted by the 
Assembly, and tiiis — confirmed in 1592 by King James, 
along with the Westminster documents — is still in force. 
Nothing but the undaunted perseverance of those two 
eminent men, John Knox and Andrew Melville, suc- 
ceeded at last in procuring the complete recognition of 
the Calvinistic faith and the Presbyterian form of gov- 
ernment as the established religion of Scotland, which 
was finally and formally effected by act of Parliament 
and with the consent of king James (I of England and 
AT of Scotland) in the year 1592. 

The duplicity of the king, however, soon became ap- 
parent, for within a few years he intrigued to bring 
about the establishment of Episcopacy, and to assimi- 
late the two national churches of Scotland and England. 
In this he was followed by his successors, Charles I, 
Charles II, and James II. The resistance of the peo- 
ple, the bloody persecutions that ensued, the civil tur- 
moil, and the subsequent downfall of the Stuart dy- 
nasty, are matters of history. From 1GG0 to 1G88, the 
Church was in the wilderness, scourged by such men as 
Claverhouse (q.v.) and Dalziel (q.v.), but leaving the 
record of many noble martyrdoms — as given in the 
story of the Scots Worthies and the Cloud of Witnesses. 
See Covenant and Solemn League. Under William 
and Alary, Presbyterianism again became ascendant. In 
1G90 an “Act of Settlement” was passed, prelacy was 
abolished, and the AVestmmstcr Confession recognised 
as the creed of the Church. But the settlement of the 
Church on this basis was objected to by a small body 
of earnest men, the “ Reformed Presbyterians,” who had 
already distinguished themselves in zeal for the ••Cov- 
enants” as securities alike for the freedom of the Church 
and the Christianity of the State, and who now felt un- 
able either to enter into the Church or to give their 
nnqualilied adherence to the constitution of t lie State. 
Alany of the more earnest descendants of the Corenant- 
ers (q.v.) protested against the reception of such men 
into the Church, and, finding their protest in vain, with- 
drew, and organized the Deformed Presbyterian Church. 
(See below.) Though this secession took place in 1081, 
the churches were not finally organized into a presby- 
tery till 1743. Upon the union of the two kingdoms in 
1707, Presbyterianism obtained every guarantee that 
could be desired. Since that time it has continued to 
be the established religion of Scotland, as much as Epis- 
copacy is that of England. 

The only confession of faith legally established be- 
fore the Revolution of 1688 was that which is published 


‘ in the History of the Reformation in Scotland, attrib- 
uted to John Knox. It consists of twenty-five articles, 
and was the confession of the Episcopal as well as of 
the Presbyterian Church. The Parliament, however, 
during the Commonwealth, adopted the Westminstt r 
Confession. At the Revolution this confession was de- 
clared to be the standard of the national faith; and it 
was ordained by the same acts of Parliament which set- 
tled Presbyterian Church government in Scotland, “that 
no person be admitted or continued hereafter to be a 
minister or preacher within this Church unless lie sub- 
scribe the [that is, this] confession of faith, declaring 
the same to be the confession of his faith.” By the act 
of union in 1707 the same is required of all professors, 
principals, regents, masters, and others bearing office. 

The Westminster Confession of Faith, then, and what 
are called the Larger and Shorter Catechisms, contain 
the publicly recognised doctrines of this Church; and it 
is well known that these formularies are an embodiment 
of the Calvinistic faith. No liturgy or public form of 
prayer is used in the Church of Scotland, the minister’s 
only guide being the Directqry for the Public Worship 
of God. The administration of the Lord's Supper, as a 
general thing observed four times a year, is conducted 
with simple forms, but is accompanied, usually preceded 
and followed, by special religious services, consisting of 
prayers and exhortations. A metrical version of the 
Psalms on the basis of that of Rous (died 1G59) is used, and 
supplementary hymns have recently been introduced. 

The provision which has been made by the law of 
Scotland for the support of the clergy of the Estab- 
! lisbed Church consists of a stipend, a small glebe of 
1 land, and a manse (parsonage house) and ofliee houses. 
By an act of Parliament passed in 1810, £10,000 per 
annum were granted for augmenting the smaller parish 
stipends in Scotland. By this act the lowest stipend 
assigned to a minister of the establishment is £T50 
sterling, with a small sum, generally £8 6s. 8 (/., for 
communion elements. Patronage, in part abrogated at 
tbe Revolution, was restored in 1712 by act of Parlia- 
ment. Scottish independence rebelled at this, the peo- 
ple claiming the right to elect their own clergy, or at 
least to exercise a veto over the appointment of an un- 
satisfactory one; and the controversy which ensued led 
to secession, which was ushered in first by indifference, 
and was helped on by the renewal of the old interest. 
From that time a worldly spirit crept into the Church ; 
men of talents, but lax in principle, obtained possession 
of influential positions; the leaven of modcratism — ridi- 
culed in Dr. Witherspoon’s Characteristics — set exten- 
sively to work ; and in the course of time Arminian, 
Pelagian, and even Kocinian tenets were propagated, 
with little attempt at concealment. The restilt was the 
secession of several important bodies from the Church. 
The first who formally withdrew were the Covenant- 
ers, or Cameronians, who objected to the interference of 
the state authorities in Church affairs, and to the Eras- 
tian principle involved in the existing establishment, as 
inconsistent with the covenant to which the Church 
had sworn. See Cameronians. A few faithful men, 
led by Ebenezer Erskine, endeavored to breast the tide; 
but, being deposed by the commission of the Assembly, 
who were Aloderates, they seceded in 1733, and formed 
themselves into a distinct body, called the Associated 
Presbytery, more commonly known ns Seceders. They 
became known as the Secession t'hnrch. This seces- 
sion proved a severe blow, and shook the establish- 
ment to its foundations. Another secession arose in 
1760, and from it was formed the Presbyterians if Re- 
lief better known as “The Relief Synod.” These 
bodies have since been united, and constitute the United 
Presbyterian Church of Scotland. Those who remained 
in the Established Church were divided in opinion 
on the subject of lay patronage. The sentiment against 
it continued to grow because of tbe indifference of the 
! clergy. For a while modcratism held the upper hand, 
but its reign was dreary. Under the dominant influ- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 517 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


enee of principal Robertson, whose studies were more 
devoted to elegant literature than to the Holy Script- 
ures, the preaching of the Gospel was superseded by 
moral essays, and Dr. Blair’s cold and polished sermons 
were regarded as models of the highest excellence. 
This state of things continued till near the close of the 
18th century, when Christians in Scotland began to 
share in that general reviving of evangelical principles 
which then pervaded Great Britain. A positive reac- 
tion set in, and gradually new life began to animate the 
frozen limbs of the Established Church. The evan- 
gelical party took heart, and constantly increased in 
strength. Dr. Andrew Thomson, Dr. Chalmers, and 
others came upon the stage of action, and under their 
vigorous lead a new sera was inaugurated. The Assem- 
bly entered with zeal into the subject of foreign mis- 
sions, while it multiplied churches to supply the need 
at home. The burden of patronage was felt to be a 
great hindrance to the progress of vital piety and active 
effort, and the autonomy or independent jurisdiction of 
the Church became a topic of earnest debate. 

In 1834 the General Assembly passed the celebrated 
“Veto Act," giving to the Church courts the power of re- 
jecting a presentee if judged by them unfit. This act 
was set aside by the civil court, and subsequently, on 
appeal, bv the House of Lords, in the Aucliterarder 
case, in 1839. The Assembly yielded so far as the tem- 
poralities were concerned, but at the same time une- 
quivocally maintained the principle of non-intrusion as 
one that could not be given up consistently with the 
doctrine of the headship and sovereignty of Christ. 
The Strathbogie case next occurred, bringing the civil 
and ecclesiastical courts into direct collision, which 
ended at last in the Disruption of 1843, under the lead 
of Chalmers, Cunningham, Welsh, Candlish, and Dun- 
lop; 470 members signed an “Act of Separation and 
Deed of Demission,” and the Free Church of ‘ Scotland 
was organized. Soon after the separation of 1843 an 
act of Parliament was passed, called “Lord Aberdeen’s 
Act,” to define the rights of congregations and presby- 
teries in the calling and settlement of ministers. But 
in 1874 this was suspended by another act, whereby 
patronage was abolished, and the right of electing min- 
isters was vested in the people. Government still re- 
serves, however, the appointment of theological pro- 
fessors. The Free Church carried off’ about one half the 
communicants of the Established Church, and became 
a rival communion in most of the parishes of Scotland. 
The three denominations — the Established Presbyterian 
Church, the United Presbyterian Church, and the Free 
Church (in which the Reformed Presbyterian Church 
merged in 1876) — constitute the chief Presbyterian 
churches of Scotland at the present time. See Scot- 
land, Presbyterian Churches of. 

The government, discipline, and worship of the Es- 
tablished Church of Scotland are in all respects the 
same as those of Other Presbyterian churches. Accord- 
ing to the constitution of the Chureh, there is a kirk- 
session in every parish, consisting of the minister and a 
body of lay elders. All the ministers within a certain 
district, with one lay elder from each session, constitute 
the Presbytery of that district. The next higher court 
is the Provincial Synod, which embraces several neigh- 
boring presbyteries. The highest court of all is the 
General Assembly. It is a representative court, con- 
sisting of 247 members and 178 elders, the greater part 
chosen by the presbyteries, but a considerable number 
of elders chosen by the town-councils and universities. 
It meets early in May, is presided over by its modera- 
tor, and has the presence of a lord high commissioner, 
appointed by the crown, who, however, is not a member, 
and has no authoritative voice in the court. A “ Com- 
mission of Assembly” meets in August, November, and 
March, consisting of the members of Assembly, and a 
minister named by the moderator, to attend to matters 
remitted to it by the Assembly, or that may arise in the 
intervals. In consequence of the connection with the 


state, there are certain peculiarities connected with the 
support of the ministers which it may be proper to notice. 
Dr. Jamieson, in his interesting sketch of the “Church 
of Scotland" contributed to the Cyclopcedia of Religious 
Denominations, thus describes these peculiarities : “ The 
provision made for parish ministers by the law of Scot- 
land consists of a stipend arising from a tax on land. 
It is raised on the principle of commuting tithes or 
teinds into a modified charge— the fifth of the land prod- 
uce, according to a method introduced in the reign of 
Charles I, ratified by William III, and unalterably es- 1 
tablished by the treaty of union. To make this intelli- 
gible, we may observe that at the Reformation the 
teinds were appropriated by the crown, with the burden 
of providing for the minister. In after-times the)' 
were often bestowed as gifts on private individuals to- 
tally unconnected with the parish, and who thus came 
so far in place of the crown. These persons received 
the name of titulars, from being entitled to collect from 
the heritors the unappropriated teinds; but they were 
also bound on demand to sell to any heritor the titular- 
ship to his own teinds at nine years’ purchase. From 
the collective land-produce of a parish the court of 
teinds determines how much is to be allotted for the 
support of the minister. This general decree having 
fixed the amount, a common agent, appointed by the 
court, proceeds to divide it proportionally among the 
landholders, and this division, when fully made, is sanc- 
tioned by the court. It is called a decreet of modifica- 
tion, and forms the authority or rule according to which 
alone the minister collects his stipend. According to 
! this system, which has proved a very happy settlement 
! of a qmestio vexata, the burden falls not on the farmer 
! or tenant, as in other countries where tithing exactions 
are made, but on the landholder or titular of the teinds, 
to whom a privilege of relief is opened by having them 
fixed. He may value them, that is, to use the words 
of principal Hill, ‘lead a proof of their present value 
before the Court, of Session, and the valuation, once 
made by authority of that court, ascertains the quan- 
tity of victual or the sum of money in the name of 
teind payable out of his lands in all time coming.’ The 
advantage of this system is that it enables proprietors 
to know exactly the extent of the public burdens on 
their estate; and the teind appropriated to the mainte- 
nance of the minister, or to educational and other pious 
uses, being sacred and inviolable, is always taken into 
account, and deducted in the purchase or sale of lands. 
But that would not be so advantageous to the minister 
by fixing his income at one invariable standard were it 
not that provision is made for an augmentation of sti- 
pend every twenty years in parishes where there are 
j free teinds. This is done by the minister instituting a 
process before the judges of the Court of Session, who 
act as commissioners for the plantation of kirks and 
valuation of teinds; and in this process the act of 1808 
• requires that he shall summon not only the heritors of 
the parish, but also the moderator and clerk of presby- 
tery as parties. In the event of the minister being 
; able to prove a great advance in the social and agricult- 
ural state of the parish, the judges grant his applica- 
. tion, allocating some additional chalders; but where 
' the arguments pleaded appear to them unsatisfactory,, 
they give a small addition, or refuse altogether. In 
many parishes, however, from the teinds being ex- 
| hausted, ministers had no prospect of augmentation in 
, the ordinary way; but redress was afforded through 
' the liberality of Mr. Percival’s government in 1810, 
j who used his influence in procuring an act of Parlia- 
; ment to be passed according to which all stipends in 
| the Establishment should, out of the exchequer, be 
made up to £150. This, though but a poor and inade- 
quate provision for men of a liberal profession, was felt 
J and gratefully received at the time as a great boon. 

! But sueh is the mutability of human society that these 
stipends, which in 1810 formed the minimum, are now 
| greatly superior to many which at the same period 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 518 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


were considered, for Scotland, rich benefices; but which, 
being wholly paid in grain, have, through the late 
agrarian law, fallen far below that standard. The in- 
comes of city ministers are paid wholly in money, lie- 
sides the stipend, every parish minister has a right to a 
manse or parsonage-house, garden, and offices — the style 
as well as the extent of accommodation being generally 
proportioned to the value of the benefice and the char- 
acter of the neighborhood. According to law, the glebe 
consists of four acres of arable land, although, in point 
of fact, it generally exceeds that measure ; and, besides, 
most ministers have a grass glebe, sufficient for the 
support of a horse and two cows. All these, by a late 
decision of the Court of Session, are exempt from poor- 
rates and similar public burdens. Ministers in royal 
burghs are entitled to manses only.” 

The statistics of the Established Church of Scotland 
vary very slightly from year to year. The number of 
parish churches was in 1-S77, 1222. In addition to these 
there are forty-two Parliamentary churches, and a con- 
siderable number of chapels of ease and quoad sacra 
churches, which, under a scheme efficiently organized 
by the liev. Prof. Pobertson, are in course of being en- 
dowed and erected into new parishes in the terms of Sir 
James Graham’s Act, passed in 1846. Altogether there 
are about 1500 congregations and 1:584 ministers. 

The following are the chief missionary and other be- 
nevolent undertakings of the Church : 

1. The Home Mission Scheme. — It has three depart- 
ments: (1.) Church Extension. Local efforts in places 
requiring additional church accommodation are supple- 
mented by grants from the funds of the scheme. In 
1876, thirty-three churches, providing nearly 32,000 sit- 
tings, were thus aided. (2.) Mission Churches, designed 
to be centres of mission work in destitute localities or in 
the more populous parishes of Scotland. These churches 
or chapels number ninety-three, with upwards of 22,000 
worshippers. The Home Mission Committee insist that 
they shall he served with invariable regularity. (3.) 
Mission Stations, not having the permanent character 
of churches, intended as points of evangelical work 
among the lapsed, non -chnrch -going, or far -scattered 
people. There are seventy-seven such stations supplied 
by licentiates, or students in divinity, or qualified evan- 
gelists. Besides these operations, aid is given in cer- 
tain eases towards the employment of Scripture-readers 
in the Highlands and Islands. The revenue of the 
scheme in 1876 from church -collections and legacies 
amounted to £11,780. 

2. Of undertakings more especially affecting the cler- 
gy of the Chnrch may be noticed the Association for 
Augmenting the Smaller Livings, i. e. livings under £200 
per annum. For this purpose the sum of £7305 was 
reported to last General Assembly. Also the Ministers' 
and Professors' Widows' Fund, to which every parish 
minister and every professor in the national universities 
is bound to subscribe. The capital sum of the fund 
amounts to upwards of £212,000. Ministers and pro- 
lessors may subscribe according to one or other of four 
rates, viz. £3 3s., £4 14a. 6c/., £6 6a., or £7 17a. 6c/. 

3. A report is yearly presented to the Assembly as to 
the condition of the Sabbath-schools in connection with 
the Church. Between 15,000 and 16,000 persons are 
engaged in the work of teaching 167,000 juvenile schol- 
ars, and upwards of 24,000 adults of both sexes. 

4. Colonial Missions seek to provide means of grace 
for Scottish colonists in the various British dependen- 
cies and elsewhere. When the scattered communities 
are organized into churches — some large and influential, 
as in the dominion of Canada — the aid given by the 
Home Church is curtailed, if not wholly withdrawn. 
But the committee have a great sphere of labor in the 
ever-enlarging and developing colonial empire of Great 
Britain. Agents of the mission report from British Co- 
lumbia, the South American continent, Fiji, New Zea- 
land, Australia, Ceylon, India. I'nder the Colonial Mis- 
sion are also included European stations, such as I’aris 


and Dresden, where ministrations are maintained for 
the benefit of resident Presbyterians. The total income 
of the scheme in 1877 was upwards of £15,000. 

5. Jewish Missions. — The efforts put forth in connec- 
tion with this mission are concentrated on Turkey and 
Egypt. It has agents in Constantinople, Smyrna, Al- 
exandria, Beyrut, and Salonica. The sum of the charge 
on which it operates is upwards of £7000. 

6. Missions to the Heathen. — The scenes of these mis- 
sions, comprehended under the word “Foreign Mis- 
sions,” are India, Africa, and China. It can scarcely, 
indeed, be said that a mission exists in China ; but steps 
have been taken to originate a Christian work in that 
vast empire. The agency in Africa is not yet complete. 
A station has been formed and is partly occupied by a 
company of Christian artisans, headed by a medical 
missionary, in the Highlands of East Africa— the station 
having received the name of Dr. Livingstone's birth- 
place, Blantyre. The Indian missions retain the mixed 
character which Scotch missions in India have hitherto 
borne — educational and evangelistic. In the three great 
Presidency towns, the educational institutions are still 
maintained, and are at present in a state of efficiency. 
Evangelical efforts are also carried on in connection 
with the institutions and in native churches. In the 
Punjab there are stations at Sealkote. Gujrat, and Wa- 
zirahnd. An interesting work is also promoted among 
the Highlanders of India at Darjeling, and outside the 
British territory an agency is maintained at Chumba, 
whose feature is that the mission, conducted by Eu- 
ropeans, is kept apart from the Church, presided over 
by natives. The income of these foreign missions for 
the year ending January, 1876, was upwards of £19,000. 

7. Two other agencies may be briefly noted : 

(1.) Continental and Foreign t '/lurches Committee. — Es- 
tablished as the medium of communication between the 
churches and other Deformed churches of Christendom. 
It is charged with the duty of cultivating friendly rela- 
tions with such churches, and administering such sums 
as the liberality of the Church bestows on societies and 
agencies abroad seeking to spread the pure Gospel of 
Jesus Christ. For many years the committee have 
been able to aid the Central Society of the French Re- 
formed Church, and the Evangelization Commission of 
the Waldenstun Church in Italy. From time to time it 
has aided other agencies. The care of certain chap- 
laincies on the Continent intended for the benefit of 
Presbyterians temporarily resident there also devolves 
on this committee. Its income in 1876 was £1205. 

(2.) The A rmy and .Vary Chaplains t 'ommittee are in- 
trusted with the oversight of chaplains laboring in gar- 
rison towns or at the camps. The convener of the com- 
mittee communicates, in behalf of the Church, with the 
naval and military authorities. 

No Church in Europe has taken more prompt and 
energetic steps for the general diffusion of school educa- 
tion than the Presbyterians of Scotland. As early as 
1695 it was enacted “that there be a school founded 
and a school -master appointed in every parish by ad- 
vice of the presbyteries, and to this purpose that the 
heritors do, in every congregation, meet among them- 
selves, and provide a commodious house for a school, 
and modify a stipend to the school-master, which shall 
not be under ten merks (£6 13s. 4J.) nor above twenty 
merks.” As almost all the population of the country is 
Presbyterian, the common-school system long sustained 
a parochial character. When, in 1813, the Free Church 
of Scotland was organized, it was resolved to erect schools 
in connection with the congregations of the Free Church, 
and the educational scheme which in consequence sprang 
up was co-extcnsive with the parochial system of t lie 
Established Church. In 1873. of 2108 schools inspected 
by the government inspectors. 1379 belonged to the Es- 
tablished and 577 to the Free Church; while of non- 
Presbyterian schools there were eightv-six belonging 
to the Episcopal and sixtv-six to the Catholic Church. 
The introduction of the new national system of eduea- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 519 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


tion has in a great measure superseded the operations 
of the educational scheme of the Church of Scotland. 
Few schools now remain in relation to it. The care of 
the committee is now chiefly occupied with providing 
religious instruction in all schools desiring it, and giv- 
ing grants for excellence in religious instruction. The 
Scottish universities of Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aber- 
deen are in organic connection with the Church of Scot- 
land by means of theological professorships ; while at 
St. Andrew’s an entire college, St. Mary’s, is appointed 
solely to the teaching of theology and the languages 
connected with it. The theological institutions are the 
theological faculties of the several national universities. 
The number of professors is, at Edinburgh, four ; Glas- 
gow, four; St. Andrew's, three; Aberdeen, four. Stu- 
dents, 198. Students of divinity are required to attend 
a full course of arts at the university, and three years 
more at the Divinity Hall. The sessions in both cases 
last about five months. Students in this and the other 
Presbyterian churches of Scotland have often assistance 
from bursaries or scholarships, which are allotted chiefly 
by competition. See Hetherington, Hist, of the Church 
of Scotland; M*Crie, Lives of Knox and Melville; id. 
Sketches of Church History, and Review of Scott ; Fes- 
senden, Encycl. of Relig. Knowledge ; Cyclop, of Relig. 
Denominations (Lond. and Glasg.); Wilson, Presb.IIist. 
Almanac ; Schem, Eccles . Year Book. 

2. United Presbyterian Church. — In 1782 the 
Ilev. Ebenezcr Erskine, as retiring moderator of the Syn- 
od of Stirling and Perth, preached a sermon on Christ as 
the Corner-stone, in which he sharply inveighed against 
the corruptions and abuses that had crept into the Scot- 
tish Church. His sermon gave great offence, and in- 
curred the censure of the synod. He appealed to the 
General Assembly, who condemned and rebuked him. 
Upon entering his protest, they handed his case over 
to the Commission. The Commission summarily sus- 
pended Erskine and three other ministers — Wilson, 
Moncrieff, and Fisher, who had joined in his protest — 
and cast them out of ministerial communion. The four 
brethren, deeming this treatment unconstitutional and 
unscriptural, immediately organized themselves into a 
presbytery, to which they gave the name of the Asso- 
ciate Presbytery, and published their testimony, or vin- 
dication of their secession. The next Assembly showed 
a disposition to make concessions, but the seceders re- 
fused to listen. How far they were right in this has 
been debated. That they were not satisfied to return 
to the bosom of the Establishment is clear, for they 
■went on to gather congregations and appoint a pro- 
fessor of theology; and, in consequence of their activity 
and the popular sympathy, they increased rapidly. The 
Assembly next proceeded to harsher measures, and in 
1740 deposed the seceding ministers, now eight in num- 
ber. The doors of the churches were closed against 
them, and some of them, as Moncrieff, preached all win- 
ter in the open air. Great difficulty was found in pro- 
curing sites for houses of worship. Still they grew, and 
in 1745 the presbytery expanded into a synod with 
thirty settled congregations and sixteen vacancies. But 
now a dissension arose about the burgess oath, and in 
1747 they split into two synods. The General Asso- 
ciate Synod, or Anti-burghers, denounced the oath as 
sanctioning the Establishment with all its corruptions; 
the Associate Synod maintained that it only referred 
to the true Protestant faith, in opposition to popery. 
After seventy-three years of separation, during which 
each throve and sent offshoots to other parts of the 
world, both branches reunited (a few only standing 
aloof) in 1820, under the name of the United Secession 
Church, when the new body embraced 373 congregations. 

The Relief Chiwch was the result of Air. Gillespie’s 
deposition by the General Assembly in 1752. He had 
refused to assist in intruding an obnoxious presentee 
over the parish of Inverkeithing. After his deposition 
he continued to preach in Dunfermline, but labored 
alone for several years. At length, being joined by 


Messrs. Boston and Colier, the three constituted the 
Belief Presbytery. Soon after another presbytery was 
necessary, and in 1775 (Eadie says 1773) the two met as 
a synod. It was characteristic of the Relief Church to 
maintain free communion with all true Christians, and 
to disapprove of the very principle of establishments. 
They founded a divinity hall, and increased to seven pres- 
byteries, 114 congregations, and 45,000 communicants. 

These two bodies, the United Secession and the Re- 
lief, having so much in common, for some time contem- 
plated a union, which was at last consummated in 
Edinburgh, May 10, 1847, in Tanfield Hall, Canonmills. 
They took the title of the United Presbyterian Church. 
In common parlance, they are often familiarly spoken 
of as the “ U. P. Church.” They constitute a very pop- 
ular and powerful body of Christians in Scotland, re- 
porting, as the statistics of May, 187G : number of con- 
gregations, 620; of elders, 5075; members, 190,242; 
Sunday-school teachers, 12,129; Sunday-school schol- 
ars, 92,502; total income for 1875, £419,965. In the 
synod held at Edinburgh May 11, 1876, its sanction was 
given by a vote of 373 to 45 for the union of the United 
Presbyterian congregations in England with the Eng- 
lish Presbyterian Church ; and an animated discussion 
took place in advocacy' of separation of the Church 
from the State. The following are the articles of the 
basis as adopted by the two synods : 

“1. That the Word of God contained in the Scriptures 
of the Old and New Testaments is the only rule of faith, 
and practice. 

“2. That the Westminster Confession of Faith, and the 
Larger and Shorter Catechisms, are the confession and 
catechisms of this Church, aud contain the authorized 
exhibition of the sense in which we understand the Holy 
Scriptures, it being always understood that we do not 
approve of anything in these documents which teaches, 
or may be supposed to teach, compulsory or persecuting 
and intolerant principles in religion. 

“3. That Presbyterian government, without any supe- 
riority of office to that of a teaching presbyter, and in a 
due subordination of Church courts, which is founded on 
and agreeable to the Word of God, is the government of 
this Church. 

“4. That the ordinances of worship shall be adminis- 
tered in the United Church as they have been in hoth 
bodies of which it is formed; and that the Westminster 
Directory of Worship continue to be regarded as a com- 
pilation of excellent rules. 

“5. That the term of membership is a credible profes- 
sion of the faith of Christ as held by this Church— a pro- 
fession made with intelligence, and justified by a corre- 
sponding character and deportment. 

“6. That with regard to those ministers and sessions 
who think that the second section of the twenty-sixth 
chapter of the Westminster Confession of Faith author- 
izes free communion (that is, not loose or indiscriminate 
communion, but the occasional admission to fellowship 
in the Lord’s Supper of persons respecting whose Chris- 
tian character satisfactory evidence has been obtained, 
though belonging to other religious denominations), they 
shall enjoy what they enjoyed in their separate commu- 
nions— the right of acting on their conscientious convic- 
tions. 

“7. That the election of office-bearers of this Church, 
in its several congregations, belongs, by the authority of 
Christ, exclusively to the members in full communion. 

“S. That this Church solemnly recognises the obliga- 
tion to hold forth, as well as to hold fast, the doetrine 
and laws of Christ; aud to make exertions for the uni- 
versal diffusion of the blessings of his Gospel at home 
aud abroad. 

“9. That as the Lord hath ordained that they who 
preach the Gospel should live of the Gospel; that they 
who are taught in the. Word should communicate to him 
that teacheth in all good things ; that they who are strong 
should help the weak ; and that, having* freely received, 
they should freely give the Gospel to those who are des- 
titute of it— this Church asserts the obligation and the 
privilege of its members, influenced by regard to the au- 
thority of Christ, to support and extend, by voluntary 
contributions, the ordinances of the Gospel. 

“10. That the respective bodies of whieh this Church is 
composed, without requiring from each other an approval 
of the steps of procedure by their fathers, or interfering 
with the right of private judgment in reference to these, 
unite in regarding as still valid the reasons on which 
they have hitherto maintained their state of secession 
and separation from the judicatories of the Established 
Church, as expressed in the authorized documents of the 
respective bodies ; and in maintaining the lawfulness and 
obligation of separation from ecclesiastical bodies in 
which dangerous error is tolerated, or the discipline of 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 520 PRESRYTERIAX CHURCHES 

(Sre-Sded ^ r ' 2ht8 ° f ^ miuisters or n ’ embers Gospel, and fit, if they shall be called, to take the pas- 
“'“The'uiilted Church, in their present most solemn cir- toral c,iar " e * ,f a congregation. The probationers are 
emnstances, join in expressing itieir grateful ackuowledg- thus a body of lay preachers, authorized candidates for 


meat to the great Head of the Church for the measure of 
spiritual good which he has accomplished by them in 
their separate state, ilieir deep sense of the many imper- 
fections and sins which have marked their ecclesiastical 
management, and their determined resolution, in depend- 
ence on the promised grace of their Lord, to apply more 
faithfully the great principles of Church-fellowship, to be 
more watchful in reference to admission and discipline, 
that the purity and efficiency of their congregations may 
he promoted, and the great end of their existence as a 
collective body may be answered with respect to all with- 
in its pale and to all without it, whether members of 
other denominations or ‘the world lying in wickedness.’ 

“And, in due, the United Church regard with a feeling 
of brotherhood nil the faithful followers of Christ, anil 
shall endeavor to maintain the unity of the whole body 
of Christ by a readiness to co-operate with all its mem- 
bers in all things in which they are agreed.” 

The United Presbyterian Church is a voluntary 
Church. The doctrine of its voluntary condition is not 
formally contained in any portion of her standards, but 
it is distinctly implied. She holds to the theology of 
the Westminster Confession of Faith, and of the Larger 
and Shorter Catechisms, but she objects to every part 
of the Westminster Confession “which teaches, or is 
supposed to teaeli, compulsory or persecuting and in- 
tolerant principles in religion.” “ Her creed,” says 
Eadie. “ is that the exalted Jesus is the only King and 
Head of his Church, and that this headship wholly su- 
persedes the patronage and endowment of the Church 
by civil rulers. She believes, indeed, that Christ is King 
of nations, and that therefore nations should serve (iod, 
and that all rulers and magistrates are bound to glorify 
him in their respective spheres and stations. But such 
service and such glorification of Cod must be in har- 
mony with the revealed mind of Christ; and the duty 
of endowing Christianity nowhere appears among the 
statutes of the New Testament. States which establish 
Christianity venture beyond divine enactment, and con- 
travene the spirituality of that kingdom which ‘is not 
of this world.’ It is plain, too, from recent events in 
Scotland and England, that neither purity nor free- 
dom can exist as it ought in an established Church. 
Spiritual independence can flourish only in a Church 
which has no connection with the State.” Ebenezer 
Erskine said in his day, “There is a great difference to 
be made between the Church of Scotland ami the ( Jliurch 
of Christ in Scotland; for I reckon that the last is to a 
great extent drawn into the wilderness by the first ; and 
since (iod in his adorable providence lias led ns into the 
wilderness with her, I judge it our duty to tarry with 
her for a while there, and to prefer her afflictions to all 
the advantages of a legal establishment.” Christ's 
house, according to Ebenezer Erskine, is “ the freest so- 
ciety in the world.” It should hear no trammels, and it 
bore none for 300 years. Accordingly the United Pres- 
byterian Church is a free Church, and will not submit 
to any law of patronage. The Belief Church had its 
origin in this grievance; and the Secession Church, 
while it had a special struggle for doctrine, no less dis- 
tinctly vindicated the rights of the people. Pastors are 
therefore chosen by the united voice of the members in 
full communion ; for Christ’s ordinances are meant solely 
for Christ's people. The Presbytery exercises no con- 
trol whatever over the popular suffrage. It sends one of 
its members to moderate in the call, and sees that the 
call is gone about in a regular way. No canvassing 
is allowed, and the whole work of the Presbytery is in 
fact, to guard and preserve purity of election. The 
Presbytery sustains the call after being convinced that 
there is nothing to vitiate it as a free expression of the 
mind of the people. The minister so called may either 
he one who is or has been in a charge, or he may be 
what is called a probationer. The vacant churches are 
supplied by these probationers — a body of men who 
have finished the educational curriculum appointed by 
the Church, been examined by their respective presby- 
teries, and licensed as persons qualified to preach the 


the ministry. They are sent among the vacant churches 
without partiality and by rotation, that their gifts may 
be tried, and sometimes they are located for months to- 
gether at a missionary station. When a probationer is 
called, and accepts the call, be appears before the Pres- 
bytery in whose bounds the Church calling him is sit- 
uated, and preaches what are called trial discourses. 
.Such appearance in the Presbytery on the part of the 
pastor elect is to win the confidence of his brethren. 
After all the prescribed trials have been gone through 
and sustained, a day for the ordination is fixed. One 
of the ministers of the Presbytery is appointed to pre- 
side and ordain, and another is appointed to preach. 
An edict* is at the same time appointed to be publicly 
served in the congregation by the officiating minister 
or preacher at least ten days before the day of ordina- 
tion. Upon the day fixed, the Presbytery meets at the 
appointed time and place, and is constituted by the 
moderator. The ollieer is then sent to the assembled 
congregation to intimate that the Presbytery lias met, 
and requiring all who have any valid objections to the 
ordination being proceeded with immediately to appear 
before the Presbytery and state them. The officer hav- 
! ing returned, and no objectors appearing, the Presby- 
tery then proceeds to the place of worship. If objec- 
tions are made, they must be decided upon before the 
ordination takes place. After sermon, the moderator 
gives a brief narrative of the different steps of proced- 
ure regarding the call, lie then callson the candidate for 
ordination to stand up, and in presence of the congrega- 
tion puts to him the questions of the formula. But be- 
, fore proposing the ninth question, he asks the members 
of the congregation to signify their adherence to the 
call by bolding up their right hands. These steps be- 
ing taken, the moderator comes down to the platform, 
where the candidate kneels, and, surrounded by the 
other brethren of the Presbytery, he engages in solemn 
prayer, and towards the conclusion of the prayer, or af- 
ter it is concluded, he, by the imposition of hands (in 
which all the brethren of the Presbytery join), ordains 
him to the office of the holy ministry, and to the pasto- 
ral inspection of the congregation by whom he has 
been chosen and regularly called, commending him for 
countenance and success to the grace of (Iod in all the 
duties incumbent upon him as a minister of the Gospel. 
After the ordination is thus completed, the members of 
Presbytery give to the newly ordained pastor the right 
hand of fellowship, and appropriate addresses are t lien 
delivered to minister and people. Those services being 
concluded, the moderator accompanies the newly or- 
dained pastor to some convenient place, where the mem- 
bers of the congregation may acknowledge him as their 
minister by taking him by the right hand. The Pres- 
bytery then returns to its place of meeting, when the 
newly ordained minister’s name is entered on the roll, 
and lie takes his scat as a member of the Presbytery, 
on which the commissioners for the congregation crave 
extracts. A member of Presbytery is also appointed to 

* The form of edict is as follows: “Whereas the Pres- 
bytery of • of the United Presbyterian Church have 

received a call from this con grega tion, addressed to 
A. 11 ., preacher (or minister) of the Gospel, to be their 
minister, and the said call has been sustained as a regu- 
lar Gospel call, and been accepted by the said A. B., and 
he has undergone trials for ordination ; and whereas the 
said Presbytery, having judged the said A. B. qualified for 
the ministry of the Gospel uml the pastoral charge of this 
congregation, have resolved to proceed to his ordination 

on the day of , unless something occur which 

may reasoimbly impe.de it. Notice is hereby given to all 
concerned that' if they, or any of them, have anything to 
object why the said A. B. should not be ordained pastor 
of itiis congregation, they may repair to the Presbytery 

which is to meet at *011 the said day of ; 

with certification that, if no valid objection betben made, 
the Presbytery will proceed without further delay. By 
order of the Presbytery. A. lb, Moderator. 

C. !>., Clerk." 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 521 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


constitute the session of the congregation and introduce 
the minister to his seat there. The whole procedure 
of the day is entered on the Presbytery’s record. 

The formula put to ministers on their ordination is 
as follows : 

“1. Do you believe the Scriptures of the Old and New 
Testaments to be the Word of God, aud the only rule of 
faith and practice? 

“2. Do you acknowledge the Westminster Confession 
of Faith, and the Larger and Shorter Catechisms, as an 
exhibition of the sense in which yon understand the Holy 
Scriptures; it being understood that yon are not required 
to approve of anything in these documents which teaches, 
or is supposed to teach, compulsory or persecuting and 
intolerant principles in religion ? 

“3. Are yon persuaded that the Lord Jesus Christ, the 
only King and Head of the Church, has therein appointed 
a government distinct from and subordinate to civil gov- 
ernment? And do you acknowledge the Presbyterian 
form of government, as authorized aud acted on in this 
Church, to be founded on and agreeable to the Word of 
God? 

“4. Do von approve of the constitution of the United 
Presbytemn Church as exhibited in the Basis of Union ; 
and, while cherishing a spirit of brotherhood towards all 
the faithful followers of Christ, do you engage to seek the 
pnrity, edification, peace, and extension of this Church ? 

“5. Are zeal for the glory of God, love to the Lord Jesus 
Christ, and a desire to save souls, and not worldly inter- 
ests or expectations, so far as you know your own heart, 
your great motives and chief inducements to enter into 
the olfice of the holy ministry ? 

“C. Have yon used any undue methods, by yourself or 
others, to obtain the call of this Church? 

“ [ The members of the Church being requested to stand up, 
let this question be put to them : 

“Do yon, the members of this Church, testify your ad- 
herence to the call which you have given to Mr. A. B. to 
lie your minister? And do you receive him with all glad- 
ness, and promise to provide for him suitable mainte- 
nance, and to give him all due respect, subjection, and 
encouragement in the Lord? 

“ An opportunity teill here be given to the members of the 
Church of signifying their assent to this by holding up their 
right hand.] 

“7. Do yon adhere to your acceptance of the call to be- 
come minister of this Church ? 

“8. Do you engage, in the strength of the grace that is 
in Christ Jesus, to live n holy and circumspect life, to 
rule well your own house, and faithfully, diligently, and 
cheerfully to discharge all the parts of the ministerial 
work to the edifying of the body of Christ ? 

“9. Do yon promise to give conscientious attendance 
on the courts of the United Presbyterian Church, to be 
snbject to them in the Lord, to take a due interest in their 
proceedings, aud to study the things which make for 
peace? 

“10. All these things you profess and promise, through 
grace, as yon shall be answerable at the coming of the 
Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints, and as you would 
be found in that happy company ?” 

The Church has one theological institution, with a 
staff of seven professors, including the principal. The 
number of students for 1876-77 was 107, and the average 
for the ten preceding years 136. Students have to pass 
through a full course of arts at the university before 
joining the theological hall, and the theological curric- 
ulum is over three years, with a session each year from 
the beginning of November to the middle of April. Very 
recently a change was made in the management of the 
theological hall, with a view to the more efficient train- 
ing of the students. It was agreed that the means of 
maintaining the hall should be partly by a capital fund 
and partly by annual contributions, and the capital fund 
of £40,000 has already been nearly realized. In con- 
nection with the theological hall there is a scheme of 
scholarships, and a committee who have charge of the 
distribution of these on competitive examination of ap- 
plicants. In 1876 eleven special scholarships were 
awarded of the aggregate value of £275; and from the 
ordinary fund tw T o of £20 each, ten of £15, and forty- 
one of £10. In 1876 the number of young people under 
religious instruction in Sabbath -schools aud Bible- 
classes was 103,750. 

The following are among the other undertakings of 
the United Presbyterian Church : 

Home Mission Fund . — This fund is under the direc- 
tion more immediately of the Home Committee of the 
Board of Missions. Its object is to supplement the sti- 


pends" of the weaker congregations, to support mission- 
ary stations, to aid in the support of catechists, and 
maintain a scheme of home evangelization. 

By the Stipend Augmentation Scheme and its Surplus 
Fund, including arrangements which have been made 
with certain congregations in reference to allowances 
for house-rent where manse accommodation has not 
been provided, the following general results in regard 
to the stipends of ministers lor the year 1877 have been 
obtained : 

104 Stipends have been raised to £200 per annum, with 
manse or allowance for rent of £20. 

3S Stipends are less than £200, but not under £197 10s. 
37 “ “ 197 10s., “ “ 190. 

32 “ “ 190, “ “ 180. 

14 “ “ ISO, « “ 170. 

10 “ “ 170, “ “ 100. 

8 “ “ 160, “ “ 157 10s. 

13 Stipends are under tbe former minimum of 157 10s. 
256 

All the other Stipends in the Church are upwards of £200 
per annum. 

In evangelistic effort and home evangelization £5047 
w r ere expended in 1876 under the direction of the Home 
Committee of the Board of Missions. 

The Aged and Infirm Ministers' Fund has a capital 
fund of £35,593, with a reserve fund of £1000, and 
provides an annuity of not less than £50 per annum 
to aged and infirm ministers and missionaries of the 
Church. 

Manse Fund. — For this scheme £52,772 have been 
raised by subscriptions and donations up to December, 
1876, and £49,449 expended up to April, 1877, in grants 
to 232 congregations; and the conditions on which these 
grants were offered required the congregations to raise 
not less than £90,341, as it is stipulated where grants 
are given that the manse shall be free of debt when the 
last instalment of the grant has been paid. 

The Foreign Mission Fund is to defray the expenses 
of the foreign missionary operations of the Church. 
The missions supported out of the fund, nine in number, 
are situated in Jamaica, Trinidad, Old Calabar, Kaffra- 
ria, India, China, Spain, Japan, and Algeria. In these 
nine missions there are 46 ordained missionaries, 7 Eu- 
ropean medical missionaries, 6 European male teachers, 

11 European female teachers, 9 ordained native mission- 
aries, 69 native evangelists, 190 schoolmasters, 32 native 
female teachers, 14 other agents, 61 principal stations, 
131 out-stations, 8077 communicants, 1655 inquirers, 220 
week-day schools, 10,741 pupils, with a total educated 
agency of 384. The income of the Foreign Mission Fund 
for 1876 w r as £42,872 17s. 4r/. 

Under the direction of the synod, the Foreign Mis- 
sion Board voted, during 1876, the following grants, 
viz.: (1) To the Union of Evangelical Churches of 
France, £500; (2) to the Evangelical Society of Lyons, 
£150; (3) to the Evangelical Society of Geneva, £250; 
(4) to the Belgian Missionary Society, £200; (5) for 
evangelical work in Bohemia. £150 ; (6) to the Walclen- 
sian Church, £350 (including £100 towards the salary 
of the Rev. J. Simpson Kay of Palermo) ; (7) to the 
Free Church of Italy, £100; (8) for evangelical work at 
Aix-les-Bains, Savoy, £50; (9) to the French Canadian 
Missionary Society, £100; (10) for Rev. Ferdinand Ce'- 
sar’s work in Moravia, £75; (11) for outfit and passage 
of two ministers to Australia, £340; (12) to Rev. David 
Sidney, Napier, New Zealand, for salary of evangelist 
(three years), £150; and (13) salary of Rev. Dr. Laws, 
of the Nyassa mission of the Free Church. These 
grants amount in all to £2715. Besides these special 
grants made directly by the Foreign Committee, the 
following special contributions by individuals were sent 
through the hands of the synod’s treasurer: (1) £1530 
from the Theological Hall Students’ Missionary Society, 
for pastor Yakopian’s work in Cesarea, Cappadocia ; (2) 
£5 for Protestant churches in Bit hynia ; (3) £1 6s. 3d. for 
Mount Lebanon Schools; (4) £100 for Protestant Church 
in Bohemia; (5) £50 5s. for Rev. F. Cesar’s work in Mo- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 522 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


ravia; (6) £20 for the Union of Evangelical Churches 
in France; (7) £45 4*'. Ad. for evangelical work at Ais- 
les- Bains, Savoy; (8) £-14 for Christian work in Paris; 
(9) £'25 for Reformed Church in the Netherlands; (10) 
£131 2a. id. for the Waldensian Church; (11) £50 for 
the Free Italian Church ; (12) £4 2s. for Rev. J. S. Kay, 
Palermo; (13) £5 for Mrs. Boyce's Orphanage, Bordi- 
ghera; (14) £33 Gs. 8</. for Frecdmcn’s Missions Aid 
Society; and (15) £G0G 18s. 7d. for the Agra Medical 
Mission (Dr. Valentine’s scheme). These donations, 
destined by the donors for the objects specified, amount- 
ed in all to £2631 5s. 2d., which, added to the grants ad- 
ministered by the Board— viz., £2715 — make the total 
contribution of the Church during 1876, for objects out- 
side the Foreign Mission, £5346 5s. 2d. The ordinary 
congregational income of the Church for the year 1876 
was £233,114; the missionary and benevolent income 
£82,927 ; and the benevolent income not congregational 
£62,226 — the total, including the English congrega- 
tions, up to June, 1876, being £406,204. See Ilether- 
ington, Hist, of the Church of Scotland ; Cyclop, of lie- 
liyious Deiiominations (Bond, and Glasgow); Wilson, 
l’resb. llist. Almanac. See United Presbyterian 
Church. 

3. Free Church of Scotland. — This large and 
useful body of Christians, now numbering nearly a 
million of people, was organized into a separate relig- 
ious denomination in May, 1843. The circumstances 
which led to its formation as a Church distinct from ( 
the Establishment have already been detailed in a 
previous article. The conflict which at length termi- 
nated in the Disruption had its origin in the two re- 
forming acts passed by the General Assembly of 1834, 
the one of which, the Act on Calls, asserted the prin- 
ciple of non-intrusion, and the other, usually called the 
Chapel Act, asserted the right of the Church to deter- 
mine who should administer the government of Christ’s 
house. Both of these acts gave rise to lawsuits before 
the civil tribunals, thus bringing into discussion the 
whole question as to the terms of the connection be- 
tween the Church and the State. As the various proc- 
esses went forward in the courts of law, it became quite 
plain to many, both of the Scottish clergy and laitv. 
that attempts were made by the civil courts to coerce 
the courts of the Church in matters spiritual. Every 
encroachment of this kind they were determined to re- 
sist, as being contrary to the laws and constitution of 
the Church of Scotland, as well as an infringement on 
the privileges secured to her by the Act of Security 
and Treaty of Union. 

Matters were evidently fast hastening onward to a 
crisis, and in the Assembly of 1842 a Claim of Rights 
was agreed upon to be laid before the Legislature, set- 
ting forth the grievances of which the Church com- 
plained in consequence of the usurpations of the courts 
of law, and declaring the terms on which alone she 
would remain in connection with the State. This im- 
portant document was adopted by a majority of 131. 
Tiie claim, however, which it contained, was pronounced 
by government to be “ unreasonable,” and intimation 
was distinctly made that the government “ could not ad- 
vise her majesty to acquiesce in these demands.” This 
reply on the part of the supreme branch of the legisla- 
ture was decisive, and put an end to all hope of averting 
the impending catastrophe. At the next meeting of 
Assembly, accordingly, the moderator, instead of con- 
stituting the court in the usual form, read a solemn pro- 
test, which he laid upon the table, and withdrew, fol- 
lowed by all the clerical and lay members of Assembly 
by whom it was subscribed. This document protests 
against the then recent decisions of the courts of law on 
the following grounds: 

“1. That the courts of the Church by law established, 
and members thereof, are liable to be coerced by the civil 
courts in the exercise of their spiritual functions; and in 
particular in the admission to the office of the holy min- 
istry, and the constitution of the pastoral relation, and 
that they are subject to be compelled to iutrude minis- 


ters on reclaiming congregations in opposition to the 
fundamental principles of ihe Church, and their views 
of the Word of God, and to the liberties of Christ’s peo- 
ple. 

“2. That the said civil courts have power to interfere 
with *nd interdict the preaching of the Gospel and ad- 
ministration of ordinances as authorized aud enjoined by 
the Church courts of the Establishment. 

“3. That the said civil courts have power to suspend 
spiritual censures pronounced by the Church courts of the 
Establishment against ministers and probationers of the 
Church, and to interdict their execution as to spiritual 
effects, functions, and privileges. 

“4. That the said civil conns have power to reduce aud 
set aside the sentences of the Church courts of the Estab- 
lishment deposing ministers from the office of the holy 
ministry ana depriving probationers of their license to 
preach the Gospel, with reference to the spiritual status, 
functions, and privileges of such ministers and probation- 
ers— restoring them to the spiritual office and status of 
which the Church courts had deprived them. 

“5. That the said civil courts have power to determiue 
on the right to sit as members of the supreme and other 
judicatories of the Church by law established, and to is- 
sue interdicts against sitting and voting therein, irrespec- 
tive of the judgment aud determination of the said judi- 
catories. 

“6. That the said civil courts have power to supersede 
the majority of a Church court of the Establishment, in re- 
gard to the’ exercise of its spiritual functions as a Church 
court, aud to authorize the minority to exercise the said 
functions, in opposition to the court itself, aud to the su- 
perior judicatories of the Establishment. 

“ 7. That the said civil courts have power to stay proc- 
esses of discipline pending before courts of the Chiirch by 
law established, aud to interdict such courts from pro- 
ceeding therein. 

“8. That no pastor of a congregation can be admitted 
into the Church courts of the Establishment, and allowed 
to rule, as well as to teach, agreeably to the institution 
of the office by the Head of the Church, nor to sit in any 
of the judicatories of the Church, iuferior or supreme— 
and that no additional provision can lie made for the ex- 
ercise of spiritual discipline among the members of the 
Church, though not affecting any patrimonial interests, 
aud no alteration introduced in the state of pastoral su- 
perintendence and spiritual discipliue in any parish, with- 
out the sanction of a civil court. 

“All which jurisdiction and power on the part of the 
said civil courts severally above specified, whatever pro- 
ceeding may have given occasion to its exercise, is, in onr 
opinion, in itself inconsistent with Christian liberty, and 
with the authority which the Head of the Church hath 
conferred on the Church alone.” 

The document goes on to protest that in the circum- 
stances in which the Church was thereby placed, “a free 
Assembly of the Church of Scotland, by law established, 
cannot at this time he holden, and that an Assembly 
in accordance with the fundamental principles of the 
Church cannot be constituted in connection with the 
State without violating the conditions which must now, 
since the rejection by the Legislature of the Church’s 
Claim of Right, be held to be the conditions of the Es- 
tablishment.” At the close of this solemn protest, the 
subscribers claim to themselves the liberty of abandoning 
their connection with the State, while retaining all the 
privileges and exercising all the functions of a section 
of Christ’s visible Church. “ And. finally,” they declare, 
“while firmly asserting the right and duty of the civil 
magistrate to maintain and support an establishment 
of religion in accordance with God’s Word, and reserving 
to ourselves and our successors to strive by all lawful 
means, as opportunity shall in God’s good providence 
be offered, to secure the performance of this duty agree- 
ably to the Scriptures, aud in implement of the statutes 
of the kingdom of Scotland and the obligations of the 
Treaty of Union as understood by us and our ancestors, 
but acknowledging that we do not hold ourselves at 
liberty to retain the benefits of the Establishment while 
we cannot comply with the conditions now to be deemed 
thereto attached — tee protest that, in the circiimstan- 
, ces in which we are placed, it is, ami shall be, lawful for 
ns, and such other commissioners chosen to the Assem- 
bly appointed to have been this day holden as may con- 
cur with us, to withdraw to a separate place of meeting, for 
the purpose of taking steps for ourselves and all who ad- 
here to us — maintaining with us the Confession of Faith, 
and standards of the Church of .Scotland as heretofore 
understood — for separating in an orderly way from the 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 523 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


Establishment, and thereupon adopting such measures | 
as may be competent to us, in humble dependence on 
God’s grace and the aid of the Holy Spirit, for the ad- 
vancement of his glory, the extension of the Gospel of ; 
our Lord and Saviour, and the administration of the af- 
fairs of Christ’s house, according to his holy Word ; and 
Ave do now, for the purpose foresaid, withdraw accord- 
ingly, humbly and solemnly acknowledging the hand 
of tiie Lord in the things which have come upon us, 
because of our manifold sins, and the sins of this Church 
and nation ; but, at the same time, with an assured con- 
viction that we are not responsible for any consequences 
that may follow from this our enforced separation from an 
Establishment which we loved and prized, through in- 
terference with conscience, the dishonor done to Christ’s 
crown, and the rejection of his sole and supreme au- 
thority as King in his Church.” This document, em- 
bodying the protest against the wrongs inflicted on the 
Church of Scotland by the civil power, was signed by 
no fewer than 203 members of Assembly. When the 
moderator had finished the reading of the protest, he 
retired, followed by a large majority of the clerical 
and lay members of the court; and the procession, 
joined by a large body of ministers, elders, and others 
who adhered to their principles, moved in solemn si- 
lence to Tanfield Hall, a large building situated at the 
northern extremity of the city, in the valley formed by 
the Water of Leith. Here was constituted the Free 
Church of Scotland, which, while renouncing the ben- 
efits of an Establishment, continues to adhere to the 
standards and to maintain the doctrine, discipline, wor- 
ship, and government of the Church of Scotland. Dr. 
Chalmers was chosen as their first moderator, and the 
ordinary business was proceeded with according to the 
usual forms. On Tuesday, the 23d of May, the minis- 
ters and professors, to the number of 474, solemnly sub- 
scribed the Deed of Demission, formally renouncing all 
claim to the benefices which they had held in connec- 
tion with the Establishment, declaring them to be va- 
cant, and consenting to their being dealt with as such. 
Thus, by a regular legal instrument, the ministers com- 
pleted their separation from the Establishment; and 
the Free Church of Scotland assumed the position of a 
distinct ecclesiastical denomination, holding the same 
doctrines, maintaining the same ecclesiastical frame- 
work, and observing the same forms of worship as had 
been received and observed in the National Church. In 
fact, they had abandoned nothing but the endowments 
of the State, and even these they had abandoned, not 
from any change in their views as to the lawfulness of 
a Church Establishment, but solely because in their 
view the State had altered the terms on which the 
compact between the Church and the State had been 
originally formed. 

The Free Church, strong in the conviction that her 
distinctive principles Avere sound and scriptural, en- 
tered upon her arduous Avork Avith an humble but con- 
fiding trust in her great and glorious Head. In the 
course of her history she has become united Avith 
tAvo other bodies. In 1852 the majority of the Orig- 
inal Seceders, Avith Avhom the name of Dr. Thomas 
M‘Crie, father and son, Avas so honorably connected, 
joined the Free Church; and in 1876 a union Avas 
formed Avith the Keformed Presbyterian Church, con- 
sisting of thirty-six ministers and thirty-six congre- 
gations. The General Assembly of the Free Church 
consists of 730 members, half being ministers and half 
ruling elders, and all appointed by the presbyteries. 
Each Presbytery returns one third of its ministers, and 
an equal number of ruling elders. The temporal affairs 
of each congregation are managed by a body called 
“ The Deacons’ Court.” This court is composed of the 
minister, the ruling elders, and a body of deacons cho- 
sen, like the elders, by the members of the congrega- 
tion. The spiritual interests of each congregation are 
attended to by the kirk-session, consisting only of the 
minister and elders. 


In preparation for the neAV position in A\hich the 
Church would be placed Avhen depriA r ed of state support, 
Dr. Chalmers had made arrangements some months pre- 
vious to the Assembly of 1843 for establishing associa- 
tions throughout the country Avith the view of collecting 
funds for the support of the ministry. With such en- 
ergy and activity had these preparations been carried 
fonvard that before the day of the Disruption came 687 
separate associations had been formed in all parts of the 
country. So extensive and ardent Avas the sympathy felt 
Avith the moA'ement, not in Scotland only, but through- 
out the kingdom, and even throughout the Avorld, that 
funds Avere liberally contributed from all quarters in 
support of the cause, and at the close of the first year 
of the history of the Free Church her income amounted 
to the munificent sum of £366,719 14s. 3d. Nor has the 
source of her supply afforded the slightest symptoms of 
being exhausted even after the lapse of thirty-five years. 
On the contrary, she raised £10,250,000 in her first 
thirty years, and has uoav an annual income of OA-er 
£500,000. The Sustentation Fund for the support of 
the ministry reached in 1877 the gratifying sum of 
£172,641 13s. 3c7., yielding an annual salary to nearly 
800 ministers of about £150 each. The Building Fund 
for the erection of churches and manses amounted in 
1877 to £41.179 2s. 0|c7. This year (1878) a Church 
Extension scheme of £100,000 has been entered upon 
Avitli spirit. The Congregational Fund, composed of 
ordinary collections at the church -doors on Sabbaths, 
and a great part of Avhich goes to supplement the min- 
isters’ stipends, is £94,481 19s. 6(7. The Fund for Mis- 
sions and Education is £55,896 11s. There are various 
other objects connected Avith the Free Church Avhich it 
is unnecessary to detail, but the sum total of the contri- 
butions for the last year was £565,195 10s. 4c7., an amount 
Avhich plainly indicates that its friends and supporters 
are still animated Avith an intense and undiminislied at- 
tachment to the principles on Avhich this peculiar sec- 
tion of the Christian Church is based. Upwards of 800 
churches have been reared by the liberality of her peo- 
ple, avIio are calculated to amount to someAvhere about 
1,000,000. To the large majority of the churches, manses, 
or parsonage-houses, have also been added. The Free 
Church has established a divinity school in Edinburgh, 
called the Ne;v College, Avhich Avas completed at a cost 
approaching £40,000, is provided Avith a more complete 
staff of professors than any similar institution in Scot- 
land, and Avith more effectual means of training an edu- 
cated ministry than is to be found elseAA r here in Great 
Britain. The Free Church has also built a divinity 
hall in Aberdeen, and a third in GlasgoAV. The number 
of theological students in attendance on these colleges 
amounts in 1878 to 230. 

In connection Avith the Free Church, a fund Avas in- 
stituted in 1848 for Aged and Infirm Ministers, Avhich 
already exceeds £39,000. In addition to the home min- 
istry, Avhich in 1878 numbered 1059, there are nearly 300 
settled ministers belonging to this Church in the differ- 
ent departments of the colonial field. 

The Widows' and Orphans' Funds are chiefly made 
up of yearly contributions (compulsory) from each min- 
ister of £5 to the WidoAvs’ and £2 to the Orphans’ fund. 
At present the fund gives an annuity of £42 to each 
AvidoAV and £15 to each child under eighteen. Larger 
sums are given to the children Avhen their mother is 
dead. The accumulated fund of the tAvo schemes is up- 
Avards of £224,000. There is a society for sons and 
daughters of the clergy, not under the General Assem- 
bly, designed to aid ministers in the education of their 
families. In 1876 it paid £1758 in 125 grants, from £10 
to £ 1 8 each. 

The Home Mission and Church Extension Scheme . — 
Its purpose is to keep stations supplied by preachers or 
catechists in thinly peopled districts; also to foster mis- 
sions in mining and manufacturing localities, and other 
populous places, and form them into regular charges; 
to aid such charges until they are takeii on the equal 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 524 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


dividend platform; to maintain lay evangelists, and 
send out ministerial evangelists from time to time; and 
to encourage the employment of students and others as 
missionaries in necessitous districts in large towns. To 
encourage ministers of experience to undertake mission 
congregations in populous places, grants of . £200 a year 
are given for a limited time; the grant diminishing 
gradually from year to year, till it is extinguished. In 
other cases the grants are smaller. The income of the 
fund, derived from a church-door collection thrice in 
two years, donations, legacies, etc., is between £0000 
and £10,000 a year. This year a special Church ex- 
tension I'Tnul, amounting to £100,000, is being raised, 
and the greater part of it has been contributed in a few 
months. 

Highland Mission. — This is a somewhat similar 
scheme, managed by a separate committee of the Gen- 
eral Assembly, for districts of the country where Gaelic 
is spoken. It has a collection every second year. Its 
average revenue is about £3000. 

Church and Manse Building Fund. — This is intended 
to help congregations in their building operations. At 
iirst it was very large, Dr. Guthrie having raised for a 
General Clause Fund alone about £100,000, but of late 
years its income lias been only about £1500. A special 
Building Fund is contemplated for new charges. 

Education Scheme. — Till recently a large proportion 
of the congregations had day-schools, for which grants 
were given. Most of these are now absorbed in the na- 
tional scheme of education. There are still some schools 
receiving grants; but the chief remaining part of the 
scheme is the Normal Schools, of which there are two — 
at Edinburgh and Glasgow. The instructors receive a 
salary from a general fund, which is raised by monthly 
contributions in all the congregations, and which is di- 
vided at the end of the year according to a certain scale, 
proportioned to the qualifications of the respective teach- 
ers. The number of normal students, male and female, 
for 187G-77 was 194. 

College Scheme.— This provides for the support of the 
three theological institutions, partly by interest of en- 
dowments and partly by an annual collection at church- 
door, donations, legacies, etc. For 187G-77 the revenue 
was a total of £891)5. There are large Bursary and 
Scholarship Funds for the encouragement of students, 
from £10 to £100 annually. 

Continental Scheme. — For aiding stations, societies, 
and churches on the continent of Europe. Revenue 
about £4000. 

Colonial Scheme. — For sending out ministers to the 
colonics and aiding colonial churches, especially in their 
earlier stages. Revenue about £4000. 

The Foreign Missions Scheme. — The late Rev. Dr. 
Dull', the lirst missionary to the heathen from the 
Church of Scotland, went to Calcutta in 1829, and 
founded the India Mission of the Church of Scotland. 
In the previous year Dr. Wilson went to Bombay, and 
later, the Rev. John Anderson to Madras, lu 1843 all 
the missionaries in India adhered to the Free Church, 
and the old localities were continued. The Foreign 
Missions of the Free Church embrace India, Africa. Syr- 
ia, and New Hebrides. In India, there are G principal 
and 12 branch stations in Bengal ; 3 principal and 10 
branch stations in Western India; 2 principal and 3 
branch stations in Central India; and 1 principal and 7 
branch stations in Southern India, lu South Africa 
there are G principal and 31 branch stations in Kaffra- 
ria; 2 principal and 2 branch stations in Natal; and 1 
principal station at Eivingstonia. In Now Hebrides, 
where the Reformed iTesbyterinns (who joined the Free 
Church in 187G) had their field, are 4 stations, on 
three islands; and in Syria, the headquarters are at 
Shweir, about twenty miles from Beyrikt. In all, the 
Free Church missions embrace 107 stations, 38 European 
missionaries, 3 European medical missionaries, 21 Eu- 
ropean teachers, 19 European artisans, 15 native mis- 
sionaries, 327 Christian teachers, and Christian laborers 


of various sorts. In the native churches are 3350 com- 
municants, and about 3000 baptized adherents. The 
number of institutions and schools is 223, and the total 
number of scholars is 13,109. In the principal Indian 
stations many of the pupils are undergraduates of the 
universities. The revenue of this scheme for 187G-77 
was £51,217. 

Mission to Jeics . — This mission was begun in 1839, 
and in 1843 it was continued by the Free Church, all 
the missionaries having adhered. At present it has 
stations at — (1) Amsterdam, (2) Prague, (3) Pesth, (4) 
Breslau. (5) Constantinople. The Pesth mission has 
been especially blessed. The amount raised for the 
scheme in 1876-77 was £13,4GS. 

The following is a summary of the contributions of 
the Free Church for 187G-77 : 

Susteutation fund £170,209 

Local buildings fund so, 291 

Congregational fund 176,29ft 

Missions and education 104,325 

Miscellaneous 2s,079 

Total £505,194 

In all its operations, indeed, whether at home or abroad, 
the Free Church exhibits a vitality and energetic power 
which have gained for it a high place among Christian 
churches. Sec Scotland, CiiruenKS in. 

4. Reformed Pkesryterian Church of Scotland. 
— This is the only Church which claims to be legiti- 
mately descended from the Covenanted Church of Scot- 
land in her period of greatest purity, that of the Second 
Reformation. It was that memorable period of Scottish 
history between 1G38 and 1650 which formed theiera of 
the Solemn League and Covenant, of the Westminster 
Assembly, of the revolution which dethroned the first 
Charles and asserted those principles of civil and relig- 
ious liberty which all enlightened Christians and states- 
men are now ready with one voice to acknowledge and 
to admire. For their strict adherence to these principles 
Cameron, Cargill, and Ronwick shed their blood, and to 
these principles the Reformed Presbyterian Church glo- 
ried in avowing her attachment. As has already been 
noticed in the article Covenanters, on the day after the 
execution of Charles 1 was known at Edinburgh, his 
son, Charles II, was proclaimed king at the public cross 
by the Committee of Estates, with this proviso, however, 
that “before, being admitted to the exercise of bis royal 
power, he shall give satisfaction to this kingdom in the 
things that concern the security of religion according 
to the National Covenant and the Solemn League and 
Covenant.” This condition or proviso was considered 
as so necessary to the maintenance of the constitution 
of the country, as well as the promotion of the great 
principles of civil and religions liberty, that it was en- 
acted both by the Parliament and the General Assem- 
bly. The document issued by the latter body exhibits, 
in the clearest manner, their design in insisting upon 
the subscription I»v the king. It is dated July 27, 1G49, 
and contains the following important statements: *• But 
if his majesty, or any having or pretending power and 
commission from him, shall invade this kingdom upon 
pretext of establishing him in the exercise of his royal 
power — as it will be a high provocation against God 
to be accessory or assisting thereto, so it will be a neces- 
sary duty to resist and oppose the same. We know 
that many are so forgetful of the oath of God. and ig- 
norant and careless of the interest of Jesus Christ and 
the Gospel, and do so little tender that which concerns 
his kingdom and the privileges thereof, and do so much 
doat upon absolute and arbitrary government for gain- 
ing tlieir own ends, and so much malign the instruments 
of the work of reformation, that they would admit his 
majesty to the exercise of his royal power upon any 
terms whatsoever, though with never so much prejudice 
to religion and the liberties of those kingdoms, and 
would think it quarrel enough to make war upon all 
those who for conscience’ sake cannot condescend there- 
to. But we desire all those who fear the Lord, and 


PRESBYTER I A N CHURCHES 525 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


mind to keep their Covenant, impartially to consider 
these things which follow: 

“1. That as magistrates and their power is ordained of 
God, so are they in the exercise thereof not to walk ac- 
cording to their own will, but according to the law of 
equity and righteousness, as being the ministers of God 
for the safety of his people ; therefore a boundless and un- 
limited power is to be acknowledged in no king or mag- 
istrate; neither is our king to be admitted to the exercise 
of his power as long as he refuses to walk iu the admin- 
istration of the same according to this rule and the es- 
tablished laws of the kingdom, that his subjects may live 
under him a quiet and peaceable life iu all godliuess and 
honesty. 

“2. There is one mutual obligation and stipulation be- 
twixt the king and his people; as both of them are tied 
to God, so each of them is tied one to another for the 
performance of mutual and reciprocal duties. According 
to this, it is statute and ordained in the eighth act of first 
Parliament of James VI, ‘That all kings, princes, or mag- 
istrates whatsoever, holding their place, which hereafter 
shall happen in any time to reign and bear rnle over this 
realm, at the time of their coronation and receipt of 
their princely authority, make their faithful promise by 
oath, iu the presence of the Eternal God, that during the 
whole course of their lives they shall serve the same Eter- 
nal God to the ntmost of their power, accordiug as lie 
hath required iu his most holy Word, contained iu the 
Old and New Testaments ; and, according to the same 
Word, shall maintain the true religion of Christ Jesus, 
the preaching of his most hoiy Word, and due and right 
ministration of his sacraments now received and preached 
within this realm ; and shall abolish all false religion con- 
trary to the same; and shall rule the people committed 
to their charge according to the will and the command of 
God revealed iu his Word, and according to the laudable 
laws and constitutions received within this realm; and 
shall procure to the ntmost of their power to the Kirk of 
God, and the whole Christian people, true and perfect 
peace iu all time coming, and thus justice and equity be 
kept to all creatures without exception which oath was 
sworn first by king James VI, and afterwards by king 
Charles at his coronation, and is inserted in our National 
Covenant, which was approved by the king who lately 
reigned. As long, therefore, as his majesty who uow 
reigns refuses to hearken to the just and necessary de- 
sires of State and Kirk propounded to his majesty for the 
security of religion and safety of his people, and to en- 
gage and to oblige himself for the performance of his duty 
to his people, it is consonant to Scripture and reason, aud 
the laws of the kingdom, that they should refuse to admit 
him to the exercise of his government until he give satis- 
faction iu these things. 

“3. In the League and Covenant which hath been so 
solemnly sworn and renewed by thi> kingdom, the dntv 
of defending anil preserving the king’s majesty, person, 
and authority, is joined with, aud subordinate unto, the 
duty of preserving and defending the true religion and 
liberties of the kingdoms; and therefore his majesty, 
standing in opposition to the just and necessary public 
desires concerning religiou and the liberties of the king- 
doms, it were a manifest breach of Covenant, and prefer- 
ring of the king’s interest to the interest of Jesus Christ, 
to bring him to the exercise of his royal powers, which he. 
walking in a contrary way, and beiug compassed about 
with malignant counsels, cauuot but employ to the preju- 
dice aud ruin of both.” 

The stipulation was made known to Charles while 
he was still in Holland, where he had been for some 
time residing, but he refused to accede to it. The fol- 
lowing year (1650) he set sail for Scotland, and before 
lauding on its shores he consented to subscribe the Cov- 
enant, and the test was accordingly administered to him 
with all due solemnity. On the following August be 
repeated an engagement to support the Covenant. Yet 
the unprincipled monarch was all the while devising 
schemes for the subversion not only of Presbyterian- 
ism, but even of Protestantism in Scotland. Again, 
when crowned at Scone on Jan. 1, 1651, Charles not 
only took oath to support and defend the Presbyterian 
Church of Scotland, but, the National Covenant and 
the Solemn League and Covenant having been pro- 
duced and read, the king solemnly swore them. The 
imposing ceremonial, however, was only designed, on 
the part of the profligate Charles, to deceive his Scot- 
tish subjects. Nor did the calamities in which he was 
subsequently involved — bis dethronement and exile for 
several years in France — produce any favorable change 
upon his character. No sooner was he restored to his 
throne in 1660, than he forthwith proceeded to overturn 
the whole work of reformation, both- civil and ecclesi- 


astical, which he had solemnly sworn to support. The 
first step towards the execution of this project was the 
passing of the Act of Supremacy, whereby the king was 
constituted supreme judge in all matters civil and ec- 
clesiastical. To tills was afterwards added the Oath of 
Allegiance, which declared it to be treason to deny the 
supremacy of the sovereign botli in Church and State. 
The crowning deed of treachery, however, which 
Charles perpetrated, was his prevailing upon his Scot- 
tish counsellors to pass the Act Rescissory, by which all 
the steps taken from 1638 to 1650 for the reformation 
of religion were pronounced rebellious and treasonable; 
the National Covenant and the Solemn League and 
Covenant were condemned as unlawful oaths; the Glas- 
gow Assembly of 1638 was denounced as an illegal and 
seditious meeting; and the right government of the 
Church was alleged to be the inherent prerogative of 
the crown. The result of these acts was, that the ad- 
vances which the Church and the country had made 
during the period of the Second Reformation were com- 
pletely neutralized, and the Church of Scotland was 
subjected for a long series of years to the most cruel 
persecution and oppression. With such flagrant and 
repeated violations of the solemn compact into which 
Charles had entered with his subjects, it is not to be 
wondered at that, on high constitutional grounds, this 
body of the Covenanters, headed by Cameron, Cargill, 
and others, should have regarded the treacherous sov- 
ereign as having forfeited all title to their allegiance. 
They felt it to be impossible to maintain the principles 
of the Reformation, and yet own the authority of a 
monarch who had trampled these principles under foot, 
and that, too, in violation of the most solemn oaths, re- 
peated again and again. The younger M‘Crie, in his 
> Sketches of Scottish Church History , alleges that the 
principle laid down by Cameron’s party was, “ that the 
king, by assuming an Erastiau power over the Church, 
had forfeited all right to the civil obedience of his sub- 
jects — a principle which had never been known in the 
Church of Scotland before/’ Sueli a view of the mat- 
ter, however, is scarcely fair to the Cameronians. It 
was not because Charles had usurped an Erastian au- 
thority over the Church that they deemed it their duty 
to renounce their allegiance, but because he had broken 
the solemn vows made at his coronation. On that oc- 
casion he had entered, as they held, into a deliberate 
compact with his subjects, and yet, in the face of all his 
vows, he had openly, and in the most flagrant manner, 
broken that compact, thus setting his subjects free from 
all obligation to own him as king. It is quite true, as 
the Westminster Confession of Faith alleges, that “in- 
| fidelity or difference in religion doth not make void the 
magistrate’s just and legal authority, nor free the people 
from their due obedience to him ;” but this remark does 
not meet the case as between Charles and the Came- 
ronian party. They renounced their allegiance not be- 
cause the sovereign was an infidel, or differed from them 
in matters of religion, but solely and exclusively because 
he had broken a civil compact entered into between him 
and his Scottish subjects on receiving the crown, and 
confirmed by a solemn religious vow. Bv his own de- 
liberate deeds the traitorous monarch had forfeited his 
right to rule before they had renounced their obligation 
to obey. Such were the simple grounds on which Cam- 
eron, Cargill, Renwick, and their followers considered 
themselves justified in disowning the authority of the 
king, and bearing arms against him as a usurper of the 
throne and a traitor to the country. 

This earnest and intrepid band of Covenanters brought 
down upon themselves, by the fearless avowal of their 
principles, the special vengeance of the ruling powers. 
One after another their leaders perished on the scaffold, 
and thus the people who held Caraeronian principles 
found themselves deprived of religious instructors, and 
wandering as “sheep without a shepherd.” In these 
circumstances they resolved to form themselves into a 
1 united body, consisting of societies for worship and mu- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 526 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


tual edification, which were formed in those districts 
where the numbers warranted such a step. To preserve 
order and uniformity, the smaller societies appointed 
deputies to attend a general meeting, in which was 
vested the power of making arrangements for the regu- 
lation of the whole body. The first meeting of these 
united societies was held on Dec. 15, 1G81, at Logan 
House, in the parish of Lesmahagow, I .anarkshire, where 
it was resolved to draw up a public testimony against 
the errors and defections of the times. The name which 
this body of Covenanters took to themselves was that 
of the “ Persecuted Deranant,” while the societies which 
they had formed for religious improvement led them to 
be designated the. “ Society People.” “ They had taken 
up no new principles,” as Dr. Iletherington well remarks: 
“the utmost that they can be justly charged with is, 
merely that they had followed up the leading principles 
of the Presbyterian and Covenanted Church of Scotland 
to an extreme point, from which the greater part of 
Presbyterians recoiled; and that in doing so they had 
used language capable of being interpreted to mean 
more than they themselves intended. Their honesty 
of heart, integrity of purpose, and firmness of principle 
cannot be denied — and these are noble qualities; and if 
they did express their sentiments in strong and un- 
guarded language, it ought to be remembered that 
they did so in the midst of fierce and remorseless perse- 
cution, ill adapted to make men nicely cautious in the 
selection of balanced terms wherein to express their in- 
dignant detestation of that unchristian tyranny which 
was so fiercely striving to destroy every vestige of both 
civil and religions liberty.” 

The first manifestation of the views held by the So- 
ciety People took place during the dissensions at Both- 
well Bridge, when a body of the Covenanters refused to 
make a public avowal of their allegiance to the king in 
their declaration. A rude outline of the declaration was 
drawn up by Cargill, assisted by Henry Hall, of Ilaugh- 
head, who was mortally wounded at Quecnsferry, and 
the document, being found on his person, received the 
name of the “Queensfcrry Paper.” It contained some 
of the chief points held by the Society People; but it 
unfortunately embodied in it an avowal of dislike to a 
hereditary monarchy, as “liable to inconvenience, and 
apt to degenerate into tyranny.” Though the paper in 
question emanated from only a few persons, and its er- 
rors, therefore, could not be charged upon the whole of 
the strict Presbyterian party, yet it was quoted without 
reserve by their enemies as a proof of disloyal and even 
treasonable intentions. To counteract the prejudices 
thus excited against them, the leaders of the Society 
People drew up deliberately a statement of their prin- 
ciples, which is usually known by the name of the 
“Sanquhar Declaration.” This document, which care- 
fully excluded all reference to a change in the form of 
government, was, nevertheless, classed by the persecu- 
tors along with the Queensferry Paper in all their proc- 
lamations, as if they had been identical, and made an 
excuse for issuing to the army the most ruthless and 
cruel commands to pursue to the death all who were 
suspected of being connected with these bold declara- 
tions. Cameron, Cargill, and ten other persons were 
proclaimed traitors, and a price was set upon their 
heads. Nothing daunted, Cargill in I (330 boldly pro- 
nounced what is known as the Torwood Excommu- 
nication. In a meeting held at Torwood, in Stirling- 
shire, t lie intrepid Covenanter, after divine service, sol- 
emnly excommunicated Charles and his chief support- 
ers, casting them out of the Church, and delivering 
them up to Satan. 'Phis bold act of a Christian hero 
roused the government to greater fury, and a series of 
civil and military executions followed, down to the 
Devolution in lGxs. 

In the persecutions of this eventful period, the Society 
People had been subjected to painful discouragement bv 
the loss of their able and devoted leaders. Cameron 
and Cargill, and many others, bad sealed their testimo- 


ny with their blood, but in this time of sore trial Provi- 
dence graciously raised up one admirably calculated to 
take a prominent part in promoting Christ’s cause in 
days of bloody persecution. The individual to whom 
we refer was Mr. James 1 Jen wick, w ho, having himself 
witnessed the execution of .Mr. Donald Cargill, resolved 
from that moment to engage with his whole soul in the 
good cause. Having studied for the ministry in Hol- 
land, and received ordination, he returned to his native 
land that lie might share with his persecuted brethren 
in tbeir trials, ami preach among them the unsearchable 
riches of Christ. Often, accordingly, were the Society 
People encouraged amid their severe hardships by his 
faithful instructions. Danger and persecution every- 
where awaited him, but he was ready to endure hard- 
ness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. In 1G*3, at the 
early age of twenty-six, he died on the scaffold with 
a heroism and unflinching fortitude worthy of the last 
of that noble band of martyrs who sealed with their 
blood their devoted attachment to the work of Cove- 
nanted Deformation in Scotland. 

The deeper the darkness, the nearer the dawn. On the 
death of Charles II in 1G<S5, his brother James ascended 
the throne. At heart a bigoted adherent of the Church 
of Dome, lie sought to restore popery to the ascendant 
both in England and Scotland. In making the attempt, 
however, lie rushed upon bis own ruin. 1 Ie fell a victim 
to bis own infatuated policy. After bearing for a time 
with his tyranny, an indignant people rose as one man, 
and hurled him from his throne, substituting in his 
place William and Mary, prince and princess of Orange, 
who, in the Devolution of IG*8, restored civil and relig- 
ious liberty to an oppressed and persecuted people, to a 
greater extent than bad ever before been enjoyed. 

The arrival of the prince of Orange in England was 
hailed by all classes of Presbyterians in Scotland as an 
event likely to be fraught with blessings to their dis- 
tracted country. Lord Macaulay, in bis History of Eng- 
land, indeed, strangely accuses the Society People of 
eagerness to disown William. So far is this charge 
from being well founded, that they wore the first to 
own and hail him as their deliverer. Thus in the “Me- 
morial of Grievances” issued by the societies, they de- 
clare, “ We have given as good evidence of our being 
willing to be subject to king William as we gave before 
of our being unwilling to be slaves to king James. 
Upon the first report of the prince of Orange’s expedi- 
tion, we owned his quarrel, even while the prelatic fac- 
tion were in arms to oppose his coming. In all our 
meetings we prayed openly for the success of his arms, 
when in all the churches prayers were made for his 
ruin; nay, when, even in the indulged meetings, prayers 
were offered for the popish tyrant whom we prayed 
against, and the prince came to oppose. We also asso- 
ciated ourselves, early binding ourselves to promote his 
interest, and were the first who openly armed and de- 
clared our desire to join with him.” But while the 
Society People welcomed William as an expected de- 
liverer, they openly dissented from the Devolution set- 
tlement as defective in various points. In particular, 
the Covenant, so far from being adopted eit her in the 
letter or in the spirii by the State, was not even owned 
by the Church ; and the monarch took oaths in express 
contradiction to it. Presbyterianism, so far from being 
established in all his majesty’s dominions, was only 
established in Scotland, and that under Erastian con- 
ditions, while prelacy was established in England and 
Ireland, and the king himself became an Episcopalian. 
The establishment of those different forms of Church 
government in different parts of the British dominions 
was effected by the sole authority of the king and Par- 
liament, even before the Assembly of the Church was 
permitted to meet; and thus the principle of the royal 
supremacy over the Church continued to he asserted, 
and was even incorporated with the Devolution settle- 
ment. The principal objections, then, which the Soci- 
ety People alleged against the Devolution settlement 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 527 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


were. (I) that as it left the Acts Rescissory in full force, 
it cancelled the attainments of the Second Reformation, 
together with the Covenants; and (2) that the civil 
rulers usurped an authority over the Church which 
virtually destroyed her spiritual independence, and was 
at variance with the sole headship of the Redeemer 
himself. 

The defects of the Revolution settlement were due 
partly to William’s Erastian policy, and his desire to re- 
tain the prelatic clergy within the Established Church 
of Scotland, but partly also to the temporizing policy 
of the Church itself. “ Though the acts of Parliament,” 
as Dr. Hetherington justly remarks, “ made no mention 
of the Second Reformation and the National Covenants, 
it was the direct duty of the Church to have declared 
her adherence to both ; and though the State had still 
refused to recognise them, the Church would, by this 
avowal, have at least escaped from being justly exposed 
to the charge of having submitted to a violation of her 
own sacred Covenants. In the same spirit of compro- 
mise, the Church showed herself but too ready to com- 
ply with the king’s pernicious policy of including as 
many as possible of the prelatic clergy within the Na- 
tional Church. This was begun by the first General 
Assembly, and continued for several succeeding years, 
though not to the full extent wished by William, till 
a very considerable number of those men whose hands 
had been deeply dyed in the guilt of the persecution 
were received into the bosom of that Church which 
they had so long striven utterly to destroy. It was 
absolutely impossible that such men could become true 
Presbyterians ; and the very alacrity with which many 
of them subscribed the Confession of Faith only proved 
the more clearly that they were void of either faith or 
honor. Their admission into the Presbyterian Church 
of Scotland was the most fatal event which ever oc- 
curred in the strange, eventful history of that Church.” 
It was not to be expected that the Society People could 
approve of the conduct either of the king or of the 
Church in the matter of the Revolution settlement. 
They occupied, accordingly, an attitude of firm and de- 
cided protest against the principles avowed by William 
and acted on by the Church ; and they maintained that 
there had been a decided departure on the part of both 
the one and the other from the principles of the Second 
Reformation and the obligations of the Covenant. 

Holding such views, it was impossible for the Society 
People to incorporate themselves with the Established 
Church of Scotland. They were compelled, therefore, to 
occupy a separate position as Dissenters from a Church 
whose constitution was radically vitiated, and as protest- 
ers against a professedly national government which 
had violated the most solemn national obligations. 
Three Cameronian ministers, it is true — Messrs. Shields, 
Linning, and Boyd — applied for admission into the Na- 
tional Church for themselves and their people, on con- 
dition that they might acknowledge breach of Cove- 
nant, and purge out the ignorant and heterodox and 
scandalous ministers who had taken part in shedding 
the blood of the saints. But every proposal of this nat- 
ure was rejected. After unsuccessful efforts to obtain 
redress, they at last submitted, and the people who had 
adhered to them remained in a state of dissent. 

For upwards of sixteen years after the avowal of 
their peculiar principles, the strict Presbyterians had 
remained without a stated ministry, or without any 
separate organization as a Church. In 1681, however, 
societies were formed which, though exercising no ec- 
clesiastical functions, tended to give unity to the body, 
and to make such arrangements as were necessary for 
the maintenance of worship and ordinances, encourag- 
ing at the same time among the people a devoted at- 
tachment to Reformation principles. Availing them- 
selves of these praying societies for nearly twenty years 
after the Revolution, the people waited patiently until 
the Lord should send them pastors. At length, in 1707, 
their wishes and prayers were answered, the Rev. John 


M'Millan, of Balmagbie, having resigned connection 
with the Established Church, and joined himself to 
their body. For a few years before, he had been con- 
tending within the pale of the Church for the whole of 
the Covenanted Reformation ; but instead of meeting 
with sympathy from his brethren, he was hastily and 
irregularly deposed. Having joined the Society People, 
he labored for many years in the work of the ministry 
among them with indefatigable earnestness and zeal, 
maintaining the principles of the Second Reformation 
till his dying day. 

Soon after the secession of Mr. M‘Millan from the 
Established Church, he was joined by Mr. John MvNeil, 
a licentiate, who, having adopted Cameronian views, 
had also seceded. These two faithful and zealous ser- 
vants of Christ traversed the country, preaching every- 
where, and encouraging the adherents of the Covenant. 
In 1712 the Covenants were renewed at Auchensaugh. 
Amid man}' trials and persecutions the cause went stead- 
ily forward ; and in 1743 Mr. M'Millan, who had hitherto 
stood alone as an ordained minister, Mr. M‘Neil never 
having been ordained for want of a presbytery, was 
joined by the Rev. Thomas Nairn, who had left the Se- 
cession Church in consequence of his having embraced 
Cameronian views. There being now two ministers, a 
meeting was held at Braehead on Aug. I, 1743, when 
a presbytery was for the first time formed under the 
name of the “ Reformed Presbytery.” 

One of the first acts of the newly organized Church 
was to despatch missionaries to Ireland, and b}’ the 
blessing of God upon the labors of these men, and oth- 
ers who speedily followed, a fully organized and inde- 
pendent section of the Reformed Presbyterian Church 
was formed in the sister isle. 

In Scotland a Declaration and Testimony was pub- 
lished in 1741, and the Covenants were renewed in 1745, 
at Crawford-John, in Lanarkshire ; but notwithstanding 
these steps, which were so well fitted to promote unity 
of sentiment and feeling, a few j'ears only had elapsed 
when a division took place in the Reformed Presbyter}’, 
two of the brethren, Messrs. Hall and Innes, having 
separated from their communion in consequence of their 
having imbibed heretical opinions on the subject of the 
atonement. The two brethren, after seceding from the 
Presbytery, formed themselves into a new presbytery at 
Edinburgh, which at length became extinct. The Re- 
formed Presbytery, in reply to their misrepresentations, 
found it necessary to issue a treatise in defence of their 
proceedings in the case of the erring brethren, as well 
as in refutation of the doctrine of an indefinite atone- 
ment. In 1761 a very important step was taken by the 
Reformed Presbytery, the emission of a Testimony for 
the whole of the Covenanted Reformation as attained 
to and established in Great Britain and Ireland, particu- 
larly between the years 1638 and 1649 inclusive. 

From this time the Reformed Presbyterian Church 
went steadily forward, adhering to their peculiar prin- 
ciples with unflinching tenacity; and amid much ob- 
loquy, misunderstanding, and even misrepresentation, 
from the other religious denominations around them, 
witnessing boldly, and without compromise, for a Cov- 
enanted Reformation. Their numbers in many parts 
of Scotland increased beyond the means of supplying 
them with ministers. This was unhappily the case, 
for a considerable time, in various districts of the coun- 
try. But at length such was the increase of ministers 
connected with the body that in 1810 three presbyter- 
ies were formed, and in the year following a general 
synod was constituted for the supervision of these pres- 
byteries. Since that time so rapidly has the denomina- 
tion advanced in numbers that in the year 1859 the 
synod included six presbyteries, which consisted in all 
of thirty-six ordained ministers and eight vacant con- 
gregations. The synod met annually either in Edin- 
burgh or Glasgow. The Divinity Hall met dnring the 
months of August and September, when the students, 
in five sessions, received the instructions of two pro- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 528 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


lessors, one for systematic theology, and the other for 
Biblical literature and Church history. 

In the year 1830 the synod resolved to commence the 
prosecution of missionary operations. Their attention 
was first directed to the colonial lield, particularly to 
Canada. Nor have they been unmindful of foreign 
missions, three missionaries in connection with the syn- 
od being employed in New Hebrides. There has also 
been a missionary laboring since 1846 among the Jews 
in London. 

These Presbyterians have been sometimes called Cam- 
eronians. from llichard Cameron; but they are otherwise 
called “M-Millans,” or “M‘Millanitcs,” from the name 
of the first minister who espoused their cause after the 
Involution. But these, as well as the terms “Whigs” 
and “Mountain Men,” which are also occasionally ap- 
plied to them, they regard as accidental epithets. They 
are sometimes also called “ Covenanters,” from their ad- 
herence to the National Covenant of Scotland, and to the 
Solemn League and Covenant of the three kingdoms. 
Their proper designation, however, or that which they 
themselves adopt, is that of “ Reformed Presbyterians." 
They hold the Holy Scriptures to be the absolute rnle 
of faith and conduct, and to contain the standard of 
these both in Church and State. Next to this they 
adopt the early standards of the Church of Scotland, 
the Westminster Confession of Faith, the Larger and 
Shorter Catechisms of the Church, the Books of Disci- 
pline, and the Westminster Directory for Public Wor- 
ship. And, lastly, they regard the National Covenant 
of Scotland as a continuing obligation. To these are 
to be added the documents published by the body itself 
in explanation of their principles : namely, their Judicial 
Act and Testimony, the 5th edition of which was pub- 
lished at Glasgow in 1818; A Short Account of the Old 
Presbyterian Dissenters, published by authority of the 
Presbytery in 180(1; and an Explanation and Defence 
of the Terms of Communion adopted by the Reformed 
Presbyterian Church. According to the statistical re- 
port made at the Synod in Glasgow, March 18, 1870, the 
Church included 12 congregations with 7500 members, 
and its annual contributions were CM, 000. The synod 
then, by a vote of 57 to G, adopted a resolution in favor 
of union with the Free Church, and such union was 
finally consummated in the General Assembly of that 
body, May 25, 1K7G. 

The residuary Reformed Presbyterian Church mus- 
ters in 1878 eight ministers who held back, and are 
still contending about their Church property. Thus 
the Or if final Secede rs, popularly known as “ Auld 
Lichts” (Old Lights), are a more considerable body. 
Though most of these joined the Free Church (as the 
true Church of Scotland free) in 1852, they have still 
some thirty congregations of poor but very worthy 
people, who consider it their mission to hold up the 
banner of the Covenants, and to protest against the all 
hut universal defection of their time and country. At 
the union in 1852, Drs. Candlish and Thomson, of Edin- 
burgh, White, of Haddington, and the younger M’Crie 
(whose father had been in former days the great pillar 
of the Old -Light community) were added to the Free 
Church. The present Old Lights are notably strict 
both in doctrine and practice. Unlike the New Lights, 
who ultimately went to form the United Presbyterian 
Church in 1817, they are stanch supporters of t lie Estab- 
lishment principle, which the Free Church also upholds 
in theory. It is chiefly the faithlessness of the latter 
witli respect to the ( Covenants which prevents t lie resid- 
uary “Auld Lichts” from joining the communion. See 
►Scotlanp, Cm itci lies in; also Nos. 12 and 13 below. 

5. I’XITKI) OltKilNAL SlS KSSlON ClUKClI. — III 
common with all true Protestants, the Synod of United 
Original Seecdors acknowledges t he Scriptures of the 
Old and New Testaments to lie the supreme and only 
rule ol faith and practice. They claim to lie a branch 
ot the Reformed and Covenanted Church of Scotland, 
and adtiere to the whole of the Westminster standards 


as these were received by the Church of Scotland as 
standards of union and uniformity for the churches in 
the three kingdoms, and feel themselves bound by the 
sacred pledge given in the Solemn League ami Covenant 
to adhere to them as such. They thus take their stand 
upon the principles of the first and particularly of the 
second Reformation, which took place between the year 
1638 ami 1G50, and which embodied in its proceedings 
and settlement all the valuable attainments of the first 
Reformation and carried them to a greater extent. They 
own the morality of public covenanting, and the contin- 
ued and perpetual obligation of the National Covenant 
of Scotland, and of the Solemn League and Covenant, 
upon all ranks and classes in these lands, and acknowl- 
edge the duty of renewing these covenants in a bond 
suited to the circumstances. As Presbyterians, they 
hold that the Lord Jesus Christ, the alone king and 
head of his Church, has appointed a particular form of 
government to take place therein, distinct from civil 
government and not subordinate to the same, and that 
Presbyterial Church government is the. only form laid 
down and appointed by the Lord Jesus Christ in his 
Word. As they believe that Church communion con- 
sists in the joint profession of the truths and observance 
of all the ordinances which Christ has appointed in his 
Word, and that the visible unify of the Church lies in 
the unity of her visible fellowship, they regard free 
communion as an obvious violation of that unity, ami 
hold it to be unscriptural, and that the practice encour- 
ages persons to continue in corrupt communions, by 
leading them to conclude that there is no conscientious 
ground of difference between them and the persons who 
make no scruple of occasionally joining with them in 
the intimacies of Church fellowship. In the worship 
of God they make use of the Psalms of David only, be- 
lieving that they were delivered to the Church by the 
Holy Spirit to be used as the matter of public praise, 
ami they regard hymns of human composition as un- 
suitable to the worship of God, and tending to endan- 
ger the purity both of the worship and the doctrines of 
the Church. 

The Original Secession Synod dates its rise from 
1733, and claims to represent the first seceders who in 
their testimony published in 1737 were careful to make 
it known that they were not dissenters from the Na- 
tional Church because of her civil establishment, but 
seceders from a corrupt and prevailing party in her ju- 
dicatories, who carried on a general course of defection 
from the reformed and covenanting principles. The 
Original Secession Testimony, published in 1827, applies 
the principles of the Judicial Testimony to public events 
that had occurred up to the date of its publication, and 
like it was designed to be a declaration of the sense of 
the standards, and of the way in which they were re- 
ceived by the Reformed ami Covenanted Church of 
Scotland. It is a term of ministerial and Christian 
communion in the body — that is, office-bearers are re- 
quired to signify their approval of its principles, and 
members to accede to them, so far as they know and 
understand them. 

'The synod has from time to time been lessened by 
the separation of brethren. At present it consists of 41 
congregations in Scotland, England, and Ireland; of 
these 21) (including one in England) are in connection 
with the synod in Scotland, and 12 constitute the Seces- 
sion Synod in Ireland, in full communion with the Scot- 
tish Synod. The members and adherents are estimated 
at 6500. 'The income of the Scottish Synod last year 
amounted to about £5400. 

The synod has several Home Mission stations, and 
also a prosperous Foreign Mission agency at Sconi, in 
India, under the immediate charge of Rev. George An- 
derson, who is assisted by two catechists. 'There is an 
orphanage in connection with the mission, having eleven 
children, who are well fed, dad, and educated, and it is 
expected t hat the number will shortly ho materially in- 
creased. A school is also carried on, having 170 scholars, 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 529 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


and four teachers in addition to the missionary, and one 
catechist ; the children are instructed in English, Urdu, 
and Hindi. The synod is desirous of obtaining, and has 
ample funds for maintaining, another ordained mission- 
ary in India. The synod supports a divinity hall, which 
is carried on under the superintendence of the Rev. Prof. 
W. F. Aitken, A.M., and the Rev. Prof. James Spence. 
The library in connection with the hall has 1400 vol- 
umes. Under the editorship of the Rev. John Stnrrock 
a bimonthly magazine is published having a circulation 
of 1200 copies. 

6. Presbyterian Church in England. — In the 
reign of queen Elizabeth there were two well-defined 
parties — the Prelatists, favored by the queen, who were 
satisfied with the reforms begun by king Edward; and 
the Presbyterians, who desired a simpler form of worship 
and government, like that set up by Calvin in Geneva. 
The first adherents of this form of Church government 
in England were those Protestants who returned from 
Frankfort, to which place they had fled for refuge in 
the reign of queen Mary. There they became acquaint- 
ed with the Geneva platform^ and, returning to their na- 
tive country in the time of Elizabeth, they at first met 
in private houses, and afterwards more publicly, on 
which occasions the worship was conducted agreeably 
to the forms of the Geneva service-book. These latter 
were called Nonconformists, from their aversion to the 
established liturgy and hierarchy, and Puritans, from 
their anxiety for purity of life and worship. At the 
Convocation in 1562, the proposition to dispense with 
all ceremonies that had not the clear warrant of Script- 
ure was lost by only one vote. Ilallam says that the 
Puritan party outnumbered cither the Roman Cafholic 
or the Church of England, and that they composed the 
majority of Parliament under Elizabeth and her two 
successors (Const. Hist. Engl. ch. iv, n.). See Puritans. 
They were taken up at the time with questions of doc- 
trine and discipline, and with resistance to power ex- 
ercised, as they believed, contrary to the Word of God. 
lint they felt so much the constraint of circumstances, 
that they paid little heed to the development of their 
principles in Church government, and certainly had no 
thought of attempting to constitute a Church on the 
principles which they maintained, resting satisfied in 
giving effect to these principles by mere resistance in 
particular cases in which their consciences were ag- 
grieved. Yet in 1572 a presbytery was formed at 
Wandsworth, in Surrey, by ministers of London and its 
neighborhood, separating from the Church of England; 
and other presbyteries were soon formed, notwithstand- 
ing the extreme hostility of queen Elizabeth. Synods 
were now r held occasionally. The court, looking to the 
episcopate as the support of its own supremacy, strove 
with all its might to maintain it unweakened, and en- 
forced with reckless energy the bloody laws enacted 
against the Catholics on one side and the radical Prot- 
estant sects on the other. The king having established 
a liturgy calculated to set limits to the arbitrary freedom 
of Puritan worship, the Presbyterians set it down as a 
“worship of Baal” and a quenching of the Spirit of God. 
The dissension threatened to take the form of civil war, 
for the Presbyterians of England united with those of 
Scotland. On July 1, 1643, in obedience to a summons 
from Parliament (which summons had been issued in 
consequence of a remonstrance of the Presbyterian di- 
vines against prelacy), the Westminster Assembly met 
in Westminster Abbey. This Assembly was composed 
of 121 English divines, 10 lords, 20 commoners, with 5 
ministers and 5 elders representing the Church of Scot- 
land. They drew up a Confession of Faith, commonly 
known as the Westminster Confession, a Form of Church 
Government, a Directory for Public Worship, and two 
Catechisms, the Larger and the Shorter, which were all 
approved by Parliament in 1648. Parliament then en- 
acted an ordinance making Presbyterianism the estab- 
lished religion of England, but without attaching any 
penalties to noncouformitv. A loud erv has been raised 
Ylil.-L l 


against the English Presbyterians on the alleged ground 
that, at this period of their history, their whole efforts 
were directed towards the attainment of Church power. 

“ Now r , what w'as this Church pow r er,” says the younger 
M‘Crie, “ which the Presbyterians were so anxious to 
secure, and which Neal would represent as ‘a civil au- 
thority over men’s persons and properties?’ Will it be 
believed that it was neither more nor less than the 
power of keeping back scandalous and unworthy per- 
sons from the ordinances of baptism and the Lord’s 
Supper? This was, in fact, the great point in dispute 
between them and the Parliament ; for the Parliament 
had insisted on having the supreme power in eeclesias- 
tical matters, and had passed a law to the effect that if 
any person were refused admission to sealing ordinances 
by the Church courts, he might appeal to Parliament, 
which might, by virtue of its authority, compel the 
Church courts to receive him, whatever his character 
might be. The Presbyterians, as Neal himself admits, 
‘were dissatisfied with the men in power, because thev 
would not leave the Church independent of the State.’ 
And would Mr. Neal, himself an Independent, have had 
the Church to be dependent on the State? Would he 
have had the Presbyterians tamely submit to see the 
royal prerogatives of Christ assumed by a Parliament, 
after they had succeeded in wresting them out of the 
hands of a monarch against whom, for this very reason, 
the nation had long been engaged in a bloody war?” 

The ordinance which they had secured from Parlia- 
ment in 1648, however, never went into practical opera- 
tion, for as soon as Cromwell and the Independents rose 
into power, they showed an uncompromising hostility 
to the Presbyterians. This was partly owing to the re- 
sistance the latter had made to the trial and execution 
of Charles I, insomuch that they had to be driven out 
of the House of Commons by force before those measures 
could be effected. London and its neighborhood were, 
meanwhile, formed into twelve presbyteries, constitut- 
ing the Provincial Synod of London, which continued to 
hold regular half-yearly meetings till 1655, the meet- 
ings of presbyteries being continued till a later date; 
but the whole Presbyterian system was overturned by 
Crormvell’s Committee of Triers, composed of thirt}'- 
eight persons of different sects, who were appointed in 
place of the Assembly for the examining and approving 
of all persons elected or nominated to any ecclesiastical ' 
office. Cromwell’s policy aimed at bringing all ecclesi- 
astical matters under the immediate control of the civil 
power. 

On the Restoration, Charles II no sooner found him- 
self firmly seated on the throne than he proved false to 
the Solemn League and Covenant which he had sworn to 
observe, restored prelacy to its former power, and gave 
up the Presbyterians, who had exerted themselves for 
his return to persecution. The fruitless Savoy Con- 
ference (q. v.) was followed by the Act of Uniformity, 
which was carried into effect on St. Bartholomew’s Day, 
Aug. 24, 1662. Two thousand conscientious ministers 
who would not consent to be episeopally re-ordained, to 
assent to the Book of Common Prayer, or to abjure the 
Solemn League and Covenant, were then ejected from 
their benefices, and wandered forth to a life of povertv. 
Sixty thousand of the laity were imprisoned or fined, 
5000 of whom died in prison, and the fines, confiscations, 
and oilier consequent losses of property amounted to 
<£2,000,000 sterling. See Nonconformists. 

After the Revolution, and the passage of the Act of 
Toleration in 1689, Presbyterianism revived, chapels 
sprang up in every part of the kingdom, and within 
twenty-five years the Presbyterians numbered 800 con- 
gregations. They became one of the “ three denomina- 
tions” who received the recognition of the State and 
were permitted to petition the crown in a corporate 
capacity, and in the business meetings of deputies from 
these denominations the Presbyterians had two repre- 
sentatives for one Baptist and one Independent. 

Prosperity, however, proved more injurious than per- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 530 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


seciition, and there was an abatement of zeal and spirit- 
uality'. Besides this, another cause operated disastrous- 
ly. In JG91 the Presbyterians were induced to enter 
into Articles of Agreement with the Independents. As 
a consequence, Presbyterian discipline began to be re- 
laxed, the system was not carried out, the office of 
ruling elder was allowed to be dropped, the disuse of 
Church sessions naturally followed, presbyteries and 
synods were given up, the churches became virtually 
independent, and finally Arian and Socinian errors in- 
fected the ministers and congregations to such an alarm- 
ing extent that the name Presbyterian became synony- 
mous in England with Socinian or Unitarian ; old en- 
dowments, legacies of Presbyterians, being in many in- 
stances enjoyed by Unitarians. Notwithstanding the 
numerous Presbyterian houses of worship which had 
been erected, the organization of Presbyterianism was 
very imperfectly kept np. The “discipline” which has 
flourished so well in Scotland under the form of “ Kirk 
Session” never obtained a lirm footing in England, nor 
have the English Presbyterians ever possessed a com- 
pletely organized system of presbyteries, synods, and 
General Assembly. Along with the extensive devia- 
tion from sound doctrine among the English Presbyte- 
rians there arose a strong feeling of discontent with the 
compulsory subscription of the Thirty -nine Articles 
which the Toleration Act required from all Dissenters. 
The subject was discussed in various pamphlets; and at 
length, constrained bv the force of public opinion, gov- 
ernment passed an act in 1779 by which every preacher 
or teacher of any congregation who scrupled to declare 
and subscribe his assent to any of the articles was al- 
lowed to make and subscribe instead thereof the decla- 
ration of Protestant belief, and was thereby entitled to 
similar exemptions. A subsequent statute renders qual- 
ifying in the case of Dissenters for the exercise of min- 
isterial functions unnecessary, except in obedience to a 
legal requisition. But although forced subscription to 
the Articles was no longer required, the Protestant Dis- 
senters, including the Presbyterians, still retained their 
own symbolic books which coincided in doctrine with 
the Thirty-nine Articles. Up to this time both Pres- 
byterians and Congregationalists were in the habit of 
requiring confessions of faith at ordinations, and on such 
occasions ministers of both denominations frequently 
took part in the religious services. At the present day 
numbers of churches exist in England originally planted 
on a Presbyterian foundation, which are only Presby- 
terian in name, being, in fact, Socinian in faith and 
Independent in government. Probably there are not 
less than 170 such churches; but, protected by acts of 
Parliament and decisions of the lord-chancellors, they 
remain unmolested in the enjoyment of their endow- 
ments. 


! 

I 


There existed, however, for some time in England a 
few congregations connected with the Church of Scot- 
land and with the Scottish Secession Church. The for- 
mer organized into a separate ecclesiastical body in 
I83G. but in 1843 a portion of this adhered to the Scot- 
tish Established Church, while a portion, in sisterlv al- 
liance with the Free Church of Scotland, prosecuted its 
work in England on the footing of a Church with sepa- 
rate and independent jurisdiction. In 1872 the two 
bodies into which the English Presbyterians finally di- 
vided— the one then called The Presbyterian Church in 
Enyland, the other United Presbyterians — presented the 
following relative strength: 


EnjjtiiU Prcsb. Unilcd Presb. Total. 

Presbyteries 7 t> 12 

Churches 132 105 237 

Set tlerl ministers 123 no 213 

Hilling elders 540 500 1,1<0 

Communicant* 23, ‘J00 17.S01 41.S27 

Missionary and benev- 
olent collections £7,303 £7,731 £15,030 

Stipends £27,525 £18,437 £40,012 


In 187G the statistics presented at the fortieth meeting 
of the Synod of the English Presbyterian Church showed 


that the number of communicants was 29,045, the total 
amount of receipts for the year £98,481, and the amount 
of stipends paid £38,UG9. The income for home mis- 
sions had been £‘2133. Seven new fields of labor had 
been occupied. The expenditures of the Foreign .M ission 
Committee had been £8208 for the support of 12 mis- 
sionaries in China, besides 3 at home for rest, 5G native 
evangelists, and 23 students. On June 18, ]87G, the 
first Synod of The Presbyterian Church of Enyland was 
constituted by the union of the two bodies. The United 
Church then consisted of II presbyteries, with 2G3 
congregations; 50,900 members, with a yearly income 
of £190.000. In 1877 the Synod of the Presbyterian 
Church of England comprised 258 congregations, dis- 
tributed into 10 presbyteries, with a membership of 
13,434 communicants. The entire income of the Church 
during that year, both congregational and synodical, in- 
clusive of £0210 2*\ from special sources, was £157,455 
1 2s. 

The schemes of the Church, placed under the charge 
of standing committees, are as follows: 

1. Home Missions, including Church Extension, Evan- 
gelization, Temperance. 

2. Foreign Missions. — Principally in China, where 
there are fifteen European missionaries and forty- nine 
native evangelists, and twenty-seven students in train- 
ing. There are sixty-five stations in all, many of which 
have been organized as churches, situated in the dis- 
tricts of Amoy and Swatow, and the island of Formosa. 
In connection with these there were, at the close of 
187G, 1974 communicants. There is one missionary sta- 
tion in India. Many of the late United Presbyterian 
congregations maintain more or less their connection 
meanwhile, as was understood at the union, with the 
foreign missions of their former Church. The commit- 
tee aids missions in Germany, France, Belgium, Spain, 
Portugal, Italy, Bohemia, and Russia. 

3. Jewish M issioh. — The sphere of this work, with 
one missionary, the Rev. Thomas Meyer, is London. 
There is a mission-hall, with reading-room. The means 
used are domestic visitations, public meetings in the 
hall, prayer - meetings, and meetings with inquirers. 
Thirty-seven .lews, besides casual inquirers, were more 
or less under regular instruction in 1877. There were 
three baptisms. 

4. Education . — A theological seminary is maintained 
in London. It has three professors: the Revs. Dr. Lor- 
imor, Dr. Chalmers, and the Rev. Mr. Gibb (resident). 
A generous member of the Church, R. Barbour. Esq., of 
Manchester, having made provision for the endowment 
of an additional chair, the Church is taking steps for 
making appointment of another professor in 1878. The 
committee also takes charge of superintending and aid- 
ing a number of schools, especially in rural districts. 

5. Sabbath-schools. The committee reported to the 
Synod in 1877 348 schools. 5382 teachers, 51,185 schol- 
ars on the roll, of whom 20.271 are children of parent:-, 
belonging to the Church, and 4510 are in senior classes. 
Much Christian work is done among the young by other 
means. 

G, Snstentafion Fund . — This was a scheme in opera- 
tion, at the date of the union, in the Presbyterian Church 
in England only— the United Presbyterian Church aid- 
ing its weaker congregations by another plan. This 
necessitates now some transitional and imperfect action. 
The equal dividend for last year to the congregations 
on the fund was £200, raising the minimum ministerial 
stipend to that amount. The whole sum paid as sala- 
ries was £03,21 1, of which forty per cent, passed through 
this fund. 

7. Publications . — This committee issues the }fessnifjer 
ami Childrens Messenger, monthly periodicals of the 
Church, and during the past year has prepared a me- 
morial volume containing records of the union. It con- 
templates the continuance of instructive manuals, of 
which two have been published for the use of the Church. 

Other provisions are : (a) Widows and Orphans' 


PRESBYTER IAN CHURCHES 531 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


Fund; (6) Chureh Building Committee; and (c) Aged ’ 
and Infirm Ministers’ Fund. See Hume, Hist, of Eng- 
land; Neal, Ilist. of the Puritans; Sketch of the His- 
tory and Principles of the Presbyterian Church in Eng- 
land (Bond.); HaUam, Constitutional History of Eng- 
land; Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac; M'Crie, Annals of 
English Presbyterianism (1872). 

7. Presbyterian Church in Ireland.— In Ireland 
as well as in England there was a strong Puritan section 
of the clergy holding Presbyterian principles during the 
earlier years of the 17th century, and the party was con- 
siderably strengthened bv the settlement, of Ulster by 
Scottish colonists during the reign of James I. Scot- 
tish ministers also carried over to Ireland their peculiar 
view's. But the Presbyterian party was not consolidated 
into a separate community until the civil war broke out. 
The first Presbyterian minister who appeared in Ireland 
after the Reformation was the Rev. Walter Travers, the 
first regular provost of Trinity College, Dublin. lie 
entered on his official duties in 1594; but. owing to the 
civil war in whieh the country was then involved, he 
did not remain long at the head of the university. Of 
those ministers who went to Ireland in the reign of 
James I, the earliest was Mr. Edward Brice, who be- 
came rector of Templeeorran, near Carrickfergus, in the 
eountj' of Antrim. About that time a number of Scotch- 
men obtained bishopries in Ulster. These prelates, who 
had been brought up in the Presbyterian Chureh, and 
who had themselves been originally ordained by pres- 
byters, were not at first disposed to exact conformity to 
the Episcopal ritual from the Scottish ministers settled 
around them. Thus it was that the ministers, though 
refusing to use the Liturgy, were permitted to preach in 
the parish churches and enjoy the tithes. But when 
the imperious Wentworth was placed at the head of the 
government of Ireland, a new policy was inaugurated. 
All the clergy were obliged to strict, conformity ; and in 
a few years all the Presbyterian ministers were driven 
into exile. At the time of the horrid massaere in 1641, 
not one of them was in the country. Thus they most 
providentially escaped that catastrophe. In 1642, when 
a Scottish army arrived in Ulster to put down the re- 
bellion, Presbyterianism obtained a permanent footing 
in Ireland, and, after various struggles, a Presbyterian 
Chureh was founded by the formation of a presbytery 
at Carrickfergus on the 10th of June, 1642. The Pres- 
byterian population of Ulster was greatly increased in 
number by immigration from Scotland about the middle 
of the 17th century; and notwithstanding many diffi- 
culties, from the opposition of prelates and of the civil 
power, the Church continued to increase. While the 
civil war was going on in Scotland great numbers of 
the Scotch emigrated to the north of Ireland, and these 
made a still larger addition to the Presbyterian popula- 
tion, a strong bond being also established between the 
two communicants. For a time their ministers in Ire- 
land were silenced by Cromwell because they refused 
to take the “engagement” of fidelity to the common- 
wealth ; but for the last five or six years of his admin- 
istration he treated the Irish Presbyterians with less 
severity, and at the Restoration they numbered nearly 
eighty congregations, with seventy ministers. Sixty- 
one of these were obliged to give up the benefices into 
whieh they had been placed (Jeremy Taylor deprived 
thirty-six in one day), and only seven out of the seventy 
conformed to the Episcopal establishment. Within a few 
years, however, the Presbyterians organized into a com- 
pact body as the Synod of Ulster, and it is a curious 
fact that the Presbyterian ministers received a pension 
from government, under Charles II, in 1672, whieh re- 
gium donum (q. v.), however, was not regularly paid, and 
soon ceased to be expected by the Presbyterian minis- 
ters. In the reign of William the regium donum was 
augmented, although only to the paltry amount in all 
of £1200 a year. The sum has since, however, been 
repeatedly augmented. With the disestablishment of 
the Episcopal Church of Ireland, under Gladstone’s min- 


istry, the regium donum was discontinued, and the Pres- 
byterian Church of Ireland is entirely relieved from State 
dependence. It was valued at fourteen years’ purchase, 
and the sum of nearly £600,000 was paid over therefor, 
thus securing the division among the ministers of nearly 
£30,000 a year of interest. In 1710 the synod of the 
Presbyterian Chureh resolved to institute the preaching 
of the Gospel to the Irish in their own language. During 
this period of its history' the Irish Presbyterian Chureh 
experienced the utmost opposition from the High-Church 
party. Afterwards dissensions sprang lip within it, and 
these with reference to the most important doctrines. 
Irish Presbyterians could not escape the influence of the 
latitudinarian spirit whieh prevailed during the 18th 
century. Early in the reign of George I, some of their 
ministers began to speak ambiguously on doctrinal sub- 
jects, and to oppose subscription to the Westminster 
Confession of Faith. In consequence, in 1726, a schism 
took place among them, and the non-subscribers formed 
themselves into what was called “The Presbytery of 
Antrim.” The separatists did not obtain much support 
from the mass of the Presbyterian population; but not 
a few who remained connected with the larger body, 
known as “The Synod of Ulster,” exhibited very little 
zeal in upholding and propagating the sound theology 
of their forefathers. Meanwhile the Scotch Seeeders, 
who appeared in Ireland shortly before the middle of 
the 18th century, did much to maintain purity of doc- 
trine in the Northern province. Their congregations 
! rapidly' multiplied, and within little more than sixty 
years after the organization of their first chureh, there 
were upwards of ninety Secession ministers in L T lster. 
In 1761 the Rev. Matthew Lvnd, the first Irish Cov- 
enanting minister, was ordained at Vow, near Rasliar- 
kin, in the county of Antrim. Owing very' much to 
the growing laxity of doctrine and discipline in the 
Synod of Ulster, the Covenanters, or Reformed Presby- 
terians, continued, from this date till the close of the 
century, to make steady progress; and in 1792 their 
first Irish Presbytery was constituted. But early in the 
present century indications of a religious revival appear- 
ed in the Synod of Ulster, and when Arianism was open- 
ly avowed an earnest protest was raised against it. In 
1829 the Arian controversy issued in the separation of 
the Unitarians from the great Northern Synod, and im- 
mediately afterwards the Irish Presbyterian Church, as 
if invigorated with new life, commenced a prosperous 
career. Its congregations rapidly increased ; its minis- 
ters exhibited new zeal and enterprise; and some of 
them attracted attention all over the empire as plat- 
form-speakers and pulpit orators. In 1835 the Synod 
of Ulster adopted an overture requiring unqualified 
subscription to the Westminster Confession of Faith 
from all its licentiates and ministers; and as the grounds 
of separation between this body and the Secession Syn- 
od were now removed, a union between them was hap- 
pily' consummated in 1840. The united body, whieh 
assumed the designation of “The General Assembly of 
the Presbyterian Chureh in Ireland,” consisted, at the 
time of its incorporation, of 433 congregations. Ever 
since the date of this union, the Irish Presbyterian 
I Chureh has occupied a more commanding position in 
the country. It has at present under its eare about 
half a million of people, ineluding a large proportion of 
the substantial farmers and merchants of Ulster. Very 
few of the aristoeraev were ever attached to it; but of 
late its members have been advancing steadily in social 
position; and at the present time it has in its commu- 
nion seven members of Parliament, several considerable 
landed proprietors, and many gentlemen holding the 
commission of the peace. 

The Remonstrant or Arian body has not increased in 
like proportion. After their withdrawal from the ortho- 
dox majority in 1829, the Unitarians formed themselves 
! into an association which assumed the name of “The 
I Remonstrant Synod of Ulster.” This body has sinee 
maintained a lingering existence in the north of Ire- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 51 

land; but doctrinal laxity docs not flourish among 
Presbyterians; and though the Unitarians can reckon 
some forty congregations in the island, their numbers, 
including the adherents of the Presbytery of Antrim, 
amount, according to the government census of 1871, 
only to 1)373 individuals. 

The Covenanters, or Reformed Presbyterians, who 
are all strict Calvinists, are considerably more numer- 
ous. There are besides a few congregations in Ireland 
connected with the United Presbyterian Church of 
Scotland, as well as a few others known by the designa- 
tion of Seceders; but they form a very small item in the 
national census. The Irish Presbyterian Church now 
consists of about (500 congregations, and has not only 
displayed much zeal for the advancement of Protestant- 
ism in Ireland, hut also of Christianity ill other parts of 
the world. Immediately after its formation, the Gen- 
eral Assembly inaugurated a Foreign Mission. India 
was selected as the scene of its missionary operations, 
and its agents have ever since been laboring there with 
encouraging success in Gujarat and lvattiawar. Con- 
nected with it there are now nine ordained European 
missionaries, assisted by a staff of native catechists, col- 
porteurs, and school-teachers. Within the year 187(5 
there were ninety-two baptisms, and the total number 
connected with the native Church amounted to 1G3G in- 
dividuals. The mission has been maintained during 
the year 1S77 at an expense of nearly CIO, 000. Its 
operations have been recently extended to China, 
where three mission stations have been established. 
In addition to this mission the Presbyterian Church of 
Ireland supports a Jewish mission, a Continental and 
Colonial mission, and a mission for Soldiers and 
Sailors. In 187G the Presbyterian Church in Ireland 
reported five synods, thirty-six presbyteries, (539 min- 
isters, 78,445 families, and 107.2G2 communicants. The 
sustentation fund amounted to £ 1 22, 000 ; the total min- 
isterial income for the previous year was £513,000. 
The average salary of the ministers was £870. In the 
schools of the National Hoard of Education, the Presby- 
terian children, in 1874, numbered 11 5, '258, equal to 
about 1 1 per cent. A Presbyterian college (Magee Col- 
lege) was opened at Londonderry Oct. 10, 18(55. In 
18 1(5, Mrs. Magee, widow of the Rev. William Magee, a 
Presbyterian minister, left £*20,000 in trust for the erec- 
tion and endowment of a Presbyterian college. This 
sum was allowed to accumulate for some years, until 
eventually the trustees were authorized, by a decree of 
t lie lord-chancellor, to select a convenient site at or near 
Londonderry. The Irish Society have granted an an- 
nual endowment of £*250 to the chair of natural philos- 
ophy and mathematics, and £250 for five years towards 
the general expenses of the college. The Rev. Richard 
Dill, who died in 1858, bequeathed £5000 to establish 
two professorships. The appointment of the trustees is 
vested in the General Assembly. The professors .are re- 
quired to sign the Westminster Confession of Faith, hut 
no religions test is prescribed for students. 1 he major- 
ity of the Irish Presbyterian ministers are educated in 
the General Assembly's Theological College at He) fast. 
It has a faculty of six professors, hut provides only a 
theological curriculum. The students attending it re- 
ceive their undergraduate education in the adjoining 
<)uecn’s College. The Assembly College has an at- 
tendance of from 70 to 150 students; the students of 
the younger college arc not yet nearly so numerous. 
Previous to the passing of the Irish Church Act in 18(59, 
a parliamentary grant, of £1751) per annum sufficed for 
the maintenance of six professors, at £250 each, leaving 
£250 to defray the expense of management. The gov- 
ernment, on t lie passing of the act, granted a sum of 
£13,97(5 as compensation; and the interest of this sum, 
together with t lint on £5000 subscribed by friends of 
the institution, and the fees of the students, make up 
the annual income. Patrons have recently added prizes, 
worth from £20 to £50 per annum. A most valuable 
agency sustained by the Church and of comparatively j 


12 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 

recent establishment is the Oi-phan Society , which al- 
ready supports 2400 poor children deprived of one or 
both of their parents, and has an annual revenue of 
about £9000. .See I kkl.\NI). 

8. Pkksbvtekian Synod of Seceders in Juki, and. 
—This denomination of Christians was formed by a 
union, which was effected in 1818, between the two sec- 
tions of the Secession Church in Ireland, the Hurghcrs 
and Antiburghers. From the commencement of the pres- 
ent century negotiations had been carried on with a view 
to the accomplishment of this most desirable object ; hut 
such negotiations had uniformly failed, from the cir- 
cumstance that the Antiburghers, who were subject to 
the general synod in Scotland, had been prevented by 
that court from taking effective steps in the matter. 
At length, however, they resolved to act independently 
of the Scottish judicatory, and the two synods of Sece- 
dors in Ireland, having agreed upon a basis of union, 
met at Cooks town July 9, 1818, and formed themselves 
into one body under the designation of “The Presbyte- 
rian Synod of Ireland, distinguished by the name Seced- 
ers.” The ministers of the united synod at this period 
amounted in number to 97. The basis on which the 
union rested consisted of the six following points: 

“ 1. To declare tlieir constant and inviolable attachment 
to their already approved and recognised standards: name- 
ly, t he Westminster Confession of Faith, Larger and Short- 
er Catechisms, Directory for Worship, and Form of Pres- 
byterian Church government, with the Original Secession 
Testimony. 

“2. That, as they unite under the banner of a testimony, 
they are determined, in all times coining, as their fore- 
fathers have set them the example, to assert tite Until 
when it is injured or opposed, and to condemn and testify 
against error and immorality whenever they may seem to 
prevail. 

‘*3. To cancel the name of Burgher and Autiburglier 
forever, and to unite the two synods into oue, to he known 
by the name ‘The Presbyterian Synod of Ireland, distin- 
guished by the name Seceders.’ 

“4. To declare their insubordination to any other eccle- 
siastical court, while, at the same time, they do hereby 
signify their hearty inclination to hold a correspondence 
with their sister Church in Scotland or elsewhere, for their 
mutual edification; but. think it expedient not to lay them- 
selves under any restrictions as to the manner of said cor- 
respondence. 

“t>. To allow all the presbyteries and congregations in 
their connection to hear the same name, and, in the mean- 
time, stand as they were before the coalescence. 

“t!. Carefully to preserve all the public records of the 
two synods from their formation in this kingdom till the 
present day.” 

This union was the means of imparting considerable 
strength and vigor to the Secession Church in Ireland. 
A home mission was now commenced, and the cause of 
Presbyterianism began to flourish in various towns and 
villages where it had been hitherto unknown. The 
whole proceedings of this Church were characterized 
hv a high regard to purity of doctrine and the advance- 
ment of vital religion. The Irish Presbyterian Church, 
on the contrary, had long been hindered in its progress 
by the prevalence of Arian and Socinian doctrines, both 
among its ministers and people. By the divine bless- 
ing, however, they were at length enabled to rid them- 
selves of the New-Light party ; and, to secure uniformity 
of teaching in the Church, they passed an overture re- 
quiring absolute subscription to the Confession of Faith. 
The general synod was now, in almost all respects, as- 
similated to the Irish Secession Church, and t lie pro- 
posal of a union between the two was seriously enter- 
tained. An arrangement in regard to the reyunn donum 
made in 1838 paved the way for its completion, govern- 
ment having in that year agreed to equalize the bounty, 
and on certain conditions to grant £75, late Irish cur- 
rency, per annum, to every minister connected with the 
two synods. Being thus placed on an equal footing by 
the government, and agreed both in doctrine and t ’linrcli 
polity, the great obstacles to a complete incorporation of 
the two churches were thus removed. 

The first movement towards union had taken place 
among the theological students of both churches at- 
tending the Belfast Academical Institution, who had 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 533 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


established among themselves a united prayer-meeting. 
The desire for union, and a strong feeling of its propri- 
ety, rapidly spread both among ministers and people. 
Memorials* on the subject, accordingly, were presented 
to the Synod of Ulster, and the Secession Synod, at their 
respective meetings in 1839. Committees were appoint- 
ed by the two synods, and, the matter having been fully 
considered anil preliminaries adjusted, the final act of 
incorporation took place at Belfast on July 10, 1840, the 
united body taking to itself the name of Ihe Presbyterian 
Church in Ireland. See Ireland. 

9. Welsh Calvinistic Methodists. — This body 
of believers is sometimes ranked among Presbyterians, 
because its form of Church government is a modijied 
Presbyterianism. Each Church manages its own af- 
fairs, admits or expels members by the vote of the ma- 
jority of those who belong to it, but this is rather Con- 
gregational than Presbyterian. It, however, allows an 
appeal from the decision of the individual Church to the 
monthly meeting of the county or presbytery to which 
it belongs, and then there is an appeal from the month- 
ly meeting to the quarterly association of the province. 
Matters are finally disposed of. as follows: those relat- 
ing to South Wales by the South Wales Association, 
and so of the North ; but a few years ago a General As- 
sembly of the whole connection was established, and 
the two associations may agree to refer matters to that 
body, which meets once a year, for final decision. Its 
Confession of Faith is, of course, strictly Calvinistic. 
See Methodism (vol. vi, p. I5G, col. G). 

10. Presbyterian Chlrcii in the United States. 
— The denomination commonly known by this name, 
both on account of its numerical superiority and its pri- 
ority of organization, derived its origin from the Presby- 
terians of Scotland and Ireland, and particularly the 
latter, with a considerable infusion of French Hugue- 
nots, Dutch and German Reformed emigrants. Many 
fugitives from persecution in the mother country took 
refuge in the more liberal colonies of Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, New Jersey, Virginia, and the C’arolinas. 
Francis Makemie, who may be called the founder of 
American Presbyterianism, was an Irishman, who sev- 
eral years before the close of the 17th century had gath- 
ered churches in Maryland. For several years before the 
organization of the first presbytery, his most intimate 
ministerial friend was Jedediah Andrews. The earliest 
traces of Church organizations of a trustworthy charac- 
ter indicate a congregation gathered in Upper Marlbor- 
ough, Aid., in 1G90, and others collected by Mr. Makemie 
in the same colony about the same date, if not as early 
as IG84— one in Freehold, N.J., called the Scotch Meet- 
ing-house, in 1G92; and one in Philadelphia, under the 
care of Mr. Andrews, in IG98. The Presbytery of Phila- 
delphia is supposed to have been formed about the year 
1705, if not before, this uncertainty arising from the 
first page of the manuscript minutes being lost. It Avas 
composed of seven ministers — Samuel Davis, John 
Hampton, Francis Makemie, and George INPNish, from 
Ireland ; Nathaniel Taylor and John Wilson, from Scot- 
land ; and Jedediah Andrews, from New England. The 
growth of the body was so rapid as to justify, in 171G, 
the formation of the Synod of Philadelphia, consist- 
ing of three presbyteries. The presbytery of Philadel- 
phia had six ministers and six churches; that of New- 
castle six ministers and churches; that of Snowhill 
three ministers anil churches; and that of Long Island 
two ministers and several churches— in all twenty-three 
ministers and more than that number of congregations. 

The Adopting Act was passed in 1729, designed to 
announce the Westminster Confession and Catechisms 
as the standards of the Church more formally than had 
ever yet been done. The bearing of this act has been 
of late years sharply discussed. It may be found in the 
printed minutes. It was a compromise measure accept- 
ed in consequence of the agitation which had been oc- 
casioned by the Irish presbyters. These had been in 
the midst of an exciting controversy against the intru- 






I 


sion of Arian principles into the Presbyterian Church 
of Ireland, and had come over determined to suffer no 
looseness of subscription to the standards of faith. The 
Adopting Act occasioned, therefore, not a little contro- 
versy. The non-subscribers in sentiment disliked even 
the general terms of the Adopting Act, while the others 
desired the adoption of the ipsissima verba of the stand- 
ards. Though the measure was finally a compromise, it 
failed to set differences at rest. They continued to de- 
velop, and became manifest in connection with certain 
synodical action on ministerial education, and ripened* 
until they resulted in one or two secessions, which pre- 
pared the way for the establishment in this country 
of a branch of the Asscciu/e Presbyterian Church. In 
1739, party feelings were revived by the visit of White- 
field, and the synod was divided into those who were 
known as friends or enemies of the revival. By 1741 
the controversy resulted in a schism, by which th*e body 
was rent into two synods— that of the Old Side party, 
called the Synod of Philadelphia; that of the New, 
called the Synod of New York. The principal cause of 
the division was the insisting of the Old Side on a thor- 
oughly educated ministry, while the New laid more 
stress on piety and zeal. There was no difference of 
opinion as to doctrine or discipline. Gilbert Tennant, 
the friend of Whitefield, was the leader and master- 
spirit of the New branch, and published several sermons 
and pamphlets very severe in their tone. After a sepa- 
ration of thirteen years, passion and party feeling cooled 
down, the leaders were disposed to make mutual con- 
cessions, past errors and mistakes were frankly con- 
fessed. and the two synods became again united, May 
29, 1758, under the style and title of “ the Synod of New 
York and Philadelphia,” comprising ninety-four minis- 
ters. During the half century of existence that had 
now closed, the Church had taken some important steps. 
It had committed itself, for instance, to a polity distinct- 
ly Presbyterian, it had adopted Calvinistic doctrinal* 
standards, and had set up a high standard of ministerial 
education. Nor were these things needless, or done too 
soon. A stream of population was rapidly flowing west- 
ward, having on its front line settlers of very diverse 
characters. Some were men of such lawless habits that 
they could no longer stay in orderly communities; oth- 
ers loved the wild excitements of frontier life, and oth- 
ers thought only of bettering their temporal condition 
by obtaining homes in the new lands. All classes were 
very poor. Indians were numerous, causing the preach- 
er to carry his rifle as well as his Bible — while State- 
Church opposition added to the difficulties of the Pres- 
byterian evangelist. Only men of education — men of 
energy, full of zeal and of varied resource, could have 
even held their own in the face of such hindrances. 
Such men the Presbyterian Church desired to have in 
its ministry, nor desired in vain. Many of its early 
preachers — the Tennants of New Jersey, Brainerd of 
the Indian Mission, Davies of Virginia, and a host of 
others, have been pre-eminent for ministerial efficiency, 
and will assuredly be held in everlasting remembrance. 
While the Church was thus supplying the Gospel in 
sparsely peopled districts and forming new presbyteries 
in every direction, it was led to enter into such relations 
with the Congregationalists as materially influenced its 
after-course. For some years before the Revolution, 
the Colonial Episcopal Church had sought to obtain a 
legal Establishment. Fearing the success of its efforts, 
the synod agreed in 17GG to meet in annual convention 
with the General Association of Connecticut, “ to unite 
their endeavors and counsels for spreading the Gospel 
and preserving the religious liberties of the churches.” 
This arrangement was carried out until the outbreak of 
Avar in 1776 interrupted the intercourse. 

When the Avar of the Revolution broke out, the Pres- 
byterians, to a man, arrayed themselves on the side of 
the patriots — which may, at least in part, be explained 
by the fear, which they shared in common with the 
Congregationalists of NeAv England, that there was a 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 534 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


design to introduce bishops and establish an oppressive 
and odious hierarchy in the colonies. During the 1 {evo- 
lutionary var, in common with all religious interests, 
the Presbyterian Church suffered greatly. Many of its 
church buildings were destroyed, and not a few congre- 
gations disorganized, yet its vitality remained unbro- 
ken. 1 {allying quickly on the return of peace, new in- 
terest in religious ordinances was manifested by the 
people, and synodical meetings were better attended by 
the ministers. 

In 1785, steps were taken for revising the standards 
of the Church and organizing a General Assembly. A 
committee consisting of Drs. Witherspoon, 1 lodgers, 
Hubert Smith, Patrick Allison, Samuel Stanhope Smith, 
.John Woodhull, Hubert Cooper, James Latta, George 
Duflield, and Matthew Wilson, was appointed ‘‘to take 
into consideration the constitution of the Church of 
Scotland and other Protestant churches,” and to form a 
complete system for the organization of the Presbyte- 
rian Church in the United States. In May, 1788, the 
synod convened and resolved itself into a General As- 
sembly. which had its lirst meeting the following year, 
embracing four synods (New York and New Jersey, Phila- 
delphia, Virginia, and the Carol in as), 17 presbyteries, 419 
congregations, and ISO ministers. By this assembly the 
Westminster Confession of Faith was adopted with three 
slight alterations (in chapters xx, xxiii, and xxxi), and 
the Larger and Shorter Catechisms with but a single 
alteration, while the form of government and discipline 
of the Scottish Church was so modified as to discounte- 
nance the right of the civil magistrate to interfere in 
the affairs of the Church except for the purpose of pro- 
tection alone. Shortly after the Avar, the Presbyterian 
ministers renewed their friendly relations with the Con- 
gregationalists. In 1792 the General Assembly and the 
Association of Connecticut agreed that each denomina- 
tion should be represented in the annual meetings of 
the other by three commissioners, an agreement that 
aftenvards embraced the general associations of Ver- 
mont, NeAV Hampshire, and Massachusetts. In 1794 
these representatives Avere alloAved to vote on all mat- 
ters under discussion. All these measures prepared the 
Avay for the adoption, in 1 SO 1 , by both parties of the 
“ Plan of Union.” Under this arrangement a congrega- 
tion, Congregational in polity, might ha\-e installed as 
its pastor a Presbyterian minister Avho still retained his 
seat in the presbytery, and Avas personally responsible 
thereto, and be itself represented in that court not by 
an elder, but by a committeeman or delegate chosen 
from its membership. On the other hand, a congrega- 
tion Presbyterian in its polity, connected Avith a pres- 
bytery and represented therein by an elder, might have 
installed over it as pastor a Congregational minister 
Avlio remained a member of some Congregational asso- 
ciation. This procedure Avas the fruit partly of the 
co-operations of the previous years, but it made Pres- 
byterianism less systematic in its movements and loss' 
authoritatiA'e in its administration, as avc shall see pres- 
ently. During the earlier years of the present century, 
there appeared in the southern and western portions 
of the Church striking manifestations of religious in- 
terest, having, in many cases, singular physical accom- 
paniments. In connection Avith these, zeal outran dis- 
cretion ; strange doctrines Avere soon taught ; presbyte- 
rial order Avas violated, and confusion became widespread. 
Ultimately these things led to the AvithdraAval of some 
of the offenders and the removal of others from the 
Presbyterian Church, and the formation in 1811 of 
Avhat is iioav knoAvn as “ The Cumberland Presbyterian 
Church.” (See Xo. 1 1 below.) 

The increase of the Church Avas rapid, and by 1834 
it contained 22 synods, 111 presbyteries, and about 190ft 
ministers. But only four years inter (in 1838) Presby- 
terianism suddenly encountered a severe re\'orsc bv a 
Avidespread schism, for Avliicli the materials had been 
gathering for several years. In I8->2, the Synod of the 
Associate Hefonned Church having been brought, under 


the lead of Dr. John M. Mason, to faA'or union Avith the 
Presbyterian Church, that union took place; but a very 
considerable minority refused to acquiesce in the meas- 
ure, and retained a separate existence. During the 
fifteen years that folloAved, the groAvth of the Church 
Avas unprecedentedly rapid. New churches and presby- 
teries Avere multiplied in the Middle and Western States. 
Already 'measures had been adopted (1812) Avhich re- 
sulted in establishing Princeton Seminary, Union Sem- 
inary in Virginia, and, though nnendoAvcd, the South- 
ern and Western at Marysville, Tenn. Auburn followed 
in 1810; the Western at Allegheny City and Lane at. Cin- 
cinnati in 1729-27 ; Columbia, S.C.,an*d Danville. Ivy., in 
1828; and Union at New York in 1*30. The accessions 
from Xcav England, at the time in full theological sym- 
pathy Avith the Presbyterian Church, were provided for 
by the “ Plan of Union” agreed to by the General Asso- 
ciation of Connecticut and the General Assembly in 
1801. It aimed to secure the rights aiul the harmo- 
nious co-operation of t aa*o denominations entering the 
same field. For nearly a quarter of a century no fault 
was found Avith it; but it led to the representation in 
Presbytery and General Assembly of committeemen 
from Congregational churches, and these Avere found to 
fa\-or voluntary missionary societies not under the As- 
sembly’s control. Of these societies, that for home mis- 
sions, Avithin a few years after its organization in 1826, 
had several hundred missionaries under its patronage. 
Most of these Avere from XeAv England, and many of 
them Avere alike opposed to Church boards and in sym- 
pathy Avith “Xcav llaA-en theology.” Parties Avere thus 
formed in the Church, and the agitation on the subject 
of slavery, springing up at that time, tended to increase 
the alienation. 

The crisis came in 1837. Taa-o parties Avere arrayed 
against each other, knoAvn as the Old and Xcav Schools. 
In general, it may perhaps be said that the division 
was one of sentiment between the more progressive 
and the more conservative members of the Church. 
In the Old there avos more of a leaning to the strict 
vieAvs of the Scotch Church on doctrine and discipline; 
in the XeAv, the preference Avas as decidedly in favor 
of the laxer and more latitudinarian practice of Xcav 
England, from Avhich region many of the party had 
originally come. The Xew Lights Avished to bear a 
decided testimony against slavery ; the Old Lights 
thought that duty did not require any action of the 
Church on that subject; t lie former Avished to unite 
Avith other denominations in Christian Avork through 
voluntary societies; the latter believed that such Avork 
could be more efficiently and economically conducted 
by their denomination through boards which should be 
under its own control. Instead of brotherly love, bick- 
erings and heart-burnings iioav prevailed ; the General 
Assembly Avas an arena of constant strife ; each party, as 
it obtained an accidental majority, set itself to Avork to 
nullify the measures of its opponents. The Old School 
made ineffectual attempts to try and condemn Drs. 
Barnes, Beecher, and Duflield for publishing heterodox 
opinions; the Xcav School stood up for “substance of 
doctrine,” and for the Great Voluntary or Xational So- 
cieties in opposition to denominational action. Confi- 
dent in superior numbers and strategy, the latter antic- 
ipated an easy victory, and refused any concessions. 
The Old School, crippled on every side, and chagrined 
at being cast into the shade, held conventions to deride 
upon their future course. In 183-1 appeared “The Act 
and Testimony,” drafted by He A'. Hubert J. Breckinridge, 
complaining of the prevalence of doctrinal errors, the 
relaxation of discipline, and the violation of Church 
order. The signatures amounted to 2075. In 1837 an- 
other coiiA'eution, meeting a week before the General 
Assembly, prepared a testimony and memorial to be 
laid before the Assembly, in which they testified against 
sixteen doctrinal errors, ten variations from Presbyte- 
rian order, and five declensions in Christian discipline, 
and proposed a method of reform. The Old- School 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


53 

party, finding themselves that year (the first for five 
years) in the majority, adopted the suggestions of the 
memorial as a basis of action, and pressed matters to a 
speedy issue. They established a Board of Foreign 
Missions, dissolved the Elective Affinity Presbytery, 
abrogated the Plan of Union of 1801 with the Congre- 
gational bodies, and disowned (or, as the New-School 
party termed it, exscinded) the four synods of Genesee, 
Geneva, Utica, and Western Reserve as un-Presbyterian 
in their composition. The next year (1838) both par- 
ties made strenuous exertions for the ascendency in the 
Assembly. Upon calling the roll, it was found that the 
delegates from the four synods were not recognised, nor 
would the moderator, Dr. Elliott, entertain any motion 
in their behalf. Hereupon, according to a concerted 
plan, the commissioners from the four synods and those 
who sympathized with them protested against the mod- 
erator’s decision, and proceeded to make a new organi- 
zation and elect new officers, after which they withdrew 
in a body to another place, and there held their sittings 
as the true Constitutional Assembly, and, among other 
things, elected several trustees of the property of the 
corporation. These trustees, being subsequently refused 
admission into the board, instituted legal proceedings, 
and received a verdict in their favor. The case being 
taken up to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, chief- 
justice Gibson ordered a new trial. This, however, was 
never had, the rulings being such as to completely set 
aside the decision of judge Rogers in the inferior court, 
and after a few years the suit was withdrawn. The New i 
School declared themselves satisfied with the moral ef- 
fect of the trial, and with a later decision of the chief- 
justice in the York case. The two bodies w ent on as 
separate denominations, though each claimed to have 
the genuine constitutional succession, and employed the 
same style and title, “ The General Assembly of the , 
Presbyterian Church in the United States of America.” 
Both of these churches were extended over the whole 
of the United States, and both of them had missions in 1 
different parts of the heathen world, their collections for > 
missions forming a large part of the contributions for 
that object from the United States of America. The 
Old-School Presbyterians possessed the following theo- 
logical seminaries : Princeton (Princeton, N. J.), West- 
ern (Allegheny City, Pa.), Columbia (Columbia, S. C.), 
Danville (Danville, Kv.), and North-west (Chicago, 
111.). The New-School Presbyterians held the Union 
(New York City), Auburn (Auburn, N. Y.), Lane (near 
Cincinnati, O.), Blackburn (Carlinville, 111.), and Lind 
(Chicago, III.). The Old and New School Presbyterian 
churches w r cre reunited in 1871. At that time the for- 
mer comprised 2381 ministers, 2740 churches, and 258,003 
communicants; and the latter, 1848 ministers, 1G31 
churches, and 172, 5G0 communicants. 

The theological history of the Old-School Presbyterian 
Church for the thirty-two years of its separate existence 
may be presented in a very few words. It was left by 
the separation in a state of almost unprecedented doc- 
trinal homogeneity. One may well doubt whether any 
other Christian communion of equal size has ever ex- 
celled it as to unity in the reception of an evangelical 
creed of such extent as the Westminster Confession and 
Catechisms. Differences of opinion, even among its 
ministers, have, of course, existed ; but these differences 
were comparatively trifling, or of very little prominence 
or prevalence. If in any quarter serious error was 
adopted, for the most part it must have been kept secret, 
or have been known to but a lew. No agitating disci- 
pline on this ground v r as exercised, or, to the knowl- 
edge of the Church at large, needed. “Princeton the- 
ology,” as it has often been called, was, beyond ques- 
tion, almost universally prevalent among the Old-School 
Presbyterians. If opposing systems must take a mod- 
ern nomenclature, there may be no harm in making 
Princeton and New Haven respectively the synonyms 
of the Old and the New Divinity; but it should be re- 
membered that the text -books of Princeton have con- ! 


15 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 

stantly been the simple Westminster symbols, and such 
long and generally approved systematic presentations 
of the reformed theology as the Insiitutio Theologies Ec~ 
lenchticas of Franciscus Turretin. Old-School men have 
been slow to admit the idea of any possible improve- 
ment in the generally received system of Gospel truth. 
Recognising fully the recent progress made in Biblical 
criticism and exegesis — the fact, too, that from time to 
time fuller and more exact statements of Christian doc- 
trine may be, as they have been, elaborated — and b} r no 
means maintaining that any uninspired man has been 
wholly free from error, they have, nevertheless, rejected 
with singular unanimity the assumption that any part 
of the substance of the Gospel had lain hidden in Holy 
Scripture until modern times, or that the Church of 
Christ has new discoveries to make as to the system of 
truth in Jesus. A well-known Presbyterian quarterly 
publication — one identified with it from the beginning 
— has lately said, “It has been the honest endeavor of 
its conductors to exhibit and defend the doctrines of our 
standards, under the abiding conviction that they are 
the doctrines of the Word of God. They have advanced 
no new theories, and have never aimed at originalit}'. 
Whether it be a ground of reproach or of approbation, 
it is believed to be true that an original idea in theol- 
ogy is not to be found on its pages from the beginning 
until now.” And this praise or blame may be said to 
belong to the Old-School Church in general as distinc- 
tively as to the publication from which it has been 
quoted. The interval of separation was one of very 
marked literary activity in the Old-School body. Some 
thirty original volumes, from this source, of comment 
upon various portions of Holy Scripture appeared; and 
a very large number of important works, biographi- 
cal, historical, dogmatical, practical, and miscellaneous. 
Probably no other denomination in the United States 
has produced within the same period so many theologi- 
cal books of standard value. 

A deep conviction of the Church’s duty to carry on, 
through strictly ecclesiastical agencies, the work of for- 
eign missions, had led the Synod of Pittsburgh, as early 
as 1831, to organize itself for this purpose as the West- 
ern Foreign Missionary Society. The New' School had 
refused to consummate the desires and plans of the Old, 
by taking this enterprise under the care of the whole 
Church; but the Assembly of 1837 accepted the trust, 
establishing in New York City the Presbyterian Board 
of Foreign Missions. By the Assembly of 1838 a Board 
of Publication was appointed, to which were transferred 
the property and business of the Presbyterian Tract and 
Sabbath-school Book Society, organized by the Synod 
of Philadelphia a few years before. The Assembly of 
1839, the fiftieth year having now been completed since 
this supreme judicatory had first convened, recommend- 
ed the second Sabbath of December for a semi-centenary 
celebration, a day of jubilee and thanksgiving for past 
mercies, and the offering at that time, by all the mem- 
bers of the Church, of gifts for the endowment of the 
new board. The fund raised reached the sum of .$ 40,000. 
This sum, with about $28,000 donated for building pur- 
poses a few years later, has been the nucleus of all that 
board’s permanent property. Before the division, two 
boards had been organized — the Board of Missions, now 
of Domestic Missions, for the home work, in 181 G ; and, 
in 1819, the Board of Education, to aid candidates for 
the ministry; both located in Philadelphia. These had 
been fostered by the Old School, while, as a party, the 
New School had preferred the American Home Mission- 
ary Society and the American Education Society, vol- 
untary associations, in which Congregationalists partici- 
pated. The Board of Missions had, in 1844, the business 
of church extension or church erection added to its 
other operations. This was carried on by a special 
committee, which, ten years afterwards, for greater ef- 
fect, was enlarged. But in 1855 an independent com- 
mittee of church extension was established at St. Louis, 
the name of which was changed, in 18G0, to that of the 


PI l ESBYTER I AX CHURCHES 53G PI i ESBYT El i I A X CHURCHES 


Board of Church Building, then the Board of Church I 
Extension. Two other departments of Christian liber- 
ality and effort have been committed to similar agencies. 
For more than a century anti a half the Presbyterian 
Church has systematically raised funds for the relief of 
disabled ministers and their families. But in 1819 the 
(leneral Assembly ordered collections for this purpose 
to be disbursed by the Board of Publication, a business 
transferred in 1852 to its own trustees; and in 1861 a 
secretary was appointed to devote his time mainly to 
this enterprise, which has since more prosperously ad- 
vanced. In 1861, the condition of the freedmen at the 
South demanding immediate attention, two committees 
— one. in Philadelphia, the other in Indianapolis were 
appointed to take charge of educational and general evan- 
gelistic work among this class; and the next year, in 
place of the two, a single committee on freedmen was 
established and located at Pittsburgh. Various arrange- 
ments and changes have been made to secure to the 
boards the advantage of periodical publications to dis- 
seminate intelligence of their work through the church- 
es. The latest accounts show a circulation of 10,000 
copies of the Monthly Record; nearly 100.000 of the 
Sabbat //-School Visitor of the Month; and 3500 of the 
pamphlet, with almost 52,000 of the newspaper edition, 
both monthly, of the Foreign Missionary; besides many 
thousands of the several yearly reports ami of various 
occasional issues. From about 1819 the project of a 
weekly religious paper, like the Methodist A dcocute, 
was pressed upon the Assembly for several years suc- 
cessively, but without effect. Yet the Church has al- 
ways acknowledged the unspeakable importance of re- 
ligious papers, many of which have been established by 
private enterprise. 

The several departments of self-development in the 
New-Scliool section at the time of union were as fol- 
lows: (1.) “The Presbyterian Committee of Home Mis- 
sions.” It steadily increased in elliciency. Its re- 
ceipts the first year were $27,244, and the number of 
its missionaries 195. In 1869 it had 465 missionaries 
and an income of $102,421. Its missionaries reported 
70 new churches formed during the year; 2400 hope- 
ful conversions, and 2191 added to the churches on 
profession of their faith. The freedmen’s department, 
organized in 18(55, received and expended during the 
same year about $10,000 ; and reported 79 teachers 
employed and 20 others under appointment, all in the 
Southern States. (2.) The “ Trustees of the Church 
Erection Fund.” appointed in 1851. were incorporated 
by the Legislature of the State of New York in the year 
following. The original basis of their operations was 
the permanent fund of $100,000, raised by contributions 
from the churches, most of it in the year 1851, the inter- 
est to be employed in promoting the object chiefly in the 
way of loans. The establishment of this fund operated 
as a strong bond of union in the Church. In the year 
180(5 the basis was enlarged and an annual contribution 
and freer disbursements were ordered. Since that time 
this organization has been rapidly growing in impor- 
tance, and now stands in the very first rank of the evan- 
gelizing agencies of the Church. In 18(59 it reported 
an increase of $51,99(5, and of churches aided about 70. 
(3.) The “Permanent Committee on Education for the 
Ministry," organized in 18515, came slowly into oper- 
ation, moulding its plans gradually and embarrassed by 
the remains of the old voluntary system. In 1869 it’s 
income amounted to $2(5,5(59, and the number of its 
beneficiaries to 210 -viz., 63 in the theological, 102 in 
the collegiate, and 45 in the preparatory department. 
(4.) The “Committee on Doctrinal Tracts,” organized 
in 1852, became the “ Presbyterian Publication Commit- 
tee.” In 18t>9 its income from all sources was $156,214. 
of which $6851 was expended in its purely benevolent 
work. (5.) The “Trustees of the Presbyterian House,” 
located in Philadelphia, and incorporated by the Legis- 
lature of Pennsylvania to care for a valuable propertv 
purchased chiefly by donations made by individuals iii 


the city of Philadelphia, now estimated to be worth 
more than $109,990. I'mler their charge has been 
placed the Ministerial Belief Fund, managed by an ex- 
ecutive committee which commenced its operations in 
18(54. In 1869 they reported $13,465 received from or- 
dinary sources, amt $8290 as a special donation towards 
a permanent fund; also 29 disabled ministers, 33 wid- 
ows, and four families of orphans aided. The average 
age of the ministers was 76 years, and the time of their 
ministry 40 years. The Assembly sustained also a Per- 
manent Committee on Foreign Missions, whose functions 
Mere not the raising and distributing of funds or the 
conducting of missions, but the supervising of the work 
and reporting the results to the Assembly. From their 
report in 1869 it appears that contributions for that 
year to the American Board Mere, in money, about 
$93,613, and in laborers 71 — viz. 52 male ami 19 female 
missionaries. In 1867 the contributions Mere $1 19,725; 
in 1868. $119,692. 

The beginning of a theological school for the educa- 
tion of ministers for the Hermans, in which instruction 
is to be given both in German and English, has been 
made at Bloomfield, N. .1., with encouraging success. 
The periodical literature of the New-School Church de- 
serves honorable mention. Besides other local papers, 
the American Presbyterian , at Philadelphia, has shown 
a M'arm zeal for Church interests, and the iVew York 
Evangelist has done excellent service. Much credit is 
due to the Presbyterian Reporter , a monthly published 
at Alton, 111., for the ability and faithfulness with which 
it served the interests of the Church in the North-west. 
During the ten critical years from 1852 to 1862, the 
Presbyte/ inn Quarterly Review, ably conducted by an 
association of ministers in Philadelphia, defended the 
Church’s cause and n-as an honor to Christian intelli- 
gence. The .1 merican Theological Review, founded in 
1859 on a basis not distinctly denominational, united 
M'ith the Presbyterian Review in 1863, combining the 
names and objects of both, under the charge of the late 
Prof. II. B. Smith, its editor from the beginning. It is 
now merged in the Princeton Review, published since 
1878 in New York City. 

Prior to the separation of the Church in 1838. a se- 
cession had taken place from it in Kentucky (1819), in 
consequence of a dispute betMeen t lie Presbytery of 
Cumberland, in that state, and the Kentucky Synod of 
the Presbyterian Church in America, concerning the 
ordination of persons who had not passed through the 
usual educational curriculum, hut whose services the 
Presbytery regarded as demanded for the ministry by 
the exigencies of the times. In doctrine this branch of 
the Church does not very materially differ from the 
New-School Presbyterian Church, but its symbols of 
faith are a modification of the Westminster Confession 
of Faith. It still exists as a separate organization. (See 
No. 1 1 belmv.) 

In 1858 t lie New’ School experienced a defection of its 
Southern adherents. In 1857 the commissioners from 
the Southern section, who had attended the Assembly 
at Cleveland, (1., proposed to withdraw and constitute 
the United Synod. This Mas organized at Knoxville, 
Tonn., April 2, 1858. In connection M’ith the synod 
M’ere over 190 ministers and about 299 churches, widely 
scattered over the Southern States. This body contin- 
ued a separate organization until Aug. 24, 1864, when it 
Mas merged in the General Assembly formed by South- 
ern ministers and churches previously in the Old-School 
connection. In 1861 the Old School suffered a like de- 
fection by the outbreak of (lie civil Mar. The entire 
Southern body of Old-School Presbyterians, aggrieved 
by the Assembly’s resolution on the state of (lie coun- 
try, M’ithdrcM’ their connection and united to the organ- 
ization of a “General Assembly of the Presbyterian 
Church in the Confederate States of America,” Dec. 4, 
1861, at Augusta, Ga. The Second Assembly convened 
at Montgomery, Ala., May 1, 1862, since Mhieh time 
the meetings of the Assembly have been annually held 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 5:37 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


contemporaneously with those of the Northern assem- 
blies. In 187G fraternal relations were sought for the 
first time between the two bodies. (See No. 17 below.) 

Presbyterianism has never prevailed extensively in 
New England; but it has had such a distinct and in- 
dependent existence therefrom a very early period that 
we speak of it here by itself. The French Cluircli in 
Boston, formed of Huguenots about 1687, was the first 
Church organized on a Presbyterian basis, but was con- 
tinued no longer than while its service was conducted 
in the French language. The first Presbyterian organ- 
ization in New England of any permanence dates back 
to about the year 1718, when a large number of Presby- 
terians, with four ministers, emigrated to this country 
from the north of Ireland. For some time, in cases of 
difficulty, the ministers and elders were wont to assem- 
ble informally, and hold what might be called pro re 
nata meetings; and where they were unable to reach a 
satisfactory result, they sometimes asked advice of the 
Synod of Ireland. On April 16, 1745, the Rev. Messrs. 
John Morehead, of Boston ; David M’Gregor, of London- 
derry, N. II. ; and Ralph Abercrombie, of Pelham, with 
Messrs. James M‘Keen, Alexander Conkey, and James 
Hughes, met in Londonderry, and “constituted them- 
selves into a presbytery, to act, as far as their present 
circumstances will permit them, according to the Word 
of God and the constitution of the Presbyterian Church 
of Scotland, agreeing to that perfect rule.” The body 
was called the Boston Presbytery, and met, according 
to adjournment, in that town Aug. 13, 1745. From the 
close of the year 1754 till October, 1770, there is a chasm 
in the records; but at the last -mentioned period the 
Presbytery consisted of twelve congregations and as 
many ministers. At a meeting held in Seabrook, N. II., 
on May 31,1775, the Presbytery resolved to divide it- 
self into three distinct bodies, viz., the presbyteries of 
Salem, of Londonderry, and of Palmer : these were then 
formed into the Synod of New England, which held its 
first meeting at Londonderry Sept. 4, 177G. At Booth 
bay. Me., on June 27, 1771, a new presbytery was erect- 
ed called the Presbytery of the Eastward, consisting of 
three ministers and four ruling elders, representing four 
churches. It had no connection with the Boston Pres- 
bytery, and its origin is said to have been in some way 
connected with the removal of the Rev. John Murray to 
Boothbay. It never exhibited on its roll more than 
eight ministers. Its last recorded adjournment now 
known was to meet at New Boston, N. H., on the first 
Wednesday of October, 1792. The only relic of this 
presbytery known to exist, is a curious volume printed 
in 1783, with the following title: Bath-Kol. A Voice 
from the Wilderness. Being an humble Attempt to sup- 
port the sinking Truths of God against some of the prin- 
cipal Errors raging at this time. Or a joint Testimony 
to some of the Grand Articles of the Christian Religion, 
judiciously delivered to the Churches under their care. 
By the First Presbytery of the Eastward. In Septem- 
ber, 1782, the Synod of New England, finding their 
numbers considerably reduced in consequence of exist- 
ing difficulties, agreed to dissolve and form themselves 
into the Presbytery of Salem. For two succeeding years 
this Presbytery met regularly in Massachusetts proper, 
but after this its meetings were held in the district, of 
Maine. Its last meeting was held at. Gray Sept. 14, 
1791. The Third Associate Reformed Presbytery, after- 
wards called the x\ssociate Reformed Presbytery of Lon- 
donderry, was formed in Philadelphia Oct. 31, 1782. and 
held its first meeting at Londonderry on Feb. 11, 1783. 
It ceased to belong to its original denomination in 1802, 
and was thereafter an independent presbytery till 1809, 
when it was received into the Synod of Albany, and has 
since continued under the name of the Presbytery of 
Londonderry. The Presbytery of Newburvport was 
formed by the concurrent action of the Presbytery of 
Londonderry and the Synod of Albany. It held its 
first session in Boston on Oct. 27. 182G, and its last on 
Oct. 20, 1847. when it became reunited to the Presbvterv 


of Londonderry. The Presbytery of Connecticut, con- 
sisting of several ministers and churches previously be- 
longing to the Presbytery of New York, was constituted 
by the Synod of New York Oct. 15, 1850, and held its 
first meeting at Thompsonville on Oct. 29. 

Missions. — (a.) Home Missions. — The home mission 
work of the Presbyterian Church may date from the 
year 1707, when it was resolved “that every minister 
of the Presbytery supply neighboring destitute places 
where a minister is wanting and opportunity of doing- 
good offers.” Since that period this work has contin- 
ued to be one of its most important enterprises. At the 
beginning in the hands of the presbyteries, the Assem- 
bly took charge of it in 1802, appointing a “Standing 
Committee of Missions,” to which the presbyteries were 
to report. During the fourteen years that followed this 
appointment the Church sent out 311 missionaries, and 
collected $49,349. In 181G this committee was changed 
into a board, “with full power to transact all the busi- 
ness of the missionary cause,” reporting annually to the 
General Assembly. Under this arrangement the home 
missions of the Church entered on a new course of pros- 
perity, congregations multiplying till presbyteries were 
formed, and these in turn growing into synods. So vig- 
orous was the Church life now developed that even the 
great division of 1838 was unable to hinder its continu- 
ous activity. During these twenty-two years the board 
collected $231,504, and sent out- 2486 missionaries, while 
during the years 1838 to 1870 the Old-School Church 
alone collected $2,805,375, and sent out 16,113 mission- 
aries. For a few years after the division of 1838, the 
New-School Assembly continued to carry on its mission 
work through the American Home Missionary Society. 
In 1852 the Assembly appointed a “Church Extension 
Committee,” following this up in 1862 by assuming 
“the responsibility of conducting the work of home 
missions within its bounds,” forming “The Presbyterian 
Committee on Home Missions.” During the years 1838 
to 1869 the New-School Church is considered to have 
sent out 8800 missionaries. After the reunion, the 
agencies of both churches were united under the name 
of “The Board of Home Missions of the Presbyterian 
Church,” by which, since that period, the whole home- 
mission and church-extension work of the Church has 
been conducted, $1,840,997 having been collected and 
6529 missionaries sent out, making a total since 1802 of 
I $6,132,167 contributed for home missions and of 37,968 
missionaries sent out. During the year 1875-76, 1035 
' ministers (or missionaries, as they are called) were aided 
j to the extent, on an average, of $250 each. 

[ Closely connected with this home mission is the Sus- 
j tentation Scheme, organized in 1871 for the purpose of 
j increasing the number of pastors in the Church, and of 
1 securing to these a larger measure of support. Under 
l this plan, congregations paying not less than $700 a 
j year of salary, and at the rate of $7 50 per member an- 
j nually, and increasing their pastor’s salary at the rate 
of $50 a year, receive grants-in-aid, so that the salary 
' may be raised to $1000 a year. 

(b.) Foreign Missions. — As early as 1742 the Church 
1 commenced her great work of preaching the Gospel to 
the heathen, in the ordination, by the Presbytery of 
New York, of a missionary to labor among the Indians. 
I This work engrossed all her means and sympathies un- 
til 1817. In that, year the General Assembly united 
with the Dutch Reformed and Associate Reformed 
Churches in forming “The United Foreign Missionary 
Society,” a society whose object was “ to spread the 
Gospel among the Indians of North America, the inhab- 
itants of Mexico and South America, and in other por- 
tions of the heathen and anti-Christian world.” In 
1826 this society made over all its missions and prop- 
erty to the American Board, which thus became almost 
the National Foreign Mission Society of America. In 
1831 the Synod of Pittsburgh formed itself into “The 
Western Foreign Missionary Society,” and invited the 
co-operation and support of such as preferred Church 


PRESBYTERIAX CHURCHES 533 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


action to that of so-called union societies. Before 
eighteen months had elapsed, twelve missionaries had 
been appointed to different tields of heathen labor. In 
the following year sixteen more were sent out, while 
$1 13,24 U had been contributed towards their expenses. 
In 1837, mission stations in Northern India, West Afri- 
ca, Smyrna, China, and among the Indian tribes of the 
West were under its charge, conducted by forty-four 
agents, for whose support $40, '200 were contributed dur- 
ing that. year. Such results strengthened the hands of 
those in the Church that desired denominational agen- 
cies. In 1837, therefore, the Assembly severed its con- 
nection with the American Board, and established its 
own “Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian 
Church,” to which the Western Society at once trans- 
ferred all its agencies and property. During the period 
of the division, the Old- School Assembly extended its 
foreign mission staff, forming, on heathen soil, synods 
and presbyteries by means of native converts. The 
New’- School Church at first continued to send its con- 
tributions of men and money to the American Board, 
but in 1X51 appointed a standing committee on mis- 
sions, changing this in 1855 into a permanent commit- 
tee, who should “superintend the whole course of for- 
eign missions in behalf of the Assembly.” On the 
reunion, in I860, these agencies were brought together, 
while the reunited Church received from the American 
Board a number of mission stations that previously it 
had sustained. 


Summary View of the Foreign Mission Operations of 
the I’resuvterian C'uuboii. 


MISSIONS. 

j muT 

J Comm n- 

gj* 1 1 1 

America.. Indians— 

! 


Various Tribes 

1763 11 

2 2S3 

Roman Catholic — 



Mexico 

2400 5 

40 

South America, Brazil, 



Chili, Colombia 

810 15 

5 402 

Africa West Coast 

564 9 

3 281 

Asia India 

780 36 

12 7,910 

Siam 

62 8 

3 104 

China 

1250 24 

36 781 

Chinese iu California... 

64 2 

... 121 


240 4 

2 195| 

Persia 

840 8 

56 1,102 

Total 

9346 135 

iTaiT t3,5oi 


CONTRI IIUTIONS OF Til K PRESIlVTURl A N OllFROIl FOR MIS- 
SIONARY and Benevolent Work during the Year 

1870-77. 

Foreign Missions.. $517, 688 

Home “ 2s7,717 

Sustentntion 38,237 

Education 72,040 

Publication 52,170 

Church Erection 125,016 

Agecl Ministers SO, 285 

Freednieii 54.958 

Total ft, 237, 1 17 

The Presbyterian Church, from the earliest period, has 
been an earnest worker and strenuous advocate for edu- 
cation ; and one of the chief causes of the secession of the 
Cumberland branch was the tenacity with which the 
General Assembly insisted on high educational qualifi- 
cations for ministers. As early as 1739, a proposition 
was brought before the Synod of Philadelphia for the 
erection of a school or seminary of learning, 'flic svnod 
approved of the design and appointed a committee to 
carry it into effect, and iu 1714 a synodal school was es- 
tablished. The College of New Jersey at Princeton, char- 
tered in 174(1 and opened in 1747, was founded under the 
auspices of the Synod of New York. Other institu- 
tions have been organized under Prcsbvterian auspices, 
as follows: \\ ashingtnn and Jefferson College (Washing- 
ton, Pa., 1802). Hamilton College (Clinton, N. Y., 1815), 
Maryville College i Maryville, Tenn., 1819), Centre Col- 
lege (Danville, Kv., 1X23\ Ilanover College (Hanover, 
Ind., 1827), Lafayette College (Easton, Pa., 1831 Wa- 


bash College (Crawfordsville, Ind., 1832), Lincoln Uni- 
versity (Oxford, I’a., 1853), University College (San 
Francisco, Cal., 1859), Blackburn University (Carlin- 
villc, 111., 1807), King College (Bristol, Tenn., 18(38), 
University of Wooster (Wooster, Ohio, 1870), Evans 
University (Evans, Col., 3874), and Parsons College 
(Fairfield, la., 1875). Three colleges are jointly under 
Presbyterian and Congregational control: namely, Knox, 
at Galesburg, 111., 1811; Beloit, at Beloit, W is., 1847; 
and Olivet, at Olivet, Mich., 1828. The academies ami 
ladies’ colleges under the auspices of the denomination 
are numerous. 

Not until 1812 did the Presbyterian Church make 
any provision for the theological education of persons 
seeking the ministry. In that year it organized its first 
theological seminary, locating it at Princeton, N. J., 
already well known for its college, which had been 
founded iu 174(3. Since then seminaries have been es- 
tablished in different parts of the country by presbyter- 
ies or by synods. Of these institutions the appointing 
the professors, the arranging the length of the curricu- 
lum, and the prescribing the course of study — the en- 
tire control, in fact — has remained in the hands of their 
founders. This state of things was so unsatisfactory 
and so unpresbyterian that, on the reunion in 18G9, the 
directors of the different seminaries agreed that, while 
reserving to themselves the general control, the Assem- 
bly should in future have a veto power over the ap- 
pointment of every professor, and should receive from 
the directors an annual report of their administration. 

The Church has thirteen theological seminaries, as 
follows: at Princeton, N. J., 1812; at Auburn, N. Y., 
1820; Western, Allegheny City, Pa., 1827; Lane, Cin- 
cinnati, ()., 1832; Union, New York City, 183G; at Dan- 
ville, Kv., 1853; Theological Seminary of the North- 
west, Chicago, 111., 1859; Blackburn University (theo- 
logical department), 18G7 ; at San Francisco, Cal.. 1871 ; 
German, Bloomfield, N. J., 18G9; German, Dubuque, la., 
1870; Lincoln University ( theological department), 
1871; and Biddle Memorial Institute (theological de- 
partment), Charlotte, N. C., 18G7. Of these, the last 
two are for colored people, and the two immediately 
preceding them for Germans. In 1875-7G they had, in 
all, 5G professors and 578 students. The number grad- 
uating that year was 134. The board of education of 
the Church in 187G received $72,010, and gave financial 
aid to 458 students (222 theological, 218 collegiate, and 
18 academical). In the same year the Church main- 
tained. for freedmen, 39 day schools, with G5 teachers 
and 317G pupils and 5 higher schools, with 903 students, 
of whom 43 were preparing for the ministry. See Gil- 
lett, //is/, of the Presb. Church (2 vols. 12mo, rev. ed., 
Phi la. 1875); llodge, Constitutional Hist, of the Presb. 
Church (terminates in 1788; I’hila. 1810-41, 2 vols.); 
Webster. /list, of the Presb. Church till 1758 (Pliila. 
1857, 8vo); Presb. Reunion Memorial Volume, 1837-71 
(N. Y. 1871, 8vo) ; Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac ; Min- 
utes of the General Assembly (ibid. 1877, new series, vol. 
iv) ; Blaikie, Sketch of the Presb. Churches throughout 
the World (Edinb. 1877), p. 38 sq. 

11. (’UMBERl.AXP PuKSBVTF.HIAN Ciintcii. — In the 
beginning of the present century there was a very ex- 
tensive revival of religion in the south-western part of 
Kentucky, within the bounds of the Presbytery of Tran- 
sylvania. It is frequently called “the Great Western 
Bevival of 1800,” and is regarded by some as one of the 
most important religious movements in the history of 
the Protestant Church of the United States, as it firmly 
fixed the people of the valley of the .Mississippi in the 
Christian faith. The supply of preachers being inade- 
quate, the Presbytery appointed at different times a 
number of lay exit oners, and, after trial of their gifts, 
licensed some to preach. They (lid not require ot them 
the usual course of classical studies, and permitted them 
to except to the doctrine of the divine decrees as in- 
volving the idea of Fatalism. In October, 1802. the 
Presbytery was divided, rnd the Presbytery of Cum- 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 539 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


berland was formed, covering the region just named. 
In April, 1803, the new Presbytery met, and ordained 
two of the licentiates — Finis Ewing (who had for- 
merly been an elder) and Samuel King — and licensed 
other persons. In 1805, the synod, finding complaints 
laid before them of irregularity on the part of the Pres- 
bytery, appointed a commission of ten ministers and six 
elders, clothed with full synodical powers, to visit this 
remote region and investigate the whole matter. Ac- 
cordingly the commission, when convened, summoned 
the Presbytery and the irregularly licensed or ordained 
persons, and endeavored to induce the latter to submit 
to an examination. This, with the sanction of the Pres- 
bytery, they refused; whereupon the commission pro- 
hibited them from preaching or administering ordi- 
nances in virtue of any authority derived from Cumber- 
land Presbytery until they should submit. It was af- 
terwards contended that, as the authority to preach had 
been originally conferred by the Presbytery of Transyl- 
vania, tliis prohibition was technically powerless in the 
case. It may also be observed that it seems now gen- 
erally agreed by writers on both sides that the main ob- 
jection was not to the illiterate character of the licen- 
tiates, but to their alleged unsoundness in doctrine. 
The Revival members (as they were called) of the Cum- 
berland Presbytery after this met as a council and ab- 
stained from presbyterial acts. They memorialized the 
General Assembly, but in vain. The assembly sustained 
the synod, and exhorted the recusants to submit and act 
regularly. The synod, being directed to review their 
proceedings, complied, and on review confirmed all that 
had been done, and further dissolved the Cumberland 
Presbytery and re-annexed its members to the Presby- 
tery of Transylvania. The council made an ineffectual 
effort to bring about a reconciliation, and offered to sub- 
mit the licentiates to an examination ; but. as they re- 
quired that all should be received in a body, the pro- 
posal was not accepted by the synod. On Feb. 4, 1810, 
Finis Ewing and Samuel King (ordained ministers, but 
silenced by the commission), and Samuel M‘Adow, an 
aged minister, met and organized themselves into a 
presbytery under the name of the Cumberland Presby- 
tery. In April following the Presbytery of Transyl- 
vania suspended Mr. M*Adow for his schismatical con- 
duct. 

The progress of the new body was rapid. In three 
years a synod was necessary, with 3 presbyteries and GO 
congregations, and in 1829 a General Assembly was con- 
stituted. The statistics of 1859 reported in the connec- 
tion 9G presbyteries, 927 ministers, 1188 churches, 82,158 
communicants, and 24 educational institutions. In 1814 
the synod published an edition of the Westminster Con- 
fession and Catechisms, altered to suit their system, 
which is understood to be an attempt to steer between 
Calvinism and Arminianism. 1 1 rejects eternal reproba- 
tion, limited atonement, and special grace, teaching that 
the atonement was made for all mankind, and that the 
operation of the Spirit is coextensive with the atone- 
ment. Other points of Calvinism, as the necessity of 
the Spirit’s work in regeneration and the perseverance 
of the saints, are retained. The Cumberland Presby- 
terians are warm advocates of revivals and camp-meet- 
ings. 

As an evidence of the altered state of feeling towards 
this body of Christians as contrasted with the deliver- 
ance of the General Assembly of 1814 — to the effect that 
they could be treated with not as a body, but only as 
individuals — it may be added that first the New-School 
General Assembly entered into correspondence with the 
Cumberland Presbyterian General Assembly, and in 
18G0 the Old-School Assembly also took this step. The 
Cumberland Presbyterians have increased very rapidly. 
The minutes of the forty-sixth General Assembly, 1876, 
show 26 synods, including nearly 125 presbyteries, ex- 
tending over the territory between the Great Lakes and 
the Gulf of Mexico, and reaching from the Appalachian 
Mountains, on the cast, to the Pacific Ocean, on the west. 


The following statistical summary is approximately- cor- 
rect: Ministers, 1275 ; licentiates, 280; candidates, 220; 
congregations, 2000; elders, 6750; deacons, 2000; total 
communicants, 100,000; persons in the Sabbath-schools, 
55,000; value of church property, $2,250,000; contrib- 
uted during the year, $350,000. The following are the 
principal institutions of learning under the control of 
this Church: Cumberland College (Princeton, Ky., 
founded in 1829, discontinued in 1861), Cumberland 
University (Lebanon, Tenn., founded in 1842, which has 
the leading law-school in the South), Bethel College 
(MTvenzie, Tenn., 1847), Wavnesburg College (Waynes- 
bnrg, Pa., 1850), M'Gee College (College Mound, Jin., 
1853, now suspended), Lincoln University (Lincoln, 111., 
1866), Trinity University (Tebuaeana, Texas, 1876), 
Cane Hill College, Boonsborough, Ark., 1852). The Gen- 
eral Assembly, in 1876, approved the establishment of 
a Union Medical College, in connection with the three 
universities of the Church : namely, Cumberland, Lin- 
coln, and Trinity. It is to be located at St. Louis, or 
some other large city. Wavnesburg. Lincoln, and Trin- 
ity admit young ladies on equal terms with young men. 
There are also several institutions exclusively for girls, 
owned by, or under the patronage of, the Church. 

The Colored Cumberland Presbyterian Church has 
been formed by the amicable separation of eolored mem- 
bers from the Cumberland Presbyterian Church, and 
their organization into an independent body. The first 
number of their newspaper organ, The Banner of Light , 
was published in September, 1876. It stated that the 
number of members of the Colored Cumberland Presby- 
terian Church in the states of Kansas. Missouri, Illinois, 
Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, and Kentucky was, in 
May, 1874, 3925; that the number of ministers at that 
time was seventeen ; and that the value of church prop- 
erty tvas $12,550. Since that time the Presbytery of 
Missouri had added 240 members, and the same presby- 
tery had raised $529.25 in 1874. Later reports than for 
1874 had not been receh’ed from the other states. 

12. Thk Reformer Presbyterian Synod.— Dur- 
ing “the persecuting times,” some members of the Cov- 
enanting or Reformed Presbyterian Church of Scotland 
settled in Pennsylvania. In 1743 these met at Middle 
Octorara, and again solemnly subscribed the Old Scot- 
tish Covenant. In 1752 the Scottish Church sent the 
Rev. John Cuthbertson to be their minister. In 1774 
he \A-as joined by the Re\\ Messrs. Linn and Dobbin 
from the Reformed Presbytery of Ireland, when a 
Reformed Presbyterian Presbytery was formed. In 
1782 these three ministers and a portion of the people 
joined with the Associate Church in forming “The As- 
sociate Reformed Church.” The members who Avcre 
opposed to this union kept together as praying societies 
until 1792, Avhen the Scottish Church had appointed a 
committee of their number to take the oversight of 
them judicially. In 1798 a presbytery was organized 
at Philadelphia, and in 1800 the question of slavery 
forced itself upon the consideration of the newly or- 
ganized “Reformed Presbytery of the United States 
of America,” Avhen it enacted that no slaveholder 
should be retained in its communion, a position since 
then faithfully maintained. In 1806 it issued a Testi- 
mony defining its position on several points not men- 
tioned in the Westminster Confession. In the fulloAv- 
ing year it undertook the theological education of its 
ministry by opening a seminary at Philadelphia, and in 
1809 organized itself into “The Synod of the Reformed 
Presbyterian Church in America,” with three constitut- 
ing presbyteries. Subsequent to the Avar of 1812 the 
relations of the Covenanting Church to the national 
government were much discussed. A variety of senti- 
ments Avas apparent as to the extent to Avhich the seA'- 
erance betAveen the Church and that other ordinance 
of God — the State — should be carried. The result of 
these discussions Avas a rending of the Church in 1833, 
and the formation of an independent synod. The large 
losses Avhich the synod — a representative, not delegated 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 540 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


court— sustained in 18:53 noways disheartened it. More 
homogeneous than ever through the separation, it 
thenceforth proceeded rigidly to enforce the principles 
and practices that have at all times been accepted by 
the Church. Members of this Church therefore neither 
become nor act as American citizens: they neither vote 
at political elections, enlist in the army, accept of gov- 
ernment situations, serve on juries, nor in any way iden- 
tify themselves with the political system of the United 
States. In 1871 this Church, in accordance with its 
principle of t he moral duty of religious covenanting, by 
its ministers and members entered into a solemn cove- 
nant with Cod and with each other to serve faithfully 
the great Cod and to keep his commandments, and to 
adhere to the lieforined Presbyterian principles and tes- 
timony. The theological seminary of the synod was 
organized in 1840, and is situated at Allegheny City, 
Pa., having at present a faculty of three professors. 

Missions.- In 1 856 the synod commenced a foreign 
mission at Latakiyeh, in Syria. Since then stations 
and schools have been opened in different, localities. 
The missionary and benevolent contributions for the 
year 1876-77 were as follows: 


Foreign missions $^..*>22 

Home missions 3,0(JS 

Freedmen H,4U» 

Education 2.51.5 

Church erection 27.301 

Total $44,055 


13. Tiif. General Synod of the Reformed Pres- 
byterian Ctiruon. — The minority of the Reformed 
Presbyterian Church at the disruption of 1833 is now 
known by this name. (See No. 12 above.) Steadily 
adhering to the other distinctive principles of the Cove- 
nanters. it yet allows its members to discharge the du- 
ties and enjoy the privileges of citizens, and is popu- 
larly known as the New -Light Covenanting Church. 
The theological seminary, organized in Philadelphia in 
18011, adhered to this portion of the Church at the time 
of the separation, and is. still in connection with it. Re- 
cently a number of its ministers and congregations have 
withdrawn from its fellowship, leaving t lie General Syn- 
od greatly enfeebled. Sec Reformed Presbyterians. 

14. United Presbyterian Ctirttrii of North 
America. — This body is composed of the Associate and 
the Associate Reformed churches which were united in 
187)8, We give here an outline of the history of each 
of these bodies up to the time of their union. 

1. Associate Church. This Church in the United 
States had its origin from a number of Scotch and 
Irish Covenanters exiled for conscience’ sake to the 
American colonics, where they maintained worship in 
a distinct form to the best of their ability. In 1680 
Lord Cardross took measures for the establishment of a 
colony in South Carolina, with a view to furnish a place 
of refuge to his persecuted brethren. This was formed 
at Port Roval; but, in consequence of an invasion 
by the Spaniards, the colony was abandoned in 1688. 
Many, however, remained in Carolina, who were gath- 
ered into congregations under the care of a presbytery, 
which existed until about the dose of the 18th century. 
The only one of these churches now remaining is the 
old Scots’ Church in Charleston. From 1660 to 1688 a 
large number of Presbyterians (amounting, according to 
Wodrow, to about 3000) were transported to tbe Amer- 
ican plantations and sold as slaves. They were for the 
most part sent to Virginia, Pennsylvania, and New Jer- 
sey ; but scarcely any traces of their history now re- 
main. As early as 1736 those American Presbyterians 
who sympathized with the Scottish Seecders applied to 
them for a minister, but at that time none could be 
sent. The application was renewed in 1750, hut the first 
minister sent to this country by the Secession Church 
of Scotland, the Rev. Alexander Gelatly, did not arrive 
until 1753. In 1753 a presbytery was organized under 
the name of “The Associate Presbytery of Pennsylva- 
nia. subordinate to the Associate Synod of Scotland.’’ 


While heartily accepting the Westminster standards as 
their symbolical books, this Presbytery gave prominence 
to the distinctive doctrines of the Marrow divines. See 
Marrow Controversy. Its members held the Gospel 
offer to be a free grant and promise of Christ and his 
salvation to sinners of mankind as such — all having a 
common interest in him— faith to be a person's real 
persuasion that Jesus Christ is his— that he shall have 
life and salvation by Christ, and that whatever Christ 
did for the redemption of mankind he did for him. 
Strcss.was also laid on the doctrine of t lie binding obli- 
gation of t lie Scottish covenants— National and Solemn 
League. While tbe origin ami doctrinal views of the 
Associate Presbytery restricted its sphere of labor, in- 
side of that sphere it grew rapidly, congregations being 
formed in New York, Virginia, and the Carolinas. In 
1776 a second presbytery, that of New York, was formed 
— like that of Pennsylvania, in subordination to the Scot- 
tish Synod. In 1764 the Rev. Thomas Clark, minister 
of Rally bay in Ireland, belonging to tbe Rurglier Synod 
of Scotland, with the greater part of his congregation, 
emigrated to this country, and settled in Salem. Wash- 
ington County, N. V. Two other ministers of the same 
communion followed them two years after, though one 
of them subsequently returned to Scotland. The Uur- 
gher ministers, not being disposed to keep up a separate 
organization on this side of the Atlantic, united with 
their brethren; hut the union was disturbed by the re- 
fusal of the Scottish synod to approve of it. The rev- 
olution of 1776 was chiefly instrumental in bringing 
about the existence of the Associate Reformed Church. 

During the progress of the war several conventions 
were held between tbe members of tbe Associate and 
the Reformed presbyteries with a view to union. Their 
three presbyteries met in Philadelphia in October. 1782, 
and formed themselves into a synod, under the name 
of “The Associate Reformed Synod of North America,” 
on a basis consisting of the following articles : 

“1. That Jesus Christ died for the elect. 

“2. That there is an appropriation in the uature of 
faith. 

“3. That the Gospel is addressed indiscriminately to 
sinners of mankind. 

“4. That the righteousness of Christ is tbe alone con- 
dition of the covenant of grace. 

“5. That civil government originates with God the Cre- 
ator, and not with Christ the Mediator. 

“6. The administration of the kingdom of Providence 
is given into the hand of Jesus Christ the Mediator: and 
magistracy, the ordinance appointed by the moral Gover- 
nor of the world to be the prop of civil order among men, 
as well as other things, is rendered subservient by the Me- 
diator to the welfare of his spiritual kingdom, the Church, 
and has sanctified the use of it and of every commou ben- 
efit, through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

“7. That the law of nature and the moral law revea’ed 
in the Scriptures are substantially the same, although the 
latter expresses the will of God more evidently ami clearly 
than the former, and therefore magistrates among Chris- 
tians ought to be regulated by the general directory of 
the Word as to the execution of their office. 

“S. That the qualifications of justice, veracity, etc., re- 
quired in the law of nature for the being of a magistrate, 
are also more explicitly revealed as necessary in the Holy 
Scriptures. Hut a religions test, any farther than an oath 
of fidelity, can never he essentially necessary for the be- 
ing of a magistrate, except when’the people make it a 
condition of government. 

**!». That both parties, when nnifed. shall adhere to the 
Westminster Confession of Faith, the Catechisms, the di- 
rectory for worship, and propositions concerning Church 
government. 

“10. 'Hint they shall claim the full exercise of Church 
discipline without depending upon foreign judicatories." 

On this basis all the members of the Reformed presby- 
tery, and all the Associate ministers with the excep- 
tion of two members of the presbytery of Pennsylvania, 
united. A small minority of the people in the two com- 
munions also declined to enter into it; and in these mi- 
norities have been preserved the Covenanter or Reformed 
Presbyterian denomination, on the one hand, and the 
Associate, on the other. (See No. 12 above.) From 1782, 
the period of the formation of the Associate Reformed 
Church, the Associate Church was gradually increased 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 5 

by ministers sent out from Scotland, and also by the re- 
turn of a considerable part of those who had previously 
joined the union. In 1784 this Church put forth a Tes- 
timony intended to supplement the Westminster Con- 
fession, and containing special articles in favor of close 
communion, public covenanting, the exclusive use of 
the Psalms in praise, and against private oaths, that is, 
secret societies. The tirst institution for the purpose 
of educating students in theology by this body was es- 
tablished in 1793, under the care of the Rev. John An- 
derson, D.D., of Beaver County, Pa. The Presbytery 
of Pennsylvania, being unable to meet the applications 
for preaching which were made from Kentucky and 
Tennessee, directed the applicants to apply directly to 
the Synod of Scotland for missionaries. They did so; 
and Messrs. Armstrong and Andrew Fulton arrived in 
Kentucky in the spring of 1798, and in November 
formed the Presbytery of Kentucky. This accession 
of strength enabled these presbyteries to form them- 
selves into a synod; and accordingly the synod, or 
court of review, designated as “ The Associate Synod of 
North America” was constituted at Philadelphia in May, 
1801. The synod consisted of seventeen ministers, who 
were divided into the presbyteries of Philadelphia, of 
Chartiers, of Kentucky, and of Cambridge. Until the 
year 1818 appeals might be taken from the synod to 
that of Scotland ; but at that time it was declared a co- 
ordinate synod by the General Associate Synod of Scot- 
land. Between the years 1838 and 1840 serious ecclesi- 
astical difficulties arose, and several ministers were de- 
posed or suspended. These, with a number of ministers 
and congregations in sympathy with them, at once or- 
ganized separately, having several presbyteries, who 
constituted a synod and claimed to be the true Associate 
Synod. This painful division was afterwards adjusted, 
and a reunion was effected in 1854. To the Associate 
Church belongs the distinction of being one of the ear- 
liest churches on the American continent to take up a 
decided position on the subject of slavery. As early as 
the year 1800 the Presbytery of Pennsylvania issued a 
warning on the subject, to the members of its churches, 
declaring slaveholding to be a moral evil and unjustifi- 
able. This declaration was repeated in 1811, while in 
1831 the synod judicially excluded slaveholders from its 
communion — an action which cost it all its congrega- 
tions in the Southern States. The loss thus sustained 
was made up by the formation of new congregations and 
new presbyteries in Indiana, Illinois, and the far West. 
In 1858, previous to the union with the Associate Re- 
formed Church, the Associate Synod comprised 21 pres- 
byteries, 231 ministers and licentiates, 293 congrega- 
tions. and 23,505 communicants. 

2. Associate Reformed Church. — The earliest settle- 
ments of the Associate Reformed Church were in Pe nn- 
sylvania, within the Cumberland valley ; but colonics 
from these emigrated to South Carolina and Georgia, 
New York, Kentucky, and even to New Hampshire and 
Maine. One of the first acts of the synod, after its or- 
ganization in 1782, was the adoption of a scries of arti- 
cles, afterwards published under the name of The Con- 
stitution of the Associate Reformed Church ; but these 
articles were severely attacked both by iheScceders and 
Covenanters, and were finally laid aside for a fuller ex- 
position of the Church’s faith. The result was that the 
Westminster Confession and Catechisms, after a care- 
ful revision at several successive meetings of synod, in 
the articles relating to the power of the magistrate, 
were published in a volume in 1799, entitled The Con- 
stitution and Standards of the A ssociate Reformed Ch urch 
in North America. In 1802 the synod organized itself 
into a general synod, with four subordinate synods — 
New York, Pennsylvania, Scioto, and the Carolinas. In 1 
1804 the plan of the theological seminary was framed. 
Dr. John M. Mason was chosen professor of theology; ' 
and the sessions of the seminary began in the autumn 
of the same year in the city of New York. This was 
the second theological seminary established in the 


H PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 

United States. Dr. Mason’s work on Catholic Commun- 
ion, published in 1816, was regarded as being in con- 
flict with the Church’s principles and practice; and 
this, in connection with some other grounds of com- 
plaint, led the entire synod of Scioto in 1820 to with- 
draw from the superintendence of the General Synod. 
In 1821 the Synod of the Carolinas petitioned the Gen- 
eral Synod to be erected into an independent synod, on 
the ground that they were so distant front the place at 
which the General Synod usually assembled that it was 
impossible that they should be represented in it. The 
request was granted. For many years after that the 
Southern Synod gained but little in numbers, though in 
later years it became more prosperous; while the Sci- 
oto Synod rapidly extended itself and became more vig- 
orous every year. About the time of the separation of 
this Western Synod, an unsuccessful attempt was made 
to unite the Associate Reformed ami the Reformed Dutch 
churches, under the name of “The Reformed Protestant 
Church of North America.” Immediately after this, 
that is, in 1821, a union was effected between the Asso- 
ciate Reformed and the General Assembly of the Pres- 
byterian Church; the consequence of which was that 
a portion of the former Church became incorporated with 
the latter, and the library of the Associate Reformed 
Church was immediately removed from New York to 
Princeton; though, as tiic result of a legal process, it 
ultimately fell back into the hands of its original own- 
ers. The act of union by the General Synod of the As- 
sociate Reformed Church was irregular, being con- 
trary to the express will of a majority of the presby- 
teries. However, many of the ministers and congrega- 
tions who had remained under the care of the General 
Synod went into this union. The Synod of Pennsylva- 
nia with but few exceptions was merged in it, ami that 
synod never met again. The Synod of New York, how- 
ever, survived the dissolution of the General Synod, be- 
coming separate ami independent, like its two sister syn- 
ods of the West and South. But its interests languished 
till 1829, when it resolved to revive the seminary, whose 
operations had been suspended in 1821, ami to establish 
it at Newburgh, under the care of the Rev. Joseph 
M'Carroll, D.D., who was at the same time chosen pro- 
fessor of theology. An attempt was made in 1827 to re- 
vive the General Synod on the old footing, but it proved 
a failure. However, the Synod of the West, having di- 
vided into two, erected a General Synod, which first 
met in 1841, and under which a union was formed with 
the New York Synod in 1K55. This united body num- 
bered 4 synods, 28 presbyteries. 253 ministers and li- 
centiates, 307 congregations, and 31,284 communicants. 
Its name then became “The General Synod of the As- 
sociate Reformed Church.” They adhered to the West- 
minster standards as adopted in the Testimony of 1799, 
ami held the doctrines of close communion, anti-slavery, 
and the exclusive use of the Psalms in praise. 

In May, 1858, the Associate Reformed and the Asso- 
ciate churches, having been separated for more than 
three quarters of a century, were reunited upon a com- 
mon basis, under the name of “The United Presbyterian 
Church in North America,” a Church which is now the 
largest representative of those distinctive views for 
which all the preceding churches have more or less con- 
tended. In addition therefore to its acceptance of the 
Westminster standards, which it modified, it has issued 
a Testimony whose adoption is a condition of commun- 
ion both with ministers and members. In this Testi- 
mony are articles adverse to slavery and to seeret soci- 
eties, and in favor of close communion, the exclusive 
use of the Psalms, and of the moral duty of covenant- 
ing. A few years ago a new metrical version of the 
book of Psalms was adopted by this body. A small 
number protested against the union, and have since 
then continued under the name of “The Associate Syn- 
od of North America.” (See No. 15 below.) In 1875, 
after the union, “The United Presbyterian Church of 
North America” embraced a General Assembly, 8 svn- 


PRES BYTE RIAN CHURCHES 5 

ods, 56 presbyteries, Gil ministers, 777 congregations, 
and 7G,t)03 communicants, it lias theological semina- 
ries at Newburgh, N. V.; Allegheny, l’a. ; and Xenia, 
O. ; and missionary seminaries at I Kioot and Hamleli, 
Egypt. Westminster, Monmouth, and Ohio Central 
colleges are also under its charge. It has boards of 
Foreign Missions, of Home Missions, of Publication, of 
Church Extension, of Freedmen, and of Education, with 
mission stations in India, Egypt, and Syria, The Mis- 
sion to China, which was instituted as a memorial of 
the “union'’ of the different bodies in 1X58, has been 
transferred to California. Its missionary contributions 
were, in 1S7G-77, for foreign, $77,126; home, $29,750. 
Its periodical publications are one monthly, one semi- 
monthly, and two weekly newspapers. 

The Associate Reformed Synod of the South has still 
its separate organization. Cordial in its relations with 
the United Presbyterian Church, it has one missionary 
now laboring together with the missionaries of the lat- 
ter Church in Egypt; and, slavery having ceased to be 
an object of contention, is now considering the propriety 
of organic union with that body. In 1X75 a plan of 
co-operation was proposed between this Church and the 
United Presbyterian Church, North, which provides 
that “the presbyteries of each Church shall sustain the 
same relation to those of the other that they do to the 
co-ordinate courts of their own body, and that the min- 
isters and licentiates of each shall be eligible to ap- 
pointments and settlements in congregations of the 
other;” that the courts of each shall respect the disci- 
pline of the other; that ministers and members of the 
two bodies be recommended to cultivate friendly rela- 
tions and Christian fellowship with each other: that 
the existing relations of the two churches (actual co- 
operation) in the work of foreign missions he continued ; 
that a friendly co-operation of help and non-interference 
he practiced in the fields of home missions and Church 
extension; that the two bodies co-operate in building 
and sustaining tlie Normal or Training School of the 
United Presbyterian Church for the Erecdinen, estab- 
lished at Knoxville, Teun. ; and that in the work of 
publication the Associate Kcformcd Synod co-operate 
with the Hoard of Publication of the United Presbyte- 
rian Church. These provisions were adopted by the 
synod. The committee on correspondence with the 
United Presbyterian Church was reappointed, blit was 
instructed to take no direct steps towards union without 
further instruction. The Southern Church has a liter- 
ary institution named Erskiue College and a theological 
school, both at Due West, S. C. It numbers about 70 
ministers, nearly one third of whom arc in South Caro- 
lina, the rest in other Southern states. 

15. This Associate Synod or North America is 
composed of some who declined to enter into the union 
with the Associate Reformed Synod ill 1858 (see No. 11 
above), and consists of the presbyteries of Iowa, Clarion, 
Muskingum, and Northern Indiana; and had, in 1X76, 
12 ministers, 2 licentiates, 34 congregational charges or 
stations, and 1115 communicants. The total contribu- 
tions were $679.85. 

16. This United Synod ok this Preshytisiuan 
Clinton, Soitii. In 1857 the New-Schnol Presbytery 
of Lexington nflirmed slavery to be right and scriptural 
in principle. The Assembly (1857 ) replied hv condemn- 
ing the position, and refused to allow either the princi- 
ple or the practice. The delegates from the Southern 
churches protested, and, declaring this action to he an 
‘“indirect excision” of their congregations, withdrew, 
and in 1858 , at Knoxville, Teun., organized themselves 
as “The United Synod of the Presbyterian Church, 
South,” consisting of some 11)0 ministers and about 200 
congregations. A proposal for union with the Old- 
School Presbyterian Church was declined bv this latter 
body because coupled with the condition that the As- 
sembly set aside its doctrinal decisions of 1838. In 1859 
the United Synod reported 11 presbyteries, 118 mini.- — 
ters, 187 churches, and 12,125 communicants, of whom 


12 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 

323 were colored. In 18G1 the synod joined the Pres- 
byterian Church, South. 

17. The Pkksuytkri an Church, South, dates its 
organization from Dec. 4, 1XG1, when the commission- 
ers from all the presbyteries of the Presbyterian Church 
within the Confederate States met in Augusta, (la., 
and organized as a General Assembly. The style and 
title then chosen was, The Presbyterian Church of the 
Confederate States of America; but after the over- 
throw of the Confederacy the word united was substi- 
tuted fur Confederate, and of America was dropped. 
The Presbyterian Church, South, disavows all connec- 
tion with political matters, and holds to strictly eccle- 
siastical labor. In lx7G, at the Assembly held in Sa- 
I vannah, (la., when the appointment of delegates to the 
Pan - Presbyterian Council of Edinburgh in 1877 was 
considered, all expressions used in the different courts 
during the exciting times of the civil strife were re- 
scinded as inconsistent with the platform of 1XG2. The 
report then adopted closed with the following declara- 
tions: 

“1. We solemnly reaffirm the explicit and formal state- 
meni set forth at the time of the organization of nnr 
General Assembly in 1SG1, in an ‘Address to the Churches 
of Jesus Christ throughout the Faith.’ This document 
clearly and forcibly details our position concerning the 
nature and functions of the Church as a spiritual body, 
and, therefore, ‘ lion-secuhir and non-political.’ 

“2. Inasmuch as some incidental expressions, uttered 
in times of great public excitement, are found upon our 
records, and have been pointed out in the report of the 
committee aforesaid, which seem to be ambiguous or 
inconsistent with the above declarations and others of 
like import, this Assembly does hereby disavow them 
wherever found, and does not recognise such as forming 
any part of the well -considered, authoritative teachings 
or "testimony of our Church." 

At that time this Church consisted of 12 synods, 
G2 presbyteries, 1821 churches, 1079 ministers, and 
112,183 communicants. Their contributions amounted 
to $1,138,6X1. The Assembly conducts its benevolent 
operations through three general committees (the work 
of foreign missions and of sustontation being united un- 
der the same committee), viz. the Executive Commit- 
tee of Foreign Missions and Sustentation, of Education, 
and of Publication. Foreign missions are maintained 
in the Indian Territory, Mexico, South America, Greece, 
Italy, India, ami China, and domestic missions in new 
and destitute localities in the South, at an annual cost 
of $71,121, supporting 75 missionaries in foreign fields, 
of whom 2G are ordained ministers, 4 licentiates, and 21 
assistant, missionaries, all from the United States; 9 
ordained ministers and 25 assistant missionaries are na- 
tives of the countries in which they labor. With these 
foreign missions are connected 22 churches, with 1200 
communicants; also 13 training-schools of various 
grades, containing 250 pupils. The Sustentation Hoard 
extends aid to the amount of $20,000 in support of their 
ministers to 185 churches in 57 presbyteries; $6000 to 
the support of evangelistic labor, and $10,000 to relieve 
disabled ministers and families of deceased ministers. 
A publishing house is maintained at Kichniond. Ya., 
anil, with a capital of about $-10,000, issues Presbyte- 
rian books for ministers and congregational and Sun- 
day -school libraries. It also aids in the education lor 
the ministry of young men of limited means, mid in the 
publication and dissemination of a religious and doctri- 
nal literature. 

In all educational work, this branch of the Presbyte- 
rian Church has always held very advanced ground. It 
declares in its constitution that “because it is highly 
reproachful to religion, and dangerous to the Church, to 
intrust the holy ministry to weak and ignorant men, the 
Presbytery shall try each candidate as to his knowledge 
of the Latin language and the original languages in 
which the llolv Scriptures were written. They shall 
also examine him in the arts and sciences.” The first 
written test, required of the candidate is “a Latin exe- 
gesis on some common head in divinity.” The common 
requirement in its presbyteries is equal to the curriculum 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 543 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


in most American colleges. The demands of the Church 
for the education of its ministry and its own youth have 
everywhere made it the patroness of learning and en- 
gaged it in the founding of institutions for higher edu- 
cation. It has been the pioneer of education in nearly 
all the older Southern communities. During the civil 
war, many of the institutions of learning founded and 
endowed by the Presbyterian Church in the South per- 
ished by the loss of endowments in the general financial 
wreck. * Among them were Oglethorpe University, Ga. ; 
Oakland College, Miss.; La Grange College, Tenn. ; and 
other valuable institutions ofless prominence. Centre 
College, Ky., was lost through decisions of the United 
States courts in favor of a minority adhering to the old 
Assembly. Others were suspended by the enlistment 
of the students in the armies, and were crippled by the 
partial loss of endowments. The following, founded 
and endowed by Presbyterians, survived the disasters 
of the war, and now, under Presbyterian control or au- 
spices, are rendering valuable service to the country : 
Hampden Sidney College, Va. ; Davidson College, N.C.; 
Stewart College, Tenn. ; Westminster College, Mo. ; King 
College, Tenn. ; and Austin College, Texas. Central Uni- 
versity, at Richmond, Ky., has been founded and suc- 
cessfully opened since the war. The synods of Nash- 
ville, Memphis, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, and 
Texas, conjointly, have also projected a university (the 
South-western) to be strictly under Presbyterian con- 
trol, for which they are now soliciting an endowment. 
It has been located at Clarkesville, Tenn. Stewart Col- 
lege has been merged in it. The financial prostration 
of the South since the war has rendered the endowment 
of its institutions of learning slow and difficult. Of 
academies and schools competent to prepare boys for 
college or young men for the university, or to give a 
good mathematical and classical education, thorough so 
far as it goes, to those whose means do not admit of 
more elaborate courses, there is a great insufficiency 
throughout the South. Those which had previously 
acquired success and reputation were generally broken 
up through the disastrous effects of the war, add the 
poverty and depression of the people have operated to 
the discouragement of efforts to establish others. Of 
such institutions there are some of a high character, 
maintained under Presbyterian auspices; as the Ping- 
ham School, Mebanesville, N. C 1 .; Pleasant Ridge Acad- 
emy, Green County, Ala.; Edgar Institute, Paris, Kv.; 
Military and Classical Institute, Danville, Ivy.; Finlay 
High School, Lenoir, N. C.; and Kemper Institute, 
Booneville, Mo. The Southern Presbyterian Church 
has two theological seminaries, each endowed and fur- 
nished with buildings, libraries, and four professors of 
eminent ability and learning — Union Seminary, at 
Hampden Sidney, Va.; and Columbia Seminary, at Co- 
lumbia, S. C. it has recently established a third, at 
Tuscaloosa, Ala., for the education and training of col- 
ored men for the ministry; and for this it. is now 
gathering an endowment. There are no Presbyterian 
schools or colleges for girls in the South endowed 
beyond the provision of buildings, apparatus, and li- 
braries; but there are many institutions under Presby- 
terian control or auspices in which every reasonable 
comfort is combined with advantages for the thorough 
education and accomplishment of girls. Among these 
are many colleges, collegiate institutes, and seminaries 
which afford a high grade of instruction to young la- 
dies, and are widely esteemed for general excellence 
and efficiency. 

The work of education for the ministry is conducted 
by the General Assembly, through an executive com- 
mittee located at Memphis, Tenn. In the last ecclesi- 
astical year, the committee received from the churches, 
for this purpose, $15,131, from which 95 young men, 
prosecuting their studies at various colleges and theo- 
logical seminaries, received assistance. 

The standards of the Southern Presbyterian Church 
are the Westminster Confession (with the chapter “Of 


the Civil Magistrate” amended), the Larger and Shorter 
Catechisms, and the Westminster Form of Government 
and Directory, somewhat altered to suit the circum- 
stances of the Church, with “ Rides of Discipline,” or 
“ Forms of Process,” gathered from the usages and laws 
of the Scottish Church. These standards are adopted 
by every minister at his ordination, in answer to the 
questions put to him publicly by the presiding minister, 
but are not required to be adopted by subscription to 
any written formula. 

Anterior to the division of the Church into Northern 
and Southern churches, the Southern churches were 
disposed to adhere more closely to the standards, and 
were more clutrehly in their ideas, after the fashion of 
the Westminster Era, than a large portion of the North- 
ern churches, who came nearer the Congregational in- 
| fluence of Now England. It was the united opposition 
of the Southern churches to what claimed to be a more 
liberal Presbyterianism which in large part caused 
the division of 1837 into Old and New School bodies. 
Since the separation in 18(51, the Southern body has 
! grown even more strict in its views of the standards, 
and the jure dieino character of Church government. 
But, with all their zeal for a strict construction of the 
1 standards of doctrine and order, the Southern churches 
have ever been distinguished for their interest in pro- 
tracted meetings and services of religion. The custom 
is almost universal of holding protracted services of 
several days’ or weeks’ duration in the churches at one 
or more communion services in the year, as the indica- 
tion of the special presence of the Holy Spirit may sug- 
gest; and most frequently at such meetings there is a 
revival in the hearts of God’s people, and awakenings 
of greater or less extent among the unconverted. The 
special labors of evangelists such as Moody and Sankev, 
and Whittle and Bliss, have not been enjoyed to any 
great extent in the Southern churches. It is an opin- 
ion generally accepted among the Southern ministry 
that, there is great advantage, especially in a sparsely 
populated region but partially supplied with the means 
of grace, in bringing the Gospel to bear for successive 
days upon the minds of men. In this way their thoughts 
can be more effectually withdrawn from their worldly 
connections and pleasures, and fixed more intently upon 
the great matter of salvation. Hence the evangelists 
found that neither their methods nor their preaching 
of the Gospel of salvation by grace only, through faith, 
was much of a novelty to the Southern Presbyterian 
churches. 

It has proved to be a great drawback to the proper 
influence of the Southern Presbyterian Church that, 
owing partly to its poverty, partly from lying out of the 
chief lines of the travel and commerce with Europe, 

, and partly' from lack of great commercial cities with 
their accumulated capital, its learned men are able to 
publish very little, and its journals are of necessity pro- 
vincial in their character, and therefore the world at 
large knows little of them. Besides, so vast is the ter- 
ritory' covered by this Church, and so diverse the local 
interests, that instead of patronage being concentrated 
upon one or two great religions journals, it is divided 
between some seven or eight, none of which has power 
enough to make itself felt abroad. The Southern Pres- 
byterian Pevieic, a quarterly journal of thirty' years’ 
standing, now published under the supervision of the 
professors in the two theological seminaries, compares 
most favorably' in learning and ability with any theo- 
logical quarterly in this country'; yet, being published 
in the interior of South Carolina, without the aid of the 
machinery' of a great publishing- house to bring it be- 
fore the world, it is little known outside the circle of its 
local patrons and admirers. 

In view of the calamities which have befallen this 
body of Presbyterians during the sixteen years of its 
history, bringing poverty' and distress upon so large a 
part of its people, its success, so far, has been remarka- 
ble. In view of the vast territory to be evangelized 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 541 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


which is covered by it, and the hundreds of thousands 
of poor ignorant negroes, ever tending backward to 
heathenism, who must depend upon this Church very 
largely for a form of the Cospel that will enlighten and 
civilize them, no body of Presbyterians in the world 
has a greater work to do, or, in proportion to the work 
to be done, less financial ability to sustain it. 

18. PliKSlIYTElilAX Cni'IU'tl in Caxai>a. — In this 
British dominion the Presbyterians are in point of 
numbers the third among the religious denominations, 
being only exceeded by the Unman Catholics and the 
Church of England. Presbyterianism dates in Canada 
at least from the conquest, in 1751). Its tirst exponent 
is supposed to have been the Itev. (ieorge llenrv. lie 
appeared in Quebec as early as 17155. and was the chap- 
lain of a British regiment stationed there. In 17*1 the 
Hev. Alexander Spark went there, and in 17X7 the tirst 
Presbyterian congregation was organized. It was com- 
posed principally of soldiers. In 17X0 the Bev. Thomas 
Bethnnc, a minister of the Kirk who had come from 
Scotland as chaplain of a Highland regiment, preached 
first in Montreal, and afterwards organized several con- 
gregations in the county of Clengnry. In Montreal 
itself, the tirst Presbyterian Church was organized in 
1790. They built St. (labriel Street Church, which is 
still used as a Presbyterian elmrch, anil is the oldest 
Protestant church in Canada. Previous to the comple- 
tion of their own structure they worshipped, by per- 
mission of the Becollet Fathers, in a Homan Catholic 
Church. In recognition of these kind ollices. ‘''flic So- 
ciety of Presbyterians," as they were then called, pre- 
sented t lie good fathers with "two hogsheads of Span- 
ish wine and a box of candles,” which were “ thankfully 
accepted” a manifestation of friendly feeling between 
Uomnnists and Protestants which continues to this day. 
In 1 <S03 the tirst Presbytery of Montreal was organized 
by two ministers and one elder; and for years after the 
development of Presbyterian ism was slow. In Upper 
Canada, now known as the Province of Ontario, the pi- 
oneers of Presbyterianism were sent out by the Kcformed 
Dutch Church. One of the principal laborers thus sent 
was the Kev. Hubert M'Dowell, who was appointed by 
the elassis of Albany as their missionary to Canada in 
179s!. ]|e itinerated throughout the greater part of Up- 

per Canada, forming and fostering congregations in va- 
rious places. He died at a very advanced age in 1JS41. 
The Hev. \V. Smart, who was sent out from England in 
1X1 1, and who labored long and faithfully in Broekville; 
the Hev. \V. Bell, sent out from Scotland in 1X17 ; the 
Hev. William Jenkins, originally from Scotland, who 
went to Canada from the United States in 1817 ; the 
Hev. Hubert Boyd, from the Synod of Ulster, ordained in 
1X21 ; and the Hev. James Harris, also from Ireland, who 
began his labors in 1X20 as pastor of the tirst Presbyte- 
rian church in York (now Toronto), were among the foun- 
ders of the Presbyterian Church in Canada. To King- 
ston and a few other places ministers were, on applica- 
tion, sent out by presbyteries in Scotland, the Hev. John 
Barclay being the tirst minister of Kingston. In 1x25, 
the (llasgow Colonial Society was formed, which sent 
out. many ministers to Lower and Upper Canada, as well 
as to Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. These minis- 
ters were all of the ( ‘liurch of Scotland. In 1X27 bishop 
Strachan, of Toronto, published an ecclesiastical chart 
of Upper Canada, in which the Church of England was 
said to have thirty ministers, while two only belonged 
to the Church of Scotland — “one of whom,” it was fur- 
ther alleged, “had made application to he received into 
the Anglican Communion.” A change, however, was 
at hand. The tide of immigration had begun to How 
in the direction of Canada, bringing large numbers of 
Presbyterians from Scotland and the north of Ireland. 
Societies also began to be formed in Scotland “for pro- 
moting the religious interests of Scottish settlers in 
British North America.” Presbyterianism had taken 
root in Canada; it now began to make rapid progress. 
The supply of Scottish miirslers being necessarily cut 


off, owing to the ecclesiastical condition of the country, 
these provinces were at this time thrown almost en- 
tirely on their own resources. In 1X31 was formed 
“ The Synod of the Presbyterian Church of Canada in 
connection with the Church of Scotland.” On its first 
roll were 25 ministers. “The United Synod of Upper 
Canada,” consisting chiefly of ministers of the Associate 
Church of Scotland, with some from Ireland, had formed 
about 1819, but in 1X40 was amalgamated with the 
synod in connection with the Church of Scotland, and 
then numbered X2 ministers. Several ministers from 
the Secession Church of Scotland came to Canada about 
1X32, and the number was increased from time to time. 
They were organized as the Missionary Synod of the 
United Secession Church, and known afterwards as the 
Synod of the United Presbyterian Church in Canada. 
In 1X1 1, the year after the disruption of the Church of 
Scotland, a division took place in the Presbyterian 
Church of Canada in connection with the Church of 
Scotland; 25 ministers agreeing with the Free Church 
ol Scotland withdrew, and formed themselves into "The 
Presbyterian Church of Scotland.” The synod formed 
immediately founded a theological hall at Toronto un- 
der the name of “ Knox College.” The United Presby- 
terians also instituted a theological hall at London. 
The synod in connection with the Church of Scotland, 
having in 1X41 obtained a royal charter for Queen’s 
University and College at Kingston, set themselves to 
work for its better equipment. Then began a struggle 
for pre-eminence between three vigorous branches of 
the Church. With varying success, each maintained a 
separate existence for seventeen years. To Nova Sco- 
tia and New Brunswick the first Presbyterian ministers 
were sent from Scotland by the Burgher and Anti- 
Burgher synods. A missionary was also sent in 17(58 
bv the united synods of New York and Philadelphia. 
About 17(59 the real work of building up a Presbyterian 
Church in Nova Scotia may he said to have begun, the 
Hev. David Smith and the Hev. Daniel Cock having 
been sent out by the Burgher or Associate Synod of 
Seothflid. Seventeen years afterwards, the llev. James 
MdJrogor was sent out by the Anti-Burgher or (ieneral 
Associate Synod. From these beginnings grew up the 
Presbytery of Truro (Burgher), established in 17xtJ, and 
the Presbytery of Pictou (Anti-Burgher - ), in 1795. In 
1X17 these united, forming “The Presbyterian Church 
of Nova Scotia.” This was the first colonial union of 
which there is any record. Ministers from the Church 
of Scotland came at a later date. This Church was first 
represented in these provinces by the Hev. Samuel Hus- 
sel, called to be minister of St. Matthew’s Church. Hali- 
fax, in 17X4. But. thirty-two years intervened before 
it could be said to have effected a permanent lodgment. 
In 1X33 seven ministers of the Church of Scotland 
formed themselves into the Synod of Nova Scotia, New 
Brunswick, ami Prince Edward’s Island Che Presbytery 
of New Brunswick, however, declined to enter into the 
■ compact, and in 1835 constituted itself the Synod of 
New Brunswick). The Synod of Nova Scotia grew 
apace, and when the division came, in 1X44, it. bail 
, outnumbered its elder sister. But now it was well- 
nigh extinguished. Some of its ministers returned to 
I Scotland, others joined the Free Church in these prov- 
inces. Three only maintained their former connection. 
The synod became defunct in 1X13, and was not resus- 
citated till 1X54, when it again put forth energetic ef- 
forts to recover its lost ground. Ill Canada the new 
body, founded in 1841, in sympathy with the Free 
Church of Scotland, took, as we have said, the name of 
“The Presbyterian Church of Canada." In 1X01, after 
several years spent in negotiations, this body and the 
United Presbyterian Church in Canada united under 
the designation of “The Canada Presbyterian Church,” 
the corresponding bodies in the Lower Provinces uniting 
under the mum; of “The Presbyterian Church of the 
Lower Provinces.” “The Synod of the Canada Pres- 
byterian Church” entered on a prosperous career, with 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 545 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


a roll of 226 ministers, of whom 128 had belonged to the 
Canada Presbyterian Church and 68 to the United Pres- 
byterian Church. In 1870 the supreme court of this 
Church was for the first time constituted as a General 
Assembly. In 1868 the synods of Nova Scotia and 
New Brunswick in connection with the Church of 
Scotland were united into one synod. The synods of 
the United Presbyterian Church and the Free Church 
had already united, namely, in 1860. Thus the way 
was prepared throughout the Dominion of Canada for 
comprehensive union. In September, 1874, there were 
(omitting a few congregations connected with organ- 
izations in the United States) four Presbyterian bodies 
in the Dominion of Canada, viz. : the Presbyterian 
Church of Canada in connection with the Church 
of Scotland; the Canada Presbyterian Church; the 
Church of Scotland in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, 
and adjoining provinces; and the Presbyterian Church 
of the Lower Provinces. In the Presbyterian Church 
of Canada in connection with the Church of Scotland 
there were 11 presbyteries and 122 ministers; in the 
Canada Presbyterian Church, 19 presbyteries and 329 
ministers; in the Church of Scotland in Nova Scotia, 
etc., 6 presbyteries and 31 ministers; and in the Presby- 
terian Church of the Lower Provinces, 10 presbyteries 
and 124 ministers. There were theological colleges in 
Toronto and Montreal belonging to the Canada Presby- 
terian Church ; at Kingston and Quebec, to the Presby- 
terian Church of Canada in connection with the Church 
of Scotland; and at Halifax, to the Presbyterian Church 
of the Lower Provinces. Nearly one half of the minis- 
ters in the several provinces have been supplied by the 
theological colleges of the country. From the date of 
the union above referred to, overtures having reference 
to a yet more comprehensive union began to engage the 
attention of the supreme courts of all the churches in 
British North America. Increased facilities for inter- 
communication helped to make the proposal at least 
possible of accomplishment. The confederation of the 
provinces which now form the Dominion of Canada 
having been consummated in 1867, there naturally fol- 
lowed a strong desire for that ecclesiastical union which 
had long been contemplated. This desire was shared 
by many who had previously opposed such a union. 
Formal negotiations were commenced in 1870 in all the 
provinces, culminating in the union which was happily 
consummated June 15, 1875, in the city of Montreal, 
when the Presbyterian Church of Canada in connection 
with the Church of Scotland, the Canada Presbyterian 
Church, the Church of the Maritime Provinces in con- 
nection with the Church of Scotland, and the Presby- 
terian Church of the Lower Provinces, declaring their 
belief that it would be for the glory of God and the ad- 
vancement of the cause of Christ that they should unite, 
and thus form one Presbyterian Church in the Domin- 
ion, were formally united under the name of “The Pres- 
byterian Church in Canada.” The aggregate of the 
United Church at that date was 634 ministers. 1119 
congregations, 90,658 communicants, and a population 
under its instruction of about 650,000. Statistics of the 
Presbyterian Church in Canada, as they were reported 
to the General Assembly in June, 1876, then showed it 
to contain 4 synods, 33 presbyteries, 1076 congregations, 
664 ministers, 82, 186 communicants, and 59,949 Sabbath- 
scholars. The contributions for all purposes amounted 
to $939,690; of this sum $418,058 were paid for the sup- 
port of the ministry, $25,472 for home mission work, 
$16,173 for foreign missions, and $11,219 for missions 
among the French Canadians. 

1. The home missions of the Church are co-extensive 
with this vast dominion. Their history is simply the 
history of the Church itself — one of continuous, steady 
progress. In the early years of Presbyterianism in 
Canada, owing chiefly to the lack of ministers, many 
cast in their lot with those branches of the Church 
whose missionaries first supplied them with the means 1 
of grace. Others, filled with romantic attachment to | 
VIII.— M m 


the Church of their fathers, waited long and patiently, 
and instances are not wanting of “vacant congrega- 
tions" assembling themselves for public worship for 
years together to hear sermons read by one of their el- 
ders, or to be exhorted by “ the men” whom they rec- 
ognised as their temporary leaders. The work divides 
itself into two distinct departments: 1, the opening up 
of new fields, and supplying ordinances to purely mis- 
sion stations; 2, to aid weak congregations in the sup- 
port of their ministers. The number of purely mission 
fields occupied in the western section in 1876 was 130, 
including 300 preaching-stations, with 3000 communi- 
cants. The average Sabbath attendance at these sta- 
tions was about 16,000 in the aggregate. There were 
also 78 supplemented congregations with settled pastors 
receiving grants from $50 to"$300 each per annum from 
the home mission fund. The number of missionaries 
employed was as follows: 35 ministers and licentiates; 
59 theological students; 44 catechists; 12 lay catechists 
— in all 150 missionaries. The grants made for 1877 to 
home mission fields amounted to about $20,000, to sup- 
plemented congregations $10,000, and for contingencies 
$2500, making in all $32,500. The eastern sections, 
although small in comparison with the immense terri- 
tory assigned to the Western Committee, have a mis- 
sion field which is neither very limited, very compact, 
nor very easily wrought. It embraces some nine or ten 
groups of stations requiring missionary services. The 
greater part of the work is done by student catechists, 
of whom many were employed in 1877. In addi- 
tion to these, eight Gaelic catechists are employed in 
Cape Breton, and other parts of Nova Scotia. An in- 
| teresting mission field was recently entered upon in 
New Brunswick. It is known as “The New Kincar- 
dine Colony,” and is described as “a little bit of Scot- 
land transplanted bodily into the forests of New Bruns- 
wick.” Another has been opened in a long-neglected 
part of Newfoundland. rr he annual expenditure for 
home missions in this section is about $3500, and for 
supplementing the stipends of ministers in weak con- 
gregations about $4000. 

In addition to the work above mentioned, missions 
of a special character are maintained. Of such is the 
mission to the lumbermen, instituted seven years prior 
to the union by the branch of the Church in connection 
with the Church of Scotland. The object of this mis- 
sion is to supply the ordinances of religion to the large 
number of men employed in the forests during the win- 
ter. These are visited by ministers, and supplied with 
copies of the Scriptures, tracts, and other literature in 
French and English. The average number annually 
employed in this branch of industry, in the valley of 
the Upper Ottawa, is about 5000 men. The amount 
expended on their behalf is about $650 per annum. 

Perhaps in no department of Church work arc there 
more hopeful and encouraging signs of progress than in 
that under the care of the Assembly’s Board of French 
Evangelization, which has for its herculean task the 
emancipation of 1,250,000 French Roman Catholics. 
Previous to 1875 missionary efforts in this direction 
had been conducted on a limited scale by the several 
churches. Since the union a great impetus has been 
given to the work, which is now assuming large pro- 
portions. In the service of the board there are at pres- 
ent forty missionaries, colporteurs, and teachers, several 
of whom were at one time priests of the Church of Rome. 
In Nova Scotia an ordained missionary labors in a wide 
field with a fair measure of success. He reports 125 
Romanists having embraced Protestantism through his 
instrumentality during the year 1876. In the province 
of New Brunswick there are three French missions, each 
making steady progress. In the province of Quebec 
there are twelve rural missions, maintaining Sabbath- 
schools, besides the ordinary services. In Ottawa, the 
capital of the Dominion, the board employs two mis- 
sionaries, who miuister to about 250 persons. In Que- 
bec city — the stronghold of popery in Canada — a church 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 5 

was erected in 187G, the first French Protestant church 
built in the city. 

2. The staff of foreign missionaries consists at present 
often ordained ministers, one catechist, who acts as su- 
perintendent of schools, and three female missionaries. 
These are assisted by a large number of trained native 
teachers. The salaries of the ordained missionaries av- 
erage about £1200 each; their assistants receive from 
$ 100 to £600 each per annum. The Church contrib- 
utes annually towards the expenditure, in connection 
with the mission-ship Day-spring, £1200. The fields 
arc four in number: 

(1.) The New Hebrides. — This is the oldest and most 
distant. It originated with the late l)r. John (ieddie, 
formerly a minister of the United Presbyterian Iiranch 
of the Church at Cavendish, Prince Edward Island, who 
landed on the island of Aneitvum on July 13, 1848. 
This is no place to enter upon the details of Dr. Geddie’s 
life’s work. Few missionaries have been more success- 
ful, and no higher encomium need be associated with 
his name than these touching words inscribed on a tab- 
let recently erected to his memory on the wall of the 
chapel where he was wont to preach : “ When he came 
here there were no Christians, and when he went away 
there were no heathens.” Since the commencement of 
this mission twelve missionaries, with their wives, have 
gone from Nova Scotia to labor in this field. 

(2.) Trinidad. — The mission to the Coolies of Trini- 
dad was begun in 1869 by the Kev. John Morton, also 
a minister of the Church of the Lower Provinces. In 
1871 he was joined by the Kev. It. J. Grant, and more 
recently by the Kev. Thomas Christie. Fifteen schools 
have been opened. Churches have also been built, and 
a number of native assistants take part in the work, 
which, notwithstanding many difficulties, is making- 
satisfactory progress. The number of Coolie children 
under instruction is 500, and the missionary reports that 
15 in one school can repeat the whole of the Shorter 
Catechism. The number of Coolies on the island is 
about 15,000. 

(3.) Formosa. — This is one of the Church’s most 
promising foreign mission fields. It was begun in 1872 
by the Kev. (i. L. M-Kav, of the Canada Presbyterian 
Church. In 1875 he was joined by the Kev. J. B. Fra- 
ser, M.D., as a medical missionary. In these five years 
there have been erected ten chapels and two mission- 
houses. Five hundred of the natives have renounced 
idolatry, and regularly attend Christian services. Sev- 
enty-five have, after careful preparation and examina- 
tion, been admitted as communicants. There are five 
schools with native teachers, and nine native students 
are under training for missionary work. 

(4.) India. — Previous to the union the Canada Pres- 
byterian Church and the Church in the Maritime Prov- 
inces in connection with the Church of Scotland had 
each broken ground in India by sending female mis- 
sionaries. In 1874 the Kev. J. F. Campbell, a minister 
of the last-named Church, offered himself for foreign 
mission work. lie has since proceeded to Madras as a 
missionary of the Presbyterian Church in Canada. At 
the same time the Kev. James Douglas also accepted an 
appointment to labor at Indore. 

Next to the New Hebrides, the Juvenile Mission to 
India, instituted by the Presbyterian Church of Canada 
in connection with the Church of Scotland, is the old- 
est foreign mission of the Church. It was originated 
twenty-five years ago, and has always been supported 
by a number of Sabbath-schools ami the voluntary of- 
ferings of a few friends. The annual contributions re- 
ceived by the treasurer have been steadily increasing 
for some years. Besides supporting four Zenana day- 
schools and a Bible-woman, this juvenile agency pro- 
vides for the education of about forty orphan children 
in India. 

3. Colleges. — Queen's University and College at Kings- 
ton, founded in 1810, is the oldest. It was projected 
by the branch of the Church formerly in connection 


G PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 

with the Church of Scotland, and is the only one that 
possesses the power of granting degrees. It combines 
the faculties of arts and theology. Since its establish- 
ment Queen’s has educated more than 100 ministers for 
the Presbyterian Church. The combined resources and 
equipment of the Canadian Presbyterian colleges may 
be summed up as follows: 


Colleges. 

tin i 

-% -=■’ i 

pi 

% ~ 

II 

|| 

Queen’s College. 

K.UOX “ 

Montreal “ 
Morrill “ 

Halifax Hall.... 

2 11 4*124,397 

3 40 48,000 

2 2S 40,000 

2 5 35, 0t 0 

3 17 85.000 

12 10 | .3.12,397 

£10,274 

14,000 

9,000 

4,001. 

7,350 

11,000 

8,000 

5.000 
4,500 

7.000 

£70,000 

130,000 

00,000 

25,000 

lO.Oto 

| Total 

£50,024 1 35,500 j £295,000 j 


The General Assembly authorizes an annual collection 
to be made in all the congregations on behalf of its the- 
ological colleges. In addition to the above-mentioned 
theological colleges, there is a collegiate institute at 
Winnipeg, the capital of the province of Manitoba; it 
is controlled by the General Assembly, and supported 
by the Church at large. This institution has two pro- 
fessors — one of science and literature, and one of clas- 
sics; also a lecturer in philosophy. 

4. Periodicals. — Each of the churches previous to 1875 
published a monthly magazine for the diffusion of mis- 
sionary information and general religious intelligence. 
So that at the time of the union there were four such 
magazines — two in the maritime provinces, one in the 
province of Ontario, and one in the province of Quebec. 
Three of these had outlived more than a quarter of a 
century. The General Assembly agreed that there 
should be but one periodical for the whole Church, is- 
sued under its sanction, to be called The Presbyterian 
Record, and to be published monthly in the city of 
Montreal, at the rate of twenty-five cents per copy per 
annum. The first number of this periodical was pub- 
lished in January, 1876. Before the close of the year it 
had attained a circulation of 36,000 copies monthly. 

5. A few ministers of the Presbyterian Church of Can- 
ada in connection with the Church of Scotland refused 
to enter into the union with the Canada Presbyterian 
Church, and, after the union was consummated, de- 
clared themselves to constitute the Synod in connec- 
tion with the Church of Scotland. This synod met in 
Montreal in June, 1876. The Kev. David Watson was 
appointed moderator. Trustees were appointed for the 
various funds of the synod, and the usual committees 
were also appointed. A petition was presented from 
the congregation of West King, praying for ordinances 
in connection with the Church of Scotland, and com- 
plaining of the proceedings which had resulted in their 
being deprived of their Church property. A list was 
presented of congregations in similar circumstances. It 
was agreed that a commission with synodical powers 
be appointed to watch such cases, and. if that were 
called for, to appoint a deputation to proceed to Edin- 
burgh and attend the next General Assembly, or the 
meetings at any time of the Colonial Committee of the 
Church of Scotland. See, besides the article in Blai- 
kie, Sketch of the Presb. Church throughout the World, 
p. 19 sq., the references at the end of the article I’res- 

1SVTER1 AN1SM. 

19 . PllKSnVTKRTAN CHURCHES OF COLONIES OF TIIE 
British Empire. — B esides the above in Canada, there 
are the following. In the account of these we chiefly 
follow the report of the late Pan-Presbyterian Council 
of Edinburgh, which we have largely used in the preced- 
ing details: 

1. Australian Presbyterian Church. — In 1836, while 
this country was still used for penal colonization, the 
Presbyterian doctrine found its exponent in Victoria in 
the person of the Kev. Mr. Clow, a retired chaplain of a 
Highland regiment. In 1838 a missionary preacher 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 517 PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


was sent by the Clmrcli of Scotland to Melbourne, and 
soon others went over, and, until 184G, Presbyterianism 
in this colony was wholly dependent on the Kirk. 
After the discovery of gold in 1851, and the consequent 
rapid settlement of the colony, the Irish Presbyterian 
Church sent a number of ministers; and, by 1859, when 
a union of the different Presbyterian churches was pro- 
posed, there were congregations representing the regular 
Kirk, the Free Church, and the United Presbyterian, 
besides many smaller bodies. A complete union of all 
these various Presbyterians was dually effected in 18G7, 
on the abolition of state aid. 

The Presbyterian Church in Victoria has been formed 
on the Scottish model. In all its distinctive principles 
it remains loyal to the parent Church. While it has 
asserted an independent position for itself, it has adopted 
the Westminster Confession and Catechisms, and the i 
Second Book of Discipline, as its standards. Some va- 
riations have been admitted on administration. For 
example — (1.) The General Assembly is not a represen- 
tative body. (2.) The Commission, which meets six 
mouths after the Assembly, deals not only with matters 
sent to it, but with all matters of which due notice has 
been given; but its decisions in these latter are subject 
to review by the next General Assembly. (3.) It has 
no synods. (4.) And no deacons’ courts. The. secular 
affairs are intrusted to a committee elected by the con- 
gregation, one half of whom retire every year. (5.) 
Adherents as well as communicants are allowed to vote 
for the first minister of a newly formed congregation. 
(G.) The use of lu'mns and of instrumental music has 
been allowed, and congregations have almost without 
exception, and with wonderful unanimity, availed 
themselves of the allowance. The hymn-book of the 
English Presbyterian Church has been sanctioned and 
recommended. (7.) Further, the Assembly has sanc- 
tioned a “ Book of Prayers for Social Worship,” which 
has been compiled with the view of assisting Christian 
men in the bush to hold service where a minister is not 
available. 

The following statistics will give an approximate 
view of the present numerical and financial state of the 
Church : 


Presbyterian population 130,00ft 

Pastoral charges 145 

Ministers settled in pastoral charges 122 

Unattached ministers supplying vacancies and 

new stations 10 

Elders 400 

Attending divine service 60,000 

Communicants 15,000 

Churches (besides halls and school-houses) 234 

Sittings in churches 38,000 

Sabbath-schools 264 

Teachers 2,100 

Scholars 23,000 

Bible classes 73 

Scholars 1,800 

Income for all purposes, 1S75-76 £S0,0Ut) 


Capital funds held in trust for various schemes.. £60,032 

The schemes of the Church embrace two departments, 
ministerial and missionary: 

(I.) Ministerial . — In order to make suitable provision 
for the ministry, the following funds have been estab- 
lished — (a.) A capital fund for the endowment and sup- 
port of a theological hall, established in 18G5, with four 
chairs — Systematic Theology, Apologetics, Church His- 
tory, and Exegetics — held provisionally by four minis- 
ters of the Church, and attended by fifteen students, of 
whom five are studying with a view to mission work. 
.£50,000 will be required for the endowment of these 
four chairs. £14,000 are now in the hands of the 
Church, yielding an annual revenue of £900. Two 
university scholarships of £50 and £25 respectively 
have been founded for intending theological students, 
and two theological scholarships of the same amounts. 
But the larger of these is not confined to Presbyterian 
students. It is open to all denominations. The As- 
sembly raises additional scholarships, when needed, by 
subscription. (6.) A sustentation fund, for the more 


adequate support of the ministry, aims at securing 
a minimum stipend of £300 to every minister. Con- 
gregations lodge their moneys monthly in the post- 
olfice savings bank. Their ministers draw the deposits 
once a quarter to the extent of £300 a year. The 
balance that remains undrawn, if any, accrues to the 
general sustentation fund, which is distributed among 
ministers whose stipend falls short of the minimum, 
with the proviso, however, that no congregation re- 
ceives more than £50. Last year 38 out of 122 minis- 
ters participated in the fund. The income was derived 
from the following sources : Congregational subscrip- 
tions, £SGG ; donations of £100 each from eight gentle- 
men, £800; small donations and legacy, £374; interest 
from savings bank, £35, in all £2075. (c.) A capital 

fund, for the support of aged and infirm ministers; in- 
stituted not only in the interest of ministers, but as 
emphatically of congregations, to relieve them, in some 
measure, at least, from a very painful burden, and to 
insure their enjoying the ministrations of men in the 
prime and vigor of life. It is raised hv voluntary con- 
I tributions, and by a payment of £25, spread over five 
i years, from every minister. The allowance is £50 per 
annum, with £2 for every year beyond five that the an- 
J nnitaut has held a charge. (rf.) A fund for the support 
of the widows ami orphans of deceased ministers, raised 
by a minister’s rate of £5 per annum, and an annual 
congregational collection. In 187G these two sources 
of income yielded £990. Interest on capital, £ 1003 ; in 
all £2053. Annuities to twenty widows and twenty- 
four orphans, £9G5. The annuity is £50, with £10 for 
each child below eighteen. The latter sum is doubled 
when both parents are dead. By these respective agen- 
cies provision is made for the ministry in its four stages 
— when training for work, when at work, when past 
work, and when finally done with work. 

(II.) Missionary . — Comprised under two branches — 
home and heathen missions : (a.) The home mission is 
charged with — (1) securing a supply of ministers; (2) 
admitting accredited ministers from other churches ; (3) 
assisting presbyteries in supplying vacancies; and (4) 
fostering mission-stations. As the Church, in planting 
itself in a new land, is essentially a home mission, ami 
as the demand for ministers has always been ahead of 
the supply, little has been attempted outside its own 
community; One or two of the larger congregations 
have, however, been vigorously prosecuting, while oth- 
ers are commencing, territorial work at their own hand. 
The committee have received generous assistance from 
the home churches in the way of ministerial supply. 
But the need is by no means abated. At this moment 
at least twelve men are urgently required. ( b .) The 
heathen mission embraces three departments: (1.) The 
Chinese, of whom there are about 17,000 in Victoria. 
They are scattered in groups of two or three hundred 
over the colony. They are generally of an inferior 
type, but are very accessible to the teachings of the 
Gospel, which are given them at various points by the 
Christian churches. The Presbyterian Mission has 
taken the form for the present of a seminary for train- 
ing Chinese catechists. It is conducted by one of the 
ministers of the Church, assisted by Mr. Cheong, a Chi- 
nese student. (2.) The Aborigines, now reduced to 
about 1G00. Charles Kingsley and others have put the 
natives of Australia at the bottom of the scale of ra- 
tional beings, "if indeed they are eutitled to be called 
men.” It seemed as if they were likely to furnish a 
link in the ascending development of humanity. The 
Presbyterian Mission at Kosmali has exploded this no- 
tion. It is under the charge of two Moravian brethren, 
and furnishes delightful proofs of the elevating influence 
of Christianity even upon the most degraded savage, 
while the children of the school have outstripped all 
their competitors in the State schools of Victoria. (3.) 
The New Hebrides, in conjunction with other churches 
in Scotland, Canada, and Nova Scotia. The Presby- 
terian Church of Victoria maintains a contingent of two 


PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 54S PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES 


missionaries on this interesting field. The children of 
the Sabbath-schools are pledged to collect £5U0 per an- 
num for the maintenance of the Day-spring, mission-ship. 
The total contributions to the home and heathen mis- 
sions in 187G amounted to £2220. The capital invested 
funds of the Church, Sept. 30, 187G, were as follows: 


1. Theological Hall endowment £14,2-20 

2. Ormond and Patrick Hamilton scholarships... 2,ou<) 

3. Kokewood Church endowment 1,000 

4. In tlrm Ministers’ Fund V- 09 

ft. Widows and Orphans’ Fund IS, 203 

i!. Brodie Bequest (Home-mission work) 2,000 

7. Loan Fund for church and manse building (be- 
ing the accumulation of live years’ state aid). 15.000 

Total £00,032 


There are two colleges in connection with this Church 
— one for hoys, under the principalship of Dr. Morison, 
which has run a long and prosperous career; the other 
for girls, under the charge of the liev. George Tait, was 
but recently opened. 

2. Presbyterian Church of Xetr South Wales. — In 
1802 about a dozen Presbyterian families, living on the 
banks of the llawkesbnrv River, resolved to meet for 
the worship of God according to the forms of their fa- 
thers, though they had no minister. A Mr. .lames 
Mein ministered to them as catechist. At a cost of 
£100 they built a church, which hears the appropriate 
name of Ebenezer. In 1823 I)r. Lang went to the col- 
ony, the first Presbyterian minister. Considerable ad- 
ditions were made thereafter, hut the history of the 
Church was not harmonious, and various divisions took 
place. At length, in 18G5, a general union took place, 
through the amalgamation of separate bodies corre- 
sponding to the Church of Scotland, the Free Church, 
and the United Presbyterian; the new body being called 
“The Presbyterian Church of New South Wales,” 

According to the articles of union the Word of God 
is the supreme and only authoritative rule of faith and 
practice for the Church; the Westminster Confession 
of Faith, Larger and Shorter Catechisms, the Form of 
Preshy tcrial Church Government, the Directory for the 
Public Worship of God, and the Second Book of Disci- 
pline, are the subordinate standards of this Church ; 
explanations arc then given as to the relative authority 
of the subordinate standards, the renunciation of intol- 
erant principles, and the recognition of the spiritual 
independence of the Church; the jurisdiction of the 
Church is declared to he independent of other chnrehes, 
and ministers and probationers from other Presbyterian 
churches are admissible if they a third satisfactory evi- 
dence of their qualifications and eligibility, and on their 
subscribing the formula. The Church has prospered 
since the union, hut not in proportion to the growth of 
the colony. It now consists of 7 presbyteries, (58 min- 
isters, 70 charges, and 108 church-buildings. It has 
schemes for Church extension, Foreign Missions, Sab- 
bath-schools, Suslentation Fund, and Church and Manse 
Fund; its foreign missions are to the New Hebrides 
and the Chinese; it has t Dree theological tutors, and its 
estimated total income for 1875 was £15,000. The 
minimum stipend is £200 with, or £250 without, a 
manse. It is expected that £300 will now be reached 
through the Sustentation Fund. The legislature hav- 
ing passed an act. for the establishment of denomina- 
tional colleges alliliated to the University of Sydney, 
St. Andrew’s Presbyterian College has sprung into ex- 
istence. it affords a home for young men attending the 
university, and the means of theological education for 
students of divinity. The General Assembly has en- 
acted that after 1878 none but graduates shall he ad- 
mitted as candidates for the ollice of the ministry. 

Mission M'ori*. — Three classes arc recognised: the 
aborigines, the Polynesian tribes, and the Chinese in 
the gold-fields. The aborigines arc so widely scattered 
that efforts among them have been chietly desultory. 
A devoted Chinese catechist labors successfully among 
his countrymen at Sydney. The New Hebrides Mis- 
sion has a share of support from this Church, which at 


one time supported the Rev. James D. Gordon, who, 
after returning to Eromanga, was murdered in 1872. 

3. The Synod of Eastern A vstralia is formed of those 
who stood aloof from the general union of 18G5, on the 
ground that Frcc-Church principles were not sufficiently 
maintained. It consists of two presbyteries, having 
nine ministers and charges. 

4. Presbyterian Church of Queensland. — In 1859 the 
district of Moreton Bay was declared a separate colony, 
called (Queensland. The first Presbyterian minister lmd 
arrived in 1847. In I8G3 the separate congregations 
belonging to the different sections of Presbyterianism 
united as “The Presbyterian Church of (Queensland." 
The basis of union was the 'Westminster Confession, 
and all the Presbyterian congregations in t lie colony 
were embraced. There are 3 presbyteries, 24 charges, 
and 20 ministers. The General Assembly meets the 
first Monday of May. There are committees for Sab- 
bath-schools (2410 scholars), Home Mission and Church 
Extension, Sustentation, Training Young Men for the 
Ministry, and the Support of Aged ami Infirm Minis- 
ters. The Presbyterian population of the colony is 
22.000. The annual contributions are about £9000. 

5. Presbyterian Church of Tasmania. — The first 
Presbyterian minister arrived at Hobart Town in 1822 
or 1823. In 1835 there was constituted the Presbytery 
of Van Diemen’s Land, and the Scotch Church was 
placed on an equality with the English. In 1845 an 
attempt was made by the bishop of the English Church 
in Van Diemen's Land to obtain authority over all the 
inhabitants, but the Presbyterians succeeded in check- 
ing this, and in getting a rule recognised limiting the 
power of the English bishop in these colonies to the 
superintendence of his own clergy. The Presbyterian 
Church has not been equally prosperous in this as in 
other colonies, and there is still a division in the ranks. 
The Presbytery of Tasmania and the Free Presbytery 
of Tasmania indicate this division. There are 17 charges 
in all, and 13 ministers. 

G. Presbyterum Church of South Australia. — The 
first Presbyterian Church began in Adelaide in 1839, 
and for some years ministers from the different Presby- 
terian bodies continued to drop in. In 18G5 a union 
was effected. There arc now 11 ministers and 13 
charges. Union College is supplied by an Independent 
professor of Church history; a Baptist, of the Greek Tes- 
tament ; and a Presbyterian, of theology. 

7. Xew Zealand Presbyterian Church. — Presbyterian- 
ism was first planted here about the year 1810; at least 
the first minister went there then. The Church has 
made good progress, and has been geographically di- 
vided into The Presbyterian Church of Xew Zealand 
and The Presbyterian Church of Otago. In 187G the 
Church in the northern section had 7 presbyteries, 57 
ministers in charges, and 4 unattached. The Otago 
branch, founded in 1818 by a Free Church colony from 
Scotland, had 45 ministers, but in both sections there is 
a great demand for more. Besides the ministers there 
are a considerable number of evangelists who strive in 
some degree to make up for the want of a stated minis- 
try. The New Zealand Churches present the same in- 
teresting spectacle as other young colonial churches, 
striving after an organization on the model of Scotland, 
and having committees and schemes organized for that 
purpose. Much has been done hv the Presbyterian 
Church for general education, and the chair of moral 
philosophy in the University of Otago was endowed by 
them. The effort to obtain a well-educated ministry is 
conspicuous in its struggles, and in Otago a beginning 
has been made of a theological institution, and a pro- 
fessor of divinity and various tutors appointed, in 
other parts of the colony efforts have likewise been 
made to supply an educated ministry. But the difficul- 
ties in this direction have been great; many Presbyte- 
rians have joined other churches, and little has lteen 
done by the churches at home. Much is done in the 
way of Sunday-schools. Young Men’s Christian Asso- 


PRESBYTERIAN ISM 


549 


PRESBYTERIANISM 


ciations abound. Some congregations do little or noth- 
ing for missions; others are much interested in them. 
The New Hebrides Mission receives a good share of 
help, and recently something has been attempted for 
Fiji. There are committees for Sustentation, Church 
Extension, Mission, Temperance, Psalmody, and similar 
objects in both sections of the Church, betokening no 
small amount of activity and earnestness. 

8. Presbyterian Church in South Africa. — When the 
Cape became an English colony in 1804, an application 
was made to the Church of Scotland for ministerial sup- 
ply, and in 1822 and following years eleven ministers 
joined the Cape Church. In 1860 eight more Scotch 
ministers joined this Dutch Reformed body. There are, 
besides, nine Independent Presbyterian congregations in 
Cape Colony and Natal, numbering about 1000 members. 

9. Other Colonial Churches. — In connection with the 
Church of Scotland, there are: 

Congregations. Ministers. 

In South America 14 13 

In West Indies 4 4 

Iu Ceylon... 9 8 

Connected with the Free Church of Scotland are: 

Congregations. Ministers. 

In South Africa 5 3 

In Natal 4 3 

In other places 10 9 

10. Presbyterian Church in Japan. — This body was 
organized in 1878 by a union of all Presbyterian mis- 
sionaries in Japan. For doctrine, the Westminster Cat- 
echism, the canons of the Synod of Dort, the Shorter 
Catechism, and the Heidelberg Catechism were adopted. 
The constitution of the American Presbyterian Church 
was chosen as the model for administration. 

See, besides the works already quoted in different 
sections of this article, Smith, Tables of Church History ; 
Gardner, Faiths of the World , vol. ii; The American 
Cyclop, xiii, 809 sq. ; Schem, Cyclop, of Education , s. v. ; 
Marsden, History of Christian Churches and Sects , ii, 
109 sq. ; and Blaikie’s Report, all of which we have 
freely used. 

Presbyterianism, in its narrowest sense, is com- 
monly understood as the synonym of Anti-Prelacy. But, 
in truth, there are three systems of religious opinion, by 
no means necessarily affiliated, which are, with a notice- 
able uniformity, found in combination under this name. 
These are, a Calvinistic theology, the Parity of the Cler- 
gy, and Piedobaptism. See Pkesbytkkian Cm: hoiks. 
All branches of Presbyterianism organized themselves 
into a Presbyterian A lliance in London in 1875 on the 
basis of the Concensus of Reformed Confessions and Pres- 
byterian government, and held the first council at Edin- 
burgh iu 1877. The next will convene in Philadelphia 
in 1880. 

I. Doctrines. — The doctrines espoused by Presbyte- 
rians, in Great Britain and America, are found in the 
Confession of Faith of the Westminster Assembly of Di- 
vines, together with the Catechisms, Larger and Short- 
er, thereto appended. As a system, they are the doc- 
trines generally known as Augustiuian or Calvinistic. 
Presbyterians coincide with other orthodox bodies in 
the reception of the Apostles’ Creed, the Trinity, Re- 
demption through Christ, Regeneration by the Holy 
Spirit, the Resurrection, and Eternal Judgment. They 
are distinguished specifically by opposition to Arminian, 
Pelagian, and semi-Pelagian tenets. The decisions of 
the Synod of Dort on the “five points” of Predestina- 
tion, Particular Atonement, Original Sin, Special Grace, 
and the Perseverance of the Saints, have usually been 
acknowledged as setting forth their views. But while 
there is a substantial unity on these points, there are 
shades of difference, from High or Hyper Calvinism to 
Moderate Calvinism; from Supralapsarianism toSublap- 
sarianism; from Hopkinsianism to Baxterianism ; from 
the unbending Covenanters to the laxer Cumberlands; 
from the strict Old School with Scottish predilections 
to the more flexible New School with New England 
leanings. Though consenting to be called Calvinistic 


for purposes of convenience, Presbyterians do not receive 
all Calvin’s views without qualification ; neither do they 
admit that they owe their system to the Genevese re- 
former, for they claim for it a higher antiquity, reaching 
even beyond the great champion Augustine to no less 
an authority than St. Paul. They assert that the Re- 
formers of the 16th century^ were agreed upon the points 
named, as appears from the harmony of the Augsburg 
Confession, the Heidelberg Catechism, the Helvetic Con- 
fession, the Scotch Confession, the Thirty-nine Articles 
of the Church of England, the French Confession pre- 
sented to Francis II, the Belgic Confession, and the De- 
crees of the Synod of Dort in 1618. 

The Westminster Confession, rejecting the Apocry- 
pha, recognises Holy Scripture as the only infallible 
rule of faith and practice. Hence every position is sup- 
ported by proof-texts. The Confession teaches that 
there are in the godhead three persons, the Father, the 
Son, and the Holy Ghost, the same in substance, equal 
in power and glory. To God are ascribed the works of 
creation, providence, and redemption. Man having fall- 
en, the Covenant of Works is replaced by the Covenant 
of Grace, of which Christ is the Mediator and Admin- 
istrator for his elect people. Divine sovereignty and 
man’s free agency are both fully and equally admitted, 
without attempting to explain this high mystery, but 
rather requiring it to be handled with special providence 
and care. The doctrine of the Divine Purpose, Decree, 
Predestination, or Fore-ordination, is guarded from fatal- 
ism or perversion in several ways: it is explicitly stated 
that neither is God the author or approver of sin ; nor is 
violence offered to the will of the creature; nor is the 
liberty or contingency of second causes taken away, but 
rather established ; and they who perish are punished for 
their sins. The Covenant of Works having been broken 
by the first man, who was the federal head, representa- 
tive, and root of bis race, a consequent corruption of nat- 
ure, a disability of the will to spiritual good, and a liabil- 
ity to suffering and death, temporal and eternal, were 
conveyed to all his posterity. Effectual calling consists 
in the special grace of God operating on the minds and 
hearts of all those whom he has predestinated to eternal 
life, in the reception of which grace men are passive, 
yet submit most freely, being made willing by his pow- 
er. Elect infants dying in infancy, and other elect per- 
sons who are incapable of the outward call, are never- 
theless regenerated and saved by Christ through the 
Spirit, who worketli when, where, and how he pleaseth. 
That all infants dying in infancy come under the above 
conditions and are saved is a general sentiment of 
Presbyterians, so far as can be collected from their pub- 
lished writings. (See Chalmers, Rom. leet. xiv, xxvi; 
Camming, Infant Sale. p. 25; Smyth, Bereaved Par- 
ents, p. 13 ; Juukin, Justification , p. 143; Hodge, System 
of Theology [see Index].) Justification consists, not 
in inherent righteousness, nor in imputing the act of 
faith or any other act as righteousness, but in the par- 
don of sin lor Christ’s sake, and the accepting as right- 
eous by imputing the righteousness of Christ received by 
faith. Adoption and sanctification accompany justifica- 
tion. Saving faith is a fiducial belief of the truth, and 
is shown to be sincere and active by repentance and 
good works, as evidential of regenerating grace. The 
perseverance of the saints is not owing to anything in 
them, but to the grace of God, which will not suffer 
them finally to fall away. Personal assurance does not 
belong to the essence of faith, and may be dimmed or 
lost, but it is a high privilege, and every believer should 
strive to attain it. it does not lead to laxity of morals, 
for the law, though no longer a covenant of works, is 
still binding as a rule of life and conduct. 

If. 11 ’ orship . — The Presbyterian forms of worship are 
extremely simple. The reading of a portion of Script- 
ure, extemporaneous prayers, the singing of two or 
three psalms or hymns, a sermon or exhortation, and 
the pronouncing of the apostolic benediction at the 
close by the minister, comprise the entire service. 


PRESBYTERIAN ISM 


550 


PRESBYTERIANISM 


When no preacher is present, the people conduct the 
meeting themselves, an elder presiding and directing 
the several parts of reading, prayer, and praise. Noth- 
ing can be simpler or more flexible, capable of adapting 
itself to the necessities of the missionary or the street- 
preacher, as well as to the wants of the most cultivated 
audiences. Hut while the Presbyterian Church neither 
uses nor condemns a liturgy, she provides for the dig- 
nity and propriety of divine service by means of a Direc- 
tory for Public Worship as a guide, and by requiring 
ministers to qualify themselves for this duty, no less 
than for that of preaching, by reading, premeditation, 
and habitual communion with God in secret. 

Presbyterians keep the Sabbath-day strictly as a day 
of rest and devotion: but they have conscientious scru- 
ples against the obligatory observance of such days as 
Christmas, Good-Friday, and Master. The key to their 
practice in this and other respects (as declining to bow 
at the name of Jesus, avoiding the sign of the cross in 
baptism and its form in church architecture, refusing 
sponsors and confirmation, not marrying with a ring, 
discountenancing clerical vestments, etc.) is to be found 
in the adoption by the early Presbyterians of the prin- 
ciple that nothing is allowable in divine worship but 
what is divinely commanded, in opposition to the prin- 
ciple that everything is allowable except what is for- 
bidden, and only two sacraments are recognised as of di- 
vine warrant — baptism and the Lord’s Supper. Dipping 
or immersion is not in so many words forbidden, but is 
pronounced not necessary, and the ordinance is consid- 
ered to be rightly administered hv pouring or sprinkling 
— purification, not burial, being the idea symbolized 
thereby. The infant children of one or both believing 
parents have a right to baptism in virtue of the Abra- 
hamic covenant, which, being anterior to Moses, was 
unaffected and unrepealcd by the abrogation of the Mo- 
saic law. Baptism being regarded as a public Church 
ordinance, private baptisms, except in cases of ahsolute 
necessity, are discouraged. The Lord’s Supper is only 
a commemoration with bread and wine, and the idea of 
a sacrifice or of the real presence is carefully repudiated. 
At the same time, the spiritual presence of Christ, his 
special nearness to worthy receivers, and a peculiar 
blessing arc as strongly maintained. To avoid the ap- 
pearance of adoration of the elements, as well as better 
to conform to the supposed original posture of the apos- 
tles, this sacrament is taken sitting, either in the adja- 
cent pews or around long tables provided for the pur- 
pose. To this ordinance such only are admitted as 
have on profession of their faith in Christ been received 
into the membership of the Church by the session, or 
such other persons as are known to be in good Church 
standing elsewhere. During the field-preaching of the 
Scottish Keformation period and subsequently, several 
neighboring congregations often joined together to ob- 
serve the communion. On such occasions there were 
several successive celebrations of the Supper, called the 
first, second, or third “ table,” and so on. A small pew- 
ter token bearing a certain number was given to each 
worshipper, and specified the table or service at which 
its bearer was expected to communicate. Settled con- 
gregations thus came to employ the token in their own 
services. Latterly the token lias been replaced by a 
card on which the communicant writes his name and 
address, keeping in this manner the pastor aware of bis 
residence. This using of a card at the same time ex- 
hibits the Presbyterian opposition to open or indiscrim- 
inate communion, while the welcome given to members 
of other evangelical churches shows equally opposition 
to rinse, communion, so that the doctrine of the Church 
is that of restricted communion, restricting or confining 
this privilege to brethren of known Christian character. 

1 1 1. (Jorernment. — Presbyterianism is the government 
of elders, being derived from the Creek 7rptf jfic-f pug, 
presbyter, or elder. It is conceived to be analogous to 
the eldership of the Hebrews, the ctjfioyfoovTHj of the 
Greeks, the senutus of the Homans, ami the aldermen or 


[ eldermcn of the Anglo-Saxons, and, so, to be founded in 
the necessities, instincts, and common-sense of human 
nature as well as in Scripture itself. Presbyterians ac- 
knowledge no other head of the Church than Christ. 
Instead of recognising, like episcopacy, a bishop as dif- 
ferent from and superior to presbyter, and maintaining a 
distinction of ranks among the ministers of religion, it 
holds, on the contrary, that both in Scripture and the 
constitution of the Primitive Church bishop and pres- 
byter are convertible terms, ami that there is complete 
equality in point of ofiice and authority among those 
who preach and administer the sacraments, however 
they may differ in age, abilities, or acquirements. The 
argument as between the Presbyterians and Episcopali- 
ans is treated in the articles Bishop and Puksuytkh, 
and as between the Presbyterians and Congregat ionalists, 
or Independents, in the articles Kldkk and Ordination. 

According to the views of Presbyterians, there ought 
to be three classes of officers in every completely or- 
ganized Church — viz. at least one teaching elder, the 
bishop or pastor, a body of ruling elders, and deacons. 
The first is designed to minister in word and doctrine 
and to dispense the sacraments, the second to assist in 
the inspection and government of the congregation, 
ami the third to manage its financial affairs. They 
disallow all jurisdiction or interference on the part of 
the civil magistrate, except for protection. They are 
no less jealous of ecclesiastical encroachments, and bold- 
ly assert that synods and councils may err, and have 
erred; that all Church power is only ministerial and 
declarative; that no Church judicatory has the right 
to make laws to bind the conscience by virtue of its 
own authority; that God alone is lord of the conscience ; 
and that the right of private judgment is universal and 
inalienable. They maintain the parity of the clergy, 
and protest against prelacy or episcopacy, or the one- 
man power, as a usurpation finding no warrant in the 
writings of the apostles or of those of the early fathers 
nearest to their time. They no less disapprove of the 
opposite extreme of Independency, or the complete au- 
tonomy of each separate congregation. They view the 
whole collection of believers as one body, constituting 
the universal or catholic Church (meaning by ‘•catho- 
lic” not confined to one nation, as before under the law), 
though distributed into particular congregations for the 
purpose of meeting together more conveniently. 

Though Presbyterian churches hold the doctrine of a 
parity of ministers, they have, when fully organized, a 
gradation of Church courts for the exercise of govern- 
ment and discipline, ami the Presbyterian system is 
thus further distinguished from others by this ascend- 
ing series of appellate courts. The first or lowest court 
is the Church Session, consisting of the pastor ami ruling 
elders chosen by a particular congregation. The elders 
are chosen ami ordained for life, although, either of their 
own motion or that of the people, they may resign ami 
cease to be acting elders. The next court above is the 
Presbytery, which is the only ordaining body, meeting 
twice or oftener in the year, and consisting of nil the 
ministers ami one elder from each Church session with- 
in a given district. The Synod, which meets hut once a 
year, comprises a number of adjacent presbyteries (those 
within a state, for instance), and is composed of all the 
ministers, and one elder from each Church session, with- 
in those bounds. (For the peculiar authority and char- 
acter of the synods in the state establishments of the 
Continent, see the article Synod.) The General Assem- 
bly, which meets annually, is the fourth ami highest 
court in order, and embraces all the presbyteries in the 
connection. It is entirely a delegated body, composed 
of an equal proportion of ministers ami ruling elders 
elected by the presbyteries to represent them, the ratio 
being determined by the size of the body, ami care being 
taken to prevent its becoming unwieldy. Laeli superior 
court or judicatory lias the constitutional right of re- 
viewing and controlling, confirming or reversing, t lie 
doings and decisions of the court below, A mooted 


PRESBYTERIANS 


551 


PRESBYTERIANS 


question or a judicial case may thus be removed suc- 
cessively from one court to another, till the collective 
wisdom" of the whole Church, represented in the court 
of final resort, free from local prejudices or partialities, 
has an opportunity of deciding upon it. The General 
Assembly enjoys "also, through its trustees, directors, 
boards, or committees, a general jurisdiction over the 
common finances, theological seminaries, foreign and 
domestic missions, education for the ministry, publica- 
tion, church building, and correspondence with foreign 
churches. 

It only remains to add that though Presbyterians 
maintain that truth is in order to goodness, and are 
tenacious of what they understand to be the teaching 
of Scripture, they are, at the same time, neither bigoted 
nor exclusive, and to represent them as such they con- 
sider unfair in the extreme. They do not unchurch 
other denominations, but are ready to extend the hand 
of fellowship wherever they discern substantial truth 
and the image of Christ. Their standards explicitly 
say, “ We embrace in the spirit of charity those Chris- 
tians who differ from us, in opinion or practice, on these 
subjects. . . . There are truths and forms with respect to 
which men of good character and principles may differ; 
itrul in all these they think it the duty, both of private 
Christians and societies, to exercise mutual forbearance 
towards each other” ( Form of Gov. bk. i, ch. i, p. 8). 
See Hagenbach, Hist, of Doct. ii, 178; Schaff, Harm, 
of the Ref. Coif. (1877) ; Lewis, Presb. Manual , con- 
taining Forms for the Records of the Session Presbytery 
and Synod, and the Judicial and other Ecclesiastical 
Proceedings required by the Polity of the Presb. Church ; 
Shedd, Hist, of Doctrines (see Index) ; Neander, Hist, 
of Dogmas (see Index) ; Hist, of the Westminster Assem- 
bly ; Hist, of Confessions; Miller, on Presbyterianism; 
Smyth, IPorlrs and Tracts on Presbyterianism ; Schaff, 
Creeds of Christendom, vol. iii ; and the Theol. Index by 
Malcom, p. 378-380. (E. H. G.) 

Presbyterians, a name derived from the peculiar 
Church government which is advocated (see Presby- 
ter and' Presbyterianism), designates a large body 
of Protestant Christians, not bound together in one large 
denomination, but associated in independent churches. 
As, however, the term Congregationalist embraces not 
merely the denomination which assumes that title, but 
also those whose principles of government are the same 
though their doctrines may be diverse, as the Baptists, 
the Christians or Campbellites, the Unitarians, etc., so 
the term Presbyterian properly embraces all those that 
accept the Presbyterian principles of government, even 
though there be some differences in their theological be- 
liefs. All Protestant or Reformed churches may in gen- 
eral be said to be divided into three classes — those who 
hold to government by or through bishops, i.e. to an 
Episcopal government; those who hold to government 
directly by the members of the Church without the me- 
diation of any representatives, i. e. to a Congregational 
or Independent form of government; and those who hold 
to government by a board of elders or presbyters, i. e. to 
a Presbyterian form of government. Presbyterianism, 
variously modified, is the form of Church government 
observed by many Protestant churches, but is most per- 
fectly developed in Britain and America. In Britain it 
prevails chiefly in Scotland, although during the Com- 
monwealth in the 17tli century it was for a very short 
time in the ascendant in England also. In the “ Gen- 
eral Presbyterian Council” held at Edinburgh in July, 
1877, the German state establishments and the French 
and Dutch Reformed churches, as w T ell as other bodies 
that admit of certain features of Presbyterianism in 
government, were represented; and Dr. Blaikie, in his 
Report on Presbyterian Churches, which was submitted 
and approved by the Pan-Presbyterian Council at Ed- 
inburgh, treats of all these churches as Presbyterian 
bodies. In most, if not all of those churches, while 
there is a consistorial system that connects them with 
the state, giving the latter considerable control, there is 


also a true Presbyterian and synodal constitution. In 
virtue of the former, these churches have in some cases 
a general oversight of all matters affecting the moral 
and religious well-being of the communit)’’, and in the 
exercise of the latter they deal more especially with 
spiritual questions. This was substantially the system 
advocated bv the Scottish Reformers, and still exhibited 
to some extent by the presence in the General Assem- 
bly of the Scottish Established Church of a represent- 
ative of the sovereign called the lord high commis- 
sioner, authorized to bring its sessions at any time to a 
close should the proceedings conflict with the royal pre- 
rogatives — by the presence as members of the Assem- 
bly not only of elders chosen by the churches, but of 
elders appointed to be there by the town councils of 
such places as are possessed of royal charters, and hence 
called royal burghs, and by the wide range of social as 
well as of religious questions that it considers. In 
Presbyterian churches not connected with the state, 
whether in Great Britain, on the continent of Europe, 
in this country or elsewhere, the jurisdiction being over 
only their own members and civil representatives un- 
known, the discussions are confined to matters directly 
affecting the interests of religion, and a more purely 
spiritual type of Presbyterianism in consequence pre- 
vails. See the articles Belgium ; Bohemia ; France ; 
Holland; Hungary; Italy; Prussia; Russia; 
Spain; Switzerland. The French consistorial sys- 
tem is more nearly Presbyterian than the German, and 
is not perfectly so only from the pressure of the civil 
power. In other churches, also, as well as in the Prot- 
estant Church of France, Presbyterianism is more or less 
modified by the relations of the Church to the State. 
See Reformed Churches. 

The Presbyterians are for the most part Calvinistic 
in doctrine. They generally accept the Westminster 
Assembly’s Confession of Faith as their symbol of belief, 
and every minister in the Presbyterian Church of the 
United States is required to declare his personal belief 
in it as an embodiment of the truths taught in the 
Scriptures. They do not agree, however, in their inter- 
pretation of that standard, and are divided into strict 
Calvinists and moderate Calvinists. See Calvinists. 
This division in sentiment, combined with other cir- 
cumstances, divided the Presbyterian Church of the 
United States into two bodies for a time, as ive have al- 
ready seen ; but the division has been healed and a re- 
union effected, the theological differences having abated. 
See Presbyterian Churches. The chief Presbyterian 
Church in America not Calvinistic is the Cumberland 
Presbyterian. There was at one time, however, a serious 
defection in England, many of the churches becoming 
Socinian in doctrine; but the Unitarian churches in 
England at the present day arc nearly all Congrega- 
tional in their polity. Calvin is generally regarded as 
the founder of Presbyterianism ; but it should be borne 
in mind that government by a board of elders was main- 
tained by certain bodies, as the Waldensians, from a very 
early age. Of course, we are ready to grant that he 
adopted the form known as Presbyterianism because he 
believed it to be “ founded on and agreeable to the Word 
of God.” Calvin may be regarded as the founder of 
Presbyterianism in the sense that he w r as the first to 
organize the Reformed Church on a Presbyterian model, 
just as he was the first to frame the Reformed faith of 
Southern Europe in a clear, distinct, and affirmative 
form. Says Blaikie : “ It is not correct to say that Cal- 
vin originated the Presbyterian system. But in con- 
nection with it he rendered very essential service both 
in theory and in practice; he unfolded the idea more 
lucidly than it had been set forth before, and with much 
struggle he set it in actual operation in Geneva. What 
he thus established became the model on which the Re- 
formed Church in France and other countries was formed” 
( Report , p. 7). 

The tables on the following page are from Blaikie’s 
Report. 


PRESBYTERIANS 


552 


PRESBYTERIANS 


1.— Continent of Europe. 
Germnuy (omitted, as not wholly 


Presbyterian). 

Switzerland 

France — 

Reformed Church 

Union of Free Churches 

Holland 

Belgium 

Christian Missionary Church... 
Italy — 

Vhndois 

Free Italian 

Hungary (including Transylvania). 

Bohemia and Moravia 

Russia 

Spain 


2.— Cheat Britain. 
Scotland— 

Established Church 

United Presbyterian Church 

Free Church 

Reformed Presbyterian 

United Original Secession 

Ireland — 

Irish Presbyterinn Church 

Reformed Presbyterian Church.. 

England— Presbyterian Church 

Wales 


3. — British Colonies. 

Canada 

Australia — 

; Victoria 

New South Wales 

Synod of Eastern Australia.. 

Queensland 

Tasmania 

South Australia 

New Zealand 

Otago 

South Africa 

Miscellaneous 


Parishes or 1 

. Charges. 

MiuisUra. 

SOS 

103S 

540 

595 

46 

46 

1309 

1583 

13 

15 

34 

18 | 

56 

56 


9 

2007 

2017 

68 

1 67 

40 

40 , 

12 

12 

5023 

| 54'JO ' 1 

1493 

1384 

520 

564 

1009 

1068 

12 

7 

41 

23 

560 

600 

41 

81 i 

258 

258 

1098 

522 

5038 

4457 

100S 

733 

145 

141 

70 

6S 

9 

9 

24 

20 

17 

1 13 

13 

11 

70 

61 

50 

45 

154 

113 

SI 

77 

1641 

1291 


4. — United 
States. 

Presb. Church, 

Northern r»077 4744 No rep. 

Presb. Church, 

Southern 1821 1004 5415 

United Presb. . . 788 040 No rep. 
Reformed (Ger- 
man) 1347 050 .... 

Reformed 

(Dutch) 506 546 .... 

General Synod, 

ReTd Presb. . 55 

Synod Reform'd 

Presb 104 

Associate Refd 
Synod of the | 

South 100{ 

Associate Synod i 
ofN. America. 39, 

Welsh Cnlvinis- 
tic Methodist. — I 

9832 7*70 1 


535,210 No rep. 555,847 


1 12,1 S3 No rep. 
7S,483 0385 


24 

100 


4S2 


45 

5942 


143,609 No rep. 
74,000 ‘ 


10,198 7CC 


6,000 No rep. 


1,384 

s,839 


8,256 

3,241 


S,096 

970,134" 


9,035 
51 >58,771 


MISSION CHURCHES. 

ARIA. Ordaintd Mission- 

aries(J-'umf>tau or 

Countries. Churches. Amtrieau). 

Syria Presbyterian Church (U. S.) 13 

Irish Presbyterian Ch. “ 2 

Reformed “ “ “ 2 

Free Church of Scotland I 

Persia Presbyterian Church (U. S.) 8 

India Presbyterian “ “ 30 

(Dutch) Reformed Cli. “ t5 

United Presbyterian Church (U. S.)... — 

Free Church of Scotland 19 

United Presbyterian i’ll, of Scotland.. 10 

Irish Presbyterian Church 10 

Established Church of Scotland 7 

Welsh Presbyterian Church 5 

Presbyterian Church of Canada 2 

Original Secession Church 1 

Semi-Presbyterian : 

Tkt ,, 4 (Basle Society 5* 

1 (Gossner's Mission 19 

Syria Chriscliona Missiou 2 


St.\M Presbyterian Church (U. S.) 3 

•Japan United Presbyterian Ch. of Scotland . . 8 

(Dutch) Reformed Church (U. S.) 13 

Presbyterian Church “ 4 

Irish Presbyterian Church 1 

China Presbyterian Church (U. S.) 24 

(Dutch) Reformed Ch. “ 7 

Southern Presb. Ch. “ 2 

Established Church of Scotland — 

English Presbyterian Church 15 

United Presbyterian Ch. of Scotland.. 3 

Presbyterian Church of Canada 2 

Irish Presbyterian Chnrch — 

Semi- Presbyterian : 

Basle Society ]0 

Rhenish Missionary Society 4 

Java and NriGimoniNo Islands: 

Netherlands Associal ion 9 

“ Reformed Miss. Assoc 3 

“ Missionary Society 4 

Utrecht Missionary Association 8 

Java Committee 4 

Semi- Presbyterian : 

Rhenish Missionary Society 22 

New Guinea.. Utrecht Missionary Society 2 

AFRICA. 

Algeria United Presbyterian Cli. of Scotland.. 1 

Egypt (Copts).. “ “ “ (U. S.) S 

Cent. Africa . .. Free Church of Scotland 3 

Established Ch. “ — 

W. Africa Presbyterian Chnrch (U. S.) 9 

“ (Oi.i> Calaiiau)— 

United Presbyterian Ch. of Scotlaud. . . 4 
“ (Senegal) — 

Society des Missions Evan 3 

S. Africa (Natal) : 

Free Chnrch of Scotland 2 

“ (Kaffrauia) — 

Free Chnrch “ 14 

United Presh. “ 7 

Socie'te des Missions Evan 15 

L'Eglise Libre dn Canton deVaud 2 

Semi-Presbyterian : 

W. Africa Basle Society 25 

North German Mission 0 

c a r, (Rhenish Missionary Society 34 

xafrioa.... | Berlin Missionary Suciety 47 

Egypt Chriscliona Mission 3 

Ahyssima “ “ 4 

AMERICA. 

Indians: Canada— 

Presbyterian Church ofCauada 1 

“ United States— 

Presbyterian Church (U. S.) 11 

Southern Presbyterian Church 7 

Chinese: California — 

Presbyterian Chnrch (U. S.) 2 

United Presb. Ch. “ 1 

Among Roman Catholics: 

Mixko Presbyterian Chnrch (U. S.) 5 

Southern Presbyterian Chnrch 1 

Brazil, Chili, I Presbyterian Church (U. S.) 15 

Colombia, (Southern Presbyterian Church 4 

Canada Presbyterian Chnrch — 

Jamaica United Presbyterinn Ch. of Scotland.. 14 

Trinidad “ “ “ 2 

Presbyterian Chnrch ofCauada 3 

N. America Moravian Church 4 

West Indies and Surinam: 

Moravian Church 79 

POLYNESIA AND AUSTRALIA. 

New Ui:uuu>F.s.Free Church of Scotland 3 

Presb. Ch. of Canada 4 

“ “ (Victoria) 2 

“ “ (Otago and Southland) 1 

“ “ (New Zealand) 1 

Tahiti Societc des Missions Evan 4 

Australia (A boriyines) : 

Presbyterian Chnrch (Victoria) 1 

Semi- Presbyterian Churches and Societies: 

Australia (Aborigines) : 

Moravian Chnrch 3 

EUROPE. 

Among Roman Catholics: 

Ireland Irish Presbyterinn Church — 

Sjtain United Presbyterian Cli. of Scotland. . 2 

Spanish Evangel. Society, etc 6 

Prance, Brit- 
tany Welsh Presbyterian Church 2 

Various Evangelical Soc. of Franco, 
which receive grants from British 
churches and Individual members... — 

Belaium Societc Evan, de Belgique — 

Italy The Waldonsinn Church 

Free Italian Clmrcli 9 

Southern Presbyterian Church (U.S.). 1 

Greek Christians “ “ “ “ 3 


PRESBYTERIUM 


553 


PRESBYTERIUM 


Jews Missions to tlie Jews are carried on by 

Established Church of Scotland, Free 
Church of Scotland, Reformed Pres- 
byterian Church, Irish Presbyterian 
Church, English Presbyterian Church. 

Presbyterium. (1.) A name sometimes given to 
the bema , or inner portion of an ancient church, because 
it was the place in which the presbyters sat ami dis- 
charged their functions. See Chancel. (2.) The 
name also of the senate formed by the presbyters and 
deacons of the episcopal residence, with whom the bish- 
op deliberated about the most important affairs of his 
diocese. Although the government of the Church was 
claimed by the episcopate, as inherited from the apos- 
tolate, yet the spirit of community, miviovia, which 
prevailed in the Church required that the bishop, when 
important business was to be transacted, should take 
the advice of the presbyters and deacons. The limits 
of the respective attributes, however distinctly they 
might be traced, were neglected where the common 
care of the interests of the Church made it desirable, 
and the superiority of the episcopal dignity stood the 
less in the way, as even the apostles, in their humility, 
had called themselves preshvters (1 I’et. v, 1, 6 ovp- 
rptofivrtpog; 2 John I; 3 John 1, 6 rptofitiTtpog'). 
Iremeus gives the name of presbyters not only to the 
disciples of the apostles (Papias, in Eusebius, Hist. 
Eccles, iii, 39, even the apostles), but also to the bish- 
ops of his time (Iren. Ep. ad Florin, ap. Euseb. v, 
20) : ravra rd Soypara oi rpb ijpuiv rptofivrtpoi, oi 
sat ’A-rooroXoig ovpipoiTiioavrtg, ou TraptSutKav cot 
(rio\njcdo7rot;) b paKctpiog k at droorbXiKog rptofiv- 
Ttpag Id. Ep. ad Victor, ep. Rom. (ap. Euseb. v, 24) : 
Ot Trpb 2i oTijpog rptofioTtpot, oi tt poordvTtg rpg iic- 
icXjjoiag i)g vvv d<pi)y)) ’AriKt/ror Xtyoptv mi I lion, 
"Yyivov re mi TeXiotjtopov mi Sborov. According to 
the literal meaning of presbyter, it applies to men rather 
advanced in years. The languages of all nations show 
us that the members of such assemblies were chosen 
from among persons of a certain age. (Xenophon (Cy- 
roptvd. 1, c. 2] speaks of ot ytpairtpoi bvrtg rt mi ica- 
Xovptvoi. Livy [xxxiv, 49] says of the Carthagin- 
ians, “Seniores ita senatnm vocabant.” The Greeks 
had ytpoviia, owtSpiov iv 2 pvpva, ytpdvTtov ; the 
Romans had their senatus; the Germans their aider- 
men. We find this counsellorship of the elders in the 
Greek translation of the Old Testament: [Deut. xi, 16] 
Sept. -rptofiortpoi tov Xaov mi ypappartig ; [Jer. 
xix, 1] a7ro rptofivTtpoov rod Xaov mi drb rptofiv- 
ripiov tu> v iepfwi'; [Ezek. viii, 11] itibopiiKovra Ik 
tmv -rptajivTipiov oIkov ’lopai)X; [1 Kings xii, 6, 8] 
ti)v 1 SovXi/v tmv 7rpto)3vTepiov ; [xx, 8] oi rptofivrt- 
pot Kai 7 rag 6 Xaog.) The Jewish synedrium was also 
taken as a model (ovvtcpiov, i. e. college of judges, 
Sanhedrin) ; and it is expressly stated that the presby- 
terium is a copy of the ‘'synedrium’' of the apostles 
(tig tottov owtSpiov ruiv droordXwv). St. Ignatius ] 
(110), who, more than any other writer, insists upon 
the distinct im between the episcopate and presbyter- 
ate, and the superiority of the former, points out most ; 
decidedly the connection of the presbyterium, as an 
episcopal council, with the episcopate. Wc read in the 
Ep. ad Sniyrn. c. 8 : II dvrtg Tip kTriOKinrip dmXovStlTt t 
wg 'Iijoovg Xpiorbg Tip tt arpi mi to j -rptojitiTtpiip wg , 
Toig drooroXotg rovg St SiaKnvovg ii’rpirtaSt wg 
Otov ivroXijv. Ad Maynes. c. 2: inrordootTat (b 
cidmvog) rip imam-rip wg Xapirt 0£oo mi Tip rpto- 
fivTtpiip tog vbpop ’h] aoii Xpiorov. Ad Philad. c. 4: 
pia yap adpZ tov mpiov — mi tv 7ro n)pior tig tvw- 
triv rov aiparog avrov, iv Svaiaarpoiov. tog tig £7rt- 
oKorog if pa Tip rptofivTtpiip icai StaKuvoig. Ibid. c. 

8 : Yldmv ptravoovoiv dpiti b Kvpiog, idv ptravot]- 
owaiv t’g ivorijra 0eoD mi owtSpiov tov imoKorov. 
In all these passages we find the name -rptofivTsptov ; 
in other passages the father uses rptol3i>Ttpoi, although 
he means the presbyters united in a college, and not 
the same as individuals (Ep. ad Polycarp. c. 6): nbv j 
vroTaoooptvwv Tip imam-rip, 7rptaj3vTipoig, Siam- \ 


voig. Ad Philad. procem: idv iv ivi woiv avv Tip 
imommp mi ro7 g avv abrip rptofivrtpotg Kai Siam- 
voig droCtiypivovg iv yvwpij ’Ipaoii Xpiorov. Ad 
M agues, c. 6 : ivw^i)re rtp imommp Kai roig rpo- 
mSppivoig. Ad Trail, c. 3: fl dvrtg ivTptrtaSip- 
aav rovg SiaKovovg tog ivToX))v ’1 T]Oov Xpioroii mi 
tov iriomrov wg ’lijoot'v Xpiorov rovg Ct rptofiv- 
rtpoug wg owtSpiov Otov mi tog ovvbtop 6v drooro- 
Xwv. Ad M agues, c. 6: 27 TOvbdZtrt -rdvra rpdo- 
| otiv rpomStiipivov row imaKorov tig tottov 0£oii mi 
tuiv rptofivTipiov tig tottov ovvtcpiov tu>v ctTroffro- 
Xutv mi Ttov Ciamvtov — mmoTtupiviov diamviav 
I»j<toD Xpiorov. Thus a natural want led to the 
foundation of the presbyterium, as a college of presby- 
ters and deacons of the episcopal city, to advise the 
; bishop in the most important ecclesiastical affairs of the 
I diocese. 

J The form of this college had a positive model in 
! the “synedrium” of the Old Testament, the judiciary 
I competency of which was, in the presbyterium, in- 
| creased by the addition of the most important questions 
! of administration. Chrysostom (De Sacerdot. lib. iii, c. 
I 15) calls the presbyterium ro tmv rptojitiTtpiov ovvi- 
Spiov. The purpose of the institution was to secure ef- 
I ficiency in the workings of the Church, as is proved by 
1 the phrase f3o vX/} tKKXrjoiag Ot ou, b}' which Origen 
(In Joann.) designates the presbyterium. In this sim- 
] pie constitution the presbyters and deacons of the ar- 
chiepiscopal city formed in the first five centuries the 
higher clergy, which, with its bishops, was considered 
as one body, as Thomassin says, Fe/ns el A ’ova Ecclesite 
Disciplina (Mogunt. 1787), iii, 32: “Ergo presbyteri 
diaconique civitatum episcopalian!, qui clcrus erat su- 
perior dioeceseos — in umim corpus, in ununi senatnm 
consiliumque cum cpiscopo coibat, cum eoque principe 
et capite suo, clericis populisque dioeceseos omnibus 
modcrabatur.” As this presbyterium forms the council 
of the bishop, it is said to be at the head of the Church, 
along with the bishop. Thus, in the Council of Anti- 
ochin, can. 1 : “Si quis eorum, qui pnesunt ecclesife, ant 
cpiscopus, aut presbyter, aut diaconus, ti rig tuiv rpo- 
toTinriov The Council of Sardica, can. 13, prohibits 
the elevation of neophytes to the highest dignities: 
to the episcopate, presbvterate, and diaconate ; conse- 
quently to the governing clergy. In the oecumenical 
Council of Ephesus, pt. i, c. 31, 34, and act i, we rind 
several letters of the bishop Cyril of Alexandria, ad- 
dressed to the presbyters and deacons, and to the people 
of Alexandria. When pope Sirieius prepared to con- 
demn the heresy of Jnvinian, he took the advice of his 
priests and deacons: “Facto ergo presbyterio constitit 
Christiana; legi esse contraria. Omnium nostrum, tarn 
presbv terornm quam diaconorum, quam etiam totius 
clcri una snscitata fuit sententia.” Pope Felix pro- 
claimed his sentence against Petrus Enopheus, the un- 
lawful bishop of Antioch, under the formula: “Firma 
sit lnec tua depositio a me et ab his, qui mecum apos- 
tolicum thronum regtuit.” The presbyters and deacons 
of Rome deliberated in the Roman synods with the 
bishops who happened to be at Rome on all matters 
which were of interest to the Roman see. In a Ro- 
man council under pope Hilary, the transmutation of 
a Spanish bishop being in question, the account says: 
“ Residcntibus etiam universis presbvteris, adstantibus 
quoque diaconibus;” and at the end of the council : “Ab 
universis episcopis et presbvteris acclamation est, ut 
disciplina servetur, lit cauones custodiantur, rogamus.” 
The college of the cardinals is by the Romanists claimed 
to be a true picture of these presbyteries of the apostolic 
Church. If in the transaction of affairs concerning the 
Church in general the advice of the presbyteries was 
requested, this was still more natural where the special 
business of the several bishoprics was concerned. The 
fourth Council of Carthage prescribes, can. 22 : “ Ut 
episcopus sine consensu clericorum suorum clericos non 
ordinet;" and in can. 23: “Ut episcopus nullius causam 
audiat absque pneseutia clericorum suorum. Alioqui 


PRESBYTERIUM 


.‘554 


PRESBYTERY 


irrita erit scntcntia cpiscopi, nisi clcricorum suorum 
major uni scntcntia contirmetur." St. Jerome says (In 
Jena, 1,3): “ Kt no® lmbeamus senatum nostrum, coetum 
presbvteroruni and Basil, Ep. 310, calls this senate 
to twvtCpwv roe irpeafirTtpiov roe Kara ri\v iroXiv. 
St. Cyprian transacted no business of any consequence 
without consulting bis presbytery. In the matter of 
the fallen ones, he says : “ Dcindc sic collatione consili- 
orum cum episcopis, presbyteris. diaconis, confessoribus 
pariter astantibus laicis facta, lapsorum tractare ratio- 
nem.” In lib. iii, cp. 10: “Ad id vero, cpiod scripserunt 
compresbyteri nostri, solus rcscribcrc nihil potui, cum a 
primordio episcopates mei statuerim, nihil sine consilio 
vestro et sine consensu plcbis, me privatim scntcntia 
gerere. St. Ignatius (Ay?, ml Trulliimos) calls the pres- 
byters the counsellors of the bishop : oi’pfiovXoi k ai 
rrvvtcptvTai to v iirifSKoirov tig touov ovrtcptov rutv 
(iTnxTTvXojv. The difference between the presbyteries 
and the cathedral chapters, which were of later institu- 
tion, is thus defined by Thomassin (c. 1, p. 30, nr. <S sq.) : 
“1. Non constabat clems ille nisi presbvteris et dia- 
conis. 2. l’resbvteri et diaconi hi, parochi ipsi erant 
et pastures omnium civitatis ecclesiarum, ant si necdutn 
csscnt divulsic a eathedrali parochue, in eo ipsi paroclio- 
rura munia omnia imjilebaut. 3. Ipsa sua ordinatione ' 
Inuic gradum et hunc dignitatem consequebantur. Xam 
presbyteratus et diacouatus peneque ac episcopatns bc- 
neficia erant, non ordincs tantum; et id genus erant be- 
nelicia, quibus incumberet salutis animarum cura, pro 
sun certe modo. I. Clerus etiam nunc Humana; ecclesia* 
formain pra 1 se fert splendidissimam espressissimamque 
ejus cleri, qni olim singulis in cathedralibus ecclesiis 
episeopo copulabatur. Constat enim Koinani pontiricis 
clerus presbvteris, diaconisque cardinalibus, seu titulari- 
bus ecclesiarum omnium Uonue parochialium paroebis, 
cum pontitice, et sid? poutitice conspirantibus et collabo- 
rantibus Uomano in consistorio, de negotiis omnibus, 
qu:e ex pontifioia spirituali ditionc, cx universe, in- 
quam, cliristiano orbe referuntur.” 

A consequence of the participation of the presbyters in 
the administration during the lifetime of the bishop was 
that they governed alone during the vacancy of the see. 
After the death of pope Fabian, the clergy of Home wrote 
to the clergy of ( 'arthage (Ay?. 20 ap. Cypr .) : “ < hnnes nos 
decet, pro corpore totius ecclesia?, cujus per varias quas- 
que provineias membra digesta sunt, excuhare.” Only 
the decisions about the most momentous concerns were 
postponed till after the new occupancy of the .see. Thus 
the clergy' of Home sav (Ay?. 31): “Quanquam nobis 
dilTercnda? hujus rei major uccessitas incumbaf, quibus 
post cxeessnm Kabiani nullus est cpiseopns propter re- 
rum et temporum dilKcultates constitutus;” and in an- 
other passage : “Ante constitutionem cpiscopi nihil in- 
novandum putavimus, ut interim, dum episcopus dari a 
Deo nobis sustinctur, in suspensu comm causa tonea- 
tur, qni moras possunt dilntioiic sustinere.” It was the 
same when the bishop was for a longer period of time 
absent from his residence. Thus St. Ignatius says: 
“ Bascilc preshyteri cum, qni in vobis est, gregem, us- 
quequo Dominus ostendat eum qni vobis principabitur.” 
And St. Cyprian (Ay?. 10) says to his presbyters and 
deacons: “Ilortor et mando, ut vos vice men, quern 
abesse oportet, fungamini circa ea gerenda qua? admi- 
nistratio religiosa deposed and lib. iv, cp. ti: “ Ollicium 
meiim diligentia vestra pr:esentet, et I'aeiat omnia, quae 
fieri oportet circa eos,” etc. Thus St. Ililarius, in his 
petition to the emperor Constantins, states that he has 
administered his diocese through his presbyters: “ Licet 
in exilio pormanens et ecclesia 1 adhne commnnionem 
per presbyteros meos distribuens.” lint at an early pe- 
riod the bishops commenced to appoint vicars for the 
despatch of all their business at the time of their ab- 
sence. The institution of the old presbyteries melted 
organically into the cathedral chapters. St. Lusebius 
of Vercelli ami St. Augustine, to promote Christian life 
in their presbyteries, bad already- given them moiiasti- 
cal constitutions. Cither cathedral churches imitated 


this arrangement; and in the empire of the Franks the 
institution of common life, after the model of the insti- 
tutions founded by bishop Chrodegang of Metz, spread 
rapidly. In consequence of the confirmation of the rule 
proposed by- the deacon Amalarius at the Council of 
Aix-la-Chapelle (Nil?), the innovation was accepted in 
all episcopal churches. The bishops of those times, in 
imitation of those of the first centuries, did nothing of 
importance without their canons. Wc have an exam- 
ple of it in the business transacted concerning the lease 
of some real estate between Ilincmar of liluims and a 
Thuringian abbot. But if the cathedral chapter was 
the privileged part of the clergy in this respect, yet the 
bishop was free to take the advice of the other nit mbers 
both of the secular and regular clergy. Thus bishop 
Jonas of Autun, who wished to raise the income of his 
canons, insured the “consensual presbvterorum, diaeo- 
norum, ac totius sequentis ordinis ejusdein ecclesia*.” 
When, in the 10th century, the canonic common life 
was given up, the canons continued to form the senate 
of the bishop. According to the decretals, the canons 
are the born counsellors of the bishops. Calixtus II 
forbids archpriests and archdeacons to interdict clerks: 
“ Prater cpiscopi et totius capituli eomnuinc consilium.” 
Alexander III blames the patriarch of Jerusalem for 
appointing and deposing abbots and other prebendaries 
without consulting his chapter, and upon the mere ad- 
vice of foreigners. Yet, as a rule, the bishop is not bound 
by the vote of the chapter, although there are questions 
which cannot be decided without its consent. The 
Council of Trent also, in sess. xxiv, c. 13, calls the ca- 
thedral chapter the senate of the bishop. lie has to 
take its advice for the appointment of a lector of the 
Holy Scriptures {Cone. Trid. sess. v, c. 1 ) •, for the fixing 
of the holy orders, to be requested in those who are to 
be promoted to the dignities and canonries of the cathe- 
drals (sess. xxiv, c. 12) ; for the establishment of semi- 
naries (sess. xxiii, c. 18) ; for any* addition to the num- 
ber of the canonries (sess. xxiv, c. 15), etc. But the 
presumption is always in favor of the episcopal inde- 
pendence. Thus, when the chapters of the ecclesiasti- 
cal province of Milan endeavored to increase to an un- 
lawful extent the number of the cause? mtejores. in which 
the bishop has to obtain the consent or take the advice 
of the canons, St. Borromanis declared, in the fourth 
Council of Milan, that the bishop was bound to have 
the approbation or to take the advice of bis chapter 
only in such eases as are stated by law. The litigations 
about these cases had become of quite frequent occur- 
rence since the dissolution of the community of goods 
in the chapters, and the latter had often conducted 
themselves in regard to the bishop as indept ndent cor- 
porations. In many places the bishop had become a 
simple member of the chapter. Up to the year 1803 
the chapters of (iermany held at the same time two 
sharply' defined positions: they constituted, lirst, as of 
old, the senate of the bishop, and subordinate to him; 
and, secondly, they were independent corporations. The 
secularization of 1803 destroyed this latter position. 
The reorganization of the Church in (Iermany makes 
the chapter simply an episcopal council. The papal 
see has resolutely set its face against all pretensions of 
binding the bishops to the consent of the chapters. — 
Wetzer u. Welle, Kit chen- Lex. s. v. See Buss, (iesch. 
ties Xatimxd u. Tevntorial-Kirchoithums in tier Katho- 
lischeu Kirche (SchalTh. 1851). 

Presbytery is (1) the space in the choir of a 
church in which the high-altar is placed; the name is 
sometimes extended to the whole choir. See Uiiaxi el. 
It is (2), in Scotch law. an ecclesiastical division of the 
country, as well as a court. (On the Continent this is 
known as the elassis.) In its local sense it includes a 
combination of parishes, varying from four to thirty, and 
the tleneral Assembly' of the Church of .Scotland has 
power to vary the size. — Chambers, s. v. See Scor- 
i.and, Ciifiu-ii of. The presbytery is composed of the 
teaching elders of the churches of a given geographical 


PRESBYTIS 


555 


PRESCIENCE 


district, together with one of the ruling elders elected for 
that purpose by the Session from each church. Besides 
being a court of appeal from the inferior judicatory, it 
is bound to inspect carefully the personal conduct and 
pastoral labors of every minister within its bounds, and, 
when necessary, to admonish, suspend, or even depose. 
It belongs to presbyteries to grant licenses to preach the 
Gospel, to take cognizance of all preachers within its 
borders, to give certificates of character, etc., to those 
removing, and to furnish supplies where needed for the 
pulpit. Any Church member who feels himself aggrieved 
by the act of the Session may appeal from its decisions 
to the Presbytery. Superior in authority to the Pres- 
bytery is the Synod , which is composed of the teaching 
eiders' and one ruling elder from each church of a larger 
district than that represented by the Presbytery. Still 
above the Synod is the General Assembly. This em- 
braces representatives, both lay and clerical, from every 
Presbytery, and is the supreme authority in all ecclesi- 
astical matters. To it an appeal lies from the Presby- 
tery in all ecclesiastical proceedings of a disciplinary 
character, and its decision is final. Its authority, how- 
ever, though supreme, is not unlimited. In legislating 
for the churches it is required to refer the laws which 
it passes to the presbyteries for their approval ; and the 
law does not become of binding force upon the churches 
until it receives the sanction of at least a majority; in 
certain cases two thirds are required. The Presbytery 
holds frequent and stated meetings, according as cir- 
cumstances may require. In any emergency it is in 
the power of the moderator (q. v.), on his own respon- 
sibility, or on receiving a written requisition from sev- 
eral members, to call a pro re nata meeting of the Pres- 
bytery. In Presbyterian churches, where the supreme 
court consists of delegates, it belongs to each Presby- 
tery to elect ministers and elders to represent them in 
that court. AH the proceedings of the Presbytery must 
be duly minuted by the clerk, and are subject to the 
review of the Provincial Synod. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
World , s. v. See Presbyterianism. 

Presb^tis ( presbytress ). This word, in the various 
forms TiptaSvTtpa, presbyter a, presbyterissa , is of fre- 
quent occurrence in ancient writers, and denotes either 
the wife of a presbyter or a deaconess in the Church. 
Sometimes it denotes the matron of a cloister, and an 
abbess. See Deaconess. 

Prescience (Lat. prascio, to know before it hap- 
pens) is an attribute of God popularly known under the 
term Foreknowledge, and ascribed to him in different de- 
grees and extent by Arminians and Calvinists. The 
doctrine is deduced from the perfection of God’s nature. 
But as man has no analogous faculty, it is difficult, if not 
impossible, for us to conceive of God’s prescience. Man’s 
knowledge of what is future is so obscure and inferential 
that it is in vain to fathom God’s beholding of all things. 
Yet in the attempt made there arises the great question, 
how to reconcile the prescience of God with the liberty 
of man; and hence the doctrine becomes of vast impor- 
tance to theologians of both the Arminian and the Cal- 
vin i an schools. 

I. False Theories. — Three leading theories have been 
resorted to in order to evade the difficulties which are 
supposed to be involved in the opinion commonly re- 
ceived. 

1. Chevalier Ramsay {Philosophical Principles of Xat- 
ural and Revealed Religion [Glasgow, 1748, 2 vols. 4to]), 
among his other speculations, holds it a matter of choice 
in God to think of finite ideas; and similar opinions, 
though variously worded, have been occasionally adopt- 
ed. In substance these opinions are, that though the 
knowledge of God be infinite as his power is infinite, 
there is no more reason to conclude that his knowledge 
should be always exerted to the full extent of its capac- 
ity than that his power should be employed to the ex- 
tent of his omnipotence; and that if we suppose him to 
choose not to know some contingencies, the iufiniteness 


of his knowledge is not thereby impugned. To this it 
may be answered (1) that the infinite power of God is 
in Scripture represented, as in the nature of things it 
must be, as an infinite capacity, and not as infinite in 
act; but that the knowledge of God is, on the contrary, 
never represented there to us as a capacity to acquire 
knowledge, but as actually comprehending all things 
that are and all things that can be. (2) That the no- 
tion of God’s choosing to know some things and not to 
know others supposes a reason why he refuses to know 
any class of things or events, which reason, it would 
seem, can only arise out of their nature and circum- 
stances, and therefore supposes at least a partial knowl- 
edge of them, from which the reason for his not choos- 
ing to know them arises. The doctrine is therefore 
somewhat contradictory. But (3) it is fatal to this 
opinion that it does not at all meet the difficulty arising 
out of the question of the consistency of divine pre- 
science and the free actions of men, since some contin- 
gent actions — for which men have been made account- 
able, we are sure — have been foreknown by God, be- 
cause by his Spirit in the prophets they were foretold ; 
and if the freedom of man can in these cases be recon- 
ciled with the prescience of God, there is no greater dif- 
ficulty in any other case which can possibly occur. 

2. A second theory is that, the foreknowledge of con- 
tingent events being in its own nature impossible, be- 
cause it implies a contradiction, it does no dishonor to 
the divine Being to affirm that of such events he has, 
and can have, no prescience whatever, and thus the 
prescience of God as to moral actions being wholly de- 
nied. the difficulty in question is got rid of. To this 
the same answer must be given as to the former. It 
does not meet the case so long as the Scriptures are al- 
lowed to contain prophecies of rewardable and punish- 
able actions. The great fallacy in the argument that 
the certain prescience of a moral action destroys its con- 
tingent nature lies in supposing that contingency and 
certainty are the opposites of each other. It is, per- 
haps, unfortunate that a word which is of figurative 
etymology, and which, consequently, can only have an 
ideal application to such subjects, should have grown 
into common use in this discussion, because it is more 
liable, on that account, to present itself to different 
minds under different shades of meaning. If, however, 
the term contingent in this controversy has any definite 
meaning at all, as applied to the moral actions of men, 
it must mean their freedom, and stands opposed, not to 
certainty, but to necessity. A free action is a voluntary 
one ; and an action which results from the choice of the 
agent is distinguished from a necessary one in this, that 
it might not have been, or have been otherwise, accord- 
ing to the self-determining power of the agent. It is 
with reference to this specific quality of a free action 
that the term contingency is used; it might have been 
otherwise — in other words, it was not necessitated. 
Contingency in moral actions is, therefore, their free- 
dom, and is opposed, not to certainty, but to constraint. 
The very nature of this controversy fixes this as the 
precise meaning of the term. The question is not, in 
point of fact, about the certainty of moral actions — that 
is, whether they trill happen or not — but about the nat- 
ure of them, whether free or constrained, whether the)’' 
must happen or not. Those who advocate this theory 
care not about the certainty of actions simply considered, 
that is, whether they will take place or not; the reason 
why they object to a certain prescience of moral actions 
is this: they conclude that such a prescience renders 
them necessary. It is the quality of the action for 
which they contend, not whether it will happen or not. 
If contingency meant uncertainty, the sense in which 
such theorists take it, the dispute would be at an end. 
But though an uncertain action cannot be foreseen as 
certain, a free, unnecessitated action may, for there is 
nothing in the knowledge of the action in the least to 
affect its nature. Simple knowledge is in no sense a 
cause of action, nor can it be conceived to be causal, un- 


PRESCIENCE 


556 


PRESCIENCE 


connected with exerted power: for mere knowledge, 
therefore, an action remains free or necessitated, as the 
case may be. A necessitated action is not made a vol- 
untary one by its being foreknown ; a free action is not 
made a necessary one. Free actions foreknown will not, 
therefore, cease to be contingent. But how stands the 
case as to their certainty V Precisely on the same 
ground. The certainty of a necessary action foreknown 
does not result from the knowledge of the action, but 
from the operation of the necessitating cause, and, in 
like manner, the certainty of a free action does not re- 
sult from the knowledge of it, which is no cause at all, 
but from the voluntary cause — that is, the determination 
of the will. It alters not the case in the least to say 
that the voluntary action might have been otherwise. 
Had it been otherwise, the knowledge of it would have 
been otherwise; but as the will which gives birth to 
the action is not dependent upon the previous knowl- 
edge of God, but the knowledge of the action upon fore- 
sight of the choice of the will, neither the will nor the 
act is controlled by the knowledge, and the action, 
though foreseen, is still free or contingent. The fore- 
knowledge of God has then no influence upon either the 
freedom or the certainty of actions, for this plain reason, 
that it is knowledge, and not influence; and actions may 
be certainly foreknown without their being rendered nec- 
essary by that foreknowledge. But here it is said, “If 
the result of an absolute contingency be certainly fore- 
known, it can have no other result, it cannot happen 
otherwise.” This is not the true inference. It will not 
happen otherwise ; but it may be asked, Why cun it not 
happen otherwise? Can is an expression of potential- 
ity— it denotes power or possibility. The objection is 
that it is not possible that the action should otherwise 
happen. Bill why not ? What deprives it of that 
power? If a necessary action were in question, it could 
not otherwise happen than as the necessitating cause 
should compel; but, then, that would arise from the neces- 
sitating cause solely, and not from the prescience of the 
action, which is not causal. But if the action be free, 
and it enters into the very nature of a voluntary action 
to be unconstrained, then it might have happened in a 
thousand other ways, or not have happened at all; the 
foreknowledge of it no more affects its nature in this 
ease than in the other. All its potentiality, so to speak, 
still remains, independent of foreknowledge, which nei- 
ther adds to its power of happening otlierw ise nor dimin- 
ishes it. But then we are told that “the prescience of 
it in that ease must he uncertain.” Not unless any per- 
son can prove that the divine prescience is unable to 
dart through all the workings of the human mind, all 
its comparison of things in the judgment, all the inllu- 
ences of motives on the affections, all the hesitances and 
baitings of the will, to its linal choice. “Such knowl- 
edge is too wonderful for us,” but it is t lie knowledge of 
him “who imdcrstamlcth the thoughts of man afar off.” 
“But if a contingency will have a given result, to that 
result it must be determined.” Not in the least. We 
have seen that it cannot be determined to a given result 
by mere precognition, for we have evidence in our own 
minds that mere knowledge is not causal to the actions 
of another. It is determined to its result by the will 
of the agent; but even in that case it cannot he said 
that it must be determined to that result, because it is 
of the nature of freedom to be unconstrained: so that 
here we have an instance in the ease of a free agent that 
he will act in some particular manner, but it by no 
means follows from what will be, whether foreseen or 
not. that it must be. 

3. The third theory amounts, in brief, to this: that 
the foreknowledge of God must be supposed to differ so 
much from anything of the kind which we perceive in 
ourselves, and from any ideas which we can possibly 
form of that property of the divine nature, that no ar- 
gument respecting it can ho grounded upon our imper- 
fect notions, and that all controversy on subjects con- 
nected with it is idle and fruitless. But though fore- 


knowledge in God should be admitted to be something of 
a “very different nature” from the same quality in man. 
yet as it is represented as something equivalent to fore- 
knowledge, whatever that something may be, since in 
consequence of it prophecies have actually been uttered 
and fultilled, and of such a kind, too, as relate to actions 
for which men have, in fact, been held accountable, all 
the original difficulty of reconciling contingent events 
to this something, of which human foreknowledge is a 
“kind of shadow,” as “a map of China is to China it- 
self,” remains in full force. The difficulty is shifted, but 
not removed. 

II. Extent of Prescience . — It may, therefore, be cer- 
tainly concluded, if, at least, the lloly Scriptures are to be 
our guide, that the omniscience of God comprehends his 
certain prescience of all events, however contingent; 
and if anything more were necessary to strengthen ihe 
argument above given, it might be drawn from the ir- 
rational, and, above all. the 1 in scriptural consequences 
which would follow from Ihe denial of this doctrine. 
These are forcibly stated by president Edwards: “It 
would follow from this notion (namely, that the Al- 
mighty doth not foreknow what will he the result of 
future contingencies) that as God is liable to be contin- 
ually repenting what he has done, so he must be ex- 
posed to be constantly changing his mind and inten- 

( lions as to his future conduct — altering his measures, 
relinquishing his old designs, and forming new schemes 
and projections. For his purposes, even as to the main 
parts of the sdu me ( namely, such as belong to the state 
of his moral kingdom), must be always liable to be broken 
through want of foresight, and he must be continually 
putting his system to rights, as it gets out of order, 
through the oontingenee of the actions of moral agents: 
he must be a Being who, instead of being absolutely 
immutable, must necessarily be the subject of infinite- 
ly tlie most numerous acts of repentance and changes 
[ of intention of any being whatsoever, for this plain 
] reason, that his vastly extensive charge comprehends 
! an infinitely greater number of those things which arc 
I to him contingent and uncertain. In such a situation 
I he must have little else to do but to mend broken links 
[ as well as be can, and be rectifying bis disjointed frame 
and disordered movements in the best manner the case 
will allow. The supreme Lord of all things must needs 
be under great and miserable disadvantages in govern- 
ing the world which lie has made and lias the care of, 
through his being utterly unable to find out things of 
chief importance which hereafter shall befall bis system, 
which, if he did but know, lie might make seasonable 
provision for. In many eases there may be very great 
necessity that he should make provisions in the manner 
of his ordering and disposing tilings for some great 
events which are to happen of vast and extensive intln- 
ence and endless consequence to the universe, which he 
may see afterwards, when it is too late, and may wish 
in vain that he had known beforehand, that he might 
have ordered his affairs accordingly. And it is in the 
power of man. on these principles, by his devices, pur- 
poses, and actions thus to disappoint God, break his 
measures, make him continually to change his mind, 
subject him to vexation, and bring him into confusion.” 

III. Speculations on the Subject . — Some of the ancient 
philosophers denied that God could foreknow events de- 
pending on free will (see t’ieero, l)e Jiirinate , ii, si, 7 ; 
answered by Augustine, lie Ciritate Dei, v. t», 111). So- 
cimis (Preelect. Theol, c. £-11) and his early followers 
would not allow that God possesses any knowledge of 
future contingencies. The schoolmen, in reference to 
this species of knowledge in God. invented that called 
scievtiu media (q. v. ; see also Foxskcw and >Moux.\), 
which they define as “that by which God knows, sub 
coiiditione. what men or angels will do according to the 
liberty which they have when they are placed in these 
or those circumstances, or in this or in that order of 
things." When Gomariis, the opponent of Armi niiis, 
found that his opinion concerning the object of reproba- 


PRESCRIPTION 


557 


PRESENCE-MONEY 


tion was clogged with this absurdity — that it made God 
to be the author of Adam’s sin— he very astutely took 
refuge in this conditional foreknowledge, and in his 
corrected theses on predestination, published after the 
death of Arminius, he describes it as “ that by which 
God, through the infinite light of his own knowledge, 
foreknows some future things, not absolutely, but as 
placed under a certain condition.” Wakens, the cele- 
brated antagonist of Episcopius, had recourse to the 
same expedient. This distinction has been adopted by 
very fe\v of those who espouse the doctrines of general 
redemption, and w'ho believe that every event, how con- 
tingent soever to the creature, is, with respect to God, 
certainly foreknown. An old English divine thinks that 
“in the sacred Scriptures certain not obscure vestiges 
are apparent of this kind of knowledge of things that 
will happen thus or otherwise, on the supposition of the 
occurrence of this or that circumstance. Omitting the 
well-known example of David in Keilah (1 Sam. xxii, 
12), and of Chorazin and Bethsaida (Hiatt, xi, 21 ; 
Luke x, 13), consult, among other sayings of the same 
description, Christ’s answer to the chief priests and 
scribes who had asked ‘Art thou the Christ? Tell us.’ 
And he said unto them, * If I tell you, ye will not be- 
lieve.’ In the subsequent verse he adds, ‘ If I also ask 
you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go’ (Luke xxii, 
G7, G8). You have here three events specified which 
yet will not occur even on the supposition of Christ our 
Lord himself.” This kind of knowledge might very w ell 
be included in that of scientia visionis, because the lat- 
ter ought to include, not what God will do and what his 
creatures will do under his appointment, but what they 
will do by his permission as free agents, and what he 
will do, as a consequence of this, in his character of 
Governor and Lord. But since the predestinarians had 
confounded scientia visionis with a predestinating de- 
cree, the scientia media well expressed what they had 
left quite unaccounted for, and which they had assumed 
did not really exist — the actions of creatures endowed 
with free will and the acts of Deity w hich from eternity 
w'ere consequent upon them. If such actions do not 
take place, then men are not free; and if the rectoral 
acts of God are not consequent upon the actions of the 
creature in the order of the divine intention, and the ! 
conduct of the creature is consequent upon the fore- 
ordained rectoral acts of God, then we reach a neces- 
sitating eternal decree, which, in fact, the predestina- ! 
rian contends for; but it unfortunately brings after it | 
consequences which no subtleties have ever been able 
to shake off — that the only actor in the universe is God 
himself, and that the only distinction among events is 
that one class is brought to pass by God directly and i 
the other indirectly, not by the agency, but by the mere 
instrumentality, of his creatures. — Watson. See also 
Watson, Theol. Institutes , i, 375 ; ii, 357, 429 ; Works, vii, 
298,309; Pope, Com pend ium of Christian Theology (Loud. 
1875), p. 145-149, 191 sq.; Raymond, Systematic Theology 
(see Index in vol. ii) ; Knapp, Theology, § 22 ; Fletcher, 
iroo’Ls ; Presbyterian Confession ; Church Remembrancer 
(Jan. 1856); Bulletin Th eol. (Oct. 1 8G8), p. 2G sq. ; Hodge, 
Systematic Theology (see Index); Bromley, Divine Pre- 
science ; Clarke, Boyle Lectures for 1705 ; King, Sermons 
on the Divine Prescience; Tillotson, Sennons ; Water- 
land, Works, vol. vi; Haag, Uistoire des Dogmes (see ! 
Index in vol. ii; Graves, Works, vol. iv; Bib. Sacra , 
July, 18G8, p.455; Neander, Dogm. p. 5G8 sip; Callisen, 
Essay with a View to bring into Harmony the Doctrine 
of the Omniscience of God and the Freedom of Man, in 
Schmidt u. Schwarz, Theol. Bibliotliek. vol. viii ; Reid, 
On the Active Powers, essay iv, ch. xi; Pye Smith, 
First Lines of Christian Theology, p. 148, t49. See also 
the articles Election; Predestination. 

Prescription. I. This expression, borrowed from 
the civil law r , has in the Roman Catholic Church a can- 
onistic meaning. In order to put limits to the contests 
about mine and thine in rights, obligations, and posses- 
sions, that Church has fixed terms which invest with 


legality the possession of rights and goods, unless proof 
be produced that these rights or goods are of an alien- 
able kind, or have been acquired by illegal means (usur- 
pation or theft time does not consecrate). If the lawful 
term be elapsed, the possessor is confirmed in the pos- 
session of said rights or goods, and he who is bound by 
certain obligations cannot call them in question. The 
term of prescription varies with the nature of the ob- 
ject : movable property prescribes quicker than immov- 
able, the property of adults quicker than that of minors, 
the property of those present quicker than that of ab- 
sentees; ecclesiastical property is prescribed only after 
forty years. According to the rules of the papal chan- 
cery, the possessor of an ecclesiastical office, after a three- 
vears’ possession, if it be not obtained by violence or 
simony, cannot be lawfully expelled from it. There is 
prescription in his favor. 

II. Tertullian transplanted this expression to the 
theological domain by his work on prescriptions against 
heretics, a kind of argument against erroneous doctrine. 
This is what he means: The Catholic Church enjoys, in 
her doctrines and discipline, the right of prescription ; 
what she teaches and practices at the present hour she has 
taught and practiced from times immemorial — learned 
it from the apostles, as the apostles learned from Christ, 
as Christ had it from the Father. The catholic doc- 
trine is the true one, because it is the old and original 
one, and rests on the divine revelation ; the doctrines 
of heretics and sectarians, on the other side, are false, 
because new, because they have not prescription in their 
favor, and consequently are not founded on divine reve- 
lation. Ireimnis taught similarly. It is easy to see that 
this proof by prescription is much the same as the proof 
by tradition, and that this mode of arguing can have 
no acceptability in Protestantism, where the Bible alone 
is regarded as the true test, and the apostolic or early 
Church practices have only an advison' influence, not 
authority. Of course, High-Churchmen, by their ritu- 
alistic tendency, can hardly be said to come under the 
full influence of Protestantism, and are therefore not to 
be considered as included in the exponents of evangeli- 
cal Christianity. See Elliott, Delineation of Roman 
Catholicism, p. G 1 , 95. 407. See Authority. (J. H.W.) 

Prescription is also a law adopted in Presbyterian 
churches. If a scandal is not noticed for five years 
after it happens, it cannot be revived, but is then said 
to be prescribed. 

Presence means, in canonical law', the uninter- 
rupted personal residence of every regularly prebeuded 
ecclesiastic at the seat of his office ; a duty emphatically 
imposed on him by the laws of the Church. It means 
also the personal attendance at the common choral pray- 
er, to which the laws of the Church obligate all mem- 
bers of a monastic community, as well as the canons 
and choir-vicars of the cathedral and collegiate congre- 
gations. 

Presence-money is the small daily payment in 
specie made by Roman Catholics to the canons for their 
presence in the choir at defunct cathedral or collegiate 
churches. After the dissolution of the communal life 
of those ecclesiastics, the bulk of the revenue of the 
chapters was divided into individual portions, to be 
distributed partly as daily stipends, called distribu- 
tiones quotuliance, or quotidiana stipnulia , in opposition 
to the prebends, which went by the name of fructus 
grossi or annui. The purpose of this daily distribution 
was to induce the canons to a stricter obedience to the 
law of residence, and to more assiduous attendance to 
the public choir-prayers, as only those canons came in 
for their share who were either present in the choir or 
officiated during the service. Yet there were some 
grounds on which their absence could be excused with- 
out loss of their share. (These legal exceptions are for- 
mulated in the canonic regulations in De cler. cegr. iii, 
G; De cler. non resul. iii, 3; Cone. Trid. sess. xxii, c. 3, 
and sess. xxiv, c. 8 fin .De ref I) The Council of Trent 


55S 


PRESEXTATIOX 


PEESEXCE, REAL 


directed that in those cathedral or collegiate congrega- 
tions where there existed no presence-money, or where 
it reached but an insignificant amount, a third of the 
whole revenue of the chapter should be set apart and 
used for such distributions (Cone. Trid. sess. xxi, c. 3, 
l)e ref.). The portions of the canons absent without 
reasonable excuse were to be divided among the mem- 
bers present pro rata, or given to the fabric of the 
church, if it stood in need of such help, or employed for 
any pious purpose the bishop might devise fsess. xxii, 
c. 3, Ue ref). It was not always the negligence of the 
canons, but also the peculiar— and partly abusive — com- 
position of the chapters, which was the cause that their 
members so frequently dispensed with personal service 
in the choir, and were represented in it by simple vic- 
ars. The personal obligation of the canons has been 
insisted upon by the most ancient canonic rules, by the 
Council of Trent, and by the last circumscription bulls 
for the reorganization of the German bishoprics. Spe- 
cial presence-money is no more in use; for as the dota- 
tion of the restored bishoprics and chapters is not found- 
ed on immovable property, as the prebends How, in the 
form of fixed salaries, out of the public treasure, the di- 
rection of the Council of Trent that a part of the rev- 
enue should be set apart and used for such distributions 
is not acted upon. See Schmidt, Thesaurus jur. Eccles. 
iv, 195 s(p 

Presence, Real. See Thaxscbst anti atiox. 

Present. See Gift. 

Presentation, in ecclesiastical law, is, I, in the 
state-established churches, one of those forms of canonic 
collation of the prebends by which the rights of the 
bishop are limited, inasmuch as he cannot himself nom- 
inate an occupant to the vacant office, but must be con- 
tent with confirming the nominee of the pafronus bene- 
jicii. The right of presentation is therefore the right 
of the patron to designate to the bishop the successor 
elected by him of a deceased beneficiary, the Hshop 
being obliged to confirm the candidate if he be. worthy, 
capable, and proposed according to canonical rides. This 
right of presentation is the first and most important of 
all patronal rights. The patron, in the exercise of his 
right, is bound by the general conditions of a canonical 
provision : he has to propose a capable and worthy per- 
son gratuitously, ami within the legal limits of time. 
If the patronate be an ecclesiastical or a mixed one, the 
time is six months; if it be a worldly one, four months: 
yet there are departures from this rule. In Austria the 
patron must choose his nominee out of a list drawn up 
by the ordinariate : if he be at home, within six months; 
if he be abroad, within three months, from the day of the 
receipt of the list. In 1’riissia six months are allowed 
to the lay patron, as well as to the ecclesiastical patron, 
from the day of the vacation of the olfiee ; or. if the ben- 
eficiary die abroad, from the day on which tin* news of 
his death is received. In linden the time is limited to 
three months, except in the case of insurmountable hin- 
derances. If the right of presentation belong to several 
persons individually, they can agree upon a common 
choice, or designate each Ids own candidate, leaving the 
choice to the bishop; or the matter may be decided bv 
the majority of the votes; and in case of an equality of 
voles in favor of each candidate, the decision may be 
left again to the bishop. The same rules obtain when 
the right of a patron has been transmitted to several 
heirs, in which case, of course, the heirs of one patron 
can give only one vote. If the right of presentation 
belong to a college or a juridical person, the case is set- 
tled by the statutes of the corporation ; or if regulations 
on the subject be wanting, by a collegiate vote. In the 
remainder, the right of the patron is unlimited: he can 
propose his nearest relation, but not himself, although 
he could, “via gratia*,” present a request for his own 
admission (f/ratiosam petere ndmissianem). He can sub- 
mit several candidates to the choice of the bishop; if 
he be a layman, he can, so long as the legal term is not 


elapsed and the canonic collation has not taken place, 
propose successively several other names. This jus ru- 
ne nidi is not allowed to an ecclesiastical patron, litre 
the lirst presentation, according to the principle “Tem- 
pore prior potior jure,” makes null and void all subse- 
quent nominations. If the legal term is passed without 
presentation, or if the presentation has not been made 
gratuitously, the nomination in that case is lost to the 
patron, and belongs exclusively to the collator. The 
same happens when an ecclesiastical patron wittingly 
proposes an unworthy subject, while the lay patron is 
allowed another presentation in the legal four months. 
But if the patron, whether layman or ecclesiastic, have 
' unwittingly proposed an unworthy candidate, lie obtains 
a new term of four or of six months. The Prussian law 
allows, after the expiration of the primitive term, only 
a supplementary term of six weeks. In Baden the pa- 
tron, if his proposition have been rejected by the ordi- 
nariate, is allowed another presentation, to be made in 
the space of lour weeks, and the same term is allowed 
him a second lime, but not further. The presentation 
is made by letter, for which many ordinariates prescribe 
fixed formulas to the private patrons. The contests 
about the patronal rights are, according to decretal law, 
subject to the ecclesiastical courts; but modern legis- 
lation has almost everywhere added it to the compe- 
tency of the worldly tribunals. If the patronal right 
itself be contested, the actual possessor has the “jus 
pnvsentandi,” ami the nomination resulting from the 
use he makes of it is not invalidated by his being after- 
wards defeated in the lawsuit. But if the right to hold 
the goods with which the patronate is connected should 
itself be questioned, then the right of presentation is 
suspended, and the bishop in this case enjoys a free 
right of collation. The winner of the suit may then, 
to insure his privilege, confirm the nomination made 
by the bishop; but if he should refuse his consent, this 
can have no influence on the situation of the nominee. 
See Schulte, Kirchenrecht, p. 07 sq.; Bosshirt, Kano- 
nisches lieeht , p. 437 sq. ; Pachmann, Kirchenrecht , i, 
268 s<p; Bichter, Kirchenrecht , § 193; Gerlach, i/us 
Prasentationsrecht (Begensb. 1855). 

II. In the Established Church of Scotland the minis- 
ter intended for a living by a patron must be presented 
| to the presbytery for inquiry into his qualifications, ami 
' for induction if these are satisfactory. If the patron fail 
to present within six months, the right then devolves 
on the presbytery, tanquam jure deroluto. See Ji s Di> 
voi.rroi. When a presentee was objected to by the 
major part of the congregation, whether with or with- 
out reason, the General Assembly of the Church for- 
merly claimed the right to declare that he should not 
he inducted or entitled to the benefice. This declara- 
tion was contained in an act of Assembly, dated 1835, 
called the Veto Act. But after much litigation it was 
decided by the courts of law that such Veto Act was 
ultra tires ami void; and this decision led to a seces- 
sion of many ministers and people from the Established 
Church, ami to the formation of a new dissenting 
Church, called the Free Church (q. v.). The law is 
now settled that it is the presbytery, and not the peo- 
ple, who are to judge of the reasonableness of any ob- 
jections made to the presentee, for which purpose rea- 
sons and objections are heard on both sides, and a wide 
discretion is exercised by the presbytery. If the pres- 
bytery dismiss the objections, they then proceed to the 
trial and induction (q. v.) of the presentee. The fol- 
lowing is the form of a Scotch presentation, and is a 
copy, indeed, of the one which led to the disputes and 
processes that ended in the disruption of the Scottish 
Church : 

“The right honorable Thomas Robert Drummond llav, 
carl of Kinm. nil, undoubted patron of the parish church 
and parish of Amhterarder, lying within the presbytery 
of Auchteraider nml sheriffdom of Berth, comwcriny that 
the said ehnrch and parish is now vacant and become at 
my gift ami presentation by and through tbc death of the 
I Rev. Charles Stewart, lute 'minister of the Gospel at the 


PRESIDING ELDER 


PRESENTATION OF THE VIRGIN 5 ! 

paid chnrch of Anchterarder ; and I, being sufficiently in- 
formed of the literature, K y&lty, q lalidcatious, good life 
and conversation of Mr. Robert Young, preacher of the 
Gospel, residing at Seafield Cottage, Dundee, do therefore, 
by these presents, nominate and present the said Robert 
Yoiui«- to be minister of the said parish and church of 
Anehferarder during all the days of his lifetime, giving, 
granting, and disponing to him the constant, localled, 
and modified stipend, tvith the manse and glebe, and 
other profits and emoluments belonging to the said 
church, for the crop and year Isas, and during his lifetime, 
and his serving the cure of the said church, requiring 
hereby the reverend moderator and presbytery of Auch- 
terarder to take trial of the qualifications, literature, good 
life, and conversation of the said Robert Young; and 
having found him fit and qualified for the function of the 
ministry at the said church of Auchterarder, to admit and 
receive him thereto, and give him his act of ordination 
and admission in due and competent form, recommending 
hereby to the lords of council and session, upon sight of 
this presentation and the said presbytery’s act of ordina- 
tion and admission, to grant letters of horning, on a sim- 
ple charge of two days only, and other executorials neces- 
sary at the instance of the said Robert Young, against all 
and sundry the heritors, life -renters, t'enars, tacksmen, 
tenants, possessors, and occnpiers of lands within the said 
parish, subject and liable in payment of the said localled 
and modified stipend, for causing the said Robert Young, 
and others in his name, be readily answered and paid 
thereof in such due and competent form as effeirs. And 
I consent to the registration thereof in the hooks of coun- 
cil and session, or others competent., therein to remain for 

preservation : and for that effect I constitute my 

procurators. In witness whereof, etc., (signed) Drum- 
mond Kinnoul. R. A. Yates, witness. Thomas Neatliain, 
toitness." 

See Patronage. 

Presentation of the Virgin, Feast of, a 

Romish festival held on Nov. ‘21. It is not older than 
the 13th century. See Mary. 

President (Tj jO, sardk , or SI “3, sarekd; Sept. 
TciKTucog; Vulg. princejis), only used in Dan. vi ; the 
Chaldee equivalent for Hebrew shoter, probably from 
Sura, Zend, a “head” (see Strabo, xi, 33L). ^LapaTrd- 
pag — Kt<pa\oTopog is connected with the Sanskrit sirus 
or ch'cis, and is traced in Sargon and other words 
(Eichhoff, Vergl. Spr. p. 129, 415 ; see Her. iii, 89, where 
he calls satrap a Persian word). — Smith. See Gov- 
ernor. 

President in Choir is the name given to the 
English dean’s deputy, usually the senior residentiary 
or vice-dean, who in his absence corrects offences, be- 
sides acting as president in chapter (q. v.), and ehora- 
gns, or director of the services, when there is no digni- 
tary; also the precentor. 

Presiding Elder is the name given in the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church to an officer whose functions are 
those of a superintendent within limited jurisdiction. 
These elders serve under the bishops, and, together with 
them, constitute in their respective conferences a cabi- 
net, in which resides the appointing power over the 
membership of itinerant preachers. The office is one 
of very great responsibility and far-reaching influence. 
Within the territory over which such an elder presides 
every minister is amenable to this officer, who visits 
the different charges three or four times during the 
year, usually at what is called the holding of the Quar- 
terly Conference (q. v.), over which he presides, and by 
which all the business of the charge is disposed of. , He 
also presides at the District Conferences, where literary 
and ecclesiastical culture is aimed at, and the licensing 
of candidates for the ministry takes place. Usually the 
territory is confined to an eighth or sixth of the Con- 
ference boundaries, and corresponds somewhat in extent 
to the average county in an Eastern state. 

The office of presiding elder was created in the early 
history of Methodist economy in this country, and ap- 
pears to have had its origin in the assistants whom 
John Wesley employed as helps. He had what we 
might call junior preachers at the circuits or districts 
into which he divided his work, and an assistant in 
charge of the whole. These assistants were then in- 
vested with nearly the same authority over the helps 
which the great founder of Methodism himself exer- 


cised, and hence they had an authority akin more to the 
bishopric of American Methodism. When, in 1784, Mr. 
Wesley caused the election of Asbury and Coke as su- 
perintendents or bishops, there were several assistants 
in office thus made subject to these two general super- 
intendents. The question has arisen whether the twelve 
elders who were elected at the Christmas Conference 
of 1784 were simply travelling elders or assistants of the 
superintendents. See Methodism. 

As the presiding elders are now episcopal appointees, 
the answer to this query becomes important. There 
are two opinions. One party, advocating the elective 
eldership, insist that these twelve men were then elect- 
ed by the Conference for the assistants’ work, and base 
their decision on Dr. Emory’s interpretation. He says, 
in his History of the Discipline, p. 125, “All elders were 
at first presiding elders,” and the distinction between 
presiding elders and “ travelling elders” was not made 
until 1792. Section v, of 1789, it would seem, proves 
the correctness of Dr. Emory’s statement. The follow- 
ing is a part of the section on elders : 

“ Ques. 2. What is the dnty of an elder? 

“A ns. 1 . To travel throngh his appointed district. 

“2. To administer baptism and the Lord’s Supper, and 
perform all parts of divine service. 

“3. In the absence of a bishop to take charge of all the 
deacons, travelling and local preachers, and exhorters. 

“4. To change, receive, or suspend preachers. 

“5. To direct in the transaction of the spiritual busi- 
ness of his circuit. 

“G. To take care that every part of our discipline be en- 
forced. 

“7. To aid in public collections. 

“8. To attend his bishop when present, and give him, 
when absent, all necessary information by letter of the 
state of his district.” 

That every elder, in the absence of the bishop, was 
equal in point of supervisory office and duty is evident 
also from the fact that the third duty in this section 
gives an elder no authority to take charge of elders, but 
simply of deacons travelling, and local preachers, etc., 
seeing they were equal in authority. It was not until 
1792 that a distinction was made between presiding 
elders and travelling elders, and these were then put 
under the charge of presiding elders. It was at this 
date that presiding elders were chosen by the bishop 
from the body of elders, and those elders not chosen by 
the bishops were disrobed of office as presiding elders, 
and placed for the first time under the care of presiding 
elders (see p. 120, 1792). 

“ Ques. By whom are the presiding elders to be chosen? 

“ A ns. By the bishop. Among the duties of t he presid- 
ing elder, one is to take charge of all the elders, deacous, 
etc., of his district.” 

At this date, then, there was made a distinction be- 
tween presiding elders and travelling elders, and not 
before. All the elders previous to 1792, therefore, were 
elected and appointed to the office and duties of presid- 
ing elder by the Conference, and each had equal au- 
thority in charge in the absence of the bishop. 

Against this position, those who approve of the ex- 
isting practice of the appointing of presiding elders 
by the bishop urge, first, that from 1785 to 1792 there 
were each year more elders than presiding elders; 
secondly, that the presiding elders were appointed to 
their districts, and that the apjmintment was by the 
bishop; and, thirdly, that if the bishops did appoint 
elders to preside over other elders, the Conferences not 
calling the bishops to account consented to the change, 
and thereby made it valid ; and that it was the practice 
of the Church from 1784 to 1792, notwithstanding the 
disciplines required otherwise (see letter by Dr. D. 
Sherman in Zion's Herald, March, 1876) ; and that Dr. 
Emory and others interpreted falsely the action of the 
early Methodist Church in America (comp. Stevens. 
Hist, of the M. E. Church, ii, 222, 224). The presiding 
duties which made of an elder a presiding elder did not, 
in the practice of the Church, belong to this new order 
in the ministry as soon as it was constituted. They 
belonged to the assistants, and were gradually trans- 


PRESS 


560 


PRESSLY 


ferreil to the elders; and when, after the practice of 
nearly two years, they were actually transferred, the 
custom was legalized, the office of assistant was abol- 
ished, and the word disappeared from the minutes (see 
the Minutes and Discipline , A.D. 178G). The idea of 
tliis transfer originated in the mind of bishop Asbnry, 
who found, after the eldership was instituted, as he says 
in his Notes on the Discipline, “that this order was so 
necessary” that he would make them rulers. Even his 
idea of the presiding eldership was not contemporane- 
ous with the instituting of the order of elders, but 
came, as he says, when he “afterwards found that" 
they would be useful in ruling (see Notes on the Disci- 
pline, by Coke and Asbnry). His idea was not put in 
practice until the Annual Conferences of 1785, when, 
as Lee {History, p. 120) states, the presiding eldership 
originated, but only in an inchoate form. This was 
months after the. order of elders had been instituted. 
When, in 1780, the first law’ was made relative to the 
presiding eldership, it was made possible by the Disci- 
pline for every elder to become a presiding elder, so far 
as the duties were concerned, and here is where Emory 
and others have been misled. But as the bishop al- 
ways appointed the ruling or presiding elders from the 
order of elders (Lee, History, p. 150), the practice was 
never to make all the elders ruling or presiding elders. 
Hence, from 1780 to 179:2, the line of the Discipline 
never entirely agreed with the practice in the appoint- 
ments, for there were hosts of elders who were never 
presiding elders. In the Conference of 1792, however, 
the law was made to harmonize with the practice. In 
the ancient Church the chorepiscopi ( 7npioCtvrai ) filled 
an office which must have given Mr. Wesley the sug- 
gestion for the assistant he called into office. See Em- 
ory, Hist, of the Discipline, p. 130 sq. ; Sherman, Hist, 
of the Discipline, p. 153; Bingham, Kccles. Antiquities, 
i, 50, 69; Porter, Compendium of Methodism ; Meth. Qu. 
Rev. Jan. 1875, art. iv; April, 1870, art. iv; National 
Repository, May, 1870, Editor's Study. Sec also Rural 
Deans , in the article Dkan of this Cyclopaedia, ii, 711. 
(J. II.W.) 

Press (iTilE, pnrah ; Xtjvihj). Among the Israel- 
ites this was a large trough, usually hewn out of stone | 
(Isa. v, 2; Matt, xxi, 33; comp. Nonni, Dionys. xii, 
330) or dug in the earth and walled up (llarmcr, 
iii, 117). It had a trellised opening below. This 
trough was called path, rS, (in the Talmud also Hra), 
or pnrah, rn*2 (Isa. Ixiii, 3) ; and in it the grapes were 
trodden bv men (five usually work together in Persia 
still; Kiimpler, Ameen. p. 377). lienee the phrase to 
tread the u-ine-press (Job xxiv, 11; Lam. i, 15; Isa. 
Ixiii, 2). The juice (Ilcb. finish, EIT) flowed through 
the opening into a vat, usually in the earth (called 
yekeb, EJ7", (Jr. TrpoXijvxov, Isa. v, 2, or vvoXipiov, 
Isa. xvi, 1 o, Mark xii, and simply Xtjvoc, Matt, xxi, 33; 
Lat. Incus rinarius, Colum. xii, 18 : in Job xxiv, 1 1. this 
word means, however, the trough or press itself). From 
this it is taken for fermentation in earthen vessels. 
These presses, which are still common in the East and 
the Levant (Arvieux iv, 272 sq. ; Kiimpfer, vt sup.), 
were almost always outside of the towns, either in the 
vineyards or on mountains (Zcch. xiv, 10; Isa. v, 2; 
Matt, xxi, 33; Mark xii, 1; Lev. xiv, 20). The slaves 
must usually have trodden the press, as it was hard 
labor (Isa. Ixiii, 1 sq.). They were cheered in it by 
singing and music (see Isa. xvi, 10 ; Jer. xxv, 30 ; Judg. 
ix, 27 ; Jer. xxv, 30; xlviii, 33). See I'golino, De Re 
Rust. Yet. Heh. vi, M sip, in his Thesaur. xxix. Winer. 
See On.: Wink. 

Pressly, Ebenezer Erskine, D.D., a Presby- 
terian divine, was born near Cedar Spring, Abbeville 
District, S. C.. in 18118 . llis parents, of the good old 
Scotch-Irish stock, were remarkable for their piety and 
intelligence, anil early dedicated their only son to the 
work of the Christian ministry. He pursued his pre- 


paratory studies at Union Academy, graduated at Mi- 
ami University, Ohio, in 1826, was received as a student 
of theology by the Second Associate Deformed Presby- 
tery, and studied under John '1'. Pressly, D.D., who was 
then professor of theology for the Southern Synod, was 
licensed at Due West in 1829, and on Aug. 7, 1830, was 
settled as pastor of Due West and Generostce churches. 
In 1837 he resigned the latter charge, and continued 
pastor of Due West alone; in 1838 he was chosen the 
successor of Dr. John T. Pressly. In 1839 he was elected 
president of the Clark and Erskine Seminary, which 
afterwards took the name of Erskine College, in which 
position he remained until the spring of 1848. He died 
July 2G, 1860. Dr. Pressly was a man of more than 
ordinary talent, and a good general scholar. In the 
position of president of the college he was greatly be- 
loved by his pupils. Possessed of excellent executive 
ability, and of special aptness to teach, much of the 
success of the college and seminary, in the early pe- 
riods of their history, was traceable to his influence. 
Though an interesting writer, he had a singular aver- 
sion to appearing before the public as an author, and 
hence he never published anything except an occasional 
sermon, bee Wilson, Presb. llist. A bnanac, 18GI, p. 22G. 
(J. L. S.) 

Pressly, John S., a Presbyterian minister, noted 
also as a classical teacher, was born in Abbeville Dis- 
trict, S. C., in 1794. His means for acquiring the rudi- 
ments of a literary education were very limited. Until 
the years of manhood he had not enjoyed very fully the 
advantages of the common school. In 1812, however, he 
moved to the State of Ohio, and during a stay of three 
I years in the Northwestern States he underwent much 
privation and hard labor in his endeavors to acquire 
knowledge. About the close of the year 1815 he was 
prostrated on a bed of suffering with a painful illness; a 
kind Providence brought him the medical services of 
Dr. Joseph Gilbert, who. on his recover}’, suggested to 
him the desirableness of a classical education, and pro- 
| posed to furnish him with the necessary books. Thus 
| encouraged, and accepting the doctor’s kind offer, he 
I entered Church Hill Academy June 19, 1816; in 1819 
he entered South Carolina College, and spent two years 
there. In 1822 his career of classical teacher began, 
and in this field of usefulness, in which he labored dur- 
ing the balance of his life, he attained an enviable rep- 
utation. llis first charge was Union Academy, in the 
southern part of Abbeville District, S. ('. Among his 
pupils here were the late Dev. E. E. Pressly, D.D., Lev. 
J. T. Pressly, D.D., Hon. T. C. Perrin, and J. A. Calhoun. 
Esq. In 1824-27 he taught at Cambridge and Beaver 
Dam— the latter in Laurens District. In 1828 he took 
charge of Church Hill Academy, but his labors there 
were soon interrupted by his being elected to the .State 
Legislature of South Carolina by the people of Abbeville 
District. In 1835, at the close of his political career, 
he was invited to take charge of the high school at 
Due West, S. C., just founded by the Associate Deformed 
Synod of the South, where he continued to labor till 
1839 with great success. At last released from all en- 
gagements connected with teaching, he turned his at- 
tention to the study of theology; studied one session in 
the seminary of the Associate Deformed Church at Ox- 
ford, Ohio; was licensed in 1810; and after attending 
during the ensuing session in the Associate Deformed 
Seminary at Alleghany City, l’a., he was employed until 
1812 as a missionary to destitute churches within the 
, bounds of the synod. Subsequently he was settled for 
1 five years as pastor of Bethel and Ebenezer churches, 
j Ga. ; the remainder of his life until 1851 was spent in 
teaching and missionary work, lie died June 1. 18G3. 
Mr. Pressly as a man was social and companionable; as 
a teacher he was a strict disciplinarian, and in the capac- 
ity to impart classical knowledge had few superiors. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Aim. (18G7), p. 398. (J. L. S.) 

Tessly, John T., D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 


PRESSY 


561 


PRESUMPTION 


noted as a professor in divinity and an author, was born 
in Abbeville District, S. C., in 1803. lie studied for the 
ministry at the Theological Seminary in New York under 
I)r. John Mason. His first pastorate was in his native 
village, from which he was called to a professorship in 
the Theological Seminary, and the charge of the First 
Associate Reformed (now United Presbyterian) Church 
in Alleghany, Pa., both of which stations he filled with 
distinguished ability and success for nearly forty years. 
He died at Alleghany Aug. 13, 18<0. — Appletons’ An- 
nual Cyclopaedia, x, 573. 

Pressy, Fiian^ois-Josepii-Gastox dic Partz de, 
a French prelate, ivas born in 1712 at the castle ot 
Ecuire (diocese of Boulogne). He was one of the most 
distinguished pupils of Saint-Sulpice. He was called, 
Dec. 25, 1742, to the episcopal see of Boulogne. He ad- 
ministered his diocese during nearly forty-seven years 
with unremitting zeal, and spent considerable sums for 
the ransom of the Christians captive among the Mo- 
hammedans, and for the expansion of the faith by foreign 
missions. In 1752 he joined a protestation addressed to 
the king (June 11), by twenty-one bishops, against par- 
liamentary encroachments on ecclesiastical authority. 
A mandement which he subsequently published on the 
subject w r as suppressed. He died at Boulogne Oct. 8, 
1789. His principal writings are, Statuts synodaux 
(1746, 4to) : — a collection of Instructions pastorales and 
Dissertations theologiques (2 vols. 4to) : — a Rituel du 
Diocese de Boulogne (Boulogne, 1780, 4to) : — and a pray- 
er-book in French, under the title of Beures (Lille, 1820, 
8vo). See Gallia Christiana, t. x ; Gazette de France, 
1742-89; Fisquet, France Pontijicale (not published). — 
Hoefer, Kouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Prester, John. See Jonx, Prester. 

Preston, John, D.D., a noted English Puritan 
divine, was bom at Hevford, Northamptonshire, in 
1587, and educated at King’s College and Queen’s Col- 
lege, University of Cambridge, was made fellow and tutor 
of Queen’s College, and finally became chaplain to Prince 
Charles. In 1622 he was appointed preacher of Lin- 
coln’s Inn, and subsequently lecturer in Trinity Church, 
Cambridge. He became so celebrated as a speaker that 
the towns-people went to his lectures on week-days as 
they would to his sermons on Sunday, and he was com- 
plained of by those who looked with envy upon his fast- 
growing reputation. He also became noted as an able 
advocate of Calvinism, and in a controversy with the 
famous Arminian, Dr. Montague, sustained the elective 
theory with much adroitness and boldness. He was cer- 
tainly a man of great learning, a popular preacher, and 
a powerful writer. He died in 1628, greatly lamented 
not only by Calvinists, but by all lovers of the good 
cause. He wore himself out with work ; and when his 
friends would remonstrate, his answer was always, “ Our 
life, like iron, consumes with rust, as much without as by 
employment ; that every one cannot be said to have lived 
long that is old, as seven years in the life of some men 
are as much as seventy in others; and therefore the 
question is not so much How long I have lived as How 
1 have lived.” lie was naturally reserved, and only 
figured in public because his zeal for the doctrines of 
Calvin would not sutler him to let go unanswered those 
who maintained the opposite theories. Of his works 
(published 1615-58) which have never been collected, 
an abridgment bv William Tennent was published in 
1658 (1648 also [?]), 12nio. The best-known of his pub- 
lications are, The New Covenant, fourteen sermons 
(Loud. 1629, 4to; ninth ed. 1639, 4to; again in 1655, 
4to) : — The Breastplate of Faith and Love, eighteen ser- 
mons (1630, 4to; 5th ed. 1634, 4to) : — Life Eternal , 
eighteen sermons (1631, 4to; 4t.h ed. 1634, 4fo) The 
Saint's Daily Exercise, five sermons on Prayer (1633, 
4to; 9th ed. 1635, 4to): — The Saint's Qualifications, 
ten sermons on Humiliation, nine on Sanctification, and 
three on the Sacrament (1634, 4to; 3d ed. 1637, 4to)^ 
— Four Treatises (sermons): 1, Covetousness; 2, Spir- 
YI II. — N x 


itual Death and Life (separate in 1633, 4to); 3, Selfe 
Deniall (separate in 1632, 4to) ; 4, Lord's Supper (to- 
gether in 1635, 4to; 4th ed. 1636, 4to) : — Sermons before 
his Maiestie, ete. (5th ed. 1637, 4to) : — Sinner's Over- 
throw, or Mortification (1635, 4to; 4th ed. 1641, 4to): 
— Remains (three treatises): 1 , Judas his Repentance; 
2, Saint's Spiritual Strength ; 3, Paul's Conversion and 
Sermons, c tc. (2ded. 1637, 4to) : — The Golden Sceptre, etc. 
(1638, 4to): — Doctrines of the Saints' Infirmities, a ser- 
mon (1638, 4to) : — .4 Lifeless Life, a sermon (4th ed. 1641, 
4to) : — Fulnesse of Christ for Us, a sermon (1640, 4to) : — 
Divine Love of Christ, five sermons (1640, 4to): — Two 
Treatises (1641 , 4 to) : — Thesis de Gratae Convertendis 
Irresistibilitate (1652, 8vo; in English, 1654) : — Riches 
of Mercy to Men in Misery (1658, 4to). See Dr. R. 
Sibhs’s preface; Middleton, Evangel. Biog. ii, 460 sq. ; 
Perry, / list. Ch. of England (see Index); Clark, Lives; 
Neal, Hist, of the Puritans ; Burnet, Own Times ; Fuller, 
Worthies; Darling, Cyclop. Bibl. ; Jonathan Edwards, 
1 Fork's ; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and A nier. A utkors, s. v. 
(J. H. W.) 

Preston, Willard, D.D., an eloquent American 
divine and noted educator, was born at Uxbridge, Mass., 
May 29, 1785, and was educated at Brown University, 
where he graduated in 1806. After having studied law 
and practiced in that profession for a few years, he stud- 
ied for the ministry, and was in 1811 ordained and be- 
came pastor of a church at Providence, II. I., where he 
preached until 1825, when he was chosen president of 
the University of Vermont. In 1829 he removed South 
for the benefit of his health, and in 1831 accepted the 
pastorate of the Presbyterian Church in Savannah, Ga., 
and there remained until his death in 1856. He pub- 
lished, Farewell Sermon at St. A Iban's (1815) : — Ser- 
mons (1817). — Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A u- 
thors, s. v. : Drake, Did. of A mer. Biog. s. v. 

Presumption, as it relates to the mind, is a sup- 
position formed before examination. As it relates to 
the conduct or moral aetion, it implies arrogance or ir- 
reverence. As it relates to religion in general, it is a 
bold and daring confidence in the goodness of God, with- 
out obedience to his will. 

Presumptuous sins must be distinguished from sins 
of infirmity, or those failings peculiar to human nature 
(Eccles. vii, 20 ; 1 John i, 8, *9) ; from sins done through 
ignorance (Luke xii, 48) ; and from sins into which men 
are hurried by sudden and violent temptation (Gal. vi, 

1) . The ingredients which render sin presumptuous 
are knowledge (John xv, 22), deliberation and contriv- 
ance (Prov. vi. 14; Psa. xxxvi, 4), obstinacy (Jer. xliv, 
16; Deut. i, 13), inattention to the remonstrances of 
conscience (Acts vii, 51), opposition to the dispensations 
of Providence (2 Cliron. xxviii, 22), and repeated com- 
mission of the same sin (Psa. Ixxviii, 17). Presump- 
tuous sins are numerous, such as profane swearing, per- 
jury, theft, adultery, drunkenness, Sabbath -breaking, 
ete. These may be more particularly considered as pre- 
sumptuous sins, because they are generally committed 
against a known law, and are so often repeated. Such 
sins are most heinous in their nature and most pernicious 
in their effects. They are said to be a reproach to the 
Lord (Numb, xv, 3); they harden the heart (1 Tim. iv, 

2) ; draw down judgments from heaven (Numb, xv, 31) ; 
and even when repented of, they are seldom pardoned 
without some visible testimony of God’s displeasure (2 
Sam. xii, 10). As respects professors of religion, one 
observes, they sin presumptuously (1) when they take 
up a profession of religion without principle ; (2) when 
they profess to ask the blessing of God and yet go on in 
forbidden courses; (3) when they do not take religion 
as they find it in the Scriptures; (4) -when they make 
their feelings the test of their religion, without consid- 
ering the difference between animal passion and the 
operations of the Spirit of God; (5) when they run into 
temptation; (6) v T hen they indulge in self-confidence 
and self-complacency; (7) when they bring the spirit 


PRETAS 


562 


PREVOST 


of t lie world into the Church; (8) when they form 
apologies for that in some which they condemn in oth- 
ers; (9) when, professing to believe in the doctrines of 
the Gospel, they live licentiously; (10) when they 
create, magnify, and pervert their troubles; (11) when 
they arraign the conduct of God as unkind and unjust. 
See Walker, Sermons, vol. i, ser. 3; South, Sermons , vol. 
vii, ser. 10, 11, 12; Tillotson, Sermons , ser. 147 ; Saurin, 
Sermons, vol. i, ser. 1 1 ; Goodwin, On (he Aggravations 
of Sin ; Fuller. H'orAv; Paley, Sermons; Hi. shop Hop- 
kins, On the Future, Danger, and Cure of Presumptuous 
Sins. — lluck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Pretas, sprites or hobgoblins among the Buddhists 
in Ceylon. They are believed to inhabit a hell called 
Lokantarika. In appearance they are extremely at- 
tenuated, like a dry leaf. There are some pretas that 
haunt the places near which they once lived as men; 
they are also found in the suburbs of cities, and in 
places where four ways meet. Their bodies are repre- 
sented as being twelve miles high, and they have very 
large nails. On the top of the head there is a mouth 
about the size of a needle’s eye. They continually think 
with sorrow on their fate, from not having acquired 
merit in former births; they are now tormented with- 
out ceasing by hunger and thirst, and have not the pow- 
er of obtaining merit. 

Preternatural stands generally for supernatural, 
because we suppose that that which is prater naturam is 
also supra naturam. Yet the former stands sometimes for 
unnatural, proto* naturum being the synonym of contra 
naturam. Neither preeternat urule nor supernatural, 
or, as some say, supranuturale , is a good Latin word. 
They are, at least, not to be found in the classics. 

Pretextatus, Sr., a Gallic prelate of the 6th cen- 
tury, occupied towards 555 the metropolitan see of Bouen, 
and was godfather to Merovec, the second son of Cliil- 
perie. Towards 576 Brunehaut, the widow of Sigebert, 
was exiled to Bouen by Chilporic, who was under the 
influence of Fredegoudc. Mcrovee, who was in that 
city, fell violently in love with the charms of the queen 
of Austrasia, his aunt, and Pretextatus was induced to 
grant a dispensation for their union, and married them. 
At this intelligence Chilporic repaired to Bouen, trans- 
ported with wrath, and ordered the bishop to be arrest- 
ed. A council assembled at Paris in 577, and in spite 
of the exertions of Gregory of 'lours, who ventured 
alone to defend him, Pretextatus was deposed by the 
vote of forty-four prelates, lie was banished to the 
island of Jersey, where he devoted his time to ■prayer 
and study. In the meantime a creature of Frcdegonde, 
the Gaul Melantius, was established in the episcopal see 
of Bouen. After the murder of Chilperic, September, 
584, a deputation of the clergy and people of Bouen re- 
paired to Jersey to request Pretextatus to resume the 
administration of his diocese. Oil the 5th of May an 
assembly of Frankish noblemen, held at Bouen, pro- 
nounced his rehabilitation. Fredegoudc, who lived in 
a kind of retirement at Lonviers, went often to Bouen; 
she found herself frequently face to face with the bishop, 
whom she accused of not showing her much deference. 
In her wounded pride she once let escape some threat- 
ening allusions to the past: Pretextatus improved the 
occasion to exhort her to repentance and reformation. 
The enraged queen avenged herself in a manner worthy 
of her past. life. She, Melantius, and an archdeacon of 
the cathedral, gave two hundred gold dollars to one of 
the serfs of the domain of the church, and promised him 
his own emancipation and that of his wife and children, 
for the murder of Pretextatus. On Faster -Sunday, 
while in prayer at the foot of the altar, he was stabbed, 
and died an hour afterwards in a chamber contiguous to 
the church, whither a few of the faithful had carried 
him, and where Frcdegonde, in the company of the 
dukes Ileppolen and Ansowald, enjoyed the speetaele of 
his last moments, April 14,586. Pretextatus had at- 
tended the third Council of Paris in 557, the second 


Council of Tours in 566, and the second Council of 
Macon in 585. During his exile he composed some 
writings, which have not reached us. 1 1 is name is in- 
scribed in the Martyroloyium under the date of the 24th 
of February, although he did not shed his blood for the 
faith. See Gallia Christiana, t. xi ; Pommeraye, Hist, 
des A rcheveqnes de liouen ; Fisquet, France Pontificate 
(not published). — I loefer, Four. Diotj. Gene rale, s. v. 

Preti, M.vttia, called il Calabrese, a painter of the 
Neapolitan school, was born in 1613 at Ta verna, in Cala- 
bria. 11 is brother Gregorio, about whom very little is 
known, who was honored in his life-time with the title 
of prince of the Academy of St. Luke, was Mattia’s first 
master; subsequently he studied with Lanfranc and 
Guerino. Preti took from Caravaggio those dark and 
violent lines which impair the charm of his compositions. 
He delighted in retracing martyrdoms, murders, and 
other scenes of desolation, lie painted with prodigious 
rapidity: a contemporary says that to see him handle 
the brush one would have thought that he was drum- 
ming. lie painted the frescos of the church of Carmine 
in Modena, which are in a very good state of preserva- 
tion. In 1657 he returned to Borne, but was compelled 
to flee, having killed one of his rivals. At Naples, again, 
whither lie repaired, he killed a soldier who had stopped 
him on some forbidden ground, and was ordered for his 
punishment to paint the patron saints of Naples on 
the doors of the city. From Naples he went to Malta, 
where his works were rewarded with the title of knight 
and the commandcry of Syracuse. In his last years he 
worked only, but with unremitting diligence, for the 
poor. lie died at INI alta in 1699. His works are met 
with in great number in Italy. The Louvre has his 
Martyrdom of St. Andretc, St. Paul, and St. Anthony 
the Hermit ; the Museum of Dresden the M artyrdom of 
St. Hartholometc, the Incredulity of St. Thomas, and the 
Deliverance of St. Peter; the Pinakothek of Munich a 
Repenting Magdalen; the Museum of Vienna an Incre- 
. dulity of St. Thomas, etc. See Spooner. Biog. Hist, of 
j the Fine A rls, s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Pretorium. See Pk.etouhm. 

Prevent (some form of <t>5dvio, both meaning 
to precede or anticipate) is understood, in our translation 
of the Scriptures, only in the old Latin sense, as denot- 
ing — 1. To come before one is expected or sought (Job 
xxx, 27) ; 2. To go before, or be sooner (Psa. cxix, 147). 

, One is happily disappointed when favors come unaj-ked 
I (Job iii, 12; I’sa. xviii, 18), or unhappily, when snares 
and afflictions come unexpectedly (2 .8am. xxii, 6). 

Prevention is an ecclesiastical term denoting the 
right of a superior dignitary of the Church to interfere 
in the business of his subordinate ; but it is more special- 
ly the right of the pope, in the nomination to ecclesias- 
tical offices, to pass over the proper collators and give 
away the benefices himself. The Gallican Church has 
never recognised this papal prerogative. See Pnovisous. 

Prevost, Claude, a French monk, was born at 
Auxerre Jan. 22, 1693. He taught philosophy and the- 
ology in the abbey of Sainte-Cenevieve, and the care of 
the library was afterwards intrusted to him. In this 
employment, which he retained to the end of his life, 
he made use of the knowledge which he had acquired 
in the Greek, Italian, and English languages, and col- 
lected abundant materials, which he did not, however, 
publish. They were prepared for the instruction of 
, Louis, duke of Orleans, son of the regent, who lived at 
the abbey of Saint e-Genevieve. The principal MSS. 
j which this monk has left concerning the history of the 
j regular canons, of which he had made a special study, 
are, Library of Regular Canons: — Lives of Holy Can- 
I ons, both Secular and Regular: — and History of all the 
! Houses of Regular Canons. His last work was A His- 
tory of the Abbey of Sainte-Gencvieve. It is from this 
| last work that t lie Benedictines have extracted nearly 
j all that they have said of this house in vol. vii of the 
I new Gallia Christiana. Prevost furnished the material 


PREVOST 


563 


PRICE 


to the abbot Lebeuf, his countryman, for the catalogue 
of the writers of Auxerre inserted in The History of 
Auxerre. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Prevost, Pierre Robert le, a French pulpit 
orator of some note, was born at Rouen in 1675. From 
his youth he displayed a marked propensity for preach- 
ing, and proceeded to Paris to improve himself after the 
model of celebrated orators. Sought after with eager- 
ness in the city, he was no less a favorite at court, 
where he preached statedly during Advent from 1714 
to 1727, and in 1718 during Lent. At this last date he 
was provided with a canonship at Chartres. The rec- 
ord of his funeral sermons, published by Lottin (Paris, 
1765), contains those of the cardinal of Fiirstenberg (of 
which Flechier speaks with eulogy); of Godet of Ma- 
rais, bishop of Chartres; of Louis XIV and of the duke 
of Berri ; sermons, and a panegyric of St. Louis. He died 
in 1736 at Chartres. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , 
s. v. See Vinet, French Lit. p. 116 sq. 

Price, Henry, a minister of the Wesleyan Meth- 
odist Church in Ireland, was born in Dromore, Antrim 
County, Ireland, Jan. 30, 1802; was converted at seven- 
teen, was made a local preacher about the year 1821, and 
entered the itinerant ministry at the Conference of 1823. 
He soon became an able and judicious preacher; “he 
was mighty in the Scriptures,” reasoning out of them, 
and having a remarkable talent for apposite and con- 
vincing quotations from Holy Writ. He was a zealous 
and effective advocate for Christian missions, a section 
of evangelical work to which British and Irish Methodists 
pay more attention and devote more labor than does any 
other Christian Church. While Mr. Price adorned the 
Gospel of God our Saviour in all things, there were 
especially noticeable in him a childlike simplicity, a 
transparent sincerity, an uprightness which scorned to 
countenance anything low or mean, a charity “which 
thinketh no evil,” and an unselfishness “ which seeketh 
not its own.” Sweeping revivals occurred on many of 
the circuits on which he was stationed. He was spe- 
cially attentive to the sick and afflicted, and his visits 
to them were frequent, sympathizing, and consolatory. 
He was truly “ a brother beloved,” and his brethren in 
the ministry manifested their high appreciation of his 
character and talents by electing him repeatedly to fill 
the highest offices in their gift, and on all occasions he 
proved himself worthy of their esteem and confidence. 
He was cautious and practical, always ready to carry 
out every arrangement intrusted to his care with punc- 
tilious exactness. Never had Irish Methodism a more 
faithful son, or a minister of more perfect singleness of 
aim, purity of intention, or exemplary fidelity. Mr. 
Price died in the sixty-eighth year of his age. (< J. C. J.) 

Price, John (1), an English scholar of much re- 
nown, was born about the year 1600, and was educated 
at Christ Church, Oxford. He w r as of Protestant parent- 
age, but after leaving college he joined the Romanists 
and went to Italy during the civil w^ars, as he found 
himself the object of much hatred and persecution. He 
settled in Florence, after having resided for a while in 
Paris; but when a professorship was offered him at Pisa, 
he removed thither, and there lived for some time. He 
subsequently retired to the St. Augustine Convent at 
Rome, w'here he died in 1676. He was the author of 
the following works: Xotce et Observations in Apo- 
logiam L. Apuleii Madaurensis Phitosophi Platonici 
(Paris, 1635, 4to; very rare, but republished in the 
Gouda ed. of .4 puleius, 1650, 8vo) : — Matthaus ex Sacra 
Pagina , Sanctis Patribus, etc., illustratus (Paris, 1646, 
8vo) : — A ilnot at tones in Episl. Jacobi (1646, 8vo) : — 
Acta Apostolorum , ex Sacra Pagina, Sanctis Patribus, 
etc., illustrata (1647, 8vo) : — Commentarii in Varios 
Xovi Testamenti Libros ; his accessei-unt Adnotationes in 
Psalmonim Librum (Lond. 1660, fol. The notes on the 
New Testament, or some of them, had been published 
before separately [iwpm], and Orme says that those on 
the Psalms had also appeared before). Price brought 


to his expositions of the Scriptures an extensive knowl- 
edge of classical literature, and, imitating Grotius’s 
method, frequently illustrated by profane authors, es- 
pecially the Greek and Roman. See Orme, Bibl. Bibli - 
ca. s. v. ; Grit. Sacri, vol. v ; AUibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
Amer. A uth. s. v. : Kit to, iii, 568. (J. H. W.) 

Price, John (2), D.D., an English clergyman, 
flourished in the second half of the 17th century, and 
was chaplain to general Monk during the civil wars. 

I Hr. Price published, Serm. of Thanksgiving for the Suc- 
cess of General Monk (Lond. 1660, 4to) : — Serm. on 
Matt, v, 47 (Oxon. 1661, 8vo) : — Serm. on Gal. iv, 16 
(1661, 8vo): — Serm. on Eccles. x, 17 (1661, 8vo) : — Serm. 
on Heb. xiii, 16 (1661, 8vo) : — Serm. on Phil, iv, 5 (1663, 
4to) : — The Mystery and Method of his Majesty's Happy 
Restauration laid open to Publick View (Lond. 1660, 8vo). 

Price, J onathan D., a physician and missionary 
to Burmah in the first half of this century, was ordained 
in Philadelphia May 20, 1821, and immediately after set 
out for his field of labor. He arrived early in the next 
year at Rangoon. When his medical know ledge became 
known at . court, he was ordered to repair to Ava, the 
capital, where he was introduced to the king, who gave 
him a house. When the British invaded Burmah, he 
and Mr. Judson were thrown into prison June 8, 1824. 
He was confined and subjected to dreadful sufferings till 
February or March, 1826, w hen he was released and em- 
ployed to negotiate a treaty w ith the British, who had 
advanced near to the capital. After the war he resided 
at Ava, and w r as in favor with the emperor. Price taught 
several native scholars, and by his lectures hoped to 
shake the foundation of Buddhism. He fell a victim 
to pulmonary consumption Feb. 14, 1828, dying in the 
hope of that precious Gospel he wished to impart to the 
heathen. See A mer. Bapt. Mag. ; Memoir of Mrs. Jud- 
son; Allen, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Price, Rice. See Price, Thomas. 

Price, Richard, D.D., an eminent English divine, 
noted for his scholarly attainments, his philosophical 
and mathematical contributions, his general devotion 
to truth in its highest forms, and a most consistent life, 
was born at Tvnton, Glamorganshire, Wales, Feb. 23, 
1723. His father, of whose second marriage Rich- 
ard was the sole offspring, was a rigid Calvinistic 
minister, remarkable for his intolerance, who spared 
no pains to imbue his son with sound Calvinistic doc- 
trine. Richard, however, began early to claim the priv- 
ilege of free opinion, and by his scruples often incurred 
the anger of his parent. The latter died in 1739, and 
by his will the bulk of the property, which appears to 
have been considerable, came into the possession of one 
son; the widow and six other children being left in 
straitened circumstances to provide for their own main- 
tenance. The widow and her eldest son lived, however, 
only a few months longer, and shortly after their death 
Richard, then in his eighteenth year, set out for Lon- 
don in the hope of qualifying himself for the clerical 
profession. The heir of his father’s fortune provided 
him with both horse and servant as far as Cardiff, but 
left him without the means of performing the rest of the 
journey except on foot or in a wagon. He chose the 
former as the most ready means, and thus made his way 
to the metropolis of England. His education during 
his father’s lifetime had been superintended by several 
Dissenting ministers, and on reaching London he ob- 
tained, through the kindness of a paternal uncle, admis- 
sion to a Presbyterian academy, where he pursued stud- 
ies in mathematics, philosophy, and theology. In 1743 
he was engaged as chaplain and companion to the fam- 
ily of Mr. Streathfield, of Stoke-Newington, w here he 
resided for thirteen years, the death of his employer 
only terminating the engagement, but not without a 
recognition of faithful service rendered. In the dis- 
position of Mr. Streathfield’s property Price came in for 
a share, and by this aid and his appointment as morn- 
ing preacher of the chapel at Newington-Green, he was 


PRICE 


564 


PRICKET 


placed in independent circumstances. He had pre- ! 
viously been made pastor of a congregation at llaek- 
nev, but he preferred the appointment at Newington- j 
Green, married in 1757, and lived there until the death of 
his wife (in 178G), when he removed again to Hackney. 
Meanwhile his life had been one of considerable liter- 
ary’' and scientific activity. His Review of the Principal 
Questions and J difficulties in Morals (bond. 1758), 
though somewhat heavy, and designated by brown as 
‘•'very elaborate, very tedious, and not very clear,” 
seems to have established his reputation as a metaphy- 
sician and a moralist. It is considered the ablest de- 
fence of the system of Cudworth and Clarke. It is an 
attempt to revive the intellectual theory of moral ob- 
ligation, which seemed to have fallen under the attacks 
of Butler, Hutcheson, and Hume, and was made before 
that of Smith. Sir J. Mackintosh has briefly noticed it 
in his Preliminary Dissertation to Encgclop. Brit. (re- 
published in his iroria [ed. 1854], i, 158, 159). In 
1709 Price published his Treatise on Reversionary Pay- 
ments; this was followed by the compilation and pub- 
lication of the celebrated Northampton Mortality Ta- 
bles, and various other works relating to life-assurance 
and annuities, forming most valuable contributions to 
the branch of science to which they refer. In 1770 
appeared his Observations on Civil Liberty and the 
Justice and Policy of the I Pur with America. Of this 
work 00,000 copies are said to have been sold in a few 
months. So greatly was it admired in the United 
States that, in 1778, the American Congress, through 
Franklin, communicated to him their desire to consider 
him a fellow-citizen, and to receive his assistance in 
regulating their finances — an offer declined principally 
on the ground of age. On the termination of the war 
with the colonies, Mr. Pitt sought Mr. Price’s advice as 
to the best mode of liquidating the British national 
debt, the result of which, it is said, was the adoption of 
the sinking fund. When the French revolution broke 
out, the doctor distinguished himself by a sermon, “ On 
the Love of Country,” in which he hailed that event as 
the commencement of a glorious aura. This drew upon 
the preacher some strong animadversions from Mr. 
Burke in his celebrated Reflections, besides many 
papers in the Transactions of the Royal Society , of 
which he was a fellow, he published sermons and 
pamphlets, which established his character as a sound 
advocate for civil liberty and a profound master of finan- 
cial calculation, lie died April 19, 1791. One other 
of his publications of interest to our readers is his Four 
Dissertations on Providence, Prayer , the Slate of Virtu- 
ous Men after Death, and Christianity (17GG-G8). 1 1 is 

views respecting the Son of Cod were what was called 
Low or semi-Arian. Mr. Price was a believer in the 
immateriality of the soul, holding that, according to the 
teaching of the Sacred Scriptures, it remains in a dor- 
mant state between death and resurrection ; and because 
of these opinions he was led into a controversy of some 
celebrity with his friend Dr. Priestley, maintained by 
correspondence in 1778, and given to the public by the 
latter under the title of A Free Jtiscussion of the Doc- 
trine of Materialism and Philosophical Necessity. This 
friendly controversy shows how decided were his views 
on the philosophical aberration of the age, ami how ear- 
nestly he desired to place moral and metaphysical truth 
upon a deeper and truer foundation. “Almost the only 
writer,” says Morcll, “of this (the rationalistic) school 
whose works are likely to form a part of our standard 
philosophy is Dr. Richard Price.” In this high estimate 
of the merits of Price’s philosophical writings, Hr. Mo- 
rcll is not alone. “Price investigated with acuteness 
and ability many important questions relative to mor- 
als, and controverted the doctrine of a moral sense as 
irreconcilable with the unalterable character of moral 
ideas, which, as well as those of substance and cause, he 
maintained to be eternal and original principles of the i 
intellect itself, independent of the divine will” (Ten- 
nemann). “If, in England, you only look at Lon- 


don in the 18th century, you will doubtless there see 
little else than sensualism, but even at London you 
would find, by the side of Priestley, Price, that ardent 
friend of liberty — that ingenious and profound econo- 
mist, who renewed and brilliantly sustained the Pla- 
tonic idealism of Cudworth. 1 know that Price is 
an isolated phenomenon at London, but the whole 
Scotch school is more or less spiritualistic” (Cousin), 
but Mackintosh (ut sup.) by no means shares in this 
enthusiasm; nor can it be expected that the admirers 
of Locke should discover much merit in his opponent. 
.Sir James’s estimate of the characteristics of Price will 
be found in the Fdiubnryh Review, June, 1*15, p. 171, 
172. See also The Lond. Mon. Rev. lxxxiii, 77 ; and 
Boston Christ. Disciple, ii, 134. Dr. Price’s moral char- 
acter appears to have been a singularly beautiful one. 
“Simplicity of manners,” says Dr. Priestley, “with such 
genuine marks of perfect integrity and benevolence, dif- 
fused around him a charm which the forms of polite- 
ness can but poorly imitate.” Sec Morgan, Memoirs of 
the Life of Richard Price, D.D. (Lond. 1815); Hook, 
Eccles. Biog.v iii, 1G2; Stephen, Hist, of Engl. Thought 
(1877, 2 vols. 8vo), vol. i and ii, especially ii, 3 sq.; 
Lcckcy, Hist, of the 18 th Century (1878. 2 vols. 8vo), 
vol. ii. See also Tenncmann, 1 list, of Philos. (John- 
son’s transl. 1832) p. 384; Cousin. Hist, of Mod. Philos. 
(Wright's transl. 1854) ii, 132; Morel), Hist, of Mod. 
Ph ilos. (2d cd. 1848) i, 215; Blakey, Hist, of the Philos, 
of Mind (1850) iii, 313-15; Blackwood's Magazine, 
xxx ix, 803. 

Price, Thomas, one of the most distinguished 
Welsh scholars of his age, was born Oct. 2, 1787, at 
Pencaerelin, in the parish of Llanafan Fawr, near 
Builth, in Brecknockshire. II is father, the Rev. Rice 
Price, originally a stonemason, at the age of seventeen 
formed an attachment to Mary Bower, the descendant 
of a long line of clergymen; acquired, by incessant 
diligence and frugality, the means of attending the 
’ college-school at Brecknock; and finally obtained ordi- 
nation from the bishop of !St. Davids, and, in 1784, the 
hand lie sought, alter a courtship of twenty years, lie 
was so fortunate as afterwards to be presented to three 
livings; but his income, like that of some other Welsh 
pluralists, was never believed to exceed fifty pounds a 
year, lie had two sons, both of whom were brought up 
to the Church, the elder taking his degree at < >xford, 
while the second, Thomas, was obliged to finish his 
studies at the college of Brecknock. Welsh was the 
| language the two boys heard constantly in the family; 

English they acquired at their second school; the ele- 
' ments of Latin and Greek were learned subsequently; 
1 and. from sonic French officers who were prisoners of 
war at Brecknock, Thomas acquired an excellent knowl- 
edge of French. In 1812 he received holy orders, and 
in 1825, after performing for thirteen years the duties 
of various curacies near Crickhowel, he was appointed 
to the vicarage of Cwmdu. This avos his last prefer- 
ment. The rest of his life was passed in historical and 
archaeological studies of his country. lie was regarded 
j by his countrymen as one of the most accomplished 
champions of the Welsh language and literature. He 
died at Cwmdu Nov. 7, 1818. His writings are not of 
special interest to theological readers. Many of his 
English compositions are collected under the title of 
Literary Remains of the Rev. Thomas Pnce, with a 
Memoir by Jane Williams (Llandovery, 1854-55, 2 
vols. 8vo). A memoir of Price is found in the J.ond. 
Cent lemon's Mag. Feb. 1849. p. 212; see also Engl. 
Cyelop. s. v. 

Pricked Song is, in music, a term applied to a 
composition used in ecclesiastical service. It is divided 
into descant, pricksong, counterpoint, and faburden, the 
last being a highly pitched key. 

Pricket, an ecclesiastical term designating a spike 
on which candles were fixed. There are specimens 
from Kirkstall Abbey in the collection of the Society of 


PRICIvETT 


565 


PRIDEAUX 


Arts, London ; and another, of Limoges enamel of the 
13th century, is in the British Museum. 

Prickett, Marmaduke, an English clergyman, 
was born about the year 1805. He was educated at 
Cambridge University, and held the appointment of 
chaplain to Trinity College, where he died in 1839. Tie 
published, Some Account of Barmcell Priory, in the 
Parish of St. Andrew the Less (Camb. 1837, 8vo) : — An 
Historical and A rchitectural Description of the Priory 
Church of Bridlington (Lond. 1831, 8vo; 1846, 8vo). 
See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s. v. 

Pricks (Numb, xxxiii, 55 ; Acts ix, 5). See Goad ; 
Thorn. 

Pridden, John, an English clergyman, was born in 
the year 1758 in London, and was educated at Queen’s 
College, Oxford. After tilling various appointments, 
he finally became rector of St. George’s, Botolph Lane, 
London. He died in 1825. His publications are of a 
secular character only, and those interested may consult 
Allibone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. Authors, ii, 1681. 

Pride is inordinate and unreasonable self-esteem, 
attended with insolence and rude treatment of others. 1. 
“ It is sometimes,” says a good writer, “ confounded with 
vanity, and sometimes with dignity; but to the former 
passion it has no resemblance, and in many circum- 
stances it differs from the latter. Vanity is the parent 
of loquacious boasting, and the person subject to it, if 
his pretences be admitted, has no inclination to insult 
the company. The proud man, on the other hand, is 
naturally silent, and wrapped up in his own importance, 
seldom speaks but to make his audience feel their infe- 
riority.” Pride is the high opinion that a poor, little, 
contracted soul entertains of itself. Dignity consists in 
just, great, and uniform actions, and is the opposite to 
meanness. 2. Pride manifests itself by praising our- 
selves, adoring our persons, attempting to appear before 
others in a superior light to what we are; contempt and 
slander of others; envy at the excellences others pos- 
sess ; anxiety to gain applause ; distress and rage when 
slighted ; impatience of contradiction, and opposition to 
God himself. 3. The evil effects of pride are beyond 
computation. It has spread itself universally in all na- 
tions, among all characters; and as it was the first sin, 
as some suppose, that entered into the world, so it 
seems the last to be conquered. It may be considered 
as the parent of discontent, ingratitude, covetousness, 
poverty, presumption, passion, extravagance, bigotry, 
war, and persecution. In fact, there is hardly an evil 
perpetrated but pride is connected with it in a prox- 
imate or remote sense. 4. To suppress this evil, w r e 
should consider what we are. “ If we could trace 
our descents,” says Seneca, “we should find all slaves to 
come from princes, and all princes from slaves. To be 
proud of knowledge is to be blind in the light; to be 
proud of virtue is to poison ourselves with the anti- 
dote ; to be proud of authority is to make our rise our 
downfall.” The imperfection of our nature, our scanty 
knowledge, contracted powers, narrow conceptions, and 
moral inability are strong motives to excite ns to hu- 
mility. We should consider, also, what punishments 
this sin has brought on mankind. See the cases of 
Pharaoh, Haman, Nebuchadnezzar, Herod, and others; 
how particularly it is prohibited (Prov. xvi, 18; 1 Pet. 
v, 5; James iv, 6 ; Prov. xxix, 23) ; what a torment it 
is to its possessor (Esther v, 13) ; how soon all things 
of a sublunary nature will end; how disgraceful it ren- 
ders us in the sight of God, angels, and men ; what a 
barrier it is to our felicity and communion with God; 
how fruitful it is of discord; how it precludes our 
usefulness, and renders us really contemptible.— Buck, 
Theol. Diet. s. v. Comp. Blackie, Morals, p. 244; Ed- 
wards, Works ; Robert Hall, IForfo; Bates, IForA-s; 
Brown, Philosophy of the Mind; West. Mag. 1846, p. 
1113; 1847, p. 548 sq. ; Maleom, Theol. Index, s. v. See 
Humility. 

Prideaux, Humphrey, D.D., a learned English 


divine, noted as a historian, was born at Padstow, in 
Cornwall, May 3, 1648. He was educated first at West- 
minster School and later at Christ Church, Oxford, where 
he took his degree in 1672. While at the university 
he published the ancient inscriptions from the Arun- 
delian Marbles, under the title of Marmora Oxoniensia , 
which recommended him to the patronage of the lord- 
chancellor Finch, afterwards earl of Nottingham, who 
gave him in 1679 a living near Oxford, and afterwards 
a prebend in Norwich cathedral. While there he be- 
came engaged in some severe contests with the Roman 
Catholics, the result of which was the publication of his 
work The Validity of the Orders of the Church of Eng- 
land made out (1688). He also took an active part in 
resisting the arbitrary proceedings of James II which 
affected the interests of the Established Church. In 
1688 he was promoted to the archdeaconry of Suffolk; 
but it was not without much consideration that he 
could bring himself to take the oath of allegiance to 
William and Mary. But when once decided, he acted 
in good faith, and treated all non-jurors with kindness 
and respect. In 1691, upon the death of Dr. Poeocke, 
the Hebrew professorship at Oixford was offered to Dr. 
Prideaux, but he refused it, though he afterwards re- 
pented of his refusal. In 1697 he published The Life 
of Mahomet, which was so well received that three 
editions of it were sold the first year. This Life w r as 
only a part of a greater work which he had long de- 
signed to write, and that was A History of the Saracen 
Empire, and with it The Decay and Fall of Chris- 
tianity in the East ; but, for certain reasons, he dropped 
this design, and only published that part which con- 
tained The Life of Mahomet, to which he annexed 
A Letter to the Deists, wherein he undertook to prove 
the truth of Christianity by contrasting it with the 
impostures of Mohammedanism. In 1702 he was made 
dean of Norwich. He died Nov. 1, 1724. He pub- 
lished, The Original Right of Tythes: — Directions for 
Church-wardens, and other small pieces for the service 
of the Church; also two tracts of Maimonides, with a 
Latin version and notes, under the title of De Jure 
Pauperis et Peregrini apud Judwos, as an introduction 
for Hebrew students to Rabbinical language. But 
Dr. Prideaux’s great work was The Connection of the 
History of the Old and Neio Testament, the first part 
of which was published in 1715, the second in 1718. 
Both parts were received with the greatest approbation, 
and went through eight editions in London, besides two 
or three in Dublin, before the end of 1720. The best 
of the many excellent editions which have appeared of 
this work since the death of its author are probably the 
22d, with An Account of the Rabbinical Authorities by 
Rev. A. M‘Caul, D.D. (1845, 2 vols. 8vo), and the 25th, 
which, in addition, has An Account, etc., with notes 
and analysis, and Introductory Review by J. Talboys 
Wheeler (Lond. 1858, 2 vols. 8vo). The last named is 
by far the most desirable of all, as it contains, in addi- 
tion to the excellent work done by M'Caul, the notes, 
etc., by Wheeler, who also edited Shuckford’s Connection 
of Sacred and Profane History (1858, 2 vols. 8vo) and 
Russell’s Connection of Sacred and Profane History 
(1865, 2 vols. 8vo), the three embracing the entire period 
from the Creation to the time of Christ. Prideaux’s 
Connection was translated into French (Amst. 1728, 6 
vols. 12mo), and, with John Dierberghe’s annotations, 
into Dutch. Le Clerc published a critical examination 
of it, which appeared in English (Lond. 1722, 8vo). 
“The Connection ,” says Orme, “contains a large mass 
of erudition, and accurate information on every topic of 
Jewish history and antiquities, and on all the links 
which connected that peculiar people with the sur- 
rounding nations. It is indispensable to the Biblical 
and interesting to the general scholar. . . . Le Clerc’s 
exceptions are not of great importance” (Bibl.Bib. s. v.). 
This history takes in the affairs of Egypt, Assyria, and 
all the other Eastern nations, as well as of the Jews ; and 
likewise those of Greece and Rome, so far as was neces- 


PRIDEAUX 


566 


PRIERTAS 


sarv for giving a distinct view of the completion of the 
prophecies which relate to the times comprehended in 
it. The author has also set in the clearest light some 
passages of profane history which before lay dispersed 
and buried in confusion, and there appears throughout 
the w hole work such an amiable spirit of sincerity and 
candor as sufficiently atones as well for the fe\v mistakes 
which escaped his diligence as for some weaknesses 
arising from his individual temperament. About three 
years before his death lie presented his collection of 
Oriental books, more than three hundred in number, to 
the library of Clare Hall, Cambridge. Several of bis 
posthumous Tracts and Letters , with a Lift of ])r. 
Prkleaux , the author of which is not named, were pub- 
lished in 1748 (8vo). Dr. Prideaux was tall, well-built, 
and of a strong and robust constitution. His qualities 
were very good, solid rather than lively, and his judg- 
ment excellent. He possessed great moral worth, and 
more ardent piety than was usual in his generation. As 
a writer he is clear, strong, intelligent, and learned. See, 
besides the works above mentioned, I Hoy. Brit. s. v. ; 
Gentleman's Magazine, vol. Ixx; and especially the ex- 
cellent article in Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. .1 m- 
thors, ii, 1681, 1682. 

Prideaux, John, D.D., an English prelate of much 
note, was born of humble parentage at Stowford, near 
Ivvbridge, in Devonshire, Sept. 17, 1578. While yet in 
his boyhood he was a candidate for the office of parish- 
clerk at Ugborough, a neighboring village ; but he did 
not succeed, and to his failure he used to attribute his 
elevated position in after-life. He was then noticed by 
a lady of the parish, who, seeing that a boy of only 
common educational training attempted so much, felt 
persuaded that he ■would surely rise if given greater fa- 
cilities; and she supported him at school till he had ac- 
quired a knowledge of Latin, and w'as ready to go to 
Oxford, where he was admitted a poor scholar at Exeter 
College in 1506. He was elected probationer fellow of 
his college in 1602, being then a B.A. In the following 
year he received holy orders, and, having become noted 
for his profound knowledge of divinity as well as bis 
great learning in general, he was elected rector of his 
college upon the death of Dr. Thomas Holland in 1612. 
In 1615 he succeeded Dr. Bobcrt Abbott, then promoted 
to the see of Salisbury, as regins professor of divinity, 
canon of Christ Church, and rector of Ewelme. lie 
afterwards held the office of vice-chancellor for several 
years. “In the rectorship of his college,” says Wood, 
“he carried himself so winning and pleasing by his 
gentle government and fatherly instruction that it 
flourished more than any house in the university with 
scholars, as well of great as of mean birth ; as also with 
many foreigners that came purposely to sit at his feet 
to gain instruction." lie no less distinguished himself 
in the divinity chair, which he occupied for twenty-six 
years. Although he maintained his decided convic- 
tions against the Socinians ami Arminians, and was a 
most stout defender of the Calvinistic tendency, he was 
yet popular with all his hearers, and none failed to do 
him reverence, however widely they might difler from 
him. Though the university was agitated deeply by 
the controversy of those times, Prideaux happily es- 
caped all partisan imbroglio, and in Kill was elevated 
to the bishopric of Worcester. On account of his ad- 
herence to the king, he found his dignity neither pleas- 
ant nor profitable, lie became so impoverished as to 
be compelled to sell his books, and so was, as Dr. 
Oauden says, “verns librorum hclluo.” “Having,” 
continues Wood, “ first, by indefatigable studies, digest- 
ed his excellent library into his mind, he was after- 
wards forced again to devour all his books with bis 
teeth, turning them, by a miraculous faith and patience, 
into bread for himself and bis children, to whom he left 
no legacy but pious poverty, Hod’s blessing, and a fa- 
ther’s prayers.” He died at Bredon, in Worcestershire, 
July 12, 1650. He was a man of most unassuming and 
gentle manners ; of excellent conduct, and great integ- 


rity and piety of mind ; quite regardless of worldly con- 
cerns, and careless and often imprudent in worldly mat- 
ters. He was an excellent linguist, possessing a won- 
derful memory, and so profound a divine that some 
have called him “ Colnnnia Fidei Orthodoxie et Malleus 
H:vreticorum," “l’atrum Pater,” and “ Ingens Scholie et 
Academia* Oraculum.” His works were as much es- 
teemed as his learning. They were numerous, and 
mostly written in Latin — upon grammar, logic, theol- 
ogy, and other subjects. Those specially interested 
will find a list in Middleton's Evangel. Biog. iii, 203 sip 
Though he died before the publication of the London 
Polyglot, he was well known to the editor, Brian Wal- 
ton, who appeals to Prideaux’s authority, on the nicer 
points of Hebrew criticism, in vindicating the Polyglot 
from certain cavils that had been raised against it. .See 
Hook, Eccles. Biog. viii, 163 ; Perry, Hist, of the Church 
of England, iii, 239; English Cyclopaedia, s. v.; Wood, 
Athena, Oxoniensis (Bliss ed.), iii, 267; Fuller, Worthies, 
i, 408 sq. ; Nicholls, ii, 456; and Allibone, ltict. of Brit, 
and A mtr. A uthors, s. v. 

Plie, Bknk ins, a French cardinal, was born in Tou- 
rainc, in 1451, of a noble family, lie was successively, 
by the favor of cardinal George D’Amboise, his cousin, 
grand archdeacon of Uourges, archdeacon of Blois, 
dean of St.-Hilaire-de-Poitiers, apostolic prothonotary, 
abbot commendatory of Landais, of Loroux, of Issou- 
dun, etc., and, at last, almoner to the king, lie was 
raised to the bishopric of Bayeux, on the express rec- 
ommendation of Louis XII, Sept. 17, 1498. lie was 
shortly after sent to Etaples to subscribe to the treaty 
concluded in 1499 with Henry VII, king of England. 
He accompanied, a little while after this, Louis XII in 
his expedition against the Genevese, and was promoted 
to the cardinalate by Julius II (May 17, 1507). When 
that pope took up arms against Louis XII, he proven t- 
i ed Dc Prie from leaving Borne, under pain of being ile- 
| prived of his livings (1509). In spite of the pontifical in- 
1 terdict, the cardinal quitted Borne, and, together with 
some other prelates attached to the interests of France, 
j opened at Pisa (Nov. 1, 1511) a council against Julius 
11, who, on Oct. 24, had declared him deposed from the 
1 cardinalate. In the interval lie bad been raised to the 
bishopric of Limoges (in 1510), and two years after he 
was provided with the bishopric of Lectoure. Seeing 
i the chair of Limoges contested, I>e Prie made an ar- 
1 rangement with his competitors (Aug. 18, 1513) by which 
he relinquished his rights to the bishopric of Lectoure 
to William of Barton, who in his turn waived in Do Prie’s 
favor his claim to the chair of Limoges; Foucaud de 
Bon nival then obtained the bishopric of Soissons. Bene 
de Prie, who had in the meantime been created cardinal 
by pope Leo X, celebrated at St. Denis the funeral cere- 
monies of Anne of Brittany (Jan. 20, 1514) ; blessed the 
marriage of Louis XII and Mary of England (Sept. 
14); held at Bayeux a diocesan synod, where he pub- 
lished the laws (April 15, 1515); and resigned his two 
bishoprics of Limoges and of Bayeux 8cpt. 1516. 
While at Milan, in 1512, whither the Council of Pisa 
had been transferred, the University of Paris declared 
against him in a work of Thomas de Yio (cardinal Cajc- 
tan), On the Authority of the Pope, wherein the doctrine 
of Gerson was attacked, which be had espoused. Car- 
dinal l)c Prie died at Lyre Sept. 9, 1519. — lloefer, 
A our. Biog. Genevale, s. v. 

Prie-Dieu is a term in ecclesiastical architecture 
designating a small lectern (q. v.), or book-desk, which 
was introduced in the 15th century. 

Frierias, Svi.vkstmu, a Boman Catholic theologian 
of the time of the Beformation, and noted for his antag- 
onism to the new movement, was born in 1460. His 
family-name was Mazolini, but he was called De Prierio, 
or Prierias, from the place of his birth (Prierio, in the 
county of Asti, in Piedmont). At the age of sixteen lie 
entered the Dominican order, and was soon received as 
baccalaureate. As he had the gift of a singularly clear 


PRIEST 


567 


PRIEST 


and ready exposition, he was surrounded by a crowd of 
pupils at the Gymnasium of Bologna, of which he had 
become the director. At the request of the Senate of 
Venice he accepted for a few years a professorship of 
theology at Padua, and was then prior at Milan, Verona, 
and Coino. In 1508, in an assembly of the members of 
his order from both Lombardys, held at Mantua, he was 
elected vicar-general ; two years later he was elected 
prior at Bologna. His renown and the recommendation 
of Dominico Grimani, bishop of Porto, induced pope Ju- 
lius II to call him to Borne in 1511 as public lecturer on 
theology. Upon the death of the M agister Sacri Palatii, 
Prater Joannes de Rafanellis (generally called De Fer- 
raria), in 1515, Prierias was promoted to the vacant dig- 
nity by pope Leo X. Prierias died in 1523, and was 
buried in the church of St. Mary ad Minervam. He was 
the first non-German theologian who took up the pen 
against Luther. In 1518 he published Diulogus inpree- 
sumptuosas Martini Lutheri conclusiones de potestate Pa- 
pa> and his Replica in Lutherum ; then in the following- 
years his Errata et Argument a Lutheri recitata, detec- 
tata, et copiosissime trita, and his Epitoma Responsionis 
ad eundem Lutherum. The style is quite scholastic, and 
his defence of the papal primacy not without ability 
from a Romanist standpoint. But Luther, in his blunt 
and telling manner, laid so bare all the weaknesses of 
papal pretension as to make the defence of Prierias con- 
temptible. The pope himself saw the inferiority of his 
defender in the contest, and admonished Prierias to si- 
lence; though he appointed him one of the judges of 
Luther at a later time. Some writings attributed false- 
ly to Prierias are the works of a later magister of the 
order, Franciscns Sylvester. After his death appeared 
under his name some satires, composed after the fashion 
ofthe Epistolce obscar. — viz., M odus sulennis et authenticus 
ad inquirendum et convincendum Lutheranos valde neces- 
sarius, and the Tractatus de arte et modo inquirendi 
hcereticos. See Echard and Quetif, Bibliotheca Prcedica- 
torum ; Pressel (in Herzog), Real-Encyclopddie, for the 
Protestant, and Aschbach, Kirchen-Lexikon, for the Ro- 
man Catholic estimate of this man. See also Fisher, 
Hist, of the Re formation, p. 96 ; Alzog, Kirchenqesch. ii, 
262. (J. H. W.) 

Priest, Hebrew ('tlS, kohen, hpevg). (We base 
the following article upon that found in Smith’s Dic- 
tionary ofthe Bible, with important additions from other 
sources.) See also Sacerdotal Order. 

I. General Considerations. — 1. The Xante. (1.) The 
English word priest is generally derived from the New- 
Test. term presbyter (Trpsafit’Tspog, elder), the meaning 
of which is, however, essentially different from that 
which was intended by the ancient terms. It would 
come nearer if derived from irpoioTypi or irpotorapat, 
“to preside,” etc. It would then correspond to Aris- 
totle’s definition of a priest, “presiding over things re- 
lating to the gods” ( Polit . iii, 14), and with the very 
similar one in Heb. v, 1: “Every high-priest taken 
from among men is constituted on the behalf of men, 
with respect to their concerns with God, that he may 
present both gifts and sacrifices for sins.” It would 
then adequately represent the t£p£o£ (6 hpa pt%u) i>) of 
the Greeks, and the sacerdos (a sucris faciundis) of the 
Latins. See Presbyter. 

(2.) It is unfortunate that there is nothing like a 
consensus of interpreters as to the etymology of the 
above Hebrew word lcohen. Its root-meaning, uncer- 
tain as far as Hebrew itself is concerned, is referred by 
Gesenins ( Thesaurus , s. v.) to the idea of prophecy. The 
kohen delivers a divine message, stands as a mediator 
between God and man, represents each to the other. 
This meaning, however, belongs to the Arabic, not to 
the Hebrew form, and Ewald connects the latter with 
the verb ( heJcin ), to array, put in order (so in Isa. 

lxi, 10), seeing in it a reference to the primary office of 
the priests as arranging the sacrifice on the altar ( Alter - 
thiim. p. 272). According to Saalschiitz ( Archdol . der 


J/ebr. c. 78), the primary meaning of the word is to 
minister, and he thus accounts for the wider application 
of the name (as below). Biihr ( Symbolik , ii, 15) con- 
nects it with an Arabic root = ^1p, to draw near. 

Of these etymologies, the last has the merit of an- 
swering most closely to the received usage of the word. 
In the precise terminology of the law, it is used of one 
who may “ draw near” to the Divine Presence (Exod. 
xix, 22; xxx, 20) while others remain afar off, and is 
applied accordingly, for the most part, to the sons of 
Aaron, as those who were alone authorized to offer sac- 
rifices. In some remarkable passages it takes a wider 
range. It is applied to the priests of other nations or 
religions, to Melchizedek (Gen. xiv, 18), Potipherah 
(xli, 45), Jethro (Exod. ii, 16), to those who discharged 
priestly functions in Israel before the appointment of 
Aaron and his sons (xix, 22). A case of greater diffi- 
culty presents itself in 2 Sam. viii, 18, where the sons 
of David are described as priests ( kohanim ), and this 
immediately after the name had been applied in its 
usual sense to the sons of Aaron. The writer of 1 
Chron. xviii. 17, as if reluctant to adopt this use of the 
title, or anxious to guard against mistake, gives a par- 
aphrase, “ the sons of David were first at the king’s 
hand” (A. V. “ chief about the king”). The Sept, and 
A. V. suppress the difficulty by translating kohanim into 
abXdpxai and “chief officers.” The Vulg. more hon- 
estly gives “ sacerdotes.” Luther and Coverdale follow 
the Hebrew strictly, and give “priests.” The received 
explanation is that the word is used here in what is 
assumed to be its earlier and wider meaning, as equiva- 
lent to rulers, or, giving it a more restricted sense, that 
the sons of David were Vicarii Regis, as the sons of 
Aaron w'ere Vicarii Dei (comp. Patrick, Michaelis, Ro- 
senmiiller, ad loc., Keil on l Chron. xviii, 17). It can 
hardly be said, however, that this accounts satisfactori- 
ly for the use of the same title in two successive verses 
in two entirely different senses. Ewald accordingly 
( Alterthum . p. 276) sees in it an actual suspension of 
the usual law in favor of members of the royal house, 
and finds a parallel instance in the acts of David (2 
Sam. vi, 14) and Solomon (1 Kings iii, 15). De Wette 
and Gesenins, in like manner, look on it as a revival of 
the old household priesthoods. These theories are in 
their turn unsatisfactory, as contradicting the whole 
spirit and policy of David’s reign, which was through- 
out that of reverence for the law of Jehovah and the 
priestly order which it established. A conjecture mid- 
way between these two extremes is perhaps permissible. 
David and his sons may have been admitted, not to dis- 
tinctively priestly acts, such as burning incense (Numb, 
xvi, 40; 2 Chron. xxvi, 18), but to an honorary, titular 
priesthood. To wear the ephod in processions (2 Sam. 
vi, 14), at the time when this was the special badge of 
the order (l Sam. xxii, 18), to join the priests and Le- 
vites in their songs and dances, might have been con- 
ceded, with no deviation from the law, to the members 
of the royal house. There are some indications that 
these functions (possibly this liturgical retirement from 
public life) were- the lot of the members of the royal 
house who did not come into the line of succession, and 
who belonged, by descent or incorporation, to the house 
of Nathan, as distinct from that of David (Zech. xii, 
12). The very name Nathan, connected as it is with 
Nethinim, suggests the idea of dedication. See Neth- 
inim. The title kohen is given to Zabud, the son of 
Nathan (1 Kings iv, 5). The genealogy of the line of 
Nathan in Luke iii includes many names— Levi, Elie- 
zer, Malchi, Jochanan, Mattathias, Heli — which appear 
elsewhere as belonging to the priesthood. The men- 
tion in 1 Esdr. v, 5 of Joiakim as the son of Zerubbabel, 
vffiile in Neh. xii, 10 he appears as the son of Joshua, 
the son of Josedck, indicates either a strange confusion, 
or a connection, as yet imperfectly understood, between 
the two families. The same explanation applies to the 
parallel cases of Ira the Jairite (2 Sam. xx, 26), wffiere 


PRIEST 


568 


PRIEST 


tlic Sept, gives i tpivg. It is noticeable that this use of 
the title is con lined to the reigns of David and Solo- 
mon, and that the synonym “at the king’s hand” of 1 
Chron. xviii, 17 is used in xxv, 2 of the sons of Asaph 
as “prophesying” under their head or father, and of 
the relation of Asaph himself to David in the choral 
service of the Temple. 

2. 1 Essential Idea of the Hebrew Priesthood. — This 
may be called mediation ; hence the fact that in the 
epistle to the Hebrews mediator and priest are consid- 
ered as synonymous. Yet by this the specific object 
of the priesthood, in contradistinction to the two other 
tlicocratical offices of prophet and king, is by no means 
sufficiently expressed. The prophet is also a mediator 
between God and man, since he speaks to the latter in 
the name of the former; while the king is the mediator 
of the judicial and executive power of Hod among his 
people, acting in the name of Jehovah. The priest also 
was clothed with representative power (Dent, xviii, 5); 
but this power was mainly directed to represent the 
people as a holy people in the presence of Jehovah, and 
to prepare a way by which they themselves might ap- 
proach (lod. 

Israel w as the full-grown family of (lod, and the do- 
mestic priesthood w r as to become a nation of priests, a 
royal priesthood (Exod. xix, 3-6; Dcut. vii, 6; Numb, 
xvi, 3). Hut that Israel was chosen to be the royal 
priesthood with respect to other nations, like many 
other things, w r as only expressed in idea, and not actu- 
ally realized in fact. Israel was incapacitated by its 
natural sinfulness, and by its incessant transgressions 
of the very law through the fulfilment of which it was 
to be sanctified, to penetrate into the immediate presence 
of tlod (Exod. xix, 21). Hence the necessity of the 
nation having individual representatives to mediate be- 
tween them and Jehovah. As a separate element the 
priesthood represented the nation as yet unfit to ap- 
proach (lod. The people offered their gifts to God by 
means of a separated class from among themselves, and 
in connection with the propitiatory sacrifices this was 
calculated to keep alive the consciousness of their es- 
trangement from God. The very place assigned to the 
priests in the camp w r as expressive of this idea, that 
they keep “the charge of the sanctuary for the charge 
of the children of Israel” (Numb, iii, 38). 

The insufficiency of the priesthood was expressed by 
their being excluded from the most holy place. Only 
the high-priest, in whom the idea of this typical insti- 
tution concentrated, could penetrate thither; and he 
only as the type of the future Mediator who was abso- 
lutely to lead us into the most holy of the world of 
spirits. Because the priests were not altogether re- 
moved from the sins of the people, even the chief-priest 
had access only once a year to the most holy, and that 
just on the day when the entire guilt of the nation w r as 
to be atoned for. lie had on that occasion to confess 
his own sin, and bring a sin-offering; to lay aside his 
magnificent robes of office, and to officiate in a plain 
linen garment. Moreover, when he entered the dark, 
narrow space of the most holy, the cloud of incense was 
to cover the mercv-scat “ that he die not” (Lev. xvi, 13). 

The idea of mediation between God and the people 
is expressed by the priest presenting the atonement for 
the congregation, and the gifts of a reconciled people 
(- Lev. xxi, 7 ; Numb, xvi, 5; xvii, 5). Again, 
he brings back from God’s presence the blessing of grace, 
mercy, and peace (Lev. ix, 27, etc. ; Numb, vi, 22-27). 
In the earliest families of the race of Shem the offices 
of priest and prophet were undoubtedly united; so that 
the word originally denoted both, and at last the He- 
brew idiom kept one part of the idea and the Arabic 
another (Gesenius, I/ebrdisches vnd Chalddisehes flanel- 
worterbnch [Leips. 1823]). It is worthy of remark that 
all the persons who are recorded in Scripture as having 
legally performed priestly acts, but who were not strictly 
sacerdotal, come under the definition of a prophet, viz. 


persons who received supernatural communications of 
knowledge generally, as Adam, Abraham (Gen. xx, 7), 
Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Job, Samuel, Elijah (comp. Luke i, 
7U). The following definition of a priest may be found 
sufficiently comprehensive : A man who officiates or 
transacts with God on behalf of others, statedly, or for 
the occasion. 

3. Origin of the Sacerdotal Order . — The idea of a 
priesthood connects itself, in all its forms, pure or cor- 
rupted, with the consciousness, more or less distinct, of 
sin. Men feel that they have broken a law. The pow- 
er above them is holier than they are, and they dare 
not approach it. They crave for the intervention of 
some one of whom they can think as likely to he more 
acceptable than themselves. He must offer up their 
prayers, thanksgivings, sacrifices. He becomes their 
representative in “things pertaining unto God.” He 
may become also (though this docs not always follow) 
the representative of God to man. The functions of the 
priest and prophet may exist in the same person. The 
reverence which men pay to one who bears this conse- 
crated character may lead them to acknowledge the 
priest as being also "their king. The claim to fill the 
office may rest on characteristics belonging only to the 
individual man, or confined to a single family or trihe. 
The conditions of the priesthood, the office and influ- 
ence of the priests, as they are among the most conspic- 
uous facts of all religions of the ancient world, so do they 
occupy a like position in the history of the religion of 
Israel. 

No trace of a hereditary or caste priesthood meets 
us in the worship of the patriarchal age. (For its oc- 
casional appearance in a general form, see § iii.) Abra- 
ham, Isaac, and Jacob perforin priestly acts, offer sacri- 
fices, “draw near” to the Lord (Gen. xii, 8; xviii, 23; 
xxvi, 25; xxxiii, 20). To the eldest son, or to the fa- 
vored son exalted to the place of the eldest, belongs the 
“ goodly raiment” (xxvii, 1 5), the “ coat of many colors” 
(xxxvii. 3), in which we find perhaps the earliest trace 
of a sacerdotal vestment (comp. Blunt, Script. Coincid. 

1, 1 : L T golino, xiii, 138). Once, and once only, does the 
word kohen meet us as belonging to a ritual earlier than 
the time of Abraham. Melchizedek is “the priest of 
the most high God” (xiv. 18). The argument of the 
Epistle to the Hebrews has a historical foundation in 
the fact that there are no indications in the narrative 
of Gen. xiv of any one preceding or following him in 
that office. The special divine names which are con- 
nected with him as the priest of “the most high God, 
the possessor of heaven and earth,” render it probable 
that he rose, in the strength of those great thoughts of 
God. above the level of the other inhabitants of Canaan. 
In him Abraham recognised a faith like his own, a life 
more entirely consecrated, the priestly character in its 
perfection. See Mrcu’in/.KtuiK. In the worship of the 
patriarchs themselves, the chief of the family, as such, 
acted as the priest. The oflice descended with the 
hirthright, and might apparently be transferred with it. 
As the family expanded, the head of each section prob- 
ably stood in the same relation to it. The thought of 
the special consecration of the first-born was recognised 
at the time of the Exodus (see below). A priesthood 
of a like kind continued to exist in other Shemitic tribes. 
The Book of Job, whatever may be its date, ignores al- 
together the institutions of Israel, and represents the 
man of Uz as himself “sanctifying" his sons, and offering 
burnt-offerings (i, 5). Jethro is a “priest of Midian” 
(Exod. ii, 16; iii, 1). Ilalak himself offers a bullock and 
a ram upon the seven altars on l’isgah (Numb, xxiii, 

2, etc.). 

In Egypt the Israelites came into contact with a 
priesthood of another kind, and that contact must have 
been for a time a very close one. The marriage of Jo- 
seph with the daughter of the priest of On — a priest, as 
we may infer from her name, of the goddess Neith — 
(Gen. xli, do) [see Asknatii] the special favor which 
he showed to the priestly caste in the years of famine 


PRIEST 


569 


PRIEST 


(xlvii, 2G), the training of Moses in the palace of the 
Pharaohs, probably in the colleges and temples of the 
priests (Acts vii, 22} — all this must have impressed the 
constitution, the dress, the outward form of life upon the 
minds of the lawgiver and his contemporaries. Little 
as we know directly of the life of Egypt at this remote 
period, the stereotyped fixedness of the customs of that 
country warrants us in referring to a tolerably distant 
past the facts which belong historically to a later period, 
and in doing so we find coincidences with the ritual of 
the Israelites too numerous to be looked on as accidental, 
or as the result of forces which were at work indepen- 
dent of each other, but taking parallel directions. As 
circumcision was common to the two nations (Herod, 
ii, 37), so the shaving of the whole body (ibid.) was 
with both part of the symbolic purity of the priesthood, 
once for all with the Levites of Israel (Numb, viii, 7), 
every third day with those of Egj’pt. Both are restrict- 
ed to garments of linen (Herod, ii, 37, 81; Plutarch, 
De Isil. iv; Juven. vi, 533; Exod. xxviii, 39; Ezek. 
xliv, 18). The sandals of byblus worn by the Egyp- 
tian priests were but little removed from the bare feet 
with which the sons of Aaron went into the sanctuary 
(Herod, ii, 37). For both there were multiplied ablu- 
tions. Both had a public maintenance assigned, and 
had besides a large share in the flesh of the victims of- 
fered (ibid. 1. c.). Over both there was one high-priest. 
In both the law of succession was hereditary (ibid.; 
comp, also Spencer, De Ley. J/ebr. iii, 1,5, 11; Wilkin- 
son, Ane. Egypt, iii, 116). They were exempt from 
taxes. Wine was allowed to them only in the strictest 
moderation, and entire abstinence from it was required 
during the fasts, which were frequent (Plutarch. De hid. 
6). Each grade of the priests was distinguished by its 
peculiar costume. The high-priests, who, among other 
official duties, anointed the king, wore a mantle made 
of an entire leopard-skin; as did the king, when en- 
gaged in priestly duties. The sacerdotal order consti- 
tuted one of the four principal castes, of the highest 
rank, next to the king, and from whom were chosen his 
confidential and responsible advisers (comp. 2 Sam. viii, 
18; 1 Chron. xviii, 17; Isa. xix, 11; Diodorus, i, 73); 
they associated with the monarch, whom they assisted 
in the performance of his public duties, to whom they 
explained from the sacred books those lessons which 
were laid down for his conduct (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt. 
i, 237, 257-282). See Egypt. 

Facts such as these leave scarcely any room for doubt 
that there was a connection of some kind between the 
Egyptian priesthood and that of Israel. The latter was 
not, indeed, an outgrowth or imitation of the former. 
The faith of Israel in Jehovah, the one Lord, the living 
God, of whom there was no form or similitude, presented 
the strongest possible contrast to the multitudinous idols 
of the polytheism of Egypt. The symbolism of the one 
was cosmic, “of the earth earthy,” that of the other, 
chiefly, if not altogether, ethical and spiritual. But 
looking, as we must look, at the law and ritual of the 
Israelites as designed for the education of a people who 
were in danger of sinking into such a polytheism, we 
may readily admit that the education must have started 
from some point which the subjects of it had already 
reached, must have employed the language of sj-mbolic 
acts and rites with which they were already familiar. 
The same alphabet had to be used, the same root-forms 
employed as the elements of speech, though the thoughts 
which they were to be the instruments of uttering were 
widely different. The details of the religion of Egypt 
might well be used to make the protest against the 
religion itself at once less startling and more attractive. 

At the time of the Exodus there was as yet no priestly 
caste. The continuance of solemn sacrifices (Exod. v, 
1, 3) implied, of course, a priesthood of some kind, and 
priests appear as a recognised body before the promul- 
gation of the Law on Sinai (xix, 22). It has been sup- 
posed that these were identical with the ‘Woung men of 
the children of Israel” who offered burnt-offerings and 


peace-offerings (xxiv, 5) either as the first-born or as 
representing in the freshness of their youth the purity 
of acceptable worship (comp, the analogous case of “the 
young man the Levite” in Judg. xvii, and Ewald, A Iter- 
thiimer , p. 273). On the principle, however, that differ- 
ence of title implies in most cases difference of functions, 
it appears more probable that the “ young men” were not 
those who had before performed priestly acts, but were 
chosen by the lawgiver to be his ministers in the solemn 
work of the covenant, representing, in their youth, the 
stage in the nation’s life on which the people v'ere then 
entering (Keil, ad loc.). There are signs that the priests 
of the older ritual were already dealt with as belonging 
to an obsolescent system. Though they were known as 
those that “come near” to the Lord (Exod. xix, 22), yet 
they are not permitted to approach the Divine Presence 
on Sinai. They cannot “sanctify” themselves enough to 
endure that trial. Aaron alone, the future high-priest, 
but as yet not known as such, enters with Moses into 
the thick darkness. It is noticeable also that at this 
transition-stage, when the old order was passing away, 
and the new was not yet established, there is the proc- 
lamation of the truth, wider and higher than both, that 
the whole people was to be “a kingdom of priests” (xix, 
G). The idea of the life of the nation was that it was 
to be as a priest and a prophet to the rest of mankind. 
They were called to a universal priesthood (comp. Keil, 
ad loc.). As a people, however, they needed a long dis- 
cipline before they could make the idea a reality. They 
drew back from their high vocation (Exod. xx, 18-21). 
As for other reasons, so also for this, that the central 
truth required a rigid, unbending form for its outward 
expression, a distinctive priesthood was to be to the 
nation what the nation was to mankind. The position 
given to the ordinances of the priesthood indicated with 
sufficient clearness that it was subordinate, not primary, 
a means and not an end. Not in the first proclamation 
of the great law’s of duty in the Decalogue (Exod. xx, 
1-17), nor in the application of those laws to the chief 
contingencies of the people’s life in the wilderness, does 
it find a place. It appears together with the ark and 
the tabernacle, as taking its position in the education 
by which the people were to be led towards the mark 
of their high calling. As such we have to consider it. 

II. Personal Characteristics of the Hebreio Priesthood , 
— 1. Consecration. — The functions of the High-Priest, 
the position and history of the Levites as the con- 
secrated tribe, have been fully discussed under those 
heads. It remains to notice the characteristic facts 
connected with “ the priests, the sons of Aaron,” as 
standing between the two. Solemn as w r as the subse- 
quent dedication of the other descendants of Levi, that 
of the priests involved a yet higher consecration. A 
special word (T'lp, kaddsli) was appropriated to it. 
Their old garments were laid aside. Their bodies were, 
w r ashed with clean w r ater (Exod. xxix, 4 ; Lev. viii, 6) 
and anointed with the perfumed oil, prepared after a 
prescribed formula, and to be used for no low’er purpose 
(Exod. xxix, 7 ; xxx, 22-33). The sons of Aaron, it 
may be noticed, were simply sprinkled with the precious 
oil (Lev. viii, 30). Over Aaron himself it w r as poured 
till it went down to the skirts of his clothing (Lev. viii, 
12; Psa. cxxxiii, 2). The new garments belonging to 
their office were then put on them (see below). The 
truth that those who intercede for others must them- 
selves have been reconciled was indicated by the sacri- 
fice of a bullock as a sin-offering, on which they solemn- 
ly laid their hands, as transferring to it the guilt which 
had attached to them (Exod. xxix, 10; Lev. viii, 18). 
The total surrender of their lives w’as represented by 
the ram slain as a burnt-offering, a “sweet savor” to 
Jehovah (Exod. xxix, 18; Lev. viii, 21). The blood 
of these two was sprinkled on the altar, offered to the 
Lord. The blood of a third victim, the ram of conse- 
cration, was used for another purpose. With it Moses 
sprinkled the right ear, that was to be open to the di- 


PRIEST 


570 


PRIEST 


vine voice; tlic right hand and the right foot, that were 
to he active in divine ministrations (Kxod. xxix, 20; 
Lev. viii, 23, 24). Lastly, as they were to be the expo- 
nents, not only of the nation’s sense of guilt, but of its 
praise and thanksgiving, Moses was to “till their hands" 
with cakes of unleavened bread and portions of the sac- 
rifices, which they were to present before the Lord as a 
wave-offering. This appears to have been regarded as 
the essential part of the consecration ; and the lleb. “to 
till the hand" is accordingly used as a synonym for “to 
consecrate” (Kxod. xxix, 9; 2 Citron, xiii, 9). The 
whole of this mysterious ritual was to be repeated for 
seven days, during which they remained within the 
Tabernacle, separated from the people, and not till then 
was the consecration perfect (comp, on the meaning of I 
all these acts, Biilir, Symbol ik, vol. ii, ch. v, § 2). Moses ■ 
himself, as the representative of the Unseen King, is the 
consecrator, the sacrificer throughout these ceremonies; 
as the channel through which the others receive their 
office, he lias for the time a higher priesthood than that 
of Aaron (Selden, I>e Synedr. i, I G ; Ugoliuo, xii, 3). In 
accordance with the principle which runs through the 
history of Israel, he, the ruler, solemnly divests himself 
of the priestly office and transfers it to another. The 
fact that he had been a priest was merged in his work 
as a lawgiver. Only once in the language of a later 
period is the word kohrn applied to him (I’sa. xeix, C). 

The consecrated character thus imparted did not need 
renewing. It was a perpetual inheritance transmitted 
from father to son through all the centuries that fol- 
lowed. We do not read of its being renewed in the case 
of any individual priest of the sons of Aaron. Only 
when the line of succession was broken, and the impiety 
of Jeroboam intruded the lowest of the people into the 
sacred office, do wc tind the reappearance of a like form 
(2 Chron. xiii, 9) of the same technical word. The pre- 
vious history of Jeroboam and the character of the wor- 
ship which he introduced make it probable that, in that 
case only, the ceremonial was, to some extent, Egyptian 
in its origin. In after-times the high-priest took an 
oath (lleb. vii, 23) to bind him, as the Jews say, to a 
strict adherence to established customs (Mishna, Yoma, 
i, 5). 

2. Dress. — The “sous of Aaron” thus dedicated were 
to wear during their ministrations a special apparel— 
at other times apparently they wore the common dress 
of the people. The material of the sacred garments was 
to be linen, and not wool (Ezek. xliv, 17 ; Lev. xxi. 
1— 10) ; but Ewald (A Iterthiimer , p. 317), Josephus (.1 tit. 
iv, 8), and the rabbins (Mass. Kilaim, p. 9) maintain that 
the holy garments were made of a mixture of wool and 
linen, called 12 (sbaatnez) ; and a typical meaning 
is found in this by Iiraun ( I Vs/. Sac. Ilebr. § 30), as 
if it was to signify the imperfection of the Levitical 
priesthood; while Ezek. xliv, 17, which restricts the 
material to linen, was considered significant of the sim- 
plicity of the New Test. See IlKTKROfiKNKors. The 
prohibition in Lev. xix. 19; Dent, xxii, 11 against the 
people generally wearing any garments of such “min- 
gled” material was hence explained by Josephus that 
they might not assume what was characteristic of the 
priests (.1 hi 1 , iv, 1 1). But the more satisfactory and nat- 
ural view is that the priests only wore linen, and that 
the Israelites were prohibited from wearing the mixt- 
ure to teach them that even in garments they should 
avoid all needless artificiality, and to respect the crea- 
tion of God in the simplicity of the material. See 
Linen. It is well known that the Bomau poets speak 
of the Egyptian priests as the liniyeri, the wearers of 
linen (Juvenal, Sat. G ; Ovid, Met. i). The reason for 
fixing on this material is given in Ezek. xliv, 18; but 
the feeling that there was something unclean in clothes 
made from the skin or wool of an animal was common 
to other nations. Egypt has already been mentioned. 
The Arab priests in the time of Mohammed wore linen 
only (Ewald, Mlerthiim. p. 289). As there were some 


garments common both to the priests and the high- 
priest, we shall begin with those of the former, taking 
them in the order in which they would be put on. 
See Apiarer. 

(l.) The first was “ linen breeches,” or 

drawers (Exod. xxviii,42 ; Sept. TrepifftceXi} Aim ; Vulg. 
femimilia linen}. These extended from the loins to the 
thighs, and were “ to cover their nakedness.” The rere- 
enndia of the Hebrew ritual in this and in other places 
(Exod. xx, 2G; xxviii, 42) was probably a protest 
against some of the fouler forms of nature-worship, as 
e. g. in the worship of Ueor (Maimonides, Moreh Xtbo- 
chim, iii, 45; Ugoliuo, xiii, 385), and possibly, also, in 
some Egyptian rites (Herod, ii, GO). According to 
Josephus, whose testimony, however, of course relates 
only to his own time, they reached only to the middle 
of the thigh, where they were tied fast (Ant. iii, 7, 1). 
Such drawers were worn universally in Egypt. In the 
sculptures and paintings of that country the figures of 
workmen and servants have no other dress than a short 
kilt or apron, sometimes simply bound about the loins 
and lapping over in front ; other figures have short loose 
drawers; while a third variety of this article, fitting 
closely and extending to the knees, appears in the fig- 
ures of some idols, as in the cut. This last sort of draw- 
ers seems to have been peculiar in Egypt to the gods, 
and to the priests, whose attire was often adapted to 
that of the idols on which they attended. The priests, 
in common with other persons of the upper classes, wore 
the drawers under other robes. Xo mention occurs of 
the use of drawers by any other class of persons in Israel 
except the priests, on whom it was enjoined for the sake 
of decency. See Breeches. 



(2.) Over the drawers was worn the “coat of fine 
linen” ('i*'J r:rz, kethdneth shesh , tunica byssina, 
Exod. xxxix, 27), a close-fitting shirt or cassock, such 
as was worn by men in general (Gen. xxxvii, 3), also 
by women (2 Sam. xiii, 18; Cant, v, 3), next to the 
skin. It was white, but with a diamond or chess-board 
pattern on it (liiihr, Symb. vol. ii, ch. iii, § 2). This 
came nearly to the feet (7 Tocpptjg \irwr, Josephus, Ant. 
iii, 7, 1), and was to be woven in its garment-shape (not 
cut out and then sewed together), like the yirwp unpa- 
epotj of John xix, 23, in which some interpreters have 
even seen a token of the priesthood of him who wore it 
(Ewald, (ieseh. v, 177 ; Ugoliuo, xiii, 218). Here also 
modern Eastern customs present an analogy in the 
woven, seamless ihrnm worn by the Mecca pilgrims 
(Ewald, Alterthiim. p. 289). Josephus further states that 
it sat close to the body, and had sleeves, which were 
tied fast to the arms, and was girded to the breast a 
little above the elbows by a girdle. It had a narrow 
aperture about the neck, and was tied with certain 
strings hanging down from the edge over the breast and 
back, and was fastened above each shoulder (Ant. iii, 


PRIEST 


571 


PRIEST 



7, 2). But this gar- 
ment, in the case of 
the priests and high- 
priest, was to be broid- 
ered (Exod. xxvi i i, 4) , 
- r *arn r:ra, “ a 

broidered coat,” by 
which Gesenius un- 
derstands a coat of 
cloth vvorkedin check- 
ers or cells. Braun 
compares it to the re- 
ticulum in the stom- 
ach of ruminant ani- 
mals {De Vestitu, i, 
17). The Sept, gives 
\trujv Koavpfiioroc, 
which seems to refer 
to the tassels or 
Fig. 2. Ancient Egyptian Tunic, strings; "Vulg* line a 
strict a, which seems 

to refer to its close fitting. 

(3.) The whole tunic was gathered at the waist by 
the “girdle” (I32ax, abnet, Exod. xxviii, 40; Sept. 
£wjo/; Vulg. bulteus; comp. Ezek. xliv, 17-19). This 
was also worn by magistrates (Isa. xxii, 21). The gir- 
dle for the priests was to be made of fine twined linen, 
and blue and purple and scarlet of needlework (xxxix, 
29). Josephus describes it as often going round, four 
fingers broad, but so loosely woven that it might be 
taken for the skin of a serpent ; and that it was em- 
broidered with flowers of scarlet and purple and blue, 
but that the warp was nothing but linen. The begin- 
ning of its circumvolution was at the breast, and when 
it had gone often round it was there tied, and hung 
loosely down to the ankles while the priest was not en- 
gaged in any laborious service, for in that position it 
appeared in the most agreeable manner to the spec- 
tators; but when he was obliged to assist at the offer- 
ing of sacrifices and to 
do the appointed service, 
in order that he might 
not be hindered in his 
operations by its motion, 
he threw it to the left 
hand and bore it on his 
right shoulder (*4nf. iii, 
7, 2). The mode of its 
hanging down is illus- 
trated in Fig. 4, where 
the girdle is also richly 
embroidered, while the 
imbricated appearance 
of the girdle 
D|7"l) may be seen very 
plainly in Fig. 1. The 
next cut (Fig. 3), of 
a priestly scribe of an- 

cient Egypt, offers an 

Fig. 3. Ancient Egyptian Tunic interesting specimen of 
aud Girdle. both tunic and girdle. 

See Girdlk. 

(4.) Upon their head they were to wear a turban 
(rii'SJ'i, miybeah; Exod. xxviii, 40; Sept, icidapig; 
Vulg. tiara ; A. V. “ cap” or “ bonnet,” which two words are 
there synonymous) in the form of a cup-shaped flower, 
also of fine linen (xxxix, 28). In the time of Josephus 
it was circular, covering about half the head, something 
like a crown, made of thick linen swathes doubled round 
many times and sewed together, surrounded by a linen 
cover to hide the seams of the swathes, and sat so close 
that it would not fall off when the body was bent down 
(Ant. iii, 7, 3). 

These garments they might wear at any time in the 
Temple, whether on duty or not, but they were not to 



sleep in them (Josephus, War, v, 5, 7). When they be- 
came soiled they were not washed or used again, but 
torn up to make wicks for the lamps in the Tabernacle 
(Sclden, De Synedr. xiii, 11). In Ezek. xlii, 14; xliv, 
17-19, there are directions that the priests should take 
off their garments when they had ministered, and lay 
them up in the holy chambers, and put on other gar- 
ments; but these directions occur in a visionary repre- 
sentation of a temple, which all agree has never been 
realized, the particulars of which, though sometimes de- 
rived from known customs, yet at other times differ 
from them widely. The garments of the inferior priests 
appear to have been kept in the sacred treasury (Ezra 
ii, 69; Neh. vii, 70). They had besides them other 
“clothes of service,” which were probably simpler, but 
are not described (Exod. xxxi, 10; Ezra xlii, 14). In 
all their acts of ministration they were to be barefooted. 
This is inferred (a) from the absence of any direction as 
to a covering for the feet; ( b ) from the later custom; 
(c) from the universal feeling of the East. Shoes were 
worn as a protection against defilement. In a sanctuary 
there was nothing that could defile. Then, as now, this 
was the strongest recognition of the sanctity of a holy 
place which the Oriental mind could think of (Exod. iii, 
5; Josh, v, 15), and throughout the whole existence of 
the Temple service, even though it drew upon them the 
scorn of the heathen (Juven. Sat. vi, 159), and serious- 
ly affected the health of the priests (Ugolino, viii, 976; 
xiii, 405), it was scrupulously adhered to. 

The dress of the high-priest was precisely the same 
with that of the common priests in all the foregoing 
particulars; in addition to which he had (1) a robe, 
meil (Exod. xxviii, 4, 7ro dijpt], tunica'). This 
was not a mantle, but a second and larger coat without 
sleeves; a kind of surtout worn by the laity, especially 
persons of distinction (Job i, 20 ; ii, 12, by kings ; 1 Sam. 
xv, 27 ; xviii, 4 ; xxiv, 5-12). This garment, when in- 
tended for the high-priest, and then called “ the robe of 
the ephod,”was to be of one entire piece of woven work, 
all of blue, with an aperture for the neck in the middle 
of the upper part, having its rim strengthened and 
adorned with a border. The hem had a kind of fringe, 
composed of tassels, made of blue, purple, and scarlet, in 
the form of pomegranates; and between every two pom- 
egranates there was a small golden bell, so that there 
was a bell and a pomegranate alternately all round 
(Exod. xxviii, 31-35). The use of these bells may have 
partly been that by the higli-priest shaking his gar- 
ment at the time of his offering incense on the great 
day of expiation, etc., the people without might be ap- 
prised of it, and unite their prayers with it (comp. 
Ecclus. xlv, 9; Luke i, 10; Acts x, 4; Bev. viii, 3. 4). 
Josephus describes this robe of the ephod as reaching 
to the feet, and consisting of a single piece of stuff 
parted where the hands came out (John xix, 23). 
He also states that it was tied round with a girdle em- 
broidered with the same colors as the former, with a 
mixture of gold interwoven (Anf. iii, 7, 4). It is highly 
probable that this garment was also derived from Egyp- 
tian usage. There are instances at Thebes of priests 
wearing over the great -coat a loose sleeveless robe, 
which exposes the sleeves of the inner tunic. The fringe 
of bells and pomegranates seems to have been the priest- 
ly substitute for the fringe bound with a blue ribbon, 
which all the Israelites were commanded to wear. 
Many traces of this fringe occur in the Egyptian re- 
mains. The use assigned to it, “that looking on this 
fringe they should remember the Lord’s command- 
ments,” seems best explicable by the supposition that 
the Egyptians had connected some superstitious ideas 
with it (Numb, xv, 37-40). (2.)Theephod,‘TEX,E7rw/u£, 
superhumerale (Exod. xxviii, 4). This was a short cloak 
covering the shoulders and breast. It is said to have 
been worn by Samuel while a youth ministering before 
the Lord (1 Sam. ii, 18); by David while engaged in 
religious service (2 Sam. vi, 14) ; and by inferior priests 


PRIEST 


572 


PRIEST 



Fig. 4. Ancient Egyptiau Priestly Kobe, Ephod, and Girdle. 


(1 Sam. xxii, 18). But in all these instances it is dis- 
tinguished as a linen ephod, and was not a sacred but 
an honorary vestment, as the Sept, understands it in 2 
Sam. vi, 14, fjro\t)v t£a\\ov. The ephod of the high- 
priest was to be made of gold, of blue, of purple, of scar- 
let, and fine twined linen, with cunning work, 
Though it probably consisted of one piece, woven 
throughout, it had a back part and a front part, united 
by shoulder-pieces. It had also a girdle; or, rather, 
strings went out from each side and tied it to the body. 
On the top of each shoulder was to be an 0113’x stone, 
set in sockets of gold, each having engraven upon it six 
of the names of the children of Israel, according to the 
precedence of birth, to memorialize the Lord of the 
promises made to them (Exod. xxviii, 6-12, 29). Jo- 
sephus gives sleeves to the ephod (Ant. iii, 7, 5). It 
may be considered as a substitute for the leopard-skin 
worn by the Egyptian high-priests in their most sacred 
duties, as in Fig. 4, where the ephod appears no less 
plainly. In other figures of Egyptian priests, the 
shoulder-pieces were equally apparent. They are even 
perceptible in I'ig. 1. The Egyptian ephod is, how- 
ever, highly charged with all sorts of idolatrous figures 
and emblems, and even with scenes of human sacrifices. 
The Sept, rendering of “cunning work,” is ipyov 

ittyavTuv 7ro(Ki\ror. a woven -work of the embroid- 
erer, a word which especially denotes a manufacturer 
of tissues adorned with figures of animals (Strabo, xvii, 
p. 574, Sieb.). In the earlier liturgical costume, the 
ephod is mentioned as belonging to the high-priest only 
(Exod. xxviii, 6-12; xxxix, 2-5). At a later period it 
is used apparently by all the priests (1 Sam. xxii, 18), 
and even bv others, not of the tribe of Levi, engaged in 
religions ceremonial (2 Sam. vi, 14). See Ei’itcm. Then 
came, (.1) the breastplate, y^n, choshen (Sept. mpto-ti- 
Biov ; Vulg. rationale ) ; a gorget ten inches square, 
made of the same sort of cloth as the ephod, and doubled 
so as to form a kind of pouch or bag (Exod. xxix, 9), 
in which were to be put the Urim and Tlnimmim, 
which are also mentioned as if already known (xxviii. 
30). The external part of this gorget was set with four 
rows of precious stones— the first row a sardius, a topaz, 
and a carbuncle; t lie second, an emerald, a sapphire, 
and a diamond; the third, a Figure, an agate, and an 
amethyst ; and the fourth, a beryl, an onyx, and a jas- 
per set in a golden socket. Upon each of these stones 
was to be engraven the name of one of the sons of Ja- 
cob. In the ephod, in which there was a space left 
open sufficiently large for the admission of this pectoral, 
were four rings of gold, to which four others at the four 
corners of the breastplate corresponded; the two lower 
rings of the latter being fixed inside. It was confined 
to the ephod by means of dark-blue ribbons, which 
passed through these rings; and it was also suspended 
from the onyx stones on the shoulder by chains of gold, 


or, rather, cords of twisted gold threads, which were 
fastened at one end to two other larr/er rings fixed in 
the upper corners of the pectoral, and by the other end 
going round the onyx stones on the shoulders, and re- 
turning and being fixed in the larger ring. The breast- 
plate was further kept in its place by a girdle, made of 
the same stuff, which Josephus says was sewed to the 
breastplate, and which, when it had gone once round, 
was tied again upon the seam and hung down. Here 
is another adaptation and correction of the costume of 
the higher Egyptian priests, who wore a large, splendid 
ornament upon the breast, often a winged scarabjeus, 
the emblem of the sun, as in the cut, Fig. 5, which ex- 



Fig. 5. Ancient Egyptian Priestly Breastplate. 


hibits the connecting ring and chain to fasten it to the 
girdle. (4.) The remaining portion of dress peculiar to 
the high-priest was the mitre , mitsnebeth (Sept. 

KiCapig ; Vulg. cidaris, Exod. xxviii, 4). The Bible 
says nothing of the difference between this and the tur- 
ban of the common priests. It is, however, called by a 
different name. It was to be of fine linen (ver. 39). 
Josephus says it was the same in construction and fig- 
ure with that of the common priest, but that above it 
there was another, with swathes of blue, embroidered; 
and round it was a golden crown, polished, of three 
rows, one above another, out of which rose a cup of 
gold, which resembled the calyx of the herb called by 
Greek botanists hyosevamns. He ends a most labored 
description by comparing the shape of it to a poppy 
(.4 nt. iii, 7, 6). Upon comparing his account of t lie 
bonnet of the priests with the mitre of the high-priest, 
it would appear that the latter was conical. The cut, 
Fig. 6, presents the principal forms of the mitres worn 
by the ancient priests of Egypt, and affords a substan- 
tial resemblance of that prescribed to the Jews, divested 
of idolatrous symbols, but which were displaced to make 


PRIEST 


573 


PRIEST 


way for a simple plate of gold, bearing tlie inscription, 
“Holiness to Jehovah.’' This plate (^ rn l£, tsits ; Sept. 
TTETaXov ; Vulg. lamina ) extended from one ear to the 
other, being hound to the forehead by strings tied be- 
hind, and further secured in its position by a blue rib- 
bon attached to the mitre (Exod. xxviii, 86-39 ; xxxix, 
30; Lev. viii, 9). Josephus says this plate was pre- 
served to his own day (Ant. viii, 3, 8 ; see Keland, Be 
Spol. Templi , p. 132). ” Sueh was the dress of the high- 
priest: see a description of its magnificence in corre- 
sponding terms in Ecclus. 1, 5-16. 



Fig. 0. Ancient Egyptian Priestly Mitres. 


Josephus had an idea of the symbolical import of the 
several parts of the pontifical dress. He says that be- 
ing made of linen signified the earth ; the blue denoted 
the sky, being like lightning in its pomegranates, and 
in the noise of its bells resembling thunder. The ephod 
showed that God had made the universe of four ele- 
ments, the gold relating to the splendor by which all 
things are enlightened. The breastplate in the middle 
of the ephod resembled the earth, which has the middle 
place of the world. The girdle signified the sea, whieh 
goes round the tvorld. The sardonyxes declare the sun 
and moon. The twelve stones are the twelve months 
or signs of the zodiac. The mitre is heaven, because 
blue (Ant. iii, 7, 7). He appears, however, to have had 
two explanations of some things, o.ie for the Gentiles, 
and another for the Jews. Thus in this section he tells 
his Gentile readers that the seven lamps upon the gold- 
en candlesticks referred to the seven planets; but to the 
Jews he represents them as an emblem of the seven 
days of the w r eek ( War, vii, 5, 5; Whiston’s notes ad 
loc.'). It was not always worn by the high-priest. It 
was exchanged for one wholly of linen, and therefore 
white, though of similar construction, when on the day 
of expiation he entered into the holy of holies (Lev. 
xvi, 4, 23); and neither he nor the common priests 
wore their appropriate dress, except when officiating. 
It was for this reason, according to some, that Paul, who 
had been long absent from Jerusalem, did not know that 
Ananias was the high -priest (Acts xxiii, 5). Bahr 
( Symbolik , vol. ii, ch. iii, § 1,2) finds a mystic meaning 
in the number, material, color, anil shape of the priestly 
vestments, discusses each point, elaborately, and dwells 
in § 3 on the differences between them and those of the 
Egyptian priesthood. According to Fairbairn (Typol. 
of Script.), the garments represent the office, and the 
person who was officially invested was to have them 
sprinkled with a mixture of oil and sacrifieial blood 
(Kurtz, Opfercultus, p. 292). These garments, which 
were first worn at the consecration, and which were pre- 
served in the Temple when not actually required, were 
not allowed except to such as were legally consecrated 
for service, though they' belonged to the house of Aaron. 
These garments were “holy garments” (Exod. xxviii, 
4), made “ for glory and for beauty';” but they were not 
only' fur a glorious ornament, for the whole of the vest- 
ments bore a symbolical meaning, and the inscription 
on the golden plate which adorned the brow of the 
high-priest, “Holiness to Jehovah,” might be properly 


applied to all the holy garments. The four pieces of 
the priestly attire were each and all of them required, 
none was to fail; nor was it permitted to wear more 
than was prescribed ; and the warning “ that he die not” 
(ver. 35, 43) seems to bear upon an exact fulfilment of 
the divine command in this, no less than in other things. 
The shining white of the linen garments typified that 
the servants of him who covers himself with light as 
with a garment (Psa. civ, 2; Dan. ii, 22; vii, 9), and 
who dwelleth “in light which no man can approach 
unto” (1 Tim. vi, 16), are clothed typically' in light 
(Exod. xxxiv, 29) ; so that the ministers should minister 
in the earthly sanctuary in the same livery as his min- 
isters wear in the heavenly sanctuary (Dan. xii, 6; 
Ezek. x, 2, 7; Matt, xvii, 2; xxviii, 8; Acts x, 30). 
But light (consequently white , as the most perfect reflect 
tion of light) is universally' the type of salvation (Job 
xviii, 5, etc.; Psa. xxvii, 1 ; Isa. lix, 9), of righteous- 
ness (Psa. xxxvii, 6; Mai. iv, 2), of purity' and holiness 
(1 John i, 5, 7) ; just as darkness, black, is the type of 
wickedness, uncleanness, etc. (Isa. v, 20; Lam. iv, 7, 8; 
John iii, 19; Bom. iii, 12; 2 Cor. vi, 14). It is not 
without meaning that the priests, like the angels, are 
specially called the holy ones. 

3. Regulations . — The idea of a consecrated life, whieh 
was thus asserted at the outset, was carried through a 
multitude of details. Each probably' had a symbolic 
meaning of its own. Collectively they' formed an edu- 
cation by whieh the power of distinguishing between 
things holy and profane, between the clean and the un- 
clean, and so ultimately between moral good and evil, 
was awakened and developed (Ezek. xliv, 23). Before 
they entered the tabernacle the priests were to wash 
their hands and their feet (Exod. xxx, 17-21 ; xl, 30- 
32). During the time of their ministration they' were to 
drink no wine or strong drink (Lev. x, 9; Ezek. xliv, 
21). Their function was to be more to them than the 
ties of friendship or of blood, and, except in the case of 
the nearest relationships (six degrees are specified, Lev. 
xxi, 1-5; Ezek. xliv, 25), they were to make no mourn- 
ing for the dead. The high-priest, as carrying the con- 
secrated life to its highest point, tvas to be above the 
disturbing power of human sorrow even in these in- 
stances. Public calamities seem to have been an ex- 
ception, for Joacim the high-priest, and the priests, in 
such circumstances, ministered in sackcloth with ashes 
on their mitres (Judith iv, 14, 15; comp. Joel i, 13). 
Customs which appear to have been common in other 
priesthoods were (probably for that reason) forbidden 
them. They were not to shave their heads. They 
were to go through their ministrations with the serenity 
of a reverential awe, not with the orgiastic wildness 
which led the priests of Baal, in their despair, to make 
cuttings in their flesh (Lev. xix, 28; 1 Kings xviii, 28), 
and carried those of whom Atys was a type to a more 
terrible mutilation (Dent, xxiii, 1). The same thought 
found expression in two other forms affeeting the priests 
of Israel. The priest was to be one who, as the repre- 
sentative of other men, was to be physically' as well as 
liturgicallv perfect. The idea of the perfect body, as 
sy r mbolizing the holy' soul, was, as might be expected, 
wide-spread among the religions of heathenism. “ Sa- 
eerdos non integri corporis quasi mali ominis res vitanda 
est” (Seneca, Controv. iv, 2). As the victim was to be 
without blemish, so also was the sacrificer (comp. Bahr, 
Symbol, vol. ii, ch. ii, § 3). The law specified in broad 
outlines the excluding defects (Lev. xxi, 17-21), and 
these were such as impaired the purity, or at least the 
dignity’, of the ministrant. The morbid casuistry of 
the later rabbins drew up a list of not less than 144 
faults or infirmities whieh involved permanent, and of 
twenty-two which involved temporary deprivation from 
the priestly office (Carpzov. App. Grit. p. 92, 93; Ugo- 
lino, xii, 54; xiii, 903); and the original symbolism of 
the principle (Philo, Be Viet, and Be Monarch, ii, 5) 
was lost in the prurient minuteness which, here as else- 
where, often makes the study of rabbinic literature a 


PRIEST 


574 


PRIEST 


somewhat repulsive task. If the Christian Church has ' 
sometimes seemed to approximate, in the conditions it 
laid down for the priestly character, to the rules of Ju- 
daism, it was yet careful to reject the Jewish principles, 
and to rest its regulations simply on the grounds of 
expediency ( Constt . A post. 77, 78). The marriages of 
the sons of Aaron were, in like manner, hedged round 
with special rules. There is, indeed, no evidence for 
what has sometimes been asserted, that either the high- 
priest (I’hilo, l)e Monarch, ii, 11; ii, 229, ed. Mang. ; 
Ewald, .1 Iterth. p. 302) or the other sons of Aaron (Cgo- 
lino, xii, 52) were limited in their choice to the women 
of their own tribe, and we have some distinct instances 
to the contrary. It is probable, however, that the 
priestly families frequently intermarried, and it is cer- 
tain that they were forbidden to marry an unchaste 
woman, or one who had been divorced, or the widow of 
any but a priest (Lev. xxi, 7, 14 ; Ezek. xliv, 22). The 
prohibition of marriage with one of an alien race was 
assumed, though not enacted in the law; and hence the 
reforming zeal of a later time compelled all who had 
contracted such marriages to put away their strange 
wives (Ezra x, 18), and counted the offspring of a priest 
and a woman taken captive in war as illegitimate (Jo- 
sephus, Ant. iii, 10; xi, 4; c. Apion. i, 7), even though 
the priest himself did not thereby lose his function 
(ITgolino, xii, 924). The high-priest was to carry the 
same idea to a yet higher point, and was to marry none 
but a virgin in the tirst freshness of her youth (Lev. 
xxi, 13). Later casuistry lixed the age within the nar- 
row limits of twelve and twelve and a half (Carpzov. 
App. Crit. p. 88). It followed, as a matter of necessi- 
ty, from these regulations that the legitimacy of every 
priest depended on his genealogy. A single missing or 
faulty link would vitiate the whole succession. To 
those genealogies, accordingly, extending back un- 
broken for 2001) years, the priests could point, up to the 
time of the destruction of the Temple (Josephus, c. 
Apion. i, 7). In later times, wherever the priest might 
live — Egypt, llabvlon, (Ireece — he was to send the reg- 
ister of all marriages in his family to Jerusalem ( ibid .). 
They could be referred to in any doubtful or disputed 
case (Ezra ii, (52; Xeh.vii,64). In them was registered 
the name of every mother as well as of every father 
(ibid.; comp, also the story already referred to in Sui- 
das, s. v. ’bjrrof'c). It was the distinguishing mark of 
a priest, not of the Aaronic line, that he was (nrdrwp, 
dpijTiop, dytvta\6yi]rog (lleb. vii, 3), with no father or 
mother named as the ground of his title. 

The age at which the sous of Aaron might enter upon 
their duties was not defined by the law, as that of the 
Lcvites was. Their olfiee did not call for the same de- 
gree of physical strength; and if twenty-five in the 
ritual of the Tabernacle (Numb, vi ii, 24) and twenty in 
that of the Temple (l Chron. xxiii, 27) was the ap- 
pointed age for the latter, the former were not likely to 
be kept waiting till a later period. In one remarkable 
instance, indeed, we have an example of a yet earlier 
age. The boy Aristobulus at the age of seventeen min- 
istered in the Temple in his pontifical robes, the admired 
of all observers, and thus stirred the treacherous jeal- 
ousy of 1 1 erod to remove so dangerous a rival (Josephus, 
Ant. xv, 3, 3). This may have been exceptional, hut 
the language of the rabbins indicates that the special 
consecration of the priest’s life began with the opening 
years of manhood. As soon as the down appeared on 
his cheek the young candidate presented himself before 
the Council of the Sanhedrim, and bis genealogy was 
carefully inspected. If it failed to satisfy his judges, he 
left the Temple clad in black, and had to seek another 
calling; if all was right so fur, another ordeal awaited 
him. A carefid inspection was to determine whether he 
was subject to anyone of the 144 defects which would 
invalidate his priestly acts. If he was found free from 
all blemish, he was clad in the white linen of the priests, 
and entered on his ministrations. If the result of the 
examination was not satisfactory, he was relegated to 


the half-menial office of separating the sound wood for 
the altar from that which was decayed and worm-eaten, 
but was not deprived of the emoluments of his office 
(Liglitfoot, Temple Service, eh. vi). 

4. Functions . — The work of the priesthood of Israel 
was, from its very nature, more stereotyped by the Mo- 
saic institutions than any other element of the national 
life. The functions of the Levites — less defined, and 
therefore more capable of expansion— altered, as has 
been shown [see Levitk], from age to age; but those 
of the priests continued throughout substantially the 
same, whatever changes might be brought about in 
their social position and organization. The duties de- 
scribed in Exodus and Leviticus are the same as those 
recognised in the books of Chronicles, and those which 
the prophet-priest Ezekiel sees in his vision of the Tem- 
ple of the future. They, assisting the high-priest, were 
to watch over the fire on the altar of burnt-offerings, and 
to keep it burning evermore both by day and night 
(Lev. vi, 12 ; 2 Chron. xiii, 11); to feed the golden lamp 
outside the vail with oil (Exod. xxvii, 20, 21 ; Lev. 
xxiv, 2); to offer the morning and evening sacrifices, 
each accompanied with a meal-offering and a drink- 
offering, at the door of the tabernacle (Exod. xxix, 
38-44). These were the fixed, invariable duties; but 
their chief function w as that of being always at hand to 
do the priest’s office for any guilty, or penitent, or re- 
joicing Israelite. The worshipper might come at any 
time. If he were rich and brought a bullock, it was the 
priest’s duty to slay the victim, to place the wood upon 
the altar, to light the fire, to sprinkle the altar with 
the blood (Lev. i, 5). If he were poor and brought a 
pigeon, the priest was to wring its neck (i. 15). In cither 
case he was to burn the meal-offering and the peace- 
offering which accompanied the sacrifice (ii, 2, 9; iii, 
11). After the birth of every child, the mother was to 
come with her sacrifice of turtle-doves or pigeons (Lev. 

xii, (5 ; Luke ii, 22-24), and was thus to be purified from 
her uncleanness. A husband who suspected his wife 
of unfaithfulness might bring her to the priest, and it 
belonged to him to give her the water of jealousy as an 
ordeal, and to pronounce the formula of execration 
(Numb, v, 1 1-31). Lepers were to come, day by day, to 
submit themselves to the priest’s inspection, that he 
might judge whether they were clean or unclean, and 
when they were healed perform for them the ritual of 
purification (Lev. xiii. xiv; comp. Mark i, 44). All the 
numerous accidents which the law looked upon as defile- 
ments or sins of ignorance had to be expiated by a sac- 
rifice, which the priest, of course had to offer (Lev. xv, 

I 33). As they thus acted as mediators for those who 
were laboring under the sense of guilt, so they were to 
help others who were striving to attain, if only for a 
season, the higher standard of a consecrated life. The 
Xazaritc was to come to them with his sacrifice and his 
wave-offering (Numb. vi. 1-21). In the final establish- 
ments at Jerusalem it belonged to the priests to act as 
sentinels over the holy place, as to the Levites to guard 
the wider area of the precincts of the Temple (Ugolino, 

xiii, 1052). 

Other duties of a higher and more ethical character 
are hinted at, but were not. and probably could not be, 
the subjeet of a special regulation. They were to teach 
the children of Israel the statutes of the Lord (Lev. x, 

II ; I)eut. xxxiii, 10; 2 Chron. xv, 3; Ezek. xliv, 23, 
21). The “priest’s lips” (in the language of the last 
prophet looking back upon the ideal of the order) were 
to “keep knowledge” (Mai. ii. 7). Through the whole 
history, with the exception of t lie periods of national 
apostasy, these acts, and others like them, formed the 
daily life of the priests who were on duty. The three 
great festivals of the year were, however, their seasons 
of busiest employment. The pilgrims who came up by 
tens of thousands to keep the feast came each with his 
sacrifice and oblation. The work at such times was, 
on some occasions at least, beyond the strength of the 
priests in attendance, and the Levites had to be called 


PRIEST 


575 


PRIEST 


in to help them (2 Chron. xxix, 34; xxxv. 14). Other 
acts of the priests of Israel, significant as they were, 
were less distinctively sacerdotal. They were to bless 
the people at every solemn meeting, and that this part 
of their office might never fall into disuse, a special for- 
mula of benediction was provided (Numb, vi, 22-27). 
During the journeys in the wilderness it belonged to 
them to cover the ark and all the vessels of the sanctu- 
ary with a purple or scarlet cloth before the Levites 
might approach them (iv, 5-15). As the people started 
on each day’s march they were to blow “an alarm” with 
long silver trumpets (x, 1-8)— with two if the whole 
multitude were to be assembled, with one if there was 
to be a special council of the elders and princes of Israel. 
With the same instruments they were to proclaim the 
commencement of all the solemn days, and clays of glad- 
ness (x, 10) ; and throughout all the changes in the re- 
ligious history of Israel this adhered to them as a char- 
acteristic mark. Other instruments of music might be 
used by the more highly trained Levites and the schools 
of the prophets, but the trumpets belonged only to the 
priests. They blew them (but in that case the trump- 
ets were of rams’ horns) in the solemn march round 
Jericho (Josh, vi, 4), in the religious war which Judah 
waged against Jeroboam (2 Chron. xiii, 12), when they 
summoned the people to a solemn penitential fast (Joel 
ii, 1, 15). In the service of the second Temple there 
were never to be less than twenty-one or more than 
eightv-four blowers of trumpets present in the Temple 
daily (Ugolino, xiii, 1011). The presence of the priests 
on the field of battle for this purpose, often in large 
numbers, armed for war, and sharing in the actual con- 
test (1 Chron. xii, 23, 27 ; 2 Chron. xx, 21, 22), led, in 
the later periods of Jewish history, to the special ap- 
pointment at such times of a war-priest, deputed by the 
•Sanhedrim to be the representative of the high-priest, 
and standing next but one to him in the order of pre- 
cedence (comp. Ugolino, xii, 1031 [De Sacerdote Cas- 
trensi ] ; xiii, 871). Jost ( Judenth . i, 153) regards the 
war-priest as belonging to the ideal system of the later 
rabbins, not to the historical constitution of Israel. 
Deuteronomy xx, 2, however, supplies the germ out 
of which such an office might naturally grow. Judas 
Maccabams, in his wars, does what the war-priest was 
said to do (1 Maec. iii, 5G). 

Other functions are intimated in Deuteronomy which 
might have given them greater influence as the edu- 
cators and civilizers of the people. They were to act 
(whether individually or collectively does not distinctly 
appear) as a court of appeal in the more difficult con- 
troversies in criminal or civil cases (Dent, xvii, 8-13). 
A special reference was to be made to them in cases of 
undetected murder, and they were thus to check the 
vindictive blood-feuds which it would otherwise have 
been likely to occasion (xxi, 5). It must remain doubt- 
ful, however, how far this order kept its ground during 
the storms and changes that followed. The judicial 
and the teaching functions of the priesthood remained 
probably for the most part in abeyance through the ig- 
norance and vices of the priests. Zealous reformers kept 
this before them as an ideal (2 Chron. xvii, 7-9; xix, 
8-10; Ezek. xliv, 24), but the special stress laid on the 
attempts to realize it shows that they were exceptional. 
The teaching functions of the priest have probably been 
unduly magnified by writers like Micliaelis, who aim at 
bringing the institutions of Israel to the standard of 
modern expediency {Comm, on Laws of Moses , i, 35-52), 
as they have been unduly depreciated by Saalschiitz and 
Jahn. 

At first Aaron was to burn incense on the golden altar 
every morning when he dressed the lamps, and every 
evening when he lighted them, but in later times the 
common priest performed this duty (Luke i, 8, 9) ; to 
offer, as the Jews understand it, daily, morning and 
evening, the peculiar meal-offering he offered on the day 
of his consecration (Exod. xxix); to perform the cere- 
monies of the great day of expiation (Lev. xvi) ; to ar- 


range the shewbread every Sabbath, and to eat it in the 
holy place (xxiv, 9) ; but he must abstain from the holy 
things during his uncleanness (xxii, 1-3) ; also ifhe be- 
came leprous, or contracted uncleanness (ver. 4-7). If 
he committed a sin of ignorance, he must offer a sin- 
offering for it (iv,3-13); and so for the people (ver. 12- 
22). He was to eat the remainder of the people’s meal- 
ofterings with the inferior priests in the holy place (vi, 
16) ; to judge of the leprosy in the human body or gar- 
ments (xiii, 2-59) ; to adjudicate legal questions (Deut. 
xvii, 12). Indeed, when there was no divinely inspired 
judge, the high-priest was the supreme ruler till the 
time of David, and again after the Captivity. He must 
be present at the appointment of a new ruler or leader 
(Numb, xxvii, 19), and ask counsel of the Lord for the 
ruler (ver. 21). Eleazar, with others, distributes the 
spoils taken from the Midianites (Numb, xxi, 21, 26). 
To the high-priest also belonged the appointment of a 
maintenance from the funds of the sanctuary to an in- 
capacitated priest (1 Sam. ii, 36, margin). Besides 
these duties, peculiar to himself, he had others in com- 
mon with the inferior priests. Thus, when the camp 
set forward, “ Aaron and his sons” were to take the tab- 
ernacle to pieces, to cover the various portions of it in 
j cloths of various colors (iv, 5-15), and to appoint the 
Levites to their services in carrying them ; to bless the 
people in the form prescribed (vi, 23-27), to be respon- 
sible for all official errors and negligences (xviii, 1), and 
to have the general charge of the sanctuary (ver. 5). 

5. Maintenance . — Functions such as these were clear- 
ly incompatible with the common activities of men. At 
first the small number of the priests must have made the 
work almost tin intermit tent, and, even when the system 
of rotation had been adopted, the periodical absences from 
home could not fail to be disturbing and injurious, had the 
priests been dependent on their own labors. The serenity 
of the priestly character would have been disturbed had 
they had to look for support to the lower industries. It 
may have been intended (see above) that their time, 
when not liturgieally employed, should be given to the 
study of the law, or to instructing others in it. On 
these grounds, therefore, a distinct provision was made 
for them. The later rabbins enumerate no less than 
twenty-fonr sources of emolument. Of these the chief 
i only are given here (Ugolino, xiii, 1124). They con- 
sisted, (1) of one tenth of the tithes which the people 
paid to the Levites — i. e. one per cent, on the whole 
produce of the country (Numb, xviii, 26-28). (2.) Of 

a special tithe every third year (Deut. xiv, 28; xxvi, 
12). (3.) Of the redemption-money, paid at the fixed 

rate of five shekels a head, for the first-born of man or 
beast (Numb, xviii, 14-19). It is to be noticed that the 
law, by recognising the substitution of the Levites for 
the first-born, and ordering payment only for the small 
number of the latter, in excess of the former, deprived 
Aaron and his sons of a large sum which would other- 
wise have accrued to them (Numb, iii, 44-51). (4.) Of 
the redemption-money paid in like manner for men or 
things specially dedicated to the Lord (Lev. xxvii). 
(5.) Of spoil, captives, cattle, and the like, taken in war 
(Numb, xxxi, 25-47). (6.) Of what may be described 

as the perquisites of their sacrificial functions, the shew- 
, bread, the flesh of the burnt-offerings, peace-offerings, 
trespass-offerings (Numb, xviii, 8-14; Lev. vi, 26, 29; 
vii, 6-10), and, in particular, the heave-shoulder and 
the wave-breast (Lev. x, 12-15). (7.) Of an undefined 

amount of the first-fruits of corn, wine, and oil (Exod. 
xxiii, 19; Lev. ii, 14; Deut. xxvi, 1-10). Of some of 
these, as “most holy,” none but the priests were to par- 
take (Lev. vi, 29). It was lawful for their sons and 
daughters (x, 14), and even in some cases for their 
home -born slaves, to eat of others (xxii, 11). The 
stranger and the hired servant were in all cases exclud- 
ed (xxii, 10). (8.) On their settlement in Canaan the 

priestly families had thirteen cities assigned them, with 
“suburbs” or pasture-grounds for their flocks (Josh. xxi, 
13-19.) While the Levites w r ere scattered over all the 


PRIEST 


576 


PRIEST 


conquered country, the cities of the priests were within 
the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin, and this 
concentration was not without its influence on their 
subsequent history. See Levite. These provisions 
were obviously intended to secure the religion of Israel 
against the dangers of a caste of pauper-priests, needy 
and dependent, and unable to bear their witness to the 
true faith. They were, on the other hand, as far as 
possible removed from the condition of a wealthy order. 
Even in the ideal state contemplated by the book of 
Deuteronomy, the Levite (here probably used generi- 
callv, so as to include the priests) is repeatedly’ marked 
out as an object of charity*, along with the stranger and 
t he widow (Deut. xii, 12, 19; xiv, 27-29). During the 
long periods of national apostasy*, tithes were probably* 
paid with even less regularity* than they* were in the 
more orthodox period that followed the return from the 
Captivity (Nell, xiii, 10; Mai. iii, 8-10). The standard 
of a priest’s income, even in the earliest days after the 
settlement in Canaan, was miserably* low (Jrnlg. xvii, 
10). Large portions of the priesthood fell, under the 
kingdom, into a state of abject poverty* (comp. 1 Sanu 
ii, 30). The clinging evil throughout their history* was 
not that they were too powerful and rich, but that they* 
sank into the state from which the law was intended to 
preserve them, and so came to “ teach for hire” (Mic. iii, 
1 1 ; comp. Saalschiitz, Archdolor/ie der llebraer , ii, 311— 
o55). 

It will he noticed that neither the high-priest nor 
common priests received “any inheritance” at the dis- 
tribution of f Canaan among the several tribes (Numb, 
xviii, 20; Deut. xviii, 1, 2), but were maintained, with 
their families, upon certain fees, dues, perquisites, etc., 
arising from the public services, which they enjoyed as 
a common fund. Perhaps the only distinct prerogative 
of the high-priest was a tenth part of the tithes as- 
signed to the Levites (xviii, 28; comp. Nell, x, 38) ; but 
Josephus represents this also as a common fund (.!«/. 
iv, 1, 1). 

C. Classification and Statistics . — The earliest histor- 
ical trace of any* division of the priesthood and corre- 
sponding cycle of services belongs to the time of David. 
Jewish tradition indeed recognises an earlier division, 
even during the life of Aaron, into eight houses (Cent. 
Ilieros. Taanith , in Ugolino, xiii, 873), augmented dur- 
ing the period of the Shiloh-worship to sixteen, t lie two 
families of Elcazar and Ithamar standing in both cases 
on an equality*. It is hardly* conceivable, however, that 
there could have been any rotation of service while the 
number of priests was so small as it must, have been 
during the forty years of sojourn in the wilderness, if 
we believe Aaron and his lineal descendants to have 
been the only priests officiating. The difficulty* of real- 
izing in what way* the single family* of Aaron were able 
to sustain all the burden of the worship of the taber- 
nacle and the sacrifices of individual Israelites may, it 
is true, suggest the thought that possibly in this, as in 
other instances, the Hebrew idea of sonsbip bv adoption 
may have extended the title of the “Sons of Aaron" be- 
yond the limits of lineal descent, and, in this case, there 
may be some foundation for the Jewish tradition. No- 
where in the later history do wo find any* disproportion 
like that of three priests to 20.000 Levites. The office 
of supervision over those that “kept the charge of the 
sanctuary," intrusted to Elcazar (Numb, iii, 32), implies 
that some others were subject to it besides Ithamar and 
his children, while these very* keepers of the sanctuary 
arc identified in ver. 3is with the sons of Aaron who are 
encamped with Moses and Aaron on the east side of the 
tabernacle. The allotment of not less than thirteen 
cities to those who bore the name, within little more 
than forty years from the Exodus, tends to the same 
conclusion, and at any* rate indicates that the priest- 
hood were not intended to be always in attendance at 
the tabernacle, but were to have homes of their own, 
and therefore, .as a necessary consequence, fixed periods 
only of service. Some notion may* be formed of the 


number on the accession of David from the facts (1) that 
not less than 3700 tendered their allegiance to him 
while he was as y*ct reigning at Hebron over Judah only* 
(1 Chron. xii, 27), and (2) that one twenty’-fourth part 
were sufficient for all the services of the statelier and 
more frequented worship which he established. To this 
reign belonged, accordingly*, the division of the priest- 
hood into the four -and- twenty* “courses” or orders 
r'pblTC (Sept. ciaiptatiQ, itpijptpiai, 1 Chron. xxiv, 
1-19; 2 Chron. xxiii, 8; Luke i, 5), each of which was 
to serve in rotation for one week, while the further as- 
signment of special services during the week was de- 
termined by lot (Luke i, 9) under a subordinate prefect (2 
Kings xi, 5, 7), but all attended at the great festivals (2 
Chron. v. 1 1). The first of these courses was that which 
had Jehoiarib at the head of it. It was reckoned the 
most honorable. Josephus values himself on his de- 
scent from it {IAfc, § 1). Mattathias, the father of the 
Maccabees, descended from it (l Mace, ii, 1). Abijah 
was the head of the eighth course, to which Zacharias, 
the father of the Baptist, belonged (Luke i, 5). Each 
course appears to have commenced its work on the Sab- 
bath, the outgoing priests taking the morning sacrifice, 
and leaving that of the evening to their successors (2 
Chron. xxiii, 8; Ugolino, xiii, 319). In this division, 
however, the two great priestly* houses did not stand on 
an equality. The descendants of Ithamar were found 
to have fewer representatives than those of Elcazar (a 
diminution that may* have been caused partly* by the 
slaughter of the priests who accompanied Hophni and 
Phinchas [Psa. lxxviii, 04], partly by the massacre at 
Nob), and sixteen courses accordingly* were assigned to 
the latter, eight only to the former (1 Chron. xxiv, 4; 
comp. Carpzov. App. Crit. p. 98). The division thus 
instituted was confirmed by* Solomon, and continued to 
be recognised as the typical number of the priesthood. 
It is to be noted, however, that this arrangement was 
to some extent elastic. Any priest might be present at 
any* time, and even perform priestly acts, so long as he 
did not interfere with the functions of those who were 
officiating in their course (Ugolino, xiii, 881), and at the 
great solemnities of the year, as well as on special occa- 
sions like the opening of the Temple, they were present 
in great numbers. On the return from the Captivity* 
there were found but four courses out of the twenty- 
four, each containing, in round numbers, about a thou- 
sand (Ezra ii, 36-39). The causes of this great reduc- 
tion are not stated, but large numbers must have per- 
ished in the siege and storm of Jerusalem (Lam. iv, 16), 
and many* may* have preferred remaining in Babylon. 
Out of these returning exiles, however, to revive, at 
least, the idea of the old organization, the four-and- 
twenty* courses were reconstituted, bearing the same 
names as before, and so continued till the destruction 
of Jerusalem (Josephus. A at. vii. 14, 7). If we may ac- 
cept the numbers given by* Jewish writers as at all trust- 
worthy*, the proportion of the priesthood to the popula- 
tion of Palestine during the last century* of their exist- 
ence as an order must have been far greater than that 
of the clergy* has ever been in any Christian nation. 
Over and above those that were scattered in the coun- 
try and took their turn, there were not fewer than 24,600 
stationed permanently at Jerusalem and 12.000 at Jer- 
icho (demur. Ilieros. Ta ninth, fol. 67. in ( 'arpzov. A pp. 
Crit. p. 100). It was a Jewish tradition that it had 
never fallen to the lot of any* priest to oiler incense 
twice (Ugolino, xii, 18). Oriental statistics are, how- 
ever, always open to some suspicion, those of the Tal- 
mud not least so; and there is. probably, more truth in 
the computation of Josephus, who estimates the total 
number of the four houses of the priesthood, referring 
apparently to Ezra ii. 36, at about 20.000 (r. .lyuoM.ii, 7). 
Another indication of number is found in the fact that 
a “great multitude” could attach themselves to the 
“sect of the Nazarenes” (Acts vi, 7), and so have cut 
themselves off, sooner or later, from the Temple ser- 


PRIEST 


577 


PRIEST 


vices, without any perceptible effect upon its ritual. It 
was almost inevitable that the great mass of the order, 
under sueh circumstances, should sink in character and 
reputation. Poor and ignorant, despised and oppressed 
by the more powerful members of their own body, often 
robbed of their scanty maintenance by the rapacity of 
the high-priests, they must have been to Palestine what 
the clergy of a later period has been to Southern Italy — 
a dead weight on its industry and strength, not com- 
pensating for their unproductive lives by any services 
rendered to the higher interests of the people. The 
rabbinic classification of the priesthood, though belong- 
ing to a somewhat later date, reflects the contempt into 
which the order had fallen. There were (1) the heads 
of the twenty-four courses, known sometimes as djoyie- 
ptu;; (2) the large number of reputable officiating but 
inferior priests; (3) the plebeii, or (to use the extremest 
formula of rabbinic scorn) the “priests of the people of 
the earth,” ignorant and unlettered; (4) those that, 
through physical disqualifications or other causes, were 
non-efficient members of the order, though entitled to 
receive their tithes (Ugolino, xii, 18; Jost, Judenth. i, 
156). 

Prideaux ( Connection , i, 129), following the Jewish 
tradition, affirms that only four of the courses returned 
from Babylon — Jedaiah, Immer, Pashur, and Harim 
(for which last, however, the Babylonian Talmud has 
Joiarib) — because these four only are enumerated in Ezra 
ii, 36-39; Neh. vii, 39-42. lie accounts for the men- 
tion of other courses, as of Joiarib (1 Macc. ii, 1) and 
Abiah (Luke i, 5), by saying that those four courses 
were subdivided into six each, so as to keep up the old 
number of twenty-four, whieli took the names of the 
original courses, though not really descended from them. 
But this is probably an invention of the Jews, to account 
for the mention of only these four families of priests in 
the list of Ezra ii and Neh. vii. However difficult it 
may be to say with certainty why only those fuur 


COURSES OF PRIESTS. 


In David’s reign, 

I Chron. iiiv. 

In list in Ezra ii ; 
Neh. vii. 

In Neheininh’s 
time, Neh. x. 

In Zertibbabel’s. 
time, Neh. xii. 

1. Jehoiarib, 

_ 

_ 

Juiarih. 

1 Chr. ix, 10. 
Neh. xi, 10. 




2. Jedaiah. 

Children of 
Jedaiah. 

— 

Jedaiah. 

3. Ilarim. 

Children of 
Harim. 

Harim. 

Rehum (Ha- 
rim, v. 15). 

4. Seorim. 







5. Malchijah. 

Children of 
Pashor, 

1 Chr. ix, 12. 

Malchijah. 


6. Mijamiu. 

- 

Mi jam in. 

Miamin(Mi- 
niamin, v. 
17). 

7. Hakkoz. 


Meremoth, 
son of link* 
koz, Nell, 
iii, 4. 

Meremoth. 

8. Abijah. 

— 

Abijah. 

Abijah. 

9. Jeshuah. 

House of 
Jeshua {?), 
Ezra ii, 36; 
Neh. vii, 39. 



10. Shecaniah. 


Shebaniah. 

Shechaniah 
(Shebaniah, 
ver. 14). 

11. Eliashib. 







12. Jakim. 







13. Hnppah. 

14. Jeshebeab. 













15. Bilgah. 

— 

Bilgai. 

Bilgah. 

16. Inituer. 

Children of 
Immer. 

Amariah. 

Amariah. 

17. Hezir. 







IS. Aphses. 







19. Pethahiah. 







20. Jehezekel. 







21. Jachin, 







Neh. xi, 10; 

1 Chr. ix, 10. 




22. Gamnl. 






23. Delaiah. 







24. Maaziab. 


Maaziah. 

Mnndinh 

(Moadiah,v. 

17). 


VIII.— 0 o 


courses are mentioned in that particular list, we have 
the positive authority of 1 Cliron. ix, 10, and Neh. xi, 
10, for asserting that Joiarib did return ; and we have 
two other lists of courses, one of the time of Nehemiah 
(Neh. x, 2-8), the other of Zcrubbabel (xii, 1-7); the 
former enumerating twenty-one, the latter twenty-two 
courses; and the latter naming Joiarib as one of them, 
and adding, at ver. 19, the name of the chief of the 
course of Joiarib in the days of Joiakim. Thus there 
can be no reasonable doubt that Joiarib did return. The 
notion of the Jews does not receive any confirmation 
from the statement in the Latin version of Josephus (c. 
Apion. ii, 8) that there were four courses of priests, as 
it is a manifest corruption of the text for twenty-four, 
as Whiston and others have shown (note to Life of Jor 
sephus, § 1). The preceding table gives the three lists 
of courses which returned, with the original list in Da- 
vid’s time to compare them by. The courses which can- 
not be identified with the original ones, but which are 
enumerated as existing after the return, are as follows: 


1 Neh. x. 

| Neh. xii. 

Neh. xi ; 1 Cbron. ix. 

Seraiah. 

Seraiah. 

Seraiah (?)• 

Azariali. 

Ezra. 

Azarinh. 

Jeremiah. 

Jeremiah. 



Pashur. 





Hattush. 

Hattnsh. 



Mai inch. 

Malluch. 



Obadiah. 

Iddo. 

Adaiah (?). 

Daniel. 





Ginuethou. 

Gin net ho. 



Baruch. 





Meshiillam. 





Sheniaiah. 

• Sheniaiah. 
Sallu. 

Amok. 

Hilkiah. 
Jedaiah (2). 



For some account of the courses, see Lewis, Orig. Hebr. 
bk. ii, eh. vii. 

III. Historical Revieio of the Hebrew Priesthood . — 1. 
In Patriarchal Times. — (1.) We aceede to the Jewish 
opinion that Adam was the first priest. The divine in- 
stitution of sacrifices, immediately after the fall, seems 
connected with the event that “the Lord God made 
coats of skins to Adam and his wife, and clothed them” 
(Gen. iii, 21) — that is, with the skins of animals which 
had been offered in sacrifice, for the permission to eat 
animal food was not given till after the Deluge (comp. 

i, 29 ; ix, 3) — expressive of their faith in the promise of 

the victorious yet suffering “seed of the woman" (ver. 
15); and judging from the known eustom of his imme- 
diate descendants, we infer that Adam, now also become 
the head and ruler of the woman (ver. 16), officiated in 
offering the sacrifice as well on her behalf as his own. 
Judging from the same analogy, it seems further proh- 
able that Adam acted in the same capacity on behalf 
of his sons, Cain and Abel (and possibly of their chil- 
dren), who are each said to have “brought” his respec- 
tive offering, but not to have personally presented it 
(iv, 3-5). The place evidently thus indicated would 
seem to have been the situation of “ the cherubim,” at 
the east of the garden of Eden (iii, 24), called “the 
face” (iv, 14), and “the presence of the Lord” (ver. 16; 
comp. Hebrew of Exod. xxxiv, 24; Lev. ix, 5), and 
from which Jehovah conferred with Cain (Gen. iv, 9): 
circumstances which, together with the name of their 
offering, which, sometimes at least, included 

bloody sacrifices in after-times (1 Sam. ii, 17 ; xxvi, 19; 
Mai. i, 13, 14), and the appropriation of the skins to the 
offerer (comp. Lev. vii, 8), would seem like the rudi- 
ments of the future Tabernacle and its services, and 
when viewed in connection with many circumstances 
incidentally disclosed in the brief fragmentary account 
of things before the Exodus — such as the Sabbath (Gen. 

ii, 2, 3), the distinction observed by Noah, and his 
burnt-offerings upon the altar of clean and unclean 
beasts (viii, 20), the prohibition of blood (ix, 4), tithes 
(xiv, 20), priestly blessing (ver. 19), consecration with 
oil, and vows (xxviii, 18-22), the Levirate law (xxxviii, 


PRIEST 


578 


PRIEST 


8), weeks (xxix, 27), distinction of the Hebrews by ! 
their families (Exod. ii, 1), the office of elder during 
the bondage in Egypt (iii, 16), and a place of meeting 
with Jehovah (v, 22; comp. xxv, 22) — would favor the 
supposition that the Mosaic dispensation, as it is called, 
was but an authoritative re-arrangement of a patri- 
archal Church instituted at the fall. The fact that 
Noah officiated as the priest of bis family, upon the 
cessation of the Deluge, is clearly recorded in (Jen. viii, 
20, where we have an altar built, the ceremonial dis- 
tinctions in the offerings already mentioned, and their 
propitiatory effect, “ the sweet savor,” all described in 
the words of Leviticus (comp, i, 9; xi, 47). These acts 
of Noah, which seem like the resumption rather than 
the institution of an ordinance, were doubtless continued 
by his sons and their descendants, as heads of (heir re- 
spective families. Following our arrangement, the next 
glimpse of the subject is afforded by the instance of Job, 
who “ sent and sanctified his children” after a feast they 
had held, and offered burnt-offerings, r*“”, “according 
to the number of them all,” and “ who did this continu- 
ally,” either constantly or after every feast (i, 5). A 
direct reference, possibly to priests, is lost in our trails- ^ 
lation of xii, 19, “he leadeth princes ; Sept. 

itptii; ; Vulg. sacerdotes ; a sense adopted in Dr. Lee’s i 
Translation [Loud. 1837]) away spoiled.” May not the 1 
difficult passage, Job xxxiii, 23, contain an allusion to 
priestly duties? A case is there supposed of a person 1 
divinely chastised in order to improve him (xix, 22) : “ If 
then there be a messenger (“X^, which means priest, 
Eccles. v, 6; Mai. ii, 6) with him,” “an interpreter” 
or mediator generally, 2 Cliron. xxxii, 31 ; Isa. 
xliii, 27, one among a thousand, or of a family, Judg. . 
vi, 15, “my family,” literally “my thousand,” comp.] 
Numb, i, 16, “to show to man his uprightness,” or, 
rather, “duty,” 1’rov. xiv, 2, part of the priest’s office ( 
in such a case, Mai. ii, 7 ; comp. Deut. xxiv, 8), then 1 
such an individual “ is gracious,” or, rather, will suppli- 
cate for him, and saith, “ Deliver him from going down 
into the pit,” or grave, for “ I have found a ransom,” a ( 
cause or ground in him for favorable treatment, namely, 
the penitence of the sufferer, who consequently recovers j 
(xxv, 29). The case of Abraham and Abimelcch is j 
very similar ((Jen. xx, 3-17), as also that of Job him- j 
self, and his three misjudging friends, whom the Lord 
commands to avert chastisement from themselves by 
taking to him bullocks and rams, which he was to offer 
for them as a burnt-offering, and to prug for them (xlii, 
8). The instance of Abram occurs next in historical 
order, who, upon his first entrance into Canaan, attended 
by his family, “built an altar, and called upon the name 
of the Lord” (( Jen. xii, 7, 8). Upon returning victorious 
from the battle of the kings, he is congratulated by Mel- 
chizedek, the Canannitish king of Salem, and “priest 
of the most high (Jod” (xiv, 18). For the ancient union 
of the royal and sacerdotal offices, in Egypt and other 
countries, see Wilkinson’s Manners and Customs of the 
Ancient Egyptians (Loud. 1812), i, 215. Abram next 
appears entering into covenant with (Jod as the head 
and representative of his seed ; on which occasion those 
creatures only are slain which were appointed for sacri- 
fice under the law ((Jen. xv. 9-21). Isaac builds an al- 
tar, evidently as the bead of his family (xxvi, 25); bis 
younger son Jacob offers a sacrifice, HZT (xxxi, 51), and 
“calls bis brethren to eat of it” (comp. Lev. vii, 15); 
builds an altar at Shalem ((Jen. xxxiii, 20), makes an- 
other by divine command, and evidently as the head of 
his household, at Bethel (xxxv, 1-7), and pours a 
think -offering, “C3 (comp. Numb, xv, 7, etc.), upon a 
pillar (ver. 14). 

(2.) We next find Jethro, priest of Midian, the fa- 
thor-in-law of Moses, probably a priest of the true (Jod 
(Exod. iii, 1), and possibly bis father also (ii, 16), in the 
same capacity. In Exod. v, 1, 3, the whole nation of 
the Israelites is represented as wishing to sacrifice and 


to hold a feast to the Lord. The first step, though very 
remote, towards the formation of the Mosaic system of 
priesthood was the consecration of the first-born, in 
memory of the destruction of the first-born of Egvpt 
(xiii, 2, 14-16) ; for, instead of these, (Jod afterwards 
took the Levites to attend upon him (Numb, iii, 12). 
As to the popular idea, both among Jews and Chris- 
tians, that the right of priesthood was thus transferred 
from the first-born generally to the tribe of Levi, or, 
rather, to one family of that tribe, we consider, with 
Patrick, that it is utterly groundless ( Commentary on 
Exod. xix, 22; Numb, iii, 12; see Vitringa, Observa- 
tiones Sacra, ii, 33; Outram, De Saaifciis, i, 4). 
The substance of the objections is that Aaron and his 
sons were consecrated before the exchange of the Le- 
vites for the first-born ; that the Levites were afterwards 
given to minister unto them, but had nothing to do 
with the priesthood ; and that the peculiar right of God 
in the first-born originated in the Exodus. The last al- 
tar, before the giving of the law, was built by Moses, 
probably for a memorial purpose only (Exod. xvii, 15; 
comp. Josh, xxii, 26, 27). At this period the office of 
priest was so well understood, and so highly valued, 
that Jehovah promises as an inducement to the Israel- 
ites to keep his covenant, that they should be to him 
“a kingdom of priests” (Exod. xix, 6), which, among 
other honorable appellations and distinctions originally 
belonging to the Jews, is transferred to Christians (1 
Pet. ii, 9). The first introduction of the word priests, 
in this part of the history, is truly remarkable. It oc- 
curs just previous to the giving of the law, when, as 
part of the cautious against the too eager curiosity of 
the people, lest they should “break through unto the 
Lord and gaze” (Exod. xix, 21), it is added, “and let 
the priests which come near unto the Lord sanctify them- 
selves, lest the Lord break through upon them” (ver. 
22). Here, then, priests are incontestably spoken of as 
an already existing order, which was now about to be 
remodified. Nor is this the last reference to these ante- 
Sinaitic priests. Selden observes that the phrases “ the 
priests the Levites” (Deut. xvii, 9) and “the priests the 
sous of Levi” (xxi, 5), and even the phrase “the Le- 
vites alone” (x viii, 6; comp. 1), are used to include all 
others who had been priests before (Jod took the sons 
of Aaron peculiarly to serve him in this office (iJe Syn- 
edr. ii, 8, p. 2, 3). Aaron is summoned at this junct- 
ure to go up with Moses unto the Lord on Mount Sinai 
(Exod. xix, 24). Another remarkable circumstance is 
then recorded. Moses, now acting as “ mediator,” and 
endued with an extraordinary commission, builds an 
altar under the hill, and sends “young men of the chil- 
dren of Israel, who offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed 
peace-offerings of oxen unto the Lord” (xxiv, 5). Va- 
rious interpretations are given to the phrase “young 
men;” but, upon a view of all the circumstances, we 
incline to think that they were young laymen, purposely 
selected by Moses for this act, in order to form a com- 
plete break between the former priesthood and the new, 
and that the recommencement and re-arrangement of 
the priesthood under divine authority might be made 
more palpably distinct. In the same light we consider 
the many priestly acts performed by Moses himself, at 
this particular time, as in xxix, 25; xl. 25, 27, 29; like 
those of Gideon (Judg. vi, 25-27), of Samuel (I Sam. 
vii, 9), and of David (1 Cliron. xxi, 26). Vet these 
especial permissions, upon emergencies and extraordi- 
nary occasions, had their limits, as may be seen in the 
fate of “ the men of Betbsliemesh” (1 Sam. vi, 19), and 
of Uzzah (2 Sam. vi, 7). 

2. The .1 aronic Priesthood. — (1.) Early Period. — The 
next event in the history of the subject is the public 
consecration of Aaron and his sons, according to the 
preceding regulations (Lev. viii). At their first sacer- 
dotal performances (ix) the divine approbation was in- 
timated by a supernatural fire which consumed their 
burnt-offering (ver. 24). The general satisfaction of 
tjie people with these events was, however, soon dashed 


PRIEST 


579 


PRIEST 


bv the miraculous destruction of the two elder sons of 
Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, for offering strange tire (x, 1), 
probably under the influence of too much wine, since 
the prohibition of it to the priests when about to enter 
the Tabernacle seems to have originated in this event 
(ver. 9). Moses forbade Aaron and his sons to uncover 
their heads, or to rend their clothes on this occasion ; 
but the whole house of Israel were permitted to bewail 
the visitation (ver. 6). The inward grief, however, of 
Eleazar and Ithamar caused an irregularity in their 
sacerdotal duties, which was forgiven on account of the 
occasion (ver. 16-20). Aaron now appears associated 
with Moses and the leading men of the several tribes in 
taking the national census (Numb, i, 3, etc.), and on 
other grand state occasions (xxvi, 2, 3; xxxi, 13-26; 
xxxii, 2; xxxiv, 17). The high-priest appears ever 
after as a person of the highest consequence. The dig- 
nity of the priesthood soon excited the emulation of the 
ambitious; hence the penalty of death was denounced 
against the assumption of it by any one not belonging 
to the Aaronic family (ver. 10), and it was soon after 
miraculously inflicted for this crime. This instance 
proves that the Aaronic line did not establish itself 
without a struggle. The rebellion of Korah, at the 
head of a portion of the Levites as representatives of 
the first-born, with Dathan and Abiram as leaders of 
the tribe of the first-born son of Jacob (Numb, xvi, 1), 
showed that some looked back to the old patriarchal 
order rather than forward to the new, and it needed the 
witness of “Aaron’s rod that budded” to teach the peo- 
ple that the latter had in it a vitality and strength 
which had departed from the former. It may be that 
the exclusion of all but the sons of Aaron from the ser- 
vice of the Tabernacle drove those who would not resign 
their claim to priestly functions of some kind to the 
worship (possibly with a rival tabernacle) of Moloch 
and Chiun (Amos v, 25, 26; Ezek. xx, 16). The death 
of Aaron introduces the installation of his successor, 
which appears to have simply consisted in arraying 
him in his father’s pontifical garments (Numb, xx, 28). 
Thus also Jonathan the Asmomean contented himself 
with putting on the high-priest’s habit, in order to take 
possession of the dignity (1 Macc. x, 21 ; comp. Josephus, 
A nt. xiii, 2, 3). The high esteem in which the priest- 
hood was held may be gathered from the fact that it 
was promised in perpetuity to Phinehas and his family 
as a reward for his zeal (Numb, xxv, 13). Prominent as 
was the part taken by the priests in the daily march of 
the host of Israel (Numb, x, 8), in the passage of the 
Jordan (Josh, iii, 14, 15), in the destruction of Jericho 
(vi, 12-16), the history of Micah shows that within that 
century there was a strong tendency to relapse into the 
system of a household instead of an hereditary priest- 
hood (Judg. xvii). The frequent invasions and con- 
quests during the period of the Judges must have in- 
terfered (as stated above) with the payment of tithes, 
with the maintenance of worship, with the observance 
of all festivals, and with this the influence of the priest- 
hood must have been kept in the background. If the 
descendants of Aaron, at some unrecorded crisis in the 
history of Israel, rose, under Eli, into the position of na- 
tional defenders, it was only to sink in his sons into the 
lowest depth of sacerdotal corruption. For a time the 
prerogative of the line of Aaron was in abeyance. The 
capture of the ark, the removal of the Tabernacle from 
Shiloh, threw everything into confusion, and Samuel, a 
Levite,but not within the priestly family [see Samuel], 
sacrifices, and “comes near” to the Lord; his training 
under Eli, his Nazaritish life, his prophetic office, being 
regarded apparently as a special consecration (comp. 
Augustine, c. Faust, xii, 83 ; De Civ. Dei, xvii, 4). For 
the priesthood, as for the people generally, the time of 
Samuel must have been one of a great moral reforma- 
tion; while the expansion, if not the foundation, of the 
schools of the prophets at once gave to it the support 
of an independent order, and acted as a check on its 
corruptions and excesses, a perpetual safeguard against 


the development from it of any Egyptian or Brahminic 
caste-svstem (Ewald, Gesck. Isr. ii, 185), standing to it 
in much the same relation as the monastic and mendi- 
cant orders stood, each in its turn, to the secular clergy 
of the Christian Church. Though Shiloh had become 
a deserted sanctuary, Nob (1 Sam. xxi, 1) was made for 
a time the centre of national worship, and the symbolic 
ritual of Israel was thus kept from being forgotten. 
The reverence which the people feel for the priests, and 
which compels Saul to have recourse to one of alien 
blood (Doeg the Edomite') to carry his murderous coun- 
sel into act, shows that there must have been a great 
step upwards since the time when the sons of Eli 
“ made men to abhor the offerings of the Lord” (1 Sam. 
xxii, 17, 18). The reign of Saul was, however, a time 
of suffering for them. lie had manifested a disposition 
to usurp the priest’s office (xiii, 9). The massacre of 
the priests at Nob showed how insecure their lives were 
against any unguarded or savage impulse. (It is to be 
noticed that while the Hebrew text gives eighty-five as 
the number of priests slain, the Sept, increases it to 305, 
Josephus [J fit. vi, 12] to 385.) They could but wait in 
silence for the coming of a deliverer in David. One at 
least among them shared his exile, and, so far as it 
was possible, lived in his priestly character, performing 
priestly acts, among the wild company of Adullam 
(1 Sam. xxiii, 6, 9). Others probably were sheltered 
by their remoteness, or found refuge in Hebron as the 
largest and strongest of the priestly cities. When the 
death of Saul set them free, they came in large numbers 
to the camp of David, prepared apparently not only to 
testify their allegiance, but also to support him, armed 
for battle, against all rivals (l Chron. xii, 27). They 
were summoned from their cities to the great restora- 
tion of the worship of Israel, when the ark was brought 
up to the new capital of the kingdom (xv, 4). For a 
time, however (another proof of the strange confusion 
into which the religious life of the people had fallen), 
the ark was not the chief centre of worship; and while 
the newer ritual of psalms and minstrelsy gathered 
round it under the ministration of the Levites, headed 
by Benaiah and Jahaziel as priests (xvi, 5, 6), the older 
order of sacrifices was carried on by the priests in the 
Tabernacle on the liigh-place at Gibeon (xvi, 37-39; 
xxi, 29; 2 Chron. i, 3). We cannot wonder that first 
David and then Solomon should have sought to guard 
against the evils incidental to this separation of the two 
orders, and to unite in one great temple priests and Le- 
vites, the symbolic worship of sacrifice and the spiritual 
offering of praise. 

The reigns of these two kings were naturally the cul- 
minating period of the glory of the Jewish priesthood. 
They had a king whose heart was with them, and who 
joined in their services dressed as they were (1 Chron. 
xv, 27), while he yet scrupulously abstained from all 
interference with their functions. The name which 
they bore was accepted (whatever explanation may be 
given of the fact) as the highest title of honor that 
could be borne by the king’s sons (2 Sam. viii, 18). 
They occupied high places in the king’s council (I Kings 
iv, 2, 4), and might even take their places, as in the case 
of Benaiah, at the head of his armies (1 Chron. xii, 27 ; 
xxvii, 5), or be recognised, as Zabud the son of Nathan 
was, as the “king’s friends,” the keepers of the king’s 
conscience (1 Kings iv, 5; Ewald, Gesck. iii, 334). 

The. account here given has been based on the belief 
that the books of the Old Test, give a trustworthy state- 
ment of the origin and history of the priesthood of Is- 
rael. Those who question their authority have done 
so, for the most part, on the strength of some precon- 
ceived theory. Such a hierarchy as the Pentateuch 
prescribes is thought impossible in the earlier stages of 
national life, and therefore the reigns of David and Sol- 
omon are looked upon, not as the restoration, but as the 
starting-point of the order (Yon Bohlen, Die Genesis, 
Einl. § 16). It is alleged that there conhl have been 
no tribe like that of Levi, for the consecration of a 


PRIEST 


5S0 


PRIEST 


whole tribe is without a parallel in history (Yatke, Bill. 
Theul. i, 222). Deuteronomy, assumed for once to he 
older than the three books which precede it, represents 
the titles of the priest and Levite as standing on the 
same footing, and the distinction between them is there- 
fore the work of a later period (George, Die iilleren Jiid. 
Feste, p. -15, 51 ; comp, lliihr, Symbolik, bk. ii, ch. i, § 1, 
whence these references are taken). It is hardly nec- 
essary here to do more than state these theories. 

(2.) Middle Period. — The position of the priests under 
the monarchy of Judah deserves a closer examination 
than it has yet received. The system which has been 
described above gave them for every week of serv ice in 
the Temple twenty-three weeks in which they had no 
appointed work. Was it intended that they should be 
idle during this period? Were they actually idle? 
They had no territorial possessions to cultivate. The 
cities assigned to them and to the Lcvitcs gave but 
scanty pasturage to their flocks. To what employment 
could they turn? 1. The more devout and thoughtful 
found, probably, in the schools of the prophets that 
which satisfied them. The history of the Jews presents 
numerous instances of the union of the two offices. See 
Lkvitk. They became teaching-priests (2 Chron. xv, 
3), students, and interpreters of the divine law. From 
such as these, men might be chosen by the more zeal- 
ous kings to instruct the people (xvii, 8), or to admin- 
ister justice (xix, 8). 2. Some, perhaps, as stated above, 
served in the king’s army. We have no ground for 
transferring our modern conceptions of the peacefulness 
of the priestly life to the remote past of the Jewish peo- 
ple. Priests, as vve have seen, were with David at He- 
bron as men of war. They were the trumpeters of Abi- 
jah’s army (xiii, 12). The 'Temple itself was a great 
armory (xxiii, 9). The heroic struggles of the Mac- 
cabees were sustained chiefly by their kindred of the 
same family (2 Macc. vii, 1). 3. A few chosen ones 

might enter more deeply into the divine life, and so re- 
ceive, like Zechariah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, a special call 
to the office of a prophet. 4. We can hardly escape the 
conclusion that many did their work in the Temple of 
Jehovah with a divided allegiance, and acted at other 
times as priests of the high-places (Ewalil, Gesch. iii, 
701). Not only do we read of no protests against the 
sins of the idolatrous kings, except from prophets who 
stood forth, alone and unsupported, to bear their wit- 
ness, but the priests themselves were sharers in the 
worship of llaal (Jer. ii, 8), of the sun and moon, and 
of the host of heaven (viii, 1, 2). In the very Temple 
itself they “ ministered before their idols” (Kzek. xliv, 
12), and allowed others, “ uncircumcised in heart and 
nncireumcised in flesh,” to join them (ibid. 7). They 
ate of unclean things and polluted the Sabbaths. There 
could be no other result of this departure from the true 
idea of the priesthood than a general degradation. 
Those who ceased to be true shepherds of the people 
found nothing in their ritual to sustain or elevate them. 
They became as sensual, covetous, and tyrannical as 
ever the clergy of the Christian Church became in its 
darkest periods; conspicuous as drunkards and adulter- 
ers (Isa. xxviii, 7, 8; h i, 10-12). The prophetic order, 
instead of acting as a check, became sharers in their 
corruption (Jer. v, 31 ; Lam. iv, 13; Zcph. iii, 4). For 
the most part, the few efforts after better things are not 
the result of a spontaneous reformation, but of conform- 
ity to the wishes of a reforming king. In the one in- 
stance in which they do act. spontaneously— their re- 
sistance to the usurpation of the priest’s functions by 
Uzziah— their protest, however right in itself, was yet 
only too compatible with a wrong use of the office 
which they claimed as belonging exclusively to them- 
selves (2 ( ’liron. xxvi, 17). 'The discipline of the Cap- 
tivity, however, was not without its fruits. A large 
proportion of the priests had either perished or were 
content to remain in the land of their exile; but those 
who did return were active in the work of restoration. 
Under Ezra they submitted to the stern duty of re- 


pudiating their heathen wives (Ezra x, 18, ID). Thev 
took part— though here the Levites were the more 
prominent — in the instruction of the people (iii, 2; Neb. 
viii, 9-13). The root-evils, however, soon reappeared. 
The work of the priesthood was made the instrument 
of covetousness. The priests of the time of Malachi re- 
quired payment for every ministerial act, and would not 
even “shut the doors” or “kindle tire” for naught (Mai. 
i, 10). They “corrupted the covenant of Levi” (ii, 8). 
The idea of the priest as the angel, the messenger, of 
the Lord of Hosts was forgotten (ibid. 7 ; comp. Ecclcs. 
v. G). 'The inevitable result was that they again lost 
their intluonce. 'They became “base and contemptible 
before all the people” (Mai. ii, 9). The office of the 
scribe rose in repute as that of the priest declined (Jost, 
Judenth. i, 37, 14«). The sects that multiplied during 
the last three centuries of the national life of Judaism 
were proofs that the established order had failed to do 
its work in maintaining the religions life of the people. 
No great changes affected the outward position of the 
priests under the Persian government. When that 
monarchy fell before the power of Alexander they were 
ready enough to transfer their allegiance. Doth the 
Persian government and Alexander had, however, re- 
spected the religion of their subjects, and the former 
had conferred on the priests immunities from taxation 
(Ezra vi, 8, 9 ; vii, 24 ; Josephus, Ant. xi, 8). The de- 
gree to which this recognition was carried by the im- 
mediate successors of Alexander is shown by the work 
of restoration accomplished by' Simon the son of Onias 
(Ecclus. 1, 12-20); and the position which they thus 
occupied in the eyes of the people, not less than the 
devotion with which his zeal inspired them, prepared 
them doubtless for the great struggle which was coming, 
and in which, under the priestly Maccabees, they were 
the chief defenders of their country’s freedom. Some, 
indeed, at that crisis were found among the apostates. 
Under the guidance of Jason (the heathenized form of 
Joshua) they forsook the customs of their fathers; and 
they' who as priests were to he patterns of a self-re- 
specting purity left their work in the Temple to run 
naked in the circus which the Syrian king had opened 
in Jerusalem (2 Macc. iv, 13, 14). Some, at an earlier 
period, had joined the schismatic Onias in establishing 
a rival worship (Josephus. Ant. xii, 3, 4). 'The major- 
ity', however, were true-hearted; and the Maecabaenn 
struggle which left the government of the country* in 
the hands of their own order, and, until the Homan con- 
quest, with a certain measure of independence, must 
have given to the higher members of the order a posi- 
tion ofsceurityand influence. The martyr-spirit showed 
itself again in the calmness with which they carried on 
the ministrations in the Temple, when Jerusalem was 
besieged by Pompcy, till they' were slain even in the act 
of sacrificing (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 4, 3; I !'«?■, i. 7, 5). 
The reign of Herod, on the other hand, in which the 
high-priesthood was kept in abeyance, or transferred 
from one to another at the will of one who was an alien 
by' birth and half a heathen in character, must have 
tended to depress them. 

(3.) Closing Period. — It will be interesting to bring 
together the few facts that indicate the position of the 
priests in the New-Test, period of their history. 'The 
division into four-and-twenty courses is still maintained 
(Luke i, 5; Josephus. Life, 1), and the heads of these 
courses, together with those who have held the high- 
priesthood (the office no longer lasting for life), are “chief 
priests” (dpxitpfuj) by' courtesy (Carpzov. App. t'rit. p. 
102), and take their place in the Sanhedrim. The num- 
ber scattered throughout Palestine was, as has been stated, 
very large. Of these the greater number were poor and 
ignorant, despised by the more powerful members of 
their own order, not gaining the respect or affection of 
the people. The picture of cowardly selfishness in the 
priest of the parable of Luke x, 31 can hardly be 
thought of as other than a representative one, indi- 
cating the estimate commonly’ and truly formed of the 


PRIEST 


581 


PRIEST 


character of the class. The priestly order, like the na- \ 
tion, was divided between contending sects. The influ- ' 
ence of Hyrcanus, himself in the latter part of his life a 
Sadducee (Josephus, .4?//. xiii, 10, 6), had probably made . 
the tenets of that party popular among the wealthier | 
and more powerful members, and the chief-priests of the 
Gospels and the Acts, the whole dpxttpariKov y'tvoQ 
(Acts iv, 1, 6; v, 17), were apparently consistent Sad- 
clucces, sometimes combining with the Pharisees in the 
Sanhedrim, sometimes thwarted by them, in persecuting ; 
the followers of Jesus because they preached the resur- : 
rection of the dead. The great multitude (oyXof), 011 j 
the other hand, who received that testimony (vi, 7) j 
must have been free from or must have overcome Sad- 
ducean prejudices. It was not strange that those who 
did not welcome the truth which would have raised 
them to a higher life should sink lower and lower into 
an ignorant and ferocious fanaticism. Few stranger 
contrasts meet us in the history of religion than that 
presented in the life of the priesthood in the last half- 
century of the Temple — now going through the solemn 
sacrificial rites and joining in the noblest hymns, now 
raising a fierce clamor at anything which seemed to 
them a profanation of the sanctuary, and rushing to 
dash out the brains of the bold or incautious intruder, 
or of one of their own order who might enter while 
under some ceremonial defilement, or with a half-hu- 
morous cruelty setting fire to the clothes of the Levites 
who were found sleeping when they ought to have been 
watching at their posts (Liglitfoot, Temple Service , ch. i). 
The rivalry which led the Levites to claim privileges 
which had hitherto belonged to the priests has already 
been noticed. See Levite. In the scenes of the last 
tragedy of Jewish history the order passes away, with- 
out honor, “dying as a fool dieth.” The high-priest- 
hood is given to the lowest and vilest of the adherents 
of the frenzied Zealots (Josephus, War, iv, 3, G). Other 
priests appear as deserting to the enemy {ibid, vi, 6, 1). 
It is from a priest that Titus receives the lamps, and 
gems, and costly raiment of the sanctuary (ibid, vi, 8, 3). 
Priests report to their conquerors the terrible utterance 
“Let us depart” on the last Pentecost ever celebrated in 
the Temple (ibid, vi, 5, 3). It is a priest who fills up 
the degradation of his order by dwelling on the fall of 
his country with a cold-blooded satisfaction, and finding 
in Titus the fulfilment of the Messianic prophecies of 
the Old Test. (ibid, vi, 5, 4). The destruction of Jerusa- 
lem deprived the order at one blow of all but an honor- 
ary distinction. Their occupation was gone. Many 
families must have altogether lost their genealogies. 
Those who still prided themselves on their descent were 
no longer safe against the claims of pretenders. The 
jealousies of the lettered class, which had been kept 
under some restraint as long as the Temple stood, now 
had full play, and the influence of the rabbins increased 
with the fall of the priesthood. The position of the 
priests in mediaeval aiul modern Judaism has never risen 
above that of complimentary recognition. Those who 
claim to take their place among the sons of Aaron are 
entitled to receive the redemption-money of the first- 
born, to take the law from its chest, and to pronounce 
the benediction in the synagogues (Ugolino, xii, 48). 

IV. Relation of the Jewish Priesthood to the Christian 
Ministry. — The language of the New-Test. writers in 
relation to the priesthood ought not to be passed over. 
They recognise in Christ the first-born, the king, the 
Anointed, the representative of the true primeval priest- 
hood after the order of Melchizedek (Heb. vii, viii), 
from which that of Aaron, however necessary for the 
time, is now seen to have been a deflection. But there 
is no trace of an order in the new Christian society 
bearing the name and exercising functions like those 
of the priests of the older Covenant. The synagogue, 
and not the Temple, furnishes the pattern for the or- 
ganization of the Church. The idea which pervades 
the teaching of the Epistles is that of a universal priest- j 
hood. All true believers are made kings and priests I 


(Rev. i, 6 ; 1 Pet. ii, 9), offer spiritual sacrifices (Rom. 
xii, 1), may draw near , may enter into the holiest (Heb. 
x, 19-22), as having received a true priestly consecra- 
tion. They, too, have been washed and sprinkled as 
the sons of Aaron were (x, 22). It was the thought of 
a succeeding age that the old classification of the high- 
priest, priests, and Levites was reproduced in the bish- 
ops, priests, and deacons of the Christian Church. The 
history of language presents few stranger facts than 
those connected with these words. Priest, our only 
equivalent for lepei’G, comes to us from the word which 
was chosen because it excluded the idea of a sacerdotal 
character. Bishop has narrowly escaped a like perver- 
sion, occurring as it does constantly in Wiclifs ver- 
sion as the translation of ctpxitptt’G (e. g. John xviii, 
15; Heb. viii, 1). The idea which was thus expressed 
rested, it is true, on the broad analogy of a threefold 
gradation, and the terms “priest,” “altar,” “sacrifice,” 
might be used without involving more than a legiti- 
mate symbolism ; but they brought with them the in- 
evitable danger of reproducing and perpetuating in the 
history of the Christian Church many of the feelings 
which belonged to Judaism, and ought to have been 
left behind with it. If the evil has not proved so fatal 
to the life of Christendom as it might have done, it is 
because no bishop or pope, however much he might 
exaggerate the harmony of the two systems, has ever 
dreamed of making the Christian priesthood hereditary. 
We have perhaps reason to be thankful that two errors 
tend to neutralize each other, and that the age which 
witnessed the most extravagant sacerdotalism was one 
in which the celibacy of the clergy was first exalted, 
then urged, and at last enforced. 

V. Literature. — For the similarity in the religion of 
ancient Greece, see Potter, Archceoloyia (Loud. 1775), 
i, 202; of ancient Rome, Adam, Antiquities (Edinb. 
1791), p. 293, § Ministri Sacrorum. For the resem- 
blances between the religious customs of the ancient 
Egyptians and those of the Jews, we refer especially to 
Kitto, Pictorial History of Palestine (Lond. 1844). On 
the Hebrew priesthood in general, see Kilper, Das 
Priesterthum des Alten Bundes (Berl. 1865). For par- 
ticular topics, see lviesling, De Leyibus Mos. circa Sa- 
cerd. Vitio Corporis laborantes; lvall, De Morbis Sa~ 
cerdot. V. T. ex Ministerii eor. Conditione oriuudis (Hafn. 
1745) ; Jablonskii Pantheon, Proleg. § 29, 41, 43 ; Munch, 
De Matrimonio Sacerd. V. T. cum Filiab. Sacer. (No- 
rimb. 1747) ; Kohl, De JEtute, etc. (Lips. 1735) ; Rechen- 
berg, id. (ibid. 1760); Sticbritz, De Sacerdotum Titiis 
Corpore (Ilal. 1742) ; Curtiss, The Levitical Priests 
(Lond. 1877). For the theology of the subject, see Dr. 
J. P. Smith, Discourses on the Sacrifice and Priesthood 
of Christ (Lond. 1842); Jardine, Christian Sacerdotal- 
ism (ibid. 1871). See also the works cited by Danz, 
Worterbuck, s. v. Priester ; Darling, Cyclopaedia Bibli- 
ographica, vol. i, col. 1812. 

PRIEST is a contraction of the word presbyter (Greek 
TrptofivTtpoQ), and is derived probably from the old 
French or Norman prestre. It was in the Saxon, first 
preost, later prest. The German and Dutch words 
are priester; the modern French, pretre; the Italian, 
prete; but the Spanish is most, like the original form — 
it is presbitero. In its most general signification, the 
word is the title of a minister of public worship, but is 
specially applied to the minister of sacrifice or other 
mediatorial offices. In the early history of mankind, 
the functions of the priest seem to have commonly been 
discharged by the head of each family ; but, on the ex- 
pansion of the family into the state, the office of priest 
became a public one, which absorbed the duties as well 
as the privileges which before belonged to the heads of 
the separate families or communities. It thus came to 
pass that in many instances the priestly office was asso- 
ciated with that of the sovereign, whatever might be 
the particular form of sovereignty. But in many re- 
ligious and political bodies, also, the orders were main- 
tained in cofrtplete independence, and the priests formed 


PRIEST 


582 


PRIEST 


a distinct, and, generally speaking, a privileged class. 
See Egvut; Hinduism. The priestly order, in most 
of the ancient religions, included a graduated hierarchy; 
and to the chief, whatever was his title, were assigned 
the most solemn of the religious offices intrusted to the 
body. Compare the prccc ling article. 

In the Christian Church the word has been used in 
place of the two (Ireek words (1) irpetr^vrepog, which 
really signifies an elder, and (2) hpevc, which corre- 
sponds to the Latin sacevdos, i. e. one who offers sacri- 
fice-words which are exceedingly dissimilar in mean- 
ing, but, used in this indiscriminate manner, convey a 
false idea as to the respective offices of priest and 
preacher. The Christian preacher or minister answers 
rather to the ancient prophet than to the Old-Testament 
priest. As iipivq means one who offers sacrifices, ami 
as sacrifices have been abolished since the offering of 
the one perfect and all-sufficient Sacrifice, it follows 
that, in the strict and official sense, there are no “sacri- 
ficers” under the Ncw-Testament or Christian dispensa- 
tion. If, therefore, the claims of the ministers of the 
Church are made to rest upon a precise analogy to those 
founded upon the priestly functions of an abrogated dis- 
pensation, it surely becomes the advocates of such claims 
to prove from the Christian Institute that the conceived 
analogy exists. But where is the proof? There is not 
a single passage in “the book” of apostles and evangel- 
ists to support the assumption. Nowhere are the min- 
isters of the (Jospel represented as “sacrifices no- 
where is provision made for such a succession, as in any 
respect similar to the Levitical, and still less the Aaron- 
ical priesthood. To the prophets, and rulers of the 
synagogues, it is admitted that there are allusions de- 
scriptive of ministerial duties; for the work of instruc- 
tion was the appropriate business of these ecclesiastical 
functionaries, and not performing the services of a pre- 
scribed ritual. But sacerdotal dignities are nowhere 
ascribed to Christian presbyters. 

The priesthood, as a religious order, perished with 
Judaism. The priesthood was the shadow, and disap- 
peared when the substance came. As a mediator, Je- 
sus Christ is the only priest; as a servant of Cod, whose 
duty it is to consecrate his full time and energies and 
thoughts to the divine service, every Christian is a 
“priest unto Cod.” The New Testament, therefore, 
contains no hint of any priest, nor of any officer answer- 
ing to a priest, in the early Church ; and, on the con- 
trary, contains many passages which teach more or less 
directly and distinctly that the priesthood of the class 
is merged in the priestly character of Jesus Christ and 
that of the whole discipleship (comp. llcb. ii, 17 ; iii, 1 : 
iv, 14; v, 5-10; vii, 27, 28; x, II, 12; liev. v. 10). It 
is very clear that the apostles, when they so plainly as- 
sert the abolition of sacrifices since the offering of the 
one perfect and all-sufficient Sacrifice, could never intend 
to institute such an office as a sacrificim/ priest. When 
they use the term, they apply it to Christ alone. The 
office of a Christian pastor is not to atone, but to preach 
the atonement. In Rom. xv, 16 the application of the 
term by the apostle Raul is figurative. The modern 
minister answers rather to the ancient prophet than to 
the ancient priest. At least this is the universal opin- 
ion of nearly all Protestant Christendom, though some 
relies of the old priestly idea of a special sacerdotal or- 
der, with peculiar privileges and prerogatives, and pos- 
sessing peculiar holiness, still linger in the Church. 

The advocates of hierarchical claims, whether Rom- 
ish, Creek, or Protestant Christians, assume that min- 
isters are entitled to he regarded as succeeding to the 
same relation to the Church with that which was sus- 
tained by the priesthood under the Jewish economy. 
Hence the terms and offices peculiar to the ancient 
priests are conceived to be. analogous to the functions 
and designations of the Christian ministry. On this 
assumption, it is contended that the duties performed 
and the authority exercised under the direct sanction 
of the Most High are now transferred to those who are 


duly qualified, by a certain order of succession, to dis- 
charge the offices of the ministry under the present dis- 
pensation. In the grades of the hierarchy the priest- 
hood is second in order only to that of bishop. Bishops 
and priests possess the same priestly authority, but the 
bishop has the power of transmitting it to others, which 
an ordinary priest cannot do. The priest is regarded as 
the ordinary minister of the Eucharist, whether as a 
sacrament or as a sacrifice; of baptism, penance, and 
extreme unction; and although the contracting parties 
are held in the modern schools to be themselves the 
ministers of marriage, the priest is regarded by all 
schools of Roman divines as at least the normal and 
official witness of its celebration. The priest is also 
officially charged with the instruction of the people and 
| the direction of their spiritual concerns, and, by long- 
j established use, special districts, called parishes (q. v.), 

' are assigned to priests, within which they arc intrusted 
1 with the care and supervision of the spiritual wants of 
I all the inhabitants. The holy order of priesthood can 
I only be conferred by a bishop, and he is ordinarily as- 
sisted by two or more priests, who, in common with the 
' bishop, impose hands on the candidate. The rest of 
the ceremonial of ordination consists in investing the 
candidate with the sacred instruments and ornaments 
of his order, anointing his hands, and reciting certain 
prayers significant of the gifts and the duties of the of- 
fice. Dens defines the priesthood as “a sacred order and 
i sacrament, in which power is conferred of consecrating 
, the body of Christ, of remitting sins, and of adminis- 
I tcring certain other sacraments.” Accordingly, at the 
consecration of a priest, after unction and prayer, the 
chalice, with wine and water, and the paten upon it 
with the host, are given to him, with these awful words, 
“ Receive power to offer the sacrifice of Hod, and to cel- 
ebrate mass for the living and the dead.” Moreover, 
he receives formally the power to forgive sins. The 
distinguishing vestment of the priest is the chasuble 
(Lat. planeta). In Roman Catholic countries, priests 
wear even in public a distinctive dress. 



In some portions of the Episcopal Church the idea is 
maintained that the modern clergyman is the succes- 
sor of the ancient priest, because this term is used in the 


PRIESTLEY 


583 


PRIESTLEY 


Prayer-book to designate the clerical office. Says Fluy- 
der: “The Greek and Latin words which we translate 
* priest ’ are derived from words that signify holy ; and 
so the word priest, according to the etymology, signi- 
fies him whose mere charge and function are about holy 
things, and therefore seems to be a most proper word 
to him who is set apart to the holy public service and 
worship of God, especially when he is in the actual 
ministration of holy things. If it be objected that, ac- 
cording to the usual acceptation of the word, it signifies 
him that offers up a sacrifice , and therefore cannot be 
allowed to a minister of the Gospel, who hath no sacri- 
fice to offer, it is answered that the ministers of the 
Gospel have sacrifices to offer (1 Pet. ii, 5): ‘Ye are 
built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer 
up spiritual sacrifices of prayer, praises, thanksgiving,’ 
etc. In respect of these, the ministers of the Gospel 
may safely, in a metaphorical sense.be called priests; 
and in a more eminent manner than other Christians, 
because they are taken from among men to offer up 
these sacrifices for others. But besides these spiritual 
sacrifices mentioned, the ministers of the Gospel have 
another sacrifice to offer, viz. the unbloody sacrifice, as 
it was anciently called, the commemorative sacrifice of 
the blood of Christ, which does as really and truly show 
forth the death of Christ as those sacrifices under the 
law did ; and in respect of this sacrifice of the Eucharist, 
the ancients have usually called those that offer it up 
priests.” See Killen, Ancient Church, p. 644; Marten- 
sen, Dogmatics; Fairbairn, Typology; Calvin, Insti- 
tutes; Coleman, Manual on Prelacy and Ritualism, p. 
167 sq. ; Stratten, Book of the Priesthood; Howitt, On 
Priestcraft; Dwight, Theology; Schaff, Hist, of the 
A post. Church; Elliott, Delineation of Romanism (see 
Index); Sumner, Principles at Stake (Loud. 1868, 8vo), 
ch. ii i ; Christian Quar. April, 1873, art. iv ; Meth. Quar. 
Rev. .July, 1873, art. ii; Studien n. Kritiken, 1862, No. 1 ; 
Bapt. Quar. Oct. 1870; Christian Monthly, Feb. 1865, 
p. 188. See Bishop; Clergy; Preacher. (J. II. W.) 

Priestley, Joseph, LL.D., one of the most noted 
of the English deists of the 18th century, and a scientist 
of great celebrity, was born of humble but honorable 
parentage at Fieldhead, March 13, 1733, old style. His 
mother dying when he was six years of age, he was 
adopted by a paternal aunt, Mrs. Keighley, by whom he 
was sent to a free grammar-school in the neighborhood, 
where he was taught the Latin language and the ele- 
ments of the Greek. His vacations were devoted to the 
study of Hebrew under a dissenting minister ; and when 
he had acquired some proficiency in this language he 
commenced and made considerable progress in the Chal- 
dee, Syriac, and Arabic. 111-health, however, led him to 
abandon for a while his classical studies, and he gave 
himself to mercantile pursuits. Though obliged to leave 
school, he yet continued his studies. Without the aid 
of a master, he acquired some knowledge of French, 
Italian, and German. At the age of nineteen (1752) he 
resumed work as a theological student in the dissenting 
academy at Daventry. His parents, who were both 
of the Calvinistic persuasion, as well as his aunt, had 
omitted no opportunity of inculcating the importance 
of the Calvinistic doctrine. At the academj' he found 
both the professors and students greatly agitated upon 
most theological questions W'hich were deemed of much 
importance, such as liberty and necessity, the sleep of 
the soul, etc., and kindred articles of orthodoxy and her- 
esy. These were the topics of animated and frequent 
discussion. The spirit of controversy thus excited was 
in some measure fostered by the plan for regulating their 
studies, drawn up by Dr. Doddridge. It specified cer- 
tain works on both sides of every question which the 
students were required to peruse and form an abridg- 
ment of for their future use. Before the lapse of many 
months Priestley conceived himself called upon to re- 
nounce the greater number of the theological and meta- 
physical opinions which he had imbibed in early youth, 
and thus, he himself observes, “I came to embrace what 


is generally called the heterodox side of the question; 

. . . but notwithstanding the great freedom of our de- 
bates, the extreme of heresy among us was Arianism, and 
all of us, 1 believe, left the academy with a belief, more 
or less qualified, of the doctrine of the Atonement.” His 
waywardness did not interfere with his graduation, and 
iu 1755 he became assistant minister to an Independent 
congregation at Needham-Market, in Suffolk. Here he 
made himself unpopular by renouncing the doctrine of 
the Atonement, and in three years left, in rather bad 
repute because of his heresy. He found a temporary 
engagement at Nantwich, in Cheshire, but was again 
unpopular, and next engaged in teaching with some 
success, and was finally chosen professor of belles-lettres 
in Warrington Academy. During the ten years fol- 
lowing he produced half a dozen thoughtful works on 
widely varying subjects — works which of themselves 
would have given him enduring fame. He busied him- 
self in politics, too, and became known as a vigorous 
lecturer. He was still poor, but by dint of strict econ- 
omy lie had secured an air-pump and an electrical ma- 
chine, and had already begun his scientific researches. 

While at Needham he composed his work entitled 
The Scripture Doctrine of Remission, which shows that 
the Death of Christ is no proper Sacrifice nor Satisfac- 
tion for Sin ; but that Pardon is dispensed solely on ac- 
count of a Personal Repentance of the Sinner. It was 
published in 1761. He seems to have rejected all the- 
ological dogmas which appeared to him to rest solely 
upon the interpretation put upon certain passages of the 
Bible by ecclesiastical authority. It does not, however, 
appear that these doctrinal errors produced any morally 
evil results. A visit to the metropolis was the occasion 
of his introduction to our own celebrated countryman, 
Dr. Franklin, Dr. Price, and others. To the first of 
these he communicated his idea of writing a historical 
account of electrical discoveries, if provided with the 
requisite books. These Dr. Franklin undertook to pro- 
cure, and before the end of the year in which Priestley 
submitted to him the plan of the work he sent him a 
copy of it in print, though five hours of every day had 
been occupied in public or private teaching, besides 
which he had kept up an active philosophical corre- 
spondence. The title of this work is The History and 
Present State of Electricity, iciih Original Experiments 
(1767; 3d ed. 1775). By his devotion to learning and 
his persistent scrutiny of nature, Priestley now unrav- 
elled many a tangled web of science, and it was his to 
make the most valuable discovery in science of the last 
century; but as he drew nearer natural truth, he be- 
came more and more, though perhaps unconsciously, es- 
tranged from revealed truth, and by a hot temper and 
hasty utterances alienated his best friends. A disagree- 
ment between the trustees and professors of the academy 
led to his relinquishing the appointment at Warrington 
in 1767. His next engagement was with a large congre- 
gation at Mill-Hill Chapel, Leeds, where his theological 
inquiries were resumed, and several works of the kind 
composed, chiefly of a controversial character. The 
vicinity of his dwelling to a public brewery was the 
occasion of his attention being directed to pneumatic 
chemistry, the consideration of which he commenced in 
1768, and subsequently prosecuted with great success. 
His first publication on this subject was a pamphlet on 
Impregnating Water with Fixed A ir (1772); the same 
year he communicated to the Royal Society his Obser- 
vations on Different Kinds of Air, to which the Copley 
medal was awarded in 1773. He originated other modes 
of investigation now pursued, and, indeed, nearly all 
that is known of the gases has its foundation in the dis- 
coveries he made. He discovered oxygen gas, nitrous 
gas, nitrous-oxide gas, nitrous vapor, carbonic -oxide 
gas, sulphurous-oxide gas, fluoric-acid gas, muriatic gas, 
and ammoniaeal gas. The discovery of oxygen alone 
rivalled in importance the great discovery of gravita- 
tion by Newton in the preceding century. The pneu- 
matic trough, a vessel by means of which chemists col- 


PRIESTLEY 


584 


PRIESTLEY 


Icct gas, was also in good part invented by Priestley. 
He experimented untiringly, and gave to the world a 
detailed account of almost every observation be made. 
For a time be was the idol of men of science. All Eu- 
rope did him honor. At the height of his reputation he 
became companion to the earl of .Shelburne, with whom 
he travelled extensively on the Continent, lie remained 
with t hat nobleman seven years, at the end of which, in 
1789, receiving a pension, he settled in Birmingham, 
where he proceeded actively with his philosophical and 
theological researches, and was also appointed pastor to 
a dissenting congregation. Having been told by cer- 
tain Parisian savans that he was the only man they 
had ever known, of any understanding, who believed in 
Christianity, he wrote, in reply, the Letters to a Philo- 
sophical Unbeliever (1780). and various other works con- 
taining criticisms on the doctrines of Hume and others. 

Ilis public position was now rather a hard one; for 
while laughed at in Paris as a believer, at home he was 
branded as an atheist. To escape the odium arising 
from the latter imputation, he published his Disquisi- 
tion relating to Matter and Spirit. In this work, while 
he partly materializes spirit, he at the same time partly 
spiritualizes matter. He holds, however, that our hopes 
of resurrection must rest solely on the truth of the Chris- 
tian revelation, and that scientifically they have no 
demonstration whatever. The doctrines of a Revelat ion 
and a Besurrection appear with him to have supported 
one another. Be believed in a Revelation, because it 
declared a Resurrection; and he believed in a Resur- 
rection, because he found it declared in the Revelation. 
Yet in his Introductory Dissertation to Hartley's Obser- 
vations on Man he expressed doubts again concerning 
the immateriality of the sentient principle in man ; and 
in the Doctrine of Xecessity — another elucidation of 
Hartley (q. v.) — published about the same time, largely 
denied the Christian doctrine of Revelation. But among 
the many points of Church dogma called in question or 
altogether repudiated, Dr. Priestley thus far had not 
openly touched the. doctrine of the Trinity. In 1782 he 
published his History of the Corruptions of Christianity 
(2 vols. 8vo). A refutation of the arguments contained 
in this work was proposed for one of the Hague prize 
essays; and in 1785 the work itself was burned by the 
common hangman in the city of Dort. Next came a 
History of Early Opinions concerning Jesus Christ (1780, 
4 vols. 8vo), but it failed to make any impression in the 
literary or theological world. Ilis previous writings, 
however, gave rise to a lively literary warfare between 
Priestley and Dr. Horsley, 'flic principal subjects dis- 
cussed were the doctrines of Free Will. Materialism, and 
1 ’ nitarianism. The victory in this controversy will prob- 
ably be awarded by most men in accordance with their 
own preconceived views on the questions at issue. In 
a letter to Dr. Price, dated Jan. 27, 1791, Priestley says ; 
‘■With respect to the Church, with which yon have med- 
dled but little, I have long since drawn the sword and 
thrown away the scabbard, and am very easy about the 
consequences.” While it was a source of wonder to the 
savans of the Continent that such a man could believe in 
a Cod at all. his want of belief shocked the better class 
of his countrymen, who, although at the time sadly lax 
in morals, were scrupulous in their adherence to ortho- 
doxy. But, he did not coniine himself to dealing with 
churchmen: his object was to obtain for the dissenters 
what he considered to be their rights, and in the pur- 
suit of which he published about twenty volumes, lie 
attacked certain positions relating to the dissenters in 
Blaekst one's Commentaries with a vigor and acrimony 
which seems to have surprised his adversary. At the 
same time he was avowedly partial to the French Revo- 
lution, and as he was a man of strong speech and sting- 
ing pen, he soon excited the hatred of the High-Church 
and Tory party. The agitation of the populace had 
already found vent iu riots, ami in the month of July 
Dr. Priestley’s house, library, manuscripts, .and costly 
apparatus were committed to the tlames by an angry 


mob. Ilis papers, torn in scraps, carpeted the roads 
around his desolated home, and he was exposed to great 
personal danger. He quitted Birmingham for Hack- 
ney, where he became the successor of his decease d friend 
Dr. Price (q. v.), and so far as money could restore what 
he had lost, it was liberally given. But his sentiments 
were unchanged, and he was none the less outspoken 
because of misuse; and at last, conceiving himself to be 
insecure against popular rage, he embarked for America. 

In the United States he was received with enthu- 
siasm as a martyr to republican principles. 11c was 
offered a professor’s chair in Philadelphia, which, how- 
ever. he declined— lor, notwithstanding his unparalleled 
attainments, he modestly felt the want of an early sys- 
tematic training in the sciences — and. retiring to Nor- 
thumberland, he was soon again absorbed in his studies. 
But even here before long he was in the midst of bitter 
controversy. lie had contemplated no difficulty in form- 
ing a Unitarian congregation in America; but in this he 
was greatly disappointed, lie found that the majority 
disregarded religion, and those who paid any attention 
to it were more afraid of his doctrines than desirous of 
hearing them. By the American government, the for- 
mer democratic spirit of which had subsided, he was 
looked upon as a spy in the interest of France. The 
democracy he espoused was unpalatably French, the in- 
consistency of his religious doctrines laid him open to 
ridicule, and, as he could not long remain silent, a host 
of critics was soon arrayed against him. Ilis later 
writings were mostly in defence of bis doctrines and 
discoveries, and his experiments in America did not 
prove as successful as those of his earlier years. To the 
day of his death he continued to pursue his literary and 
scientific pursuits with as much ardor as he had shown 
at any period of his active life. He died Feb. G, 1804, 
expressing the satisfaction he derived from the con- 
sciousness of having led a useful life and the confidence 
. he felt in a future state in a happy immortality. When 
| his death became known in Paris, his eloge was read by 
i Cuvier before the National Institute. 

' Priestley has given us his autobiography down to 
March 24, 1795. 1 le was a man of irreproachable moral 
and domestic character, remarkable for zeal, for truth, 
patience, and in bis maturcr years for serenity of tem- 
per. lie appears to have been fearless in proclaim- 
ing his convictions, whether theological, political, or 
scientific. Few men in modern times have written so 
much, or with such facility; yet he seldom spent more 
than six or eight hours a day in any labor which re- 
quired much mental exertion. A habit of regularity ex- 
tended itself to all his studies, lie never read a book 
without determining in his own mind when he woidd 
finish it ; and at the beginning of every year he arranged 
the plan of his literary pursuits and scientific researches, 
lie labored under a great defect, which, however, was 
not a very considerable impediment to his progress. 1 le 
sometimes lost all ideas both of persons and things with 
which he had been conversant, lie always did imme- 
diately what he bad to perform. Though he rose early 
and despatched his more serious pursuits in the morn- 
ing, yet he was as well qualified for mental exertion at 
one time of the day as at another. All seasons were 
| equal to him, early or late, before dinner or after, lie 
I could also write without inconvenience by the parlor 
i fire, with his wife and children about him. and occasion- 
ally talking to them. In his family he ever maintained 
J the worship of (Jod. See the Memoirs, continued by 
his son, with observations by T. Cooper; also Life by 
John Corrv (1805); and by Rutt (1832). 

Rarely has a man been more variously estimated than 
Priestley. In Hlachrood (1835) he was characterized 
as “a shallow scludar.au empirical philosopher — who 
stumbled on his discoveries and lacked the logical ca- 
pacity to usefully apply them— a malcontent politician, 
and a heretical religionist.” Dr. Parr, on the contrary, 
speaks of Priestley’s attainments as numerous without 


a parallel, his talents os superlatively great, and his 


PRIESTLEY 


5S5 


PRIESTLEY 


morals as correct without austerity and exemplary 
without ostentation. These estimates are certainly 
diverse, but possibly they are equally near the truth. 
Priestley was much more of an experimentalist than a 
philosopher. In religion as well as in science he sought 
novelties. Facts, and facts only, could satisfy him. liut 
his caprice was as noticeable as his positiveness, and 
his logical inconsistencies were gross. A queer instance 
of this is found in his adherence to the theory of “phlo- 
giston”— the supposed principle of inflammability, or 
the matter of tire in composition with other bodies — 
the absurdity of which was shown by his own discovery 
of oxygen. In theology, as we have seen, while main- 
taining the immortality of the soul, he denied its im- 
materiality. He was never widely trusted as a religious 
leader; although, because of his ability and unimpeach- 
able morality, and his eminence in science, his pulpit 
services were eagerly sought. His fame rests princi- 
pally on his pneumatic inquiries. But he was encyclo- 
pedic in the range of his writings, which extend to 
between seventy and eighty volumes. Among them 
are works on general and ecclesiastical history and bi- 
ography, on language, on oratory and criticism, on relig- 
ion and metaphysics. Although many of his opinions 
were fanciful and manifestly erroneous, there was hardly 
a subject touched by his pen that was not the brighter 
and shapelier because of his genius. It is not now, 
however, for the first time remarked that the minds 
best fitted for prosecuting the labors of experimental 
philosophy are by no means those from which we expect I 
light to be cast into the more obscure region of meta- 
physical analysis. “ Priestley’s mind was objective to an 
extreme; he could fix his faith upon nothing which • 
had not the evidence of sense in some way or other im- 
pressed upon it. Science, morals, politics, philosophy, 
religion, all came to him under the type of the sensa- 
tional. The most spiritual ideas were obliged to be | 
cast into a material mould before they could commend 
themselves to his judgment or conscience. His intellect 
was rapid to an extraordinary degree; he saw the bear- 
ings of a question according to its principles at a glance, 
and embodied his thoughts in volumes, while many 
other men would hardly have sketched out their plan. 
All this, though admirable in the man of action, was not 
the temperament to form the solid metaphysician; nay, 
it was precisely opposed to that deep, reflective habit, 
that sinking into one’s own inmost consciousness, from 
which alone speculative philosophy can obtain light and 
advancement.” As a man of science, he has left his mark 
upon the intellectual history of the century: but besides 
being a man of science, he aimed at being a metaphysi- 
cian, a theologian, a politician, a classical scholar, and 
a historian. With an amazing intrepidity he plunged 
into tasks the effective performance of which would 
have demanded the labors of a lifetime. With the 
charge of thirty youths on his hands, he proposes to 
write an ecclesiastical history, and soon afterwards ob- 
serves that a fresh translation of the Old Test, would 
“not be a very formidable task” (Rutt, Life, 1, 42). He 
carried on all manner of controversies upon their own 
ground with Horsley and Badcock,\vith his friend Price, 
with Beattie and the Scotch philosophers, with Gibbon 
and the sceptics, and yet often labored for hours a day 
at his chemical experiments. So discursive a thinker 
could hardly do much thorough work, nor really work 
out or co-ordinate his own opinions. It would be in 
vain, therefore, to anticipate any great force or original- 
ity in Priestley’s speculations. At best he was a quick 
reflector of the current opinions of his time and class, 
and able to run up hasty theories of sufficient apparent 
stability to afford a temporary refuge amid the storm 
of conflicting elements. With such tendencies of mind, 
therefore, and living in an age the whole bearing of which 
was away from the ideal to the sensational, it is not 
surprising that Priestley entered with energy into those 
principles of Hartley from which he hoped to reduce 
all mental science to a branch of physical investigation. 


[ The metaphysical position he assumed may be fully 
seen in his Examination of Reid, Beattie, and Oswald: 
in fact, it is summed up in one extraordinary sentence, 
where he affirms that “ something has been done in the 
field of knowledge by Descartes, very much by 31 r. 
Locke, but most of all by Hartley, who has thrown 
I more useful light upon the theory of the mind than 
j Newton did upon the theory of the natural world.” 

I Priestley rested the truth of materialism upon two de- 
| ductions. The first was that thought and sensation are 
essentially the same thing — that the whole variety of 
our ideas, however abstract and refined they may be- 
come, are, nevertheless, but modifications of the sensa- 
tional faculty. This doctrine had been more fully main- 
tained in France by Condillac, and is a crude anticipa- 
tion of the positive view. The second deduction was 
that all sensation, and, consequently, all thought, arises 
from the affections of our material organization, and, 
therefore, consists entirely in the motion of the material 
particles of which the nerves and brain are composed. 
It is but justice, however, here to add that Priestley did 
not push his materialism so far as to evolve any conclu- 
sions contrary to the fundamental principles of man’s 
natural religion, or to invalidate the evidence of a future 
state; for in the full conviction of these truths he both 
lived and died. And instead of distinctly inferring with* 1 
modern positivists that we can show nothing of the ul- 
timate nature either of mind or body, Priestley adopted 
the view that the soul is itself material. According to 
his quaint illustration, it resembles a razor. The power 
of thought inheres in it as the power of cutting in the 
razor. The razor dissolved in acids is annihilated ; and, 
the body destroyed by putrefaction, the power of think- 
ing ceases. But the particles remain in each case; and 
the soul, like the razor, may again be put together (Price 
and Priestley On Materialism, p. 82). Tbe advantage 
of this doctrine, according to Priestley, was that it con- 
firmed bishop Law’s theory of the seat of the soul. The 
soul being, in fact, a piece of mechanism, is taken to 
pieces at death, and though it may afterwards be put 
together again by divine power, there is no ground for 
the superstitions embodied in the doctrine of purgatory. 
Moreover, it strikingly confirms the Socinian doctrine 
by removing all pretext for a belief in the pre-existence 
of Christ. To sum up, then, the precise influence of 
Priestley upon the progress of sensationalism in a few 
words, we may say that he succeeded in cutting the last 
tie which had held Hartley to the poor remains of spir- 
itualism; that he reduced the whole phenomena of 
mind to organic processes— the mind itself to a material 
organization, and mental philosophy to a physical sci- 
ence. The whole existing order of things being an 
elaborate piece of mechanism, we infer the Almighty 
mechanist by the familiar watch argument {Disquisi- 
tions, i, 187). Indeed, the Deity himself becomes almost 
phenomenal, and Priestley has considerable trouble in 
saving him from materiality. He denies that a belief 
in his immateriality would increase our reverence for 
him (ibid, i, 185), and declares that he must be in some 
sense extended, and have some common property with 
the matter upon which he acts. It would seem, indeed, 
that God is rather matter of a different kind from the 
ordinary than in any strict sense immaterial. 

Priestley’s History of the Corruptions of Christianity 
led to the most exciting controversy in the latter half 
of the 18th century. His position may be easily de- 
fined. He writes as a Protestant, and, charging the 
papacy with corrupting tendencies, he pushes one step 
farther the arguments already familiar in the great 
controversy of the Protestant world of Christianity with 
Rome. He is by no means original in his position. 

I Zwicker and Episcopius had anticipated his main the- 
j ory. There is but a question of degree between Priest- 
ley and other Protestant writers upon the early ages of 
Christianity. He endeavors to draw the limits of the 
supernatural still more closeh r than his predecessors. 

| All Protestants admitted that at some early period 


PRIESTLEY 


5SG 


PRILESZKY 


Christianity has been corrupted. Priestley includes 
among the corruptions the Trinitarian doctrines, which, 
as he argues, showed themselves, though in a compara- 
tively undeveloped state, among the earliest of the post- 
apostolic writers, lie continues the attack upon the 
authority of the Church fathers, as begun by Daille, 
and which had then been recently carried on by Mid- 
dleton and Jortin. lie makes Christ a mere man, and 
places the writers of the New Test, on the same level 
with Thucydides or Tacitus, while he still believes in 
the miracles, and quotes texts after the old unhistorical 
fashion, lie is compelled, moreover, to accept the Prot- 
estant theory that there was in the earliest ages a body 
of absolutely sound doctrine, though, in the effort to 
identify this with Unitarianism he is driven to great 
straits, and forced to discover it in obscure sects, and to , 
make inferences from the negative argument of silence 
rather than from positive assertions. Though he makes 
free with the reasoning of the apostles, he cannot give 
up their authority ; and, accepting without question the 
authenticity of the Gospels, labors to interpret them in 
the Unitarian sense. He did not see that the real dif- 
ficulty is the admission of supernatural agency, and that 
to call a miracle a very little one is only to encounter 
the whole weight of rationalistic and of orthodox hostil- 
ity. llis aim, as he explains in his Preface, is to show 
“what circumstances in the state of things” (notice this 
slipshod style), “ and especially of other prevailing opin- 
ions and prejudices,” favored the introduction of new 
doctrines, lie hopes that this “historical method will 
he found to he one of the most satisfactory modes of ar- 
gument at ion” ( Corruptions, vol. i, Preface, p. xiv). 

Priestley asserts that corruptions appeared, hut in 
practice seems to attribute them to perverse chances 
rather than to the influence of contemporary opinion, 
which he professes to trace. Thus in discussing theories 
of grace, he says, “It is not easy to imagine a priori 
what could have led men into such a train of thinking” 
(ibid, i, 281). as is exhibited in the speculations about 
grace, free will, and predestination. After some vague 
handling of the problem, he remembers that the “prin- 
cipal parts” of the system “were first suggested in the 
heat of controversy” (ibid. p.2*5) — an explanation which 
seems to him to throw some light upon the question. 
Obviously, a writer thus incompetent to appreciate the 
hearings of the most vital doctrines of Christianity was 
not a very competent historian of thought. Priestley, 
however, perceives, what was indeed sufficiently palpable, 
that Platonism had played a great part in the develop- 
ment of Christian dogma. The Platonists, lie tells us, 
“ pretended to be no more than the expositors of a more 
ancient doctrine;" which he traces through Parmenides, 
the Pythagoreans, and Orpheus, to “the secret lore of 
the Egyptian priests.” Another stream of tradition bad 
reached the Homans from “their Trojan ancestors,” who 
had received it from Phrygia, where it had been planted 
by Dardanus “as early as the 9th century after Noah’s 
Hood.” Dardanus brought it from Samothrace, where 
the “ Three Mighty Ones” were worshipped under the 
name of the Cabirim. Thus the Platonic Trinity, and 
the Homan Jupiter. Juno, and Minerva, were shown to 
be simply faint reflections of an early revelation com- 
municated to the patriarchs before the days of Moses 
(Horsley, Tracts, p. 43-Jo), See, besides the works 
above referred to, 1 brougham, hires of Philosophers of 
the Time of George III, p. S3 sq. ; De Qninccy, Philo- 
sophical Writers, ii, 2G2; Mackintosh, Miscefl. 1 1 'orks, 
iii, 170; Load. ( lent lemon's Magazine, April, ISO I, p. 375 
sq.; Ldinb. Ihv. IrtntJ, p. LAO sq.; Norton, Vie ms of Chris- 
tian Truth, Piety, ami Morality (Loud. 12moj; hood, 
(lu. Per. Dec. 1*12, p. 430; Lindsey, \’ind icier Priestlei- 
amr (17**, 2 vols. Svo); Christian Examiner, xii, 257 
sq. ; Stevens, Hist, of English Thought in the 1 S//< Cen- 
turg, i, 4211 sq. ; Lee key, Hist, of nationalism, and bis 
Hist, of the 1 nth Century; Morel’), Hist, of Modern Phi- 
losophy , p. 101 sq. ; Taylor, Retrospect of Religious Life 
in England (1845) ; llagenbaeh, /list, of Doctrines, ii, , 


411 sq. ; X. Y. Christian Advocate. 1877; Perry, Hist, 
of the Church of England, iii, 432-434 ; Blakey, Hist, of 
the Philosophy of Mind, iii, 230 sq., 302 sq. ; Cousin, 
Hist, of Modern Philosophy, leet. xiii, xiv. 

Priestley, Thomas, an English divine of the In- 
dependent body, flourished near the close of the last 
century. lie was the brother of Joseph Priestley (q.v.), 
but their theological tenets differed widely. Thomas 
was the editor of the Christian Magazine, and pub- 
lished, Evangelical Bible, or Paraphrase, Exposition, 
and Commentary, icith copious Xotes and suitable Re- 
fections (1701, fol.) : — Rev. Mr. Scott's Life and Death 
(1791, Svo): — a Funeral Sermon (1791, Svo): — Family 
Exercises (1792, Svo; 1793, Svo). 

Priests, Marriage of. The obligation of perpet- 
ual virginity imposed by the Church of Home upon 
those who receive higher orders has been spoken of in 
another article. See Celibacy. In the ancient Church 
married men (but no bigamists) were sometimes re- 
ceived into priesthood, without dissolution of their mat- 
rimony; hut it was never allowed to one who had re- 
ceived higher orders to marry. If such a case occurred, 
the service of the Church had to be renounced. In 
the West we find, in the middle of the 10th century 
(Cone. August, can. 1), the ordinance that the bishops, 
priests, deacons, and subdeacons who contract marriage 
arc to be deposed from their functions. Hence it would 
seem plain that the orders were not then considered as 
an impediment to marriage, while the solemn vow was 
considered as such (Cone. Trois/iens, cap. i. a. 909). 
The Lateral) Council of 1123 declares the matrimony 
contracted by a priest, etc., as one to he dissolved (dis- 
jnngi, can. 21); that of 1139 declares it not existing 
at all (matrimonium non esse censemus, can. 7). The 
Council of Trent (sess. xxiv. can. 9) repeated the same 
declaration, and, in virtue of the pow'ers of the Church 
(can. 4, 1. c.), puts the orders again into the number of 
the dissolving impediments to matrimony. The same 
council decreed, further, that sons of clergymen cannot 
discharge a clerical function in a place where their fa- 
ther is or was in office (sess. xxv, cap. 15, De ref). The 
Greek Church imposes celibacy on the higher dignita- 
ries — the bishops — but not on the priests and lower 
functionaries of the Church. The latter cannot, it is 
true, marry after receiving the orders, but are allowed 
to continue in the matrimonial relations contracted be- 
fore ordination. But no second marriage is tolerated. 
The Hussian Church, however, refuses ordination to her 
priests as long as they are unmarried, i. e. ordains only 
married men. If the priest becomes a widower, he re- 
tires to monastic life. In the Greek Oriental Church 
there are unmarried priests: they remain in office after 
the death of their wives, unless they prefer to marry 
again. In Greece married priests are distinguished from 
the unmarried ones by their head-gear : the former wear 
very low round hats. Sec Lea, Sacerdotal Celibacy (In- 
dex, under Marriage). 

Priests’ Rooms. The chaplains in Great Britain 
frequently had chambers over porches or sacristies, as 
at St. l’eter’s-in-the-East. Oxford; in Ireland, over the 
vault of the church, as at Cashel, Mcllifont. Holy Cross, 
and Kilkenny : in Scotland, at Iona, over the aisles. — 
Walcott, Sacred Archaeology, s. v. 

Prileszky, John Baptist, a learned Hungarian 
Jesuit, was born at l’riless March 1(’>, 1709. and, i.fter 
attaining to the doctorate in philosophy and theology, 
taught in several colleges of his order, lie was for five 
years chancellor of the University of Tyman. lie died 
after 1773. lie wrote, Acta Sanctorum Ilnnyarire. 
(Tyrnan. 1743-44, 8vo): — Xotitia Sanctorum Patrum 
triinn priori! in Sorulnrum (ibid. 1759) : — .4 eta et Scrip- 
ta S. t 'ypriani (ibid. 17(11, fol.) : — Acta et Scripta S. The- 
ophi/i. Patriarchs A ntiocheni et Minutii Eel iris (Vienna, 
17(11, 8vn) : — . 1 ctn et Scripta S. Irenai (Kaschau, 17(15, 
8vo) : —.4 eta e‘ Scripta S. Gregorii Xeo-Civsaritnsis, Dou- 


PRIMACY 


587 


PRIMACY 


yell Aleximdrini et Methodii Lycii (ibid. 1766, 8vo).— 
Hoofer, Nouv. hiog. Generate , s. v. 

Primacy is the office held (1) by him ivho is the 
pope of Rome, and therefore highest in the Christian 
Church, according to those who accept the assertions j 
of the papacy; and (2) by him who is next in rank to 
the patriarch (q. v.). See Pkimate. 

The primacy of Peter, as the pope’s office is some- 
times styled, Romanists claim to be of divine appoint- 
ment. They assert that the apostle Peter, by Christ's 
authority, had a primacy or sovereign authority and 
jurisdiction over the other apostles. Since the God- ■ 
man Jesus the Christ, they say, has himself willed the 
continuance of the Church and her fundamental unity, 
Peter and his successors were also established by the 
will of God. The power to bind and to loose [see 
Keys, Poweu of the] was given to the apostles in a 
body (Matt, xviii, 8) ; but, in order to preserve their 
power and unity, Peter was put at their head and en- 
dowed with higher honors (Matt, xvi, 16-18; xvii, 4, 
etc.). lie became the primus inter pares, not so much 
for his own sake as for a precedent; “for it would be 
unreasonable,” says Sauter, “ to consider the primacy he 
held to have died with him, in view of the end for which 
Christ had appointed him to it. It appears, on the con- 
trary, that Christ instituted the primacy more in view 
of the future than to meet the requirements of the apos- 
tolic times, when the personal purity of each of the 
apostles rendered such a measureless necessary” (Fumla- 
menta juris ecclesiastici Cutkolicorum [3d ed. Kotwila?, 
1825], § 62; see also Zeitschrift fur rhil. uml tenth. 
Theologie [Cologne, 1832], iv, 121, 122). By the ex- 
ample of Peter, Christ showed, in a general way, that 
some one of the bishops was always to be considered 
as primate b} r the others; but, add those who put a lib- 
eral interpretation on the Romish assertion of suprem- 
acy, it is by no means clear from the writings of the 
primitive fathers that the primacy was attached to a 
particular bishopric. Circumstances favored Rome, 
whose bishop was acknowledged by the other bishops 
as the successor of Peter (in the primacy). The bish- 
ops of Rome cannot have the primacy by divine ap- 
pointment, but in a mediate manner, so that, when the 
good of the Church demands it, it can be transferred to 
another of the bishops (Sauter, § 63, 64). But the 
Ultramontanes maintain that by the same authority 
by which Peter was set apart for the supremacy his 
own successors were also established. Peter, it is true, 
founded different communities and provided them with 
bishops, yet no other can be considered as his true suc- 
cessor than he who succeeded him after his death, and 
this is the bishop of Rome. The Roman bishop had, 
by his Roman episcopal dignity, a right similar to 
that in virtue of which the next relation succeeds in 
worldly principalities, and the Ultramontanes assert 
that Peter himself chose for his successor, in all his dig- 
nities, the same Linus mentioned by Paul in his Second 
Epistle to Timothy, iv, 21 (Phillips, Kirchenrecht. i, 146). 
This system of ideas, so simple in appearance, has only 
by degrees developed itself and obtained dogmatical 
sanction in the Latin Church. It is based on facts 
which have been variously appreciated, and on deci- 
sions which have by no means received the same in- 
terpretation at all hands. The whole deduction is 
founded on arbitrary declarations, inasmuch as the 
bishops were, and are still, party and judge in the same 
cause; thej’, whose title is in question, claim the exclu- 
sive right of explaining words and facts, and consider 
any one who doubts their assertions as being disobedient 
to Christ and to God. Impartial thinkers of the Roman 
Church itself cannot help acknowledging that before 
the middle of the 3d century there was no primacy 
perceptible in the Church (see Mohler, Die Einheit der 
Kircke, oder das Prinzip des Kathvlicismus, daryestellt 
im Geiste der Kir chenverf assn ng der drei ersten Jahr- 
hunderte [2d ed. Tubingen, 1843]) : w r hile others, by ar- 
bitrary arrangement of historical facts, arrive at the 


conclusion “ that the Roman bishops not only claimed 
the highest authority in all ecclesiastical matters since 
the first times of Christianity, but that these preten- 
sions, founded on Christ’s declarations, were acknowl- 
edged by the whole Church, especially by the episco- 
pate” (see Phillips, Kirchenrecht , p. 156). This is not 
the place to show, by the history of the Roman bishops 
of the first centuries, how indefensible such an assump- 
tion must appear: we must leave this to the special ar- 
ticles of this work, contenting ourselves with calling the 
attention of the reader to the principal features of the 
development of the primacy. 

Among the numerous works written on the subject, 
we mention in favor of it : Bibliotheca maxima Pontiji- 
cia, in qua authores melioris notes qui hactenus pro S. 
Romuna Sede scripserunt, fere omnes contineutur, promo- 
vente Er. II. Tom. de Roceaberti (Roma?, 1689, 21 vols. 
fol.) ; A. Daude, Majestas Ilierarchite cut. Summi Ponti- 
ficis (Barnb. 1761, 2 vols. 4to); Pet. Ballerini, De Vi ac 
Rationc Primaius , etc. (Augsb. 1770, 2 vols. 4to; ed. 
nov. by Westhoff ) ; J. Roskovanv, De Primatu Romani 
Pontifcis ejusque Juribus (ibid. i834, 8vo) ; Rothenscc, 
Der Primat des Pupstes in alien Jahrhvnderten, heruus- 
gegeben von Russ vnd lPms (Mainz, 1836, 4 vols. 8vo). 
Against it : Ellendorf, Der Primat der romischen Pa'pste 
(Darmst. 1841 and 1846, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Barruel, Du Pape 
el ses Droits religieux (Paris, 1803); Le Maistre, Du 
Pape (ibid. 1820) ; Gosselin, Poi/voir du Pape an Mayen 
Age (Louvain, 1845, 2 vols. 8vo). These and other 
works have been extensively used by Phillips in his 
Canon Laic, the fifth volume of which (Ratisbon, 1857) 
is entirely devoted to the subject of primacy. 

Generally the testimony of Irenreus (d. 202) and of 
Cyprian (d. 258) arc specially invoked to show that the 
primacy of the Roman bishops was accepted in the 2d 
century. But the former (.4 di'ersus Ilceres. lib. iii, cap. 
iii), in order to demonstrate the truth of the Catholic 
doctrine, appeals to the tradition of all the sees found- 
ed by the apostles; for Italy and the West, he names 
especially Rome as being the only Occidental see of 
undisputed apostolic foundation. The potior princi- 
palitas mentioned by Irenasus designates the political 
situation of the city, which could not fail to enhance 
its ecclesiastical importance. In the same way, Con- 
stantinople, at a later period, took the second place in 
the hierarchy, as being a second Rome ( Concil . Con- 
stantinop. aim. 381, can. 3; comp. Bickcll, Geschichte 
des Kirchenrechts , i, 209 sq.). The ideas of Cyprian 
about the unity of the Church logically led to primacy, 
yet. the relations he himself maintained to the Roman 
bishop do not imply the acknowledgment of a prerog- 
ative like that which is supposed to be advocated in his 
book De Unitate Ecclesice, and in his letters in favor of 
Rome. Its foundation by an apostle, and the authority 
of the first metropolis of the Roman empire, gave at an 
early period a great importance to the see of Rome ; 
but the same importance is attributed to the bishop 
of Alexandria and of Antioch, in the 3d canon of the 
Council of Nice, in 325. At that council the Roman 
bishop did not exercise a higher authority than the 
other bishops. This is clearly shown by the acts of 
the council, signed by two presbyters, “instead of our 
pope,” i. e. bishop (see Analecta Xiccena — fragments re- 
lating to the Council of Nice — by Harris Cowpers [Lon- 
don and Edinburgh, 1857]). It was at a later period 
attempted to give can. 6 Nic. Cone, another form than 
the primitive by adding at the beginning the words 
“Quod ecclesia Romana semper habuit primatum” (see 
Gieseler, Kirchengeschichte, i, § 91). The struggle for 
the maintenance of the orthodox doctrine was ex- 
tremely advantageous to the bishops of Rome, and the 
Council of Sardica (343) emphasized most decidedly 
the pre-eminence of the Roman see in the Western 
Church : the Oriental bishops on that occasion protested 
and left the assembly. The resolutions of Sardica were 
not at once accepted even in the Western Church. At 
the request of the bishop Daraasus, and of a Roman 


PRIMACY 


58S 


PRIMACY 


synod of 378, the emperor C.ratian issued a rescript in 
favor of Pome ((iieselcr, l. c. § 92, n. i). In 445 an 
edict of Valentiuian III proclaims the primacy of the 
bishop of Home over the whole Church— a primacy 
which, besides the higher rank over the bishops, in- 
cludes a supreme ecclesiastical legislation am! jurisdic- 
tion. The emperor founds this preference on the pri- 
rnaey of l’eter (“sedis apostolic® primatum, saucti 
Petri mcritum, cpii princeps est episcopalis corona-"), 
on the political importance of Pome (“ Romanic digni- 
tas civil at is"), and on the Synod of Sardica (“ sacra- sy- 
iiodi auctoritas”) (comp. Richter, Kirchenrecht [t»t h ed.], 
§ 22, n. 3). Hut the Church of the East was by no 
means subordinated to the Homan see; the Council 
of Chalcedon, 451, in can. 28. declares that the see of 
Constantinople has the same privileges in the Eastern 
Church which in the Western Church belong to Pome 
(ra \<r a 77pfir/3*Trt u rriftnrav r<p rpc vine ’Pw/t//c 
ayno-aToj Stpt'.iupi). If, in later times, the first place 
in the Homan empire is acknowledged to belong to 
Pome (c. 7. pr. c. 8, C. de Summit Trinitute i, 1 J ; Jus- 
tinian, a. 533, No. ix. cxxxi, c. 2, a. 535, 545, etc.), 
this was only a distinction of honor without any prac- 
tical consequences; for the patriarch of Constantino- 
ple was also the highest instance (c. 23, C. de Episcop. 
Audieu/iit [i, I], a. 530, No. cxxxvii, c. 5, a. 501, 
etc.). The ecclesiastical authority of Pome was not 
contested after that, but its relation to the worldly 
powers passed through many vicissitudes. Its connec- 
tion with t he newly founded Cermanic churches was 
at first prevented by their Arianism, but became the 
closer after their conversion to the orthodox faith. 
The Roman principles about the relations of the 
Church to the apostolic see prevailed in the Frankish 
empire by the exertions of Iloniface, although their 
practical consequences were impeded by the indepen- 
dent exercise of the rights of the State in Church mat- 
ters. With Charlemagne the pope was nothing but the 
first metropolitan, over whom the emperor had jurisdic- 
tion. 'flic king is the supreme judge and legislator, a 
protector and ruler given to the Church by God, who 
corrects or approves the resolutions of the synods, and 
issues himself ecclesiastical ordinances, after taking the 
advice of the clergy. The proof of this is afforded by 
a large number of capitularies. Under (lie weak suc- 
cessors of the great emperor there was a change, which 
the decretals of Pseudo-Isidore turned to the advantage 
of Pome. It was in conformity with these principles 
that Nicholas I administered the Church (from 858). 
'I’he German kings of the house of Saxony regained 
the lost power, and the Roman bishops were again re- 
duced to the primacy of honor. We see the German 
bishops, under Otto I, appointed hy the emperor him- 
self, governing their dioceses independently, and t lie 
episcopate, in their synods, presided over hy the em- 
peror, exercise jurisdiction over the Roman bishop 
(deposition of John Nil, in 9H3, by the Roman council). 
These principles were in force until the middle of the 
11th century, 'flic bishop of Pome was then subor- 
dinated to the emperor ami to the body of the episcopate 
(in lOIC, at the Synod of Sutri, by which Hcnedict VIII, 
Sylvester III, and Gregory VI were deposed). Under 
Gregory VII a reaction took place, and the papacy was 
enabled to obtain the whole extent of authority which 
Pseudo-Isidore claimed as its own. The hierarchical 
system of papacy was completed by this Gregory and 
Itis successors Alexander 111 (1159 1181), Innocent 
111 ( 1198 121(1), Gregory IX (1227-1211), Innocent IV 
(1213 1251), and Poniface VIII (1291-1303). The 
so-called Dvintus l/ildebrandini, t lie authenticity of 
which is proved by the regosts of Gregory VII (comp. 
Gieseler, Klrchetu/esch. II. i, § 47, n. d ; Giesehreeht, he 
Gregorti I // registro emeitdnttdo [Pegimont. 1858], p. 
5), and the decretals of the popes mentioned, contain 
the propositions peculiar to this system, (he most es- 
sential of which are: The bishop of Pome is the vicar 
of Christ on earth (“ Pomanus Pontifex vicarius Jcsu 


Christi, quod non puri homiuis, sed veri Dei vicem 
gerit in terris" [Innoc. Ill, in c. 2, 3, x. De Trunslat. 
Episcop. i, 7]), the universal bishop (“ solus universalis” 
[Gregor ii Diet. No. 21), to whom alone belongs the title 
of pope (“quod unieurn est nomen in mundo" [ ibid. c. 
11]). lie is possessed of full powers, and lie grants 
parts of them to the rest of the clergy, as his assistants 
(‘■Quia divc-rsitatem eorporum diversitas sa*pe sequitnr 
animorum, lie plenitudo ecclesiastic® jurisdictiouis in 
plures dispensata vilescoret, soil in uno pot ins eollata 
vigeret, apostolic® sedi Dominos in 15. Petro universain 
ecclesiarum ct cunctorum Christi tidclium magistrium 
eontulit et primatum, qu®, retenta sibi plenitudine po- 
testatis, ad implondum laiulabilius oflu-inm pastorale, 
quod omnibus cam constituit debitrieem, multos in 
partem sollicitiulinis evocavit. sic siuim dispeusans onus 
ct honorem in alios, lit nihil sun juri subtraheret, nec 
jurisdictiouem suam in aliquo minoraret" [ Innoc. Ill, 
in c. 5, x, De Concess. Prabendtr , iii, 8]). It is, of 
course, bis own business how he chooses his assistants; 
the rights of appointing, deposing, permuting bishops 
belong to him exclusively; he can draw every cause 
before the apostolic see. judge it himself, or take it back 
from the judge be had appointed, and give it to another 
one, especially to his personal lieutenant, a legate, who, 
of course, has pre-eminence over all other dignitaries 
(“Quod ille solus possit deponere episeopos vel reconci- 
liare. — Quod legatus ejus omnibus episeopis pnesit in 
concilio, etiam infcrinris gradus, et adversns eos senten- 
tiam deposition^ possit dare.— Quod illi liceat de sede 
ad sedem necessitate cogente episeopos transnnitare. — 
Quod de omni ecelesia, qiiaeunque volnerit, clericum va- 
lent ordinare. — Quod majores eaus® eujiiseiinque eecle- 
si® ad sedem anostolicnm referri debeant" [ Dictutus 
Gregorti 17/, Nos. 3, 4, 13, 14, 21, 25, etc.]). The Ro- 
man bishop is the legislator of the Church (“Quod illi 
soli licet pro temporis necessitate novas leges condere,” 
etc. [/. c. No. 7]). Without his consent, no synod can 
take place (“Quod nulla svnodus absque pr®eepto ejus 
debet generalis voeari” [/. e. Id]). lie is infallible, 
ami decides what is true (“ Quod nullum capitulum 
niillusque liber canonieus babeatur absque illins aueto- 
ritate. — Quoil Pnmnna ecelesia minquam erravit, nec in 
perpetuum, seriptura testante, errabit” [/. c. 17. 22]). 
lie recognises no authority, while all are subordinated 
to bis authority (“Quod senteutia illins a nnllo debe- 
at retractari, ot ipse omnium solus retractare possit. — 
Quod a nemine ipse jmlieari dclieat,— Quod millus au- 
deat condemnare apostolicain sedem appellantem” [/. c. 
18-20]). 

The papal system, a product of feudalism, according 
to which all authority rests in the sovereign, involves, 
in its last consequence, the political domination. The 
Dictutus Gregorti contain the following declarations: 
“Quod solus Papa possit nti imporialibus insigniis*’ 
(No. 8); “Quod solius Pap® pedes ninnes principes deo- 
seiilentur(No.y) ; “Quod illi iibeat imperatores deponere” 
(No. 12); “Quod a fidelitatc iniqiiorum subjectos possit 
absolvere” (No. 27). Poniface VIII. trying to act up to 
these principles, involved himself in a terrible conflict 
with France, which ended in the defeat of the Roman 
see. Now people began to bethink themselves again 
of the principles which bad prevailed before Gregory 
VII, on the relations of the Church, and the council 
which represents her, to the bishop of Pome, and the 
old principles were reinstated in vigor. The result of 
the war which has since been waged, with many inter- 
ruptions and vicissitudes, between the pope and the 
bishops is a modification and practical attenuation of 
(lie strict papal or curia] system; yet the latter has 
been victorious, and is now generally acknowledged. 
The consequences of this system in regard to the rela- 
tions of the Roman Catholic Church to the State, the 
right of granting royal titles (Phillips, /. c. v, f>84 sq.) f 
and other prerogatives, hy which the rights of sover- 
eigns were limited or even denied, have long disap- 
peared from practice; yet the pope never retracted the 


PRIMACY 


589 


PRIMACY 


principle, and never failed to avail himself of such cir- 
cumstances as allowed him to proclaim it and to apply 
it to special cases (see A. de Koskovanv, Monumenta 
Catholica pro Jndependentia Potestatis Ecclesiasticee ab 
Imperio Civili [ Quinque Ecclesiis, 1847], vol. ii). The 
Austrian Concordat of Aug. 18, 1855, art. ii, says: 
“Cum Roman us pontifex primatum tarn honoris qnam 
jurisdictionis in universam, qua late patet, ecclesiam 
jure divino obtineat, episcoporum, cleri, et populi mu- 
tuo cum Sancta Sede commuuicatio in rebus spirituali- 
bus et negotiis ecclesiasticis nulli placet um regium obti- 
liendi necessitas suberit, sed prorsus libera erit ;” and 
the allocution of Pius IX, at the publication of the Con- 
cordat, says : “ Cum Romanus pontifex Christi his in 
terris vicarius et beatissimi apostolorum principis suc- 
cessor primatum . . . divino obtineat jure, turn Catho- 
licum hoc dogma in ipsa conventione luculentissimis 
fuit verbis expressum, ac propterea simul de medio sub- 
lata et radicitus evulsa peccatusque deleta falsa per- 
versa ilia et funestissima opinio eidem divino primatui 
ej usque juribus plane adversa et ab hac Apostolica Sede 
semper damnata atque proscripta, de habenda scilicet 
a civili gubernio venia, vel executione eorum, qiue 
res spirit tiales et ecclesiastica negotia respiciunt.” The 
principle is also saved in those cases where it is allowed 
to the State, only in consideration of the circumstances 
( temporum ratione habita ), to decide by worldly pro- 
cedure, in merely civil affairs of the clergy, or even in 
criminal matters in which they are involved (A ustr. 
Cone . art. xii, etc.). 

The papal rights relate to the supreme government 
of the Roman Catholic Church, and to the honors de- 
rived from it. Distinction is made between rights essen- 
tial to the existence of the primacy (jura essentiulia, 
primigenia, naturulia ) and those which have been 
gradually added to the others, but are not absolutely 
indispensable to the primacy (jura accidentafia, ac- 
quisita, secundaria ) (Sauter, § 4GG; Droste- Hiilshoff, 
Grundsatze des gemeineii Kirehenrechts, ii, pt. i, § 132 
sq.; Eichhorn, Kirchenrecht, i, 579 sq. ; Roskovanv, De 
Prhnatu Pontijicis Romani [Augusta: Vindelicor. 1834], 
§ 44 sq. ; § 54 sq.). As essentials we find, first, the pri- 
macy of honor and of jurisdiction, of the highest con- 
sideration and of general government, including disci- 
pline, the right of legislation, devolution, and protec- 
tion. Among the additional rights or privileges are the 
jurisdiction in causie arduaz ac majores, the decision in 
last resort of the reserved cases, etc. The primacy of 
the papal jurisdiction comprises — 

(1.) The Representation of the Roman Catholic Church. 
— As the representative head, the pope has. partly in 
proper person, partly in co-operation with the cardinals, 
to defend the general interests and special concerns of 
the Church with the exterior powers, lie has to make 
conventions with the different states concerning the 
clerical institutions existing in them and directly sub- 
ordinated to the papal see. 

(2.) The Supreme Ecclesiastical Legislation. — The 
pope issues decrees as well about subjects of discipline 
as of doctrine, and secures the approbation of the Church 
by the convocation of a council or by other means. The 
necessity of the approbation of the council is not recog- 
nised by the pope. As the pope, speaking ex cathedra, 
cannot, err according to the doctrine of the Church, all 
members of the Catholic Church are bound in such case 
to submit to the decision of the sovereign pontiff. This 
principle w’as solemnly recognised at the proclama- 
tion of the dogma of the immaculate conception of the 
Virgin Mary. But the papal infallibility does not ex- 
tend to matters of fact. Bellarmiue himself says (De 
Romano Pontifce, lib. iv, cap. 2), “Conveniunt omnes 
posse Pontifieem, et cum coetu consiliorum vel cum ge- 
neral! concilio, errare in controversiis facti particula- 
ribus, quse ex informatione lestimoniisque hominum 
pracipue pendent.” Appeals from Pontifce male infor- 
mato ad melius informandum have always been in use. 
In virtue of his legislative powers, the pope can dispen- 


sate and authentically interpret ; and in virtue of the 
same he orders the resolutions of the provincial synods 
to be re-examined and approved by the Congregatio 
Concilii (Benedict XIV, De Synodo Liacesana, lib. xiii, 
cap. 3, No. G). 

(3.) The Highest Ecclesiastical Supervision. — Reports 
from all dioceses are regularly sent to the pope. The 
bishops, by the oath they have to take before their con- 
secration, are bound to appear in person (“Limina apos- 
tolornm singulis annis aut per me aut per certum nun- 
tium visitabo, nisi— absolvar”) ; but the risitatio limi- 
num can be replaced by a relatio status diaceseos, which 
must take place in conformity with an instruction of Ben- 
edict XIV (De Synodo Diwcesuna, lib. xiii, cap. 7 sq.). 

(4.) The Highest Ecclesiastical Administration (Regi- 
men Ecclesite).— It comprises the decision in the causa? 
arduee ac majores. To these belong the causer episco- 
porum— namely , the confirmation of elected, the admis- 
sion of postulated bishops; the consecration, permuta- 
tion, deposition; acceptation of resignations ; appoint- 
ment of coadjutors; foundation, division, fusion of dio- 
ceses; collation of the pallium; confirmation and sup- 
pression of clerical orders and ecclesiastical institutions; 
beatification and canonization; the acknowledgment of 
relics; the establishment and abrogation of general relig- 
ious feasts; the right of decision in reserved cases. In 
virtue of his supremacy, the pope has also a right, in case 
of insufficient, faulty administration of the clerical dig- 
nitaries, to take the government in his own hands, and 
do everywhere what is wanted. On the right of admin- 
istration is also founded the right of imposing ecclesias- 
tical taxes. 

II. Primacy of Honor. — (1.) The pope has not only pre- 
eminence over the clerical dignitaries, but is tradition- 
ally recognised even by the worldly powers. The po- 
litical authorities, in their conventions with him, allow 
his name to stand first. (2.) The title and the qualifica- 
tions connected with it underwent some changes. The 
name of pope belongs, since Gregory VII’s time, exclu- 
sively to the bishop of Rome; likewise the designation 
of Summus Pontifex. Pontifex Maximus was only at a 
later period reserved for him. Gregory I declined the 
title of Patriarcha Universalis (see cap. 4, 5, dist. xeix), 
and preferred being called Servos Servorum Dei, a desig- 
nation which lias since become official (comp. Thomas- 
sin, Veins ac Nova Ecclesiee Disciplina, lib. i, pt. i, cap. 
4, 50, No. 14; Ferraris, Bibliotheca Canonica, s. v. ; 
Papa, art. ii, No. 33-35; Phillips, l. c. v. 599 sq.). The 
qualification of sanctus is also, in early times, specially 
applied to the Roman bishops. In the Dictatus Gregorii 
VII, No. 23, we read, “Quod Romanus Pontifex, si ca- 
nonice fuerit ordinatus, meritis B. Petri indubitanter cfli- 
cilur sanctus, testante S. Ennodio Papiensi Episeopo, ci 
multis SS. Patribus faventibus, sieut in decretisB. Sym- 
machi P. continetur.” Therefore the usual address is 
“sanctissime pater” (holy father). (For the homage 
formerly paid him and his pastoral ensigns, see the art. 
Pope; for the supremacy of the pope over councils, see 
Supremacy ; for the relation of the papacy to temporal 
possessions, see Temporal Power op the Pope; see 
also Romanism.) 

In answer to the Roman Catholic doctrine of the pri- 
macy we here subjoin the heads of Barrow’s famous 
argument against it in his treatise On the Supi'tmacy 
(IForfo [Loud. 1841], vol. iii). He says there may be 
“a primacy of worth or personal excellency; a pri- 
macy of reputation ; a primacy of order or bare dig- 
nity and precedence; a primacy of power and juris- 
diction. 1. The first — a primacy of worth — we may 
well grant to Peter, for probably he did exceed the 
rest of his brethren in personal endowments and ca- 
pacities. 2. A primacy of repute, which Paul means 
when he speaks of those^vho had a special reputa- 
tion, of those who seemed to be pillars of the super- 
eminent apostles (Gal. ii, 6, 9; 2 Cor. xi. 5; xii, 11). 
[This advantage cannot be refused him, being a neces- 
sary consequence of those eminent qualities resplendent 


PRIMACY 


590 


PRIMATE 


in him, anil of the illustrious performances achieved by 
him beyond the rest. This may be inferred from that 
renown which he has had from the beginning; and like- 
wise from his being so constantly ranked in the first 
place before the rest of his brethren.] 3. As to a pri- 
macy of order or bare dignity, importing that common- 
ly, in all meetings and proceedings, the other apostles 
did yield him the precedence, it may be questioned; for 
this does not seem suitable to the gravity of such per- 
sons, or their condition and circumstances, to stand upon I 
ceremonies of respect; for onr Lord’s rules seem to ex- 
clude all semblance of ambition, all kind of inequality 
and distance between his apostles. [ Hut yet this pri- 
macy may be granted as probable upon divers accounts 
of use and convenience; it might be useful to preserve 
order, and to promote expedition, or to prevent confu- 
sion, distraction, and dilatory obstruction in the man- 
agement of things.] 4. As to a primacy importing a 
superiority in command, power, or jurisdiction, this we 
have great reason to deny upon the following consider- 
ations : (1.) For such a power it was needful that a com- 
mission from Cod, its founder, should be granted in ab- 
solute and perspicuous terms; but no such commission 
is extant in Scripture. (2.) If so illustrious an office 
was instituted by onr Saviour, it is strange that nowhere 
in the evangelical or apostolical history there should be 
any express mention of that institution. (3.) If Peter 
bad been instituted sovereign of the apostolical senate, 
his office and state had been in nature and kind very 
distinct from the common office of the other apostles, as 
the office of a king from the office of any subject [and 
probably would have been dignified by some distinct 
name, as that of arch-apostle, arch-pastor, the vicar of 
Christ, or the like; but no such name or title was as- 
sumed by him, or was by the rest attributed to him], 
(4.) There was no office above that of an apostle known 
to the apostles or primitive Church (Fphes. iv, 1 1 ; 1 Cor. 
xii, 28). (5.) Our Lord himself declared against this 

kind of primacy, prohibiting his apostles to affect, to 
seek, to assume, or admit a superiority of power, one 
above another (Luke xxii, 14-21; Mark ix, 35). (6.) 

We do not find any peculiar administration committed 
to Peter, nor any privilege conferred on him which was 
not also granted to the other apostles (Matt, xx, 23; 
Mark xvi, 15). (7.) When Peter wrote two catholic 

epistles, there does not appear in cither of them any in- 
timation or any pretence to this arch -apostolical power. 
(8.) In all relations which occur in Scripture about con- 
troversies incident to doctrine or practice, there is no ap- 
peal made to Peter’s judgment or allegation of it as de- 
cisive, no argument is built on his authority. (9.) Peter 
nowhere appears intermeddling as a judge or governor 
paramount in such cases [yet where he does himself 
deal with heretics and disorderly persons, he proceeds 
not as a pope, decreeing, but as an apostle, warning, ar- 
guing, and persuading against them]. (10.) The con- 
sideration of the apostles proceeding in the conversion 
of people, in the foundation of churches, and in admin- 
istration of their spiritual affairs will exclude any prob- 
ability of Peter’s jurisdiction over them. [They went 
about their business, not by order or license from Peter, 
but according to special direction of God’s .Spirit.] (II.) j 
The nature of the apostolic ministry their not being 
fixed in one place of residence, lmt continually moving 
about the world — the state of things at that time, anti 
the manner of Peter’s life, render it unlikely that he had 
such a jurisdiction over the apostles as some assign him. 
(12.) It was indeed most requisite that every apostle 
should have a complete, absolute, independent authority 
in managing the duties and concerns of the office, that 
lie might not anywise be obstructed in the discharge of 
them, not clogged with a need to consult others, not 
hampered with orders from those who were at a dis- 
tance. (13.) The discourse and behavior of Paul to- 
wards Peter are evidence that he did not acknowledge 
any dependence on him. or any subjection to him (Hal. 
ii, 11). (11.) If Peter had been appointed sovereign of 


the Church, it seems that it should have been requisite 
that he should have outlived ail the apostles; for other- 
wise the Church would have wanted a head, or there 
must have been an inextricable controversy who that 
head was. Put Peter died long before John, as all 
agree, and perhaps before divers others of the apostles.” 

From these arguments we must see what little ground 
the Church of Home has to derive the supremacy of the 
pope from the supposed primacy of Peter. See Porn. 

Prinias. See Piu.uatl. 

Primat, Cuaidk-Fuancois-Mauie, a French prel- 
ate, was born at Lyons July 20, 1717. lie studied, at 
the expense of the Chapter of St.John, at Lyons, and 
entered the brotherhood of the Oratorians. From the 
college at Marseilles he went to that of Dijon, where he 
became professor of rhetoric and theology. At the age 
of twenty-eight he was ordained a priest, and became a 
successful preacher. In 1780 he was made curate of St. 
James at Douai. During the revolutionary agitation 
he gave his support to the republican cause by taking 
the required oath. He was made constitutional bishop 
of the North March 27, 1791, and established the seat 
of his episcopacy at Cambray. lie resigned office Nov. 
13, 1793, and had even the weakness to return to the 
convention his letters of priesthood. But this step did 
not prevent him from presiding over a diocesan synod 
held at Lille in 1797. lie assisted at the council held 
at Paris at the end of that year, and was transferred by 
his associates to the bishopric of Hhone and Loire Feb. 
1798. At this time he composed a paper to justify his 
oath of hatred to royalty, which was found in the 
actions of that council. After the Concordat, he was 
chosen, April 9, 1802, archbishop of Toulouse, where bv 
his mild measures he triumphed over all obstacles. As 
primate he was present at the coronation of Napoleon 
1. and the pallium was conferred upon him Jan. 1(5. 
1805. lie was finally chosen senator and count of the 
empire May 19, 1800; and during the Hundred Days 
lie was called to a seat in the Chamber of Peers, June 
4, 1815. lie died at Toulouse Oct. 10, 1810.- lioefer, 
Xoiu\ Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Primate (Lat. primus; Fr. primat, first) is the 
title of a grade in the hierarchy immediately below the 
rank of patriarch (q. v.). In point of jurisdiction the 
primacy was, historically, developed out of the episco- 
pate by papal communication of primatial rights. The 
primates, in this sense of the word, are more particular- 
ly an institution of the West; for although the Creek 
denomination i£a{>\ og is generally translated by primus, 
there are unmistakable differences. The exarchs of the 
Fast were subordinated to no patriarch, and were, so far 
as rights are concerned, their equals in their dioceses, 
and only in rank were they their inferiors. Such rela- 
tions were out of the question in the Western Church, 
where the patriarchate was held by the papal primate 
in the person of the bishop of Home, who was recognised 
as possessing universal supreme jurisdiction. The pri- 
mates, as such, were metropolitans who enjoyed a pre- 
eminence of jurisdiction over the other bishops of a 
conntrv. This pre-eminence was founded on their right 
of consecrating the other metropolitans and bishops, of 
convoking national councils, of receiving appeals, etc. 
Originally this dignity was connected with the nomina- 
tion to a pontifical vicariate, as was the case with the 
bishop of Arles, and it rested, in general, on an explicit 
appointment by the pope. There was one exception to 
that in the person of the bishop of Carthage, who. though 
not assuming the primatial title, exerted all the rights 
implied by it in Africa. The relation in which the pri- 
macy almost everywhere stood to the national interests, 
which obliged its bearers, as the first bishops of the 
State, to take some share in the political concerns, exer- 
cised a detrimental influence, and led some of them to 
assert overbearing pretensions contrary to the authority 
of the head of the Church. The importance of the pri- 
macy has melted away in the course of time, and in 


PRIME 


591 


PRIMICERIUS 


most cases nothing remains of it but some exterior dis- 
tinctions. The chief primatial sees of the West were: 
in Spain — Seville and Tarragona (afterwards united in 
Toledo) ; in France — Arles, Kheims, Lyons, and Rouen 
(among whom the archbishop of Lyons claims the title 
of primal des primats , “primate of the primates”); in 
England — Canterbury; in Germany — Mainz, Salzburg, 
and Trier; in Ireland — Armagh, and for the Pale, Dub- 
lin; in Scotland — St. Andrews; in Hungary — Gran; in 
Poland — Gnesen; and in the Northern kingdoms — Lund. 

In the Church of England the archbishop of Canter- 
bury is styled primate of all England; the archbishop 
of York, primate of England. In Ireland, the archbish- 
op of Armagh is primate of all Ireland, and the arch- 
bishop of Dublin, primate of Ireland. The title of pri- 
mate in England and Ireland confers no jurisdiction be- 
yond that of archbishop. The name primus is applied in 
the Scottish Episcopal Church to the presiding bishop. 
He is chosen by the bishops out of their own number, 
without their being bound to give effect to seniority of 
consecration or precedency of diocese. 

Prime (Lat. prima , the first — i. e. hour), the first 
of the so-called “lesser hours” of the Homan Breviary 
(q. v.). It may be called the public morning prayer of 
that Church, and corresponds in substance with the 
morning service of the other ancient liturgies, allow- 
ance being made for Latin peculiarities. Prime com- 
mences with the beautiful hymn of Prudentius, Jam 
lucis orta sulere, which is followed by three and occa- 
sionally four psalms (xxii, xxvi, liv, cxviii); but the 
last portion consists of the opening verses of the 118th 
(in the A. V. the cxix, 1-82) psalm, -which is continued 
throughout the rest of the “lesser hours.” Prime con- 
cludes with prayers appropriate to the beginning of a 
Christian’s day. See Procter, Commentary on the Book 
of Common Prayer, p. 187. See Canonical Hocus. 

Prime, Ebenezer, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Milford, Conn., July 21, 1700, graduated at 
Yale College in 1718, and at the age of nineteen was 
assistant of the Rev.Eliphalet Jones, pastor at Hunting- 
ton, L. I., whose colleague he became four years after. 
He remained in charge of this congregation until his 
death, Sept. 25, 1779 (according to another account, 
Oct. 3). For a period of nearly seven years, from 17G6 
to 1773, he had an assistant, but during the troubled 
times of the Revolution the whole charge rested with 
him, and he was even obliged at one time to flee from 
his dwelling, and live in retirement for a season in a 
solitary neighborhood of his congregation. He is the 
progenitor of a family of eminent Presbyterian divines. 
Air. Prime published a Discourse, on the Nature of Or- 
dination. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, iii, 
30 sq. 

Prime, John, an English divine of some note, 
flourished in the second half of the IGth century. He 
was educated at Oxford University, and held at one 
time a fellowship. He published, The Sacraments 
(Loud. 1582, 8vo) : — Nature and Grace (ibid. 1583, 
8vo): — Sermons (Oxon. 1585, 8vo): — Exposition and 
Observations upon St. Paul to the Galatians (Loud. 1587, 
8vo) : — The Consolations of David , a sermon on Psa. 
xxiii, 4 (ibid. 1588, 8vo): — Sermons (ibid. 1588, 8vo). 

Prime, Nathaniel Scudder, D.D., an American 
divine, was born at Huntington, L. 1., April 21, 1785, 
and educated at Princeton, V'here he graduated in 1804. 
He was licensed to preach in the following year in the 
Presbyterian Church, and was subsequently stationed 
at Sag Harbor, Freshpond,Smithtown, Cambridge, New 
York, and other places. He also acted as principal of 
literary institutions at Cambridge, Sing Sing, and New- 
burgh, and gained distinction as a teacher, lie died sud- 
denly at Mamaroneck, N. J., March 27, 1850. I)r. Prime 
published three single Sermons (1811, 1817, 1825), an 
.1 ddress (1815), and a Char ye to the Per. Samuel Irenceus 
Prime (1837), many statistical and other articles in pe- 
riodicals, and the two following works, Familiar Illus- 


tration of Christian Baptism (1818, 12mo), in which be 
defends infant baptism: — A History of Long Island 
from its fii-st Settlement by the Europeans to the Year 
1845 (N. Y. and Pittsburgh, 1845, 12ino). “He had a 
mind of uncommon force and discrimination, a noble 
and generous spirit, simple and engaging manners, an 
invincible firmness in adhering to his own convictions, 
an earnest devotion to the best interests pf bis fellow- 
men, an excellent talent for the pulpit, great tact at 
public business, and a remarkably graceful facility at 
mingling in a deliberative body.” — Sprague. A nnals of 
the Amer. Pulpit, iii, 32; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
Amer. Authors, s. v. 

Primer, King’s, is an English ecclesiastical docu- 
ment published in 1545, containing the Calendar, the 
Ten Commandments, the Creed, the Lord’s Prayer, the 
Salutation of the Virgin, the seven penitential psalms, a 
litany, and prayers for various occasions. It was edited 
by the authority of King Henry VIII, and hence de- 
rives its title. A prefatory admonition to the reader 
complains of several books calculated to mislead the 
people in their application to the saints, and to set God 
and his creatures on the same level. Though many 
divines had made a special distinction between Xarpeia 
and SovXeia, and appropriated the first only to God, 
yet in practice this distinction was too often forgotten. 
— Farrar, s. v. 

Besides the King’s Primer, there is also the Goodly 
Prymer of 1535, drawn up by Marshal, archdeacon of 
Nottingham, and the Manual of Prayers, or the Primer 
in English, of 1539. Primer means first book, and was 
used often as analogous to the term prayer-book, though 
it contained selections of services made according to the 
discretion of the compiler. The Prymer of Salisbury 
Use bears the date of various years, the first edition be- 
ing published in 1527. — Eadie, s. v. See Collier, Eccles. 
Hist. pt. ii, bk. ii ; Procter, Commentary on the Book of 
Common Prayer, p. 12, 75; Wheatly, On the Book of 
Common Prayer, p. 23. 

Primerose, Gilbert, D.D., a Scotch divine, flour- 
ished in the first half of the 17th century, first as minister 
of the French Church in London, later as chaplain to 
James I, and still later as canon of Windsor, lie died 
in 1G42. His works are, La Trompette de Sion, etc., en 
XVIII Sermons (Berger, 1 G 10, 8vo; and in Latin by 
Joan Anchoranum Dantis, 1631, 8vo) : — Le Vau de Ja- 
cob oppose aux Vaux de Moines (ibid. 1G10, 4 vols. 8vo ; 
in English by John Bulteel, Lond. 1617, fol.) :—La De- 
fense de la Religion reforniee contre M. Francois Blo- 
v in (Berger, 1619, 8vo) :— Panegyrique au tres-grand 
Prince Charles, Prince de Galles (Paris, 1G24, 8vo): — 
Nine Sennotis on Psa. xxxic, 19 (Loud. 1625, 4to): — 
Two Sermons on Matt, v, 4, and Luke vi, 21 (1625, 8vo). 

Primicerius, i. e. the chief of his order (from Lat. 
primus, first, and cera, wax), one whose name was 
first, inscribed on the tablet of the church, which was 
covered with w r ax. The word does not always signify 
priority of power or jurisdiction ; sometimes only prior- 
ity of time, or precedency of honor or dignity in respect 
of place. Augustine calls Stephen primicerius marty- 
rum. Bernard calls many primiceria rirginitatis. The 
word is frequently met with in mediaeval Latin, and 
designates an officer in monasteries. In the Liber Ro- 
mani Ordinis the duties of the office are thus described : 
Primicerius sciat se esse sub archidiacono, etc. : “ The 
primicerius must understand that he is subordinate to 
the archdeacon; and to his office it specially belongs to 
preside over the deacons during the time that they are 
communicating instruction; to maintain proper disci- 
pline, as one who must render account to God; to fur- 
nish the deacons with subjects on which they must dis- 
course,” etc. Du Cange gives various meanings of the 
term, dependent on the word with which it happens to 
be connected; as primicerius subdiaconorum, not (trio- 
rum, lectorum, etc. But in a more restricted sense, pri- 
micerius designates the holder of a chapter dignity, and 


PRIMITLE 


592 PRIMITIVE METI1. CONNECTION 


is employed with this specific meaning in Chrodegang’s 
rule, and* in the statutes of Amalarius, confirmed by the 
Synod of Aix-la-Chapelle in «17, where tlie primicerius 
appears at the head of the capitulary register, imme- 
diately after the archdeacon and archprcsbytcr. The 
functions of the primicerius were specially to instruct 
the deacons, subdeacons, and minorists in the choral 
song (hence bis name of Prcecentor ; De consuet. i, 4), 
in the liturgy, and in the functions of the Church; to 
inform the canons of the order of the office in the choir; 
to explain to the younger ones the management of the 
Breviary, etc. There is a very circumstantial enume- 
ration of the duties of the primicerius in the Epistola 
Isiilori Spat. ad Lnndefreduui Cordub., “ De omnibus 
eccl. gradibns” (comp. c. 1, § 13, L)ist. xxv, and the 
fragment of the Ordo Roma mis in c. nn. x, “De off. 
primicerii,” i, 2o). When the archdeacons, in the pro- 
gressive extension of their importance, obtained the 
lower jurisdiction over the priests and archpriests, the 
primicerius obtained also the full disciplinary power 
over the minorists. Ilis situation in the chapter was 
therefore one of importance; it is sometimes called a 
dignity {De consuet. i, 4), sometimes a personate ( De con- 
stit. i, 2), sometimes it is put simply among the offices 
{officio nuda). There was, in general, no uniform dis- 
tribution of ranks in the different chapters. When the 
institution of the Minorites was suppressed, the office 
of the primicerius was also extinguished.— Farrar, s. v.; 
Wetzer u. Weltc, s. v. 

Primitive, Premices. Primitiae is, with the an- 
cient pagans, the name given to the first-fruits of the 
fields and gardens, which were annually brought as 
offerings to the temples or abodes of the priests. We 
find this custom among almost all nations of antiquity, 
and also among the Israelites. Like many other relig- 
ious customs and institutions of the Jews, this kind of 
exterior worship, considered as a tribute of gratitude for 
God's blessings, was adopted by the Christian Church, 
and urgently recommended by the fathers, the kind and 
quantity of the gifts being left to be determined by the 
pious feelings of the individual: “Non erant special i 
nomine diffiuita?, sed offerentium arbitrio derolicta;” (lie 
decint. et prim, iii, 30). They certainly bore the char- 
acter of free offerings, while the tithe — with the Jews 
always, since Moses’s time ; with the Christians at least 
since Charlemagne’s time — represents a strict right ; for, 
that the premices should not remain below the sixtieth 
part, and not exceed a fortieth of the complete harvest, 
is only an approximate indication, to be found in Jer- 
ome, Comment, in Ezech. c. xlvi. With the more gen- 
eral and stricter execution of the laws about the tithe, 
in the Cnrlovingian age, the premices disappeared, lit- 
tle by little, or were preserved only in part, and in a 
changed form. — Wetzer u. Welte, s. v. 

Primitive Christianity is the religion of the 
New Testament as first exemplified after the establish- 
ment of the new faith by that ecclesiastical organiza- 
tion called the Church, under State patronage. See 
PitlMiTiVH Ciiihcii. In distinction from this, we have 
apostolic Christianity, the period that immediately suc- 
ceeded the labors of the founder of the New-Testament 
dispensation. See Auostouc Cnrum ; Christianity. 

Primitive Church. An expression used to de- 
note the condition of the Church, as respects doctrine 
and discipline, in the early stages of its history. Though 
this term is employed with little precision by ecclesias- 
tical writers, it most frequently refers to the Church of 
the tirst three centuries. Sec Cih rcii. 

Primitive Doctrine. It is the opinion of some 
persons that there is a “primitive doctrine,” indepen- 
dent of Scripture, “ always to lie found somewhere in 
the Catholic traditions by which language, apparent- 
ly, they mean to teach that the whole doctrine of the 
Church is not to lie found in the Scriptures, nor yet in 
the writings of the early fathers; but they seem to sup- 
pose that some part of the oral teaching of the apostles 


might, though in an unwritten form, be yet in the pos- 
session of the Church, so that the Church might at any 
time declare a doctrine not opposed to Scripture, on what 
is called the unanimous consent of antiquity, to have 
come down by successive oral delivery from the apos- 
tles. The opponents of such views consider that they 
are incapable of abiding the test of sober examination, 
because it is not possible for us, at this distance of time 
from the days of the apostles, to know what they did 
or did not teach orally, or how far what they really did 
teach may not since have been corrupted. They con- 
tend, therefore, that to the ancient apostolical writings 
alone can we look for that which is without doubt to 
be regarded as ancient apostolical teaching. See Doc- 
think; Tradition. 

Primitive Methodist Connection is the 
name of a Wesleyan body of believers principally in 
England and the British colonies. 

During the first decade of the present century stirring 
reports floated across the Atlantic of the power of God 
marvellously displayed in the camp-meetings of Amer- 
ica. The practice of holding religious services in the 
open air had much declined among British Methodists, 
as in all the large towns and many of the villages they 
now had commodious chapels, and the tidings of pen- 
tecostal gatherings in Western forests renewed the 
memory of the days of Wesley and Whitclield. This 
renewed interest was increased by the visits of Lorenzo 
Dow to England and Ireland. On the threshold of this 
period, a young man of studious habits, named Hugh 
Bourne, was suffering intensely through an agonizing 
conviction of sin. From his sixth to his twenty-sixth 
year, he seldom went to bed without a dread of being 
in hell before morning ; and morning brought him 
no relief, for he thought he would be in hell before 
night, lie pursued his studies, year after year, with 
intense zeal, but nowhere in his learning did he find 
soring knowledge. In 1799, when twenty-seven years 
of age, there fell in his way a volume containing the 
Life of Fletcher, some of Wesley’s Sermons, Alleine’s 
A (arm, and Baxter’s Call to the Unconverted. In one 
of Wesley’s sermons he found “ more real light than in 
anything else he had ever read.” It taught him that 
“opinion is not. religion; . . . even right opinion is as 
distant from religion as east is from west.” The time 
of his redemption drew nigh. As he read Fletcher’s 
letters on the manifestation of the Son of God, light 
Hooded his soul, lie rapturously tells us, “I was born 
in an instant; yea, passed from death unto life. ... I 
was filled with joy, love, and glory, which made full 
amends for the twenty years’ suffering.” Soon after his 
conversion he joined the Wesleyans, and zealously 
sought the salvation of the rough lumbermen who were 
in his employment. On May 31, 1807, Mr. Bourne, as- 
sisted by Messrs. William Clowes, Thomas Cotton, and 
others afterwards prominent in the Primitive Methodist 
Connection, held a camp-meeting at Mow Cap, a moun- 
tain on the border-line between Staffordshire and Chesh- 
ire. Though the Connection did not really exist till 
three years later, this is looked upon as the initial point 
in its history, and its annalists delight to quote the 
lines, 

“The little cloud increases still 
Which first, begun upon Mow Hill.” 

The immediate spiritual results of this meeting more 
than equalled the hopes of its founders, ami during the 
following summer several meetings of a like character 
were held in the same neighborhood. The novelty of 
these proceedings roused much opposition among the 
Wesleyan Methodists, who feared the rise of a fanati- 
cism that might throw ridicule on true, religion ; and the 
preachers of the surrounding circuits issued handbills 
disclaiming all connection with the movement. At the 
next session of the Wesleyan Methodist Conference the 
following resolution was passed: “It is our judgment 
that, even supposing such meetings to be allowed in 
America, they are highly improper in England, and 


PRIMITIVE METH. CONNECTION 593 PRIMITIVE METII. CONNECTION 


likely to be productive of considerable mischief; and 
we disclaim all connection with them.” This declared 
judgment of the conference had naturally much weight 
with the societies in general, and most of the leading 
Methodists held aloof from the camp -meeting move- 
ment. Bourne and a few others, however, held on firm- 
ly, having their meetings recognised by civil authority, 
and taking precautions for preserving order. 

Matters now came to a crisis. The Church author- 
ities felt they could no longer bear with such contumacy, 
and Bourne and Clowes were expelled from the Connec- 
tion. The untrammelling of these men from Church 
bonds, so far from silencing them, had rather the effect 
of increasing their active zeal. At this time there 
lived in Cheshire an old man, named Janies Crawfoot, 
“noted as a man of extraordinary piety and faith.” He 
believed himself called to the ministry, and had prayed 
and watched for the leading of Providence. In 1809 
Hugh Bourne and his brother James hired him to preach 
in neglected places, for three months, at a salary of ten 
shillings a week. “ This is generally looked upon as the 
commencement of the Primitive Methodist ministry.” 
In the spring of 1810 several persons were converted in 
meetings held by Hugh Bourne, and formed into a 
class. “This class was offered to the Burslem Circuit 
(Wesleyan) ; but as they declined to accept them unless 
they pledged to sever their connection with Hugh 
Bourne, and as they respectfully declined acceding to 
this demand, their application was refused.” Bourne 
then took it under his charge as a distinct society, and 
the formation of this class may be considered the birth 
of the Connection. The camp-meeting agency was 
now more extensively employed, and numerous soci- 
eties were formed. In September, 1810, there were 10 
preachers, 13 preaching places, and 136 members. 
Next year the first general meeting was held, com- 
posed probably of preachers and leaders. This confer- 
ence resolved that money should in future be regularly 
collected in the societies, in order to meet the necessary 
expenses; “ and if this should prove insufficient, recourse 
should again be had to the benevolence of private individ- 
uals. The two travelling preachers, Messrs. Crawfoot and 
Clowes, were to receive their salaries from the societies, 
and Mr. James Steele was appointed the circuit stew- 
ard, the first officer of that kind in the Connection.” In 
1812 the Connection, then employing 23 preachers, for- 
mally took the title of Primitive Methodist, and two 
years later a comprehensive body of rules was for the 
first time adopted. From that time till the present the 
increase of the denomination has been very rapid, being 
from 1851 to 1872, in the 108 towns of Great Britain, 
over 108 per cent. 

The three following extracts, from John Angell 
James, Dr. Beaumont, and Dr. Campbell, respectively, 
explain the peculiar genius of this denomination : 

“In cottages, in barns, and in theatres; in public 
houses, in market-places, in streets, in lanes, and in fields, 
they (Primitive Methodist preachers) held meetings for 
prayer and exhortation. They were assailed by personal 
violence, and put in peril of their lives; but they perse- 
vered, in meekness and in gentleness, and have conquered 
by their passive power.” 

“The Primitive Methodists are a laborious, and not an 
idle community ; they are a plain, and not an artificial 
community; they are a useful community.” 

“Every day serves lint to confirm ns that it is less tal- 
ents, less cnltnre, less intelligence that is required than a 
thorongh knowledge of the Gospel— a perfect acquaint- 
ance with the Word of God— simplicity, affection, fervor, 
activity, tact, and flexibility, facility in adapting actions 
to circumstances, and such other things as these imply.” 

The latest statistics of the Connection are, 17,000 
ministers and local preachers, 10,000 class - leaders, 
59,000 Sunday-school teachers, and 180.000 Church 
members. They publish several periodicals. 

The doctrine of the Connection may be said to he 
identical with that of other Methodist churches. The 
form of Church government is substantially Presbyte- 
rian, but with a larger mixture of the lay clement than 
is found in Presbyterian or in other Methodist denomi- 
VIII. — P p 


nations. The official business is transacted by the lead- 
ers’ meeting, composed of the class-leaders, the society 
steward, and the travelling preachers of the circuit. No 
such meeting “ can be legally held without the presence 
of the minister or travelling preacher, extraordinary 
cases excepted.” As in other Methodist bodies, there 
are travelling and local preachers. The latter usually 
follow some worldly occupation for a maintenance, “ and 
preach on the Sabbath as opportunities permit, but re- 
ceive no pecuniary remuneration for their ser\ ices. 
They are chosen to their office by the representatives 
of the united societies to which they minister; and 
should their labors prove unacceptable to the people 
generally, their services are discontinued.” “In the 
transaction of the business of the circuit’s quarterly 
meeting, travelling and local preachers are equal.” Be- 
tween the quarterly meetings, the ordinary business of 
the circuit is transacted by the “circuit committee,” 
composed of such local preachers, class-leaders, or stew- 
ards as are appointed by the preceding quarterly meet- 
ing to represent the respective societies. The travelling 
preachers are ex-officio members of this court. Circuits 
are sometimes divided into branches, each having its 
own officials and its regular meetings for business, but 
subordinate to the quarterly meeting. “ Places visited 
through missionary labors, and united in one station, 
are called a ‘ mission,’ ” most of which are under the 
control of the general missionary committee. A “dis- 
trict” consists of a number of circuits, branches, and 
missions. Its court, called a “district meeting,” has an 
annual session. It is composed of one delegate from 
each circuit, the circuits sending a travelling preacher 
one year and a layman the two following years, so as 
to secure, as nearly as possible, two laymen to one trav- 
elling preacher. This meeting receives statistical re- 
ports of all the circuits, inquires into the state of each, 
and stations the travelling preachers within the dis- 
trict, “ subject, however, to appeals from the stations or 
preachers, and to alterations at conference.” 

“The ‘conference’ is a yearly meeting of delegates 
from all the districts in the Connection, of twelve per- 
manent members, and of four persons appointed ai the 
preceding conference, in the proportion of two laymen to 
one travelling preacher. This is the highest court in 
the Connection, from whose decisions there is no appeal.” 

A “general committee,” composed of ministers and 
laymen, holding its sessions in London, is appointed to 
transact the business of the Connection in the intervals 
of the sessions of conference. A district committee, 
subordinate to the general committee, is appointed for 
each district, and adjudicates on certain cases submitted 
to its examination by the stations within the district. 

The Connection is represented in the U nitecl States 
by two Conferences, Eastern and Western, having, for 
the last six years, only fraternal relations with the par- 
ent Conference in Great Britain. There are also sepa- 
rate conferences in Canada, Australia, and New Zea- 
land, strictly associated with England. The statistics 
for the American Conferences for 1876 are as follows: 



Members. 

On Trial. 

j Ministers. ' 

Local Preachers. 

Churches, etc. | 

& 

l 

Value of 

Church Property. 

Eastern 

1124 

3S4 

16 

92 

44 

33 

$131,700 

Western .... 

1452 

112 

15 

97 

77 

44 

50,750 

Total — 

2570 

490 

31 

1S9 

j 121 

77 

l$188,450 


The Connection lias its full share ofMethodistic zea 
in foreign missions. From the report of 1876 we glean 
the following statistics : Missionaries. Members. 


Canada 75 (No returns.) 

Australia 24 1406 

New Zealand 10 G42 

Queensland 6 317 

New South Wflles 17 939 

Africa 4 104 

Native Missionaries 3 


594 


PRINCE 


PRIMITIVE WESLEYAN 


The foreign work is chiefly in British colonies and among 
English-speaking people.' The missionary income for 
the year was £45, 'J3 1. The most striking peculiarities 
of the Connection arc— 1st, the vast amount of unpaid 
labor performed by laymen; 2d, the influence of the 
laitv in Church government; 3d, the devoted and zeal- 
ous attention paid to the lower classes. In the United 
States, also, the Primitive Methodist Connection has 
established itself, and lias, especially near the borders 
of Canada and in the Eastern States, gained a strong 
footing, so that the American Church is about of equal 
strength with the Canadian. They support a paper 
called the Primitive Methodist and the Christian Pa- 
triot , a semi-monthly journal. See Petty, History of 
the Primitive Methodist Connection ; Church, History 
of the Primitive Methodists (3d ed., revised and en- 
larged); Herod, Sketches of Primitive Methodist Preach- 
ers: Memorial of the Centenary of Hugh Bourne; Bar- 
ran. Gallery of Deceased Ministers; A r tides by Kev. 
W. II. Varrow, in Primitive Methodist Record for 1877. 
(G. C.J.) 

Primitive Wesleyan Methodist Chlrcii of 
Ireland. This body was formed in 181G. and was the 
result of a division in the Wesleyan Methodist Connec- 
tion in Ireland. In that year the Irish Conference, by 
a majority of thirty-six in a house of eighty-eight, re- 
solved to authorize the preachers of the Connection to 
administer the sacraments. As a result of this decision, 
most of the minority separated from the parent body, 
and, being followed by a large section of the lay mem- 
bers, organized the Primitive Wesleyan Methodist Con- 
nection. Until a few years ago they did not assume to 
be a Church, but merely a society composed of mem- 
bers of the Established Church of Ireland. The great 
changes produced by the disendowment and disestab- 
lishment of this Church in 1870, together with an in- 
creasing desire in the society for the administration of 
the sacraments at the hands of iheir own preachers, led 
to a complete change in the constitution of the body, 
and the members have now the option of partaking of 
the ordinances from their own ministers in their churches. 
The statistics printed in the Conference minutes of 
187G are, 58 effective ministers. 13 superannuates, 144 
churches, and 7518 members of society. An annual 
missionary income of $15,000 in gold is devoted to the 
support of the ministers on the poorer circuits. Over 
$75,000 in gold is invested as a fund for the support of 
superannuated ministers. Negotiations are at present in 
progress to effect a union with the Wesleyan Methodist 
Church of Ireland, the constitution of the two churches 
being now almost identical. (G. C. J.) 

Primogeniture (denoted in lleb. by rrvr2; 
Sept. irpmroToKia, Gen. xxv, 31, 34; xxvii, 26; Dent, 
xxi, 17 ; 1 Chron. v, 1 ; in the New Test, only in lleb. 
xii, 16; A. V. “birthright”). Ilpwrdrofcoc, always 
rendered “ first-born” in the English version, is found 
in the Sept, in Gen. iv, 4; Dent, xxi, 17, and several 
other passages of the Old Test., as the representative 
of the Hebrew V.-S, signifying “one who openeth the 
womb," whether an only child, or whether other chil- 
dren follow. “ Primogenitus est, non post quern alii, 
sed ante quern nullus alius gen it us 1 ’ (Parens). Ilpwrd- 
toko(j is found nine times in the New Test. — viz. Matt, 
i, 25 (if the passage be genuine, and not introduced 
from the parallel passage in Luke); Luke ii, 7 ; Bom. 
viii, 29; Col. i, 15, 18; lleb. i, 6; xi, 28; xii. 23; Bov. 
i, 5. Except in the Gospels, and lleb. xi, 28, the 
word always bears a metaphorical sense in the New 
Test., being generally synonymous with heir or lord , 
and having, in lleb. i, 6, an especial reference to our 
Lord’s Messianic dignity. In lleb. xii, 23, “the as- 
sembly of the first-born,” it seems to be synonymous 
with “elect,” or “dearly beloved," in which sense it is 
also used on one occasion in the Old Test. (Jer. xxxi, 9). 


In the 4th century, llelvidius among the Latins, and 
Eunomius among the Greeks, wished to attach a sig- 
nirication to irpum'iTOKog, in Matt, i and Luke ii, differ- 
ent from the Old-Test, usage, maintaining, in order to 
support their hypothesis — viz. that Joseph and Mary 
had children after the birth of our Lord — that the 
word -puj-uToicoc, by reason of its etymology, could 
not be applied to an only child. Jerome replied to the 
former by appealing to the usage of the word in the Old 
Test. (A dv. Helvid. in Matt, i, 9). The assertion of 
Eunomius was equally refuted by the Greek fathers 
Basil ( Horn . in A ’at.), Theophylact (in Luc. ii), and 
Damascenus (De Fid. Orthod. 1. iv). In reference to 
this controversy, Drnsius (Ad dijjicilioru luca yum. 
c. G) observes: “Sic sane Christus vocatur Ilpwroro- 
KQQ y licet mater ejus nullos alios postea liberos habu- 
erit. Notet hoc juventus propter Helvidium, qui ex 
ea voce inferebat Mariam ex Josepho post Christum 
natum plures tilios suscepisse.” “Those entitled to the 
prerogative” (viz. of birthright), observes Campbell 
(On the Gospels), “were invariably denominated the 
first-born, whether the parents had issue afterwards or 
not.” Eunomius further maintains, from Col. i, 15, that 
our Lord was “a creature ;” but his arguments were re- 
plied to by Basil and Theophylact. Some of the fa- 
thers referred this passage to Christ's pre-existence, 
others to his baptism. In Isa. xiv, 30, the “first-born 
of the poor” signifies the poorest of all; and in Job 
xviii, 13, the “first-born of death” means the most ter- 
rible of deaths. — Kitfo. It is noteworthy that in our 
Lord’s genealogy the line is frequently carried through 
a younger son (Seth, Shem, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Ju- 
dah, David, .Solomon, Nathan, etc.). .See Fiusr-noux. 

Fiimum Mobile, the primitive movable element, 
is, in its proper signification, the original matter of the 
world (prima materia). The ancients understood by it 
the exterior hollow sphere which was supposed to in- 
clude and put in motion the remainder of the universe 
(fixed stars and planets): a quite arbitrary supposition. 
Brimal mover would be the principle of all motion, or 
the first moving cause. According to Aristotle, this 
cause is God, who, while motionless himself, puts all the 
rest in motion, and is therefore called by the philoso- 
pher ro TrpuiTov Kii’ovv. See Aristotle, Phys. viii, 5 ; 
De yener at. et corrupt, i, 7 : ii, 7. 

Prince is the rendering of several lleb. and Gr. 
words in the A. V. 

1. Bar, “w (from “j'J, to rule, to hare dominion; 
Sept. dp\(t)y ; Vulg. princeps), the chief of any class, the 
master of a company, a prince or noble : used of Pha- 
raoh’s chief butler and baker (Gen. xl. 2 sq.): of the 
taskmasters set over the Israelites in Egypt (Exod. i, 
11); even of chief herdsmen (Gen. xlvii. 6). It is fre- 
quently used for military commanders (Exod. xviii, 21 
[“rulers”]; 2 Kings i, 9 [“captain”]; Isa. iii, 3, etc.), 
and for princes both supreme and subordinate (l Sam. 
xxix, 3; Job xxix, 1,9; Isa. xlix, 7 ; Jer. Ii, 59, etc.). 
In Dan. viii, 11 God is called 5*311" “1* (Bar hats- 
tsaba), Prince of the host; and in vcr. 25 the title **3J 
(Bar sarim), Prince of princes, is applied to 
the Messiah. The “priuces of the provinces" (*“‘£* 
r*:“T£Sl, sarey ham-medindth, 1 Kings xx. 11) were 
probably the district magistrates who had taken refuge 
in Samaria during the invasion of Benhadnd. and their 
“young men” were their attendants, Tzandput. pedis- 
sequi (Thcnins, Ewald. Grsch. iii, 495). Josephus says, 
t not nbv t)y(p6v<ov (A nt. viii, M. 2). There is a pecul- 
iar sense in which the term “prince” is used bv the 
prophet Daniel: thus, “Prince of the kingdom oi' Per- 
sia” (x, 13), “Michael your prince" (ver. 21). In these 
passages the term probably means a tutelary angel; 
and the doctrine of tutelary angels of different countries 
seems to he countenanced by several passages of Scrip- 
ture (Zecli. iii, 1 ; vi, 5; Jude 9; Ilev. xii, 7). Michael 
and Gabriel were probably the tutelary angels of the 


PRINCE 


595 


PRINCE 


Jews. These names do not occur in any books of the 
Old Test, that were written before the captivity; and 
it is suggested by some that they were borrowed from 
the Clialdasans, with whom and the Persians the doc- 
trine of the general administration and superintendence 
of angels over empires and provinces was commonly re- 
ceived. See Angel. 

2. Nagid, T’Sa (from to be in front , to precede ; 
Sept, dpxwv or r)yo vptvog ; Vulg. dux), one who has 
the precedence, a leader, or chief, used of persons set over 
any undertaking, superintending any trust, or invested 
with supreme power (1 Kings xiv, 7 ; Psa. lxxvi, 13; 1 
Chron. xxvi, 24 [“ruler”]; 1 Sam. ix, 16 [“captain”], 
etc.). In Dan. ix, 25 it is applied to the Messiah ; and 
in xi, 22 to Ptolemy Philometor, king of Egypt. 

3. Nadib, (from 11*^3, which in Hithp. signifies 
to volunteer, to offer voluntarily or spontaneously ; chiefly 
in poetry; Sept. dpxiou ; Vulg. princeps ), generous, 
noble-minded, noble by birth (1 Sain, ii, 8; Psa. xlvii, 10; 
cvii,40; cxiii, 8; cxviii, 9; Prov. xxvii, 7, etc.). This 
word is the converse of the preceding; T’iS means 
primarily a chief, and derivatively what is morally no- 
ble, excellent (viii, 6) ; means primarily what is 
morally noble, and derivatively one who is noble by 
birth or position. 

4. Nasi, X^ ; 333 (from to lift up, Niph. to be ele- 

vated ; Sept, apxiov, ijyovptvog, i)ytpwv, fiaaiAtvg ; 
Vulg. princeps, dux), one exalted; used as a general 
term for princes, including kings (1 Kings xi, 24 ; Ezek. 
xii, 10, etc.), heads of tribes or families (Numb, i, 44; 
iii, 24 [A. V. “chief”]; vii, 10; xxxiv, 18; Gen. xvii, 
20; 1 Chron. vii, 40, etc.). In the A. V. it is often ren- 
dered “ ruler” or “captain.” In Gen. xxiii, 6 Abraham 
is addressed by the sons of Ileth as JO'333 (nasi 

Elohim), a prince of God, i. e. constituted, and conse- 
quently proreeted, by God [A. V. “ mighty prince”]. 
This word appears on the coins of Judas Maceabasus 
(Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 917). 

5. Nasik, (from to pour out, anoint ; Sept. 
dpx<nv ; Vulg. princeps ; Psa. lxxxiii, 1 1 ; Ezek. xxxii, 
30; Dan. xi, 5; “duke,” Josh, xiii, 8; “principal,” 
Mic. v, 5). 

6. Katsin, *pjJp (from to cut, to decide ; Sept. 

dpxriyog, cipxoiv ; Vulg. princeps ; Prov. xxv, 15; Dan. 
xi, 18; Mic. iii, 1, 9; elsewhere “captain,” “guide,” 
“ ruler”). 

7. Rab, (usually an adj. “great; Sept, apywr, 

gyffimf, Vulg. optimus ); only occasional; but used in 
compounds, e. g. Rab-mag, Rab-saris (q. v.). So its 
Chald. reduplicature Rubrebdn, i n the plur. 

(Dan. v, 2, 3; elsewhere “lords”). 

8. Rozcn, ’j'H (participle of "|j “i, to ride ; Sept, cra- 
rpa~i]c, cvvd(TTt]C ; Vulg. pi'inceps, legnni conditor), a 
poetical word (Judg. v. 3; Prov. viii, 15; xxxi, 4; Isa. 
xl, 23 ; Hab. i, 10 : “ ruler,” Psa. ii, 2). 

9. Shalish, 'd’’Vl3 (apparently from ‘331 three ; 
only Ezek. xxiii, 13; elsewhere “captain” [q. v.]). 

10. Achashdarpenayd (Chald. plur. Si' 3 3^ ’33 HX, 
Dan. iii, 2, 3, 27; vi, 1-7; Sept, vvaroi), a Persian 
word. Those mentioned in Dan. vi, 1 (see Esth. i, 1) 
were the predecessors, either in fact or in place, of the 
satraps of Darius Hystaspis (Herod, iii, 89). See Sa- 
trap. 

11. Chashmannim, 3 '3 "3 '33 p (plur. literally rich, only 
in Psa. lx viii, 13). 

12. Segen, jap (a Persian word, used only in the plur. 
Isa. xi, 25 ; elsewhere “ rulers”). 

13. Partemim, only in the plur. (another 

Persian word, Dan. i, 3 ; elsewhere “ rulers”). 

14. "Apxojv, which in the Sept, appears as the ren- 
dering of all the Hebrew words above cited, in the New 
Test, is used of earthly princes (Matt, xx, 25; 1 Cor. ii, 


6), of Jesus Christ (Rev. i, 5), and of Satan (Matt, ix, 

34; xii, 24; Mark iii, 22; John xii, 31; xiv, 30; xvi, 

11 ; Eph. ii, 2). On the phrase “prince of the power 
of the air” in this last passage, see Air. 

15. ’Apxyyog, which in Theodotion is the rendering 
of X“' , 333 (Numb. xiii. 3 ; xvi, 2) ; and in the Sept, is 
the rendering of “i ; 33 (Judg. v, 15; Xeh. ii, 9; Isa. xxx. 

4), in the New Test, is applied only to our Lord (Acts 
iii, 15; v, 31; Heb. ii, 10 [A. V. “captain”]; xii, 2 
[A.V. “author”]). 

16. 'Hyepwv is used (Matt, ii, 6) in a general sense 
for a chief or ruler. See Governor; King; Ruler. 

Prince, John (1), an English divine, was born at 
Axminster, Devonshire, in 1643; was educated at Bra- \ 
zenose College, Oxford, and became successively curate 
of Bideford, minister of St. Martin’s Church, Exeter, 
vicar of Totnes, and vicar of Beriy-Pomeroy. He died 
in 1723. He published, Sermons (Lond. 1674, 4to) 

The Beauty of God's House, a Discourse on Psa. Ixxxir, 

1 (1710, 4to) : — Danimonii Orientates Illustres (1810, 4to) : 

— Sermons on Psa. cxxxvi, 1 (1722, 8vo). 

Prince, John (2), an American minister of the 
Congregational Church, was born at Boston, Mass., in 
1751 ; was educated at Harvard College, where he grad- 
uated in 1776; was ordained minister of the Congrega- 
tional Church in Salem, Mass., in 1779, and retained 
that post until his death in 1836. He published, Fast 
Sermon (Salem, 1798) : — Sermon before a Charitable 
Society (1806) ’.Sermon on the Death of Dr. Barnard 
(1814): — Sermon before the Bible Society (1816). See 
Sprague, A muds of the Amer. Pulpit, viii, 128 sq.; and 
for other references, Allibone, Diet. Brit, and Amer. 
Auth. s. v. 

Prince, Nathan, an American clergyman of the 
Church of England, -was a native of Massachusetts, and 
was born about the beginning of the last century. He 
was educated at Harvard College, where he graduated 
in 1719, in 1723 was made a tutor in his alma mater, in 
1727 fellow, and held that honor until 1742. Subse- 
quently he took orders in the Church of England, was 
sent as a missionary to the Mosquitos, and died in the 
island of Ruatan, Bay of Honduras, in 1748. Dr. Chaun- 
eey, in his Sketches of Eminent Men in New England, 
says that “Prince deserves a place among the great 
men in this country.” He is the author of an Essay to 
Solve the Difficulties attending the several Accounts given 
of the Resurrection, etc. (Boston, 1734, 4to). See Elliot, 
Biog. Diet. p. 393. n. ; Report of the Mass. Hist. Society, 
x, 165; Pieree, Hist, of Harvard University, p. 191-196; 
Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. A uth. s. v. 

Prince, Thomas (1), an American Congrega- 
tional minister, was born May 15, 1687, at Sandwich, 
Mass. He graduated at Harvard College in 1707, and 
after travelling for some years in Europe, during which 
time he preached in England and was invited to take a 
station, he returned home in 1717, and was ordained, 
Oct. 1, 1718, colleague pastor of the Rev. Joseph Sewall 
at the Old South Church, Boston, where he remained 
until his death, Oct. 22, 1758. He was an eminent 
preacher, for his sermons were rich in thought, perspic- 
uous, and devotional, and he inculcated the doetrines 
and duties of religion as one who felt their importance. 

In private life he was amiable and exemplary. It was 
his constant endeavor to imitate the perfect example of 
his Master and Lord. He was ready to forgive injuries 
and return good for evil. He published, An Account 
of the First Appearance of the Aurora Borealis: — A 
Chronological Ilistory of New England in the Form o f 
Annals (1736) : — Ditto , vol. ii, Nos. 1, 2, 3 (1755) : — Ac- 
count of the English Ministers on Martha's Vineyard 
(1749) : - — .In Improvement of the Doctrine of Earth- 
quakes, containing an Historical Summary of the most 
remarkable Earthquakes of New England (1755) : — The 
New England Psalm-book, revised and improved (1756): 

— and a number of occasional Sermons; besides which 


PRINCE 


596 


PRIOIi 


there were six Sermons published from his MSS. by Dr. | 
Erskine, of Edinburgh (17*5); and twenty-nine single 
Sermons which Prince published from 1717 to 1750. 
For an extended notice of his publications, see Sewall, 
Funeral Discourse. A large portion of his most valua- 
ble library is now in the I lost on Public Library. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, i, 30-1; Allibone, 
Dirt, of Bril, and .1 nun’. A nthors, s. v. 

Prince, Thomas (2), an American writer and ed- 
itor, son of the preceding, was born in 1722, and was 
educated at Harvard College, where he graduated in 
1740. lie edited the earliest American periodical. The 
Christian History , containing Accounts of the Revival 
and Propagation of Religion in (Jreat Britain, and 
America for 1713 (Boston, 1744-45, 2 veils. 8vo). which 
was published weekly, lie died in 17 IS. See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and .4 mer. .1 uthors, s. v. 

Frinceps Sacerdotum (chief of priests'). This 
is a title sometimes applied by Tertullian, Augustine, 
and others to a bishop, but used in the same sense as 
urchiepiscopns. pontife x masimus, that is, high -priest. 
See Bishop; Pkikst. 

Princess (rP’J, surah) occurs but seldom in the 
Scriptures (1 Kings xi, 3; Lam. i, 1; elsewhere ‘-lady.” 
See also Sakaii); but the persons to whom it alludes, 
the daughters of kings, are frequently mentioned, and 
often with some reference to the splendor of their ap- 
parel. Thus we read of Tamar's "garment of divers 
colors” (2 Sam. xiii, 18). and the dress of the Egyptian 
princess, the wife of Solomon, is described as “raiment 
of needlework,” and “clothing of wrought gold” (Psa. 
xlv, 13, 14). See Embroidery. 

Princeton Theology. See Presbyterianism ; 
TlIEOMKiY, 

Principalities and Powers. See Power. 

Pringle, Francis, a minister of the Associate 
Presbyterian Church, was a native of Ireland, and was 
born about the year 1750. He came to this country 
some time near the close of the last century, and died 
in New York City in 1833. lie preached a Sermon on 
the Qualifications and Duties of the Ministers of Christ 
before the Associate Synod of Ireland (179(5), which 
was published in Ireland and America; and a sermon 
of bis on Prayer for the Prosperity of Zion appeared in 
the Religions Monitor after his death. See Sprague, 
Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , ix, 04 sq. 

Pringle, Sir John, a Scotch philosopher and phy- 
sician, was born in Boxhnrghshire in 1707. lie settled 
in Edinburgh about 1731, and after 1718 resided in 
London, where he distinguished himself greatly, and 
became president of the Loyal Society in 1773. He 
was for a time professor of pneumatology and ethical 
philosophy in Edinburgh University. He died in 1782. 
He divided pneumatics into the following parts: 1. A 
physical inquiry into the nature of such subtle and ma- 
terial substances as are imperceptible to the senses, and 
known only from their operations. 2. The nature of 
immaterial substances connected with matter, in which 
is demonstrated, by natural evidence, the immortality 
of the human soul. 3. The nature of immaterial cre- 
ated beings not connected with matter. 4. Natural 
theology, or the existence and attributes of God demon- 
strated from the light of nature. Ethics, or moral phi- 
losophy, he divided into the theoretical and practical 
parts, iu treating of which the authors he chiclly uses 
are Cicero, Marcus Antonius, Pufl'endorf, and lord Ba- 
con. Carlyle describes him as “an agreeable lecturer, 
though no master of the science he taught.” “His 
lectures were chiefly a compilation from lord Bacon’s 
works; and had it not been lor Puttendorfs small hook, 
which he made his text, we should not have been in- 
structed in the rudiments of the science.” Neverthe- 
less, we see that he discussed topics which must issue, 
sooner or later, in a scientific jurisprudence and politi- 
cal economy. See M'Cosh, Scottish Philosophy , p. 109. 


Pringle, William, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Perth, Scotland, in 1790. 1 1 is parents paid 

great attention to his early culture, and, after a success- 
ful study at the best schools and at the Academy in 
Perth, he finished his collegiate studies at the Univer- 
sity of Edinburgh. He then studied medicine, and, as 
soon as admitted to practice, emigrated to Canada; but, 
concluding not to practice, lie returned to Scotland, 
studied theology in Glasgow under the Lev. John Dick, 
D.D., was licensed April 15, 1*23, and entered upon his 
labors as a probationer, and as such preached for some 
time iu Scotland, when he again left his native land, 
and came to the United States in the year 1827, ancl 
soon after joined the Associate Presbytery of Cambridge. 
In June, 1830, be was ordained ami installed pastor of 
the Associate Congregation of Byegate,.Yt. He labored 
faithfully in behalf of this bis only charge, and when 
bis health failed him he resigned. June 21, 1852, after a 
ministry of twentv-two years, lie died Dec. 14, 1858. 
Mr. Pringle was a good writer, and some of his sermons 
bear marks of scholarly attainments. He was engaged 
during the last few years of his life upon a work called 
The Cosmography of Scripture. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac, 18150, p. 159. (J. L. S.) 

Prior, Prioress, are. according to the constitution 
of several ecclesiastical orders, the heads of their mon- 
asteries and nunneries. The prior is either the first or 
sole authority in the monastery, or he is subordinated, 
as second leader, to a higher oflicer of the same monas- 
tery, the abbot (q. v.). The latter ease happens when 
the abbot makes use ofliis right to appoint in his place 
an assistant, a temporary vicar (q. v.), who is trusted 
with part of the prelate’s attributes. Sometimes the 
statutes of the order prescribe that the prior shall he, 
as the second bead of the monastery, elected by the 
members, they assigning him a power of his own, 
more or less independent (De Stat. Almost, iii, 35). In 
other orders, as in that of the Benedictines, and even 
in some regular congregations, we find only one, or a 
( few, principal monasteries — the mother abbeys, to which 
the others owe their origin, or whose subsequent reform 
they have adopted— subject to the direction of abbots 
or predates, i. e. local superiors of the first rank, while 
the inferior monasteries are administered by priors: the 
latter exercise the regular jurisdiction over the monks, 
and are bound only in important matters to obtain the 
consent of the prelate of the mother abbey. The same 
distinction subsists in the nunneries. — Wetzcr u. Welle, 
K irchen-Lex. s. v. 

Prior, Matthew, an English poet, writer of verse 
both sacred and profane, whose period of authorship was 
contemporary with the last years of Dryden and the 
earliest stage of Pope, was possessed of little vigor or 
originality, but was remarkable for bis skill in versifi- 
cation and his gay and easy grace of imagery and dic- 
tion. His occasional epigrams, and his lively but in- 
decent tales, are bis best productions; though there is 
merit, also, iu bis semi-metaphysical poem Alma, or the 
Progress of the Soul, and in bis attempt at religious 
poetry in Solomon, a work which lias been compared 
to Pope’s Essay on Man. It was greatly preferred to 
Pope’s poem by John Wesley, because more consistent 
with the orthodox theory of human corruption. The 
design is certainly more poetical, because less tending 
to the argumentative; though the inferior execution 
has prevented Prior from attaining the occasional suc- 
cess which redeems parts of Pope’s poem from oblivion. 
Prior’s poems were only the recreations of a man active- 
ly engaged in public life. I le was born in 115(54, and was 
the sou of a joiner in London. Accident having direct- 
ed the attention of lord Dorset to the boy’s studious 
habits, education was procured for him ; and, on leaving 
Oxford, he distinguished himself, under the government 
of king William, as a dexterous diplomatist in several 
foreign missions. Deserting his political party, like so 
many men of higher rank in that slippery time, he 


PRIORY 


597 


PRISCILLIAN 


shared, in the latter part of his life, the vicissitudes and 
dangers of the Tories. He lived till 1721. See the ex- 
cellent article in Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v., and the references there given, (J. II. W.) 

Priory is a religious house occupied by a society of 
monks or nuns, the chief of whom is termed a prior (q.v.) 
or prioress ; and of these there are two sorts : tirst, where 
the prior is chosen by the convent, and governs as in- 
dependently as any abbot in his abbey; such were the 
cathedral priors, and most of those of the Augustine or- 
der. Secondly, where the priory is a cell subordinate 
to some great abbey, and the prior is placed or displaced 
at the will of the abbot. There was a considerable dif- 
ference ill the regulation of these cells in the mediteval 
times; for some were altogether subject to their respec- 
tive abbots, who sent what officers and monks they 
pleased, and took their revenues into the common stock 
of the abbeys; while others consisted of a stated num- 
ber of monks, under a prior sent to them from the su- 
perior abbey; and those priories paid a pension yearly, 
as an acknowledgment of their subjection, but acted in 
other matters as independent bodies, and bad the rest 
of the revenues for their own use. The priories or cells 
were always of the same order as the abbeys on which 
they depended, though sometimes their inmates were 
of a different sex; it being usual, after the Norman Con- 
quest, for the great abbeys to build nunneries on some of 
their manors, which should be subject to their visitation. 

Alien priories were cells, or small religious houses, in 
one country dependent on large foreign monasteries. 
When manors or tithes were given to distant religious 
houses, the monks, either to increase the authority of 
their own order, or perhaps rather to have faithful stew- 
ards of their revenues, built convenient houses for the 
reception of small fraternities of their body, who were 
deputed to reside at and govern those cells. — Hook, s. v. 
In the fourth year of Henry V, during the war with 
France, all the alien priories (that is, those cells of the 
religious houses in England which belonged to foreign 
monasteries) which were not conventual were dissolved 
by act of Parliament and granted to the crown. About 
the year 1540 the cathedrals founded for priories were 
turned into deaneries and prebends. — Eden, s. v. 

Pris'ca (2 Tim. iv, 19). See Priscilla. 

Frisciria (UpiaKiWa, dim. from Prisca, Lat. an- 
cient), the wife of Aqnila, and probably, like Phoebe, a 
deaconess. She shared the travels, labors, and dangers 
of her husband, and is always named along with him 
(Korn, xvi, 3; 1 Cor. xvi, 19; 2 Tim. iv, 19), A.I). 
55-64. The name is Prisca (llpur/ta) in 2 Tim. iv, 19, 
and (according to the true reading) in Rom. xvi, 3, and 
also (according to some of the best 3ISS.) in 1 Cor. xvi, 
19. Such variation in a Roman name is by no means 
unusual. We find that the name of the wife is placed 
before that of the husband in Rom. xvi, 3 ; 2 Tim. iv, 
19, and (according to some of the best MSS.) in Acts 
xviii, 26. It is only in Acts xviii, 2 and 1 Cor. xvi, 19 
that Aquila has unequivocally the first place. Hence 
we should be disposed to conclude that Priscilla was 
the more energetic character of the two; and it is par- 
ticularly to be noticed that she took part, not only in 
her husband’s exercise of hospitality, but likewise in 
the theological instruction of Apoilos. Yet we observe 
that the husband and the wife are always mentioned 
together. In fact, we may say that Priscilla is the ex- 
ample of what the married woman may do, for the gen- 
eral service of the Church, in conjunction with home 
duties, as Phoebe is the type of the unmarried servant 
of the Church, or deaconess. Such female ministration 
was of essential importance in the state of society in the 
midst of which the earW Christian communities were 
formed. The remarks of archdeacon Evans on the po- 
sition of Timothy at Ephesus are very just. “In his 
dealings with the female part of his flock, which, in 
that time and country, required peculiar delicacy and 
discretion, the counsel of the experienced Priscilla would 


be invaluable. Where, for instance, could he obtain 
more prudent and faithful advice than hers in the se- 
lection of widows to be placed upon the eleemosynary 
list of the Church, and of deaconesses for the ministry?” 
(Script. Biog. ii, 298). It seems more to our purpose 
to lay stress on this than on the theological learning of 
Priscilla. Yet Winer mentions a monograph De Pris- 
cilla, Aquilie uxore, tamquam feininarum e gente Juda- 
icd eruditarum specimine, by G. G. Zeltner (Altorf, 1709). 
— Smith. See Aquila. 

Friscillian, the noted originator or propagator of a 
heretical body of Christians who bore his name, was the 
first heretic who was executed after the establishment 
of Christianity by the Roman state. He was a native of 
the Iberian peninsula, and of noble birth. He flour- 
ished in the second half of the 4tli century, possessed 
much wealth, had great reputation for learning, and 
was generally revered for his severe austerity. What 
his early occupation was is uot known. He first figures 
in history as the propagator of the heretical dogmas 
which a certain Egyptian called Marcus, from Mem- 
phis, came to Spain to teach there. Priscillian, by his 
personal influence, succeeded in spreading the heresy 
of Marcus all over Spain, making a number of prose- 
lytes of the female sex, convincing many priests, and 
even some bishops; among others, two bishops, Instan- 
tius and Salvianus, who became zealous defenders of 
the imported doctrines, which were substantially those 
of the Maniclaeans (q. v.). He taught expressly the 
Dualism and the Docetism of that sect, and it is charged 
that he adopted the strictest ascetic austerities in regard 
to celibacy, etc., by which they had rendered themselves 
obnoxious even to the civil authorities in the East and 
in Africa. There is some doubt as to the precise doc- 
trines whieli Priscillian taught. As reported, his dog- 
mas are a strange mixture of Gnostic and Manichtean 
absurdities combined with allegorical interpretations 
and mystical rhapsodies. He was also Sabellian in 
tendency in his rejection of a personal distinction in 
the Godhead, for he denied the reality of Christ’s birth 
and incarnation. Among other things, he maintained 
that the visible universe was not the production of the 
Supreme Deity, but of some demon or malignant prin- 
ciple who derived his origin from chaos or darkness; he 
adopted the doctrine of aeons, or emanations from the di- 
vine nature; he considered human bodies as compound- 
ed according to the twelve signs of the zodiac, and as 
prisons formed bi r the author of evil to enslave the 
mind ; he also condemned marriage, and denied the res- 
urrection of the body. The rule of life and manners 
which the Priscillianists adopted was so rigid and se- 
vere that the charges of dissolute conduct brought 
against them by their enemies appear to be ground- 
less. That they were guilty of dissimulation, and 
deceived their adversaries by cunning stratagems in 
order to accomplish what they deemed a sacred pur- 
pose, is true. Their doctrine was, according to St. Au- 
gustine, that deception is allowed to hide one’s faith, 
and to simulate Catholic belief (“jura, perjura, secretnm 
prodere noli”). Neander (Ch. llist. ii, 71 1) observes that 
the reproach of immorality rests on insufficient proofs. 
It is, however, a fact that at least a part of the Pris- 
cillianists were addicted to unnatural turpitudes, to 
which such a system must logically lead ; but there is 
no evidence that they avowed that lying and perjury 
were lawful under all circumstances. 

The bishop Hyginus of Cordova was the first to en- 
ter the lists against this heresy, and he strove, although 
without success, to gain back to the orthodox Church 
the bishops Instantius and Salvianus. Hyginus ap- 
prised Idacius, the bishop of Merida, of the Priscillianic 
disorders; but the hot-blooded zeal of this prelate was 
still more unsuccessful, and so were the efforts of all the 
other Catholic bishops. The boldness of the heretics 
increased every day, and bishop Hyginus himself, dis- 
pleased with the severe measures inaugurated against 
them, became their protector. To arrest their progress, 


PIUSCILLIAX 


59S 


PKISCILLIAX 


a synod was held in October. 380, at Saragossa, to 
which Instantius, Salvianus, Flpidius, and Priscillian 
were also invited. The heresiarchs tailed to appear. 
The synod condemned their doctrines and resolved 
upon measures to stop their expansion. Catholic 
women were prohibited from attending the Priscillian- 
ist meetings; lasting on Sundays was interdicted; the 
anathema was launched against such as stayed from 
Church during the forty days of Lent and the three 
weeks of Epiphany, or received the Eucharist in the 
Church without partaking at once of the sacrament: 
the same penalty was pronounced against those who 
should assume the name and functions of teachers with- 
out episcopal approbation ; and every clerk who should, 
out of pride and vanity, clothe himself in the mouas- 
tical garment, was put under ban. The execution of 
the decrees against Priscillianists was committed to the 
bishop Ithacius of Sosuba. Xo worse choice could pos- 
sibly have been made, lie was a mere voluptuary, and 
utterly destitute of all sense for spiritual things. 

Excluded from the Church, the Priscillianists now' 
took more decided measures for establishing them- 
selves. and they had the boldness even to cause the 
consecration of Priscillian as their bishop of Avilla by 
the bishops Instantius and Salvianus. Of course, by 
this step the Spanish Catholic prelates were greatly 
imbittcrcd, and the Idacius above mentioned, together 
with Ithacius, bishop of Ossonova, who is represented 
by Sulpicins Sevcrus as a troublesome zealot, were de- 
spatched to the emperor Gratian for the purpose of ob- 
taining an order of banishment against Priscillian, In- 
stantius, anil Salvianus. Gratian having issued the 
rescript thus demanded, the three heresiarchs repaired 
to Home, in order to vindicate themselves before pope 
Damasus. Put the pope refused to justify them. Sal- 
vianus died at Home, and his two companions went 
to Milan, where they tried, as unsuccessfully, to per- 
suade St. Ambrose of their innocence. However, they 
succeeded in bribing an intluential functionary (magi- 
ster olliciorum) named Maccdonins, who obtained for 
them an imperial decree which allowed them to return 
to Spain and take possession of their sees, and ordered 
Volvcntius, vicar of Spain, to examine further into the 
matter. Priscillian ami Instantius returned to Spain, 
as in triumph; ami Ithacius, now in turn accused as 
a disturber of the public peace, was driven out of 
Spain. The latter was even on the very point of being 
arrested in Treves, where he had established himself, 
and of being transported back to the peninsula for trial, 
when things assumed, under the usurping emperor 
Maximus, a different aspect. As soon as this new 
t.’iesar arrived at Treves, Ithacius appeared before him 
against tbe Priscillianists. Maximus, who desired the 
whole matter to be disposed of as a purely ecclesiastical 
affair, ordered a synod to be bold, in 3*1, at Bordeaux, 
to which the heresiarchs were summoned. Instantius 
was deposed by the vote of the assembly, and Priscil- 
lian, foreseeing a similar fate, tried to prevent it by ap- 
pealing to the emperor. This step was the cause of his 
ruin. The emperor now took the matter in hand: 
Priscillian and his associates were brought to Treves, 
where Maximus resided at the time, and the most vio- 
lent adversaries of the sect, Idacius and Ithacius, ap- 
peared as accusers. The latter of these two prelates, if 
Sulpicins Sevcrus is to be trusted, suspected of Priscil- 
lbmisni any man whom he saw studying and fasting 
much; and, against all precedents, appeared as an im- , 
passioned accuser, before a worldly tribunal, in a relig- j 
ions affair. St. Martin, bishop of Tours, a truly pious 
man, also at the time at the imperial court, held it to 
be an unspiritual innovation that an ecclesiastical mat- 
ter should he tried by a secular court — that heretics 
should become liable to punishment with torture and 
cleat li — and besought the emperor to leave the affair in 
the hands of the bishop, or. at least, to decide it without 
bloodshed. As long as Martin was present, the trial 
was delayed ; on li is departure, Maximus promised 


there should be no bloodshed, but he was induced by 
Ithacius and two other Spanish bishops, Hufus and 
Magnus, to break his word. The prefect w ho tried the 
ease probably employed tortures to obtain avowals. 
Priscillian, the rich widow Euchrocia, and several oth- 
ers were accused of criminal disorders, and condemned 
not only as false teachers, but also as violators of the 
civil laws. They were either beheaded or punished 
, with contiscation and exile (3<>5). 

The execution of Priscillian by the sword, and of 
several of his associates, did not ruin the sect, but 
seemed rather to give it new life and vigor. The Pris- 
cilliauists got possession of the bodies of their dead, and 
brought them to Spain, where Priscillian was honored 
as a martyr. People swore by bis name. The most 
distinguished bishops, Martin of Tours, St. Ambrose, 
I Thcognistus, and pope Sirieius, sternly blamed the 
' cruelty with which Ithacius and his friends had treated 
I the heretics, and marked their abhorrence of the cruelty 
, by separating from the communion of Ithacius and the 
' other bishops who had approved the death penalty for 
heresy in the Christian Church. Put the emperor 
Maximus went on until his death (387) persecuting the 
Priscillianists as criminal Manielueans, and was even 
on the point of sending to Spain a military commission 
with unlimited powers to pursue the accused and pun- 
ish the guilty with confiscation and death; and only 
abandoned Ibis project by intercession of St. Martin. 

The gravity of the measures adopted for the punish- 
ment of heresy at the time to winch we here refer 
obliges us to turn aside to remark (1) that heresy was 
declared against by the State for the first time under 
Theodosius the Great, the first emperor who was bap- 
tized in tbe Xicenc laith. lie was determined to put 
an end to the Arian interregnum, and therefore pro- 
claimed the exclusive authority of the Nicene Creed, 
and at the same time enacted the first rigid penalties 
not only against the pagan idolatry, the practice of 
which was thenceforth a capital crime in the empire, 
but also against all Christian heresies and sects. The 
ruling principle of his public life was t he unity of the 
empire and of the orthodox Church. In the course of 
fifteen years this emperor issued at least fifteen penal 
laws against heretics (comp. C ml. Theodos. xvi, tit. v, 
leg. G-33), by which he gradually deprived them of all 
right to the exercise of their religion, excluded them 
from all civil offices, and threatened them with fines, 

, confiscation, banishment, and in some cases (as the 
Manielueans, the Audians, and even the Quartodcci- 
manians) with death. From Theodosius, therefore, 

| dates the State-Church theory of the persecution of 
heretics and the embodiment of it in legislation. 11 is 
primary design, it is true, was ratlicr to terrify and con- 
vert than to punish the refractory subjects (so Sozomen 
asserts, Hid. 1\ 'coles, lib, vii, e. 12). From the theory, 
however, to the practice was a single step; and this step 
his rival and colleague, Maximus, took when he inflict- 
ed capital punishment on Priscillian and some of his 
followers. This was the first shedding of the blood of 
heretics by a Christian prince for religions opinions. 
(2.) We wish to nolo also that, while the execution of 
the Priscillianists is the only instance of the bloody 
punishment of heretics in this period, as it is the tirst 
in the history of Christianity, the propriety of violent 
measures against heresy was thenceforth vindicated 
even by t he best fathers of the Church (see on this 
point Augustine's position as marked out by Xoander, 
Ch. Hist, ii, 217 s<p; Schaff, Ck. /list, ii, 144. 145), and 
soon none but the persecuted parties were beard to pro- 
test against religious persecution. We need hardly add 
that in due time the Church of Home, with Leo the 
Great as its first ami clearest representative, became the 
advocate and executioner of tbe death penalty for heresy. 
See IIkuksv; Inquisition; Homan ism. 

After the death of Maximus, the emperor Theodo- 
sius ordered a synod to he held in 3*9, to settle the dif- 
ficulties that had arisen among the bishops of Gaul, 


PRISON 


599 


PRISON 


Spain, and Italy on account of Ithacius. The latter and 1 
bishop Idacius were deposed by that assembl\\ But 
the disputes which had been called up by them con- 
tinued in some parts of Spain, fostered especially by 
the Priscillianists, who were still numerous. In the 
year 400 the sect appears in a decaying condition. At 
the synod held in that year at Toledo, several Priscil- 
lianist bishops, among others Symphosius and Dictin- 
nius, returned to the Church. The latter wrote a work 
entitled the Scules , in which the principles of the Pris- 
cillianists are expounded, but as he was an apostate 
he can hardly be regarded as a safe expositor of Pris- 
cillianism. The sect revived in the middle of the 
5th century, especially in Gallieia. The active ex- 
ertions of bishop Turibius, of Astorga, succeeded in 
extinguishing it gradually. He punished and impris- 
oned heretics, etc., but he was also busy in their instruc- 
tion, both orally and by his writings. The same bishop 
sent to Leo the Great a refutation of Priseillianism, 
which Leo honored with an answer, praising his zeal 
and recommending the holding of a Spanish synod, 
which was consequently convened in Gallieia in 448. 
Leo’s letter is important for the refutation of Priscil- 
lianism contained in it. Among the most noteworthy 
literary attacks upon Priseillianism in the first half of 
the 5th century, we may mention here, besides, Ad 
Paulum Orosium contra Priscillianistas et Origenistas 
(411); Contra mendacium , addressed to Consentius (420) ; 
and in part the 190tb Epistle (alias Ep.l57),to the bishop 
Optatus, on the origin of the soul (418), and two other 
letters, in which he refutes erroneous views on the nat- 
ure of the soul, the limitation of future punishments, 
and the lawfulness of fraud for supposed good purposes. 
The Priscillianists, notwithstanding the severest meas- 
ures inaugurated against them and the polemics that 
were written against them, continued to exist, and at 
all times during the mediaeval period we find their traces 
under various names and forms, especially in the north 
of Spain, Languedoc (France), and Northern Italy. 
The Synod of Braga, in 563, condemned several Priseil- 
liau errors, about which we owe to this assembly most 
interesting information. See Sulp. Severus, Hist. Sa- 
cra, ii, 46-51; Dial, iii, 11 sq. ; Orosius Commonito- 
rium de Errore Priscillianistarum, etc.; Leonis Magni 
Ep. 15, ad Turibium ; Walch, Ketzerhistorie, iii, 378 sq.; 
Alex. Natalis, Hist. Eccles. ; Fleurv, Hist. Eccles. ; Van 
Fries, Dissertatio Critica de Priscill. (Ultraj. 1745); 
Lubkert, De Ila>resi Priscill. (Havn. 1840) ; Mander- 
nach, Gesch. des Priscillianismus (Treves, 1851) ; Hefele, 
Conciliengesck. i, 719; ii, 27 sq. ; iii, 13 sq. ; Milman, 
hat. Christianity, i, 276-78; Pusey, Hist, of the Coun- 
cils A.D. 51-381 (1875); Alzog, Kirchenqesch. i, 372 sq. ; 
Neander, Ch. Hist, ii, 710, 718. (J. II. W.) 

Prison is represented in the A. V. by the following 
Heb. and Gr. words: 1. "‘-X, Aramaic for “a 

chain,” is joined with TVS, and rendered a prison (Sept. 
oTkoq ctapwv ; Vulg. career). 2. and 

with (Sept, oikoq (f)v\aK>jQ ; Jer. xxxvii, 15). 3. 

r.ISn'C, from “Stt, “turn,” or “twist,” the stocks 
(xx, 2). 4. and ; <pvXani ] ; career (Ge- 

senius, Thesaur. p. 879). 5. "ISO'S ; deapion'jptov ; 

career. 6. "OO'O ; (twXaia ) ; custodia ; also intens. 
r."0‘ro ; A. V. “hard.” 7. angustia ; r ami mo- 
rn q (Gesenius, p. 1059). 8. nip-n^S (Isa. lxi, 1), 

more properly written in one word ; dvafiXeif/ig ; aper- 
tio (Gesenius, p. 1121). 9. "iijb ; byiipeopa ; career: 

properly a tower. 10. “Ip ; oinia pvXiovog ; 
domus carceris. T'2 is also sometimes “ prison” in the 
A. V., as Gen. xxxix, 20. 11. KarappaKTpg ; 

career ; probably “ the stocks” (as in the A. V.) or some 
such instrument of confinement ; perhaps understood by 
the Sept, as a sewer or underground passage. 12. In the 
N. T. ceopwrppiov, otKrjfia, rijprjaig, usually <pvXaK}). 


In Egypt it is plain both that special places were 
used as prisons, and that they were under the custody 
of a military officer (Gen. xl, 3; xlii, 17). During the 
wandering in the desert we read on two occasions of 
confinement “inward” (Lev. xxiv, 12; Numb, xv, 34); 
but as imprisonment was not directed by the law, so 
we hear of none till the time of the kings, when the 
prison appears as an appendage to the palace, or a spe- 
cial part of it (1 Kings xxii, 27). Later still it is dis- 
tinctly described as being in the king’s house (Jer. 
xxxii, 2 ; xxxvii, 21 ; Neh. iii, 25). This was the case 
also at Babylon (2 Kings xxv, 27). But private houses 
were sometimes used as places of confinement (Jer. 
xxxvii, 15), probably much as Chardin describes Per- 
sian prisons in his day, viz. houses kept by private spec- 
ulators for prisoners to be maintained there at their own 
, cost ( Voy . vi, 100). Public prisons other than these, 
though in use by the Canaanitish nations (Judg. xvi, 
21, 25), were unknown in Juda?a previous to the cap- 
tivity. Under the Ilerods we hear again of royal pris- 
ons attached to the palace, or in royal fortresses (Luke 
iii, 20; Acts xii, 4, 10; Josephus, Ant. xviii, 5, 2; Ma- 
cluerus). By the liomans Antonia was used as a prison 
at Jerusalem (Acts xxiii, 10), and at Caesarea the prse- 
torium of Herod (ver. 35). The sacerdotal authorities 
also had a prison under the superintendence of special 
officers, etopotpvXaictg (Acts v, 18-23; viii, 3; xxvi, 

1 10). The royal prisons in those days were doubtless 
managed after the Boman fashion, and chains, fetters, 
and stocks were used as means of confinement (see xvi, 
24, and Job xiii, 27). One of the readiest places for 
confinement was a dry, or partially dry, well or pit (see 
Gen. xxxvii, 24, and Jer. xxxviii, 6-11) ; but the usual 
place appears, in the time of Jeremiah, and in general, 
to have been accessible to visitors (Jer. xxxvi,5; Matt, 
xi, 2; xxv, 36, 39; Acts xxiv, 23). — Smith. From the 
, instance of the Mamertine Prison at Borne (q. v.), in 
which the apostle Paul (q. v.) is said to have been con- 
fined. many have rashly assumed that the Boman prisons 
generally were subterranean ; but at Thessalouica at 
least, even “ the inner prison” (Acts xvi, 24) seems to 
have been on the ground-floor (“doors,” ver. 26; 
“ sprang in,” ver. 29). See Duxgeox. 

PBISON, Ecclesiastical. A bishop was required 
to have one or more prisons for criminous clerks in 1261. 
That of the bishop of Chichester remains over his pal- 
ace gate ; and the bishop of London’s gate-house stood 
at the west side of Westminster Abbey. The south- 
western tower of Clugny was used as a prison. There 
were various names lbr prisons : 1, Little Ease, in which 
the prisoner could neither sit, lie, nor stand; 2, Bocardo, 
as over the gate near St. Michael's at Oxford; 3, Hell, 
as at Ely ; and, 4, the Lying House at Durham. At Dur- 
ham, Berne, and Norwich the conventual cells adjoined 
the fchapter-liouse ; at Durham the term ofimprisonment 
l lasted sometimes during a year, and was ofteu attended 
I with chains, food being let down by a rope through a 
trap-door. In all cases solitary confinement was prac- 
ticed, and in some cases the guilty were immured after 
, the pronunciation of the sentence Vade in pace, “ Go in 
. peace.” At Thornton the skeleton of abbot De Multou 
(cir. 1445), with a candlestick, chair, and table, was 
found built up within a recess in the wall; and a cell, 
with a loop-hole looking towards the high -altar, re- 
mains at the Temple, in which William le Bachelor, 
grand preceptor of Ireland, died. At Clugny the prison 
had no stair, no door, and no window. At Hirschau 
the prisoner could barely lie down; at St. Martin-des- 
Champs the cell was subterranean ; at St. Gabriel, Cal- 
vados, under a tower. The prisons remain at St. Ga- 
briel, Calvados, Eebais, St. Peter -sur- Dives, and St. 
Benet-sur- Loire; at Caen, near the great gate; and 
over it at Tewkesbury, Binham, Hexham, Bridlington, 
and Mailing. The prison was under the charge of the 
master of the infirmary. “ Criminous priests” were 
imprisoned in 740 in England, and in 1351 their meagre 
fare was prescribed. — Walcott, Sacred A rchceology, s. v. 


PRISON REFORM 


COO 


PRISON REFORM 


Prison Reform. Prison discipline has in recent 
times become a matter of so much moment that its con- 
sideration is forced upon every philanthropist, especially 
the believer of the new dispensation — the law of love. 
Under the silent influences of Christianity, torture, ex- 
posure in the pillory, and other like dedications of the of- 
fender to public vengeance have long been abandoned as 
barbarous practices. Death-punishment has been much 
narrowed in its application; and transportation, apart 
from any question of effectiveness, has been rendered 
impracticable, except within a very narrow compass. 

The movement for the alleviation of the horrors of 
imprisonment by physical and moral improvement of 
the conditions of prisoners may be said to be not only 
Christian, but modern. We get nothing from the 
practice of the times anterior to Christianity, nor yet 
from the Middle Ages, that accounts for much in the 
modem systems of prison discipline. In Greece and 
Pome punishments were inflicted in other ways. It 
must he borne in mind that among the ancients the in- 
stitution of slavery rendered the prison system unnec- 
essary. It kept the functions of punishing ordinary 
criminals from the public administration of the affairs 
of a state, and placed it in private hands. Ilencc there 
was no criminal law, properly speaking. The corpus 
juris, so full of minute regulations in all matters of civic 
right [see Justinian], has very little criminal law, be- 
cause the criminals became slaves, and ceased to he ob- 
jects of the attention of the law. In the Roman empire 
there were houses, called ergastula , for the incarceration 
of criminal and refractory slaves. The feudal barons 
had towers in their castles, called donjons (whence our 
word dungeon), for the confinement of their captive foes 
or refractory retainers. Sometimes the prison vaults 
were cut in the solid rock below the surface of the earth. 

When imprisonment became a function of the State 
in the administration of justice, it was often carelessly, 
and hence tyrannically, exercised, because the practice 
of awarding it as a punishment arose more rapidly than 
the organization for controlling its use. In the loth and 
lfith centuries the Society of the Brothers of Mercy in 
Italy paid much attention to the incarcerated unfortu- 
nate trespassers of society, and so greatly alleviated their 
forlorn condition that many of the brothers of Mercy 
are reverently spoken of to this day. St. Carlo Borro- 
mco and St. Vincent de l’aul are to be especially men- 
tioned. But the earliest instance of a prison managed 
on any principles of policy and humanity seems to be 
that of the Penitentiary at Amsterdam in 151)5, an ex- 
ample which was soon followed by some of the German 
towns, especially Hamburg and Bremen. In England, 
on several occasions, grave abuses have been exposed by 
parliamentary inquiries and otherwise in the practice of 
prison discipline. It is well known that the real im- 
pulse to prison improvement was first communicated by 
the celebrated Howard (q. v.), whose sufferings, when 
taken by a privateer and imprisoned at Brest, during 
the Seven Years’ War arc said to have first directed his 
attention to this subject. The fruits of his observations 
in his repeated visits to most of the prisons of Europe 
were given to the world partly in his publications and 
partly on examination before Parliament. Howard’s 
exertions, and those of Mrs. Fry and other investigators, 
awakened in the public mind the question whether any 
practice in which the public interest, was so much in- 
volved should be left to something like mere chance — 
to the negligence of local authorities and the personal 
disposition of jailers. As in other reform movements, 
so in this, our own country has been most progressive, 
and Europe has willingly taken lessons from America. 
The reports made of our prison systems by the French 
visitors, Messrs. Beaumont and !>e Toequevillc (in 1834), 
De Metz and Blouct (in 1837), Dr. Juliers (sent from 
Prussia), and Mr. Crawford (from England), have cer- 
tainly contributed very largely to the present state of 
public opinion on the subject. In 1834, inspectors were 
appointed to report annually on the state of English 


and Scottisli prisons — a measure which had been earlier 
adopted with reference to Ireland; and their reports 
may he consulted with advantage. 

“ The tendency lately has been to regulate prison dis- 
cipline with extreme care, 'flic public sometimes com- 
plain that too much pains is bestowed on it — that erim- 
I iuals are not worthy of having clean, well -ventilated 
1 apartments, wholesome food, skilful medical attendance, 
industrial training, and education, as they now have in 
I this country. There are many arguments in favor of 
reriminals being so treated, and the objections urged 
I against such treatment are held by those who arc best 
| acquainted with the subject to be invalid; for it has 
never been maintained by any one that a course of 
crime has been commenced and pursued for the purpose 
of enjoying the advantages of imprisonment. Per- 
j haps those who chiefly promoted the several promi- 
nent systems expected from them greater results, in 
the shape of the reformation of criminals, than have 
been obtained. If they have been disappointed in this, 
it can, at all events, be said that any prison in the now 
recognised system is no longer like the older prisons, an 
institution in which the voting criminals advance iuto 
the rank of proficients, and the old improve each other’s 
skill by mutual communication. The system now re- 
ceived is that of separation, so far as it is practicable. 
Two other systems were tried — the silent system and 
the solitary system. The former imposed entire silence 
among the prisoners even when assembled together; 
the latter endeavored to accomplish their complete iso- 
lation from sight of or communication with their race. 
By the separate system, the criminals arc prohibited 
from communicating with each other; but they arc vis- 
ited by persons whose intercourse is more likely to ele- 
vate than to debase— as chaplains, teachers, Scripture- 
readers, the superior otlicers of the prison, and those who 
have the external control over it.” See Pkmtkntiarv. 

The Prison Association in the State of New York 
is regarded as the most perfect organization of the kind 
in the world. According to the annual report, the ob- 
jects of this society are threefold: 1. Humane atten- 
tion to persons arrested, protecting them from legal 
sharpers, and securing their impartial trial. 2. Encour- 
agement and aid of discharged convicts. 3. Careful 
study of prison discipline, observation of the causes of 
crime, and inquiry as to the proper means of its preven- 
tion. The last is considered the most important of its 
objects. The statistics of the work of the society dur- 
ing the quarter of a century just ended show the fol- 
lowing figures under the first object named above : 
1)3,5(30 friendless persons visited in the detention pris- 
ons of New York and Brooklyn, all of them counselled, 
and many of them assisted ; 25,290 complaints carefully 
examined; (5148 complaints withdrawn at the instance 
of the society as trivial, or founded on mistake or pas- 
sion ; 7922 persons discharged by the courts on recom- 
mendation of the society, who were young, innocent, 
committed thoir offences under mitigating circumstan- 
ces, or were evidently penitent; a total of 133.922 cases 
in which relief of some kind has been offered hv the as- 
sociation. During the last twenty-five years the assist- 
ance given to discharged convicts is summed up as fol- 
lows: 18,309 persons of this class aided with hoard, 
clothing, tools, railroad tickets, or money ; 1 139 provided 
with permanent situations; a total of 22,118. Aid has 
also been extended to thousands of persons connected 
with the families of the prisoners. For some years a 
few hundred dollars have been annually distributed on 
New- year’s -day among indigent families. By its act 
of incorporation it is made the duty of the Prison Asso- 
ciation to “ visit, inspect, and examine all the prisons 
of the State of New York, and annually report to the 
Legislature their condition.” In 187(3 the fourth Na- 
tional Prison Reform Congress was hold in New York 
City, and very advanced ground was taken. Those es- 
pecially interested in this subject will do well to consult 
the minutes of these proceedings, and the annual reports 


PRISONER 


601 


PRITHU 


of the New York State Prison Association ; also those of ! 
the Boston Prison Discipline Society, an organization to 
which is due the introduction of religious exercises into 
American prisons, as well as the appointment of chap- 
lains. Prison congresses'have been held in Europe since 
1845. In 1872 an international congress was held in 
London, likewise in 1877. 

While the principle of prison reform is universally t 
recognised, it is found in practice to work with different ! 
results in different cases. This conies from the impos- ! 
sibility of having uniformity in the actual management 
of the prisons, personal tact and influence having much 
to do in the case. The prison at Columbus, O., has the 
reputation of being one of the best in the country for 
this reason ; it enjoys superior supervision, and is wholly 
free from political interference. The movers in reform 
hope to achieve still better results in all the institutions. 
Their principal business is with the criminal after he is ; 
caught — to reform him, restore his manhood, and return 
him to society a new individual. The question how to 
prevent crime in the first instance is another and more 
important question. Sec the excellent article on Pris- 
ons and Prison Discipline in the Amer. Cyclop, xiv. 6, 
17, and the literature there quoted. See also Rerue 
Chretienne, Aug. 1873, art. i; Robin, La Question Pen- 
itentiaire (Paris, 1873); Edinb. Rev. liv, 159 sq. ; Met/i. 
Quar. Rev. July, 1873, art. v ; Xeic-Engl. Jan. 1873, art. j 
iv; Christian Union, 5 lay 31, 187G; New York Evening 
Post, 1878. (J. H. W.) 

Prisoner (""SX, assir, dtopioQ). Imprisonment 
does not appear to have been imposed by Moses as a 
punishment among the Hebrew's, though he describes 
it as in use among the Egyptians (Gen. xxxix, 20, 21 ; 
xl, 1-4). He seems to have used it merely for the 
purpose of keeping the culprit safe until judgment was 
given (Lev. xxiv, 12). As execution immediately fol- 
low r ed the sentence, there was little occasion for incar- 
ceration. The great variety in the names of prisons in 
the Hebrew would lead us to imagine that they were 
more frequently used in the latter than in the earlier 
periods of the Hebrew nation ; and that they were not 
only used in the detention of criminals, but as a means 
of punishment and correction (2 Chron. xvi, 10; 1 Kings 
xxii, 27 ; 2 Kings xxv, 29; Jer. xxxvii, 15, 21 ; lii, 31 ; 
Isa. xxiv, 22; xlii, 7 ; Matt, iv, 12 ; Acts xii, 4). Pris- 
oners were often confined in stocks, or with chains (Job j 
xii, 27 ; xxxiii, 11 ; Jer. xl, 4); and the keepers of the 
prisons often had a discretionary power to treat their 
prisoners as they pleased. The torture w r as often ap- 
plied to extort a confession from the accused. In later 
periods the Jew's confined those in prison who failed in 
the payment of their debts. They had the liberty to J 
punish the debtor with stripes (Wisd. ii, 19; Matt, v, 
26; xviii, 28-34). The Romans, in some instances, 
fastened their criminals by one or both hands to a sol- 
dier: such appear to have remained in their own houses 
(Acts xxviii, 16). It w'as not nnfreqnently the case 
that the keepers of prisons, w'hen those who were com- 
mitted to their charge had escaped, were subjected to 
the same punishment which had been intended for the 
prisoners (xii, 19 ; xvi, 27). See Prison. 

Pritchard, Martin, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church of some standing, was born in Ohio 
April 23, 1827 ; w'as converted and joined the Church 
at the age of seventeen. He obtained a good element- 1 
ary education, and for a number of years w r as engaged j 
as a school-teacher. He w'as licensed as an exhorter j 
w hen about twenty-three, and as a local preacher at the 
age of twenty-five. He joined the Nebraska Confer- 
ence in 1857, and at once entered upon his duties as an 
itinerant with that energy and devotion to his w'ork 
W'hich so signally characterized his whole career as a 
minister, and the fruits of his labor gave abundant proof 
that he w as indeed called of God. He preached suc- 
cessively at Mount Pleasant, Peru, Belleview, Platte 
Valley, Paw'nec City, Falls City, and a second time at 


Peru. In 1870 he was appointed presiding elder of the 
Lincoln district, and at the next annual conference he 
•was appointed presiding elder of the Nebraska district. 
At the Conference of 1875 he was appointed presiding 
elder of the Lincoln district, where he continued his 
earnest and faithful labors until about ten days before! 
his death, which occurred on March 24, 1877. He was] 
a member of the Book Committee four years, and w-as 
twice elected reserve delegate to the General Confer- 
ence. See Minutes of the Annual Conferences, 1877, p. 
142; N. Y. Christian Advocate, April 19, 1877. 

Pritchard, Samuel, a Wesleyan missionary, was 
born in the first quarter of our century. He was con- 
verted in 1843, and feeling called of God to preach the 
glad tidings, he entered the itinerant ranks in 1852, 
and was sent to Biabou Circuit, in the island of St. 
Vincent. He was there only two years when he was 
seized with malignant yellow fever, and died Feb. 2S, 
1853. During the brief period of his ministerial labors 
he gained the affectionate regard of the community in 
which he resided. See Wesleyan Mag. 1853, p. 872. 

Prithu is the name of several legendary kings of 
ancient India. It is, however, especially one king of 
this name who is the favorite hero of the Puranas. 
His father was Vena, an embodiment of the Hindu di- 
vinity Vishnu (q. v.). Vishnu perished through his 
wickedness ; for when he was inaugurated monarch of 
the earth, he caused it to be everywhere proclaimed 
that no worship should be performed, no oblations of- 
fered, and no gifts bestowed upon the Brahmins. The 
Rishis, or Saints, hearing of this proclamation, entreated 
the king to revoke it, but in vain : hence they fell upon 
him and slew him. But the kingdom now r being with- 
out a king, as Vena had left no offspring, and the peo- 
ple being without protection, the sages assembled, and 
consulted how to produce a son from the body of the 
dead king. First, then, they rubbed his thigh ; from 
it, thus rubbed, came forth a being called Nishada; and 
by this means the wickedness of Vena having been ex- 
pelled, they proceeded to rub the right arm of the dead 
king, and by this friction engendered Prithu, who came 
forth resplendent in person, and in his right hand ap- 
peared the mark of the discus of Vishnu, which proved 
him to be a universal emperor, one whose power would be 
invincible even by the gods. The mighty Prithu soon 
removed the grievances of the people; he protected the 
earth, performed many sacrifices, and gave liberal gifts 
to the Brahmins. On being informed that in the in- 
terval in which the earth was without a king all vege- 
table products had been withheld, and that consequently 
the people had perished, he in great wrath marched for- 
ward to assail the earth. The earth, assuming the fig- 
ure of a cow, fled before him, but seeing no escape from 
the power of the king, at last submitted to him, and 
promised to renew' her fertility, provided lie made all 
places level. Prithu therefore uprooted mountains, 
levelled the surface of the earth, established boundaries 
of towns and villages, and induced his subjects to take 
up their abode where the ground was made level. Then 
Prithu caused the earth to appear before his throne in 
the shape she had assumed, and commanded that any one 
who should apply to her with a wish, and bring a calf 
with him to milk her, should be granted his wish. This 
is the celebrated wonder-cow, about which the Brah- 
mins and the Ksliatrias fought such tremendous battles 
that the gods found it necessary to intervene. Now the 
earth resumed her former liberality, the people were re- 
lieved of their want, and the young god, presented by 
Vishnu and Shiva with never-missing weapons, by the 
sun-god with an all-illuminating crown, by the sea-god 
with a parasol trimmed with pearls, walked through 
the w'orld a conqueror in every battle, bestowing rain 
or sunshine at his will. He now prepared for invad- 
ing the empire of Indra, and for that purpose offered 
ninety-nine great sacrifices of horses; but when he was 
going to offer the hundredth, Indra managed to steal 


FRITZ 


602 PR I VATIO COMMUNIONIS 


the horse, as the last performance would have secured 
victory. Prithu’s son pursued the robber, who could 
not otherwise escape him than by changing himself 
into the form of a penitent strewed with ashes and 
hung all round with bones, Indra succeeded in steal- 
ing the horse a second time, and only escaped the un- 
erring weapons of bis foe by the intervention of lJralun. 
Prithu resigned power in favor of his son, and retired to 
a solitude, where lie was absorbed by the divinity. The 
legend of Pritliu evidently records some historical fact 
regarding the civilizing influences exerted by a great 
king of ilindfj antiquity.— Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Pritz, Joiianx (Jiioitti, a German theologian, was 
born at Leipsic in 1UG2. After having been an evan- 
gelical minister at Leipsic and at Zerbst, he became su- 
perintendent at Sebleitz. lie was made professor of 
theology at (ireifswalde, and in 1711 was called to 
I'rawklbrt-on-the-Maiu as senior minister, lie died in 
the year 1732. Among his numerous writings we cite 
the following: lie contemptu dicitiavum apud inUiquos 
pkilosophos (Leipsic, 1003, lto) : — De prccrogatica sexus 
muscnlini pne f -mineo (4 to) lie inimortulitate homi- 
nis, contra A sgiliiun (ibid. 1702, 4to) : — Proben der Pe- 
redtsumkeit (noted for eloquence) (ibid. 1702, Kvo): — 
Jntroductio in Xovum Test amentum (ibid. 1700, 8vo). 
lie also edited a work of opuscules of St. Macairc, and 
translated some of the writings of Ihirnct and other 
English authors. — Ilocfer, Xonv. Jiioy. Generate , s. v. 

Private Baptism. The Church, even in her 
most ritualistic periods, has always held that, in case 
of danger or sickness, baptism might be administered 
at any time or in any place. In Thessaly, when bap- 
tism was restricted to Easter, many died without it, 
and in consequence the old prohibitions were mitigated, 
the font being hallowed at Easter and Pentecost for oc- 
casional use. Children, if in danger, might be baptized 
on the day of their birth, by a decree of the councils of 
Gcrona. 517, and Winchester, 1071; and the Constitu- 
tions of Othobon, 1208. According to Roman Catholic 
teachings, the vessels in which any have been baptized 
arc to be carried to church and there applied to some nec- 
essary use, and not to any common purpose, out of rev- 
erence to the sacrament (Langtou’s Constitutions , 1223); 
and the water with which baptism was ministered was 
to be thrown into the lire, or carried to the church to 
be put into the font. The vessel, Lvndwood says, was 
to be large enough to permit immersion, and was to bo 
‘•burned or deputed to the use of the Church,” by Ed- 
mund’s Constitutions of 1230; that is, as Lvndwood ex- 
plains, “for washing the church linen.” Wooden ves- 
sels were burned. In England, in the Anglo-Saxon pe- 
riod, children, if sick, were brought to the priest, by 
/Elfric’s Canons, ‘J57, who was to baptize them, from 
whose district soever they were brought, without delay. 
— Walcott, Sacred A rc/neology, s. v. 

Private Confession. Sec Coxkkksiox. 

Private Judgment is the right the Protestants 
claimed in the Reformatory movement of the 10th cen- 
tury, and lias since become the corner-stone of Protes- 
tantism (q. v.). The term signities the right of man to 
read the Bible for himself and form his own judgment 
of its meaning under the enlightenment of the Holy 
Spirit. In the view of Protestantism, man does not 
only enjoy this privilege, but is bound to exercise it. 
lint, on the other band, the Romish Church steadfastly 
denies this right to any man, and holds the Church 
alone authority and guide in Scripture interpretation. 
On this point (he Council of Trent thus decrees: “In 
order to restrain petulant minds, the council further de- 
crees that in matters of faith and morals, and whatever 
relates to the maintenance of Christian doctrine, no one, 
coiitidiug in liis own judgment, shall dare to wrest the 
Sacred Scriptures to his own sense of them, contrary to 
that which hath been held, and still is held, by holy 
mother Church, whose right it is to judge of the true 
meaning and interpretation of Sacred Writ, or contrary 


' to the unanimous consent of the fathers, even though 
such interpretation should never be published. If any 
disobey, let them be denounced by the ordinaries, and 
punished according to law.” From the terms of this 
decree, it is plain that Romanists hold that their Church 
alone is entitled to judge of the true meaning and in- 
terpretation of Sacred Scripture. To the same effect 
the creed of pope Pius IV declares: “I also admit the 
Holy Scriptures according to that sense which our huh' 
mother the Church has held, and does hold, to which it 
belongs to judge of the true sense and interpretation of 
the Scriptures. Neither will 1 ever take and interpret 
them otherwise than according to the unanimous con- 
sent of the fathers.” lit opposition to such doctrines as 
these, the Word of God explicitly teaches that every 
man is bound to judge for himself of the true meaning 
of Scripture. Thus 1 Thess. v, 21, “Prove all things; 
hold fast that which is good.” Acts xvii, 11, “These 
were more noble than those in Thessalonica. in that 
they received the Word with all readiness of mind, and 
searched the Scriptures daily, whether those things 
were so." Mark xii, 24, “And Jesus answering said 
unto them. Do ye not therefore err, because ye know 
not the Scriptures, neither the power of God?” Luke 
xvi,2D, “Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and 
the prophets; let them hear them.” Isa. viii, 20, “To 
the law and to the testimony: if they speak not accord- 
ing to this word, it is because there is no light in them.” 

The popish theory goes to destroy individual re- 
sponsibility; but in alleging herself to be the appointed 
interpreter of Scripture the Church of Rome is obliged 
to concede the right of private judgment so lar as to 
enable us to determine lor ourselves from the Divine 
Word that wc are bound to submit our understandings 
to her guidance in spiritual things. But by any con- 
cession of the exercise of private judgment to any ex- 
tent whatever, her theory falls to the ground. Dr. 
Whately shows this in a very striking manner in a pas- 
sage which we extract from his Cautions for the Times: 
“A man who resolves to place himself under a certain 
guide to be implicitly followed, and decides that such 
and such a Church is the appointed infallible guide, 
does decide, on bis own private judgment, that one 
most important point which includes in it. all other de- 
cisions relative to religion. Thus, liv his own show- 
ing, he is unfit to judge at all, and can have no ground 
for confidence that lie has decided rightly in that. 
If, accordingly, he will not trust himself to judge even 
on this point, but resolves to consult bis priest, or some 
other friends, and be led entirely by their judgment 
thereupon, still be does in thus resolving exercise bis 
own judgment as to the counsellors he so relies on. The 
responsibility of forming some judgment is one which, 
however unfit we may deem ourselves to hear it, wc 
cannot possibly get rid of, in any matter about which 
wc really feel an anxious care. It is laid upon us by 
God, anil we cannot shake it off. Before a man can ra- 
tionally judge that be should submit bis judgment in 
other things to the Church of Rome, he must first have 
judged, 1, that there is a God; 2, that Christianity 
comes from God; 3, that Christ lias promised to give 
an in fallible authority in the Church; 4, that such au- 
thority resides in the Church of Rome. Now. to say 
that men who are competent to form sound judgments 
upon these points are quite incompetent to form sound 
judgments about any other matters in religion is very 
like saving that men may have sound judgments of 
their own before they enter the Church of Rome, but 
that they lose all sound judgment entirely from the 
moment they enter it.” — Gardner. See Elliott, lhtinc- 
ution of Romanism ; Xorth Prit. Per. xxxiv, 2(50 ; Dau- 
bigne, Hist, of the lief i, 281 ; Congrcg. (pair. viii. 2, 
GO; Lee, Right and Responsibility of Private Judgment 
(X. Y. 1855) ; Rogers, Reason and Faith. 

Privatio Conummionis (depriral of the Com- 
munion ). one of the punishments intlicted on offending 
members of t lie clerical body during the earlier ccntu- 


rmvATiox 


603 


PRIVILEGIUM ALTARIS 


ries. Those punishments included suspension, degrada- 
tion, pricatio conimunionis, or deprivation, corporal chas- 
tisement, and excommunication. Pricatio was ol‘ two 
kinds, namely, a restriction to commitnio peregrinu, or to 
communio laicu. The former had reference to the mode 
in which strangers were treated who did not bring with 
them letters testimonial, by which they might be ascer- 
tained to be members of some Christian Church: they 
were looked upon with suspicion, and till they could 
clear themselves were not allowed to come to the Lord’s 
table, nor to receive any temporal support from the 
Church funds. In this way delinquent clergymen were 
treated even in their own Church : they were deprived 
of means of support, and prevented from officiating or 
being present at the Lord’s Supper. Communio laica 
was a punishment which required a clergyman to com- 
municate as a layman, and among the lay members of 
the Church. — Farrar, Eccles. Did. s. v. See Communio 
Laica and Communio Peregrin a. 

Privation is a philosophical term which, according 
to Plato, is limitation, imperfection, the inherent con- 
dition of all finite existence, and the necessary cause of 
evil. Leibnitz ( Causa Dei, § 69, 72 ; Essai snr la bonte 
deDieu , liere partic, § 29,31 ; Sieme partie, § 378), after 
Augustine, Aquinas, and others, held similar views. 

PH I VAT I ON, Ecclesiastical, is one of the vindic- 
tive, i. e. positive, penalties (in opposition to the cen- 
sures) which the ecclesiastical laws inflict in the Church 
of Home on prebendaries for grave and repeated of- 
fences against the discipline of the Church. It is the 
suspension of an ecclesiastic from his office and prebend. 
It differs from the disciplinary transfer by which the 
delinquent receives, in place of the prebend which is 
taken from him, another, though inferior one; it also 
differs from absolute deposition, by which an ecclesias- 
tic is deprived forever of his office and official income, 
and declared unfit for any further employment, while 
the privation does not forbid him the hope of getting 
some time another prebend. The privation, as long as 
it lasts, deprives its object of the power of performing 
the ecclesiastical functions of consecration or jurisdic- 
tion, without unfitting him for life for any further em- 
ployment. This penalty — even because it is a positive 
penalty — cannot be indicted for merely administrative 
reasons, like the transfer, for instance ; or for delinquen- 
cies which remained secret, and are only known to the 
bishop, like the suspension ; but only in consequence of 
canonic examination and by judiciary sentence. The 
canons name among the transgressions which, if proved, 
are punished with privation : continued negligence in 
the performance of the official duties (c. 4, Dist. xci), 
addiction to lucre (c. 8, x, Ne cler. rel mornich. iii, 
50), repeated infringements of the law of residence 
(Cone. Trid. sess. xxiv, c. 12, De ref.), immoral and 
scandalous conduct, etc.; if admonitions and gradual 
corrections have proved unavailing (id. sess. xxi, c. G, 
De ref; c. 13, x, De vit. el hon. cler. iii, 1). There are, 
of course, other transgressions and vices, which can be 
visited with indefinite suspension ; drunkenness, for in- 
stance. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon, s. v. Sec 
Pri vatio Comm union is. 

Privilege (Lat. privilegium, from privata lex , a 
private law), in general, is a special ordinance or regu- 
lation in virtue of which an individual or a class enjoys 
certain immunities or rights from or beyond the com- 
mon provisions of the general law of the community. 
In ancient and medueval legislation, the law of privi- 
lege formed an important branch; and, in truth, the 
condition of the so-called “ privileged classes” was in all 
respects different, socially, civilly, and even religiously, 
from that of the non-privileged. 

In canon law, there were two privileges enjoyed by 
the clergy, which deserve especial notice, from the fre- 
quency of the historical reference to them — the “ privi- 
lege of the canon” ( pricilegium canonis ) and the “ priv- 
ilege of the forum” (pricilegium fori). By the former, 


the person of the clergyman, of whatever degree, was 
protected from violence by t lie penalty of excommuni- 
cation against the offender; by the latter— in England 
called “ benefit of clergy” (q. v.) — the clergyman was 
exempted from the ordinary civil tribunals, and could 
only be tried in the ecclesiastical court. — Chambers, s.v. 
This privilege from the civil power is now generally 
abrogated, or at least modified. It comprehended the 
independent jurisdiction of the clergy ( pricilegium fori), 
according to which not only all litigious concerns among_ 
the clergy themselves, but all personal, and most of the 
real complaints of laymen against clerks, were brought 
before, and decided hv, ecclesiastical courts; likewise, 
not only their official transgressions, as functionaries of 
the Church, but also their civil crimes, were tried and 
punished by clerical tribunals. To the same class of 
privileges belongs the benefit of competence, in conse- 
quence of which, in matters of debts and subhastation, 
the clerical person must be left the means of living 
according to his station. Finally, the clergy obtained 
at an early period a number of immunities, which were 
gradually increased. They were, in consideration of 
the spiritual pursuits to which they have to devote 
themselves, exempted from the administration of gov- 
ernmental or communal functions, from tutorships and 
guardianships, from military and other services to which 
all other citizens of the State are bound (immunitas per- 
sonalis). With these was connected the immunity from 
extraordinary taxes ( immunitas I’ealis ) ; from presta- 
tions for the building of roads, bridges, channels; from 
lodging soldiers ; from purveyances in times of war 
(immunitas mixta). Many of these immunities were 
granted to the clergy by the emperors Theodosius (Cod. 
Theodos. 2, 3, 11, 14-17, 24, 36, De episc. eccl. ef cler. 
xvi, 2) and Justinian (i, 1, 2, G, 52, Cod. De episc. et 
cler. i, 3) iq the times of the Roman empire ; afterwards 
by the Frankish kings (Cttpp. Degg. France, lib. vii, c. 
185, 290, 467); consolidated by the ecclesiastical legis- 
lation (c. 69, c. xii, qu. 2 ; c. 40, c. xvi, qti. 1 ; c. 4, 7, x, 
De immun. eccl. iii, 49; Sextus, c. 1, 3, cod. iii, 23; Sex- 
tus, c. 4, De censibits, iii, 20 ; Clem. c. 3. cod. iii, 13, etc.), 
and urgently recommended by the Council of Trent to 
the worldly rulers (Cone. Trid. sess. xxv, c. 20, De ref). 
In our times most of the civil legislations impose the 
same regular taxes on all citizens, without exception, 
and regardless of former immunities. But in many Eu- 
ropean states the clergy are unconditionally exempted 
from communal functions, guardianships, and personal 
prestations, and are also exempted from military service. 
— Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon. 

Privileged Days, those signalized by peculiar 
ceremonies or commemorating particular events: the 
first, fourth, and fifth Saturdays in Lent, and Easter 
Eve, Ash- Wednesday, first and fourth Sundays in Lent, 
Palru-Sunday, Good-Friday, and Holy Week. — Walcott, 
Sacred .4 rchceology, s. v. 

Privileged Sundays, those on which, in some 
churches of medueval times, ‘‘histories” (lessons from 
Holy Writ) were read. 

Privilegium Altaris is a privilege granted by 
the pope that masses for the dead said before a certain 
altar may procure an indulgence to the deceased. For- 
ever and for all days (pricilegium perpetimm et qnotidia- 
num) this privilege has been granted by Benedict XIII 
(de dat. 20 Julii, 1724, “omnium saluti”) to all patriar- 
chal, metropolitan, and cathedral churches for the high- 
altar. Generally it is granted for seven years only (sep- 
tennium), running from the da}' of the grant. The in- 
dulgence can be obtained for the dead if a mass of 
requiem (called sometimes a black mass) be said before 
the privileged altar; but if the rite do not allow of a 
votive mass, nor, in consequence, of a requiem (f. e. in 
fest. dupilici, corctm exposito, etc.), the application or in- 
tention “pro defuncto” is sufficient, as in such a case no 
mass of requiem can be said even at the privileged altar. 
On the Day of All-Souls all priests before altars can use 


G04 


PROBABIIISM 


PRIVILEGIUM CAXOXIS 


this privilege ( Decret . Con grey. Suer. Imlulg. 19 Maii, 
I7G1). — Ascbbach, Kircheji-Les. s. v. See Asylum. 

Privilegium Canonis. (1.) Certain exemptions 
of the clergy from t lie State. See Privilege. (2.) 
That privilege of ecclesiastics which makes a real in- 
jury to a member of the clergy punishable by excom- 
munication, this taking place tie ipso facto. After sev- 
eral former canons hail established the principle that 
such real injuries must, after examination, be punished 
with excommunication (for instance, can. Si quis dein- 
ceps, 22: I)e preshy terorum, 23, c. 17, qu. 4)„the heresy 
of Arnold di Brescia gave occasion to the Council of 
Hheims, in 1 131, to sanction that extreme penalty. The 
canon then decreed, commencing with “Si quis sua- 
dente diabolo,” was made by Innocent II. iit 1139, a 
general law of the Church; and this is the reason why 
the privilege mentioned above is called Privilegium 
canonis. In Gratian’s decree this ecclesiastical law is 
given as can. 29, c. 17, qu. 4. It contains some further 
dispositions, for it states that it is applicable also to real 
injuries perpetrated against monks, and that absolution, 
except in the dying hour, can only be obtained if the 
excommunicated person applies for it personally in 
Pome. This canon has received in the course of time 
an enlarged interpretation for some cases and a re- 
stricted one for others. As a matter of course, the term 
“ecclesiastic” includes all those who received the tonsure; 
but the term “monk” has also a very extensive signilica- 
tion, as it includes every member of an order approved 
by the Church, even the novice. The law is, more- 
over, applicable to cases where the dead body of a 
clergyman has been the object of some wanton outrage. 
( )n the other side, there are cases where a person, 
though belonging to the clergy, has no share in the 
privilege; for instance, the ecclesiastic who is degraded 
(ictii, especially wheit he is sentenced to hard labor; the 
clergyman who dresses in worldly clothes, or persists in 
a sinful way of life. The canon Si quis suudente speaks 
only of that kind of real injury which consists in “as- 
sault upon an ecclesiastic,” but we have, of course, to 
take a more extensive view of the case: not only he 
who strikes, etc., the clergyman is to be punished by 
excommunication, but also the intellectual originator 
of such an outrage, or he in whose name it is commit- 
ted, and who approves of it, or he who, being a wit- 
ness to it, fails to do what is in his power to prevent it. 
It is necessary that the delinquent should have acted 
with the intention of injuring a clergyman; he who, 
ultimo injuriandi , strikes another person, ignorant that 
he is a member of the clergy, is not excommunicated ; 
but he is who strikes a layman whom he mistakes for a 
member of the clergy, if the quarrel originated with 
the ecclesiastic, the law cannot be applied to the person 
who is in the case of legitimate defence against him; 
this is also admitted in favor of a woman who defends 
her chastity against the assaults of a clergyman. An 
exception is also admitted in favor of the husband, son, 
father, or brother of a woman found in criminal conver- 
sation with an ecclesiastic. The rule that absolution 
must be personally applied for in Home has been re- 
stricted in some cases: it is not applicable to women, to 
monks, and other clerks living in community, when 
they have assaulted each other, or to sick and ailing 
persons. A report sent to Home is sufficient in such 
cases. Sometimes, when the injury is a tritling one 
(leris perrussio), t lie bishop may grant a dispensation. 
In general the modern practice has become milder: it 
imposes the voyage to Home as a penance only for in- 
juries against the offender's own curate or bishop; ab- 
solution is bestowed on his return by the bishop. — Wctz- 
cr u. Welle, Kirchen- Lex ikon, s. v. 

Prize 03p«/3t7oi', 1 Cor. ix, 24) signifies the hon- 
orary reward bestowed on victors in the public games 
of the Creeks, such as a wreath, chaplet, garland, etc., 
and is metaphorically used of the rewards of a future 
life: “I press,” says the apostle, “towards the mark, 


for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus” 
(Philip, iii, 14). See Game. 

Proast, Jonas, an English divine, flourished in 
the closing half of the 17th and the early part of the 
18th century. He is noted as a controversialist, and 
wrote, among other things, Letters on Toleration ( 1 GOO— 
91, and since). There is nothing accessible regarding 
his personal instory. Leckev (Hist, of nationalism , ii, 
87) is t lie only writer of note who has considered I’roast ; 
neither Leslie Stephen (Hist, of English Thought in 
the 18 th Century') nor Tnlloch ( national Theology in 
the IHth Century) mentions him. 

Probabilionists are those who oppose the doc- 
trine of I’robabilism and assert that man is obliged, on 
pain of sinning, always to take the more probable side. 
The Jansenists and the Port- Hoy alists are of this class. 
.See Probabilism. 

Probabiiism. The Roman Catholic Church rec- 
ognises no standard of ethics except that of her own 
construction. Protestants look to the Bible as the 
source of all doctrines of morality. The Church of 
Home accords authority also to tradition, and to the 
writers of her own communion who have kept within 
the list of the faithful ones. See Moral Theology. 
The expressed opinion of a Church doctor forms a suffi- 
cient basis for a legitimate moral decision. The eternal 
and objective foundations of the moral law are thus ex- 
changed for t he subjective view of individual persons 
of eminence (see Wuttke, Christian Ethics , i, 2G1-263). 
Not only is the deciding element the individual, instead 
of the Church, but that individual whose decision best 
suits the inquirer (see Sanchez, Op. Mar. i, 9, n. 12 
sq., n. 24; Laymann, T/ieol. A/or. [1G25] i, 11). Prob- 
abiiism is a term used in philosophic parlance, as we 
may see in the article Probable, but in Christian the- 
ology it has become synonymous with Homan Catholic 
ethics. Though its principal source and advocacy are 
in the Order of the Jesuits, the whole Church of Home 
has by its tacit acceptance of this doctrine become iden- 
tified with it. 

Defnition. — Probabiiism designates, in the domain 
of morals, an object so comprehensive, and including so 
many different branches, that we shall scarcely be able 
to delineate it here, even in its fundamental features. 
In order to define it we must depart from that moral 
idea which is the centre of the domain in which it 
moves: this centre is the certitude and firm conviction 
of the moral subject about the legitimacy of his acts. 
It is the opposite of this subjective consciousness which 
forms the object of all probabilistic questions. As the 
ground of the doctrine, it is assumed, then, that in hu- 
man actions absolute certainty is not always attainable 
as to their lawfulness or unlawfulness. Short of this 
certainty, the intellect passes through the stages of 
“doubt" and of “probability.” Probability is a state 
of consciousness intermediate, between certitude and in- 
certitude, but approaching more or less to certitude, 
without reaching it entirely. Consciousness, in the 
state of probability, has risen above incertitude. Doubt 
is a wavering state between two judgments, between 
negation and affirmation of the goodness or permissibil- 
ity of an action; it excludes every positive approbation, 
every positive consent, every permanent decision in fa- 
vor of either term of the moral antithesis. Probability 
has passed this uncertain wavering; it does not move 
hesitatingly to and fro; it has found a point of support, 
though the latter may not be absolutely trustworthy. 
In consequence, a more or less positive decision in favor 
of one or t lie other term of the question is possible. 
Such a decision must not originate in any subjective 
whim; it must lie founded on sufficient objective rea- 
sons. This gives us the true idea of th c probable con- 
science: “ Probabile est id quod probari potest, hoc est, 
quod rationibus nit it nr.” We may, then, deline proba- 
bility in matters of conscience thus: it is the decision 
or consent of conscience in regard to the moral permis- 


PIIOBABILISM 


605 


PKOBABILISM 


sibility of an action, a decision founded on sufficient 
reasous, but not excluding all misgivings to the con- 
trary. To the probable conscience , then, corresponds, as 
its foundation, the probable opinion (opinio probabilis'). 
An opinion as to the legitimacy or illegitimacy of an 
action is the more probable the stronger the reasons on 
which it rests. These reasons are either intrinsic, a 
part of the thing itself and its objective nature, or ex- 
trinsic, owing their weight to human authorities. The 
extrinsic probability of an opinion contents itself with 
the repute and confidence enjoyed by the authorities 
which support it, while the intrinsic probability en- 
deavors to conceive the rational foundation of the opin- 
ion in question. But whichever of these forms proba- 
bility may assume, it can never be at variance with the 
decisions and doctrines of the Church. Absence of in- 
trinsic and extrinsic contradictions is the negative con- 
dition of probability. To establish true and real proba- 
bility ( probabilitas vera), a positive element is required, 
to wit, a more or less evident accord with the objective 
law, either with its spirit or with its more or less clearly 
expressed dispositions. It results from the nature of 
opinion that a variety and diversity of opinions be con- 
ceived, which, in regard to their legitimacy, are of 
equal or unequal value. Moreover, in the conflict of 
views another element will arise as to their compara- 
tive “safety;” that is, the greater or less danger of 
moral culpability which they involve; and this greater 
or less moral “safety” of a view may or may not co- 
incide with its greater or less “probability.” Hence 
the gradual scale of probable opinions, the highest de- 
gree being the opinio probabilissima, but the opinio 
tenuiter probubilis being entirely excluded. The as- 
cending degrees of the concurrent probable opinions are 
marked by the opinio mere probabilis, ceque probubilis, 
and probabilior. 

The doctrine of probabilism is founded upon these 
distinctions. It is taught, with some variations, by four 
different schools, all of which agree in professing that it 
is lawful, in certain cases, to act upon opinions which 
are merely probable. These four schools of probabilism 
are called : Probabilism Simple, s, Equiprobabilism , Proba- 
biliorism (from probabilior, more probable), and Tntior- 
ism (from tutior , more safe). The first holds that it is 
lawful to act upon any probable opinion, no matter how 
slight its probability. The second requires that the 
opinion shall be “solidly probable,” but holds that, pro- 
vided it be really probable, it is lawful to act upon it, 
even though the conflicting opinion should be equally 
probable. 'I'lie third narrows much more the limits of 
\frhat is allowed in the conflict of probable opinions, and 
only permits action on the more probable of the two; 
but permits this even when the less probable adverse 
opinion is the “more safe.” The fourth requires that 
in all cases the more safe opinion shall be followed, even 
when the less safe opinion is much the more probable. 
The extreme rigorism which the last class requires has 
caused its division into absolute and mollified tutioristn. 
“By the certainty of an opinion,” says Fuchs, “we are 
to understand the more or less considerable remoteness 
of the danger of sin, or of error, or of encroachment on 
other persons’ rights. The more an opinion removes 
him who chooses it for his guide from the danger of 
actual sin, the more certain it is. The ojiinio tutior is 
that which declares that an action is not allowed; the 
opinio minus tuta is that which asserts the legitimacy 
of the action in question. As the being allowed and 
the not being allowed of an action stand together in the 
same relation as liberty and law, it may be said that in 
the first case liberty, in the second law, is favored (li- 
bertati favet, legi favet).” 

To these probabilistic systems is opposed a system 
espoused by the more consistent of Bomish theologians 
of the Old Catholic type. It is called Antiprobabilism, 
and in its austere severity does not allow any influence 
on man’s actions, even to the most probable opinion. 
It requires that an opinion shall be absolutely morally 


certain, in order that it may be lawful for a man to act 
upon it in the light of Christian truth. But this sys- 
tem has been rejected by papal authority, declaring er- 
roneous the assertion “ Non licet sequi opinionem vel 
inter probabiles probabilissimam.” 

History of Probabilism. — It is commonly said that 
the system of probabilism is modern ; but this is only 
true of the discussions regarding it, for the doctrine it- 
self, in some of its forms, is as old as the study of ethics, 
even considered as a moral science. The disputes re-, 
garding it arose with the science of casuistry, when 
men, in the lGth and 17th centuries, began to reduce 
morals to a system. It formed a leading subject of the 
controversy between the Jesuits and the Jansenists; 
but even in its modern form probabilism dates back to 
the close of the scholastic period. At the Council of 
Constance, in A.D. 1415, a debate had arisen on the 
subject of the murder of the duke of Orleans, assas- 
sinated in Paris Nov. 23, 1407, at the instigation of his 
political rival, the duke of Burgundy. The Franciscan 
Jean Petit had endeavored to justify this crime in an 
assembly of French noblemen held at Paris March 8, 
140S; but his proposition had been condemned, at the 
request of chancellor Gerson, by the university and the 
bishop of Paris. When the matter was brought before 
the council, Martin Porree, bishop of Arras, speaking in 
behalf of the duke of Burgundy, tried to prevent any 
conclusions unfavorable to Jean Petit, asserting that 
several authorities were in favor of Petit, and that, in 
consequence, his opinion was at least probable, and 
ought not to be peremptorily disposed of by way of re- 
jection and condemnation. Gerson defended a contrary 
view of the matter, and the council condemned as he- 
retical the doctrine of the legitimacy of murder com- 
mitted on the persons of tyrants, and stamped with 
the name of heretic all those w ho should pertinaciously 
maintain it (comp. Mansi, Coll. Cone, xxvii, 705, and 
xxviii, 8G8). This resolution left probabilism untouched, 
and condemned only a false application of its principles 
in a particular ease. 

The Dominican Bartolomeo de Medina is considered 
as the founder of probabilism in its usual signification. 
Through his commentary on the theological Summa of 
St. Thomas de Aquinas it entered the schools: “Si est 
opinio probabilis,” he says (qua^st. 19, art. G, concl. 3), 
“licitum est earn sequi, licet opposita probabilior.” 
Many Thomist theologians adopted this proposition; 
among them, Bannez, Alvarez, Ledesma, Martinez, and 
Lopez. Among the Jesuits, the celebrated Yasquez 
was the first who (1598) positively took sides with the 
probabilists, and a number of members of his order fol- 
lowed in his footsteps. From this time forth the Jes- 
uits did much for the expansion of the probabilistic 
doctrines, and the aberrations to which they led. Prob- 
abilism came to be synonymous with Jesuitism, so 
largely were the Jesuits identified with the advocacy 
of this pernicious dogma. This is, however, easily ac- 
counted for. The Jesuits had come on the stage at a 
time w'hen the Church of Borne was in danger of being 
broken up, if not of being entirely dismembered. The 
Beformation had struck her heavy blows, and in some 
countries she was felled to the ground. Loyola’s order 
aimed at her recovery and restoration. The bride of 
Christ they saw endangered, and their mission w'as the 
salvation of the Bomish Church at any price. In a strug- 
gle of life and death, as has been aptly said, one is not 
very careful in the use of measures; ami in all warfare 
the sentiment holds good, though involving manifold 
violations of ordinary right, that the end sanctifies the 
means. The Jesuits were well aware that they were 
an essentially new phenomenon of the churchly life — 
that they stood upon purely human invention and pow- 
er ; it need not surprise us, therefore, that they felt called 
by their fundamental principles to the development of a 
special system of morality — a system the highest end 
of which is the glory of God through the exaltation 
of the visible Church, which, of course, is to them the 


PROBABILISM 


GOG 


PROBABILISM 


Romish Church. The purpose — zealously pursued by 
the Jesuits in the interest of Romish domination — of 
becoming soul-guarding fathers and conscience-counsel- 
lors, especially for men and women of eminence, re- 
quired, on the other hand, that the Jesuits should ac- 
quire for themselves the highest possible repute in 
ethics and hence it was requisite that they should 
become the literary representatives thereof ; and, on 
the other, that this ethics should be moulded in adap- 
tation to this end — should make itself not disagreeable 
and burdensome, but should become as elastic as possi- 
ble in view of different wants — should be a “golden net 
for catching souls,” as the Jesuits themselves were wont 
to call their own pliablcness. The more ramified and 
complex the net-work of casuistic ethics became, so 
much the more indispensable were the practiced con- 
science-counsellors, or, more properly, conscience-advo- 
cates; the more stairways and back doors they were 
able to turn attention to in conscience affairs, so much 
the more prized and influential they became. This 
explains the great compass and the peculiar character 
of Jesuitic ethics. They were but too well aware that 
it did not harmonize with the moral consciousness of 
the ancient Church, and they hesitated not to admit that 
they did not recognise earlier Church tradition as a 
criterion for morality, but wished rather to lay the foun- 
dations for a new tradition. The sophistical artilices in 
the doctrine of right and morality were not then lirst 
thought out and invented by Jesuitism; but it learned 
them by listening to weak, corrupt human nature, as 
others had here and there done before it. Jesuitism, 
moreover, was the Jt rst to set up these sophisms as rules ; 
first brought them into an organized system of doctrine, 
and formed them as methods of the Christian doctrine 
of morals ; first scientifically constituted, authorized, and 
sanctioned them as leading principles of Catholic mo- 
rality; and — what is not to be overlooked — has first 
applied them to the allotment of the moral life to the 
natural weaknesses of the different ranks and classes, in 
order that “the kingdom of heaven henceforth may 
suffer no violence.” 

We will not forget, however, that after the Theatines, 
in a general assembly of their order, in 159N, had for- 
mally renounced probabilism, several members of the 
Society of Jesus likewise raised their voice against the 
abuses of the system: we mention among them the 
Portuguese Ferdinand Rebelle and the Italian Comito- 
lns. A short time afterwards the general, of the order, 
Mutius Vileteschi, expressed similar opinions in a se- 
ries of writings. We read in one of them: “Xonmil- 
lormn ex societate sen tent ia?, in rebus pnvsertim ad 
mores speefantibns, plus nimio libera* non modo perieu- 
lum est he ipsam evertant, sed ne ecelesia*. etiam Dei 
universaj insignia affbrant detrimenta. Omni itaque 
studio perlieiant lit qui docent scribuntne minime hac 
regula et norma in deleetu seutentiarum utantur: Tutri 
rjuis potent, prohibit in est, auctore non caret. Verum ad 
eas sententias accedant. qu:e tutiores, qiue graviores 
niajorisquc nominis doctorum suffragiis sunt frequen- 
tatie; qmc bonis moribus conducunt magis; qua* deni- 
qut* pietatem alere et prodesse queunt, non vastare, non 
perdcre.” The Sorbomie, too, opened lire upon t lie proba- 
bilistic aberrations with the condemnation of the Mag- 
nus director curutonim , virarionnn, et confessariontm of 
P. Milliard, and the clergy of France continued the bat- 
tle with praiseworthy zeal. The University of Louvain 
made similar declarations. In 1653 the Dominicans, in 
a general chapter held at Rome, joined their voice to 
these authorities. Again, some Jesuits, among others 
Candidus Philalethcs (Andre Leblanc), censured those 
of their order who wore advocates of probabilism. Vet 
these antagonistic elements within Jesuitism were the 
exceptions, not the rule. 'Hie rank and file of the So- 
ciety of Jesus wore wedded to their new idols; and as 
the Jesuits were, the chief representatives of Loutish 
ethics in the IGth and 17th centuries, those who chose 
to attack Romanism levelled their guns directly at 


probabilism ; while those who favored Romanism, or 
were themselves its supporters, but desired the down- 
fall of Jesuitism, directly charged on this particular 
body of probabilists. Thus, e. g., Jansenism lifted up 
its voice against probabilism in order to destroy by this 
detour their enemies the Jesuits. Pascal, the great, if 
not immortal, advocate of the Port-Uovalists, adopted 
this method. In his Let (res Provinciates lie puts to- 
gether these aberrations of members of the Jesuitic Or- 
der; and as he represents the doctrine of probability, it 
is a curious perversion of the principle of authority — 
the application of it to legitimatize d >ubt and license. 
He stigmatized probabilism as the “ morals of the Jes- 
uits.” The great publicity which the Provincial Let- 
ters owed to the splendid talent of their author became, 
especially among the educated classes, an inflexible 
opinion against Jesuits, which continues to this day. 
A number of refutations of the Provincial Letters ap- 
peared, some of them very awkward. The Jesuit Pi- 
rot, in his Apolngie pour les t’asuistes (Paris, 1 657), 
made the following assertion: If an opinion is probable, 
it is sure, and can be followed; surety has no degrees, 
but is indivisible, so far as the moral action connected 
with a probable opinion is concerned ; in consequence, 
a less probable opinion is as sure as a more probable 
(A pot. p. 46). Similar opinions were sustained by the 
Jesuits Matthew de Moya, llonore Lefevre, and lttieune 
des Champs (Quasi io Pacti de Sententia Theohgorum 
Societatis circa Opiniones probabiles, Paris, 1659). The 
ablest refutation, Repnnse aux Lettres prorinciahs de L. 
de Montalte ; ou Kutretiens de Cleandre et Kudore , is 
due to the Jesuit Daniel, the well-known French histo- 
rian, who gives a very elaborate account of probabilism. 
lie observes that, according to the doctrine of the Jes- 
uits, two conditions are required for the probability of 
an opinion: first, it can contradict neither the dogmas 
and truths taught by t lie Church, nor any evident rea- 
son; secondly, it must be founded on sound judgment, 
and not set up wantonly against the prevailing doctrine 
of the competent teachers. 

Among these tumultuous contests in the domain of 
Catholic morals, the Apostolic See could not remain 
silent. The pope condemned the Provincial Letters 
(Sept. 6. 1657) on one side, and l’irot’s Apology on the 
.other (August, 1659). Pope Alexander VII declared 
against the dangerous excrescences of probabilism in a 
decree of Sept. 24, 1GG5; and bis successor. Innocent 
XI, strictly defined its limits by his bull of 1679. The 
first-mentioned decree commences with these memora- 
ble words: “Our most holy father has heard, not with- 
out great sorrow, that several opinions, which weaken 
Christian discipline and prepare destruction to the souls, 
have been partly revived and partly started for the first 
time, and that the unbridled license of some extrava- 
gant minds increases every day, whereby a way of 
thinking has crept into the Church which is altogether 
at variance with Christian simplicity ami the doctrine 
of the holy fathers, and which, should the believers 
make it the rule of their life, would produce a great 
moral corruption.” Among the moral propositions cen- 
sured by these two papal decrees, the following concern 
probabilism: from the lirst decree. Prop. 27 — "Si liber 
sit alictijus juuioris et mnderni, dobet opinio eenseri pro- 
hahilis, dum non constot rojectam esse a Sede apostoliea 
tanquam improbabilem from the latter. Prop. 1 — 
“Non est iliieitum in sacramentis conforendis soqni 
opinionem probabilem de valore saeramenti. relicta tn- 
tiore, nisi id vetet lex, conventio ant perindum gravis 
darnni incurrendi. 1 line sententia probabili tantum 
iitcndum non est in eollatione baptismi, ordinis sacer- 
dotalis ant episcopalis.” Prop. 2— “ Probabiliter existi- 
mo jndieem posse judicare juxta opinionem etiam minus 
probabilem.” Prop. 3 — “ tieneratim, dmn probabilitate 
sive intrinseca sive extrinseca, quantumvis tenui. modo 
a probabilitntis iinibus non exeatnr, confisi aliqtiid agi- 
mils, semper prudenter agimns.” Prop. 4— “ Ab infide- 
litate excusabitur inlidclis non credens, ductus opinionc 


PROBABILISM 


G07 


PROBABILISM 


minus probabili.” The antiprobabiiistic extreme, repre- 
sented by the rigorism of the Janscnists, was met by 
pope Alexander VIII with the condemnation of the 
proposition referred to above, a condemnation which is 
contained in the decree of 1G90. 

The first consequence of the papal declarations was a 
sharper separation of the parties. Probabilism found 
its most redoubtable adversaries in the Carmelite Hen- 
ry of St. Ignatius, the two Dominicans Daniel Concilia 
{Della Storia del Probabilismo) and Vincent Patuzzi, 
and in Franzoja and Pet. Ballerini. But all these efforts 
did not annihilate probabilism whether inside or out- 
side the Order of the Jesuits, though it had to submit 
to many restrictions. In their fifth general assembly 
the Jesuits only protested against making probabilism 
the doctrine of their order. Oliva, the general of the 
order (in a letter of Feb. 3, 1G69), speaks plainly enough 
in favor of probabilism ; and while he declares certainly 
and truly probable opinions fit to engender a certain 
conscience (conscientia certa), he asserts, on the other 
side, that the requirement “sequendi semper in omni- 
bus probabiliorem partem” would be too heavy a burden 
upon mankind. It was shown, however, much more 
clearly how deeply probabilism was rooted in the Jesu- 
itic Order when the Spaniard Gonzalez, the general of 
the order, took with great decision, in 1694, the defence 
of the opposite system. In his work he dissents from 
the principle that man, in moral matters, must suffer 
himself to be guided by a sincere love of truth. Hence 
he draws the inference that we must always choose 
what we think to be nearest to truth ; if objective truth 
cannot be obtained, we must at least cling to that which, 
according to our subjective conviction, is nighest to it. 
For that reason we can follow even the less sure opin- 
ion, if we are convinced of its greater probability. The 
work written from this stand-point, and which the au- 
thor meant to dedicate to the general of the order, Oli- 
va, found its way into publicity only after many years. 
Perhaps Gonzalez would not have ventured, even while 
general of the order, to publish it if the same work 
which the casuists of the order wished to suppress had 
not been greatly approved of by pope Innocent XI. 
Many of the Jesuits claimed that Gonzalez had, by his 
disapproval of probabilism, made himself unworthy of 
his place, and pronounced him self-deposed. Only the 
protection of the pope saved him (see Wolf, Gesch. der 
Jesuiten, i, 173). In his Fundament um Theologies J lo- 
ralis (Rome, 1G84) Gonzalez put in the background the 
authority system hitherto so predominant by giving the 
preference to the ethical province as the more appro- 
priate judgment-seat of the appellate court. Two other 
theologians followed in his footsteps, Gisbert and Ca- 
margo, representing the probabilioristic tendency. Gis- 
bert, professor at Toulouse, did not in his work attack 
the principle of probabilism, only its vulgar form. He 
asserts that we are certain not to sin if we stick to the 
absolute probability either of law or of liberty; if we 
judge sensibly that something is allowed, after exam- 
ining it sufficiently, taking the circumstances into ac- 
count, and satisfying ourselves of the soundness of our 
judgment. While Gisbert treated the subject in a 
more speculative way, Camargo, professor at Salamanca, 
in his treatise De Regula Honestatis 3 [oralis (Naples, 
1702), takes a more historical view of the matter, and 
shows that modern probabilism has not the testimony 
of antiquity in its favor, and that since its first appear- 
ance the most considerable authorities were against it. 

While the probabilists continued in their attempts 
to again turn the scales — we shall only mention the 
Traetatus Probabilitatis by Gabriel Gualdns (under the 
assumed name of Nicolaus Peguletiis, Louvain, 1708) and 
the “Criticisms” of Cardenas {Opp. Carden. Yen. 1710) 
■ — and while the party of the probabiliorists grew in 
strength every day, mediating tendencies appeared. 
Among the works written in this spirit, the Sententia 
Media of Alfonzo de Liguori is the best. This distin- 
guished Romanist developed a system of morals which 


may be described as a kind of practical probabiliorism, 
in which, by the use of what are called refiex principles, 
an opinion which objectively is but probable is made 
subjectively the basis of a certain and safe practical judg- 
ment. Liguori teaches that we are bound to keep our 
actions, as much as possible, in accordance with truth ; 
or at least, as in the case of a more probable opinion, as 
near to truth as possible. If it should appear that of 
two opinions one is more favorable to liberty, the other 
to law, the latter being at the same time more proba- 
ble, it must be admitted without hesitation. Liguori, 
in the case where equally strong reasons speak for law 
and liberty, professes a somewhat different opinion from 
Gisbert and the rigid probabiliorists — he decides for 
liberty. Liguori starts in his demonstration from the 
proposition that a doubtful law is not binding (“lex 
dubia non obligat”). A dubious law, he further says, is 
an uncertain law, and a law of this description cannot 
engender any obligation (“lex incerta non potest cer- 
tain inducere obligationem”) ; for in this case of doubt, 
of uncertainty, liberty is in possession, and in conse- 
quence has the right on its side, according to the axiom 
“ In dubio melior est conditio possidentis.” This is the 
strongest point of Liguori’s argumentation, but also the 
point with which it stands and falls; here it. has to 
fight a decisive battle against probabiliorism, or against 
refined tutiorism. Iiassler, in his Norma Recti (Ingold. 
1713), takes a similar stand-point between the contend- 
ing parties, while Charles Emanuel Pallavicini, in his 
letters on the administration of the sacrament of peni- 
tence, claims for the confessors the right to choose be- 
tween probabilism or probabiliorism, both with proper 
restrictions. 

The maxims of the Jesuits disseminated themselves, 
like an infectious disease, far beyond the circle of their 
own order, as is shown by the comprehensive works of 
the Sicilian Antony Diana {Resolutiones Morales. Antv. 
1G29-37, 4 vols. fob; Lugd. 1GG7 ; Tenet,. 1728), who 
taught, under the express approval of his ecclesiastical 
superiors, and also of the Jesuits, the doctrine of proba- 
bilism in its worst forms. One may act according to a 
probable opinion, and disregard the more probable one ; 
man is not under obligation to follow the more perfect 
and the more certain, but it suffices to follow the simply 
certain and perfect ; it would be an unendurable bur- 
den were one required to hunt out the more probable 
opinions {Res. Mor. [Antv. 1637] vol. ii, tract. 13; vol. 
iv, tract. 3; Summa [1652], p. 214). The most of the 
Jesuits taught the same thing. In relation to mur- 
| der, Diana teaches like Escobar : I am at liberty to 
kill even him who assails my honor if my honor cannot 
J otherwise be rescued {Res. Mor. iii, 5, 90; Summa , p. 
210, 212). When some one has resolved upon a great 
sin, then one is at liberty to recommend to him a lesser 
one, because such advice does not relate absolutely to 
an evil, but to a good, namely, the avoiding of the 
worse; for example, if I cannot otherwise dissuade a 
person from an intended adultery than by recommending 
to him fornication instead thereof, then it is allowable 
to recommend this to him ; not, however, in so far as it 
is a sin, but in so far as it prevents the sin of adultery. 
Diana appeals in this connection to many like-judging 
Jesuit doctors {Res. Mor. [Antv. 1637] vol. iii, tract. 5, 
37). If a priest commissions Peter to kill Cains, who 
is weaker than Peter, but nevertheless Peter comes out 
second best and gets killed himself, still the priest in- 
curs no guilt, and may continue in the administration 
of his office {ibid. vol. iii, tract. 15, 17). He who resolves 
upon committing all possible venial sins does not thcrc- 
bo involve himself in any mortal sin {ibid. vol. iii, tract. 
6, 24). He who, ex aliqua justa causa, rents a house 
i to another for purposes of prostitution commits no sin 
I {ibid. vol. iii, tract. 6, 45). To eat human flesh, in case 
of necessity- he holds, with the majority of the Jesuirs, 
as allowable {ibid, tract, 6, 48). He who, in virtue of a 
promise of marriage, induces a maiden to yield to him 
is not bound bv his promise in case he is of higher 


PROBABILISM 


G08 


PROBABLE 


rank or richer than she, or in case he can persuade him- 
self that she will not take his promise in serious earnest 
(ibid. [Antv.] vol. iii. tract. 0, 81 ; in the spirit of San- 
chez and Less). Marriage between brother and sister 
can be made legitimate by papal dispensation (ibid. vol. 
iv, tract. 4, 94; sanctioned by several Jesuits). In 
such moral perversity of view Diana seems only to 
have been surpassed bv the Spanish Netherlander Cis- 
tercian Lobkowitz ( Theol . A for. llilo, 1(552; comp, l’er- 
rault, i, 331 sq.), who, in his scepticism, entirely breaks 
down the moral consciousness, and declares that noth- 
ing is evil per se, but only because it is positively for- 
bidden; hence tiod can dispense even with all the com- 
mandments (comp, the views of Duns Scotus, p. 34) 
(ibid. 1G2(») ; can. e. g., allow whoredom and other like 
sins, lor none of these are evils per se. Monks and 
priests are at liberty to kill the female misused by them 
when they fear, on her account, for their honor. This 
writer declares himself expressly and decidedly in favor 
of the views of the Jesuits. Also the Franciscan Order 
became infected with the maxims of the Jesuits, as is 
proved by the very voluminous work of Rarthol. Mas- 
trius de Mandula (ibid. 1626), which was published un- 
der the express sanction of the officers of the order, and 
who justifies rest rid tones mentales even in oaths (I)isp. 
xi, 52, 171, 172, 1 S3, ed. Yen. 1723), and also the mur- 
der of tyrants (ibid, viii, 27), the murder of the slan- 
derers of an important person, castration, and similar 
things (ibid, viii, 25, 23; xi, 1 10 sq.), as well as proba- 
bilisin. 

The moral system of the Jesuits is, we grant, not, 
strictly speaking, that of the Romish Church ; many 
of their more extreme maxims the Church has con- 
demned, and the more recent Jesuits themselves find it 1 
advisable no longer fully to avow their former princi- 
ples. Nevertheless Jesuitism, together with its s\'stem 
of morals, is, as has been well said by Wuttke (i, 271, 
272), “ the ultimate consequential goal of the Church 
in its turning aside from the tJospel, just as (though 
in other respects widely different therefrom) Talmud- 
ism was the necessary goal of Judaism in its rejection 
of the Saviour. The error consists in the placing of 
human discretion and authority in the stead of the 
unconditionally valid, revealed will of Cod. Kven as 
earlier Catholicism had intensified the divine command | 
by self- invented, ascetic work -holiness into a seem- 
ingly greater severity — had aimed at a higher moral j 
perfection than that required by Cod — so Jesuitism, j 
with like presumption, lowered the moral law, out of i 
consideration to temporal relations, to a merest mini- j 
mum requirement; contented itself with a much lower ! 
moral perfection than the divine law calls for, and 
sought out cunning means for lightening even this min- 
imum.” 

Probabilistic moreover, is not a merely fortuitously 
discovered expedient, but it is in fact an almost inevi- 
table consequence of the historical essence of Jesuitism. 
The order itself arose neither on the basis of Scripture j 
nor of ancient Church tradition, but sprang absolutely j 
from the daring inventive power of a single man break- 
ing through the limits of ecclesiastical actuality. It is 
not therefore at all unnatural that it should make the au- 
thority of a single spiritually pre-eminent man its high- 
est determining power, and subordinate to this the his- 
torical objective form of the moral consciousness. This, 
then, is the distinguishing characteristic of Jesuitical 
ethics — that in the place of the eternal objective ground 
and criterion of the moral it substitutes subjective opin- 
ion, and in the place of an unconditional eternal end a 
merely conditionally valid one, viz. the defending of the 
actual, visible Church against all forms of opposition 
that in the place of the moral conscience it substitutes 
the human calculating of circumstantial and fortuitous 
adaptation to the promotion of this its highest end; 
that it attempts to realize what is per se and absolute- 
ly valid by a wide -reaching isolating of the means, 
and by so doing subordinates morality to the discre- 


tion of the single subject. “Though the ethics of the 
Jesuits are lax and quite too indulgent towards worldly, 
sinful proclivities and fashions, yet this is only one 
phase of the matter. A merely worldly-lax moral sys- 
tem, in the usual sense, seems but little applicable to 
the members of a brotherhood the first rule of which is 
a perfect renunciation of personal will and personal 
opinion and self-determination, in a word, unconditional 
obedience to every command of superiors, and which 
has actually accomplished in the missionary field the 
grandest of deeds, and numbers among its members 
multitudes of heroic martyrs. This lack of strictness 
in one direction rests by no means on mere worldliness, 
on pleasure in the delights of this life, but follows, on 
the one hand, of necessity (as well as does also the rigor 
of obedience), from the subjectively arbitrary presuppo- 
sition of the entire order, from the lack of an objective, 
unshaken foundation, and rests, on the other hand, 
strictly on calculation ; is itself a cunningly devised 
means to the end ; is intended to awaken, especially in 
the great and mighty of the earth (and the masses of 
the people are such under some circumstances), a love 
to the Church, to the mild, friendly, indulgent mother.” 

Jesuitical ethics is the opposite pole of monastic eth- 
ics; where the latter requires too much, the former ex- 
acts too little. Monastic morality strives to win Cod 
for the sinful world, Jesuitical morality seeks to win the 
sinful world, not indeed for Cod, but at least for the 
Church. Monasticisin says to Cod, though not in an 
evangelical sense, “If I have only thee, then I ask for 
nothing else in heaven or earth.” Jesuitism says about 
the same thing, but says it to the world, and particu- 
larly to the distinguished and powerful. The former 
turns away in indignant contempt from the worldly life 
because the world is immersed in sin; the latter gener- 
ously receives the same into itself, and turns attention 
away from guilt by denying it. It is true the Jesuits 
represent also a monastic order, but this order is also a 
means to an end, and resembles the other nobler orders 
about as much as wily Reynard resembles the pious pil- 
grim; and the well-known hostility of the older orders 
to this brilliantly rising new one was not mere jealousy, 
but a very natural, and, for the most part, moral protest 
against t he spirit of the same. See Wuttke, Christian 
Ethics (transl. by Prof. J. P. Lacroix, N. V. 1374, 2 vols. 
12mo), i, 255-272; Stiiudlin, Gesch. der Sittenlehre Jesu 
((bitting. 1799), i, 441 ; Schrdckh, K irchengesch. ix, 343 
sq. ; Cotta, I)e Prob. Aforali (Jena, 1723); Rachel, Ex~ 
amen Prob. Jes. (Ilelmst. 1GG4, 4to); De Wette, Ckristl. 
Sittenlehre , II, ii, 334 sq. ; l’errault, .1 forale des Jesuites 
(1GG7, 3 vols.) ; klleiulorf, Die Moral u. Pol i file der Je- 
snifen (1310); Pragmatische Gesch. der Muttchsorden 
(1770), vols. ix and x; Deutsches Kireheublaft , 1375 (re- 
view of (Jury's Compendium Theologite Moralis, new 
ed. Ratisbon, 1374; one of the worst probabilistic advo- 
cates) ; Mosheim, Eccles. Hist, iv, 230; v, 190; Chris~ 
tian Remembrancer. July, 1352. p. 191 sq.; A mer. Quar. 
Her. xi, 473 ; Euinb. Rev. xxiii, 320 ; xcii, art. i. (.1. 1 1 . W.) 

Probable (Lat. probabilis), a barbarous technical 
word which serves to designate the philosophic dogma 
that anything which does not admit of demonstration 
may admit the probable as proof, if such a course does 
not involve absurdity or contradiction. “As demon- 
stration,” says Locke, “is the showing the agreement 
or disagreement of two ideas, by the intervention of one 
or more proofs, which have a constant, immutable, and 
visible connection one with another; so probability is 
nothing but the appearance of such an agreement or 
disagreement by the intervention of proofs whose con- 
nection is not constant and immutable, or at least is 
not perceived to be so, hut is, or appears for the most 
part to be so, and is enough to induce the mind to judge 
the proposition to be true or false, ratber than the con- 
trary. . . . The entertainment the mind gives this sort 
of propositions is called belief, assent, or opinion, which 
is admitting or receiving any proposition as true upon 
arguments or proofs that arc found to persuade us to 


PROBATION 


609 


PROBUS LECTOR 


receive it as true, without certain knowledge that it is 
so. And herein lies the difference between probability 
and certainty , faith and knowledge, that in all the parts 
of knowledge there is intuition; each immediate idea, 
each step, has its visible and certain connection; in be- 
lief not so. That which makes us believe is something 
extraneous to the thing we believe ; something not ev- 
idently joined on both sides to, and so not manifestly 
showing the agreement or disagreement of, those ideas 
that are under consideration” ( Essay on the Human Un- 
derstanding , bk. iv, eh. xv; comp, Reid, Intell. Powers, 
essay vii, ch. iii). “The word probable ,” says Air. 
Stewart, “does not imply any deficiency in the proof, 
but only marks the particular nature of that proof, as 
contradistinguished from another species of evidence. 
It is opposed not to what is eertain, but to what admits 
of being demonstrated after the manner of the mathe- 
maticians. This differs widely from the meaning an- 
nexed to the same word in popular discourse; accord- 
ing to which, whatever event is said to be probable is 
understood to be expected with some degree of doubt. 
. . . But although, in philosophical language, the epi- 
thet probable be applied to events which are acknowl- 
edged to be certain, it is also applied to events which 
are called probable by the vulgar. The philosophical 
meaning of the word, therefore, is more comprehensive 
than the popular; the former denoting that particular 
species of evidence of which contingent truths admit; 
the latter being confined to such degrees of this evi- 
dence as fall short of the highest. These different de- 
grees of probability the philosopher considers as a series, 
beginning with bare possibility, and terminating in that 
apprehended infallibility with which the phrase moral 
certainty is synonymous. To this last term of the se- 
ries the word probable is, in its ordinary acceptation, 
plainly inapplicable” ( Elements , pt. ii, eh. ii, § 4). 

Archbishop Butler, in his treatment of the evidences 
of Christianity, has had frequent recourse to this the- 
ory of the probable, and in eonsequence has at times 
laid himself open to severe attacks from the deistical 
and infidel schools of philosophy. By dwelling exclu- 
sively upon the absence of direct contradiction, and 
sinking the absence of confirmation, the learned author 
of the Analogy not unfrequently converts absolute igno- 
rance into the likeness of some degree of positive knowl- 
edge. So Campbell, who borrowed from Butler, con- 
structed most ingenious arguments on this paradox. 
Both these English thinkers seem to have had a con- 
fused notion that the improbability is an actual thing 
which still exists. Thus Campbell, after Butler, says, 
e. g., “ The chances that a comet will not appear at a 
given instant in a given place are infinite. The pre- 
sumption against the statement is therefore as strong 
as experience can afford ; and yet when an astronomer 
announces the appearance of the eomet you unhesitat- 
ingly believe him.” The object in this statement is to 
prove that we must depend largely upon testimony 
built up from experience, and that therefore knowledge 
is built upon the probable. The result is, of course, a 
delusive appearance of independent scientific grounds for 
what is really a purely a priori deduction. Like meth- 
ods are now adopted in scientific circles, and what Hume 
and consorts once condemned the theologians for, the 
latter now have to contend with in the application of 
scientific queryings to the positive in divine law r s and 
institutions. See Uebenveg, Hist, of Philos. (Index in 
vol. ii) ; The ( Lond .) Quar. Rev. Jan. 1875, p. 31 sq. ; 
London Academy , Nov. 15, 1873, p. 435, col. 1; Ste- 
phen, Religious Thought in England in the 18tA Cen- 
tury, vol. i. (J. II. W.) 

Probation, Ecclesiastical, in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church and other Methodist bodies, is the 
period, usually six months, for the candidate for Church 
membership to determine whether the organization is 
such as is likely to aid him in his Christian life, and for 
the Church to determine whether he is a proper person 
to be received. 


PROBATION, Ministerial, signifies among some 
English dissenters the state of a student or minister 
while supplying a vacant church, with a view, on their 
approval of his character and talents, to his taking the 
pastoral oversight of them. 

PROBATION, Monastic, is the year of a novitiate, 
which a religieux must pass in a convent to prove his 
virtue and vocation, and whether he can bear the se- 
verities of the rule. 

PROBATION, Moral, is a term used in Christian 
morals to denote that state of man in which his char- 
acter is formed and developed in action preparatory 
to judgment (q.v.). It is the state antecedent to a 
state of retribution (q.v.). “More strictly speaking, 
moral probation is that experimental trial which lays 
the foundation for approbation or disapprobation, praise 
or blame, reward or punishment. It involves ob- 
ligations to obedience, exposure to temptations, com- 
mands and prohibitions; promises, on the one hand, to 
encourage to duty; threatenings, on the other, to deter 
from sin ; with a certainty of final retributions accord- 
ing to the character produced under these various 
means, and visibly proved by the course of action pur- 
sued by the individual. This is the state which is de- 
nominated moral probation ; and in such a state is man- 
kind under the law of God and the mediatorial reign 
of Christ; or, in the customary language of the New 
Test., under the kingdom of heaven (Matt, xiii, 10-52).” 
It is the principal or rather essential doctrine in the in- 
dependent system of those Christian moralists who wish 
to prove metaphysically the truth of Christian ethics. 
It is the favorite basis of Butler in his Analogy. See 
Butler, Works, i, 109, 128 sq., 382; Christian Rev. xvi, 
541 ; Harlan, Ethics (see Index). The question whether 
there be a period of probation after death is more prop- 
erly a part of the articles Future Punishment and 
Purgatory. Comp, the Meth. Quar. Rev. April, 1876, 
p. 355 sq., 357 sq. 

Probationer is, in the Church of Scotland, a stu- 
dent in divinity, who, bringing a certificate from a pro- 
fessor in a university of his good morals, and his hav- 
ing performed his exercises to approbation, is admitted 
to undergo several trials before the presbytery, and 
upon his acquitting himself properly in these, receives a 
license to preach. See also Probation. 

Probity ; honesty, sincerity, or veracity. “ It con- 
sists in the habit of actions useful to society, and in the 
constant observance of the laws which justice and con- 
science impose upon us. The man who obeys all the 
laws of society with an exact punctuality is not, there- 
fore, a man of probity; laws can only respect the exter- 
nal and definite parts of human conduct; but probity 
respeets our more private actions, and such as it is im- 
possible in all cases to define; and it appears to be ill 
morals what charity is in religion. Probity teaches us 
to perform in society those actions which no external 
power can oblige us to perform, and is that quality in 
the human mind from which we claim the performance 
of the rights commonly called imperfect.” — Buck, s. v. 

Frobst. See Sprung. 

Problts, a Christian martyr under Diocletian and 
Maximian, in the beginning of the 4th century, was 
born at Sida, in Pamphylia. lie was repeatedly called 
up before Maximus, the governor of Cilicia, and com- 
manded to sacrifice to the heathen deities. But he in- 
variably refused, and his conduct was marked by the 
strongest decision. He w r as on one occasion scourged, 
both on his back and belly', which only called forth 
from the intrepid man the remark, “ The more my body 
suffers and loses blood, the more my soul will grow vig- 
orous and be a gainer.” After an ineffectual attempt 
to destroy him by means of wild beasts, he was finally 
slain by a sword, rejoicing to suffer persecution for 
righteousness’ sake. See Fox, Book of Martyrs, p.43. 

Probus Lector, an Irish monastic, flourished in 


VIII.-Qq 


PROCACCINI 


G10 


PROCEDURE 


the Monastery of Slanc, Ireland, A.D. 940. Ills orig- 
inal name was Ceanchair, but, like many Irish scholars 
and missionaries of that period, he Latinized it. He 
wrote the tirst Ufa of St. Patrick about 600 years after 
the saint’s death, l’iacre had previously written some 
verses on the saint, and Muirchu had alluded to him in 
another work, but the tirst Life of St. Patrick was from 
the pen of l’robus. lie gives no authorities for his 
statements in this Life, and we know of none then ex- ! 
tant that he could have given, lie wrote in a dark 
period, the midnight of the Dark Ages, lie seems to 
have written from his own fancy, viewing the eccle- 
siastical affairs of the infant Church of Ireland in the 
5th century through the medium of his own times. 
Bishop Lanigan, the Homan Catholic historian, admits 
that his facts cannot be distinguished from his fancies. 
He became a devotee and a high ritualist, and was es- 
teemed in his day a very holy and learned man. When 
the pagan Danes set fire to the Monastery of Slane, he 
refused to he separated from the precious MSS. and 
relics in it, and rushed into the tlames and perished 
with them. His Life of St. Patrick, and still more that 
of Jocelin, who wrote about 150 years after him, have 
ever since been the store-house from which the ma- 
terial of every Iloman Catholic Life of the Irish saint 
has been drawn. Jocelin lived in an age of fiction in 
regard to Ireland, and seems to have written according 
to the liveliness of his fancy or to the supposed creduli- 
ty of his readers. He asserted many things about St. 
Patrick which had never been heard of before ami for 
which he gives no authority, and which intelligent 
Catholics now indignantly reject. Dr. Colgan, the Irish 
antiquarian, says that the fable of the expulsion of the 
venomous serpents from Ireland was for the first time 
put forth by Jocelin. This and similar fabrications 
being thus boldly and dogmatically asserted in a dark 
age, and remaining for centuries uncontradicted, thou- 
sands afterwards received them as historical facts. Dr. 
Johnson says somewhere, “One may tell a bona-fide lie, 
and if he shall tell it over ten times, and no one shall 
contradict him, he will begin to believe it himself.” 
This has been really true in regard to Ireland. Pables 
and monstrosities remaining thus uncontradicted have 
been credited by thousands, while others who cotdd not 
receive them have foolishly and sceptically thrown 
aside well-attested truths and regarded nearly all Irish 
history as fabulous. Perhaps the real life and charac- 
ter of no one, so long and so thoroughly incorporated in 
history, are so little known as those of St. Patrick. See 
Moore, Hist, of Ireland; Usher, Religion of the Early 
Irish. (D. D.) 

Procaccini, Camillo, an Italian painter who 
contributed to sacred art, was born in 1546. He re- 
ceived his first instruction in the school of his father, 
and afterwards visited Home, where some biographers 
say that he studied the works of Michael Angelo and 
Raphael. Procaccini wrought uninterruptedly, and pro- 
duced paintings at such a rate that his works, though 
they charm the eye by the simplicity and spirit which 
characterize them, are greatly deficient in the higher 
power of impressing the mind and moving the affec- 
tions. 1 1 is St. Rock Administering to the Sick of the 
Blague, which is at Dresden, is one of his best works, 
lie died in 16*26. 

Procaccini, Ercole, the elder , was the head of 
the celebrated family of artists of that name, lie was 
born in 1520 at Bologna, where the greater number of 
his works still exist. He died about 1591. Authors 
are divided in opinion respecting his merit: Baldinneci 
and Malvasia call him a painter of moderate, talent, 
while Lontazzo esteems him to be a happy imitator of 
the coloring and grace of Correggio. His design is too 
minute and his coloring too languid, but he possessed 
far more taste than most of his contemporaries, and 
precision free from mannerism, which eminently quali- 
fied him for an instructor of youth. Several eminent 


artists, among whom were Sammacchini, Sabbatiui, Bcr- 
toja, and his own three sons, were his disciples. — Eng- 
lish Cyclop, s. v. Those interested in his works may 
consult Spooner, Biog. Hist, of the l-'ine Arts, vol. ii. 

Procaccini, Giulio Cesare, the best artist of 
the family, was born in 1548. He renounced sculpture, 
in which he had made considerable progress, for paint- 
ing, which he studied in the school of the Caracci. The 
works of Correggio were the principal object of his 
studies, and many judges are of opinion that no painter 
ever approached nearer to the style of that great artist. 
In some of his easel pictures and works of confined com- 
position he has been mistaken for Correggio. A Ma- 
donna of his at San Luigi de’ Lrancesi has been en- 
graved as the work of that master; and some paintings 
still more closely approximating to this style are in the 
palace of Sanvitali at Rome and in that of Carrcga at 
(lenoa. Of his altar-pieces, that in the church of Santa 
Afra in Brescia is perhaps most like the style of Cor- 
reggio: it represents the Virgin and Child amid a smil- 
ing group of saints and angels , in which dignity seems 
as much sacrificed to grace as in the mutual smile of the 
Virgin and the Angel in the Nunziata at San Antonio of 
Milan. He is sometimes blamable lbr extravagance of 
attitude, as in the Executioner of San Nazario, which is 
otherwise a picture full ol beauties. Notwithstanding the 
number and extent of his works, his design is correct, 
his forms ami draperies select, his invention varied, and 
the whole together has a certain grandeur and breadth 
which he either acquired from the Caracci, or, like them, 
derived from Correggio. He died in 1626. There are 
many of his works in Milan. — English Cyclop, s. v. 

Procedure, Kcclksiasticai., or the rules to be 
followed in the Church of Rome in disciplinary ac- 
tions. They owe their regulation to pope Innocent 
III. Previous to his time, it is true, the official vin- 
dication had assumed a more definite form in the 
synodal jurisdiction of the archdeacon. But he per- 
fected them, and there are now in the Romish Church 
five kinds of penal procedures in use: the trial may 
be instituted in consequence of accusation, inquisi- 
tion, denunciation, exception, and on account of noto- 
riety. The first and last had existed at a much earlier 
period. There was no need of a formal accusation in 
the case of notorious transgressions, and the bishop pun- 
ished them in virtue of his office; of course, after the 
matter had been sufficiently proved and avowed. The 
proceedings were of a more formal kind when there was 
an accusation. Here the proceedings of the Roman 
law were taken for models. The imposition or official 
examination took place when an ecclesiastic was ac- 
I cused of a transgression by a public and plausible ru- 
1 mor, which acted, as it were, as accusator. To com- 
plete the official examination, the judge could, if he 
thought lit, exact the oath of purgation (purgatio ca- 
nonica). The former custom of purgation by ordeals 
now came into disuse. If a plausible denunciation was 
made, an official examination must take place. If the 
fault was avowed, the penalty was only the imposition 
of a penance. Cases of exception were those where a 
man who was on the point of appearing as a witness or 
accuser, or a person who applied for ordination or for 
an ecclesiastical office, was stopped by an accusation, 
which, if proved, unfitted him for bearing witness or 
office. This was also an occasion for canonical purga- 
tion. In these casts punishment was out of the ques- 
tion, and there could only follow an exclusion from the 
witness-stand, from the right to accuse, from the orders 
or the function in question. In those parts where the 
Church is still possessed of a penal jurisdiction, she has 
to conform to the laws and customs which regulate the 
penal procedure of the country. See Biener, Beit, zur 
Cesch.dcs Inquisitions -processes (Leips. 1827); Hildcn- 
brand, Die Purgatio Canonica inul Cirilis (Munich, 
1811); Walter, Kirchenrecht, § 200; Richter, Kircken- 
rechf, § 211. — Aschbacli, Kirchtn-Lex. s. v. 


PROCESS 


611 


PROCESSIONAL CROSS 


Process, tlie formal act, instrument, bull, or edict 
of canonization (q.v.) in the Romish Church. 

Procession, the Hebrew term halikdh, 

rendered “going” in Psa. lxxviii, 25, means a religious 
procession, as described in the context, headed by the 
phylarchs, who preceded the sacred ark, while the in- 
strumental musicians followed it, and a line of females 
with timbrels accompanied it on either side. On the 
general subject see the monographs in Volbeding, Index 
Programmatum, p. 159. See Processions. 

Procession of the Holy Ghost, that doctrine 
regarding the Third Person of the Blessed Trinity which 
teaches that as the Son proceeds (or is born) from the 
Father, so the Holy Ghost proceeds (or emanates) from 
the Father and from the Son, hut as from one principle. 
The subject has been fully discussed in its historical re- 
lations in the art. Filioque Controversy, and as a the- 
ological question in the art. IIoi.y Ghost. But since 
the writing of those articles the subject has been revived 
and taken a new historical form — the formation of a 
new religious body from the ranks of the Romish Church, 
now known as the Old Catholics (q.v.). At their second 
annual conference or synod held in Bonn, Germany, in 
1875, preparations were made for a “ Union Conference” 
of the Old Catholic, Oriental, and Anglican churches, and 
such a conference accordingly convened at Bonn on Aug. 
12 of that year and lasted tive days. (Those interested 
in the character and nationality of its distinguished at- 
tendants will do well to consult the Methodist Quar. 
Oct. 1875, p. 673-675.) In the last session of that con- 
ference a common formula was adopted respecting the 
doctrine of the Procession, which Westerns and Orien- 
tals alike agreed to; and though it did not finally settle 
the question, and the controversy is still alive as we 
write, it is yet a very hopeful sign of an early union of 
different branches of the Church of Christ which have 
so little at variance and so much in common. The dis- 
cussions regarding the subject were long and animated, 
and for some time the Orientals held out against the 
adoption of 3, but by their final adoption of it an 
enormous step towards completer understanding has 
been made. The following are the resolutions: 

“ PRELIMINARY RFSOLUTIONS. 

“1. We agree together in receiving the oecumenical 
symbols and the doctrinal decisions of the ancient undi- 
vided Church. 

“2. We agree together in acknowledging that the addi- 
tion of the Filioque to the Creed did not take place in an 
ecclesiastically regular manner. 

“3. We acknowledge on all sides the representation of 
the doctrine of the Holy Ghost, as it is set forth by the 
Fathers of the undivided Church. 

“4. We reject every proposition and every method of 
expression in which in any way the acknowledgment of 
two principles or ap\ai or aiWcu in the Trinity may be 
contained. 

“ON TUB PROCESSION OF THE HOLY GltOST. 

“We accept the teaching of St. John of Damascus re- 
specting the Holy Ghost, as the same is expressed in the 
following paragraphs, in the sense of the teaching of the 
ancient undivided Church : 

“1. The Holy Ghost goes forth out of the Father (U toD 
iraTpoy) as the Beginning (a px : i), the Cause (alrm), the 
Source (navi) of the Godhead (De recta Sententia, n. 1 ; 
Contra Munich, n. 4). 

“2. The Holy Ghost goes not forth out of the Son (es 
too vlov), because there is in the Godhead but one Begin- 
ning (upx'i), one Cause (a'nia), through which all that is 
in the Godhead is produced (De Fide orthod. i, S: ex too 

vi ov de to nvevpa oh Xeyopev, nvevp a de vlov dvopil£opev), 

“3. The Holy Ghost goes forth out of the Father through 
the Son (De Fide orthod. i, 12 : to 5e nvevp a to dytov hopai- 
t optsi] tov Kpvtpiov Tfi? S’eoTTiTos 6i'iva/nr tov narpoi, ck nti- 
Tpd? pev dt’ vtov eKnopevopevp. Ibid.: vlov de nvevi ua, ol>x 
ef ovtov, <iAA’ air dt ovtov ts tov irnTpdr ehnopevopevov. C. 
Manieh. n. 5: dot TOO Ao<yov ovtov ovtov to nvevpa ovtov 
ksnope vopevov. De Hymno Trisag. n. 28: nvevpa to ay tov 
en tov irtiTpo r dtd tov viov Kat Ad^ov irpoidv. H.OUI. itl Sdbb. 
P. n. 4: toft’ i,pTv eerrt to XaTpevdpevov . . . nvevpa dytov 
tov Geov Kai iraTpdr, dir ef ovtov esnopevopevov, anep mu 
tov vlov \eyeTai, dir 6t' ovtov tpavepovuevov Kai tF] Krtoet pe- 
Tadtddpevov, uAA’ ovk ef ovtov exov T h v vnapBtv). 

“4. The Holy Ghost is the Image of the Son, who is the 
Image of the Father (De Fide orthod. i, 13 : 6 ik-.iv tov warpor 
o vlor, Kai tov viov to nvevpa), goiug forth out of the Father 


and resting in the Son as the force beaming forth from 

Him (ibid, i, 7 : TOV 7raTpor npoepxopevriv Kai ev Tip Aoy»' 
drarravopGaii Kai a vtov ovemv eKcpaniKiji di'vaptv. Ibid. 1, 
12: naTi'p . . . dtd A dyov 7 rpo/JoAevr tKtpanopiKov nvevpa-' 
Tor). 

“5. The Holy Ghost is the personal Production out of 
the Father, belonging to the Son, but not out of the Son, 
because he is the Spirit of the Mouth of the Godhead, 
which speaks forth the Word (De Hymno Trisag. n. 2S: 

to jneifia evvndoTaTov eKnopevpa Kai npofiXopa is narpat 
pev, vlov de, Kai pi] ef vlov, dir n vevpa OTopaToi 3-eav, Ao-yoo 
e^ayye\TiKdi). 

“0. The Holy Ghost forms the mediation between the 
Father and the Son, and is lionnd together to the Father 
through the Son (De Fide orthod. i, 13: uetrov tov dyevvi]Tov 
Kat yeivriTOv Kai d«’ vlov Ttp naTpi trvvamopevov). 

“N. B.— It is to he noted here that the German preposi- 
tion am (out of) equals es or ex, as denoting oiit of a cause 
or origin : whereas the word von (from) is equivalent to 
<<7rd or ab; while durch (through) denotes did or per, 
through the instrumentality of.” 

Since that conference the Filioque question has been 
much agitated in England, and it has been asserted, by 
High-Churchmen especially, that the exclusion of the 
Filioque from the Creed was granted by Dr. Dbllinger 
and canon Liddon at Bonn. What the conference did 
may be stated as follows: It declared, as bishop Pear- 
son had already admitted, that the Filioque was in- 
serted in an oecumenical creed by an inadequate au- 
thority, and therefore irregularly. It formulated cer- 
tain propositions which might serve to show that when 
the Latins accept and the Easterns reject the Filioque 
they do not differ, as has been too generally supposed; 
since the Latins reject any assertion of two principles or 
causes in the Godhead, and the Easterns admit a peaireia 
of the Son, in the eternal procession of the Holy Spirit 
from the Father. Whatever may have been the hopes 
and fears of individual members of the conference, no 
proposition was brought forward respecting the exclu- 
sion of the Filioque from the Creed of the Western 
Church. See Schaff, Creeds (Index in vol. iii) ; Forbes, 
Nieene Creed ; Neale, Eastern Church (Introd.), 1095- 
1168; Stanley, Eastern Church ; Haag, Hist, des Dogmes 
(Index in vol. ii) ; Martensen, Dogmatics (see Index); 
Meth. Quar. Jan. and April, 1876; New -Englander, 
July, 1870. See also Pusey’s Letter to Liddon On the 
Clause “ And the Son" (Lond. 1876, 8vo). (J. H. W.) 

Processional (Lat. prccessionale), the service- 
book which contains the prayers, hymns, and general 
ceremonial of the different processions. Many ancient 
books of this class have been preserved. The proces- 
sional approved for common use is that of Rome, of 
which many editions have been published. — Chambers, 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Processional Cross, or Cross of the Station 
(crux gestatoria, or stationaria), is the cross carried 
in the ecclesiastical processions spoken of under Pro- 
cessions. It was carried as early as the 4th century 
and in the 5th century both in the East and in the 
West. It is mentioned by Socrates, Nicephorns, Cassio- 
dorus, in the Life of St. Porphyry by Durand, and by 
Baronins under the year 401, and in the Canons of 
Cleveshoe in 747, when regulating the rogations. A 
cross made of ash, silver-plated, engraved or enamelled, 
without a crucifix, was at an early date, after the intro- 
duction of the labarum of Constantine, carried in pro- 
cessions by the staurophoros. The evangelistic sym- 
bols were usually set at the ends of the arms, which 
terminated in fleurs-de-lys. In the 4th century it 
had short handles, and candles were attached to the 
arms. Charlemagne gave such a cross, of pure gold, 
to the church of Constantine at Rome. In the 12th 
century at Rome a suhdeacon ( regionarius ) carried 
down the cross, inclined so that the faithful might kiss 
it, from the altar to the porch, where he held it upright 
in his hands during the processions. In England, at 
Durham, the chief cross was of gold, with a silver staff, 
and the cross used on ordinary days was of crystal. A 
novice followed it, carrying a benitier. A cross of the 
15th century is still preserved in St.John’s Lateran; 
another, of the time of St. Louis, is at St. Denis; a 


PROCESSIONAL PATH 


C12 


PROCESSIONS 


third, of silver and beautiful designs, with statues and 
evangelistic symbols, at Conques; and another at 
Burgos. In England, no doubt, many were destroyed 
during the War of the Roses and at the Reformation. 
At Chichester the ambry for the cross remains. In 
England, from Easter to Ascension, the cross was of 
crystal or beryl, but in Lent of wood, painted blood-red. 
No parish could carry its cross into a monastic church ; 
and in funerals, in a collegiate church, the cross of the 
latter only is set before the bier. — Walcott, Sacred A r- 
chwology, s. v. We append an illustration of the cross 
now usually carried by Romanists in their processions. 



Processional Path ( spatium vel via processio- 
num a retro altaris ; latus pone ckorum; Vr. partour de 
chceur, i. e. behind a choir). The transverse aisle in 
square -ended churches is commonly doubled, as at 
Lichfield, or even tripled, as at Winchester and at St. 
Mary Overge, in order to provide room for chapels as 
well as a passage for processions. At Hereford this 
aisle resembles a low transept. The eastern screens at 
Fountains, the Lady chapel of Hexham, and the Nine 
Altars of Durham seem to have been further develop- 
ments of the same idea, which appears also in the longi- 
tudinal new walk of Peterborough. At Canterbury, 
pilgrims to the martyrdom passed up the south aisle of 
the nave, and through the passage under the platform 
of the crossing. — Walcott, Sacred A rchwology, s. v. 

Processions. These, as solemn and religious rites, 
are of very great antiquity, but evidently of pagan ori- 
gin. With the Creeks and Romans, they took place 
chiefly on the festivals of Diana, Pace bus, Ceres, and 
other deities; also before the beginning of the games in 
the Circus ; and in spring, when the fields were sprinkled 
with holy water to increase their fertility. The priests 
used to head them, carrying images of the gods and 
goddesses to be propitiated, and either started from cer- 
tain temples or from the Capitol. The Romans, when 
the empire was distressed, or after some victory, used 
constantly to order processions, for several days togeth- 
er, to be made to the temples, to beg the assistance of 
the gods or to return them thanks. Among the Jews, 
processions were introduced for public prayers when the 
faithful people went in order to implore the divine help 
(Josh, vi, 15; 2 Sam. vi, 15; Ezra ii, 12-30; 1 Kings 
viii, 45; Numb, x, 33-30), with a form at setting out 


and when halting; or when rendering thanks to God (2 
Citron, xx, 21, 27, 28; Matt, xxi, 9). Certain proces- 
sions around the altar were (and still are to a eertaiu 
extent) usual on the Feast of Tabernacles; and from 
them the Mohammedans have adopted their mode of 
encompassing the sanctuary seven times at Mecca 
(q. v.). Processions form a prominent part of the Bud- 
dhist worship. Sec l’nociisaiox. 

In the Christian Church the practice was early in- 
troduced and has maintained itself to this day among 
the Romanists. Jn the earliest ecclesiastical phraseol- 
ogy the word processio denotes merely the act of fre- 
quenting a religious assembly , and taking part in public 
worship. It is distinguished from private offices of de- 
votion, and includes the idea of social worship, but 
without any additional idea of public ceremony, pomp, 
or the like. Procedere then meant to go to church, and 
is, in short, synonymous with saeris interesse, sacra fre- 
quentare. This was the meaning given to the word by 
Tertullian (.Id Uxor. lib. ii, c. 4) and Jerome ( Com - 
mentar. in Up. 1 ad Cor. c. 11). In many canons and 
other ecclesiastical writings we also find the word pro- 
cession, without, any explanation or addition, used in the 
sense of a religious assembly (conventus et ccotus populi 
in ecclesia). The Greek word orva%ig (as well as <rvv- 
ayioyi), ovWoyoc, conf. Suieeri Thesaur .) is translated 
sometimes by collecta, sometimes by conventus, and 
sometimes by processio. When Christian worship be- 
gan to be conducted openly, and churches were publicly 
frequented, the meaning of the word processio was ex- 
actly equivalent to our term church-going. After the 
4th century, especially in later meiliieval times, the 
word was applied to processions usual at funerals, mar- 
riages, baptisms, as well as to the line of communicants 
at the Lord’s Supper. Processions at festivals and on 
other occasions were, in course of time, quite common. 
Laws to protect such processions from interruption were 
passed, and any persons found guilty of disturbing them 
were subject to severe punishment. The first proces- 
sions mentioned in ecclesiastical history are those set on 
foot at Constantinople, in the time of Chrysostom. The 
Arians of that city being forced to hold their meetings 
j without the town, went thither night and morning, 
j singing anthems. Chrysostom, to prevent their per- 
verting the Catholics, adopted counter -processions, in 
which the clergy and people marched by night, singing 
; hymns, and carrying crosses and torches. From this 
| period the custom of processions was introduced both 
into the Eastern and Western churches (Chrvsost. Or. 
contr. lud. et theatr. ; Basil, Ep. 207, al. 03 ; Ambrose, Ep. 
40 ad Theodos. n. 14 ; Augustine, De Civ. Dei, i, 22, c. 8; 
Rufin. Hist. Eccl. i, 2, c. 33). Even during the perse- 
l ] cutions of the emperors there were at least some funeral 
I processions (Act. S. Cypr. ap. Rom. .1 ct. S. Donifac.). 
j Various ceremonies were observed, according to the 
' objects for which these processions were instituted, the 
1 spirit of the times in which they were celebrated, and 
the countries wherein they took place. The clergy 
usually attended: if the occasion was one of joy or 
thanksgiving, they were attired in the most splendid 
vestments. The laity put on their best attire, and 
were adorned with garlands and other ornaments; and 
the sound of bells and music was heard through the 
whole line. On occasions of mourning or penitence, the 
procession was distinguished by plain vestments, bare 
feet, deep silence, or sounds of lamentation and prayer, 
and sometimes by the exercise of flagellation. Men 
and women walked apart; and the line of procession 
was ranged with reference to the various ranks and 
classes of the persons who composed it. Lighted wax 
tapers were often earned in procession, especially on the 
festival of the Purification of the Virgin Mary, which 
was hence called festum or missa candelarum (see Can- 
m.ic.M as). Litanies composed for the occasion were 
sung in Latin as the procession moved. The peniten- 
tial psalms and the psalms of degrees were employed on 
! the occasion, as well as many Latin hymns. 


PROCESSIONS 


613 


PROCESSIONS 


These processions have always been more common in 
the Western than in the Eastern Church. The Refor- 
mation greatly lessened them even in the Roman Cath- 
olic Church, and, especially in mixed countries, proces- 
sions are less frequent or popular nowadays. They 
are there either supplicatory processions or cross proces- 
sions, and are either directed to a certain distant place, 
to some miraculous image or object, or they are con- 
fined to the streets of the cities and the churches. Ban- 
ners, crosses, and images are generally carried in front; 
the clergy follow; and the people make up the rear, 
singing hymns or reciting prayers. In some Protestant 
states they are still permitted, under certain restric- 
tions. The Protestants themselves rarely practice them, 
excepting the Ritualists (q. v.). 

In the medkeval Church the name procession was 
given to the ritual march, at the time of the celebration 
of the host, of the celebrant, and especially the bishop 
and his assistants, from the church door or the sacristy 
to the altar. In a narrower sense, the procession is now 
a ritual walk, the purpose of which is thanksgiving or 
supplication, or an honor paid to a person either living 
or dead. For the walks of the first kind alone, the pur- 
pose of which is thanksgiving, the term “ procession” is 
employed without any more special determination; 
those of the second kind are usually called by Roman- 
ists “litaniae,” “ rogationes,” “ snpplicationes,” and also 
“ exomologeses,” “stationcs,” which were their former 
names. Among the walks of the third kind we men- 
tion the solemn entrance, attended with ecclesiastical 
ceremonies, of a bishop, pope, or sovereign into a place ; 
the funeral, and even the bridal procession. Another 
distinction between different processions is this, that in 
some of them the host is carried about, in others it is 
not; the former are called theophoric processions (Stde 
and 0opaw). All these processions are either prescribed 
on certain days of the year and on certain occasions, or 
simply allowed in certain circumstances. Among the 
prescribed processions, the most important are the Cor- 
pus- Christi procession. Candlemas -day, the procession 
on Palm-Sundav, the litany of St. Mark’s Day, the lit- 
any on the three days of the Week of Prayer, and, final- 
ly, the funeral procession. Curates or ecclesiastics of a 
higher rank may organize processions on the harvest- 
festival, in great distresses, etc. 

Each procession has (and here we depend on Roman 
Catholic writers) a leader, who is either a priest or a 
bishop. The priestly leader w r ears the chasuble and 
stole, and often the pluvial besides; his head is covered 
with a barret. The episcopal leader wears chasuble, stole, 
and pluvial; his head is covered with the mitre; he 
holds the pastoral staff in his left hand, with his right 
hand he blesses the people before whom the procession 
passes. The color of the stole, pluvial, and mitre is 
suited to the purpose of the procession. If (as is the 
case in the theophoric processions and when a particle 
of the cross is carried about for public veneration) the 
head must be uncovered, the bishop has the staff car- 
ried in front of him and the mitre behind him. In 
theophoric processions the blessing with the right hand 
is also omitted. In this case the leader carries the ven- 
erabile thus : he holds the ostensorium with both hands 
before his face, while his hands are covered with the 
vellum hanging down from both his shoulders. The 
organization of the Catholic Church, as a community 
presided over by the clergy, requires this leadership by 
ecclesiastics. If the leader wears the chasuble and stole, 
he declares by his dress that unceasing efforts to attain 
purity of heart (alba) and a childlike trust in the mer- 
its of Jesus Christ ( stola ) are the festive robes which 
every Christian, but more especially every priest, should 
wear in and outside of the house of God. If, besides, 
the bishop carries the staff and wears the mitre, it is for 
the purpose of reminding the Christians that he is their 
highest pastor, whose care surrounds and whose benedic- 
tion follows them everywhere. If the leader (unless 
prevented by his veneration of the body of Christ or 


his reverence for the beam of the cross) have his head 
covered, this is a hint given to the faithful that it 
is their duty to revere the priest as their father in 
Christ. If the priest cover with a vellum the hands 
that hold the ostensorium, he confesses therewith his 
unworthiness of carrying, under the form of the bread, 
the body of him who created heaven and earth. The 
leader of the procession has generally assistants and a 
suite of honor. If the leader be a priest, he is assisted, 
if possible, by two levites, one walking to his right, the 
other to the left, and dressed, according to the color of 
the leader, as deacon and subdeacon, or at least by two 
acolytes. If the leader be a bishop, a few canons of his 
cathedral, at least, should walk before him, dressed in 
the pluvial. If the procession be theophoric, two aco- 
tytes, walking immediately before the leader, incense 
the vencrabile uninterruptedly with their censers; in 
this case, also, a baldachin is generally extended over 
the leader, and borne by four, six, or eight laymen of 
distinction. It seldom happens that the leader of a 
non-theophoric procession walks beneath the balda- 
chin : it is then a personal honor, only bestowed on 
bishops on extraordinary occasions, as on their solemn 
, entrance into a church. In countries where the cus- 
tom has hitherto existed, it is allowable to spread the 
baldachin over particles of the cross or other instru- 
ments of Christ’s passion. The faithful who partici- 
pate in the procession walk two by two. This may find 
an analogy in Christ’s sending out his disciples two by 
two to preach the Gospel. Gregory the Great (Horn. 

1 17 in Evang.) declares this to be a symbol of the two 
commandments of love— the love of God and the love 
of our fellow-man. Though the non-observance of this 
prescription is attended with much inconvenience, it is 
neglected in many processions in the cities and coun- 
try. Mabillon saw even in Rome a procession where 
the faithful walked partly two by two, partly three by 
three, and even in larger numbers (Iter Ital. v. 152). 
The faithful who participate in the procession (monks 
who are not bound by their rule to entire seclusion 
can be compelled by the bishops to attendance) are 
disposed with respect to the class and sex they belong 
to. This is a requirement of good order. We find 
this arrangement, mentioned b} r the oldest waiters. 
St. Augustine speaks of a procession which took place 
! near Hippo, where the bishop walked in the middle, the 
people before and after him (De Civ. Dei , i, 22, c. 
8, n. 11). Porphyry of Gaza made the people precede, 
and followed himself with his clergy (Sur. 26 Feb.), 
j The great procession held by Gregory the Great indi- 
cated seven different churches, as starting-points for 
seven different classes of people (clerks, monks, female 
servants of God, married women, widow’s, poor, and 
children). 

In our times the procession is generally (the custom 
is not the same everywhere) opened by the children : 
they are put, as it were, in the first line of battle, in 
order that God may be moved by their innocence to 
listen favorably to the prayers of the community. The 
( children are follotved b}’ the clergy, with the chanters 
| and musicians ; among the clergy the leader of the pro- 
cession walks the last, behind him the men, the promi- 
| nent citizens taking the lead, followed by the wom- 
en. The promiscuous walking of persons of both sexes 
j is now here allowed. The order, as described, places the 
leader, as pastor of the community, in the middle of the 
procession : he is the shepherd of the children as well 
as of the adults, of the innocent as well as of the peni- 
tent, of the married people as well as of the unmarried : 
he must always in life be near to all of them. If broth- 
erhoods, societies of mechanics, and members of relig- 
ious orders are present, the two first mentioned open the 
cortege, the latter walk before the chanters and musi- 
cians. In front of the procession and between its differ- 
ent divisions, crosses or crucifixes, Hags, and, if the pro- 
cession is a very solemn one, images, relics, statues, etc., 
are carried. The bearer of the principal crucifix has 


PROCESSIONS 


G14 


PROCESSIONS 


two acolytes— one to his right, the other to his left — each 
with a lighted taper in his hand. The carrying of the 
images, statues, etc., is committed to the care of the 
brotherhoods, associations, and partly to the young men 
and girls of the community ; the relics are carried by the 
clergymen, or, if the procession is held in honor ot' the 
relics, bv the leader of the procession. The principal 
crueitix (see Pkocessional Cuoss) is generally carried 
(if possible) by a subdeacon ; subdcacons also carry the 
crucifixes before the chapters, the archbishops, and the 
pope. The crosses are carried before the pope and arch- 
bishops in such a way that the image of the crucified 
one is turned towards those dignitaries. The principal 
crueitix opens the procession, unless a Hag has been pre- 
ferred, in which case the. crucifix follows at some dis- 
tance. brotherhoods and corporations are in the habit 
of having Hags carried before them, 'flic most impor- 
tant of these customs arc very old. Sozomcn {/list. 
Eccl. i, 8, c. 8) and the biographer of St. Osarius of 
Arles {Sur. 27 Aug.) knew already of the carrying of 
crosses or crucifixes (during many centuries naked 
crosses were alone in use) and of lighted tapers. In 
former times the book of the Gospels was sometimes 
carried along with the cross (17/. S’. Porphyr. Fp. Sur. 
2G Feb.). Flags, which, it must be observed, are not 
prescribed, but only allowed, are mentioned by Gregory 
of Tours {Hist. Franc, i, 5, e. 1). Gregory the Great 
ordered an image of Mary to he carried about as early 
as 590 (Haron. Annul, ad a. 590). In the 4th century, 
we find processions held for the purpose of transferring 
relies solemnly to the churches (Socrat. Hist. Feel, i, 3, 
c. 1 6 ; Augustine, Confess, i, 9, c. 7). The Synod of l>ra- 
ga in 572 {ibid. c. 6) calls this a solemn custom (see 
Cone. Clovesh. a. 7 17, c. 16). The faithful walk {ibid, 
c. 6) quietly and devoutly. Idle talk, forward looking 
around, laughing, showy suits, luxury of dress, etc., 
shock the pious mind. The men walk bareheaded ; the 
clergy and magistrates alone are, with some restrictions, 
allowed to cover their heads. The clerks wear the chas- 
uble ; only on most sacred occasions, as at the proces- 
sion of the Corpus Christi, we find the custom that at least 
some of the subdeacons wear the tunica, some of the 
deacons the dalmatica, several priests the planeta. and 
the ecclesiastics of higher rank the pluvial. The sub- 
deacons who carry the crosses wear the tunica, besides 
the amictus, alba, and cingulum. For the laymen there 
are no longer any Tules in this respect. Sozomen {/list. 
Feel, i, 8, c. 8) speaks of all the faithful bearing burn- 
ing tapers; we hear of them in other places appearing 
barefooted, in sack and ashes {Cone. Mofjunt. a. 813, c. 
33); Charlemagne himself, according to the narrative 
of a monk of St. Gall, set the example of walking bare- 
footed in procession at l’atisbon (Mart. l)e Ant. Fecles. 
Rit. i, 4, c. 27, a. 7) ; but these are things of the past. The 
purport of the prayers is in accordance with the pur- 
pose of the procession. Yet the Church has given 
some rules. At theophoric processions, especially that 
of the Corpus Christi. the hvmns in honor of the Eu- 
charist must be sung in preference ( Range linyua, Sacris 
sole minis , Verbnm supermini prodiens ); special songs 
are also prescribed for the procession at Candlemas anil 
on l’alm-Sunday ; for the litanies of St. Mark’s Day and 
of the Week of Prayer, the litany of All-saints’ and the 
versifies and orations which follow it in the breviary are 
prescribed. At the funeral procession of full-grown 
persons, prayers of intercession ; at the funerals of chil- 
dren, thanksgiving prayers are in use. 

As extraordinary processions are generally under- 
taken for a purpose that must be submitted to God in 
special prayers, regulations have been made for these 
cases too. The Iloman ritual mentions expressly the 
proevssio ad petendam pluvitnn, the proeessio ad postu- 
landam serenitatnn, the procession in time of famine, in 
time of epidemic and plague, in time of war, in any 
other great distress, the thanksgiving procession, and, 
finally, that for the translation of relics. ( trigiually the 
people sang psalms on such occasions (Jerome, Fp. 108, 


al. 27; Gregor. Xazianz. Or. 10; 17/. S. Porphyr. Fp. 
Sur. 2G Feb.) ; only when the purpose of the procession 
was to obtain some favor from God, it was an early cus- 
tom to exclaim quite frequently, “ Kyrie eleison,” or 
recite other prayers of penitence (Chrysost. Orat. eontr. 
lud. et theatr.'). This is the way the litany of AH- 
sainta’ has been little by little composed. The common 
boman Ordo says : “ Oinnes in commune ‘ Kyrie eleison’ 
decantent, et. cum eontritione cordis Dei misericordiam 
exorent pro peccatis, pro pace, pro peste, pro conserva- 
tione friigum et pro cajteris necessitatibus.” Mabillon 
{Comment, in Onl. Rom. p. 34) saw an old boman ritual 
according to which a hundred “Kyrie eleison,” a hun- 
dred “ Cliriste eleison,” and again a hundred “ Kyrie elei- 
son” were to be said kneeling, in such a propitiatory 
procession. As the psalms ceased little by little to be 
known by heart, rosarv-praving, which has become of 
so general use in our day, took their place. The pro- 
cession comes out of a place of worship, and, its walk 
performed, returns to it. If (as at funerals) not all the 
participants, the clergy, at least, with the chanters and 
the bearer of the principal cross, always return. Even 
if a bishop or pope is received outside of the doors of the 
city, it is customary for the clergy to start from the 
church and return thither with t hat high personage. 
The procession on Candlemas -day and balm -Sunday 
starts at the call of the leader, “ 1’rocedamus in pace” 
(the choir answering, “ In nomine Christi, amen”). In 
theophoric processions the leader or the chanters give 
the signal by commencing the hymn Range lingua; if 
it is a supplication, the assembly kneel down a lew 
minutes praying, the chanters commence to sing the 
litany of All-saints’, and the procession starts, singing 
the hymn Sancta Maria, which is a part of that litany. 
If in supplications (which is often the case in rural com- 
munities) the litany of All-saints’ is not recited in Latin, 
the procession commences thus: the ecclesiastic leader 
kneels on the lowest step of the high-altar, begins to say 
the rosary aloud, rises at the first Ave of the first decade, 
and therewith gives the signal lor starting. The litany 
procession stops frequently at one, or two, or even more 
places of worship. The clergy (orat least the superiors) 
of the church where it stops receive it in chasuble ami 
stole, with two acolytes, at the gate of the churchyard, 
or at the portal of the church, and offer holy water to 
the clerks and distinguished laymen of the procession. 
In such places of worship it is customary to sing an an- 
tiphony, and a versicle and oration in honor of the pa- 
tron of the church; sometimes a high-mass, with or 
without sermon, is held in one of them. The laymen 
like at such occasions to sing three times the song of 
triumph and the little doxologv. This stopping, which, 
especially in Milan, is so extensively in use during the 
rogations celebrated there in the week that follows As- 
cension that the procession stops on the first day at 
twelve, on the second at nine, ami on the third at eleven 
churches (comp. Mabill. Lit. Gallic, p. 153), is a custom 
of great antiquity. The Gallican liturgy mentions it as 
a well-known matter (Missttle Gothic.; Missale Gallic. 
Vet.; Cod. 30G). Gregory of Tours speaks of it as an 
established custom {Hist. Franc, i, 9, c. G). The seven- 
bodied procession of Gregory the (ireat started from 
seven churches and stopped at the Church of Our Lady 
(Greg. Tur. Hist. Franc, i, JO, c. 1). The reception by 
the clergy of the church where the procession stops is 
also a very old custom (Loo III in I.ibr. Pont if .) ; it was 
called “ t tcciirrere,” As processions in such cases, es- 
pecially in the country, have often to walk an hour or 
more before they reach another place of worship, the 
Church has found it necessary, from time to time, to 
warn the faithful not to make of these intervals an oc- 
casion for feasting ami tippling ( Rif. Rom. ; comp. Cone. 
Clovesh. a. 747, c. 16). When the procession walks in- 
side of the places of worship, or in their immediate 
neighborhood, the bells of the steeple are rung. This 
reminds one of the procession which followed the body 
of St. Anastasius, and at which a noise was produced by 


PROCESSIONS 


615 


PROCIIET 


striking on consecrated woods (Cone. Niccen. a, 787, act. 
4). Processions of less importance move only inside 
the walls of the house of worship. Such is the case 
with all processions in countries where the Catholic 
religion does not enjoy complete freedom of worship. 
According to the rules, processions should precede the 
high-mass, but this is practically the case with very few 
(comp, the Rit. Rom., the Carem. epp., and the Rubri- 
cists). — Aschbach, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

The origin of processions may have been an imita- 
tion of the motion of the heavenly spheres, the courses 
of the stars, and the revolutions of seasons, and more 
immediately of ancient religious dances. They were 
always accompanied by singers, and generally by mu- 
sicians. Procession is progression, says Durand, when 
a multitude, headed by the clergy, goes forth in reg- 
ular order and ranks to implore the divine grace. It 
represents the pilgrimage of man upon earth on his way 
to the better land, from the cradle to the grave, as St. 
Paul says that we are pilgrims and sojourners in this 
world. Processions round cloisters and cemeteries still 
more vividly brought before the mind the thought of 
the last home to which man must come at length, as 
waters, after the most devious course, are lost in the 
great sea. In a procession to the altar, in reverse order 
to that of the recession, first went the verger, the cross- 
bearer, attended on cither side by acolytes carrying 
candlesticks and lighted tapers; then came the censers, 
or thurifers, the chanters in copes and carrying batons, 
the subdeacon, deacon, and celebrant; then choir boys, 
clerks of the second grade, and the more honorable fol- 
lowing. In the cathedral the precentor, the sub-chanter 
of canons ( precliantre ), and the succentor of vicars (sous- 
chantre), each with his chanter’s baton, preceded the 
bishop, carrying his cross, or staff. In the middle of 
the 15th century the capitular tenants tvent in proces- 
sion on St. Peter’s Eve at Exeter, preceded by the chor- 
isters carrying painted shields of arms. 

In England processions were made with litanies and 
prayers, (1) for the prosperity of the king; (’2) for the 
wealth of the realm ; (3) for pureness of the air; (4) for 
the increase of the fruits of the earth. Two processions 
for the good success of a king were made on Sundays 
about the church and churchj'ard, by English canons, 
in 1359 and 1398. On Ash-Wednesdav, after confession 
in church, there was a solemn procession for ejecting 
the penitents, who were not readmitted until Maundv- 
Thursday. On Easter-day was a grand procession in 
memory of the disciples going to meet our Lord in Gali- 
lee, and in imitation of it there was a humbler proces- 
sion on every Sunday. The other great procession was 
annual, on Palm-Sundav. Bishops were also met with 
processions of the chapter and vicars, or a convent, at 
the west door of the church and the cemetery gate, by 
decree of Ilonorius III, 1221. In 1471 all curates ofthe 
diocese were required to visit the high-altar of Lincoln 
Cathedral in procession, and make their offerings. In 
the nave the great processions were arranged. At Can- 
terbury two parallel lines, and at Fountains, Lincoln, 
Chichester, and York two rows of circular processional 
stones were arranged at proper intervals, and specifi- 
cally allotted. At Exeter the antiphon was sung daily 
at the screen, and the procession passed through the 
north gate of the choir to the vestibule of the Lady 
Chapel, and then by the south gate of the choir near 
the throne to the high-altar. It afterwards traversed 
the nave and cloisters, concluding before the rood-loft; 
and if there was no sermon, the procession returned to 
the altar. Carpets were strewn along the way on great 
festivals. Bishop Edvngdon desired to be buried at 
Winchester, where the monks stood in procession on 
Sundays and holydays. These monks, being aggrieved 
by a bishop, on one occasion went round their cloisters 
from west to east, out of their usual manner, in order to 
show that all things were out of order. At Chichester 
at Epiphany an image “ of the Spirit” was carried round 
the church by the dean or senior canon and two vicars. 


On Whitsun-Monday the parishioners in the diocese 
often came to blows about right of precedence, so that 
bishop Storey made injunctions (1478) for order on this 
occasion, when the shrine of St. Richard was visited an- 
nually. Crosses and banners were permitted, but the 
long painted rods with which the contending parties 
had hitherto belabored each other were proscribed, as 
well as laughing, crowding, and noise. The pilgrims 
entered by the great south porch and assembled in the 
choir at 10 A. M. and left the building by it, having 
duly visited “ the chancel and church.” In 1364 the 
primate forbade such dangerous contentions throughout 
England. As late as 1551 the city companies of Lon- 
don went in procession— the Fishmongers’ to St. Mi- 
chael’s, Cornhill, with three crosses, a hundred priests, 
and the parishioners and members of the guild carrying 
white rods; and the parish of St. Clement Danes dis- 
played eighty banners and streamers, and was preceded 
bv the city waits. On Easter-Monday at Kinnersley 
and Wellington the parishioners, adult and children, 
joined hand-in-hand, surrounded the church and 
touched it with a general simultaneous embrace, called 
“clipping the church.” They afterwards attended di- 
vine service. The procession at Wolverhampton on 
Monday and Tuesday in Rogation week, in which the 
children bore poles dressed with flowers and the clergy 
chanted the Benedicite, only ceased in 1765. Some of 
the Gospel trees or holy oaks where the stations were 
formed still remain. — Walcott, Sacred Archceol. s. v. 
See Middleton, Letters from Rome ; Willet, Si/nops. 
Pap. ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , viii, 803-809 ; 
Mnrtigny, Diet, des A ntiquites Chret. s. v. ; Siegel, Christ- 
liche Alterthiimer ; Riddle, Christian Antiquities,^. 757, 
758, 771-774, 833 ; Barnum, Romanism, p. 468. 

Prochazka, Francis Faustin, a Bohemian mo- 
nastic, noted as a writer, was born at Neupaka, Bohe- 
mia, Jan. 13, 1749. He studied with the Jesuits of 
Gischin and at the University of Prague. In 1767 he 
entered the Order of Barnabites, where he had for his 
master the celebrated Durieh, who taught him Hebrew 
and encouraged him in his predilections for the Slavonic 
literature. When the Barnabites were suppressed in 
Bohemia (1788), he became successively theological 
censor, professor and director of the Gymnasium at 
Prague, and librarian of the university of that city. 
He published the New Testament in Bohemian with 
commentaries, an edition of the Bible in that dialect, a 
reprint of the Chronique de Bunzlau : — Commentarius 
de Secularibus Artium Liberalium in Moravia Fads 
(1782): — Melanges de Liiterature Boheme ^Prague, 
1784, 8vo). This religious man also assisted on the 
Barnabite Bible, and at the moment of his death was 
occupied on the valuable Bibliotheca Slavica of Durieh. 
Prochazka died at Prague in 1809. — Iloefer, Aouv. Biog. 
Gene rale, s. v. 

Frochet, Matteo, a noted modern Italian Prot- 
estant theologian, was born in Piedmont in 1836. He 
was afforded by his Waldensian parents all the educa- 
tional and religious advantages that might properly fit 
him for Church service, but on the outbreak of the 
Franco-Italian-Austrian war in 1859 he took up arms 
for his country’s freedom and greatly distinguished him- 
self by his bravery. After his return from the field of 
battle he continued his theological studies, and in 1862 
was ordained minister in the Church of the Vaudois. 
He soon rose to positions of distinction, and was repeat- 
edly honored by his ecclesiastical associates in missions 
to the sister churches of the Continent and of England, 
Scotland, and Ireland. He finally became the president 
of the Waldensian missions in Italy, and in 1873 was 
sent to represent his Church in the Evangelical World 
Alliance at New York. While in this country he spoke 
frequently and greatly impressed that distinguished 
body by his learning and wisdom. He was at the time 
pastor in Geneva and also professor of theologv. On his 
return voyage from this country he was accompanied 


PROCIIORUS 


G16 


PllOCLUS 


by the nuieh-lamented Carrasco, the Spanish convert 
to Protestantism, who was 011 c of his most intimate 
friends, and with whom he had planned several impor- 
tant polemical treatises against Humanism and her rela- 
tions to the State. Proehet is of a tine, commanding 
presence— tall in figure, broad-chested, quick in move- 
ment and speech, like most of the sons of the South; 
keen in perception, and accurate in his scholarship. He 
is a power, not only in Italian Protestantism, hut in 
evangelical Christianitv. See Report of the Alliance, 
(1873). (J. II. W.) 

Proch'orus (fTpoxopoe), one of the seven deacons, 
being the third on the list, and named next after 
Stephen and Philip (Acts vi, 5), A.D. 30. No further 
mention of him is made in the X. T. There is a tradi- 
tion that he was consecrated by St. Peter bishop of Ni- 
comedia (Baron, i, 292). In the Magna Bibliotheca 
Patram (Colon. Agripp, 1G18, i, 49-69) will be found a 
fabulous “llistoria Prochori, Christi Discipuli, de Vita 
B. Joannis Apostoli.” — Smith. 

Proclamation (?*p, Hi"), etc., or some form of 
"C'r, as in 1 Kings xv, 22; Jer. 1, 29), the edict of any 
governing power, published in a solemn manner. The 
laws of Closes, as well as the temporary edicts of Joshua, 
were communicated to the people by means of the gen- 
ealogists, or “officers,” as in the English version: but 
the laws and edicts of those who subsequently held the 
office of kings were proclaimed publicly by criers (Jer. 
xxxiv, 8, 9; Jonah iii, 5-7), a class of persons men- 
tioned by Daniel (iii, 4 ; v, 29), under the word X1V12, 
kerozu, which our translators have rendered “herald” 
(q.v.). 

Proclamations, Boyal. These, documents in 
former times were almost equal in authority to an act 
of the constitutional legislature. They often interfered 
with religion, ami dealt largely in reformation of man- 
ners. In 1529 king Henry VII issued a proclamation 
“for resisting and withstanding of most dampnable 
heresyes sowen within the realme by the discyples of 
Luther and other heretykes, perverters of Christes re- 
lygyon.” In June, 1530, this was followed by the proc- 
lamation “for dampning (or condemning) of erronious 
bokes and heresies, and prohibitinge the havinge of 
holy scripture translated into the vulgar tonges of eng- 
lishe, frenche, or dutehe.” “And that having respect 
to the malignity of this present tyme, with the inclina- 
tion of people to erronious opinions, the translation of 
the newe testament and the old into the vulgar tonge 
of engl/sshe, shuldc rather be the occasion of eontyn- 
uance or increase of errours amonge the said people, 
than any benefit or commodite towards the weale of 
their sonles.” It was therefore determined that the 
Scriptures should only be expounded to the people as 
heretofore, and that these books “ be clerelv extermy- 
nate and exiled out of this realme of Englande for 
ever.” Under Edward VI there is a proclamation 
against such “as innovate any ceremony,” and who are 
described as “certain private preachers and other laie- 
men. who rashly attempt of their own and singular wit 
anil mind, not only to persuade the people from the old 
and accustomed rites and ceremonies, but also them- 
selves bring in new and strange orders according to 
their phantasies. The which, as it is an evident token 
of pride and arrogancy, so it tendeth both to confusion 
and disorder.” There is a proclamation also to abstain 
from flesh on Fridays and Saturdays; enforced on the 
principle, not only that “men should abstain on those 
days, and forbear the pleasures and the meats wherein 
they have more delight, to the intent to subdue their 
bodies to the soul and spirit, but also for worldly policy.” I 
Charles II issued a proclamation against “ vicious, de- 
bauched, and profane persons!” i. e. “a sort of men of 
whom we have heard much, and are sufficiently ashamed ; 
who spend their time in taverns, tippling-houses, and 
debauchery; giving no other evidence of their affection 


to us but in drinking our health, and inveighing against 
all others who are not of their own dissolute temper; 
and who, in truth, have more discredited our cause, by 
the license of their manners and lives, than they could 
ever advance it by their affection or courage, 5Ye hope 
all persons of honor, or in place and authority, will so 
far assist us in discountenancing such men, that their 
discretion and shame will persuade them to reform what 
their conscience would not; and that the displeasure of 
good men towards them may supply what the laws 
have not, and, it may be, cannot well provide against; 
there being by the license and corruption of the times, 
and the depraved nature of man, many enormities, scan- 
dals, and impieties in practice and manners, which laws 
cannot well describe, and consequently not enough pro- 
vide against, which may, by the example and severity 
of virtuous men, be easily discountenanced, and by de- 
grees suppressed.” Some parties in Scotland who had 
no objection to national fasts, or even to the royal rec- 
ommendation of them, yet objected to royal command 
and dictation as worded in the usual form, they being 
charged to keep the fast “as they tender the favor of 
Almighty Cod, and would avoid his wrath and indigna- 
tion.” According to counsel learned in the law, obedi- 
ence to such mandate is not imperative, for it is affirmed 
— “ 1. That in England, where by statute the sovereign 
is head of the Church as well as of the State, that head- 
ship applies only to the clergy and members of the Na- 
tional Church, and does not include those who are not 
of her communion. 2. That in Scotland — where seced- 
ing or dissenting churches (except it be the nonjurors) 
stand not upon any statute of toleration, but upon the 
free basis and constitution of the country — no such re- 
lation exists, but is excluded by the act of 1690 (c. 5), 
ratifying the Confession of Faith ; whereby an antago- 
nistic principle is established, it being declared that 
‘there is no other Head of the Church but the Lord 
Jesus Christ,’ and that he, ‘as King and Head of the 
Church, hath therein appointed a government in the 
hand of church -officers distinct from the civil magis- 
trate,’ who ‘ may not assume to himself the administra- 
tion of the Word and sacrament, or the keys of the 
kingdom of heaven.’ 3. That, in point of fact, proc- 
lamations for the observance of national fasts and 
thanksgivings in Scotland were, for a considerable pe- 
riod after the date of that act, and until the union be- 
tween England and Scotland, passed by the three es- 
tates of the Scottish Parliament, and not by the sov- 
ereign alone. And, 4. That no statute can be found 
authorizing such proclamations in Scotland; and the 
phraseology used in them seems to have grown out of 
the practice in England, or to be founded on what ap- 
pears to be an unwarranted extension of the two statutes 
cited in the proclamation of June, 1857, which refer ex- 
clusively to prayers for royal personages, and apply at 
most to ministers and preachers of two denominations.” 
— Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Proclianites (or Froclianists) is the name of 
the followers of Proclus (q. v.). They were extreme 
Montanists (q. v.), and were spread more especially in 
Phrygia, where, about the close of the 4th century, they 
formed a most dangerous sect, and greatly disturbed 
the peace of the churches. 

Proclus, surnamed Ac a(o\og, i. e. the Successor, 
because he replaced Syrianus (q. v.) as the head of that 
Athenian school of philosophers who Avere Neo-Plato- 
nists, has been called “ the Scholastic among the Creek 
philosophers.” Indeed, according to M. Cousin, Proclus 
is the Creek philosopher; the tlower and crown of all 
its schools ; in whom, says the learned Frenchman, 
“are combined, and from whom shine forth, in no ir- 
regular or uncertain rays, Orpheus, Pythagoras, Plato, 
Aristotle, Zeno, Plotinus, Porphyry, and Jainbliehus,” 
and who “ had so comprehended all religions in his 
mind, and paid them such equal reverence, that he was, 
as it were, the priest of the whole universe!” This is 


PROCLUS 


617 


PROCLUS 


a compliment, but a compliment ill warranted and be- 
stowed only because M. Cousin perceived in this Neo- 
Platonist more of kinship with that extravagant class 
of philosophizers, of whom Cousin himself is one, whose 
method consists in putting forth strings of brilliant prop- 
ositions, careless about either their consistency or co- 
herence. Indeed, Cousin’s adoration for Proclus shows, 
if we may use the words of one of their own class, 
“what things men will worship in their extreme need!” 
(Thomas Carlyle). 

With the beginning of Christianity in its aggressive 
movements, the heathen world saw itself faced with 
immediate danger of a prostration that could only end 
in death. Philo the Jew, anxious to revive the power 
of the old dispensation, rallied all extraneous forces, de- 
termined to build, by the aid of what antiquity had 
shaped, a structure that should rival, if not outshine, 
the simple edifice the Son of the Carpenter of Nazareth 
and the fishermen of Galilee had reared. What Philo 
failed to accomplish, Ammonius Saccas, also of Alexan- 
dria (near the beginning of the 3d century), and aided 
by Plotinus his pupil, attempted to effect. See Ploti- 
nus. But both master and pupil left their work ere it 
was fairly begun, and though Porphyry (q. v.) zeal- 
ously applied himself to bring out the mystical ration- 
alism of Plotinus, the six Enneades in which these 
teachings were set forth failed to show even a marked 
progress in the work so long attempted, and it remained 
for Jamblichus (q. v.) in the 4th and Proclus in the 5th 
century to give any appearance whatsoever to the edi- 
fice the Neo-Platouists had been so long in construct- 
ing. If we wish to see Neo-Platonism in its incipiencv, 
we must go to Philo the Jew. But if we wish to see it 
in its ripest growth, we must study it in the writings of 
Proclus the Athenian. The Neo-Platonism he presents 
to us is no longer the outgrowth of Judaism intermixed 
with Hellenism, but paganism illumined by the spirit 
and light of the Gospel of Christ — that very religion 
with which it was struggling for the empire of the 
world (see Ullmann, Der Einjiuss des Christenthums , in 
Studien u. Kritiken , 1832, No. 2). 

The bewildering conflict of philosophical theories 
which these five centuries had been fostering had re- 
sulted in the growth of scepticism, and left no resting- 
place for minds of a religious turn. The Neo-Platonists 
of the 4th and 5th centuries most naturally took their 
refuge in mysticism, where feeling and intuition super- 
sede the slow and doubtful process of the intellect 
(comp. Fisher, Beginnings of Christianity, p. 178, 179). 
Plotinus was the first to take this refuge. So did from 
this time forth all the successors of the Platonists, of 
whom Gibbon sneeringly says that “ Plato would have 
blushed to acknowledge them.” The}' discarded phi- 
losophy, though they claimed to be philosophers. They 
played upon the superstitions tendencies of their age 
rather than upon the intellectual strength that still re- 
mained. They sought to persuade by the aid of magic 
rather than by the clear force of logic. They turned 
prophets and seers. Though they took part in the 
higher discussions and conclusions of philosophy, they 
nevertheless stood opposed to all philosophy, since they 
did not even profess to rest upon careful inquiries into 
eternal laws of the Spirit, but claimed to have a reve- 
lation from God. Thus exalted above all such investi- 
gations, Neo-Platonism became the poetry as well as 
the religion of philosophy. It was attached more espe- 
cially to the system of Plato, and was professed to be 
an explanation and a development of his views, but it 
was aimed to bring together the fundamental principles 
of all philosophical schools, and the ideas which consti- 
tute the basis of all popular religions. It was the work 
of man, and, however ambitious the scheme, it failed 
absolutely in its mission. Superstition was the centre 
and support ; magic and sorcery the basis and top-stone 
of the new structure. It had both philosophy and relig- 
ion in its composition, and yet it was neither the one nor 
the other. “The divinity which it presents is exalted 


above all human apprehension, and was called simply 
the Self-sufficient One (to tv). From his overflowing 
fulness proceeded the Divine Intelligence, and from this 
the World-soul, by which the material universe is per- 
vaded with divine life. Evil is only that which is im- 
perfect, and is the most distant reflection of Deity upon 
matter. The humau soul which had been produced by 
the Divine Intelligence fell, in consequence of its long- 
ing after earthly things, from its original divine life to 
its present temporal existence. It therefore belongs to 
the sensual as well as to the intellectual world. But 
the souls of the good and wise, even in this world, are 
in their happiest moments reunited with the Deity, and 
death is to such a complete restoration to their home. 
From a pious veneration for an ancestry far back in an- 
tiquity, the Grecian gods especially were regarded as 
the personal manifestations of the divine life in nature. 
Some of them were celestial beings, and some ruled 
here on earth. These earthly powers were the national 
gods (ptpiKoi, tSvapicai), subordinate to the Deity, and 
exalted above all passion. The myths were therefore, 
of course, to be explained allegorically. The arts of 
divination and magic were justified on the ground of 
the necessary connection of all phenomena by virtue of 
the unity of the world-principle” (Hase, Church Hist. 
§ 50). While, then, Neo-Platonism was a new power, 
it was nevertheless a reformation of the old faith. 
Though it extended itself over the whole Roman em- 
pire, it embraced within itself contradictory elements, 
and could maintain its existence only long enough to 
witness and embellish the downfall of heathenism. The 
last school to minister to Neo-Platonism in these her 
last hours was that founded by Proclus. 

Life . — Proclus was of Lycian origin, and was born in 
Constantinople in 412. He received his first instruction 
at Xanthus, in Lvcia (whence his surname “ Lycius”). 
His philosophic training he enjoyed at Alexandria, 
where he studied under Arion, Leonaras, Hero, and es- 
pecially under Olympiodorus, with whom he applied 
himself chiefly to Aristotelian and Platonic philosophy. 
Thence he went to Athens, where a certain Plutarch, 
a philosopher, and his daughter, and later Syrian us, 
became his instructors. Asclepigieneia, a priestess 
of Elensis, instructed him chiefly in theurgic myste- 
ries. . The vivid imagination and enthusiastic temper- 
ament which in his childhood had led him to believe 
in apparitions of Minerva and Apollo, naturally con- 
vinced him, when all the influences of the Mysteries 
(q. v.) were brought to bear upon him, still more of 
his immediate and direct intercommunication with the 
gods; and he distinctly believed himself to be one of 
those through whom divine revelation reaches man- 
kind. His soul, he thought, had once lived in Nicoma- 
chus the Pythagorean, and, like him, he had the power 
to command the elements to a certain extent, to pro- 
duce rain, to temper the sun’s heat, etc. The Orphic 
poems, the writings of Hermes, and all that strangely 
mystical literature with which the age abounded, were 
to him the only source of true philosophy, and he con- 
sidered them all more or less in the light of divine rev- 
elations. That same cosmopolitan spirit in religious 
matters which pervaded Rome towards her end had 
spread throughout all the civilized “pagan” world of 
those days, and Proclus distinctly laid it down as an 
axiom that a true philosopher must also be a hiero- 
phant of the whole world. Acquainted with all the 
creeds and rites of the ancient Pantheons of the differ- 
ent nations, he not only philosophized upon them in an 
allegorizing and symbolizing spirit, as many of his con- 
temporaries did, but practiced all the ceremonies, how- 
ever hard and painful. More especially the practice 
of fasting in honor of Egyptian deities, while on the 
one hand it fitted him more and more for his hallucina- 
tions and dreams of divine intercourse, on the other 
hand more than once endangered his life. Of an im- 
pulsive piety, and eager to win disciples from Christi- 
anity itself, he made himself obnoxious to the Christian 


PROCLUS 


618 


PROCLUS 


authorities at Athens, who, in accordance with the spirit 
of religious intolerance and fanaticism which then be- 
gan to animate the new and successful religion against 
which I’roclns waged constant war, banished him from 
that city. On being permitted to return, he acted with 
somewhat more prudence and circumspection, and only 
allowed his most approved disciples to take part in the 
nightly assemblies in which lie propounded his doc- 
trines. lie died in 185, in his full vigor, and in the 
entire possession of all his mental powers, for which he 
was no less remarkable than for his personal beauty and 
strength. As a philosopher he enjoyed the highest ce- 
lebrity among his contemporaries and successors. Ma- 
rinns does not scruple to call Proclus absolutely inspired, 
and to allirin that when lie uttered his profound dogmas 
his countenance shone with a preternatural light. lie- 
sides his other philosophical attainments, he was a dis- 
tinguished mathematician, astronomer, and grammarian. 
In style Proclus is much more perspicuous and intelli- 
gible than his predecessor Plotinus; indeed, he is on 
the whole a good writer, and occasionally is almost el- 
oquent. But the matter of his works has not much to 
recommend it: his propensity to allegorize everything, 
even the plainest and simplest expressions in the au- 
thors on whom he comments, must deduct largely from 
his merits as an expounder of other men’s thoughts; 
and but for the interest which attaches to him as the 
last of a school of philosophy, it is not much to be re- 
gretted that his works have .slumbered so long in the 
dust of libraries, and have bccu either wholly neglected 
or imperfectly edited. 

Jits Philosophical System . — In the writings of Proclus 
there is collated, arranged, and dialectically elaborated 
the whole body of transmitted philosophy, augmented 
by large additions, and the whole combined into a sort 
of system, to which lie succeeded in giving the appear- 
ance of strict logical connection. He professed that 
his design was not to bring forward views of his own, 
but simply to expound Plato, in doing which lie pro- 
ceeded on the idea that everything in Plato must he 
brought into accordance with the mystical theology of 
Orpheus. He looked upon the Orphic poems and Chal- 
da*an oracles, which he had diligently studied, as divine 
revelations, and capable of becoming instrumental to 
philosophy by means of an allegorical exposition. 11c 
therefore wrote a separate work on the coincidence of 
the doctrines of Orpheus, Pythagoras, and Plato. It 
was in much the same spirit that lie attempted to blend 
together the logical method of Aristotle and the fanciful 
speculations of Neo-Platonic mysticism. He called him- 
self, as we have already bad occasion to say, the last 
link of the Ilermaic chain, that is, the last of men con- 
secrated by Hermes, in whom, by perpetual tradition, 
was preserved the occult knowledge of the Mysteries. 
Where reasoning fails him, lie takes refuge in the 7ri- 
rrnc of Plotinus, which is superior to knowledge. He 
conducts ns to the operations of theurgy, which tran- 
scends all human wisdom, and comprises within itself 
all the advantages of divinations, purifications, ini- 
tiations, and all the activities of divine inspiration. 
'I’ll rough it we arc united with the primeval unity, in 
which every motion and energy of our souls comes to 
rest. It is this principle which unites not only men 
with gods, blit the gods with each other, and with the 
one the good, which is of all things the most credible. 

Proclus “held, in all its leading features, the doctrine 
of emanations from one ultimate, primeval principle of 
all things, the absolute unity, towards union with which 
again all things strive. This union lie did not, like 
Plotinus, conceive to he effected hv means of pure rea- 
son, as even things destitute of reason and energy par- 
ticipate in it, purely as the result of their subsistence 
(virapZtc, Theol. I ‘tat. i, 25; ii, i, 4). In some unac- 
countable way, therefore, he must have conceived the 
TTiffnc, by which he represents this union as being ef- 
fected, as something which did not involve rational or 
thinking activity. All inferior existences are connected 


with the highest only through the intermediate ones, 
and can return to the higher only through that which is 
intermediate. Every multitude, in a certain way, par- 
takes of unity, and everything which becomes one, be- 
comes so by partaking of the one (Inst. Theol. c. 3). Ev- 
ery object is a union of the one and the many: that 
which unites the one and the many is nothing else than 
the pure, absolute one — the essential one, which makes 
everything else partake of unity. Proclus argued that 
there is either one principinin, or many principia. If 
the latter, the principia must be either tinitc or infinite 
in number. If infinite, what is derived from them must 
he infinite, so that we should have a double infinite, or 
else finite. But the finite can be derived only from the 
finite, so that the principia must he finite in number. 
There would then be a definite number of them. But 
number presupposes unity. Unity (irdtj) is conse- 
quently the principium of principia, and the cause of 
the finite multiplicity and of the being of all things 
(Theol. Pint, ii, 1). There is therefore one principium 
which is incorporeal, for the corporeal consists of parts. 
It is immovable and unchangeable, for everything that 
moves, moves towards some object or end, which it 
seeks after. If the principium were movable it must 
he in want of the good, and there must he something 
desirable outside of it. But this is impossible, for the 
principium has need of nothing, and is itself the end 
towards which everything else strives. 'Flic princi- 
pium, or first cause of all things, is superior to all ac- 
tual being (pvoiu), and separated from it, and cannot 
even have it as an attribute (l. c.). The absolutely one 
is not an object of cognition to any existing thing, nor 
can it be named (/. c. p. 95), But in contemplating the 
emanation of things from the one and their return into 
it we arrive at two words, the flood, and the one, of 
which the first is analogical and positive, the latter 
negative only ( l . c. p. 96). The absolutely one has 
produced not only earth and heaven, but all the gods 
which are above the world and in the world : it is the 
god of all gods, the unity of all unities (l. c. ii, 110). 
Everything which is perfect strives to produce some- 
thing else; the full seeks to impart its fulness. Still 
more must this he the case with the absolute good, 
though in connection with that we must not conceive 
of any creative power or energy, for that would he to 
make the one imperfect and not simple, not fruitful 
through its very perfection (l. c. p. 101). Every ema- 
nation is less perfect than that from which it emanates 
(fnst. Theol. c. 7), but has a certain similarity with it, 
and, so far as this similarity goes, remains in it, depart- 
ing from it so far as it is unlike, but as far as possible 
being one with it, and remaining in it (ibid. 31). What 
is produced from the absolutely one is produced as 
unity, or of the nature of unity. Thus the first pro- 
duced things arc independent unities (arroTiXttc ira- 
df g). Of these independent unities some are simple, 
others more composite. The nearer the unities are to 
the absolute unity the simpler they are, but the greater 
is the sphere of their operation and their productive 
power. Thus out of unity there arise a multitude of 
things which depart further and further from the sim- 
plicity of the absolute one; and as the producing power 
diminishes, it introduces more and more conditions into 
tilings, while it diminishes their universality and sim- 
plicity. His whole system of emanations seems, in fact, 
to he a realization of the logical subordination of ideas. 
The simplest ideas which are contained in those which 
arc composite being regarded by him as the principles 
of things." 

The emanations proceeded in a curious triadic man- 
ner. That which precedes all power, and emanates 
immediately from the primal cause of all things, is 
limit. Unity, duality, he considered as identical with 
limitation (Tripat;) and boundlessness ( dirtipia ), and 
from the mixed compound of these two principia arises 
a third, a compound of the two — substance (as a sort of 
genus of all substances), that which in itself is abso- 


PROCLUS 


619 


PROCLUS 


lutely an existing tiling and nothing more (Theol. Plat. 
iii, 138 sq.). Everything, according to Proclus, con- 
tains in itself being (oiWa), life (£wq), and intelligence 
(voi/g). The life is the centre of the thing, for it is 
both an object of thought and exists. The intelligence 
is the limit of the thing, for the intellect (vovg) is in 
that which is the object of intellect (voijrur), and the 
latter in the former; but the intellect or thought ex- 
ists in the thing thought of objectively, and the thing 
thought of exists in the intellect productively (voepuig). 
This accordingly is the first triad — limit, infinitude, and 
the compound of the two. Proclus distinguished the 
divinities (making these also descend from unity and 
give birth to triads) into intelligible and intelligent, su- 
pernatural and natural; attributed a supernatural effi- 
cacy to the name of the Supreme Being, and, like his 
predecessors, exalted theurgy above philosophy. The 
first triad — viz. the limit— Proclus taught, is the deity 
who advances to the extreme verge of the conceivable 
from the inconceivable, primal deity, measuring and de- 
fining all things, and establishes the paternal, concate- 
nating, and immaculate race of gods. The infinite is the 
inexhaustible power of this deity. The “ mixed” is the 
first and highest world of gods, which in a concealed 
manner comprehends everything within itself. Out of 
this first triad springs the second. As the first of the 
unities produces the highest existing thing, the inter- 
mediate unity produces the intermediate existent thing, 
in which there is something first — unity, divinity, real- 
ity; something intermediate — power; and something 
last— the existence in the second grade, conceivable life 
(i'oj ] Tt ) Cw >)) : for there is in everything which is the 
object of thought being (to tivai), life (ro &p>), and 
thought (ro rotTr). The third of the unities, the 
“mixed,” produces the third triad, in which the intelli- 
gence or thinking power (voi'e) attains to its subsist- 
ence. This thinking power is the limit and completion 
of everything which can be the object of thought. The 
first triad contains the principle of union ; the second 
of multiplicity and increase by means of continuous 
motion or life, for motion is a species of life; the third, 
the principle of the separation of the manifold, and of 
formation bj r means of limit. 

In his treatise on Providence and Fate , Proclus seeks 
to explain the difference between the two, and to show 
that the second is subordinate to the first in such a 
manner that freedom is consistent with it. Both prov- 
idence and fate are causes — the first the cause of all 
good, the second the cause of all connection (and con- 
nection as cause and effect). There are three sorts of 
tilings — some whose operation is as eternal as their sub- 
stance, others whose substance does not exist, but is 
perpetually coming into existence, and, between these, 
things whose substance is eternal, but whose operation 
takes place in time. Proclus names these three kinds 
intellectual , animal, and corporeal. The last alone are 
subjected to fate, which is identical with nature, and is 
itself subject to providence, which is nothing else than 
the deity himself. The corporeal part of man is en- 
tirely subject to fate. The soul, as regards its sub- 
stance, is superior to fate ; as regards its operation, 
sometimes (referring to those operations which require 
corporeal organs and motions) beneath, sometimes su- 
perior to fate, and so forms the bond of connection be- 
tween intellectual and corporeal existence. The freedom 
of the soul consists in its living according to virtue, for 
this alone does not iivvolve servitude. Wickedness, on 
the other hand, is want of power, and by it. the soul is 
subjected to fate, and is compelled to serve all that min- 
isters to or hinders the gratification of the desires. Pro- 
clus strongly distinguished the sold from that which is 
material, pointing out its reflective power as a mark of 
difference ; the corporeal not being able to turn back in 
that way upon itself, owing to its consisting of separa- 
ble parts. He founded on this also an argument for the 
immortality of the soul (Inst. Theol. e. 15). The human 
soul he considered wrapped up in various more or less 


dense veils, according to the degree of perfection at- 
tained; and he further assumed a certain sort of soli- 
darity between the souls of those who naturally, or by 
certain immutable circumstances, were linked together, 
such as children and parents, rulers and subjects; and 
he carried this doctrine so far as to assert that the chil- 
dren must naturally participate in tlicir parents’ faults. 
Faith alone, he further held, was essential to the attain- 
ment of theurgy, which, comprising mantic and super- 
natural inspiration, is preferable to all human wisdom 
and iu this he chiefly differs from Plotinus (q. v.). 
Some of the topics touched upon in this treatise are 
carried out still further iu the essay on Ten Questions 
about. Providence. In the treatise on the Origin of Evil 
(Hfpi rgg twv kukiov vTioardaHog), Proclus endeavors 
to show that evil does not originate with God, or with 
the daemons, or with matter. Evil is the consequence 
of a weakness, the absence of some power. As with the 
total absence of all power activity would be annihilated, 
there cannot be any total, unmixed evil. The good has 
one definite, eternal, universal l} 7 operating cause— name- 
ly, God. The causes of evil are manifold, indefinite, 
and not subject to rule. Evil has not an original, but 
only a derivative existence. 

II is IPoi’As. — The following of Proclus’s writings are 
still extant : (1.) E ig tijv nXdrwrog GcoXoyiar, in six 
books. (2.) i.'rojyifwtrif' SeoXoyiKi) ( Institutio Theo- 
logical). This treatise was first published in the Latin 
translation of Franciscus Patrieius. The Greek text, 
with the translation of Aim. Portus, is appended to the 
edition of the last-mentioned work (Hamb. 1618). (3.) 

A commentary on the First Alcibiades of Plato. (4.) 
A commentary on the Thnceus of Plato. Of this com- 
mentary on the Timavs five books remain, but they 
only treat of about a third of the dialogue. It is ap- 
pended to the first Basle edition of Plato. (5.) Various 
notes on the noXireio of Plato, printed in the same 
edition of Plato as the last-mentioned work. (6.) A 
commentary on the Parmenides of Plato, published in 
Stallbaum’s edition of that dialogue. (7.) Portions of 
a commentary on the Cratylus of Plato, edited by Bois- 
sonade (Leips. 1820). (8.) A paraphrase of various dif- 
ficult passages in the TirpctfiifiXog covrcdig of Ptole- 
manis: first published, with a preface, by Melancthon 
(Basle, 1554). (9.) A treatise on motion (nqoi ictri]- 

aeiog), a sort of compendium of the last five books of 
Aristotle’s treatise ITcpi (pvaiKi\g ciiepoeiffewg. (10.) 
'V7rort>;r(i>cri£ rw v darpovofUKiov v7ro^toeu)v (ibid. 
1520). (1 1.) XQalpa, frequently appended to the works 

of the ancient astronomers. There are also several sep- 
arate editions of if. (12.) A commentary on the first 
book of Euclid’s Elements (attached to various editions 
of the text of Euclid). (13.) A commentary on the 
"Ejoya Kai ppipai of Hesiod, in a somewhat mutilated 
form (Yiropvijpa fig to. 'Hcfujcou ipya Kai igitpae) 
(first published at Venice in 1537). A better edition is 
that by Heinsius (Leyden, 1603). (14.) XpijOTopaSeia 
ypappariKi j, or, rather, some portions of it preserved 
by Photius (cod. 239), treating of poetry and the lives 
of various celebrated poets. The short life of Homer 
which passes under the name of Proclus was probably 
taken from this work. (15.) 'E-iy«p/)/mra u) Kara 
Xpianai'ujv. The object of this work was to maintain 
the eternity of the universe against the Christian doc- 
trine on the subject. The work of Proclus has not come 
down to us in a separate form, but we still possess his 
arguments in the refutation of them by Joannes Philo- 
ponus (De FFAernitate Mundi). (16.) lie Proridentia 
et Fato, addressed to Theodoras, a mechanician. (17.) 
Decern Dubitatioues circa rrovidentiam (Ihpi non ctKa 
7rpi g rip 1 npovoiav diropijpaTtov). (18.) De Malorum 
Subsistentiu (Hcpi rijg run> kokwv viroaraaewg). This 
and the two preceding treatises only exist in the Latin 
translation of Gnlielmus de Morbeka. They are printed 
entire by Fabricius in his Bibliotheca Ureeca, ix, 373, 
etc. (19.) A little astrological treatise on the effect of 
eclipses, in a Latin translation. (20.) A treatise on po- 


PROCLUS 


G20 


PROCONSUL 


ctrv, also in a Latin translation, printed together with 
a treatise hy Clueroboseus (Baris, 1GI5). (21.) Five 

hymns. (22.) .Some scholia on Jlomer. 

Tlie following works have perished: (I.) A commen- 
tary on the Philebus of Plato (Prod, in Tim , p. 53, 222). 
(2.) A commentary on the Phiedrus of Plato (Prod. 1. c. 
p. 1321*). (3.) A defence of the Timmts of Plato against 

the 'Avnppt)nng of Aristotle (ibid. p. 22(1 : Bi/iAiW icnj. 
UctCioKivg olca Tu>v irpbg Tor Tifiaiov ’ApiarortAovg 
avTtppi)frtu)V tTruncirpeig Troivvptvu)}’). (4.) Kaxapn- 
Kug tojv CoypniTMV roe llXurwi'oc, against Domninus 
(Suid. s. v. Aopvh’og). (5.) A commentary on the 
Theatetus of Plato (Marions, l. v. cap. ult.). (G.) N vpoi, 
a commentary apparently on the Laws of Plato (Prod. 
in Tim. p. 178). (7.) Notes on the ’Evi'tiictg of Ploti- 

nus. <8.) MijTpujciKi) fiifiAoc, on the mother of the 
gods (Suid. s. v. ITpofc'A.). (1*.) E/f ti)v ’Op<piiog cto- 
Aoy iuv (Suid. /. c.; Marin, c. 27). (10.) lltpi rd \6yia, 
in teti books (Suid. Marin, c. 2(1). (11.) A commen- 

tary on llomer (Suid.), (12.) 1 Itpi tuiv Trap’ Opijpiy 
$tu>v (ibid.). (13.) ^vfufmjvia ’O p<f>twg, lli'3*<yopoi> 
Kai HXfirwi'Of (Suid. Marin, c. 22). (14.) On the three 

ivuCtg voprai — namely, aAffitta, KaWoid/, and criyi- 
ptTpia (Procl. in Polit. p. 433). (15.) Ih’c tov Xo yov 

ri)r AtoTipag mpi ri'jg ribv KaKutv VTrocrrumojg. (ltl.) 
ITfpi dyioypg, on the thenrgic discipline, in two books 
(Suid.). (17.) Various hymns and epigrams. 

There is no complete edition of the extant works of 
rroclns. The edition of Cousin (Paris, 1820-27, (1 vols. 
8vo) contains the treatises on Providence and Fate, on t he 
Ten Doubts about Providence , and on the Nature of Evil, 
the commentary on the Alcibiades, and the commen- 
tary on the Parmenides. This learned Frenchman has 
since brought out Procli Philos. Platonici opera inedita 
(Paris, 1804). There are English translations of the 
commentaries on the Tinacus , the six books on the 
Theology of Plato, the commentaries on the first book 
of Euclid, and the Theological Elements, and the live 
Hymns, by Thomas Taylor. See Fabric ins, Bill. Grew. 
ix, 3(13 445: Brucker, Historia Critica Philosophic, ii, 
319-33(1; Tenncmann, Geschichte der Philosophic, vol, 
vi: Bitter, Geschichte der Philosophic, bk. xiii. c. 3, vol. 
iv, G99, etc.; Dr. Burigny, Life of Proclus, in Memoirs 
of the Academy of Inscriptions, vol. xxxi; Marinos, 
I7V« Procli (fir. and Lat. cd. bv Fabricius [ I Iamb. 1740, 
4to]; cd. by Boissonadc [Leips. 1814, 8vo]); Baur, 
Christ l. Juhrbucher (Tithing. 1846, p. 29-72); Cud- 
worth, Int ell. Universe (see Index); Hunt, Pantheism, 
p. 117 sq. ; Lewes, I list, of Philos, vol. ii; Simon, Ecole 
A lew, vol. ii; Tenncmann, Man. of Philos, p. 190 sq. ; 
(iibbon, Decline and Fall, c. xx, § 12; Ilase, Ch. Hist. 
p. 48 etc.; Ueberwcg, Hist, of Philos, i, 255-258 ; Smith, 
Diet. of Greek and Hainan Jiiog. and Mythol. s. v. (from 
which a part of the above has been taken); Kingsley, 
Alexandria, p. 11G-121, 128; Alzog, Patrol. § 57 ; Non- 
risson, Pensees llumnines , p. 1G1 sq. 

Proclus, St., an Eastern ecclesiastic of the 5th 
century. He was at a very early age appointed reader 
in the church at Constantinople. He was also engaged 
as secretary or amanuensis to St. Chrysostom, and was 
employed in a similar capacity by Atticus (who suc- 
ceeded Arsacins as patriarch of Constantinople), by 
whom he was invested successively with the orders of 
deacon and presbyter. He was raised to the rank of 
bishop of Cvzictis by Sisinnius, the successor of Atticus, 
hut did not exercise the functions of his ollice, the peo- 
ple of Cyzicus choosing another in his place. On the 
death of Sisinnius (A.D. 427) there was a general ex- 
pression of feeling in favor of Proclus as his successor, 
hut Nostorius was appointed. Proclus contended zeal- 
ously against the heresies which the latter strove to in- 
troduce into the Church, combating them even in a ser- 
mon preached before Nostorius himself. ( hi the deposi- 
tion of Nostorius, Proclus was again proposed as his 
successor; hut his elevation was again opposed, though 
on what grounds does not appear very clearly ascer- 
tained. But on the death of Mnximianus, who was ap- 


pointed instead, Proclus was at last created patriarch, 
in A.D. 438 Proclus gained a great deal of honor by 
having the body of St. Chrysostom brought to Constan- 
tinople. There is still extant a fragment of a Latin 
translation of a eulogy on St. Chrysostom, by Proclus, 
delivered probably about this time. It was in the time 
of Proclus that the custom of chanting the Trisagion 
was introduced into the Church. While in office, Pro- 
clus conducted himself with great prudence and mild- 
ness. For further details respecting his ecclesiastical 
career, the reader is referred to Tillemont’s Memoires 
Ecclesiastiques (xiv, 704-718). 11 is extant writings 

are enumerated by Fabricius (B. G. ix, 505-512). One 
of the most celebrated of his letters (Ilfpi Trnrrecug) 
was written in A.D. 435, when the bishops of Arme- 
[ ilia applied to him for his opinion on certain proposi- 
tions which had been disseminated in their dioceses, 
and were attributed to Theodorus of Mopsuestia. The 
discussion that ensued with respect to these proposi- 
tions made a considerable stir in the East. Proclus be- 
stowed a great deal of pains upon his style, which is 
terse and sententious, but is crowded with antitheses 
and rhetorical points, and betrays a labored endeavor to 
reiterate the same sentiment in every possible variety 
of form. From the quotations of subsequent authors, it 
appears that several of the writings of Proclus are lost. 
The Platonic Theology of Proclus Diadochtis lias some- 
times been erroneously described as a theological work 
of St. Proclus. The 24th of October is the day conse- 
crated to the memory of St. Proclus by the Greek 
Church. — Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Horn. Jiiog. and My- 
thol. s. v. See Neandcr. Ch. Hist, ii, 49G sq. ; Biddle. 
Hist, of the Papacy, i, 160 sq., 170 sq. 

Proconsul. The Greek word dvzv-a-og, for 
which this is the true equivalent, is rendered uniformly 
“deputy” in the A. V. of Acts xiii, 7, 8, 12; xix. 3 k, and 
the derived verb dvSv—uTtim in Acts xviii, 12 is trans- 
lated “to be deputy,” At the division of the Boman 
provinces by Augustus, in the year B.C. 27, into senato- 
rial and imperial, the emperor assigned to the senate 
such portions of territory as were peaceable and could 
be held without force of arms (Sueton. Oct. 47; Strabo, 
xvii, 840; Dio Cass, liii, 12), an arrangement which re- 
mained with frequent alterations till the 3d century. 
Over these, senatorial provinces the senate appointed by 
lot yearly an officer who was called “proconsul" (ibid. 
13), who exercised purely civil functions, had no power 
over life and death, and was attended by one or more 
legates (ibid. 14). lie was neither girt with the sword 
nor wore the military dress (ibid. 13). lie was chosen 
out of the body of the senate; and it was customary, 
when any one’s consulate expired, to send him as a pro- 
consul into some province, lie enjoyed the same honor 
with the consuls, hut was allowed only six lictors with 
the fasces before him. Such provinces were in conse- 
quence called “proconsular.” With the exception of 
Africa and Asia, which were assigned to men who had 
passed the office of consul, the senatorial provinces were 
given to those who had been p razors, and were divided 
hy lot each year among those who had held this office 
live years previously. Their term of office was one year. 
The proconsuls decided cases of equity and justice, 
either privately in their palaces, where they received 
petitions, heard complaints, and granted writs under 
their seals; or publicly in the common hall, with the 
formalities generally observed in t lie courts at Borne. 
These duties were, however, more frequently delegated 
to their assessors, or other judges of their own appoint- 
ment. As the proconsuls had also the direction of jus- 
tice, of war, and of the revenues, these departments were 
administered by their lieutenants, or legal i, who were 
usually nominated by the senate. The expense of their 
journeys to and from their provinces was defrayed by 
the public. Livy (viii and xxvi) mentions two other 
classes of proconsuls — those who, being consuls, had 
their office continued beyond the time appointed by 
law; and those who, being previously in a private sta- 


rnocoF 


621 


PROCOPIUS 


tion, were invested with this honor, either for the gov- 
ernment of provinces or to command in war. Some 
were created proconsuls by the senate without being 
appointed to any province, merely to command in the 
army, and to take charge of the military discipline ; 
others were allowed to enter upon their proconsular 
office before being admitted to the consulship, but hav- 
ing that honor in reserve. See Smith, Viet, of Gr. 
and Rom. A ntiq. s. v. 

Among the senatorial provinces in the first arrange- 
ment by Augustus were Cyprus, Achaia, and Asia with- 
in the ilalys and Taurus (Strabo, xvii, 840). The first 
and last of these are alluded to in Acts xiii, 7, 8, 12; 
xix, 38, as under the government of proconsuls. Achaia 
became an imperial province in the second year of 
Tiberius, A.D. 1G, and was governed by a procurator 
(Tacit. Ann. i, 7G), but was restored to the senate by 
Claudius (Sueton. Claud. 25), and therefore Callio, be- 
fore whom St. Paul was brought, is rightly termed 
“proconsul" in Acts xviii, 12. See Gallio. Cyprus 
also, after the battle of Actium, was first made an impe- 
rial province (Dio Cass, liii, 12), but five years after- 
wards (B.C. 22) it was given to the senate, anil is reck- 
oned by Strabo (xvii, 840) ninth among the provinces 
of the people governed by arpaTpyoi, as Achaia is the 
seventh. These arpaTpyoi , or proprietors, had the title 
of proconsul. Cyprus and Narbonese Gaul were given 
to the senate in exchange for Dalmatia, and thus, says 
Dio Cassius (liv, 4), proconsuls (avSrviraToi) began to 
be sent to those nations. In Bbckh’s Corjms Inscrip- 
tionum , No. 2G31, is the following relating to Cyprus: 
?} ttoXiq KdivTov'lovXiov KopCov dvSinra-av dyvetaQ. 
This Quintus Julius Cord us appears to have been pro- 
consul of Cyprus before the twelfth vear of Claudius, 
lie is mentioned in the next inscription (No. 2G32) as 
the predecessor of another proconsul, Lucius Annius 
Bassus. The date of this last inscription is the twelfth 
year of Claudius, A.D. 52. The name of another pro- 
consul of Cyprus in the time of Claudius occurs on a 
copper coin, of which an engraving is given under Cy- 
prus. A coin of Ephesus (q. v.) illustrates the usage 
of the word dv^viraTOQ in Acts xix, 38. — Smith ; Kitto. 

Procop, Andrew (also known as Procop the great- 
er, the elder, or the holy, or the shaven, in allusion to his 
having received the tonsure in early life), was one of 
the greatest of the Hussite leaders, and ranks only sec- 
ond to Ziska, whose successor he was among the Ta- 
borites. Procop was born of a noble family towards the 
close of the 14th century. He owed his education to 
an uncle, a nobleman of Prague. After having trav- 
elled for some years through France and Spain, Procop 
returned to his native country just as the religious wars 
were breaking out. lie had taken holy orders, but in- 
stead of entering the ministry he joined the ranks of 
the insurgent Hussites, and, by his military genius, rap- 
idly rose to the first rank. In 1424 Ziska died, and the 
Taborites elected Procop as their leader. Palacky, in 
comparing the two great Hussites, says of Procop that 
if he did not equal Ziska in warlike ability, he sur- 
passed his predecessor in mind and political farsighted- 
ness. Procop’s history from this time till 1427 presents 
an almost unbroken series of daring attacks upon the 
Austrians. At the same time, a larger body of Tabor- 
ites, who called themselves Orphans, and had been 
overrunning Lausitz and had burned Lauban, under the 
leadership of a man subsequently known as Procop the 
lesser (or younger), now, in concert with the more distin- 
guished Procop, attacked Silesia, and took part in those 
internal feuds of the Hussite factions by which Bohe- 
mia was almost wholly ruined. The threatened ap- 
proach of three German armies, which had been levied 
by the neighboring states to carry on an exterminating 
crusade against the heretics, was alone able to restore 
unanimity to the divided Hussites, who, under the lead- 
ership of the two Procops, offered a desperate and suc- 
cessful resistance to the larger numbers of the Germans, 
subsequently pursuing their enemies with fire and sword 


through Silesia, Moravia, and Hungary as far as Pres- 
burg. In 1429 Procop made inroads into the German 
states as far as Magdeburg, and returned to Bohemia 
laden with spoil, and followed by a numerous band of 
captive nobles and knights; and in the following year, 
at the head of 50,000 men-at-arms, and half as many 
horsemen, he again broke into Misnia, Franconia, and 
Bavaria, and after having burned 100 castles and towns, 
destroyed 1400 villages and hamlets, and carried off 
a vast amount of treasure, turned his arms against Mo-, 
ravia and Silesia. The emperor Sigismund at this crisis 
offered to treat with him, but the imperial demand, that 
the Hussites should submit to the decision of a council, 
afforded Procop a pretext for breaking off all negotia- 
tions with the imperial court. A second German cru- 
sading army now advanced in 1431, but was thorough- 
ly defeated at Riesenburg. These successes, which were 
followed by others of nearly equal importance in Silesia, 
Hungary, and Saxony, where the princes had to pur- 
chase peace at the hands of the two Procops on humil- 
iating terms, induced the Council of Basle to propose a 
meeting between the Hussite leaders and ten learned 
Catholic doctors. The meeting lasted fifty days, but 
was productive of no good resnlt. Procop himseif went 
before that learned body, and defended, with much 
spirit, the creed of his party. But failing to receive 
such treatment as he felt himself entitled to, he finally 
refused further to attend the council, and returned to 
Bohemia, where, combining his forces with those of 
Procop the lesser, he laid siege to Pilsen, The Calix- 
tines, who came here in force, had offended Procop by 
the peace treaty they had made with a delegation of 
the Council of Basle. The council, on this, passed an 
act known as the Basle Compact, by which the Hussites 
were allowed the use of the cup in the Lord’s Supper, 
and the Bohemians were designated by the title of the 
First Sons of the Catholic Church. The Taborites and 
Orphans, under the leadership of the two Procops, re- 
fused, however, to have anything to do with the pope, 
and hence dissensions arose between them and the more 
moderate of the Hussites. After many lesser encoun- 
ters between these factions, a decisive battle was fought 
near Lipau in 1434, in which Procop was induced, by 
a feint of the enemy, to leave his intrenchments. His 
followers at first fought desperately against the troops 
of the Bohemian nobles, who were commanded by Mein- 
hard of Neuhaus; but at length, under the influence of 
a sudden panic, they gave way, and took to flight. Pro- 
cop, after vainly striving to re-form their broken lines, 
threw himself into the midst of the enemy, and was 
killed. Procop the lesser, following in his steps, was 
also slain, ami with these two brave Hussite leaders 
the cause of the Taborites perished. — Chambers, s. v. 
Milman says, “with Procop fell the military glory, the 
religious inflexibility, of Bohemia.” See Gillett, Life 
and Times of John Ifuss, vol. ii, ch. xvii sq. ; Lfben des 
Procop (Prague, 1789); Milman, 1 list, of Latin Chris- 
tianity, vii, 545-5G8; Palacky, Gesch. von Ldhmen, iii, 
91 sq. 

Procop the Younger. See Procop, Andrew. 

Procopius of C.esarea, a noted character in the 
history of the East in the Gth century, is especially dis- 
tinguished as the writer of a history in which he dwells 
at large on the ecclesiastical condition of the periods of 
which he treats. He was born at Ca'sarea, in Palestine, 
about the end of the 5th or beginning of the Gth centu- 
ry. After studying rhetoric in his native country, he 
went to Constantinople, where he gave lessons in rhet- 
oric, and appears to have been also a lawyer. His rep- 
utation for learning and ability reached the court; and 
the emperor Justin the elder, in the last year of his 
reign, appointed him assessor (avyud^ecpog) to Belisa- 
rius, who was about that time sent as governor to Dara, 
on the frontiers of Armenia. Procopius afterwards ac- 
companied that commander in his first war against the 
Persians (530), afterwards in that against the Vandals in 


PROCOPIUS 


622 


PROCTOF 


Africa (533-535), and lastly against tlic Goths in Italy 
(53G-539). During these campaigns he appears to have 
rendered himself very useful by his ability and ac- 
tivity, and to have been intrusted by Kelisarius with 
important commissions connected with the service of 
the armv. In his capacity of assessor, he was the gen- 
eral's legal adviser, and he was also his private secre- 
tary. In 538 he assisted Antonina, the wife of Kelisa- 
rius, in raising troops in Campania, and in sending some 
by sea to Koine, which was then besieged. On his re- 
turn to Constantinople, about 540. the emperor Justinian 
made him a senator, as a reward for his services. In 
562 he was made prefect of Constantinople, unless per- 
haps it was another of the name who obtained this dig- 
nity in that year. He died in that city at an advanced 
age, but the precise year of his death is not ascertained. 
It was during his extensive travels that he gathered 
the materials for the History of his Own Times (in eight 
books), translated into Latin by Claude Alattrct, a Jes- 
uit, under the title Procopii Ciesariensis Historktrum 
sui Temporis Libri Octo (Paris, 1602, fol. ; with the 
Greek text in English, Lond. 1053. fol.). Uis descrip- 
tions of the manners of the various barbarous nations 
which invaded the Koman empire are vivid and inter- 
esting. The tirst two books of his history concern the 
Persian wars, lie begins his narrative with the death 
of Arcadins, and briefly relates the wars between the 
Komans and Persians under Theodosius the younger. 
Anastasius, and Justinus, and lastly Justinian. As lie 
comes down to contemporary times, his history is more 
diffuse. lie closes with the twenty- third year of Jus- 
tinian’s reign (A. I). 550). Kooks iii and iv treat of the 
wars of the Vandals in Africa, and the reconquest of that 
province by Kelisarius. The 5th. 6th, and 7th books 
are concerned with the history of the Gothic kingdom 
in Italy founded by Tlicodoric, and the expedition of 
Kelisarius against Totilas. The 8th book is of a mixed 
character; it resumes the account of the Persian wars, 
then speaks of the affairs of the Koman empire in other 
quarters — in Africa, on the Khine, and in Thrace — 
and at last resumes the narrative of the Gothic war 
in Italy, the expedition of Xarses, the defeat and death 
of Teia, and the final overthrow of the Gothic king- 
dom. — English Cyclop, s. v. As a historian, Procopius 
took Herodotus for his pattern, and even resembles his 
master's fatalism in the material conception of his- 
tory. Procopius assumes the role of a sceptic, and as 
such regards himself as above all positive religion and 
dogmatic disputes. < >n account of the cold, unsympa- 
thetic manner in which he writes of Christianity, some 
have not believed him a Christian, but a deist, Jew, or 
even a heathen. He was, however, at least in outward 
confession, a Christian, as appears from his second work, 
llqoi KTuxparoiv, I)e . Edijiciis, which contains a history 
of all churches, convents, and other public buildings 
reared under Justinian at the public expense in the 
Koman empire. Another of his writings, entitled ’Avik- 
cora, or Secret History , in thirty chapters, is a sort of 
complement to the hooks I)e Beilis. Justinian and 
Theodora arc here painted in the darkest colors. Pro- 
copius says that he wrote it because in his tirst work 
he could not, through fear of torture and death, speak 
of living persons as they deserved. Some grossly ob- 
scene passages concerning Theodora, who was evidently 
a very bad woman, have been expunged in most edi- 
tions. There seems little doubt that Procopius is the 
author of the work. The Paris edition of Procopius, 
already quoted, is enriched with copious historical notes, 
prefaces, and an index. The works of Procopius, with 
valuable notes, are included in the Konn edition of the 
Byzantine historians (1*33-38, 3 vols. «vo), which is. 
of course, the best. See Eabricius, Bib/.. Oneca, vii, 
555 stj. ; 1 1 alike, De Seriptor. Byz. p. 1 45 sq. ; Tucffel. in 
Schmidt's Allyem. Zeitschrift J'ur tiesch. viii, 38-79; 
Herzog. Peal- Encykhp. s. v. ; Smith. Diet, of Or. anil 
Hum. Biog. ami My/hnl. s. v. ; Piper. Mon. Theol. § 201 : 
Dahn, Procopius r. Cwsareu (Kerb 1865), 


Procopius of Gaza, a very respectable Greek 
sophist of the 6th century, and the tirst who suffered 
martyrdom in Palestine, under the reign of Diocletian. 
The precise time of his birth or death is not recorded, 
lie wrote commentaries on the Gctoteueh (ed. (.’. (,’lau- 
ser, Tigur. 1555, fol.), the books of Kings, the Chroni- 
cles (ed. J. Mcursins, Lngd. Bat. 1620, 4to), Isaiah (cd. J. 
Curterius, Paris, 15*0, fol.), etc., and opened among the 
Greeks the list of the Catcnic writers. See Mosheim, 
Eccles. /list. ( Index in vol. iii) ; Alzog, Patrologie , § 76. 

Procopius, Fliedrich P., a Koman Catholic mo- 
nastic noted especially for his valuable contributions to 
Christian song, was born in the year 16U8, of Protestant 
parents, at Templin, in Brandenburg. At a very early 
age lie joined the Koman Catholic Church, and when 
eighteen years old he entered the Order of the Capu- 
chins of the Austro-Boliemian province. Having com- 
pleted his studies, he visited many cities as a preacher 
and missionary. He soon became known as a famous 
pulpit orator, but more so by his poetical productions, 
which gave him the name of “Catholic Meistersinger.” 
Procopius died at Linz in 1680. lie wrote, Per Oross- 
\V unde rth iit iyen Mutter Oottes Marine ! Eu Iff Lob-0 esang 
i Passow, 1659) : — llertzen-Freud und Seelen-Trost (ibid. 
1660, 1 661 ) : — M a dale Concianotorinm rythmo-melodi- 
cum (2d ed. Salzburg, 1667), a collection of sermons on 
St. Alary : — Triemale Dominicale primum (ibid. 1676), 
sermons for the Christian year: — Ca tech is male (ibid. 
1674). Comp. Bernardos a Bououia, Bibliotheca Script. 
Capucinorum , p. 217-219; Briilil, Oeschichte der Liter u- 
tur des Kathol. Deulschlands , p. 20 sq. ; Kehrcin, Ge- 
schichte der Kathol. Kanzelberedsamkeit der Deutsclien 
(Kegensburg, 1843), vol. i, § 36; Schlctterer, Cebersicht - 
liche Darstellung der Oeschichte der kirchlichen Dicht- 
ung u. geistlichen Musik (Xiirdlingen, 1866), p. 217 sq. ; 
and the notice of the latter work in Ilauck’s Theolog. 
J ahresbericht , ii, 1866, p. 191 sq. (B. P.) 

Procopovitsch. See Phokopovitch. 

Procrastination, the postponement of a matter 
from one day to another; according to the maxim of 
the lazy and of the inen of pleasure, “ Seria in crasti- 
uuin (diem or teinpus).” Generally, in such cases, time 
wears on, and things are not done, at least not in the 
right time or in the right way: “Cras, eras et semper 
eras, et sic dilabitur jetas.” The system of procrastina- 
tion, therefore, is to be commended in no respect; but 
least of all in moral, or. better, religious matters. Ev- 
ery day lost in onr moral amendment is an irreparable 
loss, a loss for eternity, as reformation becomes the more 
difficult the more it is delayed. 

Proctor (formed by a contraction from the Latin 
procurator) designates an officer commissioned to take 
care of another person’s cause in ecclesiastical courts, in 
the stead of the party whom he represents. It corre- 
sponds to attorney or solicitor in the other courts. In 
the Church of Kerne there are extra-proctors, a class 
who settle in the name of another a legal business of 
no litigious character; a more accurate title is man- 
datary. The title of proctor has been preserved only 
in some kinds of procurations concerning ecclesiastical 
affairs. These proctors may act instead of, 1, Bride 
and bridegroom for the conclusion of the betrothal. For 
not only the acts which prepare the betrothal ( tract u- 
tns sponsalitii), and the suit (pactum de ineundis spou- 
sal ibu s'), which, after its acceptation, takes the lawful 
nature of a betrothal, but the betrothal itself, or the 
actual contract about the future matrimony, can be per- 
formed by the parties either in person or by procura- 
tion (sponsatia per proenratorem). Only the proctor 
must have special powers for the conclusion of a prom- 
ise of marriage with a determined person (fr. 34, Dig. 
De Pit. Pnpt. xxiii, 2). 2. Either party at the marriage- 
act itself (matrimonium per proenratorem). Should the 
powers given to the mandatary have been recalled be- 
fore the copulation, the marriage- act would be void, 
even if the proctor at that time had no knowledge of 


PROCTOE 


623 


PROCURATOR 


the revocation. The mandatary must be present in 
person, and cannot be represented by a substitute (Sext. 
c. 9. De Procur. i, 19); and the bride and bridegroom 
thus united must afterwards give their consent in per- 
son. These dispositions of canon law are preserved 
in the Austrian and Bavarian legislation. Protestant 
matrimonial law rejects marriage by procuration, but 
admits an exception in favor of royal persons. 3. God- 
fathers and godmothers , in baptisms or confirmation, 
may, if sick or otherwise prevented, choose third per- 
sons for their representatives at the holy ceremony 
(procurator patrini). As, according to the decision of 
the Council of Trent, the person to be baptized must 
have a godfather and a godmother ( untts et mm), each 
of the parties can make choice of a substitute, either 
male or female, but both mandataries cannot belong to 
the same sex. The real godfather, not his representa- 
tive, contracts in this case the cognatio spirilnalis, and 
the prohibition of marriage founded on it ( Duclar . S. 
Congr. Cone. Trid. May 16, 1630, Aug. 23 and Sept. 1, 
1721). 4. Absent electors , if they cau sufficiently jus- 
tify their absence, and are prepared to swear to it (c. 42, 
§ 1, x, De Elect, i, 6), cannot declare their vote by writ- 
ing, but may give their mandate to a colleague. Eccle- 
siastics are prohibited from being proctors in strictly sec- 
ular affairs. In the English ecclesiastical constitution, 
proctors are those clergymen who are chosen in each 
diocese to represent their brethren in convocation. 

In the universities the name refers to those officers 
who, as representatives of the whole body of masters of 
arts, maintain the discipline of the university. The 
proctors are chosen out of the several colleges by turn. 
The pro-proctors are the deputies of the proctors. 

Proctor, David C., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in New Hampshire in 1792. He graduated at 
Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. II., in 1818, studied 
divinity in the Andover Theological Seminary, Mass., 
was licensed by a Congregational association, and in 
1822 was ordained by a Congregational council, and 
went West under the auspices of the Connecticut Home 
Missionary Society. His first field of labor was Indian- 
apolis, Ind. ; subsequently he moved to Kentucky, and 
took charge of the Church in Springfield and Lebanon. 
In 1826 he was temporarily called to the presidency of 
Centre College, Danville, Ky\, after which he was with- 
out charge for a number of years. He died Jan. 18, 
1865. Mr. Proctor was an able preacher, and had con- 
siderable reputation as a scholar. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac, 1866, p. 167. (J. L. S.) 

Procuration. Different meanings have been ap- 
plied to this word. 1. An entertainment given to the 
archdeacon with provision for seven horses and six men. 
2. An equivalent in money’; according to Lvndwood, 
7s. Qd. to the archdeacon and Is. to each of the other 
six at his visitation, to commute for the provision or 
entertainment which was formerly expected to be pro- 
vided at the time of visitation. 3. An entertainment 
made at a visitation for a bishop. In 1336 a money 
composition was permitted to be offered by’ pope Bene- 
dict XII, but only one procuration could be demanded 
if several churches were visited in one day. The 
amount varied in different countries. In England an 
archbishop received 220 tnrons, a bishop 150, an arch- 
deacon 50, and an archpriest or rural dean 10. — Wal- 
cott, Sacred A rchceology, s. v. See Synodal. 

Procurator. This word does not occur in the 
Vulgate or in the A. V., nor is its accurate Greek equiv- 
alent, t7nV(007roc (though used by’ Philo, Leg. ad Caium, 
and by Josephus. Ant. xx, 6, 2, 8, 5; comp, xx, 5, 1 ; 
his office is called imTpoTrij [ibid, xx, 5, 1]), found in 
this sense in the Greek Testament, where it is repre- 
sented by’ the vaguer term ijytpwv, rendered by our 
translators “governor” (Luke ii, 2; Matt, xxvii, 2; 
xxviii, 14, etc.). 'Hy epwv also occurs in a perfectly’ 
general sense (Matt, x, 18 ; 1 Pet. ii, 14). In Matt. ii,*6 
it is rendered “ prince,” and corresponds to the Hebrew 


“ Governor” in the A. V. is also used for tSvctp- 
X l l£ (2 Cor. xi, 32). AtoiKijrrjg is another Greek term 
for procurator. The word gyepoiv, or procurator, is 
generally applied, both in the original and in our version, 
to the procurators of Judaea, Pontius Pilate (Matt, xxvii, 
etc.), Felix (Acts xxiii), and Festus (xxvi, 30) ; but it 
is also used of Cyrenius (Quirinns), who held the more 
responsible and distinguished office of preeses or legatus 
Cie saris over the province of Syria (Luke ii, 2). Proc- 
urators were chiefly despatched* to the imperial, and not 
to the senatorial provinces. See Province. The rev- 
enues of the latter flowed into the jerarium, or ex- 
chequer, while those of the former belonged to the fis- 
clis, or privy purse. The procuratores Cec saris were 
specially intrusted with the interests of the fiscus, and 
therefore managed the various taxes and imposts, per- 
forming similar duties to those exercised by’ the quaes- 
tors in the provinces administered by the senate. Proc- 
urators were, however, sometimes sent as well as qna?s- 
tors to the senatorial provinces (Tacit. Ann. xiii, 1 ; Dio 
Cass, liii, 15); but these were doubtless offices of less 
dignity’, though bearing the same title. Procurator is 
also used for steward (Plautus, Pseud. 2, 2, 14), attorney 
(Ulpian, Dig. 3, 3), regent (Caesar, B. C. iii, 112), etc. 
They were selected from among men who had been con- 
suls or praetors, and sometimes from the inferior senators 
(Dio Cass, liii, 13-15). They’ were attended by six lictors, 
used the military’ dress, and wore the sword (ibid. 13). 
No quaestor came into the emperor’s provinces, but the 
property and revenues of the imperial treasury’ were ad- 
ministered by the rationales, jrrocuratoi'es, and adores 
of the emperor, who were chosen from among his freed- 
men, or from among the knights (Tacit. Hist, v, 9 ; Dio 
Cass, liii, 15). Sometimes the procurators were in- 
vested with the dignity’ of legati, or procuratores cum 
jure gladii (r/j irri near tv i’iovoiq, Josephus, War, ii, 
8, 1), and this was the case with the procurators of Ju- 
daea, which had been made a sub-province of Syria 
( 7 rpo<x 3 Y/t 07 rijg Svpiag; id. Ant. xiii, 1, 1) since the 
deposition of the ethnarch Archelaus, A.D. 6. There is 
j therefore no inaccuracy in the use of i)y tfim> in the 
| New Test., since we find from inscriptions that praeses 
! and procurator were often interchangeable (Gruter, p. 
493, b). In one respect, indeed, the gytpovtg were 
even more powerful than the proconsuls themselves 
| (avSuirarot ) ; for, being regarded as the immediate 
emissaries and representatives of the Caesar, by whom 
| they’ were appointed to an indefinite tenure of office 
(Dio Cass, liii, 13-15), they’ had the power of inflicting 
capital punishment at their own discretion (John xix, 
10; Josephus, War, ii, 8, 1). They also governed the 
province when the proconsul was dead or absent, “vice 
proconsulnm,” as we see from many inscriptions (Murat, 
p. 907, 4, etc.). In a turbulent and seditious province 
like Judaea, their most frequent functions were of a mil- 
itary’ or judicial character. The first procurator was 
Coponius, who was sent out with Quirinus to take a cen- 
sus of the property’ of the Jews and to confiscate that of 
Archelaus (Josephus, A at. xviii, 1, 1). His successor 
I was Marcus Ambivius, then Annius Rufus, in whose 
time the emperor Augustus died. Tiberius sent Vale- 
rius Gratus, who was procurator for eleven y’ears, and 
was succeeded by’ Pontius Pilate (ibid. 2, 2), who is 
called by Josephus [ibid. 3, 1) r)yepwr, as he is in the 
New Test. He was subject to the governor ( presses ) 
of Syria, for the council of the Samaritans denounced 
Pilate to Vitellius, who sent him to Rome and put one 
of his own friends, Mareellus, in his place (ibid. 4, 2). 
The headquarters of the procurator were at Ca?sarea 
(Josephus, War, ii, 9, 2 ; Acts xxiii, 23), where he had 
a judgment-scat (xxv, 6) in the audience-chamber (ver. 
23), and was assisted by’ a council (ver. 12) whom he 
consulted in cases of difficulty’, the assessores (Sueton. 
Galb. 14), or gyepoveg, who are mentioned hy Josephus 
(H«r, ii, 16, 1) as having been consulted by Ccstius, 
the governor of Syria, when certain charges were made 


PUOCUHATOI 


624 


PRODICUS 


against Florus, the procurator of Judiea. More impor- 
tant cases were laid before the emperor (Acts xxv, 12; 
comp. Josephus, Ant. xx, 6. 2). The procurator, as the 
representative of the emperor, had the power of life and 
death over his subjects (bio Cass, liii, 14; Matt, xxvii, 

20) , which was denied to the proconsul. In the New Test, 
we see the procurator only in his judicial capacity. 
Thus Christ is brought before I’ontius Pilate as a polit- 
ical offender (Matt, xxvii, 2, 11), and the accusation is 
heard by the procurator, who is seated on the judgment- 
seat (ver. 19). Felix heard St. Paul’s accusation and 
defence from the judgment-seat at Caesarea (Actsxxiv), 
which was in the open air in the great stadium (Jose- 
phus, War, ii, 9, 2), and St. Paul calls him “judge” 
(Acts xxiv, 10), as if this term described Ins chief func- 
tions. The procurator (iiytpiby) is again alluded to in 
his judicial capacity in 1 Pet. ii, 14. lie was attended 
by a cohort as body-guard (Matt, xxvii, 27), and ap- 
parently went up to Jerusalem at the time of the high 
festivals, and there resided in the palace of Herod (Jo- 
sephus, IP«r. ii, 14. 3; Philo, De Let), ad Caium, § 37, 
ii, 589, ed. Mang.), in which was the praetorium , or 
“judgment-hall," as it is rendered in the A. V. (Matt, 
xxvii, 27; Mark xv, 10; comp. Acts xxiii, 35). Some- 
times, it appears, Jerusalem was made his winter quar- 
ters (Josephus, Ant, xviii, 3, 1). The high-priest was 
appointed and removed at the will of t lie procurator 
(ibid. 2, 2). Of the oppression and extortion practiced 
by one of these officers, Gcssius Florus, which resulted 
in open rebellion, we have an account in Josephus (.■!«/. 
xx, 11, 1 ; War, ii, 14, 2). The same laws held both 
for the governors of the imperial and senatorial prov- 
inces, that they could not raise a levy or exact more 
than an appointed sum of money from their subjects, 
and that when their successors came they were to return 
to Pome within three mouths (Dio Cass, liii, 15). The. 
pomp and dignity of the procurators may be inferred 
from the narrative of these trials, and from the titles of 
“most excellent” and “most noble” (tep/mart), applied 
to them by such different lips as those of Claudius Ly- 
sias, Tcrtullian, and St. Paul; yet they were usually 
chosen from no higher rank than that of the equites, or 
even the freedmen of the emperor; and the “ most noble 
Felix,” in particular, was a mere manumitted slave 
(1'acit. 1 list, v, 9: .4 mm. xii, 54; Sucton. Claud. 28). It 
is satisfactory to liud that even in the minutest details 
the glimpses of their position afforded to us by the New 
Test, are corroborated by the statements of heathen 
writers. The violence (Luke xiii, 1), the venality (Acts 
xxiv, 2G), the insolence (John xix, 22), and the gross 
injustice (Acts xxiv, 27), which we see exemplified in 
their conduct towards our Lord and his apostles, arc 
amply illustrated by contemporary historians (Josephus, 
Ant. xviii, 3, 1 ; War, ii, 9; Cicero, In Verrem , passim); 
and they weighed so heavily on the mind of the emperor 
Trajan that he called the extortions of provincial gov- 
ernors “the spleen of the empire” (comp. Aurel. Viet. 
Epit. 12). Vespasian ( more suo) took a more humorous 
view of t lie matter, and said that the procurators were 
like sponges (Sucton. Vesp. lti). The presence of the 
wives of Pilate (Matt, xxvii, 19) and Felix (Acts xxiv, 

21) reminds us of the famous debate on the proposition 
of Ciecina to forbid the proconsuls and procurators to be 
accompanied by their wives (Tacit. .I«w. iii, 33, 34). 
This had been the old and perhaps the wise regulation 
of earlier days, since the cruelty, ambition, ami luxury 
of these ladies were often more formidable to the provin- j 
cials than those of the. governors themselves, llut the ' 
rule bad often been violated, ami had of late been de- I 
liborately abandoned. We see, too, in the ready hand- 
ing-over of the prisoner from one authority to another 
(dyimp^fy, ri misit, Luke xxiii, 7 ; Acts xxvi, 32), some 
trace of that salutary dread of being denounced after 
their term of olliee was over, which alone acted as a 
check upon the lawlessness of even the most unscru- 
pulous governors, liven the mention made of things at 
tirst sight so trivial as the tribunal (/Sijpa ), and the tes- 


sellated pavement (Xeroorpwrov) on which it was ele- 
vated, derives an interest and importance from the fact 
that they were conventional symbols of wealth and dig- 
nity, and that Julius Cresar thought it worth while to 
carry one about with him from place to place (Sueton. 
Jul. c. 40). — Kitto; Smith. See Sibrauda, De Statu 
Judeece Prorinc. (Franc. 1698; also in Ikon, Thes. A or. ii, 
529) ; Deyling. Ubserrat. ii, 429 ; Grossmann, I)e Procu- 
rutore (Lips. 1823); Langen, in the Tbeol. Quartulsehr. 
(18G2) iii; Bible Educator, iii, 180. See Goykknok. 

Prodicians, a body of Antiuomian Gnostic here- 
tics, took their name from their founder, Prodicus, a 
heretic of the 2d century, who instituted the sect of the 
Adamites. Prodicus maintained that he and his fol- 
lowers were the sons of the most high God, a royal 
race (tbytyeig), and therefore, in crazy self-conceit, 
thought themselves bound by no laws. They rejected 
the Sabbath; dispensed with prayer and all ordinances 
of external worship, which they considered to be neces- 
sary only for those who were under the power of the 
Demiurge. They indulged in open profligacy, calling 
themselves Adamites, because they professed to imitate 
the condition of bodily life which marked our first par- 
ents before their fall. Their maxim was that they 
were restored by Christ to a state of innocence equal to 
that which characterized Adam before his transgres- 
sion; and that, therefore, whenever they appeared to- 
gether, they should not be ashamed to appear as Adam 
did in the time of his innocence. They were in the 
habit of appealing to the authority of certain apocry- 
phal books which were attributed to Zoroaster. Prod- 
icus is placed by Haronius in A.D. 120, before Valenti- 
nus. 1 1 is followers are sometimes identified with the 
Adamites, and sometimes with the Origenists. See 
Clement Alex. Strom, i, 304; iii, 438; vii, 722; Theod- 
oret, Fab. 1 1 if ret. i. 6; Farrar, Kecles. Diet. s. v. ; Xcau- 
der, Church Hist, i, 451. 

Prodicus (I), an Athenian philosopher of the school 
of the Sophists, was a contemporary of Socrates, and 
forerunner of the latter in the domain of philosophy, 
inasmuch as lie prepared the way for the logical and 
ethical efforts of Socrates. Prodicus was a native of 
Sulis, in the island of Geos. lie went frequently to 
Athens for the purpose of transacting business on behalf 
of his native city, and even attracted admiration in the 
senate as an orator (Plato, Jlipp. Maj. p. 282; comp. 
Philost. 17/. Soph, i, 12). although his voice was deep 
and apt to fall (Plato, Protay. p. 316, a; Philost. 1. c.). 
Plutarch describes him as slender and weak (Pint, an 
sent per, sit Itesp. c. 15) ; and Plato speaks of a degree 
of effeminacy which resulted therefrom ( Protay . p. 
315, d). Philostratus is the first who taxes him with 
luxury and avarice (l.c.; comp. Welckcr, Kh ine Schrif- 
ten, ii, 513, etc.). In the Protagoras of Plato, which 
points to the eighty-seventh Olympiad (any more ex- 
act determination is disputable) as the time at which 
the dialogue is supposed to take place, Prodicus is men- 
tioned as having previously arrived in Athens. Still 
later, when Isocrates (born 01. 86, 1) is mentioned as 
his disciple (see Welckcr, Prodikos von K<os, 1 'on/ anger 
I des Socrates, published first in the Ilia inisclns Museum 
der Philoloyie, von Welckcr and Xiike, i, 1-39, 533-515, 
■ afterwards in Welcker’s Khine Schriftcn, ii, 392 541), 
and in the year of the death of Socrates, Prodicus was 
still living (Plato, Apol. p. 19, e). The dates of his 
birth and death cannot he determined. 'The statement 
of Suidas (s. v. ; comp. Schol. on Plato De Pep. x, 690, 
c) that he was condemned to the hemlock cup as a 
corrupter of the youth in Athens sounds very suspi- 
cious (comp. Welckcr. p. 582). According to the state- 
ment of Philostratus (p. 483 — comp. p. 190, ed. < Uea- 
rius), on which little more reliance can he placed, he 
delivered his lecture on virtue and vice in 'Thebes and 
Sparta also. 'The Apology of Plato unites him with 
Gorgias and llippias in the statement that into whatever 
city they might come, they were competent to instruct 


PRODICUS 


625 


PROEDRI 


the youth. Lucian ( Vit. Herod, c. 3) mentions him 
among those who hail held lectures at Olympia. In 
the dialogues of Plato he is mentioned or introduced, 
not indeed without iron}', though, as compared with 
the other Sophists, with a certain degree of esteem 
(Hipp. Maj. p. 282; Thecet. p. 151, b; Phcedo, 60; Pro- 
tag. p. 341, a ; Charmid. p. 163, d ; Meno, p. 96; Cratyl. 
p. 384, b; Symp. p. 177; Euthyd. p. 305). Aristopha- 
nes, in the Clouds (1. 360), deals more indulgently with 
him than with Socrates ; and the Xenopliontic Socrates, 
for the purpose of combating the voluptuousness of Ar- 
istippus, borrows from the book of the wise Prodicus 
(ITpoc. 6 ooQog) the story of the choice of Hercules 
( Memor . ii, 1, § 21, etc.). This separation of Prodicus 
from the other Sophists has been pointed out by Welcker 
in the above-quoted treatise (p. 400, etc.). Like Protag- 
oras and others, Prodicus delivered lectures in return for 
the payment of contributions (tTnStiicrvTai — Xenoph. 
Mem. ii, 1, § 21; comp. Philost. p. 482; Diog. Laert. 
ix, 50; ypaviZovTO — mpt], Plato, Prot. 314, b) of from 
half a drachma to fifty drachm*, probably according as 
the hearers limited themselves to a single lecture, or 
entered into an agreement for a more complete course 
(Axioch. 6; Cratyl. p. 384, b; Aristot. Rhei. iii, 14, § 9; 
Suid. s. v.; comp. Welcker, p. 414). Prodicus is said 
to have amassed a great amount of money (Hipp. Maj. 
p. 282, d ; Xenoph. Symp. iv, 62 ; i, 5 ; on the practice 
of paying for instruction and lectures, comp, again 
Welcker, l. c. p. 412, etc.). 

As Prodicus and others maintained with regard to 
themselves that they stood equally on the confines of 
philosophy and politics ( Euthyd . p. 305, c), so Plato 
represents his instructions as chiefly ethical (Meno, p. 
96, d ; comp. De Rep. x, p. 600, e), and gives the 
preference to his distinction of ideas — as of those of 
courage, rashness, boldness — over similar attempts of 
other Sophists ( Lack . p. 197, c). What pertained to 
this point was probably only contained in individual 
show-orations (Diog. Laert., Philost. II. cc.'), which he 
usuall}' declined (Philost. p. 482). Though known to 
Callimachns, they do not appear to have been much 
longer preserved (Welcker, p. 465, etc.). In contrast 
with Gorgias and others, who boasted of possessing 
the art of making the small appear great, the great 
small, and of expatiating in long or short speeches, 
Prodicus required that the speech should be neither 
long nor short, but of the proper measure (Plato, Phced. 
p. 267, a ; comp. Gory. p. 449, c; Prot. p. 334, e, 335, b, 
338, d ; Aristot. Rhet. iii, 17), anil it is only as associated 
with other Sophists that he is charged with endeavoring 
to make the weaker cause strong by means of his rhet- 
oric (Cicero, Brut. c. 8). He paid especial attention to 
the correct use of words (Plato, Euthyd. p. 187, e; Cra- 
tyl. p. 384, b ; comp. Galen, In Hippocr. de A rticul. iv, p. 
461, 1), and the distinction of expressions related in 
sense (Lack. p. 197, d ; Prot. p. 340, a, 341, a ; Charmid. 
p. 163, d; Meno, p. 75, c; comp. Themist. Orat. iv, p. 
113). But he deserves greater remembrance for his 
parwietical discourses on moral subjects, among which 
one of the best known is Hercules at the Cross Roads 
(Philost. p. 496 ; Xenophon, Mem. ii, 1, § 21, only quotes 
the ovyypappa 7rqoi row 'HpofeXioug). It was entitled 
T 12joai (Suid. s. v. y Qpat and IlprltC ; Schol. ad Aris- 
toph. Nub. 1. 360. Inspecting the different explanations 
of this title, see Welcker, p. 466, etc., who refers it to 
the youthful bloom of Hercules). To Hercules, as he 
was on the point, at his entrance on the age of youth, 
of deciding for one of the two paths of life — that of vir- 
tue and that of vice — there appear two women, the one 
of dignified beauty, adorned with purity, modesty, and 
discretion, the other of a voluptuous form and mere- 
tricious look and dress. The latter promises to lead 
him by the shortest road, without any toil, to the en- 
joyment of every pleasure. The other, while she re- 
minds him of his progenitors and his noble nature, docs 
not conceal from him that the gods have not granted 
what is reallv beautiful and good apart from trouble 
VIII.— R r 


and careful striving. The one seeks to deter him from 
the path of virtue by urging the difficulty of it; the 
other calls attention to the unnatural character of en- 
joj'ment which anticipates the need of it, its want of 
the highest joy, that arising from noble deeds, and the 
consequences of a life of voluptuousness, and how she 
herself, honored by gods and men, leads to all noble 
works, and to true well-being in all circumstances of 
life. Hercules decides for virtue. This outline in Xen- 
ophon probably represents, in a very abbreviated form, 
and with the omission of all collateral references, the 
leading ideas of the original, of which no fragments re- 
main (comp. Welcker, p. 469, etc., who also shows that 
the amplifications in Dio Chysostomus and Themistius 
belong to these rhetoricians, and are not derived froni^ 
the Ilorce of Prodicus, p. 488, etc. Respecting the nu- 
merous imitations of this narrative in poets, philoso- 
phers, rhetoricians, and in works of art, see, in like 
manner, Welcker, p. 467, etc.). In another speech, 
which treated of riches, and the substance of which is 
reproduced in the dialogue Eryxias , Prodicus undertook 
to show that the value of external goods depends sim- 
ply upon the use which is made of them, and that vir- 
tue must be learned. (Welcker endeavors to point out 
the coincidence of the former doctrine with that of Soc- 
rates and Antisthenes, p. 493, etc.) Similar sentiments 
were expressed in Prodicns’s Praise of Agriculture 
(Themist. Orat. 30, p. 349; comp. Welcker, p. 496, 
etc.). His views respecting the worthlessness of earth- 
ly life in different ages and callings, and how we must 
long after freedom from connection with the body in 
the heavenly and cognate sether, are found represented 
in the dialogue Axiochus, from a lecture by Prodicus; 
as also his doctrine that death is not to be feared, as it 
affects neither the living nor the departed (comp. Stob. 
Senn. xx, 35). Whether the appended arguments for 
immortality are borrowed from him, as Welcker (p. 500) 
endeavors to show, is doubtful. The gods he regarded 
as personifications of the sun, moon, rivers, fountains, 
and whatever else contributes to the comfort of our life 
1 (Sext. Emp. Adv. Math, i, 52; Cicero, De Nat. Deor. i, 
42), and he is therefore, though hastily, charged with 
atheism (ibid. 55). Prodicus declared death to be de- 
sirable as an escape from the evils of life. His moral 
. consciousness therefore certainly lacked philosophical 
basis and depth. See, besides the authorities already 
1 quoted, Hummel, De Prodico Sophista (Leyden, 1847) ; 
Cougny, De Prodico Ceio, Socratis magistro (Paris, 
1858); Diemer, De Prod. Ceio (Corbach, 1859); Krii- 
mer, Die A llegorie des Prodikus v. dcr Traum des Luki- 
I anas, in the Neve Jahrbiicher Jur Phil. u. Padagogik, 
xciv (1866), 439-443; Blass, Die alte Beredsamkeit 
\ (Leips. 1868), p. 29 sq. ; Ueberweg, Hist, of Philosophy, 
i, 78 ; and especially the article in Smith, Did. of Gr. 
and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. s. v., which we have freely 
used. 

Prodicus (2). See Prodicians. 

Prodigies. Wonderful appearances which were 
supposed among the ancient heathens to betoken some 
impending misfortune or calamity. These being re- 
garded as marks of the anger of the gods, they w r ere 
considered as calling for prayers and sacrifices. When- 
ever prodigies were seen, the pontifices, or priests, pro- 
ceeded to perform certain pnblic rites by way of expia- 
tion. The fall of meteoric stones w r as accounted a 
prodigy, and almost all the others might be explained 
bv peculiar natural phenomena which in those ancient 
times were not understood. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
World, s. v. 

Prodymna (or Pradymea or Pradyvmna') was. in 
the Indian mythology, an avatar of Kama (q. v.), the 
love-god. 

Proedri (irpuecpot, Lat. prersides, prmidentesy is 
one of the titles which were given in the ancient Church 
to the bishops, and was used in close connection with 
the word TrptofivTtpog. See Presbyter. It is de- 


PIIOEDKOSIA 


026 


PKOFESTI DIES 


rived from the irpotcpia, tlie elevated seat which the 
bishop occupied in the synod and in the religious as- 
semblies of the people, bee Coleman, Ancient Chris- 
tianity Exemplified (Pliila. 1856, 8vo), p. 131, and the 
references quoted on p. G01 ; Siegel, Christ liche Alter- 
thiimer (see Index in vol. iv); Iliddle, Christ. Antiqui- 
ties, p. 211. 

Proedrosia, sacrifices, or, as some allege, a festival 
offered to Demeter or Ceres at seed-time, with the view 
of securing a bountiful harvest. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
World, s. v. 

Proestos (■ TTpoenrioc ;), one of the names by which 
the early Church distinguished the teachers or preach- 
ers from the “ brethren’’ (1 Tim.v, 17). Justin Martyr 
uses the term as synonymous with \fpap\i)£, when he 
speaks of the 7rpot(TTojg as the person whose duty it is 
to consecrate the elements in the administration of the 
Lord’s Supper ( Apolog . ii, 67), a duty subsequently per- 
formed only by the bishop except in his absence. (Pe- 
pin’s decree, A.D. 755, is as follows: “Xullus presbyter 
praesumat missas celebrare sine jussione episcopi in cujus 
parochia est.” The Council of Arles laid similar restric- 
tions upon deacons [canon 15].) The title Proestos was 
translated into Latin by Pr&positus, whence the English 
word Provost (q. v.). See Coleman, .1 ncient Christianity 
Exemplified, p. 102 et al.; Siegel, Christl. A Iferthiimer 
(see Index in vol. iv) ; Riddle, Christ. A ntiquities, p. 21 1 . 

Profane (T:n, chanaph , Jer. xxiii, 11; 

Ileb. xii, 16). To profane is to put holy things to vile 
or common uses ; as the money-changers did the Tem- 
ple, by converting a part of it into a place of business 
(Matt, xxi, 12), and as those do who allow secular oc- 
cupations to-engross any part of the Sabbath under the 
old, or of the Lord's day under the new dispensation 
(Exod. xx, 8 10). Esau, for despising his birthright 
and its privileges, is styled by the apostle “a profane 
person” (Ileb. xii, 16). The term is also used in oppo- 
sition to holy. Thus the general history of ancient na- 
tions is styled profane, as distinguished from that con- 
tained in the llible; profane writings are such as have 
been composed by heathens, in contradistinction from 
the sacred books of Scripture, and the writings of Chris- 
tian authors on sacred subjects. 

Professio Fidei Tkuikxtin.e is the form of the 
Roman Catholic profession of faith in which it took 
shape at the Council of Trent and in which it was after- 
wards published by pope Tins IV, so that it is some- 
times called the Creed of Pius I V (q. v.). The gen- 
eral Christian confession of faith had been renewed 
in the third session of the Council of Trent on Feb. 3, 
1546 (deeretum de symbolo fidei), but there was need of 
something for general use in the Church at large, so that 
all its members might become obligated to the Churc h 
and its teachings, not only for their own faithfulness, 
but for their arraval against heretics. Hence l*i us IV 
in 1556 ordered to be prepared a Formula Christ inner 
et Catholicee Fidei, and on Sept. 4, 1560, presented it for 
consideration to the cardinal college. In 1561 it was 
finally promulgated, and persons on becoming members 
of the Church of Rome are expected to recite the creed. 
This profession of faith runs as follows: 

“ I most steadfastly admit and embrace apostolical and 
ecclesiastical traditions, and all oilier observances and 
constitutions of the same Church. 

“I also admit tlie holy Scriptures, according to that 
sense which our holy mother tlie Church lints held and 
does hold, to which it belongs to judge ofihe true sense 
and interpretation of the Scriptures: neither will I ever 
take and interpret them otherwise than according to the 
unanimous consent of the fathers. 

“I also profess that there are truly and properly seven 
sacraments of the new law, instituted by Jesus Christ our 
Lord, and necessary fur the salvation of mnnkiud, though 
not all for every one— to wit: baptism, confirmation, the 
Eucharist, penance,* extreme unction, holy orders, t and 

* Under penance is included confession, as the Catholic 
sacrament of penance consists of three parts— contrition 
or sorrow, confession, and satisfaction. 

t The clerical orders of the Catholic Church arc divided 


matrimony: and that they confer grace; and that <>f these, 
baptism, confirmation, and order cannot lie reiteraied 
without sacrilege. I also receive and admit tlie received 
and approved ceremonies of the Catholic Church, used iu 
the solemn administration of the aforesaid sacraments. 

“ 1 embrace and receive all and every one of the things 
which have beeu defined and declared in the holy Couucil 
of Trent concerning original sin and justification. 

“ I profess, likewise, that in the mass there is offered to 
God a true, proper, and propitiatory sacrifice for the liv- 
ing and the dead ; and that in the most holy sacrament 
of the Eucharist theie is truly, really, and substantially 
the body and blood, together with llie soul and divin- 
ity of our Lord Jesus Christ; and that there is made a 
change of the whole substance of the bread into tlie body, 
and of the whole substance of the wine into tlie blood, 
which change the Catholic Church calls tramubstaiitiation. 
I also confess that under either kind alone Christ is re- 
ceived whole and entire, and a true sacrament. 

“1 firmly hold that there is a purgatory , and that the 
souls thereiu detained are helped by the suffrages of the 
faithful. 

“Likewise, that the saints reigning with Christ are to 
be honored and invocated, and that they offer up prayers 
to God for us; and that their relics are to be bad iu ven- 
eration. 

“1 most firmly assert that the images of Christ, of the 
mother of God, and also of other saints, ought to he had 
and retained, aud that due honor and veneration are to 
be given them. 

“I also affirm that the power of indulgences was left by 
Christ in the Church, and that the use of them is most 
wholesome to Christian people. 

“1 acknowledge tlie holy Catholic Apostolic Roman 
Church for the mother and mistress of all churches; and 
I promise true obedience to tlie bishop of Rome, succes- 
sor to St. Peter, priuce of the apostles, aud vicar of Jesus 
Christ.” 

Then follow clauses condemnatory of all contrary doc- 
trines, and expressive of adhesion to all the definitions 
of the Council of Trent. 

It is obvious that the Confessio Fidei Tridentinee was 
framed in accordance to tlie decrees of that council, and 
has chiefly in view the opinions of those who followed 
the Reformation. See Mbliler, Symbolics; Kbllncr, Die 
Symbolik der rbmisehen Kirehe, p. 141 sq. : Schaff, Creeds 
of Christendom (see Index in vol. iii); Fisher, Hist, of 
the Reformation, p. 402. (J. 11. \V.) 

Profession. Among the ceremonies of baptism in 
the early Church, one of great importance was the pro- 
fession of faith and vow of obedience. The catechumens 
first renounced the devil, and then professed to live in 
obedience to the laws of Christ. See Pactum. 

Christians are required to make a profession of their 
faith — 1, boldly (Rom. i, 16); 2, explicitly (Matt, v, 
16); 3, constantly (Ileb. x, 23); 4, yet not ostenta- 
tiously, but with humility and meekness. 

Among the Romanists, profession denotes the enter- 
ing into a religious order, whereby a person offers him- 
self to God by a vow of inviolably observing obedience, 
chastity, and poverty. 

Professor, a term commonly used in the religious 
world to denote any person who makes an open ac- 
knowledgment of the religion of Christ, or who ont- 
w’ardly manifests his attachment to Christianity. All 
real Christians are professors, lint all professors are not 
real Christians. In this, as in nil other things of worth 
and importance, we find counterfeits. There are many 
who become professors, not from principle, from investi- 
gation, from love to tlie truth, but fixnn interested mo- 
tives, prejudice of education, custom, influence of con- 
nections, novelty, etc,, as Saul, Jehu, Judas, Demas, the 
foolish virgins, etc. Sec Ciuustian. 

Piofesti Dies. Days without any special ser- 
vice, in distinction from solemn or officiating days, 
which include stations, litanies, fasts, and feast-days or 
festivals. 


into two clnsscs, sacred and minor orders. The first con- 
sists of subdeacons, deacons, and priests, who are bound 
to celibacy, and the daily recitation of tlie lireviary, or 
collection of psalms and prayers, occupying a consider- 
able time. The minor ordersare four in uninher, and are 
preceded by tlie tonsure, an ecclesiastical ceremony in 
whicli the hair is shorn, initiatory to the ecclesiastical 
state. 


PROFIAT DURAN 


Profiat Duran, whose Jewish name was Isaac ben- 
Moses (surnamed Ephodceus from his principal work 
■HBX mi'rn), is noted as a gifted poet, philosopher, 
and astronomer. He flourished between 1360 and 1412. 
In the bitter persecution of 1391 he was driven out- 
wardly to embrace Christianity to save his life. In or- 
der to throw off the mask of a religion which in the 
name of love nearly exterminated all his co-religion- 
ists, Profiat and a friend, who had become an apostate 
for like reasons, concluded to go to Palestine to confess 
Judaism. Profiat Duran left first and went to a sea- 
place in the south of France, awaiting the arrival ofhis 
friend. Meanwhile Ben-Giorno met with Paul of Bur- 
gos (q. v.), who persuaded him to remain steadfastly in 
his Christian faith. Ben-Giorno wrote a letter to Duran 
in lull praise of the bishop of Burgos, expounding his 
religious belief and exhorting him at the same time to 
be also true to Christianity. This imbittered Duran 
not only against his friend, but especially against the 
bishop of Burgos, and he answered in a polemical epis- 
tle, full of bitter sarcasm and irony, entitled VI r. bx 
“ ■'P'X: ( Be not like thy Fathers'), called by Christians 
Alteca Boteca, who, misunderstanding its purpose, took 
it as a defence of Christianity, while in reality aimed 
against it. The whole letter was equivocal. It was 
believed at first reading that it was an exhortation to 
stand fast in the religion he had embraced, but the mys- 
tery was easily discovered, and it appeared by an atten- 
tive consideration that Duran meant to oblige his friend 
to return to Judaism. This celebrated work was first 
published at Constantinople in 1577 in a collection of 
other treatises. It w r as then republished by A. Giinz- 
burg in the collection EWI j ? £p (Breslau, 1844). 
Geiger published a German translation in his Wissen- 
schajUiche Zeitschrift, iv, 452-458 (Stuttgard, 1839), 
and an English translation was published in the Jewish 
Messenger (N. Y. Sept. 12, 1873). Besides, Duran wrote 
(The Reproach of the Gentiles), in 12 
chapters, which has not as yet been published. An ex- 
tract of it, as well as the contents of the chapters, is 
given in the Catalogue of Michael's Library, p. 364, 365 
(Hamb. 1848): — “I£X iTiVC (The Work of Ephod), a 
Hebrew grammar, divided into 32 chapters, with an in- 
teresting and elaborate introduction. Endowed with 
remarkable grammatical tact, he was the first to demon- 
strate the reflexive or reciprocal instead of the passive 
meaning of Niphal. His important grammar, which he 
finished in 1403, of which fragments are printed in the 
notes to Goldberg’s edition of Ibn-Ganach’s (q. v.) Se- 
pher Harikmah (Frankfort-on-the- Main, 1856), in 
Filipowski’s edition of Menachem Ibn-Saruk’s Hebrew 
and Chaldee Lexicon, p. 76 (Lond. 1854), and by Jacob 
C. Chajim in his Introduction to the Rabbinic Bible, p. 
42, 43 (ed. Ginsburg, Lond. 1865), has lately been pub- 
lished bv Dr. Jonath. Friedliimler and J. Kohn, with an 
introduction, notes, and elucidations (Vienna, 1865) : — 
a Commentary on two sections of Ibn-Ezra’s commen- 
tary on the Pentateuch (De Rossi, Xo. 835) : — a Com- 
mentary on Ibn-Ezra’s enigma on the quiescent letters : 
— Comment on The Guide of the Perplexed: — and 
“lEXil on astronomy, in 29 chapters. See Fiirst, Bibl. 
Jud. i, 215; Steinschneider. Catalogus Libroi'um Hebr. 
in Biblioth. Boellej. col. 2 1 1 2-2 119; lie Rossi, Dizionario 
Storico degli Autori Ebrei, p. 260 sq. (Germ, trans. by 
Hamberger) ; Ginsburg in Kitto’s Cyclop, s. v. ; Griitz, 
Gesch. der Juden, viii, 94, 403, etc. (Leips. 1864, p. 86- 
89; ibid. 1875, p. 381 sq.) ; Basnage, Histoire des Juifs, 
p. 690 (Taylor’s transl.) ; Lindo, History of the Jews, p. 
195; Finn, Sephardim, p. 386; Kalisch, Hebrew Gram- 
mar, ii, 31 ; Geiger, Jiidische Zeitschrift (1866), p. 212 ; 
Steinschneider, Jewish Literature, p. 127, 137 sq. ; Eth- 
eridge, Introduction to Hebrew Literature, p. 268 ; Jost, 
Gesch. des Judenth. u. s. Sekten, iii, 100 ; Gronemaun, De 
Pmfatii Dui'ani ( Efodali ) vita ac studiis cum in alias 


7 PROKOPOVITC11 

literas turn in grammatical n collatis (Breslau, 1869). 
(B. P.) 

Profitt, George Marion, a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Yancey Coun- 
ty, X. C.. about 1835. He professed religion and joined 
the Church in 1849. He was admitted into the Holston 
Conference in 1858. His first appointment was to the 
Cleveland circuit as junior preacher; his second year 
was spent on Spencer mission ; his third, on Sulphur 
Springs circuit; his fourth, on Xewport circuit. His 
health having failed, he went to Florida, where he died 
on Sunday, June 5, 1864. He led an exemplar}' and 
pious life. 

Prognosticator. The phrase “monthly prognos- 
ticators” occurs in the A. V. as a rendering of 
£ "'in rip, making known as to the months, in Isa. xlvii, 
13, where the prophet is enumerating the astrological 
superstitions of the Chaldreans. It is known that the 
Chaldtean astrologers professed to divine future events 
by the positions, aspects, and appearances of the stars, 
which they regarded as having great influence on the 
affairs of men and kingdoms; and it would seem, from 
the present text, that they put forth accounts of the 
events which might be expected to occur from month 
to mouth, like our old almanac-makers. Some carry 
the analogy further, and suppose that they also gave 
monthly tables of the weather; but such prognostica- 
tions are only cared for in climates where the weather 
is uncertain and variable; while in Chaldaea, where (as 
we know from actual experience) the seasons are re- 
markably regular in their duration and recurrence, and 
where variations of the usual course of the weather are 
all but unknown, no prognosticator would gain much 
honor by foretelling what every peasant knows. — Kitto. 
See Astrology; Divination. 

Pro-Hegoumenos, the ex-superior of a Greek 
convent who has completed his term of office, which is 
two years, and retires divested of nothing but his au- 
thority.— Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Frohle, Heinrich Andreas, Dr., a Lutheran 
minister, who died April 19, 1875, at Hornhansen, near 
Oschersleben, in Germany, is best known by his writ- 
ings in the department of homiletics, liturgy, and peda- 
gogics. He published, Materudien zu Homitien in 
katechetischer Form (Halberstadt, 1846); — Die koi'- 
perliche, christliclie und biirgerliche Schulerziehung 
(Magdeburg, 1846) : — Leitfaden bei dem Koufirmanden- 
Unterrichte, mit einem Vorworte von Claus Harms (q. v.) 
(Halberstadt, 1851): Liturgischer Festring (Wernige- 
rode, 1856) : — Predigt-Entwiirfe iiber die Evangelien u. 
Episteln, etc. (ibid. 1856) : — Das Halberstadtische Kit - 
chen- und Haus-Gesangbuch in seiner erneueten Gestalt 
(Oschersleben, 1856) : — Kirchliche Sitten. Ein Bild aus 
dem Leben evangelisclier Gemeinen (Berlin, 1858). This 
latter work is the most important ofhis writings. See 
Zuchold. Bibliotheca Theohgica, iii, 1015; Literarischer 
Handweiser (1875), p.222; Ilauck, Theol. Jahresbiricht 
(1866), ii, 734. (B. P.) 

Proistameni (-poiarapevot) is only another title 
which was given to the preacher of the early Church. 
See Proestos. 

Prokimenon (irpoKtiptvov, something that lies be- 
fore) is, in the Greek liturgy, the short anthem pro- 
nounced previous to the reading of the epistle from the 
Holy Scriptures, consisting of verse and response usually 
taken from the Psalms. The purpose is to give a hint 
as to the way in which the day ought to be celebrated. 
Such phrases are, for instance, “ Praise ye the Lord,” 
“Give ear to my prayer, O Lord,” “Thy mercy, O 
Lord,” “God help me through thy name,” “My help 
comes from the Lord,” “ O Lord, thou art my protec- 
tor.” Previous to the calling-out of the prokimenon the 
deacon exclaims, “Let us listen!” — Wetzer u. Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

Prokopovitch, Teophan, a Russian prelate of 


PROLOCUTOR 


C 28 PROMOTIO PER SALTUM 


great renown, especially as a pulpit orator, and there- 
fore called tlie Chrysostom of the Russo-Grcek Church, 
was born at Kief June 8, 1681. Baptized Eleazur , lie 
exchanged it for Elisha, with the dress of St. Basil, in 
a I'nited Creek monastery of that order in Lithuania, 
lie was sent to Borne to finish his studies, and there had 
remained three years when he suddenly removed, by 
force of circumstances not known, and went to 1’otche- 
rif, in Vnlhynia, where lie renounced his faith, and was 
transferred, under the new name of father Samuel, to 
the chair of rhetoric in the Academy of Kief. When 
Peter I passed through the city, after the victory at 
Poltava, the duty of complimenting him was contidcd 
to Prokopovitch. lie accompanied the czar in his un- 
lucky campaign on the Pruth, and was made abbot of 
the monastery of Kief. In 1715 he was promoted to 
the seat of Pskopf, although he avowed that he had 
expressed heretical doctrines at the court and in his 
writings. The doctors of the Sorbonne, wishing to 
profit by the visit Peter I had paid to them in 1717, at- 
tempted to enter into friendly relations with the Bus- 
sian Church. Appointed to reply to their address to 
the czar, Prokopovitch frustrated this attempt; and, 
yielding himself to all the views of the despot, lie com- 
posed an ecclesiastical constitution which made of the 
Church a civil institution, and the clergy servants em- 
ployed by the State — a condition which remains unaltered 
in the Bussian Church to this day. lie also, at the em- 
peror's instigation, consented to the sequestration of the 
Church domains, and apportioned to the clergy a share of 
the income proportionate to their several ranks. lie re- 
ceived from Catharine, whom he had crowned empress, 
the presidency of the synod and the archbishopric 
of Novgorod, founded by Theodosius. Prokopovitch 
crowned Peter II, whose right to the throne he had at- 
tacked in a work condemned by a ukase of July 20, 
1727, by the then empress Anna, and encouraged the 
latter to commit in 1730 the stroke of policy from the 
effects of which Bussia yet suffers the most deplorable 
consequences, lie died at St. Petersburg Sept. 8, 1736. 
lie left a great number of panegyrics and expositions 
of all sorts, some in impure Bussian, some in Latin 
Oustrailif admits that the works of this prelate were 
specimens of the basest adulation. — lloefer, Xouv. Piny. 
Cenerale, s. v. See Tchistovitch, Theophane Prokopo- 
ritrh et Theophihicte Lopatiuslci (St.Petersb. 1861) ; Otto, 
Puss. Lift. s. v.; Meth. Qnar. Rev. July, 1873, p. 499. 

Prolocutor, the chairman or president of convoca- 
tion in England. See Convocation. 

Promater. Sec Sponsor. 

Promise (some form of to say, or •Zi, to 

speak; iirayyeXiti) is a solemn asseveration, by which 
one pledges his veracity that he will perform, or cause 
to be performed, for the benefit of another, the thing 
which he mentions. A promise, in the scriptural sense 
of the term, is a declaration or assurance of the divine 
will, in which God signifies what particular blessings 
or good things he will freely bestow, as well as the evils 
which he will remove. Promises differ from the com- 
mands of God, inasmuch as the former are sign ideations 
of the divine will concerning a duty enjoined to be per- 
formed, while the promises relate to mercy to be re- 
ceived. The “exceeding great and precious promises’’ 
are applicable to all believers; they appertain to the 
present and the future life (2 Pet. i, 4). Some partic- 
ular promises are predictions, as the promise of the 
Messiah, and the blessings of the Gospel (Bom. iv, 13. 
II; Gal. iii, M 29). Hence the Hebrews were called 
the “children of the promise” (Bom. ix, 8). So all the 
true believers in the Lord Jesus Christ are called “chil- 
dren” and “heirs of the promise” (Gal. iv, 20; Ileb. vi, 
12, 17). There are four classes of promises mentioned 
in lh<; Scriptures, particularly in the New Test.: 1, 
promises relating to the Messiah; 2, promises relating 
to the Church; 3, promises of blessings, both temporal 
and spiritual, to the pious; and, 4, promises encouraging 


the exercise of the several graces and duties that com- 
pose the Christian character. The first two of these 
classes, indeed, are many of them predictions as well as 
promises. Sec Proimiecv. The consideration of the 
others should prove, 1, an antidote to despair; 2, a mo- 
| tive to patience under affliction; 3, an incentive to per- 
severance in well-doing; 4. a call for prayer. 

PROMISE is a solemn asseveration by which one 
pledges his veracity that he shall perform, or cause to 
be performed, the tiling which he mentions. The ob- 
, ligation of promises arises from the necessity of the 
well-being and existence of society. “Virtue requires,” 
as Dr. Doddridge observes, “ that promises be fulfilled. 
I The promisee, i. e. the person to whom the promise is 
made, acquires a property in virtue of the promise. 
I The uncertainty of property would evidently be at- 
tended with great inconvenience. By failing to fulfil 
my promise, I either show that I was not sincere in 
making it, or that 1 have little constancy or resolution, 
and either way injure my character, and consequently 
my usefulness in life. Promises, however, are not bind- 
ing, 1, if they were made by us before we came to such 
exercise of reason as to be fit to transact affairs of mo- 
ment ; or if by any distemper or sudden surprise we are 
deprived of the exercise of our reason at the lime when 
the promise is made ; 2, if the promise was made on a 
false presumption, in which the promisor, after the most 
diligent inquiry, was imposed upon, especially if he 
were deceived by the fraud of the promisee; 3, if the 
thing itself he vicious, for virtue cannot require that 
vice should be committed; 4, if the accomplishment of 
the promise be so hard and intolerable that there is 
reason to believe that, had it been foreseen, it would not 
have been an accepted case; 5, if the promise be not 
accepted, or if it depend on conditions not performed.” 
— Buck. Theol. Piet. s. v. But really this question con- 
cerning the validity and obligation of a promise given or 
obtained under false views is a matter that falls within 
the Casuistry of Ethics — a very uncertain ground. See 
Grotius, De Jure, lib. ii, cap. xi ; Palcv, Moral Philos- 
ophy, vol. i, ch. v; Grove, Moral Philosophy, vol. ii. cli. 
xii, p. 2; Watts, Sermons, scr. 20; Dvmond, Essays; 
Yerplanck, On Contracts. See Obligation; Pkoba- 
biusm. 

PROMISES OF GOD arc the kind declarations of 
his Word, in which he hath assured us lie will bestow 
blessings upon his people. The promises contained in 
the sacred Scriptures may be considered, 1, divine as to 
their origin: 2, suitable as to their nature; 3, abundant 
as to their number; 4, clear as to their expression; 5, 
certain as to their accomplishment. The consideration 
of them should, 1, prove an antidote to despair; 2, a 
motive to patience; 3, a call for prayer; 4, a spur to 
perseverance. See Clark, On the Promises ; Buck, Ser- 
mons, ser. 11. 

Promissum. See Pacti-m. 

Promotio per saltum is, in the Church of 
Borne, the intentional disregard of the legal scale of the 
different orders. It is the collation or the obtention of 
a higher order by way of skipping one or several other 
orders, which, according to rule, ought to precede. In 
consequence, he who has been ordained per saltum 
cannot perform the functions of. the order thus unlaw- 
fully bestowed until the next inferior order has been 
subsequently obtained also (c. un. Pist. Iii) ; this infe- 
rior degree the bishop can confer on him, ami allow him 
at once to perform the duties of the higher degree (Cone. 
Tritl. sess. xxiii, c. 14. Pe Rif). But if the promoted 
ecclesiastic officiates according to the higher order thus 
illicitly conferred on him without the episcopal dispen- 
sation, he becomes irregular, and needs papal dispensa- 
tion (c. un. x, lie Cler. per salt. prom. v. 29). The con- 
secration of a bishop, with omission of the preshy terate, 
would not only be illicit, but utterly void (Ary. c. 10, 
Jin. x, lie excess, pral. v, 31). — Wetzcr 11 . Weltc, A rr- 
clten- /.exikon, s. v. 


PROMPSAULT 


629 


PROPAGAX DA 


Prompsault, Jean Henri Romain, a French ec- 
clesiastical writer, was born April 7, 1798, at Monta- 
lembert. He was the eldest of twelve children. After 
he had finished his classical studies in the little semi- 
nary, he was received into the large seminary of Va- 
lence, and was admitted to the priesthood two years 
before the required age, Nov. 5, 1821. At first em- 
ployed to do curate’s duty in the office of his parish, he 
taught dogmatic theology in the great seminary of Va- 
lence, and ended in doing parochial duty. Having 
been appointed in 18*27 to the chair of philosophy in 
the College of Tournon, he refused, without being au- 
thorized by his bishop, to take the oath required by 
the professors by the ordinance of 1828. and was de- 
posed. At the end of 1829 he went to Paris, and was 
attached to M. de Croi, then head chaplain to the hos- 
pital of Quinze Vingt, in the capacity of chaplain. He 
saved that establishment from downfall in 1831. In 
this humble position the abbe Prompsault, although 
scrupulously fulfilling the obligations of priest and chap- 
lain, had yet considerable time to give to study. He 
put aside the largest share of the receipts of his publi- 
cations and of his literary pension to buy books, and he 
formed an ecclesiastical library of 25,000 volumes. He 
began his literary career by publishing a critical edition 
of the works of Villon in 1832, and in 1835 he published 
a criticism of an edition of French literature published 
by Crapelet. This last work engaged him in a lively 
controversy with Crapelet, in which he defended him- 
self with a calm and witty sarcasm which was after- 
wards the characteristic of his polemical writings. He 
occupied himself for many years with the Latin and Ro- 
mance languages. In 1837 he published many trans- 
lations of ascetic works. His principal study was canon 
law and the civil and ecclesiastical jurisprudence of 
France. Himself a thorough Gallican, he discarded the 
ultramontane tendencies of the French episcopacy, and 
advocated the liberties of the Gallican Church. In this 
spirit he attacked the encyclical of pope Pius IX, and 
brought such odium upon himself that he was led to 
retract much that he had uttered against ultra-Roman- 
ism, though at heart he always felt his first course to 
have been the true and proper one. His last years were 
imbittered by remorse, and he died Jan. 7, 1858, neg- 
lected by those for whom he had sacrificed his honor. — 
Hoefer, Now. Biog. Generate, s. v. Sec Christian Re- 
membrancer, xliv, 340; Vapereau, Diet, des Conlempo- 
rains, s. v. 

Promulgation or Publication, i. e. proclama- 
tion — usually of a law by the competent legislative 
power — is, in the Church of Rome, an absolute condi- 
tion of its binding character (“lex non promulgata non 
obligat,” c. i, 9 ; Cod. De Legib. i, 1 4). In consequence, an 
ecclesiastical law, like any civil law, in order to become 
obligatory in fovo externo must be promulgated in the 
customary way by the competent authorities of the 
Church. The binding power of the law rests entirely 
on the will of the legislator publicly expressed, and be- 
gins at the very moment of the promulgation (“ lex pro- 
mulgata statim obligat,” c. 1, x; De post, prcel. i, 5), 
unless some future period is expressly indicated when it 
shall be enforced (f. inst. Sext. c. 32; De Prab. iii, 4; 
Cone. Trid. sess. xxiv, c. 1 , fin. De Ref. Mat rim.'). A 
law has generally no retroactive power (“lex non retro 
agit,” c. 2, x; De Constit. i, 2), unless it be merely an 
explanation or reiteration of a former disposition, or 
unless retroactive power be expressly given to it. From 
the moment of the promulgation takes effect also the 
juridical presumption of the general knowledge of the 
law, which excludes every excuse of ignorantia legis 
(Sext. c. 13; De R. T. v, 13), unless the legislator sub- 
ordinates the validity of the ordinance to the observa- 
tion of a certain form of promulgation, and this form 
has not been observed. Every one whom the law may 
concern is bound to conform to it as soon as he has ob- 
tained, no matter by what means, a knowledge of it. 
The diocesan ordinances of archbishops and bishops are, 


as a rule, communicated to the deaconries, and through 
them, by circular letters, to the curates, etc., who publish 
them from the pulpit, or by placards at the church doors. 
The papal see used in former times to address its ordi- 
nances to the chief ecclesiastical dignitaries of the coun- 
tries, provinces, or dioceses which they concerned, and 
had them communicated by them to the subordinate 
clerical authorities, for further publication, by way of 
synods and circular letters. Afterwards the custom 
prevailed of publishing the general prescriptions of the- 
papal see only at Rome, in acie campi Flora, and of 
posting them at the door of the Vatican. Thus the prin- 
ciple was adopted, publicatio Urbi et Orbi, which was 
acknowledged without contest until the 17th century. 
It was only after the times of De Marca (De Concordia 
Sacerdotii et Imperii, lib. ii, c. 15) and Van Espen (De 
Promidgatione Legum Eccl., etc., Lovan. 1712) that the 
necessity of a more special promulgation was from many 
quarters insisted upon. But- the passages of the Roman 
and canon law quoted to support these view s are all of 
them misunderstood or purposely distorted (Seitz, Zeit- 
schrift fur Kirchenrecht u. Pastoral- Wissenschaft, vol. 
i, § 1, No. 5, p. 90 sq.). It must strike every one that a 
really universal publication, which would be sure not only 
to reach every individual, but to be intelligible to him, 
is utterly impossible, and could not be obtained even 
by inserting the law in all official and local papers. 
The binding power of the law cannot depend on that 
circumstance that it was really made known) in all 
places and to every individual, but on this sole condition 
that the legislator have publicly expressed his will in 
the customary way. This act of the legislator must 
not be confounded with the means and ways that are 
resorted to in order to insure the widest publicity to the 
law promulgated by the legislative authority. The 
latter is no concern of the legislator, but of the executive 
authorities; and it is not the power of the law that de- 
pends on it, but this other and quite different question, 
to be decided by the judge, whether in a given concrete 
case transgression of the law may be charged or not. 
However, the different modern civil legislations insist 
on a special publication of the ecclesiastical statutes as 
a condition of their validity, and subordinate this pub- 
lication to the previous approbation of the civil power. 
If the Church is content to submit to the worldly gov- 
ernments her ordinances, so far as they affect in some 
way the civil and political relations of her members, it 
would be only fair if such papal and episcopal decrees 
which concern exclusively the dogma and the dogmatic 
side of the discipline should be independent of the civil 
placet, and left to the clerical functionaries for free pub- 
lication. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon, s. v. 

Fronaos is the ante-temple of Greek churches, and 
corresponds to the narthex (q. v.). 

Prone ( prceconium ) is the publication in the pulpit 
of banns of marriage, pastoral letters, coming fasts and 
feasts, and a sermon (the dominicale, or homily for .Sun- 
day) after the Gospel, in the Romish Church. 

Prono, an idol of the ancient Sclavonians, wor- 
shipped at Altenburg, in Germany. It was a statue 
erected on a column, holding in one hand a plough- 
share, and in the other a spear and a standard. Its 
head w*as crowned, its ears prominent, and under one 
of its feet was suspended a little bell. Gcrold, Chris- 
tian bishop of Altenburg, destroyed this idol with his 
own hand, and cut down the grove in which it was 
worshipped. — Gardner, Faiths of the World. 

Prontiba, a surname of Juno (q. v.) among the Ro- 
mans of antiquity, because she was the goddess who 
presided over marriage. 

Propaganda is a name appropriate to any insti- 
tution intended for the propagation of a doctrine, but 
it is especially applied in ecclesiastical language to an 
institution for the propagation of the Roman Catholic 
faith. The chief institution of this kind is at Rome, 

[ and it consists of a congregation and a college. Its 


PROPAGANDA 


G30 PROPAGATION OF THE FAITH 


full title is De Propaganda Fide , i. e. “concerning the 
propagation of the faith.” Its object is to direct and 
forward the propagation of the Roman Catholic relig- 
ion. especially among the heathen. Gregory X i 1 1 
(1572-15*4), one of the popes who exerted themselves 
most zealously for the expansion of the Christian faith, 
had directed that a number of cardinals should be in- 
trusted with the direction of the Oriental missions, and 
caused catechisms and other religious books to be print- 
ed for the use of Oriental Christians. But as the re- 
sources required for such a purpose were wanting, the 
matter could not have its proper development. I’ope 
Gregory XV, desirous that this good work, so well be- 
gun, should be continued, established, by a bull of June 
22, 1022, a congregation of cardinals, under the name 
above mentioned, and intrusted to it the direction of 
the whole Catholic missionary system. Every month 
they assembled once in the Vatican, and twice at the 
residence of the eldest. Besides some stipends of less 
importance, the pope presented the new institution with 
the 500 ducats which at the death of a cardinal accrue 
to the pontifical treasure. Ilis successor, Urban VHI 
(1023-1644), increased its privileges and income, and 
founded the Seminarium (or Collegium) de Propaganda 
Fide , to which young men from all nations are brought 
at an early age and gratuitously instructed and fitted 
out for the missionary work. This college was subor- 
dinated entirely to the Congregation, and a splendid 
palace was built for both institutions. Through the 
provident care of the popes, and pious foundations made 
by the cardinals and other benefactors, the seminary 
grew to a most flourishing condition; and even in our 
days, when the income and foundations which support 
it have been considerably diminished by the State, un- 
der the new order of things, it entertains, instructs, and 
trains for missionary life nearly 200 young men from 
all quarters of the world. The alumni pledge them- 
selves to serve the Church among the heathen, and are 
consecrated to this function. All rites actually sub- 
sisting in the Catholic Church (besides the Latin rite, 
the Armenian, Greek-Melchitic, Syrian, Coptic, Maro- 
nitic, and Chaldaic rites) arc represented in the semi- 
nary by alumni from the corresponding provinces, and 
present every year, at the feast of Epiphany (Jan. 0), an 
imposing spectacle, called the Feast of the Languages. 
This feast is celebrated by an exhibition of exceeding 
interest and curiosity, in which are delivered recitations 
in every language represented in the college or its mis- 
sions, amounting often to fifty or sixty. Of this festi- 
val the celebrated cardinal Mczzofanti (q. v.) used to be 
the guiding spirit, as well as to strangers its chief cen- 
tre of attraction. It continues to be one of the chief 
literary sights of the Homan winter. In 1*73 the col- 
lege at Borne was deprived of its landed estate and made 
dependent upon private contributions. 

With the congregation and college are connected, 1, 
a library rich in precious works, especially translations 
of all kinds of important works in Chinese and Ori- 
ental manuscripts; 2, a printing-office (richer formerly 
than it is now), in which the hooks required by the 
missionaries and the missionary work are printed in all 
foreign languages (“lla questa eongregazione una fa- 
niosa stamperia co’ caratteri di tutte le naxionc; lie si 
trovera altra stamperia die nclla varieta di tauti carat- 
teri 1’ agguagli,” says Zacearia, in his hook Della Cotie 
di Roma [ Rome, 1774]) ; 3, a remarkable museum, filled 
with a great variety of objects and monuments, mostly 
from countries visited and converted by the missiona- 
ries. The congregation, which answers somewhat to 
a Protestant missionary hoard, consists of a president, 
managing secretary (all of cardinal’s rank), an apostolic 
protlionotary, twenty-four cardinals appointed for life, | 
one of whom is prefect, and who arc assisted by a num- 
ber of consulters (partly monastics and partly clergy), 
clerks ( minutanti ), and other officials. Originally their 
meetings were held weekly, and in the presence of the 
pope; now they are monthly, there being, however,. 


' weekly conferences ( congressi ) of the prefect, sccretarv, 
and consulters; and all important business is submitted 
to the pope in person by the prefect or the secretary. 
This congregation conducts the affairs not only of the 
missionary countries, properly so called, but also of 
those — as England, the northern kingdoms, the United 
States, Canada, South America, etc. — in which the hi- 
erarchical organization is not, or has not been, full and 
formal. To the Propaganda no small part of the ag- 
gressive power of the Church of Rome is due. It has 
complete military power, under the pope, over the 
whole missionary field, not only to send missionaries 
wherever it is the interest of the Church to send them, 
but to give them special training adapted to their spe- 
cial work. There are nowhere to be found better mod- 
em maps of the newly settled states of the United 
States than in the college of the Propaganda, and no- 
where men better informed as to the probable points of 
future importance than the cardinals who compose the 
congregation of the Propaganda. The work of this 
congregation is greatly aided by several subordinate 
associations for the propagation of the faith, among the 
most important of which are those at Lyons (France), 
Vienna, and Bavaria. It supports, besides, another 
similar institution for the Chinese at Naples. The 
founder of this seminary was a prelate of the house of 
Urban VIII, Ion. Vives, born in Spain. It is part of 
the duties of the pope to superintend this vast and 
complicated work, ami to invite all nations to the com- 
munion of the Uhurch. See Ereetio S. Congregationis 
de Fide Cnth. Propaganda ( liullar . iii. 1 11 sq.); Hullur. 
Pontif. S. Congr. de Prop. Fide (Rome, 1839-41, 5 vols. 
4to); Boyer, Congr.de Prop. Fide ^Regiom. 1721, 4to); 
Mejer, Die Propaganda (Gutting. 1852-53, 2 vols. 8vo; 
a most valuable treatise); Hase, (’hurch Hist. p. 470; 
Alzog, Kirchengesoh. ii, 410, 429, 574; Church Rev. voL 
vii; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Ler. s. v. ; Aselibach, Kir- 
chen-Lex. s. v. ; Barnum, Romanism (see Index); Mars- 
den. Hist, of Christ. Churches and Sects, ii. 202. (J. II. W.) 

Propagation of the Faith, Associations for, 
Roman Catholic. The earliest and the highest in 
dignity of these has been already described under the 
head Propaganda (q. y.); but the present century has 
produced several private associations, the resources of 
which arise entirely from voluntary annual contribu- 
tions, and the organization of which is most complete 
and most extensive. The first of these is that founded 
at Lyons in 1822. under the title " CEuvre de la Propa- 
gation <le la Foi.’’ with a branch at Paris, and subordi- 
nate branches in the other Catholic kingdoms. It is 
under the direction of a council, which communicates 
as well with the local associations through which the 
funds are supplied by small weekly, monthly, or yearly 
contributions, as with the missions to the aid of which 
the fund so raised is applied, by an apportionment reg- 
ulated according to the necessities of each. The piety 
of contributors is stimulated by the exhortations of the 
popes, and the granting of indulgences to those who, 
with the other requisite dispositions, shall aid in the 
work. The journal of the society, entitled .4 ninths de la 
Propagation de la Foi. is a very interesting bimonthly 
collection of letters and reports from the different mis- 
sions connected with the central hotly. The receipts 
of this association for the year 1*03 were 4.7**. 490 fr. 
*0 c. Of this sum, bv far the largest proportion was 
raised in France— 3,307,24* fr. Italy came next, though 
at a long interval, contributing 420.053 fr. ; Belgium 
gave 271,597 fr. ; Germany, 251, *73 fr. ; the British isl- 
ands, 127,000 fr. Spain, once the great propagator of 
the (iospel italic New World, contributed but 12,549 fr.; 
but it is to he observed that Spain maintains for her 
own missionary enterprises a large and liberal establish- 
ment in connection with the mission of the Philippines 
and the South Soa. Another association of somewhat 
later date is the “Leopoldiner Verein,” established at 
Vienna in 1*29. the chief object of which is to assist 
the missions of German origin, especially in America. 


PR0PATE11 


G31 


PROPER NAMES 


This association also lias its own journal, entitled Be- 
richte dec Leopoldiner Stiftung. It is under the presi- 
dency of the archbishop of Vienna. A third is that 
established in Bavaria as an offshoot of the Lyons asso- 
ciation, under the name “ Ludwigs Missions- Verein.” 
Like that of Vienna, its chief, although not exclusive, 
object is the support of German missions. The Lud- 
wigs Verein is conducted under the auspices of the 
archbishop of Munich. All these associations, although 
quite independent in their management and direction, 
nevertheless maintain close relations with the Propa- 
ganda of Home, and are often guided by the recom- 
mendations of the cardinal prefect in the distribution 
of their funds to particular missions. — Chambers. 

Propater. See Godfather. 

Proper Names, chiefly of the Old Testament. It 
is interesting, as well as useful, to know the original sig- 
nification of proper names. The chief use which ac- 
crues from an accurate knowledge of them is that we 
are by their means enabled to attain a more lively ap- 
prehension of the truth of ancient history. (In this 
investigation we chiefly make use of Ewald’s article in 
Kitto’s Cyclopiedia.') 

I. Form of Proper Xames. — The first fact that strikes 
us, on a general view of them all, is that the ancient 
Hebrews always retained the greatest simplicity in the 
use of names. In reality there is always only one sin- 
gle name which distinguishes a person. Where it is 
necessary, the name of the father is added ; sometimes 
that of the mother instead, in case she happens to be 
more celebrated (thus the three heroic brothers, Joab, 
Abishai, and Asael, are always called after their mother 
Zerujah [I Chron. ii, 16]) ; or the line of descent is traced 
further back, often to the fourth generation, or even 
further. Mere epithets, like “ David the king,” “ Isaiah 
the prophet,” always express the actual and significant 
dignity of a man. The instances in which a person re- 
ceives two names alternately, as Jacob-Israel, Gideon- 
Jerubbaal (Judg. vi-ix), are casual and rare, and are 
not to be ascribed to a general custom of the people. 

1. The simple names exist in great abundance; and 
their signification, as to the mere word itself, is gener- 
ally evident: as ‘p, Dan, “judge;” Jamin, the 

Latin dexter, an ancient name, according to Gen. xlvi, 
10; I Chron. ii, 27 ; Saul, “desired,” also an an- 

cient name, according to Gen. xlvi, 10; comp, xxxvi, 
37 ; “Ca, Geher, “ hero” (1 Kings iv, 19). Thus most of 
them express an honorable sense ; although examples 
are not wanting of the direct contrary, as ’wj?", Ikkesk, 
“ crooked” (2 Sam. xxiii, 26). With what ease also fem- 
inine words become names for men is shown by cases 
like l"V s X. Aiah, “vulture” (iii, 7; xxi, 8; comp. Gen. 
xxxvi, 24) ; riSV 1 , Jonah, “ dove,” which are just as ap- 
plicable to men as the masculine , Shual, “fox” 
(1 Chron. vii, 36). Diminutives, which are so fre- 
quently used as proper names by the Arabs, are rare 
among the Hebrews; but are by no means wanting, as 
is proved by or *^27, Zebulun, the name of the 

son of Jacob, and or Jedithun, the name 

of the singer of David. All those names which are 
formed with a prefixed yod are to be considered as espe- 
cially ancient, because this nominal formation became 
entirely obsolete in the language, and recurs almost 
only in proper names, as is shown not only by the well- 
known names 2p2‘\ Jacob, tjOT 1 , Joseph, JlTUT 1 , Ju- 
dah, pniS’’, Isaac, but also by a number of less common 
ones, as 3 TIT 1 , Jashub (Xumb. xxvi, 24); Jarib 

(1 Chron. iv, 24); q’32^, Jamlech (ver. 34) ; ]22?, Ja- 
c han (v, 13) ; "ins'], Izkar (Exod. vi, 18) ; Ibhar 

(2 Sam. v, 15); fTES’], Jephunneh (Numb, xiii, 6; I 
Chron. vii, 38) ; Cn~“, Jeroham (1 Sam. i, 1 ; 1 Chron. 
viii, 27); and others. There is an ancient adjective- 


ending, that in am or dm, which has fixed itself most 
firmly in proper names, as C*nX, Ahuzzam (1 Chron. 
iv, 6) : 27?, Gazzam (Ezra ii, 48) ; 2^“12, Miriam, the 
sister of Moses, and BY.2"73, Gershom, his son; CPtpp, 
Chimham (2 Sam. xix, 38), which not only exists also 
in the form cinpp, Chimhom (Jer. xlii, 17), but in 
“flBS, Chimlian (2 Sam. xix, 40), according to custom- 
ary changes. 

2. The compound names, however, are more impor- 
tant for history, because they express more complete 
and distinct ideas than the simple names. Some of 
them are altogether isolated, as CH.'E, Phinehas, prop- 
erly “ serpent’s mouLh,” the grandson of Aaron ; 

Issachar , the son of Jacob; Okoliab (Exod. xxxi, 6), 
“ father’s tent,” a name resembling the Greek Patroclus. 
But most of them bear a general resemblance to each 
other, and follow in shoals certain dominant opinions 
and customs; and these last are what we must particu- 
larly consider here. 

A great number of them owe their origin to the re- 
lations of the house, as the sense of the first word of the 
compound shows. Most of these have the word “2X, 
abi, “father,” for their first member, as Abiezer, Abital , 
A bigail. Fiirst (Handworterbuch, p. 7, 50) regards these 
, words as names for the Divine Being, rendering such a 
name as Abimelek, Ab (i. e. God) is king; Abidan, Ab 
I (God) is judge; and so Achitub, Ach (God) is good. 

I Others deny any reference to the Deity in these words, 
but cannot agree whether they are to be taken literally 
or figuratively. The Easterns use the word ab ( fa- 
ther ), etc., to express the possession of any quality. 
The fox is abu ’ Ihusain (“father of the little fort,” i. e. 
the burrower). The mosquito is abu ’If a ’ s (“ father of 
the axe”), from its sharp instrument of incision. The 
camel is abu ayyub (“father of Job”), from his patience. 
Many therefore think that such a name as Abinoam 
(“ father of kindness”) means merely very kind. Others, 
as Ewald, regard the words ab. ach, ben, etc., as at least 
at one time expressive of real relationship, and think 
such names exhibit an approach to our family names. 
It sometimes happens that a person appears with the 
name both in its simple as well as its compound state. 
For example, Nadab, as well as Abinadab, Ezer and 
Abiezer, and Abner (“ father of Ner”) was son of Ner. 
This seems to imply that something like the present 
Arabic practice had begun to prevail among the He- 
brews. Certain names become hereditary in a family, 
and a man is expected to name his son by the tradi- 
tional name. To such an extent is this custom carried 
that a man whose son should have been called “ Yusuf” 
is styled “Abu Yusuf,” even if he has no son; and a 
woman who is childless rejoices in the name Umm 
Musa (“Mother of Moses”), because, had she had a 
son, he would have borne the name “Musa.” In all 
likelihood these words, ab, etc., have not always the 
same meaning; the connective vowel i is not always a 
sign of the genitive, but merely of the construct or state 
of composition. We could more easily admit a meta- 
phorical sense in the compounds with son, since 12 is 
really often used in a highly metaphorical sense. Bath- 
sheba’ is certainly not the daughter of a man named 
Sheba’ (2 Sam. xi, 3). Such compound names with son, 
however, are, on the whole, rare, and are only found 
in some frequency' in 1 Kings iv, 7 sq. See Ab- ; Bex-. 

Under this class we may also include Ish, 

“man,” with which several names are compounded. 
Another, but a smaller, class consists of names com- 
pounded with 22, Am, “people,” resembling the many 
Greek compositions with Xno£ and cijpoQ; and just as 
in Greek dijpog is placed first or last (Demosthenes, 
Aristodemos), so also A m is at one time found in the 
first, and at another in the last place; only that, ac- 
cording to the laws of the Shemitic language, the sense 
of one of these positions is exactly the reverse of the 


PROPER NAMES 


C32 


PROPER NAMES 


other. As all these compounds must be conceived to 
be in the state construct, so likewise we are probably to 
take the names Jeroboam, properly “people’s 

iucreaser,” a suitable name for a prince, and 
Jashobeam, “people’s turner’’ or “leader;” for, as was 
observed above, the simple names are often formed with 
a prefixed jod; and we actually find Jashub , as a 

simple name in Numb, xxvi, 29; 1 Chron. vii, 1. 

Many compound names endeavor to express a re- 
ligious sense, and therefore contain the divine name. 
Here we at the same time find a new law of formation : 
as these compounds are intended to express a complete 
thought, such as the religious sentiment requires, a 
name may consist of an entire proposition with a verb, 
but of course in as brief a compass as possible; and in- 
deed shorter compounds are made with a verb than 
with a passive participle, as Nathanael (in 

the New Test. Sa$avai)\, properly “God-gave," i. e. 
whom God gave, given by God, Oedcoroe or Oedcwpot,), 
sounds shorter than Xethuniel, with the par- 

ticiple, which would certainly express the same sense. 
But since the finite verb, as also any other predicate, can 
just as well precede as follow, accordingly a great free- 
dom in the position of the divine name has prevailed in 
this class; and this peculiarity is preserved, in the same 
case, in the following period : but indeed the Greeks 
use Awpoj'tdc as well as Oedcwpog. Thus ^XITS. 
Xethaneel (1 Chron. ii, 14), or *,r:2X, Elnatkan (Jer. 
xxxvi, 12). The two names are there generally assigned 
to two different persons; nevertheless, both combina- 
tions may form names for the same person, as 
Ammiel (1 Chron. iii, 5), aud “r^X, Eliam (2 Sam. 
xi, 3), belong to the same individual. 

3. Lastly, many proper names have assumed the de- 
rivative syllable -t, or -ai (which appears to be only di- 
alectically different from -<, and is chietly frequent in 
the later periods) ; and we must certainly consider that, 
in some cases, this syllable may possibly form mere ad- 
jectives, and therewith simple names, as "T-X, .1 mit- 
tai, “trueman,” from r~X, Emeth , “truth,” and Bar- 
zillal , “Iron,” or “Iron man,’* the name of a celebrated 
Gileadite family (Ezra ii, G1 ; 2 Sam. xvii, 27); or that 
it is derived from a place, as "“X2, lieeri (II os. i, 1 ; 1 
Chron. vii, 30), “he of the well,” or he of a place known 
as the well. But it undoubtedly very often also ex- 
presses a genealogical relation, like the Greek ending 
-io/C, and presupposes a previous proper name from 
which it is derived; thus the name ■nsn. II ini (1 
Chron. v, 11), as surely presupposes the above-men- 
tioned Chur, as the Greek Bliilippides does l’hilippos, 
and as Ketubai (ii, 9), one of the descendants of Judah, 
is connected with the Ketiih in iv, 1 1. It is remarkable 
that the genealogical relation appears to be sometimes 
expressed by the mere !"i~ of motion, as Jaco- 

bak (ver. 3G), which would be equivalently expressed 
by a German name, Zu- Jacob; niX-i'T* 1 , hhurelah, 
De Israel (xxv, 14; comp. ver. 2) ; and most distinctly 
in nnrrrr, Ilaskbadanah, “reckoned to Dan” (Neh. 
vi ii, 4 ; comp, Joshbekashah, in 1 Chron. 

xxv, 4). 

Among the names of women, the oldest as well as 
the simplest which are found are actually only suited 
for women, as Rachel, “ Ewe ;” Deborah ’ “ Bee Ta- 
mar, “Balm-tree;” Ilannah, “Favor,” the mother of 
Samuel. Those which express such a delicate and en- 
dearing sense as Qeren Ilappuk. “ box of eye-ointment” I 
(Job xlii, 14), and nr-IiEH, Ilephzibah, “my delight is j 
in her” (2 Kings xxi, 1), betray that they were gener- 
ally formed in much later times. It appears indeed to 
have been customary, at an early period, to form names ' 
for women from those of men, by means of the feminine 
termination; as man, Haygith (2 Sam. iii, 4), besides ! 


Ilar/gi (Numb, xxvi, 15); r~bd~. Meshullemcth , 
i. e. Via (2 Kings xxi, 19), besides Meshullam, 

Pius (1 Chron. v, 13; viii, 17), and rrsVj, Shelomith, 
Friederike (Numb, xxiv, 11), besides Shelomoh, 

Friederich. But we must not overlook the fact that all 
these are instances of simple names; or of those also in 
which the masculine has already dropped the second 
member; for Chauanl and ZabdS, as is shown below, are 
shortened from Chananjah, Zabdijah : no single exam- 
ple occurs from a compound man’s name. As the same 
compound names, however, are sometimes used both for 
men and women, and as even those very names are ap- 
plied to women which could not originally have been 
applicable to any but men, as Abigail, Achinoam, ac- 
cordingly we must assume that the plastic power ol the 
language had already exhausted itself in this remote 
province, and that, for that reason, the distinction of the 
feminine was omitted. 

II. Symbolical Import of Proper Names. — As the 
name was the “sign” of the thing, it expressed as near- 
ly as possible its character; it was the expression of the 
impression which was produced by the thing named on 
the beholder. The truer the expression was to the im- 
1 pression, and the truer the impression was to the object, 
the more nearly did the name represent the thing named, 
lienee the name in Hebrew is used to signify the col- 
, lected attributes or characteristics of the object named, 
i This is particularly the case with the divine name. 
“The Lord descended in the cloud and proclaimed the 
name of the Lord. And the Lord passed by him and 
proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God. merciful and gra- 
cious.” etc. (Exod. xxxiv), where all these terms furnish 
but the exegesis of the word name. The use is similar 
in the New Test. Our Lord says, “I have manifested 
[ thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of 
' the world” (John xvii, G); where name embraces the 
whole divine nature revealed by the .Son, who hath 
“declared” the Father. In general the name was the 
result of an effort to embody in language as nearly as 
possible the nature of objects. When the whole nature 
could not be taken in, the chief characteristic was seized 
upon — what struck the eye or any of the senses mainly 
— and hence arose such names as Esau (“hairy”). 
When there was no outstanding attribute to seize and 
embody, some incident was laid hold of connected with 
the object named, e. g. Closes (“drawn out” of the 
water); or some feeling in the mind of the namer at 
the moment of imposing the name, as Benoui (•• my soil 
of sorrow”). Even the names of natural objects are full 
I of meaning, often full of poetry, often having reminis- 
cences of ancient times and deeds floating about them, 
j The river names are very suggestive. The Jordan 
; ( Yarden , t/arad, “ to come down’’ [conip. (Langes, lilie- 
nus]) is the two rapids, one into the Sea of Galilee, and 
one into the Dead Sea. The Arnon is the stream that 
“sings” (ranan, to “make a tremulous sound”) among 
the mountains. Jabbok, that which “ belches” (“ byoks") 
through the rocky gorge. The Cherith. that which 
“cuts” its way. So are the names of mountains. Leb- 
anon is the Mont Blanc of Syria, but perhaps named 
less from its snowy mantle than its bare white ribs of 
naked stone. Sirion, the “breastplate” of rock. The 
whole land is full of Abels (grassy meads), Deers (wells), 
Ayins (fountains); and in the evening the maidens 
danced in the meads, and called them Ahel-meholah 
(Judg. vii, 22): and the kids around the fountain, and 
it was named En-gedi (Josh, xv, G2) ; and the scorpions 
basked in the sunny slopes, and their haunts were 
named Akrabbim; and the gazelles bounded across the 
heights, and men called their favorite resorts Ajalon. 
See each of the above terms in its place. 

For the philological questions involved in the above 
examination, see the Hebrew lexicons. More special 
treatises are tbe following: Bedslob. Die altteslam. Xa- 
mcn (Ilamb. 181G); Farrar, Proper Names of the Bible 


PROPER PSALMS 


633 


PROPHECY 


(Lond. 1844) ; Jones, Names in the Old Test. (ibid. 1856) ; 
Wilkinson, Names in the Bible (ibid. 1865). See Name. 

Proper Psalms, i. e. psalms adapted by their con- 
tents to the subjects of particular Sundays or festivals 
and holydavs. St. Chrysostom refers to ancient pre- 
scription in this matter, and St. Augustine mentions as 
an old custom the use of Psa. xxii on Good Friday. 
Cassian informs us that Psa. lxiii was sung at matins, 
and the 14lst at evensong. St. Athanasius and St. Au- 
gustine appointed special psalms on certain occasions. — 
Walcott, Sacred Archceology, s. v. 

Prophecies is the name given to the Biblical texts 
which are read in the Church of Pome on the day be- 
fore Eastcr-Sunday, after the consecration of the paschal 
taper. They are the following: Gen. i, 1 ; ii, 2; v, 31 ; 
viii, 21 ; xxii, 1-19; Exod. xiv, 24; xv, 1; Isa. liv, 17 ; 
Iv, 11; Bar. iii, 9-38; Ezek. xxxvii, 1-14; Isa. iv; 
Exod. xii, 1-11; Jon. iii; Dent, xxxi, 22-30; Dan. iii, 
1-24. They are called proj)kecies, inasmuch as they are 
symbols of the redemption of mankind through Jesus 
Christ, and have a direct bearing upon the mysteries 
which the Church is at that period solemnly commemo- 
rating. The first prophecy relates the creation of the 
world: we are to remember here that Christ, by his 
death on the cross, became the originator of a new. spir- 
itual creation. The second prophecy is about the flood, 
about Noah saved with his family in the ark: it must 
remind the faithful that the Redeemer saves through 
the waters of baptism all those who believe in him. 
The third prophecy brings before our eyes Abraham, 
whose faith w T as as firm as a rock, and invites to similar 
confidence in our Lord. The fourth prophecy relates 
the exodus from Egypt and the passage through the 
Red Sea, showing how Christians should leave the bond- 
age of sin and follow their own god-sent leader. The 
fifth and sixth prophecies recommend constancy in our 
purpose, teaching — the former — that the Lord bestows 
eternal bliss upon such as follow him ; the latter, that 
ruin awaits the sinner. To give us the necessary forces 
for the struggle we are to go through, God sends us the 
Holy Ghost: this is what we are reminded of by the 
vision of Ezekiel in the seventh prophecy. The eighth 
prophecy points out the eternal glory which awaits 
those who fight under the cross. The ninth prophecy 
is about the Jewish passover, the tenth about Jonah’s 
preaching in Nineveh, the eleventh about the respect 
to be paid to the Pentateuch, and the twelfth about the 
three young men in the oven. The custom of extraor- 
dinary readings on Saturday before Easter is very an- 
cient; it was made necessary by another custom which 
consisted in spending several hours of the Easter-night 
in the place of worship, more especially to await mid- 
night there. Gregory of Nyssa ( Orat . ii, Be Resurr. 
Christi ) speaks of these readings, only their number was 
not the same at all times. The Ordo Rom. i speaks of 
four lections, each of which was read in Latin and in 
Greek. According to Beleth (c. 106), there were at Rome 
twelve Greek and as many Latin lections; in other 
places twelve, or only seven. William Durand (1. 6, c. 
81) knows of four, six, twelve, and fourteen of them. 
In some churches five were read, in others eight. — 
Wetzer u.Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. See Siegel, Christ- 
liche A Iterthiimer (Index in vol. iv); Riddle, Christian 
Antiquities (see Index). 

Prophecy. Under this head we propose to treat 
of certain general aspects of the subject of permanent 
interest, reserving for the head of Prophet what re- 
lates more personally to the organs or media of true 
prophecy, as found in the Bible. In doing so we make 
free use of the articles in Fairbairn’s and Smith’s Dic- 
tionaries. 

I. Design o f Prophecy. — In this respect we would de- 
fine prophecy as “God’s communication to the Church, 
to be her light and comfort in time of trouble and per- 
plexity!” Vitringa defines it as “ a prediction of some 
contingent circumstance or event in the future received 


by immediate or direct revelation.” Dr. Pye Smith 
speaks of it “as a declaration made by a creature under 
the inspiration and commission of the omniscient God 
relating to an event or series of events, which have not 
taken place at the time the prophecy is uttered, and 
which could not have been certainly foreknown by any 
science or wisdom of man.” Other writers say, “Proph- 
ecy is nothing but the history of events before they come 
to pass.” Dean Magee dissents from this popular but 
erroneous view. In a lecture on the uses of prophecy 
he defines a prophet as “ the religious teacher of his age, 
whose aim is the religious education of those whom he 
addresses.” To have received a call and message direct 
from God, and to deliver it, is the essence of prophet- 
ism. The Jewish lawgiver in delivering moral and 
ceremonial precepts received from God, and our blessed 
Lord in the Sermon on the Mount, were prophets just 
as much as when they predicted the future of Israel 
(M'Caul, A ids to Faith). As a reaction from the gen- 
eral body of writers on prophecy, who exalt the predic- 
tive and neglect the moral element of God’s communica- 
tion to man, there have arisen in Germany, and to some 
extent in our own land, writers who speak exclusively 
of the moral stream of light flowing through prophecy, 
and deny altogether its predictive character. Both 
errors will be avoided by bearing in mind that the 
word of prophecy was profitable for doctrine, for reproof, 
for correction, for instruction, to the first recipients of 
the message, as well as for succeeding ages. 

The usual view of prophecy as anticipated history 
virtually excludes from the roll the great Prophet who 
was its theme and author, Moses his distinguished pro- 
totype, John the Baptist his eminent forerunner, Elijah, 
Samuel, under the old covenant, as well as the apostles 
and prophets under the new. According to this view, 
prophecy is virtually limited to what the Spirit saith 
unto the churches in the four hundred years between 
Hosea and Malachi, and by the beloved John, the 
writer of the Apocalypse. But if we agree to regard 
the prophet as the forthteller, possessing the mums pree- 
dicandi— rather than the foreteller, possessing only the 
mnnus imedicendi — we see at once how the very highest 
place is assigned to onr Lord and to Moses; how John 
the Baptist was more than a prophet, as he stood with- 
in the actual dawn of the day of Christ, and as a relig- 
ious teacher did really more for the religious training 
of those whom he addressed than any of the prophets 
of the old covenant. We see, too, how naturally and 
clearly the earlier prophets were subordinate to Moses, 
so that the test of their commission was conformity to 
the lawgiver; and how appropriately the term is applied 
to the apostles of our Lord and Saviour, as charged by 
Christ with the whole ordering and establishing of the 
Church in its institutions, government, and progress. 
In fact, students of prophecy perpetually use the word 
in a non-natural sense, lienee the variety and discord- 
ancy of their interpretations. Our attention must be 
rigidly fixed on the natural and proper sense of the 
terms, if we would gain any satisfactory results. 

In all communications from God to man two elements 
may be traced, the moral and the predictive. Neither 
element must be pressed or insisted on, so as to depress 
and exclude the other. Yet the moral element is the 
fundamental, to which the predictive is always subsid- 
iary. The moral element occupies the highest place in 
the communications made by our Lord, by Moses, by 
the apostles; the predictive element prevails in those 
who had the more ordinary gifts, as all their announce- 
ments appealed to the revelations made by Moses and 
by Christ. The testimony of Jesus as the author, and 
the testimony borne to Jesus as the theme, is the spirit 
of prophecy. According to this view prophecy is always 
didactic; the moral element is fundamental, the predic- 
tive is entirely subsidiary. All who bore testimony to 
Jesus before his incarnation were preachers of righteous- 
ness, and all who testify that Jesus is come in the flesh 
exercise the prophetical function. 


PROPHECY 


634 


PROPHECY 


II. Value of Prophecy as Evidence of the Truth of 
Iieeelation.— Davison, in Iiis Discourses on Prophecy. 
fixes a “Criterion of Prophecy,” and in accordance with 
it he describes “the conditions which would confer co- 
gency of evidence on single examples of prophecy” in 
the following manner: first, “the known promulgation 
of the prophecy prior to the event; secondly, the clear 
and palpable fulfilment of it; lastly, the nature of the 
event itself— if, when the prediction of it was given, it 
lay remote from human view, and was such as could not 
be foreseen by any supposable effort of reason, or be de- 
duced upon principles of calculation derived from prob- 
ability and experience” ( Disc, viii, 378). Applying his 
test, the learned writer finds that the establishment of 
the Christian religion and the person of its Founder 
were predicted when neither reason nor experience could 
have anticipated them ; and that the predictions respect- 
ing them have been clearly fulfilled in history. Here, 
then, is an adequate proof of an inspired prescience in 
the prophets who predieted these things, lie applies 
his test to the prophecies recorded of the Jewish people, 
and their actual state, to the prediction of the great 
apostasy and to the actual state of corrupted Christian- 
ity, anil finally to the prophecies relating to Nineveh, 
Babylon, Tyre, Egypt, the Ishmaelites, and the hour 
Empires, and to the events which have befallen them; 
and in each of these cases he finds proof of the existence 
of the predictive element in the prophets. 

In the book of Kings we find Micaiah, the son of Im- 
lah, uttering a challenge, by which his predictive pow- 
ers were to be judged. lie had pronounced, by the 
word of the Lord, that Altai) should fall at Bamoth- 
Gilead. Ahab, in return, commanded him to be shut up 
in prison until he came back in peace. “And Micaiah 
said, If thou return at all in peace” (that is, if the event 
do not verify my words), “the Lord hath not spoken 
by me” (that is, I am no prophet capable of predicting 
the future) ij Kings xxii, 28). The test is sound as a 
negative test, and so it is laid down in the law (I)eut. 
xviii, 22); hut as a positive test it would not be sutli- 
cient. Allah's death at Kamoth-Gilead did not prove 
Micaiah's predictive powers, though his escape would 
have disproved them. But here we must notice a very 
important difference between single prophecies and a 
scries of prophecy. The fulfilment of a single prophecy 
docs not prove the prophetical power of the prophet, 
but the fullihnent of a long series of prophecies by a sc- 
ries or number of events does in itself constitute a proof 
that the prophecies were intended to predict the events, 
and, consequently, that predictive power resided in the 
prophet or prophets. We may see this in the so far 
parallel cases of satirical writings. We know for certain 
that Aristophanes refers to Cleon, l’oricics, Xicias (and 
we should be equally sure of it were his satire more con- 
cealed than it is), simply from the fact of a number of 
satirical hits converging together on the object of his 
satire. One, two, or three strokes might be intended 
for more persons than one, but the addition of each 
stroke makes the aim more apparent ; and when we have 
a sufficient number before us, we can no longer possibly 
doubt his design. The same may be said of fables, and 
still more of allegories. The fact of a complicated lock 
being opened by a key shows that the lock and key 
were meant for each other. Now the Messianic pict- 
ure drawn by the prophets as a body contains at least 
as many traits as these: That salvation should come 
through the family of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Judah, 
David; that at the time of the final absorption of the 
Jewish power, Shiloh (the tranquillizer) should gather 
the nations under his rule; that there should bo a great 
Prophet, typified bv Moses; a King descended from 
David; a Priest forever, typified by Melchizcdek : that 
there should be hum into t lie world a child to lie called 
Mighty Hod. Eternal Father. Prince of Peace; that 
there should be a Ijightcous Servant of (Jod on whom 
the Lord would lay the iniquity of all; that Messiah 
the Prince should be cut off, but not for himself; that 


an everlasting kingdom should be given by the Ancient 
of Days to one like the Son of man. It seems impossi- 
ble to harmonize so many apparent contradictions. Nev- 
ertheless, it is an undoubted fact that at the time seem- 
ingly pointed out by one or more of these predictions 
there was born into the world a child of the house of 
David, and therefore of the family of Abraham, Isaac, 
Jacob, anil Judah, who claimed to be the object of these 
and other predictions; who is acknowledged as Proph- 
et, Priest, and King, as Mighty God and yet as God's 
llighteous Servant who bears the iniquity of all; who 
was cut off, and whose death is acknowledged not to 
have been for his own, but for others’ good; who has 
instituted a spiritual kingdom on earth, which kingdom 
is of a nature to continue forever, if there is any con- 
tinuance beyond this world and this life; and in whose 
doings and sufferings on earth a number of specific pre- 
dictions were minutely fulfilled. Then we may say 
that we have here a series of prophecies which are so 
applicable to the person and earthly life of Jesus Christ 
as to be thereby shown to have been designed to apply 
to him. If they were designed to apply to him, pro- 
phetical prediction is proved. 

Objections have been urged: («.) Vagueness.— It has 
been said that the prophecies are too darkly and vague- 
ly worded to be proved predictive by the events which 
they are alleged to foretell. This objection is stated 
with clearness and force by Ammon. He says, “Such 
simple sentences as the following: Israel has not to ex- 
pect a king, but a teacher; this teacher will be born at 
Bethlehem during the reign of Herod ; he will lay down 
his life under Tiberius, in attestation of the truth of his 
religion; through the destruction of Jerusalem, and the 
complete extinction of the Jewish state, he will spread 
his doctrine in every quarter of the world — a few sen- 
tences like these, expressed in plain historical prose, 
would not only bear the character of true predictions, 
but, when once their genuineness was proved, they 
would be of incomparably greater worth to us than all 
the oracles of the Old Test, taken together” ( Christol - 
oyy, p. 12). But to this it might be answered, and has 
been in effect answered by Ilcngsteubcrg: 1. That God 
never forces men to believe, but that there is such a 
union of definiteness and vagueness in the prophecies 
as to enable those who are willing to discover the truth, 
while the wilfully blind arc not forcibly constrained to 
see it. 2. That, had the prophecies been couched in 
the form of direct declarations, their fulfilment would 
have thereby been rendered impossible, or, at least, ca- 
pable of frustration. 3. That the effect of prophecy 
(e. g. with reference to the time of the Messiah's com- 
ing) would have been far less beneficial to believers, as 
being less adapted to keep them in a state of constant 
expectation. 4. That the Messiah of Revelation could 
not be so clearly portrayed in his varied character as 
God and Man, as Prophet, Priest, and King, if he had 
been the mere “ teacher” which is all that Ammon ac- 
knowledges him to be. 5. That the state of the proph- 
ets, at the time of receiving the divine revelation, was 
(as we shall presently show) such as necessarily to 
make their predictions fragmentary, figurative, anil ab- 
stracted from the relations of time. f>. That some por- 
tions of the prophecies were intended to be of double 
application, and some portions to be understood only on 
their fulfilment (comp. John xiv, 20; Ezek. xxxvi, 33). 

(6.) Obscurity of a Part or Parts of a Prophecy olh - 
eru-ise Clear .— The objection drawn from “the unintel- 
ligibleness of one part of a prophecy, as invalidating 
the proof of foresight arising from the evident comple- 
tion of those parts which are understood" is akin to that 
drawn from the vagueness of the whole of it. It may 
be answered with the same arguments, to which we 
may add the consideration urged by Butler that it is, 
for the argument in hand, the same as if the parts not 
understood were written in cipher, or not written at all: 
“ Suppose a writing, partly in cipher and partly in plain 
words at length; anil that in the part one understood 


PROPHECY 


635 


PROPHECY 


there appeared mention of several known facts — it ! 
would never come into any man’s thought to imagine 
that, if lie understood the whole, perhaps lie might tind 
that these facts were not in reality known by the writer” 
(Analogy, pt. ii, ch. vii). Furthermore, if it be true 
that prophecies relating to the first coming of the Mes- 
siah refer also to his second coming, some part of those 
prophecies must necessarily be as yet not fully under- 
stood. 

It would appear from these considerations that Da- 
vison’s second •‘condition,” above quoted, “the clear 
and palpable fulfilment of the prophecy,” should be so 
far modified as to take into account the necessary diffi- 
culty, more or less great, in recognising the fulfilment 
of a prophecy which results from the necessary vague- 
ness and obscurity of the prophecy itself. 

(c.) Application of the Several Prophecies to a more 
Immediate Subject. — It has been the task of many Bibli- 
cal critics to examine the different passages which are 
alleged to be predictions of Christ, and to show that 
they were delivered in reference to some person or thing 
contemporary with, or shortly subsequent to, the time 
of the writer. The conclusion is then drawn, sometimes 
scornfully, sometimes as an inference not to be resisted, 
that the passages in question have nothing to do with 
the Messiah. We have here to distinguish carefully 
between the conclusion proved and the corollary drawn 
from it. Let it be granted that it may be proved of 
all the predictions of the Messiah (it certainly may be 
proved of many) that they primarily apply to some his- 
torical and present fact: in that case a certain law, un- 
der which God vouchsafes his prophetical revelations, 
is discovered ; but there is no semblance of disproof of 
the further Messianic interpretation of the passages un- 
der consideration. That some such law does exist has 
been argued at length by Mr. Davison. He believes, 
however, that “ it obtains only in some of the more dis- 
tinguished monuments of prophecy,” such as the proph- 
ecies founded on, and having primary reference to, 
the kingdom of David, the restoration of the Jews, the 
destruction of Jerusalem (On Prophecy, disc. v). Dr. 
Lee thinks that Davison 44 exhibits too great reserve in 
the application of this important principle" (On Inspira- 
tion, lect. iv). He considers it to be of universal ap- 
plication ; and upon it he founds the doctrine of the 
“double sense of prophecy,” according to which a pre- 
diction is fulfilled in two or even more distinct but 
analogous subjects: first in type, then in antitype; and 
after that perhaps awaits a still further and more com- 
plete fulfilment. This view of the fulfilment of prophecy 
seems necessary for the explanation of our Lord's pre- 
diction on the Mount, relating at once to the fall of Je- 
rusalem and to the end of the Christian dispensation. 
It is on this principle that Pearson writes: “Many are 
the prophecies which concern him, many the promises 
which are made of him ; but yet some of them very ob- 
scure. . . . Wheresoever he is spoken of as the anointed, 
it may well be first understood of some other person ; 
except one place in Daniel, where Messiah is foretold 
* to be cut off’ ” (On the Creed, art. ii). 

Whether it can be proved by an investigation of Holy 
Scripture that this relation between divine announce- 
ments for the future and certain present events does so 
exist as to constitute a law, and whether, if the law is 
proved to exist, it is of universal or only of partial ap- 
plication, we do not pause to determine. But it is man- 
ifest that the existence of a primary sense cannot ex- 
clude the possibility of a secondary sense. The ques- 
tion, therefore, really is, whether the prophecies are ap- 
plicable to Christ : if they are so applicable, the previous 
application of each of them to some historical event 
would not invalidate the proof that they were designed 
as a whole to find their full completion in him. Nay. 
even if it could be shown that the prophets had in their 
thoughts nothing beyond the primary completion of 
their words (a thing which we at present leave undeter- 
mined), no inference could thence be drawn against their 


secondary application ; for such an inference would as- 
sume what no believer in inspiration will grant — viz. 
that the prophets are the sole authors of their prophe- 
cies. The rule Nihil in scripto quod non prius in scrip- 
tore is sound ; but the question is, who is to be regarded 
as the true author of the prophecies— the human instru- 
ment or the divine author? See Hengstenberg, Cliris- 
toloyy, appendix vi, p. 433. See Double Sense. 

(d.) Miraculous Character. — It is probable that this 
lies at the root of the many and various efforts made to 
disprove the predictive power of the prophets. There 
is no question that if miracles are, either physically or 
morally, impossible, then prediction is impossible; and 
those passages which have ever been accounted predic- 
tive must be explained away as being vague, as being 
obscure, as applying only to something in the writer’s 
lifetime, or on some other hypothesis. This is only say- 
ing that belief in prediction is not compatible with the 
theory of atheism, or with the philosophy which rejects 
the overruling providence of a Personal God. See Mait- 
land, Argument from Prophecy (Lond. 1877); Ilow, 
Bampton Lecture for 1877, p. 219. See Miracle. 

For a copious list of treatises on Scripture prophec)' 
in general, see Darling, Cyclopedia Bibliographica , col. 
1785 sq. ; and Malcolm, Theological Index, s. v. Comp. 
Kurtz, Gesch. d. Alfen Bundes, ii, 513 sq. ; Hardwick, 
Christ and other Masters, vol. i, ch. iii, esp. p. 135 sq.; 
Smith, (Bampton Lecture) On Prophecy (Bost. 1870, 
12mo); Brit, and For. Ev. Rev. 1803, art. viii ; Bibl. 
Repos, p. 11, 138, 217 ; Westin. Rev. Jan. 18(18, p. 106; 
Kitto, Jointi. of Sac. Lit. xxx, 1 sq., April, 1S53, p. 35; 
Aids to Faith, essay iii; Enyl. Rev. viii, 181; Fisher, 
The Beginnings of Christianity, p. 8, et al. ; Stanley, 
Lectures on the Jewish Church, 1st series, lcct. xviii-xx ; 
Fairbairn, Prophecy Viewed in respect to its Distinctive 
Nature, its Special Function, and Proper Interpretation 
(Edinb. 1856); and for the vast field of German litera- 
ture on the subject, see Keil, Introd. to the Old Test. 
(ibid. 1869), i, 265 sq. 

PBOPHECY, Jewish Interpretation of. The 
Hebrew and the Christian alike recognise the reality of 
the predictive element in the chosen oracles of the great 
I am. The two religionists, however, differ widely in 
their manner and sense of interpretation and in the ap- 
plication of the oracular utterances. This difference 
regarding a portion of Scripture accepted alike by both 
is easily accounted for. The divergence is in the two 
religions themselves, and is called out by the question 
whether the predictions for a Messiahship to the 
“chosen race” have ever been fulfilled. Upon this 
query all turns. The Israelite, refusing to recognise in 
Christ the long-promised divine messenger, either de- 
clares it a vain attempt to decipher the prophetic im- 
ages, if he be a rationalist; or, if he be more faithfully 
wedded to the canon of the synagogue, patiently sits 
back, awaiting the final solution of the problem of God’s 
salvation of his people. See Jews; Messiah; Phari- 
see; Rationalism. 

In the early and mediaeval days of Christianity, the 
Jews did not deny the facts of the Christian miracles, 
but explained them away, and so nothing remained for 
settlement but the verity of the prophecies and the 
question of their fulfilment. The first of these the Jew 
conceded to the Christian, but on the last point a some- 
what rich literature of polemics is preserved to us. It 
begins with the New Test, itself. Paul and other apos- 
tles were frequently called upon to argue the Messiah- 
ship of Christ. We have the same phase of the contest 
in the apology of Justin Martyr (q. v.) against Trvpho, 
to w hich a new kind of objection expressive of preju- 
dice is added in the discourse which Celsus, as pre^ 
served in Origen ( Conir . Cels. bk. i and ii), puts into 
the mouth of the Jew whom he introduces. (In refer- 
ence to this contest, these Church fathers, and especial- 
ly Semisch’s work on Justin Martyr and the works on 
the Jewish Talmudic literature and philosophy, may be 
consulted. See also, for later continuations of this con- 


PROPHECY 


G3C 


PROPIIESYIXGS 


test, JIagenbach, Hist, of Doctr. i, § 144, and the art. 
Polemics, Jewish.) 

The Jew contends with the Christian not only for a 
special spiritual elevation in the prophet — an intenser 
decree of the same divine intuition which God gives to 
all who worship him in love and reverence — but for a 
gift of light vouchsafed to him different from any ordi- 
nary endowment. Maimouides remains the chief of 
the Jewish hermcneutists. “This sage of mediaeval 
Judaism thus teaches: Prophecy signifies the com- 
munication of verities to the human mind from God 
by the medium of the active reason, with or without 
the power to foretell future events or to perform mira- 
cles. The tirst point is essential, the other is merely 
accidental. Prophecy is a capacity of the human mind. 
All possess it more or less. Like other human capaci- 
ties, it may remain dormant in this or that mind, or be 
developed partially or perfectly. In the development 
of this capacity, it is necessary, in the first place, to cul- 
tivate and purify the imagination, i. e. the ability of be- 
holding internally, clearly, and truly things external 
and distant, either in space or time, and to place the 
imagination under the control of mental judgment. In 
the second place, the moral nature of the individual 
must be trained to purity, goodness, love of the true 
ami the sublime, and the desire to understand the voice 
of the eternal Deity. This cannot be done outside of 
society, but within it and in its active service. It can- 
not be done by asceticism and the renunciation of the 
world and its charms; it must be done in gladness and 
joy, by chastity, temperance, and a life of moderation, 
governing and controlling the lower passions and de- 
veloping the nobler, finer, and higher ones to a har- 
monious moral character. Passionate, immoral, and 
wicked persons bewilder their imagination, pervert their 
judgment, and benight their reason. In the third place, 
reason must be fully developed to control all other pow- 
ers of the individual, without weakening them or dis- 
turbing the harmony of the soul, and to elevate him to 
universal reason, which Maimouides calls the ‘active 
reason,’ which enables him to grasp universal truth and 
to depict it clearly to himself or others by the power of 
his imagination. Man so prepared, so developed and 
trained, is a prophet, although he still may receive no 
special messages from on high, either because his age 
requires none, or outer influences, climatical or social, 
disturb the mind, lint the man so prepared, and he 
only, can be a prophet of the Lord. So the ancient 
prophets were prepared for their messages and their 
missions. Others, also, may conceive original ideas 
and prophecies; but if the reason predominates over the 
imagination, they cannot realize or reproduce their own 
internal visions. If the imagination predominates, they 
produce phantasmagorias — wild, disconnected, ami con- 
fused images. If the moral character supports not both, 
falsehood, deception, imposition, and even self-delusion 
spring from reason’s light and imagination’s vision. If 
one profess to he a prophet of the Lord, says Maimoni- 
des, we would first be obliged to investigate whether his 
education, his learning, his character, and his antece- 
dents warrant such a presumption. If this he not the 
case — if he be a vulgar, uncultivated, or an impious man, 
hut maintains that God or an angel spoke to him this 
or that, we should be bound to declare him a deluded 
l.mtast or a wilful impostor. The genuine prophets, 
Maimouides further maintains, are not all of the same 
category. They are as different as are their natural 
capacities and the development thereof. With the one 
reason and with the other imagination may predomi- 
nate, and another, again, may be inllueneed by moral 
deficiencies. Therefore, while one prophet, like Moses, 
is always ready and prepared to receive prophecies in a 
sound, waking, and clear state of mind, and in words 
perfectly prosaic and perfectly definite and accurate, 
others can receive visions in a state of dream, in eccen- 
tric agitation, or hallucination only. Then they see 
phantasms which are expounded to them or which they 


themselves must expound ; or they see an angel or a 
person — in themselves, of course — who speaks to them ; 
or they hear a voice, without seeing any vision, in which 
they suppose they have heard God speak. Therefore the 
prophetical style varies so much with the various writ- 
ers of Scriptures, and the oracles of some are announced 
in different poetical forms. The prophet knows how to 
distinguish divine visions from vulgar ones by the pro- 
found impression which the former make upon him, car- 
rying conviction into his mind, and we must know it by 
the test of reason to which the matter revealed is sub- 
jected. All visions recorded in the Bible, Maimon- 
iiles advances, were subjective, psychological processes. 
Wherever it is said God appeared, an angel appeared, 
this or that vision was seen, it must always be under- 
stood to have appeared so in the prophet’s imagination. 
Only one prophet received his revelations through and 
to reason directly, without poetical garbs or visionary 
assistance, and that was Moses. ( hilv one divine man- 
ifestation of this nature did actually come to pass, and 
that was the revelation on Mount Sinai, ami this, also, 
Maimouides rationalizes in bis own way. In all these 
rational expositions of prophecy, Maimouides refers to 
the Bible and the Talmud for support’’ (eomp. his IVso- 
dai Ilajlorah, which forms the Introd. to his Yad-IJa- 
chazukuh). See M.\i.woxu>i:s. 

Another sage, whose authority the ultra-orthodox 
prefer to depend upon, is Joseph Albo (q. v.). lie has 
expressed his opinion on the various grades of prophets 
in his hook on Principles (Sepher Ikkarim, ch. x, 5; 3), It 
differs materially from that of Maimouides. Albo has 
four grades of prophets; the first class consists of proph- 
ets with whom the understanding has no dominion over 
the phantasy. They receive the prophetical vision in 
a state of slumber and dream, after an attack of pain and 
terror. The second class consists of prophets in whom 
the understanding and the phantasy are well balanced; 
they receive the prophetical visions without pain or 
terror, in quiet dreams. The third class consists of 
prophets with whom the understanding predominates 
over the phantasy; they see no imaginary visions, as 
the above two classes do, which must be expounded; 
they see real objects in their visions, and hear them 
speak intelligible words; there is neither pain nor ter- 
ror. nor doubtful visions in the prophetical ecstasy of 
this class. The fourth class consists of prophets with 
whom phantasy has no infiuenee whatever upon the 
understanding ; they see no visions, no symbols what- 
ever, but hear prophetical words addressed to them, not 
in a dream or vision — not merely sometimes and in a 
state of ecstasy— but waking, intelligent, and whenever 
they wish. Albo adds, “ If a man has elevated himself 
to this high state of mind, he should no longer be called 
man — he should be called angel. None of us mortals 
lias ever reached this perfection, except our teacher 
Moses.’’ See I)r. Wise, Lectures on the Philosophy mnl 
Philosophers of the Jeu-s as reported in the Israelite 
(Cincinnati, lf“>73); Bothschild (Miss), Hist, and Lit. of 
the Israelites, vol. ii ; Geiger, Judaism, vol. i ; M'Caul, 
Old Paths. (.1.11. W.) 

Prophesy ings. Keligious exercises of the Puri- 
tan clergy in the reign of queen Elizabeth. instituted 
for the purpose of promoting knowledge and piety. 
The ministers of a particular division, at a set time, met 
together in some church of a market or other large town, 
and there each in his order explained, according to his 
ability, some portion of Scripture previously allotted 
to him. This done, a moderator made his observa- 
tions on what had been said, and determined the true 
sense of the place, a certain space of time being fixed 
for despatching the whole. These institutions, bor- 
rowed evidently from the Courentieles (q. v.) of Scot- 
land, like all others, however, it seems, were in England 
soon marked hv irregularity, disputations, and divisions. 
Archbishop Grindal endeavored to regulate the proph- 
esyings and cover them from the objections which the 
court made against them, by enjoining the ministers to 


PROPHET 


637 


PROPHET 


observe decency and order, by forbidding them to med- 
dle with polities ami Church government, and by pro- 
hibiting all nonconformist ministers and laymen from 
being speakers. The queen, however, seeing that they 
spread the religious notions of the Puritans and es- 
tranged the people from all Romanistic tendency, was re- 
solved to suppress them ; and having sent for the arch- 
bishop, told him she was informed that the rites and 
ceremonies of the Church were not duly observed in 
these prophesyings ; that persons not lawfully called to 
be ministers exercised in them; that the assemblies 
themselves were illegal, not being allowed by public au- 
thority ; that the laity neglected their secular affairs by 
repairing to these meetings, which filled their heads 
with notions, and might occasion disputes and sedition 
in the State; that it was good for the Church to have 
but few preachers, three or four in a county being suffi- 
cient. She further declared her dislike of the number 
of these exercises, and therefore commanded him per- 
emptorily to put them down. The archbishop, how- 
ever, instead of obeying the commands of his royal 
mistress, thought that she had made some infringement 
upon his office, and wrote the queen a long and earnest 
letter, declaring that his conscience would not suffer 
him to comply with her commands. The queen was so 
inflamed with this letter that the archbishop was se- 
questered from his office, and he never afterwards re- 
covered the queen’s favor. Thus ended the prophesy- 
ings. — Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. See Neal, Hist, of the 
Puritans. 

Prophet, a person who acts as the organ of divine 
communication with men, especially with regard to the 
future. He differs from a priest in representing the 
divine side of this mediation, while the priest rather acts 
from the human side. (The following article is chiefly 
based upon those in Kitto’s and Smith’s dictionaries.) 
See Phophecy. 

I. The Title in Scripture. — The ordinary Hebrew word 
for prophet is ( nuhi ), derived from the verb N33, 

connected by Gesenius with "33, “ to bubble forth,” 
like a fountain. If this etymology be correct, the sub- 
stantive would signify either a person who, as it were, 
involuntarily bursts forth with spiritual utterances un- 
der the divine influence (comp. Psa. xlv, 1, “My heart 
is bubbling up of a good matter”), or simply one who 
pours forth words. The analogy of the word 733 ( na - 
tuph), which has the force of “dropping” as honey, and 
is used byMicah (ii, 6, 11), Ezekiel (xxi, 2), and Amos 
(vii, 16) in the sense of prophesying, points to the last 
signification. The verb N33 is found on]}' in the niphal 
and liithpa'el, a peculiarity which it shares with many 
other words expressive of speech (comp. loqui,fari,vo- 
ciferari, concionari, (pSeyyopai, as well as pavrevopai 
and vaticinari ). Bunsen (Gaft in Geschichte , p. 141) 
and Davidson (Intr. Old Test, ii, 430) suppose nabi to 
signify the man to ichom announcements are made by 
God, i. e. inspired. Exod. iv, 1-17 is the classical pas- 
sage as to the meaning of this word. There God says 
to Moses, “ Aaron shall be thy 5033 (nabi) unto the peo- 
ple, and thou shalt be unto him instead of God.” The 
sense is. “Aaron shall speak what thou shalt communi- 
cate to him.” This appellation implies, then, the proph- 
et’s relation to God : he speaks not of his own accord, 
but what the Spirit puts into his mouth. Thus 5033 
(nabi) is an adjective of passive signification : he who 
has been divinely inspired, who has received from God 
the revelations which he proclaims. But it is more in 
accordance with the usage of the word to regard it as 
signifying (actively) one ivho announces or pours forth 
the declarations of God. The latter signification is pre- 
ferred by Ewald, Havernick, Oehler, Hengstenberg, 
Bleek, Lee, Pusey, M‘Caul, and the great majority of 
Biblical critics. We have the word in Barnabas (*3 
which is rendered wloc TrapaK\}]ae<jjg(Acts iv,36), 


one whom God has qualified to impart consolation, li^ht 
and strength to others. Augustine says, “ The prophet 
of God is nothing else nisi enunciator verborum Dei ho- 
minibus. So Heidegger, “ Nabi is properly everv utter- 
er of the words of another, not from his own, but from 
another’s influence and will.” 

Two other Hebrew words are used to designate a 
prophet — ttX"l (rbeh) and “‘H ( chozeh ) — both signify- 
ing one who sees. They are rendered in the A. V. by 
“seer;” in the Sept, usually by or vpwv, some- 

times by 7rpo<f»)Ti)s (1 Chron. xxvi, 28; 2 Cliron. xvi, 
7, 10). The three words seem to be contrasted with 
each other in 1 Chron. xxix, 29. “ The acts of David 
the king, first and last, behold they are written in the 
book of Samuel the seer (rbeh), and in the book of Na- 
than the prophet (nabi), and in the book of Gad the seer 
(chozeli)." Roeh is a title almost appropriated to Sam- 
uel. It is only used ten times, and in seven of these it 
is applied to Samuel (1 Sam. ix, 9, 11, 18, .19; 1 Chron. 
ix, 22 ; xxvi, 28 ; xxix, 29). On two other occasions it 
is applied to Hanani (2 Chron. xvi, 7, 10). Once it is 
used by Isaiah (xxx, 10) with no reference to any par- 
ticular person. It was superseded in general use by 
the word nabi, which Samuel (himself entitled nabi as 
well as rbeh [1 Sam. iii, 20; 2 Chron. xxxv, 18]) ap- 
pears to have revived after a period of desuetude (1 
Sam. ix, 9), and to have applied to the prophets organ- 
ized by him. The verb I"t5n, ^ rom "hich it is derived, 
is the common prose word signifying “to see:” ["ITH — 
whence the substantive *Tf"n ( chozeh ) is derived — is 
more poetical, q. d. “ to gaze.” Chozeh is rarely found ex- 
cept in the books of the Chronicles, but *JVrn is the word 
constantly used for the prophetical vision. It is found 
in the Pentateuch, in Samuel, in the Chronicles, in Job, 
and in most of the prophets. In 1 Sam. ix, 9 we read, 
“ He that is now called a prophet (nabi) was beforetime 
called a seer (rbeh) ;” from whence Stanley (Led. on 
Jewish Church) has concluded that roeh was “ the oldest 
designation of the prophetic office,” “ superseded by nabi 
shortly after Samuel’s time, when nabi first came into 
use ” (ibid, xviii, xix). This seems opposed to the fact 
that nabi is the word commonly used in the Pentateuch, 
whereas roeh does not appear until the days of Samuel. 
The passage in the book of Samuel is clearly a paren- 
thetical insertion, perhaps made by the nabi Nathan (or 
whoever was the original author of the book), perhaps 
added at a later date, with the view of explaining how 
it was that Samuel bore the title of rbeh, instead of the 
now usual appellation of nabi. To the writer the days 
of Samuel were “ beforetime,” and he explains that in 
those ancient days — that is, the days of Samuel — the 
word used for prophet was rbeh, not nabi. But that 
does not imply that roeh was the primitive word, and 
that nabi first came into use subsequently to Samuel 
(see Hengstenberg, Beitrage zur Einleitung ins A . T. iii, 
335). Stanley represents chozeh as “another antique 
title;” but on no sufficient grounds. Chozeh is first 
found in 2 Sam. xxiv, 11; so that it does not seem to 
have come into use until rbeh had almost disappeared. 
It is also found in the books of Kings (2 Kings, xvii, 13) 
and Chronicles (frequently), in Amos (vii, 12), Isaiah 
(xxix, 10). Mieah (iii, 7), and the derivatives of the 
verb chazah are used by the prophets to designate their 
visions down to the Captivity (comp. Isa. i, 1 ; Dan. viii, 

1 ; Zech. xiii, 4). The derivatives of radh are rarer, 
and, as being prose words, are chiefly used by Daniel 
(comp. Ezek. i, 1 ; Dan. x, 7). On examination we find 
that nabi existed before and after and alongside of rbeh 
and chozeh, but that chozeh was somewhat more modern 
than roeh. 

Whether there is any difference in the usage of these 
three words, and, if any, what that difference is, has 
been much debated (see Witsius, Jliscell. Sacra, i, 1, 
§19; Carpzovius, Inf rod. ad Libros Canon. V. T. iii, 1, 
§2; Winer, Real-Wbrterbuch, art. “ Propheten”). Hit- 


PROPHET 


C33 


PROPHET 


vernick (F/udeitung, Th. i ; .1 bth. i. § .00) considers nubi 
lo express tlie title of those who officially belonged to 
the prophetic order, while rOeh and chozeh denote those 
who received a prophetical revelation. Dr. Lee ( In- 
spiration of Holy Scripture, p. 5 13 ) agrees with I hi ver- 
nick in his explanation of nubi, but he identities roeh in 
meaning rather with nubi than with chozeh. He fur- 
ther throws out a suggestion that chozeh is the special 
designation of the prophet attached to the royal house- 
hold. In 2 Sam. xxiv, 11, Gad is described as “the 
prophet (nubi) Gad, David’s seer (chozeh)," and else- 
where he is called “ David's seer (chozeh)" (1 Chron. 
x\i,9), “the king’s seer (chozeh)" (2 Chron. xxix, 25). 
“The case of Gad,” Dr. Lee thinks, “affords the clew 
to the difficulty, as it clearly indicates that attached to 
the royal establishment there was usually an individual 
styled ‘ the king’s seer,’ who might at the same time be 
a nubi." The suggestion is ingenious (see, in addition 
to places quoted above, 1 Chron. xxv, 5; xxix, 29; 2 
Chron. xxix, 30; xxxv, 15), but it was only David 
(possibly also Manasseh, 2 Chron. xxxiii, IN) who, so 
far as we read, had this seer attached to his person; 
and in any case there is nothing in the word chozeh to 
denote the relation of the prophet to the king, but only 
in the connection in which it stands with the word king. 
On the whole, it would seem that the same persons are 
designated by the three words nubi, roeh, and chozeh — 
the last two titles being derived from the prophets' 
power of seeing the visions presented to them by God; 
the tirst from their function of revealing and proclaim- 
ing God’s truth to men. When Gregory Xaz. (Or. 28) 
calls Ezekiel 6 rStv ptyd\tov tawn/e rat ih]yt]Tt)Q 
livoTijpiiov, lie gives a sufficiently exact translation of 
the two titles chozeh or roeh , and nubi. 

Sometimes the prophets arc called “'XT'LS (tsnphiim), 
i.e. those who espy, explore for the people, a “watch- 
man” (.ler. vi, 17 ; Kzek. iii, 17 ; xxxiii, 7). Such also 
is the usage of ““T (shomcr), i. e. “a watchman” (Isa. 
xxi, 1 1 ; lxii, 0) ; and roiim, i. c. shepherds (Zech. xi, 5 ; 
viii, Id), in reference to the spiritual care and religions 
nurture of the people. Other names, as “man of God,” 
“servant of Jehovah,” and now and then “angel," or 
“ messenger of Jehovah,” etc., do not belong to the proph- 
ets as such, hut only in so far as they are of the num- 
ber of servants and instruments of God. The phrase 
“man of the Spirit” (JTH, llos. ix, 7) explains the 
agency by which the communication came. In the ap- 
pointment of the seventy elders the Lord says to Moses, 
“I will take of the Spirit which is upon thee, and will 
put it on them” (Xumb. xi, 17). So W'ith regard to 
Eldad and Medad, “the Spirit rested upon them, . . . 
and they prophesied in the camp.” The resting of the 
Spirit upon them was equivalent to the gift of prophecy 
(see 2 Eet. i, 21). 

The word nubi is uniformly translated in the Sept, by 
Trpotfu'j-ijc, and in the A. V. by “ prophet.” In classical 
Greek, 7T(Oo0f/7//c signifies one echo speaks for another , 
specially one who speaks for a god, and so interprets his 
will to man (Liddell and Scott, s. v.). Ilence its essential 
meaning is “an interpreter.” Thus Apollo isa T:pa<pi)Tt)Q, 
as being t lie interpreter of Zens (vEschylus, Punt. 19). 
Poets are the Prophets of the Muses, as being their in- 
terpreters (l’lato, Pkmlr. 2G2 d). The 7rpo<pi}Tai at- 
tached to heathen temples are so named from their in- 
terpreting the oracles delivered by the inspired and un- 
conscious puvrttQ (Plato, Tim. 72 b; Herod, vii, 111, 
note ed. 1 iii hr ]). We have Plato’s authority for deriv- 
ing fiavTic from puivopai (l. c.). The use of the word 
7rpo<j)iiTi]\ : in its modern sense is post-classical, and is 
derived from the Sept. 

Erom the mediaeval use of the word tt potipreia, proph- 
ecy passed into the English language in the sense of 
prediction, and this sense it has retained as its popular 
meaning (see Hichardson, s. v.). The larger sense of 
interpretation has not, however, been lost. Thus we find 
in Ilacon, “An exercise commonly called prophesying , 


which was this; that the ministers within a precinct 
did meet upon a week-day in some principal town, 
where there was some ancient grave minister that was 
president, and an auditory admitted of gentlemen or 
other persons of leisure. Then every minister succes- 
sively, beginning with the youngest, did handle one 
and t he same part of Scripture, spending severally some 
quarter of an hour or better, and in the whole some two 
hours. And so the exercise being begun and concluded 
i with prayer, and the president giving a text for the 
next meeting, the assembly was dissolved” (Pacijica- 
tion of the Church). This meaning of the word is made 
further familiar to us by t he title of Jeremy Taylor's 
treatise On Liberty of Prophesying. Xor was there any 
risk of the title of a book published in our own days, 
On the Prophetical Office of the Church (Oxf. 183«). be- 
ing misunderstood. In fact, the English word prophet, 
like the word inspiration, has always been used in a 
larger and in a closer sense. In tlie larger sense our 
Lord Jesus Christ is a “prophet,” Moses is a “prophet,” 
Mohammed is a “ prophet.” The expression means that 
they proclaimed and published a new religious dispen- 
sation. In a similar, though not identical sense, the 
Church is said to have a “ prophetical,” i. e. an exposi- 
tory and interpretative, office. But in its closer sense 
the word, according to usage, though not according to 
etymology, involves the idea of foresight. Tin’s is and 
always lias been its more usual acceptation. The differ- 
ent meanings, or shades of meaning, in which the ab- 
stract noun is employed in Scripture have been drawn 
out by Locke as follows: “ l’rophecy comprehends three 
tilings: prediction; singing by the dictate of the Spirit; 
and understanding and explaining the mysterious, hid- 
den sense of Scripture bv an immediate illumination 
and motion of the Spirit” (Paraphrase of 1 Cor. xii, 
note, p. 121 [Loud. 1742]). It is in virtue of this last 
signification of the word that the prophets of the Xew 
Test, are so called (1 Cor. xii); by virtue of the second 
that the sons of Asaph, etc., are said to have “proph- 
esied with a harp” (xxv, 3), and Miriam and Deborah 
are termed “prophetesses.” That the idea of potential 
if not actual prediction enters into the conception ex- 
pressed by the word prophecy, when that, word is used 
to designate the function of the Hebrew prophets, seems 
to be proved by tlie following passages of Scripture: 
Dent, xviii, 22; Jer. xxviii. 9; Acts ii, 30; iii, 18-21; 
1 Bet. i, 10; 2 Pet. i, 19,20; iii, 2. Etymologically, 
however, it is certain that neither prescience nor pre- 
diction is implied by the term used in the Hebrew lan- 
guage. But it seems to be incorrect to say that the 
English word was “originally" used in the wider sense 
of “preaching,” and that it became “limited” to the 
meaning of “predicting” in the 17th century, in con- 
sequence of “an etymological mistake” (Stanley, Lect. 

xix, xx). The word entered into the English language 
in its sense of predicting. It could not have been oth- 
erwise, for at the time of the formation of the English 
language the word irpoeppTtiu had, by usage, assumed 
popularly the meaning of prediction. We find it ordi- 
narily employed by early as well as by late writers in 
this sense (see l’olydore Virgil, Hist, of England, iv. HU 
[Camden ed. 18 HI] ; Coventry Mysteries , p. G5 [Shake- 
speare Soc, ed. 1811]). It is probable that the mean- 
ing was “limited” to “prediction” as much and ns little 
before the 17th centnrv as it has been since. 

II. The Prophetical Order . — 1. Its Historical Develop- 
ment.— Generally speaking, every one was a prophet to 
whom God communicated his mind in this peculiar 
manner. Thus. e. g. Abraham is called a prophet (Gen. 

xx, 7), not, as is commonly thought, on account of gen- 
eral revelations granted him by God, hut because such 
as lie received were in the special form described ; a<, 
indeed, in chap, xv it is expressly stated that divine 
communications were made to him in visions and dreams. 
The patriarchs as a class are in the same manner called 
prophets (Psa. cv, 15). Moses is more specifically a 
prophet, as being a proclaimer of a new dispensation, a 


PROPHET 


639 


PROPHET 


revealer of God’s will, and in virtue of his divinely in- 
spired songs (Exod. xv ; Deut. xxxii, xxxiii ; Psa. xc) ; 
but his main work was not prophetical, and he is there- 
fore formally distinguished from prophets (Numb, xii, 6) 
as well as classed with them (Deut. xviii, 15; xxxiv, 

10) . Aaron is the prophet of Moses (Exod. vii, 1) ; Mir- 
iam (xv, 20) is a prophetess; and we find the pro- 
phetic gift in the elders who “ prophesied” when “ the 
Spirit of the Lord rested upon them,” and in Eldad and 
Medad, who “prophesied in the camp” (Numb, xi, 27). 
At the time of the sedition of Miriam, the possible ex- 
istence of prophets is recognised (xii, 6). 

When the Mosaic economy had been established, a 
new element was introduced. The sacerdotal caste then 
became the instrument by which the members of the 
Jewish theocracy were taught and governed in things 
spiritual. Feast and fast, sacrifice and offering, rite and 
ceremony, constituted a varied and ever-recurring sys- 
tem of training and teaching by type and symbol. To 
the priests, too, was intrusted the work of “ teaching 
the children of Israel all the statutes which the Lord 
hath spoken unto them by the hand of Moses” (Lev. x, 

11) . Teaching by act and teaching by word were alike 
their task. This office they adequately fulfilled for some 
hundred or more years after the giving of the law at 
Mount Sinai. But during the time of the Judges the 
priesthood sank into a state of degeneracy, and the peo- 
ple were no longer affected by the acted lessons of the 
ceremonial service. They required less enigmatic warn- 
ings and exhortations. Under these circumstances a new 
moral power was evoked — the regular Prophetic Line. 
Special functionaries of this kind had from time to time 
already appeared. In the day's of the Judges we find 
that Deborah (Judg. iv, 4) was a prophetess; a prophet 
(vi, 8) rebuked and exhorted the Israelites when oppressed 
bv the Midianites; and in Samuel’s childhood “a man 
of God” predicted to Eli the death of his two sons, and 
the curse that was to fall on his descendants (1 Sam. ii, 
27). But it was now time for a more formal institution 
of the prophetic order. Samuel, himself a Levite, of the 
family of Kohath (1 Chron. vi, 28), and certainly acting 
as a priest, was the instrument used at once for effecting 
a reform in the sacerdotal order (ix, 22), and for giving 
to the prophets a position of influence which they had 
never before held. So important was the work wrought 
by him that he is classed in Holy Scripture with Moses 
(Jer. xv, 1; Psa. xeix, 6; Acts iii, 24), Samuel being 
the great religious reformer and organizer of the pro- 
phetical order, as Moses was the great legislator and 
founder of the priestly rule. Nevertheless, it is not to 
be supposed that Samuel created the prophetic order as 
a new thing before unknown. The germs both of the 
prophetic and of the regal order are found in the law as 
given to the Israelites by Moses (Deut. xiii, 1 ; xviii, 
20 ; xvii, 18), but they were not yet developed, because 
there was not yet the demand for them. Samuel, who 
evolved the one, himself saw the evolution of the other. 
It is a vulgar error respecting Jewish history to suppose 
that there was an antagonism between the prophets and 
the priests. There is not a trace of such antagonism. 
Isaiah may denounce a wicked hierarchy (i, 10), but it 
is hecanse it is wicked, not because it is a hierarchy. 
Malachi “ sharply reproves” the priests (ii, I), but it is in 
order to support the priesthood (comp, i, 14). Mr. F. W. 
Newman even designates Ezekiel’s writings as “ hard 
sacerdotalism,” “tedious and unedifying as Leviticus 
itself” (Hebr. Monarch, p. 330). The prophetical order 
was, in truth, supplemental, not antagonistic, to the 
sacerdotal. See Samuel. 

Samuel took measures to make his work of restora- 
tion permanent as well as effective for the moment. 
For this purpose he instituted companies, or colleges 
of prophets. One -we find in his lifetime at Bamali 
(1 Sam. xix, 19, 20); others afterwards at Bethel (2 
Kings ii, 3), Jericho (ii, 5), Gilgal (iv, 38), and else- 
where (vi, 1). Their constitution and object were sim- 
ilar to those of theological colleges. Into them were 


gathered promising students, and here they were trained 
for the office which they were afterwards destined to 
fulfil. So successful were these institutions that from 
the time of Samuel to the closing of the Canon of the 
Old Test, there seems never to have been wanting a 
due supply of men to keep up the line of official pro] di- 
ets. There appears to be no sufficient ground for the 
common statement that after the schism the colleges 
existed only in the Israelitish kingdom, or for Knobel’s 
supposition that they ceased with Elisha ( Prophetismvs , 
ii, 39), nor again for Bishop Lowth’s statement that 
“ they existed from the earliest times of the Hebrew re- 
public" ( Sacred Poetry, lect. xviii), or for M. Nicolas's 
assertion that their previous establishment can be infer- 
red from 1 Sam. viii, ix, x ( Etudes Critiques sur la Bible, 
p. 365). We have, however, no actual proof of their ex- 
istence except in the days of Samuel and of Elijah and 
Elisha. 'I’he apocryphal books of the Maccabees (1, iv, 
46; ix, 27; xiv, 41) and of Ecclesiasticus (xxxvi, 15) 
represent them as extinct. The colleges appear to have 
consisted of students differing in number. Sometimes 
they' were very numerous (1 Kings xviii, 4; xxii, 6; 2 
Kings ii, 16). One elderly, or leading prophet, presided 
over them (1 Sam. xix, 20), called their father (x, 12), 
or master (2 Kings ii, 3), who was apparently admitted 
to his office by the ceremony of anointing (I Kings xix, 
16 ; Isa. Ixi, 1 ; Psa. cv, 15). They were called his sons. 
Their chief subject of study was, no doubt, the law and 
its interpretation ; oral, as distinct from symbolical, 
teaching being henceforward tacitly transferred from 
the priestly to the prophetical order. Subsidiary sub- 
jects of instruction w’ere music and sacred poetry, both 
of which had been connected with prophecy from the time 
of Moses (Exod. xv, 20) and the Judges (Judg. iv, 4 ; v, 
I). The prophets that meet Saul “came down from the 
high place with a pSalterv and a tabret. and a pipe and 
a harp before them” (I Sam. x, 5). Elijah calls a min- 
strel to evoke the prophetic gift in himself (2 Kings iii, 
15). David “separates to the service of the sons of 
Asaph and of Ileman and of Jeduthun, who should 
jwopkesy with harps and with psalteries and with cym- 
bals. . . . All these were under the hands of their father 
for song in the house of the Lord with cymbals, psal- 
teries, and harps for the service of the house of God” (1 
Chron. xxv, 16). Hymns, or sacred songs, are found in 
the books of Jonah (ii, 2), Isaiah (xii, 1 ; xxvi, 1), Hab- 
akkuk (iii, 2). It was probably the duty of the prophet- 
ical students to compose verses to he sung in the Tem- 
ple (see Lowth, Sacred Poetry of the llebretcs, lect. xviii). 
Having been themselves trained and taught, the proph- 
ets, whether still residing within their college or hav- 
ing left its precincts, had the task of teaching others. 
From the question addressed to the Shunamite by her 
husband, “Wherefore wilt thou go to him to-day? It 
is neither new moon nor Sabbath” (2 Kings iv, 23), it 
appears that weekly and monthly religious meetings 
were held as an ordinary' practice by the prophets (see 
Patrick, Comm, ad loc.). Thus we find that “ Elisha sat 
in his house” engaged in his official occupation (comp. 
Ezek. viii, 1 ; xiv, 1 ; xx, 1), “and the elders sat with 
him” (2 Kings vi, 32), when the king of Israel sent to 
slay him. It was at these meetings, probably, that 
many' of the warnings and exhortations on morality 
and spiritual religion were addressed by the prophets 
to their countrymen. See Prophets, Schools of. 

The schools of the prophets were thus engaged in 
what we may' call pastoral functions, rather than in the 
disclosure of things to come; their office was to bring 
home to men’s business and bosoms the announcements 
already' made. Selected from the Levitical and priestly 
classes, they' performed services chiefly of a priestly char- 
acter (1 Sam. ix, 13), but presided over devotional ex- 
ercises and gave spiritual instruction. We may' regard 
Eli jah as the type of the w hole prophetical order at this 
period; “a man cf heroic energy' in action, rather than 
of prolific thought or excellent discourse. Power was 
given him to smite the earth with plagues (Rev. xi, 6). 


PROPHET 


640 


PROPHET 


When an impression had been made by these extraordi- 
nary displays of power, a still small voice was heard to 
quicken the people to newness of life.” If we pass on 
to the religious teachers who are associated with the 
name and age of David — Nathan, Solomon, and others, 
who composed the Psalms — we shall sec that these 
aimed at the religious education of their contemporaries 
by a pure stream of didactic and devotional poetry. 
Their object was to advance the members of the ancient 
economy to the highest degree of light and purity which 
was attainable in that state of minority. The predic- 
tive element crops out most distinctly in the Messianic 
psalms, which point to the ultimate completion of the 
kingdom in David's Lord, and the universal reign of 
righteousness, truth, and peace. When these efforts 
failed to stem the tide of corruption and to rescue the 
chosen people from disorder, ancient prophecy assumed 
the form of specific prediction. The moral element is 
chiefly seen in denouncing the iniquity and unright- 
eousness of the age, but the distinctive characteristic is 
that, in exposing the evils which prevailed, they di- 
rected the eye to the future. This band of religious 
teachers who arc popularly spoken of as “the proph- 
ets 1 ’ commenced with llosca soon after the ministry of 
Elijah anil Elisha, llosea’s labors commenced in the 
days of Uzziali, king of Judah, and Jeroboam 11, king of 
Israel, and were prolonged to the time of 1 lezekiah, com- 
prising more than sixty years, so that with him were 
contemporary Amos, Jonah. Joel, Obadiah, Isaiah, Mi- 
cah, Nahum. Next to these in order of time came 
Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Habakkuk, Zephauiah. The 
last three were llaggai, Zechariah, Malachi. From 
these we derive our amplest materials fur comparing the 
anticipations of prophecy with the subsequent events of 
history. Thus the prophets of the Old Covenant form 
a regular succession ; they are members of an unbroken 
continuous chain, of which one perpetually reaches forth 
the hand to the other. See Prophets, Major, and 

1 xou. 

In the first hook of the Maccabees (ix, 17) the dis- 
continuance of the prophetic calling is considered as 
forming an important ;era in Jewish history (see Ste- 
mann, Ih> Termino Prophetarum [Post. 1723]), while at 
the same time an expectation of the renewal in future 
ages of prophetic gifts is avowed (l Macc. iv, 4f»; xiv, 
41). After the Babylonian exile the saered writings 
were collected, which enabled every one to find the way 
of salvation; but the immediate revelations to the peo- 
ple of Israel were to cease for a while, in order to raise a 
stronger longing for the appearance of the Messiah, and 
to prepare for him a welcome reception. For the same 
reason the ark of the covenant had been taken away 
from the people. The danger of a complete apostasy, 
which in earlier times might have been incurred by this 
withdrawal, was not now to be apprehended. The ex- 
ternal worship of the Lord was so lirmlv established that 
no extraordinary helps were wanted. Taking also into 
consideration the .altered character of the people, we may 
add that the time after the exile was more fit to pro- 
duce men learned in the law than prophets. Before 
this period, the faithful and the unbelieving were 
strongly opposed to each other, which excited the for- 
mer to great exertions. These relaxed when the oppo- 
sition ceased, and pious priests now took the place of 
prophets. The time after the exile is characterized by 
weakness and dependence; the people looked up to the 
past as to a height which they could not gain; the 
earlier writings obtained unconditional authority, and 
the disposition for receiving prophetic gifts was lost. 
About a hundred years after t he return from the Baby- 
lonian exile, the prophetic profession ceased. The Jew- 
ish tradition uniformly states that after llaggai, Zech- 
ariah, and Malachi no prophet arose among the Jews 
till John the Baptist woke afresh the echoes of a long- 
lost inspiration as the prelude to a new dispensation. 
For its resumption under the New-Test, economy, sec 
§ x below. 


2. Manner of Life of (he Prophets. — The prophets 
went about poorly and coarsely dressed (2 Kings i, 8), 
not as a mere piece of asceticism, but that their very 
apparel might teacli what the people ought to do; it 
was a “sermo propheticus real is.” Comp. 1 Kings xxi, 
27, where Ahab does penance in the manner figured by 
the prophet: “And it came to pass, when Ahab heard 
these words, that he rent his clothes, and put sackcloth 
upon his flesh and fasted” (see Nicolai, I)e Prophetarum 
1 estitu [Magdcb. 1740]; Zachariii, De Prophetarum 
Ilahitu [Sodin, 1750]). The general appearance and life 
of the prophet were very similar to those of the Eastern 
dervish at the present day. His dress was a hairy gar- 
ment, girt with a leathern girdle (Isa. xx, 2 ; Zech. xiti, 
4; Matt, iii, 4). He was married or unmarried as he 
chose; but his manner of life and diet were stern and 
austere (2 Kings iv, 10,38; 1 Kings xix, 0; Matt, iii, 
4). Generally the prophets were not anxious to at- 
tract notice by ostentations display; nor did they seek 
worldly wealth, most of them living in poverty and 
even want (I Kings xiv, 3; 2 Kings iv, 1, 38, 42; 
vi, 5). The decay of the congregation of God deeply 
chagrined them (comp. Micah vii, 1, and many passages 
in Jeremiah). Insult, persecution, imprisonment, and 
death were often the reward of their godly life. The 
author of the Epistle to the Hebrews says (ch. xi, 
37) : “They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were 
tempted, were slain with the sword; they wandered 
about in sheep-skins and goat-skins, being destitute, 
alllicted, tormented” (comp. Christ's speech, Matt, xxiii, 
29 sq. ; 2 Citron, xxi v, 17 sq.). The condition of the 
prophets, in their temporal humiliation, is vividly rep- 
resented in the lives of Elijah and Elisha in the books 
of the Kings; and Jeremiah concludes the description 
of his sufferings in the 20th chapter by cursing the 
day of his birth. Bepmliated by the world in which 
they -were aliens, they typified the life of him whose 
appearance they announced, and whose spirit dwelt in 
them. They figured him, however, not only in his low- 
ness, but in his elevation. The Lord stood by them, 
gave evidence in their favor by fulfilling their predic- 
tions, frequently proved by miracles that they were his 
own messengers, or retaliated on their enemies the in- 
jury done them. The prophets addressed the people 
of both kingdoms: they were not confined to particular 
places, but prophesied where it was required. For this 
reason they were most numerous in capital towns, es- 
pecially in Jerusalem, where they generally spoke in 
the Temple. Sometimes their advice was asked, and 
then their prophecies take the form of answers to ques- 
tions submitted to them (Isa. xxxvii ; Ezek. xx : Zech. 
vii). But much more frequently they felt themselves 
inwardly moved to address the people without their ad- 
vice having been asked, and they were not afraid to 
stand forward in places where their appearance, per- 
haps. produced indignation ami terror. Whatever lay 
within or around the sphere of religion and morals 
formed the object of their care. They strenuously op- 
posed the worship of false gods (Isa. i. 10 sq.). as well 
.as the finery of women (iii, 10 sq.). Priests, princes, 
kings, all must hear them — must, however reluctantly, 
allow them to perform their calling as long as they 
spoke in the name of the true God, and as long as the 
result did not disprove their pretensions to be the ser- 
vants of the invisible King of Israel (Jer. xxxvii. 15- 
- 1 )* 

As seen above, there were institutions for training 
prophets; the senior members instructed a number of 
pupils and directed them. These schools had been first 
established by Samuel (1 Sam. x, 8; xix, 19); and at 
a later time there were such institutions in different 
places, as Bethel and Gilgal (2 Kings ii, 3; iv, 38; vi, 
1). The pupils of the prophets lived in fellowship 
united, and were called “sons of the prophets;” while 
the senior or experienced prophets were considered as 
their spiritual parents, and were styled fathers (comp. 
2 Kings ii, 12; vi, 21). Samuel, Elijah, and Elisha are 


PROPHET 


641 


PROPHET 


mentioned as principals of such institutions. From 
them the Lord generally chose his instruments. Amos 
relates of himself (vii, 14, 15), as a thing uncommon, 
that he had been trained in no school of prophets, but 
was a herdsman, when the Lord took him to prophesy 
unto the people of Israel. At. the same time, this ex- 
ample shows that the bestowal of prophetic gifts was 
not limited to the school of the prophets. Women also 
might come forward as prophetesses, as instanced in 
Miriam, Deborah, and JIuldah, though such cases are 
of comparatively rare occurrence. We should also ob- 
serve that only as regards the kingdom of Israel we 
have express accounts of the continuance of the schools 
of prophets. What is recorded of them is not directly 
applicable to the kingdom of Judah, especially since, as 
stated above, prophecy had in it an essentially different 
position. We cannot assume that the organization and 
regulations of the schools of the prophets in the king- 
dom of Judah were as settled and established as in the 
kingdom of Israel. In the latter, the schools of the 
prophets hail a kind of monastic constitution : they 
were not institutions of general education, but mission- 
ary stations; which explains the circumstance that 
they were established exactly in places which were 
the chief seats of superstition. The spiritual fathers 
travelled about to visit the training-schools; the pupils 
had their common board and dwelling, and those who 
married and left ceased not on that account to be con- 
nected with their colleges, but remained members of 
them. The widow of such a pupil of the schools of 
prophets who is mentioned in 2 Kings iv, 1 sq., consid- 
ered Elisha as the person bound to care for her. The 
offerings which, by the Mosaic law, were to be given to 
the Levites were by the pious of the kingdom of Israel 
brought to the schools of the prophets (iv, 42). The 
prophets of the kingdom of Israel thus in some sort 
stood in a hostile position to the priests. These points 
of difference in the situation of the prophets of the two 
kingdoms must not be lost sight of; and we further add 
that prophecy in the kingdom of Israel was much more 
connected with extraordinary events than in the king- 
dom of Judah: the history of the latter offers no pro- 
phetical deeds equalling those of Elijah and Elisha. 
Prophecy in the kingdom of Israel not being grounded 
on a hierarchy venerable for its antiquity, consecrated 
by divine miracles, and constantly flavored with divine 
protection, it needed to be supported more powerfully, 
and to be legitimized more evidently. In conclusion, 
it may be observed that the expression “schools of the 
prophets” is not exactly suited to their nature, as gen- 
eral instruction was not their object. The so-called 
prophets’ schools were associations of men endowed 
with the spirit of God, for the purpose of carrying on j 
their work, the feeble powers of junior members being 
directed and strengthened by those of a higher class. 
To those who entered these unions the Divine Spirit 
had already been imparted, which was the imperative 
condition of their reception. See Prophets, Sons of. 

III. The Prophetic Functions. — These have already 
been in part glanced at, but the importance of the sub- 
ject demands a fuller exposition. To belong to the 
prophetic order and to possess the prophetic gift arc not 
convertible terms. There might be members of the 
prophetic order to whom the gift of prophecy was not 
vouchsafed. There might be inspired prophets who 
did not belong to the prophetic order. As we have 
seen above, the inspired prophet generally came from 
the college of the prophets, and belonged to the prophet- 
ic order; but this w r as not always the case. In the in- 
stance of the prophet Amos, the rule and the exception 
are both manifested. When Amaziah, the idolatrous 
Israelitish priest, threatens the prophet and desires him 
to “flee away into the land of Judah, and there eat 
bread and prophesy there, but not to prophesy again 
any more at Bethel,” Amos in reply says, “ I was no 
prophet, neither was I a prophet’s son ; but I was an 
herdsman, and a gatherer of sveamore fruit : and the 
YIII.-S's 


Lord took me as I followed the flock, and the Lord said 
unto me, Go prophesy unto my people Israel” (Amos 
vii, 14). That is, though called to the prophetic office, 
he did not belong to the prophetic order, and had not 
been trained in the prophetical colleges; and this, he 
indicates, was an unusual occurrence (see J. Smith On 
Prophecy, ch. ix). 

L In a general way, Ave may indicate that the sphere 
of action of the prophets was absolutely limited to Is- 
raelites, and there is only one case of a prophet going 
to the heathen to preach among them — that of Jonah 
sent to Nineveh. He goes, however, to Nineveh to 
shame the Hebrews by the reception which he meets 
with there, and acting upon his own nation was thus 
even in this case the prophet’s ultimate object. Many 
predictions of the Old Test, concern, indeed, the events 
of foreign nations, but they are always uttered and writ- 
ten with reference to Israel, and the prophets thought 
not of publishing them among the heathens themselves. 
The conversion of the pagans to the worship of the true 
God was indeed a favorite idea of the prophets; but 
the Divine Spirit told them that it was not to be ef- 
j fected by their exertions, as it was connected with ex- 
tensive future changes, which they might not forestall. 

That the Lord would send such prophets was prom- 
ised to the people by Moses, who by a special law (Deut. 
xviii, 1) secured them authority and safety. As his or- 
dinary servants and teachers, God appointed the priests: 
the characteristic mark which distinguished the proph- 
ets from them was inspiration; and this explains the 
circumstance that, in times of great moral and religious 
corruption, when the ordinary means no longer sufficed 
to reclaim the people, the number of prophets increased. 
The regular religious instruction of the people was no 
, part of the business of the prophets: their proper duty 
; was only to rouse and excite. The contrary — viz. that a 
part of the regular duty of the prophets was to instruct 
the people — is often argued from 2 Kings iv, 23, where it 
is said that the Shunamitess on the sabbaths and days 
of new moon used to go to the prophet Elisha; but this 
passage applies only to the kingdom of Israel, and ad- 
mits of no inference with respect to the kingdom of 
Judah. As regards the latter, there is no proof that 
prophets held meetings for instruction and edification 
on sacred days. Their position was here quite differ- 
ent from that of the prophets in the kingdom of Israel. 
J The agency of the prophets in the kingdom of Judah was 
only of a subsidiary kind. These extraordinary mes- 
sengers of tho Lord only filled there the gaps left by 
the regular servants of God, the priests and the Levites : 
the priesthood never became there utterly degenerate, 
and each lapse was followed by a revival of which the 
prophets were the vigorous agents. The divine election 
always vindicated itself, and in the purity of the origin 
of the priesthood lav the certainty of its continued re- 
newal. On the contrary, the priesthood in the king- 
dom of Israel had no divine sanction, no promise ; it was 
corrupt in its very source: to reform itself would have 
been to dissolve itself. The priests there were the mer- 
cenary servants of the king, and had a brand upon their 
own consciences. Hence in the kingdom of Israel the 
prophets were the regular ministers of God: with their 
office all stood or fell, and hence they were required to 
do many things besides what the original conception 
of the office of a prophet implied — a circumstance from 
the oversight of which many erroneous notions on the 
nature of prophecy have sprung. This led to another 
difference, to which we shall revert below, viz. that in 
the kingdom of Judah the prophetic office did not, as 
in Israel, possess a fixed organization and complete con- 
struction. 

In their labors, as respected their own times, the 
prophets were strictly bound to the Mosaic law, and not 
allowed to add to it or to diminish aught from it. What 
w-as said in this respect to the Avhole people (Deut. iv, 
2; xiii, 1) applied also to them. We find, therefore, 
prophecy ahvavs takes its ground on the Mosaic law, 


PROPHET 


042 


PROPHET 


to which it refers, from which it derives its sanction, 
and with which it is fully impressed and saturated. 
There is no chapter in the prophets in which there are 
not several references to the law. The business of the 
prophets was to explain it, to lay it to the hearts of the 
people, and to preserve vital its spirit. It was, indeed, 
also their duty to point to future reforms, when the 
ever-living spirit of the law would break its hitherto 
imperfect form, and make for itself another: thus Jere- 
miah (iii, 1G) foretells days when the ark of the cove- 
nant shall be no more, and (xxxi, 31) days when a new 
covenant will be made with the house of Israel and with 
the house of Judah. But for their own times they 
never once dreamed of altering any, even the minutest 
and least essential precept, even as to its form; how 
much less as to its spirit, which even the Lord himself 
declares (Matt, v, 18) to he immutable and eternal ! The 
passages which some interpreters have alleged as op- 
posed to sacritiees as instituted by the Mosaic law have 
been misunderstood ; they do not denounce sacrifices i 
generally, but only those of the Canaanites, with whom 
sacrifice was not even a form of true worship, but op- 
posed to the genuine and spiritual service of (iod. 

2. More specifically, the sixteen prophets whose books 
are in the Canon have that place of honor because they 
were endowed with the prophetic gift as well as ordi- 
narily (so lar as we know) belonging to the prophetic 
order. There were hundreds of prophets contemporary 
with each of these sixteen prophets ; and no doubt 
numberless compositions in sacred poetry and number- 
less moral exhortations were issued from the several 
schools, but only sixteen books find their place in the 
Canon. Why is this? Because these sixteen had what 
their brother collegians had not— the divine call to the 
office of prophet, and the divine illumination to en- ( 
lighten them. It was not sufficient to have been taught 
and trained in preparation for a future call. Teaching 
and training served as a preparation only. When the 
schoolmaster’s work was done, then, if the instrument 
was worthy, Cod’s work began. Moses had an exter- 
nal call at the burning bush (Exod. iii, 2). The Lord 
called Samuel, so that Eli perceived, and Samuel learned, 
that it was the Lord who called him (l Sam. iii, 10). 
Isaiah (vi, 8), Jeremiah (i, 5), Ezekiel (ii, 4), Amos 
(vii, 15), declare their special mission. Nor was it suf- 
ficient for this call to have heeu made once for all. Each 
prophetical utterance is the result of a communication 
of the divine to the human spirit, received either by 
“vision” (Isa. vi, 1) or by “the word of the Lord” (Jer. 
ii, 1). (See A ids to Faith, essay iii, “On Prophecy.”) 
What, then, are the characteristics of the sixteen proph- 
ets thus called and commissioned, and intrusted with 
the messages of (iod to his people? 

(1.) They were the national poets of Judaea. We 
have already shown that music and poetry, chants and 
hymns, were a main part of the studies of the class from 
which, generally speaking, they were derived. As is 
natural, we find not only the songs previously specified, 
but the rest of their compositions, poetical, or breathing 
the spirit of poetry. Bishop Lowth “ esteems the whole 
book of Isaiah poetical, a few passages excepted, which, 
if brought together, would not at most exceed the bulk 
•of five or six chapters,” “ half of the book of Jeremiah,” 

“ the greater part of Ezekiel.” The rest of the proph- 
ets are mainly poetical, but llaggai is “prosaic,” and 
Jonah and Daniel are plain prose ( Sacred Voetry, lect. 
xxi). The prophetical style differs from that of books 
properly called poetical, whose sublimity it all but out- 
vies, only in being less restrained by those external 
forms which distinguish poetical language from prose, 
and in introducing more frequently than prose does 
plays upon words and thoughts. This peculiarity may 
be explained by the practical tendency of prophetical 
addresses, which avoid all that is unintelligible, and 
studiously introduce what is best calculated for the mo- 
ment to strike the hearers. The same appears from 
many other circumstances, e. g. the union of music with 


prophesying, the demeanor of Saul when among the 
prophets (1 Sam. x, 5), Balaam’s description of himself 
(Numb, xxiv, 3) as a man whose eyes were opened, 
who saw the vision of the Almighty, and heard the 
words of (iod, the established phraseology to denote the 
inspiring impulse, viz. “ the hand of the Lord was strong 
upon him” (Ezek. iii, 14; comp. Isa, viii, II; 2 Kings 
iii, 15), etc. (See § vi, below.) 

(2.) They were annalists and historians. A great 
portion of Isaiah, of Jeremiah, of Daniel, of Jonah, of 
llaggai, is direct or indirect history. 

(3.) They were preachers of patriotism ; their patri- 
otism being founded on the religious motive. To the 
subject of the theocracy, the enemy of his nation was 
the enemy of (iod, the traitor to the public weal was a 
traitor to his (iod : a denunciation of an enemy was a 
denunciation of a representative of evil; an exhortation 
in behalf of Jerusalem was an exhortation in behalf of 
(iod’s kingdom on earth, “the city of our (iod, the 
mountain of holiness, beautiful for situation, the joy of 
the whole earth, the city of the great King” (Bsa. 
xlviii, 1, 2). 

(4.) They were preachers of morals and of spiritual 
religion. The symbolical teaching of the law had lost 
much of its effect. Instead oflearuing the necessity of 
purity by the legal washings, the majority came to rest 
in the outward act as in itself sufficient. It was the 
work, then, of the prophets to hold up before the eyes 
of their countrymen a high and pure morality, not 
veiled in symbols and acts, but such as none could pro- 
fess to misunderstand. Thus, in his first chapter, Isaiah 
contrasts ceremonial observances with spiritual moral- 
ity: “Your new moons and your appointed feasts my 
soul hateth : they are a trouble unto me; I am weary to 
bear them. . . . Wash ye, make you clean; put away 
the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to 
do evil; learn to do well; seek judgment; relieve the 
oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow” (i, 
14-17). lie proceeds to denounce (lod’s judgments on 
the oppression and covetousness of the rulers, the pride 
of the women (cli. iii), on grasping, profligacy, iniquity, 
injustice (eh. v), and so on throughout. The system of 
morals put forward by the prophets, if not higher or 
sterner or purer than that of the law, is more plainly 
declared, and with greater, because now more needed, 
vehemence of diction. “ Magna tides et grandis audaeia 
prophetarnm,” says St. Jerome (In Ezek.). This was 
their general characteristic, but that gifts and graces 
might be dissevered is proved by the cases of Balaam, 
Jonah, Caiaphas, and the disobedient prophet of Ju- 
dah. 

(5.) They were extraordinary, but yet authorized, 
exponents of the law. As an instance of this we may 
take Isaiah’s description of a true fast (lviii, 3-7); Eze- 
kiel’s explanation of the sins of the father being visited 
on the children (cli. xviii) ; Micah’s preference of “ doing 
justly, loving mercy, and walking humbly with (iod,” 
to “thousands of rams and ten thousands of rivers of 
oil” (vi, fi-8). In these, as in other similar cases (comp. 
Ilos. vi, G; Amos v, 21), it was the task of the prophets 
to restore the balance which had been overthrown by 
the Jews and their teachers dwelling on one side or on 
the outer covering of a truth or of a duty, and leaving 
the other side or the inner meaning out of sight. 

(G.) They held, as we have shown above, a pastoral 
or quasi-pastoral office. 

(7.) They were a political power in the state. Strong 
in the safeguard of their religious character, they were 
able to serve as a counterpoise to the royal authority 
when wielded even by an Aliab. 

(8.) But the prophets were something more Ilian 
national poets and annalists, preachers of patriotism, 
moral teachers, exponents of the law, pastors, and poli- 
ticians. We have not yet touched upon their most es- 
sential characteristic, which is that they were instru- 
ments of revealing (iod’s will to man ; as in other ways, 

I so, specially, by predicting future events, and, in par- 


PROPHET 


643 


PROPHET 


ticular, by foretelling the incarnation of the Lord Jesus 
Christ, and the redemption effected by him. There are 
two chief ways of exhibiting this fact — one is suitable 
when discoursing with Christians, the other when ar- 
guing with unbelievers. To the Christian it is enough 
to show that the truth of the New Testament and the 
truthfulness of its authors, and of the Lord himself, are 
bound up with the truth of the existence of this pre- 
dictive element in the prophets. To the unbeliever it 
is necessary to show that facts have verified their pre- 
dictions. 

(a.) In Matthew’s Gospel, the first chapter, we find a 
quotation from the prophet Isaiah, “Behold a virgin 
shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and 
they shall call his name Emmanuel and, at the same 
time, we find a statement that the birth of Christ took 
place as it did “that it might be fulfilled which was 
spoken of the Lord by the prophet,” in those words 
(i, 22, 23). This means that the prophecy was the 
declaration of God’s purpose, and that the circumstances 
of the birth of Christ were the fulfilment of that pur- 
pose. Then, either the predictive element exists in 
the book of the prophet Isaiah, or the authority of 
the evangelist Matthew must be given up. The same 
evangelist testifies to the same prophet having “spoken 
of” John the Baptist (iii, 3) in words which he quotes 
from Isa. xl, 3. He says (iv, 13-15) that Jesus came 
and dwelt in Capernaum “that” other words “spoken 
by” the same prophet (ix, 1) “ might be fulfilled.” He 
says (viii, 17) that Jesus did certain acts “ that it might 
be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet” 
(Isa. liii, 4). He says (xii, 17) that Jesus acted in a 
particular manner “that it might be fulfilled which 
was spoken by Esaias the prophet” in words quoted 
from xlii, 1. Then, if we believe Matthew, we must 
believe that in the pages of the prophet Isaiah there 
was predicted that which Jesus some seven hundred 
years afterwards fulfilled. This conclusion cannot be 
escaped by pressing the words 'iva TrXppioSy, for if 
they do not mean that certain things were done in or- 
der that the divine predestination might be accom- 
plished, which predestination was already declared by 
the prophet, they must mean that Jesus Christ know- 
ingly moulded his acts so as to be in accordance with 
what was said in an ancient book which in reality had 
no reference to him, a thing which is entirely at vari- 
ance with the character drawn of him by Matthew, 
and which would make him a conscious impostor, inas- 
much as he himself appeals to the prophecies. Further, 
it would imply (as in Matt, i, 22) that God himself con- 
trived certain events (as those connected with the birth 
of Christ), not in order that they might be in accordance 
with his will, but in order that they might be agree- 
able to the declarations of a certain book — than which 
nothing could well be more absurd. 

But. further, we have not only the evidence of the 
evangelist; we have the evidence of the Lord himself. 
He declares (Matt, xiii, 14) that in the Jews of his age 
“is fulfilled the prophecy of Esaias, which saith — ” 
(Isa. vi, 9). He says (Matt, xv, 7), “Esaias well 
prophesied of them” (Isa. xix, 13). Then, if we be- 
lieve our Lord’s sayings and the record of them, we 
must believe in prediction as existing in the prophet 
Isaiah. This prophet, who is cited between fifty and 
sixty times, may be taken as a sample; but the same 
argument might be brought forward with respect to 
Jeremiah (Matt, ii, 18; Heb. viii, 8), Daniel (Matt, 
xxiv, 15), Hosea (Matt, ii, 15; Rom. ix, 25), Joel (Acts 
ii, 17), Amos (Acts vii, 42; xv, 16), Jonah (Matt, xii, 
40). Micah (Matt, xii, 7), Habakkuk (Acts xiii, 41), 
Haggai (Heb. xii, 26), Zechariah (Matt, xxi, 5; Mark 
xiv, 27 ; John xix, 87), Malachi (Matt, xi, 10; Mark i, 
2; Luke vii, 27). With this evidence for so many of 
the prophets, it would be idle to cavil with respect to 
Ezekiel, Obadiah, Nahum, Zephaniah ; the more so as 
“ the prophets” are frequently spoken of together (Matt, 
ii, 23; Acts xiii, 40; xv, 15) as authoritative. The 


Psalms are quoted no less than seventy times, and very 
frequently as being predictive. 

(6.) The argument with the unbeliever does not ad- 
mit of being brought to an issue so concisely. Here 
it is necessary [1] to point out the existence of certain 
declarations as to future events, the probability of 
which was not discernible by human sagacity at the 
time that the declarations were made; [2] to show 
that certain events did afterwards take place corre- 
sponding with those declarations; [3] to show that 
a chance coincidence is not an adequate hypothesis 
on which to account for that correspondence. See 
Prophecy. 

Dr. Davidson pronounces it as “now commonly ad- 
mitted that the essential part of Biblical prophecy does 
not lie in predicting contingent events, but in divining 
the essentially religious in the course of history. . . . 
In no prophecy can it be shown that the literal predict- 
ing of distant historical events is contained. ... In 
conformity with the analogy of prophecy generally, 
special predictions concerning Christ do not appear in 
the Old Testament.” Dr. Davidson must mean that 
this is “now commonly admitted” by writers like him- 
self, who, following Eichhorn, resolve “the prophet’s 
delineations of the future” into, “in essence, nothing but 
forebodings — efforts of the spiritual eye to bring up be- 
fore itself the distinct form of the future. The prevision 
of the prophet is intensified presentiment.” Of course, 
if the powers of the prophets were simply “ forebodings” 
and “presentiments” of the human spirit in “its pre- 
conscious region,” they could not do more than make 
indefinite guesses about the future. But this is not the 
Jewish nor the Christian theory of prophecy. See Basil 
(//* Esai. c. iii), Chrysostom {Horn, xxii, t. v, 137, ed. 
1612), Clem. Alex. ( Strom . lib. ii), Eusebius ( Dem . Evany. 
v, 132, ed. 1544), and Justin Martyr (Dial, cum Tryph. 
p. 224, ed. 1636). See Snieer, s. v. wpo^/jn/c. 

The view commonly taken of the prophets is, indeed, 
that they were mere predictors of future events; but 
this view is one-sided and too narrow; though, on the 
other hand, we must beware of expanding too much 
the acceptation of the term prophet. Not to mention 
those who, like Hendewerk, in the introduction to his 
Commentary on the Prophet Isaiah, identify the notion 
of a prophet with that of an honest and pious man, yet 
we see from the above considerations that the conception 
of those is likewise too wide who place the essential 
feature of a prophet in his divine inspiration. That 
this does not meet the whole subject appears from 
Numb, xii, 6 sq., where Moses, who enjoyed divine in- 
spiration in its highest grade, is represented as differing 
from those called prophets in a stricter sense, and as 
standing in contrast with them. Divine inspiration is 
only the general basis of the prophetic office, to which 
other elements must be added, especially the gift of that 
inspiration in a formal manner and for a specific pur- 
pose. This will become still more clear from the con- 
siderations adduced under the next heads. 

IV. Test of the Prophetic Character . — As Moses had 
foretold, a host of false prophets arose in later times 
among the people, who promised prosperity without 
repentance, and preached the Gospel without the law: 
The writings of the prophets are full of complaints of 
the mischief done by these impostors. Jeremiah sig- 
nificantly calls them “prophets of the deceit of their 
own heart” — i. e. men who followed the suggestions of 
their own fancy in prophesying (Jer. xxiii, 26; comp, 
ver. 16, and ch. xiv, 14). All their practices prove the 
great influence which true prophetism had acquired 
among the people of Israel. But how were the people 
to distinguish between true and false prophets? This 
is decided partly hv positive or negative criteria, and 
partly by certain general marks. 

1. In the law concerning prophets (Dent, xviii, 20; 
comp, xiii, 7-9) the following enactments are con- 
tained : 

(1.) The prophet who speaks in the name of other 


PROPHET G44 PROPHET 


gods— i. c. professes to have his revelations from a god 
different from Jehovah— is to be considered as false, and 
to be punished capitally ; and this even though his pre- 
dictions should come to pass. 

(2.) The same punishment is to be inflicted on him 
who speaks in the name of the true Clod, but whose pre- 
dict ions are not accomplished. 

These enactments established a peculiar right of the 
prophets, lie who prophesied in the name of the true 
(Jod was, even when he foretold calamity, entitled to 
be tolerated, until it happened that a prediction of his 
failed of accomplishment. He might then be impris- 
oned, but could not be put to death, as instanced in 
Jeremiah (xxvi, 8-1G), who is apprehended and ar- 
raigned, but acquitted : “ Then, said the princes and the 
people unto the priests and the prophets, This man is 
not worthy to die, for he has spoken to us in the name 
of the Lord our Cod.” Allah is bv false prophets en- 
couraged to attack Jiamoth-gilead, but Micaiah proph- 
esied him no good ; on which the king becomes angry, 
and orders the prophet to be confined (1 Kings xxii, 
1-27) : “Take Micaiah and put him in prison, and feed 
him with bread of affliction, and with water of afflic- 
tion, until I come in peace.” Micaiah answers (ver. 
28), “If thou return at all in peace, the Lord has not 
spoken by me.” Until the safe return of the king, 
Micaiah is to remain in prison; after that, he shall be 
put to death. The prophet agrees to it, and the king 
goes up to Kamoth-gilead, but is slain in the battle. 

(3.) From the above two criteria of a true prophet 
flows the third, that his addresses must be in strict ac- 
cordance with the law. Whoever departs from it cannot 
be a true prophet, for it is impossible that the Lord 
should contradict himself. 

(4.) In the above is also founded the fourth criterion, 
that a true prophet must not promise prosperity without 
repentance ; and that, he is a false prophet, “of the deceit 
of his own heart,” who does not reprove the sins of the 
people, and who does not inculcate on them the doc- 
trines of divine justice and retribution. 

2. In addition to these negative criteria there were 
positive ones to procure authority to true prophets. 
First of all, it must be assumed that the prophets them- 
selves received, along with the divine revelations, assur- 
ance that these were really divine. Anv true commun- 
ion with the llol}' Spirit affords the assurance of its 
divine nature, and the prophets could, therefore, satisfy 
themselves of their divine mission. There was nothing 
to mislead and delude them in this respect, for temporal 
goods were not bestowed upon them with the gift of 
prophesying. Their own native disposition was often 
much averse to this calling, and could be only conquered 
by the Lord forcibly impelling them, as appears from 
Jer. xx, 8, 9: “Since I spake, the word of the Lord was 
made a reproach unto me, and a derision daily. Then 
1 said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any 
more in his name, but his word was in mine heart as 
a burning tire shut up in my bones, and 1 was weary 
with forbearing, and l could not stay.” Now, when the 
prophets themselves were convinced of their divine 
mission, they could in various ways prove it to others 
whom they were called on to enlighten. 

(1.) To those who had any sense of truth, the Spirit 
of I tod gave evidence that the prophecies were divinely 
inspired. This testimonium Spiritus Saudi is the chief 
argument for the reality of a divine revelation; and he 
who is susceptible of it does not, indeed, disregard the 
other proofs suiting the wants of unimproved minds, 
but lays less stress on them. 

(2.) The prophets themselves utter their firm con- 
vietion that they act and speak by divine authority, not 
of their own accord (comp, the often recurring phrase 
!"rrp CX2, “a prophecy of Jehovah,” Jer. xxvi, 12, etc.). 
Their pious life bore testimony to their being worthy 
of a nearer communion with tlod, and defended them 
from the suspicion of intentional deception ; their sobri- I 


ety of mind distinguished them from all fanatics, and 
defended them from the suspicion of self-delusion; their 
fortitude in suffering for truth proved that they had their 
commission from no human authority. 

(3.) Part of the predictions of the prophets referred to 
proximate events, and their accomplishment was divine 
evidence of their divine origin. Whoever had been 
once favored with such a testimonial, his authority was 
established for his whole life, as instanced in Samuel. 
Of him it is said (1 Sam. iii, 19) : “flic Lord was with 
him, and let none of his words fall to the ground (i. e. 
fulfilled them); and all Israel knew (from this) that 
Samuel was established to he a prophet of the Lord.” 
Of the divine mission of Isaiah no doubt could be enter- 
tained after, for instance, bis prophecies of the over- 
throw' of Sennacherib before Jerusalem bad been ful- 
filled. The credentials of the divine mission of Ezekiel 
were certified when his prediction was accomplished, 
that Zedekiah should be brought to Habvlon, but should 
not see it, for the king was made prisoner and blinded 
(Ezek. xii, 12, 13) ; they were further confirmed by the 
fulfilment of his prediction concerning the destruction 
of the city (eh. xxiv). Jeremiah's claims were authen- 
ticated by the fulfilment of his prediction that Shallum, 
the son of Josinh, king of Judah, should die in his pris- 
on. and see his native country no more (Jer. xxii, 11, 
12 ). 

(4.) Sometimes the divine mission of the prophets 
was also proved by miracles; but this occurred only at 
important crises, when the existence of the kingdom of 
Israel was in jeopardy, as in the age of Elijah and Eli- 
sha. Miracles are mentioned as criteria of true proph- 
ets (Dcut. xiii, 2), still with this caution, that they 
should not be trusted alone, but that the people should 
inquire whether the negative criteria w r ere extant. 

(5.) Those prophets whose divine commission had 
been sufficiently proved bore testimony to the divine 
mission of others. It has been observed above that 
there was a certain gradation among the prophets; the 
principals of the colleges of prophets procured authority 
to the “sons” of prophets. Thus the deeds of Elijah 
and Elisha at the same time authenticated the hun- 
dreds of prophets w hose superiors they were. Concern- 
ing the relation of the true prophets to each other, the 
passage 2 Kings ii, 9 is remarkable; Elisha says to Eli- 
jah, “I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be 
upon me.” Here Elisha, as the first-born of Elijah in 
a spiritual sense, and standing to him in the same rela- 
tion as Joshua to Moses, asks for a double portion of bis 
spiritual inheritance, alluding to the law concerning the 
hereditary right, of the lawfully begotten first-born son 
(Dent, xxi, 17). This case supposes that other proph- 
ets also of the kingdom of Israel took portions of the 
fulness of the spirit of Elijah. It is plain, then, that 
only a few prophets stood in immediate communion with 
Cod, while that of the remaining was formed by medi- 
ation. The latter were spiritually incorporated in the 
former, and. on the ground of this relation, actions per- 
formed by Elisha, or through the instrumentality of 
one of his pupils, are at once ascribed to Elijah, e. g. 
the anointing of Ilazael to be king over Syria (1 Kings 
xix, 15; comp. 2 Kings viii, 13) ; the anointing of Jehu 
to lie king over Israel (1 Kings xix. Hi; comp. 2 Kings 
ix, 1 sq.) ; the writing of the letter to Joram. etc. Thus 
in a certain sense it may be affirmed that Elijah was in 
his time t lie only prophet of the kingdom of Israel. 
Similarly of Moses it is recorded, during his passage 
through the desert, that a portion of his spirit was con- 
veyed to the seventy elders (Numb, xi. 17). The his- 
tory of the Christian Church itself offers analogies; 
look, e. g. at the relation of the second-class ileform- 
ers to Luther and Calvin. 

(0.) It hardly needs to he mentioned that before a 
mail could be a prophet be must, be converted. This 
clearly appears in the ease of Isaiah, “ whose iniquity 
was taken away and his sin purged” previous to his en- 
tering on his mission to the people of the covenant. 


PROPHET 


645 


PROPHET 


For a single momentary inspiration, however, the mere 
beginning of spiritual life sufficed, as instanced in Ba- 
laam and Saul. 

3. As to prophecy in its circumscribed sense, or the 
foretelling of future events by the prophets, some ex- 
positors would explain all predictions of special events; 
while others assert that no prediction contains anything 
but general promises or threatenings, and that the 
prophets knew nothing of the particular manner in 
which their predictions might be realized. Both these 
classes deviate from the correct view of prophecy: the 
former often resort to the most arbitrary interpreta- 
tions, and the latter are opposed by a mass of facts 
against which they arc unable successfully to contend: 
e. g. when Ezekiel foretells (xii, 12) that Zedekiah 
would try to break through the walls of the city and to 
escape, but that he would be seized, blinded, and taken 
to Babylon. The frailty of the people, under the Old 
Test., required external evidence of the real connection 
of the prophets with God, and the predictions of par- 
ticular forthcoming events -were to them atj/itia, signs. 
These were the more indispensable to them, because 
the ancients generally, and the Orientals in particular, 
showed the greatest tendency towards the exploration 
of futurity, which tended to foster superstition and for- 
ward idolatry. All other methods of knowing future 
events by necromancy, conjuration, passing through the 
tire, etc., having been strictly forbidden (Dent, xviii, 10, 
11), it might be expected that the deep-rooted craving 
for the knowledge of forthcoming events would be grat- 
ified in some other and nobler manner. The success of 
a prophet depended on the gift of special knowledge of 
futurity; this, it is true, was granted comparatively to 
only few, but in the authority thus obtained all those 
shared who were likewise invested with the prophetic 
character. It was the seal impressed on true prophe- 
cy, as opposed to false. From 1 Sam. ix, 6, it appears 
that, to inspire uncultivated minds with the sense of 
divine truths, the prophets stooped occasionally to dis- 
close things of common life, using this as the means to 
reach a higher mark. On the same footing with defi- 
nite predictions stand miracles and tokens, which proph- 
ets of the highest rank, as Elijah and Isaiah, volun- 
teered or granted. These also were requisite to confirm 
the feeble faith of the people ; but Ewald justly remarks 
that with the true prophets they never appear as the 
chief point; they only assist and accompany prophecy, 
but are not its object, not the truth itself, which super- 
sedes them as soon as it gains sufficient strength and 
influence. 

Some interpreters, misunderstanding passages like 
Jer. xviii, 8; xxvi, 13, have asserted, with Dr. Koster, 
(p. 226 sq.), that all prophecies were conditional; and 
have even maintained that their revoeability distin- 
guished the true predictions (IVeissaguvrf) from sooth- 
saying (Wahrsagnng). But beyond all doubt, when 
the prophet denounces the divine judgments, he pro- 
ceeds on the assumption that the people will not repent, 
an assumption which be knows from God to be true. 
Were the people to repent, the prediction would fail ; 
but because they will not, it is uttered absolutely. It 
does not follow, however, that the prophet’s warnings 
and exhortations are useless. These serve “ for a wit- 
ness against them ;” and besides, amid the ruin of the 
mass, individuals might be saved. Viewing prophecies 
as conditional predictions nullifies them. The Mosaic 
criterion (Dent, xviii, 22), that he was a false prophet 
who predicted “ things which followed not nor came to 
pass,” would then be of no value, since recourse might 
always be had to the excuse that the case had been al- 
tered by the fulfilment of the condition. The fear of in- 
troducing fatalism, if the prophecies are not taken in a 
conditional sense, is unfounded; for God’s omniscience, 
his foreknowledge, does not establish fatalism, and from 
divine omniscience simply is the prescience of the 
prophets to be derived. The prophets feel themselves 
so closely united to God that the words of Jehovah are 


given as their own, and that to them is often ascribed 
what God does, as slaying and reviving (Hos. vi, 5), 
rooting out nations and restoring them (Jer. i, 10 ; xviii, 
7; Ezelc. xxxii, 18; xliii, 3); which proves their own 
consciousness to have been entirely absorbed into that 
of God. 

V. The Prophetic State of Insjriration. — We learn 
from Holy Scripture that it was by the agency of the 
Spirit of God that the prophets received the divine 
communication. Thus, on the appointment of the sev- 
enty elders, “The Lord said, I will take of the Spirit 
which is upon thee, and will put it upon them. . . . 
And the Lord . . . took of the Spirit that was upon 
him, and gave it unto the seventy elders; and it came 
to pass that when the Spirit rested upon them, they 
prophesied and did not cease. . . . And Moses said, 
Would God that all the Lord’s people were prophets, 
and that the Lord would put his Spirit upon them” 
(Numb, xi, 17, 25, 29). Here we see that what made 
the. seventy prophesy was their being endued with the 
Lord’s Spirit by the Lord himself. So it is the Spirit 
of the Lord which made Saul (1 Sam. x, 6) and his 
messengers (xix, 20) prophesy. Thus Peter assures us 
that “prophecy came not in old time by the will of 
man, but holy men of God spake, moved (<ptp6ptvoi) 
by the Holy Ghost” (2 Pet. i, 21), while false prophets 
are described as those “who speak a vision of their own 
heart, and not out of the mouth of the Lord” (Jer. 
xxiii, 16), “ who prophesy out of their own hearts, . . . 
who follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing” 
(Ezek. xiii, 2, 3). lienee the emphatic declarations of 
the Great Prophet of the Church that he did not speak 
of himself (John vii, 17, etc.). The prophet held an 
intermediate position in communication between God 
and man. God communicated wdth him by his Spirit, 
and he, having received this communication, was “the 
spokesman” of God to man (eomp. Exod. vii. l,and iv, 
16). But the means by which the Divine Spirit com- 
municated with the human spirit, and the conditions of 
the human spirit under which the divine communica- 
tions were received, have not been clearly declared to 
us. They are, however, indicated. On the occasion 
of the sedition of Miriam and Aaron, we read, “And the 
Lord said, Hear now my w'ords: If there be a prophet 
among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto 
him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream. 
My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine 
house : wdth him will 1 speak mouth to mouth, even ap- 
parently, and not in dark speeches, and the similitude 
of the Lord shall he behold” (Numb. xii. 6-8). Here 
we have an exhaustive division of the different ways iu 
which the revelations of God are made to man : 1. Di- 
rect declaration and manifestation — “ I will speak mouth 
to mouth, apparently, and the similitude of the Lord 
shall he behold;” 2. Vision; 3. Dream. It is indicated 
that, at least at this time, the vision and the dream 
w r ere the special means of conveying a revelation to a 
prophet, while the higher form of direct declaration 
and manifestation was reserved for the more highly 
favored Moses. Joel’s prophecy appears to make the 
same division, “ Your old men shall dream dreams, and 
your young men shall see visions,” these being the two 
methods in which the promise, “your sons and your 
daughters shall prophesy,” is to be carried out (ii, 28). 
Of Daniel we are told that “he had understanding in 
all visions and dreams” (Dan. i, 17). Can these phases 
of the prophetic state be distinguished from each other? 
and in what did they consist? 

According to the theory of Philo and the Alexandrian 
school, the prophet was in a state of entire unconscious- 
ness at the time that he was under the influence of di- 
vine inspiration, “for the human understanding,” says 
Philo, “ takes its departure on the arrival of the Divine 
Spirit, and on the removal of the latter again returns to 
its home, for the mortal must not dwell with the im- 
mortal” ( Quis Rer. Die. liar, i, 511). Balaam is de- 
scribed by him as an unconscious instrument through 


PKOPIIET 


64G 


PROPHET 


whom God spoke (De Vita Mosis, lib. i, vol. ii, p. 124). 
Josephus makes Balaam excuse himself to Balak on the 
same principle: “When the .Spirit of God seizes us, it 
utters whatsoever sounds and words it pleases, without 
any knowledge on our part, . . . for when it has come 
into us, there is nothing in us which remains our own” 
(.!»/. iv, 6, 5). This theory identifies Jewish prophecy 
in all essential points with the heathen pavTiKi), or div- 
ination, as distinct from 7rpo0ijr«ia, or interpretation. 
Montanism adopted the same view : “ Defendimus, in 
causa nova? prophetia?, gratire exstasin, id est amentiam, 
eonvenire. In spiritu eitim homo constitutus, pra?ser- 
tim cum gloriam Dei conspicit, vel cum per ipsum Ileus 
loipiitnr, neeesse est exeidat sensu, obumbratus scilicet 
virtute divina; de quo inter nos et Psycliicos (catholi- 
cos) quiestio est” (Tertullian, A dr. Marriott. iv, 22). 
According to the belief, then, of the heathen, of the Al- 
exandrian Jews, and of the Montanists, the vision of the 
prophet was seen while he was in a state of ecstatic un- 
consciousness, and the enunciation of the vision was 
made by him in the same state. The fathers of the 
Church opposed the Montanist theory with great una- 
nimity. In Eusebius’s History (v, 17) we read that 
Miltiades wrote a book Hepi row p>) ctiv TrpotpijTyv iv 
tKoutau \a\tiv. St. Jerome writes: “Non loquitur 
propheta iv iraTaaei, ut Montanus et Prisca Maximil- 
laque delirant, sed quod prophetat liber est visionis in- 
telligentis universa quae loquitur” ( Prolog . in Nahum). 
Again : “Neque vero ut Montanus cum insanis fern inis 
somniat, proi)heta? in ecstasi locuti sunt ut nescierint 
quid loquerentur, et cum alios erudirent ipsi ignorarent 
quid dicercnt” (Proloy. in Esai.). Origen (Contr. Cel- 
sum, vii, 4) and St. Basil ( Commentary on Isaiah, Pro- 
ocni. c. 5) contrast the prophet with the soothsayer, on 
the ground of the latter being deprived of his senses. 
St. Chrysostom draws out the contrast : Towro yap 
pdvTtujg ihov, to i^earytcivai, to avdyxpv virop't- 
vti i', ro (jjStiaSai, to iXtcto-rai, to avptaSai uxrTrtp 
puivoptvov. ’() ci Trpn(pi)TiiQ ov\ ovrtog, AXXu ptrd 
uavoiag vptpovatjg Kai (juvftpovovopg KaTaaTuottog, 
rat tict'og ii ipSiyytTai, typoiv uttui’TW mart Kai 7rpb 
rijg iK/3dotwg KavTicjijv yvtopi^e tov pdvriv Kai tov 
7rpo(pijTt]V (Horn, xxix in Epist. ad Corinth.). At the 
same time, while drawing the distinction sharply be- 
tween heathen soothsaying and Montanist prophesying 
on the one side, and Hebrew prophecy on the other, the 
fathers use expressions so strong as almost to represent 
the prophets to be passive instruments acted on by the 
Spirit of God. Thus it is that they describe them as 
musical instruments — the pipe (Athenagoras, Ley. pro 
Christianis , c. ix ; Clem. Alex. Cohort, ad Cent. c. i), the 
lyre (Justin Martyr, Cohort, ad Grtec. c. viii ; Kphraem 
Syr. Rhythm, xxix; Chrysostom, Ad Pop. Antioch. 
Horn, i, t. ii), or as pens (St. Greg. Magn. Prcef. in 
Mor. in Job). Expressions such as these (many of 
which are quoted by Dr. Lee, On Inspiration, Appendix 
(4) must be set against the passages which were direct- 
ed against the Montanists. Nevertheless, there is a very 
appreciable difference between their view and that of 
Tertullian and Philo. Which is most in accordance 
with the indications of IIolv Scripture? 

It does not seem possible to draw any very precise 
distinction between the prophetic “dream" and the pro- 
phetic “vision.” In the case of Abraham (Gen. xv, 1) 
and of Daniel (Dan. vii, 1), they seem to melt into each 
other. In both the external senses are at rest, reflec- 
tion is quiescent, and intuition energizes. The action 
of the ordinary faculties is suspended in the one case by 
natural, in the other by supernatural or extraordinary 
causes (see Lee, Inspiration, p. 173). The state into 
which the prophet was, occasionally, at least, thrown 
by the ecstasy, or vision, or trance, is described poeti- 
cally in the book of Job (iv, 13-1(1; xxxiii, 15), and 
more plainly in the book of Daniel. In the case of 
Daniel, we find first a deep sleep (viii, IS; x, 9) accom- 
panied by terror (viii, 17 ; x. s ). Then he is raised up- 
right (viii, 1*) on his hands and knees, and then on his 


I feet (x, 10, II). He then receives the divine revelation 
(viii, 19; x, 12). After this he falls to the ground in 
a swoon (x, 15, 17); he is faint, sick, and astonished 
(viii, 27). Here, then, is an instance of the ecstatic 
state; nor is it confined to the Old Test., though we do 
not find it in the New Test, accompanied bv such vio- 
lent effects upon the body. At the Transfiguration, the 
disciples fell on their face, being overpowered by the 
divine glory, and were restored, like Daniel, by the 
touch of Jesus’ hand. Peter fell into a trance (ticoTa- 
oig) before he received his vision, instructing him as to 
the admission of the Gentiles (Acts x, 10; xi, 5). Paul 
was in a trance (iv tKoraaft) when he was commanded 
to devote himself to the conversion of the Gentiles 
(xxii, 17), and when he was caught up into the third 
heaven (2 Cor. xii, 1). John was probably in the same 
state (iv irvtvpan) when he received the message to 
the seven churches (Lev. i, 10). 'The prophetic trance, 
then, must be acknowledged as a scriptural account of 
the state in which the prophets and other inspired per- 
sons, sometimes, at least, received divine revelations. 
It would seem, in such particular cases, to have been of 
tbe following nature : (1.) 'Hie bodily senses were closed 
to external objects as in deep sleep; (2.) 'I'lie reflective 
and discursive faculty was still and inactive; (3.) 'The 
spiritual faculty (iryevpa) was awakened to the highest 
state of energy. Hence it is that revelations in trances 
are described by the prophets as “seen” or “heard” by 
them, for the spiritual faculty energizes by immediate 
perception on the part of the inward sense, not by in- 
ference and thought. Thus Isaiah “ saw the Lord sit- 
ting” (Isa. vi, I). Zecliariah “lifted up his eyes and 
saw ” (Zecli. ii, 1) ; “ the word of the Lord which Mieah 
saw" (Mic. i, 1); “the wonder which llabakknk did 
see ” (Hah. i, 1). “Peter saw heaven opened . . . and 
there came a voice to him” (Acts x, 1 1). Paul was “ in 
a trance, and saw him sayiny" (xxii, 18). John “ heard 
a great voice . . . and saw seven golden candlesticks" 
(Uev. i, 12). lienee it is, too, that the prophets’ vis- 
ions are unconnected and fragmentary, inasmuch as they 
are not the subject of the reflective, but of the percep- 
tive faculty. 'They described wliat they saw and heard, 
not what they had themselves thought out and system- 
atized. Hence, too, succession in time is disregarded 
or unnoticed. The subjects of t he vision being, to the 
prophets' sight, in juxtaposition or enfolding each other, 
some in the foreground, some in the background, are 
necessarily abstracted from the relations of time. Hence, 
too, the imagery with which the prophetic writings are 
colored, and the dramatic cast in which they are mould- 
ed ; these peculiarities resulting, as we have already 
said, in a necessary obscurity and difficulty of interpre- 
tation. 

But though it must be allowed that Scripture lan- 
guage seems to point out tbe state of dream and of 
trance, or ecstasy, as a condition in which the human 
instrument occasionally received the divine communi- 
cations, it does not follow that ail the prophetic revela- 
tions were thus made. We must acknowledge the state 
of trance in such passages as Isa. vi (called ordinarily 
the vision of Isaiah), as Ezek. i (called the vision of 
EzekieD, as Dan. vii. viii, x. xi, xii (called the visions 
of Daniel), as Zecli. i, iv, v, vi (called the visions of 
Zecliariah). as Acts x (called the vision of Si. Peter), 
as 2 Cor. xii (called the vision of St. Paul), and similar 
instances, which are indicated by tbe language used. 
But it does not seem true to say, with 1 Kngsteiiberg, 
that “the difference between these prophecies and the 
rest is a vanishing one. anil if we hut possess the power 
and the ability to look more deeply into them, the 
marks of the vision may be discerned” (Chrisioloyy, iv, 
417). This view is advocated also by Veltlmsen (De 
Optica Rernm Futurarum Description), Jalin ( Einleit, in 
die yottlicken Hitcher des A . /».), Tholuck (Die Propheten 
mill ihre Weissayunyen). St. Paul distinguishes “ rev- 
elations" from “visions” (2 Cor. xii. 1). In the books 
of Moses “ speaking mouth to mouth” is contrasted with 


PROPHET 


647 


PROPHET 


“ visions ami dreams” (Numb, xii, 8). It is true that 
in this last-quoted passage “ visions and dreams” alone 
appear to be attributed to the prophet, while “speaking 
mouth to mouth” is reserved for Moses. But when 
Muses was dead, the cause of this difference would 
cease. During the a?ra of propheev there were none 
nearer to God, none with whom he would, we may sup- 
pose, communicate more openly than the prophets. We 
should expect, then, that they would be the recipients, 
not only of visions in the state of dream or ecstasy, but 
also of the direct revelations which are called speaking 
mouth to mouth. The greater part of the divine com- 
munications we may suppose to have been thus made 
to the prophets in their waking and ordinary state, 
while the visions were exhibited to them either in the 
state of sleep or in the state of ecstasy. “The more 
ordinary mode through which the word of the Lord, as 
far as we can trace, came, was through a divine impulse 
given to the prophet’s own thoughts” (Stanley, p. 426). 
Hence it follows that, while the fathers in their opposi- 
tion to Montanism and pavia were pushed somewhat 
too far in their denial of the eestatie state, they were 
yet perfectly exact in their descriptions of the condition 
under which the greater part of the prophetic revela- 
tions were received and promulgated. No truer de- 
scription has been given of them than that of Hippoly- 
tus and that of St. Basil: Ov yap idiag cvvdptiog 
t<f>2rtyyovro, o>>ci amp avroi ijSovXovro ravra ita'j- 
Pvttov, d\\a TTputrov pip Cia rov Aoyoo iootyiZarro 
opSuig, ’imira ci’ opapdroiv TrpofCtcdtTKorro tu ptX- 
Ao vra KaXutg' tJ$' ovroj Trvmiaph'OL eXtyor ravra 
ilmp auroig pp poi>oig diru rov Htoo d7roKEKpvpph’a 
(Hippol. De Antichristo, c. ii). II wg 7rpot<pi)rtvop a'i 
KaSapai Kai diavyelg ^pv\ai ; o'topti Karo7Trpa ytpope- 
va ri)g Qelag tvepytiag, rt)v tpQaoip pavijv Kai dovy- 
\vrov Kai ovdiv im$oXovpfi’i]p Ik ruw 7raSrun> rijg 
capKog EmdtiKpvvro' tt dot pivydp tt dptan ro' Aytav 
Uvevpa (St. Basil, Cumin, in Esai. Procem.). The state 
of ecstasy, though ranking high above the ordinary 
sensual existence, is still not the highest, as appears 
from Numb, xii, and the example of Christ, whom we 
never find in an ecstatieal state. To the prophets, how- 
ever, it was indispensable, on account of the frailty of 
themselves and the people. The forcible working upon 
them by the Spirit of God would not have been re- 
quired, if their general life had already been altogether 
holy; for which reason we also find ecstasy to manifest 
itself the stronger the more the general life was ungod- 
ly; as, for instance, in Balaam, when the Spirit of God 
came upon him (Numb, xxiv, 4, 16), and in Satd, who 
throws himself on the ground, tearing his clothes from 
liis body. With a prophet whose spiritual attainments 
were those of an Isaiah, such residts are not to be ex- 
pected. As regards the people, their spiritual obtnse- 
ness must be considered as very great to have rendered 
necessary such vehement excitations as the addresses 
of the prophets caused. 

Ilad the prophets a full knowledge of that which 
they predicted ? It follows from what we have already 
said that in many cases they had not, and could not 
have. They were the “ spokesmen" of God (Exod. vii, 
1), the “ mouth” by which his words were uttered, or 
they were enabled to view, and empowered to describe, 
pictures presented to their spiritual intuition ; but there 
are no grounds for believing that, contemporaneously 
with this miracle, there was wrought another miracle 
enlarging the understanding of the prophet so as to 
grasp the whole of the divine counsels which he was 
gazing into, or which he was the instrument of enun- 
ciating. We should not expect it beforehand ; and we 
have the testimony of the prophets themselves (Dan. 
xii, 8; Zeeh. iv, 5), and of St. Peter (l Pet. i, 10) to the 
fact that they frequently did not fully comprehend 
them. The passage in Peter’s epistle is very instruc- 
tive: “Of which salvation the prophets have inquired 
and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace 
that should come unto you : searching what, or what 


manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them 
did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings 
of Christ, and the glory that should follow 7 . Unto whom 
it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us 
they did minister the things which are now reported 
unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto 
you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven.” It 
is here declared (1) that the IIolv Ghost through the 
J prophet, or the prophet by the Holy Ghost, testified of 
l Christ’s sufferings and ascension, and of the institution 
of Christianity; (2) that after having uttered predic- 
j tions on those subjects, the minds of the prophets oecu- 
j pied themselves in searching into the full meaning of 
! the words that they had uttered; (3) that they were 
! then divinely informed that their predictions were not 
| to find their completion until the last days, and that. 

! they themselves were instruments for declaring good 
| things that should come not to their own but to a fut- 
j ure generation. This is exactly what the prophetic 
| state above described would lead us to expect. While 
the divine communication is received, the human in- 
strument is simply passive. He sees or hears by his 
spiritual intuition or perception, and declares what he 
has seen or heard. Then the rellective faculty, which 
had been quiescent but never so overpowered as to be 
destroyed, awakens to the consideration of the message 
or vision received, and it strives earnestly to understand 
i it, and more especially to look at the revelation as in 
| instead of out of time. The result is a comparative 
failure; but this failure is softened by the divine inti- 
mation that the time is not yet. The two questions, 
What did the prophet understand by this prophecy? 

! and What was the meaning of this prophecy? are some- 
’ what different in the ultimate estimation of every one 
j who believes that “the Holy Ghost spake by the 
1 prophets,” or who considers it possible that he did so 
, speak. It is on this principle rather than as it is ex- 
plained by Dr. M ; Caul ( Aids to Faith) that the proph- 
! ecy of llosea xi, 1 is to be interpreted. Ilosea, we may 
! well believe, understood in bis own words no more than 
a reference to the historical fact that the children of 
j Israel came out of Egypt. But Ilosea was not the au- 
j thor of the prophecy — he was the instrument by which 
it was promulgated. The Holy Spirit intended some- 
I thing further, and what this something was he informs 
us by the evangelist Matthew (Matt, ii, 15). The two 
facts of the Israelites being led out of Egypt and ol 
Christ’s return from Egypt appear to Prof. Jowett so 
, distinct that the reference by Matthew to the prophet 
! is to him inexplicable except on the hypothesis of a 
mistake on the part of the evangelist (see Jowett, Essay 
on the Interpretation of Scripture). A deeper insight 
into Scripture shows that “the Jewish people them- 
, selves, their history, their ritual, their government, all 
| present one grand prophecy of the future Bedeenier” 
(Lee, p. 107). Consequently “ Israel” is one of the forms 
[ naturally taken in the prophetic vision by the idea 
“ Messiah” It does not follow from the above, how- 
ever, that the prophets had no intelligent comprehen- 
sion of their ordinary vaticinations. These, so far at 
least as the primary reference is concerned, were plain 
to their own mind, although the future and full signifi- 
cance was of necessity dim and imperfectly apprehended. 
Time, in the order of providence, is God’s own best ex- 
pounder of prophecy. 

While the prophets were under the influence of in- 
spiration, the scenery might produce deep, absorbing, 
or elevated emotion, which would sometimes greatly 
affect their physical system (Gen. xv, 12; Numb, xxiv, 
16; Dan.x,8; Ezek.i,28; Rev. i, 17). Still they had 
an intelligent consciousness of what they were describ- 
ing; they retained their distinct mental faculties; they 
did not utter frantic ravings like the prophets of Baal, 
Undoubtedly, as the prophecies are a revelation from 
God, the prophets well understood, at least in a general 
way, the predictions they uttered; but they did not 
necessarily testify or know anything respecting the time 


PROPHET 


048 


PROPHET 


when the events predicted should happen (Dan. xii, 8. 
9; 1 Pet. i, 10-12). Occasionally even this was revealed 
to them (Jcr. ii. 10). The symbols which were often 
exhibited to the prophets they described as they came 
before them in succession, and in some instances they 
were subsequently favored with a more full and partic- 
ular explanation of the scenery which passed before 
them (Kzek. xxxvii, 11). Though the prophetic office 
was generally permanent, it need not, and should not, 
be supposed that at all tines and on all occasions the 
prophets spoke and acted under the special aid and 
guidance of the Holy Spirit. So much was not true of 
even the apostles of Christ. It is enough that at all 
due times, and in appropriate circumstances, they were 
specially guided and aided by the Spirit of God. Nor 
is it necessary to assume that all the prophets were en- 
dowed with miraculous powers. Such was not the case 
even with Christian prophets (1 Cor. xii, 10). Sec ls- 

81* (RATION. 

VI. Form and Peculiarities of the Prophetic Utter- 
ances . — 1. Verbal Modes of Deli re ry . — Usually the 
prophets promulgated their visions and announcements 
in public places before the congregated people. Still 
some portions of the prophetic books, as the entire sec- 
ond part of Isaiah and the description of the new Tem- 
ple (Kzek. xl-xlviii), probably were never communi- 
cated orally. In other cases the prophetic addresses 
first delivered orally were next, when committed to 
writing, revised and improved. Especially the books 
of the lesser prophets consist, for the greater part, not 
of separate predictions, independent of each other, but 
form, as they now are, a whole— that is, they give the 
quintessence of the prophetic labors of their authors. I n 
this ease it is certain that the authors themselves caused 
the collection to be made. But it is so likewise in some 
cases where their books really consist of single declara- 
tions, and in others it is at least highly probable. Fur- 
ther particulars concerning the manner in which pro- 
phetic rolls were collected and published we have only 
respecting Jeremiah, who, being in prison, called Ba- 
ruch ‘ ; to write from his mouth his predictions, and to 
read them in the ears of the people” (Jer. xxxviii, 4- 
14). There is evidence that the later prophets sedu- 
lously read the writings of the earlier, and that a pro- 
phetic canon existed before the present was formed. 
The predictions of Jeremiah throughout rest on the 
writings of earlier prophets, as K it per has established 
(in his Jeremias Librornm Sacrorum Interpret utque 17//- 
dex, Berlin. 1837). Zechariah explicitly alludes to writ- 
ings of former prophets; “ to the words which the Lord 
has spoken to earlier prophets, when Jerusalem was in- 
habited and in prosperity” (Zech. i, 4; vii, 7, 12). In 
all probability we have complete those predictions which 
were committed to writing; at least the proofs which 
Ewald gives (p. 43 sq.) for his opinion, of prophecies 
having been lost, do not stand trial. The words “as 
the Lord hath said,” in Joel ii, 32, refer to the pre- 
dictions of Joel himself. In Isa. ii and Mic. iv nothing 
is introduced from a lost prophetic roll, but Isaiah bor- 
rows from Micnh. llosea alludes (viii, 12), not to some 
unknown work, but to the Pentateuch. In Isa. xv and 
xvi the prophet repeats, not another's prediction, but 
his own, previously delivered, to which lie adds a sup- 
plement. Obadiah and Jeremiah do not avail them- 
selves of the written address of a former pro] diet, but 
Jeremiah makes the prophecy of Obadiah the ground- 
work of his own. The opinion that in Isa. lvi, it); 1 vii, 
11, there was inserted, unaltered, a long remnant of an 
older roll is founded on erroneous views respecting the 
time of its composition. The same holds good of Isa. 
xxiv, where Ewald would find remnants of several older 
rolls. The very circumstance that in the prophets there 
nowhere occurs a tenable ground for maintaining that 
they referred to rolls lost and unknown to us, but that 
they often allude to writings which we know and pos- 
sess, clearly proves that there is no reason for supposing, 
with Ewald, that a yreut number of prophetic composi- 


tions have been lost, “and that of a large tree, only a 
few blossoms have reached our time.” In consequence 
of the prophets being considered as organs of God, much 
care was bestowed on the preservation of their publica- 
tions. Ewald himself cannot refrain from observing 
(p. off), “We have in Jcr. xxvi, 1-19 a clear proof of 
the exact knowledge which the better classes of the 
people had of all that had, a hundred years before, hap- 
pened to a prophet — of his words, misfortunes, and acci- 
dents.” 

2. Symbolic Actions. — In the midst of the prophetic 
declarations symbolic actions are often mentioned which 
the prophets had to perform. The opinions of inter- 
preters on these are divided. Most interpreters hold 
that they always, at least generally, were really done; 
others assert that they had existence only in the mind 
of the prophets, and formed part of their visions. See 
1 Iosica. Another symbolic action of Jeremiah prefigures 
the people’s destruction, lie says (xiii, 1-10) lie had 
been by the Lord directed to get a linen girdle, to put 
it on his loins, to undertake a long tour to the Euphra- 
tes, and to hide the girdle there in a hole of the rock, 
lie does so, returns, and after many days the Lord again 
orders him to take the girdle from the place where it 
was hidden, but “ the girdle was marred and good for 
nothing.” In predicting the destruction of Babylon 
and a general war (xxv, 12-38), he receives from the 
Lord a wine-cup, to cause a number of kings of various 
nations, among whom the sword would be sent, to drink 
from it till they should be overcome, lie then goes 
with this cup to the kings of Egypt, Arabia, Persia, 
Media, and many other countries. When the prophet 
Ezekiel receives his commission and Instructions to 
prophesy against the rebellions people of Israel, a roll 
of a book is presented to him, which he eats by the di- 
rection of the Lord (Ezek. ii, 9; iii, 2, 3). lie is next 
ordered to lie before the city of Jerusalem on his left 
side three hundred and ninety days; and when he had 
accomplished them, on his right side forty days. He 
must not turn from one side to the other, and lie is or- 
dered to bake with dung of man the bread which he 
eats during this time (iv, 4, 8, 12). Isaiah is ordered 
to walk naked and barefoot, for a sign upon Egypt and 
Ethiopia (Isa. xx, 2, 3). But, however we may under- 
stand these directions, we cannot refer all symbolic ac- 
tions to internal intuition; at least, of a false prophet 
we have a sure example of an externally performed 
symbolic action (1 Kings xxii, 11), and the false proph- 
ets always aped the true ones (comp. Jer. xix, l sq.). 
These undoubted instances of a literal action warrant 
the presumption that in the other cases likewise there 
was a substantial fact as the basis of a spiritual sym- 
bolism. See Vision. 

In the case of visions the scenery passed before their 
mind, something like a panoramic view of a landscape, 
gradually unfolding, in symlxdical imagery, forms of 
glory or of gloom; accompanied with actions of a cor- 
responding character, not unfrequently exhibiting, as 
in actual occurrence, the future and distant events. The 
prophets occasionally beheld themselves as actors in the 
symbolical scenery. In the visionary pageant many 
objects would appear to be grouped, or lying near to- 
gether, which were in fact separated bv considerable in- 
tervals of time; so that it is not. to be expected that 
the prophets would describe what they saw in their 
connections and relations. Sec Sv.nuoi.. 

3. Prophetic Style and Diction . — The idea of prophecy 
as anticipated history has given rise to many errone- 
ous views of prophetic language. No prophecy can be 
rightly interpreted which does not illustrate the name 
of God in the elements of his character, the principles 
of his government, his purposes of mercy and judgment 
towards men. The human race presents the only prop- 
er object of moral treatment. When judgments or 
blessings are announced upon states and kingdoms, to 
have respect to the territory rather than the inhabi- 
tants is to merge the spiritual in the natural. The 


PROPHET 


649 


PROPHET 


promises which are associated with Mount Zion, and 
the tlireatenings uttered against Edom, belong not to 
the locality, but to the people, and, to all who imbibe 
their spirit and walk in their steps. 

The mission of the prophets was the religions educa- . 
tion of the Jewish people. They were raised up, ac- 
cording to the exigencies of the times, to preserve them 
from error, and to prepare their minds for the future 
development of the kingdom of God. Their object vras 
twofold— to maintain the Church in due allegiance to 
prescribed rites, institutions, ordinances, and yet to pre- 
pare the people for a further manifestation of the bless- 
ings of the new covenant. By their writings they de- 
signed to impart to future ages an explanation of the 
vanishing-away of the system under which they lived, 
and to confirm the divine origin and authority of the 
new order of things. The prophetic style and diction 
exactly accords with this view of their design. This 
will account for the various hues of light and shade 
which streak the scroll of prophecy. 

If the future course of events had been clearly marked 
out and formally laid down, all motives to present duty 
would have been obliterated; no room would have been 
left for the exercise of faith, of hope, of fear, and love ; 
all thoughts, all feelings, all desires, would have been 
absorbed in the overpowering sense of expectation. 
But enough is revealed to support faith and animate 
hope. The remoter future is seen afar off in promises 
indistinct yet glorious. Confidence is bespoken for 
these distant predictions, by the clear and precise terms 
which portray some nearer event, fulfilled in that gen- 
eration as a sign and token that all shall be accom- 
plished in its season. Heathen divination, when it re- 
fers to any event which is near at hand, uses language 
remarkable for its ambiguity, but speaks distinctly of 
those matters which are reserved for the distant fut- 
ure. Those who spake in the name of Jehovah pursue 
the directly opposite course. Their language is much 
more express, distinct, and clear when they speak of 
events in the nearer future than in describing what 
shall take place in the latter days, rropheev of this 
nature would not raise its voice at all times, lest that 
voice from its familiarity should be unheeded; but at 
every critical and eventful period prophecy led them on 
— “a pillar of cloud in the brighter daylight of their 
purer and better times; a pillar of fire gleaming in the 
darker night of their calamity or sin” (Dean Magee). 

The moral results of prophecy would have been lost 
if the historical element had been clear prior to the oc- 
currence of the prefigured events. A certain veil must 
necessarily hang over the scene until its predictions 
passed into realities. The best form in which a proph- 
ecy can be delivered is to leave the main circumstances 
unintelligible before the fulfilment, yet so clear as to be 
easily recognised after the event. It was necessary as a 
touchstone for the faith and patience of the Church that 
a certain disguise should veil the coming events till 
they become facts in providence. “Whatever private 
information the prophet might enjoy, the Spirit of God 
would never permit him to disclose the ultimate intent 
and particular meaning of the prophecy” (Bishop Hors- 
ley). 

4. Prophetical Language . — This takes its hue and 
coloring from the political condition of the kingdom, 
from the local standpoint of the writer, from the posi- 
tion of those to whom the message was delivered. 

To say that prophetical language is figurative is sim- 
ply to say that it is used for a spiritual purpose, and 
directed to spiritual ends. Our ordinary language in 
reference to mental and moral subjects is founded on 
analogy or resemblance. In early times language is 
nearly all figure; natural symbols are employed to de- 
note common facts. It is the necessity of man’s state 
that scarcely any fact connected with the mind or w’ith 
spiritual truth can be described but in language bor- 
rowed from material things. The visible world is the 
dial-plate of the invisible. God has stamped his own 


image on natural things, which he employs to describe 
and illustrate his own nature and his dealings w r ith the 
Church. The Author of the spiritual kingdom is also 
the Author of the natural kingdom, and both kingdoms 
develop themselves after the same laws. Nature is a 
witness for the kingdom of God. Whatever exists in 
the earthly is found also in the heavenly kingdom. The 
religious teachers of the Hebrew nation might adopt 
the apostle’s language, “We see through a glass;” we 
consider, we contemplate by means of a mirror in .a 
dark saying (l Cor. xiii, 12). All who held the pro- 
phetical office could in a measure adopt the language 
of our Lord, “I will open my mouth in similitudes; I 
will give vent to things kept secret from the foundation 
of the world” (Matt, xiii, 35). 

While prophecy frequently employed natural objects 
and scenery as the means of impressing the memory, 
instructing the judgment, interesting the heart, and 
charming the imagination, it made large use of the 
present and past condition of the nation, of the Lcviti- 
cal institutions and ceremonies, as symbols in represent- 
ing good things to come. Thus we may observe — 

(I.) The future is described in terms of the past. The 
known is made use of to give shape and form to the un- 
known. We have a striking instance of this in IIos. (viii, 
13; ix, 3): “They shall return to Egypt.” “Eplira- 
i im shall return to Egypt, and shall eat unclean things 
in Assyria.” The old state of bondage and oppression 
should come back upon them. The covenant whereby 
it was promised that the people should not return was 
virtually cancelled. They had made themselves as the 
heathen ; they should be in the condition of the hea- 
then. For in IIos. xi, 5 we read : “ He shall not return 
into the land of Egypt, but the Assyrian shall be his 
king; because they refused to return.” They would 
not have God for their king; therefore the Assyrian 
should be their king, and a worse captivity than that 
of Egypt should befall them. In accordance with this, 
the teachers of false doctrine and the abetters of cor- 
ruption in the Asiatic churches are spoken of as a re- 
suscitation of Jezebel and Balaam (Rev.ii, 14, 20). 

(2.) Prophecy made great use of the present, and es- 
pecially of the standpoint and personal circumstances 
! of the agent, to illustrate the future. Ezekiel describes 
the coming glory of the Church under the gorgeons 
and elaborate description of a temple. All the images 
I in the nine concluding chapters are taken from this one 
I analogy. lie sums up his minute and precise repre- 
j sentation with the significant hint, “The name of the 
city from that day shall be, The Lord is there.” The 
Apocalyptic seer, living when the Temple was laid waste, 
i and all its rites and institutions were superseded, de- 
scribes the glory of the new Jerusalem in language that 
seems to be directly contradictory (Fvcv. xxi, 22), “ I saw 
: no temple therein;” but in entire harmony with Ezek. 
xlviii, 35, the Spirit testifies, “the Lord God Almighty 
and the Lamb arc the temple of it.” Both Ezekiel and 
John speak of the same glorious future in language and 
imagery perfectly natural and appropriate to the times 
and circumstances in which they were placed. 

(3.) Frequently the prophetic style received its com- 
plexion and coloring from the diversified circumstances 
of the parties addressed, as well as from the standpoint 
of the prophet. This is peculiarly the case with the 
language of Daniel, which presents such an approxima- 
tion to the style of history that some have rashly as- 
signed his writings to a date long posterior to the cap- 
tivity of Babylon. The specific form which a portion 
of his prophecies assumes may be accounted for by con- 
sidering the great feebleness and depression of the peo- 
ple on resuming their residence in Judaea; the anoma- 
lous and shattered condition of the theocratic consti- 
tution when the ark of the covenant, the trim and 
Thummim, the kingly rule and government, w t ere gone, 
when the vision was sealed, and no one of the prophetic 
order remained. This is the time selected for setting 
forth the external aspect of God’s kingdom to one who 


PROPHET 


650 


PROPHET 


was well conversant with political revolutions, who 
stood at the centre of the world’s power and glory 
when earthly monarchies began to aspire after univer- 
sal dominion. The visions granted to Daniel (viii, ix), 
though plain to ns who read them after the event, were 
far from being clear to himself or to others (viii, 27 ; 
xii, 1, M, 9), In the symbols he employs we have a re- 
flection of his own peculiar position and political ex- 
perience; and in the detailed exhibition of the coming 
future, in the explicit predictions of the changes and 
vicissitudes which were at hand, the children of faith 
felt that the God of their fathers was still in the midst 
of them, l’rophecy is always a revelation of specific 
events, when the events spoken of are to be fulfilled in 
the nearer future. The picture presented to the Church 
was minutely portrayed in a historical dress whenever 
the hope of the faithful required special and immediate 
support. (See § viii, below.) 

(4.) The divine impulse under which the prophets 
spoke, though it was supernatural, acted in harmony 
with personal characteristics and native susceptibilities. 
The supernatural ever bases itself upon the natural. 
Constitutional tendencies are moulded by the plastic 
influence of divine grace, but are never entirely obliter- 
ated. The prophets never lost personal consciousness, 
or any distinctive characteristic of thought and feeling, 
even when they were raised into an ecstatical condition. 
Extraordinary impressions of divine light and influence 
affected the rational as well as the imaginative power. 
The false lights which pretended to prophecy were im- 
pressions made on the imagination exclusively, “ whose 
conceptions ran only in a secular channel, as the sect 
of diviners, enchanters, dreamers, and soothsayers” (J. 
Smith). The lowest degree of prophecy is when the 
imaginative power is most predominant, and the scene 
becomes too turbulent for the rational faculty to discern 
clearly the mystical sense. The highest is where all 
imagination ceases — as with Moses, “whom God knew 
face to face” — where truth is revealed to the reason 
ami understanding. 

(5.) The poetical element of prophecy arises from the 
ecstatical condition of the prophet, from the action of 
spiritual influences on constitutional tendencies. Hut 
as the primary aim of the religions teachers of the He- 
brews was to influence the heart and conscience, the 
poetical element, though never entirely suppressed, was 
held in restraint, to further the higher ends of spiritual 
instruction. Hence, as Ewald remarks, “ Prophetical 
discourse has a form and impress of its own, too elevat- 
ed to sink to simple prose, too practical in its aim to 
assume the highest form of poetry.” Of the two ideas 
involved in rates, the prophetical ruled the poetical. 
The distinction between the poet and t lie prophet may 
be thus expressed: as the prophet’s aim was to work 
upon others in the most direct ami impressive manner, 
he was at liberty to adopt any form or method of rep- 
resentation ; but as the immediate aim of the poet is to 
satisfy himself and the requirements of his art, he can- 
not vary his definite manner, and change his mode of 
address at pleasure, in order to work upon others. The 
poetical elevation appears most vividly in the idealistic 
and imaginative form, when the patriarchal heads of 
the Jewish nation, their several families, Zion, Jerusa- 
lem, their religions and political centre, are addressed 
as living personalities present to the mind and eve of 
tiie prophet. A vivid instance of this personification 
occurs in Jer. xxxi, 15, llacliel weeping for her children, 
refusing to be comforted. It was at Hamah that the 
Chahhean conqueror assembled the last band of cap- 
tives (xl, 1) : tbc prospect of perpetual exile lay before 
them. t)n their departure the last hope of Israel’s ex- 
istence seemed to expire. In the bold freedom of 
Eastern imagery, the ancestral mother of the tribe is 
conceived of as present at the scene, and as raising a 
loud wail of distress. This scene was substantially 
repeated in the massacre at lietlilehetn. The cruel 
Edomite who then held the government of Jiukea 


aimed what was meant to be a fatal blow against the 
real hope of Israel. ‘‘Though it was but a handful of 
children that actually perished, yet as among these the 
Child of l’romise was supposed to be included, it might 
well seem as if all were lost” (Fairbaim). See Pohtky. 

VII. Interpretation of Predictions. — In addition to 

the hints given above and belmv, we here have only 
space fur a few rules, deduced from the account which 
we have given of the nature of prophecy. They are, 
(1.) Interpose distances of time according as history 
may show them to he necessary with respect to the 
past, or inference may show them to be likely in respect 
to the future, because, as we have seen, the prophetic 
visions are abstracted from relations in time. (2.) Dis- 
tinguish the form from the idea. Tims Isaiah (xi. 15) 
represents the idea of the removal of all obstacles from 
before God’s people in the form of t he Lord's destroying 
the tongue of the Egyptian sea, and smiting the river 
into seven streams. (3.) Distinguish in like manner 
figure from what is represented by it,e. g. in the verse 
previous to that quoted do not understand literally 
“They shall fy upon the shoulders of the Philistines” 
(ver. 14). (4.) Make allowance for the imagery of the 

prophetic visions, and for the poetical diction in which 
they are expressed. (5.) In respect to things past, in- 
terpret by the apparent meaning, checked by reference 
to events; in respect to things future, interpret by the 
apparent meaning, checked by reference to the analogy 
of the faith. (0.) Interpret according to the principle 
which may be deduced from the examples of visions 
explained in the Old Test. (7.) Interpret according to 
the principle which may be deduced from the examples 
of prophecies interpreted in the New Test. See In- 
TEItmtETATIOX. 

VI II. Use of Prophecy. — Predictions are at once a 
part and an evidence of revelation : at the time that 
they are delivered, and until their fultiiinent, a part; 
after they have been fullilled, an evidence. An apostle 
(2 Pet. i, 19) describes prophecy as “a light shining in a 
dark place," or “a taper glimmering where there is 
nothing to reflect its rays,” that is, throwing some light, 
but only a feeble light as compared with what is shed 
from the Gospel history. To this light, feeble as it is, 
“you do well,” says the apostle, “to take heed.” And 
lie warns them not to be offended at the feebleness of 
the light, because it is of the nature of prophecy until 
its fulfilment (in the case of Messianic predictions, of 
which he is speaking, described as “ until the day dawn, 
and the day star arise in your hearts") to shed only a 
feeble light. Nay, he continues, even the prophecies 
are not to he limited to a single and narrow interpreta- 
tion, “for the prophecy came not in old time by the 
will of man,” i. e. the prophets were not aflected hv 
personal considerations in their predictions, “but holy 
men of old spake by the impulse (0fpJ/tfi'ot) of the 
Holy Ghost.” This is in entire keeping with the above 
views (§ vi) of the character of the prophetic utter- 
ances, and was the use of prophecy before its fulfilment 
— to act as a feeble light in the midst of darkness, which 
it diil not dispel, but through which it threw its rays in 
such a way as to enable a true-hearted believer to di- 
rect bis steps and guide bis anticipations (comp. Acts 
xiii, 27). Hut after fulfilment, 1’eter says, “the word 
of prophecy” becomes “ more sure” than it was before, 
that is, it is no longer merely a feeble light to guide, 
but it is a firm ground of confidence, and, combined 
with the apostolic testimony, serves as a trustworthy 
evidence of the faith; so trustworthy that even after he 
and his brother apostles are dead, those whom he ad- 
dressed will feel secure that they “had not followed 
cunningly devised fables,” but the truth. 

As an evidence, fullilled prophecy is as satisfactory 
as anything can be, fur who can know the future ex- 
cept t lie liuler who disposes future events; and from 
whom can come prediction except from him who knows 
the future? After all that has been said and unsaid, 
prophecy and miracles, each resting on their own evi- 


PROPHET 


651 


PROPHET 


dence, must always be the chief and direct evidences 
of the truth of the divine character of a religion. Where 
they exist, a divine power is proved. Nevertheless, 
they should never be rested on alone, but in combina- 
tion with the general character of the whole scheme 
to which they belong. Its miracles, its prophecies, its 
morals, its propagation, and its adaptation to human 
needs, are the chief evidences of Christianity. None 
of these must be taken separately. The fact of their 
conspiring together is the strongest evidence of all. 
That one object with which predictions are delivered is 
to serve in an after-age as an evidence on which faith 
may reasonably rest is stated by our Lord himself: 
“And now I have told you before it come to pass, that 
when it is come to pass , ye might believe'' 1 (John xiv, 29). ' 
See Phofiiecy. 

As prophecy came TroXvpepCjQ icai TroXvrpuTrutg, in 
many portions and in many modes (lleb. i, 1), we need 
not be surprised to find a relative disregard of time in 
its announcements. The seers beheld things to come 
mueh as we look upon a starry sky. To the natural 
eye all the orbs that bespangle the firmament seem to 
be at the same distance from the earth. Though the 
monarchies of Daniel are successive, yet in a certain 
way they are described as co-existent ; for it is only on 
the establishment of the last that they seem to disap- 
pear. As the precise time of individual events is not 
revealed, prophecy describes them as continuous. The 
representation is rather in space than in time; the 
whole appears foreshortened; perspective is regarded 
rather than actual distance; as a common observer 
would describe the stars, grouping them as thej' appear, 
and not according to their true positions. Prof. Payne 
Smith well observes, “The prophets are called seers, 
and their writings visions. They describe events pass- 
ing before their mental eye as simple facts, without the 
idea of time. A picture may represent the past, the 
present, or the future; this we may know from its ac- 
cessories by the inference of the judgment, but not by 
the sight as such. If time is revealed, as in the seventy 
weeks of Daniel, time is the idea impressed upon the 
mind. Ihit where time is not itself the thing revealed, 
the facts of revelation are not described as connected 
with or growing out of one another, as in the pages of 
history, but are narrated as facts merely, which future 
ages must arrange in their proper place, as one by one 
they are fulfilled.” The first conquest and the complete 
destruction of Bahylon are spoken of together (Jer. 1, 
41), though nearly a thousand years elapsed between 
them. Zechariah connects the spiritual salvation of 
the Church in the distant future with the temporal de- j 
liverance of the Jews under Alexander and the Macca- 
bees. In the description which is given of the humili- 
ation and glory of the Messiah, notice is seldom taken j 
of the interval which is to elapse before the full and 
final establishment of his kingdom. So Paul in the ful- ! 
ness of his faith, which realized the object of his hope, 
and brought vividly before the eye of his mind the con- | 
summation of all things, has used language respecting 1 
the coming of Christ which some have misinterpreted | 
as implying that he expected the day of Christ to arrive 
in his lifetime. Occasionally the precise time was re- 
vealed, as in the case of the sojourn of Abraham and 
his posterity in Egypt (Gen. xv, 13) ; the disruption of j 
Ephraim (Isa. vii, 8), and the captivity in Babylon 
(Jer. xxix, 10). But usually the prophets were entirely I 
ignorant of the time, and only ascertained, after careful j 
inquiry, that they spoke of the distant future (1 Pet. i, 
10-12). At evening-time it shall be light (Zeeh. xiv, 
7). The faithful in the land will discern the period 
when the events are upon the eve of fulfilment. See | 
Eschatology. 

IX. Development of Messianic Prophecy. — Prediction, 
in the shape of promise and threatening, begins with 
the book of Genesis. Immediately upon the fall, hopes 
of recovery and salvation are held out, but the manner 
in which this salvation is to be effected is left altogether 


indefinite. All that is at first declared is that it shall 
come through a child of woman (Gen. iii, 15). By de- 
grees the area is limited: it is to come through the 
family of Shem (ix, 2G), through the family of Abra- 
ham (xii, 3), of Isaac (xxii, 18), of Jacob (xxviii, 14), 
of Judah (xlix, 10). Balaam seems to say that it will 
be wrought by a warlike Israelitish King (Numb, xxiv, 
17) ; Jacob, by a peaceful Ruler of the earth (Gen. xlix, 
10) ; Moses, by a Prophet like himself, i. e. a revealer 
of a new religious dispensation (Dent, xviii, 15). Na : 
titan’s announcement (2 Sam. vii, 16) determines further 
that the salvation is to come through the house of Da- 
vid, and through a descendant of David who shall be 
himself a king. This promise is developed by David 
himself in the Messianic Psalms. Psalms xviii and Ixi 
are founded on the promise communicated by Nathan, 
and do not go bej'ond the announcement made by Na- 
than. The same may be said of Psa. Ixxxix, which 
was composed by a later writer. Psalms ii and cx rest 
upon the same promise as their foundation, but add 
new features to it. The Son of David is to be the Son 
of God (ii, 7), the anointed of the Lord (ver. 2), not 
only the King of Zion (ver. G; cx, 1), but the inheritor 
and lord of the whole earth (ii, 8; cx, 6), and, besides 
this, a Priest forever after the order of Melchizedek (cx, 
4). At the same time he is, as typified by his progeni- 
tor, to be full of suffering and affliction (Psa. xxii, Ixxi, 
eii, eix) : brought down to the grave, yet raised to life 
without seeing corruption (Psa. xvi). In Psa. xiv, 
Ixxii, the sons of Korah and Solomon describe his 
peaceful reign. Between Solomon and Ilezekiah inter- 
vened some 200 years, during which the voice of proph- 
ecy was silent. The Messianic conception entertained 
at this time by the Jews might have been that of a 
King of the royal house of David who would arise, and 
gather under his peaceful sceptre his own people and 
strangers. Sufficient allusion to his prophetical and 
priestly offices had been made to create thoughtful con- 
sideration, but as yet there was no clear delineation of 
him in these characters. It was reserved for the proph- 
ets to bring out these features more distinctly. 

The sixteen prophets may be divided into four groups : 
the Prophets of the Northern Kingdom — Ilosea, Amos, 
Joel, Jonah ; the Prophets of the Southern Kingdom — 
Isaiah, Jeremiah, Obadiah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, 
Zephaniah; the Prophets of the Captivity — Ezekiel 
and Daniel ; the Prophets of the Return— Ilaggai, Zecli- 
ariah, Malachi. In this great period of prophetism there 
is no longer any chronological development of Messian- 
ic prophecy, as in the earlier period previous to Solo- 
mon. Each prophet adds a feature, one more, another 
less clearly : combine the features, and we have the por- 
trait ; but it docs not grow gradually and perceptibly 
under the hands of the several artists. Here, therefore, 
the task of tracing the chronological progress of the 
revelation of the Messiah comes to an end: its culmi- 
nating point is found in the prophecy contained in Isa. 
Iii, 13-15, and liii. We here read that there should be 
a Servant of God, lowly and despised, full of grief and 
suffering, oppressed, condemned as a malefactor, and 
put to death. But his sufferings, it is said, are not for 
liis own sake, for he had never been guilty of framl or 
violence : they are spontaneously taken, patiently borne, 
vicarious in their character; and, by God’s appoint- 
ment, they have an atoning, reconciling, and justifying 
efficacy. The result of his sacrificial offering is to be 
his exaltation and triumph. By the path of humilia- 
tion and expiatory suffering, he is to reach that state 
of glory foreshown by David and Solomon. The pro- 
phetic character of the Messiah is drawn out by Isaiah 
in other parts of his book as the atoning work here. 
By the time of Ilezekiah therefore (for Hengstenberg, 
Ckristology, vol. ii, has satisfactorily disproved the the- 
ory of a Deutero-Isaiah of the days of the captivity) 
the portrait of the 0eae3 , pw7roc — at once King, Priest, 
Prophet, and Redeemer — was drawn in all its essential 
features. The contemporary and later prophets (comp. 


PROPHET 


C52 


PROPHET 


Mie. v, 2; Dan. vii, 9; Zeeh. vi, 13; Mai. iv, 2) added 
some particulars and details, and so the conception was 
left to await its realization after an interval of some 400 
years from the date of the last Hebrew prophet. 

The modern Jews, in opposition to their ancient ex- 
position, have been driven to a non-Messianic interpre- 
tation of Isa. liii. Among Christians the non-Messian- 
ic interpretation commenced with Grotius. lie ap- 
plies the chapter to Jeremiah. According to Dbderlein, 
Schuster, Stephani, Eichliurn, Koscniniiller, llitzig, 
Ilandewerk, Kbster (after the Jewish expositors Jar- 
chi, Aben-Ezra, Kitnchi, Abarbanel, Lipmann), the sub- 
ject of the prophecy is the lsraelitish people. Accord- 
ing to Eckermann, Ewald, Week, it is the ideal lsrael- 
itish people. According to l’aulus, Ammon, Maurer, 
Then ins, Knobel, it is the godly portion of the lsrael- 
itish people. According to De W’ette, Gesenius, Schen- 
kel, Umbreit, Ilofmann, it is the prophetical body. Au- 
gust i refers it to king I’zziah ; Konyncnburgand Bahrdt 
to Ilezckiah; Stiiudlin to Isaiah himself; Bolten to the 
house of David. Ewald thinks that no historical person 
was intended, but that the author of the chapter has 
misled his readers by inserting a passage from an older 
book, in which a martyr was spoken of. “This,” he 
says, “quite spontaneously suggested itself, and has 
impressed itself on my mind more and more;” and lie 
thinks that controversy on ch. liii will never cease 
until this truth is acknowledged” ( Propheten , vol. ii, p. 
407). Ilengstenherg gives the following list of German 
commentators who have maintained the Messianic ex- 
planation: Dathe, llensler, Kocher, Koppe, Michaelis, 
Schmieder, Storr, llansi, Kruger, Jahn, Steudel, Sack, 
Eeinke, Tliolnck, Hiivernick, Stier. Hengstenberg's own 
exposition, anti criticism of tlie expositions of others, is 
well worth consultation ( Christology , vol. ii). Kiehrn 
has given a very good outline of these prophecies in 
their origin, historical character, and relation to Xew- 
Test. fultilment in the Studien und Kritiken for 1865 and i 
18(19 (transl. by Jefferson, Messianic Prophecy , Edinb. 
1876, 12mo). Drummond's work on The Jewish Mes- 
siah is a semi-rationalistic view drawn chiefly from 
apocryphal literature (Loud. 1877, 8vo). 1‘rebendarv 
How has shown ( Hampton Lecture for 1877, p. 234 sq.) 
the insufficiency of the Messianic elements of the Old 
Test, as an ideal model for the delineation of the Christ 
of the New Test. See M less i. mi. 

X. Prophets of the Xew Testament . — So far as their 
predictive powers are concerned, the Old- Test, prophets 
find their New-Test, counterpart in the writer of the 
Apocalypse; but in their general character, as specially 
illumined revealers of God’s will, their counterpart will 
rather be found, lirst in the ( Ireat Prophet of tlie Church, 
and his forerunner John the Baptist, and next in all 
those persons who were endowed with the extraor- 
dinary gifts of the Spirit in the apostolic age, the speak- 
ers with tongues and the interpreters of tongues, the 
prophets and tlie discerners of spirits, the teachers and 
workers of miracles (l Cor. xii, 10, 28). The connect- 
ing link between the Old-Test, prophet and the speaker 
with tongues is the state of ecstasy in which the former 
at times received his visions and in which the latter 
uttered his words. The Old-Test, prophet, however, 
was his own interpreter: he did not speak in the state 
of ecstasy: he saw his visions in the ecstatic, and de- 
clared them in the ordinary state. The New-Test, dis- 
cerner of spirits has his prototype in such as Micaiah, 
the son of Imlah (1 Kings xxii, 22), the worker of mir- 
acles in Elijah and Elisha, the teacher in each and all 
of tlie prophets. The prophets of the New Test, repre- 
sented their namesakes of tlie Old Tost, as being ex- 
pounders of divine truth and interpreters of tlie divine 
will to their auditors. 

That predictive powers did occasionally exist in the 
New-Test, prophets is proved by the ease of Agabus 
(Acts xi, 28), but this was not their characteristic. 
They were not an order, like apostles, bishops or pres- 
byters, and deacons, but they were men or women (xxi. 


9) who had the \dpicrpa irpo^yreiag vouchsafed them. 
If men, they might at the same time be apostles (1 Cor. 
xiv); and there was nothing to hinder the different 
\apiapara of wisdom, knowledge, faith, teaching, mir- 
acles, prophecy, discernment, tongues, and interpreta- 
tion (ch. xii ) being all accumulated on one person, and 
this person might or might not be a presbyter. Paul 
describes prophecy as being effective for the conversion, 
apparently tlie sudden and immediate conversion, of 
unbelievers (xiv, 24), and for the instruction and conso- 
lation of believers (ver. 31). This shows Us nature. It 
was a spiritual gift which enabled men to understand 
and to teach the truths of Christianity, especially as 
veiled in the Old Test., and to exhort and warn with 
authority and effect greater than human (see Locke, 
Paraphrase, note on 1 Cor. xii, and Conybeare and 
| Howson, i, 461). The prophets of tlie New Test, were 
supomaturally illuminated expounders and preachers. 

XI. Literature . — On the general subject of prophecy 
no comprehensive or altogether satisfactory treatise has 
yet b*en produced. Among tlie old works we may 
mention Augustine, l)e Ciritate Dei, lib. xviii, cap. 
27 sq. {Op. vii, 508. Paris, 1(385); Carpzov, Introd. ad 
Libras Canonicos (Lips. 1757). Some good remarks will 
be found in the essay of John Smith, On Prophecy 
{Select Discourses, disc, vi, p. 181, Loud. 1821, 8v<>), 
which was translated into Latin and reprinted at the 
end of I.e Clerc’s Commentary on the Prophets (Amsterd. 
1731). It contains interesting passages on the nature 
of the predictions in the Old Test., extracted from Jew- 
ish authors, of whom Maimonidcs is the most distin- 
guished. Of less importance is the essay of Hermann 
Witsius, De Prophet ia et Prophet is (in vol. i of his Mis- 
cellan. Sacra [Ctrecht, 1092], p. 1-392): lie digresses 
too much and needlessly from the main question, and 
says little applicable to the point ; but he still supplies 
some useful materials. The same remark also applies 
in substance to Knibbe’s History of the Prophets. Some 
valuable remarks, but much more that is arbitrary and 
untenable, will be found in Crusius’s Ilypomnemata ad 
Theologiam Prophet. (Lips. 1764, 3 vols.). In the Trea- 
tise on Prophecy inserted by Jahn in bis Introduction 
to the Old Testament, he endeavors to refute the views 
of the nationalists, but does not sift tlie subject to the 
bottom. Kleuker’s work, De Xexu Proph. inter ntrum- 
qne Fcedus , possesses more of a genuine theological 
character. The leader of the Rationalists is Eichhorn, 
Die Ihbriiischen Propheten (Gutting. 1816); also in his 
Introduction to the Old Testament , and in his disserta- 
tion De Prophet. Pees. Ilebr. Their views on this sub- 
ject are most fully explained by Knobel in bis Prophe- 
tisnius der Ilebrder vollstdndiy daryeslellt (Breslau, 1837, 
2 vols.): the work contains, however, little original re- 
search, and is valuable only as a compilation of what 
the Rationalists assert concerning prophecy. The work 
of Kbster, Die Propheten des A . und X. T. (Ixbpsie, 
1838), bears a higher character: on many points lie ap- 
proaches to sounder views; but he is inconsistent and 
wavering, and therefore cannot bo said to have essen- 
tially advanced the knowledge of this subject. ( )f con- 
siderable eminence is the treatise by Ewald on proph- 
ecy, pretixed to his Propheten des Alten Irundes (Stuttg. 
18-10; 18(37, 3 vols.). But to the important question, 
w hether the prophets enjoyed supernatural assistance or 
not, an explicit answer will there be sought for in vain. 
Ilis view of the subject is in the main that of the Ra- 
tionalists, though he endeavors to veil it : the Spirit of 
God influencing the prophets is. in fact, only their own 
mind worked up by circumstances; their enthusiasm 
and ecstasy are made to explain all. Finally, the work 
of Hoffmann, Weissayuny nnd Krfullungim A. und X. T. 
(Nordlingen, 1841, vol. i), is chargeable with spurious 
and affected originality : his views are often in their 
very details forced and strained, and it is to he regretted 
, that the subject has by this work gained less than from 
the author’s talent might have been expected. Many 
of the elements of prophecy have been very ably and 


PROPHETESS 


653 


PROPHETS 


soundly discussed by Hengstenberg, Christoiogy of the 
Old Testament , in T. T. Clark’s transl. (Ediub. 1854). 
Other German works of importance on the subject are 
those of IJmbreit, Die Propheten des .4. Test, (in the 
Stud. u. Krit. 1838, p. 1043 sq.) ; Tholuck, Die Pro- 
pheten mid ihre Weissagungen (1800; transl. in the 
Bibliotheca Sacra, 1833, p. 301 sq.). The subject is 
likewise discussed more or less fully in all the introduc- 
tions (q. v.) to the Old Test. See also Bible Educator 
(Index, s. v.). One of the latest and most specious 
productions of the nationalistic school is that of Prof. 
Kuenen (of the University of Leyden), The Prophets 
and Prophecy in Israel (transl. by Milroy, Loud. 1877, 
8vo); it reiterates with ingenious array all the difficul- 
ties, contradictions, and failures alleged by hostile writ- 
ers, and refuted or explained again and again by ortho- 
dox scholars. Comp. Seer. 

Among writers in English we may especially name 
the following: Sherlock, Discourses on the Use and In- 
tent of Propheey (1755, 8vo) ; Hurd, Introd. to the Study 
of the Prophecies, etc. (1772, 8vo) ; Apthorp, Discourses 
on Prophecy (1786, 2 vols. 8vo); Davison, Discourses on 
Prophecy (1821, 8vo); Smith (J. Pye), Principles of 
Interpretation as applied to the Prophecies of Holy 
Scripture (1829, 8vo); Brooks, Elements of Prophetical 
Interpretation (1837, l2mo); Alexander, Connection of 
the Old and New Testaments (1841, 8vo), lect. iv-vii, p. 
168-382 ; Lowth, De Sacra Pcesi llebrceorum (Oxon. 
1821, and transl. by Gregory, Lond. 1835) ; Ilorslev, Bib- 
lical Criticism (Lond. 1820) ; Ilorne, Introduction to Holy 
Scripture (Lond. 1828), ch. iv, § 3 ; Van Mildert, Boyle 
Lectures (Lond. 1831), § xxii ; Fairbairn, Prophecy: its 
Nature, Functions, and Interpretation (Edinb. 1856); 
M‘Caul, Aids to Faith (Lond. 1861); Smith (K. Payne), 
Messianic Interpretation of the Prophecies of Isaiah 
(Oxf. 1862); Davidson, Introduction to the Old Testament 
(Lond. 1862), ji, 422; Stanley, Lectures on the Jewish 
Church (Lond. 1863); Maurice, The Prophets and Kings 
of the Old Testament (rep. Best. 1853); Stuart, Hints on 
the Interpretation of Prophecy (Andover. 1844); Arnold, 
On the Interpretation of Prophecy (in his IT’orfo, Lond. 
1845, i, 373 sq.); Taylor, Spirit of Hebrew Poetry (rep. 
N. Y. 1862). See also Journ. Sacred Literature, Oct. 
1862; Meth. Quar. Rev. April, 1862; Alford, Greek Test. 
(note on “Acts” xiii, 41); the monographs cited by 
Volbeding, Index Programmatum, p. 22, 43, 44; by 
Hase, Leben Jesu, p. 103; by Danz, 1 Vorterb. p. 793; 
by Darling, Cyclopcedia Bibliographica, col. 1785 sq.; 
and under the art. Prophets, Major and Minor. 

Prophetess (!"t!K^2, nebiah, Trpo<pi}rig, Exod. xv, 
20 ; Luke ii, 36). Among the remarkable women who 
appear to have exercised the gift of prophecy, we find 
Miriam (Exod. xv, 20); Deborah; Hannah (1 Sam. ii, 
1) ; Huldah (2 Kings xxii, 14); the wife of Isaiah (Isa. 
viii, 3) ; Anna (Luke ii, 36) ; and the four daughters of 
Philip (Acts xxi, 8, 9). Miriam, Deborah, Huldah, and 
others were called prophetesses, not because they v r ere 
supposed to be gifted with a knowledge of futurity, like 
the seers, but because they possessed a poetical in- 
spiration ; and inspired (especially sacred) poetry was al- 
ways deemed of supernatural and divine origin. See 
Prophet. 

Prophets, False. As Moses had foretold, a host 
of false prophets arose in later times among the He- 
brews, who promised prosperity without repentance, and 
predicted after “the deceit of their own hearts” (Deut. 
xiii, 1-5; Jer. xiv, 14-16; xxiii, 9-27). According to 
Dent, xviii, 20-22, a false prophet was punished capi- 
tally, being stoned to death. There were two cases in 
which a person was held convicted of the crime, and 
consequently liable to its punishment : 1. If a prophet 
spoke in the name of Jehovah, he w r as tolerated, so long 
as he remained unconvicted of imposture, even though 
he threatened calamity to the state. He might be im- 
prisoned (Jer. xxvi, 8-16; 1 Kings xxii, 1-28), but 
coidd not legally be put to death, unless a prediction of 


I his failed of accomplishment; then he was regarded as 
| an impostor, and stoned. 2. If a person prophesied in 
the name of any other god, whether his prediction was 
accomplished or not, he was, at all events, considered a 
false prophet, and, as such, capitally punished. In the 
kingdom of Israel, Aliab could muster four hundred 
prophets of Baal at a time (1 Kings xxii, 6). In still 
later times false prophets, littering the suggestions of 
their own imagination, abounded in the Church, and 
( did much mischief (Matt, vii, 15; xxiv, 11 ; Mark xiii,- 
22; Luke vi, 26; 2 Pet. ii, 1 ; 1 John iv, 1). See Mes- 
siahs, False. 

Prophets, French. See Camisaru. 

Prophets, Major and Minor. We have in the 
Old Testament the writings of sixteen prophets; that 
is, of four greater and twelve lesser prophets. The four 
greater prophets are Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and 
Daniel. The Jews do not properly place Daniel among 
the prophets, because (they say) he lived in the splen- 
dor of temporal dignities, and led a kind of life different 
from other prophets. The twelve lesser prophets are 
Ilosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, 
Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, and Mala- 
; chi. The collectors of the canon arranged the prophets 
; chronologically, but considered the whole of the twelve 
lesser prophets as one work, which they placed after 
I Jeremiah and Ezekiel, inasmuch as the last three lesser 
: prophets lived later than they. Daniel, as above ob- 
| served, was placed in the Hagiographa, because he had 
not filled the prophetic office. The collection of the 
lesser prophets themselves was again intended to be 
chronologically disposed; still Hosea is, on account of 
the extent of his work, allowed precedence before those 
lesser prophets who, generally, were his contemporaries, 
and also before those who flourished at a somewhat 
earlier period. It is the opinion of Hengstenberg 
( Christoiogy , iv, 235) and of Pnsev ( Minor Prophets, pt. 
i, introd.) that the writings of the Minor Prophets are 
, actually placed chronologically. Accordingly, the for- 
mer arranges the list of the prophets as follows : Hosea, 
Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Isaiah (“the prin- 
cipal prophetical figure in the first or Assyrian period 
I of canonical prophetism”), Nahum. Habakkuk, Zepha- 
niah, Jeremiah (“the principal prophetical figure in the 
second or Babylonian period of canonical prophetism”), 
Ezekiel, Daniel, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi. Calmet 
' (Diet. Bibl. s. v. “Prophet”) as follows: Hosea, Amos, 
Isaiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Jeremiah, Zephaniah, 
Joel, Daniel, Ezekiel, Habakkuk, Obadiah, Haggai, 
Zechariah, Malachi. Stanley (Lect. xix) in the follow- 
ing order: Joel, Jonah, Hosea, Amos, Isaiah, Micah, 
Nahum, Zechariah, Zephaniah, Habakkuk, Obadiah, 
Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Isaiah, Daniel, Haggai, Zechariah, 
j Malachi. Hence it appears that Stanley recognises two 
! Isaiahs and two Zecliariahs, unless “the author of Isa. 

| xl-lxvi is regarded as the older Isaiah transported into 
| a style and position later than his own time” (p. 423). 

[ Obadiah is generally considered to have lived at a later 
date than is compatible with a chronological arrange- 
ment of the canon, in consequence of his reference to 
the capture of Jerusalem. But such an inference is not 
necessary, for the prophet might have thrown himself 
in imagination forward to the date of his prophecy 
(Hengstenberg), or the words which, as translated by 
the A. V., are a remonstrance as to the past, may be 
really but an imperative as to the future (Pusev). For 
the various questions relating to each person and book, 
see the several names in their alphabetical places. See 
also Bible. 

Commentaries. — The following are the. special exe- 
I getical helps on the prophets in general : Jerome, Com- 
mentarii (in Opp. vol. v, ed. Basil.); Abrabanel, 

(written in 1497, and frequently printed and translated 
in various forms and portions) ; lvimchi, David (first 
! printed in the Rabbinical Bible, Yen. 1548, fob); CEco- 
! 1 am pad i ns, Comment arii (Basil. 1558, 2 vols. fob); Pey- 


PROPHETS 


C54 


PROPHETS 


ron, Commentaire (Tar. 1G73, 12mo); Lowth, Commen- 
tary (Loud. 1714, I vols. 4to; embraced in the commen- 
tary of Patrick, Louth, etc.); Vail Til, Comment aria 
(L. Ik 1744, 3 vols. 1 to ) ; Vogel, Cmschreibung (Halle, 
1771-73, 4 vols. 8vo); Weiteuauer, Metaphrasis (Aug. 
Vind. 1768, Svo); Dathe, Xotee [on Maj. l’roph. only] 
(Halle, 1779, 1785, Svo) ; Smith (J.), Explanation 
[chiefly compiled] (Kdiub. 1787, 1810, 12mo); Yaupel, 
Erklarung (l)resd. 1798-80, 2 vols. Nyo); Kichhorn, 
Erklarung (Gutting. 1816-19, 3 vols. 8vo); Agier, Des 
Explications (Par. 1820-22, 10 vols. 8vo); Cole, Com- 
mentary [inclod. X. T.] (Lond. 1826, 2 vols. 8vo) ; I leng- 
stenbcrg, Christologie (Berlin, 1829-35, 1854-57, 3 vols. 
8vo; trail si. X. Y. 1853-59, Kdiub. 1854-58, 3 vols. 8vo; 
abridgm. Lond. 1847, 8yo); Ili'ickert, Erliiut. [on cer- 
tain parts] (Leips. 1831, 8vo) ; Tegg’s ed. Xotes [chiefly 
compiled] (Lond. 183G, 5 vols. Svo); Hoffmann, Ausle- 
puny [on the Maj. l’roph., compiled] (Stuttg. 1839, 
8vo) ; Stephenson, Christology (Lond. 18.39, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Ewahl, Erkiiirung (Stuttg. 1840-42, (lotting. 18G7-G9, 
2 vols. 8vo); Maurer, Commentarius (Lips. 1841, 8vo); 
Herxheimer, -'“S [includ. the Hagiog.] (Berl. 1841 44, 
in parts, 8vo); Delitzscli and Caspari, Exeg. I/andb. 
(Leips. 1842, 8vo); Umbreit, Commentar (I Iamb. 1842- 
46, 5 vols. 8vo); Xoycs, Translation (Bost. 1813, X. V. 
1849, 3 vols. 12mo); llitzig, Cebersetz. (Leips. 1854, 
8vo); Smith ((1. V.), Prophecies relating to Assyria 
(Lond. 1857, 12mo) ; Williams, Prophets during the As- 
syrian Empire (ibid. I860, 8vo). See (Ju> Testament. 

The following arc exclusively on the Minor Proph- 
ets: Cyril of Alexandria, Commentarii (in Opp. iii, 1- 
870; also Ingolst. 1G07, fol.) ; Thcodoret, Interpretatio 
(in Opp. II, ii) ; Theodore of Mopsuestia, Commentarii 
(in Mai’s Xov. Collectio, 1, i, 4L-104); Remigius Anlis- 
siod. Enarrationcs (in Jiibl. Max. Patr. vol. xvi) ; Ru- 
pertns Tuitiensis, Commentarii (in Opp. i, 651); Alber- 
tus Magnus, Commentarii (Basil. 1525, fol.); Tarnon, 
Commentarius (Rost. 1522, 4to; Lips. 1688, 1706, lto) ; 
Lambert, Commentarii (Argent. 1525-26, 5 vols. 8vo; 
Krancf. 1589, 1605, 3 vols. 8vo); Calvin, Pralectiones 
(Genov. 1559, 1581, 1612, fol. ; in Opp, vol. ix ; in French, 
ibid. 1560, etc., 4to; trails], by Owen, Kdiub. 1846-49, 5 
vols.8vo); Forer, Commentarii (Veu. 15<55,8vo); Wigand, 
Explicatio (Francf. 15G6, 8vo) ; Hemming, Explanatio- 
ns (Lips. 1568. 4to); Strigel, Scholia (ibid. 1561, 1570, 
1571, 8vo) ; Muntanus [Rom. Cath.], Commentarius 
(Antw. 1571, fol., 1582, 4 to) ; Dc Ribera [Rom. Cath.], 
Commentarii (ibid. 151 1 and often, fol.) ; Huai ter, Com- 
mentarii (Tigur. 1572, lbl.) ; P. dc Palacio [ Bom. Cath.], 
Commentarius (Colon. 1583, 1588, 8vo); Dauams, Com- 
mentaria (Genev. 1586, 1594, 8vo: trausl. by Stockwood, 
Lond. 1594, lto) ; Livelie, Annotationes [on a part only] 
(Lond. 1587, 8vo; also in the Critici Sacri , vol. iv); 
lleilbrnnn, Loci communes (Lauing. 1588. 8vo); M. de 
Palacio [Rom. Cath.], Explanationes (Salam. 1593, lbl.) ; 
Alscheich, rir^, etc. (Venice, 1595 and later, fol.); 
A Messana [Rom. Cath.], Paraphrasis (Antw. 1597. 
4 to) ; Winckelmann, Commentarius (Francof. 1603. 1620, 
2 vols. 8vo); Tinian and Kittenhans, Metaphrasis (Am- 
berg. 1604, 8vo) ; Maldonatns, Commentarius (Colon. 
161 1, fol.) ; A Castro [ Bom. Cath. |, Commentarii (Lngd. 
1615, Magnnt. 1617, fol.) ; A Figeiro [Bom. Cath.], 
('ommentarii (in his Opp. Lngd. 1615, fol.); Wohler, 
J/isputationes (Wittenib. 1617, 4fo): Sanctins [Bom. 
Cath.], Commentarius (Lngd. 1621, fol.); A Lapide, 
Commentarius (Antw. 1625, fol.); Drusius, Commenta- 
rius (Amst. 1627, 4fo; also in the Critici Sacri); Phi- 
lipp;ens ( Bom. Cath.], Commentarii (Par. 1633, 4 vols. 
fol.); Fahrioiiis, Condones (Bern. 1641, fol.); Light- 
loot, 1 ersiones fin IForAvt, x, 453) ; Golona [ Bom. ( ’nth.], 
Cnmmentaria ( Panorm. 1644, lbl.); Maeorps [Bom. 
Cath.], Paraphrase (Par. 1644, 1645. 2 vols. 12mo) ; 
Cocceius, Commentarius (L. B. 1652. fol.); Hutcheson, | 
Exposition (Lond. 1655,3 vo]s.8vo; 1657, fol.); Stokes, I 
Explication (ibid. 16. >9, 8vo) ; Kunad, Commentarius 
(Drcsd. 1677, 4to) ; l)e Veil, Explicatio (Loud. 1680, 


1 8vo) ; Schmid and Baldwin, Commentarius (Lips. 1685, 
1698, 4to); Pocock, Commentaries [on a part] (Oxf. 
1685, fol.; also in lForKst); Mercer, Commenturii [on 
the first five only] (Giess. 1695, 4to); Marck, Commen- 
tarius (Amst. 1696-1701, 5 vols. 4to; Tubing. 1734, 2 
vols. fol.); Tauler, Predigten (L’lm, 1699, 4to) ; Lyscr, 
Pralectiones (Goslar, 1709. 4to); Perterslen, Erklarung 
(F. ad M. 1723, 4to); Gebhard, Erklarung (at various 
places, 1723-28, 10 pts. 4to; Brunsw. 1737, 4to); Almo- 
sino, (in Frankfurter’s Babbin. Bible, Amst. 

1721-27, fol.); Patromis [Bom. Cath.], Commentarii 
(Neap. 1743, lbl.); Burke, Onomon (Ucidelb. 1753, 4to) ; 
Atsclml, etc. [includ. the Ilagiogr.] (Leghorn, 

1753 and later, 8vo) ; Vogel, Umschreib. (Hal. 1773, 
8vo); Struensee, Cebersetz. (llalberst, 1777, 8vo) ; Wal- 
tlier, Cebersetz. (Steud. 1777, 8vo) ; VoIIborth, Anmerk. 
(Gutting. 1783, 8vo) : Newcome, Xotes (Lond. 1785, 4to; 
1836, 8vo) ; Bauer, Erklar. (Leips. 1786, 8vo); Stiiud- 
ling, Erliiut. [on parts] (Stuttg. 1786, 8vo) ; Heusler, 
Animadversions [on passages] (Kilon. 1786, 4 to) ; Mol- 
denhancr, Erklar. [includ. Dan.] (Qnedl. 1787, 4to); 
\ ampel, Erklar. (Dresd. 1793, 8vo) ; Dahl, Observations 
[on passages] (Xeostr. 1793, 8vo); Wolf (of Dessau), 
nn;«, etc. (Dessau, 1805, 8vo, and later); Vater, Obser- 
rafiones [on passages] (Hal. 1815, 4to); Schriidcr, Er- 
liiut. (Lei|is. 1823, 8vo) ; Rosen miiller, Scholia (Lips. 
1827, 4 vols. 8vn) ; Ackermann, Annotationes (Vienna?, 
1830, 8vo) ; Zadel, Annotationes (Hal. 1830, 8\-o) : 
Seholz, Erkliir. (F. ad 31. 1833, 8vo) ; Pick, Translation 
(2d ed. Lond. 1835, I2mo); Jeittcles, (Vienna. 

1835, 8vo); Bieger, Bet racht ungen (Stuttg. 1835, Svo) ; 
llesselberg, Auslegung (Kdnigsb. 1838, 8vo); Hender- 
son, Commentary (Loud. 1845, Andover, 1866, Svo); 
llitzig, Erkliir. fLei,.o. 1852, Svo); Sehregg [Bom. 
Catli.J, Erkliir. (Begensb. 1851, 8vo) ; Pusey, Commen- 
tary (Lond. i860, 4to) ; Kohler, Die nachexi). Propheten 
(Krlang. 18(»1, Svo); Schlier, Predigten (Stuttg. 1861, 
Svo) ; Wlush. Paraphrase (Lond. 1861, 12ino) ; Shrews- 
bury. Xotes (Ediub. 1865. Svo); Cowles, Xotes (X. Y. 
18<i7, 12mo ; Keil and Delitzsch, Commentar (Leips. 
1866, 8vo ; i ransl. Kdiub. 1868, 2 vols. Svo) ; Kelly, Lect- 
ures (Lond. 1871, Svo). See Commentary. 

PROPHETS, Schools or the. These were place* 
where young men were educated under the care of a 
master, who was commonly, if not always, an inspired 
prophet. Godwin observes that for the propagation 
of learning colleges and schools were in divers places 
erected Ibr the prophets. The first intimation we have 
in Scripture of these schools is in 1 .Sam. x, 5, where we 
read of “a company of prophets coming down from the 
high place with a psaltery, and a tabrot, and a pipe, 
and a harp before them; ami they shall prophesy.” 
They are supposed to he the students in a college of 
prophetsat tiibeah of God, or, as we render it. ‘-the hill 
of God,” which is another name forGibcah of Benjamin 
(1 Sam. xiii, 15; xi, 44. This place seems to have been 
reckoned among the ancient sanctuaries of Palestine. 
We afterwards read of such another company of the 
prophets at Xaioth in Bamah “ prophesying, and Sam- 
uel standing as appointed over them” (1 Sam. xix. 19. 
20). The students in these colleges were called “sons 
of the prophets.” We read of the '< sons of the proph- 
ets that were at Bethel and of another school at. 
Jericho; and of the sons of the prophets at Gilgal (2 
Kings ii, 3-5: iv, 38). It appears that these sons of the 
prophets were very numerous; for of this sort were 
probably the prophets of the lx>rd whom Jezebel cut 
off; “ but. Ohadiah took a hundred of them, and hid 
thorn by fifty in a cave” (l Kings xviii, 4). In these 
schools young men were educated under a proper 
master in the knowledge of religion and sacred music 
(1 Sam. x. 5; xix, 20), and were thereby qualified to be 
public preachers, which seems to have been part of the 
business of the prophets on the Sabbath-days and fes- 
tivals (2 Kings iv, 234. It would seem that God gen- 


PROPHETS 


655 


PROPITIATION 


erally chose the prophets whom he inspired out of these 
schools. Amos, therefore, speaks of it as an extraordi- 
nary case that though he tvas not one of the sous of the 
prophets, but a herdsman, “yet the Lord took him as 
he followed the flock, and said unto him, Go, prophesy 
unto my people Israel” (Amos vii, 14, 15). That it was 
usual for some of these schools, or at least for their tu- 
tors, to be endued with a prophetic spirit, appears from 
the relation of the prophecies concerning the ascent of 
Elijah, delivered to Elisha by the sons of the prophets, 
both at Jericho and at Bethel (2 Kings ii, 3, 5). See 
Bible Educator , iii, 64. See Pedagogics; School. 

PKOPHETS, Sons of the. The disciples, or schol- 
ars, of the prophets were thus called, agreeably to the 
Hebrew idiom; they were instructed in the knowledge 
of religion and in sacred music, and were thus quali- 
fied to become public teachers (1 Sam. x, 11). See 
Prophet. 

PKOPIIETS, Tombs of the. “The excavations 
commonly known under this name,” Professor Robin- 
son observes, “ are situated on the western declivity of 
the Mount of Olives, a little south of the footpath lead- j 
ing over from St. Stephen’s gate to Bethany. Pococke 
describes them as ‘ very large, having many cells to de- ! 
posit bodies in; the farther end of them they call the 
Labyrinth, which extends a great way ; I could not And 
the end of it.;’ this part seems to have been a quarry. 
Doubdan compares them with the tombs of the judges 
and kings; but says the chambers are not square, as in 
these, but consist of two large and high galleries, cut 
strictly one within the other in a continued curve; the 
holes or niches for the bodies being on a level with the 
floor” (Bill. Res. i, 529 ; comp. Later Res. p. 233). See 
De Saulcv, Dead Sea , ii, 107 ; Williams, Holy City , ii, 
215. See Olivet. It is ordinarily supposed (but with 
no good reason) that it is of these tombs our Lord 
speaks when he says : “ Woe unto you ! for ye build 
the sepulchres of the prophets, and your fathers killed 
them” (Luke xi, 47). See Tomb. 

Propitiation. The Greek word iXatrrppiov (or 
iXaopotj), rendered propitiation (Rom. iii, 25; 1 John 
ii, 2; iv, 10) and mercy seat (Heb. ix, 5), is used in 
the Septuagint as the translation of the Hebrew word 
r.^S2, i. e. covering, properly the lid or cover of the ark 
of the covenant in the most holy place, which was over- 
laid with pure gold, over which the cherubim stretched 
out their wings, and where Jehovah communed with 
the representatives of his people (Exod. xxv, 17-22; 
xxxvii; in the Sept. Exod. xxxviii, 6-9). Into the 
holy place the high-priest entered but once a year, 
when he sprinkled upon the mercy seat or covering of 
the ark the blood of an expiatory victim, in order to 
make propitiation for the sins of the people (Lev. xvi, 
11-15). In the com moil Greek idiom, iXanr^piov properly 
designates an expiatory or propitiatory victim [see Pro- 
pitiatory Sacrifices] ; and in Rom. iii, 25; 1 John ii, 
2; iv, 10, Christ is represented as the propitiatory sac- 
rifice for the sin of the world. Ilis blood alone atones 
for and covers our guilt. When faith is exercised in 
the blood of this sacrifice, its propitiatory effect is pro- 
duced. In other words, Christ makes expiation which 
is effectual for such, and only such, as trust, or put confi- 
dence in his atoning blood. The idea of the legal rec- 
onciliation of God and all sinners who cordially receive 
the Gospel plan of salvation is presented under two as- 
pects. 1. Expiation: this denotes the doing of some- 
thing which shall furnish a just ground or reason in a 
judicial administration for pardoning a convicted of- 
fender. 2. Propitiation : anything which shall have the 
property of disposing, inclining, or causing the judicial 
authority to admit the expiation — i. e. to assent to it as 
a valid reason for pardoning the offender. Expiation, 
therefore, regards the condition of the offender; propiti- 
ation, that of the judge or sovereign. “We can con- 
ceive cases,” says Dr. J. Pve Smith, “ in which an expi- 
ation, good and reasonable in its kind, might be offered, 


and yet a wise and good government might not be will- 
ing to accept it — i. e. might not be propitious to the of- 
fender and to the proposal for his being forgiven. We 
can also conceive of a wise and good government being 
cordially disposed and greatly desirous to pardon an ol- 
i fender, but unable to gratify this gracious disposition 
because it can find no just grounds for such an act, and 
* it is aware that a pardon arbitrary and destitute of un- 
exceptionable reason would relax the obligations of law', 
bring dishonor upon public justice, and prove of per- 
nicious example. It is also obvious that the same thing 
may be, and is most naturally fit and likely to be, both 
an expiation and a propitiation ; i. e. both a valid reason 
l for pardoning, and a determining motive to the will of 
the competent authority' to admit and act upon that 
reason.” See Atonement. 

Now', in applying these terms to the great and awful 
case of ourselves, the whole world of justly condemned 
sinners, and our judge, the infinitely perfect God, there 
are some cautious of great importance to be observed. 
Nothing can be admitted that would contradict incon- 
trovertible first principles. But there are two such prin- 
ciples which are often violated by inconsiderate advo- 
cates of the doctrine of salvation by the mediation of 
Christ; and the violation of them has afforded the ad- 
vantage of all the plausible arguments urged against 
that doctrine by its adversaries. The first is the immu- 
tability of God. Ilis moral principles — that is, his rec- 
titude, wisdom, and goodness, as expressed by his blessed 
and holy will— can undergo no alteration; for to admit 
such a supposition would be destructive of the absolute 
jierfection of the divine nature, as it would imply either 
an improvement or a deterioration in the subject of the 
supposed change. We cannot, therefore, hear or read 
without unspeakable disapprobation and regret repre- 
sentations of the Deity as first actuated by the passions 
of wrath and fury towards sinful men, and as afterwards 
turned, by the presentation of the Saviour’s sacrifice, 
into a different temper — a disposition of calmness, kind- 
ness, and grace. The second foundation principle Is 
that the adorable God is, from eternity and in all i lie 
glorious constancy of his nature, gracious and merciful. 
He wants no extraneous motive to induce him to pity 
and relieve our miserable world. No change in God is 
necessary or desirable, even if it were possible. This is 
abundantly evident from many parts of the divine Word 
(Exod. xxxiv, 6, 7; John iii, 16; vi, 39; x, 17; Eph. 
i, 3-10; 2 Cor. v, 18, 19). The question whether sin- 
ners shall be pardoned is not one that can be referred to 
arbitrary will or absolute power. It is a question of law' 
and government, and it is to be solved by the dictates 
of wisdom, goodness, justice, and consistency. God’s 
disposition to show mercy is original and unchangeable : 
in this sense nothing is needed to iTnJerhim propitious. 
But the way and manner in which it will be suitable to 
all the other considerations proper to be taken into the 
account that he should show mere}', none but. himself is 
qualified to determine. “God is the righteous judge, 
and God is angry [with the wicked] every day.” But 
this anger is not a commotion or a mutable passion : it 
is the calm, dignified, unchangeable, and eternal majes- 
ty of th e judge ; it is his necessary love of righteousness 
and hatred of iniquity. Pardon, when on any consider- 
ation it takes place, brings the true and just idea of a 
change ; but that change, in the great case before us, is 
not in the mind or character of the Supreme Ruler, but 
it is in the administration of his government, and in 
those outward acts by which that administration is in- 
dicated. This change is, in the order of moral right, 
the effect of an adequate cause. This cause lies in the 
whole mediatorial work of Christ, but most particnlarly 
aiul essentially in his sufferings and death, and these 
have constituted the expiation. See Atonement, Day 
of; Mediation. 

The Romish Church believes the mass (q. v.) to be a 
sacrifice of propitiation for the living and dead; while 
the Reformed churches, justified by the express decla- 


PROPITIATORY SACRIFICES 056 PROPOSITIONS DAMXAT/E 


rations of .Scripture, allow of no propitiation but that one 
oil creel by Jesus on the cross, whereby divine justice is 
appeased and our sins atoned lor (Korn, iii, '20; 1 John 
ii, 2). See Sacuuk k. 

Propitiatory Sacrifices include both trespass- 
offering and sin -ottering. See Sackifki:. In this 
place we are to examine the disputed question what the 
Israelites held before them as their object in offering 
their beasts of sacrifice; that is, whether they wished 
merely to otter a gift to the offended Deity (Welker, p. 
288). or (as Michaelis, Mos. h ’it. p. 04, urges) it was con- 
sidered as a municipal penalty, a kind of line; or, final- 
ly, as a substitute for the sinners presenting it, who had 
themselves properly deserved death. The last is the 
view of many rabbins (see ( hitram, De Saerijlc. p. 251 
sq.) and Church fathers (Theodor, ({must. 01 ad Kxod.; 
Euscb. /Jem. /■>. i, 10, etcA, and latelv of Hauer {Theol. 
d. X. T. iv, 124 sq.), De Wette (Bib). Theol. p. 98 sq.; 
comp. Opusc. p. 23 sq.), Gesenius (Zu Is. ii, 189), lleng- 
stenberg ( Christol . i, 205), Scholl (in Klaiber’s Stud. 
etc. V, ii, 143 sq.), and Tholuck (2. Beit. z. Brief a. d. 
llebr. p. 78 sq. ; comp. Colin’s Bibl. Theol. i, 270 sq., for 
many others). This meaning of the sin-offerings seems 
at first view the most natural, significant, and most ac- 
cordant with ancient testimonies. Vet Klaiber ( Studien 
der Wiirtemb. Geistl.X III, ii, 10 sq.) has recently com- 
bated it with acuteness, and Biihr ( Symbol . ii, 277 sq.) 
has offered several objections to it. Many other inter- 
pretations, some very monstrous, but offered with phil- 
osophical pretension, are referred to by Scholl ( op . 
cit. p. 133 sq.). Early opposition to the usual view is 
found in Sykes (J'e/vf. iib. die Opfer. p. 128 sq.) and 
Steudel ( Glaubcnslehre , p. 256 sq.). Certainly some of 
the grounds on which it is often based are of no weight. 
The formula in Lev. iv, 20, “And the priest shall make 
an atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them,” 
repeated in xxvi, 5, 10, or that in Lev. v, 13, “And the 
priest shall make an atonement for him as touching his 
sin that he hath sinned in one of these, and it shall be 
forgiven him,” or the similar words in the 18th verse, 
do not make it certain that a substitution is to be 
thought of in the ease of the sin-offering. The laying 
of the hand on the animal, too, though on the day of 
atonement (Lev. xvi, 21) it certainly implies the laying 
of guilt upon it, does not in general determine this 
point, since it was also customary in other sacrifices. 
Further, that the sin-offering ivas considered unclean, 
which would only be possible in case the uncleanness 
of sin were considered to have passed over to it, is not 
to be inferred from Exod. xxix, 14 ; Lev. xvi, 28, etc. 
(as Klaiber has well shown), but would seem to contra- 
dict Lev. iv, 12 ; vi, 27 (see below). ( hi the other hand, 

(1.) Lev. xvii, 11, unless it be interpreted in a very 
forced manner, can scarcely be understood to mean any- 
thing else than that the life of the sacrifice, which is in 
the blood, and is poured out with the blood, was offered 
instead of the life of him who presented it. It is not 
necessary to lay stress upon the rendering of (kip- 
per, to expiate, to atone ) ; but the parallelism between 
the nephesh or “ life of the flesh” and the nephesh or soul 
for which it is given as an atonement is certainly not 
without force. 

(2.) The sprinkling of the blood of the sin-offering 
shows tiiat t lie mere death of the sacrifice, and the 
burning of pieces of its fle.sh on the altar, were not the 
object here as in other sacrifices. What other meaning 
could the sprinkling have than that in the blood the j 
life is sprinkled, scattered, and so utterly destroyed? 
The pouring-out of the blood was not in this case, as 
elsewhere, merely a means of killing the animal, but 
was the real object in view. Hut it could only become 
an object when the sprinkling of the blood symbolizes 
the substitution of the sacrifice for the. offerer, who has 
forfeited his life by sin. 

(3.) The idea that one man could suffer as a substi- 
tute for another (and hence, according to the Israelitisli 


view, even be punished by God in his stead) is not only 
expressed by 2 »Sam. xii, 15 sq. ; xxiv, 10 sq. ; Isa. liii, 
4 sq. (not Prov. xxi, 18), but the representation of a 
transmission of guilt appears in Deut. xxi, especially 
verse 8; in the symbolic meaning of the covenant-sac- 
rifice (Jer. xxxiv, 18 sip; comp. Gen. xv, 17), and in 
the ritual service with the scapegoat (Lev. xvi. 21). 
■See especially also Isa. xliii, 3, where, too, the word 
( kdpher , ransom), so common where the sin-offer- 
ings are mentioned, is used. (Klaiber is right in say- 
ing that 1E2, kipper, from "£2. kuphdr, properly means 
cover; and hence points out the removal of guilt, with- 
out determining the method. Yet it remains notewor- 
thy that this word /cipher [covering over), elsewhere 
only used in the sense of expiation, is used here when 
the subject is penal substitution. Was it so easy and 
natural for the Israelites to view’ expiation as an act 
of substitution?) Nor must we omit to remark that 
( chitlch [Gen. xxxi, 39], meaning properly to 
atone for) is used for making compensation, and Klai- 
ber’s explanation of the passage is awkward. 

(4.) There can be no doubt that the representation 
of expiatory substitution by sacrifices was prominent 
among other ancient nations (Herod, ii. 39 ; Caesar, Bell. 
Gal. vi, 16 ; Ovid, Fast, vi, 160 ; Porphyr. A bstin. i v, 15). 
The remark of De Wette, Tholuck, and Scholl that the 
remnants of the sin-offerings were accounted unclean 
seems to have no great weight, since the eating of pieces 
of llesh from most of sin-offerings might be urged for 
the contrary view; and certainly that idea did not ap- 
pear in the case of the trespass-offerings (see lliihr, 
op. cit. p. 393 sq.). 

On the offering of men for propitiation, in case of 
public misfortune (2 Kings iii, 37) among the Greeks, 
comp. Schol. in Aristoph. Pint. 454; Wachsmuth, Hell, 
Alterth. ii, 550 sq. The self-offerings of the Homans 
belong here too. Kindred is the illegal hanging of the 
children of Saul (2 Sam. xxi, 6 sq. , comp. Lassaulx, 
Die Siiknopfer der Griechen und Homer [Wurzburg, 
1841]). 

(5.) Lastly, a circumstance which speaks strongly for 
the common explanation of these sin-offerings is that 
all others which have been suggested are far less nat- 
ural, simple, and appropriate. We need not. refer es- 
pecially to the homely interpretation of Michaelis. The 
idea that blood passed for the principle of sensuality, 
and hence of sin, and that thus the shedding of blood 
became the symbol of the putting-away of sins, does not 
appear in the Old Test., nor, indeed, in the New. 8teu- 
del's supposition is that the gracious acceptance by God 
of the offering of reconciliation was the essential ele- 
ment, and that the various forms of sacrifice were only 
intended to impress on the mind the abominable nature 
of sin and to lead to a true repentance ; but this view is 
strangely barren. Klaiber supposes that clean animals 
without blemish were to awaken in the worshipper the 
sense of the law’s requirement from him and of his im- 
perfection. lint this leaves out of sight all the peculiar 
forms appropriated to the sin-offering, and dwells on a 
single circumstance which was common to all the other 
sacrifices, and not even confined to sacrifices. It is im- 
possible to sacrifice the common view, which is quite 
satisfactory, in favor of such schemes as these. The in- 
terpretation of Menken has been sufficiently answered 
by lliihr (op. cit. p. 292 sq.),— Winer. See Pkoimtia- 
TION. 

Proportion of Faith. See Ax auk; y ( of Faith). 

Propositiones Damnatae is, in theological lan- 
guage. every thesis which contains either a dogmatical 
assertion or one intimately related to dogma, in the 
form of an authoritative reprobation, supported by the 
usual arguments afforded by Scripture, tradition, deci- 
sions of the Church, ete. The doctrinal opinions of 
those who diverge in any way from the belief of the 
liomisli Church are also called propositions, ami the de- 


PROPROCTORS 


657 


PROSELYTE 


gree of divergence is indicated by corresponding quali- ! 
tications. If the authorities of the Church (general j 
councils, or the pope himself) positively reject those 
propositions, they are condemned propositions, i. e.pro- ; 
positiones damnatce. The doctrines expounded, espe- \ 
daily in writings, can be rejected summarily (in globo) ; 
without specification, or with special mention of each 
single proposition. In the latter case each condemned 
proposition is described by an adjective, which indicates 
its relation to the belief of the Church: heretical, bor- 
dering on heresy, erroneous, false, blasphemous, danger- 
ous, immoral, etc. Such sentences have been pro- 
nounced, since the Reformation, among others, against 
the works of Luther, M. Bajus, Jansenius, Quesnel, etc. 
See Heiiesv ; Index Expukuatorils. 

Proproctors are assistants of proctors (q. v.). 

Prorowit, a Slavic deity, was represented with 
four heads on a common trunk, lie carried a fifth head 
on his chest, and held it in such a way that his eyes 
could see through tlv3 intervals of the fingers. Many j 
explanations of t^is extraordinary figure have been 
proposed, but none that is at all concordant with the ( 
spirit of the Slavic religions: all these surmises are 
based on the similitude of the image with that of Janus 
qnudrif rons. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythologie, s. v, 

Prosar is the service-book containing the form of 
the prose (q. v.). 

Prosbol or Prozbul (blSTTiS or bl2D s “E) is 
the name of a legal enactment instituted by Ilillel I, or 
the Great (q. v.). Whether the word is equivalent to 
the Greek 7rpo/ioo\/j or TrpoafluXi), or, as Sachs pre- ; 
fers, 7 rpbg [3ov\g TrpttjfievTiuv, which latter is preferred 
by Jost and Gratz, cannot be decided. The reason for 
this curious legal provision, which, though contrary to j 
the law of Moses, was necessitated by the time, and on 
the whole a very wholesome one, was that because, ae- j 
cording to the law (Dent, xv), the claiming of debts , 
was unlawful during the Sabbatical year, the rich would 
not lend to the poor during that year, which seriously 
impeded commercial and social intercourse. Ilillel found 
that under these circumstances the warning contained 
in Dent, xv, 9 was disregarded, and in order to do away i 
with this evil he introduced the prosbol or prozbul, i. e. 
a declaration made before the court of justice at the time 
of lending not to remit the debt in the Sabbatical year, j 
The formula of this legal declaration was as follows: J 

z'~ bDw 1 "r’?s z'pzz'z zzb la-.oiE 

nzs-xr pT bz ■'2152 *b V'Z— i. e. 

I, A B, deliver to you, the judges of the district C, the 
declaration that I may call in at any time I like all 
debts due to me ;” and it was signed either by the 
judges or witnesses. Comp. Jost, Geschichte d. Judenth. 
u. s. Secten, i, 265 sq. ; Gratz, Geschichte der Jo den, iii, j 
172; Edersheim, Hist, of the Jewish Nation, p. 395: 
Frankel, Hodegetica in Mishnam (Leips. 1859), p. 39; 
Weiss, Zur Geschichte derjiid. Tradition (Wien, 1872), 
i, 172; Sachs, Beit rage zur Sprach- n. Alterthumsfor- 
schung (Berlin, 1854), No. 2, p. 70; Mishna, Shebiith, x, 
1-5; Gittin, iv, 3; Penh, iii, 6; Schiirer, Lchrbuch der 
neatestamentlichen Zeitgeschkhte (Leips. 1874), p. 457 
sq. ; Buxtorfii Lexicon Tahnudicum et Chuldaicum, col. 
1806 (revised edition by B. Fischer [Leips. 1869-74], 
col. 898) ; Derenbourg, Essai sur VHistoire et la Geo- 
graphic de la Palestine (Paris, 1867), p. 188 sq. : Low, 
Beitrage zur jiidischen Alterthnmskunde (Leips. 1871), 
vol. i, pt. ii, p. 88 sq. (B. P.) 

Prose (Lat. Prosa ), the French name for the Se- 
quence. (I.) The prayer sung in the Mass after the 
Gradual and before the Gospel on great festivals. It 
required the license of the diocesan or the superior of a 
monastery before it could be used. (2.) A canticle in 
which no metre is defined. An expression, in loose 
measure, of the principal circumstances of a festival to 
be added to the pneuma or adapted to its notes. St. 1 
VIII. — T t 


Caesarius of Arles required the laity in the diocese to 
sing proses and antiphons in church — some in Greek 
and some in Latin — aloud like the clergy, in order to 
introduce among the people a love of psalmody and 
hymns. These compositions, called prosce, are in rhyme, 
but ignore the law of measure and quantity established 
by the ancient Greeks and Romans. As they were sung 
after the Gradual or Introits, they were likewise ealled 
Sequutio (q. v.). The use of prosing began near the 
close of the 9th century. Notker, abbot of St. Gall, cir.- 
880, composed and favored the use of proses, but cer- 
tainly did not invent them. He says that he found one 
in an antiphonar brought from a Benedictine abbey 
near Rome, which had been burned by the Normans in 
841. Pope Nicholas first authorized their use. Troses 
in the Middle Ages were written in the vulgar tongue 
for the edification of the people. These proses, having 
become exceedingly numerous, and in some places even 
ridiculous, were retrenched by the Council of Cologne 
in 1536, and of Rheims in 1564. The four proses used 
since the time of Pius V are Victimce Paschali Laudes, 
for Easter; Veni Creator Sjriritus, appointed by pope 
Innocent III. at Whitsuntide; Lauda Sion Saliatoran, 
for Corpus Christi Day, written either by Bonaventura 
or St. Thomas Aquinas ; and the Dies lice, Dies Ilia,. 
used in the commemorations of the dead, and attributed 
to Thomas de Cellano, or Salerno, a Franciscan, eir. 
1230, cardinal Ursin (who died 1204), cardinal D’Aqua- 
sporta (who died 1302), Humbert, general of the Do- 
minicans (who died 1277), Augustus Buzellensis, or 
Bonaventura. The Stabat Mater Dolorosa, written by 
pope Innocent III, or Giacomo da Toda, a Minorite, in 
the 14th centrin', is a prose. Possibly the chants used 
by St. Aldhelm, bishop of Sherborne, sitting on the 
bridge of Malmesbury, to win the attention of the pass- 
ers-by, were of the nature of proses. In the 12th, loth, 
and 14th centuries rhythmical chants were sung at the 
end of a banquet w hich the pope gave to his elergv. 
At Sens, Lyons, Paris, and Rouen proses were in fre- 
quent use (unlike the Roman custom), but they were 
mere rhapsodies, as we have in one instance preserved 
to ns “Alle — necnon et perenne celeste— luia.” After 
the prose, the Mass-book is removed from the Epistle 
to the Gospel side, to represent the translation of au- 
thority from the Aaronitish to the apostolical priest- 
hood. — Walcott, Sacred A rchceology, s. v. ; Burney, 
Hist, of Music, s. v. 

Proselyte ( irpoaqXvrog , one who has joined a new 
faith) oecurs only in the A. V. of the New Test. (Matt, 
xxiii, 15; Acts ii, 10; vi, 5; xiii, 43); but the Greek 
word is occasionally used in the Sept. (1 Chron. xxii, 
22. etc.) as a rendering of the Hob. “5, gcr (a stranger, 
as usually rendered; sometimes Grsecized in the Sept. 
yiubpag [Exod. ii, 19] from the Aramaic form N“i , A). 
(The following article is based upon Plumtre’s synopsis 
[in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible ] of Leyrer’s treatment of 
the subject in Herzog’s Real - Encyidap.ddie, wit h addi- 
tions from other sources.) See Alien. 

I. Historical Development of this Class. — The exist- 
ence, through all stages of the history of the Israelites, 
of a body of men, not of the same race, but holding the 
same faith and adopting the same ritual, is a fact 
which, from its very nature, requires to be dealt with 
historically. 

1. During the Patriarchal Age. — The position of the 
family of Israel as a distinct nation, with a special re- 
ligions character, appears at a very early period to have 
exercised a power of attraction over neighboring raees. 
The slaves and soldiers of the tribe of whieh Abraham 
was the head (Gen. xvii, 27), who were included with 
him in the covenant of circumcision, can hardly perhaps 
be elassed as proselytes in the later sense. The case 
of the Shechemites, however (ch. xxxiv), presents a 
more distinct instance. The converts were swayed 
partly by passion, partly by interest. The sons of *Ja- 
cib then, as afterwards, required circumcision as an in- 


PROSELYTE 


C 58 


PROSELYTE 


dispensable condition (xxxiv, 14). Tliis, and apparently 
tliis only, was required of proselytes in the pre-Mosaic 
period. 

2. From the F.xodus to the Monarchy.— The life ot Is- 

rael under the law, from the very first, presupposes and 
provides for the incorporation of men of other races. 
The ‘‘mixed multitude’’ of Exod. xii, 88 implies the 
presence of proselytes more or less complete. It is rec- 
ognised in the earliest rules for the celebration of the 
Passover (xii, 19). The “stranger” of this and other 
laws in the A. V. answers to the word which distinctly 
means “proselyte,” and is so translated in the Sept., 
ami the prominence of the class may be estimated by the 
frequency with which the word recurs: nine times in 
Exodus, twenty in Leviticus, eleven in Numbers, nine- 
teen in Deuteronomy. The laws clearly point to the 
position of a convert. The “stranger” is bound by the 
law of the Sabbath (xx, 10: xxiii, 12; Dent, v, 11). 
Circumcision is the condition of any fellowship with 
him (Exod. xii, 48; Numb, ix, 14). lie is to he pres- 
ent at the Passover (Exod. xii, 19), the Feast of Weeks 
(Dent, xvi, 11), the Feast of Tabernacles (ver. 14), the 
Day of Atonement (Lev. xvi, 29). The laws of pro- 
hibited marriages (xviii, 26) and abstinence from blood 
(xvii, 10) arc binding upon him. lie is liable to the 
same punishment for Molech-worship (xx, 2) and for 
blasphemy (xxiv, 16); may claim the. same, right 
of asylum as the Israelites in the cities of refuge 
(Numb, xxxv, 15 ; Josh, xx, 9). < )n the other side he 

is subjected to some drawbacks. He cannot hold laud 
(Lev. xix, 10). He has no jus cotmubii with the de- 
scendants of Aaron (xxi, 14). 1 1 is condition is as- 

sumed to be, for the most part, one of poverty (xxiii, 
22), often of servitude (Dent, xxix, 1 1). For this rea- 
son he is placed under the special protection of the law 7 
(x, 18). He is to share in the right of gleaning (Lev. 
xix, 10), is placed in the same category as the father- 
less and the widow (Dent, xxiv, 17, 19; xxvi. 12; xxvii, 
19), is joined with the Levitc as entitled to the tithe 
of every third year’s produce (xiv, 29; xxvi, 12). 
Among the. proselytes of this period the Kenites (q. v.), 
who under Ilobab accompanied the Israelites in their 
wanderings, and ultimately settled in Canaan, were 
probably the most conspicuous (Judg. i, 16). The pres- 
ence of the class was recognised in the solemn decla- 
ration of blessings and curses from ICbal and Gerizim 
(Josh, viii, 38). 

I’lie period after the conquest of Canaan was not fa- 
vorable to the admission of proselytes. The people 
had no strong faith, no commanding position. The 
Gibeonites (ch. ix) furnish the only instance of a con- 
version, and their condition is rather that of slaves 
compelled to conform than that of free proselytes. See 

Nkt MINIM. 

3. The Period of the Monarchy.— With the introduc- 
tion of royalty, and the consequent fame and iutlucnce 
of the people, there w r as more to attract stragglers from 
the neighboring nations, and we meet accordingly with 
many names which suggest the presence of men of an- 
other race conforming to the faith of Israel. Ducg the 
Edomite (1 Sam. xxi, 7), Uriah the Ilittitc (2 Sam. xi, 
3), Araunah the Jebnsitc (xxiv, 234, Zelek the Am- 
monite (xxiii, 37), [thmah the Moabite (1 Chrmi. xi, 
46)— these two in spite of an express law to the con- 
trary (Dent, xxiii, 3) — and at a later period Shcbnah 
the scribe (probably ; comp. Alexander on Isa. xxii, 15), 
and Ebcd-Melceh the Ethiopian (Jer. xxxviii, 7), are 
examples that such proselytes might rise even to high 
offices about the person of the king. The Cherethitcs 
and Pe/ethites (q. v.) consisted probably of foreigners 
who had been attracted to the service of David, and 
were content for it to adopt the religion of their master 
(Ewald, f.'esch. i, 330; iii, 183). The vision in lVa. 
lxxxvii of a time in which men of Tyre, Egypt, Ethio- 
pia, l’hilistia, should all be registered among the citi- 
zens of Zion, can hardly fail to have had its starting- 
point in some admission of proselytes within the mem- 


ory of the writer (Ewald and Dc Wette, ad loc.). A 
convert of another kind, the type, as it has been thought, 
of the later proselytes of the gate (see below), is found 
in Naamau the Syrian (2 Kings v, 15. 1*) recognising 
Jehovah as his God, vet not binding himself to any 
rigorous observance of the law. 

The position of the proselytes during this period ap- 
pears to have undergone considerable changes. On the 
one hand, men rose, as we have seen, to power and for- 
tune. The case fur which the law provided ( Lev. xxv, 
47) might actually occur, and they might be the cred- 
itors of Israelites as debtors, the masters of Israelites as 
slaves. It might well be a sign of the times in the later 
days of the monarchy that they became “ very high,” the 
“head” and not the “tail” of the people (Dent, xxviii, 
43,44). The picture had, however, another side. They 
were treated by David and Sdomon as a subject class, 
brought (like l’crioeci, almost like Helots) under a sys- 
tem of compulsory labor from which others were ex- 
empted (l (’hron. xxii, 2; 2 Citron, ii, 17, 18). The 
statistics of this period, taken probably for that pur- 
pose, give their number (i. e. apparently the number of 
adult working males) at 153,600 (ibid.). They were 
subject at other times to wanton insolence and outrage 
(l\sa. xciv, 6). As some compensation for their suffer- 
ings they became the special objects of the care and 
sympathy of the prophets. One after another of the 
“goodly fellowship” pleads the cause of the proselytes 
as warmly as that of the widow and the fatherless (Jer. 
vii, 6; xxii, 3; Ezek. xxii, 7, 29; Zech. vii, 10; Mai. 
iii, 5). A large accession of converts enters into all 
their hopes of the divine kingdom (Isa. ii, 2; xi, 10; 
Ivi, 3-6; Mic. iv, 1). The sympathy of one of them 
goes still further. lie sees, in the far future, the vision 
of a time when the last remnant of inferiority shall be 
removed, and the proselytes, completely emancipated, 
shall be able to hold and inherit land even as the Is- 
raelites (Ezek. xlvii, 22). 

4. From the Babylonian Captirity to the Destruction 
of Jerusalem. — The prosolytism of this period assumed 
a different character. It was for the most part the con- 
formity, not of a subject race, but of willing adherents. 
Even as early as the return from Iiabylon we have 
traces of those who were drawn to a faith which they 
recognised as holier than their own, and had “separated 
themselves" unto the law of Jehovah (Neh. x, 28). The 
presence of many foreign names among the Nethinim 
(vii, 46-59) leads us to believe that many of the new 
converts dedicated themselves specially to the service 
of the new Temple. With the conquests of Alexander, 
the wars between Egypt and Syria, the struggle under 
the Maccabees, the expansion of the Homan empire, the 
Jews became more widely known, and their power to 
proselytize increased. They had suffered for their re- 
ligion in the persecution of Antiochns, and the spirit of 
martyrdom was followed naturally by propagandism. 
Their monotheism was rigid and unbending. Scattered 
through the East and West, a marvel and a portent, 
wondered at and scorned, attracting and repelling, they 
presented, in an age of shattered creeds and corroding 
doubts, the spectacle of a faith, or at least a dogma, 
which remained unshaken. The influence was some- 
times obtained well, and exercised for good. In most 
of the great cities of the empire there were men who 
had been rescued from idolatry and its attendant de- 
basements, and brought under the power of a higher 
moral law. It is possible that in some cases the purity 
of Jewish life may have contributed to this result, and 
attracted men or women who shrank from the unutter- 
able contamination in the midst of which they lived. 
The converts who were thus attracted joined, with va- 
rying strictness (see below), in the worship of the Jews. 
They were present in their synagogues (Acts xiii, 42, 
43, 50; xvii, 4; xviii, 7). They came up as pilgrims 
to the great feasts at Jerusalem (ii, 10). In Palestine 
itself the inthienee was often stronger and better. Even 
Iloman centurions learned to love the conquered nation. 


PROSELYTE 


659 


PROSELYTE 


built synagogues for them (Luke vii, 5), tasted and 
prayedj and gave alms, after the pattern of the strictest 
Jews (Acts x, 2, 30), and became preachers of the new 
faith to the soldiers under them (ver. 7). Such men, 
drawn by what was best in Judaism, were naturally 
among the readiest receivers of the new truth which j 
rose out of it, and became in many cases the nucleus of j 
a Gentile church. 

Proselytism had, however, its darker side. The 
Jews of Palestine were eager to spread their faith by 
the same weapons as those with which they had de- I 
fended it. Had not the power of the empire stood in 
the way, the religion of Moses, stripped of its higher 
elements, might have been propagated far and wide by 
force, as was afterwards the religion of Mohammed. As 
it was, the Idumseans had the alternative offered them 
by John Hyrcanus of death, exile, or circumcision (Jo- 
sephus, xiii, 9, 3). The Duncans were converted 
in the same way by Aristobulus (ibid, xiii, 11, 3). In 
the more frenzied fanaticism of a later period, the Jews 
under Josephus could hardly be restrained from seizing 
and circumcising two chiefs of Trachonitis who had 
come as envoys (Josephus, Life. 23). They compelled 
a Roman centurion, tvhom they had taken prisoner, to 
purchase his life by accepting the sign of the covenant 
(Josephus, War, ii, 11. 10). Where force was not in 
their power (the “veluti Judsei, cogemus” of Horace, 
Sat. i, 4, 142, implies that they sometimes ventured on 
it even at Rome), they obtained their ends by the most 
unscrupulous fraud. They appeared as soothsayers, di- 
viners, exorcists, and addressed themselves especially 
to the fears and superstitions of women. Their influ- 
ence over these became the subject of indignant satire 
(Juvenal, Sat. vi, 543-547). They persuaded noble 
matrons to send money and purple to the Temple (Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xviii, 3, 5). At Damascus the wives of 
nearly half the population were supposed to be tainted 
with Judaism (Josephus, War, ii, 10, 2). At Rome 
they numbered in their ranks, in the person of Poppaea, 
even an imperial concubine (Josephus, A nt. xx, 7, 11). 
The converts thus made cast off all ties of kindred and 
affection (Tacitus, Hist, v, 9). Those who were most, 
active in proselytizing were precisely those from whose 
teaching all that was most true and living had departed. 
The vices of the Jew were ingrafted on the vices of the 
heathen. A repulsive casuistry released the convert 
from obligations which he had before recognised, while 
in other things he was bound hand and foot to an un- 
healthy superstition. The Law of the Corban may 
serve as one instance (Matt, xv, 4-G). Another is found 
in the rabbinic teaching as to marriage. Circumcision, 
like a new birth, cancelled all previous relationships, 
and unions within the nearest degrees of blood were 
therefore no longer incestuous (Maimon. ex Jebam. p. 
982; Selden, De Jure Nat. et Gent, ii, 4 ; Uxor Hebr. ii, 
18). It was no wonder that the proselyte became 
“twofold more the child of Gehenna” (Matt, xxiii, 15) 
than the Pharisees themselves. 

The position of such proselytes was indeed every way 
pitiable. At Rome, and in other large cities, they be- 
came the butts of popular scurrility. The words “cur- 
tus,” “verpes,” met them at everv corner (Horace, Sat. 
i, 4, 142; Martial, vii, 29, 34, 81 ; xi, 95; xii, 37). 
They had to share the fortunes of the people with 
whom they had cast in their lot, might be banished 
from Italy (Acts xviii, 2; Suet. Claud. 25), or sent to 
die of malaria in the most unhealthy stations of the 
empire (Tacitus, Ann. ii, 85). At a later time, they 
were bound to make a public profession of tbeir conver- 
sion, and to pay a special tax (Sueton. Domit. xii). If 
they failed to do this and were suspected, they might 
be subject to the most degrading examination to ascer- 
tain the fact of their being proselytes (ibid.) Among 
the Jews themselves their case was not much better. 
For the most part, the convert gained but little honor 
even from those who gloried in having brought him 
over to their sect and party. The populav Jewish feel- 


ing about them was like the popular Christian feeling 
about a converted Jew. They were regarded (by a 
strange rabbinic perversion of isa. xiv, 1) as the leprosy 
of Israel, “ cleaving” to the house of Jacob (Jebam. xlvii, 
4; Kiddush. lxx, 6). An opprobrious proverb coupled 
them with the vilest profligates (“proselyti et pa?dera- 
stae”) as hindering the coming of the Messiah (Light- 
foot, I/or. I/eb. in Matt, xxiii, 5). It became a recog- 
nised maxim that no wise man would trust a proselyte 
even to the twenty-fourth generation ( Jalkuth Ruth, f.- 
IG3 a). 

The better rabbins did their best to guard against 
these evils. Anxious to exclude all unworthy converts, 
they grouped them, according to their motives, with a 
somewhat quaint classification: 

“1. Love-proselytes, where they were drawn by the hope 
of gaining the beloved one. (The story of Syllsens 
and Salome [Josephus, Ant. xvi, 7, § 6] is r au example 
of a halt-finished conversion of this kind.) 

“2. Man -for- woman, or Woman -for -man proselytes, 
where the husband followed the religion of the wife, 
or conversely. 

“3. Esiher-proselytes, where conformity was assumed to 
escape danger, as in the original Purim (Esth. viii, 
17). 

“4. King's-table proselytes, who were led by the hope of 
court favor and promotion, like the converts under 
David and Solomon. 

“5. Lion-proselytes, where the conversion originated in u 
superstitions dread of a divine judgment, as with the 
Samaritans of 2 Kings xvii, 26” 

(Gemara llieros. Kiddush. lxv, 6; Jost, Judenfh. i, 
448). None of these were regarded as fit for admission 
within the covenant. When they met with one with 
whose motives they were satisfied, he was put to a yet 
further ordeal. lie was warned that in becoming a Jew 
he was attaching himself to a persecuted people, that 
in this life he was to expect only suffering, and to look 
for bis reward in the next. Sometimes these cautions 
were in their turn carried to an extreme and amounted 
to a policy of exclusion. A protest against them on the 
part of a disciple of the Great Hillel is recorded, which 
throws across the dreary rubbish of rabbinism the mo- 
mentary gleam of a noble thought. “Our wise men 
teach, ”said Simon ben-Gamaliel, “ that when a heathen 
comes to enter into the covenant, our part is to stretch 
out our hand to him and to bring him under the wings 
of God” (Jost, Judenth. i, 447). 

Another mode of meeting the difficulties of the case 
was characteristic of the period. Whether we may 
transfer to it the full formal distinction between prose- 
lytes of the gate and proselytes of righteousness (see 
below) may be doubtful enough, but we find two dis- 
tinct modes of thought, two distinct policies in dealing 
with converts. The history of Helena, queen of Adia- 
bene, and her son Izates, presents the two in collision 
with each other. They had been converted by a Jew- 
ish merchant, Ananias, but the queen feared lest the 
circumcision of her son should disquiet and alarm her 
subjects. Ananias assured her that it was not ncces- 
j sarv. Her son might worship God, study the law, keep 
the commandments without if. Soon, however, a strict- 
er teacher came — Eleazar of Galilee. Finding Izates 
reading the law, he told him sternly that it was of lit- 
tle use to study that which he disobeyed, and so worked 
upon his fears that the young devotee was eager to 
secure the safety of which his uncircumcision had de- 
prived him (Josephus, Ant. xx, 2. 5; comp. Jost, Ju- 
denfh. i, 341). On the part of some, therefore, there was 
, a disposition to dispense with what others looked upon 
as indispensable. The centurions of Luke vii (prob- 
ably) and Acts x— possibly the Hellenes of John xii, 
20 and Acts xiii, 42 — are instances of men admitted on 
the former footing. The phrases oi aefioptroi Trpoirjj- 
Xurot (Acts xiii. 43), oi atfiof.itvoi (xvii, 4, 17; Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xiv, 7, 2), ar?pt£ eiiXaf3iic (Acts ii. 5; vii, 
2), are often, but inaccurately, supposed to describe the 
same class — the proselytes of the gate (see Cremer, 
Worterb. der neufest. Gr licit at, ii, 476). The probabil- 
ity is either that the terms were used generally of all 


PROSELYTE 


660 


PROSELYTE 


converts, or, if with a specific meaning, were applied to 
the full proselytes of righteousness (comp, a full ex- 
amination of the passages in question by X. Larduer, 
On the Decree of Acts xv, in lloife, xi, 305). The 
two tendencies were, at all events, at work, and the 
battle between them was renewed afterwards on holier 
ground and on a wider scale. Ananias and Eleazar 
were represented in the two parties of the Council of 
Jerusalem. The germ of truth had been quickened 
into a new life, and was emancipating itself from the 
old thraldom. The decrees of the council were the sol- 
emn assertion of the principle that believers in Christ 
were to stand on the footing of proselytes of the gate, 
not of proselytes of righteousness. The teaching of 
St. Paul as to righteousness and its conditions, its depen- 
dence on faith, its independence of circumcision, stands 
out in sharp, clear contrast with the teachers who taught 
that that rite was necessary to salvation, and confined 
the term “ righteousness’’ to the circumcised convert. 

5. From the Destruction of Jerusalem downwards . — 
The teachers who carried on the rabbinical succession 
consoled themselves, as they saw the new order waxing 
and their own glory waning, by developing the decay- 
ing system with an almost microscopic minuteness. 
They would at least .transmit to future generations the 
full measure of the religion of their fathers. In propor- 
tion as they ceased to have any power to proselytize, 
they dwelt with exhaustive fulness on the question 
how proselytes were to be made. To this period ac- 
cordingly belong the rules and decisions which arc often 
carried back to an earlier age, and which may now be 
conveniently discussed. The precepts of the Talmud 
may indicate the practices and opinions of the Jews 
from the second to the fifth century. They arc very 
untrustworthy as to any earlier time. 

II. Debatable Questions. — The points of interest which 
present themselves for inquiry are the following: 

1. The Classification of Proselytes, — The whole Jew- 
ish state was considered as composed of the two classes 
— Jews, and strangers within their gates, or proselytes. 
In later years this distinction was observed even to the 
second generation; a child of pure Jewish descent on 
both sides being designated 'E/ipmof 'EjUpaiwv, a 
“Hebrew of the Hebrews” (Phil, iii, 5), while the son 
of a proselyte was denominated “tjj—jS, ben-ger, “son of 
a stranger;” and if both parents were proselytes, he was 
styled by the rabbins a contraction for 

mrr-,-! ( Pirke A both. c. 5). Subordinate to this, 
however, was a division which has been in part antic- 
ipated, and was recognised by the Talmudic rabbins, but 
received its full expansion at the hands of Maimonides 
(//ilc, Mel. i. f>). They claimed for it a remote an- 
tiquity, a divine authority. 

(1.) The term Proselytes of the Gate {fV'ZT} "”‘>)was 
derived from the frequently occurring description in the 
law, “ the stranger pa) that is within thy gates” (Exod. 
xx, 10, etc.). They were known also as the sojourners 
(-’UT pa), with a reference to Lev. xxv, 17, etc. To 
them were referred the greater part of the precepts of 
the law as to the “stranger.” The Targums of t Mikolos 
and Jonathan give this as the equivalent in Dent, xxiv, 
21. Converts of this class were not bound by circum- 
cision and the other special laws of the Mosaic code. It 
was enough for them to observe the seven precepts of 
Noah i < ):ho, Lex. h 'abb. s. v. Xoachida ; Selden, De Jar. 
Fat. et Cent, i, l(l), i. e. the six supposed to have been 
given to Adam (1) against idolatry, (2) against blas- 
pheming, (3) against bloodshed, (1) against unclean- 
ness, (5) against theft, (t‘>) of obedience, with (7) the 
prohibition of “ fiesh with the blood thereof” given to 
Noah. The proselyte was not to claim the privileges of 
an Israelite, might not redeem his first-born, or pay the 
half-shekel, lie was forbidden to study the law under 
pain of death ( ( Mho, l. r.) The later rabbins, when Je- 
rusalem had passed into other hands, held that it was 


1 unlawful for him to reside within the holy city (Mai- 
mon. Btth-haccher. vii, 14). In return they allowed 
him to offer whole burnt-offerings for the priest to sac- 
rifice, and to contribute money to the Corban of the 
Temple. They held out to him the hope of a place in 
the paradise of the world to come (Leyrer). They in- 
sisted that the profession of bis faith should be made 
solemnly in the presence of three witnesses (Maimon. 
Nile. Mel. viii, 10 ). The Jubilee was the proper sea- 
son for his admission (M filler, De Pros, in L'golinu, 
xxii, 841 ). 

All this seems so full and precise that we cannot 
wonder that it has led many writers to look on it as 
representing a reality, and most commentators accord- 
ingly have seen these proselytes of the gate in the at- 
fioptvoi, tuXajitic, Qofiooptvoi tov thou of the Acts. 
It remains doubtful, however, whether it was ever more 
than a paper scheme of w liat ought to be, disguising it- 
self as having actually been. The writers who are 
most full, who claim for the distinction the highest an- 
tiquity, confess that there had been no proselytes of the 
gate since the two tribes and a half bad been carried 
away into captivity (Maimonides, IJilc. Mel. i, 0). 
They could only be admitted at the jubilee, and there 
had since then been no jubilee celebrated (Midler, l. e.). 
All that can be said therefore is, that in the time of the 
New Test, we have independent evidence ( nt supra ) of 
the existence of converts of two degrees, and that the 
Talmudic division is the formal systematizing of an 
earlier fact. The words “proselytes” and oi atfiopev oi 
rbv Btriv were, however, in all probability limited to 
the circumcised. 

(2.) In contrast with these were the Proselytes of 
Righteousness known also as I’rosclytcs 

of the Covenant, perfect Israelites. Ily some writers 
the Talmudic phrase proselyti tract i (-""" ) is ap- 
plied to them as drawn to the covenant by spontaneous 
conviction (Buxtorf, Lex. s. v.), while others (lvimchi) 
refer it to those who were constrained to conformity, 
like the Ciibeonites. Here also we must receive what 
we find with the same limitation as before. That there 
were, in later times especially, many among the Jews 
who had renounced the grosser parts of heathenism 
without having come over entirely to Judaism, is be- 
yond all doubt ; but that these were ever counted pros- 
elytes admits of question. Certain it is that the prose- 
lytes mentioned in the New Test, were all persons who 
had received circumcision, and entered the pale of the 
Jewish community; they were persons who, according 
to the phraseology of the Uhl Test, had become Jews 
(S“ 1 "!n*r'3 .joined, Esth. viii, 17). It is probable that 
the distinction above mentioned was introduced by the 
later rabbins for the sake of including among the con- 
quests of their religion those who, though indebted 
probably to the Jewish Scriptures for their improved 
faith, were yet not inclined to submit to the ritual of 
Judaism, or to become incorporated with the Jewish 
nation. That this, however, was not the ancient view 
is clearly apparent from a passage in the Babylonian 
(lemara, quoted by Lightfoot (Dor. Ileb. et Ta/m. in 
Matt, iii, 0), where it is said expressly that “no one 
is a proselyte until such time as he has been circum- 
cised.” E first, himself a Jew, confirms our suggestion ; 
for in a note upon the word “5, in his Concordant iat 
I Abb. V. 7’., he says: “The Jews, interpreting dogmati- 
cally rather than historically, refer the word to him 
who has abandoned heathen superstitions.” Maimoni- 
dcs, indeed, speaks of such a distinction, hut the late- 
ness of the period at which he flourished (A.D. HtlO), 
and the absence of any scriptural authority, require us 
to consider bis assertions as referring to a time mneb 
later than that of the apostles. “ According to my 
idea," says bishop Tomline. “ proselytes were those, and 
those only, who took upon themselves the obligation of 
the whole Mosaic law, but retained that name till they 


PROSELYTE 


661 


PROSELYTE 


were admitted into the congregation of the Lord as 
adopted children. Gentiles were allowed to worship 
and offer sacrifices to the God of Israel in the outer 
court of the Temple; and some of them, persuaded of 
the sole and universal sovereignty of the Lord Jehovah, 
might renounce idolatry without embracing the Mosaic 
law ; but such persons appear to me never to be called 
proselytes in Scripture, or in any ancient Christian 
writer” ( Elements of Christian Theology , i, 2GG, 267). 
l>r. Gardner has remarked that the notion of two sorts 
of proselytes is not to be found in any Christian writer 
before the fourteenth century ( Works, vi, 522-533, 8vo, 
and xi, 313-324; see also Jennings, Jewish Antiquities, 
bk. i, ch. iii). The arguments on the other side are 
ably stated in Townsend, Chronological Arrangements 
of the Xew Testament, ii, 115, etc., Loud. ed. 

2. Ceremonies of Admission. — Here all seems at first 
clear and definite enough. The proselyte was first cat- 
echised as to his motives (Maimonides, ut sup.). If 
these were satisfactory, he was first instructed as to the 
divine protection of the Jewish people, and then cir- 
cumcised. In the case of a convert already circumcised 
(a Midianite, e. g., or an Egyptian), it was still neces- 
sary to draw a few drops of “ the blood of the covenant” 
(Gem. Bab. Shubb. f. 135 a). A special prayer was ap- 
pointed to accompany the act of circumcision. Often 
the proselyte took a new name, opening the Hebrew 
Bible and accepting the first that came (Leyrer, ut sup.). 

All this, however, was not enough. The convert 
was still a “stranger.” His children would be counted 
as bastards, i. e. aliens. Baptism was required to com- 
plete his admission. When the wound caused by cir- 
cumcision w T as healed, he was stripped of all his clothes, 
in the presence of the three witnesses who had acted as 
his teachers, and who now acted as his sponsors, the 
“fathers” of the proselyte (Ketubh. xi ; Erubh. xv, 1), 
and led into the tank or pool. As he stood there, up to 
his neck in water, they repeated the great command- 
ments of the law. These he promised and vowed to 
keep, and then, with an accompanying benediction, he 
plunged under the water. To leave one hand-breadth 
of his body unsubmerged would have vitiated the 
whole rite (Otho, Tex. Rabb. s. v. Baptismns ; Reisk. he 
Rapt. Pros, in Ugolino, vol. xxii). Strange as it seems, 
this part of the ceremony occupied, in the eyes of the 
later rabbins, a co-ordinate place with circumcision. 
The latter was incomplete without it, for baptism also 
was of the fathers (Gem. Bab. Jebam. f. 4G1, 2). One 
rabbin appears to have been bold enough to declare 
baptism to have been sufficient by itself (ibid.) ; but, for 
the most part, both w r ere reckoned as alike indispensa- 
ble. They carried back the origin of the baptism to a 
remote antiquity, finding it in the command of Jacob 
(Gen. xxxv, 2) and of Moses (Exod. xix, 10). The Tar- 
gum of the pseudo-Jonathan inserts the word “Thou 
shalt circumcise and baptize ” in Exod. xii, 44. Even 
in the Ethiopic version of Matt, xxiii, 15 we find “com- 
pass sea and land to baptize one proselyte.” Language 
foreshadowing, or caricaturing, a higher truth was used 
of this baptism. It was a new birth (Jebam. f. 62, I ; 
92, 1 ; Maimonides, fssur. Rich. c. 14; Lightfoot, Harm, 
of the Gospels, iii, 14; Exerc. on John iii). The prose- 
lyte became a little child. This thought, probably had 
its starting-point in the language of 1’sa. lxxxvii. 
There also the proselytes of Babylon and Egypt are 
registered as “born” in Zion. See Regeneration. 
The new convert received the Holy Spirit (Jebam. f. 22 
a, 48 b). All natural relationships, as we have seen, 
were cancelled. 

The baptism was followed, as long as the Temple 
stood, by the offering or corban. It consisted, like, the 
offerings after a birth (the analogy apparently being 
carried on), of two turtle-doves or pigeons (Lev. xii, 18 ). 
When the destruction of Jerusalem made the sacrifice 
impossible, a vow to offer it as soon as the Temple 
should be rebuilt was substituted. For women-prose- 
lytes, there were only baptism and the corban, or, in 


later times, baptism by itself. The Galilaean female 
proselytes were said to have objected to this, as causing 
barrenness. 

3. Antiquity of these Practices. — Was this ritual ob- 
served as early as the commencement of the 1st cen- 
tury? If so, rvas the baptism of John or that of the 
Christian Church in any way derived from or connected 
with the baptism of proselytes? If not, was the latter 
in any wav borrowed from the former? This point has 
been somewhat discussed above, but it will be enough 
to sum up the conclusions which seem fairly to be 
drawn from the extant information on the subject, es- 
pecially the question of the baptism of proselytes. 

(1.) There is no direct evidence of the practice being 
in use before the destruction of Jerusalem. The state- 
ments of the Talmud as to its having come from the 
fathers, and their exegesis of the Old Test, in connec- 
tion with it, are alike destitute of authority. 

(2.) The negative argument drawn from the silence 
of the Old Test., of the Apocrypha, of Philo, and of Jo- 
sephus, is almost decisive against the belief that there 
was in their time a baptism of proselytes with as much 
importance attached to it as we find in the Talmudists. 

(3.) It remains probable, however, that there w-as a 
baptism in use at a period considerably earlier than that 
for which we have direct evidence. The symbol was 
in itself natural and fit. It fell in with the disposition 
of the Pharisees and others to multiply and discuss 
“ washings” (/3a7rri<T/ioi, Mark vii, 4) of all kinds. The 
tendency of the later rabbins was rather to heap to- 
gether the customs and traditions of the past than to 
invent new ones. If there had not been a baptism, 
there would have been no initiatory rite at all fur fe- 
male proselytes. The custom of baptizing proselytes 
thus arose gradually out of the habit w hich the Jew’s 
had of purifying by ablution whatever they deemed 
unclean, and came to be raised for the first time to the 
importance of an initiatory ordinance after the destruc- 
tion of the Temple service, and when, in consequence 
of imperial edicts, it became difficult to circumcise con- 
verts. This latter opinion is that of Schneckenbnrger 
( Ueb. das Alter d.jiid. Proselyten-Taufe [Berlin, 1828]), 
and has been espoused by several eminent German 
scholars. To us, however, it appears exceedingly un- 
satisfactory. The single fact adduced in support of it, 
viz. the difficulty of circumcising converts in conse- 
quence of the imperial edicts against proselvtism, is a 
singularly infelicitous piece of evidence; for, as the 
question to be solved is, How t came the later rabbins to 
prescribe both baptism and circumcision as initiatory 
rites for proselytes? it is manifestly absurd to reply 
that it was because they could only baptize and could 
not circumcise : such an answer is a contradiction, not 
a solution of the question. Besides, this hypothesis 
suggests a source of proselyte baptism which is equally 
available for that which it is designed to supersede ; for, 
if the practice of baptizing proselytes on their introduc- 
tion into Judaism had its rise in the Jewish habit of 
ablution, why might not this have operated in the way 
suggested two hundred years before Christ as well as 
two hundred years after Christ? In fine, this hypoth- 
esis still leaves nnremoved the master difficulty of that 
side of the question which it is designed to support, viz. 
the great improbability of the Jews adopting for the 
first time subsequently to the death of Christ a relig- 
ious rite which was well known to be the initiatory rite 
of Christianity. Assuming that they practiced that 
rite before, we can account for their not giving it up 
simply because the Christians had adopted it; but, 
trace it as we please to Je^vish customs and rites, it 
seems utterly incredible that after it had become the 
symbol and badge of the religious party which of all 
others, perhaps, the Jews most bitterly hated, any con- 
sideration whatever should have induced them to begin 
to practice it. On the other hand we have, in favor of 
the hypothesis that proselyte baptism W’as practiced an- 
terior to the time of our Lord, some strongly corrobora- 


PROSELYTE 


662 


PROSELYTES 


tive evidence. 1. We have, in the first place, the unan- 
imous tradition of the Jewish rabbins, who impute to 
the practice an antiquity commensurate almost with 
that of their nation. 2. We have the fact that the 
baptism of John the Baptist was not regarded by the 
people as aught of a novelty, nor was represented by 
him as resting for its authority upon any special divine 
revelation. 3. We have the fact that the Pharisees 
looked upon the baptism both of John and Jesus as a 
mode of proselyting men to their religious views (John 
iv, 1-3). and that the dispute between the Jews and 
some of John’s disciples about purifying was apparently 
a dispute as to the competing claims of John and Jesus 
to make proselytes (iii, 25 sip). 4. We have the fact 
that on the day of Pentecost Peter addressed to a mul- 
titude of persons collected from several dill'erent and 
distant countries, Jews and proselytes, an exhortation 
to “repent and be baptized” (Acts ii, 38), from which 
it may be fairly inferred that they all knew what bap- 
tism meant, and also its connection with repentance or 
a change of religious views. 5. We have the fact that, 
according to Josephus, the Essenes were accustomed, 
before admitting a new convert into their society, sol- 
emnly and ritually to purify him with waters of cleans- 
ing (1 P«i\ ii, 8, 7), a statement which cannot be un- 
derstood of their ordinary ablutions before meals (as 
Stuart proposes in his Essay on the Mode of Baptism, 
p. 67); for Josephus expressly adds that even after this 
lustration two years had to elapse before the neophyte 
enjoyed the privilege of living with the proficients. 
6. We have the mode in which Josephus speaks of the 
baptism of John, when, after referring to John’s having 
exhorted the people to virtue, righteousness, and godli- 
ness, as preparatory to baptism, he adds. “For it ap- 
peared to him that baptism was admissible not when 
they used it for obtaining forgiveness of some sins, but 
for the purification of the body when the soul had been 
already cleansed by righteousness” (.l»t. xviii, 5, 2); 
which seems to indicate the conviction of the historian 
that John did not introduce this rite, but only gave to 
it a peculiar meaning. Vet John’s proceeding was not 
an act of initiation into any new system of faith, much 
less comparable to a conversion from paganism; for the 
subjects were Jews already. It was rather a general 
ablution, in token of wiping off a long-accumulated 
score of offences. See John tiik Baptist. 

(1.) The history of the New Test, itself suggests the 
existence of such a custom. A sign is seldom chosen 
unless it already has a meaning for those to whom it is 
addressed. The fitness of the sign in this case would 
be in proportion to the associations already connected 
with it. It would bear witness on the assumption of 
the previous existence of the proselyte-baptism that the 
change from the then condition of Judaism to the king- 
dom of tiod was as great as that from idolatry to Juda- 
ism. The question of the priests and Levitos, “Why 
baptizest thou then?” (John i. 25). implies that they 
wondered, not at the thing itself, but at its being done 
for Israelites by one who disclaimed the names which, 
in their eyes, would have justified the introduction of 
a new order. In like manner the words of Christ to 
Nicodemus (iii, 10) imply the existence of a teaching 
as to baptism like that above referred to. lie, “the 
teacher of Israel,” had been familiar with “these things” 

the new birth, the. gift of the Spirit — as words and 
phrases applied to heathen proselytes, lie failed to 
grasp the deeper truth which lay beneath them, and to 
see that they had a wider, a universal application. See 
Bhjknickatton hv Watkh. 

(5.) Flint the Jews directly borrowed this custom 
from the Christians is an opinion which, though sup- 
ported bv be Wette (in his De Marie Christ i txpiula- 
rifi), cannot be for a moment admitted hv any who re- 
lleet on the implacable hatred with which the Jews for 
many centuries regarded Christianity, its ordinances, 
and its professors. It is, however, not improbable that 
there may have been a rellex action in this matter from 


] the Christian upon the Jewish Church. The rabbins 
saw the new society, in proportion as the Gentile ele- 
ment in it became predominant, throwing oil' circum- 
cision, relying on baptism only. They could not ignore 
the reverence which men had for the outward sign, 
their belief that it was all but identical with the thing 
signified. There was everything to lead them to give 
a fresh prominence to what had been before subordi- 
nate. If the Nazarenes attracted men by their bap- 
tism, they would show that they hail baptism as well 
as circumcision. The necessary absence of the corbau 
after the destruction of the Temple would also tend to 
give more importance to the remaining rite. The 
reader will find the whole subject amply discussed in 
the following works: Selden, lie Jure Xnt. et Gent, ii, 
2; Otho, Lex. Rabb. p. Go ; Lightfoot, //or. Ileb.et Taint, 
in Matt, iii, 6; Danz in Meuschenii A or. Test, ex Tulm. 
ill ust. p. 233 sq., 287 sq. ; Witsius, t Eicon. Fad. iv, 15; 
KuiubI, Comm, in Libras X. T. Ilistor. ap. Matt, iii, 6; 
and Dr. Halley’s recent volume on the Sacraments 
(Loud. 1844), p. 114 sq., all of whom contend for the 
antiquity of Jewish proselyte-baptism, while the follow- 
ing take the opposite side : Wernsdorff, Control', de 
Rapt. Recent. § 18; Carpzov, Apparut. p. 47 sq. ; 1 ’au- 
lus, Comment, i, 279 ; Bauer, tiottesdienstl. Yerfussung der 
\lten J/eb. ii, 392; Schneckcnburger, Lib. sub. cit.; and 
Moses Stuart, in the American Bib. Rep. No. 10. See 
also Bible Educator , ii, 38 sq. See Baptism. 

4. Two facts of some interest remain to be noticed in 
this connection. (1.) It formed part of the rabbinic 
hopes of the kingdom of the Messiah that then there 
should be no more proselytes. The distinctive name, 
with its brand of inferiority, should be laid aside, and 
all, even the Nethinim and the Mamzcrim (children of 
mixed marriages), should be counted pure (Sehbttgen, 
//or. f/eb. ii, 614). (2.) Partly, perhaps, as connected 

with this feeling, partly in consequence of the ill-repute 
into which the word had fallen, there is, throughout 
the New Test., a sedulous avoidance of it. The Chris- 
tian convert from heathenism is not a proselyte, but a 
ventyvroQ (1 Tim. iii, 6). 

III. Literature. — In addition to the works cited above, 
see, in general, Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. et Rabb. s. v. "3; 
Otho, Lex. Rabb. p. 65 ; Bodenschatz. Kirch! . 1 ’erf ass. 
der Jnden, iv, 70 sq. ; Schroder. Satznngen und Ge- 
briinche des talm.-rabb. Jndenlh.; the archaeologies of 
Jahn (iii, 215 sq.), De Wette (p. 348 sq.). Keil (i. 316 
sq.), Carpzov, Lewis, and Bauer; Sanlschiitz, Mnsa- 
isches Recht , ii, 690 sq., 704 sq., 730 sq. ; Lensden, Phil, 
/lehr. A/isr. p. 142 sq. : the monographs by Slevogt, 
Ailing, and Muller, in Cgolini Thesanr,; those cited 
by Danz. Worterb. p.797 sq. ; append, p. 88; by Winer, 
Reuhrbrterh. s. v. ; by Fiirst, fiiblioth. Jud. i, 146; iii, 
345, 392, 459, 171, 488, 555; and by Volheding, Index 
Programmatnm, p. 22; and those written by Zorn (Lips. 
1703) and Wbhuer (Got ting. 1743); also Liibkert in the 
Stud. a. Krit. 1835, p. 681 sq. ; and Schneckenbiirger, 
Jud. Prose! yten- T anfe (Berl. 1828). 

PBOSELYTES. This word is employed in modern 
language to designate such individuals as have aban- 
doned their faith and embraced another, and who, in 
general, devote all their energy to the expansion of 
their new creed. The endeavor to gain others to one’s 
own convictions, either by licit or illicit means, is called 
proseh/tism. Biblical representatives of this unfair sys- 
tem are the Pharisees, to whom Christ said, “Woe unto 
you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye compass 
sea and land to make one proselyte ; and when he is 
made, ye make him twofold more the child of hell than 
yourselves.” Every religion that believes in itself 
must feel impelled to propagate its creed; the followers 
of a doctrine to whom it is indifferent, whether the num- 
ber of those who share it with them increases or de- 
creases have no true faith. The Christians are espe- 
cially active in winning converts to their religion, hut 
this spirit is due entirely not to a selfish desiro to en- 


PliOSEUCHA 


663 


PliOSEUCHA 


large their borders and increase their numbers, but 
to give to all the world the great truths to establish 
which Christ came into the world ill the form of man 
and suffered death upon the cross. It is, moreover, be- 
cause of the direct command given by the Saviour of 
mankind that Christians feel impelled to make converts 
of all non-believers. See Christianity-; Missions. A 
very different thing it is, however, for anybody, or for 
bodies of men, to force conversion upon their fellows. 
The Jews were the chosen people of God. They had a 
right to consider themselves the armor-bearers of divine 
truth, and if they felt impelled to carry “the law and 
the prophets” to the strangers (C“^5), it was only a 
reasonable consequence of the divine revelation which 
they had enjoyed. But it was by the fair means em- 
ployed that they could best indicate the moral sublim- 
ity of divine teachings over philosophic schemes and 
heathenish systems of religion. When, therefore, the 
Jews, after the establishment of Maccabican rule, com- 
pelled, under Hyrcanus, the Idumseans, and, under Aris- 
tobulus, the Iturians, to embrace the Jewish faith and to 
subject themselves to circumcision, there was an adop- 
tion of measures for which the Old-Test, dispensation 
furnished no warrant; and though it may be conceded 
that their object was probably to advance the interests 
of true religion, they yet, by the adoption of unauthor- 
ized measures, evinced an unrighteous zeal which must 
have been underlaid by a selfish purpose. Thus the 
Homan Catholics have constantly striven for the propa- 
gation of the Christian faith by measures wholly un- 
warranted and not in uniformity with the lofty state of 
its ethics. 

The Jesuit Sambnga says, in defence of the Jesuitic 
proselytism : “ The mania of proselytism in priests is no 
mania, but a holy zeal.” The prince-cardinal von II o- 
henlohe approves of this defence in his Lichtbliclce und 
Erlebnisse ausder Welt nnddem Priesterleben (Ratisbon, 
1836, 8vo), p. xxxix. But this defence is, after all, a 
simple Jesuitic sophism. The mania of proselytism is a 
mania, and because priests are subject to it, it does not 
become therefore a holy zeal; or else we must admit 
that anything done by avaricious and ambitious priests 
of all persuasions (Christians and pagans) was holy, or 
was the result of a holy zeal, and therefore not blame- 
worthy, but, on the contrary, praiseworthy and com- 
mendable. When proselytes are gained in such a wily 
or violent manner as that resorted to by Jesuits; when 
the means employed are money and promotions on one 
side, threats and persecutions on the other, we perceive 
in it the evidence of a most unholy zeal, against which 
the founder of Christianity pronounced his anathema in 
his condemnation of the priests of his time, the doctors 
of the law, and Pharisees. For this very reason Christ 
called them “children of hell.” See Romanism. It is 
a curious fact worth remembering that one of the main 
features of the times of the Messiah was to be, accord- 
ing to Jewish tradition, the utter abolition of proselyt- 
ism, and the entire ceasing of all distinctions of an op- 
probrious nature among men. The evil repute into 
which the term proselyte had fallen in the times of 
Christ also caused the early converts to Christianity to 
adopt the name of Neophytes ( neicly planted ) instead. 
See Neophyte. (J. II. W.) 

Proseucha ( 7rpo(m>xi)\ a word signifying “pray- 
er," and always so translated in the A. Y. It is, how- 
ever, applied, per meton., to a place of prayer — a place 
where assemblies for prayer were held, whether a build- 
ing or not. In this sense some hold it to be mentioned 
in Luke vi, 12, where it is said that our Saviour went 
up into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in 
the proseucha of God {tv ry 7rpoatv\y row Oeov), 
which can very well bear the sense our translators have 
put upon it — “in prayer to God.” Yet Whitby and 
others infer, from the use of parallel phrases, such as 
“ the mount of God.” “ the bread of God,” “ the altar of 
God,” “ the lamp of God,” etc., which were all things 


consecrated or appropriated to the service of God, that 
this phrase might here signify “an oratory of God,” or 
a place that was devoted to his service, especially for 
prayer. In this sense the word must certainly be un- 
derstood in Acts xvi, 13, where we are informed that 
Paul and his companions, on the Sabbath day, went out 
of the city, by the river side, ov ivopi^tro TTpoatvyi) 
th’ea, which the A. V. renders “ where prayer was wont 
| to be made.” But the Syriac here has, “because there 
: was perceived to be a house of prayer and the Arabic, 
“a certain place which was supposed to be a place of 
| prayer." In both these versions due stress is laid upon 
j oo tvopi&TO, where there was taken, or supposed to be 
— or where, according to received custom, there was, or 
where there was allowed by law — a proseucha, oratory, 
or chapel; and where, therefore, they expected to meet 
an assembly of people. Bos contends {Exercit. Philol. 
ad loc.), however, that the word ivopiZtro is redundant, 
and that the passage ought simply to be, “ where there 
was a proseucha;” but in this he is ably opposed by 
Eisner {Observ. Sacr. ad loc.). See Pm urn. 

That there really were such places of devotion among 
the Jews is unquestionable. They were mostly outside 
those towns in which there were no synagogues, because 
the laws or their administrators would not admit any. 
This was, perhaps, particularly the case in Roman cities 
and colonies (and Philippi, where this circumstance oc- 
curred, was a colony) ; for Juvenal {Sat. iii, 296) speaks 
of proseucha*. not synagogues, at Rome. They appear 
to have been usually situated near a river or the sea- 
shore, for the convenience of ablution (Josephus, Ant. 
xiv, 10, 23). Josephus repeatedly mentions proseucha; 
in his Life, and speaks of the people being gathered 
into the proseucha (44,46). Sometimes the proseucha 
was a large building, as that at Tiberias (/. c. 54), so 
that the name was sometimes applied even to syna- 
gogues (Vitringa, Synag. Yet. p. 119). Proseucha* are 
frequently mentioned as buildings by Philo, particular- 
ly in his oration against Flaccus, where he complains 
that the proseucha; of the Jews were pulled down, and 
that no place was left them in which to worship God 
j and pray for Cassar (Philo, hi Place, in Op. p. 752). 
i But, for the most part, the proseuclue appear to have 
been places in the open air, in a grove, or in shrub- 
beries, or even under a tree, although always, as we 
may presume, near water, for the convenience of those 
ablutions which with the Jews always preceded prayer, 
as, indeed, they did among the pagans, and as they do 
| among the Moslems at the present day. The usages 
of the latter exhibit something answering to the Jewish 
proseucha; in the shape of small oratories, with a niche 
| indicating the direction of Mecca, which is often seen 
in Moslem countries by the side of a spring, a reservoir, 
or a large water-jar, which is daily replenished for the 
use of travellers (Whitby, De Dicu, Wetstein, Kuinbl, 
on Acts xvi, 13; Jennings, Jewish Antiquities, p. 379- 
382; Prideatix, Connection, ii, 556). — Kitto. 

“ Questions have been raised,” says the late Dr.M'Far- 
lan, of Renfrew, “as to the origin of these, and their 
being or not being the same with the synagogue. Phi- 
lo and Josephus certainly speak of them and the syna- 
gogues as if they were substantially one. The former 
expressly declares that they were places of instruc- 
tion. ‘The places dedicated to devotion,’ says he, 
‘ and which are commonly called proseucha;, what are 
they but schools in which prndence, fortitude, temper- 
ance, righteousness, piety, holiness, and every virtue 
are taught — everything necessary for the discharge of 
duty, whether human or divine?’ As the writer’s ob- 
servations were chiefly confined to the Jews of Alex- 
andria and other parts of Egypt, this description will 
chiefly apply to these. But there is no doubt, on the 
other hand, that where synagogues existed, and espe- 
cially in Judea, they did to some extent differ. We 
are therefore very much disposed to concur in the 
opinion that the oratory was substantially and in effect 
a synagogue. But the latter was the more perfect form, 


PROSPEI 


CG4 


PROSPER 


and required, for its erection and support, special means. 
There was in every synagogue a local court, deriving 
its authority, at. least in Judea, from the .Sanhedrim; 
and there were office-bearers to be maintained ; whereas 
in the oratory there does not seem to have been any 
very (ixed or necessary form of procedure. These 
might, for aught that appears, have been all or sub- 
stantially all which belonged to the synagogue, or it 
might be little more than what we would call a prayer- 
meeting. lienee, perhaps, the reason of the preva- 
lence of the one — the synagogue — in Juda*a. and of the 
other in Egypt and other countries not subject to Jew- 
ish laws.” 

It is highly probable that proseuchee existed long 
before synagogues. “It is remarkable,” continues l>r. 
M’Farlan, “that the only places where Daniel is said to 
have been favored with visions, during the day. were 
by the sides of rivers (Dan. viii, 2, 1(5 ; also x, 1 ; xii, 5, 
7 ; and ix, 21), the very places where oratories were 
wont to he. Ezekiel also received his commission by 
one of the rivers of Babylon, and when ‘among the 
captives 1 of Israel (Ezek. i, 1). And he afterwards men- 
tions his having received visions in the same circum- 
stances (iii, 15, 10). And Ezra, also, when leading back 
Israel to the land of their fathers, proclaimed and ob- 
served a fast with them by the way; and, as if to keep 
up the same tender associations, he assembled them by 
the river Aliava, where they remained three days (Ezra 
viii, 15, 32). But the very finest illustration which oc- 
curs is that contained in the 137th Psalm — ‘By the 
rivers of Babylon, there we sat down; yea, we wept, 
when we remembered /ion. We hanged our harps 
upon the willows in the midst thereof. For there they 
that carried us away captive required of ns a song; and ' 
they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing 
ns one of the songs of Zion’ (1-3), The people of Is- 
rael were accustomed, in alter-times, to make choice of 
the banks of rivers for their oratories, and this point of 
agreement is one of the grounds on which we are pro- 
ceeding. But it will hold equally good, whether the 
Israclitish captives followed, in this, the example of 
their fathers, or whether, as is more probable, their 
circumstances in Babylon led to this choice. It is 
not unlikely that this led to a similar choice in after- 
times, and particularly in foreign countries. The poor 
captives of Babylon had perhaps no other covering or 
even enclosure than the willows of the brook; and thus 
may they have been driven, when seeking to worship 
the God of their fathers, into the woody margins of 
Babylon's many rivers. Meeting in such places, as they 
had been accustomed to do in the oratories of their na- 
tive land, it is not wonderful that many tender associa- 
tions should be renewed.” 

After the return of the Jews from the Babylonian 
captivity, synagogue worship was much enlarged and 
improved, while oratories gradually diminished in num- 
ber and importance. Hence, in later times, oratories 
were chiefly found in countries beyond the land of Is- 
rael. Tuder the Roman government synagogues were 
discountenanced, but oratories, or places of meeting for 
devotional exercises, were generally permitted all over 
the empire. Dr. Lardner thinks that the synagogue 
mentioned in Acts vi, 9 was really an oratory ; and Jo- 
sephus speaks of a very large one in the city of Tiberias. 
But it. was chiefly in foreign parts that, prosencher in 
later times were found. Josephus, in detailing the de- 
cree passed in favor of the Jews at Halicarnassus, says. 
“We have decreed that as many men and women of 
the Jews as are willing so to do may celebrate their 
Sabbaths and perform their holy offices according to 
the Jewish laws; and may make their pmseucha at the 
sea-side, according to the custom of their forefathers.” 

Gardner, Faiths of all Xations, s. v. See Biddle, 
Christian Antiquities (see Index); Stillingfleet, Works, 
vol. i ; and the monographs eited bv Volbeding, Index 
Programmatum, p. 7(1. See Cuapei.; Oratory. 

Prosper, St., surnaincd A quit anus or Aquitanius, 


] from the country of his nativity, was a distinguished 
theologian of Gaul, and flourished in the first half of 
the 5th century, lie settled as a young man in Prov- 
ence, and there became the intimate companion of a 
certain Hilary, who on this account is called Hilarius 
Prosperianus. The two friends studied and wrote to- 
gether in defence of orthodox Christianity in general, 
and of Augustinianism in particular. Yet, although a 
stanch defender of the doctrines and person of .St. An- - 
gustinc, lie was no priest, still less a bishop, as has been 
frequently asserted since the 7th century, but a married 
layman, pious and well versed in divine lore, who had 
been impelled by the miseries of his time to devote 
himself to an austere way of life (see Sirmondi, not. ad 
viii, ep. 15; Nidon. Apol. and Holland, ad 25 Jun. in 
comment, praev. § 1, ad vit. s. Prosperi episc. in 
.Emilia). Constant readers and zealous disciples of St. 
Augustine, especially in the doctrine of grace, Prosper 
and Hilary displayed great zeal in defending his doc- 
trines against the attacks of the Semi-Pelagians [see 
Pei.agiaxi.sm]; but finding that they were making very 
little headway against the heretics, who had largely 
weakened orthodoxy in Southern Gaul, Prosper wrote, 
about -127 or 42S, a letter entitled Epistola ad Augus- 
tinnm de Reliquiis Pelagiantv lltvreseos in Gallia (con- 
sidered of importance in affording material for the his- 
tory of Semi-Pelagianism), in which he informed the 
illustrious bishop of Hippo that a number of priests 
and monks at Marseilles asserted, contrary to the Au- 
gustinian theory, that man must himself take the first 
step towards his justification and salvation (ep. 225 ami 
22(5 inter Ep. Aug.). Thus Prosper not only himself 
acted as defender of the catholic doctrine against the 
Semi-Pelagians, but gave occasion to St. Augustine to 
write his two works on the predestination of the saints 
and on the gift of constancy {De Predestinutione Sanc- 
torum and De Dono Pe r sever ant ia). But not all those 
whom Prosper names as adversaries of St. Augustine 
were, like Cassian, Semi- Pelagians. The heresies of 
this Cassian Prosper exposed in a work which lie sub- 
sequently (about A. I). 430) composed: De Gratia Dei 
et Libero Arbitrio contra Collatorem. Prosper, still be- 
fore Sr. Augustine’s death, wrote several works against 
the Pelagians, and especially the Semi-Pelagians. To 
those works of controversy belong his poem De Jngra- 
tis, so highly admired by the Janscnists, and a letter to 
a certain Rufinus. After the death of St. Augustine, his 
master and friend, Prosper resumed with increased ar- 
dor his struggle against the Semi -Pelagians and the 
defence of Augustine. For this purpose he wrote Re- 
sponsiones ad capitula calumniantium (i. e. .1 ugustimnn) 
Gallorum ; Responsiones ad capitula objectionum I ’in- 
centianannn, and Pro Augnstino Rtsponsiones ad Ex- 
cerpt a qua' de Genuensi Ciritate sunt missa. In 431 
Prosper, with his friend Hilary, made a journey to 
Rome, where they saw pope Cclestine I. and com- 
plained that several priests at Marseilles taught erro- 
neous doctrines without being rebuked by the Galliran 
bishops, whereupon the pontiff - addressed his well-known 
letter of censure to those dignitaries ( Epistolu ad Epi- 
scopos Gallorum), praising highly the doctrine of St. 
Augustine, and denouncing the heresy of Cassian. as 
well as those who should either favor it by adoption or 
by suffering its propagation. Armed with this author- 
ity, Prosper and Hilary returned home, and from the 
numerous controversial tracts which they issued about 
this time, it appears that they must, have been con- 
stantly watchful and active in defence of orthodoxy. 
Nothing very definite is known of Prosper after his re- 
turn from Rome with Hilary, except that we encounter 
controversial tracts of which lie was the author. Among 
these are De Gratia Jtei et J Ahern A rbitrio l.iher. in 
reply to the doctrines of Cassian respecting free-will, as 
laid down in the thirteenth of his Gidlat tones Pat rum, 
whence the piece is frequently entitled De Gratia Jtei 
adrersus Collatorem, written about A.D. 432 -Psahno- 
rum a C usque ad CL Expositio, assigned by the Bene- 


PROSPERITY 


665 


PROSTITUTE 


dietine editors to A.I). 433, but placed by Sehdnemann ligion is absolutely necessary to enable us to act under 
and others before A.L). 424 :—Sententiarum ex Operibus it as we ought. Where this divine principle influences 
S. Augustiui delibataruni Liber wins, compiled about , the mind, prosperity may be enjoyed and become a 
A.L). 451. He is commemorated by the Church of Home ! blessing; for “while bad men snatch the pleasures of 
on June 25. The whole of the above will be found in the the world as by stealth, without countenance from God, 
Benedictine edition of the works of Augustine; theepis- j the proprietor of the world, the righteous sit openly 
tie is numbered ccxxv, and is placed immediately before down to the feast of life, under the smile oi heaven, 
another upon the same subject by Hilary; the remain- No guilty fears damp their joys. The blessing of God 
ing tracts are all included in the appendix to vol. x. rests upon all they possess. Their piety reflects sun- 
If we believe Gennadius ( De Vir. Illust. e. 84), Prosper shine from heaven upon the prosperity of the world,- 
was, after 440, called to Pome by pope Leo I, and be- unites in one point of view the smiling aspect both of 
came the secretary of that pontiff. We have no posi- the powers above and of the objects below. Not only 
live knowledge of the year of his death : it falls be- have they as lull a relish as others of the innocent 
tween 455 and 4G3. There are other writings of l’ros- pleasures of life, but, moreover, in them they hold com- 
per, among which we mention 10G small poems ( epi - mnnion with God. In all that is good or fair tliev 
grammata ), in which an equal number of moral and trace his hand. From the beauties of nature, from the 
other passages of St. Augustine are poetically developed ; improvements of art, from the enjoyments of social life, 
a universal history, which reaches to the year 455, and they raise their affections tp the source oVall the happi- 
of which we And the best and most complete reproduc- ness which surrounds them, and thus widen the sphere 
tion and explanation in Led. Antiq. Basnag. Cams. | of their pleasures by adding intellectual and spiritual to 
vol. i, etc. The treaiise De Vocatione Gentium belongs earthly joys.” 

probably to those works which have been erroneously Spiritual prosperity consists in the continual progress 

attributed to Prosper: it gives a milder color to the of the mind in knowledge, purity, and joy. It arises 
hard assertions of Augustine and Prosper. Lor a list from the participation of the divine blessing; and evi- 
aud description of the character of these spurious writ- deuces itself by frequency in prayer, love to God's 
ings, see Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and My- Word, delight in his people, attendance on his ordi- 
thol. s. v. The best edition of Prosper’s works is the nances, zeal in his cause, submission to his will, useful- 



the interminable controversies arising out of the works , Prosphora (Gr. irpoofopd, i. e. an oblation), one 
ol Prosper is contained in the notes and dissertations n f the words bv which some of the early ecclesiastical 
of the Benedictines, in the dissertations ot Quesnel and writers designate the Lord’s Supper. The literal mean- 
the Ballerini in their respective editions of the works j„g of the word is a sacrificial offering, and especially 
of Leo the Great, and in a rare volume, De 1 iris Ope- the matter fora sacrifice: it has this signification in the 
ribus SS. Patrum Leonis Magni et Prosperi A quit uni Epistle to the Hebrews. In Christian antiquity it is 
Dissertations cnticee, etc. (Par. 1689, 4to), by Josephus used principally for the elements or “ species” 'in the 
An tel nil us, to which Quesnel put forth a reply in the Lord’s Supper/ Later Greek w riters use the word dva- 
Lphemerules Panstenses, vol. viii and xv (August, 1639), <t>opd as svnonvmous with Trpampopd, and rather in a 
and Antelnuus a reply in two EpistoUe Duabus Epistola mora l and spiritual than in a physical sense, and with 
P. Quesnelli Partibus Responsoriie { Par. 1690, 4to). See allusion to the exhortation, “ Lift up your hearts.” The 
1 illemont, Mem. vol. xvi ; Oudin, De Script. Eccl. ; Latin word offertorinm, which means a gilt brought as 
Schrockh, Kirchengeseh. vol. xv-xviii; Fleury, /list. an offering, was formerly applied to the consecrated 
Eccl; Dolhnger, Lehrbuch der Kirchengeschichte ; Ha- bread. The words avaQopd and Trpoaihopd were in- 
genbach, /list, of Doctrines (see Index); Neander, Ch. troduced by Justin Martyr, and brought into common 
lhst. ii, 630 sq. ; Hist, oj Dogmas. ii, 3~5 sq. ; Gieseler. lise by Ircnams. Irenams contends that the Eucharist 
Ch. (list.' i, 2 26 sq.; Scliaff, ( h. Hist, iii, 859 sq. ; Biilir, should be regarded as a sacrifice; he did, however, dis- 
D* e „ ch ristl.-romisehe 1 heol. p. 366 sq. ; \\ iggers, Aug. tinguish it from the Mosaic sacrifices, and speaks of a 

symbolical presence of Christ in the elements. — Farrar, 
Eccles. Diet. s. v. See Coleman, Primitire Christianity, 
p. 414; Piddle, Christian Antiquities, p. 546. 

Prosser, Louenzo D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was a native of New York State, and 
, . was born in 1805. He was earl v converted, and joined 

dens the heart occasions idleness, promotes effeminacy, the Church as a raere V0Iltll . 182 7 he was received 
damps zeal and energy, and in general has a baneful rel- jnt0 the Pittablirgh Conference, and successively ap- 
at.ve influence. It is no wonder therefore that the Al- pointed to the following circuits, namely : Butler, Grand 
mighty in general withholds it from his children, and River, Mercer, Hartford, Twinsburg, Windsor, and Colum. 
that adversity should be their lot rather than prosper- biana . In I8 36, when the Erie Conference was formed, 
ity. Indeed, adversity seems more beneficial on the he fel , illto its bounds, and received from it his appoint- 
whole, although it be so unpleasant to our feelings. men t to the following fields of labor, namely : Ellsworth, 
The advantages of prosperity,” says Bacon, “are to Cleve]andj H arm0 nsburg. M'Kean, Weslevville, Cliar- 
be wished, but the advantages of adversity are to he doilj Chai?rin Falls> Weslcvvillc. Edinborough Mission, 
admired. The principal virtue of prosperity .s tem- M ‘Kean, Albion, and Springfield. This last appoinl- 
perance; the principal virtue of adversity is fortitude I ment he he i d in m -2. The next year he became su- 
which in morality is allowed to be the most hero.cal perannn . lted , and continued in that relation until his 
virtue. I rospenty best discovers vice; adversity best dcath> Apri , 13 l8(in . He was of a nervous tempera- 
discovers virtue, which is like those perfumes which mem and his burning zeal led him often to exert him- 
are most fragrant when burned or bruised. _ It is not, se]f beyond his strength. His preaching was with 
however, to be understood that prosperity in itself is power , and at times his exhortations were overwhelm- 
unlawful. r he world with all its various productions, i ■ See M{mifes of Anmm i Conferences, 1869. 

was formed bv the Almighty for the happiness ol ' . .... ~ . 

man, and designed to endear him to us, and to lead ^ OS 1 . U e ’ ^ enia e ’ 1,1 e ,re " 1 4 ’ ‘ G’ 
our minds up to him. What, however, God often gives ( on ^be last see Gesen. Thes. iii, 1197) ; 

ns as a blessing, bv our own folly we pervert and (P) niale, in Hebrew While all sexual inter- 

tnrn into a curse. Where prosperity is given, there re- | course between others than married persons was for- 


et Pelag. ii, 136 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Prosperity, the state wherein things succeed ac- 
cording to our wishes, and are productive ol affluence 
and ease. However desirable prosperity be, it has its 
manifest disadvantages. It too often alienates the soul 
from (iod, excites pride, exposes to temptation, bar- 


PROSTITUTE 


GGG 


PROTAGORAS 


bidden by the Mosaic law, especial prohibition was laid 
upon Israeli tisli women from hiring themselves as pros- 
titutes (Lev. \i.\, 29; comp. xxi, U); and, with special 
reference to the Phoenicians, they were forbidden to 
abandon themselves to the use of men (Dent, xxiii, 17). 
The hire ol a whore” (HI'T comp, also Ezck. 

xvi, .*53, and Rosenmiiller, ad loc .) must, not be accepted 
by the priests as the subject of a vow, or a gift of devo- 
tion in the Temple (Dent, xxiii, IS); this hire, consist- 
ing in a piece of money or a kid (Den. xxxviii, 17), if 
presented at the Temple for a sacritice, and received as 
among other ancient nations, would have seemed to al- 
low prostitution (comp. Mishna, Terumoth, vi, 2 ; Mo- 
vers, Phonic, i, (ISO), hi Paphos, a kid was offered to 
the goddess of love (Tacitus, Hist, ii, 3). The Hetaene 
used to bring to Aphrodite Pandemos the sacritice of a 
goat (Lucian, Dial. Ale ret. vii, 1). The trade of pros- 
titution was sometimes very profitable among the an- 
cients (llerod. i, 93). hi spite of all prohibitions, there 
were always public prostitutes among the Hebrews — 
who, probably, as among the Arabs and Persians, prac- 
ticed dancing and music (Baruch vi. 8, -13; Wisd. ix, 
4; 1 Kings iii, 1G; Prow vi, 20 sip; vii, 10 sq., 23, 
27; Amos ii, 7 ; vii, 17; llosea i, 2), and may have 
been in part foreigners (Movers, Phonic, i, 53), as Phoe- 
nicians and Syrians (.hidg. xvi, 1). Syrian harlots 
travelled in the time of the Roman empire, and were 
called Ambnbajie (Sueton. Xero, 27; Horace, 67//. i, 2, 
1), because they were sometimes skilled in playing on 
the harp (see lleindorf, on Horace , I. c. ; comp. Apu- 
leiens. Met am. viii, p. 182, ed. liip.). But the Hebrew 
name perhaps means, not a stranger, but the 

strange women, like !"i~T; hence, adulteress. 

The harlots walked in public, adorned and veiled 
((Jen. xxxviii, 11 ; Petron. Satyr, xvi ; hut see Pocoeke, 
Past, i, 70), or seated themselves by the wayside, and, 
with seductive gestures, strove to lead aside travellers 
(Hen. xxxviii, 14; Baruch vi, -13; comp. Dougtad 
Annlect. i, p. 12 sq.). We may well suppose that the 
harlots could be in some way recognised in dress, gait, 
etc., even when they put on a show of modest behavior 
(comp. Hartmann, ilebr. ii, 495 sq.). It is not probable 
that, the veiling ever distinguished the harlots from 
chaste women. Sec Veil. (Comp. Buckingham, Alesop. 
p. 55.) In the brothels the girls bore peculiar names 
which had become by some chance attached to them 
(Senec. f’ontrov. i, 2, p.8l,cd. Bip.). Some would inter- 
pret in allusion to this the words in lJev. xvii, 5, hut 
see Ewald, ad loc. At the time of the division of the 
Hebrew kingdom, whoredom was practiced, especially 
among the ten tribes, under the Syrian influences then 
pouring in (comp. Numb, xxv, 1 sip), often even in ser- 
vice ol* the gods, especially of Astarte (llosea iv, 14; 1 
Kings xiv, 21; xv, 12; xxii, 47; 2 Kings xxiii, 7; 
comp. Baruch vi, 13 ; llerod. i, 199; .Justin, xviii, 5; 
Strabo, viii, 378; xii, 559; Val. Max. ii, 0, 15; Augus- 
tine, ( 'ic. Dei. iv, 10 ; llevne, in Continental. Hoc. Dotting. 

xvi, and see desen. on Jsa. <7,339 sq.). The law did not 

establish municipal and police penalties against noto- 
rious harlots, and the toleration of those from abroad 
(which certainly was not the design of the law-giver, 
though it, is easily explicable among an t Mental people 
when polygamy was allowed) seems to have been uu- ! 
conditional (see Potter, Greek Ant if/, i, 351; Wachs- 
nmtli, llellen. Alterth. II, ii, 4*).— Winer. The exist- 

ence of companies of prostitutes in the sacred groves 
and liigh-j daces of the ancient .lews may serve to ac- 
count lor the rendering which the Sept, gives to the 
expression “ high-places” in Kzek. xvi, 39, by a term 
which in dreok denotes a place of indecent resort. The 
Snkkoth he noth , literally “tabernacles of daughters,’’ 
which the men of Babylon are mentioned in 2 Kings 

xvii, 30 as having made, are probably places of the 
same kind, being haunts of wickedness. According to 
Josephus (.In/. iv, 8, 23), all intercourse with a prosti- 
tute was illegal, which is natural, since even the sons 


i of public harlots could never attain citizen’s rights 
among the Jews (Dent, xxiii. 2), and had no claim to 
I share in their father’s inheritance (comp. Judg. xi, 1). 

Among the Creeks and Romans, at the time of the 
appearance of Christianity, prostitution had become a 
great public evil. The cause of this lay by no means 
alone in the excessive worship of certain divinities 
(Wisd. xiv, 20 sq.), but in the frivolity of the times and 
the general decay of morals. In Rome harlots were le- 
gally tolerated (Zimmerm. Rom. Rechtsalterth. I, ii, 489; 
comp. Sclibtl gen. Nor. flebr. i,4C8 sq.). The laxer t lie 
principles of men in general were on this subject in its 
various forms, and the more boldly they avowed it 
(comp. Terence, Adefjdi. i, 2, 21 sq.; Eunuch, iii, 5, 35 
; sq.), the more vigorously were the apostles compelled 
to oppose nnchastity where it had entered the Christian 
( hurch (1 Cor. v, 1 sq. ; 2 Cor. xii, 21 ; 1 Thcss. iv, 3 ; 1 
Tim. i, 10). 'flie apostolic decree in Acts xv, 20, 29 
(comp, xxi, 25), which has often been denounced as not 
genuine (Deyling, Ohserv. ii, 409 sip; Kiiiubl, Comment. 
p. 521 sq.), was sufficiently called lor by the character 
of the times (comp. Tlmluck, in Meander's Denkwurd. i, 
143 sq.). The practice of prostitution was then preva- 
lent, too, among the Jews, especially the higher classes 
(Rom. ii, 22; John viii, 7; see in general Michaelis, 
.1/ os. Recht, v, 281 sq.). — Winer. Among the Romans, 
the abominable practice of combining immorality with 
the worship of the gods appears to have continued 
down to the days of Constantine, as is evident from a 
passage in his life, written by Eusebius. where he men- 
tions it in connection with the temple of Venus at 
Apheca on Mount Libamis. Sacred prostitution forms 
a part in the religious rites of heathen nations both in 
ancient and modern times. Among the Phoenicians, 
Babylonians, and other Eastern nations, it was the cus- 
tom to erect adjoining the temples of their gods resi- 
dences for courtesans, who were supposed to be pleasing 
to the deities. Strabo says that no fewer than 1000 of 
these abandoned females were attached to the temple 
of Aphrodite in Corinth, and were considered as an in- 
dispensable part of the retinue of the goddess. Among 
the Hindus we have the Linga worship (q. v.). See 
also Adultery; Fornication ; Harlot; Sodomite. 

Prostration. See Attitude. 

Prostration in Prayer. See Posture. 

Protagoras (llpa/rayopno), the first of that class 
of Creek philosophers who took the name of Sophists 
(q. v.). flourished near the opening of the 5th century 
B.C. lie was a native of Abdera, according to the 
concurrent testimony of Plato and several other writers 
{Protag. p. 309, c; De Rep. x, p. GOG, e: Heraclidcs 
Pont. up. Ding. Laert. ix, 55; Cicero, De X< it. Dior, i, 
23, etc.). There seems to he no ground for the story 
that he was in early life employed in manual labor, nor 
for the supposition that he was a disciple of Democritus, 

| with whom in point of doctrine he had absolutely noth- 
ing in common. Protagoras must have been older than 
Democritus, as it is certain that Protagoras was older 
than Socrates, who was born B.C. 408 (Plato, Protag. p. 
317, e; 314, !>; 301, e; comp. Piog. Laert. ix, 42, 50 \ 
and died before him at the age of nearly seventy (Plato, 
A/eno. p. 91, e; comp. Theat. p. 171, d; 104, e; Eu~ 
thyd. p. 2X0, c), after he had practiced the sophistic 
art for forty years in various Crock cities, especially 
at Athens. Erei places the death of Protagoras in B.C. 
41 1. assuming that Pythiwlorus accused him of teaching 
atheism during the government of the Four Hundred 
( Quits! . Protag. p. 01). and accordingly assigns about 
B.t '. 48b as the date of bis birth. 

That Protagoras bad already acquired fame during 
bis residence in Abdera cannot be inferred from the 
doubtful statement that lie was termed by the Abdcrites 
\oyoc, and by Democritus 0i\o/ro0i7i or aoipia (.Elian. 
Car. /list, iv, 20; comp. Suid. s. vv. II ptoray. Aiificxp., 
etc. Phavorinus, in Diog. Laert. ix, 50, gives to Pro- 
tagoras the designation of ao<pia). lie was the first 


PROTAGORAS 


607 


PROTAGORAS 


who called himself a sophist and taught for pay (Plato, 
Prof (if/, p. 349. a; Ding. Laert. ix, 52). He must have 
come to Athens before 13.C. 445, since, according to the 
statement of Ueraclides Politicos (Diog. Laert. ix, 50), 
he gave laws to the Thurians, or, what is more proba- 
ble, adapted for the use of the new colonists, who left 
Athens for the first time in that year, the laws which 
had been drawn up at an earlier period by Charondas 
for the use of the Chalcidic colonies (for, according to 
Diod. xii. 11, 3 and others, these laws were in force at 
Tluirii likewise). Whether he himself removed to 
Thurii, we do not learn, but at the time of the plague 
we find him again in Athens, as he could scarcely have 
mentioned the strength of mind displayed by Pericles at 
the death of his sons in the way he does (in a fragment 
still extant, Plutarch, De Consol, ad A poll. c. xxxiii. 
p. 118, d) had lie not been an eye-witness. He had 
also, as it appears, returned to Athens, after a long ab- 
sence (Plato, Protag. p. 301, c), at a time when the 
sons of Pericles were still alive (ibid. p. 314, e; 329, a). 
A somewhat intimate relation between Protagoras and 
Pericles is intimated also elsewhere (Pint. Pei ides, c. 
xxxvi, p. 172, a), llis activity, however, was by no 
means restricted to Athens. He had spent some time 
in Sicily, and acquired fame there (Plato, Ilipp. Maj. p. 
282, d), and brought with him to Athens many admir- 
ers out of other Greek cities through which he had 
passed (Plato, Profit//, p. 315, a). He was accused of 
atheism hv one of his scholars, and was consequently 
impeached for what he had written in his book On the 
Gods, which began with the statement, “Respecting the 
gods, 1 am unable to know whether they exist or do not 
exist” (Diog. Laert. ix, 51, etc.). The impeachment 
was followed by his banishment (ibid, ix, 52; Cicero, 
De Naf. Dear, i, 23 ; Euseb. Prcep. Evan//, xiv, 19, etc.), 
or, as others affirm, only bv the burning of his book 
(Philost. Vit. Soph. 1. c. ; Josephus, C. Apion. ii, 37; 
Sext. Emp. A dr. Math, ix, 56: Cicero, Diog. Laert. II. 
ce.). Ueberweg says that it would seem Protagoras 
left for Sicily after his condemnation and was lost at sea 
(Hist, of Philos, i, 74). 

Writings. — From the list of the writings of Protagoras, 
which Diogenes Laertius (ix, 55) doubtless borrowed 
from one of his Alexandrine authorities (he describes 
them as still extant, tori ra aui^opeva arror fiifiXia 
rarra : comp. Welcker’s account of Prodicus, in his 
KJeine Schriften, ii, 447, 4G5), and which he gives prob- 
ably with his accustomed negligence, one may see that 
they comprised very different subjects: ethics (Uepi 
aptriov and I Dpi ru>v o vk opSiog roig avSpwTrotg irpaa- 
<ro ptvuiv, Hepi 0i\o rtpiag); politics (Htpi 7roXtre/ac, 
llfpi rijg tv dp\y KaraoTaoe utc : comp. Frei, p, 182, 
etc.); rhetoric (' A vTiXoyiuiv oro, tpar-iKiLv'), and 
other subjects of different kinds (II poorer Krucdf, Ilqoi 
paSipidrunt, ntpr ^ TciXtjg. ntpi riov tv A'ii W). The 
works which, in all probability, were the most impor- 
tant of those which Protagoras composed — Truth (’AXi)- 
Seta), and On the Gods (Utpi 0eu>F) — are omitted in 
that list, although in another passage (ix, 51) Diogenes 
Laertius refers to them. The first contained the the- 
ory refuted by Plato in the Theietetus (p. 1 G I , c; 162, 
a; 1G6, c; 170, e), and was probably identical with the 
work on the Existent (ntpi roo vvTog ), attributed 
to Protagoras by Porphyry (in Euseb. Prcep. Erang. 
x, 3, p. 468, Viger). This work was directed against 
the Eleatics (Hpof rovg 'iv to bv Xt'yovTag), and was 
still extant in the time of Porphyry, who describes 
the argumentation of the book as similar to that of Plato, 
though without adding any more exact statements. 

Doctrines . — With the peculiar philosophical opinions 
of Protagoras we obtain the most complete acquaintance 
from the Thecetetns of Plato, which was designed to re- 
fute it, and the fidelity of the quotations in which is 
confirmed by the much more scant)' notices of Sextus 
Empiricus and others. The sophist started from the 
fundamental presupposition of Heraclitus that every- 
thing is motion, and nothing besides or beyond it, and 


that out of it everything comes into existence; that 
nothing at any time exists, but that everything is per- 
petually becoming (Plato, Thecet. p. 15G, 152: Sextus 
Empiricus inaccurately attributes to him matter in a 
perpetual state of flux, vXt] pevcrTi), Pyrrhon. Hyp. i, 
217, 218). lie then distinguished two principal kinds 
of the infinitely manifold motions, an active and a pas- 
sive; but premised that the motion which in one con- 
currence manifested itself actively will in another ap- 
pear as passive, so that the difference is, as it were, a 
fluctuating, not a permanent one ( Theat . p. 15G, 157). 
From the concurrence of two such motions arise sensa- 
tion or perception, and that which is felt or perceived, 
according to the different velocity of the motion; and 
that in such a way that where there is homogeneity in 
what thus meets, as between seeing and color, hearing 
and sound (ibid. p. 15(5), the definiteness of the color ami 
the seeing, of the perception and that which is per- 
ceived, is produced by the concurrence of corresponding 
motions (ibid. 15G, d; comp. 159, c). Consequently, we 
can never speak of lieing and Uecoming in themselves, 
but only for something (rtm), or of something (ni'df), 
or to something (jrpug ti, p. 160, b; 15G, c; 152, d; 
Arist. Metaph. ix, 3; Sext. Emp. Ityp. i, 216, 218). 
Therefore there is or exists for each only that of 
which he has a sensation, and only that which he per- 
ceives is true for him (Theat. p. 152, a; comp. Cratyl. 
p. 38G; Aristocles, in Euseb. Prcep. Er<mg. xiv, 20; 
Cicero, Acad, ii, 46: Sext. Emp. /. c. and Aile. Math. 
vii, 63. 369, 388, etc.); so that as sensation, like its ob- 
jects. is engaged in a perpetual change of motion ( Thecet . 
p. 152, b ; Sext. Emp. Hyp. i, p. 217, fob), opposite as- 
sertions might exist, according to the difference of the 
perception respecting each several object (Arist .Metaph. 
iv, 5; Diog. Laert. ix, 5; Clem. Alex. Strom, v, 674, a; 
Senee. Epist. 88). The conclusions hitherto discussed, 
which lie drew from the Heraclitean doctrine of eter- 
nal becoming, Protagoras summed up in the well-known 
proposition: The man is the measure of all tilings; of 
the existent, that they exist; of the non-existent, that 
they do not exist (Theat. p. 152, a; 160, d; Cratyl. p. 
385. e; Arist. Metaph. x, 1; xi, 6; Sext. Emp. A dr. 
Math, vii, 60 ; Pyrrhon. Hyp. i, 21 6 ; Aristocles, in Euseb. 
Prcep. Erang. xiv, 20 ; Diog. Laert. ix, 51) ; and under- 
stood by the man, the perceiving or sensation-receiving 
subject. He was compelled, therefore, likewise to ad- 
mit that confutation was impossible, since every affir- 
mation, if resting upon sensation or perception, is equal- 
ly justifiable (Plato, Euthyd. p. 185, d, etc.; Isocr. He- 
lena Enc. p. 231, llckk. ; Diog. Laert. ix, 53); but, not- 
withstanding the equal truth and justifiablencss of op- 
posite affirmations, he endeavored to establish a distinc- 
tion of better and worse, referring them to the better or 
worse condition of the percipient subject, and promised 
to give directions for improving this condition, i. e. for 
attaining to higher activity (Thecet. p. 167 ; comp. Sext. 
Emp. Hyp. i, 218). Already, before Plato and Aristotle 
(Metaph. iv, 4; comp, the previously quoted passages), 
Democritus had applied himself to the confutation of 
this sensualism of Protagoras, which annihilated exist- 
tence, knowledge, and all understanding (Plutarch, A dr. 
Colot. p. 1109, a; Sext. Emp. Adc. Math, vii, 389). 

It is not every pleasure, but only pleasure in the 
beautiful, to which Protagoras, in the dialogue which 
bears bis name (p. 351, b), allows moral worth ; and he 
refers virtue to a certain sense of shame (a’dwg~) im- 
planted in man by nature, and a certain conscious feel- 
ing of justice (cite)}), which are to serve the purpose of 
securing the bonds of connection in private and political 
life (ibid. p. 322, c, etc.); and, accordingly, explains 
how they are developed by means of education, instruc- 
tion, and laws (p. 325, c, etc.; comp. 340, c). lie is 
not able, however, to define more exactly the difference 
between the beautiful ancl the pleasant, and at last 
again contents himself with affirming that pleasure or 
enjoyment is the proper aim of the good (p. 354, etc.). 
In just as confused a manner does he express himself 


PI i OTA IS AND GERVAIS 


66S 


PPvOTEKIUS 


with respect to the virtues, of which he admits five 
(holiness, oaiurpg — and four others), and with regard to 
which he maintains that they are distinguished from 
each other in the same way as the parts of the counte- 
nance (ibid. p. 349, b; 3*29, c, etc.). As in these ethical 
opinions of Protagoras we see a want of scientific per- 
ception, so do we perceive in his conception of the lle- 
raclitean doctrine of the eternal How of all things, and 
the way in which he carries it out, a sophistical en- 
deavor to establish, freed from the fetters of science, 
his subjective notions, setting aside the lleraditean as- 
sumption of a higher cognition and a community of ra- 
tional activity (%vvbg Xoyof) hv means of rhetorical 
art. That he was master of this in a high degree, the 
testimonies of the ancients leave indubitable. 1 1 is en- 
deavors, moreover, were mainly directed to the com- 
munication of this art by means of instruction (Plato, 
Protag. p. 312. c), to render men capable of acting and 
speaking with readiness in domestic and political affairs 
(ibid. p. 3l«s y e). lie would teach how to make the 
weaker cause the stronger (rbv ifreo Xdyoj' upeirno 
7roitir, Aristot. Iihet. ii, 24; A. Gellius, X. .4. v, 3; Eu- 
doxus, in Steph. 1 iyz. s. v. “ A ficij pa : comp. Aristoph. 
Xnb. 113, etc., 245, etc., 873, 874, 879, etc.). By way 
of practice in the art he was accustomed to make his 
pupils discuss theses (communes loci) on opposite sides 
(anlinomically) (Diog. Laort. ix, 52, etc.; comp. Suid. 
s. v.; Dionys. of Halic., Isocr., Timon, in Diog. Laort. 
ix, 52 ; Sext. Emp. .1 dr. Math, ix, 57 ; Cicero, Iirut. 12) ; 
an exercise which is also recommended bv Cicero (Ad \ 
Att. ix, 4), and Quintilian (x, 5, 10). The method j 

of doing so was probably unfolded in his .1 rt of Dispute 
(riyo»; tpiarucuir; see above). But he also directed his | 
attention to language, endeavored to explain difficult 
passages in the poets, though not always with the best 
success (Plato, Protop. p. 388, c, etc.; comp, respecting 
his and the opposed Platonic exposition of the well- 
known lines of Simonides, Erei, p. 122, etc.). See Plato, 
J/ipp. Mnj. p. 282, c; Meno, p. 91, d; Theevt. p. 101, 
a; 179, a; Quintilian, iii, 1, § 10; Diogenes Laertius, 
ix, 52, 50, etc.; Zeller, Philos, der Griechen, i, 244 sq. ; 
Fisher, Heyinninys of Christianity, p. 117; Butler, Hist, 
of Ancient Philos, (see Index in vol. ii); Smith, Diet, 
of Or. and Rom. Dior/, and Mytlwl, s. v., which we have 
principally used; L’eberweg, Hist, of Philos, i, 73 sq.; 
Deist, De Protayora Sophist a (Giessen, 1827); Sprengel. 
in his Xm ’ayeoyi) rtyi'wn (Stnttg. 18281, p. 152 sq.; 
llcrbst, Profayoras in “ Philos.-hist. Studien" (Ilamb. 
1832), p. 88 sq. ; Krische, Forschuvyen, i. 130 sq. ; Frei, 
Quasi iones Protayoreee (Bonn, 1815); Weber, Quiest. 
J’rot. (Marl). 185(f); Bern ays, in Rhein. A/its.f. J‘hil. 
1850 (vii), p. 404 sq. ; Vitringa, De Prat. Vita et Phil. 
((Iron. 1853); Grot e, Plato (Loud. 1805, 3 vols.) ; and 
his 1 list, of Greece, ch. lxvii ; Mallet, Etudes Philoso- 
phiques, vol. ii ; and the literature, under Sophists, es- 
pecially Sclianz, Vorsokratische Philosophic ((Jotting. 
1807). 

Protais and Gervais, Sts., flourished in the first 
century of the Christian .-era, and were martyred at Milan 
towards the year 08. These two brothers were sons of 
St. Vital and St. Valeria, and their martyrdom appears 
to have taken place in the last years of the reign of 
Nero. Their memory was forgotten, until a vision re- 
vealed the place of their sepulture to St. Ambrose, when 
about to dedicate the Cathedral of Milan. The two 
martyrs were buried in the Church of St. Nabor and St. 
Felix, and upon the representations of St. Ambrose their 
coffins were discovered. Their names were plainly in- 
scribed upon them, as St. Ambrose announced only what 
he had learned by revelation. The hones were trans- 
ferred to the Basilica, and legends report, many miracles 
done by them during their transfer, which from the 5th 
century was celebrated at Milan and in the African 
( ’liurch. flic worship of these two saints spread rapid- 
ly, and in the fith century a church was built and dedi- 
cated to them at Paris. This church has been several 
times restored, and exists yet in that city. The feast 


of St. Gervais and of St. Trotais is celebrated on the 
19th of June. — Hoofer, A 'our. Bioy. Generate, s. v. See 
Bollandus, .4 eta Sanctorum. Jun. ; Tillemnnt, A/ e moires 
Ecclesiustiqu.es ; Baillct, 1 its des Saints, 19 Juin. See 
Gervaise. 

Protasof, Ambrose, a Hussian prelate, distin- 
guished by a talent of oratory unusual in the Bussian 
Church, was born iu 17G9 at Moscow. He became a 
monastic at twenty-five, and was made archimandrite 
of a monastery near St. Petersburg; subsequently rector 
of the seminary of that capital, and in 1801 was elevated 
to the episcopal see of Seula, f rom whence he was trans- 
ferred iu 1807 to Kazan and Smirsk. He died in 1830 
in Tver. His sermons evince a tolerant spirit. Some 
have been published in Le Messayerde l' Europe, others 
iu Le Fils de la Patrie, hut have never been collected 
in separate form.— Hoofer, Xouv. Eioy. Generate, s. v. 
See Otto, Ilist. of Russian Literature, s. v. 

Protection of the Church, a sort of right of 
asylum within or near sacred precincts, which prevailed 
in 1004 in England from Advent to the octave of Epiph- 
any, from Septnagesima to the octave of Easter, from 
Ascension to the octave of Pentecost, in Ember weeks, 
throughout Sunday, on the vigils and feasts of apostles 
ami saints which were bidden on the previous Sunday, 
All-Saints’, the dedication-day of a church, iu going to 
synods, chapters, on pilgrimage, to a consecration, or to 
church. — Walcott, Sacred A reheeoloyy, s. v. 

Protectcres Caruixai.es. Every Homan Cath- 
olic state of first rank enjoys the right of being repre- 
sented in the College of Cardinals at Borne by one or 
several members who have been exalted to that high 
dignity as natives or naturalized citizens of that state. 
At t lie time of the universal domination of the popes, 
when the Boman see was mixed in all the political con- 
cerns of the European states, and before the permanent 
office of the nuncio had become the regular channel of 
communication between Borne and the Catholic rulers, 
the cardinals were the natural representatives of the 
ecclesiastical and political interests of their respective 
countries, and their position was, of course, one of con- 
siderable importance. But even in recent times their 
influence has not entirely vanished; for as they are 
supposed to be best acquainted with the institutions, 
manners, customs, and language of the nations they rep- 
resent, and therefore more capable of giving the neces- 
sary information about the ecclesiastical situation of 
those nations, they are still, in the different congrega- 
tions of which they are members, intrusted with the re- 
vision of all accounts and reports on the religions affairs 
of their provinces, but especially of the refen nets about 
the worthiness of the elected or nominated archbishops 
and bishops. lienee their name proteetores uationum. 
With these must not he confounded the cleric i vationales, 
or prelates, who occupy in the College of Cardinals the 
situation of secretaries, and must be alternately French, 
Spaniards, Germans; nor the crou’n-cardinafs, i. e. the 
archbishops and bishops who are proposed for the car- 
dinalate by the ruler of their country, nominated by the 
pope, and who received the red barct from the hand of 
their Catholic sovereign, hut must go to Borne to receive 
the red hat out of the pope’s own hands. The cardinal- 
protectors reside in their metropolitanate, hut have a 
right, 011 the decease of the pope, to give their vote iu 
the election of his successor, and are themselves eligible 
to the papacy. As not every country has one of its na- 
tives in the College, one cardinal frequently unites in his 
hands the protectorate of several countries. — Wetzt r u. 
Welte, Kirchen-Ler. s. v. 

Protei ius (also called Pertares — probably his name, 
but euphonized into the name by which he is hetti r 
known), an Eastern prelate of some note because be 
provoked a schism which continues to the present 
day in the sects known as the Jacobites (q. v.) and 
Melvhites (q. v.). He flourished about the middle of the 
Gth century, and suffered martyrdom fur the Church, lie 


PROT. CIIURCH OF JERUSALEM G69 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


had been made a priest by Cyril, bishop of Alexandria, 
who was well acquainted with his virtues. On the 
death of Cyril, the see of Alexandria was filled by Dios- 
corus, who, knowing the reputation of Proterius, did all 
in his power to gain his confidence and interest, that he 
might, through him, accomplish his designs. But Pro- 
terius was not to be corrupted; the welfare of the 
Church was next his heart, and no worldly preferment 
could bt-ibe him to forego his duty. Dioscorus, being 
condemned by the Council of Chalcedon for having 
embraced the errors of Entvches, was deposed, and Pro- 
terius was chosen to fill the vacant see, and approved 
by the emperor. This occasioned a dangerous insurrec- 
tion, and the city was divided into two factions. Much 
mischief was done on both sides, and Proterius was 
brought into the most imminent danger. The civil 
authority was set at naught, violence was resorted to, 
nor was peace restored until a detachment of two thou- 
sand men was despatched by the emperor to quell the 
sedition. The discontented part)', however, still beheld 
Proterius with an eye of resentment; the attendance of 
a guard became necessary; and, although of a mild 
temper, he was compelled to procure the banishment 
of several from the city. Upon the emperor Marcian’s 
death, the exiles returned to Alexandria, and seemed 
resolved to be revenged for what they had suffered in 
the last reign. Timothy, the head of the conspirators 
against him, in the absence of Dionysius, seized on the 
great Church, and was nncauonically consecrated to the 
see by two bishops of his faction, who had been deposed 
for heresy. On the return of Dionysius, the incendiary 
Timothy was driven from the city, which so enraged 
the Eutvchians that they assaulted the house of Pro- 
terius, who fled to the neighboring church and took ref- 
uge in the baptistery, thinking that the holiness of the 
place and of the season (for it was Good-Friday) would 
protect him. But he was pursued to the church, treated 
with every indignity, murdered in cold blood, and his 
body was dragged about the city, torn in pieces, burned, 
and the ashes scattered in the sea. Proterius was so 
highly esteemed that his writings were collected at 
once and recommended as profitable for study to the 
clergy. His memory is celebrated on Feb. 28; possibly 
on that day, says Neale, because his name was then re- 
stored to the diptvehs. See Neale, Hist, of the East. Ch. 
{Patriarchate of Alex.'), ii, 5-13; Fox, Book of Mar- 
tyrs, p. 77. (J. H. W.) 

Protestant Church of Jerusalem. See Je- 
rusalem. 

Protestant Confessions. See Confessions. 

Protestant Episcopal Church. This is the 
legal title of one portion of the Church of Christ which 
has its local habitation in the United States of Amer- 
ica. The first part indicates its position relatively to 
the Homan Catholic Church, as protesting against the 
errors and repudiating the claims of that Church to su- 
premacy in doctrine, discipline, and worship; the sec- 
ond part of the title expresses its attitude towards 
other Christian bodies who have rejected episcopacv 
on the ground that it is not of divine origin, and, there- 
fore, not of universal and permanent obligation. The 
history of the Protestant Episcopal Church is conse- 
quently of more than ordinary interest, since, on the 
one hand, it has been compelled to resist the Roman 
Catholics and their progress, and, on the other, has been 
forced to maintain its position among Protestants, with- 
out being able to form any union or engage in any con- 
cert of action with them. In the present article it will 
be the writer's aim to give a tolerably full account of 
the history and progress of this Church, together with 
some supplementary statements and remarks in regard 
to its peculiar claims and adaptedness for the great 
work of evangelizing our country and helping to make 
the Gospel known throughout the dark places of the 
earth where heathenism prevails. 

I. History. — Here a natural division suggests itself 


at once, viz. : (1.) History of the period during colonial 
times to the close of the Revolutionary war. This pe- 
riod covers rather more than a century and a half, and 
during it Church people looked directly to the mother 
country for ministerial supply and religious privileges 
in general. (2.) The period after the Revolution, when 
efforts were successfully made to obtain the episcopal suc- 
cession from England, the Protestant Episcopal Church 
was duly organized, its liturgy, articles, constitution, etc., 
were adopted, and its bishops and clergy in different 
parts of the country were brought into union as one 
body, with the General Convention as its central legis- 
lative power. This period covers the years 1783 to 
about 1808. (3.) The later history of the Church, mark- 
ing its growth, increase in wealth and numbers, educa- 
tional efforts, missionary labors, and the like, with as 
full and accurate statistics as can be obtained of its pres- 
ent position and work. 

1. Early and Cohnial Ilistojy. — In the latter part of 
the 16th century, Sir Humphrey Gilbert left England 
to endeavor to form a settlement in America. Among 
the motives avowed as influencing him were “the 
honor of God, compassion of poore infidels captivated 
by the devil (it seeming probable that God hath re- 
served these Gentiles to be reduced into Christian 
civility by the English nation), advancement of his 
honest and well-disposed countrymen willing to ac- 
company him in such honorable actions, and reliefe of 
sundry people within this realme distressed.” Though 
Gilbert met with no success and was lost at sea, oth- 
er efforts were made by his half-brother, Sir Walter 
Raleigh, in 1584, in Carolina and Virginia. These too, 
though in the main unsuccessful, were not wholly with- 
out fruit. In 1606 the Virginia Company obtained its 
charter, and in 1607 the settlement at Jamestown was 
begun. Among the articles and order of the charter it 
1 was expressly required that “ the presidents, councils, 
and ministers shoidd provide that the true word and 
service of God be preached, planted, and used, accord- 
ing to the rites and doctrine of the Church of England, 
not only in the said colonies, but also as much as might 
be among the savages bordering upon them.” A cler- 
gyman of the English Church, Rev. I*. Hunt, accom- 
panied the expedition, and with unwearied zeal, and 
with piety and devotion worthy the highest praise, 
labored in his vocation to the end of his life. Other 
godly men followed, especially Rev. A. Whitaker, who 
has been honored with the title “Apostle of Virginia.” 
Through his agency the Indian maiden Pocahontas 
was converted and baptized, and proved herself of great 
service to the colony. “As the first colonists of Vir- 
ginia were exclusively members of the Church of Eng- 
land, the legislature of the colony decreed a provision 
for the clergy, at the rate of fifteen hundred pounds of 
tobacco and sixteen barrels of flour annually for each 
clergyman. As each new borough was formed, it was 
ordered that a portion of glebe land should be set apart 
for the use of the incumbent. Tithes were afterwards 
instituted. Discipline was enforced by laws which, it 
must be admitted, were unjustifiably severe; and a per- 
emptory enactment was passed that none but ministers 
episcopallv ordained should be allowed to officiate in 
the colony’’ (Hawkins). Early efforts were made to 
provide for the education of English and Indian youth 
by founding a college, and ten thousand acres of land 
were set apart, and large sums of money collected. In 
1619, when Sir Thomas Yeardlev became governor of 
Virginia, the legislature manifested commendable zeal 
in the same direction. The officers and agents of the 
Company were urged to train up the people in true re- 
| ligion and virtue, and also “ to employ their utmost care 
to advance all things appertaining to the order and ad- 
ministration of divine service according to the form 
and discipline of the Church of England, carefully avoid- 
ing all factious and needless novelties, which only tend 
to the disturbance of peace and unity.” The most ear- 
nest desire was shown to convert the Indians to the 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CIIUUCII 61 

faith of Christ, and to educate them in accordance with 
this laith. Mr. (I. Thorpe, a man of good parts and 
breeding, was appointed head of the new institution, 
and it was confidently hoped and expected (hat the red 
men would ere long become Christians and members of 
a civilized community; but a rude shock was given to 
this hope by the Indians, who, hating and fearing the 
intruders, as they considered the whites to be, resorted, 
in 1G22. to a bloody massacre; this, it may be noted, 
would have been complete extermination, had not a 
Christian Indian disclosed the plot the night before, 
and thus prevented its entire fulfilment. The deplor- 
able result was, the imbittering the feelings of all tow- 
ards the Indians and a fierce war of retaliation; so that, 
for the time, the college, missionary labors, and Chris- 
tian education were abandoned. In 1 G25 Virginia be- 
came a royal colony, and though its religious concerns 
were not so zealously looked after as under the charter, 
yet the people as a whole remained steadfast in their 
attachment to the Church of England, and their deter- 
mination to sustain it in every way in their power. 
Virginia, too, where many cavaliers sought refuge, was 
loyal to the exiled monarchy when Cromwell came into 
power, while New England, on the other hand, sympa- 
thized heartily with the “lord protector” and his work. 
After the Kestoration, in IGGtl. the colonial legislature, 
under Berkeley, the royal governor, gave early atten- 
tion to the repairs and building of churches, the canon- 
ical performance of the liturgy, the ministration of 
God’s word, the baptizing and Christian education of 
the young, etc. It is, however, sadly true that religion 
had greatly declined among (he people; violent con- 
tests occurred between the governors and (he assembly 
of the people; the ruling party was intolerant ; popular 
discontent increased; and rebellion actually broke out. 
So injurious were these disturbances and the wicked 
passions to which they gave rise that almost of neces- 
sity piety and godly life and conversation declined; 
and the Church became weakened to such an extent 
that, it is recorded, out of fifty parishes, nearly all were 
destitute of glebe, parsonage, church, and minister, and 
there were not more than ten in holy orders left. In 
IGS5 IJev. dames Blair came as missionary to Virginia. 
Four years later he was appointed commissary of the 
bishop of London, a position of great, responsibility and 
trust, especially with regard to discipline of both clergy 
and laity. 11c also held a seat in the council, ami con- 
tinued at his post as commissary for more than half a 
century, exercising a most beneficial influence in every 
way, and particularly in restoring and enlarging the 
good work of the Church. It was through his ener- 
getic efforts and well-directed zeal that the College of 
William and Mary was chartered in 1G92. Its design 
was “that the Church in Virginia may he furnished 
with a seminary of ministers of the Gospel; that the 
youth may be piously educated in good letters and 
manners; and that the Christian faith may he propa- 
gated among the Western Indians, to t he glory of Al- 
mighty God.” Blair became president of this the sec- 
ond college founded in America, and lived to a very 
advanced age. 

The neighboring colony of Maryland, founded in 
10:5:5 by lord Baltimore, a Homan Catholic, with some 
two hundred families and two or more priests of that 
Chundi, was noted for freely opening its doors to “ev- 
ery person professing to believe in Jesus Christ.” The 
colonial assembly in 1G39 declared, in the words of 
Magna Charta, that “Holy Church within this prov- 
ince shall have all her rights and privileges.” Whether 
by this term was meant the Church of England or not. 
it is certain that the influence and membership of that 
Church were largely extended. The general progress 
of the colony was so successful that at lord Baltimore’s 
death, in 1G7G, there were in Maryland ten counties and 
about sixteen thousand inhabitants, the largest part of 
whom were Protestants. At this date a letter was ad- 
dressed to the archbishop of Canterbury by a clergy- 


0 PROTEST A XT EPISC. CHURCH 

man named Yeo, complaining of the low state of morals 
in the colony, and of the fact that the clergy of the 
Church of England had no settled incomes like their 
brethren in Virginia, and that consequently their po- 
sition was neither so respectable nor so well calculated 
to e fleet good as it ought to he. Efforts were made to 
induce the proprietary to provide maintenance for the 
Church: this, however, he wholly refused. Seditious 
movements thereupon were set on foot against him as 
being a “papist,” and it was maliciously rumored that 
the Homan Catholics, in complicity with the Indians, 
were purposing to massacre the Protestants, On the 
accession of William of Orange in JG»*, a so-called 
“Protestant revolution” took place, and for time ytars 
the government was in the hands of the insurgents. 
Lord Baltimore having been deprived of his rights as 
proprietary, a royal governor was sent into Maryland, 
ami in 1G92 the Church of England was established by 
law; the province was divided into thirty parishes, and 
tithes were imposed for support of (he clergy upon ev- 
ery inhabitant, no matter what might be his religious 
opinions. The Homan Catholics and Quakers of posed 
this with all their might, and with more or less suc- 
cess, In 1G9G new laws were made, which still, how- 
ever, recognised the Church of England as by law es- 
tablished as entitled to all its rights, privileges, and 
freedom. The clergy, feeling the need of aid from 
home, begged the bishop of London to send them a 
commissary at least (since they were not allowed to 
have a bishop"), “ to redress what was amiss and sup- 
ply what was wanting in the* Church.” I)r. Thomas 
Bray, a very estimable and truly godly man. was the 
erne chosen to fill this important position. At great 
’ personal sacrifice he accepted it. He secured as many 
pious and devoted clergymen as lie could to go with 
him to America, and was soon enabled to increase the 
number of those laboring in Maryland from three to 
sixteen, lie began the formation of colonial libraries, 
and as one step led to another, and as he perceived 
how great was the need and how important was ihe 
result of combined action on the part of the members 
of the Church, he conceived the noble idea of founding 
the Society for 1‘romoting Christian Knowledge, and 
that for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts. 
The latter was chartered in .lime, 1701, the former ill 
1G9S. Early in March, I7tl0. Dr. Brav arrived in Mary- 
land, and entered at once with zeal and diligence upon 
his work, lie assembled the clergy, delivered charges, 
administered discipline, and was active* in having a bill 
passed by the legislature for the settlement and main- 
tenance of the parochial clergy. By this hill it was 
provided “that the Book of Common Prayer and ad- 
ministration of the sacraments, with the rites and ccr- 
emonios of the Church, according to the* use of the 
Church e>f England, the Psalter and Psalms of David, 
and morning and evening prayer, therein contained, be 
solemnly read by all and every minister or read* r in 
every church or other place of public worship within 
this province.” Despite some opposition, the king gave 
the enactment his consent, and it lie came law. Al- 
though Dr. Bray’s stay in Maryland was terminated in 
1701, he never ceased his efforts in behalf of the Church 
there; and it is on record that out of sonic* thirty thou- 
sand inhabitants in Maryland at this date, the majority 
were* in communion with the Church of England. 

The Candinas and Georgia were among the later 
colonics in the southern part of America. Several in- 
effectual efforts had been made from 1G30 GO to found 
settlements in the region of Albemarle Sound; but it 
was not till after the restoration of Charles 11 that a 
body of noblemen (Clarendon, Albemarle, etc.) under- 
took the task, and met with success. “ Being excited,” 
as they declared, “ by a laudable and pious zeal for the 
propagation of the Gospel, they begged a certain coun- 
try in the parts of America not yet cultivated and 
planted, and only inhabited by some barbarous people 
who have no knowledge of God.” The charter allowed 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH O' 

entire freedom of religious opinion, and no one was to 
be disturbed on these matters by the public authorities. 
We are sorry to say, however, that, notwithstanding 
the pious and proper language quoted above, the noble 
proprietaries made no provision for the spiritual inter- 
ests of the colonists or for the conversion of the Indians. 
The famous John Locke’s “grand model” of govern- 
ment (1(570) turned out to be a grand failure, and was 
abolished in 1693. George Fox, the founder of the 
Quaker denomination, visited Carolina and gave quite 
an impulse to the peculiar notions in religion which he 
entertained. The religious condition of the colony at 
the close of the century was on the whole very unsat- 
isfactory, and ungodliness prevailed to a lamentable 
extent. Early in the 18th century the majority of the 
colonists were dissenters, yet acts were passed in 1704- 
6, establishing the Church of England as the religion 
of the province. This produced trouble and resistance 
of course, and was of no real advantage to the Church. 
The Society for Propagating the Gospel sent mission- 
aries into the Carolinas, and some, though mostly in- 
effectual, struggles were made to stay the Hoods of un- 
godliness, fanaticism, and semi-heathenism ; it was a 
hard and almost hopeless contest during the greater 
part of the century. Georgia owed its origin to Ogle- 
thorpe’s benevolent designs and efforts from 1732 on- 
ward. l’eligious privileges were freely accorded. The 
German Lutherans and Moravians were early in the 
field. A small company of Jews came also; and a body 
of Scotch Highlanders founded New Inverness in 1736. 
At this date, too, John and Charles Wesley were in 
Georgia. John Wesley was parish minister in Savan- 
nah, and for a while matters went on very well and sat- 
isfactorily; but ere long the strictness of Wesley in 
enforcing the rubrics, and the dissatisfaction of the col- 
onists who were very restive under Church discipline, 
led to dissension and irreconcilabel differences; so that 
Wesley “shook off the dust of his feet,” as he phrases 
it, and left Georgia in disgust. George Whitefield soon 
after came to Georgia, and though he was continually 
itinerating to and from England and through the 
northern colonies, stirring up great excitement by his 
fiery zeal and energy, yet his labors in Georgia as a 
clergyman of the Church of England met with fair 
success. The same statement may here be made as in 
the case of the Carolinas, that missionaries of the So- 
ciety for Propagating the (iospel did what they could 
in behalf of religion and the Church ; but they were 
far too few and ill-supported to accomplish much. 

Turning our attention from the southern colonies, 
where, as in Virginia, the Church of England was plant- 
ed at the date of the earliest settlement in America, 
and where it flourished despite the fact of being de- 
prived of an essential element in the life and growth of 
the Church, viz. episcopal presence and supervision, we 
may next glance at the more northerly portion of the 
continent. New York (formerly New Netherland) was 
first colonized by the Dutch in 1615 onward, and of 
course was in its religious character presbyterian, like 
the Hollanders at home. In 1664 it was seized by 
the English, and became a part of the colonial em- 
pire of England. After a time the Church of England 
obtained precedence, and for a while was supported by 
public tax. Trinity Church was founded in New York 
city in 1696; the Kev. W. Yesey was its first rector, 
and was also for fifty years commissary of the bishop 
of London ; it is probably the wealthiest church cor- 
poration in the United States. New Jersey (New 
Sweden), in like manner, and the banks of the Dela- 
ware from the mouth inland, were settled by Swedes in 
1638. Later (1676), the Quakers came in as colonists, 
and though in religious profession the inhabitants were 
principally Presbyterians and Quakers, yet there was 
open toleration to all other Christian believers. Mis- 
sionaries of the Society for Propagating the Gospel 
were at an early day earnestly and zealously at work, 
at several points in New Jersey, and besides the names 


1 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 

of Talbot, Beach, and others, that of Dr. T. B. Chandler, 
of Elizabethtown, must ever be held in grateful mem- 
ory by churchmen. The Protestant Episcopal Church 
has always been comparatively strong in New Jersey. 
Pennsylvania was founded by William Penn in 1681- 
82, and, so far as religion was concerned, was tolerant to 
all of every name. It deserves to be mentioned, too, 
that, as in the early history of Virginia, kindness and 
gentleness were displayed towards the native tribes, 
and no Quaker blood was ever shed by the Indians- 
The first Episcopal Church founded in Pennsylvania 
was Christ’s Church, Philadelphia, in 1695; and at va- 
rious points the missionaries of the Society for Propa- 
gating the Gospel were, during the early part of the 
18th century, actively engaged in preaching the Gos- 
pel. Great ungodliness prevailed in all directions, and 
fanaticism, in its most offensive, hurtful form, displayed 
itself ; but the clergy labored on, amid every discour- 
agement, and their labors were blessed to a large extent. 

In all the colonial enterprises thus far, as we have 
seen, the Church of England was allowed a reasonably 
fair and just privilege of ministering to the wants of 
its own people, and extending its boundaries and in- 
fluence, as best it could in accordance with the rights 
of others. But when we look at New England, and 
see what treatment the Church met with there, the 
contrast is striking indeed. Here, as is well known, 
the first settlers were those called in the ecclesiastical 
history of the time Puritans. They were men who 
had been engaged in long and fierce contentions with 
the established Church in England. They were men 
also of stern and unyielding natures, and among them, 
the leading ones at least, for good reasons, as they held, 
hated the Church with as nearly a perfect hatred as is 
possible for man to attain. There was no term in the 
vocabulary of reproach which they did not heap upon 
the Church and its clergy and members, as well as its 
liturgy and services. They refused to allow two cler- 
gymen of the Church, who were in New England in 
1623-24, to preach and labor in any way in their voca- 
tion ; and the brothers Browne, two of the original pat- 
entees of the Massachusetts Bay Company, who desired 
to enjoy the services of the Church of England, and 
that too only in a private dwelling, were shipped off in 
1629, without ceremony, by Endieott, the governor, on 
the ground that they were “factious and evil -condi- 
tioned.” Thus was begun that, series of oppressive ac- 
tions and intolerant disregard of the rights of others 
which resulted later in the judicial murder of the 
Quakers. In a letter, dated April 7, 1630. when a large 
body of Puritans were embarking from England under 
Winthrop and Saltonstall, they spoke of themselves as 
men “who esteem it an honor to call the Church of 
England, whence we rise, our dear mother; and we 
cannot part from our native country, where she special- 
ly resideth, without much sadness of heart, and many 
tears in our eyes; ever acknowledging that such hope 
and part as we have obtained in the common salvation 
we have received in her bosom, and sucked it from 
her breasts.” Yet these same men and their succes- 
sors, with strange and painful disregard of the plain 
meaning of their words, resolved upon and put in prac- 
tice intolerance in its most vengeful form. They had 
suffered, as they averred, bitter persecution and griev- 
ous wrong in England from the “lord bishops” in au- 
thority there, who gave no heed to their conscientious 
scruples in Church matters; but, so far from showing 
forth love and gentleness and kindness and liberality 
as regards other people’s consciences, they seem, when 
the power fell into their bands, to have become, in all 
matters relating to religion, harder than the granite 
rock ; and, with a spirit as unpitying and hateful as 
that of the Inquisition itself, they determined that no 
man, woman, or child, where they had strength to stop 
it. should ever hold any opinion or have any religions 
faith which they, the “lord brethren” of New England, 
did not approve. They fined, imprisoned, or banished 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CIIURCII 6 

recusants of all sorts. “ (toil forbid,” said they, through 
Endicott, an impersonation of bigotry, “that our love 
of truth should be so cold that we should tolerate er- 
rors!” They allowed no one who differed from them 
to live among them. Convicted Anabaptists were 
“whipped unmercifully.” Quakers, who with fanat- 
ical violence defied the magistrates and ministers, were 
sentenced, after the first conviction, to lose one ear; 
after the second, another ; after the third, to have the 
tongue bored through with a red hot-iron ; and sev- 
eral of them were put to death; but in 16(51 Charles 
11. by a peremptory order, forbade further outrage 
of this kind. As to the Indians, though the colo- 
nists were under chartered obligation to treat them 
well and endeavor to convert them to Christianity, 
these were looked upon as having no rights to be re- 
spected, as wolves, savages, heathen, and doomed, like 
tiie Canaanites of old, to utter excision as speedily as 
possible. It was only such men as linger Williams in 
11 bode Island, and the estimable John Eliot, the Apostle 
to the Indians, and the comparatively few who sympa- 
thized with them, that helped to relieve New England 
bigotry and intolerance from being denounced as utter- 
ly detestable. The Puritans, in carrying out their prin- 
ciples, organized what they called churches on the same 
plan of independency as that employed in civil matters. 
They looked upon themselves as under no restraint, 
and as owing no obligation or courtesy to their “dear 
mother, the Church of England,” and they thought and 
acted as if they could just as readily have— to use a 
pet phrase of later days — a church without a bishop as 
a state without a king. Of course, under such a condi- 
tion of affairs, and with such antagonism and prejudice 
against the Church and all appertaining to it. it could 
make little or no progress in New England; and it is 
a fact to be noted that for some sixty years after the 
landing on Plymouth rock there was not a single Epis- 
copal church in all that part of the country. It was 
not till the year 1(579 that Charles II, on the earnest 
representation of some of the inhabitants through the 
bishop of London, caused a church to he built in Pos- 
ton. William of < irange subsequently settled an annual 
bounty of £100 for endowment. 

From this time onward, however, owing to the un- 
wearied and judicious efforts of the Society for Propa- 
gating the (Jospel, something began to be accomplished, 
in despite of penal enactments and bitter, uncompro- 
mising hatred. Missionaries wore sent out to various 
points in New England, as well as the other colonies 
(except Virginia and Maryland); and as they were 
honest, faithful men, abounding in labors, travelling 
over large districts, and ministering the (iospel to all 
whom they met with, they deserve all honor, and 
their labors were not without fruit. Ilad the Church 
of England listened to that supplication for bishops 
which went up continually and earnestly, and had she 
been permitted to send out worthy men for the epis- 
copal office, the growth and prosperity of the Church in 
America would have been vastly greater and more se- 
cure; but the ungodliness of men in power, the ham- 
pered condition of the Established Church, and the ac- 
tive opposition of the Puritans in New England and of 
the dissenters in England as well as their special friends 
in America, always succeeded in overpowering the cry 
of the destitute and the numerous and powerful remon- 
strances of the Society for Propagating the (Jospel. At 
one time there were two noujuriug bishops in America, 
viz. Hr. It. Welton and Hr. J. I'albot (1722). the former 
in Philadelphia, the latter in Burlington, N. J. ; but they 
were not allowed to exercise episcopal functions except 
by stealth, and the government soon after interfered 
and put an entire stop to all action on their part. As 
early as 1701, a missionary of the society took up bis 
residence in Newport. It. I., and continued there nearly 
half a century. During bis ministry, and that of sev- 
eral helpers in the work.be could not but note the de- 
pressing effects of schism and heresy, there being then 


2 PROTESTANT EPISC. CIIURCII 

quite as many denominations in Itbode Island as there 
have been in subsequent days. Bishop Berkeley de- 
serves to be named in this connection for his noble dis- 
interestedness and zeal. In 1725 he entered upon his 
great philanthropic and Christian enterprise of erecting 
a college at Bermuda, to serve as an institution for edu- 
cating the children of the planters, and suitable ones 
from among the natives as missionaries in order to con- 
vert the savages to Christianity. In 1728 Berkeley 
was in Bhoilc Island, and had not the government of 
Walpole kept him out of the £520,000 voted, he would 
probably have accomplished bis benevolent design. 
The next year he returned to England, and reluctant- 
ly gave up his cherished plan. .Some eighteen years 
later he caused to be sent as a gift to the library of 
Harvard College a very valuable collection of hooks, 
containing such authors as Hooker, Pearson. Barrow, 
Hammond, Clarendon, etc., and these no doubt helped 
to leaven the minds of some in New England, who, 
weary of the despotism of independency, and grieved 
anil distressed at there being multitudinous sects of all 
kinds and characters, were disposed to seek, and did 
seek, refuge in the sober, staid, and godly ways of the 
Church of England. It is also worthy of note here 
that early in the 18th century, about thirty-five years 
before Berkeley’s donation to Harvard College, a libra- 
ry of books, similar in character and value to those just 
named, had been sent to Yale College, which was now 
established in New Haven. At this date there was not 
a single Episcopal Church in Connecticut, and very few 
families of Church people. There were, however, in this 
region, several earnest seekers after truth, dissatisfied 
and cheerless in their then position, among whom may 
be named especially Timothy Cutler, an accomplished 
scholar, and president of Yale College; Daniel Brown, 
one of the tutors; and Samuel Johnson, a Congrega- 
tional preacher at West Haven. These, in company 
with others in like condition of mind, set to work to 
examine into the important subject of the ministry 
and doctrines of the apostolic and early Church. The 
result was, rather to the astonishment and alarm of 
most of their associates, a thorough conviction on their 
part that there was no valid ministry except through 
the laying-on of the hands of a bishop, and that the 
doctrines set forth in the Prayer-book arc the true and 
full expression of the truth of the Hospel. Of course, 
Messrs. Cutler and Brown could not stay any longer in 
Yale College, which neither recognised nor tolerated the 
Church of England in any shape, but, in common with 
Congregationalists generally, as we are gravely told, 
“entertained fears lest the introduction of Episcopal 
worship into the colony should have a tendency gradu- 
ally to undermine the foundations of civil and religious 
liberty.” Accordingly these gentlemen resigned their 
positions, and, accompanied by Mr. Johnson, they sailed 
for England in November, 1722, were ordained to the 
ministry, and (except Air. Brown, who died of small- 
pox) returned to America as missionaries of the society 
the following year. Dr. Cutler became rector of ( ’hrist's 
Church, Boston, and Dr. Johnson was settled at Strat- 
ford. Conn. Both of them were among the foremost 
men in the colonial Church, and were of especial service 
in defending its claims, warding ofi’ attacks, and pro- 
moting its growth and welfare. Both. too. lived till 
nearly the close of the colonial period. Dr. Culler dying 
in 1765. Dr. Johnson in 1772. In fact, the Church in 
Connecticut was more than ordinarily blessed, and we 
find that, prior to the llevolution, it was comparatively 
vigorous and zealous in good works. The names of 
Beach. Scahury, Jarvis, lluhhard, and others abundant- 
ly evince this. Without attempting to go into details, 
it. may here be stated that down to the outbreak of 
the Involution, the Society for Propagating the (J os- 
pel maintained, on an average, thirty clergymen in the 
New England states, and about fifty in t lie other col- 
onies. One list of churches which was sent home by a 
missionary in 1718 makes the number in New Ilamp- 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CIIURCII 673 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


shire two, in Rhode Island five, in Massachusetts twelve, 
in Connecticut seventeen — total, thirty-six. It must be 
borne in mind, too, that each missionary was placed in 
the centre of an extensive district, and supplied as far 
as possible the spiritual wants of the people, whom oft- 
times he could reach only by long and even dangerous 
journeys to and from distant settlements. The Society 
did all that its means allowed in sending missionaries 
in all practicable directions, and it may justly and 
properly be noted of its work that when it began its 
operations in the colonies, it found but five churches; 
and when compelled by the revolt of the colonies to 
close its labors, it left the country with some two hun- 
dred and fifty churches. 

The Church of England in America was peculiarly 
unhappy in its position just before and at the period of 
the Revolution. It had no popular favor to fall back 
upon in those days of trial. It was small in proportion 
to other Christian bodies, especially in the north, and it 
was hated and despised by the ill-informed multitude, 
who regarded it as virtually identical with priestcraft 
and tyranny. A considerable number of its clergy, par- 
ticularly those who were English-born, felt compelled 
by their ordination vows to adhere to the cause of the 
king. This was sure to bring distress and trouble upon 
them and the Church likewise; for when the disputes 
with the mother country reached that crisis which cul- 
minated in the war ot'the Revolution, there could be no 
longer any hesitation as to the side which every man 
must take. Then it became a necessity for a man to 
side with his country or with the king’s party; he 
must be a patriot, heart and soul, or he must he ranked 
with and suffer with the odious Tories. The result was 
the abandonment of their fields of labor bv most of the 
clergy in the employ of the Society for Propagating 
the Gospel, who found their only safety in flight to 
England or the British provinces; the closing of nearly 
all the churches; and, worse than all, the disgraceful 
ruin and defilement heaped upon many church edifices. 
It was none the less hard and unjust to American 
churchmen to be forced to bear all this in addition to 
the trials of war, inasmuch as it is only simple justice 
to put it on record, to the perpetual honor of the Church 
and the vindication of its members against the freely 
circulated charge of lack of patriotism in the great 
struggle against the tyranny of the English govern- 
ment, that the commander-in-chief of our army was a 
churchman, and the first chaplain of Congress w as Will- 
iam White, a clergyman of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church. 

2. History subsequent to the Revolution, including the 
full organization and entrance on its work of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church in the United States. — When, 
at last, the war was over, and the independence of the 
United States was acknowledged (1783), it became a 
matter of immediate concern to those who had hereto- 
fore been dependent on England for ordination of cler- 
gy, and for efficient and steady help from the Society 
for Propagating the Gospel, to ascertain what was now 
to be done. Here they were, few in numbers compara- 
tively; cut off from all direct connection with the Eng- 
lish Church; having not even the small comfort of be- 
ing considered as any longer in the diocese of London; 
with no means of helping themselves; no bishops, few 
clergy, and these scattered over a large surface of coun- 
try; in great perplexity as to the proper course to be 
pursued; and reduced pretty nearly to the condition of 
hopeless uncertainty. In Virginia, for instance, at the 
beginning of the Revolution, there were 164 churches 
and chapels and 91 clergymen ; at the close of the great 
struggle a large number of these churches had been de- 
stroyed; 95 parishes were extinct or forsaken; of the 
remaining 72, there were 34 without ministerial ser- 
vices; while of the 91 clergy only 28 remained. But, 
bad and distressing as was the state of affairs, it was 
not altogether desperate. The great Head of the 
Church did not abandon his people in their trouble. 
VIII. — U u 


Those brave and honest men who had tried for years 
and years to induce the government and Church of 
England to allow them to have a bishop — were thor- 
oughly conscious that they must not now give up in 
despair. The mean and paltry reasons of state, and 
the venomous prejudice that had been stirred up from 
this side of the water against the continuous supplica- 
tion for a bishop during nearly a century just past — 
these could certainly no longer have any force; for now 
there was a new nation in the world, in no wise ham- 
pered by any union of Church and State; now it could 
not be pretended that there w r as any danger to public 
liberty from the Episcopal Church having and enjoy- 
ing what it regards as essential to its very life and 
growth. To us, at this day, when a century of exist- 
ence has been granted to the United States, and the 
Protestant Episcopal Church has proved its right to be 
what it has now become, it seems almost incredible 
that it could ever have been seriously urged against 
that Church that its having bishops of its own was 
(in some strange, unaccountable way) hurtful and dan- 
gerous to liberty and true patriotism. However singu- 
lar it may appear that such an opinion should prevail 
among fair-minded, intelligent persons, the fact is indis- 
putable; this opinion did prevail, and did cause great 
trial and suffering to the Church in America. All 
that can be said is, that as prejudice is usually utterly 
unreasoning, and will listen to nothing which militates 
against its preconceived conclusions, so we have no al- 
ternative but to attribute some, at least, of the opposi- 
tion to the Episcopal Church to this hard, stony preju- 
dice; while it is almost certain that a large part of the 
opposition arose from settled hatred towards the Church 
and a determination to prevent its growth and influ- 
ence. Bishop White’s testimony is instructive in this 
connection. Writing in 1836, he says, “What a won- 
derful change has the author lived to witness in ref- 
erence to American episcopacy! He remembers the 
ante -revolutionary times, when the presses profusely 
emitted pamphlets and newspaper disquisitions on the 
question whether an American bishop were to be en- 
dured; and when threats were thrown out of throwing 
such a person, if sent among us, into the river, although 
his agency was advocated for the sole purpose of a com- 
munion submitting itself to his spiritual jurisdiction. . . . 
The order has existed among us for nearly the half of a 
century, and not a single complaint has been heard, ei- 
ther of usurpation to the injury of any other denomi- 
nation, or of arbitrary government within our own.” 
Organization and union, as far as practicable, were now 
of first importance. It was no new thing for the cler- 
gy to meet in their several districts from year to year. 
This had been done at intervals all through the 18th 
century, up to the end of the colonial period. In Vir- 
ginia and Maryland, where the Church of England was 
established by law, meetings, consisting of a large num- 
ber of the clergy and laity, were held in the spring of 
1784-85. In Virginia, the chief effort was to rid the 
Church of State control, to obtain liberty to act freely 
in ecclesiastical matters, and to have the Episcopal 
Church incorporated in accordance with the laws of 
the state, so as to hold and retain its rights of property 
in churches, glebe lands, etc. A general willingness 
was expressed of uniting with Episcopal churches in 
other states; but ground was taken in regard to bish- 
ops and their office and position which alarmed the 
Northern churches. The Virginia notion was to re- 
duce a bishop to the lowest possible point, to use him 
simply for ordaining and confirming, to make him serve 
as a parish minister, and be amenable to the conven- 
tion, etc. In Maryland, a special effort was made to 
secure a bill of rights for the Episcopal Church, for 
objects similar to those just named in the case of Vir- 
ginia; “a declaration of certain fundamental rights and 
liberties of the Protestant Episcopal Church of Mary- 
land” was set forth; and Dr. William Smith was chos- 
en to go to England for the purpose of obtaining epis- 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHUUCII 074 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


copal orders. It may be mentioned here that, for vari- 
ous ami sufficient reasons, L>r. .Smith did not obtain the 
proper papers, and was never consecrated. Farther 
south, a convention, consisting of a small number of 
clergy and laity, was held in Charleston, S. C., in 1785- 
8t», The feeling against the Church of England was 
verv bitter in that part of the country, which had suf- 
fered greatly from the ravages of the British armies. 
This convention, acknowledging the need of the three 
orders in the ministry, was willing to go so far as a 
general approval of union, but stipulated that there 
was to be no bishop settled in that state without the 
consent of the Church there. In January, 1784, Dr. 
Beach, of New Brunswick, X. J., made a suggestion to 
Dr. White, of Philadelphia, and l)r. Provoost, of Xew 
York, that a conference of as many of the clergy as 
could be conveniently got together be held, to take into 
consideration the condition of Church affairs. Previ- 
ously to this, in August, 1782, before the recognition of 
American independence, and when it seemed as if the 
ministry of the Church were almost annihilated, Dr. 
White had issued a pamphlet, entitled “The Case of 
the Episcopal Churches in the United States Consid- 
ered.” In this pamphlet, which excited considerable 
attention, the writer, apprehending the possibility of 
the Church being compelled to go forward without 
obtaining the succession from England, advocated the 
formation of a new body, without bishops in the regular 
line — in fact, a new presbyterian denomination. This, 
however, was only in case absolute necessity required 
such a course, and, as bishop White himself subsequent- 
ly stated, it was suggested only for such a possible state 
of affairs. The writer was, in reality, too good a church- 
man not to embrace joyfully the opportunity which was 
offered three years later of obtaining the succession in 
the English line. A meeting of several clergymen from 
New York, Pennsylvania, and Xew Jersey, members of 
the Corporation for the Belief of Widows and Children 
of Clergymen, was held in New Brunswick, May 11, 

1784. At this meeting a number of laymen were also 
present, and another meeting was appointed for Octo- 
ber in the same year in Xew York. Accordingly. Oct. 
(». 1784, some lifteen clergymen from Xew England, 
Xew York, Xew Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland, ami 
eleven laymen from the same states, assembled in Xew 
York. The principal result was the making of several 
important recommendations, such as, that there he a 
General Convention of the Episcopal Church; that 
each state send clerical and lay deputies; that the doc- 
trines held by the Church of England he adhered to; 
that the Prayer-book be altered only in so far as civil 
changes demand; that in any state having a bishop, he 
be, ex officio, a member of the convention; that the 
clergy and laity deliberate together, but vote separate- 
ly; that the first meeting of a general convention he 
held in Philadelphia on Tuesday before the Eeast of St. 
Michael, in 178f>, etc. Probably the most important 
benefit secured by tiie action of this body was a recog- 
nition of the value and need of lay representation as 
not only right in itself, but also in admirable harmony 
with the constitution of a republican form of govern- 
ment. The Xew England feeling was quite strong 
against the having a lay element in Church councils, 
and for a few years it appeared as if serious discord 
might arise, and hinder the union of the churches in 
the several states; 1 nit, happily, the point was conceded, 
though with some reluctance, by the Connecticut bish- 
op and clergy in 1789. One other point of difference 
existed at the time. The Connecticut sentiment was 
decidedly in favor of securing a bishop first, and then 
proceeding to act as a fully organized < hurch, in passing 
laws, revising the liturgy, etc., and such was the course 
adopted in that state. I >r. Samuel Seabury. bishop-elect, 
meeting with annoying difficulties and delays in Eng- 
land, was consecrated by Scotch bishops, in XovemlH>r, 
17sl, and, on his return home early in the summer of 

1785, entered at once upon his duties as bishop of Con- 


necticut. The churches in the middle and more south- 
erly portions of the country held an opposite opinion to 
that entertained in Connecticut and Massachusetts, and 
in accordance therewith went forward, and took various 
steps antecedent to the obtaining of the succession from 
England. 

The first meeting of clergy and laity which can prop- 
erly be considered as approaching to a general conven- 
tion was held in Philadelphia in Septemln r and October, 
1785. Seven states were represented bv Hi clergymen 
and 20 laymen. It was hoped that bishop .Seabury and 
some of the Xew England clergy might be present; 
but, as they were not satisfied as yet on several points, 
they declined attending. Dr. White was chosen pres- 
ident, and Dr. Griffith, of Virginia, secretary, and the 
convention proceeded promptly to the work of organ- 
ization and revision. A plan for obtaining the episco- 
pal succession, and an address to the archbishops and 
bishops of the Church of England were discussed and 
agreed upon. These papers were mainly the produc- 
tion of Dr. White, and were manly and dignified in tone 
and statement. A draft of alterations of the liturgy, in 
order to adapt it to the existing condition of civil af- 
fairs. and to get rid of certain offensive features, was 
submitted, as was also an “ Ecclesiastical Constitution;” 
and the work went on vigorously till the close of the 
session, Oct. 7. The committee on altering and im- 
proving the Braver-book were Drs. White, W. Smith, 
and Wharton. They were authorized to make changes 
of various kinds, “but in such a manner that noth- 
ing in form or substance be altered to accompany tbe 
volume with “ a proper preface or address, setting forth 
the reason and expediency of the alterations;” and to 
publish the work for the use of Episcopal churches. 
The result of their labors was the “ Proposed Book,” as 
it is known in Church history. The major part of the 
alterations were made by Dr. Smith; and these altera- 
tions, both as to matter and spirit, deserve tbe attention 
of every student of our history. Besides a large num- 
ber of verbal changes, the article “lie descended into 
hell,” in the Apostles’ Creed, and the Xicene and Atlia- 
nasian Creeds, were ejected; the “Articles of Religion” 
were reduced to twenty; a calendar and table of holy- 
davs were set forth; a long preface (the basis of the 
preface to the Book of Common Braver as it now is) 
was added, etc. The volume proved to be quite unsat- 
isfactory. Its changes wore looked upon as too radical 
by many of the clergy and conventions; and hardly had 
the book been issued before it became evident that the 
(.’hurch was not ready or willing to accept it. From 
every quarter, when state conventions met, amendments 
were proposed and urged upon the attention of the 
Church ; and nowhere was the book adopted, except in 
a few churches for temporary use. Bishop White says 
it w’as “a great error” to print the hook at all in its then 
condition, and still more to print a large edition in hope 
of getting, by its sale, pecuniary returns to be used for 
charitable purposes. It was a crude and ill -digested 
affair, and it never received tbe first sanction of the 
Church. Subsequent general conventions ignored it 
altogether, and it will ever remain as tbe “Proposed 
Book,” not tbe Book of Common Prayer which was later 
adopted, ami is the Church’s permanent heritage. 

At the meeting of the next convention in Philadel- 
phia. June 20, 178t>. ten clergy ami eleven laymen were 
present. The prospect was by no means encouraging. 
Indeed, as bishop White stales, *• the convention as- 
sembled under circumstances which bore strong ap- 
pearances of a dissolution of the union in this early 
stage of it.” The correspondence with the archbishops 
and bishops in England made, it evident that there was 
an apprehension existing in their minds that the Amer- 
ican Episcopal Church was scarcely sound in the faith, 
and they answered cautiously and with reserve in re- 
gard to the application for the episcopate. This was 
quite natural, and it need occasion no surprise that they 
objected to many of the alterations in the Prayer-book, 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 675 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


and to various features in the “Ecclesiastical Consti- 
tution,” as it was then arranged. Renewed and dis- 
tinct assurances were expected from the American 
Church that there was no intention whatever on its 
part of departing from the Church of England in doc- 
trine, or in discipline and worship, except in so far as 
changed civil relations made it necessary, before the 
venerable prelates were willing to act as they were 
asked to do. There was also considerable unpleasant 
feeling excited by an expressed determination of sev- 
eral members of the convention (Provoost and R. Smith 
especially) to throw doubt upon the validity of bishop 
Seaburv’s orders, obtained from the line of the Scotch 
nonjuring bishops. The convention showed its good 
sense and discretion by refusing to take any action in- 
imical to the bishop of Connecticut or his position ; a 
resolution simply was passed advising the churches 
then represented in convention not to receive ministers 
ordained by any bishop in America, during the appli- 
cation pending to the English bishops for episcopal 
consecration. “A General Constitution of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church in the United States,” freed 
from some serious former objections, was agreed upon, 
as also an answer to the letter from the archbishops 
and bishops of the Church of England. This latter, 
with the constitution, it was hoped and expected would 
give entire satisfaction. At an adjourned meeting held 
in Wilmington, Del., in October, 1780, the letter just 
before received from the archbishops and bishops, with 
forms of testimonials and the act of parliament author- 
izing the consecration of bishops for foreign countries, 
were read, and appropriate action was taken. A de- 
claratory “Act of the General Convention of Clerical 
and Lay Deputies of the Protestant Episcopal Church 
in the States of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 
Delaware, and South Carolina” was passed ; and it 
was determined, in accordance with the earnest recom- 
mendation of the archbishops and bishops, to restore the 
omitted article (descent into hell) in the Apostles’ Creed, 
and to put back in its proper place in the Prayer-book 
the Nicene Creed. At the same time it was resolved 
that the Athanasian Creed be omitted altogether, only 
one clergyman voting in its favor. Testimonials were 
signed in behalf of Dr. White, Dr. Provoost, and Dr. 
Griffith, bishops elect respectively of Pennsylvania, 
New York, and Virginia. The convention refused to 
give a like testimonial in favor of Dr. W. Smith, bish- 
op elect of Maryland. On Nov. 2, 1786, Drs. White 
and Provoost embarked for England, and arrived on 
the 20th; Dr. Griffith, for personal reasons, was unable 
to accompany them. When they reached London, they 
were introduced to the archbishop by the American 
minister, John Adams, who, as bishop White says, in 
his Memoirs, “in this particular, and in every in- 
stance in which his personal attentions could be either 
of use or as an evidence of his respect and kindness, 
continued to manifest his concern for the interests of a 
Church of which he was not a member.” After some 
little delay, owing to Parliament not being in session, 
the consecration took place, Sunday, Feb. 4, 1787, in 
Lambeth chapel. The two archbishops, and the bish- 
ops of Rath and Wells and of Peterborough, united in 
the solemn act of giving the apostolic succession to the 
American Church.* The new bishops very soon left 
England for home, and, after a long voyage of some 
seven weeks, arrived in New York on the afternoon of 
Easter-day, April 7. Thus, at last, was secured for the 
Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States the 
long and earnestly sought-for privilege of having its 
organization rendered complete; thus, too, from this 
date it took its place as a distinct national branch of 
the Church of Christ, with all the privileges and duties 
and responsibilities thereunto attached. 

* This was certainly a connection by ordination with the 
Established Church of England, but whether it. was truly 
an “ apostolic succession,” is a very different question, 
which wedo not think this the proper place to discuss.— Ed. 


The General Convention of 1789 assembled, July 28, 
in Philadelphia, bishop White presiding; bishop Pro- 
voost was absent. There were seventeen clergymen and 
sixteen laymen present from seven states, including 
South Carolina; but none came from New England. 
An application was made by the clergy of Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire, asking for the consecration of 
the Rev. Edward Rass as bishop. This application was 
placed on the ground that there were now three bish- 
ops (the proper canonical number) in America, and that, 
consequently they were fully able to act in the premises. 
A resolution was unanimously passed “that, in the opin- 
ion of this convention, the consecration of the Right 
Rev. I)r. Seaburv to the episcopal office is valid,” and 
the genera] sentiment was strongly in favor of compli- 
ance with the request of the Massachusetts clergy. 
There was, however, an obstacle which hindered this 
compliance at this time, viz., the obligation which bish- 
ops White and Provoost felt themselves to lie under to 
the English bishops, not to consecrate any to the epis- 
copal office until there were three in the English line 
in the United States. Dr. Griffith, in May, 1780, relin- 
quished his appointment as bishop elect of Virginia, 
and died in Philadelphia during the session. Hence, 
it was thought best not to act at present upon the ap- 
plication from Massachusetts. A body of canons, ten 
in number, was adopted; a General Constitution of the 
Church was agreed upon in substance ; an appropriate 
address was prepared, thanking the archbishops of Can- 
terbury and York for their good offices in regard to the 
episcopate; also, an address was sent to the President 
of the United States, which was courteously answered 
by AYashiugton ; and the convention adjourned, August 
8, to meet again in the same place, Sept. 29. An 
important part of the object of this adjourned session 
was to secure the union of the churches in New Eng- 
land with those already joined together. This was 
now happily accomplished. Rishop Seaburv appeared, 
and took his place as a member of the convention, as 
did also deputies from Connecticut, Massachusetts, and 
New Hampshire. The third article of the constitution 
was modified so as to secure to the bishops the right to 
assemble and act as a separate house, in originating 
measures, etc.; they also were to have from this time 
a negative on the action of the lower house, unless ad- 
hered to by a four-fifths vote. The bishops then with- 
drew and organized as a house. Rishop Provoost being 
absent on account of illness, bishop Seabury took the 
chair. From this date there have been two houses, 
whose concurrent action is necessary to the adoption 
of any legislation, the bishops also (since 1808) having 
the full negative on the action of the other house. 
The convention now entered upon its most important 
work, which was to provide and place, on a firm foun- 
dation the Rook of Common Prayer for the American 
Church. The English liturgy was made the basis, and 
though entire independence of action was claimed by 
the House of Deputies, as if there were no book of any 
authority or obligation now in existence, yet there was, 
after all, a sense of the propriety and fitness of varying 
as little as possible from the Rook of Common Prayer 
of the Church of England. Five committees were ap- 
pointed, to whom were assigned different portions of 
the work, and they discharged their duties with as 
much expedition as was practicable. The result, as 
soon as agreed upon by the house, was sent to the bish- 
ops for their action. The alterations were principally 
verbal, and for the purpose of adapting the services to 
the needs and uses of a Church situate as the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church in the United States was and 
is. An office of Visitation of Prisoners, a service for 
Thanksgiving Day, and an order of Family Prayer 
were added, as also Selections of Psalms to be used in- 
stead of those for the day, Tate and Rrady’s version 
of the Psalms, and some hymns in metre. One notice- 
able change was made in the Communion Office, i. e. 
putting in their proper place the oblation and the invo- 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH Cl 

cation of the lloly Spirit, as found in the first 1 ‘raver- ! 
book of Edward VI. and also in the Scotch Communion 
Service. I his was due mainly to bishop Seaburv, who 
was under something of a pledge to the Scottish bish- 
ops to secure this change, if possible. The meekness 
and wisdom of bishop White were clearly evident in 
this matter, as in everything, lie was always ready to 
yield where principle was not violated, and he puts it 
on record that his discussions with bishop Seabury were 
entirely amicable and satisfactory to both parties. “To 
this day,” lie says, “there are recollected with satisfac- 
tion the hours which were spent with bishop Seabury 
oil the important subjects which came before them. and 
especially the Christian temper which he manifested 
all along.” The Apostles’ and Nicene Creeds were 
adopted with hearty assent by the convention. A ru- 
bric was prefixed to the former, as follows: “And any 
churches inav omit the words ‘he descended into hell,’ or 
may, instead of them, use the words ‘lie went into the 
place of departed spirits,’ which are considered as words 
of the same meaning in the Creed.” Bishop Seabury 
desired much to have the Athanasian Creed inserted, 
not as obligatory on all, as in the Church of England, 
but as permissory lor those wishing to use it; but, as 
bishop White states, the House of Deputies “ would not 
allow of the creed in any shape.” The consideration 
of the “Articles of Jleligion” was postponed to a subse- 
quent convention. The Hook of Common Prayer was 
formally ratitied by the bishops, clergy, and laity in 
convention, (let. 10, 1789: “This Convention having, 
in their present session, set forth A Book of Common 
Bruner, and A dministrufion of the Sacraments, and oth- 
er Ilites and Ceremonies of the Church, do hereby estab- 
lish the said Hook; and they declare it to be the Lit- 
urgy of this Church, and require that it be received as 
such by all the members of the same; and this Hook 
shall he in use from and after the first day of October, 
in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred 
and ninety.” A number of canons were passed in re- 
gard to episcopal visitations, publishing a list of the 
clergy, observance of the Lord’s day, etc. The conse- 
cration of I)r. Hass was deferred. Dr. Madison, of Vir- 
ginia, was consecrated bishop in England, Sept. 19, 
1799; and thus the full number of bishops was secured 
through the English line. Two years later the conse- 
cration of Dr. Claggett as bishop of Maryland united 
both lines in the American episcopate, bishop Seabury 
being present and joining in the solemn act. 

The convention of 1792 met in New York Sept. 11. 
There were live bishops, nineteen clerical and fourteen 
lay deputies in attendance, and the session lasted seven 
days. The Ordinal was revised and set forth, the alter- 
ations being few. An alternate form at the ordination 
of priests was furnished; instead of “Receive the Holy 
< ■ host for the ollice and work of a priest in the Church 
of Cod. now committed unto thee by the imposition of 
our hands; whose sins thou dost forgive, they are for- 
given; and whose sins thou dost retain, they are re- 
tained. And be thou,” etc.; the bishop ordering is al- 
lowed to say, “Take thou authority to execute the 
ofiiee of a priest, in the Church of Cod, now committed 
to thee by the imposition of our hands. And he thou,” 
etc. The consideration of the Articles was further post- 
poned. An act was passed “for supporting mission- 
aries to preach the Cospel on the frontiers of the 
I'nited States,” in which it was recommended that 
animal sermons he preached in all the churches, that 
collections lie. made, and missionaries be sent out as 
soon as may he. these being under the canonical juris- 
diction of the bishop of Pennsylvania. “Agreeably 
to the requirement of a canon adopted at. the last con- 
vention, a list of the clergy of the Church is printed in 
the appendix to the journal. Including the bishops, 
the number given is one hundred ami .eighty-four, no 
lists having been handed in from New Hampshire and 
Massachusetts, and there being no mention of the num- 
ber of clergymen at that time in North Carolina and 


G PROTESTANT EPISC. CIIURCII 

on the Western frontiers. With every allowance there 
could not have been more than two hundred, the rep- 
resentatives of nearly two thousand who, with English 
orders, had labored on the American continent since its 
earliest attempted settlement, two hundred and fifty 
years before” (Perry). One other matter deserves to 
be put on record here, not only because of the impor- 
tance of the object had in view, both as regards one 
of the most infiueiitial denominations in the United 
States and the Protestant Episcopal Church, but also 
because of the entire failure at that date of so earnest 
and truly catholic a movement. We give it in the 
language of bishop White : “ Bishop Madison had com- 
municated to the author, on their journey from Phila- 
delphia to New York, a design which he had much at 
heart — that of effecting a reunion with the Method- 
ists; and he was so sanguine as to believe that by an 
accommodation to them in a few instances, they would 
be induced to give up llieir peculiar discipline, and 
conform to the leading parts of the doctrine, the wor- 
ship, and the discipline of the Episcopal Church. It 
is to be noted that he had no idea of comprehending 
them, on the condition of their continuing embodied, 
as at present. Oil this there, was communicated to 
him an intercourse held with Dr. Coke, one of the su- 
perintendents of that society which might have shown 
to bishop Madison how hopeless all endeavors for such 
a junction must prove. Nevertheless, he persisted in 
his well-meant design. The result of this was his in- 
troducing into the House of Bishops a proposition, 
which his brethren, after some modifications, approving 
of the motive, but expecting little as the result of it, 
consented to send to the other house.” The proposi- 
tion (as given by bishop White) was placed on a broad 
and liberal basis, leaving most of matters to future 
discussion and settlement at a subsequent convention. 
“On the reading of this in the House of Clerical and 
Lay Deputies, they were astonished, and considered it 
as altogether preposterous; tending to produce distrust 
of the stability of the system of the Episcopal Church, 
without the least prospect of embracing any other re- 
ligious body, 'flic members generally stated, as a mat- 
ter of indulgence, that they would permit the with- 
drawing of the paper, and no notice to he taken of it. 
A few gentlemen, however, who had got some slight in- 
timations of the correspondence between Dr. Coke and 
the author, who would have been gratified by an ac- 
commodation with the Methodists, and who thought 
that the paper sent was a step in measures to he taken 
to that effect, spoke in favor of the proposition. But it 
was not to be endured; and tbe bishops silently with- 
drew it, agreeably to leave given.” Bishop White gives, 
in addition, the letter of Dr. Coke, and an account of 
several interviews had with him. The letter is an 
instructive one in many respects, and shows what Dr. 
Coke thought of his supposed “episcopal” character, 
derived front John Wesley: bishop White's remarks 
and statements also are worthy of grave consideration. 
The subject has been more than once agitated, and 
sometimes men have become sanguine of being able to 
off<*rt the end desired; but as t lie question of ordina- 
tion still holds the place which it did in Dr. Coke's 
day. and the Methodist ministers almost certainly can- 
not lie brought to acknowledge the obligation of being 
ordained bv our bishops in order to otlieiatc in our 
churches, we apprehend that there never has been any 
real probability of bringing the Methodists to a sense 
of the duty and propriety of becoming reunited to the 
Church at whose altars John Wesley always ministered, 
and which he at least was never willing to abandon. 

Owing to the prevalence of epidemic disease in Pliil- 
i ndelphia and its vicinity, the convention of 1795 was 
but thinly attended, and from the same cause no con- 
vention was belli in 1798. A special convention, how- 
ever, met in Philadelphia, June 11, 1799. Eight states 
were represented, nineteen clerical and ten lay deputies 
being present. Bishop Seabury, who had died in 179C, 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 677 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


was succeeded by bishop Jarvis, consecrated Sept. 18, 
1797. Dr. R. Smith was made bishop of South Caro- 
lina in 1795, and Dr. Bass of Massachusetts in 1797. 
At this convention an attempt was made to obtain its 
approval of Dr. U. Ogden, bishop elect of New Jersey; 
but it failed entirely, and Dr. Ogden a few years later 
joined the Presbyterians. A proposition was made to 
hold General Convention every tive years; a form of 
consecration of a church or chapel was set forth ; and 
seventeen articles were reported and read. These were 
ordered to be laid over, and printed in the journal. 
The clergj'-list gives seven bishops and two hundred 
and twelve clergymen. At the convention of 1801, 
held at Trenton, N. J., Sept. 8, it was announced that 
bishop Provoost had resigned his jurisdiction as bishop 
of New York. Under the circumstances it was deemed 
right to consecrate Dr. Benjamin Moore as his assist- 
ant, the principle being distinctly stated that bishop 
Provoost was bishop during his life, and that bishop 
Moore was simply assistant or coadjutor, competent to 
all episcopal duty, but still to act in concurrence with 
bishop Provoost. The principal work of the conven- 
tion was the final settlement of the question as to arti- 
cles of religion. The printing of the seventeen arti- 
cles, in the journal of 1799, produced one good result, 
viz., showing how difficult it was and would be to agree 
upon a new set of articles for the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, and leading the minds of the convention to a 
ready acceptance of the Thirty-nine Articles of t lie 
Church of England. It was bishop White’s view that 
these articles were really “the acknowledged faith of 
the Church” all along, and that the safest and most 
satisfactory course was to make certain necessary 
changes, arising out of t lie actual condition of affairs, 
and then to adopt the Thirty-nine entire. This was 
accordingly done, and, as bishop White states, the arti- 
cles “were adopted by the two houses of convention, 
without their altering even the obsolete diction in 
them; but with notices of such changes as change of 
situation had rendered necessary.” Article VIII was 
amended by leaving out the Athanasian Creed. Arti- 
cle XXI, on general councils, was omitted, the reason 
being given in a note, “ because it is partly of a local 
and civil nature, and is provided for, as to the remain- 
ing parts of it, in other articles.” The XXXYtli Arti- 
cle, on the homilies, was retained, with a note added 
suspending “the order for the reading of said homilies 
in churches until revision of them may conveniently 
be made, for the clearing of them, as well from obsolete 
words and phrases as from the local references.” Arti- 
cle XXXVI was altered in so far as to set forth that 
the ordinal of 1792 contained the Church’s views and 
principles on this important point. Article XXXVII 
in the English Prayer-book w as omitted, and a new' one 
substituted, “ Of the Pow'er of the Civil Magistrate.” 
The articles as a whole w r ere then ratified by both 
houses of convention, and they have ever since held 
their place in the Prayer-book and standards of the 
Church. Bishop White’s remarks, in this connection, 
deserve to be quoted: “The object kept in view, in all 
the consultations held, and the determinations formed, 
was the perpetuating of the Episcopal Church on the 
ground of the general principles which she had inher- 
ited from the Church of England ; and of not separating 
from them, except so far as either local circumstances 
required, or some very important cause rendered proper. 
To those acquainted with the system of the Church of 
England, it must be evident that the object here stated 
was accomplished on the ratification of the Articles.” 

3. History of the Protestant Episcopal Church since 
the beyinniny of the century. — The standards of the 
Church having thus been adopted and secured, in the 
final setting-forth of the Book of Common Prayer, its 
history and progress since that date are those of a com- 
pletely organized branch of the Catholic Church. That 
it did not at once expand itself and cover the land is sad- 
ly true, and that it has had in later years its times of 


sore trial and despondency is equally true. There w r as 
unhappily in the early part of the century a lack of 
thorough education in Church principles; there were 
the prevalence of sectarianism, jealousy felt by the 
various Protestant denominations, the sleepless enmity 
of the Roman Church towards the Protestant Epis- 
copal Church, and wide-spread ungodliness on every 
hand, resulting in spiritual torpor and almost death. 
For a time it seemed (as Dr. Hawks says of Virginia) 
as if naught but “gloomy darkness” enveloped the 
Church. By a strange combination of circumstances, 
the act of the legislature of Virginia confiscating the 
glebes and Church property, w'hich was resisted on the 
ground of being clearly illegal, became law by the 
death of the presiding judge in the court of appeals 
the night before he was to deliver the decision, all 
written out, securing to the Church its just rights. 
The effect upon the Church iu Virginia w r as fearful 
and well-nigh disastrous, especially in the ruin and 
utter abandonment of church edifices and the dving- 
out of religion in every shape among the people. Even 
when, in 1814, a brighter day began to dawn, “the 
journals of the convention by which bishop II. C. Moore 
w'as elected show the presence of but seven clergymen 
and seventeen laymen. We look back upon the past, 
and are struck with the contrast. Seven clergymen 
were all that could be convened to transact the most 
important measure which our conventions are ever 
called upon to perform, and this in a territory where 
once more than ten times seven regularly served at the 
altar. We look back still farther, and find the Church, 
after the lapse of two hundred years, numbering about 
as many ministers as she possessed at the close of the 
first eight years of her existence” (Hawks). In Mary- 
land and its neighbor Delaware, matters w r ere hardly 
any better. “ In 1803 there was a spirit of indifference 
to religion and the Church too extensively prevalent 
in the parishes; nearly one half of them were vacant; 
in some, all ministerial support had ceased. Some few 
of the clergy had deserted their stations; and of the 
residue, several, disheartened and embarrassed by in- 
adequate means of living, had sought subsistence in 
other states. Infidelity and fanaticism w r ere increas- 
ing; and, on the whole, there never was a time when 
ministers were more needed, or when it v'as more diffi- 
cult to obtain them” (Hawks). Such was the state of 
things in general at the South in the early part of the 
19th century. Further North, in New York, New Jer- 
sey, Connecticut, and much of New England, the pros- 
pects were more cheering. The consecration of John 
Henry Hobart as assistant to bishop B. Moore of New 
York, May 29, 1811, and of Alexander Viets Griswold 
for the eastern diocese (i.e. Massachusetts, Rhode Isl- 
and, New Hampshire, and Vermont) at the same date, 
were indications of healthy growth. The former be- 
came especially prominent, during his episcopate of 
nearly twenty years, as the representative of what are 
called “ High-Churchmen”* in the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, and his influence on the character, claims, and 
position of the Church in the United States, in the es- 
timate of his own people as well as the various Chris- 
tian bodies among whom he lived, can hardly be over- 
valued. No one could possibly, or did, misunderstand 
him, and he was so resolute withal in the open avowal 
of his principles and convictions, and so ready to defend 
them on all occasions, even that “ unchurching” dogma, 
as many like to call it, that it may be doubted if any 
bishop or clergyman of the Protestant Episcopal Church 


* Perhaps it may he well to say here that the terms 
or appellations “ High-Churchman.” “ Low-Churchman,” 
“evangelical,” “ritualist or ritualistic,” etc., are used 
simply for convenience, and to save repeated periphrases. 
The writer of these paces neither affirms nor denies the 
applicability of the words to or about those specially con- 
cerned. No disrespect is meant to any one, on the one 
hand, by the use of terms, nor, on the other, is any claim 
of superiority made iu behalf of those to whom the word 
is applied. 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH G 

lias ever done so much as John llcnry llobart in defin- 
ing the position and claims, and educating, so to speak, 
the whole Church to the adoption of fixed and settled 
views on this important subject. Bishop Hobart’s per- 
sonal character and devotion to his work, his unques- 
tioned pnritv of purpose in all that he did, his life- 
long free and cordial correspondence with bishop White 
(whom no one ever charged with being a High-Church- 
man), strengthened, undoubtedly, his influence ; and even 
those who differed with him, and represented what are 
called “ Low-Church" views and principles, could not but 
respect a high-toned, conscientious advocate of princi- 
ples to which they were, with equal conscientiousness, 
totally opposed. It is not, probably, too much to allirm 
that the steadfast adherence of the Protestant Episco- 
pal Church to its standards of doctrine, discipline, and 
worship, and its fixed and often expressed determina- 
tion (through the General Convention and its action), 
never to recede from its attitude towards either Lome 
or Protestants of various names, arc due in great meas- 
ure to the labors, teaching, and publications of bishop 
llobart, and t lie large number of clergymen and laymen 
who have been educated in the Church principles with 
which his name is associated. 

The action of the General Convention, from this time 
onward, has been devoted to legislating for the best in- 
terests of the Church, and as far as possible to taking 
such steps as are calculated, under God’s blessing, to 
promote the increase of faith and holy obedience, to 
guard against the intrusion of error and unsound doc- 
trine, and to place various matters of doubt or differ- 
ence of opinion on such a footing that the largest toler- 
ation be allowed, in these respects, consistent with pre- 
serving the faith once delivered to the saints and the 
maintenance of apostolic truth and order. In 180-1 a 
•■Course of Ecclesiastical .Studies" was set forth by the 
bishops, and it still remains in its original shape, not- 
withstanding that many and valuable works, in the sev- 
eral departments of theology, have since been published, 
and are in use in our seminaries and schools of divin- 
ity. Tire General Convention of 1871, in its canon on 
examinations for orders, says: “In all these examina- 
tions reference shall be bad, as closely as possible, to 
the course of study established by the 1 louse of Bishops, 
and to the books therein recommended, or equivalent 
works of more recent date.” In 1808 the bishops, in a 
message to the House of Deputies, who had asked for 
the enactment of the English canon concerning mar- 
riages, expressed their doubts as to the propriety of en- 
tering upon the question: and at a later date (1811) 
there were two reports of committees presented on this 
subject, the majority adverse to legislation, the minor- 
ity in favor of enacting the canon. Thus the matter 
stands, the civil law being supreme, except in regard to 
marriage of divorced persons, which is as follows: “No 
minister of this Church shall knowingly, after due in- 
quiry, solemnize the marriage of any person who has 
a divorced husband or wife still living, if such husband 
or wife has been put away for any cause arising after 
marriage; but this canon shall not he held lo apply to 
the innocent party in a divorce for the cause of adultery, 
or to parlies once divorced seeking to be united again" 
(see Hoffman, Lau ; of the Protestant Episcopal Church , 
p. 71 84h The words of bishop White ought to be 
quoted in this connection: “On a retrospect of the 
transactions of this convention there is entertained the 
trust that it did not end without a general tendency to 
consolidate the communion: although, in the course of 
the business, there had been displayed, more than in 
any other convention, the intlncncc of some notions 
leading far wide of that rational devotion which this 
Church has inherited from the Church of England. 
The spirit here complained of was rather moderated 
than raised higher during the session. But it being 
liable to lie combined with schemes of personal conse- 
quence, there is no foreseeing to what lengths it may 
extend in future.” In ]8H the subject of a theological 


r8 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 

seminary was discussed, and the need of such an insti- 
tution began to be evident. Three years later its or- 
ganization was resolved upon, and initiatory measures 
were adopted. Its otficers, course of study, etc., were 
finally agreed upon in 18“0, and it began its work. 
The seminary was removed from New Haven to New 
York, and the next year it was finally established as 
“The General Theological Seminary of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church in the Cnilcd .States." By this ac- 
tion, however, it was distinctly understood that there 
was to be no hindrance to any state or diocese estab- 
lishing a seminary of its own. Time has shown the 
wisdom of this policy of non-interference; for, in con- 
sequence of the vast extent of territory of the United 
States, it is found to be simply impossible to gather all 
the candidates for orders in the Church within the walls 
of the seminary in New York. We may mention here 
that there are divinity schools or seminaries in Mas- 
sachusetts, Connecticut. Pennsylvania, Virginia, Ofiio, 
Wisconsin, and other Western states and dioceses. — At 
this convention the identity of the Protestant Episco- 
pal Church with the Church of England was declared 
in the following terms: “ It having been credibly stated 
to the House of Bishops that on questions in reference 
to property devised, before the Involution, to congrega- 
tions belonging to the “Church of England,’ and to uses 
connected with that name, some doubts have been en- 
tertained in regard to the identity of the body to which 
the two names have been applied, the House think it 
expedient to make the declaration, and to request the 
concurrence of the House of Clerical and Lay Deputies 
therein, that ‘The Protestant Episcopal Church in the 
United States of America’ is the same body heretofore 
known in these states by the name of “The C'lmrch of 
England ;’ the change of name, although not of re- 
ligious principle in doctrine, or in worship, or in dis- 
cipline, being induced hv a characteristic of the Church 
of England, supposing the independence of Christian 
churches, under the different sovereignties to which, re- 
spectively, their allegiance in civil concerns belongs. But 
tiiat, when the severance alluded to took place, and ever 
since, the Church conceives of herself as professing and 
acting on the principles of the ( 'hnrcli of England is evi- 
dent from the organizations of our conventions, and from 
their subsequent proceedings as recorded in the jour- 
nals. to which, accordingly, this convention refer for 
satisfaction in the premises. But it would be contrary 
to fact were any one to infer that the discipline exer- 
cised in this Church, or that any proceedings ihcrein, 
arc at all dependent on the will of the civil or of the 
ecclesiastical authority of any foreign country." The 
result, of this declaration was. some twelve years later 
in Vermont, where the Society for Propagating the 
Gospel had formerly owned lands, “that all the mate- 
rial points of law were settled in favor of the Church.” 
— At this session also the constitution of the Domestic 
and Foreign Missionary Society of the Church was per- 
fected, ami the American Church 1ms since done much 
— though not so much as it might and ought to have 
done — in preaching the Gospel in the waste places in 
our own land, and in sending the light of Christian 
truth and power to heathen lands and peoples. From 
this date the Church seems to have experienced more 
fully than before the goodness and mercy of God in 
sending his grace upon it. and to have given plain indi- 
cations of healthy increase in the various parts of our 
country. — Following the uniform plan, adopted under 
bishop White’s gentle but firm guidance ami influence, 
of keeping clear of entanglements, the convention, in 
18-Jtt. refused to allow the officiating of persons not reg- 
ularly ordained; and such is the law at the present 
day: “No minister in charge of any congregation of 
this ( ’hnreh.or, in ease of vacancy or absence, no church- 
wardens. vestrymen, or trustees of the congregation, 
shall permit any person to officiate therein without suffi- 
cient evidence of his being duly licensed or ordained to 
minister in this Church.” Hence, whateve r individual 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH G79 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


clergymen may venture to do in sueh cases in the way 
of inviting ministers of various sorts into their churches, 
it is always to be borne in mind that they do it of their 
own will and pleasure, and in violation of the canon 
which they have promised to obey. As a further illus- 
tration of the Church's policy, it may be noted that, in 
1823, an offer was made by the Colonization Soeiet}” 
that the Episcopal Church should send a delegate to 
act with that society in its benevolent plans. It was 
deemed inexpedient to aeeept the otter, the bishops 
holding that the objects of this society were “more of 
a political than religious nature.” — At the convention 
of 1826 bishop llobart presented a plan for shortening 
the morning service, in respect to the Psalter, the Les- 
sons, Litany, etc., and also for improving and rendering 
more effective the confirmation service in the Prayer- 
book. Quite unexpectedly, considerable excitement fol- 
lowed this proposal, and three years later, when the 
sense of the state conventions became known as ad- 
verse to any changes in the services, the plan was 
quietly dismissed from all further consideration. So 
strong is the conservative element in the councils of 
the Church, and so great is the unwillingness to make 
any — even the least — changes in the Prayer-book, that 
daily morning and evening prayer, with all that be- 
long to them, have continued to be, and are, obligatory 
in their entire fulness. It is tolerably certain, however, 
that some, if not many, of the wisest and most devoted 
among the clergy would gladly welcome a permissory 
use of a shorter form of daily service for certain occa- 
sions, and under certain circumstances, where it would 
tend to greater edification and obviate some of the 
vulgar objections against liturgical forms and services. 
Something looking to this result was accomplished by an 
expression of the views of the bishops, at the General 
Convention of 1856; but at the next convention (1859) 
it was evident, from the course of debate on the “ Memo- 
rial,” as it was called, and the general sense of the House 
of Deputies, that the Church was not then, nor has it 
sinee been, ready to make any ventures in the direction 
of liturgical relaxation and Church comprehension. 

In the “ Great West,” as it used to be called, it be- 
came plain at this date that the Protestant Episcopal 
Church had a work of no ordinary interest and impor- 
tance to perform. The rapid filling-up of the states 
west of the Alleghanies, and the sad fact that, in the 
race for life and increase of wealth and power, religion, 
in any and every form, was almost wholly ignored, 
caused no little anxiety and concern to thoughtful men 
in the older states; for it was too certain not to be 
clearly seen that if the West were to be abandoned to 
chance efforts and the zeal of a few religious men here 
and there, the result would be that that portion of the 
country would grow up into might and wealth virtual- 
ly heathen or infidel, and would be without the restrain- 
ing bonds of Christian faith and morals, and the civiliz- 
ing and elevating influences of the Gospel of Christ. 
In the good providence of God, there was a man, named 
Philander Chase, whose heart was turned in this direc- 
tion. After considerable experience in missionary la- 
bors in various quarters. Chase set out for Ohio in i 8 17, 
determined to give himself to the work of an evange- 
list in that part of the United States. His labors were 
blessed, and he seemed to be the very man for the work 
to be done; hence, in 1819 he was consecrated bishop 
of Ohio. Every kind of labor and toil came upon him, 
but he bore up under it all. Yet the deep conscious- 
ness that, if the Gospel was to be preached, there must 
be men to do it — men, too, educated and trained for this 
special work, in a new country and among new settlers 
— pressed heavily upon his mind, and caused him to re- 
volve anxiously what he was to do in such a state of 
affairs. He concluded to visit England, and to beg for 
means to found a college and seminary in Ohio for the 
education of young men for the ministry. The voyage 
was undertaken (though its expediency was doubted bv 
many), and bishop Chase obtained in all some thirty to 


forty thousand dollars in aid of his much-cherished ob- 
ject. He returned home in July, 1824, and during the 
next two years was busily engaged in laying the foun- 
dation of Kenyon College and the Theological Semina- 
1 ry at Gambier (both names being derived from prom- 
inent donors to the cause). In due time the college 
I went into operation, bishop Chase assuming the presi- 
! denev. Not long after, however, there arose differences 
of opinion between him and the professors as to the ex- 
tent of the bishop’s powers in this office. The conven- 
tion of the dioeese sustained the professors, which led to 
an immediate resignation by the sturdy old man, not 
only as president of the college, but also as bishop of 
; Ohio. This was in September, 1831, and the case of his 
resignation of the diocese came before the General Con- 
vention of 1832. The House of Dishops pointedly cen- 
sured abandonment of the diocese under sueh circum- 
stances; but, in order that the Church should not suffer 
harm, the bishops united with the other House in ap- 
proving the election of Dr. C. 1’. Mcllvaine, who was 
consecrated bishop of Ohio, Oct. 31, 1832. Bishop 
Chase, we may mention here, continued his course west- 
ward, and w r as elected to the episcopate of Illinois in 
1835. He visited England again, received further lib- 
eral donations in aid of the cause of Christian educa- 
tion, and founded another institution, which he called 
Jubilee College. For this he obtained, in 1847, a char- 
ter to his mind on the point of the bishop’s control in 
its affairs. Since those days, headed by the venerable 
Jackson Kemper, missionary bishop of the North-west, 
sent out in 1835, the Protestant Episcopal Church has 
not been altogether unmindful of its duty and privilege; 
and all through that vast field beyond the Mississippi, 
even to the Pacific Ocean, there are heralds of the eross 
engaged in their sacred vocation. The episcopate, since 
1859, has been coextensive with the boundaries of the 
United States; and the Church, in its complete organ- 
ization, has been, and is, striving to bring men to the 
obedience of the faith of Christ. 

The venerable William White, in the fiftieth year of 
his episcopate, was called away to his rest, July 17, 1836. 
His name will ever be held in grateful memory by the 
Church in Americans well for the long-continued and 
earnest labors in its behalf which he was permitted to 
perform, as for the wisdom and judgment of his course 
on all occasions during a life extended far beyond the or- 
dinary limit allotted to man. Meekness and gentleness, 
a large-hearted liberality, a spirit of genuine toleration, 
a willingness to yield for peace’ sake in all matters 
where principle was not, in his judgment, clearly in- 
volved — these and the like qualities fitted him admira- 
bly for the station he was called upon, in God’s provi- 
dence, to fill ; and we may with reverent thankfulness 
trace the indications of God’s goodness and mercy to 
his Church in America, that such a man was raised 
up to take large share in its early struggles and histo- 
ry, and to live to so great an age as to see the “little 
one become a thousand,” and the grain of mustard- 
seed grow up, and become a tree, and shoot out great 
branches. Bishop White’s biographer and intimate 
friend. Dr. B. Wilson, classes him among “the Low- 
Church divines, as they were called in England, of the 
established Church in that country,” and the good 
bishop has been claimed as representing that portion 
of the clergy in the Protestant Episcopal Church to 
whom the same title has been applied. Doubtless, 
bishop White was not what is termed a “ High-Cluireh- 
man for, though he was on terms of great intimacy 
with bishop Hobart (of whom we have before spoken), 
and entertained for him warm affection and sincere re- 
spect, vet he was never willing to express his assent to 
all the views of bishop llobart on the subject of the 
ministry, and the necessity of the apostolic succession 
in order to constitute a lawful ministry in the Church. 
He held episcopacy to be of divine origin, and therefore, 
of course, the best form and mode of Church govern- 
ment; but, in view r of the condition of the Protestant 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CIIURCII GSO PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


world, he did not consider it to be absolutely necessary, 
or that those who depart from or reject it are guilty of 
causing and perpetuating schism in the body of Christ. 
On the other hand, he was not at all a Low-Church- 
man,” in the sense of undervaluing episcopal organiza- 
tion and responsibility, or looking upon it as a matter . 
of little or no moment. This was very evident by bis 
steadfast adherence to the Church's ways and course in 1 
all matters where it was needful to take a stand in re- 
gard to other Christian bodies. His courtesy and kind- 
ness of heart, and his truly charitable estimate of the 
views held by pious people not connected with the Prot- 
estant episcopal Church, and of the sincerity of their 
motives and aims, naturally led him to look with favor 
upon what might be proposed where it is usually thought 
Christians of all names can work together for the com- 
mon good ; hut, practically, in all such matters he main- 
tained his ground as stoutly as any Iligh-Churchman 
ever did. lie held steadily to the opinion that the 
Protestant Episcopal Church was much better off hv 
keeping to itself in all ecclesiastical affairs, ami that it 
was entirely inexpedient to form unions or alliances of 
any kind, or to “exchange pulpits,” as the phrase is, or, 
in line, to run the risk of auv sort of possible entangle- 
ments with other denominations. This was the result 
of settled conviction on bishop White’s part, and it was 
well understood to he so on all hands. It did not, how- 
ever, prevent his having and preserving personal inter- 
course with Christians of every name; it did not lead 
him to indulge in denunciations of or interference with 
others, however far they may, in his judgment, have 
wandered from the true path; and it did not produce 
any ill feeling towards him by those who might have 
complained, in his case as well as that of others, of what 
is often termed “exclusiveness,” or “ bigotry,” on the 
part of the Protestant Episcopal Church. If ever there 
have been any who have gone down to their graves 
without a single enemy, or without even a whisper 
against their characters for purity and integrity of life, 
bishop White certainly deserves to be ranked among 
these. Since the venerable patriarch passed away, the 
Protestant Episcopal Church has continued to go for- 
ward, increasing in numbers year by year, and growing, 
it is trusted, in grace and deeper ami truer devotion to 
the I^ord and Master of us all. It has had its seasons 
of controversy and earnest struggles (as what Church 
has not?) between men of differing views, conscien- 
tiously and sincerely held on both sides; and it has 
seemed at times as if controversy were eating into the 
very heart of the Church, and arousing passions and tem- 
pers far from accordance with the spirit of the Gospel. 
Some notice of these must here be given, not only as a 
part of the history of the Protestant Episcopal Church, 
hut also as illustrating its present position ami its proba- 
ble future in the great work of evangelizing this nation. 

The Oxford Tract movement (begun at t lie Uuiver- 
sity in 1X33, culminating in Tract No. XC in 1X11, and 
extending over some ten years in addition) was one 
which was warmly, even hotly, debated, and produced 
for the time a controversy of no small magnitude ami 
bitterness. The excitement in England, and the re- 
sults flowing from the movement there, were transfer- 
red to America. Party spirit lifted its head on high. 
Energetic supporters of the tracts and their teaching 
entered t he arena, ami equally energetic opponents 
ranged themselves against the tracts ami all who fa- 
vored them. On the one side it was urged that the 
tracts taught nothing more than the well-established 
High -Church doctrines of the old English divines, 
and it was claimed that this teaching was legitimate- 
ly within the limits allowed by the standards of the 
Church of England. It was also said that there was 
great need of rousing the minds of Church people to 
the importance of doctrines which had fallen greatly, if 
not quite, out of sight, such as the apostolic succession, 
the value and obligation of the. holy sacraments, the 
real presence in the Lord's Supper, the importance of 


priestly absolution, the necessity of securing a return to 
the unity of the primitive Church, etc. On the other 
side, the whole movemeut and the entire teaching of 
the tracts were fiercely denounced as tending directly to 
Humanizing and unprotestantiziug the Church. When 
in England numerous perversions to Home took place at 
tli is time, and especially when John Ilenry Newman, 
the eorvphieus of the whole undertaking, gave in his ad- 
hesion to the Homan Church (1X45), it was triumphantly 
atlirmed that a similar result would happen in the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church, and thus prove to the world 
how pernicious was the teaehing of these tracts, No. 
XC last ami worst of all. Quite a number of persons 
did abandon the communion of the Church, and submit 
themselves to Home; but there was not anything like 
the exodus which had been predicted, since between 
1X42 ami 1X52, including one bishop only (Ives, of North 
Carolina, in 1X52), there were less than thirty who left 
the Church’s ministry for the sake of Homan Catholic 
inducements, and these, with two or three exceptions, 
were men of little or no iniluence in the Church or com- 
munity. See Oxford Tr.wt.s. In connection with the 
Oxford Tract movement, and more or less infected with 
the unhappy spirit of discord existing at the time, 
there occurred what is ordinarily known as “the Carey 
Ordination.” Arthur Carey was a student in the Gen- 
eral Theological Seminary, a young man of excellent 
character and good ability. He graduated in 1X43. 
It w’as thought and generally understood that lie was 
strongly inclined to the ultra teaching of the tracts in 
the direction of Hotnanism; and L)rs. Hugh Smith and 
Henry Anthon, both of New York, w ho took some pains 
to ascertain Carey’s views and sentiments, deemed him 
to be unlit for ordination ill the Protestant Episcopal 
Church. The bishop of New York, however (H. T. ()n- 
derdonk). after an examination of the young man, held 
by six presbyters in conjunction with Drs. Smith and 
Anthon. decided that lie was worthy to obtain orders. 
Drs. Smith and Anthon publicly protested in the church 
at the time of the ordination, hut bishop Omlerdonk 
went forward and ordained Mr. Carey, July 2, 1X43. 
(He died in March, 1X44.) As was to he expected, this 
action of the bishop of New York gave offence in vari- 
ous parts of the Church. It was much discussed in re- 
ligious journals and in pamphlets, and bishops (’base, 
Mcllvaine, ami Hopkins commented upon it in public, 
and with much severity of language. In January, lx 14, 
bishop Omlerdonk addressed a pastoral letter to his 
diocese, in which he protested against the course adopt- 
ed by the above bishops, and called for a trial, if they 
saw lit to initiate it. A trial, accordingly, was begun 
at the close of the year; hut it was based, as we shall 
see, on charges entirely diverse from theological un- 
soumlncss. Meanwhile, the General Convention of 
1X44 met in Philadelphia in October. Twenty-four 
bishops were present, and ninety- three clerical and 
eighty-four lay deputies. In addition to its other la- 
bors. the whole matter of the Oxford Tract movement, 
and its effects upon the American Church, came up for 
' consideration. Several days were spent, in the discus- 
sion of the general subject of errors in doctrine ami 
practice in the Church, and an earnest effort was made 
to obtain from the convention a distinct and positive 
' condemnation of the error and false teaching which, it 
was charged, were rife in the Church. AVo need not 
go into details. In the lower house resolutions wore 
offered asking the bishops to “promulgate a clear ami 
distinct expression of the opinions entertained bv this 
convention respecting t lie rule of faith, the justifica- 
tion of man, the nature, design, and cllicaey of the sac- 
raments,” etc. It was also stated, in an amendment, 
that “ the minds of many of the members of this Church 
throughout its union arc sorely grieved ami perplexed 
by the alleged introduction among them of serious er- 
rors in doctrine ami practice, having their origin in cer- 
tain writings emanating chiefly from members of the 
University of Oxford in England;” ami, further, that 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 6S1 PROTESTANT EP1SC. CHURCH 


“ it is exceedingly desirable that the minds of such per- 
sons should be calmed, their anxieties allayed, and the 
Church disabused of the charge of holding, in her Arti- 
cles and Offices, doctrines and practices consistent with 
all the views and opinions expressed in said Oxford 
writings, and should thus be freed from a responsibility 
which does not properly belong to her.” But the house 
did not agree to any of the resolutions offered in this 
shape. It was, however, finally “ Resolved , That the 
House of Clerical and Lay Deputies consider the Lit- 
urgy, Offices, and Articles of the Church sufficient ex- 
ponents of her sense of the essential doctrines of Holy 
Scripture; and that the canons of the Church afford 
ample means of discipline and correction lor all who 
depart from her standards; and, further, that the Gen- 
eral Convention is not a suitable tribunal for the trial 
and censure of, and that the Church is not responsible 
for, the errors of individuals, whether they arc members 
of this Church or otherwise.” Thus the house disposed 
of the question; and the bishops, on their part, in com- 
pliance with certain memorials sent to them, gave ex- 
pression to their godly counsel and warning in the pas- 
toral letter which was soon alter issued. In Decem- 
ber, 1844, bishops Meade, Otey, and Elliott made a for- 
mal presentment against bishop Onderdonk, of New 
York, “as being guilty of immorality and impurity.” 
The trial was held in the city of New York. There 
were seventeen bishops present, constituting the court, 
viz. P. Chase, Brownell, Ives, Hopkins, Smith, Mell- 
vaine, Doane, Kemper, Polk, Delancey, Gadsden, Whit- 
tingham, Lee, Johns, Eastburn, llenshaw, Freeman; also 
the three presenters, and bishop Onderdonk as respon- 
dent. The trial began December 10, and was contin- 
ued from day to day till January 3, 1845, when bishop 
Onderdonk was pronounced guilty by eleven votes, and 
sentenced to suspension from the office of a bishop and 
from all the functions of the sacred ministry. Bishop 
Onderdonk protested in the strongest terms his inno- 
cence, and published a Statement of Facts and Cir- 
cumstances in regard to his trial. It may be men- 
tioned that the condemned bishop never acknowledged 
himself to be in any wise guilty (died 1 86 f ). The 
“Prayer of the Diocese of New York to the House of 
Bishops for relief from sufferings consequent upon the 
sentence of the Episcopal Court, January, 1845,” was 
made September 25, 1850; but this and all other efforts 
put forth to have him restored failed; and a new canon 
having been adopted applicable to the case of a diocese 
with a suspended bishop, Dr. J. M. Wainwright was con- 
secrated provisional bishop of New York, in November, 
1852. During these years, since the General Conven- 
tion of 1844, the tractarian controversy gradually sub- 
sided. Both sides became weary of the struggle. 
Nearly everything had been said which could be said. 
A number of eminent men in the Church had put their 
views into written shape (as Jarvis, Seaburv, Hawks, 
Mellvainc, Hopkins, Stone, and others); and after a 
while, the storm was lulled, the atmosphere became 
purified, and the Church was gladdened with a return 
of sunshine and comparative peace and quiet. 

The disturbed condition of the country, in conse- 
quence of the secession from the Union of several of 
the Southern States, caused no little anxiety to the 
hearts of many of the Church’s members, lost the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church too should suffer harm in the 
great and terrible struggle which had been begun in 
1860-61, and was to be fought out to the bitter end. It 
was but natural that the bishops in the southern dio- 
ceses should begin to meet and act separately, as if the 
dismemberment of the United States were a completed 
fact. They did so by organizing a council, framing a 
constitution and canons, etc.; and for a time there was 
grave apprehension lest the Church should be deprived 
of its union and communion as heretofore. The Gen- 
eral Convention of 1862 met in New York, with much 
reduced numbers, of course; and this subject came be- 
fore the convention, and was fully debated. Resolu- 


tions pledging support to the government were adopt- 
ed; and a day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer was 
observed, October 8, 1862, in view “of the present af- 
tiietive condition of the country.” At the next con- 
vention, however, held in Philadelphia, October, 1865, 
the Church was entirely reunited; harmony and con-; 
cert of action were restored ; and those who for some 
years had been acting apart gladly joined again in 
combined efforts for the good of the whole Church in 
the United States. There was held a service of thanks- - 
giving to Almighty God for the restoration of peace to 
the country and unity to the Church. At this conven- 
tion resolutions were adopted, urging that Christian 
parents, in the discharge of their bounden duty, should 
not only train their children in the ways of truth and 
godliness; should not only furnish them with sound, 
healthful reading and education in the Church’s schools 
and colleges: but should also strive, by prayer and spir- 
itual culture, to form in their sons a desire to serve God 
in the sacred ministry. In the House of Deputies it was 
also “ Resolved , That, in the judgment of this house, there 
has never been a time in the history of our Church when 
the demand for missionary effort, at home and abroad, 
was so urgent and imperative as at the present moment; 
and that we earnestly call upon our constituents, in every 
diocese of this Church, to arouse themselves to realize 
the exigencies of the hour, and to labor and give and 
pray with a freer heart and more fervent zeal.” Further 
resolutions advocated a system of itinerancy, and the due 
use oflay aid in carrying forward the work of the Church. 

The most recent controversy through which the 
Protestant Episcopal Church has been called upon to 
pass, or, perhaps, more exactly speaking, is still passing, 
is that which is familiarly known as “ ritualism.” The 
question took a definite shape as early as the General 
Convention of 1868. Two reports, a majority and mi- 
nority, were made in the House of Deputies, on the con- 
duct of public worship. The former pleaded for “lib- 
erty in things indifferent or unessential, so long as uni- 
ty can be maintained, and spiritual edification promoted, 
in any other wav;” it also deprecated “the enactment 
of any canon on the subject of ritual as unwise and in- 
expedient at the present time.” The minority report 
urged strongly “ the maintenance of our wonted uni- 
formity and simplicity in public worship,” and de- 
nounced “all innovations on the common order of the 
Church which wound the consciences of many of its 
true and loving members,” such as, “the burning of 
lights in the order for the Holy Communion, the burn- 
ing of incense, reverences to the holy table or the ele- 
ments thereon, the elevation of the elements,” etc. Af- 
ter much debate, the action of the convention resulted 
in referring all matters of doubt in these respects to the 
godly counsel and judgment of the bishops in their re- 
spective dioceses, and the appointment of a committee 
of five bishops (viz. bishops A. Lee, Williams, Clark, 

, Odenheimer, Kerfoot), to consider whether any addi- 
tional provision for uniformity in matters of ritual, by 
canon or otherwise, is practicable and expedient, and to 
report to the next General Convention. In October, 

' 1871, the convention again came together, on this occa- 
sion in Baltimore, Md. The attendance was very full ; 
distinguished visitors from England and from some of 
the colonial churches were present; and a spirit of for- 
bearance and good-will seemed to prevail, notwithstand- 
ing so exciting a subject as “ritualism” was before the 
convention. A very elaborate repoft was presented by 
the committee of five, in which, after much sound rea- 
soning on the importance and value of uniformity in the 
public services of the Church, and the statement of the 
fact that “ diversities of use” had grown and spread, the 
committee urged that some legislation was certainly 
necessary. They specified the various additions in the 
way of ornaments in the Church and novel practices, 
such as having a crucifix or carrying a cross in proces- 
sion, bowings, prostrations, mixing wine and water for 
the Holy Communion, solitary communions, surpliced 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CIIURCll 082 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


choirs, additional vestments freely used in some church- 
es. and such like ; ami they recommended the appoint- 
ment of a joint committee of three bishops, three pres- 
byters, and three laymen to consider and report upon 
these matters to the convention then in session. Such ! 
a committee, consisting of able and well-tried men, was . 
appointed, and, through bishop Whittinghain ami l)r. 
\Y. ( . Mead on behalf of the committee, reported a 
** canon of ritual.” In this proposed law it was affirmed 
that " this Church recognises no other law of ritual than 
such as it shall itself have accepted or provided;” and 
the provisions for ritual in this Church were stated to 
be (1) the Hook of Common Prayer, with the offices 
and ordinal thereto appended; (2) the laws of the 
Church of England in use in the American provinces 
before 1780, and not subsequently superseded, altered, 
or repealed by legislation, general or diocesan, of this 
Church; (J) the legislative or judicial action or decis- 
ions of this Church in its conventions, general or di- 
ocesan, or by its duly constituted authorities. Ani- 
mated discussions followed in the House of Deputies, j 
Amendments and substitutes were proposed again and 
again, and though the House of Hishops passed the can- | 
on reported by the joint committee, the lower house did 
not succeed in coming to any agreement as to this canon. 
It was attempted to postpone indelinitelv the whole 
matter, but without success. The favorers of ritualism 
endeavored to get the convention committed to some 
action in accordance with their views; the opponents 
of ritualism were equally urgent in seeking to obtain 
legislation directly condemnatory of numerous acts and 
observances peculiar to the ritualistic party. A very 
prominent advocate of the system (Dr. De Koven, of 
Wisconsin) made a speech against the canon as adopted 
by the House of Bishops, lie used strange and even of- 
fensive language in support of his sentiments and opin- 
ions, and challenged any one who pleased so to do to 
present him for trial, lie having boldly adopted and ut- 
tered as his own the words of one of the most ultra- 
ritualists in England: “I believe in the real, actual 
presence of our Lord, under the form of bread and wine, 
upon the altars of our churches. I myself adore, and 
would, if it were necessary or my duty, teach mv people 
to adore, Christ present in the elements under the form 
of bread anil wine.” The discussions, though exciting 
and continued from day to day, were conducted with 
good temper and general fairness. As. on t he whole, 
where neither side in a controversy is willing to yield, 
it is usually found to be the easiest way to get out of 
present difficulty to pass some comprehensive resolu- 
tions. which may mean more or less according to the 
mode of looking at them by different parties, such was 
the course now adopted. It was finally “ llesolced, the 
House of Bishops concurring, That this convention here- 
by expresses its decided condemnation of all ceremonies, 
observances, and practices which are fitted to express 
a doctrine foreign to that set forth in the authorized 
standards of this Church. Resolced, That, in the judg- 
ment of this house, the paternal counsel and advice of 
the right reverend fathers, the bishops of the Church, 
are deemed sufficient, at this time, to secure the sup- 
pression of all that is irregular and unseemly, and to 
promote greater uniformity in conducting the public 
worship of the Church and in the administration of the 
holy sacraments.” Thus, as we have intimated above, 
the real question at issue was postponed rather than ad- 
judicated. Bitualism went on its course with additional 
vigor and confidence, and its opponents became more 
and more dissatisfied with the existing state of things. 
Consequently the struggle, as was to be expected, was 
renewed again when the General Convention met in 
New York in ( letober, 1874. Memorials were presented 
from various quarters on this subject, resolutions were 
introduced bearing directly upon it, and legislation was 
earnestly called for in order to restrain what was termed 
excess of ritual in the public service of the ( 'hnrrli. In 
the House of Deputies the question of confirmation of 


the bishop elect (Dr. G. F. Seymour) of Illinois came 
up. lie was charged with being an active member of 
the advanced ritualistic party: his ease was discussed 
for a whole week in secret session, and, though Dr. 
Seymour energetically denied the imputations east upon 
him, after a long struggle coidirmation was refused by a 
close vote — viz. nineteen to twenty-two clerical, thir- 
teen to twenty-seven lay. (Four years later Dr. S. was 
elected to the episcopate, and is now [ 1*7* bishop of 
the diocese of Springfield, 111.) This result in the Sey- 
mour case was looked upon as virtually a victory of the 
anti-ritualists, and after much debate in both houses 
agreement was had to the following effect. A canon 
was passed, almost unanimously (tit. i. can. 22), requir- 
ing every bishop to summon the standing committee as 
a council of advice, in case complaint is made to him in 
writing, by two or more presbyters, that ceremonies or 
practices not authorized by the Book of Common l’rayer, 
and symbolizing erroneous or doubtful doctrines, have 
been introduced into any Church, specifying, in regard 
to the Holy Communion, “ the elevation of the elements 
in such manner as to expose them to the view of the 
people as objects towards which adoration is to be made; 
any act of adoration of or towards the elements in the 
Holy Communion, such as bowings, prostrations. or genu- 
flections; and all other like acts not authorized by the 
rubrics of the Book of Common Braver;” further, if after 
investigation it is found that such practices have been 
introduced, the bishop shall admonish, in writing, the 
offending minister to discontinue such practices or cere- 
monies; and if he disregard such admonition, it shall he 
the duty of the standing committee to cause him to be 
tried for a breach of his ordination vow. Every minis- 
ter charged with violation of this canon is to have op- 
portunity to be heard in his own defence; the charges 
and findings are to be in writing, and a record is to be 
kept by the bishop and the standing committee of the 
proceedings in the case. Such was the latest direct ac- 
tion of the highest legislative authority of the Church 
on this subject. The opponents of ritualism have ap- 
parently settled down in the conviction that the present 
canon is sufficient to enable the bishops effectually to 
repress, when necessary, all unseemly practices in this 
direction. The favorers of ritualism, on the other hand 
(at least, the more outspoken of them), have treated 
with scant courtesy the action of the convention of 1874, 
and affirm that “the canon is flagrantly unconstitution- 
al, and that no bishop has ever dared to put it in use, 
and none ever will.” At the General t on vent ion of 
1877 the matter was hardly at all alluded to. This the 
anti-ritnalists interpret as in their favor, in the confi- 
dence that the Church has become weary of the dispute, 
and is disposed for tbe future to adhere to the old-fash- 
ioned, simpler, less ornate ways of conducting public 
services. Tbe ritualists hold the opposite view, and it 
was rather exidtingly proclaimed in a letter to the Xew 
York' Tribune , by Dr. John Henry Hopkins (just after 
the convention of 1877 had adjourned), that the result 
of the war against the system, of which he is one of the 
ablest advocates, is victory all along the line for the 
ritualistic advance, and that this victory is so complete 
that the renewal of hostilities hereafter is hopeless.” As 
a party, it is certain that the ritualists have shown 
themselves to be bold, confident, energetic, and full of 
zeal in behalf of tbe cause which they have undertaken 
to maintain. In the American Church they are prob- 
ably not so numerous in proportion as in the Church of 
England; but. as an offset to this, it is to be noted that 
they have enlisted in their ranks numbers of the younger 
clergy, and, in view of what they have already accom- 
plished, they not unnaturally look forward to ultimate 
and complete success. The bishops, to whom arc com- 
mitted the oversight and regulation of this whole mat- 
ter under the canon, are in a rather difficult mid delicate 
position. As, on the one hand, they nre compelled to 
tolerate much that is regarded as defective and in viola- 
tion of the plain meaning of the rubrics and canons, so, 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 683 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


on the other, they may reasonably be expected to shrink 
from pressing too severely upon those who carry ritual- 
istic practices to more or less of excess. The opinion 
may here be expressed— simply as an opinion, without 
reference to the merits of the questions at issue — that 
ritualism has had its day, and that, while it may be ad- 
mitted that considerable, perhaps even great, good has 
resulted and may yet further result from this movement, 
it will not be likely again to assume any special promi- 
nence in the history of the Protestant Episcopal Church. 

The bringing of this topic before the reader in con- 
tinuous order, from its rise to the present time, has 
necessarily led to the omission of a number of interest- 
ing historical facts and incidents in the progress of the 
Church of late years: these are herewith succinctly 
presented in their proper sequence and connection. 
On a previous page has been noted the action of the 
General Convention on the subject of liturgical relax- 
ation and Church comprehension. This was in 1856 
and 1859. At the convention of 1868 various “me- 
morials” were presented pleading for larger latitude in 
the use of the Prayer-book. This was reported against 
bv the House of Bishops, and the following resolution 
was unanimously adopted : “ Resolved, That, in the opin- 
ion of this house, such latitude in the use of the Book of 
Common Prayer as the memorialists ask could not be 
allowed with safety, or with proper regard to the rights 
of our congregations.” In 1874 the question of short- 
ened services came up, but no definite action was had. 
The convention expressed its sense h)- resolution sim- 
ply, “ That nothing in the present order of Common 
Prayer prohibits the separation, when desirable, of the 
Morning Prayer, the Litany, and the Order for the Ad- 
ministration of the Lord’s Supper into distinct services, 
which may be used independently of each other, and 
either of them without the others: provided that when 
used together they be used in the same order as that in 
which they have commonly been used and in which 
they stand in the Book of Common Prayer.” At the 
next convention (October, 1877), the committee on 
canons in the House of Deputies reported in favor of an 
“order concerning divine service,” more especially for 
shorter services on other days than Sundays and the 
greater festivals and fasts. To this the bishops declined 
to agree, and by general .consent a joint committee was 
appointed to sit during the recess on the matter of pro- 
viding shortened services, by rubric or otherwise, this 
committee to report in 1880. — In a country such as 
ours, where the laws regulating marriage and divorce 
differ considerably in different states, this subject must 
necessarily cause much perplexity and annoyance to 
the clergy, unless they have some law of the Church to 
guide and control their action. This was long felt 
throughout the Protestant Episcopal Church, and in 
hope of some remedy or aid the matter was brought be- 
fore the General Convention of 1868. A canon was en- 
acted forbidding a clergyman to solemnize matrimony 
where there is a divorced wife or husband of either 
party still living, with a proviso in favor of the inno- 
cent party in a divorce for the cause of adultery. In 
1877 the canon was put in its present shape, as follows : 
“No minister, knowingly after due inquiry, shall sol- 
emnize the marriage of any person who has a divorced 
husband or wife still living, if such husband or wife has 
been put away for any cause arising after marriage; 
hut this canon shall not be held to apply to the innocent 
party in a divorce for the cause of adultery, or to parties 
once divorced seeking to be united again. If any min- 
ister of this Church shall have reasonable cause to doubt 
whether a person desirous of being admitted to holy 
baptism, or to confirmation, or to the holy communion, 
has been married otherwise than as the Word of God 
and discipline of this Church allov r , such minister, be- 
fore receiving such person to these ordinances, shall re- 
fer the case to the bishop for his godly judgment there- 
upon : pj'ovided, however, that no minister shall, in any 
case, refuse the sacraments to a penitent person in im- 


minent danger of death.” Questions touching the facts 
of any case named in the former part of the canon are 
to be referred to the bishop, and he is required to make 
inquiry such as he deems expedient, and to deliver his 
judgment in the premises. At the same convention 
(1877), an effort w'as made to have the 'Fable of Prohib- 
ited Degrees, contained in the English Prayer-book, in- 
serted in the American Book of Common Prayer, but it 
did not meet the approval of the convention. — Some 
extravagant and unwarranted assertions having been- 
made at various times as to the meaning of “ regenera- 
tion,” and its effects, etc., in the offices for infant bap- 
tism. there was issued, at the General Convention of 
1871, the following “declaration of the bishops in coun- 
cil:” “We. the subscribers, bishops of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church in the United States, being asked, in 
order to the quieting of the consciences of sundry mem- 
bers of the said Church, to declare our conviction as to 
the meaning of the word regenerate in the offices for the 
ministration of baptism of infants, do declare that, in 
our opinion, the word regenerate is not there so used as 
to determine that a moral change in the subject of bap- 
tism is wrought in the sacrament" (signed by all the 
bishops present, forty-eight in number). 

The movement begun in Germany in 1870-71 by Dr. 
Dollinger and others has been watched by the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church with deep interest and earnest 
hope that it may tend ultimately to solid reform in the 
Continental churches now in communion with Rome. 
In the convention of 1871, the bishops recorded their 
hearty sympathy with the heroic struggle then being 
made for religious liberty on the part of the Old-Cath- 
olic Congress recently assembled in Munich; and in 
1874 it w^s “ Resolved, That this house, with renewed 
confidence, reiterates the expression of its sympathy 
with the bishop and synod of the Old -Catholic com- 
munion in Germany, and the promise of its prayers fof 
the divine blessing and direction on their work; also, 
that three bishops be appointed a commission of this 
house to keep up fraternal correspondence with the bish- 
op and synod, for exchange of information and consid- 
eration ofovertures for reconciliation and intercommun- 
ion between sundered churches.” 

The course pursued by the highest legislative author- 
ity on the subject of churches or congregations estab- 
lished in foreign lands in communion with the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church illustrates the views and princi- 
ples on which this Church deems it right to act. Tw-en- 
ty years ago, the Rev. W. O. Lamson began services in 
Paris, specially for the benefit of Church people sojourn- 
ing in or visiting that city. The General Convention 
of 1859 recognised the propriety and lawfulness of hav- 
ing Protestant Episcopal churches abroad. Congrega- 
tions accordingly have been organized during the in- 
terim since 1859 in Rome, Florence, Dresden, Geneva, 
and Nice, making six in all at this date (1878). At the 
General Convention of 1877 the matter was careftdly 
regulated by canon, which says, “It shall be lawful, 
under the conditions hereinafter stated, to organize a 
church or congregation in any foreign country (other 
than Great Britain and Ireland, ami the colonies and 
dependencies thereof), and not w ithin the limits of any 
foreign missionary bishop of this Church." In order to 
secure proper and legitimate action, and also suitable 
control over these foreign churches or congregations, the 
canon goes on to state fully the mode in which they 
may be organized and conducted— viz. they must rec- 
ognise their allegiance to the constitution of the Ameri- 
can Church; must produce proper certificates; must be 
in canonical submission to a bishop, who is in charge of 
all such churches and is aided by a standing committee 
duly appointed; and they must conform to the provis- 
ions laid down for discipline, in case it become neces- 
sary. The bishop in charge at this date (1878) is the 
Rt. Rev. Dr. Littlejohn, of Long Island. 

An association taking its rise in Europe, and calling 
itself the “Evangelical Alliance,” held its sixth General 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CIIURCH GST PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


Conference in New York, Oct. 2-12, 1873. It was com- 
posed of delegates from various Protestant denomina- 
tions, foreign as well as American, who claim to be con- 
sidered “evangelical” in the proper and precise sense of 
that word. Among its delegates from abroad was the 
Yerv Kev. K. Payne Smith, D.L)., dean of Canterbury, 
who brought with him a letter of sympathy from his 
grace, l)r. Tait, archbishop of Canterbury. The dean 
took part in the work of the Alliance, as did also a very 
few of the American Episcopal clergy; having frater- 
nized with the Presbyterians at a public communion 
service, lie was called to account by l>r. Tozer (recently 
an English missionary bishop in Africa, and just then 
on a visit to New York), and was censured through the 
papers of the day. The assistant bishop of Kentucky, 
Dr. Cummins, likewise joined in this irregular service, 
and thereby foreshadowed what soon after took place 
— viz. the commencement of the schism to which his 
name has been attached, lie had become greatly dis- 
satistied with the state of affairs in the Protestant Epis- 
copal Church ; he was impressed with the fact, as he es- 
teemed it, that this Church is too exclusive and in con- 
tinual danger of going over to Koine, and so he made 
up his mind to abandon it to its fate and set up a new 
organization of bis own, a sort of half-and-half Epis- 
copal and Presbyterian arrangement. Under date of 
Nov. 10, 1873, be addressed a letter to bishop Smith, bis 
diocesan, in which be enumerated various reasons or 
causes for the coarse be bad resolved upon, lie de- 
clared that bis conscience was burdened with being 
compelled to ofliciatc as bishop in ritualistic churches 
in Kentucky; that lie had lost all hope of seeing eradi- 
cated from the Church’s standards and services sacer- 
dotalism and ritualism; that he was much hurt at be- 
ing blamed for sharing in the service above alluded to 
in a Presbyterian place of worship, and that, conse- 
quently, lie bad determined to transfer liis “ work and 
office” to another sphere. Dr. Cummins was entirely 
right in abandoning the Church if be could not stay in 
it with a clear conscience, and labor in it in accordance 
with his solemn vows at ordination, one of which was 
especially, “with all faithful diligence to banish and 
drive awav from the Church all erroneous and strange 
doctrine contrary to Cod’s Worth” Inasmuch, how- 
ever, as be bad abandoned liis post, and was soon after 
degraded from the ministry, lie bad no “office” to carry 
with him, though lie assumed that he bad, ami under- 
took to act as a bishop when he was no longer a bishop. 
Pishop Smith of Kentucky (who was also senior bish- 
op), on receiving Dr. Cummins’s letter, immediately in- 
stituted proceedings in accordance with the canon; Dr. 
Cummins was at once suspended from all exercise of the 
ministry; and the six months of grace allowed for re- 
traction having passed away, the formal deposition took 
place .June 21, 1874 (ratified afterwards in full House of 
Dishops at Central Convention in October, 1874). See 
Kkkokmkd Kpiscopal Cornell. 

The “Cheney case.” as it lias been called, may prop- 
erly be dealt with in this connection, especially as Mr. 
Cheney has become quite prominent in the schismaticnl 
body which 1 )r. Cummins originated. The case, in sub- 
stance, is as follows : The Kev. ('. E. Cheney, of Christ's 
Church, Chicago, 111., having mntilated the service for 
public baptism by omitting the words reyentrale and 
regeneration wherever they occur, was brought to tri- 
al and suspended by bishop Wliitelioiise, KebrnaiY 18, 
1871, the suspension to last until be should repent and 
amend. Mr. Cheney refused obedience; and the vestry 
of Christ’s Church having invited him to continue with 
them, despite the sentence, lie acceded to their wish. 
The result was that lie was tried by an ecclesiastical 
court for contumacy, and, on the 2d of .lime, was finally 
degraded. Put the vestry continuing to bold on to the 
property of Christ’s Church, contrary to law and justice, 
Mr. Cheney remained where lie was, until he joined the 
followers of 1 >r. t 'iimmins and bis movement. The ques- 
tion of the right to the property being a very serious 


one, as involving the whole subject of the right of re- 
ligious bodies to hold property and prevent its aliena- 
tion, the case of Christ’s Church, Chicago, was carried 
into the courts, where, in accordance with precedent 
in like cases, it was decided in favor of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church in the diocese of Illinois. Not sat- 
isfied with this, the parties interested in getting posses- 
sion of the church had the case taken hv appeal to the 
Supreme Court of the state, where, early in 1878, singu- 
larly enough, the decision of the lower court was re- 
versed, and judgment was given in favor of the vestry 
and congregation as against the diocese. So far as this 
particular piece of property is concerned, the matter is 
of no great importance; hut the principle involved is 
of the gravest consequence. It lias been decided, over 
and over again, that all ecclesiastical organizations shall 
possess the power to he governed by tlieir own laws, so 
long as those laws do not interfere with the established 
law of the land; and, consequently, that all property 
belongs, of right, to those who adhere to and sustain 
the laws and principles of their respective organiza- 
tions. If church property, by the action of vestries 
and congregations, can he legally diverted from its 
rightful ownership, in the way in which this in Chica- 
go lias been taken away from the Church, then there is 
no tenure of property anywhere which is safe. The sub- 
ject lias aroused attention among other Christian bod- 
ies, who are quite as much interested as the Protestant 
Episcopal Church can he in the fundamental question 
at. issue. It is to he hoped that the Supreme Court of 
the United States will he called upon to interpose, and 
settle fully and clearly a point of so great moment to 
all Christians or religions associations of every name. 

In regard to the “provincial system,” so called, we 
may briefly state that, as early as 1850, a motion was 
made in the House of Dishops by bishop Dclancey to 
appoint a committee of five bishops, five clergymen, and 
five laymen, “to report to the next triennial General 
Convention on the expediency of arranging the dio- 
ceses, according to geographical position, into four prov- 
inces, to he designated the Eastern, Northern, Southern, 
and Western Provinces, and to he united under a Gen- 
eral Convention or Council of the Provinces, having 
exclusive control over the Prayer-book, Articles, Offices, 
and Homilies of this Church, to he held once every 
twenty years.” In 1853 no action was had, but the 
committee was continued, and the matter handed over 
to the next convention. It came up in 185G, hut was 
indefinitely postponed by the bishops. The subject 
was brought up again in 1874, was warmly discussed, 
and again indefinitely postponed. In 1877 a preamble 
and resolution were offered in the House of Deputies 
expressing a desire to obtain “an authoritative recog- 
nition of t lie provincial system,” and referring to the 
committee on canons “to inquire into the expediency 
of repealing the prohibition against suffragan bishops, 
and making such* canonical provisions as will enable 
dioceses (just before described) to give the name and 
style of provincial or comprovincial bishops to all such 
bishops who may he elected and consecrated to assign- 
ed districts within tlieir respective jurisdictions.” The 
resolution was adopted; hut in the House of Dishops 
the entire subject was again committed to a special 
committee, to report at the convention of 1880. There 
the matter stands for the present. It remains to he 
seen whether the Church will deem it best to adopt 
this system, or to continue under the arrangement now 
in existence. A canon was adopted in 18(58 authorizing 
federate councils, as follows: “It is hereby declared law- 
ful for the dioceses now existing, or hereafter lo exist, 
within the limits of any state or commonwealth, lo es- 
tablish for themselves a federate convention, or council, 
representing such dioceses, which may deliberate and 
decide upon the common interests of the Church within 
the limits aforesaid; hut before any determinate action 
of such convention, or council, shall he had, the powers 
proposed to he exercised thereby shall he submitted to 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 6* 

the General Convention for its approval. Nothing in 
this canon shall be construed as forbidding any federate 
council from taking such action as they may deem neces- 
sary to secure such legislative enactments as the common 
interests of the Church in the state may recpiire.” No 
definite action under this canon has as yet been carried 
into effect in any state. The subject has been discussed 
quite largely, and the various propositions connected 
with it now rest with the same committee who have 
the provincial system in hand and are to report in 1880. 

An earnest and interesting communication to the 
presiding bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church 
was made, in 1871, by bishop Wilberforee, of Winches- 
ter, in relation to the work then commenced in Eng- 
land for the revision of the authorized version of the 
Holy Scriptures. At the General Convention held the 
same year, it was, in the House of Bishops. “ Resolved , 
That the Et. Rev. the Presiding Bishop be, and hereby 
is, requested to return to the Et. Rev. the Lord Bishop 
of Winchester a courteous and brotherly acknowledg- 
ment of his communication relating to a revision of the 
English of the Holy Scriptures, stating that this house, 
having had no part in originating or organizing the 
said work of revision, is not at present in a condition 
to deliver any judgment respecting it, and at the same 
time expressing the disposition of this house to con- 
sider with candor the work undertaken by the Convo- 
cation of Canterbury, whenever it shall have been com- 
pleted and its results laid before them.” The attitude 
thus taken by the bishops in behalf of the Church is 
one of cautious reserve, but perhaps not too much so, 
considering the importance of the subject. 

The Protestant Episcopal Church having made con- 
siderable progress in Hayti (numbering eleven clergy in 
1874), and needing episcopal supervision and aid, was 
supplied with a bishop, under the arrangement of a 
‘‘Covenant” entered into with the Church in that repub- 
lic, and the Rev. Dr. J. T. Holly was consecrated as first 
bishop, in November, 1874. The terms of the covenant 
made it the duty of the Church in the United States to 
extend its nursing care to the Church in Hay ti during its 
early growth and development; and four bishops, with 
the bishop of Hayti, were constituted a commission to 
take episcopal charge of the Church in Hayti, and se- 
cure its maintenance of the doctrine, worship, and dis- 
cipline of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United 
States, until such time as there should be three bishops 
resident in Hayti, and exercising jurisdiction in the 
Church there. When that time arrives, this Church 
will cease from all further charge or care of the Haytian 
Church. 

The General Convention of 1877 met in Boston, 
Mass., on Oct. 3, the first time that it met in that city 
since its organization after the civil war. It was very 
largely attended, and was marked by a spirit of good- 
will and earnest effort to promote in every way the 
interests of Christ’s kingdom here on earth. There 
were no specially exciting topics on hand (as ritualism, 
etc.) ; and the action of the convention, so far as our 
present purpose is concerned, can be summed up in 
brief space. Probably the most important step taken 
was the reorganization of the Domestic and Foreign 
Missionary Society. Heretofore there had been a 
Board of Missions (a very large and rather cumbrous 
body), appointed trienniallv, and acting in the respec- 
tive departments at home and abroad. After much 
discussion, the following canon was adopted: “Consti- 
tution of the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society 
of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States 
of America, as established in 1820, and since amended at 
various times. 

“ Art. 1 . This society shall he denominaled,” etc. 

“Art. 11. This society shall be considered as compre- 
hending all persons who are members of this Church. 

“Art. 111. There shall be a Board of Missions of such 
society composed of the bishops of this Church, and the 
members for the time being of the House of Deputies 
of this Church, bishops and deputies sitting apart as in 


15 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 

General Convention, or together when they shall so de- 
cide. The Board of Missions thus constituted shall con- 
vene on the third day of the session of the General Con- 
vention, and shall sit. from time to time as the business 
of the board shall demand. 

“Art. IV. There shall be a Board of Managers, com- 
prising all t lie bishops as members ex officio, and fifteen 
presbyters and fifteen laymen, to be appointed by the 
Board of Missions at every triennial meeting of the Gen- 
eral Convention, who shall have the management of the 
general missions of this Church, and shall remain in office 
until their successors are chosen, and shall have power to 
fill any vacancies that may occur in their number. Eight' 
clerical and eight lav members shall constitute a quorum. 
This board shall, during the recess of the convention, ex- 
ercise all the corporate powers of the Domestic and For- 
eign Missionary Society. The Board of Managers shall 
report to the General Convention, constituted as a Board 
of Missions, on or before the third day of the sessiou of 
the General Convention. 

“Art. V. The Board of Managers is authorized to form, 
from its own members, a committee for domestic mis- 
sions and a committee for foreign missions, and such oth- 
er committees as it may deem desirable to promote special 
missionary work, and is also authorized to appoint such 
officers as shall be needful for carrying on the work. 

“Art. VI. The Board of Managers is intrusted with 
power to establish and regulate such missions as are not 
placed tinder episcopal supervision, and to euact all by- 
law's which it may deem uecessary for its owu govern- 
ment and for the government of its committees: provided 
always that, in relation to organized dioceses and mis- 
sionary jurisdictions having bishops, the appropriations 
shall be made in gross to such dioceses and missionary 
jurisdictions, to be disbursed by the local authorities 
thereof. The board shall notify to the several bishops 
the gross sum so appropriated, and those bishops shall 
regulate the number of mission stations, appoint the mis- 
sionaries, and assign to them their stipends, with the ap- 
proval of the Board of Managers. 

“Art. VII. No person shall be appointed a missionary 
who is not at the time a minister of the Protestant Epis- 
copal Church of regular standing; but nothing in this sec- 
tion precludes the committees from making pecuniary ap- 
propriations in aid of missions under the care of other 
churches in communion with this Church, or of employ- 
ing laymen or women, members of this Church, to do 
missionary work. 

“Art. VIII. The Board of Managers is authorized to 
promote the formation of auxiliary missionary associa- 
tions, whose contributions, as well as those specially ap- 
propriated hv individuals, shall be received and paid in 
accordance with the wish of the donors, when expressed 
in writing. It shall be the duty of the Board of Malin- 
gers to arrange for public missionary meetings, to be 
held at the same time and place as the General Conven- 
tion, and at such other times and places as may he deter- 
mined upon, to whiclt all auxiliaries approved by the Board 
of Managers may send one clerical and one lay delegate. 

“Art. IX. This constitution may be altered or amended 
at any time by the General Convention of this Church. 
All canons, and all action by or under the authority of the 
General Convention, so far as inconsistent with the pro- 
visions of this canon and such amended constitution, are 
hereby repealed: provided always that nothing herein 
shall in any manner impair or affect any corporate rights 
of the said society, or any vested right whatever. This 
canon shall take effect immediately.” 

The principal and immediate effect of this reorganiza- 
tion was, on the part of the Board of Managers, a reso- 
lution to reduce central expenses connected with the 
mission work. Thus the department of home missions 
to colored people was assigned to the care of the com- 
mittee on domestic missions ; a very considerable reduc- 
tion of expenses was made in carrying on the work 
among the Indians; several officers were dispensed with, 
and a general reduction of salaries took place, the result 
being a saving of some $12,000 per annum. It deserves 
also to be stated here that the American Church Mis- 
sionary Society, the especial agency of those of the cler- 
gy and laity who declined in former years to act in con- 
junction with the Board of Missions, now* acceded to the 
wish long before expressed by the board. The society 
continued its organization as a society; the w'ork in 
Mexico, which had been very largely sustained by it, 
was handed over to the foreign committee; and it was 
resolved that, in general, its members should hereafter 
act in concert with the Board of Managers of the newly 
organized Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church. This w'as deemed a 
happy resolve on their part, and excellent results are 
expected to follow in consequence. 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH GSG PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 


For some years past there has been a growing desire 
to add greater effectiveness to the labors of godly and 
devoted women in the Church. The matter was brought 
up at the General Convention of 1*74, but no action 
was obtained. In 1*77 it came again before the con- 
vention. and a canon of “ Deaconesses or Sisters” was 
proposed. After much discussion, however, the conven- 
tion, apparently not feeling quite sure of its ground, re- 
fused to pass the proposed canon, ami the following res- 
olution was adopted: “That it be referred to a joint 
committee of three bishops, three clerical and three lay 
deputies, to inquire and report to the next General Con- 
vention what legislation may be necessary and expe- 
dient for the authorization and regulation of women 
■working in this Church under the name of deaconess or 
sister.” Thus the matter lies over till 1**0. 

As the Church of England recently adopted a new 
Lectionary, it was deemed advisable by the convention 
of 1*77 to place this revised Table of Lessons for Sun- 
days and holy days before the Protestant Episcopal 
Church. Accordingly, it was formally resolved by both 
houses that the Eectionary be permitted to be used un- 
til the next General Convention. This Table, there- 
fore, not only of Lessons for Sundays and holvdays, but 
also of Daily Lessons, and Lessons for Lent and for Em- 
ber Days ami Rogation Days, is allowed to be used by 
any clergyman in place of those in the calendar in the 
Prayer-book, and a copy has been sent to every clergy- 
man of the Protestant Episcopal Church. Whether it 
will be found to be so great an improvement upon the 
existing Table of Lessons as lias been supposed by 
many may be doubted. The trial, however, of three 
years will lead to some settled agreement upon a mat- 
ter so largely a fleeting the. question of how to obtain 
the greatest edification in the reading of Holy Scripture 
in the public worship of the Church. 

At the close of the convention of 1877 a joint resolu- 
tion was adopted, which is worthy of being quoted in 
this connection, inasmuch as it shows the spirit and de- 
sire of this Church in regard to the very important as 
well as difficult subject of public-school education : 

“Resolved, That it is the solemn conviction of this Gen- 
eral Convention, in both houses, that it is the duty of the 
clergy and laity of the Church to take, so far as the op- 
portunity is afforded them, an active interest in t lie pub- 
lic schools provided by the state for the purpose of ex- 
tending the important’benefits of a secular education to 
all onr citizens, and of diffusing side by side with these as 
much of religious influence and instruction as is possible; 
to supplement them with thorough Christian teaching 
elsewhere, and to add proper Church schools and institu- 
tions for the whole, and more complete work of education, 
wherever they are needed and the means for their sup- 
port can be commanded ; 

“Resolved, That, with the concurrence of the ITnusc of 
Deputies, a joint committee, consisting of two bishops, 
two presbyters, and two laymen, be appointed to consider 
this whole mutter during the recess of the convention, to 
collect facts and prepare suggestions for the next General 
Convention, and to promote, tiv any means deemed ad- 
visable, the general work of Christian education." 

II. Fumlamental Principles, Constitution, Government, 
etc. — From what has already been stated, it is dear 
that the Protestant Episcopal Church, while holding in 
common with other Christians evangelical doctrines — as 
the incarnation, the divinity of our Lord, the atonement, 
the inspiration of Holy Scripture, salvation through 
faith in Christ, and all such like — at the same time takes 
t lie ground that it is the American branch of the “one 
holy Catholic Church” spoken of in the Nicenc Creed. 
It was planted on those Western shores, under God’s 
good providence, to he what it aims to be — the National 
Church of the 1'iiited States. It is a historical Church. 
It traces its lineage through the Church of England di- 
rectly back to the apostles of onr Lord ; and it gives, as 
its deliberate judgment, that “it is evident unto all 
men, diligently reading Holy Scripture and ancient au- 
thors, that from the apostles’ time there have boon these 
orders of ministers in Christ's Church— bishops, priests, 
and deacons.” It is not a new or recently formed de- 
nomination, ami in this respect differs from the great 


bulk of Protestant Christian bodies, whatever titles they 
may give to tlicir respective organizations. Its creed 
is the same creed which has been in use substantially 
in the same form since the very beginning — viz. that 
which is commonly called the Apostles’ Creed and the 
Nicene Creed as finally set forth by the General Coun- 
cils in the 4th century, and received everywhere and by 
all throughout the Catholic Church. Its liturgy is the 
very concentration of the deep piety, soundness in the 
faith, earnestness, zeal, and fervor of the wise and holy 
and good of all the early as well as later ages; and its 
services of prayer and praise, combining the use of this 
liturgy with the continual and frequent reading of Holy 
Scripture in men's ears, are in the truest and highest 
sense of the word evangelical, and calculated to meet 
all the longings of the pious soul lor spiritual commun- 
ion with God otir Father, through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
and through the quickening energy of the Holy Ghost.* 

The position of the Protestant Episcopal Church rel- 
atively to Protestantism, on the one hand, and Roman- 
ism, on the other, is somewhat peculiar, but yet clearly 
marked out and defined. It cannot, consistently at least, 
recognise the validity of the ministry of the great body 
of Protestant denominations, whether Presbyterian or 
Congregational, for it distinctly enunciates that the 
only lawful ministry is that in the three orders, lienee 
it cannot have communion with them, or interchange 
of services, or union of action in undertaking to spread 
the Gospel throughout the world. It recognises, it is 
true, the validity of the episcopate in the Roman Cath- 
olic Church, but at the same time it positively and un- 
qualifiedly repudiates the errors in doctrine and worship 
of that corrupt Church, not only in its own proper home 
in Italy, but also wherever, in violation of the ancient 
canons, it lias spread itself. The Protestant Episcopal 
Church has no sympathy' with, but is in direct antago- 
nism to, the claims of Rome in regard to the denial of 
the sufficiency of Holy Scripture for salvation, transub- 
stantiation, sacrifice of the mass, purgatory, celibacy of 
the clergy, elevation of the Virgin Mary into a sort of 
goddess to be worshipped, the absolute supremacy of the 
pope by divine right over all the world in civil as well 
as religious matters, etc. Hence it cannot act in any 
concert with the Roman Church, or further its plans 
and purposes in any wise. 

The constitution, framed for the purpose of uniting 
the Church in working together as one body, we give 
in full. It was adopted in October, 1 7*0, and has re- 
mained the same ever since, with the exception of a 
few alterations which became necessary in consequence 
of the growth of the Church, the increase of the epis- 
copate, and the formation of several dioceses within the 
limits of the larger and more populous states. 

“Art. I. There shall he a General Convention of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States of 
America on the first Wednesday in October in every 
third year, from the year of our Lord one thousand eight 
hundred and fortv-one, nnd in such place as shall he de- 
termined by the convention; and in case there shall be 
an epidemic disease, or any other good cause to render it 
necessary to alter the place fixed on for any such meet- 
ing of the convention, t he presiding bishop shall have it 
in his power to appoint another convenient place (as near 
as may be to the place so fixed on) for the holding of such 
convention: and special meetings may be called at other 
times, in the manner hereafter "to he provided for; and 
this Church, in a majority of the dioceses which shall 
have adopted this Constitution, shall be represented be- 
fore they shall proceed to business, except that. The rep- 
resentation from two dioceses shall he sufficient to ad- 
journ; and in all business of the convention freedom of 
debate shall lie allowed. 

“Art. IF. The Church in each diocese shall lie enti- 
tled to a representation of both the clergy and the laiiy. 
Such representation shall consist of not ‘more than four 
clergymen and four laymen, communicants in this Clmrch, 
residents in the diocese, and chosen in the manner pre- 
scribed by the convention thereof; and in all questions, 
when required by the clerical or lay representation from 
any diocese, each order shall have one vole; and the ma- 

• This statement of course represents onr contributor's 
opinion ; but the paragraph contains several poiuts upon 
which much might be said on both sides.— En. 


PROTESTANT EPISO. CHURCH 65 

jority of suffrages by dioceses shall be conclusive in each 
order, provided such majority compreheud a majority of 
the dioceses represented in that order. The concurrence 
of both orders shall be necessary to constitute a vote of 
the convention. If the convention of any diocese should 
neglect or decline to appoint clerical deputies, or if they 
should neglect or decline to appoint lay deputies, or if 
any of those of either order appointed should neglect to 
attend, or be prevented by sickness or any other acci- 
dent, such diocese shall nevertheless be considered as 
duly represented by such deputy or deputies as may at- 
tend, whether lay or clerical. And if, through the neg- 
lect of the convention of any of the churches which shall 
have adopted, or may hereafter adopt, this Constitution, 
no deputies, either lay or clerical, should attend at any 
General Convention, the Church in such diocese shall 
nevertheless be bound by the acts of such convention. 

“Art. III. The bishops of this Church, when there 
shall be three or more, shall, whenever general conven- 
tions are held, form a separate house, with a right to 
originate and propose acts for the concurrence of the 
House of Deputies, composed of clergy and laity; and 
when any proposed act shall have passed the House of 
Deputies, the same shall be transmitted to the House of 
Bishops, who shall have a negative thereupon ; and all 
nets of the convention shall he authenticated by both 
houses. And in all cases, the House of Bishops shall sig- 
nify to the convention their approbation or disapproba- 
tion (the latter with their reasons in writing) within three 
days after the proposed act shall have been reported to 
them for concurrence; and ill failure thereof, it shall have 
the operation of a law. But until there shall he three or 
more bishops, as aforesaid, any bishop attending a Gen- 
eral Convention shall be a member ex officio, and shall 
vote with the clerical deputies of the diocese to which he 
belongs; and a bishop shall then preside. 

“Art. IV. The bishop or bishops in every diocese shall 
be chosen agreeably to snch rules as shall be fixed by 
the convention of that diocese; and every bishop of this 
Church shall confine the exercise of his episcopal oflice 
to his proper diocese, unless requested to ordain, or con- 
firm, or perforin any other act of the episcopal office, by 
any Church destitute of a bishop. 

“Art. V. A Protestant Episcopal Church in any of the 
United States, or any territory thereof, not now repre- 
sented, may, at any time hereafter, be admitted on acced- 
ing to this Constitution ; and a new diocese, to be formed 
from one or more existing dioceses, may be admitted un- 
der the following restrictions, viz. : 

“ No new diocese shall be formed or erected within the 
limits of any other diocese, nor shall any diocese be form- 
ed by the junction of two or more dioceses, or parts of 
dioceses, unless with the consent of the bishop and con- 
vention of each of the dioceses concerned, as well as of 
the General Convention ; and such consent shall not be 
given by the General Convention until it has satisfacto- 
ry assnrauce of a suitable provision for the support of the 
episcopate in the contemplated new diocese. 

“No such new diocese shall be formed which shall 
contain less than six parishes, or less than six presbyters 
who have been for at least one year canonically resident, 
within the bounds of such new diocese, regularly settled 
iu a parish or congregation, and qualified to vote for a 
bishop. Nor shall such new diocese he formed, if there- 
by any existing diocese shall be so reduced as to contain 
less than twelve parishes, or less than twelve presbyters 
who have been residing therein, and settled and qualified 
as above mentioned : provided that no city shall form 
more than one diocese. 

“In case one diocese shall be divided into two or more 
dioceses, the diocesan of the diocese divided may elect 
the one to which he will be attached, and shall thereupon 
become the diocesan thereof; and the assistant bishop, 
if there be one, may elect the one to which he will be at- 
tached ; and if it be not the one elected by the bishop, he 
shall be the diocesan thereof. 

“Whenever the division of a diocese, into two or more 
dioceses shall be ratified by the General Con ventiou, each 
of the dioceses shall be subject to the constitution and 
canons of the diocese so divided, except as local circum- 
stances may prevent, until the same may be altered in ei- 
ther diocese by the convention thereof. And whenever a 
diocese shall be formed out of two or more existing dio- 
ceses, the new diocese shall he subject to the constitu- 
tion and canons of that one of the said existing dioceses 
to which the greater number of clergymen shall have be- 
longed prior to the erection of such new diocese, until the 
same may be altered by the convention of the new dio- 
cese. 

“Art. VI. The mode of trying bishops shall be pro- 
vided by the General Convention. The court appointed 
for that purpose shall he composed of bishops only. In 
every diocese, the mode of trying presbyters and deacons 
may be instituted by the convention of the diocese. None 
but a bishop shall pronounce sentence of admonition, sus- 
pension, or degradation from the ministry, on any clergy- 
man, whether bishop, presbyter, or deacon. 

“Art. VII. No person shall be admitted to holy orders 
until he shall have been examined by the bishop and by 
two presbyters, and shall have exhibited such testimoni- 


7 PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 

als and other requisites as the canons in that case pro* 
vided may direct. Nor shall any person be ordained un- 
til he shall have subscribed the following declaration ; 

“ ‘I do believe the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New 
Testameuts to be the Word oi‘ God, and to contain all 
tilings necessary to salvation ; and 1 do solemnly engage 
to conform to the doctrines and worship of the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church in the United States.’ 

“No person ordained by a foreign bishop shall be per- 
mitted to officiate as a minister of this Church uutil he 
shall have complied with the canon or canons in that 
case provided, and have also subscribed the aforesaid 
declaration. 

“Art. VIII. A Book of Common Prayer, administra- 
tion of the sacraments, and other rites aud ceremonies 
of the Church, articles of religion, and a form aud manner 
of making, ordaining, and consecrating bishops, priests, 
and deacous, when established by this or a future Gener- 
al Convention, shall be used in the Protestant Episcopal 
Church in those dioceses which shall have adopted this 
Constitution. No alteration or addition shall he made 
in the Book of Common Prayer, or other offices of the 
Church, or the articles of religion, unless the same shall 
be proposed in one General Convention, and by a resolve 
thereof made known to the convention of every diocese, 
and adopted at the subsequent General Convention. Pro- 
vided, however, that the General Convention shall have 
power, from time to time, to amend the Lectiouary; but 
no act for this purpose shall be valid which is not voted 
for by a majority of the whole number of bishops entitled 
to seats in the House of Bishops, and by a majority of all 
the dioceses entitled to representation in the House of 
Deputies. 

“Art. IX. This Constitution shall he unalterable, un- 
less in General Convention, by the Church, in a majority 
of the dioceses which may have adopted the same; and 
all alterations shall be first proposed iu one General Con- 
vention, and made known to the several diocesan conven- 
tions, before they shall be finally agreed to or ratified iu 
the ensuing General Convention. 

“Art. X. Bishops for foreign countries, on due appli- 
cation therefrom, may he consecrated, with the approba- 
tion of the bishops of this Church, or a majority of them, 
signified to the presiding bishop, he thereupon taking or- 
der for the same, and they being satisfied that the person 
designated for the office has been duly chosen and prop- 
erly qualified ; the Order of Consecration to be conform- 
ed, as nearly as may he, in the judgment of the bishops, 
to the one used in this Church. Such bishops, so conse- 
crated, shall not be eligible to the office of diocesan or 
assistant bishop in any diocese in the United States, nor 
be entitled to a seat in the House of Bishops, nor exer- 
cise any episcopal authority iu said states.” 

From the constitution just given it is evident that 
the General Convention is the highest legislative au- 
thority in the Church, and its legislation is for the ben- 
efit of the whole Church throughout the United States. 
There is as yet no Court of Appeals, although it is felt 
that there is need of such a court. It is believed that 
it will ere long be constituted, so as to adjudicate upon 
all those matters which a body, made up as the General 
Convention is, cannot adequately judge or act upon. 
Each diocese, whether a whole state or a portion of a 
, state, is independent of all control except that of the 
I general laws of the Church enacted by the General C 011 - 
j vention. Each bishop, and the clergy and laity under 
his jurisdiction, meet in annual convention and legis- 
late upon all subjects which specially concern the dio- 
cese and the preaching of the Gospel within its limits. 
Each parish also, consisting of its rector, vestry, and 
congregation, is independent in its sphere of labor, sub- 
ject only to the canons of the diocese and of the whole 
Church, and to a visitation, at least yearly, of the bish- 
op of the diocese. Thus freedom of thought and action 
is secured to all, with a due and proper subordination to 
higher authority in all cases where higher authority 
must needs supervene. 

The laws which regulate Church affairs are contained 
in the “ Digest of the Canons for the Government of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States,” as 
passed and adopted in the general conventions from 1859 
to 1877. The canons are arranged in the most method- 
ical and approved style of legal enactments; they have 
been prepared by some of the ablest canonists and law- 
yers in the communion of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, and they cover the entire ground respecting 
which the Church can legislate as a whole or united 
body. They are distributed into Four Titles, Canons of 
each Title, and Sections of Canons. Historical notes as 


PROTESTANT EPISC. CHURCH 088 I ‘ROT. EPISC. CII. OF IRELAND 

to dates are added, so that any particular canon upon 
any subject legislated upon by the Church may be 
traced from its origin through all its modifications to 
the present time. Title 1 is '• Of the Orders in the Min- 
istry and of the Doctrine and Worship of the Church.” 

There arc twenty-four canons under this Title, and they 
cover fully and explicitly all questions relating to can- 
didates for orders, examinations, ordination of deacons, 
ordination of priests, general regulation of ministers and 
their duties, qualifications, consecration and work of 
bishops, domestic and foreign missionary bishops, mode 
of securing an accurate view of the Church, the use of 
the Book of Common Prayer, etc. Title 1 1 is “ Of Disci- 
pline.” There are thirteen canons under this Title, re- 
lating to offences for which ministers may be tried and 
punished, dissolution of pastoral connection, renuncia- 
tion of the ministry, abandonment of the communion of 
the Church by a bishop, the trial of a bishop, judicial 
sentences, regulations respecting the laitv, etc. Title 
IJI is “Of the Organized Bodies and Officers of the 
Church.” There are nine canons under this Title, hav- 
ing reference to meetings ofOcneral Convention, stand- 
ing committees, trustees of the Oeneral Theological Sem- 
inary, congregations and parishes, organization of new 
dioceses, etc. Title IV relates to “Miscellaneous Pro- 
visions.” It has four canons, in reference to repealed 
canons, enactment, etc., of canons, time when new can- 
ons take effect. Our limits do not admit of printing 
these canons in full, nor is it necessary*, inasmuch as 
they arc readily accessible to all interested in their 
contents. 

III. Statistics . — As showing the steady increase and 
spread of the Protestant Episcopal Church, we give the 
bishops, clergy, and dioceses by decades since 1820, as 
follows : 


Years. 

Bishops. 

I Presbyters | 

I and Deacons. | 

Total. 

Dioceses. 1 

1820 

9 

I 301 

310 

15 

1830 

11 

514 

525 

20 

1S40 

19 

1 1040 

1059 

27 

1*50 

32 

1 1557 

1589 

29 

1 1*00 

43 

I 2113 1 

215(1 

33 

1870 

52 

278G 

2S3S 

39 

1 187* 

(52 

3211 

3273 

48 


From the Church Almanac and the summary in the 
journal of the Oeneral Convention of 1877, we learn 
that in 1877 there were nearly 3000 parishes, with 
churches and chapels, in the Protestant Episcopal 
Church in the United States. 

Baptisms, (luring the year (inlaut and adult).. 40,233 

Confirmations, (luring the year 28,300 

Marriages, “ “ “ (about) 10,000 

Sunday-school teachers 30,323 

Sunday-school scholars (about) 270,000 

Communicants 302,009 

Contributions, for missionary and church pur- 
poses $G, 500 , 000 

Home missionary* bishops nine, exercising jurisdiction 
in the great territories as well as several of the Western 
states, in Texas, and on the Pacific coast. Their sala- 
ries and travelling expenses (amounting to at least 
830,000 per annum) are paid bv the domestic commit- 
tee. There are over 200 missionaries at work in 
these fields. Foreign missionary bishops three — one 
in China, one in Japan, one in Africa (to which add 
bishop in II av I i). There are in these jurisdictions, in 
addition to the bishops, thirty-live other clergymen 
(foreign and native), together with about 200 assist- 
ants. mostly native catechists, lay* readers, and teachers. 
The missionary* work in Hrecce is simply educational, 
and is conducted bv one lady*, assisted by 12 native 
teachers. In the Mexican Church there are nt work 
the Bov. II. C. Wiley, 1 >.!).. and 1*. (1. Hernandez (Bish- 
ops elect ), with four other presbyters, two ladies, and 79 
lay* readers. 'The number of communicants in foreign 
fields is about 1000. There are also 31 day-schools 
with 1800 scholars, and 18 Sunday-schools with 801 
scholars. 


Theological seminaries and schools (iu 15 dioceses 

and 1 missionary jurisdiction) io 

Church colleges (in 12 dioceses aud 2 missiouary juris- 
dictions) ]4 

Academic institutions (iu 20 dioceses aud 6 missiouary 

jurisdictions) ri 

Other educational institutions (in 13 dioce.-es.) 32 

Church hospitals (in 20 dioceses and 2 missiouary 

jurisdiction.') 27 

Church orphan asylums (iu 20 dioceses and 2 mission- 
ary jurisdictions) 30 

Church homes (in 21 dioceses) 34 

Periodicals devoted to the interests, support, aud de- 
fence of the Protestant Episcopal ( ’hurch : The Church- 
man (weekly), New York; The Southern Churchman 
(weekly), Alexandria, Va. ; The Episcopal Register 
(weekly), Philadelphia. Pa.; The Standard of the 
Cross (weekly), Cleveland, (). ; The 1 1 'estern Church 
(weekly), Milwaukee, Wis. ; The Pacific Churchman 
(weekly). San Francisco, Cal. ; Our Dioceses (weekly), 
Detroit, Mieh.; The Spirit of Missions (monthly), New 
York; The Church Magazine (monthly), Brooklyn, N. 
Y. ; The Church Eclectic (monthly), Utica, N. Y.; The 
American Church Renew (quarterly), New York. 

IV. Authorities. — Works used in the preparation of 
the present article: White [Bp.], Memoirs of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church (1836, 8vo); Wilson, Life of 
Bishop White (1839, 8vo) ; Wilherforce [Bp.], History 
of the Protestant Episcopal Church (1849, 12mo) ; An- 
derson, History of the Church of England in the Colo- 
nies (1856, 3 vols. l2mo); Hawkins, Missions of the 
Church of England in the North American Colonies 
(1845, 8vo); Ilawks, Contributions to the Ecclesiastical 
History of the United States (1836, vol. i, 8vo, Virginia ; 
1839, vol. ii, 8vo, Maryland) ; id. Constitution and Can- 
ons of the Protestant Episcopal Church (1811, 8vo); 
Sprague, .1 mails of the A merican Pulpit [Episcopalian] 
(1859, vol. v, 8vo); Coit, Puritanism (1845, 12mo); 
Iloffman [Murray], Law of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church (1850, 8vo); id. Ecclesiastical Law in the State 
of New York (1868, 8vo), and The Ritualistic Law o f 
the Church (1872, 8vo); Vinton, Canon Law and the 
Constitution of the Protestant Episcopal Church (1870, 
8vo) ; Perry [Bp.], Handbook of the General Conven- 
tions, 1785-1877 (1877, 12mo); Hawks and Perry, Jour- 
nals of General Convention from 1785 to 1853 (1861, vol. 
i,8vo, with notes).* 

Protestant Episcopal Church of Ireland. 
Until 1871 this hotly* formed an integral part of the 
United Church of England and Ireland. It is still call- 
ed by a majority of its members the Church of Ireland. 
Its official title is “ The Irish Church." 

Of the first introduction of Christianity into Ireland 
we have written under the article Ireland (q. v.). It, 
has been shown there that the Woman Catholic Church 
succeeded in establishing her hierarchical power in the 
12th century*, and that even after the Information in 
England the Irish Church remained attached to Borne, 
and only* by* the influence of the bishop of Borne, first 
felt in the island through the Danes, who made their 
earliest settlements on the east coast at the close of the 
8th century. Bishop Malachv, who filled successively* 
several sees iu Ireland, and who was full of enthusiasm 
for papal authority, strove hard to induce the Irish bish- 
ops to accept palls from the pope. But it was not till 
after his death, in 1152, that, at the Synod of Kells, the 
four archbishops received these honors, which, though 
ostensibly* marks of distinction, were iu reality badges 
of servitude, binding Ireland to the footstool of the pa- 
pacy. Three years later, pope Adrian IV, the only Eng- 
lishman who ever wore t he triple crown, sent Henry 
11 of England a hull, authorizing him to invade Ire- 
land. What the papal see then thought of the relig- 
ious condition of the Church of Ireland may he learned 

* The above article was originally written for our pages 
by the Kev. J. A. Spknokk, I).l)., of New York city, and 
was nfterwards reprinted hv its author, from advance 
proofs, in another work which he was then editing. We 
have slightly modified one or two expressions to which 
inauy of our readers might take exception.— Ei>. 


PIIOT. EPISC. CII. OF IRELAND CS9 PHOT. EPISC. C1I. OF IRELAND 


from a bull published in 1172, confirming that of 1155. 
The pope states the object of permitting the invasion 
of Ireland to be that “the filthy practices of the laud 
may be abolished, and the barbarous nation which is 
called by the Christian name may, through vour clem- 
ency, attain unto some decency of manners ; and that 
when the Church of that country, which has hitherto 
been in a disordered state, shall have been reduced to 
better order, that people may by your means possess 
for the future the reality as well as the name of the 
Christian profession.” 

In the reign of Henry VIII., papal supremacy was 
abolished in Ireland, the bishops and clergy all accept- 
ing the king as head of the Church. Queen Mary re- 
established the pope’s authority, but Elizabeth’s reign 
gave a distinctively Reformed character to the Church. 
Many rebellions occurring among the native Irish dur- 
ing this reign, and Rome astutely throwing all her 
weight against England, the Reformation came to be 
regarded as essentially English, though the leading 
clergy of the time assented to the change. The pope 
took advantage of the anti -English feeling by send- 
ing to the island multitudes of missionary bishops and 
priests, who succeeded in holding the native Irish with- 
in the pale of Roman Catholicism. During the two 
foil jwing centuries, the Protestant Episcopal Church 
(to which we now give this name, as during this period 
the Presbyterian Church of Ireland rose to importance), 
suffered many vicissitudes; but by the Revolution of 
1G88 and the battle of the Boyne it was placed in a po- 
sition of assured stability as a Protestant body. Still, 
the very intimate connection between the Church and 
the government, necessitated by the hostile elements 
with which both had been surrounded, had exercised 
upon the former a very unwholesome influence. The 
Church had been treated as little more than a mere de- 
partment of government. “Many of the bishops, dur- 
ing this period, seem to have held High-Church views; 
and, with some bright exceptions, a general deadness 
in religious matters prevailed, and along with it an 
indisposition to tolerate dissent in any shape whatev- 
er. This deadness of religious life characterized all 
the churches in the reigns of Anne and the Georges, 
though bright examples may be cited of the contrary 
spirit. The names of Richardson, Atkins, and Brown 
may be mentioned with honor as those of clergymen 
who, in the early part of the 18th century, took an ac- ! 
five interest in the work of evangelizing the native 
Irish through the medium of their own language. 
Archbishop Boulter, bishop Berkeley, and others may 
be noted among the members of the Episcopal bench 
who exhibited an earnest spirit of devotion and prac- 
tical godliness. Wesley and his followers among the 
Methodists did much by their labors, first inside and 
th?n outside the Church, to awaken evangelical life 
among all ranks of the national clergy'. But English 
influence was, during this period, too often used in a 
wrong direction. English clergymen were frequently 
thrust into the best Church livings in Ireland, and 
Irish bishoprics were filled with Englishmen, while the 
earnest parochial clergymen of the land were neglected 
and despised. Dean Swift’s witty description of the 
honest clergymen nominated to Irish bishoprics being 
waylaid and murdered by highwaymen on llounslow 
Heath, who then seized on their ‘letters patent,’ came 
to Ireland, and got consecrated in their room, shows 
what was thought, in some quarters, of many of the 
men who, at this dark tera, bore spiritual rule in the 
Church of Ireland” (Wright’s Lecture on the Church 
of I reland). 

Perhaps no other Church in Christendom was so 
much influenced by the Wesleyan revival of religion. 
The evangelical leaven imparted at that time, assist- 
ed by an intense antipathy to Romanism, has spread 
through the whole Church, so that ritualistic and 
Broad- Church elements are almost unknown within 
its bounds. This fact is the more striking as some of 
VIII. — X x 


the most influential prelates have been, raid are, Eng- 
lishmen of High-Church tendencies. 

By Gladstone’s disendovvment act, known as the 
“Irish Church Aet, 18G9,” it was provided that on and 
after Jan. 1, 1871, the “Church of Ireland” should cease 
to be established by law. A corporate body, named 
“The Commissioners of Church Temporalities in Ire- 
land,” was appointed, to which body were intrusted all 
the temporal affairs of the Church, until such time as 
the representative body of the Church should supersede - 
them. This corporation was endowed with extensive 
powers for carrying out the purposes of the act. They 
were freed from all restraints of the courts of law, and 
received all the powers and privileges of the High 
Court of Chancery. The Commissioners were ordered to . 
ascertain the amount of yearly income which any per- 
son, lay or clerical, derived from the Church, and “ to 
pay each year to every such holder an annuity equal 
to the amount of yearly income so ascertained.” This 
annuity was to continue, even though the annuitant 
should become disabled from attending to the duties 
of his office, “by age, sickness, or permanent infirmity, 
or by any cause other than his own wilful default.” All 
laws were repealed which would hamper the Church 
in exercising the utmost freedom in self-government. 
The ecclesiastical laws existing at the time of the dis- 
establishment, including “articles, doctrines, rites, rules, 
discipline, and ordinances,” were to continue binding on 
the members of the Church, as if subsisting “by con- 
tract;” except that nothing in these law's “should be 
construed to confer on any bishop, etc., any coercive ju- 
j risdiction whatsoever.” It was also provided that no 
I change should be made in the laws of the Church, so 
I as to deprive any person of his annuity, 
j By a convention of bishops and representatives of 
the Church, held in Dublin in 1870, a constitution was 
' agreed upon. The preamble asserts a belief in the in- 
spiration of the Bible, and a determination to preserve 
the “three orders of bishops, priests or presbyters, and 
deacons in the sacred ministry.” It contains also a 
protest “against all those innovations in doctrine and 
worship which, at the Reformation, this Church did dis- 
own and reject." 

The supreme court of the Church is the General 
Synod. It consists of three orders, viz., bishops, clergy, 
and laity. It is also divided into two houses, viz., the 
House of Bishops and the House of Representatives; 
the former consisting of all archbishops and bishops, 
the latter of 208 representatives of the clergy and 41G 
representatives of the laity, all these to be elected for 
three years. “ The bishops shall vote separately from 
the representatives; and no question shall be deemed 
to have been carried, unless there be in its favor a ma- 
jority of the bishops present, if they desire to vote, 
and a majority of the clerical and lay representatives 
present, voting conjointly or by orders; provided al- 
ways that if a question affirmed by a majority of the 
clerical or lay representatives, voting conjointly or by 
orders, but rejected by a majority of the bishops, shall 
be reaffirmed at the next ordinary session of the Gen- 
eral Synod by not less than two thirds of the clerical 
[ and lay representatives, it shall be deemed to be carried, 
unless it be negatived by not less than two-thirds of the 
then entire existing order of bishops.” The General 
Synod has power to alter, abrogate, or enact canons, and 
to control any regulation made by a diocesan synod, so 
far as may be necessary to provide against the admis- 
sion of any principle inexpedient for the common iuter- 
I est of the Church. 

j The Diocesan Synod consists of the bishop, of the 
beneficed anti licensed clergymen of the diocese, and at 
least one layman, called synodsman, for each parish in 
the diocese. The bishop, clergy, and laity sit and de- 
bate and vote together; but six members of either or- 
der may call, upon any question, for a vote by orders. 
If the bishop dissent from the other two orders with re- 
spect to any proposed act of the synod, all action there- 


PHOT. EPISC. CII. OF IRELAND 090 PHOT. UNION OF GERMANY 


upon is suspended until the next annual meeting of the 
synod; and should such act be then reaffirmed by two 
thirds of each of the other orders, and the bishop still 
dissent, it is submitted to the General Synod, whose de- 
cision is final. 

The representative body consists of the archbishops 
and bishops, of one .clerical and two lay members for 
each diocese, and of such number of other persons elect- 
ed as shall be equal to the number of dioceses. This 
body is a Board of Trustees, holding the temporalities 
of the Church. 

There is a Committee of Patronage in each diocese, 
consisting of the bishop, one lay and two clerical mem- 
bers. In each parish there are three persons named 
parochial nominators. When an incumbent is to be 
appointed, the Committee of Patronage and the paro- 
chial nominators form a Board of Nomination, presided 
over by the bishop, who has an independent and also a 
casting vote. This board nominates a clergyman to 
the bishop, who, if he decline to institute the nominee, 
must give him, if so required, his reasons in writing for 
so declining. Bishops are nominated bv the diocesan 
synods, and confirmed by the Bench of Bishops. 

The disestablished Church has already taken advan- 
tage of its freedom to revise carefully the Book of Com- 
mon Prayer. Some extracts from the preface to the 
Revised Prayer-book, to be printed during this year 
(1878), will show the object and animus of the revi- 
sion : “When tliis Church of Ireland ceased to be es- 
tablished by law, and thereupon some alteration in our 
public liturgy became needful, it was earnestly desired 
by many that occasion should be taken for considering 
what changes the lapse of years or exigency of our 
present times and circumstances might have rendered 
expedient.” “We now afresh declare that the posture 
of kneeling prescribed to all communicants is not ap- 
pointed for any purpose of adoration of Christ’s body 
and blood under the veils of bread and wine, but only 
fora signification of our humble ami grateful acknowl- 
edgment, and for the avoiding of such profanation and 
disorder as might ensue if some such reverent and uni- 
form posture were not enjoined.” “In the Office for 
Visitation of the Sick we have deemed it fitting that 
absolution should be pronounced to penitents in the 
form appointed in the Office for the Iloly Communion.” 
The portions of the Apocrypha which were in the fa- 
ble of Lessons have been expunged, and the rubric has 
been omitted which directed the use on certain days of 
the Athanasian Creed. 

The following are the numerical statistics of the 
Irish Protestant Episcopal Church as compared with 
other religions denominations in the island. The total 
number of clergymen is about 1900. 


The act of disestablishment technically decreed also 
disendowment, but by far the greater part of the en- 
dowment of the Church was absorbed by the compen- 
sations granted. Most of those who were entitled to 
annuities commuted their income, or compounded with 
the ecclesiastical commissioners for a fixed sum, so ar- 
ranged as to leave a large capital sum for church en- 
dowment, and this endowment was augmented by large 
donations, amounting, in the first five years of disestab- 
lishment, to £1,180.108. As an example of composi- 
tion, the bishop of Derry was entitled to an annual 
income of £‘lo,781. Upon compounding, lie received 
£101,493, leaving a balance to the Endowment Fund 
of the Church of £'100,288. The present endowment 
of the Church is upwards of £‘7.000,000. 

See 1 >r. Todd, ,S7. Pat rich ; K illen, Ecclesiastical l / is- 
tony of Ireland; King, Church History of Ireland; 
Fronde, History of Enyland; Godkin, Ireland and her 
Churches; pamphlets by Dr. C. II. II. Wright, on The 
Divinity School of Trinity Colteye, The Church of I re- 
land, etc.; The Irish Ecclesiastical Gazette, front 1871 to 
1878; The 1 risk Church Directory; Lanigan, Ecclesias- 
tical History of Ireland. (G. C. J.) 

Protestant Episcopal Free-Churcli Asso- 
ciation. This body, formed in 1875 within the pale 
of the Protestant Episcopal Church, advocates the free- 
seat system for houses of worship, and has grown to 
such large proportions in the short time of its existence 
that it now goes beyond its originally intended mission 
and assumes the work of Church extension also, i. e. it 
affords help to feeble churches, provided they do not rent 
or sell pews. The secretary of the society reported at 
its third annual meeting (May 13, 1878 ) 285 clerical. 13 
life, and P2f> annual contributors. Twenty-one of the 
bishops of the Church are patrons. 

Protestant Friends. See Fp.ee Congrega- 
tions ; Rationalism. 

Protestant Methodists. See Methodism; 
M ETiioinsr Phot est ants. 

Protestant Union of Germany is a body com- 
posed of the members of the Evangelical Protestant. 
Church. It has been in existence since 18iS3. lis aim 
is the complete separation of the Church from the State; 
a synodical Church system for all Protestant Germany; 
the union of religion and intellectual culture, faith and 
science, i. e. the advancement of the Christian religion 
in harmony with free investigations and ever-advancing 
intellectual culture, and the wan ing against everything 
hierarchical as well as against the radical denials of re- 
ligion. It was projected in I8d3 in the duchy of Baden, 
and in 18t>4 its headquarters were established at Heidel- 
berg, where the annual meetings of the Union, called 


PROVINCES. 



RF.l.IGIOTS PROFESSIONS. 


hristinn 

J. 


Roman Catholics. 

Protestant Episcopal. I 

Non-Episcopal 
Protest.™ Is. 

Other C 
Pcrsu: 

- J 


1*61. 

1871. 

1SG1. 1 1ST). 1 

1861. I 1S71. 

) '61. 

1871. 

lij|. 

I IS7). 

Leinster 

1,252,553 

l,14t,40t 

1S0,5S7 170,879 

21.550 20,291 

2,007 

3,210 

338 

185 

Munster 

1,420,070 

1,302,475 

80,860 77,306 

10,050 ’ 9,622 

2,564 

929 

2 

10 

Ulster 

900,6 1 3 

894,525 

391,315 398,705 

543,421 ' 522,774 

12.835 

14,331 

52 

! 63 

Connaught 

806,023 

803,532 

40,595 30,345 

6,127 l 5,551 

389 

565 

1 


Total 

4,51 15, ‘^05 

4. 1 4 1.933 

<*93,357 | 083,295 

581, 1.84 ! 55*238 

18,395 

19,035 

393 

25s - ' 


Decrease, 303,332 

Decrease, 10,062 , 

Decrease, 22,916 

Iucrea 

*e, 6-10 

Deere 

ase. 135 1 

Rate per cent 

8.06 

1.45 | 

3.94 

2.U_ 

34.35 


The only divinity school in Ireland available for the- 
ological students of the Protestant Episcopal Church 
is that of Trinity College. The Church lias no official 
voice in the management of this school, but until very 
lately no one could obtain a theological degree from it 
without signing the Thirty-nine Articles. In Nov., 
187(5, a statute was passed by the senate of the univer- 
sity abolishing this test and admitting even laymen to 
degrees. The board of Trinity College has also lately 
provided that any Christian Church of the land may 
establish a theological faculty alongside that of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church. 


the Protest an tentt ty, were held and all business of the 
body was transacted. At present the headquarters of 
the Union are at Berlin, and since the unification of 
Germany the purpose is to organize a German National 
Church, for which the State shall apportion a tax upon 
every member and recognise the organism by collecting 
the tax so obtained. Every person belonging to this 
Church of the nation is to enjoy liberty of thought and 
utterance, giving even greater breadth of freedom than 
the members of the Anglican communion enjoy. See 
Dr. Lindsay’s Letter from Germany in Zion's Herald , 
Boston, Oct. 5, 187G. Sec also Phpssia. (.1. II. W.) 


PROTESTANTISM 


PROTEST A N TEN TA G 691 


Protestantentag. See Protestant Union of 
Germany. 

Protestantism is the advocacy of the authority 
of the Sacred Scriptures above and without any otiicr. 
The Romanist and Jew hold to tradition (q. v.) as hav- 
ing the warrant of authority, but the Protestants refuse 
to yield to any arguments not clearly and directly drawn 
from the sacred Word of God. There arise, of course, 
various questions as to what this Word is, and how it is 
to be interpreted. In regard to the former, the Protes- 
tant holds that the Holy Bible is composed only of the 
canonical writings of the Old and New Testament [see 
Canon], while the Roman Catholics also ascribe canon- 
ical authority to the so-called Apocrypha of the Old 
Testament. See Apocrypha. The right of interpre- 
tation the Homan Catholic Church claims to be hers 
alone, while the Protestant Church concedes this right 
in a stricter sense to every one who possesses the requi- 
site gifts and attainments, but in a more comprehen- 
sive sense to every Christian who seeks after salvation, 
proceeding upon the principle that Scripture is its own 
interpreter according to the analogia Jidei. See In- 
tekpretation. With this is connected the assump- 
tion of the Homan Catholic Church that the Vulgate 
version, which it sanctions, is to be preferred to all other 
versions as the authentic one, and is thus to a certain 
extent of equal importance with the original, while 
Protestants regard the original only as authentic. 

The object of Protestant Christianity is freedom from 
that ecclesiasticism which the primitive Church was 
unacquainted with, and which owes its origin and de- 
velopment to the mediaeval Church. “The Reforma- 
tion, viewed in its most general character,” says Ull- 
mann (Reformers before the Reformation, i, 13), “was 
the reaction of Christianity as Gospel against Christian- 
ity as law.” It is therefore inconsistent for Anglican 
Iligh-Chnrchmen and their followers on this side of the 
Atlantic to assert that Protestantism is simply negatice. 
It is positive as well, for it not only discards one inter- 
pretation of Christianity, but espouses another. It denies 
the right of the Church to stand in authority of the indi- 
vidual, but it gives a circumscribed and well-dctined lib- 
erty to the individual — not absolute license. “ The lib- 
erty which the Reformers prized first and chiefly,” says 
Prof. Fisher (Hist, of the Ref p. 9), “was not the ab- 
stract right to choose one's creed without constraint, 
but a liberty that flows from the enforced appropriation 
by the soul of truth in harmony with its inmost nature 
and its conscious necessities.” The nature of Protes- 
tantism, the essence of Protestantism, the principle of 
Protestantism, is freedom, but freedom only from the re- 
straints of man, from a tyranny of conscience, from all 
systems which had previous to the great Reforma- 
tion been imposed upon man without any divine war- 
rant. It is freedom on the basis of obedience to God 
and to his holy Word. It is that freedom which con- 
sists in the cheerful and ready obedience to the divine 
Word and to the divine Will. It is the freedom of the 
republic, and not the license of the commune; it is the 
liberty of common-sense, and not the enthusiasm of the 
idealist. “The principle of Protestantism,” says Dr. 
Sohaff, “is evangelical freedom in Christ, its aim to 
bring every soul into direct relation to Christ. Roman- 
ism puts the Church first and Christ next; Protestant- 
ism reverses the order. Romanism says, Where the 
Church is (meaning thereby the papal organization), 
there is Christ; Protestantism says, Where Christ is, 
there is the Church ; Romanism says, Where the Cath- 
olic tradition is, there is the Bible and the infallible rule 
of faith; Protestantism says, Where the Bible is, there 
is the true tradition and the infallible rule of faith; 
Romanism says, Where good works are, there are faith 
and justification, Protestantism says, Where faith is, 
there are justification and good works. Romanism throws 
Mary and the saints between Christ and the believer; 
Protestantism goes directly to the Saviour. Romanism 
proceeds from the visible Church (the papacy) to the in- 


visible Church ; Protestantism from the invisible Church 
(the true body of Christ) to the visible; Romanism 
works from without, and from the general to the partic- 
ular; Protestantism from within, and from the individ- 
ual to the general. Protestantism is a protest against 
the tyranny of man on the basis of the authority of 
God. It proclaims the Bible to be the only infallible 
rule of Christian faith and practice, and teaches justifi- 
cation by grace alone, as apprehended by a living faith. 
It holds up Christ as all in all, whose word is all-suffi- 
cient to teach, whose grace is all-sufficient to save. Its 
mission is to realize the universal priesthood and king- 
ship of all believers by bringing them all into direct 
union and fellowship with Christ” (Christian Intelli- 
gencer, Jan. 14, 1869). Dr. Hagenbach objects to this 
reduction of Protestantism to one fundamental princi- 
ple, and offers three as its basis — viz. (I) the real prin- 
ciple, living faith in Christ; (2) the formal principle, 
the authority of the Scriptures as a rule of faith; (3) 
the social principle, forming a community, of which 
Christ is the individual head, and of which all the mem- 
bers are priests unto God (see Theol. Studien tt. Kritiken , 
January. 1854, art. i). In this division every essential 
characteristic of Protestantism seems to have been con- 
sidered bv this master theologian. 

Romanists charge against Protestantism that its re- 
sistance of dogmatism makes it synonymous with scep- 
ticism (q. v.) and unbelief. This is very unfair. Prot- 
estantism reposes implicitly on what it believes to be 
the divine authority of the inspired writers of the 
books of Holy Scripture; whereas scepticism and un- 
belief acknowledge no authority external to the mind, 
no communication superior to reason and science. Prot- 
estantism, although by its attitude of independence it 
seems similar to the other two systems, is really sepa- 
rated by a difference of kind, and not merely of degree. 
“ The spiritual earnestness which characterized the Ref- 
ormation,” says Farrar (Crit. Hist, of Free Thought, p. 
7), “prevented t lie changes in religious belief from de- 
veloping into scepticism proper ; and the theology of the 
Reformation is accordingly an example of defence and 
reconstruction as well as of revulsion.” Protestantism 
was a form of free thought, but only in the sense of a 
I return from human authority to that of Scripture. It 
I was equally a reliance on a historic religion, equally 
| an appeal to the immemorial doctrine of the Church 
with Roman Catholicism, but it conceived that the New 
Testament itself contained a truer source than tradition 
for ascertaining the apostolic declaration of it. 

Some writers — Romanists, and even some within the 
Protestant fold, but hardly of the faith — have declared 
“ Protestantism a failure.” They have attempted to 
show that its territory is principally within the limits 
it acquired in the period of the great Reformation, and 
that its prospects for extension are lessening every day. 
Macaulay has treated this question in a spirited essay, 
in which with certain reasons which are pertinent and 
valuable is coupled a singular denial that the knowl- 
edge of religion is progressive, or at all dependent upon 
the general enlightenment of the human mind. Apart 
from his paradoxical speculation on this last point, his 
statement of the grounds of the arrest of the progress of 
Protestantism, though eloquent and valuable, is quite 
incomplete. The principal causes of this arrest have 
been thus ably pointed out by Prof. Fisher (Hist, of the 
Ref. p.4I5 sq.): (1.) The ferment that attended the rise 
| of Protestantism led to a crystallizing of parties, and 
thus incited to raise a bander in the way of its fur- 
ther progress. (2.) The political arrangements which 
were adopted in different countries, in consequence of 
the religious division, all tended to confine Protestant- 
ism within the limits which it had early attained. (3.) 
The want of the spirit of propagandism. Romanism is 
always aggressive; Protestantism, generally speaking, 

1 maintains only that which comes within its sphere. (4.) 
The counter-reformation of the Romish Church and its 
I avowed determination to remove gross abuses have stayed 


PROTESTANTISM 


602 


PROTESTANTISM 


but loo often the step of aggression from llie Protestants. 
(5.) Tin* disjointed condition of Protestantism; its con- 
stant wmTaring.s of brother with brother; the absence 
of a tolerant spirit for difference of opinion in non-es- 
sentials, have facilitated the advance of their common 
enemy, stiil further strengthened by perfect organiza- 
tion. ((5.) The inability of Protestantism to turn to the 
best account the wide diversity of talents and char- 
acter which is constantly developing in evangelical 
Christianity. In Romanism Ignatius and Bellarmine 
can labor side by side. In Protestantism Wesley and 
Wbitelield must become the founders of new sects. (7.) 
The disposition of races. Montesquieu. in his Esprit 
lies [.iris, remarks that Protestantism is prevalent in 
Northern, Catholicism in Southern Europe, and explains 
most judiciously, •* C’est que les peuples du nord out et 
nuront toujours un esprit d’independance et de liberte, 
que n’ont pas les peuples tin midi.” 

If Protestantism be a failure, it lias its failure in its 
successes. These are well set forth in the following ex- 
tract from Prof. Fisher’s address at the Evangelical Al- 
liance Congress ill lS7d : 

“(1.) Its whole character is favorable to civil and relig- 
ious freedom ami the promotion of the multiplied advan- 
tages which freedom brings in its train. Under Homan 
Catholicism man was deprived of his personal rights; 
under Protestantism he regained them. The progress of 
civilization, in the long course of history, is marked by 
the growing respect paid to the rights oi' the individual, 
ami the ampler room afforded for the unfolding of his 
powers, and for the realizing of his aspirations. There 
was something imposing in those huge despotisms — 
Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Persia— in which a multitude of 
human beings were welded together under an absolute 
master. Such empires were an advance upon a primitive 
state of things, where every man’s hand was against his 
neighbor. Yet they were a crude form of crystallization, 
and they were intrinsically weak. The little cities of 
Gieece, with their freer political life, and the larger scope 
which they allowed for t he activity and the culture of the 
individual — communities of citizens proved more than a 
match for the colossal might of the East. Among the 
(freeks and Romans, however, although governments of 
law had supplanted naked force, the state was supreme, 
and to the State the individual must yield an exclusive 
allegiance. It was a great gain when the Christian 
church arose, and when the individual became conscious 
of an allegiance of the soul to a higher kingdom— an alle- 
giance which did not supersede his loyalty to the civil au- 
thority, lmt limited while it sanctioned this obligation. 
Hut the Church itself at length erected a supremacy over 
the individual inconsistent with the free action of reason 
and conscience, and even stretched that supremacy so far 
as to dwarf and overshadow civil society. It reared a 
theocracy, and subjected everything to its unlimited sway. 
The Reformation gave back to the individual his proper 
autonomy. The result is a self-respect, an intellectual 
nctivitv, a development of inventive capacity and of en- 
ergy of character, which give rise to such achievements 
in science, in the ticld of political action, and in every 
work where self-reliance and personal force are called 
for, as would be impossible under the opposite system. 
In the period immediately following the Reformation 
signal proofs were afforded of this truth. The little states 
of Holland, for example, proved their ability to cope with 
the Spanish empire, to gain their independence, and to 
acquire an opulence and a culture which recalled the best 
days of the Grecian republics. They beat back t licit* in- 
vaders from their soil, and sent forth their victorious na- 
vies upon every sea, while nt home they were educating 
the common people, fostering science ami learning, and 
building upuniversities famous throughout Europe. Eng- 
land, in the age of Elizabeth, proved ilnit the native vigor 
of her people was leinforced in a lcmai liable degree bv 
the stimulus derived from the peculiar genius of the Prot- 
estant religion. It was the period when she was acquir- 
ing her naval ascendency ; the period, likewise, of Shake- 
speare, Bacon, and Raleigh. Wlm can doultr that the 
1 iiiieil States of America are, not indeed wholly, but in 
great pait, indebted for their position, as contrasted with 
that of Mexico and the political communities of South 
America, to this expansion of the power of the individual, 
which is the uniform and legitimate fruit of Protestant 
principles r 

*'(-•) The spirit of Protestantism favors universal edu- 
cation. The lay Christian, who is to read and interpret 
the Scriptures, and to take part in the administration of 
government in the Church, must not be an illiterate per- 
son. Knowledge, mental enlightenment, under the Prot- 
estant system, are indispensable. The weight of personal 
responsibility for the culture ot' his intellectual and spir- 
itual nature which rests on every individual makes edu- 
cation a matter of universal coucern. Far more has been 


done in Protestant than in Roman Catholic countries for 
the instruction of the whole people. I; is enough to refer 
to the common -school system of Holland and of New 
England, and to Protestant Germany, to show how natu- 
ral it is for the disciples of the Reformation to provide for 
this great interest of society. 

“The free circulation of* the Bible in Protestant lauds 
has disseminated an instrument of intellectual as well as 
of religious improvement, the good effect of which is im- 
measurable. As a repository of history, biography, poe- 
try, ethics, as well as a monitor to the conscience* and a 
guide to heaven, the Bible has exerted an influence on the 
common mind, in all Protestant nations, which it would 
he difficult to exaggerate. The practice of interpreting 
the Billie and of exploring its pages for fresh truth affords 
a mental discipline of a very high order. How ofieii 
have the Scriptures carried into the cottage of t lie peas- 
ant a breadth and refinement of intellect which otherwise 
would never have existed, and which no agency employed 
by the Roman Catholic system, in rehuion to the same 
social class, has ever been able to engender! 

“ (3.) That Protestantism should Tie more friendly to 
civil and religions liberty than the Roman Catholic sys- 
tem would seem to follow unavoidably from the nature 
of the two forms of faith. Protestantism involves, as a 
vital element, an assertion of personal rights with respect 
to religion, the highest concern of man. Moreover, Prot- 
estantism casts off the yoke of priestly rule, and puts ec- 
clesiastical government, in due measure, into the hands 
of the laity. As we have already said, it is a revolt of the 
laity against a usmped ecclesiastical authority. The 
Church of Rome teaches men that their first and most 
binding duty is to bow with unquestioning docility and 
obedience to their heaven-appointed superiors. Ilmv is 
it possible that Protestantism should not foster a habit 
of mind which is incompatible with a patient endurance 
of tyranny at the hands of the civil power? How can 
Protestantism, inspiring a lively sense of personal rights, 
fail to bring with it, eventually at least, a corresponding 
respect for the rights of others, ‘and a disposition to secure 
their rights in forms of goverment and in legislation? 
llow can men who are accustomed to judge for them- 
selves aud act independently in Church affairs manifest a 
slavish spirit in the political sphere? On the contrary, 
the habit of mind which the Roman Catholic nnrtnic 
tends to beget leads to servility in the subject towards 
the ruler asTong as an alliance is kept up between sover- 
eign and priest. It is true that the Church of Rome can 
accommodate itself to any of the various types of political 
society. Her doctors have at times preached ail extreme 
theory of popular rights and of the sovereignty of the 
people. While the State is subordinate to the Church 
any form of government may be tolerated; and there 
may be an interest on the part of the priesthood in incul- 
cating political theories which operate, in their judgment, 
to weaken the obligations of loyalty towards tlie civil 
magiutrate, and to exalt by contrast the divine authority 
of the Church. When the civil magistracy presumes to 
exercise prerogatives, or to ordain measures, which ate 
deemed hurtful to the ecclesiastical interest, a radical 
doctrine of revolution, even a doctrine of tyrannicide, has 
been heard from the pulpits of the most conservative of 
religions bodies. Generally speaking, however, the Church 
of Rome is the natural ally and supporter of arbitrary 
principles of government. ‘The prevailing sentiment, the 
instinctive feeling, in that Church is that the body of the 
people are incapable of self-guidance, and that to give 
them the reins in civil affairs would imperil the stability 
of ecclesiastical control. To this reasoning it is often re- 
died by advocates of the Roman Catholic system that 
’rotostantism opens a door to boundless tyranny by leav- 
ing the temporal power without any check from the ec- 
clesiastical. The State, it is said, proves omnipotent ; the 
civil magistrate is delivered from the wholesome dread 
of ecclesiastical censure, and is left free to exercise all 
kinds of tyranny, without the powerful restraint to which 
he was subject under the mediaeval system. lie may 
even violate the rights of conscience with impunity. The 
State, it is sometimes said, when released from its subor- 
dinate relation to the Church, is a godless institution. It 
becomes, like the pagan stales of antiquity, absolute in 
the province of religion ns in secular affairs, and an irre- 
sistible engine of oppression. It must be admitted that 
Protestant ‘rulers lmve been guilty of tyranny; that, in 
many instances, they cannot be cleared of the* charge of 
unwarrantably interfering with the rights of conscience, 
and of attempting to govern the belief and regulate the 
forms of worship of their subjects in a manner destruc- 
tive of true liberty. The question js, whether these in- 
stances of misgovernment are the proper fruit of the Prot- 
estant spirit, or something at variance with it, and tbcie- 
I’ore nn evil of a temporary and exceptional character 
The imputation that the State, as constituted under Prot- 
estantism, is heathen depends on the false assumption 
that the Church and the priesthood, as established in the 
Roman Catholic system, are identical, or so nearly identi- 
cal that one cannot subsist without the other. It is as- 
sumed that when the supervision and control which the 
Church of Rome aspires to exercise over the civil author- 
ity me shaken rff, nothing is left but an unchristian or nu- 


PROTESTANTS 


693 


PROTESTANTS 


tichristinu institution. The fact that a layman can be as 
good a Christian as a priest is overlooked. The Christian 
laity who make up a commonwealth, and the Christian 
magistrates who are set. over them, are quite as able to 
discern and quite as likely to respect personal rights, and 
to act for the common weal, as if they were subject to an 
organized priesthood. Since the Reformation a layman 
has been the head of the English Church and State, and 
civil magistrates in England have borne a part in ecclesi- 
astical government. Without entering into the question 
of the righteousness or expediency of establishments, or 
broaching any of the controverted topics connected with 
this subject, we simply assert here that the civil govern- 
ment of England is not to he branded as unchristian or 
antichristian on account of this arrangement. As far as 
the administration of public affairs in that country has 
been characterized by justice and by a regard for the' well- 
being of all orders of people, the government has beeu 
Christian — as truly Christian, to say the least, as if the su- 
premacy had been virtually lodged with the pope, or with 
an aristocracy of priests. 

“History verities the proposition that Protestantism is 
favorable to civil and religions freedom. The long and 
successful struggle for independence in the Netherlands, 
the conflict which established English liberty against the 
despotic influence of the house of Stuart, the growth and 
establishment of the Republic of the United States, are 
eveuts so intimately connected with Protestantism, and 
so dependent upon it, that we may point to them as mon- 
uments of the true spirit and tendency of the Reformed 
religion. That religious persecution has darkened the 
annals of the Protestaut faith, and that the earliest lead- 
ers in the Reformation failed to recognise distinctly the 
> riu ci pie of liberty of conscience, must be admitted. But 
Protestantism, as is claimed ai the present day both by its 
friends and foes, was illogical, inconsistent with its own 
geuius and principles, whenever it attempted to coerce 
conscience by punishing religions dissent with the sword 
and the fagot. Protestants illustrate the real character 
and tendency of their system by deploring whatever acts 
of religious persecution the predecessors who bore their 
name were guilty of, and by the open and sincere advo- 
cacy of religions liberty. Liberty of thought and freedom 
of speech and of the press, however restricted they may 
have been by Protestants in times past, it is the tendency 
of Protestantism to uphold.” 

See Schenkel, Das )Vesen lies Protestanfismus (2d ed. 
Schaffh. 1862); Frank, Gesch. tier jirof. Theol. (Leips. 
1862-65, 2 vols.) ; Wylie, Hist, of Prof . (Lond. 1874 sq.) ; 
Gieseler, Eecles. Hist. iv, 131 sq. ; Hase, Ch. Hist. p. 437 
sq.; Hagenhach, Hist, of JJoctr. (see Index). (J. H. W.) 

Protestants is a collective name for all genuine 
believers in evangelical Christianity — those who protest 
against the errors and renounce the communion of the 
Romish Church. It was originally applicable to the 
followers of Luther, but is now generally applied to all 
Christians not embraced in the Roman Catholic, Greek, 
or Oriental churches. See Reformation. 

At first those who. in consequence of the religions in- 
novations of Luther anil his consorts in Germany and 
Switzerland, stepped out of the Catholic community 
were designated hv no general name; they were called 
Lutherans, Zwinglians, Anabaptists, etc., etc. They re- 
ceived their collective name only in 1529 at the second 
l>iet of Spires. The first Diet of Spires had been held 
iu 1526. There it had been resolved, “ Let every state 
of the empire conduct its affairs in such a way as it 
thinks justifiable before God and the emperor.” It was 
an edict of tolerance, with reservation of the imperial 
rights. The Roman Catholic party had been compelled 
to make concessions by the ambiguous attitude of the 
house of Wittelshach. As soon, however, as the Bava- 
rian dukes embraced more unequivocally the Catholic 
cause, and had made a close alliance with the ecclesias- 
tical princes, the emperor Charles V, in order to satisfy 
the Romanists, resolved upon more energetic measures 
against the innovators. In the spring of 1527, the Ro- 
manists had already formed a secret league at Breslau, 
yet until the emperor was successful in Italy no overt 
measures could he thought of. After he had gained a 
complete victory in Italy, the policy of repression was 
boldly avowed, and in March, 1529, the second Diet of 
Spires was convoked for this purpose by the emperor. 
Ostensibly 7 it was called to secure aid from the German 
princes against the Turks, and to devise the most effect- 
ual means by which to allay the religious disputes. Its 
real object, however, appeared when Ferdinand, arch- 


duke of Austria, and other popish princes, decreed that 
iu the countries which had embraced the new religion 
it should be lawful to continue in it till the meeting of 
a council, hut that no Roman Catholic should he al- 
lowed to turn Lutheran, and that the reformers should 
deliver nothing in their sermons contrary to the re- 
ceived doctrine of the Church. It was furthermore spe- 
cially' decreed, (1) that it shall be forbidden nowhere in 
Germany 7 to say 7 or attend mass; (2) the preaching of 
the doctrine of Zwingli about the Eucharist shall he 
prohibited: (3) the Anabaptists shall not be tolerated; 
(4) libels against religious parties and about religious 
matters are interdicted. These articles did not meet 
the pretensions of Luther’s followers. The Lutheran 
states asserted that in matters of faith a majority of 
votes was not decisive, and that the resolutions of 1526, 
unanimously voted, could only 7 be abrogated by a unani- 
mous vote. They, in consequence, protested against 
the resolutions of the diet, and it was thus that the fol- 
lowers of the Reformation were in derision called Prot- 
estants. They declared their readiness to obey the em- 
peror and the diet in all ‘‘dutiful and possible matters,” 
hut against any' order considered by them repugnant to 
“God and his holy Word, to their soul’s salvation, and 
their good conscience,” they' appealed to the emperor, to 
the free council, and to all impartial Christian judges. 
The essential principles involved in the protest against 
this decree and in the arguments on which it was 
grounded were (1) that the Catholic Church cannot he 
the judge of the Reformed churches, which are no longer 
in communion with her; (2) that the authority' of the 
Bible is supreme, and above that of councils and bish- 
ops; (3) that the Bible is not to be interpreted and used 
according to tradition, or use, and wont, hut to he ex- 
plained by' means of itself, its own language, and con- 
i nection. As this doctrine — that the Bible, explained 
independently of all external tradition, is the sole au- 
thority' in all matters of faith and discipline— is really 
the foundation-stone of the Reformation, the term Prot- 
estant was extended from those who signed the Spires 
, protest to all who embraced the fundamental principle 
1 involved in it. 

I The protesting parties were as follows: John, the 
elector of Saxony, the landgrave of Hesse, the mar- 
grave of Brandenburg-Bayreuth. a duke of Brunswick- 
Liineburg, a prince of Anhalt, a number of Frankish and 
Suabian imperial cities — Nuremberg, Ulm, Kempten, 
Nordliugen, Heilbronn, Ileutlingen, Isny, St. Gall, Weis- 
senburg. Windsheim, Strasburg, Constance, Liiulau, and 
Memmingen. The four last named had joined the pro- 
test on account of the interdiction ofZwingli’s doctrine, 
which interdiction met with the entire approval of Lu- 
ther and his zealous followers. The latter also accepted 
the article against the Anabaptists, and, while Luther 
approved of the protest, lie exhorted at the same time 
the Protestant powers to destroy the impious Anabap- 
tists with fire and sword, and accept the resolutions of 
the diet in this respect. Now, the new doctrines being 
in possession of a name which indicated their common 
hostile relation to the Roman Church, the schism be- 
came less curable, anil reconciliation was thenceforth less 
practicable than ever. See Reformation. 

The term Protestant, which thus came to he synony- 
mous with non-Romanist, was applied, first, as a conven- 
ient historical term designating collectively 7 all who 
deny the usurped supremacy of the pope; secondly, as a 
term of controversy 7 implying (1) a condemnation of al- 
leged Romish errors and superstitions, and sometimes 
(2) a y 7 et further assertion of certain tenets supposed to 
be of the essence of Protestantism. This essential prin- 
ciple of Protestantism is the sufficiency and authority 
of the Scriptures as a religious rule of faith and practice. 
Those, on the one hand, who deny its sufficiency 7 are not 
iu principle Protestants. The former include not only 7 
the Roman Catholics, but all those who maintain the 
authority of the Church to speak for God, either in add- 
ing to the doctrines of the Bible or in giving them a 


PROTESTANTS 


G94 


PROTESTANTS 


binding and authoritative interpretation; and those, on 
the other hand, who deny its divine authority are not 
properly Protestants; and the latter embrace all those 
who hold that man’s unaided reason is the all-sufficient 
guide and standard in religions faith and practice, and 
that the Bible is only to be used like other books — as a 
light, but not as an authority. In HJ5U it was stated 
in Milton’s 'I'reutise of Ciril Power in Ecclesiastical 
Cases: "It is the general consent of all sound Protes- 
tant writers that neither traditions, councils, nor canons 
of any visible Church, much less edicts of any magis- 
trate or civil session, but the Scripture only, can be the 
final judge or rule in matters of religion, and that only 
in the conscience of every Christian to himself. . . . 
With the name of Protestant hath ever been received 
this doctrine, which prefers the Scripture before the 
Church, and acknowledges none hut the Scripture sole 
interpreter of itself to the conscience. If by the Prot- 
estant doctrine we believe the Scripture— not for the 
Church’s saying, but for its own as the Word of Cod- 
then ought we to believe what in our conscience we 
apprehend the Scripture to say, though the visible 
Church with all her doctors gainsay. ... To interpret 
the Scripture convincingly to his own conscience none 
is able hut himself, guided by the Holy Spirit ; and not 
so guided, none than he to himself can be a worse de- 
ceiver. . . . This is not the doctrine of the Church of 
England. If the Church have authority in controver- 
sies of faith, it is a matter of conscience to submit one’s 
private judgment to that authority. There coexist in 
the Church of God two authorities mutually corrobora- 
tive of each other, and, so far as individual interpreta- 
tion of each, mutually corrective of each other — the 
inspired Word and the inspired Church ; the inspired 
Word receiving its canonicitv, its interpretation, from 
the inspired Church, and the inspired Church tested in 
its development by the inspired Word” (Bishop Forbes, 
on Thirty-nine A rt. p. 95). Of course, since Protestant- 
ism recognises the right of private judgment in the 
interpretation of Scripture, it allows a wide divergence 
of theological views, ami such a divergence actually 
exists. At the same time, the differences in the be- 
lief of the various Protestant sects generally relate to 
minor points, as of worship, ceremonial, and form of ec- 
clesiastical government, nearly all the great Protestant 
denominations being substantially agreed respecting the 
fundamental points of doctrine as taught by the Word of 
God. Mr.Chillingworth, addressing himself to a writer 
in favor of the Church of Borne, speaks of the religion 
of the Protestants in the following excellent terms: 

“Know then, sir, that when 1 say the religion of Prot- 
estants is in prudence to be preferred before yours, on the 
one side, I do not understand by your religion the doc- 
trine of Bcllannine, or Baronins," or any other private 
man among you, nor the doctrine of the Sorboutie, of the 
Jesuits, or of the Dominicans, or of any other particular 
company among yon, but that wherein you all agree, or 
profess to agree, the doctrine of the Council of Trent; so, 
accordingly, on the other side, by the religion of Protes- 
tants, T do not understand the doctrine of Luther, or Cal- 
vin, or Melancthon, nor the Confession of Augsburg, or 
Geneva, nor the Catechism of Heidelberg, nor the Articles 
of the Church of England— no, nor the harmony of Prot- 
estant confessions; but that in which they nil agree, and 
which they all subscribe with a greater harmony, as a per- 
fect rule o'f faith and action— that is, the Bible. The Bible, 

1 say the Bible only— is the religion of Protestants. 
Whatsoever else they believe beside it, and the plain, ir- 
refragable, indubitable consequences of it, well mav they 
hold it as a matter of opinion ; hut as a matter of faith 
ami religion, neither can they with coherence to their 
own grounds believe It themselves, nor require belief of it 
of others, without most high and most scliismatieal pre- 
sumption. 1, for my part, after a long, and, as 1 verily 
believe and hope, impartial, search of the true way to 
eternal happiness, do profess plainly that l cannot tlnd 
any rest for the sole of my foot hut. upon this rock only. 

I see plainly, and with my own eyes, that there are popes 
against popes and councils against councils ; some fathers 
against other fathers, the same fathers against them- 
selves; a consent of fathers of one age against a consent 
of fathers of another age; traditive interpretations of 
Scripture are pretended, hut there are few or none to he. 
found ; no tradition hut that of Scripture can derive itself 
from the fountain, but may be plainly proved either to I 


have been brought in in such an age after Christ, or that 
in such an age it was not in. In a word, there is no suffi- 
cient certainty but of Scripture only for any considering 
mail to build upon. This, therefore, aud this only, I have 
j reason to believe. This 1 will profess; according to this 
I will live; aud for this, if there he occasion, I will not 
only willingly, but even gladly, lose my life, though I 
should be sorry that Christians should take it from me. 
Propose me anything out of this hook, and require wheth- 
er I believe or no, and, seem it never so incomprehensible 
I to human reason, I will subscribe it with hand and heart, 
as knowing no demonstration can be stronger than this— 
God hath said so, therefore it is true. In other tilings, 1 
will take no man's liberty of judging from him; neither 
shall any man take mine from me.” 


The body of Protestants consists, generally speaking, 
of Sweden, Denmark, and Norway — all Lutheran ; the 
larger half of the population of the Netherlands; about 
half of the population of Switzerland, including the can- 
tons of Aargati, Zurich. Berne, most of Valid— all Cal- 
vinistic; the English, Irish, and Scottish churches, with 
their colonial aud American daughters; the Scottish 
Presbyterians; the large bodies of Lutherans, Calvin- 
ists, Huguenots, in the other countries of Europe; the 
English and Irish Nonconformists and their descendants 
. in the United States and the colonies. 

I Of the chief of those Protestant denominations we 
give here a brief narrative of the process of their 
. separate formation, referring the reader for fuller in- 
formation to the separate articles under their respec- 
tive titles. “The Lutherans took the name aud ac- 
j cepted the teachings of Luther, who, while maintaining 
the doctrine of justification by faith alone, and the 
authority and sufficiency of the Scriptures, also main- 
tained, in a modified form, the doctrine of the real 
presence of Christ in the communion, ami allowed 
j the use of images and pictures in the churches. 
Zwingli, the Swiss reformer, denied that the Lord's 
Supper was anything more than a commemorative 
ordinance. Many of the Reformers in other coun- 
tries shared his views, and out of the controversy be- 
tween him and Luther sprang the Deformed churches 
of Germany aud Holland. Meanwhile John Calvin had 
commenced his labors as the organizer of the Be forma- 
tion. The product of his literary labor was the Insti- 
tutes; of his executive labor, the Presbyterian form of 
government. For both he found, eventually, a free 
field in Geneva, and his labors there not only gave to 
the Deformed churches of Switzerland their final char- 
acter — a character which they l>ear to this day — lmt 
furnished the model of doctrine and government which 
the Presbyterian churches of Great Britain and the 
United States have since largely adopted. This, also, 
is substantially the form of government of the Reformed 
Church of France. Certain tenets peculiar to this form 
of theology were repudiated by other leaders among 
the Reformers. Arminins, in Holland, denied that the 
Scriptures taught the doctrine of predestination and 
others connected intimately, if not necessarily, with it. 
From him sprang the Arminians, who, as a sect, are re- 
duced to an insignificant number, but whose doctrines 
are accepted in the main by the Methodists, by most of 
the Episcopalians, and by many in other denominations. 
The Sociuians denied that the doctrines of the Trinity, 
the atonement, aud the proper deify of Jesus Christ 
were to he found in the Bible. They thus revived the 
views of the earlier Arians, while at the same time they 
carried their denials much further. Their views have 
found expression in one wing of the Unitarian and Uni- 
versalist eluirclics of the present day. Their most gen- 
eral acceptance is in New England and in parts of Great 
Britain; but there are Socinian churches in nearly if 
not (piite all Protestant communities. The Deforma- 
tion in England was partly religious, partly political. 
Henry VIII did not intend to modify the doctrine of the 
Church, but only its government, and its government 
only so far as to secure its independence, of the papacy. 
The movement was too deep aud popular for him t«. 
control; but the royal and ecclesiastical influence com- 
bined to retain the Episcopal form of government ami 


FROTESTANTS 


C95 PROTODIACON 


tlie union of Church and State. Both are still preserved 
in the Church of England, and the former in the Epis- 
copal Church of this country. Its symbols of doctrine 
allow equal liberty to Armiuians and to Calvinists. The 
civil and religious controversies which, a few centuries 
later, plunged England into civil war, gave impetus and 
organization, though not birth, to the idea of absolute 
ecclesiastical independence. The result was the organ- 
ization of churches which were mainly Calvinistic in 
belief, but in which the absolute right of the people of 
each Church to manage their own affairs ivas maintain- 
ed. In England they took the name of Independents, 
in the United States that of Congregationalists. As 
early as the days of Luther, the Reformers w r ere divided 
on the question of baptism ; those who maintained that 
baptism should be administered only by immersion and 
to adults took the name of Baptists, which they retain 
to this day. The 18th century witnessed a general re- 
vival of religious spirit, especially in England and the 
United States, differing from that which characterized 
the Reformation in that it was less a battle against er- 
ror in doctrine, and more a simple awakening of Chris- 
tian zeal to use for the redemption of the masses the 
truths which the Reformation had brought to light. 
Out of this awakening grew Methodism, which is sub- 
stantially Arminian in doctrine and Episcopal in gov- 
ernment, and differs from the Episcopal Church, from 
which it came out, rather in the spirit and character of 
its adherents than in theology. These churches rep- 
resent the chief forms of Protestantism. There is also 
a large number of minor denominations, but most of 
them are offshoots from these great branches.” 

The total Protestant population of the world is esti- 
mated (in Johnson’s Illustrated Family A tlas ) to be 
between ninety-five and ninety -six millions, a little 
more than half the Roman Catholic population. It is 
thus divided: 


United States 

British, America 

South America 

Dutch American possessions 

Danish and Swedish possessions . 

Hayti 

Spain 

Portugal 

France 

Austria and Venetia 

Prussia 

Rest of Germany proper 

Italy, without Veuetia 

Switzerland 

Holland 

Belgium 

Great Britain and Ireland 

Denmark 

Sweden and Norway 

Russia 

Turkey 

Ionian Islands 

Asiatic Russia 

China 

East and Farther Iudia 

Archipelago 

Persia 

Arabia 

English African possessions 

Algeria 

Esrypt 

Liberia 

Madagascar 

Australia and Polynesia 


25.000. 000 

2.590.000 

50.000 
32,600 

55.000 

10.000 
7,000 

10,000 
1,561,250 
3,233,448 
1 1,287, 44S 
11,075,502 

50.000 
1,482,848 

2.023.000 

25.000 

23.000. 000 

2.670.000 

5.463.000 

3.940.000 

10.000 
2,000 

40.000 

30.000 

300.000 

50.000 
1,000 
2,000 

650.000 

10.000 
2,000 

50,000 

7,000 

1 . 100.000 


Prof. Schetn in his Statistics of the World (3d ed. 1875) 
estimates the aggregate population connected with or 
under the influence of Protestant churches at the close 
of 1874 as follows: 


Divisions. 

Protestants. 

Total Population. 

America 

33,000,000 

71.800,(100 

1,800,000 

1,200,000 

2,200,000 

84,500,000 

301.600.000 
798,000,000 

202.500.000 
4,400,000 

Europe 

Asia 

Africa 

Australia aud Polyuesia ... 
Total 

110,000,000 | 1,391, 000, (.00 



See Protestantism ; Reformation. (J. II. W.) 


Protesters. See Resolutioners ; Scotland, 
Churches in. 

Protevangelium, a spurious gospel ascribed to 
James, containing an account of the birth of Mary and 
of Christ. It is supposed to have been originally com- 
posed in Hebrew. Postellius brought the MS. of this 
gospel from the Levant, translated it into Latin, and 
sent it to Oporinus, a printer at Basle, where Bibliamler, 
a Protestant divine, and the professor of divinity at Zu- 
rich, caused it to be printed in 1552. Postellius asserts - 
that it ivas publicly read as canonical in the Eastern 
churches. See Gospels, Spurious. 

Prothade, St., a French prelate who flourished 
near the opening of the 7th century; he died before 
625. He has been called son of the patrician Prothade, 
but without proof. It is at least certain that he was 
the successor of St. Nicet in the metropolitan see of Bc- 
san^on. He compiled a ritual for the use of the two 
cathedral churches at Besan^on — St. Etienne and St. 
Jean, which has not reached us without interpolations; 
it has recently been published by the abbe Richard. 

Prother, Amos Summers, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Clarke County, Ind,, 
April J 7, 1832, lie went to Iowa when quite young, 
and with his parents settled near Libertyville, Jefferson 
County. He was converted in 1846, and at once joined 
the Methodist Episcopal Church. His convictions of 
duty pointed him to the ministry as a life-work, and, 
the better to fit himself for the sacred office, he entered 
the Mount-Pleasant Collegiate Institute, afterwards the 
Iowa Wesleyan University, in 1852, where he continued 
his studies until 1857, when he graduated. He was li- 
censed to preach while at college. After graduating he 
was immediately employed on the Dodgeville Circuit 
by the presiding elder, and in 1857 joined the Iowa 
Conference. His appointments were Denmark, Wapello, 
Dodgeville, Grand View, Crawfordsville, New Loudon, 
Kossuth, Montezuma, New Sharon, and Birmingham- 
At the last-named place he died, April 1, 1873, greatly 
respected by his own people and the Church generally. 

Froth&sis (1), a small altar in Greek churches cor- 
responding to the credence table. The name is taken 
from the shew -bread, which was called »} Trp&toiQ 
tui v dpTCJV — the setting-out of the loaves. (2.) A 
small side-altar in a Cluguiac church, on the epistle 
side, at which the ministers of the altar, on Sundays 
and festivals, partook of both kinds, using a silver cala- 
mus to drink of the chalice. 

Prothonotary, a word that has a different signifi- 
cation in the Greek Church from what it has in the 
Latin ; for in the first it is the name of one of the great 
officers of the Church of Constantinople, who takes rank 
next, to the patriarch, and writes all despatches he sends 
to the grand seignior; besides which he is empowered 
to have an inspection over the professors of the law, 
into purchases, wills, and the liberty given to slaves ; 
but in the Roman Church they were formerly called 
prothonotaries who had the charge of writing the acts 
of the martyrs and circumstances of their death, a title 
of honor wherennto are ascribed many privileges, as 
legitimizing bastards, making apostolic notaries [see 
Protonotarius Apostolicus], doctors of divinity and 
of the canon and civil law : they are twelve in number. 

Proto (first). This adjective is prefixed to the 
name of several officers in the Greek Church, denot- 
ing that he wdio holds it is the chief of his class- 
such as prothonotary , protopapas, protopsaltes, proto- 
syncellus . 

Protodiacon. The protodiacon, or archdeacon, 
holds the first rank among the deacons employed in the 
Episcopal Church to assist the bishop during worship 
and in the exercise of his pontificalia. He is constantly 
near the person of the bishop or archbishop, and stands 
at his side while he is performing the liturgical rites or 
conferring holy orders. The splendor of the episcopal 


I > 1 tOTOX OTA R I US APOSTOLICUS G9G 


PROTOTYPE 


dignity reflected on this ollice, and the influence which 
the archdeacons in all times exercised upon tiie bishops, 
made of the proto- or arch-deacon, in the Greek-Russian 
Church, a very important person. In larger parishes 
several deacons are employed, but only the first deacon 
of an episcopal church is distinguished by the honorary 
title of archi- or proto-diaconus. 

Protonotarius Apostolicus is a notary ap- 
pointed by the papal sec. The cpialilication of jrpu/ror 
(primus) is but honorary. In the apostolic chancery- 
rules the word “ prothonotary" is regularly employed, 
but. the papal bulls and rescripts call the same function- 
ary “ notarius apostolicus.” The papal notaries ap- 
pointed in the city of Rome (in atria), and forming, 
twelve in number, a special college of prelates, are dis- 
tinguished bv the addition [Xntarii] “ tie mimero j>ar- 
ticipantium” from those appointed abroad (extra curi- 
am), who are simply notarii or protonotarii, sometimes 
with tlie specification “extra numcrum.'’ The former 
are the regular and paid, the latter the extraordinary 
and titular notaries. The origin of the papal notariatc 
is assigned to the 1st century, for pope Clement I is said 
to have employed seven of them in noting the memo- 
rabilia of the Church, and composing trustworthy ac- 
counts of the various manners in which the martyrs 
were brought to death. In later times it became the 
business of the prothonotaries to write the biographies 
of the popes, to draw up authentic minutes of the de- 
bate in the Consistory of Cardinals, especially in cases 
of beatification, canonization, etc. Their college was 
increased to twelve members and endowed with great 
privileges by pope Sixtus V. They precede in the pa- 
pal chapel at different solemnities the Auditorcs S. Un- 
tie, all camcral ecclesiastics and lower prelates, and the 
generals of orders. Formerly they even enjoyed prece- 
dence over bishops, hut Paul II decreed that at Rome 
and abroad they should step after the episcopate. ( )nly 
in public consistories and in processional cavalcades four 
prothonotaries take their place immediately after the as- 
sistant bishops of the pontifical chapel, and consequently 
in front of the episcopate. They are, moreover, not sub- 
ject to the jurisdiction of the ordinaries, but are placed 
under the immediate protection of the pope; they can 
freely dispose by testament even of their beneficial fort- 
une to the amount of 2000 ducats; they receive all 
messages and graces of the pope free of tax and stamp; 
they have free access to the papal chancery, to the 
public consistories, and to the cardinal consistories, de- 
bating cases of beatilicatior ar canonization. Thev are 
entitled, under certain restrictions, to use portable altars 
in saying mass, and at certain festivals to wear the pon- 
tifical badges (comp. Sixt. V, Const/. “ Komamis l'oiiti- 
fex” and “ Eaudabilis”). They have also the peculiar 
privilege of creating annually six doctors, who enjoy 
all the rights of regularly graduated doctors; but 
only residents of Rome can be thus promoted (Honed. 
XIV, t'onst. Inter Compicitos , d. iv Cal. Sept hr. 1741). 
These distinctions belong exclusively to the regular 
prothonotaries appointed by the pope himself. Those 
“extra station, ” and the titular notaries, who can he 
appointed not only by the pope, but also by his legate 
a latere, and, with some restrictions, by the college of 
real prothonotaries, occupy in the scale of rank the de- 
gree next to the canons of a cathedral, and only if they 
are themselves provided with a canon ry have they pre- 
cedence over the other members of chapters. They 
wear the violet talarium, with the mantlet of the same 
color. In the performance of Church functions they are 
permitted the ring, hut without jewel. Wetzer u. Welte, 
K i rch en-Lexikon, s. v. 

Frotopapas is the archpriest in the Crock Church 
who stands on the left baud of the patriarch (q. w). 
llis dignity is entirely ecclesiastical: he administers 
the holy sacrament to the patriarch at all high and sol- 
emn masses, and receives it from him. lie is the head 
ecclesiastical dignitary, not only with respect to his pe- 


culiar privileges, but to his right and title to prece- 
dence.— (iardner, Faiths of the ) VorlJ, s. v. 

Protopresbyter (-p^rot; Uptic, usually called 
protopope.) is in the. Russo-Greek Church an interme- 
diate degree between the bishop and the simple priests. 
The situation and functions of the protopresbyter are 
essentially the same as those of the former archpriests 
of the episcopal cathedrals, and of the cleans in the 
country. Each cathedral has its protopresbyter, but 
the same dignity exists in other Important churches of 
large cities where several popes are employed. This 
title belongs also to such popes of the first rank as 
exercise some rights of supervision and administration 
over several surrounding parishes; for every diocese or 
eparchy in Russia is divided into several protopopates 
(as in the Roman Catholic Church into deaneries). 
This class of dignitaries forms, in litigious and disci- 
plinary matters of ecclesiastical resort, the tirst in- 
stance in the diocese. In important cities the proto- 
popes are generally employed as counsellors, assessors, 
or secretaries in the episcopal consistories or other ec- 
clesiastical colleges. The distinguishing garment of 
the protopopes is the so-called epit/onaticon. The pro- 
topresbyterate is the most influential of the lower cleri- 
cal functions, and the highest degree open to a secular 
ecclesiastic; for in the Crook Church the episcopate, 
and the still higher dignities, can only be occupied by 
unmarried priests, or such as are separated from their 
wives by death or voluntary renunciation, and who be- 
long to the monastical order, mostly archimandrites 
(abbots) and hegemons (priors). - Wetzer u. Welte, 
K irchen- Lex ikon, s. v. 

Protcpsaltes is the chief singer or master of the 
choir in Creek churches. 

Protosyncellus is the vicar or assistant of a 
Creek patriarch, who generally resides along with him 
in his palace. 

Protothronus is, in the Greek Church, the name 
of the first bishop of an ecclesiastical province; he holds 
the first rank after the patriarch or after the metropoli- 
tan. At the death of either of these latter dignitaries, 
the protothronus assumes his jurisdiction until a suc- 
cessor is installed. 

Prototype is a term used in theology to designate 
the original tt/pe (q. v.) or form of anything, and espe- 
cially in the following dogma: The prototypal form in 
which Adam was created was the image of Cod; in 
Christ that image is restored; and it is the hope of the 
Christian that this form will be his also when he wakes 
up after Cod’s likeness and is satisfied (Fsa. xv, 17). It 
is a term, therefore, that has an anthropological. Cliris- 
tological, and an eschatological character, as referring 
to Adam, to the Redeemer, and to the redeemed. Xow, 
in what does that likeness consist? Xot surely in out- 
ward form, hut in spiritual attributes, for Cod is Spirit. 
Rut those attributes pertain to the soul invested in body, 
which God has not; therefore the likeness of God must 
he restricted to such divine attributes as are reflected in 
man independently of his material nature, such as a love 
for all that is good and holy, right, reason, and free-will, 
which constitute in him the “likeness and glory” of 
God ( 1 Cor. xi. 7 ; see Gt.onv). and exclusive of other 
attributes that serve only to mark the imperfection of 
the creature. When Ireiuvus, therefore (c. liar, v, (i), 
speaks of the image of God as being sna naturd of a 
bodily character, he may express correctly the philo- 
sophical notion of the Deity, and therefore of the divine 
likeness, as derived from ancient schools, hut he hardly 
speaks with the authority of Catholic antiquity on a 
point which had as yet received hut little consideration. 
Our only safe guide is the apostle, who expresses him- 
self with sufficient explicitness. With him Christ is 
the very “image of God" (2 Cor. iv, 4), “in the form of 
God” (Phil, ii, f>\ and “the express image of his Per- 
son," as well as “ the brightness of his glory” (llcb. i, 3), 


PROTRACTED MEETINGS G97 


PROUDIION 


“ the image of the invisible God” (Col. i, 15). He is now 
to us as the prototypal form in which Adam was created 
full of grace and truth ; and man's hope of having that 
form restored in him hereafter depends on the genuine- 
ness with which some few rays of that glory are reflect- 
ed in his soul now. So it has been decreed from ever- 
lasting that all who are called according to God’s sancti- 
fying purpose should be “conformed to the image of his 
Son” (Horn, viii, 29); that “as we have borne the image 
of the earthy,” we may also “ bear the image of the 
heavenly” (l*Cor. xv, 49); that having his high ex- 
emplar before us, and “ beholding as in a glass the glory 
of the Lord,” by a continually progressive, sanctifying i 
process, we “may be changed into the same image from 
glory to glory as by the Spirit of the Lord” (2 Cor. iii, 
18). It is of this “renewing in the spirit of our mind,” 
according to the prototypal likeness of Christ, that the ; 
apostle speaks when he exhorts his charge to “put on 
the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the 
image” of the Creator (Col. iii, 10), and “after God ! 
(r"'2“r) is created in righteousness and in the holiness 
of truth” (Epli. 5v, 24). According to Homan Catholic 
doctrine, original righteousness was not this prototypal 
likeness, but a superadded gift conferred after the act 
of creation was complete. So the Tridentine Catechism 
says, “Quod ad animam pertinet, earn ad imaginem et 
similitudinem suam furmavit Dens, liberunique ci tri- 
buit arbitrium; omnes praeterea motus animi atque 
appetitiones ita in eo temperavit, ut rationis impefio 
nunquam non parerent. Turn originalis justilia? admi- 
rabile donum addidit,” etc. (ed. Colon. 15(15. p. Go). The 
council purposed, in the tirst instance, to express its 
meaning as “justitiam et sanctitatem in qua Adam 
conditus fuerat,” but accepted the correction of Paeeen, 
and wrote “constitutus fuerat” (l’allavicini. Hist. Cone. 
Trid. vii, 9). — Blunt, Diet, of Theol. s. v. For the teach- 
ing of the schools on this point, see Scholastic Theol- 
ogy; for the whimsical notions of Judaism, see Cabala. 

Protracted Meetings. See Revival. 

Proud, Joseph, an English minister of the New 
Jerusalem Church, who was born in the second half of 
the last century, is noted as the author of several of the 
ablest polemics ever issued by the Church of which he 
was a much esteemed member. He died about 18G0. 
His works are : Reply to Dr. Priestley's Letters on Swe- 
denborg (1792, 8vo) : — Hymns for the Xew Church 
(12mo) : — Jehorah's Mercy , a poem (8vo) : — Unitarian 
Doctrine Refuted (Lond. 180G, Svo ): — Letters on the 
Fundamental Doctrines of the Unitarian Religion (1808, 
Svo): — The Aged Minister's Last Legacy to the Xew 
Church (Birm. 12mo; 2d ed. Lond. 1855). See Sprague, 
Annuls of the Amer. Pulpit , ix, G7. 

Proudfit, Alexander Moncrief, D.D., an 
American divine of much celebrity, was born at Bequa, 
Pa., in 1770, and was educated at Columbia College, 
New York (class of 1792). lie entered the ministry of 
the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church, and was 
made pastor of the congregation at Salem, N. Y., in 
1795, where he lived until 1835, when he became agent 
of the American Colonization Society. He resigned that 
post in 1842, and died in 1843. lie published : Discourses 
on the Ruin and Recovery of Man (Salem, 180G, 12mo; 
again, 1813, 12mo) : — Discourses on the. Leading Doc- 
trines and Duties of Christianity (1815, 4 vols. 12mo) : — 
a work on the Parables (1820, 12mo): — and a number 
of single Sermons, Tracts, etc. (1798-1836). See Mem- 
oir of the late A. M. Proudfit, D.D., etc., by John For- 
syth, D.D., minister of the Union Church, Newburgh, 
N. Y. (l2mo), reviewed in the Meth. Quar. Rev. vi, 358, 
by R.W. Dickinson ; Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pul- 
pit, ix, G7 ; Memorial Volume A. B. C. F. M. 18G2, p. 
114; Princet. Rev. Oct. 184G, p. 609. 

Proudfit, John, D.D., son of the preceding, was 
born at Salem, N. Y.. in 1804, graduated at Union Col- 
lege in 1823, and at Princeton Theological Seminary in 


1826. After a brief settlement as pastor at Newbnry- 
port, Mass., he was elected professor of ancient lan- 
guages in the University of the City of New York, 
where he remained from 1833 until 1838. He then 
spent, some time in Europe, and in 1841 accepted the 
professorship of Latin and Greek literature in Rutgers 
College. In 1854 his chair was confined to Greek lit- 
erature alone, lie resigned in 186], and transferred 
his ecclesiastical relation in 18G4 to the Presbyterian 
Church. After a second protracted residence in Eu- 
rope, he enlisted in the service of his country, and dur- 
ing the war was an exceedingly devoted and useful 
chaplain to the soldiers of the. V. S. Army, being located 
on Bedloe’s Island, in New York Harbor. After his re- 
turn from the war he lived in New York City. He was 
a sincere and devout believer in the religion which he 
preached. His daily walk seemed to be “close with 
God,” until, at last, “ God took him.” He died of pneu- 
monia in 1870, after a very short illness, perfectly sub- 
missive to the will of the Lord and happy in the pros- 
pect of heaven. Dr. Proudfit was an eminent classical 
scholar and divine. II is mind was highly cultivated, 
his tastes were refined, and his public life was distin- 
guished by his devotion to literary and theological pur- 
suits. lie was a frequent contributor to religious news- 
papers, and to the Princeton Review and other serial 
publications. For some time he was editor of the Xew 
Brunswick Quarterly Review. In these periodicals he 
was actively engaged in the discussion of the exciting 
controversies connected with what is known as “ Mer- 
eersburg theology.” He edited an edition of Plautus 
and other classical works. Ilis scholarship was far 
greater than his ability as a practical teacher of youth. 
His sermons were always carefully elaborated in style, 
elegant in expression, and evangelical in spirit, but his 
quiet delivery failed to give them the power to which 
their real merits entitled them. 8 nine of these were 
published by request, among which is .4 Baccalaureate 
Discourse to the Graduating Class of 1841 in Rutgers 
College, one of the best specimens of his pulpit efforts. 
Dr. Proudfit was unusually tall and slender, dignified in 
appearance, with an intellectual head, benevolent face, 
and polished manners. He excelled as a conversation- 
alist, being full of anecdote and illustration, and happi- 
ly interweaving his reminiscences of public men and 
incidents of travel in foreign lands. He took a deep in- 
terest in the evangelization of the papal nations of Eu- 
rope, and was familiar with the great religions questions 
of those lands. (W. J. R. T.) 

Proudfit, Robert, D.D., an eminent American 
divine and educator, was born at Hopewill, Pa., June 
6, 1777, and graduated at Dickinson College, Pa., in 
1798. In 1801 he was ordained, and installed as pastor 
of the Associate Reformed Church at Broadalbin, N. Y., 
in which charge lie continued until 1818, when he ac- 
cepted an invitation to the professorship of Grtek and 
Latin at Union College, Schenectady, which situation 
he filled with distinguished ability until 1849, when, by 
an act passed bv the board of trustees of that college, 
he was relieved from active duty, and assumed the title 
of emeritus professor in the same institution. During 
the whole time he was in active duty as professor, Dr. 
Proudfit did not neglect the call of his sacred profes- 
sion, and, while liis health permitted, he ceased not to 
preach the Gospel whenever lie had opportunity. The 
zeal and earnestness with which he labored for the 
Master’s cause gained many souls to the Church, and 
Dr. Proudfit’s memory is in the hearts of many made 
happy by his agency. He died at Schenectady, N. Y., 
Feb. 11. 1862. See Wilson, Presbyt. Hist. A lmanac 
(1862), p. 306. 

Proudhon, Pierre Joseph, a noted French social- 
ist, was born of bumble parents, July 15, 1809, at Besan- 
' ^on. After a rudimentary education, he engaged in 
printing, and soon became an author — especially of an 
! Essai de Grammaire Generate, for which he received a 


PROVEN DEI 


G98 


PRO VERT 


pension. In ISIOhc published his work entitled Qu'est- 
re que in Propriete, which eventually became infamous 
from the answer which it gave to that question — “ La 
Propriete, e'est le I ~»l !'' and caused him the loss o( his 
pension. During the Revolution he edited an inflam- 
matory paper, which was soon suppressed, hut gave him 
such popularity that he was elected to the Assembly. 
His notorious principles of anarchy prevented his being 
heard in the debates, and the papers which lie issued in 
revenge were suppressed for their scurrility, lit is 49 
lie started a Hanque tin Peuple to carry out his com- 
munistic ideas, but it was closed by the authorities, and 
he Hed to tleneva. but on his return to Paris lie was 
imprisoned. During his three years of incarceration he 
married, and issued several remarkable political works, 
lie died in obscurity at Paris, dan. 10. lNti5. Dissocial 
theories are of the most extravagant and dangerous 
character, greatly resembling the radical and immoral 
principles of the communistic revolutionists who are 
now agitating Europe and this country. See Hoefer. 
Nouv. />ioff. dene rale, s. v. 

Provender (X*S--. mispd'), fodder for cattle 
((len. xxiv, 25, 32). In the account of king Solomon’s 
stables, in I Kings iv, 2S, we read, “ Parley, also, and 
straw for the horses and dromedaries, brought they unto 
the place where the officers were, every man according 
to his charge.” llarmer remarks upon this passage: 
“Resides provisions for themselves, the Orientals are 
obliged to carry food lor the beasts on which they ride 
or carry their goods. That food is of different kinds. 
They make little or no hay in these countries, and are 
therefore very careful of their straw, which they cut 
into small bits, by an instrument which at the same 
time threshes out the corn; this chopped straw, with 
barley, beaus, and balls made of beau and barley meal, 
or of the pounded kernels of dates, are what they are 
wont to feed them with. The officers of Solomon are 
accordingly said to have brought, every man in his 
mouth, barley and straw for the horses and dromeda- 
ries; not straw to litter them with, there is reason to 
think, for it is not now used in those countries for that 
purpose, but chopped straw for them to eat, either alone 
or with their barley. The litter they use for them is 
their own dung, dried in the sun, and bruised between 
their bauds, which they heap up again in the morning, 
sprinkling it in summer with fresh water, to keep it 
from corrupting. In some other places we read of 
provender and straw, not barley and straw; because it 
may be other things were used for their food ancient- 
ly, as well as now, besides barley and chopped straw. 

belil, one of the words used for provender (Isa. 
xxx, 21), implies something of mixture, and the parti- 
ciple of the verb from which it is derived is used for the 
mingling of Hour with oil; so the verb in Judges xix, 
21 may be as well translated ‘lie mingled [IbodJ for the 
asses’ as ‘ lie gave them provender,’ signifying that lie 
mixed some chopped straw and barley together for the 
asses. Thus also barley and chopped straw, as it is 
just after reaping, unseparated in the field, might nat- 
urally be expressed by the Hebrew word we translate 
provender, which signifies barley and straw that bail 
been mingled together, and accordingly seems to be so. 
* They reap every one bis corn in the field’ (Job xxiv, 
l‘> ), ‘ Hebrew, mingled corn or dredge,’ savs the margin. 
What ideas are usually atlixed to secondary translation 
I do not know, but Job apparently alludes to the prov- 
ender, or heap of chopped straw, lying mingled together 
in the field, after having passed under the threshing in- 
strument, to which lie compared the spoils that were 
taken from passengers so early as his time by those that 
lived somewhat after the present manner of the wild 
Arabs, which spoils are to them what the harvest and 
vintage were to others. With this agrees that other pas- 
sage of Job where this word occurs (vi, 5), * Will the ox 
low in complaints over his provender?’ or * fodder,' as it 
is translated in our version, when lie has not only straw 


enough, but mixed with barley." Travellers in the 
East, wherever they mention the subject, use much the 
same terms as Walpole, who, in his Journal, remarks, 
‘•Neither hay nor oats are known to the l urks; nor has 
anv nation in the East ever used them for their horses.” 
.Sec Emu nit:. 

Provenzale, David ukn-Aiu:aiiam, who nourish- 
ed in the Itith century, was a preacher at Mantua, and 
was so eloquent that he was styled 

— . i. e. the prince of preachers in his generation, 
lie wrote: TH a commentary oil the Pentateuch 
from an archaeological point of view: “ '.L,' i~i 

~'S2. a commentary on the Song of Songs: — ”*T 
a comparative lexicon, Hebrew, Latin, tlreek, 
and Italian: — and a Hebrew grammar. 

See burst. Hibl. Jut/, iii, 123: De Rossi, I>i:.ionario 
Star in > deyli A atari Kbrei . p. 272 (Derm, transl. by 
llamberger) ; Etheridge, Introduction to Hebrew Litera- 
ture, p. 2SN, Stciusclmeider, Jewish Literature , p. 239. 
(R.P.) 

Proverb. mashal, rendered in the A. V. “ by- 

word," “parable,” ‘•proverb" (irapajio\i), irapoipia), 
expresses all and even more than is conveyed by these 
its English representatives. It is derived from a root 
~ 1‘ ’I . mashal. “to be likoT (Arab, mat hula , to “resem- 
ble”), and the primary idea involved in it is that of 
likeness, comparison. This form of comparison would 
very naturally be taken by the short, pithy sentences 
which passed into use as popular sayings and proverbs, 
especially when employed in mockery and sarcasm, as 
in Mic. ii, 4; Hah. ii, t>. and even in tlu* more devel- 
oped taunting song of triumph for the fall of Babylon 
in Isa. xiv, 4. Probably all proverbial sayings were at 
first of the nature of similes, but the term mashal soon 
acquired a more extended significance. It was applied 
to denote such short, pointed savings as do not involve 
a comparison directly, but still convey their meaning 
by the help of a figure, as in I Sam. x, 12; Ezek. xii, 
22, 23 ; xvii, 2, 3 (comp. irapajioXi), Luke iv, 23). 
From this stage of its application it passed to that of 
sententious maxims generally, as in Prow i, 1 ; x, 1 ; 
xxv, 1 ; xxvi, 7, 9; Ecelcs, xii, 9; Job xiii. 12, many of 
which, however, still involve a comparison (Prov. xxv, 
3, 11, 12, 13, 14, etc.; xxvi, 1. 2, 3. etc.). Such com- 
parisons are either expressed, or the things compared 
are placed side hv side, and the comparison left for the 
hearer or reader to supply. Next we find it used of 
those larger pieces in which a single idea is 110 longer 
exhausted in a sentence, but forms the germ of the 
whole, and is worked out into a didactic poem. Many 
instances of this kind occur in the first, section of the 
book of Proverbs; others arc found in Job xxvii and 
xxix, in both which chapters Job takes up bis mashal, 
or “ parable,” as it is rendered in the A. V. flic “par- 
able" of Balaam, in NTimb. xxiii,7-10; xxiv, 3 9,15 19, 
20, 21-22, 23-24, arc prophecies conveyed in figures; 
but mashal also denotes the “parable" proper, as in 
Ezek. xvii, 2; xx. 19 (xxi. 5) ; xxiv. 3. Lowth, in bis 
notes 011 Isa. xiv. 4, speaking of mashal. says: •• I take 
this to be the general name for poetic style among the 
Hebrews, including every sort of it. as ranging under 
one, or other, or all of the characters, sententious, fig- 
urative, and sublime; which arc all contained in the 
original notion, or in the use and application of the word 
mashal. Parables or proverbs, such as those of Solo- 
mon, are always expressed ill short, pointed sentences; 
frequently figurative, being formed on some comparison, 
both in the matter and the form. Such, in general, is 
the style of the Hebrew poetry. Balaam’s first proph- 
ecy (Ximih. xxiii, 7 10) is called his mashal, although 
it has hardly anything figurative in it; but it is beau- 
tifully sententious, and, from the very form and manner 
of it, has great spirit, force, and energy. Thus Job’s 
last speeches, in answer to the three friends (ch. xxvii- 


PROVERBS 


699 


PROVERBS 


xxxi), are called mashdls, from no one particular char- 
acter which discriminates them from the rest of the 
poem, but from the sublime, the figurative, the senten- 
tious manner which equally prevails through the whole 
poem, and makes it one of the first and most eminent 
examples extant of the truly great and beautiful in po- 
etic style.” — Smith. Sir W. Jones says, “ The moralists 
of the East have in general chosen to deliver their pre- 
cepts in short, sententious maxims, to illustrate them 
bv sprightly comparisons, or to inculcate them in the 
very ancient forms of agreeable apologues: there are, 
indeed, both in Arabic and Persian, philosophical tracts 
on ethics written with sound ratiocination and elegant 
perspicuity. But in every part of the Eastern world, 
from Pekin to Damascus, the popular teachers of moral 
wisdom have immemorially been poets, and there would 
be no end of enumerating their works, which are still 
extant in the five principal languages of Asia.” See 
Parable. Our Lord frequently employed proverbs in 
his public instructions; and the illustration of these 
proverbs has occupied many learned men, who proceed 
partly by the aid of similar passages from the Old Test., 
and partly from the ancient writings of the Jews, espe- 
cially from the Talmud, whence it appears how much 
they were in use among that people, and that they were 
applied by Christ and his apostles agreeably to common 
usage. The proverbs contained in the Old and New 
Tests, are collected and illustrated by Drnsius and An- 
dreas Schottus, whose works are comprised in the ninth 
volume of the Critici Sacri, and also by Joachim Zeh- 
ner, who elucidated them by parallel passages from the 
fathers, as well as from heathen writers, in a treatise 
published at Leipsic in 1001. The proverbs which are 
found in the New Test, have been illustrated by Yor- 
stius and Visir, as well as by LiglUfoot and Scbdttgen 
in their Hone Hebraicce et Talmudic ce, and by Buxtorf 
in his Lexicon Chaldaicum Talmudicutu et Rnbbinicuni, 
from which last-mentioned works Rosenmuller, Kuinul, 
Dr. Whitby, Dr. Adam Clarke, and other commentators, 
have derived their illustrations of the Jewish parables 
and proverbs. See Kelly, Proverbs o f all Xations (Lond. 
1859, ftvo) ; Sterling, Literature of Proverbs (ibid. 1860, 
8vo); Bohn, Book of Proverbs . See Proverbs, Book 
of. 

Proverbs, Book of, the 20th book of the Old 
Test., according to the arrangement of the English 
Bihle, where it is placed betw'eeu the Psalms and Ec- 
clesiastes, doubtless from its presumed relation to the 
other works of Solomon; and in the Hebrew Bible it 
likewise follows the Psalms as part of the Ketlmbim, or 
Hagiographa. In the German MSS. of the Hebrew' 
Old Test, the Proverbs are placed between the Psalms 
and Job, while in the Spanish MSS., which follow' the 
Masorah, the order is Psalms, Job, Proverbs. This lat- 
ter is the order observed in the Alexandrian MS. of the 
Sept.- Melito, following another Greek MS., arranges 
the Hagiographa thus: Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, 
Song of Songs, Job, as in the list made out by the Coun- 
cil of Laodicea ; and the same order is given by Origen, 
except that the book of Job is separated from the others 
by the prophets Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel, and Ezekiel. 
But our present arrangement existed in the time of Jer- 
ome (see Preefin Libr. Regum, in: “Tertius ordo dyw- 
ypa<jia possidet. Et primus liber incipit ah Job. Se- 
cundus a David. . . . Tertius est Solomon, tres libros 
habens: Proverbia, qiue 5115 parabolas, id est Masaloth 
appellant: Ecclesiastes, id est, Coeleth : Canticum Can- 
tieorum, qnem titulo Sir Asirim pnenotant”). In the 
Peshito Syriac, Job is placed before Joshua, while Prov- 
erbs and Ecclesiastes follow the Psalms, and are sepa- 
rated from the Song of Songs by the book of Ruth. 
Gregory of Nazianzum, apparently from the exigencies 
of his verse, arranges the writings of Solomon in this 
order : Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs, Proverbs. Pseudo- , 
Epiphanius places Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Song of 
Songs between the 1st and 2d books of Kings and the : 
minor prophets. (The following article is based upon [ 


that in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia, with additions from other 
sources.) See Bible. 

1. Title . — As in the Pentateuch, the book of Proverbs 
takes its Hebrew title from its opening words — r 
rvC“23, or mishit y, simply. From this are di- 

rectly derived the titles it bears in the Sept. (7rapoipiai 
i.'(/\o/Uuj'roc) and Vulgate ( Liber Proverbiorum quim 
Hebnei “ Mislt" appellant), and the name hv which it is 
universally known in English. Another title, perhaps 
more appropriate to the book as a whole, is derived from 
I its chief subject, “ Wisdom? In the Tosaphotlt to Baba 
Bathra (fol. 14 b), we find Proverbs and Ecclesiastes 
I combined under the name “i£0,“the book of 

| wisdom,” and this title appears- to have passed thence 
| into the early Church. Clemens Roman. (Bp. ad Cor . i, 

I 57) when quoting i, 23-81 says, ovnog \tyti // tt aydpe- 
ro£ ao(f)ia, a name which, according to Eusebius (II. E. 
iv, 22), was adopted by Hegesippus. Irena-us, and “the 
whole band of the ancients,” following the unwritten. 
Jewish tradition, and by Clem. Alex. (Strom, ii, § 22). 
It is styled by Gregory Naz. (Urat. xi) iraa ayioyiKi) 
crocpla, and by Dion. Alex. oofi) fiifiXog. In the cata- 
l logne of canonical hooks compiled by Melito of Sardis 
i preserved by Eusebius (//. E. iv, 20), we find Hop. £«- 
Xo/i. i) Kai "2o<pia, a name which, as well as Sapientia, 

I is of frequent occurrence in the early fathers (see Cote- 
lerius in Clem. Rom. 1. c. ; Yales, ad Easel). 1. c.), though 
by no means restricted to the hook of Proverbs, being 
equally used, as Cotelerius proves, of “Ecelesiastiens” 
and “The Wisdom of Solomon,” a circumstance from 
which some confusion has arisen. 

'The word 7 '2 , masked , by which the so-called 
“Proverbs” of Solomon are designated (Prow i, 1. 0; x, 
1 ; xxv, 1 ; and 1 Kings iv, 32 [v, 12]), is more appro- 
priately translated in the Yulgate “parabola.” It is 
akin to the verb bw-, corresponding with the Arabic 
mathala and the Syriac methal, “to he like,” and pri- 
marily signifies “a comparison,” “similitude,” “para- 
j ble” (Ezek. xvii, 2; xxiv, 3) ; whence it easily passed 
to those pithy, sententious maxims so often in the East 
appearing in the form of a terse comparison, of which 
many are to be found in the hook before ns — e. g. xxvi, 
1, 2, 3, 0, 7, 8. 9, 11, 14, 17 — and then to “ proverbs” in 
general, whether containing a similitude or not (l Sam. 
x, 12; xxiv, 18 [14]; Eecles. xii, 9). Its scope was 
still further enlarged by its application to longer com- 
positions of a poetical and figurative character — e. g. 
that of Balaam (Numb, xxiii, 7, 18, etc., and Job xxvii, 
1 ; comp. Psa. xlix, 5; Ixxviii, 2), and particularly to 
taunting songs of triumph over fallen enemies — e. g. 
against the king of Babylon (Isa. xiv, 4), the Chaldeans 
(llab. ii, 6; com]), also Mic. ii, 4; Dent, xxviii, 37; 1 
Kings ix, 7). See Proverb. 

But the book of Proverbs, according to the introduc- 
tory verses which describe its character, contains, be- 
sides several varieties of the mashal, sententious sayings 
of other kinds, mentioned in i, 0. The first of these is 
the chid ah, rendered in the A. Y. “dark saying,” 

“dark speech,” “hard question," “riddle,” and once 
(llab. ii, 0) “proverb.” It is applied to Samson’s rid- 
dle (Judg. xiv), to the hard questions with which the 
queen of Sheba plied Solomon (1 Kings x, 1 ; 2 Chron. 
ix, 1), and is used almost synonymously with mashal in 
Ezek. xvii, 2, and in Tsa. xlix, 4 (5); Ixxviii, 2, in 
which last passages the poetical character of both is in- 
dicated. The word appears to denote a knotty, intri- 
cate saying, the solution of which demanded experience 
and skill: that it was obscure is evident from Numb, 
xii, 8. In addition to the chiddh was the me- 

litsah (Prow i, 0. A. Y. “the interpretation,” marg. “an 
eloquent speech”), which occurs in Hab. ii, 6 in con- 
nection both with chiddh and mashal. It has been 
variously explained as a mocking, taunting speech 
(Ewald); ora speech dark and involved, such as needed 
a melits, or interpreter (comp. Gen. xlii, 23; 2 Chron. 


TROVER nS 


700 PROVERBS 


xxxii. 31 ; Job xxxiii, 23; Isa. xliii, 27); or again, as 
by I Mi t /sell (I h r Prophet Hubahtk, p. 59 ), a brilliant 
or splendid saving “ cilanz- oder \\ 'oh l rede, uratio splen- 
did) i, eterjuus, lit minibus onuitn"). This last interpreta- 
tion is based upon the usage of the word in modern He- 
brew, but it certainly does not appear appropriate to 
the Proverbs; and t lie first explanation, which Ewald 
adopts, is as little to the point. It is better to under- 
stand it as a dark, enigmatical saying, which, like the 
mash ah might assume the character of sarcasm and 
irony, though not essential to it. See Pakaiii.ic. 

As might be expected from the nature of the work 
contemplated, the proverbs before us almost exclusively 
bear reference to the affairs of this life; but while a fut- 
ure existence is not formally brought to view, yet the 
consciousness of such an existence runs throughout, and 
forms the basis on which many of the strongest, most 
decisive, and oft-repeated declarations are made. For 
example, ch. xi, 7 has no meaning except on the sup- 
position that the writer believed in a future life, where, 
if not here, the hope and expectation of good men 
should be realized. If death were, in his judgment, 
annihilation, it would be equally the overthrow of the 
expectation of the righteous as of the wicked. See 
also, as affording similar indication, ch. xiv, 32; xxiii, 
17, IK. See I.MMORTAI.ITV. 

II. Canonicify. — The canonical authority of the book 
of Proverbs has never been called in question, except 
among the Jews themselves. We learn from the Tal- 
mud {Sheibbath, fol. 30 b ) that the school of Shammai, 
thus early adopting the principle of the free handling 
of Scripture, was led bv some apparent contradictions 
in the book (e. g. Prov. xxvi, 4, 5) to question its in- 
spiration, and to propose to cast it out of the canon. It 
is indeed certain, if we credit the Jewish tradition, that 
it did not at once take its place on a level with the 
other canonical Scriptures, but, like the Antilegomena 
of the New Test., remained for a time in suspense. Ac- 
cording to Wolf (Ilibl. Jlebr. ii, 119) and Zunz yfiott. 
Vortriifj. p. 14), it was not till the period of the Persian 
rule that “ the men of the great synagogue” admitted it 
to an equal rank with the other Ilagiographa. In the 
remarkable passage of the Talmud, however, which 
contains the most ancient opinion of the Jews on the 
formation of the Old-Test, canon {Habit liathra, p. 14, 
apud Westcott, liible in the Church, p. 30), its recogni- 
tion is lixed earlier; the Proverbs (“ Meshalim”) being 
included with Isaiah, Canticles (‘‘Shir 1 lashirim”). and 
Ecclesiastes (“ Kohelcth”) in the memorial word Jsun- 
shak, specifying the books “written” — i.e. reduced to 
writing — by llezckiah and his learned men. With the 
trilling exception mentioned above, its right to a place 
in the canon has never been questioned since its admis- 
sion into it, and there is no book of Holy Scripture 
whose authority is more unshaken. The amount of in- 
spiration in the book has been a matter of speculation 
since the days of Theodore of Mopsucstia, who believed 
that the wisdom contained in it was that of Solomon 
only, not of the Spirit of (Jod; even as some of the rab- 
bins found in Ecclesiastes no divine wisdom, but merely 
that, of Solomon. Leaving such vain and impracticable 
distinctions, the canonical authority of the book is at- 
tested to us by the frequent use of it in the New Test. 
The following is a list of the principal passages; 


Prov. i, 16 Horn, iii, 10, 15. 

iii, 7 Rom. xii, 16. 

* iii, 11, 12 II eh. xii, ft, C; Rev. iii, 19. 

* i'i, ”*4 James iv, 0. 

x, 12 l Pet. iv, s. 

* xi, 31 1 l\«t. iv, is. 

xvii, 13 ltom. xii, 17; 1 Thess. v, 15; 

1 Pel. iii, si. 

xvii, 27 James i, 19. 

xx, 9 i Joim i, s. 

XX, 20 Matt. XV, 4; Mailt vii, 10. 

xxii, K (Sept.) 2 Cor. ix, 7. 

•xxv, 21,22 Rom. xii, 20. 

"xxvi, 11 2 IVt. ii, 22. 

xxvii, 1 James iv, 19,14, 16. 


Of these only those marked with an asterisk are actual 


quotations; in the others there is a more or less direct 
allusion. 

III . Divisions.— The thirfv-one chapters of the book 
of Proverbs may be roughly divided into four sections: 

I. The hortatory introduction (i-ix); 2. The first col- 
lection of “the Proverbs of Solomon,” properly so called, 
with its appendices (x-xxiv ; 3. The second collection, 
compiled by llczckiah’s scribes (xxv-xxix) ; 4. An ap- 
pendix by different writers. 

1. The first of those sections has no continuous con- 
nection, and is hardly capable of any very accurate sub- 
division. The separate chapters form in some instances 
a connected whole (e. g. ii, v. vii, viii, ix); sometimes 
the connection does not extend beyond a few verses 
(e.g. iii, 1 M), 13-211; iv, 14 19; vi,*l-5, G-ll). There 
is little coherence between the separate chapters, and 
little unity beyond that of the general subject or the 
mode of treating it; so that if one chapter were to be 
removed, the organization of the whole would not be 
affected, and it would hardly be missed. Ewald, how- 
ever, who, somewhat in defiance of the internal evi- 
dence, looks on this portion as “an original whole, thor- 
oughly connected, and cast, as it were, at one gusli,'’ 
after the general introduction (i, 1 7) discovers three 
subdivisions, marked as well by the contents as by the 
position of the imperative verb at the beginning of the 
sections (c. g. i, 8; iv, 1 ; vi, 2D); while in the smaller 
divisions “my son” stands before the verb (e.g. i, 10, 
15; ii, I; iii. 1, 11,20; iv,2J,etc.). Ewald's subdivis- 
ions are — (1) a general admonition to the pursuit of 
wisdom, not fully completed, but running off’ into par- 
ticulars (i, 8 iii), (2) an exhaustive enumeration of 
the particular points of bis admonition (iv, 1 vi. 29), 
until (3) the discourse, gradually rising in power and 
grandeur, at last attains an almost lyrical flight (vi, 
20-ix). According to Delitzsch (in Herzog’s EncyUop .) 
this section is divisible into fifteen separate strains— (1) 
i, 7-19; (2)i,20-33; (3) it, (l)iii,l-18; (5) iii, 19-26; 
(6) iii, 27-35, (7) iv, 1-v, 6, ^8) v, 7-23; (9) vi, 1-5, 
(10) vi, 6-11. (11) vi, 12-19; (12) vi, 20-35; (13) vii; 
(14) viii, (15) ix. 

2. The second section (x-xxiv) evidently contains 
three subdivisions— (a) the collection of unconnected 
proverbs or gnomes (x, 1-xxii, 16) ; (b) “the words of 
the wise" (comp, i, 6; Ecclcs. ix, 7. xii. 1 1), consisting 
of a more connected series of maxims, with a hortatory 
preface recalling the style of the first section (xxii, 17- 
xxiv, 22) ; (c) a shorter appendix of proverbial sayings, 
with the title “these also belong to the wise,” ending 
with a description of a sluggard (xxiv, 23-34). 

3. The third section is a continuous scries of gnomic 
sayings without any subdivision (xxv-xxix). 

4. The fourth section, like the second, separates into 
throe parts— (o) “the words of Agur.” a collection of 
proverbial and enigmatical sayings (xxx), (b) “the 
words of king Lemuel” (xxxi, 1-9); and (»•) a short al- 
phabetical poem in praise of a virtuous woman (xxxi. 
10-31). 

IV. History of the Text. — The variations from the 
existing Masoretic text of the. book of I’roverbs pre- 
sented by the versions of the Sept., the iVshito-Syriae. 
the Targum, and to some extent by the Vulgate, bear 
witness to t lie former existence of copies differing in 
many and not unimportant points from that which lias 
become the authoritative text. The text, as preserved 
in these ancient versions, differs from that of our He- 
brew Lillies both in excess ami defect. They contain 
clauses, verses, and sometimes paragraphs not to l.e 
found in our extant copies, for the existence of which if 
is difficult to account, unless they formed part of the 
book which was before the translators; while other por- 
tions are wanting, for the absence of which no sufficient 
account can bo given, except that they were not read 
in the ancient Hebrew MSS. they employed. The very 
large number of minor discrepancies, both in language 
ami arrangement, which we meet with, all tend to con- 
firm this view, ami it well deserves consideration what 


PROVERBS 


701 


PROVERBS 


influence these variations, which every student knows 
arc not confined to this book, should have on the ordi- 
narily received hypothesis of the integrity and purity 
of the present Hebrew text. This, however, is not the 
place for the prosecution of this investigation. \\ e shall 
content ourselves with pointing out the principal points 
of variation. 

1. To commence with the Sept., the earliest of the ex- 
isting versions. The translation of this book, like that 
of Job. proves a more competent acquaintance with the 
Greek language and literature than is usual with the 
Alexandrine translators. The rendering is more free 
than literal, giving what the writer conceived to be 
the general spirit of the passage without strict adher- 
ence to the actual words. Bertheau remarks that the 
version of this book appears to have been undertaken 
rather with a literary than a religions object, as it was 
not read in the synagogues or required for their internal 
regulation. It is to this freedom of rendering that not 
a few of the apparent discrepancies are due, while there 
are others which are attributable to carelessness, mis- 
conception of the writer’s meaning, or even possibly to 
arbitrary alterations on the part of the translators. In 1 
some eases, also, we find two incompatible translations 
fused into one — e.g. vi,25; xvi, 26; xxiii, 31. 01 the I 

majority, however, of the variations no explanation can 
be offered but that they represent a different original, 
and therefore deserve consideration for the history of j 
the text. 

In the first division (i-ix) these variations are less ; 
considerable than in the second. Two verses appended 
to ch. iv remove the abruptness of the close and com- 
plete the sense. To the simile of the ant (vi, S), that 
of the bee is added. The insertion after viii, 21 seems 
out of place, and disturbs the continuity. In ch. ix 
there are two considerable additions to the discretion \ 
of the wise and foolish women, which seem to complete 
the sense in a very desirable manner. The variations I 
are much more considerable in the section x-xxiv. A 
large number of verses are wanting (xi, 4; xiii. 6; xvi, 
1-4; xviii, 23, 24; xix, 1, 2; xx, 14-19; xxi, 5; xxii, 1 
6; xxiii, 23 — which comes in very awkwardly in the 
Hebrew text; xxiv, 8); the arrangement of others is 
dislocated— e. g. ch. xv closes with ver. 29, vers. 30, 32, 1 
33 standing at the beginning of ch. xvi, while a verse 
very similar to ver. 31 is found after xvi, 17; xix, 3 
stands as the last verse of eli. xviii ; in ch. xx vers. 20- 
22 come between vers. 9 and 10. The most extraordi- 
nary dislocation, hardly to be ascribed to anything but 
an error of the scribe, appears in ch. xxiv. After ver. 
22 is introduced xxix, 27, to which succeed four distichs 
descriptive of the wrath of a king and urging attention 
to the writer’s words, not found in the Hebrew. We 
then find xxx-xxxi, 9 (4. e. the prophecy of Agur and 
of Lemuel), with the remainder of cn. xxiv, foisted in > 
between vers. 14, 15 of eh. xxx. The remainder of eh. 
xxxi, the aerostic on a virtuous woman, stands in its 1 
right place at the end of the book. The additions in 
this section are also numerous and important. We find 
proverbs intercalated between the following verses : x, 
4, 5; xi, 16, 17 (by which a very imperfect antithesis in 
the Hebrew is rectified) ; xii, 11,12; 13.14, xiii, 9, 10; 
13, 14 (found in the Vulgate, xiv, 15, 16); xiv, 22, 23; 
xv, 5,6; 18,19; 27,28; 28,29; xvii,6,7; 16,17; xviii, 
22, 23; xix, 7, 8, xxii, 8, 9 (found with slight varia- 
tions 2 Cor. ix, 7); 9, 10; 14, 15. In the dislocated ch. 
xvi five or perhaps six new proverbs appear. Inter- j 
calated proverbs are also found in the section xxv-xxix 
— e.g. xxv, 10, 11; 20, 21; xxvi, II, 12 (found also in 
Eccles. iv, 21) , xxvii, 20, 21; 21.22; xxix, 25, 26. Be- [ 
sides these, a careful scrutiny will discover a large mini- j 
her of smaller interpolations throughout, many of which : 
are only explanatory clauses. 

To specify the words and clauses which vary from 
the Hebrew would carry ns far beyond our limits. For 
these and the comparison of the two versions generally, 
the student may be referred to Jeiger, Observ. in Prov. 


' Sitlom. ms. Alex., and Schleusner, Opnsc. Critic. In 
many of these cases the Sept, has probably preserved 
| the true reading (e. g. x, 10, b) ; but, on the whole, 

] Ewald and Borthcau agree that the Masoretic text is 
the better and purer. 

2. The Peshito-, Syriac version, like the Sept., while 
it agrees with the Hebrew text generally, presents re- 
markable deviations in words and clauses, and contains 
whole verses of which there is no trace in the Hebrew. 
Some of the variations only prove a different interpre- 
tation of the text, but others are plainly referable to a 
difference in the text itself (c. g. vii, 22 sq. ; xv, 4-15; 
xix, 20; xxi, 16; xxii, 21, etc.), and thus confirm the 
view that at the time the version was executed— i. e. 
anterior to the 4th century — the present Hebrew text 
was not universally recognised. 

3. The Vulgate translation of Proverbs, hastily exe- 
euted hv Jerome in three days (together with Ecclesi- 
astes and Canticles), offers largely the same phenom- 
ena as the Sept, version. Many of the additions of the 
Sept, are to he found in it — e. g. x, 4; xii, 11. 13; xv, 
5, 27 (comp, xvi, 6); xvi, 5, etc.; and in one or two 
instances it has independent additions — e. g. xiv, 21 ; 
xviii, 8. There can be little doubt that in these points 
it preserves an authentic record of the state of the text 
at a period anterior to any existing Hebrew MS. 

4. We may conclude this hasty review with the Tar- 
gnm. That on the Proverbs is considered by Zunz (p. 
64), on linguistic grounds, to be nearly contemporaneous 
with those on the Psalms and Job, and is assigned by 
Bertheau to the latter half of the 7th century, though 
it is not quoted before the 12th. The version is close, 
and on the whole follows the original text very faith- 
fully. though with some remarkable deviations (the 
following are quoted by Bertheau — vii, 22; x, 3; xiv, 
14; xxv, 1, 20, etc.). Its similarity to the Feslrito is 
too remarkable to be aetidental (i, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 
13; ii, 9, 10, 13-15; iii, 2-9, etc.), and is probably to he 
accounted for by the supposition of a subsequent recen- 
sion of the text, which is very corrupt, based upon that 
version. See Wolf, Bibliolh. Ihb. ii, 1176; Bathe, J)e 
Rat. Consens. vers. Chald. i t Syr. Pi or. Sulom. ; Zunz, 
Goffesdienst, V or tray. 

V. Form and Style . — 1. The difference of style ami 
structure between the first and second divisions is ap- 
parent on the most cursory perusal. Instead of the de- 
tached gnomes of the latter, we find a succession of 
hortatory addresses, varying in length and differing in 
subject, though for the most part on the same plan and 
with the same general object, in which the writer docs 
not so much detine wisdom as enlarge upon the bless- 
ings to he derived from its possession, and the lasting 
misery which is the consequence of the violation of its 
, precepts, and in the most powerful and moving language 
j urge the young to the earnest pursuit of it as the best 
of all good things. Whether originally written as a 
proem or introduction or not, it is certainly well fitted 
to occupy its present place, and prepare the mind of the 
reader lor the careful consideration of the moral ami 
practical precepts which follow. The style is of a much 
higher and more dignified character than in the suc- 
ceeding portions; the language is more rhetorical; it 
abounds in hold personifications and vivid imagery. 
The concluding chapters (viii, ix) are cast in the grand- 
est mould of poetry, and are surpassed in true sublimity 
by few portions of Ilolv Scripture. At the same time, 
j when this portion is viewed as a whole, a want of ar- 
tistic skill is discoverable. The style is sometimes dif- 
i fuse and the repetitions wearisome. The writer returns 
1 continually on his steps, treating of the same topic again 
ami again, without any apparent plan or regular devel- 
opment. of the subject. 

As regards the form, we find but little regularity of 
structure. The paragraphs consist sometimes of no 
more than two or three verses (i, 8-9; iii, 11-12; vi, 
1-5,6-11, 12-15,16-19); sometimes the same thought 
I is carried through a le>ng succession of verses, or even 


PROVERBS 


02 


PROVERBS 


an entire chapter (ii, 1-22; v, 1 -20: vi, 20-35; vii, viii. 
ix). A very favorite arrangement is a paragraph of 
ten verses (i, 10 I!); iii, 1 10; 11-20; iv, 10-10; viii, 
12-21 ; 22-31 >. a form which, if we may trust the Sept, 
version, existed also in the copies employed by them in 
iv, 2« 27 : v, 0-11 ; and, according to the Peshito-Syr- 
iae, in iv, 1 9. The parallelism of members is some- 
times maintained, but frequently neglected. The par- 
allels are usually synonymous <e. g. i, 8-9, 11, 12, etc.). 
The antithetical parallels found in iii. 32-35 belong to a 
series of gnomes which disturb the harmony of the pas- 
sage. and appear scarcely in their appropriate place. It 
may be remarked that the name “ Eloliim” occurs only 
six times in the whole hook, and thrice in this section 
(ii, 5-17 ; iii. -1). The other places are, xxv, 2; xxx, 
5-9. Other unusual words are r'~~n, •‘wisdoms,” for 
wisdom in the abstract (i, 20; ix. I ; found also in xxiv, 
7); ~“T, "the strange woman,” which occurs repeat- 
edly (e. g. ii, 1G; v. 3, 20, etc., found nowhere else save 
in xxii, 14; xxiii, 23); and “ the stranger” (ii. 

10; vii, 5. etc.; found also in xx, 10; xxiii, 27 ; xxvii, 
13); i. e. the foreign prostitute, then as now lurking at 
the dark corners of the streets, taken as the representa- 
tive of the harlot sense seducing the young and inex- 
perienced from true wisdom. Ewald also notices the 
unusual construction of a dual fern, with a verb 

in the maso. plur. (v, 2) ; while in the next verse it has 
properly a fern, plur., and the unusual plur. 2"’2"X 
(viii. 4). 

2. In the second division, “ the Proverbs of Solomon,” 
which form the kernel of the book, (x-xxii, 17), we 
find a striking similarity of structure throughout. Ev- 
ery verse ( reckoned by Delit/.sch at 375) in its normal 
form consists of two members, each containing three, 
four, or more rarely live short words. (The one ex- 
ception to this rule |_xix, 7] is probably due to the loss 
of a member, which is supplied bv the Sept.) Even- 
verse is independent, with no necessary connection with 
those that precede or follow, and, generally speaking, 
no attempt at arrangement. Ewald’s theory of a con- 
tinuous thread of connection running through this col- 
lection in its original form, and binding together the 
scattered sayings, has absolutely no evidence in its fa- 
vor. and can only be sustained by supposing an almost 
total dismemberment of this portion of the book. It is 
true there are eases in which the same subject recurs in 
two or three successive verses (e. g. x, 2-5; 18-21 ; xi, 
4 X; 21-215), hut these are the exceptions, and only oc- 
cur, as Ewahl elsewhere allows, when, from the studied 
brevity of the proverbial form, a thought cannot be ex- 
pressed in all its fulness in a single verse. The cases 
in which the same characteristic word or words recur in 
successive proverbs are more frequent (e. g. x. I>, 7 ; X, 
10; xi. 5, G; 10, 11, etc.). Put in every instance each 
verse gives a single definite idea, nor do we ever meet 
with two verses so connected that the latter contains 
the reason of the counsel, or the application of the illus- 
tration given in the former. 

Nearly the whole of the proverbs in the earlier part 
of this division are ant it helical ; hut after the middle of 
eh. xv this characteristic gradually disappears, and is 
almost entirely lost in the concluding chapters, A large 
number are synonymous (e. g. xi, 7, 25, 30; xii, 14, 2X; 
xiv, 13, 17. 19, etc.), some aphoristic (e. g. xi, 31 ; xiii, 
1 1 , especially with the comparative and '*2 (e. g. xii. 
9; xv, 10, 17 ; xvi, x, 9, etc,), or T TX. “much more” 
(e. g. xi. 31 ; xv, 1 1 ; xvii, 7). Others are synthetic (x. 
IX; \i, 29; xiv, 17, etc.); onlv two are parabolic (x. 
20 ; xi, 22). 

The style is lower ami more prosaic than in the for- 
mer section. Ewald regards it as an example of the 
most ancient and simplest poetical style, full of prime- 
val terseness, and hearing the visible stamp of antiquity 
in its language and imagery without any trace of later 
coloring, lie remarks very justly that the proverbs in 


this collection are not to be looked upon as a collection 
of popular sayings, embodying mere prudential wisdom, 
but that they belong to the higher life, and are as broad 
in their grasp of truth as in their range of thought. 
The germ of many of them may have been found in 
popular sayings; hut the skill and delicacy with which 
they have been fashioned into their present shape, 
though of the simplest kind, display the hand of a 
master. 

Ewald remarks the following peculiar phrases as oc- 
curring in this section. Fountain of life," x, 11 ; xiii, 
14; xiv, 27 ; xvi, 22 (comp. l’sa. xxxvi, 9 [10J): “tree 
of life,” iii, 1 X ; xi, 30; xiii, 12; xv, 4: ‘'snares of 
death,” xiii, 1-1; xiv, 27 (comp. Psa. x viii, 5 [G]): and 
the following favorite words Ni2“'2, “ healing," in va- 
rious similes ami applications, xii. IX; xiii, 17 ; xvi, 24 
(hut this also occurs in the former section, iv, 22; vi, 
15) : rrr,“ “destruction,” x, 14, 15, 29; xiii, 3; xiv, 
2X; xviii. 7 ; xxi, 15; and only in four other places in 
the whole liible : TPS”, part, from H*2. “to blow,” xii, 
17; xiv, 5, 25; xix, 5-9 (comp, vi, 19; Psa. xii, G; 
xxvii, 11): the mifrequent roots 222, “perverseness,” 
xi, 3; xv, 4, and the verb 222, “to pervert,” “de- 
stroy.” xiii, G: xix, 3: xxi, 12; xxii, 12: the phrase 
njTS" N2, “shall not go unpunished,” xi, 21: xvi, 5; 
xvii, 5 (comp, xxviii, 20; vi, 29): 2"-, “he that pnr- 
sueth,” xi, 19; xii, 11: xiii, 21; xv, 9; xix, 7 (comp, 
xxviii, 19), and nowhere else. Ewald instances also as 
archaic phrases not met with elsewhere, n2"S“X "12, 
“hut for a moment,” xii. 19: TJ T, “hand join in 
hand,” xi, 21; xvi, 5: 2222”, “meddled with,” xvii, 
11; xviii, 1; xx, 3: “ whisperer,” “talebearer,” 

xvi, 28; xviii, | (comp, x xvi, 20-22). The word *2", 
“there is,” though frequent elsewhere, scarcely occurs 
in Proverbs, save in this section, xi, 21 ; xii, 18; xiii, 7, 
23; xiv, 12. etc. 

3. With xxii, 17, “ the words of the wise” (comp, i, G\ 
we are carried back to the style and language of the 
proem (ch. i-ix), of which we are also reminded by the 
continued address in the second person singular, and 
the use of “ my soil.” There is, however, a difference 
in the phraseology and language; and, as Maurer re- 
marks, the diction is not (infrequently rugged and awk- 
ward, and somewhat labored. Parallelism is neglected. 
The moral precepts are longer than those of ch. x-xxii, 
but not so diffuse as those of the first section. We find 
examples of the distich, xxii. 2* ; xxiii, 9; xxiv, 7 W: 
the tristich, xxii, 29: xxiv, 29: hut the tetrastich is 
the most frequent, the favorite form being that in which 
the second member gives the ground of the first, xxii, 
22, 23; 24, 25; 2ti, 27. etc. We also find proverbs of 
live members, xxiii. I, 5; xxiv. 3. 4: several of six, 
xxiii. 1-3, 12-14, 19-21 ; xxiv, II, 12: and one of seven, 
xxviii, G-8. We have a longer strain, xxiii, 29-35, 
against drunkenness. 

4. The short appendix, xxiv, 23-34, comprising more 
“words of the wise,” can hardly he distinguished in 
style or form from the preceding. It closes with a 
“proverb-lay” of five verses on the evils of sloth. 

5. The second collection of “the Proverbs of Solo- 
mon” (eh. xxv-xxix), transcribed i“~“r2n, Sept. i£t- 
ypdipnt'TO, Aq. pfTypav: < » r. Yen. fif-ip^yKar; comp, 
i’usey, Ihmiel , p. 322 note) liy the scribes of llozokiah, 
closely resembles the former one. They are, according 
to Pusoy, “identical in language.” It has, however, 
some very decided points of difference. The “para- 
bolic" proverb is much more frequent than the “anti- 
thetical,” the two members of the comparison being 
sometimes set side by side without anv connecting link 
(c. g. xxv, 12. 13), which is in other cases given merely 
by i, “and,” or *,Z. “so” (xxvi. 1. 2, 18-19; xxvii, 8, 
etc.). The parallelism is sometimes strict, sometimes 
lax ami free. There is a want of the sententious brev- 


PROVERBS 


703 


PROVERBS 


ity of the former collection, and the construction is looser 
and weaker. The proverbs are not always completed 
in a single verse (xxv, 6, 7; 9, 10; 21, 22; xxvi, 18, 
19); and more frequently than in tiie former section we 
have series of proverbs with an internal connection of 
subject (xxvi, 23-25; xxvii, 15, 10, 23-27), and others 
in which the same key-word recurs (xxv, 8-10; xxvi, 
3-12; 13-16). This is not found so often after xxvii, 
5; but a close examination of the text suggests the idea 
that this may be due to a disturbance of the original 
order (comp, xxvii, 7, 9; xxviii, 4, 7, 9; xxix, 8, 10, 
etc.). Ewald discovers a want of the figurative ex- 
pressions of the earlier collection, and a difference of 
language and phraseology, while Kosenm tiller remarks 
that the meaning of the proverbs is more obscure and 
enigmatical. The greater part of them are moral pre- 
cepts. “The earlier collection may be called ‘a book 
for youth;’ this ; a book for the people’” (Delitzsch) ; 
“the wisdom of Solomon in the days of Ilezekiah” 
(Stier). 

6. The three supplemental writings with which the 
book closes (ch. xxx, xxxi) are separated from the 
other portions and from one another no less by style 
and form than by authorship. Ewald somewhat arbi- 
trarily divides ch. xxx after ver. 14 (a division, how- 
ever, sanctioned by the Sept.), and thinks it not im- 
probable that ch. xxx and xxxi, 1-9 are from the 
same pen. He also regards the opening verses of ch. 
xxx as a dialogue, vers. 2-4 being the words of an ig- 
norant disciple of Agur, to which the teacher replies. 
The difference between the enigmatical sayings of Agur 
(which find a counterpart in the collections of Orien- 
tal proverbs) and the simple admonitions of Lemuel’s 
mother is very great if we assign them to one author. 
In ch. xxx we have, in Ewald's words, instead of moral 
aphorisms, a succession of elegant little pictures illus- 
trative of moral truths, evidencing a decay of creative 
power, the skill of the author being applied to a novel 
and striking presentation of an old truth. The ancient 
terse proverbial form is entirely lost sight of, and the 
style rises to a height and dignity warranting the use 
of the term (comp. Isa. xiii, 1 ; Ilab. i, 1, etc.) ap- 

plied to both. In “ the words of king Lemuel” we find 
much greater regularity. The parallelism is synony- 
mous, and is maintained throughout. The alphabetical 
ode in praise of a virtuous woman — “a golden ABC 
for women” (Doderlein) — has all its verses of about the 
same compass. The parallelism is very similar to that 
of the Psalms, especially those in which the same alpha- 
betical arrangement is found. 

VI. Authorship and Date . — On these points the most 
various opinions have been entertained, from that of the 
rabbins and the earlier school of commentators, with 
whom some modern writers (e. g. Keil) agree, who at- 
tribute the whole book to Solomon (even ch. xxx, xxxi 
arc assigned to him by Kashi and his school), to those 
of llitzig and other representatives of the advanced 
critical school, who, however widely at variance with 
one another, agree in reducing to a minimum the wise 
king of Israel’s share in the book which from the re- 
motest antiquity has borne his name. In the face of 
such wide discrepancies, where the same data lead care- 
ful investigators (e. g. Ewald and Hitzig) to exactly 
opposite conclusions, a satisfactory decision of the ques- 
tion of authorship and date is hardly to be hoped for. 
It may rather be doubted whether the evidence at pres- 
ent before us is such as to admit of an absolute deter- 
mination of the question at issue. Where so much 
indefiniteness exists, all we can do is to balance proba- 
bilities and to abstain from dogmatic decisions. 

The evidence in favor of a composite origin of the 
book appears, we must confess, irresistible. No unprej- 
udiced person, we think, accustomed to the considera- 
tion of such questions, could read the book for the first 
time, even in English, without seeing in it the traces 
of several different authors, or at least editors. Irre- 


spective of the two concluding chapters, the express ref- 
erence to other sages (C^in, in xxii, 17; xxiv, 23; 
comp, i, 6) indicates a diversity of authorship, while 
the difference of style between various divisions of the 
work strengthens the hypothesis. Indeed, a careful ob- 
server will find at the very outset an indication of the 
composite character of the book in the introductory 
verses which profess to give the contents and character 
(i, 1-7). These prepare ns to find in it, not merely - 
“proverbs” and “eloquent speeches” (margin, A. V. : 
“interpretation”), but also such “words of the wise” as 
those we have just referred to, and “dark sayings” like 
those of Agur. 

Are we. then, to discard the title, “the Proverbs of 
Solomon,” and to consider that the designation has been 
given to the book erroneously? To us this appears 
rash in the extreme. We know' from historical sources 
that Solomon was the author of a very large number of 
proverbs; and nothing but that restlessness of specula- 
tion which discards old beliefs simply, as it would seem, 
because they are old, and seeks to unsettle all that lias 
hitherto been held certain, can discover any sufficient 
reason for questioning that Solomon was the composer 
of the greater part of those contained in our present 
book, especially in the sections x-xxii, 1G; xxv-xxix. 
However much these collections may have been modi- 
fied in successive redactions, though too much has 
probably been conceded to this hypothesis, of which 
there is no definite trace, and by which a work may be 
made to assume any form that may suit the theory to 
be supported, we have no sufficient reason for doubting 
that Solomon was the originator of the peculiar style 
of poetry in which they are composed, and that, even if 
they are not all to be referred to him, the mass are his, 
and that they are all pervaded with his spirit, and may 
be assigned to his epoch. Even those attributed to 
“the ancients” may have been found by Solomon al- 
ready floating in a semi-gnomic form, and recast by him 
in a more distinctly proverbial dress. Eichhorn finds 
in them no trace of language or thought subsequent to 
the time of Solomon. Even Ewald, who insists most 
on the collection as we have it having suffered from 
abbreviations, transpositions, and unauthorized addi- 
tions, remarks that the proverbs all breathe the happy 
peace and growing civilization of Solomon’s age; nor is 
there any epoch either earlier or later to which we could 
preferably assign them. 

The proverbs in the later collection (ch. xxv-xxix), 
though they present some diversities, do not differ so 
essentially from the earlier ones as to give any sufficient 
grounds for questioning the accuracy of the superscrip- 
tion (xxv, 1). The title itself informs us that the com- 
pilation was not made till four centuries after Solomon, 
and the differences are not greater than might be looked 
for in sayings that had been so long floating about 
among the common people, and thereby subjected to 
disfigurement and change. The indications of an al- 
tered state of society and a decrease of confidence in 
the rulers, in which Ewald discovers such unmistakable 
proofs of a later date, are hardly so evident to others as 
to himself. We know' too little of the internal economy 
of Solomon’s reign to enable us to pronounce authorita- 
tively that such and such expressions are inconsistent 
with the state of the people and tone of thought at that 
period. 

The objection brought by Eichhorn and others against 
assigning the proverbs in the two collections to Solo- 
mon, that the genius of no one man, not even one as di- 
vinely gifted with wisdom as Solomon, is sufficient for 
the production of so large a number, is puerile in the ex- 
treme. Those we possess are but a portion of the three 
thousand ascribed to him (1 Kings iv, 32), and scarcely 
give twenty for each of the forty years of his reign. 

The general didactic tone of the book is asserted to be 
more consistent with the character of a prophet or priest 
than that of a king (Davidson). To this it is replied 


PROVERBS 


04 


PROVERBS 


that this is true of kings in general, but not of such a 
king as Solomon, to whom (iod gave a wise ami under- 
standing heart, whose proverbs are eminently didactic, 
and who has in 1 Kings viii discoursed on the divine 
economy towards man in a way that no prophet or 
priest could well surpass. The praises of monogamy, 
and the strict injunctions against adultery, are urged 
by Jlertlioldt as reasons why Solomon, a polygamist 
himself, an 1 Batlislioba’s son, could not be the author 
of this section. It is. however, a remarkable feature of 
the Old l est, in general, and not peculiar to this place, 
that polygamy, however generally practiced, is never 
praised ; that invariably where the married state is spo- 
ken of in terms of praise it is the union of one man to 
one woman that is held tip to honor. Besides, the force 
of this objection is considerably moditied by the reflec- 
tion that precepts are here given Ibr the mass of men, 
with whom monogamy is the general rule, though po- 
lygamy may be common among the richer classes (Wil- 
kinson’s Egypt, ii, 02) ; and also that the contrast here 
drawn (I’rov. v, 1*, etc.) is not between monogamy and 
polygamy, but. between the marriage tie and adulterous 
connection. As to the supposition that the repeated 
warnings against adultery could not come from one 
whose own mother fell into that sin, no great weight 
can be attached to it ; for a moral and religions teacher 
must disregard considerations which would influence 
other men. The allusions to deeds of violence (i, 1 1 
19; ii, 12, etc.) are supposed by Kwald to indicate a 
state of confusion inconsistent with that state, of peace 
and social security which marked the reign of Solomon 
(L Kings iv, 25). To this it is replied that a condition 
of great private wealth, such as was the condition of 
Solomon's times, always tempts needy and unprincipled 
men to acts of unlawful violence; and that nothing be- 
yond crimes which now are committed in the most civ- 
ilized and best-regulated countries arc referred to in the 
passages in question. Besides, Judaea always afforded 
in its caverns and wildernesses peculiar facilities for 
robbers (Judg. vi, 2; 1 Sam. xxiv, 1). From a sup- 
posed degeneracy of style, Kwald attributes this section 
to the earlier part of the 7th century I1.C. But other 
critics do not see this. Davidson thinks it indicates a 
nourishing state of Hebrew literature, and refers it prob- 
ably to the 9th century B.C., an opinion in which he 
coincides with Ilitzig. The grounds on which Kwald 
relies for his alleged degeneracy of style seem weak. 
Thus, he asserts that the pin ral ish im (I’rov. viii, 1) is 
so unusual as to indicate a very late date. It is cer- 
tainly very unusual, for it occurs only three times (Kilrst). 
From these, however, we cannot argue as to the date, 
as one of them is in Isaiah, another in l’sa. cxli, 3, at- 
tributed to David, and the third in the passage above 
referred to. 

Similar and equally futile objections have been based, 
by Bertboldt ami others, on the familiarity displayed in 
the proverbs with circumstances and conditions in life 
with which it is supposed that Solomon as a king could 
have had no experimental acquaintance. For exam- 
ple, it is maintained that x, 5; xii, 10, 11 ; xiv, 1 ; xx, 
4, must have been written by a landowner or husband- 
man: x, 15, by a poor man: xi, 14; xiv, 19, by a citi- 
zen of a well-ordered state: xi, 20, by a tradesman: xii. 
4, by one who was not a polygamist : xiv, 1 ; xv, 25; 
xvi, 11 ; xvii, 2; xix, 13, 14; xx, 10. I 1.23, by an ordi- 
nary citizen: xxv, 2 7, not by a king, but by one who 
had lived some time at a court : xxvii, 1 1, by a teacher 
of youth: xvii, 23-27, by a sage who lived a nomadic 
life: xxviii, 10, bv one free from those errors which 
weakened Solomon’s throne, and robbed his son of his 
kingdom. It is needless to point out the weakness of 
these fancied arguments which would affect no one who 
hail not. a theory of his own to support. They are akin 
to those which have been used with as little success to 
prove that no one man could have written the plays of 
Shakespeare, and they display the most marvellous ig- 
norance of that many-sidedness and keenness of percep- 


tion and insight which are characteristic of the highly 
gifted among mankind. 

As little weight is to he assigned to the objections 
drawn from the repetitions. It is true that we tind the 
same idea, and even the same words, recurring not only 
in the two collections ( e. g. xxi, 9, xxv, 24; xviii, X, 
xxvi, 22; xxii, 3, xxvii. 12: xxii, 13, xxvi, 13; xix, 
24, xxvi, 15; xix, 1, xxviii, t»), but in the same collec- 
tion (e. g. xiv, 12, xvi, 25; x, 1, xv, 20; xvi, 2, xxi, 2; 
x, 2, xi, 1 ; xiii, 14, xiv, 27 ; xxvi, 12, xxix, 20). This 
latter is, however, no more, as Fmbroit remarks, than 
is natural in such a compilation, in the formation of 
which one is very apt to forget what had already been 
set down ; while the former class of repetitions is easily 
to be accounted for by the anxiety of the collectors to 
lose nothing which had the stamp of Solomon’s author- 
ship, even though the same idea had already been ex- 
pressed in the earlier collection; and it goes far to con- 
firm the view that Solomon was the composer of the 
whole. 

'I’lie internal evidence — derived from language, con- 
struction, ideas, historic background, and the like — 
varies with every successive critic, and is entirely in- 
adequate to warrant any decisive verdict. Its preea- 
riousness is proved by the opposite results to which the 
same data lead various commentators. Keil maintains 
that every part of the book, with the exception of the 
last two chapters, corresponds to the epoch of Solomon, 
and that only. Kichhorn agrees with this to a certain 
extent, but limits the correspondence to ch. i-xxiv; 
while Kwald, Ilitzig, and Bertlicau, and other minor 
critics, arrive at conclusions expressed with equal con- 
fidence and at variance with these and with one an- 
other. There is, however, one evidence which speaks 
strongly in favor of an early date— the entire absence 
of all reference to idolatry. The form of religion ap- 
pearing throughout is purely Jehovistic (as we have 
noticed above, Klohim occurs only four times in the 
body of the work), and false gods and foreign faiths are 
not even referred to. 

The above remarks refer chiefly to the collection of 
proverbs properly so called, which we have no difficulty 
in ascribing, on the whole, to Solomon as their ultimate 
author. We may, if we choose, suppose that the men 
of Hezckiah made a collection of unwritten proverbs 
current among the people, and by them supposed, truly 
or not, to have come down from Solomon; hut the men 
of Hezckiah, or whoever wrote the superscription of 
xxv, l, declare those they put forth to have been copied 
from written records. Assuming tliis to lie the correct 
view, the difference between these proverbs and those 
which went before is, that whereas in Solomon's time 
the latter were arranged as we have them, the former 
were in Hezekiah’s time selected from more ancient 
written records and added to the existing collection. Ft 
gives ns the idea, which is itself an extremely probable 
one, that voluminous records were made in Solomon’s 
time of the wise king’s sayings, either by himself or by 
scribes. This idea derives considerable confirmation 
from the notice in 1 Kings iv, 30-34, where we are told 
of the accurate account taken of his compositions and 
sayings, ami even of the precise number of his proverbs 
and songs. We are led to suppose, then, that in Solo- 
mon's time a selection (x-xxii, liD was made by him- 
self, or under bis immediate supervision, while in Iiez- 
ekiah's time a further selection was made, and an exact 
transcript taken. A comparison ofihe proverbs in these 
two collections lends strong confirmation to this view. 
In selecting or arranging a collection in Solomon’s time, 
and under his inspection, the choice would naturally 
fall upon the most perfect, and as alterations might he 
freely made by their actual author, those would tend to 
bring them into a still more finished form. Accord- 
ingly, we find in the more ancient collection a certain 
tastefulness and polish which the others do not possess. 
In the former each verse contains its own perfect sense, 
and this usually comprised in a certain number of words. 


PROVERBS 


705 


PROVERBS 


varying from seven to nine, beyond which they very 
rarely extend. In the latter, while the sense is gener- 
ally contained in one verse, it not unfrequently runs 
through two or more verses. Examples from these 
might easily be produced as concise and perfect in form 
as the others (e. g. xxv, 2, 3, 14); but very commonly 
the sense is brought out in a much more diffuse manner 
(c. g. xxv, 6, 7, 9, 10, 21, 22; xxvi, 18, 20; xxvii, 15, 
16, 28-27). In the individual verses also we find occa- 
sionally a far greater number of words than are ever 
admitted into those of the older collection (e. g. xxv, 
7, 20); and the parallelism, which never fails in the 
verses of the earlier, is often wanting in those of the 
later division (xxv, 8, 21, 22 ; xxvi, 10; xxvii, 1). This 
agrees with the idea which we think warranted by a 
comparison of xxv, 1 with 1 Kings iv, 32, 33, that the 
proverbs in this collection are probably much as they 
fell from Solomon’s lips, and were first committed to 
writing by himself or others under him ; and that while 
the former collection received his own final corrections, 
the men of llezekiah simply copied from the text before 
them, but did not venture upon any alteration in the 
form. 

The case is somewhat different with regard to the 
introductory chapters (i-ix), and there is more ground 
for the diversity of opinion as to their date and author- 
ship. It is certainly quite possible that the whole or a 
considerable portion of this section may have been writ- 
ten by Solomon. The differences of style, of which 
Ewahl makes much, are, as Bertheau has shown, some- 
what exaggerated by him, and are not perhaps greater 
than may be accounted for by the different nature of 
the compositions. The terse simplicity of a proverb 
would be out of place in a series of hortatory addresses 
such as those which characterize this section. Ewald 
dwells with emphasis on the internal evidence of a late 
date afforded by the state of society, and the tone of 
feeling as portrayed here. But we repeat our former 
remark, that we know too little of the internal history 
of Judina at this time to allow us to speak with so much 
confidence on these points, and express our conviction 
that the conclusions drawn by Ewald are not warranted 
by the premises. The imagery all points to a large 
and profligate eity, such as Jerusalem may well have 
become during the middle of Solomon’s prosperous reign ; 
and the vivid representation of the habits of the foreign 
prostitutes and lawless freebooters who roamed its streets 
is hardly more than could have been attained by one 
who, like Harun Alraschid, was fond of laying aside his 
kingly 'state and visiting his city in disguise. 

It is evident, from what we have remarked in a for- 
mer section, that we regard the proem (ch. i-ix) in its 
present form as a composite work, though very possibly 
proceeding from one pen. The similarity of style, sub- 
ject, and treatment, is strongly in favor of unity of au- 
thorship, while the internal evidence favors the view 
that it is compiled of various unconnected members, 
collected and arranged subsequently to the time of their 
composition. The date of this compilation it is impos- 
sible to fix. The evidence on this point is faint and 
untrustworthy, and has led different investigators to 
very opposite conclusions. Ewald places it in the 7th, 
Hitzig in the 9th century B.C., while Keil, as we have 
seen, ascribes it to the time of Solomon. The resem- 
blance that may be traced in this portion of the work 
to the spirit and teaching of the book of Job, and the 
recurrence of some of the words and images found there, 
is employed both by Hitzig and Ewald to aid in deter- 
mining the date of this section (comp. Job xv, 7 with 
Prov. viii, 25; Job xxi, 17, Prov. xiii, 9; Job xxviii, 
18, Prov. viii, 16; Job v, 17, Prov. iii, 11; see Pusey, 
Daniel, p. 823, note 7). But as there is no unanimity 
as to the date of the composition of Job, little help is to 
be expected from this source, nor can we be surprised 
at the diversity of opinion among those who have em- 
ployed it : Ewald maintaining that the writer of Proverbs 
had read and made use of Job; Hitzig, on the contrarv, 
Ann. — y v 


believing that the former is the earlier work, and that 
the author of Job borrowed from Proverbs. The adop- 
tion of such expedients proves most forcibly the com- 
plete want of any decisive testimony which will enable 
us to arrive at any trustworthy conclusion as to the 
date of this section. In the midst of this uncertainty, 
the above solution is as probable as any other — namely, 
that it is due to Solomon’s authorship out of materials 
existing at his time. 

The similarity in style between i-ix and the appen- 
dix to the first collection of proverbs (xxii, 17-xxiv) 
appears to favor the view that this supplement is due 
to the same person by whom the proem was prefixed to 
the book. Ewald enumerates several reasons for as- 
cribing the two to the same writer (p. 42), but finally 
decides against the unity of authorship. The proverbs 
themselves, designated as “words of the wise,” are evi- 
dently distinguished from those of Solomon, and are 
probably to be regarded as the adages of other sages, 
which the compiler of the work thought too valuable to 
be lost, and therefore appended to his larger collection. 
The short supplement (xxiv, 23-34) is accounted for by 
Umbreit on the supposition that the compiler had laid 
aside his work for a time, and took it up again on the 
discover}' of fresh sayings worthy of preservation. He 
renders “for ,” not “o/The wise,” and regards 

them as directed to the compiler’s scholars. Ewald, 
Bertheau, Delitzsch, etc., defend the received transla- 
tion. 

It only remains for us to speak of the threefold sup- 
plement (xxx, xxxi), with regard to the authorship 
and date of which again nothing can be determined. It 
would be hardly profitable to discus the marvellous fab- 
ric of fanciful history and biography which has been 
evolved from the scantiest materials bv Hitzig, Bunsen, 
and Bertheau. Those who desire it may refer to their 
works to see the grounds on which “Massa” (A. V. 
“the prophecy”) is identified with a district in Arabia 
(Gen. x, 30 ; xxv, 14 ; 1 Chron. i, 30) of which Lemuel 
was king, and Agur with a descendant of the Simeon- 
ites, who in the reign of llezekiah drove out the Amal- 
ekites from Mount Seir (1 Chron. iv, 42); or, again, on 
which it is sought to prove that Agur and Lemuel were 
brothers, sons of the reigning queen of Massa. AVe 
would rather commend to our reader Eichhorn’s sensi- 
ble words that “Agur should remain Agur, and belong 
to the. wise men of the old world of whom history gives 
us no further information,” and with him deprecate 
“spinning a long thread of tedious conjectures about a 
name, which do not advance us an inch in our insight 
into the literature of the old world, or any profitable 
learning.” As little to the purpose is the fancy of Do- 
derlein that the opening part of ch. xxx is a dialogue: 
that Ithiel is a heathen; Agur a much valued servant 
of Ithiel. to whom, as his master, his prayer (v, 7-9) is 
addressed. Many are content with saying that Agur 
was an unknown Hebrew sage, the teacher of Ithiel and 
Heal — names from which, also, many unprofitable specu- 
lations have been built— and that he lived subsequently 
to the reign of Hezekiah. Still more probable do we re- 
gard the view which identifies him with Solomon him- 
self under a fanciful name. See Aguk; Massa. 

Lemuel— “ to God,’’ “ devoted to God,” after the anal- 
ogy of Numb, iii, 24 (Pusey) — may certainly be 
regarded as a figurative name descriptive of an ideal 
king, “a monarch as he should be” (Ewald; Eiehliorn; 
comp. Pusey, Led. on Daniel, p. xiii, note 1, p. 323, note 
5). See Lkjiuei.,. 

The alphabetical lay which concludes the whole has 
usually been thought to belong to the latest period of 
Hebrew poetry, and hardly to be placed higher than 
the 7th century. Its style and language seem to dis- 
tinguish it from the words of Lemuel, with which it has 
sometimes been confounded; but we are again warned 
against the precariousness of such grounds of argument 
as to authorship. 


PROVERBS 


PROVERBS 


TOG 


The results of our inquiry may be thus summed up. 
The nucleus of the book is the larger collection of prov- 
erbs (x-xxii, 10). These may safely be regarded as 
really what they profess to be, *■ the proverbs of Solo- 
mon.’’ Whether they were arranged as we now have 
them and published by liirn, there is not sufficient evi- 
dence to determine. It is probable, however, that the 
collection was either contemporaneous with or not long 
subsequent to him. The greater part of the hortatory 
introduction (i-ix) may also be, with great probability, 
ascribed originally to Solomon, though we incline to the 
belief that its present form is due to a later compiler, 
who collected the admonitions of the wise king, and pre- 
fixed them to his book of proverbs. The same author 
also appears to have added the appendix (xxii, 17; 
xxiv, 22), containing proverbs of which Solomon was 
not the proper author, but perhaps only the earliest col- 
lector. and after this from similar sources were supplied 
the few supplementary sayings (xxiv, 23-34). The 
time when this was done cannot he fixed, but there are 
cogent arguments in favor of a late date. The second 
collection, as its name declares, was formed by the scribes 
of Ilczekiah, cir. B.C. 725. The last two chapters con- 
tain compositions of the dates and authors of which 
nothing certain can now be known. They, too, may 
have been in some important sense due to .Solomon, but 
were probably inserted by a later editor. 

It will not be worth while to enumerate the many 1 
and widely varying theories of recent critics as to the 
dates of the composition of the different parts of this 
book, and the time when it assumed its present form. 
One or two of the most characteristic may be specified. 
Suffice it to say that Ewald would place the publication 
of x-xxii, 1 (3 about two centuries after Solomon, and 
i-ix in the first half of the 7th century. Not much 
later the second collection of proverbs (xxv-xxix) was 
added, the sections xxii, 17 xxiv being due to the same 
compiler, Uitzig, on the contrary, views i-ix as the 
earliest part of the book; x-xxii, 10 ami xxviii, 17- 
xxix being added about II.C. 750. Twenty-five years 
later llczekiah's collection followed; the gaps being 
filled up and the volume completed by some unknown 
compiler at a later period. The theory of Delitzsch 
(Herzog, Encylclop ., s. v. Spriiche) is marked by more 
calm sense, but even this is in parts not a little fanciful 
or conjectural, Lightly regarding x-xxii. 1G as the 
kernel of the book, and mainly composed by Solomon, 
he divides the whole into two portions — (1) i-xxiv, 22 
put forth in the time of Jehoshaphat; the introduction 
(i-ix) and appendix (xxii, 10-xxiv, 22) being written 
by the compiler, whom lie regards as 4, a highly gifted 
didactic poet, and an instrument of the spirit of revela- 
tion;” and (2) xxiv, 23-xxxi, published in the reign of 
Ilczekiah ; the introductory and closing port inns (xxiv, 
23-34, and xxx. xxxi) being set on either side of the 
collection of Solomon's proverbs to serve as a kind of 
foil. 

The two periods which are generally selected in op- 
position to the above views of the Solomonic authorship 
for the composition of various parts of the book are the 
reign of Ilczekiah ami the times subsequent to the cap- 
tivity. Neither of these periods seems to suit the gen- 
eral character of Proverbs at all so well as the reign of 
Solomon. Ilczekiah found his kingdom in great domes- 
tic misery immersed in idolatry and subject to foreign 
rule. At home his pre-eminent character was that of a 
social and religious reformer, struggling against the sins 
ami evils of his times; abroad the most active period of 
his reign was distinguished by a series of wars, during 
some of which his kingdom was reduced to the verge 
of ruin, the whole land overrun bv hostile armies, its 
fenced cities taken, and the king forced to submission. 
The terror of an Assyrian invasion also bung over the 
land for years. The later period of bis reign, indeed, 
was peaceful : but the evils of preceding reigns were far 
from being eradicated, and lie bad before him the cer- 
tain prospect, conveyed by prophecy, of the utter pros- 


tration of his kingdom. II is chief works seem to have 
been the making a pool ami conduit to bring water to 
Jerusalem. On his death Judah relapsed into idolatry. 
The times subsequent to the captivity were marked by 
equally strong characteristics, and chiefly of a mournful 
kind — a feeble, struggling, and too often languid and 
depressed remnant, striving amid many difficulties to 
maintain their ground and bear up amid manifold dis- 
couragements. With neither of these periods does the 
general character of Proverbs agree. I loyalty marks it 
throughout, sharply distinguishing it from any period 
subsequent to the captivity ; as by other marked features 
it hears the impress of a time different from llczekiah’s. 
Its warnings arc not against the public sins which dis- 
graced that period, nor are its consolations suited to the 
public trials which were threatening to bring both king 
and kingdom to the ground. Us pointed allusions to a 
powerful monarchy, a numerous and wealthy people, 
and such sins as readily spring up in a time of plenty; 
its fine linens of Egypt, its high places thronged, its 
roads covered with travellers, its gates and cities crowd- 
ed and rejoicing, its precious stones and fine gold and 
architectural illustrations, its people living beneath the 
eye of their monarch and dependent on his good-will, 
all seem to mark a reign when an absolute monarch 
ruled over a great and wealthy people, who lived at ease 
at home, and had no dreaded enemy on their borders; 
who traded to distant lands ami brought their products 
into common use; when the worship of Jehovah pre- 
vailed through the land, and men had leisure for learn- 
ing; when wisdom sat on the throne, personified in 
Solomon, and the evils which must ever exist while 
man is a fallen being were evils inseparable from any 
condition of humanity, and especially from one abound- 
ing with the elements of material prosperity, bee Sol- 
omon. 

VII. Commentaries. — The following are the special 
exegetical helps on the whole book; a few of the most 
important of them are designated by an asterisk: Ori- 
gen, Comment a rii (in Opp. vol. iii) : also Scholia (in 
l Uhl, J'atr. (iallandii, vol. xiv); Basil, Conmentarii (in 
Opp. U, i) ; Bede, Krpositio (in Opp. vol. iv; also in 
ll’urh, vol. ix); Ilonorius, Comment a rius (in Opp. p. 
1110); Bnlbag [Levi ben-<Jershon], T*“E [with Ben- 
Meira’s commentary], by Banoles (Lciria, 1402, fob; af- 
terwards in the Bab. Bibles; also [with Abcn-Ezra, 
etc. in Latin by (ihigglico, Ainst. 1G38, 4to) ; Arama, 
2'3’1‘ZS: (Constant inop. s. a. 4to; with notes by 

Berlin, Loips. 1859, 8vo); Imm. ben-Salomo, ’-*“E 
[with Kimchi on Psa.] (Naples, 1480, fob); Shalom 
ben-Abraham, 2J? (Salomon, 1522, fob; also in 
Frankfurter's Bible); Mclancthon. Explica tio (Hag. 
1525, and elsewhere later, 8vo) ; Munster, Aduotationes 
(Basil. 1525, Nvo) ; Jos. ibn-Jachja, [with Job, 

etc.] (Bologna, 1538. fob; also in Frankfurter's Bible); 
Cajetan [Bom. Cath.], Emu-ratio (Lugd. 1515, fob); 
Fobiau, ETi'ri (Constantinop. 1548, 4 to); Arboreus 
[Bom. Cath.], Comment a rins (Par. 1510, fob) ; Malven- 
da [Bom. Cath.], Explicatio (in Opp. Lugd. 1550, fob); 
Bavn o, Conmentarii (Par. 1555, fob ; also in the t'ritiri 
Sarri. vol. iii); Lava ter. Conmentarii (Tigur. 1502, 4 to, 
15G5, 1572, 1580, fob); Slrigol, Scholia (Lips. 15G5. Ne- 
ost. 1571, Nvo); Jansenius [Bom. Cath.], Aduotationes 
(Tjovau. 1508. Nvo, and elsewhere later, with Psa.. etc.); 
Sidouius [Bom. Cath.], Conmentarii Mog. 1570. fob); 
Mercer. Commmtarii (iJenev. 1573, fob; also [with 
Job] Ainst. 1051. fob); Cope. Exposition (transl. by 
( Mitrerd, Loud. 1580,4to) ; Mard. ben-Jakoh. (Cra- 
cow, 1582, Ito); Is. hen-Mose, ""’nr" (Lublin, 

1502. Ito); Drabit. . I ushyuny ( Erf. l.)05, Nvo): Musset, 
('omnnntaire (Loud. 1590, Nvo); Wilcocks. Commentary 
(in 1 1 ’arks') ; Alspach. Z~\ (Veil. lt’>01,4to; and 

later elsewhere, fob) : t 'leaver. Explanation (bomb 1008, 
1015, 4to); Bod, Exposition [on cli. ix-xvii] (Loud. 


PROVERBS 


707 


PROVIDENCE 


1600, 4to) ; Agell [Rom. Cath.], Commentcirius (Par. 
1611, fol.); Cartwright, Commentarii (L. R. 1617, and 
later elsewhere, 4to) ; Imniims, Expositio (Par. 1619, 2 
vols. fol.); De Salazar [Rom. Cath.], Expositio (ibid. 
1619-21, and elsewhere later, 2 vols. fol.); Jizchaki, 
^">3 [with Abeu-Ezra’s and others] (in Latin by 
Ghiggheo, Mail. 1620, 4to; by Breithaupt, Gotha, 1714, 
4to) ; Duran, pwH (Yen. 1623, 4to) ; Egard, 

Christenthum , etc. [on ch. i-ix] (Lub. 1624, 8vo); Guille- 
bert [Rom. Cath.], Paraphrasis (Par. 1626, 1637, 8vo) ; 
A Lapide, Commentarius (Antw. 1635, fol.); Jermin, 
Commentary (Lond. 1638, fol.) ; Bold, Commentarius 
(Rost. 1640, 4to) ; Maldonatns [Rom. Cath.], Commen- 
tarius [includ. Psa., etc.] (Par. 1643, fol.); Geier, Cura 
(Lips. 1653 and later, 4to) ; Gorse [Rom. Cath.], Expli- 
cation (Par. 1654, 12mo) ; Taylor, Exposition [on ch. i- 
ix] (Lond. 1655-57, 2 vols. 4to) ; Leigh, Annotations 
[includ. Job, etc.] (ibid. 1657, fol.); Deekev, lland- 
buch (Magdeb. 1667, 4to) ; Anon. [Rom. Cath.], Recueil 
[patristic] (Par. 1677, 1704, 8vo; also in Germ., Cliemn. 
1707, 12mo; Dresd. 1720, 8vo); David ben-Mose, 
(Amst. 1683, 4to); Bossuet [Rom. Cath.], Xotce 
[includ. Eccles., etc.] (Par. 1693, 8vo; also in (Euvres , 
vol. xxi) ; Oier, Verklaaring [on eh. i-ix] (Amst. 1698, 
4to) ; Anon. [Rom. Cath.], .4 nalyse [with Eccles.] (Par. 
1702, 12mo); Du Hamel [Rom. Cath.], Adnotationes 
(ibid. 1703, 12mo) : Goldschmidt, p"11S "'.pX (Wil- 
mersd. 1714, 8vo) ; also ’’Vjp (F. a. M. 1713, 12mo) ; 
Pinto, fc]i|-!3 (Amst." 17 14, 1735, 8vo); C. B. Mi- 
ehaelis, Adtiotationes (Ilal. 1720, 4to; also in Comment, 
in Ilagiog. vol. i) ; Meiri, (first in Frankfurter’s 

Bible, Amst, 1724-27 ; separately, Fiirth, 1844, 8vo) : 
Wolle, Auslegung (Leips. 1729, 8vo); Is. ben-Elija, 
(Wandsb. 1731, 8vo) ; Kortnm, A v Jlosung (Gor- 
litz, 1735, 4to); Grey, Xotes (Lond. 1738, 8 vo); Hansen, 
Betrachtungen (Lub. 1746, 4to); *Sehultens, Commenta- 
rius (L. B. 1748, 4to ; abridged, with additions by Vogel 
and Seller, Hal. 1768, 8vo) ; Gavison, nrtS'pn *1^3 
(Legh. 1752, 4to); Lbsner, Observationes (Lips. 1761, 
4to ; also in Velth. and Kninol’s Commentt. ii, 270); De 
Witt, Dissert at iones (Amst. 1762, 8vo) ; Dathe, Prolusio 
(Lips. 1764, 8vo ; Lond. 1838, 18mo ; also in Opusc. Lips. 
1796); Judetnes, pi:d [with Eccles.] (Amst. 

1765, 4to); Vogel, Umschreibung (Leips. 1767, 8vo); 
Hirt, Erkldrung (Jen. 1768, 4to); Durel, Remarks [in- 
elud. Job, etc.] (Oxf. 1772, 4 to) ; Hunt, Observations 
(ibid. 1775, 4to) ; Schnurrer, Observationes (Tubing. 1776, 
4to; also in Dissert. Goth. 1790) ; Bode, Ycrsio [includ. 
Eccles. and Cant.] (Helmst. 1777, 4to; also in Germ., 
Quedlinb. 1791, 8vo) ; Moldenhauer, Erldut. [with Ee- 
cles. and Cant. J (ibid. 1777, 4to) ; J. D. Michaelis, An- 
merk. (Gbtt. 1778, 8vo; also in Bibliothek , vii, 168); 
Doderlein, Anmerk. (Altd. 1778 and later, 4to); also his 
Scholia [on poet, books] (Hal. 1779, 4to); Reiske, Con- 
jecture [with Job] (Lips. 1779, 8vo); Zinek, Commen- 
tarius [includ. other books] (Augsb. 1780, 4to) ; Arnold, 
A nmerk. (Frckft. and Leips. 1781, 8vo) ; Schleusner, Col- 
lado (Lips. 1782, 4to); also Commentarii (ibid. 1790-94, 
4to) ; Troschel, Salomon's Moral (Berl. 1782, 8vo) ; 
Struensee, Erldut. [includ. Psa.] (Hal. 1783, Svo) ; 
Schbnbcrder, Erkldr. (from the Danish by Wolff, Flensb. 
1784, Svo) ; De Villoisiu, Yersio [from the Veneto-Greek, 
includ. other books] (Argent. 1784, Svo); also Dahler’s 
.4 nimadversiones [on the same] (ibid. 1788, 8vo) ; Knos, 
De Usu Prov. (Giess. 1787, 4to); Hodgson, Xotes (Oxf. 
1788, 4to) ; Jiiger, Observationes [on the Sept.] (Meld, 
and Lips. 1788, 8vo) ; Euehel, (Berl. 1789, and 

later elsewhere, 8vo) ; Reiehard, Erkldr. (Hal. 1790, 
8vo) ; Ziegler, Erldut. (Leips. 1791, 8vo) ; reviewed by 
Hasse (in the latter’s Biblioth., Begensb. 1793, No. 5); 
Castalio, Xotee (Havn. 1793, Svo); Ilensler, Erldut. [in- 
clud. 1 Sam.] (Hamb. and Kiel, 1795, Svo); Hammond, 
Pai-aphrase [on eh. i-ix] (in BorAs, vol. iv) ; Wilna, 


I 13^3 (Sltlov, 1798, and later elsewhere, 4to; Konigsb. 
1857, 8vo); Rhode, De Poet. G nomica (Havn. 1800, Svo); 

; Tingstadt, Yarice Lectt. (Upsal. 1800, 4to) ; Wistinitz, 
Zp3^ 3jT (Wilna, 1800, 4to) ; Muntinghe, Anmerk. 
(from the Dutch by Scholl, F. a. M. 1800-2, 3 vols. 
Svo); Sclielling, Note [includ. other books] (Stnttg. 
1806, Svo) ; Dalder, Uebersetz. [from the Sept.] (Strasb. 
1810, Svo); Mard. Kolien, (Grodno, 1811, 4to) ; 

Kelle, Anmerk. (Freyb. 1815, Svo); Holden, Xotes 
(Liverp. 1819, 8vo); Melsheimer, Anmerk. (Mannh. 
1821, Svo); Lawson, Exposition (Edinb. 1821, 1855, 2 
vols. 12mo); Case, Commentary (Lond. 1822, 12mo); 
♦Umbreit, Commentar (Ileidelb. 1826, 8vo) ; *Grara- 
berg, A nmerk. (Leips. 1828, Svo) ; *Rosenm idler, Scholia 
(Lips. 1829, Svo) ; Bockel, Erldut. (Hamb. 1829, Svo) ; 
Bridges, Exposition (Lond. 1830 and later, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
French and Skinner, Xotes (ibid. 1831, Svo) ; Stern, 
(Pressb. 1833, Svo); Lowenstein, Erkldr. (Frckft. 
1838, 8vo); Freund, 3X (Vien. 1839, 8vo) ; New- 

man, Yersion (Lond. 1839, ISmo); Maurer, Commenta- 
rius (Lips. 1841, Svo) ; Nichols, Explanation (Lond. 
1842, 12mo); Noyes, Translation [includ. Eccles. and 
Cant.] (Bost. 1846, 1867, Svo) ; *Bertheau, Erkldr. 
(Leips. 1847, Svo) ; Binnev, Lectures (Lond. 1851, 18mo) ; 
♦Stuart, Commentary (N. Y. 1852, Svo) ; Gaussen, Reflex- 
ions (Toulouse, 1857, 8vo); *Hitzig, Auslegung (Ziir. 
1858, Svo); Elster, Commentar (Gott. 1858, Svo) ; Stein, 
Bearbeit. (Brilon, 1860, Svo) ; Anon., Exposition (Lond. 
I860, 12mo); Schulze, Biblische Spvriichicdrte (Gott. 
I860, Svo); Brooks, Arrangement (Lond. 1860. 12mo); 
Wardlaw, Lectures (ibid. 1861, 3 vols. Svo); Diedrich, 
Erkldr. [includ. other books] (Neu-Rupp. 1665, Svo); 
Miinscher, Yersion (Gambier, O., 1S66, 12mo); Conant, 
Translation (N. Y. 1872, 4to) ; Miller, Commentary 
(Lond. 1874, Svo). See Old Testament. 

Providence (L^t. provident ia ; Gr. wpcroici ; both 
signifying foresight), a term importing the wisdom and 
power which God continually exercises in the preserva- 
tion and government of the world, for the ends which 
he proposes to accomplish. 

I. The Doctrine Proved. — 1. From Reason. — (I.) 
From the existence of a Supreme Creator. If there be 
a Supreme Being who created all things, it is reason a- 
i ble to infer that he upholds and governs all things; 
lienee, nearly all men concur in the belief of a superin- 
tending providence. 

(2.) From the perfections of the Supreme Creator, 
viz., knowledge, power, wisdom, goodness, justice, and 
righteousness, all of which reason teaches us to ascribe 
to him in infinite measure. All things being known to 
him, and all things being possible to him (if not essen- 
tially contradictory), and he being able to discern the best 
plan, and preincliued to exeeute that plan, a providence 
becomes the natural and proper sphere for the activity 
of his attributes. Moreover, being just and righteous, 
his government of his rational creatures will necessarily 
be by the principles of justice and righteousness; for 
the end and perfection of these attributes consist in 
their exercise. Hence power must uphold, wisdom di- 
rect, goodness bestow, righteousness discriminate, and 
justice adjudge ; and this constitutes a providence. 

(3.) From the dependence of God’s creatures. That 
which is not self-existent is contingent. The contin- 
gent may cease to be, there being nothing in the nature 
of things to insure its continuance; therefore, the per- 
petuity of the contingent is dependent upon the will of 
the self-existent. The Supreme Creator alone is self- 
existent: hence, upon his will the existence of the cre- 
ated depends; and that will, in exercise , implies a prov- 
idence. 

(4.) From the order, harmony, and regularity observ- 
able in the course of nature. The course of nature is 
that wise adjustment and counterpoise of natural forces 
by which the planets swing in their orbits, the seasons 
revolve with the year, the tides ebb and flow in their 


PROVIDENCE 


708 


PROVIDENCE 


intervals, the currents of the atmosphere shift to their 
ever-changing conditions, the endless procession of life 
keeps pace with the dead-march of decay, and all the 
varied phenomena of the universe appear. Viewing 
these wonderful complications in the light of their nec- 
essary dependence upon the self-existent, God's handi- 
work is plainly evident in the complexities of their 
multiform evolutions, the equipoise of their contending 
forces, and the continuity of adjustment, which proclaim 
unceasing watchfulness and care. 

(5.) From the moral faculties of men. Conscience, 
which utters its authoritative “ought” or “ought not” 
concerning suggested actions, must be delusive, if there 
be no providence to note its verdict. But if our sense 
of responsibility be false, and we must lienee discredit 
the allirmations of our highest faculties concerning our- 
selves, then is all truth visionary and all knowledge 
misleading. 

Further, we have a faculty the legitimate expression 
of which is worship; hence all nations have their forms 
of devotion. But to stand in awe of the Creator’s jus- 
tice, to trust in his goodness, to submit to his will, to 
pray to him for the supply of our wants, to depend upon 
his wisdom for direction— all these acts of worship are 
not only unauthorized but absurd, and our noblest in- 
stincts are false to fact if there be no superintending 
providence by which his responses may be indicated. 

(0.) From the system of compensations which pre- 
vails, embracing recompense for suffering, compensation 
for loss, and retribution for wrong. In this system, the 
recompense includes the natural benefits of discipline, 
and such compensative provisions of grace as the rea- 
son recognizes as matters of fact in present human ex- 
perience. The compensation comprises the reparative 
processes by which loss in one direction is made np by 
increased efficiency in another, as in the added keenness 
of the senses of lieari ng and touch attending the loss of 
sight. The retribution comprehends not only the nat- 
ural operation of the law, “As a man soweth, so also 
shall lie reap,” but all those special illustrations of that 
law in marked and mysterious judgments upon wrong- 
doing which occasionally occur, and which bear such 
likeness to the sin that men agree to call them retribu- 
tive. In all these a providence is implied. The doc- 
trine is further proven— 

2. From the Scriptures. — (1.) By a class of passages 
which declare in general his preserving power (Gen. 
xlviii, 15; Nell, ix, 6; Job vii, 20; x, 12; xxxiii, 18; 
Psa. xvi, 5; xxxvi, 0; lxvi, 9; Isa. xlvi, 3-4 ; Alalt. x, 
29; Lukexii, 6; Acts xvii, 28; Col. i, 17). 

(2.) By a class of passages which assert God’s con- 
trol of the regular operations of nature (Exod. ix, 18; 
xxiii, 2G; 1 Kings xviii, 1 ; Job v, 10; ix, 5-6; xxviii, 
24-27; xxxvi, 29-32; xxxvii, 6-16; xxxviii, 25; l’sa. 
lxxiv, 17; Ixxxix, 9; civ, 10, 13-15, 19-21, 21-30; cv, 
32; cxxxv, 6-7; cxxxvi, 25; cxlv, 15-16; cxlvii, 8-9, 
18; cxlviii, 8; Isa. xlv, 7; 1, 3; Jor. v, 22-21; x, 13; 
xiv, 22; xxxi, 35; xxxiii, 20, 25; li, 16; Ezek. xxxii, 
7-8; xxxviii, 22; Joel ii, 23; Amos iv, 6-10, 13; Zecli. 
x, 1 ; Matt, vi, 26, 28-32; Acts xiv, 17). 

(3.) By a class of passages which specifically declare 
his sovereignty over birth (Gen. xxxiii, 5; xlviii, 9; 
Josh, xxiv, 3, 4; 1 Sam. i, 27 ; Job x, 18; l\sa. lxxi, 6; 
cxxxix, 15-16; Isa. xlvi, 3); Fife (Josh, xiv, 10; 2 Sam. 
xii, 22; Job vii, 1 ; xiv, 5; l’sa. lxvi, 8-9; xci, 3-16; 
Isa. xxxviii, 1-5; Phil, ii, 27; James v, 14-15); disease 
(Exod. ix, 15; xxiii, 25; Job ii, 10; v, 6, 17-18; Psa. 
xxxix, 9, 13; John ix,3); death (1 Sam.ii,6; xxv,29; 
Job i, 21 ; xii, 10; xiv, 5-6; xxxiv, 14 15; Psa. lxvi ii, 
20; xc, 3; civ, 29; cxviii, 18); qfffirtiotis (Dent, viii, 
5; Job v, 17 ; x, 17; Psa. lxvi, 10-12; lxix. 26; xciv, 
12-13; cxix,75; I’rov. iii, 12; Isa. xxvi, 16; xlviii. 10; 
Jer. ii, 30; Earn, i, 12-14; iii, 1, 32-33; Amos viii, 10; 
Ileb. xii, 5-6) ; prosperitg (Dent, viii, 18; 1 Sam. ii, 7— 
8; 2 Sam. vii, 8-9; xii, 7 8; 1 Chron. xvii, 7 8; xxix, 
12, 16; Ezra v, 5; Job i, 10; xxxiv, 21 ; Psa. xxx, 7 ; 
lxxv, 6-8; cxiii, 7-8; l’rov. xxix, 26; Eccles. ix, 11, 


i compared with Prov. xvi, 3, 33; Luke i, 52-53; 1 Cor. 

1 xvi, 2). 

! (4.) By a class which aver his government of chance 

| and accident (Exod. xxi, 12-13, compared with Deut. 
j xix, 4-5; 1 Kings xxii, 34, 38, compared with xxi, 19; 
Prov. xvi, 33). 

(5.) By a class which proclaim his use of noxious 
animals for the purposes of his government (Exod. 
xxiii, 28; Lev. xxvi, 21-22; Deut. vii, 20; Josh, xxiv, 
12; Job v, 23; Jer. v, 6; llos. ii, 18; Joel ii, 25; Amos 
iv, 9; vii, 1). 

(6.) By a class which affirm his righteous retri- 
butions (Lev. x, 1-3; xxvi. 14-39; Deut. xxv, 17-19; 
xxviii, 23-2 1 ; 2 Sam. iii, 39; 2 Kings ix, 30-37 ; xix, 
25-28; 2 Chron. vi, 26-27; Job v, i3; x, 14; xxxiv, 
11 ; Psa. xxxv, 6-8; lxxv, 6-8; Ixxxix, 30-32; xciv, 
23; evii, 33-34; Isa. v, 1 1-16, 22-25 ; ix, 13-14 ; xiii, 11; 
xxviii, 15. Comp, xxix, 6; Jer. xxii, 21-22; Ezek. xi, 
21 ; xxvi, 2-21 ; xxxv, 1 15; Dan. v, 18-30; Amos iv; 
v; Obad. 10-15; Zeph.i, 17; ii, 8-10 ; Hag. i, 10-11). 

(7.) By a class which ascribe deliverances to God 
(Josh, xxiv, 5-11 ; 2 Kings v, 1 ; Ezek. xxxiv, 12, 16, 
30; xxxvi, 22-21; xxxvii, 21-23). 

(8.) By a class which declare his supreme authority 
over men (Psa. vii, 8 ; ix, 8; x, 16; xxii, 28; xlvii,2,7, 
8; lxxv, 7; lx.xvi, 10; xevi, 10, 13; xcvii, 1; ciii, 19; 
cxxxix, 9-10; Eecl.i.\,l; Isa. x. 15; xiv. 26-27 ; Ezek. 
xviii, 4; Dan. iv, 35; Bom. ix, 19-21). 

(9.) By a class which affirm his dominion over na- 
tional prosperity and adversity (Exod. xvii, 14; xxiii, 
25-30; Deut. vii, 13; 2 Sam. xxii, 15; Ezra v, 12; Psa. 
xviii, 13, 14; Isa. v, 3-30; xiii, 1, 6, 9-22; xlv, 7; Jer. 
xxvii, 2-8, 12, 13; xlix,36; Dan. ii, 20, 21, 25, 37, 38 ; v, 
21; Amos iii, 6; Obad. 1-4; Hag. ii, 17 ; Zcph. i, 14-18 ; 
ii, 1-15; iii, 14-20; Acts xvii, 26). 

(10.) By a class which declare that he sends bad 
laws and base rulers, stirs up adversaries, and sends ad- 
versity (Judg. ix, 22, 23; 1 Kings xi, 14, 23; xix, 15; 

2 Kings viii, 12; xviii. 25; xix, 25; xxiv, 20; 2 Chron. 
xv, 5-6; Psa. ev, 25; Isa. xxii, 17-19; xxxvii, 26, 27 ; 
Jer. xxvii, 6, 7 ; xxviii, 14; xlviii, 11, 12; Iii, 3; Lam. 
ii, 7 ; Ezek. xx, 24-26 ; Dan. iv, 17 ; llos. xiii, 11 ; Mic. 
i, 12). 

The teaching of the more than five hundred passages 
cited might be confirmed, were it necessary, by nearly 
as many thousands more, showing with what emphasis 
the Scriptures proclaim the doctrine of divine provi- 
dence. 

II. The Doctrine Explained . — 1 . As Preservation, or 
that by which all things are kept in being, with their 
several essences and faculties, and are enabled to act 
according to their respective natures (lleb. i,3). 

2. ,1s Government, or the control of all things in their 
several spheres of being and acting, and directing them 
to the ends which he proposed to himself in their crea- 
tion. This government is — 

(I.) Immediate; as in the direct control of the mate- 
rial universe by those modes of op< ration called forces 
of nature, sucli as gravitation, electricity, etc. 

(2.) Mediate; as (a) in the vegetable world, bv the 
laws which regulate the germination, growth, ami de- 
cay of its organizations; (6) in the animal kingdom, by 
their controlling instincts; (c) in intelligent and moral 
creatures, by means of motives. This last is evidently 
the most important, as well as the most incomprehensi- 
ble field of divine providence. 

The motives which a righteous and benevolent Be- 
ing places before bis creatures can be only those which 
will directly tend to secure their holiness and happiness. 
But, as freedom of the will, in the sense of possible al- 
ternative moral action, is one of the endowments of 
such creatures, ami as preservation secures the func- 
tional activity of such will, whatever may result; 
hence it follows that those holy motives may be disre- 
garded, and, in such an event, moral government must 
he abandoned, or punitive ami reformatory measures 
must be instituted that will originate a different class 


PROVIDENCE 


709 


PROVIDENCE 


of motives to reinforce those which have proved insuf- 
ficient. Hence, the system of natural evil is placed over 
against creature-freedom, both as a check and a correc- 
tive, and is in itself no arraignment of God’s goodness, 
since it is a necessary means to a higher good. But 
the problem of God’s concurrence in moral evil is the 
vexed question of the ages; yet, in point of principle, 
it is settled in the fact of the creation of intelligent be- 
iugs with a capacity to sin and liability to become sin- 
ners. Hence the vindication of the divine character 
is legitimately the work of Theodicy , while the doctrine 
of providence need only explain God’s conduct. 

All moral evil consists in a wrong determination of 
a free will. God’s purpose to preserve his creatures 
pledges his concurrence in such action of the will only 
so far as such concurrence may be necessary to enable 
the will to act according to its freedom. The moral 
character of the determination is fixed by the creature, 
and he alone is responsible for it. But when the choice 
is made, the moral character of the determination is 
complete; and neither the occurrence nor non -occur- 
rence of a resulting outward action can change, add to, 
or take from the moral quality of the original volition 
wherein the sin originated and was completed. As 
soon, however, as the execution cf a determination is 
attempted, the creature steps outside of his own inde- 
pendent and responsible sphere, and enters the realm of 
God’s providence, where he assumes the control of all 
events. The actions of men (in distinction from their 
determinations), his control of the Church and of na- 
tions, special providences, the course of nature, and the 
works of grace are all included under the general term 
events , for which God takes the absolute responsibility. 
Hence it will be seen that the distinction often drawn 
between the permissive and active providences of God 
is of no practical value ; and if any such distinction be 
allowed, it must be by confining the -word “permissive” 
strictly to the free volitions of the will, and extending 
the word “ active” to all events , as explained above. 

In this way alone can the emphatic statements of the 
Scriptures, as classified above, be explained in harmony 
with other passages which distinctly deny his complic- 
ity with evil, i. e. in the sense of moral w r rong. We 
first bring fully into view the seeming impeachment 
of his attributes contained in the classes of passages 
above referred to, which may be epitomized, in princi- 
ple, as follows: Exod. iv, 21 ; vii, 13; x, 1, 20; xiv, 7; 
Deut. ii, 30; xiii, 1-3; Josh, xi, 20; 1 Sam. xvi, 14; 
xviii, 10; xix, 9; 1 Kings xii, 15; xxii, 20-22; 2 
Chron. xviii, 22; xxv, 20; Psa. lxxviii, 49; cv, 25; Isa. 
vi, 9, 10; xix, 14; xliv, 18; lxvi, 4; Jcr. vi, 21; Ezek. 
iii, 20; xiv, 9; Amos iii, 6; Zecli. viii, 10; 2 Thess. ii, 
11, 12; 1 Pet. ii, 8 ; Rev. xvii, 17. In striking contrast 
with these stands the revelation of his character and 
works in the following: Lev. xi, 45; Deut. xxxii, 4 ; 
1 Sam. vi, 20 ; Job viii, 3 ; xxxiv, 10, 12, 23 ; xxxvi, 3 ; 
Psa. v, 4; xi. 7 ; xxxiii, 5; lxxxix, 14; xcii, 15; xcvii, 
2; cxix, 137; Isa. v, 10; Ezek. xviii, 29; Hab. i, 13; 
Zeph. iii, 5; Rom. ii, 2, 5, 6; James i, 13; 1 Pet. i, 15, 10; 
Rev. xvi, 7. 

Truth cannot be inharmonious, much less contradic- 
tory; therefore, there must be some possible reconcil- 
iation of these apparently conflicting statements. We 
find that reconciliation in the divided sovereignty which 
allows man to be supreme within the sphere of his vo- 
lition, and attributes all outside of the mere mental fact 
of free-will determinations to the will and operation or 
co-operation of God. Upon any other hypothesis it is 
not possible to draw the dividing line between divine 
and human responsibility; and therefore, if this be de- 
nied, the hope of constructing any consistent doctrine 
of divine providence must be abandoned. 

III. Some Objections Considered. — Objection 1. If prov- 
idence be the care exercised over bis creatures by a God 
of infinite goodness and purity, he cannot be implicated 
in the wicked actions of men. Answer. As a matter of 
fact, he is concerned in them, else they could not exist ; 


for, were he to refuse the concurrence of his upholding 
power, men would drop into non-existence. Again, the 
objection is destroyed by considering that actions have 
no moral character whatever , as between the creature 
and the Creator, such character being vested entirely 
in the volitions of the will from which the actions re- 
sult. Therefore, God can use the wicked actions of 
men as he does any other indifferent thing, provided 
that his own purpose in using them be right, which no 
one disputes. 

Objection 2. God’s majesty is degraded by the as- 
sumption contained in the doctrine of providence, viz. 
that he is interested in all the minutia? of nature. An- 
swer. If he has created faculties or forces, nothing that 
they can evolve can be unworthy of his care.; besides, 
things which seem to men most insignificant are often 
causatively linked with stupendous results. Again, the 
revelations of the microscope prove that the infinitesi- 
mal are embraced within the sweep of the same laws 
that pervade the infinite, and hence are under the same 
benign care. F urther, the impression of the grandeur 
of the Infinite Intelligence, comprehensive as it may 
be, from the contemplation of the rolling spheres and 
interlocking systems of the universe, is, after all, less 
profound than that which results from tracing his hand- 
iwork in the conformation of the beautifully wrought 
shells of the animalcula, and their exquisite life-appli- 
ances and adjustments, which only the most powerful 
glasses can reveal to human sight. 

Objection 3. The prosperity of the wicked and the af- 
flictions of the righteous are inconsistent with the sup- 
position of a just and holy providence. Answer. The 
equal dispensation which the objection assumes to be 
necessary under the government of God is an impossi- 
( bility; for the affections and interests of men are so 
interlocked that exact justice could rarely, if ever, be 
meted to the transgressor without involving conse- 
quences to others w'hich w’onld be undeserved. Again, 
the prosperity of the wicked, if they continue in their 
evil courses, is always a curse to them in the end ; and 
God’s processes should not be condemned until their 
final issue is known. On the other hand, the adversi- 
ties of the righteous have attending or following com- 
pensations which satisfy them that all is right ; and if 
those who are chiefly interested are content, the objec- 
tion of the mere observer should be esteemed of little 
weight. 

Objection 4. It is alleged that the laws of nature suf- 
ficiently account for the order of nature ; therefore, a 
providence is not necessary. Atiswer. The laws of 
nature are only the regular order which is found to 
subsist, termed law's because of the uniformity of the 
changes which occur, and signify certain results of pow- 
er, but not power itself — effects, but not their causes. 
These uniformities are, therefore, only modes in which 
the self-existent controls the contingent, the manner in 
which God manipulates his material creation. 

IV. History of the Doctrine. — The idea of a superin- 
tending or controlling Providence has appeared under 
various forms, sometimes scarcely recognisable, depend- 
ing largely upon the cnlture of the age and the state of 
philosophical speculation at the time. 

1. The primitive view', held during the childhood of 
superstition, identified the gods with the elements of 
nature. Thus Zeus, or Dis, originally meant sky, and 
was worshipped as a god, afterwards known as Jupiter, 
or Jove, and by the Canaanites and Babylonians called 
Baal, Bel, or Belus. The earth was also worshipped as 
Demetcr and Cvhele, called by the Anglo-Saxons Her- 
tha; the sea as Neptune; the sun as Phoebus, or Apol- 
lo; the moon as Diana; light as Imlra. Fire as Agni 
and .summer heat as Dormer, or Thor, are other in- 
stances, in various localities, of the worship paid to the 
elements or forces of nature as gods, each being accred- 
ited a providence of its own. In the childhood of Oc- 
cidental philosophy also, the Ionian philosophical pbvs- 
i icists of Greece, in their search for the principle whose 


PROVIDENCE 


710 


PROVIDENCE 


existence should Rive a rational explanation of all 
things (called the Beginning, or First Cause), identified 
it with some elements of nature, as the ‘-Water” of 
Thales and Hippo of Samos; the “Air” of Anaximenes; 
the “Air- Intelligence” of Diogenes of Apollonia and 
Idasus of llimera. Her mathematical philosophers, the 
Pythagoreans, looked for this first cause in incorporeal 
elements, as in the “Numbers” of Pythagoras and the 
“ Infinite” of Anaximander. The Kleatics— metaphys- 
ical philosophers — regarded the world as the mani- 
festation of God, as in the “Sphere” of Xenophanes, 
Parmenides, and Zeno; while the dualism of the “Fire- 
ether” of Heraclitus, and the “ Love-mingler” of Emped- 
ocles and Anaxagoras, and the materialism of the “At- 
oms” of Leucippus and Democritus were similar in their 
pantheistic notions, and contained the idea of a provi- 
dence in but a very crude and unsatisfactory form. 
The Stoics taught that the working force in the uni- 
verse is God ; the consciousness of the universe is De- 
ity; the human soul is a part of the Deity, or an em- 
anation from him. 

2. When the distinction between irregular and fortu- 
itous “phenomena and the uniformities of nature became 
clear, the last were regarded as independent processes, 
broken in upon by the interferences of the gods, who 
were endowed with human passions ; such interferences 
being the chances, accidents, irregularities, etc., of nat- 
ure.” Thus Minerva was the goddess of wisdom ; Mars, 
the god of war; Mercury, the god of eloquence and 
traffic; Pan, the god of terror; Laverna, the goddess 
of thieves; \ r enus the goddess of beauty; Cupid, the 
god of love ; Nemesis, of vengeance, etc. 

3. The next advance was to the conception of one 
supreme God, infinite in his perfections and works; a 
sovereign Ruler bestowing rewards and inflicting penal- 
ties by using nature as the instrument of his will, he 
being a power above nature, and interfering with its 
processes at his pleasure. This seems to have been in 
part the view of Socrates, and was the Judaical notion 
modified into special or general providences according 
to personal interest in the event. That the Christian 
Church adopted this view in the main is evident from 
the fact that the Apostles’ Creed, and the confessions 
of faith of Iremeus and Tertullian, and the Nicamo- 
Constantinopolitan symbol (A.D. 325 and 331, the only 
general confession covering the whole field of systematic 
divinity during 1500 years), contain no restatement of 
the doctrine. 

The Catholic Church added to this view the dogma 
of Church infallibility, for which the Protestants sub- 
stituted that of the infallibility of the Scriptures, both 
presupposing special providential watchfulness. 

4. The doctrine of determinate concursus advocated 
by John Scotus Krigena in the middle of the 0th cen- 
tury holds that there are two causes in all effects, the 
first being in and not merely with the second, so that 
the first cause, and not the second, makes the act what 
it is. Augustine, the Schoolmen, the Thomists, and 
Dominicans in the Latin Church, the Lutherans, Re- 
formed, and most Calvinistic divines in the Protestant 
Church have supported it, but in such sense that the 
moral quality of a sinful act is referred to the creature, 
and the effectual cause of the act only to God. General 
concursus is a modification of the foregoing view, and 
holds that God sustains creatures and their powers, and 
excites them to act according to their nature. The 
Franciscans and Jesuits, among the Romanists, and the 
Remonstrants ami later Arminians, among the Protes- 
tants, have advocated this theory. 

5. Cartesius, Malobranche, and Bayle developed the 
concursus into the occasionalism of philosophers, which 
represents God as the sole actor, the creature only fur- 
nishing him an occasion to act. and being merely the 
instrument by which he absolutely and irresistibly ac- 
complishes his own designs. The dependence of the 
creature upon the Creator, superseding all efficiency of 
second causes, as held by Schleicrmachcr and the school 


to which he belongs, Schweizer and Dr. Emmons, clas- 
sifies them practically with the Occasionalists. 

G. Leibnitz rejected the concursus and Cartesian 
views, and propounded the theory of Pre-established 
Harmony, somewhat akin in its radical idea to t lie 
“Amina Mundi" of Pythagoras, Plato, and the Alex- 
andrian .School; the “Archseus” of Cornelius Agrippa, 
Paracelsus, and Von llelmont; the “principinm hylar- 
chicum” of Henry More; the “plastic nature” of Cud- 
worth, and the “unconscious organizing intelligence” 
lately advocated by Dr. Laycoek and Mr. Murphy. 
This theory holds that there are two worlds, matter 
and mind, each incapable of acting upon the other, yet 
both so adjusted to each other by a divinely pre-ar- 
ranged harmony that volition and muscular contraction 
are contemporaneous. The volition would exist just 
the same without the contraction, and the muscular 
movement would take place just the same without the 
volition, each being moved by a force within, but the 
prearranged harmony secures that they shall seemingly 
stand related as cause and effect. God is a being of in- 
finite perfections, and the imperfections of creation are 
accounted for by the nature of the monads of which 
souls and bodies are composed. 

7. Dnrandus, in the 14th century, proposed the me- 
chanical theory, which affirms the independent activity 
of God's creatures in the use of powers given to them at 
their creation — like a wound-up clock which goes of it- 
self. It has been advocated by Scotus, Richard Baxter, 
and others. Closely akin to this is the theory of such 
writers as Prof. Tyndall, Dr. II. Bence Jones, and Dr. 
Bastian, concerning “molecular attractions and repul- 
sions communicated to matter at the creation.” Its ex- 
treme pantheistic development is found in the “self- 
evolving powers of nature” of Owen, Huxley, and Ba- 
den Powell. 

3. Another view represents God as an all-perfect be- 
ing, the upholder of all things, but denies his interfer- 
ence with the laws of nature in miracles, and maintains 
that his only interposition is by using natural causes to 
effect his purposes. Thus providence is law, and no in- 
terpositions are possible unless provided for in the nat- 
ure of the uniformities. Thus Hippocrates, the con- 
temporary of Socrates, regarded all phenomena as both 
divine and scientifically determinable. Anaxagoras, in 
bis “Arranging Intelligence,” held substantially to this 
view. Duncanson ( Providence of God) is a strong 
modern advocate of this theory. 

9. The Mind-efficiency Theory denies that there are 
any physical forces apart from mind, either divine or 
created. The only efficiency in the material universe 
is the ever-operating will of God. Dr. Samuel Clarke, 
Dugald Stewart, John Wesley, Nitzsch. Milller, Chal- 
mers, Harris, Young, Whedon, Channing. Martineau, 
Hedge, Whewell, Bnscom. Prof. Tulloch. Sir John Ilcr- 
sehel, the duke of Argyll, Mr. Wallace, Proctor, Crock- 
er, and many among the ablest recent writers have de- 
fended this view. 

10. The true doctrine represents God as a being of 
infinite perfections, upholding all things by a direct ex- 
ercise of his potency: the uniformities of nature as his 

| ordinary method of working; its irregularities his 
method upon occasional conditions; its interferences, 
his method under the pressure of a higher law, which 
law is the necessary manifestation of his own nature. 
It thus adopts the Judaic view of God's perfections, and 
the complete subservience of nature to his will; admits 
the general concursus , especially as relates to the free- 
dom of the finite will, accepts the Law theory in its 
application to miracles, and sustains the Mind-cificicncy 
theory, with the distinct disclaimer of pantheistic lean- 
ings in the admission of the separate existence of mate- 
rial substance. 

V. Special or Particular Providence.— Providence has 
been defined as the wisdom and power which God 
continually exercises in the preservation anil govern- 
ment of the world for the ends which lie proposes to 


PROVIDENCE 


m 


PROVINCE 


accomplish. Special providence consists in such par- 
ticular exhibitions of his wisdom and power in emer- 
gencies as are calculated to awaken the conviction of 
his interest in and guardianship over his creatures. 

1. Proof. — The doctrine in question is proved by the 
following considerations: (1.) It is necessarily included 
in the general providence already established. (See 
above.) The whole is made up of parts. If God has 
no care of the whole, he has none of the parts. If he 
has for the whole, the parts are included. Further— 
the end which he proposes to accomplish in providence 
is the revelation of himself as infinitely worthy of the 
love of his creatures. This needs a special providence. 
Moreover, a God who does not care for us as individuals 
is tantamount to no God. 

(2.) Special providence is implied in the doctrine of 
prayer. Prayer is an instinct. The Scriptures direct 
that instinct by coupling with the encouragement to 
pray the announcement of a special providence that 
watches over the very hairs of our heads, thus making 
special providence the complement of prayer. Prayer 
without a special providence to note and reward would 
be a mere mockery of onr impotence. Moreover, the 
enlarged charter of prayer -privilege given to believers 
under the Gospel dispensation is a personal application 
of the Old-Test, doctrine of special providence over the 
Jewish nation. That providence had relation to the 
covenant detailed in Dent, xxvi-xxx; this privilege is 
conveyed in such promises as Matt, vii, 7—11; xviii, 19 ; 
xxi, 22; Mark xi, 24; John xv, 7; lleb. iv, 1G; James 
v, 15; 1 John v, 14, 15; and, being such, it necessarily 
implies such special watch-care as was involved in the 
Mosaic covenant cited above. See Prayer. 

(3.) The same doctrine is inferred from the father- 
hood of God. The denial of his fatherhood changes 
him into a desolate abstraction, the contemplation of 
which pours an ice-floe over the tide of human trusts, 
and causes us to feel that we are “orphaned children in 
a godless w r orld.” But “As a father piticth his children, 
so the Lord pitieth them that fear him” comes to us 
genial with the warmth of a sympathy and care that 
we can appreciate and confide in. 

(4.) Tt is involved in the atonement of Christ. The 
propitiatory sacrifice — as prefigured in the separate sac- 
rifices for each — w r as for men, not en masse, but as indi- 
viduals, thus furnishing the greatest possible evidence 
of care in the interests of utmost moment to the soul. 
The agency by which this sacrifice is conveyed to the 
mind — the Holy Spirit — is likewise personal in his min- 
istry of impression, and as personal in his communica- 
tion of the remedial efficacy of the one atonement, thus 
demonstrating in appeal and in succor the loving care 
of God. 

(5.) It is revealed in the Scriptures as clearly as 
the biographies of its noted characters, such as Joseph, 
Samuel, Elijah, Ruth, Esther, Daniel, etc., can illustrate 
it, and proclaimed as strongly as such texts as Luke xii, 
6-7, 22-31 can express it, and enforced as powerfully 
as such prayer- examples as The friend seeking bread 
and The unjust judge can impress it. 

(6.) It is illustrated in the experiences of Christians 
of every age, until George Neumark’s hymn — 

“ Leave God to order all thy ways. 

And hope in him, whate'er betide; 

Thou’lt find him iu the evil days 
An all-sufficient strength and guide. 

Who trusts in God’s unchanging love, 

Builds on the rock that naught can move”— 
has become a type of a distinct class of literature both 
in verse and prose that is inexpressibly sweet to the 
experienced believer, and of untold value to those who 
are weak in faith. 

2. The moral uses of the doctrine are — (I.) It deters 
from sin. Theon of Alexandria taught that “a full 
persuasion of God’s seeing everything we do is the 
strongest incentive to virtue;” and he advised the civil 
magistrate to place the inscription at the corners of the 
streets — 


“ God seeth thee, O sinner 1” 

A full belief in special providence places that inscrip- 
tion not upon the corners of the streets, but within the 
chambers of the memory. 

(2.) It excites watchfulness for his interpositions. 
Abraham, after Mount Moriah ; the three Hebrews, af- 
ter the fiery furnace; Daniel, after the lions’ den; Eli- 
jah, after Cherith’s cave, never failed to look for other 
deliverances in the time of need. 

(3.) It gives the assurance that all is right in onr * 
present circumstances, in view of the discipline needed, 
and the final adjustment of rewards and penalties. 

(4.) It leads to cheerful trust in all trials, and thus 
sweetens the bitter draughts of life. 

(5.) It inspires with hope in emergencies, and thus 
enables the believer to meet unforeseen exigencies with 
all his resources of mind and faith at hand, confident, 
buoyant, and if possible conquering. 

(6.) It imparts a patience that outlasts adversities, 
a fortitude that yields to no disaster, and a confidence 
that emerges unscathed from all furnaces of trial. 

TIL Literature. — We cite in alphabetical order a 
portion only of the very numerous works extant on this 
subject: Aquinas, Summa Theol. p. i, q. 15, art. iii; 
Backerus, l)e Dei Procidentia circa Mai. ; Bairus, De 
Prov. Dei circa Peccata Ilominum ; Beza, De Prov. Dei 
circa Res Temporales; Bormann, Lehre der Vorsehung ; 
the same, Betrachtungen iiber die wichtigsten Warheiten 
der Religion; Chrysostom, De Procidentia Dei; Clem- 
ent, Strom, vi, 17, p. 821 sq. ; De Maree, Gottesverthei- 
digung iiber die Zulassung des Bosen ; De Vries, Exerci- 
tationes Rationales; Feldmann, Moira oder iiber die giitt- 
liche Vorsehung; Fur Anbeter Gottes (Lond. 1780); Go- 
mari Conciliatio Doct. Orthodoxer de Providentia ; 1 1 ugo 
of St. Victor, De. Sacrum, c. 19-21 ; Jacobi, Betrachtun- 
gen iiber die weisen A bsichten Gottes ; Jerome, Comment, 
in Abacuc, c. 1 ; Junilius, De Partibus Legis Divince, bk. 
ii, c. 3 sq. ; Koppen, Die Bibel ein Werk der guttlichen 
Weisheit ; Lactantius, De Via Dei, c. 13; the same, De 
Opifcio Dei,vel Formatione Hontinis, c. 5-17 ; Leibnitz, 
Essetis de Theodicee; Martinii Com. de Gubernatione 
Mundi; Milller, Briefe iiber das Stadium der Wissen- 
schaften, besonders der Geschichte (Zurich, 1798) ; Neme- 
sius, De Natura Hominis, c. 42 sq. ; Plutarch, De Sera 
Numinis I ’indicia; Rechenbergius, De rrov. Dei circa 
Minima; Salvianus Massiliensis, De Gubernatione Dei 
sice de Prov.; Sanders, Ueber die Vorsehung ; Schrockh, 
Disp. Historica circa Providentiam Divinam, quando et 
quam dare loquatur (Vitembergaj, 1776); Seneca, De 
Providentia, De Benefciis; Theodoret, Sermones de Pro- 
videntia ; Turrettini Dissertationes, diss. 4, 5, 6 ; Twisse, 
Vindicatio Providentice Dei; Viret, De la Providence; 
Weismannus, De Prov. Dei contra Malum; Zollikofer, 
Betrachtungen iiber das Uebel in der Welt. (S. H. 1\) 

Providence, Nuns of, a community of young 
women at Paris, established about the year 1647 by 
Madame Polaillon for the reception of poor virgins who 
might otherwise be exposed, through poverty, to the 
temptations of the world. This pious lady, having 
formed the design, was discouraged from prosecuting it 
by several persons, who represented to her that she had 
not a fund sufficient to carry it on ; to whom she replied 
that Providence should be her fund; and accordingly, 
having succeeded in her undertaking, she gave to her 
community the name of The Nuns of Providence. 

Province, properly an outlying portion of an ex- 
tended empire, such as the Persian or Roman. It is not 
intended here to do more than indicate the points of con- 
tact which this word presents with Biblical history and 
literature. 

1. (nr-l-C, medinah; Sept, ywjoa ; Vulg. provincial) 
In the Old Test, this term first appears in connection 
with the wars between Ahab and Ben-hadad (1 Kings 
xx, 14, 15, 19). The victory of the former w'as gained 
chiefly “ by the young men of the princes of the prov- 
inces,” i. e. probably of the chiefs of tribes in the Gilead 


PROVINCE 


712 


PROVISION 


country, recognising the supremacy of Ahab, and hav- 
ing a common interest with the Israelites in resisting 
the attacks of Syria. They are specially distinguished 
in ver. 15 from “ the children of Israel.” Not the hosts 
of Ahab. but the youngest warriors (“armor-bearers,” j 
Keil, adloc .) of the land of Jcphthah and Elijah, fight- 
ing with a fearless faith, were to carry otF the glory of 
the battle (comp. Ewald, (iesvh. iii, 492). 

Mure commonly the word is used of the divisions of 
the Chahkcan (Dan. ii, 49; iii, 1,30) and the Persian 
kingdom (Ezra ii, 1 ; Xeh. vii, G; Esth. i, 1, 22; ii, 3, 
etc.). The occurrence of the word in Eccles. ii, 8 ; v, 8, 
has been noted as an indication of the later date now 
frequently ascribed to that book. The facts as to the 
administration of the Persian provinces which come 
within our view in these passages are chiefly these: 
Each province had its own governor, who communi- 
cated more or less regularly with the central authority 
for instructions (Ezra iv and v). Thus Tatnai, govern- 
or of the provinces on the right bank of the Euphrates, 
applied to Darius to know how he was to act as to the 
conflicting claims of the Apharsachites and the Jews 
(Ezra v). Each province had its own system of finance, 
subject to the king’s direction (Herod, iii, 89). The 
“ treasurer” was ordered to spend a given amount upon 
the Israelites (Ezra vii, 22), and to exempt them from 
all taxes (vii, 21). See 'Pax. The total number of 
the provinces is given at 127 (Esth. i, 1 ; viii, 9). 
Through the whole extent of the kingdom there was 
carried something like a postal system. The king’s cou- 
riers (/3»/3\io0opot, the (iyyapoi of Herod, viii, 98) con- 
veyed his letters or decrees (Esth. i, 22; iii, 13). From 
all provinces concubines were collected for his harem (ii, 
3). Horses, mules, or dromedaries were employed on 
this service (viii, 10). (Comp. Herod, viii, 98; Xcnoph. 
Cyrop. viii, G ; lleeren’s Persians , ch. ii.) The word is 
used, it must be remembered, of the smaller sections of 
a satrapy rather than of the satrapy itself. While the 
provinces arc 127, the satrapies are only 20 (Herod, 
iii, 89). The Jews who returned from Babylon arc de- 
scribed as “children of the province” (Ezra ii, 1 ; Xeh. 
vii, G), and had a separate governor [see Tiksiiatua] 
of their own race (Ezra ii, G3; Xeh. v, 14; viii, 9); 
while the}’ were subject to the satrap (r"2) of the whole 
province west of the Euphrates (Ezra v, 7 ; vi, G). 

2. (’E irapxia.) In the Xew Test, we are brought 
into contact with the administration of the provinces of 
the lioman empire. The classification given by Strabo 
(xvii, p. 840) of provinces (t -xapfiai) supposed to need 
military control, and therefore placed under the imme- 
diate government of the Caesar, and those still belong- 
ing theoretically to the republic, and administered by 
the senate, and of the latter again into proconsular 
( i>iraTiKai ) and prtvtorian ( arpaTpyiKai ), is recognised, 
more or less distinctly, in the (lospcls and the Acts. 
Sec Frcktuatok. Cyrenius (Quirinus) was the t)y f/iwr 
of Syria (Luke ii, 2), the word being in this case used 
lbr pr;cses or proconsul. Pilate was the pyepiov of the 
sub-province of Jud;ca (Luke iii, 1 ; Matt, xxvii, 2, etc.), 
as procurator with the power of a legates; and the same 
title is given to his successors, Felix and Festus (Acts 
xxiii, 24; xxv, 1; xxvi, 30). The governors of the 
senatorial provinces of Cyprus, Achaia, and Asia, on 
the other hand, are rightly described as dr3/'7r«roi, 
proconsuls (Acts xi ii, 7 ; xviii, 12; xix,38). In thetwo 
former cases the province had been originally an impe- 
rial one, but had been transferred — Cyprus by Augustus 
(Dio Cass, li v, 4), Achaia by Claudius (Sueton. Claud. 
25) — to the senate. The oTparpyoi of Acts xvi, 22 
(A. V. “magistrates”), on the other band, were the 
duumviri, or pnvtors, of a lioman colony. The duty of 
the legati and other provincial governors to report spe- 
cial cases to the emperor is recognised in Acts xxv, 2G, 
and furnished the groundwork for the spurious Acta 
Pilot!. See Pii.atk. The right of any Homan citizen 
to appeal from a provincial governor to the emperor 


meets us as asserted by Paul (xxv, 11). In the council 
( ovpfiovXiov ) of Acts xxv, 12 we recognise the assess- 
ors who were appointed to take part in the judicial 
functions of the governor. The authority of the lega- 
tus, proconsul, or procurator, extended, it need hardly 
be said, to capital punishment (subject, in the case of 
lioman citizens, to the right of appeal), and, in most 
cases, the power of inflicting it belonged to him exclu- 
sively. It was necessary for the Sanhedrim to gain 
Pilate’s consent to the execution of our Lord (John 
xviii, 31). The strict letter of the law forbade govern- 
ors of provinces to take their wives with them, but the 
cases of Pilate’s wife (Matt, xxvii, 19) and Drusilla (Acts 
xxiv, 24) show that it had fallen into disuse. Tacitus 
(.4 tin. iii, 33, 34) records an unsuccessful attempt to re- 
vive the old practice. — Smith. Sec Pitocoxsut.. 

1TIOYIXCE is, in ecclesiastical language, the juris- 
diction of an archbishop. See Diocf.sk. 

Provincial. The local superior of the monasteries 
(abbot, guardian, prior, etc.) stands under the supervis- 
ion of the district superiors, or deflators ; these are sub- 
ordinated to the superiors of the province, or provincials, 
who are themselves under the direction of the yenerul 
of the order , the head of the whole community. 

Provincial Councils is the name given to the 
synods held by the bishops of a single ecclesiastical 
province, and presided over by the metropolitan. The 
ecclesiastical superior of the province convokes the coun- 
cil. The resolutions of provincial councils in matters of 
discipline have legal force only within the limits of their 
own province. In respect to matters of faith, their res- 
olutions, like those of the national councils, are decisive 
only when they have been confirmed by the pope and 
accepted by the whole Church. 

Provincial Synod. See Svxoi*. 

Provisio Canomca. See Provision’. 

Provision (Lat. provisio) is, in canon law. the be- 
stowal of an ecclesiastical benefice (q. v.). 

I. In the Roman Catholic Church it involves the reg- 
ular collation (q. v.) of the ecclesiastical functions. Any 
of its ecclesiastical offices can only be thus lawfully ob- 
tained from a competent superior. 

1. Extent and Classification. — (1.) The “provision” 
includes three stages — ( a ) the designation of the per- 
son on whom the benefice is bestowed ( desiynatio per- 
sona 1 )', ( b ) the collation of the office itself ( collatio sire 
institutio canonica), for higher offices by papal confirma- 
tion, for inferior functions by episcopal institution; and 
(c) the act of putting the nominee in possession of the 
office or the prebend, called, when he is bishop, inthroui- 
zation, when he is a canon or other prebendary, installa- 
tion. The election or designation confers on the candi- 
date only a right of priority: the complete lawful pos- 
session can only be acquired bv the canonic confirma- 
tion or institution. 

(2.) There are an ordinary and an extraordinary, a 
free and an obligatory, a full and a partial provision. («) 
When, as the rule requires, higher functions are confer- 
red by the pope, lower ones by the billtop. this is called 
ordinary provision ( provisio vrdinaria) ; but if by some 
special lawful title, a third person, or by the law of de- 
volution the next superior clerical functionary, or in 
consequence of special reservation the pope is possessed 
of the right of collation, this is an extraordinary pro- 
vision ( provisio extraordinaria ). (5) If the ordinary 

collator is free and bound by no obligation as to the 
person of the nominee, the collation is free ( prorisio sire 
collatio libera') ; hut if he is bound by the right of desig- 
nation enjoyed by a third person, the provision is re- 
stricted, and inasmuch as the collator, if all canonic re- 
quirements are met, is held to admit the proposed per- 
son, it is an obligatory one [provisio necessaria). (c) 
If the collator is entitled to all three acts of a full colla- 
tion, his right of provision is called a full one (jus pro- 
visionis plenum)', but if he enjoys only one or the other 


PROVISION 


PROVISION 


713 


of these attributes, he has only a partial right (jus pro- 
visionis minus plenum). 

2. Requisites. — An ecclesiastic function can only be 
bestowed on a person possessing certain qualities, and 
must be occupied within a certain period and in a ca- 
nonic way. 

(1.) In regard to the qualifications of the candidate, 
the canons require that he be capable and worthy ( ido - 
neus et dignus ) ; that not only he have an untarnished 
reputation, but also the required age, the necessary or- 
ders, and the instruction demanded by the office, (a) 
The required age varies with the functions. It is an 
extraordinary rule which, in Hanover, even for simple 
canonries, requires thirty years of age. (b) The candi- 
date must belong to the clergy, and, in consequence, 
must be at least tonsured, and be advanced enough to 
be able to get the necessary orders within a year (Clem. 

c. 2, “ De Act. et Qual.” i, 6; Cone. Trid. sess. xxii, c. 4, 
“De Kef.”). In ancient law the candidate, if his office 
required higher orders than those of a subdeacon, could 
receive a dispensation for seven years, to give him time 
to complete his scientific education, and the benefice 
meanwhile might be administered by a vicar (Sext.c. 34, 
“De Elect.” i, 6). The modern law reduces this term 
to one year, which runs from the day of possession fully 
obtained (Sext. c. 35, “ De Elect.” i, G). If during this 
period the orders have not been conferred, the benefice 
is lost, if it is a curacy, eo ipso (Sext. c. 14, xxxv, “ De 
Elect.” i, 6), otherwise only after previous warning (c. 7, 
x, “ De Elect.” i, 6 ; Sext. c. 22, cod. i, G) ; but in the lat- 
ter case the bishop may graut a second dispensation of 
one year (Cone. Trid. sess. vii, c. 12, “ De Kef.”). To get 
in to possession of a bishopric, the elected person or nom- 
inee must have obtained the subdeaconate six months 
before his election or nomination (Cone. Trid. sess. xii, c. 
2, “De Kef.”). Abbots, holders of dignities, and func- 
tions with which jurisdiction and charge of souls are con- 
nected must be priests (c. 9, x, “ De Act. et Qual.” i, 14), 
and especially in cathedral chapters half at least of the 
canons must be presbyters (Cone. Trid. sess. xxiv, c. 12, 
“ De ltef.”), although in the time of the Council of Trent 
already many chapters— for instance, those of Cologne, 
Treves, etc. — were exclusively composed of priests, 
which is now always the case, (c) The candidate must 
possess the scientific acquirements required by the of- 
fice. The Tridentine rule decrees that the bishop must 
have shown bis capacity at some university (or lyeeum) 
as a teacher, or by degrees obtained in theology or canon 
law, or other academical testimonies (Cone. Trid. sess. 
xxii, c. 2, “ De Ref.”). The functions of cathedral scho- 
lastics, of penitentiaries, and in general of all dignities 
and half of the canonries, can only be bestowed upon 
graduates (ibid. sess. xxiii, c. 18 , sess. xxiv, c. 8, 
12, “De Kef.”). For candidates to prebends implying 
charge of souls (curates, preachers) a trial is instituted, 
and held by the bishop or his vicar -general and at 
least three other examiners chosen by the diocesan 
synod and put under special oath (Cone. Trid. sess. 
xxiv, c. 18, “De Kef.;” comp. Pii V “In Conferendis,” 

d. 18 Maj. 15G6, and Benedicti XIV “ Cum illud,” d. 
14 Dec. 1742). As the diocesan synods, after a long 
interruption, have only been revived of late, the papal 
see has conferred full powers on the bishop (modo pro- 
visorio), and, until the regular synods should be re- 
established, to nominate, himself, these synodal exam- 
iners and take their oath. Besides this examination re- 
quired by the Church, most civil governments in Ger- 
many prescribe a similar examination for the candi- 
dates to the functions of curate or preacher. 

(2.) In regard to the time and manner of the provision, 
the following principles prevail: (a) A newly estab- 
lished clerical function must first be endowed; an office 
subsisting already must be not only really, but lawfully 
vacant. Even to give expectancies, or promises of pro- 
vision in case of vacancy, is prohibited. Every clerical 
office must be filled in a given period of time — higher 
offices within three months ; inferior offices, the provision 


of which is left to the free collation of the bishops or 
chapters, six months (c. 2, x, “ De Concess. Prab.” iii, 8) 
from the day their vacancy was first known (c. 3, x, 
“ De Suppl. Negl. Prael.” i, 10). If the offices to be filled 
are patroual benefices, the lay patron is allowed a term 
of four months (c. 3, x, “De Jure Patron.” iii, 38) for 
making his presentation, the clerical patron a term of 
six months; the latter being lawful even in cases where 
a layman lias transferred his right of presentation to a 
church or ecclesiastical corporation (Sext. c. un. “ De 
Jur. Patron.” iii, 19), or where the patronate is mixed. 
However, the civil legislation of several countries dis- 
agrees in many cases with these rules. If the election, 
postulation, nomination, or presentation have not taken 
place within the allotted term, it is, for this case, lost to 
the patron, and devolves upon the superior clerical au- 
thority. (6) The benefice must he filled according to 
the canons; consequently, with complete independence 
both of the collator and the receiver (c. 2, x, “De his 
quae Vi,” i, 40), without diminution or heavier taxation 
of the prebend (c. un. x, “Ut Benef. sine Diminut.” iii, 
12), and without simony. The admission of the state, 
and often of individuals, to a share in the provision of 
ecclesiastical benefices gave rise in the mediaeval Church 
to the contention for investiture (q. v.), and remains as 
vet unsettled. In some countries it was set at rest by 
concordat; in others it is still unregulated, though the 
right of final and complete provision is admitted to be- 
long to the pope. In most Roman Catholic countries 
the crown elects to bishoprics, and the pope is bound to 
confirm the nominee of the crown, unless canonical cause 
of rejection should appear. In Germany, the contest 
with the papacy has on this account left vacant several 
important provisions. 

3. Form of the Provision. — (1.) Concerning the or- 
dinary collation (a) of higher offices. Arcliiepiscopal and 
episcopal sees, abbacies, and other prelatures are filled 
by election, postulation, or nomination, (b) The other 
clerical functions are disposed of by the bishop in the 
whole extent of his diocese. This right of filling the 
vacant places is either entirely free, or it is more or less 
circumscribed by the rights of third persons or by the 
peculiar situation of the chapter, especially by the right 
of presentation of the patrons. (2.) An extraordinary 
provision takes place (a) either Jure devoluto. when the 
person entitled to fill the vacant office does not fulfil the 
canonic conditions of the provision, or (b)jure reservato, 
when the prebend is one of those the collation of whom 
is reserved to the pope. 

4. Institution or Installation. — (1.) The lawful colla- 
tion of the office in question by the competent clerical 
superior, which alone entitles to the possession of the 
office and to the exercise of the rights of consecration 
and jurisdiction connected with it, is made, for episco- 
pates and prelatures, by the pope, by confirmation of the 
elected or postulated person or nominee ; for other func- 
tions, by the bishop (c. 3, x, “ De Instit.” iii, 7 ; Cone. 
Trid. sess. xxiv, c. 13, “ De Ref.”), through canonic 
institution. The phrase instit utio camnica appears in 
Sext. c. 1, “De Reg. Jur.” v, 12, and has since pre- 
vailed; the expressions collatio, institutio eollativa, in- 
stitutio verbalis , institutio auctorisabilis, investitura, are 
somewhat erroneously employed as synonymous with it. 
Collatio beneficii ought to he used only for prebends free- 
ly conferred by the clerical superior, as here the colla- 
tion of the office makes one with the designatio per some, 
both being included in the decree of collation. If the 
office belongs to that class to which third persons (phys- 
ically and moral!}' qualified) have a right of election or 
presentation, then institutio is the right word, and, better, 
institutio canoniea, to indicate that this institution made 
by the competent clerical superior is alone the lawful col- 
lation ; or institutio eollativa, to indicate that the office is 
really conferred only by the institution ; institutio verba- 
lis, to distinguish this verbal delivery of the office from 
the act of putting a person in possession of it (installation. 
While the libera collatio was always, and is still, an ab- 


PROVISION 


solutelv personal riglit of the bishop, neither the vicar- 
general (sedeplenu) can perform it without special pow- 
ers, nor the chapter, nor the capitular vicar appointed 
by them ( sede racaute). The institutio canonica, or col - 
lath'd, or verbalh, was formerly a regular official right 
of the archdeacon (c. 0, x, “De Instit.” iii, 7), and is 
still a right comprised in the general powers of the 
vicar-general. This right of institution to offices con- 
nected with no charge of souls can exceptionally belong 
even to other ecclesiastical persons or corporations, 
either in consequence of special favor or of prescription 
(c, liS, x, “De Eraser." ii, 2G; c. 2, § 2, “De Privil.” v, 
33). liy this canonical institution the nominee obtains 
the full right to his office and to the attributes of juris- 
diction and honorary distinctions connected with it, but 
no right to take charge of souls: fur this he needs a 
special authorization, for which he must apply with- 
in a period of two months from the day when the 
decree of presentation or collation has been received 
(Pii V “In Conferendis,” d. <S Mart. 18G7) ; and this 
is called the institutio, in a narrower sense, or insti- 
tutio auctorisabilis , i. e. the special collation of the 
charge of souls. The collation of the cura animarum 
is, again, so exclusively a right of the bishop that nei- 
ther the archdeacon nor formerly the vicar-general, un- 
less specially empowered, could confer it (c. 4, x, “De 
Off. Archidiac.” i, 23), nor, in general, any third person 
even possessed of the full right of provision. Now the 
institutio auctorisabilis goes regularly together with the 
institutio collativa, and is given at the episcopal resi- 
dence after previous examination (Cone. Trid. scss. vii; 
c. 13, “De Kef.”) and approbation, by means of sym- 
bolical performances, by dressing the candidate in the 
chasuble and barret (hence the name investiture), receiv- 
ing his profession of laith and oath of obeisance, and de- 
livering the beneficiary a deed thereof, called “letter of 
investiture.” This institutio auctorisabilis can be made 
by the bishop himself or his vicar-general, w ho needs no 
longer a special mandate for it (llenedicti XIV “ De 
>Svn. Dime.” lib. ii, e. &), and, sede racaute, the chapter, 
or the capitular vicar appointed by them (Sext. c. 1, 
“De Instit.” iii. 6\ 

(2.) The introduction into the office and prebend, or 
putting into possession ( institutio corporalis), is called 
(a) for the bishop inthronization, and consists iu this, 
that the consecrated bishop, in his badges, takes solemn 
possession of his cathedral and assigned residence. It 
is combined, if the bishop be consecrated in his own 
church, into one act with the consecration ; but if the 
consecration take place extra dicecesin — in the met- 
ropolitan church, or cathedral, of the eonsecrator dele- 
gated by the pope — then, according to the traditional 
custom, the bishop in pastoral habit, with crosier and 
mitre, is received at his arrival in the bard ieue of his seat 
by the chapter and the clergy of the city and surround- 
ing country, and escorted to some church situated in the 
neighborhood, where, after a short prayer, he is clothed 
in the pontifical robes and badges, hence to be. led in 
solemn procession, all bells ringing, into his cathedral. 
Here he is greeted with the hymn Free sacerdos mug- 
nvs, and while the clergy and the people sing the Te 
Ileum, he takes his seat, gives the episcopal benediction, 
and is then escorted to his residence, the cross being 
carried before him. (b) The solemn admission of a can- 
on of a cathedral or collegiate chapter is called installa- 
tion. The beneficiary, in the house of the chapter, is 
clothed in the choir garments, and the capitular cross is 
appended to his neck, whereupon he recites the (’redo 
and swears the capitular oath, lie is then led to his 
seat in the chapter ( sedcs in capitulo ), escorted to the 
church, and here, also, shown bis place in the choir 
( staltum in choro, hence installatin). (r) With cu- 
rates and other beneficiaries, the institutio corporalis 
(now also called installatio) is performed at the place 
of the prebend, the introduction into the office (im- 
tnissio in spiritualia bemfeii ) by a legate of the bishop, 
and the putting in possession of the prebend ( immissio 


14 PRO VISORS 

1 in temporalia) by a commissar}' of the civil govern- 
ment. 

In Austria, every ecclesiastic, upon getting into office, 

' after receiving spiritual investiture at the hands of the 
bishop, has, before his installation, to sign a written dec- 
laration to the effect that hedoes not belong, nor will ever 
belong, to any secret society. The spiritual installation 
is performed, in the name of the ordiuariate, by the vicar 
of the district or dean the first holydav after the arrival 
of the ecclesiastic at the place of his benefice; the world- 
ly installation, in the name of the government, by a 
higher functionary commissioned thereto; in patronal 
prebends by the patron, according to the prevailing cus- 
tom, In 1‘russia, the prebendary is generally put into 
possession by the archpriest (dean), in common with the 
patron or with the Lundrath, if the curacy be one ofthose 
to which the government has the right of nomination. 
The deed of confirmation is read in the presence of the 
community, the curate is introduced, and put in posses- 
sion of his residence with appurtenances. In llavaria 
the oath is exacted, after which the dean proceeds to 
the spiritual performance in the church, where he intro- 
duces the new curate to his community. From the 
church he is led again to his residence, where he is in- 
troduced to the community by the royal commissary. 
Then the people are dismissed, and the same commis- 
sary, in the presence of the episcopal plenipotentiary 
and the civil functionaries and church trustees, delivers 
the keys of the house to the new curate. In Haden. the 
* curate is put in possession, in the name of the grand- 
! duke, by the grand-ducal dean and the functionaries of 
the district, but only mediately, by a written order of 
these officers; but a solemn institutio corporalis takes 
place in the church in the presence of the archiepisco- 
pal dean. Similar dispositions prevail it) Wiirtcmberg, 
in the kingdom of Saxony, the grand-duchv of Hesse, 
and in Nassau. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

II. In the Church of Fngland, the bishop is nominally 
elected by the chapter; but. in reality, the members of 
the chapter are only permitted to name the particular 
person whom the crown presents to them for election 
with the conge d'elire. In the Homan Catholic Church 
of England and of Ireland, the parochial clergy, together 
with the canons, recommend three candidates, one of 
whom is commonly, although not necessarily, appointed 
by the pope.— Chambers, s. v. 

III. In the Russo- Creek Church, the candidates are 
presented by the holy synod, and the czar names the 
bishop from among them. .See Hardwick, llist. of the 
Reformation, i, 35U. 

Provisor, (1) a chamberlain; (2) the Clugniac 
bailiff of the villa or manor and receiver of rents. — 
Walcott, Sacred A rchivology, s. v. 

Provisors, Statutk or. Clement V. in the be- 
ginning of the 14th century, went heyoml all his pred- 
ecessors by declaring that the disposal of all ecclesias- 
tical benefices belonged to the pope. The pope aecord- 
inglv made reversionary grants, or provisions, as they 
were called, during the lives of the incumbents: and he 
reserved such benefices as he thought tit for his own pe- 
culiar patronage. England in particular suffered great- 
ly from those papal encroachments during the reign of 
llenry III. The parliament assembled at Carlisle iu 
the thirty-fifth year of Edward I sent a strong n mon- 
strance to pope Clement V against the papal encroach- 
ments. lint this remonstrance produced no effect. The 
first prince who was bold enough to assert the power of 
the legislature to restrain these encroachments was Ed- 
ward III. After complaining ineffectually to Chnicnt 
VI of the heinous abuse of papal reservations, lie pro- 
cured the famous statute of l’rovisors (2,*> Edw. III. stat. 
If) to he passed ( A. I). 13.'>0). This act ordained that all 
elections and collations should be free according to law; 
and that in case any provision, collation, or reservation 
should be made by the court of Homo of any archbish- 
opric, bishopric, dignity, or other benefice, the king 


PRO V OOST 


71 5 


PRUDENCE 


should for that turn have the collation of such archbish- ! 
opric or other dignities elective. This statute was for- 
tified by several others in this and the succeeding reigns 
down to the 3 Henry V, c. 4. — Eadie, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Provoost, Samuel, D.IX, an American prelate of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, was born in New 
York Feb. 26, 1742, and passed A.B. in King’s College 
in 1758. Though educated in the Dutch Reformed 
Church, he early became a convert to Episcopacy, and, 
having entered Cambridge College, was ordained in 
1766. On his return from England he became assist- 
ant minister of Trinity Church, also of St. George’s and 
St. Paul’s, New York. He subsequently retired to East 
Camp till the close of the Revolution, engaging chiefly 
in literary pursuits. In 1784 he was elected rector of 
Trinity Church, New York, and a regent of the univer- 
sity. He next acted as chaplain of Congress, and in 
1786 was raised to the episcopate. He served also as 
chaplain to the United States, and died Sept. 6, 1815. 
He wrote a copious Index to the Ilistorin Plantar urn 
of John Bauhin. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , v, 240; Amer. Ch. Rev. Jan. 1872, p. 35, 46; 
July, 1862, p. 668. 

Provost (hat. prwpositus, set over) is, in ecclesias- 
tical language, the chief dignitary of a cathedral or col- 
legiate church, from which use the title has been trans- 
ferred to the heads of other similar bodies, whether re- 
ligious, literary, or administrative. Properly, however, 
the name is given to the highest dignitary in the met- 
ropolitan or diocesan chapter, and is often held con- 
jointly with the archdeaconry. The provost is the next 
in dignity after the archbishop or bishop, a position 
which is also the right of the provost of a collegiate 
chapter. The name is also given to the superiors of cer- 
tain religious houses of lesser rank, and the relation of 
which to the more important houses is analogous to that 
of the priory to the abbey. It was also given to certain 
lay officials, whose duties, in relation to the Church and 
the maintenance of its material condition, were similar 
to those of the modern churchwarden. In the Protes- 
tant Church in Germany, the name provost is some- 
times used as synonymous with that of dean or arch- 
priest; and occasionally, where several minor churches 
or chapels are attached to one chief cuurch, the minister 
of the latter is called “ provost.” In England, the heads 
of several colleges in the University of Oxford, and the 
head of King’s College, Cambridge, are designated prov- 
ost. The head of Eton College is also so called. — Cham- 
bers, s. v. See Walcott, Sacred Archaeology , s. v. 

Pro we, a divinity of the Wends and Northern 
Slaves, had the reputation of a wise but severe and ter- 
rible judge. He was the god of justice, and carried, as 
a symbol of wisdom, snakes on his breast; he held in 
his hand an iron shield, which in doubtful cases was 
made glowing for the fiery ordeal. His iron statue rep- 
resents him in the shape of an old man clothed in a 
long, folding garment; he wears chains around his 
neck, and holds a sacrificial knife in his hand. He 
was more especially worshipped at Stargard: he had a 
temple in that city, and sacrifices were constantly of- 
fered to him. Around his sanctuary, and the wood 
consecrated to him, the people assembled every Mon- 
day: to penetrate into the holy forest itself was prohib- 
ited under penalty of death, a prohibition which among 
the Prussians secured likewise the solitude of the holy 
spots. The priests drank of the blood of the victims, 
and then, in the presence of the king and of the whole 
people, requested the advice of the idol. Sentences 
were then pronounced by the god, and orders given, 
which nobody could think of contradicting; animals 
and prisoners, in later times Christians, were immolated 
to him. On Fridays, according to the old chroniclers, 
women, children, and servants who brought offerings 
were allowed the entrance of the holy wood ; a banquet 
was held in its surroundings, and merry dances were 
performed till an advanced hour of the night. 


The same Prowe, it is believed, was also worshipped 
under a different form : he stands on a column, his nude 
form in a pair of boots; a bell lies at his feet. This is 
asserted by the chronicle of Botho, which calls the god 
Prono, and speaks of him as being the idol of Altenburg 
or Stargard. Botho may be mistaken in identifying 
this booted deity with Prowe: other idols besides the 
latter may have been worshipped at Stargard ; perhaps 
the chroniclers mistook one of them for the gocl of jus- 
tice. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. See Thorpe, - 
Northern Mythology (see Index in vol. iii). 

Prozymites (from Greek 7 -go, for, Z,vpg, leaven , 
i. e.for leavened bread) is a term applied reproachfully 
by the Western Church to the adherents of the Greek 
Church because they contended for the use of leavened, 
or common, bread in the Eucharist. The Latin Church 
were Azymites (q. v.). See also Euciiaiust. 

Frshemishl, the first fabulous duke of Bohemia, 
the husband of the celebrated Libussa. His name is 
synonymous with that of Prometheus: it means he who 
thinks in advance , probably because Prshemishl was a 
seer, a great prophet. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. 
s. v. 

Frshipegala, a warlike divinity in Slavic mythol- 
ogy, sanguinary as were his priests and all the gods of 
the Slavonians. The Christian prisoners were beheaded 
in front of his image, and their blood was presented to 
him to drink. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Frudden, Neiiemiaii, a New England minister of 
the Gospel, flourished near the close of the last and the 
opening of this century. He was born about 1750, and 
was educated at Yale College. He became pastor of a 
church at Enfield, Conn. lie died in 1815. He is the 
author of Marrying a Sister of a Deceased Wife (1811) : 
— Sermon to a Missionary Society (1815). See Bacon, 
Hist. Discourses , p. 55 sq. 

Prudence is the act of suiting words ami actions 
according to the circumstances of things, or rules of 
right reason. Cicero thus defines it: “Est rerum ex- 
petendarum vel fiigiendarum scientia” — the knowledge 
of what is to be desired or avoided. Grove thus : “ Pru- 
dence is an ability of judging what is best in the choice 
both of ends ami means.” Mason thus: “Prudence is 
a conformity to the rules of reason, truth, and decency, 
at all times and in all circumstances. It differs from 
wisdom only in degree; wisdom being nothing but a 
more consummate habit of prudence, and prudence a 
lower degree or weaker habit of wisdom.” It is divided 
into, 1, Christian prudence, which directs to the pursuit 
of that blessedness which the Gospel discovers by the use 
of Gospel means; 2, moral prudence, which has for its 
end peace and satisfaction of mind in this world, and the 
greatest happiness after death ; 3, civil prudence, which 
is the knowledge of what ought to be done in order to 
secure the outward happiness of life, consisting in pros- 
perity, liberty, etc.; 4, monastic , relating to any circum- 
stances in which a man is not charged with the care of 
1 others: 5, economical prudence, which regards the con- 
duct of a family ; 6, political, which refers to the good 
government of a state. The idea of prudence, says 
one, includes due consultation — that is, concerning such 
things as demand consultation — in a right manner and 
for a competent time, that the resolution taken up may 
be neither too precipitate nor too slow; and a faculty 
of discerning proper means when they occur. To the 
perfection of prudence these three things are further re- 
quired, viz. a natural sagacity; presence of mind, or a 
ready turn of thought ; and experience. Plato styles 
prudence the leading virtue; and Cicero observes that 
“not one of the virtues can want prudence;” which is 
certainly most true, since, without prudence to guide 
them, piety would degenerate into superstition, zeal 
into bigotry, temperance into austerity, courage into 
rashness, and justice itself into folly. — Buck, Theol. Diet. 
s. v. In a comparison of p>rudencc and ?norulify, the for- 


PRUDEXTIUS 


V1G 


PRUDEXTIUS 


mer has been called the vowel, the latter the consonant. 
The latter cannot be uttered (reduced to practice) but 
by means of the former. See Watts, Sermons, ser. 28; 
Grove, Moral Philos, vol. ii. ch. ii ; Mason, Christian 
Mor. vol. i, ser. 4; Evans. Christian Temper, ser. 38; 
Coleridge, Aids to Reflection, i, 13, 21 sq. 

Prudentius, S r., a French prelate of the 9th cen- 
tury, was a native of Spain. The name of his family 
was Galindon. lie took the name of Prudentius in mem- 
on' of the Christian poet, his compatriot. Taken when 
young to France, he passed several years at court, 
where it appears lie occupied some important charge, 
until his election as bishop of Troyes in 84G; then he 
subscribed, Feb. 14, 847, to the privilege accorded by 
the Council of Paris to Paschasius Padbertus, abbe of 
Corbie. People came from all parts to consult him, and 
he was called one of the most learned bishops of the 
Gallican Church. Ilincmar, archbishop of Pheims, par- 
ticularly wished to have advice how to treat < lott- 
schalk, or Godeschalcus (q. v.), in the dispute about 
predestination raised by Gottschalk. At first Pruden- 
tius sided with Ilincmar, but afterwards took a medi- 
atory position. Towards the end of 849, or the be- 
ginning of 850, he, however, abandoned Ilincmar and 
wrote in defence of Gottschalk, then a prisoner, and di- 
rected his work to Ilincmar and his confederate Pardu- 
lus, bishop of Lyons. Prudentius begins with an enco- 
mium of St. Augustine, whose doctrines, he says, were 
also supported by Fulgentius and Prosper of Aquitanius. 
lie then affirms a twofold predestination, one to dam- 
nation, the other to salvation. Yet God lias not pre- 
destined the reprobate to guilt, but to punishment. 
Christ has given his blood only for the elect, for he 
says it is given for many. It follows that it is God’s 
will not to call and save all men. These propositions 
Prudentius undertakes to support by the authority of 
the Scriptures, and of a number of fathers, especially of 
the Latin Church ; the most recent of the latter author- 
ities thus invoked is Beda. Katramnus, a learned monk 
of Corbie, and Scrvatus Lupus, the accomplished abbot 
of Ferriercs, sided with the bishop of Troyes, liabanus 
Manrus speaks thus of this work, sent to him by Ilinc- 
mar : “ Prudent ins’s views converge sometimes with 
ours, when he asserts that God is not the author of evil, 
that the reward of the good is undeserved grace, and 
the punishment of the bad just expiation. But when 
he says that God, by his predestination, compels the 
sinner to go to ruin, it seems to me that the conse- 
quence of it is, according to the views of Gottschalk, a 
twofold predestination (see Op. Sirmond. ii, 1296).” To- 
wards the close of 851 Scot ns Erigena published his 
work on predestination against Gottschalk which he 
had composed at the request of Ilincmar. This work, 
which undertook to solve the question from the philo- 
sophical standpoint, and argued for the unbiassed free- 
dom of the will, only complicated the dispute. Erige- 
na was charged with Semi - Pelagianism and other 
heresies. Wenilo, archbishop of Sens, extracted from 
it nineteen articles, and sent them to Prudentius for ref- 
utation. Prudentius replied in a writing addressed to 
Wenilo, and divided into nineteen chapters, followed 
by an epilogue ( liiblioth . Max. Patr. xv, 167-597). 
This Trnctatus de Pnrdestinatione contra Joh. Scot. 
Erig. was written in the year 852, and Gfrbrer says of 
it: “Prudentius wrote against Erigena a ponderous 
book, in which the work of the philosopher was, with 
cutting sagacity and sturdy orthodoxy, so dealt with 
that nothing remained of it.” This, it shotdd be re- 
membered, is the testimony of one who advocates pre- 
destination, and agrees with Erigena that evil is only a 
fu) or, condemnation, not a positive punishment on the 
part of God; that it only consists in the tormenting con- 
sciousness of having missed one's destiny. See Wn.r.. 
In the ensuing year (853) Ilincmar held a national 
synod at Chiersv — the first had taken place in 819 — 
where four articles (Capitula Carisiacu ), embodying a 
moderate form of Augustinianisin, were adopted against 


Gottschalk. Although Prudentius put his name to 
these “quatuor capitula,” he soon afterwards endeavored 
to refute them by writing a Tractoria Epistola adr. 4 
Cap. Convent. Caris. It is possible that he signed his 
name at Chiersy by demand of king Charles the Bald. 
In the later development of this contest, Prudentius 
seems to have given up his position. He died April 6, 
861, and is revered as a saint in Troyes. The Bolland- 
ists do not recognise his title to sanctity. Although 
Prudentius held himself against opposing heresies, and 
particularly against the doctrines of the Pelagians and 
Semi-Pelagians, he was suspected by some authors to 
have concealed the truth in the prosecution of error, 
and Res A males de St. Berlin accuse him of having 
written articles against the faith. From a letter of 
Scrvatus Lupus to Prudentius, we learn {F.p. 63) that 
these two men were sent by king Charles to visit and 
reform the monasteries of France. See Gallia Christi- 
ana, iii; Brever (canon at Troyes), Life of Pruden- 
tius (1725); Gfrbrer, Gesch. tier Carolinger (1848), i, 
210 sq. ; Wenck, Bas Erdidische Reich nach elan Ver- 
trag von Verdun (1851), p. 382; Milman, Hist, of Latin 
Christianity, iii, 241 sq. ; Neander, Ch. Hist, (see index) ; 
Manguin, Vet/. Auctorum qui in Sec. IX de Preedest. 
scripserunt Opera et Fragm. (Paris, 1650, 2 vols. 4 to); 
Kurtz, Ch. Hist, to the Reformation, § 91, 4; Hard- 
wick, Ch. Hist. (Middle Ages), p. 163 sq. ; Hefele, Con- 
ciliengesch. iv, 124 sq. ; Juhrb.Jur eleutsch. Theol. 1859, 
art. bv Weizsiicker; Atner. Presb. Rev. Jan. 1861, p. 
200. ‘(J.ll.W.) 

Prudentius, Aurelius Clemens, one of the 
earliest hymnists of the Latin Church, is greatly cele- 
brated in ecclesiastical history, though generally over- 
rated. Bentley calls him “ the Horace and Virgil of the 
Christians,” not even qualifying them as Latin Chris- 
tians. There were certainly many hymnists previous 
to Prudentius, and they sang in the tongue of Homer, 
Plato, and the New Test, the very thoughts, and fre- 
quently in the very words, of evangelists and apostles. 
The hosannas of Ephraim the Syrian had the sound as 
well as the sense of those of the children of Jerusalem; 
and Clement of Alexandria, Gregory of Nazianzum, and 
the unknown earliest singers of the Oriental Church 
linked the passing hours with heaven by the sublimity 
of their language and the simplicity of their faith. As 
the truths of Christianity first flowed in Greek from 
inspired lips, so the songs of the Church came first 
in Greek. When, finally, the mighty new thought 
had been fitted to the comparatively stiff and narrow 
mould of Roman speech, it was not the tongue of Prn- 
dentius that gathered around it the spiritual and eccle- 
siastical associations of centuries. The rugged grandeur 
of expression, the calm and steady glow that wins for 
the majesty of heaven, came rather in the Latin hymns 
of Ambrose, Augustine, and Hilary of Poitiers. In 
the words of an eminent critic, “The fire of Revela- 
tion, in its strong and simple energy, by which, as it 
were, it rends the rock, and bursts the icy barriers of 
the human heart, predominates in those oldest pieces 
of the sacred Latin poesy which are comprised in the 
Ambrosian hymnology” (Fortlage). 

Life. — Prudentius was born in A.l). 348. probably at 
Saragossa, in Spain. Nothing is known regarding him 
except what he has himself told in a poetical autobiog- 
raphy prefixed to his works. From this we learn that 
he received a liberal education, was admitted to the 
Roman bar, practiced as a pleader, and seems to have 
distinguished himself in his profession, as high civil 
offices were twice offered to him. He was even called 
upon to occupy a military post at the court of the em- 
peror Theodosius I. lie was already fifty years of age, 
when, like other prominent men of those troublous 
times, he was agitated by earnest misgivings as to 
“what all the honors and joys of this world might do 
for him in eternity. In them be could not find God to 
whom he belonged" ( Prof. Cathem.Y, 28-34). Hence 
the resolution: “Let the soul, at the boundaries of life, 


PRUDENTIUS 


717 


PRUNIN G-IIOOK 


renounce her folly and sin. Let her praise her God at 
least by her songs, as she cannot do it by her virtues. 
Let the day be spent in sacred hymns, and let not even 
night interrupt the praises of God. I will struggle 
against heresy, defend the catholic faith, annihilate the 
sacrifices of the pagans, destroy thy idols, O Lome. I 
will praise in my songs thy martyrs, glorify the apos- 
tles” (l, c. ver. 35-42). These words indicate all the 
different tendencies in his literary productions, which 
reflect them. 

iro^s. — We have from Prudentius’s pen between 
385 and 388 poems, a number of which bear Greek ti- 
tles. The principal are — 1. Cathemerinon Liber (Book 
[i. e. of hymns] for Daily Use), being a series of twelve 
hymns, the first half of which were reckoned by the 
author suitable for devotional purposes at different parts 
of the day, and which the Latin Church has preserved 
in some of its collections. 2. Apotheosis, ’Atto Sewcrig 
(a defence of the doctrine of the Trinity against here- 
tics, with which are intermingled various discussions on 
the nature of the soul, on original sin, and on the res- 
urrection). 3. Ilamartigeneia, 'Apapnyevtia (On the 
Origin of Evil, a polemic, in verse, against the Mar- 
cionites and Manichaeans). 4. Psychomachia, ~'Vv\opd- 
%ta (The Combat of the Mind against the Passions, or 
the Triumph of the' Christian Graces in the Soul of a 
Believer). 5. Contra Symmachum, Liber 1 (a polemic 
against the heathen gods). (3. Contra Symmachum, 
Liber 2 (a polemic against a petition of the Roman 
senator Symmaclius for the restoration of the altar 
and statue of Victory cast down by Gratian). Pru- 
dentius supports in these two poems the arguments set 
forth by Ambrose against the proposition of Svm- 
machus. The first book shows the shameful origin of 
the old idolatry, exposes the absurdity and abomina- 
tions of the heathen mythology, the corruption result- 
ing from the want of a moral check, and how happily 
Rome was inspired when it turned to Christianity. In 
the second book he examines the reasons alleged by his 
adversary, eloquently descants upon the cruel prac- 
tice of gladiators’ combats for the amusement of the 
people, and, in order to show their brutalizing influence, 
lie instances a vestal attending in the amphitheatre, 
and witnessing the struggles and agonies of the fallen 
gladiators in the arena, exclaiming with joy that such 
sights were her delight, and giving without compunc- 
tion the signal to despatch the fallen. Arnobius (bk. 
iv, towards the end) casts a similar reproach upon the 
vestals. As, in both books, the subject was of a nature 
to allow full scope to the genius of the poet, being emi- 
nently favorable to enthusiastic apology, this is the 
best of all his apologetical poems. 7. The Enchiridion 
utriusque Testament i s. Diptyckon (forty -eight poems 
of four verses each) is a historico-didactic work, of a 
uniform tenor, relating to some of the most remark- 
able events of the New and Old Test., as Adam and 
Eve, Abel and Cain, Joseph recognised by his brothers, 
the annunciation, the shepherds taught by the angels, 
etc. Gennadius counts this work with the other poems 
of Prudentius (Z)e Script. Eccles. 13) ; but its authentic- 
ity has been questioned, chiefly because it is less abun- 
dant in ideas than the others. The following are deci- 
dedly authentic, and, besides, excellent compositions: 8. 
Fourteen poems, Ilepi Peri Stephanon Liber, 

in honor of the martyrs for the faith — Laurentius, Eula- 
lia, Vincent, Hippolvtus, Peter and Paul, Agnes, etc. ; full 
of warm feeling and splendid narratives. To the Chris- 
tian lyrical poetry belong, 9, the twelve songs K aStipt- 
piviov, mostly destined for the daily praver-hours, which 
were exactly observed in olden times. The first relates 
to the dawning of the day (“ ad galli cantum”) ; Christ, 
the rising light of the world, chases the dark powers of 
night. Let him banish them also from our heart and 
pour new light into our souls! The second is likewise 
a morning-song. The third and fourth are table-pray- 
ers. The fifth is to be recited at the lighting of the 
candles; the sixth upon retiring for the night; the 


seventh and eighth while and after fasting; the ninth, 
an encomium on the Saviour, at all hours. To these 
are added Songs for Exequies (on the Resurrection), on 
the feasts of Christmas (“ octavo Calendas Januarias”) 
and Epiphany. All these songs breathe an earnest, 
Christian spirit; they show the rich symbolism of the 
Christian life of old, and are therefore of great archaeo- 
logical importance. Several passages of them and of 
the hymns IDpi ^.re^dviov have been put into the 
Breviary among the Church hymns. Prudentius culti- 
vated, as we have seen, the two fundamental kinds of 
Christian poetry, the didactico- panegyrical and the 
lyric, which were the necessary consequences of the 
historico-dogmatic and mystical character of Christian- 
ity, and borrowed their forms from the ancient Roman 
poetry, which is also chiefly didactico - paraenetic or 
panegyric. The poetical form was employed at a very 
early period for the popular interpretation and defence 
of the Christian dogmas against pagans and heretics. 
Prudentius achieved in a short time a great reputation 
in the Church. Sidonitis Apollinaris (Ep. ii, 9) com- 
pares him with Horace, who was his chief model in a 
formal point of view; yet Prudentius moves in the 
classical forms with incomparably greater ease than 
his predecessors, Juveneus and Vietorinus : he borrows 
more than the latter writers from the ecclesiastical La- 
tinity, to keep the expression of his thoughts free from 
all pagan coloring. Ilis phrases, it is true, show the 
decay of letters and of good Latin, yet many parts of 
his poems display taste as well as delicacy ; for instance, 
his stanzas, Salvete, Jlores martyruni, to be found in 
the Roman Breviary for the feast of the llolv Inno- 
cents. We are, however, at a loss to understand how 
any scholars of our critical age can bestow unqualified 
praise on Prudentius, and place him first in the list of 
Christian versifiers. Nor are we ready to shut our eyes 
wilfully to all the beauties of Prudentius’s verse, and 
declare his hymns simply “didactic essays, loaded with 
moral precepts and doctrinal subtleties.” His lyric style 
is good, and his hymns are good specimens of the best 
Christian song of the Latin Church in that early age. 
“The stanzas,” says Milman {Hist, of Latin Christian- 
ity, viii, 309), “ which the Latin Church has handed 
down in her services from Prudentius are but the flow- 
ers gathered from a wilderness of weeds.” Prudentius, 
even in Germany, was the great popular author of the 
Middle Ages; no work but the Bible appears with so 
many glosses (interpretations or notes) in High Ger- 
man, which show that it was a book of popular instruc- 
tion (comp. Raumer, Eimcirhtng des Christenthums auf 
die Althochdeutsche Sprache, p. 222). Had Ambrose 
lived earlier, Prudentius would not have been remem- 
bered at all; but as his contemporary he deserves a 
place beside that great Church father, whom he never 
excelled, but sometimes equalled as a hymnologist. The 
earliest edition of Prudentius’s works is that of Deven- 
ter (1472). By far the best is that of Faustinas Arreva- 
lus (Rome, 1788-89, 2 vols. 4to), but excellent editions 
are also those by Waitz (Hanover, 1613, 8vo); Chamil- 
lard (in usum Delphini, Paris, 1687. 4to); and Gallandins, 
Bibl. Patr. vol. viii. The newest and handiest is that 
by Obbarius (Tubing. 1844), whose Prolegomena em- 
brace a large amount of information condensed into a 
small compass. See Gennadius, De Yiris Illustr. 13; 
Ludwig, Dissert, de Vita A . Prudentii (Viteb. 1642, 4to) ; 
Le Clerque, J7e de Prudence. (Amst. 1689); Middel- 
dorpf, Comment, de Prud. et Theol. Prud. (Vratisl. 1823- 
27); Schaff, Ch. Hist. vol. iii; Christian Life in Song, 
p. 74 sq., 98, 110 sq.; Saunders, Evenings with the Sa- 
cred Poets, p. 34 sq. ; Maittaire, Poetce Lcitini. p. 1587 sq. ; 
Daniel, Thesaurus Ilymnol. ii, 102 sq. ; Smith, Diet, of 
Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. (.7. H. W.) 

Pruning-hook mazmerdh ; Sept. Upe- 

rravov ; Isa. ii, 4; xviii, 5; Joel iv, 10; Mic. iv, 3), a 
knife for pruning the vine. The manner of trimming 
the vine (VST, zamar ), signifying clipping, and also 


PRUSSIA 


7 1 S 


PRUSSIA 


the singular instrument of the vine-dresser, were well 
known even in the time of Moses (Lev. xxv, 3, 4), and 
no doubt both were similar to those employed by the 
Egyptians. See Kxikk; Vim:; Vimcvakd. 

Prussia (tier. J’reussm) is a kingdom of the new 
German Empire, virtually embracing within its own 
history the story of the whole empire, in which it is 
the guiding and ruling power, Before its recent ag- 
grandizement, it consisted of two large tracts of land 
extending from Russia on the east to Holland and Bcl- 
gium on the west, south of the Baltic and north of Sax- 
ony, Thuringia, Havana, etc., but separated from each 
other by the kingdom of Hanover, the duchies of Meck- 
lenburg and Oldenburg, the electorate of llcssc-Cassel, 
duchy of Nassau, and some minor states. In 1866, 
Prussia received large accessions of territory, having an- 
nexed the kingdom of Hanover, the duchies of llosse- 
Cassel, Nassau, and Sleswig and Holstein, the free city 
of Frankfort, and some districts of Bavaria and llesse- 
Harmstadt. The area of Prussia was thus increased 
from 10S, 212 Eng. sq. miles to 137, OGG, and the popula- 
tion from 19,304,843 to 24,106,847, of whom 23.746,790 
formed the civil population, and 310,055 the military, 
the average density of the population being 176 per 
Eng. sq. mile. The variation in density is considera- 
ble, the greatest being in the manufacturing district 
of Diissoldorf, in the Rhine province, where it is four 
times the average, and smallest in the district of Kds- 
lin, Pomerania, where it amounts to three fifths of the 
average. Prussia is now divided into eleven provinces 
and three annexes, with a population, according to the 
Gotha Almanac for 1876, as follows: 


1. Prussia 

. 24,8S0 

Pop. Per. 1871. 
3,137,545 

2. Posen 

. 11,330 

1,58.1,843 

3. Pomerania 

. 12,130 

1,431.033 

4. Silesia 

. 15,600 

3,707,167 

5. Brandenburg 


2 863,229 

6. Saxon v 

0,729 

2,103,174 

7. Westphalia 

. 7,771 

1,775,175 

8. Rhine province 

. 10,289 

3,579.347 

0. Hessc-Nassan 

. 5,943 

1.4110,370 

in. Hanover 

. 14,840 

1,963,018 

11. Sleswig-IIolstciu 

. 0,959 

995,873 

Duchv of Lancnbnrg 

455 

49,540 

Principality of Hohenzollern 

453 

05.558 

Territory of Jade 

5 

5,941 


About 88 per cent, of the population are Germans. 
Of the Slavonic tribes, the most numerous arc Poles, 
numbering two and a quarter millions. In Branden- 
burg and .Silesia there are about 85,000 Wends, and in 
East Prussia upwards of 147,000 Lithuanians; while 
Western Prussia has rather more than 10,000 Walloons 
using the French language, intermixed in its generally 
German population, and Silesia has nearly 59, (Hit) Bohe- 
mians or Moravians— making in all two and a half mill- 
ions who do not use the German language, or who 
employ it only as secondary to their native tongues. 
Three distinct classes are recognised in Prussia — name- 
ly, nobles, burghers, and peasants. To the first belong 
about 177,000 persons, including the high officials of the 
state, although that number does not comprise the va- 
rious mediatized houses, of which sixteen are Prussian, 
and others belonging to different states, but connected 
with Prussia by still existing or former territorial pos- 
sessions. The burgher class includes, in its higher 
branches, all public-office holders, professional men, ar- 
tists, ami merchants; while the peasantry — to which 
belong all persons engaged in agricultural pursuits — 
arc divided into classes, depending on the number of 
horses employed on the land, etc. 

I. History and Jleliyion . — The lands bounded by the 
Baltic and now constituting East Prussia, and the ad- 
joining territory on that side of the Oder, form the orig- 
inal home of the Prussians within the vast territory 
they now occupy. These lands were early occupied by 
Slavonic tribes, nearly allied to the Lithuanians (q. v.) 
and the Letts. It is conjectured that they were visit- 
ed by Phoenician navigators in the 4th century B.C.; 
but beyond the fact of their having come into tempora- 


ry conflict with the Goths and other Teutonic hordes 
prior to the great exodus of the latter from their north- 
ern homes, little is known of the people till the 10th 
century, when they first appear in history under the 
name of Jiorussi, or Prussians. They were then a small 
but vigorous people, and had made themselves a terror 
to their neighbors by bold inroads, when the race of the 
heroes and sea-kings arrived from Norway and Swe- 
den. Scandinavian Goths settled in the country, and 
the southern shores of the Baltic sounded with the 
praise of the exploits of Starkodder and Ragnar Lod- 
brog. 

I. Mythological Period .— In the oldest historic times, 
doubtless, the primitive inhabitants— Prussians, Lithu- 
anians, rimarugians, Curlainlers, Livonians, etc. — wor- 
shipped the sun, the moon, the stars, and the powers of 
nature generally. The Scandinavians, who were further 
advanced in the arts of war and of peace, better armed, 
and skilled in agriculture, then brought in new gods, 
among them the three supreme rulers, Perhunos, Po- 
trimpos, Pi hollos, and most probably all tbeir other dei- 
ties. Much has been written and argued on the ques- 
tion whether the three mentioned names, or the gods 
to whom they are said to have belonged, really existed, 
or whether they were mere inventions of some imagina- 
tive chroniclers. There are even writers who have dis- 
covered in them the three persons of the IIolv Trinity. 
We shall not dwell on these speculations, but briefly 
state what we positively know of the ancient mythology 
of a people which occupies such a high rank among the 
nations of Europe. Besides the three mentioned, there 
was another important deity, called Cnrcho, the giver 
of food. II is image stood at the foot of many a holy 
oak. There was one at the place where the city of 
Heiligenbeil was afterwards built. The apostle of the 
Prussians cut the venerable tree with a hatchet, and 
this circumstance gave the town its present name. 
There were spread over the whole country sacrificial 
stones, or altars, on which milk, mead, honey, beer, flour, 
meat, fish, etc., were offered to the god. Every year his 
image was made anew, out of wood, on the consecrated 
spots; it was clothed in goat-skins and crowned with 
herbs and ears. Then it was carried about amid the 
shouts of the populace; dances and sacrifices ensued. 
The inferior gods, in large number, have been divided, 
not, perhaps, very properly, into gods of the heavens, of 
earth, of the water, of men, of the cattle, of the lower 
world, into gods of labor, gods of trade, into good and 
bad gods. This was, no doubt, a kind of worship of nat- 
ure, similar to that which we find among all half-civil- 
ized nations. The holiest place in the land was Ro- 
mowe. ( )nlv a priest was allowed to approach it. There 
were but few exceptions. Thus, by special favor, a 
powerful ruler was permitted to come near the conse- 
crated spot, and to speak to the Griwe, or high-priest. 
But not even those great personages were suffered to 
come near the sanctuary, the cver-verdant oak, and the 
gods that stood below it ; for it was surrounded with a 
fence formed by long pieces of white linen, something 
like a most primitive tabernacle. To a great distance 
the land around the sanctuary, and the wood which en- 
circled it, was consecrated. No one could enter this 
forest, which occupied many square miles; and if, un- 
wittingly, some wretch put his foot into it, bis life was 
forfeited to the offended deities. No tree was felled 
there, no wild animal chased. Besides this celebrated 
Romowe, there were other places of the same kind 
spread all over the country, and whose names, com- 
mencing with Jlomas , and partly preserved to our days, 
arc expressive of calm and holiness. We find quite a 
number of such names in Lithuania. In Prussia the 
trees were held holy, as among the ancient Germans, 
the Anglo-Saxons, the Rugians, Holsteinians, and kin- 
dred peoples. There existed also single oaks and lin- 
den-trees which were held in particular veneration as 
being the seats of some divinity; they were approach- 
ed with pious horror and deep reverence. The oak of 


PRUSSIA 


719 


PRUSSIA 


Heiligenbcil, with a circumference of forty feet and a I 
diameter of nineteen, was the most celebrated. Some 
mountains enjoyed the same honors. The best-known 
of them was near Brandenburg, at a short distance from 
the Frische Haff. Near the holy woods and trees there 
were, as a rule, holy fields, which never were touched by 
the plough. We also find holy springs, from which no 
one could take water unless he previously offered a sac- 
rifice : their water was believed to be a sure medicine 
against certain diseases. There were also holy lakes, 
either in a separate place or connected with the sanct- 
uaries and forests: no one was allowed to fish in their 
waters. 

The gods adored in those consecrated places were, 
besides those already named : Okopim , the god of the 
air and of tempests; Swaixtix , the god of the stars — 
a most important god in the North, with its long win- 
ter nights; Bankputtis, the god of the sea; Antrimpos, 
the angry god, who excites the waves; Wurskeite and 
Szwcimbxaite , the protectors of cattle and poultry, wor- 
shipped extensively in the whole country; Gardebis 
and Janliubobis, the protectors of oxen and sheep; Per- 
doitos, the god of trade, who made the sea propitious to 
the mariner, and was specially honored on the sea-coast ; 
Puskaitis, the god of woods and trees, who lived under 
the foliage, and whose dwelling-places were held partic- 
ularly holy. This god had, throughout the country, a 
number of sanctuaries, where he was attended by a mul- 
titude of strange, dwarf-like beings, which the imagi- 
nation of the people had fitted out and ornamented in 
the most fantastical manner. Pergubrius gave fertili- 
ty to the fields; Zemberis strewed the earth with seeds, 
and covered it with flowers and herbs; Pelwitte filled 
with riches the houses and the barns; Ausweikis was 
the god of health, resorted to by the sick and invalid. 
To these must be added quite a number of female de- 
ities. Jawinna watched over the germination and 
growth of corn; Melletele covered the meadows and 
gardens with herbs and grass; Strutis was the goddess 
of the flowers; Gobjanja was the goddess of riches and 
opulence; Guze led the wanderers through deserts and 
gloomy forests; Swaigsdunoka, the bride of the star- 
god, directed the heavenly bodies on their path ; Laima 
was the obstetric goddess, and fixed the destinies of the 
new-born. The bad goddesses were, the sanguinary 
Gittine, who brought painful death ; Magila, the wrath- 
ful deity, who visited cruel misfortunes upon those she 
disliked; Laune, who intervened in human affairs — now 
sportively, now malignantly, leading the wanderer astray 
by will-o’-the-wisps, seizing upon helpless children, etc. 
Besides these gods and goddesses, there were tutelary 
spirits — spirits of the woods, of the waters, of the earth, 
most of them servants of the god Puskaitis — men of the 
woods, dwarfs, elfs, called bai'stucs , or perstiks. Similar 
to these were the nightly spectres, who at twilight left 
their dark recesses to seek food. They were appeased 
by putting sacrificial meat in lonesome spots; thus they 
became guardians of house and barn, and the childish 
fancy shaped and ornamented them in the quaintest 
manner. The animal kingdom, also, held many objects 
for worship. The snake was the object of particular 
veneration, being the favorite of Potrimpos. Snakes were 
believed to be a blessing for the house and household, 
to be immortal, and to gain renewed youth with each 
change of skin. They were dutifully fed in the holes 
of old oak-trees, and gladly admitted into buildings and 
chambers. Barren women fed them with milk, implor- 
ing at the same time the blessings of Laima. Care- 
lessness towards them was attended with misfortunes 
of all kinds. This regard for the snake continued in 
Prussia and in the neighboring countries till long after 
the introduction of Christianity. The horse, especially 
the wdiite horse, was in great honor among all Northern 
peoples, as well as among the Germans, as a spirit of 
prophecy was said to dwell in him. All white horses 
were consecrated to the gods, and no one would have 
dared to mount a steed of that color. To beat or dam- 


age it was a capital crime. Among the birds, the owl 
enjoyed special regard, because it was believed that she 
predicted to her friends the coming mishaps. 

The gods being so numerous, it was but natural that 
the priests should form a very large body. At their 
head stood the Griwe, almost a god himself, so great 
was the veneration in which he was held among all the 
nations of the North. The waidlotes , griwaites, sig- 
gones, wurskaiti, pustones, saitones, burtones, and swa- 
kones were the members of a powerful hierarchy, and 
exercised an unlimited influence upon those supersti- 
tions tribes. There was no lack of female priests either ; 
and it would seem that female deities were attended ex- 
clusively by female priests, as male gods were worship- 
ped only by male priests. Yet it is not likely that sac- 
erdotal women were admitted into the Ilomowe, as the 
Griwe, as well as all other priests, had to remain in sin- 
gle blessedness. A transgression of this law was visit- 
ed with capital punishment, the culprit being dragged 
away from the holy ground and burned alive. There 
is some contradiction between this stern enforcement 
of the law of virginity and the way in which the body 
of female waidlotes was recruited. If a woman had 
been sterile in marriage, and became, after the death of 
her husband, the mother of a son or of a daughter by 
an unmarried man, she was considered as holy, and was 
.admitted to the number of the female priests. As far 
as the institutions of the ancient Prussians are known, 
they exacted from their priests a pure, pious, and holy 
life. Those only could be admitted among the supe- 
rior priests, the griwaites , who, during many years, had 
shone by an exemplary life; and even the relations 
whom the Griwe wished to be received into the sacer- 
dotal body had to prove that their conduct had been 
unblemished, or they were rejected. The priests were 
supported entirely by the people, for we do not find any 
mention of their being addicted to agriculture or any 
art or trade. The sacrifices and offerings were their 
principal income. They received beer, milk, fruits, 
animals, tissues fur sacerdotal garments, etc. Libations 
were offered to the gods, and the liquid offering was 
drunk by the priest. Sometimes this sacrifice was at- 
tended with quaint ceremonies. At the great spring- 
festival, the priest filled a cup with beer, took it be- 
tween his teeth without touching it with his hands, 
drained it, and then threw it over his head. Those 
| behind him caught it, filled it with beer, and brought 
it back to him a second and a third time. The act of 
emptying three times the cup was intended in honor 
of the three great gods; the throwing of the cup was 
the sacrifice brought to them, which human hands 
durst not touch. After this ceremony the cup cir- 
eulated from mouth to mouth. Each worshipper took 
I it between his teeth, emptied it, and with his teeth the 
neighbor took it from him. Finally, the benediction 
was given to the people; a banquet ensued, in which 
intoxicating beverages were so plentifully tasted that 
the solemnity generally ended in bloody work, as is the 
case, even in our days, with Poles, Lithuanians, and oth- 
er nations. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s.v. 

2. Introduction of Christianity. — We here substan- 
tially give the account found in Wetzcr u. Welto, Kir- 
chen-Lexikon, s. v. 

“ Several attempts to introduce the Christian religion 
into Prussia had been fruitless. St. Adalbert, bishop of 
Prague, died April 23, 397, a martyr to his faith, while en- 
deavoring to convert the people to Christianity. Bruno, 
of the family of the Barons von Qnerfnrt, who, after re- 
nouncing his cauonry and entering the Benedictine con- 
gregation of Camaldoli, had repaired to Prussia in 100S, 
to preach there the Gospel and couvert those pagan tribes, 
also suffered martyrdom (Feb. 11, 100S). The endeavors 
of the Polish princes to Christianize the Prussians by 
force were still more unsuccessful. As the acceptance of 
the Christian religion had been made a condition of peace 
by Boleslas, duke of Polaud, about 1018, they considered 
the Christian communion as an obnoxions consequence 
of unhappy warfare, as a yoke imposed by the foe, and 
they shook it off every time when they felt strong enough 
to do so. Thus the disinclination to the new worship 
increased continually, until it leached the very pitch of 


PRUSSIA 


720 


PRUSSIA 


h:\tred and disgust. Meanwhile Otto, bishop of Bamberg 
<tl24\ preached with success in Pomerania, aud Christian- 
ity t>v degrees reached the banks of the Vistula. The 
first Christian ruler in Pomerauia, Snbislas 1, founded in 
1170, near Dantzic, the monastery of Oliva, which became 
a seminary whence the seed of the Christian faith was iu 
time to spread over Prussia’s soil. 

“ Previous to the establishment of Olit'a’s monastery 
the Prussians, however, had succeeded (in 1101) in mak- 
ing a staud against Boleslns IV’ of Poland, aud for a time 
maintained a rude and savage kind of independence, 
which the disturbed condition of Poland prevented its 
rulers from breukiug down. The fear of losing their 
freedom if they adopted Christianity made the Prussians 
obstinately resist every effort for their conversion ; and it 
was not till the middle of the 13th century, when the 
knights of the Teutouic Order entered upon their famous 
crusade against them, that the Christian faith was for- 
mally established among them. The aggressive inroads 
of the pagan Prussians on the territories of their Chris- 
tian neighbors, and their advance into Pomerauia, were 
the exciting causes of this important movement. Chris- 
tianity was by the reverses of the Polish princes tlirown 
so vastly upon the defensive that the Pomeranian duke 
Grimislas, of Stargard aud Scbnrtz, called in lists some 
knights of St. Johu into his dominions, and delivered 
iuto their hands liis castle of Stargard and some adjoin- 
ing territories for operations agniust the Prussians. The 
intimate commercial relations between Brunei) and Livo- 
nia facilitated the work of the missionaries, and gave 
easy access to the latter country. After the Christian 
religion had been introduced into Pomerauia and Li- 
vonia, and an order of Christian knighthood had been 
founded for its aid and maintenance, the prospects in 
Prussia also seemed to brighteu. Although the exer- 
tions of Gottfried, abbot of the monastery of Cistercians 
of Lukina (1207), iu Poland, aud of his fellow -monk 
Philip, who suffered martyrdom, were not attended with 
any endnriug success, yet were two of the native princes 
converted. A few years afterwards appeared the man to 
whom was reserved the glorious achievement of intro- 
ducing Christianity into Prussia. It was the Cistercian 
monk Christian, of the monastery of Oliva, a man distin- 
guished by every virtue, and speaking flneutly the Ger- 
man, Latin, Polish, and Prussian languages. In 1210 he 
obtained permission from pope Innocent III to go to 
Prussia with some chosen companions, and his efforts 
were crowued with such brilliant success that in the fall 
of 1214, or at the beginning of 1215, he was appointed 
bishop of Prussia, the new converts having hitherto been 
committed to the pastoral care of the archbishop of Gue- 
sen. The number of the converted Prussians was consid- 
erable, and two of their princes, Warpodo, the ruler of the 
land of Lansania, aud Suuvohuno, who reigned in the land 
of Lbbau, had made provisions for the maintenance of the 
bishop. 

“This partial triumph of Christianity excited the anger 
of the heathenish Prussians, who were, besides, maddened 
by the expeditions of Conrad, duke of Masovia. Help 
from abroad was sorely needed. Crusades, however, 
could not afford any lasting protection. The Order of 
the Knights of Christ, called also Brother-knights of Do- 
brin, founded in Livonia in 1225 by bishop Christian, on 
the pattern of the Knights of the Sword, was no match 
for the savage fury of the Prussians: at the very begin- 
ning of the war all the knights, save five, were killed in 
battle near the spot where Strasbtirg was afterwards 
built. By bishop Christian’s advice, the Teutonic Order 
was applied to for assistance (1220). The grand-master, 
Hermann von Salza, asked consent of Frederick II, who 
not only granted the request, but also promised his help, 
and confirmed the donations of land formally made to 
the order by duke Conrad of Masovia. After four years 
of negotiations, duke Conrad made n solemn grant to the 
order of the whole land of Culm, between the Vistula, 
I) re wen z, and Ossa, with all the conquests they should 
add to it; while at the same time bishop Christian, and 
Gunther, bishop of Flock, renounced in their favor all 
their possessions, revenues, and patronal rights iu those 
countries, reserving only their episcopal jurisdiction and 
their pontificalia. At the same time the pones, Gregory 
IX, in 1231, and Innocent IV, in 1244, declared the present 
and future conquests of the order feuds of the papal 6ee 
(‘an jus et pruprietatnn 11. Petri suscipimus et cam sub 
special? Scdis A postolicer protect iuuc et defensione perpetno 
tempore pormanere sanciiuus. . . . Te Conrade ningister 
ejus doiuns nnnnlo nostro dc terra investimus, ita quod 
ipsa. . . nullius unqunm subjicintnr domiuio potestatis; 
qme vero in fntunim . . . de terra pnganorum iu endem 
provincia vos contigerit adipisci, firma et illibnta voids 
vest risque surcessoribus sub jure et proprietate Sedis A pos- 
tulieir eo inodo statuimus pennanenda’). An animal trib- 
ute was promised to tin* Unman court. At the same time 
the pope stipulated that in the newly acquired territories 
churches should be built, bishops and prelates appointed 
at his will, that a portion of the land should be granted 
to the latter dignitaries, etc. The grand master selected 
Hermann Balk to be the leader of the knights he intended 
to send t<> Prussia, and the administrator of the land 
given to the order by duke Conrad ; Ilermauu, probably 


of Westphalian birth, was not only a distinguished war- 
rior, but a man full of wisdom and experience iu all 
worldly matters ; a pious knight, too, who during a space 
often years had administered the possessions of the or- 
der in Germany, and gained by his remarkable aptitude 
the full confidence of the grand-master. All other high 
functions were intrusted to equally distinguished per- 
sons, who, with a few knights and a considerable body of 
cavalry, set out on their w ay to Prussia. They arrived in 
122S iu the dominions of Conrad of Masovia. Numerous 
as was their host, yet the Prussians counted a thousand 
warriors where they counted one. Conrad could assist 
them, but hardly make them formidable, by the addition 
of his forces, his weakness being the very cause which 
had made their expedition desirable. Poland was torn 
by its unceasing troubles, and, besides, engaged in per- 
petual warfare with her neighbors. Pomerania itself of- 
fered no prospect of hell), as duke Swantepolk entertained 
but hostile relations with Conrad, and with Poland in 
general. It was a heroic daring in the Teutonic Order to 
engage in their expedition under such unfavorable cir- 
cumstances. They began the war without delay, assisted 
by bands of crusaders (1232), Gregory IX preaching the 
crusade against Prussia with nnabatuig zeal. The land 
of Culm was occupied, with the help of Swantepolk of 
Pomerania, in spite of the desperate resistance of the 
Prussians. The order, at the same time that it construct- 
ed forts to insure the new conquests, helped German col- 
onists in building cities in well -protected and fertile 
places. Tlioru was reared first, soon afterwards Culm, 
both iu 1232, and Marienwerder in 1233. The Prussians, 
dismayed by the large body of troops arrayed on their 
frontier, and kuowing perhaps that the crusaders were 
engaged fur the space of a year only, pretended to be un- 
willing to fight and inclined to receive baptism. Bishop 
Christian forthwith repaired to the district of Pomesania, 
iu order to preach and to baptize. But a few days after- 
wards be was attacked by the pagans, his companions all 
killed, and the bishop himself led into captivity. The 
pope now recommended caution to the Dominicans in 
Prussia, and bade them beware of the wily stratagems of 
the heathens. A spell of cold weather having made the 
moorlauds of Pomesania easy of access, the w hole Chris- 
tian army invaded that country at the beginning of 1234. 
The Pomesanians were defeated near the Sirgnne River, 
iu the neighborhood of a consecrated wood, lifter victory 
had been passing for several hours from host to host. The 
battle was a most bloody one, and the spot where it had 
raged was, long after the event, called ‘The Field of the 
Dead.’ As its final gain by the Christians was due to 
Swantepolk, an army of Pomesanians crossed the Vistula 
and laid waste the whole land of Pomerania. The mon- 
astery of Oliva, which had been recently put under papal 
protection, was stormed and reduced to ashes. To pro- 
tect the laud of Culm against the vengeance of the infuri- 
ated invaders, Hermann Balk erected the fort of Kheden 
in 1234, which was the origin of the city of Rhoden. This 
kind of precaution w’as indispensable, as the crusaders 
dispersed after a year’s service, and the knights had to 
hold the country with their sole resources. There came 
| other difficulties: the order and bishop Christian could 
not agree; there were grievous dissensions between the 
order and duke Conrad ; a contest arose between Swante- 
polk of Pomerauia and Henry of Breslau, and cut off, for 
the knights, all prospect of help from those quarters. 
The pope, informed of this state of affairs, sent his legate, 
bishop William of Modena, with most extensive powers, 
especially for the constitution to be given to t lie churches 
and for the distribution of bishoprics in the northern 
countries ; and he announced the arrival of his legate and 
the object of his mission to the Christians in Livonia, 
Prussia, Gothland, Finland, Esihouia, Semgallen, and 
Courlnnd. The legate arrived in Prussia at the beginning 
of summer in 1234, and exerted himself at once iu com- 
pounding the dispute between bishop Christian and the 
order. The bishop had made a division of the land, taking 
two thirds as his share, and left only one third to the or- 
der; he had further expressed the opinion that the coun- 
tries recently conquered for the Church were lawfully his. 
The legate did not approve of these views : he decided, in 
conformity with his instructions, that of all territories 
occupied and still to be occupied, two thirds should go to 
the order, will) all revenues connected with them— the 
(lime, for instance; that the bishop should have only one 
third for liis share, but with this additional stipulation, 
that, in the two thirds which went to the order, such ad- 
vantages as could be enjoyed only by a bishop should 
also accrue to the latter. The bishop was obliged to sub- 
mit to the legate’s decision. The difficulties between the 
order and duke Conrad could not be so easily removed. 
The Knights of Bobrin had joined the Teutonic Order, 
ami the latter had taken possession of the fort of Dobrin, 
with all its dependencies, in spite of the protest of the 
dnke. The pope, in a bull of April 10, 1235, approved 
the fusion of the Brothers of Dobrin with the Teutonic 
Order, mainly at tin* request of the bishop of Plock. The 
latter and the papal legate, after negotiating through the 
summer months, stieeeeded in October in restoring con- 
cord. The knights delivered to Conrad the castle of Do- 
briu, with its dependencies, aud received iu exchange 


PRUSSIA 


721 


PRUSSIA 


other territories, of which the most important was Slonzk, 
with its salt-mines. Gregory IX, in spite of his manifold 
Italian cares and troubles, endeavored with all his might 
to promote the enterprise of the order. The preaching 
of the crusade was not interrupted in Germany, aud 
measures were taken to increase the number of the 
knights. Fresh troops of crusaders having arrived from 
Germany, the war was resumed. Pomesauiu aud Poge- 
sania were conquered: with the former of these prov- 
inces the whole eastern shore of the Vistula was iu the 
power of the order. Those of the enemy who surrendered 
were spared, experienced mild treatment, and were im- 
mediately christened by the priests who followed the 
array. Hermann Balk and his knights endeavored to 
subdue by the influence of Christian meekness these sav- 
age spirits, whose faith in their gods was shaken by so 
great misfortunes. A chronicler says: ‘Not like lords, 
but as fathers and brothers, they rode about the land, vis- 
ited both the rich and the poor, invited the new Chris- 
tians to their meals, took care of and nursed in their hos- 
pitals poor, sick Prussians, provided for widows and 
orphans whose husbands aud fathers had perished in the 
war, and sent clever young men to Germauy, especially 
to Magdeburg, to get well instructed in Christianity and 
in the German language, and to become afterwards teach- 
ers in Prussia.’ It was at this time that Henry Monte, 
who became so distinguished afterwards, was brought up 
in the celebrated monastery school of Magdeburg. The 
expenses of these young men were paid with the alms 
gathered in Germany. The laudmaster’s humane meas- 
ures did not fail to make their impressiou even on the un- 
converted part of the nation. All measures of coercion 
had been prohibited. Wherever the order established its 
authority churches were built: Thoru, Culm, Rheden, 
Marienwerder, had their churches. The city of Elbing 
built a church and a monastery iu the first year of its ex- 
istence. Even the open country had not beeu left with- 
out churches: we find in 123C a mention of the parish of 
Postelin, in Pomerania. Some pious men exerted them- 
selves in order to instruct the people iu the Christian 
faith. The papal legate, William of Modena, preached 
with great success; he was powerfully assisted by the 
Dominicans, several of whom were masters of the Prus- 
sian language. The most distinguished among these 
monks was St. Hyacinth, who belonged to the house of 
the counts of Odrovanz, one of the oldest and most cele- 
brated of the families of Silesia. His father was count of 
Ivonski, aud his uncle chancellor of Poland and bishop 
of Cracow. Hyacinth was born in 11S5 iu the castle of 
Gross-Stein, district of Gross-Strelitz, in Upper Silesia, 
aud studied at Cracow, Prague, and Bologna. In the lat- 
ter city he received the title of doctor of laws and theol- 
ogy. On his return home he was promoted to a canonry 
at the cathedral of Cracow, and assisted the bishop in 
the administration of his diocese. When his uncle Ivo 
of Konski became bishop of Cracow, he went to Rome, 
and took along with him Hyacinth and his brother Ces- 
laus. Iu the year 1218, when St. Dominic was in Rome, 
both brothers entered the Dominican Order, and ITynciuth 
became one of the most active northern missionaries. 
Another powerful missionary was bishop Christian, but 
his dissensions with the order could only be detrimental 
to the cause of Christianity. Iu 1237 a pest-like disease 
spread over the dominions of the order, and caused many 
of the neophytes to waver in their new faith. On May 9, 
123S, a treaty was concluded with Waldemar, king of 
Denmark, through the exertions of the papal legate: the 
king received the fort of Reval and the territories of Ilar- 
rien and Wirlaud, while the order received the district of 
lenven ; only no forts were to be built in the latter with- 
out the king’s consent. The king promised not to put 
any obstacle in the way of the order in their work of con- 
version, blit to help them where he could: two thirds of 
the conquests were to go to the king, one third was the 
order’s share. Hermann Balk, thus assisted by the Danes, 
undertook an expedition against the Russians, who had 
invaded the diocese of Dorpat; but soon important events 
recalled him to Prussia. The knight Hermann von Al- 
tenburg, a pious man, but rigid and austere, whom the 
grand-master had intrusted with the administration of 
the dominions of the order during his absence, had not 
imitated the wise moderation and patient meekness of 
his superior. On hearing that a Prussian village had 
gone over to paganism again, he set fire to it, and priests 
aud villagers perished in the flames. This created in the 
couutry bitter dissatisfaction, and the fruit of the restless 
labors and struggles of ten years seemed to he lost by one 
reckless act. Other misfortunes had come upon the or- 
der. Their old friend Svvantepolk of Pomerania had 
become their foe: it was fortunate that the duke was 
threatened by other enemies, and found it prudent to 
make peace. Then Hermann Balk was recalled by the 
grand-master in 1238. and took his departure after pro- 
viding for the good administration of the country; but he 
never saw it again. He died March 5, 123!). On March 20 the 
uohle grand-master, Hermann von Salza, died also, and was 
succeeded by Conrad, landgrave of Thuringia. Ileury of 
Wida was appointed land-master in Prussia. After pro- 
tracted hostilities with the Prussians and duke Swante- 
polk of Pomerania, a treaty was concluded on Feb. 7, 1249, 

VIII. — Z z 


by which the provinces of Pomesania, Pogesania, Erm- 
laud, and Natangen submitted to the order and promised 
conversion. The neophytes obtained all civil rights, were 
allowed to enter the ecclesiastical state, aud to become 
members of regular congregations. These civil and other 
rights were forfeited by their eventual apostasy. The 
legate having put the question as to what worldly laws 
the neophytes wished to have introduced, and what tri- 
bunals they would most willingly recognise, they declared 
for the legislation of the Poles : this they were granted 
by the order. On beiug taught by the legate that all men 
were equal, they promised to give up their heathenish 
customs as to the burial of the dead, and those various 
ceremonies in which the distinctions of rank were pre- 
served even after death, and to bury their dead in Chris- 
tian cemeteries. They also promised to renounce polyg- 
amy ; that no one should iu futnre sell his daughter to 
another man iu matrimony, nor buy a wife for himself or 
his sou: that nobody should henceforward marry his 
mother-in-law, or the widow of his brother, nor any per- 
son standing to him in a degree of relationship prohib- 
ited by the canon, without a'license from the pope. No 
child should be admitted to inherit his or her parents’ 
estate if the matrimony of the latter had not been of such 
a description as to satisfy the exigencies of the Church. 
The killing or exposing of children was prohibited; the 
baptism of the new-born, within a short period, was made 
obligatory. As it was a consequence of the want of eccle- 
siastics and of churches that many children had remain- 
ed nnchristeued, the parents promised to present them all 
for baptism in the course of a month. Such as should in- 
fringe upon these prescriptions, or who refused baptism 
tor themselves, were to have their goods confiscated, to 
be themselves covered with a slight garment, and ex- 
pelled from the territory of the Christians. The Pome- 
saniaus promised to build thirteen churches from that 
time to the next Whitsuntide, the Warmians promised 
six, the Natangiaiis three; each church to be properly 
fitted out with its ornaments, chalices, books, and other 
implements. It was agreed upon that if the neophytes 
failed to construct the churches promised by them, the 
knights should be empowered to levy a tax on their es- 
tates and build the churches themselves, even ifit should 
be necessary to recur to violent means. They promised 
to attend worship, at least on Sundays and liolydays. 
The order, iu their turn, promised to furnish the churches 
with priests and estate in the course of a year. Most mi- 
nute and careful provisions were made for the mainte- 
nance of the ecclesiastics. The neophytes further prom- 
ised to keep the fasts prescribed by the Church, not to do 
any hard work on Sundays and holydays, to confess their 
sins at least once a year, to partake of the Lord’s Supper 
at Easter, and, in general, to submit their conduct to the 
directions and teachings of the clergy. They pledged 
themselves to bring every year the dime into the grana- 
ries of the order; to defend the persons, honor, and 
rights of the order; to keep aloof from any treasonable 
practices against it, and to denounce such plots if they 
were known to them. The order had always, even dur- 
ing the excitement of the war, borne in mind the highest, 
aim of their labors, the establishment and expansion of 
Christianity. Ilonorius III had committed to bishop 
Christian the care of establishing bishoprics, but he did 
not even succeed in fully organizing the bishopric of 
Culm. In 1236 Gregory H had enjoined on his legate to 
divide the new countries into dioceses, and to establish 
three hishops in them. In a bull of Oct.. 1, 1243, the pope 
informed Christian that he had divided Prussia into four 
bishoprics, Culm being one of them. Christian was in- 
vited to make choice of one of these bishoprics, but to 
content, himself, according to the treaty concluded with 
the order, with one third of the land. Bishop Christian 
died in 1243 or 1244. His death greatly facilitated the leg- 
ate’s discharge of his duties, who now had full (lowers to 
do as he deemed fit. The first diocese was to include the 
land of Culm, as far as it is bounded by the rivers Vistula, 
Drewenz, and Ossa, with the addition of the district of 
Lbban ; the so-called Sassenlaml and the lerritory of 
Gilgenburg belonged also to the first diocese. The sec- 
ond diocese was hounded by the rivers Ossa and Vistula 
and the lake of Drnusen, and reached upwards to the 
banks of the Passable or Pnssarge River; it comprised 
Qnidin and Zanthis, and was called tiie diocese of Pome- 
sania. The third diocese was hounded west by the 
Frische-IInff, north by the Pregel River, or the Lipza, 
south by the Drausen" Lake and Passable River, and ex- 
tended east to the boundaries of Lithuania. This was 
the diocese of Ermland. A fourth diocese was to com- 
prise the yet independent countries bounded west by the 
Baltic Sea, north by the Memel, south by the Pregel, and 
east, by Lithuania. This was subsequently called the dio- 
cese of Samland. The legate, on April 10, 1244, assembled 
at Thorn tiie most distinguished clergymen of the neigh- 
boring countries— the archbishop of Gnesen, the bishops 
of Breslau, Leszlan, and Plock, a number of Polish ab- 
bots, the most considerable of the Teutonic Knights, and 
other men of high standing — to take their advice on the 
constitution to be introduced into the new bishoprics. 
The Dominican Heidenreich (the faithful assistant of 
bishop Christian), who had beeu over ten years busy in 


PRUSSIA 


722 PRUSSIA 


the work of confession, was selected for the diocese of 
Culm. The Dominican Ernest, from 'Porcini, a friend and 
companion of ileidenrcich, who had, like him, worked 
many years for the expansion of Christianity, was select- 
ed to be tl e fi st bishop of Pomesnnia. A brother-priest, 
of the Teutonic Order, Ilenry of Strateiclt, was appoint- 
ed bishop of Krinkim!. The diocese of Samland received 
in 1255 iis first bishop in the person of Henry of Scritt- 
berg, a brother-priest of the Teutonic Order. Ills suc- 
cessor, ( bristian von M lihlhuusen, a man distinguished by 
his piety us well as by his knowledge, and who was also 
a priest of the order, did uot arrive in Prussia until 1270. 
'Plie chapter was established first at Scbbnewik, near 
Fischhanseu, theu (in 12S5) at Kmrigsberg. The bishops, 
owing to various impediments, did not occupy their sees 
at once. Bishop Ileidenrcich of Culm (whether the two 
others did the same cannot be ascertained) icpaired to 
the papal court, aud was consecrated by the pope him- 
self at Lyons, probably in the course of the year 1245. By 
this time the legale, William of Modeun, had arrived also 
at the court of Home, and was soon promoted to the bish- 
opric of Sabina. It was no easy matter to find a successor 
to a man who had played such a prominent part in the 
religions organization of the north — in Prussia, Livonia, 
Courland, and Esihonia, and displayed so much zeal, in- 
telligence, and energy in most intricate affairs. The bish- 
ops of Prussia needed, above all, a man who bad insight 
and influence enough to draw positive limits between the 
dioceses, and render final decisions in a number of con- 
cerns where no rules had as yet been agreed upon. In 
the year 1244, pope Innocent IV thought he had found 
such’n man in the person of the administrator of the dio- 
cese of Liiheck, Ekbert — formerly archbishop of Armagh, 
in Ireland. The legate was at the same time appointed 
archbishop of Prussia, Livonia, and Esthonia. That the 
new archbishop might have an income proportioned to 
his dignity, the pope committed to him t tie bishopric of 
Chiemsee, which had just become vacant, and enjoined 
the archbishop of Salzburg to deliver into the bands of 
the archbishop of Prussia the administration of said dio- 
cese. Towards the end of April, 1246, the pope sent him 
the archiepiscopal pallium, and allowed him, at his re- 
quest, to make use of it during his sojourn in Russia and 
in the church of Liiheck ; but this right was not to be ex 
tended to his successors. At the same time Ekbert went 
to Russia, to promote t lie fusion of the Russian and the 
Roman Catholic Church; and p< pe Innocent IV recom- 
mended him to reward the zeal of the knights by ap- 
pointing one of the priests of t heir order to one of the 
Prussian bishoprics. Bishop lleidenreich of Culm first 
took in hand the admiiiistiaiioii of his diocese. The 
country had been devastated and neglected, was scantily 
populated, and churches were rare and separated by large 
intervals. The bishop had to induce colonists to settle 
jn his diocese, and he succeeded so well that after rive or 
six years lie could think of the establishment of a cathe- 
dral church. The cathedral was consecrated at Culm 
in 1251, and received the name of the Holy Trinity; at 
the same time a chapter was founded, under the rule of 
St. Augustine, and so richly endowed that, as soon as the 
revenue of the lands could be collected, forty canons 
might he held. Besides the churches, the number of 
which was continually increasing in cilies and villages, 
the land of Culm had already several monasteries; for 
instance, a Dominican monasfery at Culm, and a Francis- 
can monastery at Thorn. 

“The history of the bishopric of Pomesnnia is little 
known in the first years of its existence: we only know 
that bishop Ernest had taken possession of his see in 1247. 
In 1255 he chose for his residence Mariemverder, and 
there the cathedral was elected. The first bishop of 
Ernilnnd, Ilenry of Strnteieh, died in 1249 or 1250. Ilis 
successor was another priest of the Teutonic Order, An- 
selm, who had had a considerable share in the work of 
conversion and in the victories of the order. The divi- 
sion of the land was made in 1255: the bishop chose the 
middle part, in which the city of Brauusherg was situ- 
ated. Bishop An.-elm displayed indefatigable activity in 
the discharge of his duties; took wise measures for the 
education of youth, for the erection of new churches, etc. 
The bishops of Prussia lived for a long time in very dis- 
tressing circumstances, owing to the frequent wars and 
to the disinclination of the neophytes to pay the dime. 
Not being able to live on the produce of their own lands, 
they had to live abroad. The archbishop of Prussia con- 
sulted the pope in regard to these inconveniences, and 
the pope agreed that each of the three bishops of Prussia 
could accept for his subsistence an ecclesiastical feud, if 
it were transferred to him in a legal way ; but lie was to 
keep ii only as long astbe situation oftlic Prussian Church 
made it desirable. The popes displayed indefatigable 
vigor in assisting by nil means in forming the Church. 
Their voice was continually heard exhorting priests and 
monks to repair to the new provinces and share in the 
work, in 1246 pope Innocent IV addressed a bull to the 
superiors of all monnsiic orders, in which he urged them 
to help the sister churches of Prussia, Livonia, and Eat ho- 
nia, where books weic wanted, with their superabundant 
wealth in this respect, or to have copies made for them. 
Ilouorius III nnd Innocent 111 had douc much fur the 


improvement of the schools, nouorins, in a special bull, 
had invited Christian contributions for the purpose of es- 
tablishing boys’ schools, in order to promote t ho work of 
conversion. The former legate, William of Modena, had 
greatly distinguished himself in these efforts: he had 
even learned ihe Prussian language, aud translated Do- 
natus fin- the Prussian schools. The bishops also exerted 
themselves strenuously for the establishment of public 
instruction. We find traces of country seliools hi Erin- 
laiid as early as 1251. By an agreement between bishop 
Anselm and tin* order, the knights, in their own domains, 
were empowered to eugage and to dismiss schoolmasters. 
We infer that schools for the education of the young 
must also have existed in the most important cities, as 
Thorn, Culm, Marienwerder, Elbing, Braunsberg, and 
Kbnigsberg. But we have no historical data ou this 
point, and we may well admit that the protracted and 
savage warfare which made everything unstable in those 
countries during so many years did liot allow any regu- 
lar development of public instruction. The work done in 
oilier countries by monastery schools was at that time of 
little importance in Prussia, the order not being favorable 
to t lie establishment of monasteries. Much was done by 
monasteries in cities, but their influence was shut up iu 
the town walls, nnd, besides, their number and their 
means of influence were insufficient. Yet in the second 
half of the 13th century the necessity of providiug the 
people with a Christian education was deeply felt. Not 
only were numerous churches built iu the country, and 
priests tailed, but the cathedral chapters, as may be seen 
by the deed of foundation of the Pomesanian’ chapter, 
were established for the express purpose that the Catho- 
lic faith should be more thoroughly taught. In conse- 
quence, only men of education aud abilities were received 
into the chapters. Libraries wcie founded for the use of 
the ecclesiastics in the chapters: bishops endeavored to 
increase by donations the number of books; the pope 
himself came to the rescue, as we have seen above. The 
archbishop of Prussia was, ns we know, at the same time 
papal legate: iu this capacity he had many a contest with 
the Teutonic Order, and in such cases boili parties were 
apt to exceed the limits of their rights. While the arch- 
bishop violated acknowledged rights of the order, the or- 
der made violent inroads upon the privileges of the arch- 
bishop. The sad consequences of these hostile relations 
appeared in 124s, when the establishment, of a solid eccle- 
siastical constitution iu the recuperated countries made 
an active interference of the archbishop necessary. The 
three bishops of Prussia — lleidenreich of Culm, Ernest of 
Pomesnnia, and Ilenry of Ermlaml — together with the 
margrave Otto von Brandenburg, interposed 1 heir media- 
tion in 1249, and promoted between ihe order and the 
legate mutual forgiveness for past wrongs and reconcilia- 
tion for the future. The archbishop promised to nssist 
the order by his preaching, and by every other means, as 
best be could, and to make no complaint, either at the 
papal court or before any other judge, as to the rights and 
privileges in dispute; while the knights, in their turn, 
promised to molest him no more, and pay him all due re- 
spect and veneration. At the same time the order pledged 
iiself to pay 31)0 marks in silver at tixed times to the arch- 
bishop, while the latter engaged never to establish his 
residence in Prussia unless lie had the express authoriza- 
tion therefor from the superior of the order. This con- 
vention was concluded Jan. 10, 1249. Yet the trouble was 
only temporarily removed. A complete reconciliation 
could only be brought about by Hie interference of papal 
authority; and the popes were just then otherwise en- 
gaged. The schism in the (human empire was, as it 
were, repeated in the Teutonic Order: then* was a double 
election. Iu such a time of discord, obligations and prom- 
ises are easily forgotten, or at least neglected; and it 
sometimes becomes impossible, or at least difficult, to 
live up to one’s engagements. The dispute began again 
between the order and archbishop Albert. But, as the 
inner dissensions of the order gave additional gravity to 
exterior troubles, the land-master, Dietrich von (triinin- 
gen, repaired to the papal court, and there represented the 
gieat disadvantages with which the missionary work 
would be attended if a good understanding could not be 
restored. Innocent summoned the hind-iimsier and the 
archbishop for the ensuing Easter. The archbishop ap- 
peared at the appointed time at Lyons, and the pope sat- 
isfied himself that he had exceeded his powers as a leg- 
ate. In consequence, in September, 125u, the archbishop 
was forbidden to make any further use of his powers as 
legate, or to make any episcopal appointments in the fut- 
me. either in lTussia, Livonia, or Esthonia. But his nr- 
chiepiscopal relations to the order needed also positive 
regulation: the decision about these matters was given 
in 1251. The bishops I*eler of Alliano and William of 
Sabina (tbe former legale) aud cardinal (iiovanni di San 
Lorenzo were commissioned by the pope t<> make ar- 
rangement*. They negotiated oil the ground of the rec- 
onciliation prepared in 1249 hv the bishops and margrave 
Otto. Thus the dispute was" allayed. Feb. 24, 1251, and 
bishop Brnuo of Olmiiiz was leqnesled by the pope to see 
to the faithful observance of the aiticles agreed upon. 
But lit t lie same time the seeds of new dissensions had 
beeu scattered. To give to the archiepiscopal dignity in 


PRUSSIA V2 

the countries of the Baltic a firmer support, bishop Will- 
iam of Sabina directed, iu the pope’s name, that the seat 
of the archbishop should be Riga, which was in many re- 
spects the most important and fittest city iu those parts. 
After the decease of the actual bishop of Riga, or if his 
see should become vacant in any other way, the Church 
of Riga should become archiepiscopal, and be transferred 
to archbishop Albert. Meanwhile nothing should be al- 
tered iu the situation of the bishop of Riga, and the arch- 
bishop should exercise iu his diocese only his archiepis- 
copal jurisdiction. Nicolaus, bishop of Riga, died at the 
close of 1253, aud Albert, in 1254, established himself in 
Livonia, lie had already been empowered to exercise 
again the power of a legate in Prussia, Livonia, aud Es- 
Ihouia. But in Prussia, his ordinances iu ecclesiastical 
matters, and the exercise of his power as a legate, met 
with some obstacles: there were the liberties and privi- 
leges granted to the order by the popes; there were the 
peculiar relations existing between the bishops and the 
order, for under lleidenreich’s successor the chapter of 
Culm had adopted the rule of the Teutonic Order, and the 
chapters of Samlaud and Pomesania had in their origin 
been filled with brothers of the order. The archbishop 
submitted these difficulties to the pope, and expressed a 
wish to be relieved of his duties as a legate so far as 
Prussia was concerned, discharging the same only in Li- 
vonia, Esthonia, and Russia. The pope complied with 
this wish, reiterating the old injunctions not to do any- 
thing in the lands of the order against the will of the 
same. Albert assumed iu 1254 the dignity of archbishop 
of Riga, and found himself, as such, in quite new relations 
with the order iu Livonia. The troubles which arose 
out of them were again disposed of at the papal court, 
whither both parties had again betaken themselves, Dec. 
12, 1254. In the ensuing year pope Alexander IV, by a 
bull, received the Church of Riga, with all its enumerated 
■possessions, into the protection of the apostle Peter; sub- 
ordinated to it the bishoprics ofOesei, Dorpat, Wierlaud, 
Conrland, Culm, Ermland, Pomesania, Samlaud, and Rus- 
sia; defiued with accuracy the rights and liberties of the 
archbishop, and delineated in all its bearings his situation 
in regard to the clergy of those countries aud to the Teu- 
tonic Order. Thus the hierarchical affairs were settled. 
The order enjoyed in their lauds the patronal rights; the 
bishops and chapters enjoyed them in their own territo- 
ries. Iu the lands of the order the bishop could pretend 
only to what must needs be done by a bishop (“salvis ta- 
men episcopo in duahus fratrnm partibns illis omnibus 
quae non possnut nisi per episcopnm exerceri”). Nothing 
now prevented the blessings of Christianity being poured 
over Prussia. But there were other obstacles in the way. 
The people had been converted nnder compulsion, and 
the true spirit of Christianity had poorly prospered iu 
such a soil. The knights, to promote the knowledge of 
the German language, and bring about a gradual fusion 
of the Prnssiau and the German' element, Used to appoint 
German priests exclusively ; the consequence was that 
the pastor could speak to his flock only through the min- 
istry of an interpreter. With the exception of Ermland, 
all episcopal chapters were filled by brothers of the order, 
and thus the grand-master’s will was decisive in all epis- 
copal elections. This was afterwards felt, when the order 
had abatea much of its strictly clerical spirit, to he a sore 
disadvantage. The order was often engaged in disputes 
with the bishops and the metropolitan, and by their refu- 
sal to heed the papal interdict which such conduct brought 
upon them they set a bad example. In a moral point of 
view also the knights were not always shining lights; 
and it is a sorrowful truth that a number of members of 
the higher aud lower clergy were not their superiors iu 
this respect. Even the most zealous of the archbishops 
could not change this unfortunate state of tiling*:, the met- 
ropolitan tie of Ermland, Samlaud, aud Pomesania with 
Riga, and of Culm with Gnesen, being a very loose one. 
Iu the dominions of the order few monasteries were es- 
tablished, and not one could acquire might and influence 
by its wealth: the acquisition of real estate by ecclesias- 
tical corporations, or even by individual priests, was sub- 
ject to the agreement of the order, aud this was usually 
withheld. The two Cistercian monasteries of Oliva and 
Pelplin were the only exceptions: under the protection 
and by the liberality of the old dukes of Pomerania they 
had acquired such extensive possessions that they were 
surpassed by no other monastery, either in Pomerania or 
in Prussia. 

“The unhappy wars between the knights and the Poles 
and Lithuanians, together with the moral degeneracy of 
ihe order, led, in the 14th and 15th centuries, to the grad- 
ual decline of their supremacy. In 1454 the municipal 
and noble classes, with the co-operation of Poland, rose 
in open rebellion against the knights, who were dually 
compelled to seek peace at any rate, and obliged in 1466 
lo accept the terms offered to them by the treaty of 
Thorn, by which West Prussia and Ermland were ceded 
by them unconditionally to Poland, and the remainder of 
their territories declared to be fiefs of that kingdom. In 
1511 the knights elected as their grand-master the mar- 
grave Albert of Anspach and Baireuth, a kinsman of the 
king of Poland, and a scion of the Frankish line of the 
Hoheuzollern family. Although his election did not im- 


3 PRUSSIA 

mediately result, as the knights had hoped, in securing 
them allies powerful enough to aid them iu emancipating 
themselves from Polish domination, it was fraught with 
important consequences to Germany at large, no less than 
to the order itself." The state founded by the order had, 
throngh the peculiar relations iu which it stood to the 
papal see, throngh its great privileges, aud through the 
weakness of the German emperors, secured a most inde- 
pendent situation, which was still strengthened l>y the 
circumstance that the bishops, being members of the or- 
der which ruled the land, had more interest with this 
worldly power than with the papal see. The monasteries 
could put no check on the omnipotence of the order, for, 
as a cousequence of the nature of things, they were few 
in number. This, and the political situation of the time, 
facilitated the entrance of the Reformation into Prussia. 
The graud-masier of the Teutonic Order, margrave Albert 
von Brandenburg, endeavored iu 1519 to shake oft’ the 
feudal supremacy of the pope. The wish of suppressing, 
according to Luther’s advice, “the foolish, nonsensical 
rule of the order," of taking a wife, and making of Prus- 
sia a worldly principality, induced him, afier the peace of 
Cracow, iu 1525, to accept Prussia from the crown of Po- 
land as a secular, hereditary fend. 

Foreseeing that an example so momentous to the ec- 
clesiastical dignitaries of Germany could not hut arraign 
many adversaries against him, duke Albert looked about 
for allies, married the daughter of the king of Denmark 
in 1526, and, by renouncing Roman Catholicism, entered 
iuto the closest relations with the Protestants ofGermany. 
Under the protection of king Sigismund of Poland he 
could stand his ground, and the protestation of the pope 
and of the members of the orders spoiled of their rights 
was just as ineffectual as the “ Acht" pronounced against 
him by the emperor. Charles V had been powerless 
against him ; aud Maximilian, who would have been 
powerfully supported by the German nobility, did not 
care to declare war against the house of Brandenburg, ot- 
to break the good understanding existing between him- 
self and his brother-in-law, the king of Poland, especial- 
ly as he lived in the hope that one of his sons would in 
time ascend the Polish throne. The duke’s example of 
adopting the new faith was followed by many of the 
knights of Prussia, and Lutheranism, especially through 
many considerate as well as coercive measures, made 
rapid progress. Indeed, the whole country now began to 
improve and thrive. “Albert improved the mode of ad- 
ministering the laws, restored some order to the finances 
of the state, established schools, founded the University 
of lvbnigsberg (15441, aud caused the Bible to be trans- 
lated into Polish, and several books of instruction to be 
printed in German, Polish, and Lithuanian. Upon his 
death, iu 156S, Protestantism had so strengthened iu Prus- 
sia that there remained not the least prospect of the Cath- 
olic Church getting the supremacy again. Ilis sou and 
successor, Albert Frederick, having become insane, a re- 
gency was appointed. Several of his kinsmen, in turn, 
eujoyed the dignity of regent, and finally his son-in-law, 
Johann Sigismnnd, elector of Brandenburg, after having 
held the administration of affairs iu his hands for some 
years, was, on the death of the duke in 161S, recognised 
as his successor, both by the people aud by the king of 
Poland, from whom he received the investiture of the 
duchy of Prussia, which, since that period, has beeu gov- 
erned by the Huheiizollern-Brandenbtirg house. 

“ Here it will be necessary to retrace our steps in order 
briefly to consider the political and dynastic relations of 
the other parts of the Prussian state. In the 12th century 
the northern Mark, comprising probably the territory be- 
tween the Elbe and the Oder as far as its confluence with 
the Spree, was held by ihe immediate descendants of Al- 
bert, the Bear of Luxemburg, its first hereditary margrave, 
who, during the next two or three centuries, extended 
their dominions eastward beyoud the Oder into Farther 
Pomerania. On the extinction of this line, known as the 
Ascanian house, a remote kinsman, Frederick VI, count 
of Iloheuzollern, and margrave of Niirnberg, became pos- 
sessed— partly by purchase and partly by investiture from 
the emperor — of the Brandenburg lands, which, in his 
favor, were constituted into an electorate. This prince, 
known as the elector Frederick I, received his investiture 
in 1417. He united under his rule, in addition to his 
hereditary Franconian lauds of Anspach aud Bairentb, a 
territory of more than 11,000 square miles. His reign was 
disturbed by the insubordination of the nobles and the 
constant incursions of his Prussian and Polish neighbors, 
but by his firmness and resolution he restored order at 
home and enlarged his boundaries. It is said that he 
gained possession of ihe castles of his refractory nobles 
by the aid of a 24-pounder, known as the ‘Faille Crete;’ 
but even this unwonted auxiliary was of no avail iu a 
long war which he waged against the Hussites who de- 
vastated the land and razed many of his cities in revenge 
for the part which Frederick had taken in acting as com- 
mander-in-chief of the imperial army that had been sent 
against them. 

“Under Frederick’s successors the Brandenburg terri- 
tory was augmented by the addition of many new acqui- 
sitions, although the system of granting appanages to the 
younger members of the reigning house, commbu at that 


PRUSSIA 




PRUSSIA 


time, deprived the electorate of some of its original do- 
mains — as, for instance, the margravate of Anspach. 
which passed, on the death of the elector Albert Achilles, 
in i486, as an independent state to his younger sous and 
tlicir descendants. The most considerable addition to the 
electorate was the one to which reference has already 
been made, and which fell to the elector John iSigismund 
through his marriage (in 1609) with Anne, daughter and 
heiress of Albert Frederick, the Insane, duke of Prussia. 
In consequence of this alliance, the duchy of Cleves, the 
conntships of Kavensberg, the Mark, and Limburg, and 
the extensive dnchy of Prussia, now known as East Prus- 
sia, became incorporated with the Brandenburg territo- 
ries, which were thus more than doubled in area. 

“The reigu of Jolm Sigismnnd's successor, Georg Wil- 
helm (ltiUt-40), was distracted by the miseries of the 
Thirty Years' War, and the country was alternately the 
prey of Swedish and imperial armies; and on t lie acoes- 
sion of Georg Wilhelm's son, the great elector Frederick 
William, in 1640, the electorate was sunk in the lowest 
depths of social misery and financial embarrassment. 
But so wise, prudent, and vigorous was the government 
of this prince that at his death, in 168s, he left a well-titled 
exchequer and a fairly equipped army of 38,000 men ; 
while the electorate, which now possessed a population 
of one and a half million, and an area of 42,000 sqnare 
miles, had been raised by his genius to the rank of a great 
European power*’ (Chambers). II is successors, Frederick 
III 1.16SS-1713) and Frederick William 1 (1713-40), each in 
his own way increased the power and credit of Prussia, 
which had lieeu in 1701 raised to the rank of a kingdom— ' 
a most significant change not only in the secular, hill also 
in the ecclesiastical history of that country. Sweden had 
sunk down from the eminence which it had held for a 
time as the leading Protestant power in the North ; Prus- 
sia now rose to take the place from which Sweden was 
receding, and the apparently insignificant event of 1 701 at 
Kbiiigsberg was followed by very grave consequences, 
both for Germany and Europe. 

3. Reformation Period.— The religious history of this 
early period of Prussia's aggrandizement is as full of in- 
terest as the secular. Its people, among whom, even in 
the lGth century, heathenish customs maintained their 
place side by side with Christian usages, were among the 
first to look favorably upon the new Gospel movement. 
The German order they had learned to despise, and, 
looking upon Christianity and knighthood as synony- 
mous, they had steadfastly opposed conversion. But 
now, when a gospel was preached discarding and op- 
posing the papacy and all its agencies, the people be- 
came ready converts; and the princes, accepting this 
great popular movement as insurmountable, suffered 
themselves to be borne along with the tide. In Prussia 
the priests even favored the new departure. “From 
the success of the Bcformation the princes expected the 
forfeited property of the Church, the priests expected 
wives, and the people freedom.” So says Marx (fV- 
sachender schnellen Ycrbreitung d. RtJ\ j Mavt lice, 1831 ]). 
In Prussia, even the bishop of Samland, George of Po- 
lentz (q. v.), and soon afterwards Qncis, bishop of Pom- 
erania, favored the movement; and the former finally 
placed himself at the head of it, and proclaimed on 
Christmas-dav, 1523, in the cathedral of Kbiiigsberg, 
with great joy, that the Saviour had been born once 
more for bis people. In 1525 the progress of the new 
opinions was so great that when the country was con- 
verted into a secular dukedom the entire populace sig- 
nified tlicir cordial acquiescence, and rejoiced to rank 
themselves among the followers of Luther. A German 
liturgy was soon afterwards introduced, adhering as 
closely as might he to the ancient forms; the convents 
were changed into hospitals; and by the help of postils 
(q. v.), or expository discourses on the epistles and gos- 
pels. regularly sent from Wittenberg, the doctrines of 
the clergy were kept in general harmony with each oth- 
er, and also with the tenets advocated in the Lutheran 
metropolis. The two bishops, together with three evan- 
gelical preachers Luther had sent — Bricsmann, Kpe- 
rat, ami Poliamler — had prepared a Ghurch discipline 
(Agenda), and caused its adoption, under the title “Ar- 
tikel der Gorcmonicn u. andercr Kirehenordmmg,” hv 
Parliament {Landtag) in December, 1525. In 1510 the 
discipline was enlarged, and in 1511 still further aug- 
mented. In 1530 a confession of faith, consisting of 
eleven articles, was promulgated, under the title “Ar- 
ticuli Ceremoniarum e Germanico in Lntimim Vcrsi el 


nonnihil Locnpletati,” by a general synod at Kbnigs- 
berg. This was the tirst corpus doetrime. When the 
Augsburg Confession was published (1530 -31), Albert 
sent for a copy and caused it to be introduced into the 
Prussian Church by episcopal decree. But in 1541 Al- 
bert determined upon the future independence of the 
Prussian Church from Wittenberg, and to this end en- 
dowed the University of Kbiiigsberg — a high school 
which was destined not only to play a great part in the 
history of Prussia and of Germany, hut of Poland also; 
for from this university much Scriptural knowledge 
spread to Poland, and gave rise to a strong reformatory 
movement there (comp. Krasinski, Hist, of the Ref. in 
Roland, i, 158). But this university also became the 
source of a very serious theological controversy, which 
came very near destroying the Protestant Church of 
Prussia and seriously damaging the evangelical cause 
in all ( iermativ. We refer to the (Jsiander (q. v.) con- 
troversy. It began in 1541*. Osiander was that year 
lecturing at Kbiiigsberg de lege et evangel io, and next 
year de justifieatimie. lie died in 1552, but liis son- 
in-law, Funk, continued to espouse Osiander's views, 
and in the controversy which ensued so much bad 
blood was raised that in 1553 the leaders of opposition 
were obliged to quit the country; and when, later, the 
tide turned against t lie Osiamlrians, Funk himself and 
two other loaders paid for their distinction with their 
lives, in 15GG. See Funk, Joiiaxn; Moulin, Joachim.. 
Duke Albert then set about restoring the peace of the 
Church, lie was not himself able to grapple with the 
far-reaching theological, anthropological, and sotoriolog- 
ical questions which the Osiaudrian controversy had 
raised. lie had as suddenly turned from one side to 
the other as the prosperity of the Church seemed to de- 
mand. He had unsettled all and settled none, but he 
had, at least, the satisfaction of seeing one good result 
from the agitation. It made evident the need of a gen- 
erally accepted “Confession,” and he intrusted its prepa- 
ration to Mbrlin and Chemnitz, and in 15G7 they brought 
out the Corpus JJoctrinee Prutenicum, also called Repetitio 
Corporis Jtoctrince Christiana, which became the sym- 
bolical text-book of Prussia. Alt bough it had been in- 
tended to abide, so far as tlie cult us was concerned, by 
the regulations of 1544, a revision was called for after 
the publication of the Repetitio, and in 1508 was brought 
out another Kirehenordmmg u. Ceremonial trie is in 
Cebung (iottes Worts v. Reichung der hochu-iirdigeu Sa- 
kramente in den Kirchen dcs I/erzogthums Rreussen ge- 
lt alt tu wee-den soil. This finally established the evan- 
gelical cult us. 

In 1548 the reforming party in Prussia was greatly 
strengthened by the arrival of multitudes of Bohemian 
brethren, who were ordered, under most severe penal- 
ties, to leave their country within forty-two days (Mr.y 
4, 1548). Duke Albert offered them an asylum in his 
states, whither they migrated under the guidance of 
Mathias 8i»>nius, the chief of the whole community. 

Polish or West Prussia, together with the minor states 
of Courland and Livonia, gradually underwent a simi- 
lar transformation, owing to many favorable influences. 
Luther's pamphlets, exposing the weaknesses of the pa- 
pacy and of Humanism, had free entrance in these coun- 
tries. The bishop of Krmland. Fabian, not only raised 
no opposition himself, but, as t lie Humanists claim, was 
even anxious that the reform movement should suc- 
ceed. Then the government of the Polish sovereign, 
Sigismund Augustus, bv granting plenary freedom of 
religion to the towns of Duutzic, Thorn, and Filling, 
greatly facilitated the triumph of the Protestant opin- 
ions, which was effected about the year 15G0. Germany, 
at last, bail conquered for herself by the Hoformatiun 
the valiant Prussians, and in the borders of Slavic and 
Homan influence had firmly planted the seed of German 
culture and German Protestantism, which was to ger- 
minate and spread so marvellously. The evangelical 
Church of Prussia, which was always after in closest in- 
timacy and most active co-operation with German Prot- 


PRUSSIA 


725 


PRUSSIA 


estantism, to which it owed its origin, hacl nevertheless 
its own peculiar formation, and took for its development 
its own peculiar way. Most remarkable is the fact that 
the prince under whom the Prussian evangelical Church 
first established itsell'lived to see it rooted and grounded 
in doctrine, cultus, and discipline. Duke Albert died 
March 20, 15G8. 

4. Modern Period. — Frederick I was distinguished for 
his rigid economy of the public money and an extraor- 
dinary penchant for tall soldiers, and left to his son, the 
great Frederick II, a compact and prosperous state, a 
well-disciplined army, and a sum of nearly nine million 
thalers in his treasury. Frederick II (1740-86) dex- 
terously availed himself of the extraordinary advan- 
tages of his position to raise Prussia to the rank of one 
of the great political powers of Europe. In the inter- 
vals between his great wars, he devoted all his ener- 
gies to internal improvement, by encouraging agri- 
culture, trade, and commerce, and reorganizing the mil- 
itary, financial, and judicial departments of the State. 
By his liberal view's in regard to religion, science, and 
government, he inaugurated a system whose results re- 
acted on the whole of Europe; and in Germany, more 
especially, he gave a new stimulus to thought, and 1 
roused the dormant patriotism of the people. Frederick 
was not over-scrupulous in his means of enlarging his 
dominions, as he proved by sharing in the first partition 
of Poland in 1772, when he obtained as his portion near- 
ly all West Prussia and several other districts in East 
Prussia. His nephew and successor, Frederick William 
II (1786-97), aggrandized his kingdom by the second 
and third partitions of Poland in 1793 and 1795. Fred- 
erick William III (1797-1810), who had been educated 
under the direction of his grand-uncle Frederick the 
Great, succeeded his father in 1797, at a time of ex- 
treme difficulty, when Continental rulers had no choice 
beyond being the opponents, the tools, or the victims 
of French republican ambition. By endeavoring to 
maintain a neutral attitude, Prussia lost her political 
importance, and gained no real friends, but many covert 
enemies. But the calamities which this line of policy 
brought upon Prussia roused Frederick William from 
his apathy, and, with an energy, perseverance, and self- 
denial worthy of all praise, be devoted himself, with his 
minister, count Hardenberg, to the reorganization of the 
State. In the ten years which succeeded the battle of 
Waterloo, Prussia underwent a complete reorganization. 
Trade received a new impulse through the various com- 
mercial treaties made with the maritime nations of the 
world, the formation of excellent roads, the establish- 
ment of steam and sailing packets on the great rivers, 
and, at a later period, the organization of the customs 
treaty, known as the Zollverein, between Prussia and 
the other states of Northern Germany, and through the 
formation of an extended net-work of railways. The 
most ample and liberal provision w r as made for the dif- 
fusion of education over every part of the kingdom and 
to every class. 

In like manner, the established Protestant Church 
was enriched by the newly inaugurated system of gov- 
ernment supervention, churches were built, the emolu- 
ments of the clergy were raised, and their dwellings im- 
proved; but, not content with that, the king wished to 
legislate for the Church in accordance with a set plan, | 
and determined to force a union of the Lutherans and 
the Reformed, whose unhappy separation was painful to 
the devoted king. This union scheme was not new. A ! 
union tendency had shown itself early in the German 
Church, and attempts were made to bridge over the 
gulf which began to deepen between the Lutherans and 
the Reformed in consequence of the differences on the 
doctrine of the Lord’s Supper. The so-called Concordia 
of Wittenberg in 1536 and the A ugustana Variata of 
1540, with which also the Reformed Synod agreed, are 
prominent proofs of this. For nearly half a century, 
John Du roe us (died 1680), an Anglican clergyman and 
an apostle of union, travelled about for the accomplish- 


ment of his great object; but each of the three great 
Protestant churches — Lutheran, Reformed, and Angli- 
can— contended not only for a faith in the Christ re- 
vealed in the Scriptures, which was the only basis of 
union insisted upon by him, but for all those peculiari- 
ties which separated it from the others. An agreement 
for mutual ecclesiastical recognition (tolerantia ecclesias- 
tica ) was formed on the principles of Calixtus at the re- 
ligious conference at Cassel in 16G1, and resulted in the 
transfer of the University of Rinteln to the Reformed 
Church. But notwithstanding these concessions, which 
gave the appearance of a unionistic and tolerating ten- 
dency, the Lutheran divines, according to Tholnck, de- 
clared that they would rather hold communion with the 
papists, and regarded the hope that even Calvinists 
might be saved as a temptation of the devil (Geist d. 
luth. Theol. Wittenbergs , p. 115, 169, 211). Yet, after 
the Peace of Ryswick, when it became urgently impor- 
tant to have fraternal connections between the Protes- 
tant nations as a security against the dangerous exalta- 
tion of the Catholic powers, the house of Prussia took 
upon itself the task of adjusting the dissensions which 
prevailed, principally among the Lutherans, by a union 
of the two Protestant churches. The elector John 
Sigismund of Brandenburg, while accepting the Re- 
formed creed in 1614, did nevertheless adhere to the 
Augsburg Confession— like the Brandenburg and Hes- 
sian theologians at the Leipsic colloquium in 1G31 — and 
his successors, the princes of Brandenburg and Prussia, 
who remained in the Reformed communion, always 
cherished a desire to bring their evangelical people to a 
better understanding, and, if possible, a union in the 
government and worship of the churches. The ap- 
pointment of a few bishops constituted a part of the 
ceremonial at the coronation of the first king of Prussia 
(1700), but this suggested the idea of a union by the in- 
troduction of the form of government which prevailed 
in the Anglican Church. Temples of peace and union 
churches were, however, consecrated in vain. Leibnitz 
succeeded in breaking off the negotiations. There was, 
none the less, full confidence that the object would one 
day be brought of itself to a successful conclusion. 

When the wars with France ended so favorably, 
the king thought the day auspicious for the consumma- 
tion of the dream of his reigning ancestry, and by royal 
decree of Sept. 27, 1817 (the Jubilee of the Reformation), 
king Frederick William III declared the union effected. 
But the various Protestant churches refused to be joined 
in the Utopian union prescribed for them. New diffi- 
culties arose. The tendency to over-legislation was 
long the predominating evil feature of Prussian admin- 
istration. The State, without regard to the incongru- 
ous elements of which it was composed, was divided and 
subdivided into governmental departments, which in 
their turn, under some head or other, brought every in- 
dividual act under governmental supervision, to the 
utter annihilation of political or mental independence. 
The people, when the}' gradually began to comprehend 
the nature of this administrative machinery, saw that it 
made no provision for political and civil liberty, and de- 
manded of the king the fulfilment of the promise he had 
given in 1815 of establishing a representative constitu- 
tion for the whole kingdom. This demand was evasive- 
ly met by the king, who professed to take high relig- 
ious views of his duty as a sovereign, and its immediate 
fruits vrere strenuous efforts on his part to check the 
spirit of liberalism. Every measure taken by other 
sovereigns to put down political movements was vigor- 
ously abetted by him. Siding with the pietists of Ger- 
many, he introduced a sort of Jesuitical despotism. The 
Landstande, or provincial estates, organized in accord- 
ance with the system of the Middle Ages, were the sole 
and inadequate mode of representation granted to Prus- 
sia in that reign, notwithstanding the pledge made to 
the nation for a full and general representative govern- 
ment. A further attempt made forciblj’’ to unite Lu- 
theran and Reformed churches by royal decree of Feb., 


PRUSSIA 


2G 


PRUSSIA 


28. 1834, excited universal indignation, while the im- 
prisonment, at a later period, of the archbishops of Co- 
logne and (inesen for their conduct in regard to the 
vexed question of mixed marriages involved the king 
in a long and fruitless dispute with the pope. In his 
ecclesiastical regulations, the king was generally assist- 
ed by the gentle Altenstein, his minister for public wor- 
ship, with whose preferences for the Hegelian philoso- 
phy in the Church and in the schools he was often dis- 
pleased, but whom he never would quite abandon. 
\\ hen the civil power had absorbed all authorities pe- | 
culiarlv ecclesiastical, the king established (l817)provin- j 
cial consistories, whose duties were confined to matters 
exclusively spiritual, and did not include the location 
of clergymen; district and provincial synods, composed 
only of clergymen, and restricted within a narrow cir- 1 
clc of duties, but intended to be an introduction to an ■ 
imperial synod; and a ministry for public worship, 
which was to be the organ through which the royal 
authority was exercised over the Church. The oath 
which the clergymen were to take bound them to be 
the servants of the State as well as of the Church. The 
development which had taken place in the principles 
of Protestantism, and the modes of speech occasioned 
by the new scientific and literary education of the peo- 
ple, next rendered some alteration of the language of 
the Church indispensable. New liturgies were there- 
fore introduced into some established churches without 
attracting much attention. A common form of worship 
seemed to become necessary by the union which by the 
year 1821 had been outwardly effected. The theolog- 
ical commission appointed for composing such an in- 
strument in Prussia accomplished nothing. The king 
then published an Ayenda which had been adopted by 
his cabinet (1822) for the use of the court church, gave 
orders that it should be introduced into the garrison 
churches of his kingdom, and recommended it to all the 
congregations of the realm, instead of the conflicting 
and arbitrary forms which had previously been used in 
the different provinces. Put it met with much opposi- 
tion. The Reformed complained that it savored too 
much of the old ecclesiastical formula. They objected, 
too, to the burning of candles in broad daylight, and 
the kneeling and singing of the preacher before the 
altar, and the like, which seemed to them to betray 
a Roman Catholic spirit. The rigid Lutherans com- 
plained that it was not sufficiently orthodox, and was 
too much reformed. On the other hand, the adherents 
of the early theology of illuminisin found it too ortho- 
dox, too much in sympathy with the old eeclesiasti- 
cism. They did not perceive in it their own theological 
opinions, but just the reverse; and it was from their 
standpoint that they very properly hesitated to make 
use of expressions and ceremonies with which they 
could connect no other sense than one contradictory to 
their convictions. Some, also, were displeased with a 
heterogeneous political element which they discovered 
in it. Rut no general opposition to it was apparent un- 
til the government took some steps to draw over the 
churches by various temptations or by coercion, and 
some authors contended that a strict conformity to the 
liturgy should be required by a law on the territorial 
system. In the midst of this confusion, no synodal con- 
stitution was carried into effect ; for even the victorious 
political party took no pleasure in a measure which so 
forcibly reminded them of the promised representative 
system. It was only in Westphalia and the Rhenish 
provinces that a synodal form on the basis of ancient 
usages was introduced (1835), but even there the sys- 
tem left as much to be desired as it actually fulfilled. 
The appointment of general superintendents (1820), 
with means at command for a very extensive sphere of 
personal influence, was looked upon as a restoration of 
the titular bishops to their former prelatieal position, 
and hence as the commencement of a Protestant episco- 
pacy The controversy now became legal, and the 
jurists and theologians pronounced their different opin- 


ions in answering the question as to how far the king, 
as the prince of the country, was authorized in prescrib- 
ing bis ecclesiastical usages to the people and in foist- 
ing a particular service upon them. It was only after 
new negotiations and revisions, in which all possible 
consideration was shown for personal wishes and the 
traditions of the country, that the liturgy entered into 
full force (1830) as that of t lie United KvunyeUcal *S7 ate 
Church. Rv the union it was opposed even after this; 
and, as we have already seen, a second decree was nec- 
essary (1834) to give the stamp of the government anew 
to the effort. The result was a public outbreak. In 
.Silesia, especially, there was much trouble, and the re- 
fractory spirit assumed an alarming form. Removals, 
military force, and emigration were the sad results; and 
finally there occurred a disunion among the Lutherans 
themselves — some yielding to the force of circumstances, 
others pushing their cause to the utmost, and still others 
going to ruin in sectarianism. See Ll’tiikkamsm. 

The accession of Frederick William IV, in 1810, 
seemed to open a better prospect to the friends of con- 
stitutional freedom, but the reality was scarcely equal 
to the expectations which had been warranted by the 
professions of the government. Still, new hopes and 
requirements bad been excited, and a new life was in- 
fused into every department of the State. Every branch 
of science, art, and literature was understood to receive 
the attentive consideration of the sovereign, who pro- 
fessed to be actuated by a love of universal progress, 
lie made similar professions in regard to religious tol- 
eration, but the pietistic tendencies of his government 
exerted a forced and prejudicial influence in public ad- 
ministration everywhere. 

At an early period of bis reign, the king had ex- 
pressed his determination to allow the Church, over 
which the crown had acquired supreme power during 
the Reformation, freely to form for itself its own exter- 
nal organization. The transfer of a part of the ecclesi- 
astic administration from the provincial governments to 
the consistories in 1845 might be construed as an ex- 
pedient to get an easier control of the Church by the 
appointment of persons of a particular party. Rut when 
the provincial synods bad assembled in 1844, composed 
of the superintendents of each of the six eastern prov- 
inces, and a clergyman chosen from each dioeese, the 
king called a General Synod at Rerlin — not of represent- 
atives, but of distinguished persons in the Church, thir- 
ty-seven of whom were clergymen and thirty-eight 
were laymen. Under the presidency of the minister for 
public worship, during a session continued from June 2 
to Aug. 30, 184(5, “this body,” says llase, “ which made 
I no pretensions to a legal authority, but bad no restraint 
on the expression of its opinions, and acted on conclu- 
sions drawn from the proceedings of the provincial syn- 
ods, presented its views of the existing wants of the 
Church. Its plan for a future ecclesiastical constitution 
combined the consistorial administration proceeding di- 
rectly from the crown with the synods proceeding direct- 
ly from the congregations in regularly ascending circles. 
The assembly bad not been convened without some ref- 
erence to its nature, and only a single voice was raised 
in it in behalf of undisguised rationalism. Rut as the 
great majority there, as well as in the previous provin- 
cial synods, declared itself against not only uncondition- 
al freedom of instruction, hut the compulsory obligation 
of creeds, the party led by the Kranyelical Church Jour- 
nal found itself in a decided minority. The moral im- 
possibility of compelling men to adhere to the old creeds 
was conceded; and yet it was thought indispensable to 
the completion of the union that a confession of faith 
should he formed, to serve as a formula for ordination. 
Rut the confession then composed expressed only those 
sentiments which are essential to Protestant Christian- 
ity in Scriptural language, and without the precision of 
theological science. The orthodox minority (fourteen 
to forty-eight), therefore, had reason to eomphiin, not- 
withstanding all that was said for their satisfaction, that 


PRUSSIA 


'27 


PRUSSIA 


the adoption of the new confession was a virtual abro- 
gation of the old.” The only concession to those con- 
gregations and patrons who were especially attached to 
the Lutheran or the Reformed type of doctrine or wor- 
ship was the assurance given them that they should 
have full liberty, without endangering the development 
and existence of the union, to use their respective con- 
fessions, if they wished, in a regular manner, to bring 
those clergymen whom they called under obligation to 
some creed. But the orthodox opposition from with- 
out, in whose eyes such a body seemed a robber-synod, 
in which Christ was denied, was powerful enough, at 
least, to postpone the execution of these enactments, al- 
though the ecclesiastical authorities had given them a 
unanimous concurrence, and had pronounced them of 
urgent importance. The superior Consistory was the 
only court finally formed under them (January, 1848), 
but as this was not sustained by any contemporary 
synodal regulations, it was looked upon as a mere party 
authority. 

While the government and the Church gained so lit- 
tle, the people became more and more restless. There 
was a general displeasure against the bureaucratic spirit 
of over-governing which characterized the administra- 
tion and became daily more irksome to the nation. In 
the Church it resulted in the successful formation of free 
churches or Protestant communities espousing the in- 
terests of a rational Christianity. A contemporaneous 
excitement which had arisen in the Roman Catholic 
Church, as the result of the schismatic movement due 
to the stand taken by the chaplain Rouge on the ex- 
hibition of the so-called holy coat (q. v.) of Treves, 
further complicated the ecclesiastical relations. In the 
State, revolution ensued. The king and his advisers, 
underrating the importance of the movement of 1848 in 
Germany, thought they had satisfied the requirements 
of the hour by granting a few unimportant reforms 
and making equivocal promises of further concessions. 
When at length, however, the citizens and troops came 
into collision, and blood was shed, Frederick William 
came forward as the proposed regenerator of his coun- 
try, offering to lay down his royal title and merge his 
kingdom in the common fatherland, for the salvation of 
which he recommended a cordial union of all German 
princes and people in one bond, and proposing himself 
as the leader and guide of this new Germany. 11 is own 
subjects, and at first many Germans in other states, 
were carried away by these Utopian schemes. The 
publication of a political amnesty, the nomination of a 
liberal ministry, the recognition of a civic guard, the re- 
tirement of the prince of Prussia, the heir presumptive 
— with whom every arbitrary measure of government 
was believed to originate— and the summoning of a rep- 
resentative chamber to discuss the proposed constitution 
— all tended to allay the general discontent. But when 
the National Assembly at Frankfort-ou-the-Maiu, m 
1851, in disregard of the wishes of the Prussian king, 
declined to accept his proffered services, and elected the 
archduke of Austria as lieutenant-general of Germany, 
his ardor in the cause of the fatherland cooled, his 
pledges to his own subjects were evaded as long and as 
completely as the occasion permitted, and his policy be- 
came more strongly tinged than before with the jealousy 
of Austria, llis powerful co-operation in putting down 
the insurrection in Poland and the democratic party in 
Baden gave, however, ample proof of his determined op- 
position to every popular demonstration against abso- 
lutism. The only exception during his reign is the ac- 
tion of the Prussians in the war of the Sleswig-1 lolstcin 
duchies, when the Prussians, acting in concert with the 
disaffected against their sovereign, the king of Den- 
mark, occupied the ducal provinces in the name and on 
behalf of the diet. But this was the work rather of him 
who is now emperor of Germany, and is capable of ex- 
planation even from an ultra-royalistic standpoint. The 
latter years of the reign of king Frederick William IV 
were characterized by great advance in the material 


prosperity and internal improvement of the country. 
Extensive lines of railway and post-roads were opened, 
the river navigation was greatly facilitated, treaties of 
commerce were formed with foreign countries, great 
expansion was given to the Prussian and North German 
Zollverein, the army was put upon a footing of hitherto 
unprecedented efficiency of arms and artillery, and the 
educational system of the country was still further de- 
veloped. The political freedom of Prussia cannot, how- 
ever, be said to have made equal advance. The Cham- 
bers which met for the discussion and framing of a 
constitutional mode of government were constantly in- 
terrupted and obstructed m the prosecution of their task ; 
and the constitution, which is now established by law, 
was modified every year between 1850 and 1857, until 
it may be said to retain few of its original features. 

In the Church also the great storm of 1848 wrought 
destructively. An ecclesiastical administration became 
odious, and count Schwerin, the minister for public wor- 
ship, saw himself obliged to keep watch over the actions 
of the consistories, which finally so displeased him that 
he dissolved the superior consistory. He then appoint- 
ed a committee to devise a synodal constitution, to be 
submitted to an imperial synod which should soon after 
be convened, that thus the Church might construct her 
future organization for herself. The outline of the elec- 
toral law for the appointment of synods was published, 

' and defended by counsellors of the crown versed in ec- 
I clesiastical law. It proposed that the deputies should be 
j elected by the congregations, but that the existing syn- 
ods should be made use of m the western provinces, and 
that district and provincial synods should be arranged 
so as to serve for electoral bodies in the eastern. Be- 
fore the appointed synod could have its meeting, the 
revolution was throttled, and the government again 
abandoned all these liberal measures. It even denounced 
the clamor for a synodal constitution as an ill-concealed 
J enmity to Christ (!), and the whole scheme of an election 
I by the people as a denial of God (J). The constitution 
of Jan. 31, 1850, retained, with respect to religion, the 
i whole essential spirit of the German fundamental laws, 
i A collegiate supreme ecclesiastical council to decide in- 
ternal affairs of the Church was formed by order of the 
! king from the evangelical portion of the ministry of 
public worship, and a system of rules for the regulation 
j of congregational affairs was bestowed upon the six 
eastern provinces. The supreme ecclesiastical council 
from that period governed the Church in the king’s 
name; and Von Raumer. the minister for public worship, 
in the presence of the Chambers, declared that the new 
doctrine was that the Evangelical Church exercises her 
constitutional right independently to regulate and ad- 
minister her affairs, by entire separation from and con- 
sequent independence of the State, and by government 
according to her ancient constitution by the sover- 
eign as her most prominent member. By this happy 
thought anxiety for the independence of the Church 
was tranquillized, and the Chambers succeeded in re- 
pelling all complaints about violations of those articles 
of the fundamental law of the State which relate to the 
independence of the Evangelical Church. The plan foi 
congregational government, which was looked upon as 
the basis of true ecclesiastical freedom, contained a sus- 
picious limitation of the power of choosing the vestries, 
and an extraordinary requisition that the private mem- 
bers should be bound by the three principal creeds, the* 
confessions of the Reformation, and certain general laws 
for the Church which were yet unknown. In some of 
the eastern provinces this plan was protested against 
by parties opposed to each other, but it was at last 
gradually admitted into most of the congregations. 
The free congregations (numbering about forty in Prus- 
sia and the contiguous countries), which had in 1848, 
like almost all associations, taken some part in politics, 
and whose leaders had to some extent been involved in 
the movements of the day, had nearly all their houses 
! of worship closed by the police under the new law against 


728 


PRUSSIA 


PRUSSIA 


political societies. These proceedings were partially 
confirmed by the judicial courts; but some measures of 
the police seemed so inconsistent with the freedom of 
conscience guaranteed by the fundamental laws that 
inquiries were instituted respecting them even in the 
Chambers (1852), where the government had avowed 
its determination to exterminate bv every legal means 
the whole system of dissent. The supreme ecclesiasti- 
cal council excommunicated all the free congregations, 
without reference to the various tendencies among 
them, and pronounced their baptisms invalid, while the 
civil courts punished every official act of their ministers 
as an invasion of the clerical office. Still there was con- 
flict between civil and ecclesiastical authorities, and the 
crown saw itself perplexed daily with the disadvanta- 
ges of dissent, By royal edicts of March 0, 1852, and 
July 12, 1853, the union movement was again given a 
new lease of life, the king having determined to do 
away with religious differences among all Protestants. 
The result was far from gratifying. In the very next 
fall (October, 1853) l)r. Rupp started a new congrega- 
tion, in which the Bible was accepted as the original 
source of truth, and the imitation of Christ was made 
the supreme end of life. All ecelesiasticism was ig- 
nored. In 185G (Xov. 4-Dcc. 5) a general conference 
assembled to remedy these dissensions, but it failed 
to accomplish anything. 'Die king remained summits 
episcopus, but the Protestants retained by the constitu- 
tion of Jan. 31, 1850, tit. ii, art. 12, liberty of conscience, 
and the more recent immigrations from foreign lands 
have made Prussia the home of Protestants of all shades 
of religious opinion. 

The obvious benefits of the presbvterial and synodal 
constitution in the Rhenish and Westphalian churches, 
the fuller co-operation there of ministers and elders, the 
greater activity of the laity, the room afforded for the 
exercise of discipline, the variety of home mission work, 
and the facility for checking rationalistic tendencies, 
which had given the Rhenish ami Westphalian branch 
of the Prussian Church so great a power and influence, 
were so apparent that it would have been impossible for 
the leading authorities of the Prussian Church not to 
desire to extend this form of government, modified by 
the consistorial constitution, over all her old provinces. 
Consequently a royal order of June 29, 1850, introduced 
the institution of the general Church courts, and by an- 
other of Sept. 10, 1873, it became definitively the plat- 
form for the congregations and synods there, while an 
extraordinary general synod for these provinces was 
announced. This synod was appointed by royal decree, 
to consist of the eleven general superintendents, of 
twelve deputies of the theological and the juridical fac- 
ulties, of thirty members to be elected by the king, and 
of 150 members of the eight provincial synods, who 
were to he composed of not less than one third laymen 
ami one third ministers. This general synod met for 
the first time from Xov. 24 to Dee. 18, 1875. The new 
ecclesiastical constitution of Prussia provides for a reg- 
ular meeting of this general body at the call of the 
king every six years. The king is represented in it by 
the president of t lie Oberkirchenrath , the highest Church 
tribunal in the state. The jurisdiction and competency 
of the general synod, as summarized by a correspondent 
of The Central Christian A d vacate, are shown by the fol- 
lowing, which indicates also the nature of the connec- 
tion between Church and .State: 

“1. The "enernl synod co-operates with the king’s func- 
tionaries for promoting the interests of the Stale Church 
on the basis of the evangelical confessions of faith. 2. 
Laws enacted by the king, as head of the church, must 
have its assent. R may also propose new measures, hat 
these cannot be laid before the king for sanction until the 
culms minister has examined them and found nothing 
incompatible with the interests of the State in them. 3. 
It legislates exclusively on: the amount of liberty of 
teaching within the Church; religions qualifications mu) 
ordination vows of the candidates of ministry; liturgies, 
hymnals, and catechisms; holv days to lie introduced or 
abolished ; and the form of discipline for refractory Church 
members and ministers. It controls the funds which 


the Oberkirchenrath had, and also the expenditure of the 
appropriations for the Church from the uatiounl treasury, 
which was iu the hands of the culms minister heretofore, 
fi. Regular and periodical taxes upon the congregations 
for Chinch purposes can only be levied by its consent. C. 
It can incite the king’s functionaries (Oberkirchenrath and 
consistories) to greater activity by taking the initiative iu 
proposing such uew measures as are conducive to the 
Church’s welfare. The Oberkirchenrath eanuot reject them 
without giving its motives. 7. It preserves the union of 
the State Church interest by revoking any such resolu- 
tions of a prominent synod as may hemco’mpatible with 
the Church at large.” 

The Advocate then continue^ as follows: 

“The king, as stimulus cpnseopus, governs the Church 
indirectly tlirontrh its consistories— one in each province 
—composed entirely of theologians, except the president, 
who must be a jurist, nml directly through the Oberkirch- 
enrath — the highest Chnrch tribunal in the state — to 
whom the consistories are responsible.” 

Between the sessions of the general synod a cabinet, 
composed of seven members, carries out the measures 
of the general synod, and confers with the Oberkirchen- 
rath respecting new measures. 

It is not difficult for the members of the Lutheran and 
the comparatively few Reformed churches in Prussia to 
meet in the same synods, because the union movement 
has not only given rise to a common legislative and ad- 
ministrative basis, but prepared the members and con- 
gregations, notwithstanding all the value they assign to 
their particular creeds, to lay greater stress upon that 
which they have in common than upon that on which 
they differ. The Lutheran churches have the Confes- 
sio A u gust ana Invanata from June 25, 1530 (or the 
A vf/ustana Yariata from 1540), the Apolot/ia Confes- 
sions Aufjustanev, the Articuli S male aide ri, the Cate- 
ehismus Minor and Major Lutheri, and the Formula 
Concordite (1577). The Reformed Church has the Hei- 
delberg Catechism (15G3), which it highly values. The 
authority of these creeds — the Minor Catechism and 
the Confessio An (just ana perhaps excepted — is not 
binding in all the details; and in the ordination vow 
no declaration of allegiance to the symbols is expected 
from the young minister, so that some of the creeds 
have nearly disappeared. So thoroughly has the old 
spirit of division died out that there is no longer any 
opposition to communion of the two bodies in the same 
church. Xor is this practice confined to the United 
Church of Prussia ; it is equally prevalent in the other 
union churches of Germany, in the former duchy of 
Xassau, in Anhalt-Bernburg, Dessau, Birkenfeld, Baden, 
in the former electorate of Hesse, in Saxe-Weimar, in 
Hildburgliausen, Waldeck, Wiirtemberg, and in one part 
of the grand-duehv of Hesse. In East Friesland the 
union has extended only to the government, and not to 
worship or doctrine, in Rhenish Bavaria, in the union 
deed, stress is laid on the common scriptural ground of 
the churches. 

With the accession of king William I, Prussia’s most 
brilliant page of history opens. The civil and ecclesi- 
astical affairs of that country now became the history 
of a united, prosperous, and powerful people. Though 
Bismarck, as premier, himself controls pretty much all 
the measures civil and ecclesiastical; though he at first 
indicated by bis lines of action a policy of absolutism 
and bureaucracy, time has unfolded a liberal ami prac- 
tical tendency in the government, and the only severe 
opposition now encountered is from the low social de- 
mocracy — in this country known as Communism — and 
from the ultra-Romish subjects, who wage war against 
the repressive measures adopted by the government 
against Ultramontanism and Jesuitism, because of the 
dangers they brood against the State.. See Ultiia- 
montaxism. The war of 18GG with Austria established 
I lie superiority of Prussia in Germany; the war with 
France in 1870 solidified the work of t lie intervening 
years, and gave to the little kingdom the imperial 
power on the 170th anniversary of the day when the 
elector of Brandenburg assumed the crown of Prussia. 

11. Jbfir/ions Statistics. — 1. Central . — According to 
the census of 1875, of the 25,742,104 inhabitants of 


PRUSSIA 


PRUSSIA 


729 


Frassia, 16,636,990 returned themselves as belonging to 
the Evangelical National Church ; of these, 13,266,620 
are of the United Church, 2,905,250 Lutherans, and 
465,120 of the Reformed Church. Of those who are 
uot of the National Church, there are 40,630 Luther- 
ans, 35,080 Reformed, 3710 Moravians, 2620 Irving- 
ites, 12,210 Baptists, 14,650 Mennonites, 2080 Angli- 
cans, Methodists, etc., 8,625,840 Catholics, 1450 Greek 
Church, 4800 German Catholics, 17,880 Freethinkers, 
etc., 339,790 Jews, and 4674 of various other beliefs. 
The Old Catholics are mentioned below. The Roman 
Catholic population of Prussia decreased so rapidly after 
the introduction of Protestantism that at the. accession 
of Frederick II in 1740 there were only 50,000 Catholics 
in a population of 2,150,000 souls; the proportion of the 
Catholics to the Protestants was, in other words, one to 
forty-three. The kings did not recur to coercive meas- 
ures, but the majority of the inhabitants of Prussia 
hated Romanism, and caused it to undergo heavy tri- 
als. When Prussia acquired Silesia, and after the divi- 
sion of Poland, it was less of a Protestant power. The 
number of the Catholics was so considerably increased, 
especially after the treaty of Luneville ( 1 80 i ) , that both 
communions were represented by nearly equal num- 
bers. This was again changed by the treaty of Tilsit, 
the two treaties of Paris, and the congress of Vienna. 
At present the Evangelical Church constitutes a major- 
ity in the provinces of Schleswig-Holstein (99 per 
cent.), Pomerania (97), Brandenburg (95), Saxony (93), 
Hanover (87), Ilesse-Nassau (70), and Prussia (70) ; the 
Roman Catholic Church in Ilohenzollern (93 per cent.), 
the Rhine provinces (73), Posen (64), Westphalia (53), 
and Silesia (51). Of the Jews, fully one half live in the 
eastern (formerly Polish) provinces. The members of 
all churches recognised by the government enjoy equal 
civil rights. The Old Catholics (q.v.) have been recog- 
nised as a part of the Roman Catholic Church, and the 
bishop elected by them as a bishop of the Catholic Church. 
Other denominations (Baptists, Methodists, German 
Catholics, and Free Congregationaiists) are barely tol- 
erated, though the constitution guarantees full religious 
liberty. The Greek Church is also represented in Prussia. 
One of the Greek communities belongs to the Philippins 
(q.v.), a branch of the Greek Raskolniks, who seceded 
in the 17 tli century from the Orthodox Greek Church. 
Like the Mennonites, they refuse the military service. 
Their principal colony is at Alt-Ukta, in the kingdom 
of Poland. The Mennonites are tolerated, with some 
restrictions: they cannot increase their real estate, be- 
cause the military service is in contradiction with their 
religious opinions. They are in consequence in a state 
of emigration, and their number decreases. Since 1830 
they enjoy the same civil rights as all other Christian 
subjects. Tbe Roman Catholic Church is directed by 
the two archbishops of Posen and Gnesen, and Cologne, 
under whom stand the four bishoprics of Culm, Mini- 
ster, Paderborn, and Treves. The two episcopal sees of 
Breslau and Ermlaud are directly under the jurisdiction 
of the pope; while the district of Glatz, in Silesia, be- 
longs to the archbishopric of Prague, and Katscher, in 
Upper Silesia, to that of Olmutz. In 1864 the Protes- 
tants had rather more than 9000 licensed places of wor- 
ship, with 6500 ordained clergymen; and the Roman 
Catholic Church nearly 8000 churches and chapels, with 
upwards of (5000 priests. In 1867 there were 24,382 
churches of all denominations, and 224 monastic or con- 
ventual establishments, with 5613 inmates, mostly de- 
voted to purposes of education, or nursing the sick. 

2. Education. — Education is compulsory in Prussia, 
and its management and direction are under the control 
of the State. In no country are better or ampler means 
supplied for the diffusion of knowledge among all classes 
of the community. Prussia has nine universities, viz. 
Konigsberg, Berlin, Greifsvvald, Breslau, Halle, Bonn, 
Kiel, Gottingen, and Marburg, with 5673 students, and 
two Catholic colleges at Brannsberg and Minister. At 
the close of 1867 there were in Prussia 33,942 schools \ 


: and educational establishments of every kind, exclusive 
of the universities; and of these 153 were colleges or 
I gymnasia, about 1000 classical private schools, 58 nor- 
| mal, about 700 art, trade, and industrial schools, and 
about 25,000 public elementary schools, with 35,000 
teachers, and about 3,000,000 scholars. (See below.) 
The management of the elementary national schools is 
i in the hands of the local communities; but the State 
appoints the teachers, and in part pays their salaries, 
the remainder being supplied by the public. In addi- ' 
tion to the libraries of the several universities, there is 
the Royal Library of Berlin, with 500,000 volumes and 
about 10,000 MSS. Among the numerous scientific, ar- 
I tistic, and literary schools and societies of Prussia, the 
following arc some of the more distinguished : the 
Academy of Arts, founded in 1699; the Royal Museum 
[ of Arts; the Academy of Sciences; the Natural History, 

| Geographical, and Polytechnic societies of Berlin; the 
: Antiquarian Society of Stettin ; the Breslau Natural 
History and Historical societies, etc. 

3. Charities . — Prussia has a large number of benevo- 
lent institutions, towards the maintenance of which the 
State gives annually about £16,000 sterling. In 1861 
there were about 1000 public civil and military infirma- 
ries, in which upwards of 170,000 patients were under 
treatment, and between 7000 and 8000 poor- and alms- 
houses; while 800,000 poor received support through 
these institutions or by extraneous relief. Prussia is 
supplied with asylums for the deaf and dumb, the blind 
and the maimed, and has good schools for training mid- 
wives, nurses, etc. 

4. Churches . — We append a sketch of the principal 
German churches, because it will in some manner enrich 
the article, and will, besides, greatly add to what has 
been said in the article Gkr.many. The sketch and the 
statistics are taken from the report of the Pan-Presby- 
terian Council in Edinburgh in 1877. 

“I. Constitution. — Each German state and each free city 
has a Church of its own, in which the princes or the 
magistrates, by whose co- operation the churches were 
reformed, have to some extent, siuce the Diet of Speyer 
in 1526, enjoyed the supreme administrative power. This 
power they generally exercise by proxy, i. e. through the 
minister of worship (Prussia, Baden, Saxe - Altenbnrg, 
grand -duchy of Hesse, Mecklenburg, Wurteinherg); in 
other cases through the Supreme Church Council, or Obcr- 
kirchenrath (Prussia, 1849, 1850; Meckleuburg-Schwerin, 
184!); Baden); or through the general superintendents, 
the consistories, and superintendents. To some extent, 
likewise, for the last twenty-live or thirty years, the gov- 
ernments have shared the administration of the Church 
with the district, provincial, and general synods (Prussia, 
Wiirtemherg, Baden, Bavaria, Oldenburg)." This form of 
Church government is called the cons into rial ( Konsisto - 
ria l verfassung). 

“The German churches have derived much benefit 
from the hands of the princes ; but the fact that these ex- 
ercise the right of control has often hindered the devel- 
opment of the energies, the liberality, and the practical 
sense of the lay element and the members of the congre- 
gations at large, as well as prevented the co-operation of 
the ministers and the people in Church work. Like the 
noble king Frederick William IV of Prussia, who longed 
to resign his episcopal functions into the proper hands, 
some of the best princes have felt the necessity of giving 
more self-government and liberty to the churches, and the 
presbvterinl and synodal constitution in the newly devel- 
oped form in which it has been given in Prussia is an en- 
deavor in this direction. 

“Iu some of the Reformed churches, as in the Palati- 
nate, the mode of government is similar to that of the Lu- 
theran churches; but in others the presbyterial and syn- 
odal constitution was developed. 

“The presbyterial and synodal constitution was trans- 
planted by fugitives, members of the French and Walloon 
congregations in London (which John a Lasco had organ- 
ized according to the form he had set np iu East Fries- 
land), to the lower part of the Rhine, to the duchies of 
Jiilich, Cleves, Berg, and Mark, which form now the north- 
ern half of Rhenish Prussia, and a part of Prnssiau West- 
phalia ; it was recognised and developed by the Congress 
of Wesel (15GS) and the Synod of Emden "(1571), was in- 
troduced into the duchy of Nassau (Synod of Ilerborn, 
15S6), and with some modifications, at the end of the 17th 
century, adopted even by the Lutherans in the territories 
of Cleves and Mark. 

“This form of Church government was iu 1S35 con- 
firmed by the Kirchenordnung for the churches iu Rhen- 


PRUSSIA 


730 


PRUSSIA 


Ish Prussia ami Westphalia. These churches, the Luther- 
an as well as the Reformed, are essentially Presbyterian, 
i. e., besides the ministers, each congregation has a body 
of elders and also of deacons. The duty of the elders is, 
along with the ministers, to take the oversight of the con- 
gregations, and farther their well-being in all respects, 
especially by Christian discipline. The deacons serve the 
Church by works of love for the poor and afflicted. The 
ministers, elders, and deacons form the presbytery of the 
congregation (the Scottish Kirk session), the duty of 
which is to advance the education of the Church, to pro- 
mote whatever is good, and to discourage all that is evil. 
The members of this presbytery are elected for four years. 
Besides the presbytery there is, in larger congregations, 
a more numerous representative body (die Representation), 
the number of which varies according to the size of the 
congregation, and may amount to sixty, seventy, or more 
members. This body has to consult and decide in mat- 
ters of greater importance, and especially when ministers 
or ciders are to he elected. In the Reformed Calvinistic 
Lippc-Detinold, in 1851, such a representative body was 
instituted besides the presbytery. 

“All the ministers and one deputy from each congre- 
gation form the district synod (the Scottish presbytery), 
which meets yearly under the superintendent, who is 
elected treclv for six years by and from the members of 
the synod, "llis most important duties are— the oversight 
of the ministers and presbyteries, the administration of 
the property of the congregations in the district, the ex- 
ercise of discipline, the information aud encouragement 
of the members as to the home mission work of the dis- 
trict, and the preparation for t he next provincial synod. 
The superintendents, along with deputies from the dis- 
trict synods (each of these sending one minister and one 
elder), form the provincial synod, the president of which is 
elected for six years, and which has for its special func- 
tion to watch over the doctrine and the spiritual affairs 
of the Church. The proceedings of the synod require, 
however, to be confirmed by the competent authorities of 
the Stale. The provincial synod meets every third year, 
but on extraordinary occasions it may be convened by the 
president. The control of the affairs of the Rhenish and 
Westphalian Church is in the hands of the minister of 
worship, the Consistory of Rhenish Prussia, and that of 
Westphalia, and the government of the province. The 
general superintendents of Rhenish Prussia and Westpha- 
lia, who are appointed by the king, act along with the 
consistories, but are independent of them. 

“In Baden similar provincial or diocesan and general 
synods have existed since the union in 1S21. The dio- 
cesan synods are lieitl every third year, the general every 
seventh. Two thirds of the body of the diocesan synods 
arc ministers, and only one third laymen, who are not 
elected l>y the representatives of the congregations, but by 
electornl districts. To the general synod two dioceses send 
one minister, and the ruling ciders ( Kirchengemeinderathe ) 
of four dioceses send one layman, who, however, must be 
a member of a representative body of the Church. The 
grand-duke nominates a president, a theological professor 
of the University of Heidelberg, and some lay and minis- 
terial members, to the Supreme Church Council ( Obertir - 
chenrath). The synod has a legislative, disciplinary, and 
consultative character, and it. has the initiative in the gov- 
ernment in the Church. Without its concurrence no law 
can be enacted bearing ou the government, doctrine, aud 
worship of the Church. 

“In Wiirtemberg yearly diocesan synods were insti- 
tuted by the edict of Nov. IS, ]s54, to take care of the 
moral and spiritual welfare of the congregations and of 
the poor throughout the diocese, to control t he ministers 
and the elders, and to consult on matters of importance. 
These arc composed of all the ministeis, and of ns many 
elders of each congregation as it has ministers. These 
are to be elected by the representative body of the con- 
gregation, the so-called Church councillors. A select 
committee has in the interval the direction of the affairs 
of the dioceses. 

“In Bavaria on the other side of the Rhine, according 
to the union deed of 1818, there are diocesan and general 
synods. The number of the lay deputies varies with the 
number of the evangelical inhabitants of the diocese, so 
that the lay element preponderates. The yearly diocesan 
synods have partly a function of oversight, and partly of 
consultation. The general synod meets every fourth 
year, and has the right of resolution, and expressing its 
wishes when there is a vacancy in the consistory. 

“hi Bavaria on this side of the Rhine yearly diocesan 
synods are held for consultation ami for the election to 
the general synod. The whole of the ministers and an 
equal body of elders, elected by the officials of the congre- 
gation, take part. The general synod is composed of one 
ministerial deputy from each diocesan district, one elder 
from every two diocesan districts, and one deputy of the 
theological faculty of Erlangen. The general synod has 
only tlie right of advice, resolution, and protest. 

“Similar district ami general synods are in Lutheran 
Oldenburg, llcs.-e, and Mecklenburg. The Lutheran 
churches of the province of llanovcr and of Nassau, 
though their territory belongs now to Prussia, have still 
synods for themselves. 


“II. Statistical Xolices . — (.1.) Churches.— (1.) Evangelical 
Church. — (a.) J’mssia. — On Bee. 1, ls75, the German em- 
pire had 42,756,910 inhabitants, of whom 25,0u0,000 were 
Evangelicals, 14,000,000 Catholics, and 512,000 Jews. 

“ In the eight old Prussian provinces were, in 1871, 
12,275,272 Evangelicals, of a population of 20,240,671, and 
5452 Evangelical pari. -lies, H412 Evangelical churches and 
chapels, and 0581 ministers. Rhenish Prussia alone (llo- 
henzollern included) had 908,633 Evangelicals out of 
3,044,005,450 Evangelical parishes, 501 Evangelical church- 
es aud chapels, ami 504 Evangelical ministers. Westpha- 
lia alone had 800,404 Evangelicals out of 1,750,175, 322 
Evangelical parishes, 430 Evangelical churches, aud 422 
Evangelical ministers. Ou the average iu the churches 
of the eight old Prussian provinces, there were 1304 per- 
sons to one church, Is65 to oue minister: in Rhenish 
Prussia there were 1020, in Westphalia 1850, to one church, 
and 1530 in Rhenish Prussia and 1911 iu Westphalia to 
one minister. In the old provinces there are 413 electoral 
districts (the army districts included), and 389 districts for 
synods; in Rhenish Prussia aud Westphalia alone there 
are 20 superintendents. 

“Of the new Prussian provinces, Hanover (in 1871) had 
1,713,711 ; 943 Evangelical parishes, 1573 Evangelical 
churches, 1111 Evangelical ministers, and 102 superintend- 
ents. Each parish had an average of 1817, each church or 
chapel of lioo, each minister of 1400 persons. In the for- 
mer electorate of Hesse were 988,041 Evangelicals, 052 
Evangelical parishes, 1284 Evangelical churches, and 081 
ministers ; on an average, each parish 1515, each church 
709, each minister 1450 persons. There are 30 superin- 
tendents. 

“In Schleswig-Holstein there were, in 1871, 984,972 per- 
sons, 383 Evangelical parishes, 116 churches with 398 min- 
isters; on the average, each parish had 2571, each church 
2367, each minister 2475 persons. There are 27 superin- 
tendents. 

“In each Prussian province there is a consistory; and 
the Evangelical churches in the eight old provinces are 
under the control of the Oberkirrhenrath. 

“(6.) Other German States. — Bavaria had, Dec. 1, 1875, 
5,024,832 inhabitants, 1,340,21S Evangelicals. 1055 Evangel- 
ical parishes, 15S4 Evangelical churches, 1332 Evangelical 
ministers; ou the average, belong to each Evangelical 
parish R 148 , to each church 84S, to each minister 1102. 
There are 81 superintendents. 

“ lnWfirteniberg there arel,8Sl,505 inhabitants, 1,248,860 
Evangelicals, 9n5 Evangelical parishes, 1235 Evangelical 
1 churches, 1110 Evangelical ministers; on the average each 
parish has 1380, each church 101 u, each minister 1161 per- 
sons. There are 50 superintendents. 

“ Baden lias 1,506,531 inhabitants, 491,00$ Evangelicals, 
363 Evangelical parishes, 400 Evangelical churches, 441 
Evangelical ministers ; each parish has on the average 
1359, each church 1054, each miuister 1113 persons. There 
are 24 superintendents. 

“The grand-duchy of Hesse has SS2.349 inhabitants, 
589,399 Evangelicals, 410 Evangelical parishes, with 782 
Evangelical churches, 464 Evangelical ministers; each 
parish has 7491, each church 7491, each minister 1209 per- 
sons. There are 23 superintendents. 

“ Saxe- Weimar has 275,492 Evangelicals, 283 Evangelical 
parishes, 536 Evangelical churches, 310 Evangelical min- 
isters ; each parish has 974, each church 514, each minister 
809 persons. There are 27 superintendents. 

“Anhalt has 198,107 Evangelicals, 140 Evangelical par- 
ishes, 206 Evangelical churches, 163 Evangelical ministers; 
on the average each parish has 1387, each church 901, each 
minister 1215 persons. There are 5 superintendents. 

“(2.) Catholic Church.— (a.) Roman Catholic.— The Ro- 
man Catholic Church iu Bavaria has 2820 parishes, 1022 
benefices, 0157 priests, and 3, 448,453 members: each parish 
has 1220, and each priest 500 people. The State paid in 
1874-75 to the Catholic Church £ 59 , 450 , to the Protestant 
consistories £10,903. 

“The Catholic Church in Prussia has 3 Church prov- 
inces, 9 archdioceses and bishoprics. 2974 parishes and 
benefices, 0072 priests, 4 seminaries for priests. Accord- 
ing to the Budget for 1874, the government paid for the 
Catholic Church £102,005; in Alsace and Lorraine for the 
Catholic worship there was paid, for 1870. £128,708. 

“In the German empire Bavaria has 25 bishoprics, 10,353 
parishes and beuefices, 17,898 priests, aud 13,903,020 mem- 
bers (in 1871). 

“(5.) Old Catholics. — According to the report of the 
fourth Uhl-Catholic Synod, given in May, 1877, at Bonn, 
there are now in Prussia 35 Old-Catholic congregations 
with 6510 independent members ; in Baden, 44 congrega- 
tions with 5670 independent members; in Bavaria, 34 con- 
gregations with 37 tO independent members; in Olden- 
burg, 2 congregations with 104 independent members: in 
Wurtembcrg, 1 congregation with 94 independent mem- 
bers; 56 ministers are connected with the Old Catholics; 
they have iu Germany at least 121 congregations, aud 
( 16,557 independent members. 

“In May, 1s70, the same numbers of the congregations 
1 were reported, only iu Bavaria t he number had fallen to 
31. Sixty ministers were at that time connected with 
iliem, 4 more than now. They numbered in May, 1 >76, 
in Prussia, children included, 20, 504 ; in Baden,' *17, 203 ; 


PRUSSIA T31 PRUSSIA 


in Bavaria, 10,110; in Hesse, 1042; in Oldenburg, 249; in 
Wiirtemberg, 233. 

“In May, 1875, there were in Prussia 32 congregations, 
6030 independent members, aud IS, 765 persons ; in Baden, 
35 congregations, 4371 independent members, 14,993 per- 
sons; in Bavaria, 4245 independent members, 13,000 per- 
sons; in Germany, 15,000 independent members, 47,737 
persons; 54 ministers. 

“(R.) Schools . — (1.) Universities. — Iu the winter session 
of 1^75—76 there studied theology at Leipsic 337 ; at Tiibin- 
gen, 233 ; at Halle, 1S7 ; Berlin,'! 62 ; Erlangen, 134 ; Gottin- 
gen, 78; Jena, 64; Bonn, 51 ; Kiel, 50; Strasbnrg,5ft; Mar- 
burg, 46; Kiinigsberg, 44 ; Breslau, 39; Greifswald, 33 ; 
Iiostock, 25; Giessen, 23; Heidelberg, 9 — together, 1565 ; 
in the summer session of 1875 there were 1637 students of 
theology. 

“In the German empire are 20 universities, which had, 
iu 1875, 16,557 students; the polytechnic schools had 360 
teachers and 442S students. 

“Iu the 9 Prussian universities, the academy at Mun- 
ster, and the lyeeum at Brannsberg, there were, in the 
winter session of 1876-77, 907 teachers aud S362 students; 
in Berlin alone, 2490; iu Breslau, 1219; Gottingen, 991 ; 
Ilalle, S54 ; Bonn, 793; 654 studied Evangelical tneology, 
274 Catholic theology, 2455 law, 133S medicine, 3C44 phi- 
losophy; and besides the students, 2262 hearers atteudeil 
the lectures. 

“(2.) High Schools.— The kingdom of Prussia has, ac- 
cording to Dr. Wiese’s historical-statistical work on the 
higher schools, 221 gymnasia (155 Evangelical, 50 Catholic, 
16 mixed), 32 progymnasia, 92 Realschulen (in which lan- 
guages, the arts, and sciences are taught— 76 Evangelical. 
16 Catholic), 22 higher middle-class schools, 27 provincial 
trade-schools, 91 seminaries for young teachers (61 Evan- 
gelical, 25 Catholic, 4 Jewish, 1 mixed), 267 higher schools 
for young ladies (the Germans call them schools for daugh- 
ters), 35 institutions for the deaf and dumb, 14 for the 
blind, and 7 higher military schools. The number of 
scholars iu these high schools amounted in 1874 to 128,000, 
that of the teachers to 6900; the cost was £1,020,750. 

“The whole German empire has 330 gymnasia, 14 pro- 
gymnasia, 4S4 other high schools for youug men, with a 
total of 177,370 scholars. 

“According to the list of the minister of worship, there 
were on Sept. 1, 1874, in all Prussian elementary schools, 
35,191 places for teachers, 1436 of which were filled by 
Catholic female teachers without salary. 

“The German empire has about 60,000 elementary 
schools with 6,000,000 scholars ; for every 1000 inhabitants 
about 150 attend school. The elementary education is 
growing: in the year IS72-73, 4.58 per cent. ; in the year 
1873-74, 3.98 per cent. ; and in 1875-76 not quite 3 per ceut. 
of the recruits in Prussia could not read. 

“ (C.) Christian Associations.— ( l.) Mission to the Heathen. 
— Germany has eight of the sixty-three Evangelical Mis- 
sion Societies for the heathen, of which only the Mora- 
vian Mission stands in an immediate connection with the 
Church. Of the 1559 mission stations and 2132 mission- 
aries, Germany supports 274 stations and 470 mission- 
aries; Germany and German Switzerland, 502 missiona- 
ries. Germany contributed for mission purposes iu oue 
year, £U> 7 , 000 . 

“Iu 1S75 the German missions had — 


Countries. 

| 

|| 

Communi- 

Members. 

Scholars. 

In West. Africa 

14 

41 

Riot 

2,514 

96 

“ South Africa i 

! 120 

1S5 

10,107 

31,300 

7.550 

“ English India 1 

51 

100 

13,924 

37,300 

5,4sS 

“ Dutch Iudia 

15 

22 

468 

1,934 

307 

“ China 

? 

16 

718 

1,422 

420 

“ Australia 

9 

7 

33 

7^ 

49 

“ West Indies 

59 

79 

18,700 

50.000 

11,600 

“ Esquimau Lauds 

16 

42 

1,489 

2,816 

694 

“ Orieus 

6 

10 | 

.... 


613 


“This represents about 290 stations, 500 missionaries, 
46,000 communicants, 130,090 members, 27,500 scholars, 
and £107,000 expenses. 

“The Basle Mission (established 1815) has 108 mis- 
sionaries and 35 principal stations in West Africa, East 
India, and China, S973 Christians and 11,349 natives un- 
der its care, and 3926 children iu the schools; expenses 
£40,000. 

“The Rhenish Mission Society (established 1S28 in Bar- 
men) has 02 missionaries, 48 principal stations in Africa, 
China, and East India, and about £15,0u0 expenses. 

“The Hermaunsburg Mission (established 1849) has 70 
missionaries, 50 stations in America, Africa, East India, 
Australia, New Zealand, and an income of £11,000. 

“The Berlin Mission Society (established 1824) has 53 
missionaries, 33 stations in Africa (Capeland, Orange, Free 
State, British Kafirland, Natal, and the Transvaal Repub- 
lie), with 6215 baptized people, aud an income of about 
£ 12 , 000 . 

“The Gossner Mission (established 183S in Beilin) has 
14 missionaries, 6 stations among the Khols aud Hindus, 


20,000 persons under its care, and an income of about 
£7500. 

“ The North-German Mission (established IS36 in Brem- 
en) has 11 missionaries, 5 stations iu New Zealand aud 
West Africa. 

“The Moravian Mission (established 1732 iu Berthels- 
dorf, near llerrnhut, kingdom of Saxony) has 160 mission- 
aries, 92 stations iu Greenland, Labrador, North America, 
West Indian Isles, South Africa, iu the Alpiue valleys of 
the Himalayas, and in Australia. 

“The Leipsic Mission (established IS36) lias 20 mission- 
aries, 16 stations in East India (Tamnlaland), 9179 Chris- 
tians under its care, and an income of about £12,000. 

“(2.) Mission among the Jews. — In Germany there are 
the Society of Friends of Israel in Basle, besides four Jew- 
ish missionary societies. 

“ The Berlin Society (established 1822) works at Berlin, 
has two ordained missionaries, one layman, oue or two 
colporteurs, and an income of£S00. 

“The Rhenish-Westphalian Society for Israel (estab- 
lished 1S44) works in Rhineland, Westphalia, Hesse, aud 
the neighborhood ; has oue ordained missionary, oue lay- 
missionary, oue colporteur, and an income of £7S0. 

“The Evangelical Lutheran Central Association for Is- 
rael (established 1S49) has one missionary, a house for 
proselytes, and is supported by the Lutheran Church of 
Saxony, Bavaria, Hesse, etc. 

“ The Society of Friends of Israel in Strashnrg is small. 

“(3.) Home (Inner) Missions, etc. — Space fails to name 
all the smaller or larger Home Mission associations which 
can he found in the different parts of Germany. 

“It may only be mentioned that the 2700 deaconesses 
of the thirty-four German Deaconesses’ institutes are not 
only employed in hospitals, but, at least, in part, for the 
visitation of the sick and the poor, and for instruction 
in the numerous schools for little children, for which pur- 
pose the institutions at Nonnenweier, Kaiserswerth, and 
Hanover train deaconesses; that so many Sunday-schools 
have sprung np in the last ten or fifteen years in Prussia 
that a central committee is formed at Berlin ; aud that the 
Rhenish and Westphalian Sunday-school Union at Elber- 
feld and Barmen, the conferences of whicli are excellent- 
ly attended, cau organize particular district unions, in or- 
der to influence more vigorously the many Sunday-schools. 

“ We cannot speak of the associations and institutes iu 
the different provinces of Prussia — viz. Saxe- Weimar, 
Wiirtemberg, Lippe-Detmold, and Alsace-Lorraine — which 
take care of and educate orphan children ; nor can we 
describe the work of the mauy refuges for neglected chil- 
dren iu all parts of Germany, nor that of the twenty insti- 
tutions for fallen women, and partly for fallen men, nor 
that of the thirty-five associations aud institutions for dis- 
missed prisoners. 

“Very important for protecting from evil young meu 
who go to the towns are the Christian Homes, upwards 
of 100 in number, in which the young working-man finds 
cheap and clean lodgings and meals, a friendly Christian 
word, aud very often the necessary work. 1’he second 
Christian Home at Berlin (established in 1809), from Oct. 
1, 1S74, to Jan. 1, 1876, lodged 16,060 young men, on 30,000 
nights. In these homes the numerous Young Men's Chris- 
tian Associations have comfortable quarters. In Germany 
there are four large unions of Young Men’s Christian As- 
sociations. The union of the Rhenish- Westphalian Young 
Meu’s Associations, which has its headquarters at Elber- 
feld, comprises about T20 associations ; the Eastern Union, 
which has its centre at Berlin, has about loo associations, 
with 3000 members ; the union in the kingdom of Saxony 
has 16 associations, with 300 members ; the South German 
Union has its 25 associations, with 500 members, chiefly 
in Wiirtemberg aud Baden. Besides these, youug clerks 
have formed two separate unions. 

“Iu Germany, besides the Canstein Bible Institution, 
which does only the printing of the Bible, there are 25 
Bible societies, the largest of which is the Prussian Prin- 
cipal Bible Society at Berlin, with 162 branch societies, 
Since its establishment in 1814 it has spread more than 
four million copies of the Bible. All the 25 Bible societies 
in JS75 distributed ISO, 000, and since their establishment 
more than S,000,n00 copies. The 35 or 40 small or larger 
Tract and Colportage societies have done and are doing 
much to promote the reading aud understanding of the 
Bible. 

“Great importance is now attached to the creation of a 
better popular literature and of a better daily press, and 
there are already five daily political papers with an earnest 
Christian tendency. 

“ It is encouraging that associations like those at Elber- 
feld and Barmen, lor promoting a better Sunday’s rest, 
begin to work, and it is a very hopeful sign that there are 
such societies as the Central Committee of the Home Mis- 
sion in Prussia, which has been so loug and so ably pre- 
sided over by Dr. Wichern ; the Evangelical Society for 
Germany, which has its centre at Elberfeld and Barmen ; 
the Baden Colportage Society ; and that the Rnnhe Hans, 
near Hamburg, the John’s Institution, near Berlin, the 
Barmen Mission-house, and the Crischona, near Basle, 
help to prepare earnest young men for the services of city 
missionaries, colporteurs, and evangelists; and that such 
societies as the Evangelical Society send out meu who 


PRYNXE 


732 


PRYXXE 


visit the people from honse to house, go to the poor and I 
the sick, help the ministers iu large parishes, hold Bible- 
clusses, and conduct Sunday-schools and Young Men’s 
Associations, and other meetings. The Evangelical So- 
ciety has now 22 colporteurs and city missionaries, and 
some travelling preachers and evangelists. It has in the 
last year begun popular apologetical lectures in large 
towns with much success, and it is quite certain that much I 
more can and must be done by it for Germany. 

“It is encouraging to think that about 45 ordained min- | 
isters are at work iu the German home-mission licld; yet 
many more are wanted; many doors are open for a larger 
and freer distribution and proclamation of tbe Word of | 
God. 

“There is, besides, to be noticed tbe Reformed Church 
in lientheiui and East Eric. stand, consisting of 9 congrega- 
tions, with 6 ministers. Its standard is the Heidelberg 
Catechism. The body was formed about thirty years ago, 
after failing to induce the Church authorities to make 
certain reforms which it earnestly desired. It has no con- 
nection with the State. It is understood to be in corre- 
spondence with the German Reformed ('Imrch iu North 
America, with a special view to the formation of a college 
for training ministers. 

“ Another noteworthy movement to he mentioned here 
is the Free Evangelical Church of Germany. In June, 
I860, a number of Christians in Breslau, capital of Silesia, 
in Prussia, formed themselves into a Church, Calvinistic in 
doctrine and Presbyterian in government, under the con- 
viction that the National Protestant Church in that prov- 
ince was in many ways corrupt and unfaithful. They ob- 
jected particularly to the Lutheran view of the sacra- 
ments, and to the altars, images, and candles which the 
Lutherans retain; to the prevalent neglect of the doc- 
trines of grace, and to the recognition of the king as ‘ tirst 
bishop’ of the Church. Not being prepared to join the 
Reformed Church of East Friesland, in consequence of 
their observing festivals, and for other points of differ- 
ence, thev formed themselves into the Free Evangelical 
Church of Germany. There are three ministers of this 
Church, who have just formed themselves into a presby- 
tery. There are deacons and elders in the congregations, 
and an annual conference of elders. The conference has 
adopted the Westminster Shorter Catechism. The mem- 
bers nf this Church aim at the conversion both of Jews 
and Gentiles. The Church lias been fostered by one, him- 
self a convert of the Jewish mission at Breslau, who takes 
a deep iuterest iu Jewish missions.” 

III. Literature. — See Kux, Organismusu. Staiistik des 
preuss. S tattles (Leips. 1842, 2il ed.) ; Frantz, IJandb. 
des preuss. Mantes (Quetll. and Leips. 1854-55); Ilase, 
Church Hist. § 288, 374, 453, 45G; llagenbach, Church 
Hist. 1 t<th and 19/fc Cent, (see Index); Alzog, Universal- 
Kirchengesch. (see Index in vol. ii); Scriptores Renan 
Pntssicarum (Lips. |8ti3 sq.) ; Voigt, Gesch. Preussens, 
vol. i, iv ; Render, He Yeterum Prutenorum Hiis (Braunsh. 
18G5) ; Beitrdge z. Kirchengesch. des Y)ten Jahrhumlerts 
(Augsl). 1835) ; Ellendorf, Hie kathol. Kirche Preussens 
(Kudolfst. 1837) ; Ranke, Memoirs of the Hor^se of Bran- 
denburg and Hist, of Prussia (Lond. 1849, 3 vols. 8vo); 
Krabbc, Hie evangel. Latuleskirche Preussens { Berl. 1849 ) ; 
Kurtz, Church Hist, ii, 5G, 327, 401 ; Baur, Religious 
Life in Germany (Lond. 1870, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Brit, and 
For. /•>. Rev. Oct. 1875, art. iv; Dorncr, Hist, of Prot. 
Theol. ii, 400 sq.; Fdinb. Rev. April, 1874, art. iii ; Lond. 
Qu. Rev. April, 1874, art. i ; Chambers's Cyclop, s. v., 
which we have used in the treatment of secular history, 
though without accepting its extreme anti-Prussian ex- 
pressions. 

Prynne, William, famous in the history of Eng- 
lish Puritanism, was born of a good family at Swans- 
wick, in Somersetshire, 1G00, and became a barrister-at- 
law and member of Lincoln’s Inn at the time when l)r. 
Preston, a celebrated Puritan divine, was lecturer there. 
It was the period when the illegal operations of the 
Star-chamber and the courts of high commission had 
reduced England to a despotism equal to that of France, 
while tbe manners of the age were a scandal to religion 
ami good morals. Marshal, Manton, Calamy, Burton, 
and other preachers in London kept alive the spirit of 
earnest piety and love, of freedom which soon after pro- 
duced the Commonwealth, when the mere sight of Bur- 
ton, as Neale remarks, was a sermon against oppression. 
Prynne was a person of sour temper and austere 
practices, remarkable for bis indefatigable devotion to 
his books. His name scarcely appears in the Law Re- 
ports of his time, and lie never practiced at the bar to 


any considerable extent. lie applied himself princi- 
pally to the study of controversial divinity, and became 
a devoted follower of Dr. John Preston (q. v.). In ac- 
cordance with the doctrines of the Puritans respecting 
Clmrcli government, lie published, soon after lie came to 
Lincoln’s Inn, several tracts against Arminianism and 
against prelatical jurisdiction, by which, as well as by 
promoting and encouraging motions iu the superior 
courts for prohibitions to the High Commission Court, 
he greatly exasperated archbishop Laud and the clergy 
against him. lie was himself as ungentle as Laud. 
Prynne was as unspiritual in bis religion, and as im- 
sympathizing with the amenities ofliuraan nature. He 
tried all things by the dry logic which was to him all- 
sufficient. Sometimes lie would find a terrible sin in 
the wearing of long curls — love-locks, as they were call- 
ed — by men, sometimes in wrong opinions on the sub- 
ject of predestination. In 1G32 he suddenly made his 
appearance with a virulent treatise entitled IJistno- 
nuistix, or a Scourge of the Stage -players, a tedious 
work of more than a thousand pages, full of learning 
and curious quotations, and written against plays, 
masks, dancing, and especially against women -actors. 
There was much room for the scourge of the satirist 
in the degraded state of the morals of the stage. Vile 
indecency tainted the highest dramatic efforts of the 
time, and even the noblest characters could not be in- 
troduced upon the stage unless they were smothered in 
afoul morass of seething corruption. But Prynne’s work 
was too severe and too general in its sweeping denun- 
ciations to convince any one not convinced already. 
Bringing every charge under the sun against the play- 
ers indiscriminately, he held them responsible for every 
sin which the pages of history revealed to have been 
committed by their predecessors in Greece or Rome; 
hut all this could not have brought the sad conse- 
quences that followed. Some passages in this work 
were supposed to be levelled against the queen, who 
had acted in a pastoral performed at Somerset House; 
and the language of the hook was certainly, like most 
others of that age, anything but refined and compli- 
mentary. The real cause of offence, in the eyes of 
archbishop Laud, who originated the prosecution against 
Prynne, was, of course, far other than this libellous mat- 
ter — namely, the opposition of Prynne and his entire par- 
ty to the Arminian system and the jurisdiction of the 
bishops. 'I'lie information included both the aspersions 
of the author against the queen and the lords of the 
council lor their share in the diversions of the age, and 
his commendation of “factious persons.” The cause 
was tried before the Star-chamber, and the condemna- 
tion of Prynne was a matter of course. After a full 
hearing, he was sentenced to have his hook burned by 
the common hangman, to he degraded from the bar 
and turned out. of the society of Lincoln’s Inn, to he 
degraded at Oxford, to stand twice in the pillory at 
Westminster and Cheapside, and to lose one of his ears 
at each place, to pay a line of £5000, and then to be 
imprisoned for life. This must have been a moderate 
t sentence in the eyes of some of the lords of the council, 
for the earl of Dorset addressed the prisoner in these 
words: “Mr. Prynne, 1 declare you to he a scliism- 
! maker in the (’liurcli. a sedition -sow or in the common- 
wealth, a wolf in sheep’s clothing; in a word, omnium 
malovum nequissimus. I shall line him .£ 10,000, which 
is more than he is worth, yet less than he deserves. I 
will not set him at liberty, no more than a plagued man, 
or a mad dog, who, though he can’t bite, will loam. 1 le 
is so far from being a social soul that lie is not a ra- 
tional soul. lie is lit to live in dens with such beasts 
of prey as wolves and tigers like himself; therefore. I 
condemn him to perpetual imprisonment; and for cor- 
poral punishment l should have him branded in the 
forehead, slit in the nose, and have his ears chopped 
off.” Prynne’s sentence, outrageous as it was, was not 
received with that general indignation which it would 
have called forth two or three years later. The Inns 


PRYNNE 


V33 


PS ALM AX AZ AR 


of Court, who had been roused by his wholesale condem- I 
nation of the drama to spend thousands of pounds on a | 
gorgeous mask, which they presented to the king, and 
some who afterwards took the foremost part in resistance 
to the court, joined now in approval of its measures. 
The prison with which Laud rewarded Prynne’s enor- 
mous folio, however, in nowise tamed this most obstinate 
and narrow-minded of men. Three years afterwards, 
while in the Tower under the above sentence, he issued 
from its walls a new tract, attacking the bishops as de- 
vouring wolves and lords of Lucifer. It was entitled 
Xeu's from Ipswich , and sorely reflected upon Laud and 
the hierarchy generally. For this publication he was 
again prosecuted in the Star-chamber, and sentenced to 
pay a tine of £5000, to be set in the pillory, to be branded 
on* both cheeks with the letters S and L (Seditious Li- 
beller), to lose the remainder of his ears, and to be closely 
imprisoned for life in Caernarvon Castle. The usual 
consequence of undue severity appeared in the popular 
sympathy and party spirit which these outrageous sen- 
tences excited. The Puritan friends of Prynne flock- 
ed to Caernarvon Castle in such numbers that it was 
thought necessary to change the scene of his confine- 
ment; and after he had been at Caernarvon about ten 
weeks, he was illegally removed, by a warrant from the 
lords of the council, to the castle of the Mont Orgueil, 
in the island of Jersey. Here he remained until the 
beginning of the Long Parliament, in 1611, when, upon 
his petition to the House of Commons, he was released 
by a warrant from the Speaker, and resolutions were 
passed declaring, very truly, both the sentences against 
him in the Star-chamber to be contrary to law. Clar- 
endon and Anthony Wood describe the extraordinary 
demonstrations of popular feeling in his favor on his 
landing at Southampton and on his journey to Lon- 
don (History of the Rebellion, i, 199; Athence Oxonienses, 
iii, 848). Soon afterwards he was returned as a mem- 
ber of Parliament for Newport, in Cornwall, and about 
the same time was made a bencher at Lincoln’s Inn. 
Besides, Parliament voted him, and the famous preach- 
er Burton, and the physician Bastwick, two Puritans 
who were included with Prynne, money in compensa- 
tion ; but this they never got. in consequence of the dis- 
turbed state of the times. < hie of the principal fruits 
of this high-handed proceeding of the law was the rous- 
ing of the nation to indignant protests against those in 
authority, and preparing the way for the changes of gov- 
ernment that ensued; yet to the credit of Prynne be it 
said that, notwithstanding all the injustice with which 
he was treated, and the cruelty that was inflicted upon 
him. he took no part in the violent proceedings of the 
later years of the Long Parliament. Quite to the con- 
trary, immediately before the king’s trial Prynne was 
ordered into the custody of the sergeant -at- arms for 
“denying the supremacy of Parliament” in a pamphlet 
entitled The Memento (Kushworth, Collections , ii, 1389). 
On Dec. 6 he was arrested by the army, and, together with 
many of his party, ejected from the House of Commons. 
From this time he became a bitter enemy of Cromwell 
and the army party, and, in consequence of his writings 
against them, was again imprisoned for several years at 
Dunster Castle, in Somersetshire, and Pendennis Castle, 
in Cornwall. He was expressly disabled by Parliament 
“ to officiate or be in any office concerning the adminis- 
tration of justice within the commonwealth.” In the 
early part of the year 1660. having returned to his seat 
in the House of Commons as an excluded member, he 
is said, in a letter to General Monk (Win wood, Memo- 
rials , vol. iii), to have “exceedingly asserted the king’s 
right,” but with so much of his characteristic bitterness 
and imprudence that Monk sent for him and admon- 
ished him to be quiet. Upon the dissolution of the 
Parliament, in March, 1660, he was elected to serve in 
the new Parliament for the city of Bath. Soon after 
the Restoration he was appointed keeper of the rec- 
ords in the Tower, an office for which his habits of 
study peculiarly fitted him, and which furnished him 


with the opportunity of compiling his laborious and 
useful collections respecting constitutional and parlia- 
mentary history. He died in that office in 1669. Wood 
calculates that he wrote a sheet of MS. for every day of 
his lifetime after reaching man’s estate. “ His custom 
was, when he studied, to put on a long quilted cap, 
which came an inch over liis eyes, serving as an um- 
brella, to defend them from too much light: and, sel- 
dom eating a dinner, would every three hours or more 
be munching a roll of bread, and would now and then 
refresh his exhausted spirits with ale. To this (says 
the editor of Neale) Butler seems to allude in his ad- 
dress to his muse: 

‘Thou that with ale or viler liquors 
Didst inspire Withers, Prynne, or Vicars, 

And teach them, though it were in spite 
Of nature and their stars, to write.’” 

His works amount to forty volumes, folio and quarto. 
The most valuable, and a very useful performance, is 
his Collection of Records, in four large volumes. Prynne 
proposed to illustrate and prove in these the supremacy 
of the kings of England in all ecclesiastical affairs with- 
in the realm by records taken from the earliest periods 
of English history to the reign of Elizabeth. lie only 
completed the design to the reign of Henry III. See 
English Cyclop, s. v. ; Appleton, Ring. Diet. s. v. ; Greene, 
Short Hist, of the Engl. People, p. 515 sq.; Gardiner, Hist, 
of the Puritan Revol. ch. v; Stoughton, Eccles. Hist, 
of Engl, i, 24, 43, *9, 121, 153, 455; Perry, Hist. Engl. 
Ch. vols. i and ii; Collier, Eccles, Hist. ; Clarendon, Hist, 
of the Rebellion, bk. iii; D’lsraeli, Miscell. p. Ill sq. ; 
Knight, Popular Hist, of England, vol. iii, ch. xix; 
Hume, Hist, of England, ch. Iii et al. ; and the copious 
article in Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Anier. Authors , 
s. v. (J. H. W.) 

Prytaneum (-pv-avCov) was the common house 
of an ancient Greek city or state in which a sacred fire 
was kept constantly burning in honor of Vesta. It was 
an appropriate building, where, in the name of the city 
or state, the magistrates, known as the Prytanes, brought 
suitable offerings to the venerated goddess. The fire- 
service observed in honor of Vesta was distinguished by 
the name of Prytanistis. The temple which was called 
prytaneum was of a round form, in order, as some have 
supposed, to represent the figure of the earth, and, ac- 
cording to others, to represent the centre of the universe. 
Plutarch thus speaks on the subject : “ It is also said that 
Numa built the temple of Vesta, where the perpetual 
fire was to be kept, in an orbicular form, not intending 
to represent the figure of the earth, as if that was meant 
by Vesta, but the frame of the universe, in the centre of 
which the Pythagoreans place the element of fire, and 
give it the name of Vesta and Unity. The earth they 
suppose not to be without motion, nor situated in the 
centre of the world, but to make its revolution round 
the sphere of lire, being neither one of the most valuable 
nor principal parts of the great machine. Plato, too, 
in his old age, is reported to have been of the same 
opinion, assigning the earth a different situation from 
the centre, and leaving that, as the place of honor, to a 
nobler element.” If the sacred fire in the prytaneum 
was accidentally extinguished, or even if it continued 
burning, the vestal virgins invariably renewed it every 
year on the calends of March by collecting the solar 
rays in a concave vessel of brass. From the fire which 
was kept burning in the prytaneum of the parent state, 
the sacred fire was supplied to each of its colonies or 
dependent states. Thucydides states that, before the 
time of Theseus, a prytaneum was to be found in every 
city or state of Attica. The prytaneum of Athens was 
originally built on the Acropolis, but afterwards it stood 
near the agora, or forum. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, 
s. v. See Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. 

Psalm. See Psalmody ; Psalms, Book of. 

Fsalmanazar, George, a remarkable impostor in 
the religions and literary world, was born, probably, in 
the year 1680, and was of French origin. He received 


rSALMISTEI 


734 


PSALMODY 


his education partly in a free school taught by two 
Franciscan monks, and afterwards in a college of Jes- 
uits in an archiepiscopal city, tlic name of which, as 
also that ol'his birthplace and of his parents, remains 
unknown. T'pon leaving the college, he was recom- 
mended as a tutor to a young gentleman, but soon fell 
into a mean, rambling kind of life that produced in 
him plenty of disappointments and misfortunes. The 
first pretence he took up with was that of being a suf- 
ferer for religion ; and he procured a certificate that he 
was of Irish extraction, had left the country for the 
sake of the Homan Catholic religion, and was going on 
a pilgrimage to Home. Not being in a condition to 
purchase a pilgrim’s garb, he had observed, in a chapel 
dedicated to a miraculous saint, that such a one had 
been set up as a monument of gratitude by some wan- 
dering pilgrim; and he contrived to take both staff and 
cloak away at noonday. “Being thus accoutred,” says 
he, “ and furnished with a pass, I began, at all proper 
places, to beg my way in a tlucut Latin, accosting only 
clergymen or persons of figure, by whom I could be un- 
derstood, and found them mostly so generous and cred- 
ulous that I might easily have saved money and put 
myself into a much better dress before I had gone 
through a score or two of miles.” 1 1 is next trick was 
to impose on men in the garb of a soldier, menial pre- 
ceptor, beggar, or vagrant nondescript, living on his 
wits as he could, according to the whim or necessity 
of the hour. In the course of his wanderings, he was 
thrown into the companionship of a colonel Lauder at 
Sluys, to whom he gave himself out under the name 
by which he is so celebrated, representing himself as a 
Japanese convert to Christianity, and native of the isl- 
and of Formosa. The chaplain of the regiment took 
1 ’Salmanazar to England, and he instantly became the 
religious lion of the day, his patron (who was a man 
equally acute and unprincipled) skilfully availing him- 
self of the connection to secure Ibr himself preferment 
in the Church. Different ecclesiastical dignitaries con- 
tended for the honor of being serviceable to him; and 
through the influence oft lie bishop of Oxford, apartments 
were assigned him at the university, in order that he 
might prosecute his studies there. The talent, ingenu- 
ity, and resource which he displayed in keeping up the 
deception go far to account for what may seem to us the 
strange credulity with which his story was received, 
lie published, in Latin, a fabulous account of the island 
of Formosa, the consistency and verisimilitude of which 
imposed upon the learned world, lie also invented a 
language, compact and somewhat complex in structure, 
and was able, in virtue of a memory not less than aston- 
ishing, to defy the ordinary methods of detection. In 
the midst of his success, however, at the age of about 
thirty-two, he became the subject of religions impres- 
sions, and his conscience awoke to the ignominy of the 
deceit which he was practicing. Urged by what seems 
to have been a genuine feeling of penitence, he with- 
drew himself from public notice, and for the rest of his 
long life honorably earned his livelihood by literature, 
in which he had a moderate success. Besides much 
assiduous compilation for the booksellers, of history, 
geography, and the like, he published several works 
anonymously, one of which, -In Kssay on Miracles. by a 
Layman, was for some time exceedingly popular, and 
another a version of the Psalms. On his death in Lon- 
don in 1702, it was found that he had also busied him- 
self in preparing for posthumous publication an account 
of his curious career, which, under the title Memoirs 
of , commonly known as Georye Psalmanazar, a re- 
puted native of Formosa , written by himself was some 
years after given to the world. See the art. in Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Jirit. and A nier. A nth. s. v., ami the refer- 
ences there given; Chambers's Cyclop, s. v. : .Xational 
Repository (April, 1*7* ), p. 370. (J. 11. \Y.) 

Psalmister (Lat. Psalmist a) or Psaltes (sinyer), 
one of the inferior orders in the early rhurch, mentioned 
first by the Council of Laodicea. The form used in their 


designation was, according to the fourth Council of Car- 
thage, “ See that thou believest in thine heart what thou 
singest with thy mouth, and approve in works what thou 
believest in thy heart.” See Pkkckntok. The psaltes 
went up into the ambo, or reading-desk, and sang out of 
a book. That such a mode of conducting public wor- 
ship was only intended to be for a time is evident from 
the circumstance that several ofthe fathers of the Church 
mention this practice as existing in their time of the 
people singing all together. The order of psaltes, on 
their appointment to office, required no imposition of 
hands or solemn consecration, but simply received their 
office from a presbyter, who used the form of words as 
laid down by the Council of Carthage and given above. 

Psalmody, Ancient. By this term we mean the 
singing of sacred songs as an act of worship; and in 
this article we shall speak only of its use in public wor- 
ship, and we shall use the term in its most inclusive 
sense. In doing so, we substantially adopt the art. iu 
Kitto’s Cyclopredia. 

The simple idea of psalmody is the expression of re- 
ligious feeling in lyrical poetry and in musical cadence. 
Bhythmical song seems to be the instinctive utterance 
of all strong emotion. Savage nations express them- 
selves in language of natural poetry, uttered in the ca- 
dence of a rude chant or musical recitative. In wor- 
ship, the use of poetry and music is coeval with society 
(Plato, l)e Leyib. lib. iii, e. 15; Lowth, 11 eh. Poetiy, leet. 

1 . Hoofer wrote hymns to the gods; Orpheus was a 
priest-musician, the tamer and sanctifier by his lyre of 
whatever was rude and godless. The muses were chief- 
ly employed in the service of the gods (Phumutns, De 
Xatvru Dearum , p. 157, ed. Gale), from which some of 
them — e. g. Melpomene, Terpsichore, Polynmia — de- 
rived their names. Clemens Alexandrians tells us that 
a chief part of the worship of the Egyptians consisted 
in singing hymns to their gods: “First, a singer goes 
before, bringing forth some one thing of the symbols of 
music; and they say that he ought to take two books 
out of those of Hermes, the one containing the hymns 
of the gods, the other the method of a royal life. . . . 

I There are ten things which are suitable to the honor 
of their gods, and comprise the Egyptian religion, viz. 
sacrifices, first-fruits, hymns, prayers, shows, feasts, and 
sneh-like things” ( Stromata . vi, 633. ed. Paris). Por- 
phyry confirms this. The Egyptians, he says, devote 
“tlie day to the worship of their gods, in which, three 
or four times — viz. morning and evening, noon and sun- 
setting — they sing hymns unto them” (De Abstinent. iv, 
8). Concerning the Indians, lie says, “they spend the 
greatest part of the day and night in prayers and hymns 
to the gods” (ibid. 12, 18; see also Vita Pythay. p. 200, 
ed. Cantab.). A remarkable passage occurs in the writ- 
ings of Arrianus, the Stoic philosopher. “If.” says lie, 
“we are intelligent creatures, what else should we do, 
both in public and private, than to sing a hymn to the 
Deity, to speak well of him, and give thanks unto him? 
Should we not, whether digging or ploughing or eating, 
sing a hymn to God?” etc. (Arrian, F.piciet. i, 16; also 
iii. 26). Herodotus tells us that llomer got great 
credit for composing hymns to the gods (De Vita Ilo- 
meri. c. 9). Howards were given in the Pythian games 
to those who sang the best hymns to the gods (1‘ausa- 
nias in Phocicis, lib. x). The apostate Julian recom- 
mends that many of the excellent hymns to the gods 
be committed to memory, most of which, he says, were 
composed hy the gods, some few hy men inspired by a 
divine spirit (Opera, p. 551, ed. Paris). Sacred song, 
therefore, is no peculiarity of revealed religion. It 
rests upon deep instincts of human nature, perhaps 
of all intelligent moral nature; for at the creation “ the 
morning stars sang together for joy,” at the nativity 
angelic song was heard hy the shepherds of Bethle- 
hem, and in the final heaven both angels and redeemed 
men are represented as singing rapturous songs before 
the throne. 

In defining sacred song as the utterance of strong 


PSALMODY 


735 


PSALMODY 


emotion, we do not restrict it to praise, although praise 
is the most natural and prominent form of it. Deep 
sorrow and earnest prayer may also find their fitting 
expression in musical song. Augustine thus defines the 
more technical and Christian conception of a hymn : 
“ Hyranus est cantus cum laude Dei ; si cantus est et 
non laudas Deum, non dicis hymnum ; si laudas aliquid 
quod non pertinet ad laiulem Dei, non dicis hymnum” 
(Psa. cxlviii). Church song is restricted to lyrical poe- 
try, for this alone can express the consentaneous emo- 
tion of a congregation. It excludes, therefore, didactic 
poetry, which expounds doctrines or analyzes feelings 
or inculcates duties; and it excludes dramatic poetry, 
which expresses passion by action. It is also more 
than mere lyrical poetry: it is lyrical poetry which as- 
sumes the pure truth of God, and gives expression to 
the deep religious feeling which it excites. A hymn is 
an outburst of religious life. 

In its form, worship-song may be either rhythmical 
or metrical ; the former was its primitive and more un- 
cultured form; the latter is its subsequent and more 
artistic form. The former is exemplified in the Hebrew 
psalms and the Greek Christian hymns; the latter in 
the Latin hymns of Ambrose and Gregory, and in the 
subsequent hymnology of the Western Church. Each 
of course requires a corresponding form of music— the 
rhythmical hymn, a musical and ad libitum recitative, 
closing with a cadence, technically known as a “ chant ;” 
the metrical hymn, a metrical tune. The anthem dif- 
fers from both, in that it consists of certain rhythmical 
or metrical words set to specific music, which seeks to 
bring out their special emphasis, and is incapable of be- 
ing used to any other. The anthem is, characteristi- 
cally, the performance of choirs, and not the worship of 
the congregation. In public worship, sacred song may 
be either the singing of a choir to which the congrega- 
tion are auditors, or the united act of the entire body 
of worshippers, the choir and organ simply leading and 
accompanying it. Without denying to the former the 
character of worship, it is obvious that it is worship only 
in a very restricted and imperfect sense. It is worship 
of a much higher and more catholic character for the 
•whole congregation to unite in the utterance of relig- 
ious feeling. Hence, as a rule, no composition should 
be allowed iu congregational worship too artistic or too 
intricate for congregational use. On the other hand, 
every kind of composition is legitimate that a congre- 
gation can use, and through which it can express the 
emotions of its spiritual life. Neither rhythmical psalm 
nor metrical hymn has any natural or legislative pre- 
rogative or sacredness in the Church of God. 

The manner of singing, again, whether unisonal, as 
in the early Church, or in part harmony, as in the mod- 
ern Church; whether antiphonal, between choir and 
congregation, or between one part of the congregation 
and another, as in many of the Jewish psalms, or uni- 
versal and continuous by the whole congregation, is 
immaterial, so long as the best expression of religions 
feeling is secured. 

In the Bible, the use and importance of sacred song 
are fully recognised, and large provision for it is made. 
The earliest fragment of song in the Bible is not sacred. 
Lamech expresses himself in a snatch of song which 
has all the characteristics of later Temple poetry. 

The Jews seem almost to have restricted their use of 
poetry and music to divine worship, probably because 
their theocracy so identified their national and their 
religious life as that the expression of the one was the 
expression of the other. Music and song were joined 
in holy marriage, and presented themselves hand in 
hand to worship before the Lord. 

The first record of Hebrew worship-song is the great 
outburst of the newly liberated life of the people on the 
borders of the Red Sea, where Miriam provided for the 
expression of their praise in her magnificent song. This 
is the earliest specimen of choral song that the world 
possesses. It was probably sung antiphonallv — Miriam 


and the women on the one side, answered by Moses and 
the men on the other. 

We have minute accounts of the musical service of 
the Tabernacle and of the Temple, as arranged by Da- 
vid and Solomon ; and especially of the great musical 
celebration at the dedication of the latter, when we are 
told that Jehovah especially responded to the invoca- 
tion of worshipping song (2 Chron. v, 12-14). 

Beyond all question the Temple service was the most 
magnificent choral worship that the world has seen. 
On great occasions the choir consisted of four thousand 
singers and players (1 Chron. xxiii, 5 ; xxv) ; the state- 
ments of Josephus (Anf. viii, 3) are evidently greatly 
exaggerated. Its psalmody would consist, first, of such 
compositions as had been written by Moses and others, 
with those of David, Asaph, etc. Some of David’s 
early psalms seem to have been adapted for Temple use 
(comp. Psa. xviii with 2 Sam. xxii). Others were 
doubtless composed specially for it. Hence most of 
David’s psalms, in the collection of Hebrew poetry so 
designated, are inscribed “To the chief musician.” 
From time to time fresh contributions of sacred song 
would be made. As we possess it, the book of Psalms 
was certainly not the Temple psalter. It is a collection, 
or rather a combination of four or five separate collec- 
tions, of Hebrew poetry, of long and gradual accumula- 
tion, containing the Temple psalms, but containing also 
many pieces neither meant nor fitting to be sung. 
Hence the ritual and religious absurdity of singing in- 
discriminately through the whole. Hippolvtus, writing 
iu the 3d century, assigns the various authorship of the 
collection as a reason why no authors name is affixed 
to it (llippolytus On the Psalms, quoted by Bunsen, 
Christianity and Mankind, i, 458; see also ibid, ii, 176; 
Josephus, Ant. vii, 12, 3). 

From the structure of some of the psalms, as well as 
from some expressions contained in them, it is certain 
that they were sung antiphonally, probably by two 
choirs responding to each other. Some of the psalms, 
the 24th, for instance, were evidently alternated between 
the priest and the people. Among the various suppo- 
sitions concerning the meaning of the word “Selah,” 
one is that it is the sign of a great chorus-shout of the 
people. See also 1 Sam. xviii, 6; Neh. ix; Ezra iii, 10: 
Isa. vi, 1-3 ; bishop Lowth On Hebrew Poetn/, lect. xix ; 
Wheatley On the Common Prayer , ch. iii, § 9. 

From 1 Chron. xxv, 7 it appears that Church music 
was formally taught in the Jewish schools. 

That Jewish song was celebrated throughout the 
East is implied in the ironical request of the Babylo- 
nians that their poor captives would “sing them one of 
the songs of Zion.” 

It is to be observed that the singing of the Temple 
was no part of the Levitical ritual ; it was a fitting wor- 
ship, independent of the specific economy with which it 
was connected. It has, therefore, a certain permanent 
authority as a scriptural precedent of worship-song. 

Concerning the music used in the Jewish Temple we 
have no certain traditions. The very meaning of the 
musical accents in the book of Psalms is unknown. 
Carl Engel (Music of the most A neient Nations, ch. vi) 
supposes that the musical system of the Hebrews, as 
indeed of all the East, was derived from the Assyrians, 
concerning whose musical knowledge, hitherto unsus- 
pected, much interesting inlormation has been derived 
from the sculptures discovered by 31 r. Layard and Mr. 
Botta. It is probable that David, who was musician as 
well as poet, composed music for the use of his psalms 
in public worship. From the structure of Hebrew poe- 
try this would necessarily be a musical recitative, or 
“chant;” and as adapted for the use of worshipping 
thousands, it would probably be very simple in charac- 
ter. Whether the Jews had any form of written music 
or not, or whether the music of their Temple psalms 
was learned by the ear, and traditionally handed down 
from generation to generation, is unknown. Certainly 
no trace of written music has come down to us. It is 


PSALMODY 


736 


PSALMODY 


to be presumed that the music originally set to David’s j 
psalms would be perpetuated from age to age; and that 
therefore the music to which our Lord and his disciples 
sang the lesser Ilallel on the ‘‘night oil which he was 
betrayed,” and the music to which Paul and Silas sang 
their prison songs, would be the old traditional Temple 
music. The tradition is that the Peregrine done was 
the music to which the lesser Ilallel was sung. All 
this, however, is pure conjecture. There is not a parti- 
cle of historical proof to throw light upon iL Nor is 
this to be wondered at, considering the dispersions and 
the unparalleled sufferings of the Jews, and when it is 
remembered that we are equally ignoraut of the music 
of the Greeks and the Homans. 

At the dispersion. Temple-song ceased. Ilurney says, 
some Hebrew high-priest being his informant, “ that all 
instrumental, and even vocal performances have been 
banished from the synagogue ever since the destruction 
of Jerusalem ; that the little singing now in use there is 
an innovation and a modern license; for the Jews, from 
a passage in one of the prophets, think it unlawful, or 
at least unlit, to sing or rejoice before the coming of the 
Messiah, till when they are bound to mourn and repent 
in silence” (Hist, of Music, i, 251). It is probable, how- 
ever, that although at the dispersion the Temple music 
was forever silenced, yet that synagogue worship wotdd 
be speedily restored, and that, as far as possible, its ser- 
vices would be based upon the old Temple prayers and 
psalms, and that the traditional melodies of the latter 
would be sung to them. 

The first recorded uninspired psalmody of the syna- 
gogue is not earlier than the 10th century, when Saa- 
diah Gaon first introduced rhyme into Hebrew poetry. 
On this subject, see Prayers of the Spanish atul Portu- 
guese Israelites, with English Translation , by the Lev. 
D. A. de Sola ; Steinschneider, Jewish Lit. (Lond. 1857) ; 
Charisi, Jewish Lit. from the 8//< to the 18 th Century, ell. 
xviii. 

No existing Jewish melodies can be proved to be of 
any antiquity, compared with some Christian melodies. 
Purely traditional, their origin is unknown. The ut- 
most that can be said is that for some four or five cen- 
turies they have been handed down memoriter. As we 
possess them they are unmistakably modern in their 
forms; but then it is possible that beneath these mod- 
ern forms there may be a very ancient substance. The 
L'ev. D. A. de Sola (Ancient Melodies of the Liturgy of 
the Spanish and Portuguese Jews) says that a tradition 
exists that the “ Birehat Cohanim” is identical with the 
melody used in the Temple for the blessing of the priests 
(Numb, vi, 22-20), and that it is supported by great 
probability, almost amounting to direct proof. The 
“Song of Moses” is also supposed to be the melody 
sung by Miriam. But this is pure conjecture. See also 
Maimonides, eh. xiv, § 14 ; Lightfoot, Temple Service; 
Bingham, Antiquities, vol. xiv; Carl Engel, Music of 
the most A ncient Xations, ch. vi. 

In the Sept, the word vproQ and its cognates are 
used as representing several Hebrew words: but in al- 
most every case the reference is to songs of praise or 
thanksgiving to God. In the New Test, this is the in- 
variable usage of the terms. 

In the Christian Scriptures very little is said con- 
cerning sacred song. Matthew and Mark very touch- 
ingly record the conformity of our Lord, not to any 
divine command, but to a traditional custom, when he 
and his disciples, after the institution of the Supper, 
“sang a hymn” (rprijaavTH;) before they went out to 
the Mount of Olives (Matt, xxvi, SO; Mark xiv, 26). 
There is every reason to believe, that what was sung on 
this occasion was the latter part of the Ilallel, the usual 
Passover psalms of thanksgiving (Psa. cxv-cxviii). 
See Hau.ki.. When Paul and Silas Mere, imprisoned 
at Philippi, “at midnight they prayed and sang praises 
unto God” (v p vow tov ctov, Acts xvi, 25). Whether 
what they sang were some of the ancient psalms or 
spontaneous utterances of adoration and worship we 


have no means of determining. See Hymn. In his 
epistles to the Ephesians (v, 19) and to the Colossians 
(iii, 16), the apostle Paul recognises and enjoins the use 
of sacred song. So does the apostle James (v, 13). Mi- 
chaelis and others suppose that such passages as Acts iv, 
24-30 are fragments of apostolic hymns. The Apoca- 
lypse contains some of the most magnificent bursts of 
worship-song. In the passages just cited of Ephesians 
and Colossians the apostle enjoins the use of hymns in 
the social worship of Christians, classing them with 
psalms and spiritual songs (\f/a\poig tea i vpvoig tcai 
(pcaig TrvtvpaTiKciig). In what relation these stood to 
each other is a question which has occasioned consider- 
able differences of opinion. According to some, the dis- 
tinction between them was one of subject ; according to 
others, it was merely one of form, having respect to the 
manner in which they were sung; while others con- 
tend that the source whence they were derived, and the 
general character of the composition, determined the 
difference between them, ruder these leading opin- 
ions, endless differences of minor opinion have been ad- 
: voeated. Of those who adopt the first opinion is St. 

I Jerome, who thinks that the hymn was devoted to the 
celebration of the divine majesty and goodness, that the 
psalm was occupied with themes of an ethical nature, 

: and that the spiritual ode was occupied with things 
! above, and the subtle discussion of the concert of the 
! world, and the order and concord of creation ( Comment . 
in Eph. v, 19). Others, again, who hold the same gen- 
! eral view state the difference thus: The psalm belongs 
' to ethics; the hymn, as setting forth the praises of God 
for redemption, to theology ; and the ode, as celebrat- 
ing the works of God in creation and providence, to 
natural science (Thomasius, in Prafationibus, p. 525). 
All this, however, is purely arbitrary. The second 
opinion was held by Augustine, Basil, Hilary, and oth- 
ers of the Christian fathers, and has been adopted by 
several in more recent times. By some who take this 
view, the distinction is supposed to lie in this, that the 
\Pa\yoi were compositions which were chanted to the 
accompaniment of an instrument, the \pa\~ijpwr, the 
vpvot songs of adoration uttered by the voice alone, and 
the (j£ai, short chants uttered also only by the voice 
(Augustine, Enarrat. in Psa. iii; Basil. M ag. In Psa. 
xx ix ; Greg. Nyss. Tr.ii in Psalmos, eh. iii, etc.) ; while 
others think that the distinction is to be determined by 
reference to the Hebrew terminology C 
- ,, 5nr, which is in fact determining nothing, as the 
distinction between these is itself entirely uncertain. 
The third opinion is that of Iieza (A or. Test, ad loc.) 
and Grotins (Comment, ad Matt, xxvi, 30, et li. 1.) ; they 
think that by psalms are designated the saereil songs 
bearing that name collectively in the Old-Test, canon; 
by hymns such extemporary songs of praise as we have 
in the utterances of Deborah, Hannah, Zachariah, and 
Mary, and such as the apostle and his companion sang 
in the prison at l’hilippi ; and by od<s premeditated com- 
! positions of a more elaborate nature and stricter form 
than hymns. To this, in the general, most subsequent in- 
quirers have given their consent; only some think that 
the term “psalms” should not be restricted to the coin- 
I positions bearing that name in the Old Test., but should 
l»c extended to all of a similar character which might 
be composed for the use of the Church in later times; 
and that by “ spiritual odes” are to be understood .specif- 
ically all sacred songs, of whatever kind, composed by 
special inspiration of the Holy Ghost (Stoirri-varoi). 
The former of these modifications is rendered almost 
imperative by 1 Cor. xiv, 26; and the latter by the 
general sense of the adjective Trvu'fiariKog in the New 
Test. Not a feu-, despairing of satisfactorily discrimi- 
nating these three kinds of sacred song, have contended 
that the apostle merely accumulates terms for the sake 
of force, and that no distinction between them is to be 
I sought (Clem. Alex. Pa-dag. ii, 4, p. 565; Clerieus, In 
i Xot, apud Ilammondii Annott. ad loc., etc.); but this 


737 


PSALMODY 


PSALMODY 


otiose method of disposing of the difficulty- has been ' 
repudiated by most. 

As to the form in which these early hymns of the 
Church were composed, we have no means of even 
approaching a certain conclusion. Among the Jewish 
Christians the chanting of the psalms was familiar, and 
it would be easy for them to compose hymns that could 
be sung to their accustomed tunes; but with the Gen- 
tile converts it would be somewhat different. Among 
the Greeks and Romans poetry had fixed metrical forms, 
to which the tunes of the Hebrews could not be adapted. 
There is no reason, however, to believe that the early 
Gentile Christians followed these metrical forms in their 
sacred poetry. The earliest specimens of Christian song 
extant— the* hymn to Christ, preserved by Clemens of 
Alexandria; the evening hymn, referred to by Basil as 
in his time very ancient, handed down from the fathers 
(Z»e Spir. Sane. c. 29); and the morning hymn, which 
has been incorporated with the liturgy of the Church 
of England— have no traces of a metrical character, but 
are, like the Biblical hymns, adapted only for being 
chanted in recitative with a few and simple cadences. 
(“ Primitiva ecclesia ita psallebat ut modico tlexu vocis | 
faceret psallentem resonare, ita ut pronuntianti vicinior 
esset quam canenti,” Isidor. Hispal. De Eccl. Oj/ic. i, 5.) 
Such singing would no doubt be new to the Gentile 
converts, but it would be speedily learned ; and as they 
probably had very little sacred music of their own, they 
would hail with delight this accession to their sources 
of enjoyment, which served at the same time as a vehicle 
of the devotional feeling that had been kindled within 
them. It has been suggested that in 1 Cor. xiii we 
have an apostolic hymn, and in Eph. v, 14; 1 Tim. iii, 
16; James i, 17 ; Rev. i, 5, 6; xv, 3, etc., fragments of 
hymns sung in the apostolic churches; but this is mere 
conjecture, though not without some probability. 

The early Christians used the Jewish psalms in their 
worship, which would almost certainly be sung to their 
traditional Temple music. G. B. Martini says ( Storia 
della Musica , i, 351): “ This is the Hebrew chant of the 
psalmodies which ever since the time of David and Sol- 
omon has been transmitted from one generation to an- 
other, and [therefore] goes beyond the first half of the 
first age of the Church. These have not materially 
varied, but have been substantially preserved by the 
Hebrew" nation. Is it not, then, sufficient to convince 
us that the apostles — who were bom Hebrews, brought 
up in the customs of their nation, wont to frequent the 
Temple and engage in the prayers and divine praises 
therein recited — should retain the same method and use 
the same chants with which the people used to respond 
to the Levitical choir.” Eorkel ( Geschichte der Musik, 
ii, 188) says: "This mode of reading the Scriptures 
with cantilation or chant has been adopted in the Chris- 
tian Church from the Temple, and is still preserved in 
the mode of chanting the collects, responses, etc.” See 
also Dr. Saalschiitz, Geschichte und Wiirdigung der Mu- 
sik hei den Hebe Hern, § 61. 

Thus, while the destruction of the Temple and the 
dispersion of the Jews suspended Jewish worship, the 
singing of the psalms and the traditions of their melo- 
dies would be preserved in the Christian Church. If, 
therefore, we possess any vestiges of Jewish music at 
all, they are to be found in the Ambrosian or Gregorian 
tones. The Rev. J. W. Blakesley (Four Months in Al- 
geria , p. 36) visited a synagogue in Algiers, and was 
surprised to find that “ the air to which the psalms were 
chanted coincided almost exactly with one of the Gre- 
gorian tones.” Hardly can we suppose that the early 
Christians either originated a new music or adopted 
heathen music. 

We have no record of the introduction into the Chris- 
tian Church of uninspired hymnody. It would be only 
very gradually that Greek hymns, with corresponding 
music, would come into use. At first, probably, Chris- 
tian hymns would be little more than centos of the He- 
brew psalms, or evangelical imitations of them, or com- 
VIII. — A A A 


positions after their model — the angels' song at the 
nativity, and the songs of Zacharias and Simeon leading 
the way. The earliest Christian hymns seem to have 
been simple glorifications of Christ. 

Eusebius intimates that private individuals wrote 
hymns to Christ as God, which were generally sung 
(//. E. v, 38; vii, 24; ii, 17). In his letter to Trajan, 
Pliny says, " The Christians are accustomed to sing al- 
ternately between themselves, and to praise Christ as 
a god” (Pliny, Epist. lib. x, ep. 39), alluding probably 
to the Gloria in Excelsis, the morning hymn of the 
early Church. 

The earliest extant fragment of Greek bymnody is 
found in the Padagoga of Clemens Alexandrinus (Opp. 
p. 312, 313, Potters ed.). Bunsen says, however, that* 
this was never used in the public worship of the Church 
( Christianity and Mankind, ii, 156). 

Three early Christian hymns are preserved in the 
venerable Alexandrian MS. as an appendix to the Old- 
Test. psalms. The first is the morning hymn of the 
primitive Church, commencing with the introductory 
verse of the nativity song of the angels, hence called 
the Angelical Doxology. It is found in the liturgy of 
the Greek Church, whence, about the year 380, it was 
transferred by Hilary to the communion service of the 
Latin Church ; thence again to the communion service 
of the English Church. 

The other two are another short morning hymn in 
which the verse occurs, "Vouchsafe, O Lord, to keep 
us this day without sin,” afterwards incorporated in the 
Te Deum ; and an evening psalm, consisting of a cento 
of verses of the Old-Test, psalms. 

Besides these, there is an evening hymn of the Greek 
Christians, "YpvoQ rov \r\ruco?, the “Hymn of the 
Kindling of the Lamp,” corresponding to the “ Ave Ma- 
ria” hymns of Italy ; concerning which Basil says, it is 
“so ancient that he knows not who is the author of it” 
(Bingham, bk. xiii, ch. v, § 5, 6). 

The Ter Sanctus. or Seraphic Hymn, also belongs to 
the first three centuries, and is found in almost all the 
ancient liturgies. It is little more than the Trisagium 
of the seraphim in Isa. vL See Palmer, Origines Liiur- 
gicce. ii, 126. 

These arc the only fragments of Greek hymnody that 
have been preserved to us. Of course they are rhyth- 
mical, and would require a rhythmical tune or chant. 
Much of early Christian song was probably antiphonal 
(Socrates, H. E. vi, 8 ; Theodoret. H. E. ii. 24 ; as also 
Hahn, Ueber den Gesang in der Sgrisehen Kirche. p. 54). 

The hymnody of the Syrian churches was much 
more copious. They had an ampler music and poets 
of higher inspiration. Its invention is attributed by 
Ephraem Syrns to the Gnostic Bardesanes (Horn, ad 
Hceret. 53, quoted by Dr. Burgess in his Intrud. to the 
Select Metrical Hymns and Homilies of Ephraem Syrus, 
p. 30). Metres were called after his name. Xext to 
him as an author of Syrian hymnody stands his son 
Harmonius. who is said to have invented new metres. 
Ephraem Syrus flourished in the 4th century. For an 
account of his contributions, see Burgess, Metrical 
Hymns, and Introduction. The Benedictine preface to 
the works of Ephraem Syrus. vol. v, says : “ While the 
Greeks reduced their sacred hymnology to about eight 
times, and to this day confine themselves to these lim- 
its, the Syrians expatiate on 275, which their ecclesias- 
tical books exhibit here and there, inscribing the proper 
tunes at the beginning of individual hymns." The 
Syrians are said to have possessed a hymnology of 
twelve or fourteen thousand hymns. 

Great use was made of hymnody by the early her- 
etics; by the Gnostic Bardesanes, who endeavored to 
supersede the Hebrew Psalter by one of his own, con- 
taining also 150 psalms (Theodoret. Hceret. Fab. 209); 
by Paul of Samosata. who largely beguiled the faithful 
by his captivating hymns and music (Eusebius. //. E. 
j vii. 30); by the Donatists in Africa, who adapted thur 
I hymus to common airs of a w ild and passionate charac- 


PSALMODY 


738 


PSALMODY 


ter, thereby inflaming the enthusiasm of the people as 
with a trumpet (Augustine, Confess.) ; and by Arius, 
who made the streets of Constantinople resound with 
ballads written to well-known and seductive melodies, 
sung in torchlight processions. 

Patristic notices of early Christian hymnologv are 
very numerous; our limits forbid more than mere ref- 
erence to a few, in addition to those already given. 
Justin Martyr, Apol. ii; Tertullian, Apol. contra Gent. 
c. 39; lie Anima , e. 3; lie Jejunio ; Cyprian, Epist. ad 
lionat.; ( trigen, Contra Cels. lib. viii, e. G7 ; Eusebius, 
11. E. lib. ii, c. 17; lib. v, c. 28; lib. vii, c. 24: lib. viii, 
e. 9; A post. Const, lib. xx, c. 57 ; Athanasius, Ep. 7, ad 
Eat.; I iasil In Psalmos ; Crcgory of Nyssa, Psa. ii ; 
Jerome, Comm. Eph. lib. iii, c. 5; Epist. 17, ad Mar- 
cell. ; Epist. ad L'xorem, lib. ii, e. 8; Ambrose, J I exam. 
lib. iii, c. 5; Augustine, Confess, lib. ix, sec. 14, 15, 31 ; 
lib. x, sec. 49, 50 ; Chrysostom, On the 41*7 Psalm ; Hil- 
ary, quoted by llingham, bk. xiii, eh. v, § 7. See also 
Xeander, Kurtz, and other Church histories; Milman, 
Hist, of Christianity, vol. iii, bk. ii, eh. iii, iv. See also 
Dcyling, llymni a Christianis decantandi, Obss. Sac. iii, 
430; Walcli, lie Ifymnis Ecd. A posted. (1737) ; liilliger, 
lie Psal. Hymn, atque Odar. Sac. Hiscriiuine (Viteb. 
1720) ; t lerbert, lie Cantu et Musica a Primo Eccl. Statu 
usque ad Preesens Tempus (Bamb. et Frib. 1774, 2 vols. 
4to) ; Bingham, Antiquities, bk. xiv, ch. ii ; 11 ’orks, iv, 
447 sq. ; Rheiuwald, Christ!. Archdoloyie, p. 202. For 
collections and specimens of ancient hymns, see Poetir 
Greed Christ iani, una cum llomericis Centonibus ex 
Sanctor. Pair. Opp. collecti in usuni Gymnas. Soc. Jesu 
(Paris, 1009) ; Maggi, Sacri JJimni che si legyono in tutto 
anno nella Santa Chiesa (Tenet. 1507); llymni Eccleskr 
e Breviario Parisiensi (Oxon. 1*38;; [Faber] Hymns 
translated front the Parisian Breviary (Loud. 1839); 
Daniel, Theseiurus llynmologicus (link et Lips. 1841-55, 
3 vols.) ; Burgess, Select Metrical Hymns and Homilies 
of Ephraem Syrus (Bond. 1853); Trench, Sacred Latin 
Poetry (ibid. 1849); Mrs. Barrett Browning, The Greek 
Christian Poets (ibid. 1803). See 11 mixology. 

PSALMODY, Ciiuisti an. Those who refuse to ac- 
cept the use of hymns in public worship interpret as sa- 
cred songs only the Psalms of David, and restrict the 
term to the singing of metrical versions of the Psalms 
to short, simple airs. They do this on the ground that 
psalm-singing alone was practiced in Jewish worship, 
and that among the earliest Christians the only sacred 
songs were the Psalms. Psalmody, thus interpreted, 
means the singing of metrical versions of the Psalms to 
short, simple airs. 

The service of the primitive Christian Church usu- 
ally began with reading, or with the singing of psalms. 
The charge of Plinv the Younger against the Chris- 
tians was that they sang psalms to Christ “quasi Deo.” 
No authentic record, however, exists of the kind of 
melodies snug to the psalms by those ancient Chris- 
tians, nor are we to understand that their psalmody was 
performed in one course at the opening of the service, 
but rather that they afforded a most agreeable and de- 
lightful introduction to the service, through which they 
were interspersed, probably very much as hymns arc in 
modern Christian service. Nor were the Psalms the 
only sacred songs employed in the service of the early 
Church. See IIvmnoi.oc;y; Mrsir; Poicthy. Psalmody 
was always esteemed a considerable part of devotion in 
the Christian Church. The service of the early Church 
usually opened with psalmody; but the author of the 
Apostolical Constitutions prescribes first the reading of 
the Old 'lost., and then the Psalms. The service was 
usually performed in the standing posture ; and as to the 
manner of pronunciation, the plain song was sometimes 
used, being a gentle inflection of the voice, not much 
different from reading, like the chant in cathedrals; at 
other times more artificial compositions were used, like 
our anthems. As to the persons concerned in singing, 
sometimes a single person sang alone, but the most an- 
cient and general practice of the Church was for the 


whole assembly to unite with one heart and voice in 
celebrating the praises of Cod. After a time alternate 
psalmody was introduced, when the congregation, di- 
viding themselves into two parts, repeated the psalms 
by courses, verse for verse, one in response to another, 
and not, as formerly, all together. The mode of singing 
all together was called symphony, while the alternate 
mode was termed antiphony, and in the West responso- 
ria, the singing by rcspoiisals. This latter manner 
of conducting the psalmody originated in the Eastern 
Church, and is attributed to bLliop Ignatius of Antioch, 
who flourished in the early part of the 2d century. It 
passed into the Western in the time of Ambrose, bishop 
of Milan. But in a short time antiphonal (q. v.) sing- 
ing became the general practice of the whole Church, 
and the ecclesiastical historian Socrates informs us that 
the emperor Theodosius the Younger and his sisters were 
accustomed to sing alternate hymns together every 
morning in the royal palace. Augustine was deeply 
affected on hearing the Ambrosian Chant at Milan, and 
describes bis feelings in these words : “ The voices flowed 
in at my ears, truth was distilled into my heart, and 
the affection of piety overflowed in sweet tears of jov.” 
Eusebius tells us that Ambrose brought his famous mel- 
i odies to Milan from Antioch. These Ambrosian melo- 
dies, and the mode of their performance by canonical 
| singers, continued in the Western Church till the time 
of Gregory the Great, who was devotedly zealous in the 
cultivation of sacred music, having been the first to in- 
troduce singing -schools at Borne. Crcgory separated 
the chanters from the clerical order, and exchanged the 
Ambrosian Chant for a style of singing named, after 
himself, the Gregorian Chant (q.v.), besides introducing 
musical notation by Boman letters. 

It seems to be a point fully established that antipho- 
nal singing, and, as Sir John Hawkins considers it, 
the commencement of Church music, originated in the 
churches of the East, particularly those of Antioch, Ca*- 
sarea, and Constantinople. The Greek fathers, Basil 
and Chrysostom, were the original instructors of the 
choral service in their respective churches. From the 
East Ambrose carried it to Milan, whence it was trans- 
ferred to Borne, and afterwards passed into France, Ger- 
many, and Britain. l*ope Damasus ordained the alter- 
nate singing of the Psalms, along with the Gloria 
Patri and Hallelujah; in A. I). 384. Siricius introduced 
the Anthem; in A.D. 507, Symmachus appointed the 
Gloria in Ercelsis to be sung; and in A.D. 090 the 
Gregorian Chant was brought into use. When Greg- 
ory, in A.D. G20, sent his chant into Britain, such 
was the opposition manifested to its introduction 
into the Church that 1200 of the clergy fell in the tu- 
mult which ensued; and it was not until fifty years 
after, when pope Vitalian sent Theodore the Greek to 
fill the vacant see of Canterbury, that the British clergy 
were prevailed upon to admit the cathedral service in 
accordance with the Romish ritual. Besides the psalms, 
which had been used from tbe earliest times, and short 
doxologics and hymns consisting of verses from the 
Holy Scriptures, spiritual songs, especially those from 
Ambrose of Milan and Hilary of Poitiers, came to be 
used in public worship in the Western Church. The 
Te lieu in, often styled “the Song of St. Ambrose.” is 
generally supposed to have been comjmsed jointly by him 
and St. Augustine early in the 4ih century, though arch- 
bishop Usher ascribes it to Nicetius, and supposes it not 
to have been composed till about A.D. 500. Considerable 
opposition, it is true, was manifested to the introduction 
of such mere human compositions into divine worship, 
but the unobjectionable purity of their sentiments led 
to their adoption by many churches. The complaint, 
however, began to be raised that Church music had de- 
viated from its ancient simplicity. It was especially 
objected that secular music, or an imitation of the light 
airs of the theatre, was introduced in the devotions 
of the Church. It was also objected that more regard 
was bad to tbe sweetness of the composition than to the 


PSALMODY 


'39 


PSALMODY 


sense and meaning; thereby pleasing the ear, without 
raising the affections of the soul. Thus the Egyptian 
abbot Pambo, in the 4th century, inveighed against the 
introduction of heathen melodies into the psalmody of 
the Church. About this time Church music began to 
be cultivated more according to rule. In addition to 
the Psalter and canonical singers, Church choristers 
were appointed, who sang sometimes alone, sometimes 
interchangeably with the choirs of the congregation. 
In the 4th century the custom began to he introduced 
into some churches of having a single person lead the 
psalmody, who began the verse, and the people joined 
him in the close. See Acrostics; IIyropsalma. 
This individual was called the phonascus or precentor , 
and he is mentioned by Athanasius as existing in his 
time in the Church of Alexandria. But difficulties and 
abuses arose from the growing neglect of musical culti- 
vation ; and, with a view of restoring public decency 
and order, the Council of Laodicea, in the year 3G3, 
considered it necessary to forbid the laity to sing in 
church at all, except in certain simple chants of a pop- 
ular description. One principal reason was probably > 
the adoption by the Arians of hymnology as a means 
of spreading their heresy. At first the difficulty had 
been overcome by providing similar compositions for 
the orthodox. Augustine himself made a psalm of 
many parts, in imitation of the 119th, to preserve his 
people from the errors of the Donatists. Hilary and 
Ambrose likewise made many hymns, which were sung 
in their respective churches. (A complete collection of 
all the ancient hymns, etc., in use in the different ser- 
vices of the Romish Church has been published fa}' Her- 
mann Adalbert Daniel, entitled Thesaurus Hymnologicus, 
etc. [Halle, 1841 sq.].) 

Down to the Reformation, the music of the Church 
was thus pretty much surrendered to the clergy and 
trained musicians, and there were obstacles besides the 
mere ordinances of the Church. The words of the songs 
were in Latin, a tongue foreign to the people. The 
music was of a nature so elaborately complex that none 
could take part in it unless they had studied music as a 
science. Yet psalmody was not entirely lost during the 
dark ages. The stud} r of sacred music received peculiar 
attention in the 6th century, schools for instruction in 
this important art having been established and patron- 
ized by Gregory the Great, under whom they obtained 
great celebrity. From these schools originated the fa- 
mous Gregorian Chant, which the choir and people sang 
in unison. Such schools rapidly increased in number, 
and at length became common in various parts of Eu- 
rope, particularly in France and Germany. The prior, 
or principal, of these schools was held in high estimation, 
and possessed extensive information. In the 8th cen- 
tury pope Adrian, in return for the services which he 
had rendered to Charlemagne in making him emperor 
of the West, stipulated for the introduction of the Gre- 
gorian Chant into the Gallic Church ; and the emperor, 
having paid a visit to Rome, where he kept Easter with 
the pope, received from the hands of his holiness the 
Roman Antiphonary, which he promised to introduce 
into his dominions. About the end of this century all 
opposition to cathedral music ceased, and for several 
centuries thereafter Church music underwent little or 
no change in the Church of Rome. It is a remarkable 
fact, however, that from the 8th till the middle of the 
13th century, not only was it considered a necessary 
part of clerical education to understand the principles 
of harmony and the rudiments of singing, but the clergy 
were generally proficients both in vocal and instrumen- 
tal music. 

In the Eastern Church, where sacred music, as we 
have seen, had its origin, there arose in the 8th century 
a remarkable man, John of Damascus (q. v.), who was 
not only a noted theologian, but a most accomplished 
musician. On account of his great skill in the art of 
vocal music, he was usually styled Melodos. To this 
noted master of music the Eastern Church is indebted 


for those beautiful airs to which the Psalms of David 
are sung in our day. The Greek word \|/dXXw is ap- 
plied among the Greeks of modern times exclusively to 
sacred music, which in the Eastern Church has never 
been any other than vocal, instrumental music being 
unknowu in that Church, as it was in the primitive 
Church. Sir John Hawkins, following the Romish 
writers in his erudite work on the History of Music, 
makes pope Vitalian, in A.D. 660, the first who intro- 
duced organs into churches. But students of ecclesias- 
tical archaeology are generally agreed that instrumental 
music was not used in churches till a much later date; 
for Thomas Aquinas, A.D. 1250, has these remarkable 
words: “Our Church does not use musical instruments, 
as harps and psalteries, to praise God withal, that she 
may not seem to Judaize.” From this passage we are 
surely warranted in concluding that there was no eccle- 
siastical use of organs in the time of Aquinas. It is al- 
leged that Marinus Sanutus, who lived about A.D. 1290, 
was the first that brought the use of wind-organs into 
churches, and hence he received the name of Torcellus. 
In the East, the organ was in use in the emperor’s courts, 
probably from the time of Julian, but never has either 
the organ or any other instrument been employed in 
public worship in Eastern churches ; nor is mention of 
instrumental music found in all their liturgies, ancient 
or modern. Towards the time of the Reformation, a 
general partiality for sacred music prevailed throughout 
Europe, owing, as is generally supposed, to the encour- 
agement which pope Leo X gave to the cultivation of 
art. It is no doubt true that Leo was himself a skilful 
musician, and attached a high importance to the art as 
lending interest, solemnity, and effect to the devotional 
services of the Romish Church. But to no single indi- 
vidual can be traced the prevailing love for sacred mu- 
sic in the IGth century, for, besides Leo X, w r e find 
Charles V in Germany, Francis I in France, and Henry 
VIII in England, all countenancing sacred music, and 
treating musicians at their court with peculiar favor. 

At the Reformation a greater part of the services of 
the Romish Church was sung to musical notes, and on 
the occasion of great festivals the choral service was 
performed with great pomp by a numerous choir of men 
and boys. That abuses of the most flagrant kind had 
found their way into this department of Romish wor- 
ship is beyond a doubt, as the Council of Trent found it 
necessary to issue a decree on the subject, in which they 
plainly state that in the celebration of the mass, hymns, 
some of a profane and others of a lascivious nature, had 
crept into the service, and given great scandal to pro- 
fessors of the truth. By this decree the council, while 
it arranged the choral service on a proper footing, free- 
ing it from all extraneous matter, gave it also a sanc- 
tion which it had hitherto wanted. From this time the 
[ Church of Rome began to display that profound vener- 
ation for choral music which she has continued to man- 
ifest down to the present day. 

The Reformers, observing the excessive attention 
paid to musical services, endeavored to return to the 
plainness of apostolic times. There had previouslj’ been 
repeated efforts at such a transformation. “ The Albi- 
genses, during the hottest season of persecution, are 
stated to have solaced themselves, in the very prospect 
of death, with singing the psalms and hymns of their 
Church. Psalmody was cherished by the disciples of 
Wycliffe. The Bohemian Brethren published a hymn- 
book with musical notes, from which it appears that the 
melodies they used originated in the chants to which 
the ancient Latin hymns of the Western Church were 
sung” (Conder, The Poet of the Sanctuary, p. 6). That 
psalmody was cultivated by the persecuted ancient Vau- 
dois is evident from the fact that a large manuscript 
collection of their psalms and hymns is preserved in the 
library of Geneva (Monastier, Hist, de VEylise Vaudoise, 
i, 124). But it was the Reformation in the IGth cen- 
tury which restored to the people their right to partici- 
pate in this primitive and edifying part of public wor- 


PSALMODY 


740 


PSALMODY 


ship. Psalm-singing was taken lip by the Reformers, J 
tirst for private devotion, and soon as a part of the ser- 
vice of the Church, Luther and Calvin restoring to the 
people their share in the musical part of public worship, 
and furnishing them with the means of performing it. 
Prom the time that psalm-singing was adopted by the 
Reformers, it was discountenanced by the lioman Cath- 
olics. and soon came to be regarded as a badge of Prot- 
estantism. Metrical versions of the Psalms of David 
were executed in the principal vernacular languages of 
Europe ; and some of the venerable Reformers are re- 
corded as having applied themselves to the study of 
music in order that they might be enabled to compose 
plain and solemn tunes in which all would be able to join. 
Luther was peculiarly qualified for providing the tirst 
psalmody of the Reformation. Not only was he a great 
poet and musician, but he was full of fervid spirit- 
ual life, llis hymnology, and that of his coadjutors — 
Hans Sachs, Michael Weiss, Johann Kugelmaun, Jo- 
hann Schop, Johann Criiger, Paul Speratus, Justus Jo- 
nas, Nicholas Decins, and other contemporary divines 
and Reformers— were characterized and illustrated by 
some dozen magnificent chorals, which excited great 
enthusiasm. Hut psalmody, in the more modern sense, 
began in the lGth century, when Clement Marot, the 
court-poet of Francis I of France, translated fifty-two 
of the Psalms into French verse, dedicating them both 
to his royal master — whom he likened to the Hebrew I 
psalmist— and to the ladies of France. The sacred song- | 
book, on its tirst appearance, not being accompanied by | 
music, it became the practice to sing the psalms to fa- 
vorite tunes — often those of popular ballads, and lor a 
considerable time psalm-singing became a favorite fash- 
ion among the gay courtiers of Francis. Marot’s col- 
lection was continued and concluded by Theodore Beza, 
whose psalms had the advantage of being set to music, 
Beza having in this the assistance ol Calvin, who en- 
gaged the best composers of the day to unite his sacred 
songs with beautiful and simple airs of a devotional 
character. Luther and Calvin differed, however, in 
their ideal of psalmody: the former was favorable to 
harmony in parts, while the latter confined himself to 
the bare, unaccompanied melody. In 1529 Luther pub- 
lished his first Hymn-book for the Conyreyation, which 
was printed by Joseph Klug in Wittenberg, whence it 
was also called the Klug'sche. This collection contained 
most of Luther’s hvinns, which may be read in an Eng- 
lish translation in Luther as a llymnist (by the Rev. B. 
Pick, Phila. 1875). 

Prior to Luther, the Moravian Brethren had published 
a collection of hymns (in 1504) compiled by their arch- 
bishop, Lucas — the first example of a hymn-book con- 
structed of original compositions in the vernacular to be 
found in any Western nation which had once owned the 
supremacy of Rome. Some of its hymns, composed in 
the Bohemian and German languages, are of older date 
than the Reformation, and were highly commended by 
Luther himself for their scriptural and devotional char- 
acter. In the renewed Church of the Brethren psalms 
and hymns continue to form an integral part of every re- 
ligious service. Count Zinzendorf, who eminently con- 
tributed to its revival in 1722, was himself a Christian 
poet of no common order. The (lerman hymn-book in 
general use among the churches of the Brethren was 
completed in 1778 by bishop C.regor, and lias passed 
through numerous editions: it contains many hymns 
derived from the Lutheran Church, and some even from 
the primitive Christian Church. Some of the best hymns 
in this collection have been translated into English verse, 
and, with the addition of a number of English hymns, 
constitute the hymn-book now in use among the con- 
gregations of the Brethren in this country. The latest 
edition, comprising 12G0 hymns, is entitled Liturgy anl 
Hymns of the Protestant Church of the Unitus Frwrutn, 
or United Brethren (ljond. 1819, 8vo). 

In the Reformed Church, sacred songs were limited 
to the Psalms. As early as 1542 the La Forme ties 


Prieres et Chantz ecclesiastiques ques avec la Marne re, 
etc., by Marot, was published. This collection contain- 
ed only twenty-five psalms, to which Theodore Beza af- 
terwards added the remaining psalms. To abridge the 
time devoted to singing was an object of their concern, 
when they could not banish it from their assemblies; 
and the Helvetic Confession contains a censure on the 
Gregorian Chant, and a commendation of its rejection 
by many of the Protestant churches. (See D israeli, 
Curiosities of Literature [Loud. 1858], ii, 474.) The 
first edition of the entire book of Psalms in verse ap- 
peared in France in 15GI, with the royal privilege, and 
10,000 copies were immediately dispersed. These were 
speedily set to music, and were generally sung in the 
Reformed churches of France, Geneva, and French 
Switzerland, notwithstanding their condemnation by 
the college of the Sorbonne. Some expressions having 
become obsolete, the task of retouching them was un- 
dertaken, first hj- Valentine Convart, the first secretary 
of the French Academy, and by one of the elders of the 
church at Charcnton ; and afterwards by the pastors of 
Geneva, who revised their undertaking, and almost re- 
cast the work of Marot and Beza. So dear, however, 
was the memory of these first two poets of the French 
Reformation t hat it was found necessary to preserve the 
very number of their stanzas and the quantity of syl- 
lables of their verses, and the ancient music of the 
lGth century is to this day adapted to the singing of 
the revised and corrected psalms ( Mnsee. des Protes - 
tans Celebres, vol. ii, pt. ii, p. 1 1, 12). Of late years the 
Protestant churches in France have paid much atten- 
tion to the improvement of their psalmody. To the 
metrical version of Marot and Beza they have added 
collections of hymns, with music, for various occasions. 
The French version of Marot and Beza was translated 
into Dutch metre by Peter Datlien, pastor of the first 
Reformed church at Frankfort-on-the-Main, about the 
year 1560, and adapted to the French tunes and meas- 
ure. A new Flemish metrical version of the Psalms 
was executed by Philip de Marnix, lord of St. Alde- 
gonde. A Bohemian version by Stryx, said to be of 
high merit, was published in 1590; and a Polish ver- 
sion by Bernard SVoiewodka, of Cracow, was printed at 
Brecsz, in Lithuania, about the year 15G5, under the au- 
spices of prince Radzivil (Bayle, Dictionnaire, par Des 
Maizeaux, iv. 124; Milner. Life of Dr. Isaac \\ T atts, p. 
350, note). What Marot and Beza were to the Re- 
formed Church of France and French Switzerland, Lob- 
wasser was to the Reformed Church of Germany, Ger- 
man Switzerland, and Holland. None of the strictly 
Calvinistic communities have a hymn-book dating back 
to the Reformation. David’s Psalter was the first hymn- 
book of the Reformed or Genevan Church. The book 
of Psalms became the only hymn-book of the Reformed 
churches in France, Switzerland, Holland, Italy, Ger- 
many, and Scotland, “adapted to grave and solemn 
music, in metrical translations, whose one aim and glory 
were to render into measure which could be sung the 
very words of the old Hebrew psalms.” 

England, in some measure a place of refuge, where 
both forms of the Reformation lived tranquilly side by 
side, but also a border land where both met and con- 
tended, was given the treasures of psalmody at the mo- 
ment of her embracing the new doctrines. Probably in 
1538, and certainly before 1539, the venerable confessor 
Myles Coverdale, bishop of Exeter, during the reign of 
king Edward VI, published a metrical version of thir- 
teen Goosthy Psalmes and Spirituall Songes drawn out 
of the Holy Scripture. The first verse of each psalm is 
accompanied by musical notes, which evidently show 
that they were designed to be snug (Coverdale’s lie- 
mains, p. 533). The next attempt to versify the Psalms 
in English was made by Thomas Sternhold, a native of 
Hampshire, groom of the robes to king Henry VIII and 
to king Edward VI, who published nineteen psalms, 
most probably in 1519. This translation was at first 
discountenanced by many of the clergy, who looked 


PSALMODY 


741 


PSALMODY 


upon it as done in opposition to the practice of chanting 
the psalms in the cathedrals. It was increased to thirty- 
seven in 1551, with seven additional psalms translated 
by Johu Hopkins; to eighty-seven, most probably in 
1561, by Stern hold and others; and in 1563 was pub- 
lished the entire book of Psalms, translated by Stern- 
hold, Hopkins, and others. This version seems to have 
been authoritatively introduced into the service of the 
Reformed Church of England, being sanctioned both by 
the crown and convocation; and it soon became ex- 
ceedingly popular. 

Vocal psalmody was soon after introduced into the 
church service, the choral mode of singing being still 
retained in cathedrals and collegiate churches, and the 
liturgic hymns being retained in the Prayer-book. 
Public singing of psalms by the whole congregation 
was begun in the month of September, 1559, at the par- 
ish church of St. Antholin, in the city of London, whence 
it spread first into the neighboring churches, and from 
them into distant towns. Bishop Jewel, in a letter to 
Peter Martyr, dated March 5, 1560, says: “You may 
sometimes see at Paul’s Cross, after the service, six 
thousand persons, old and young, of both sexes, all sing- 
ing together and praising God” ( Zurich Letters, p. 71). j 
Although several metrical versions of the Psalms were I 
published with the royal license, by archbishop Parker 
(1560), Henry Dod (1603), George Wither (1623), King 
James T (1631), and George Sandvs (1631), the “old 
version” of Sternhold and Hopkins continued to be 
used in the churches until after the Restoration, not- 
withstanding the efforts made, during the rebellion, to 
recommend the introduction and adoption of the metri- 
cal versions of Barton and Rous. The version of Stern- 
hold and Hopkins fell into disuse after the publication 
of A New Version of the Psalms of David, fitted to the 
Tunes in Churches, by Nahum Tate (poet-laureate un- 
der William III and Anne) and Dr. Nicholas Brady 
(Loud. 1696 [2d ed. 1698], 8vo). This version, less lit- 
eral in its renderings than its predecessor, and some- 
what commonplace as regards poetical character, was 
introduced to the public under the sanction of an order 
in council issued bv king William III, of no legal force 
or authority whatever since his decease, and permitting 
it to be used “in all such churches and chapels and 
congregations as think fit to receive the same.” In 
1703, it being found necessary to have a supplement 
containing “ the usual hymns, Creed, Lord’s Prayer, 
etc., with the Church tunes, Messrs. Tate and Brady 
obtained a similar order in council for its adoption in 
such churches, etc., as should think fit to receive the 
same.” Although the “new version,” as it is now 
commonly termed, encountered much animadversion ' 
and opposition at its first publication, it is at present 
used in most churches and chapels in England and 
Ireland, as well as in the chapels of the Episcopal com- 
munion in Scotland and in the British colonies. This 
extensive use of the new version may be ascribed to its 
intelligibility as a whole, tame as the largest portion of 
it confessedly is, and to the fact that, almost ever since 
its first publication, the copyright property has been 
vested in the Stationers’ Company, by whom, until of 
late years, it has almost exclusively been published. 
Modern hymns, selected according to the taste and at 
the will of the incumbent, have to a large extent tak- 
en in recent times the place of metrical psalms in the 
Church of England. 

Of the psalm tunes which came into use, some have 
been attributed to Claude Goudimel, Claude Le Jeune, 
and Guillaume Franc, and a few owe their origin to Lu- 
ther. The well-known 100th Psalm is an adaptation 
of Gregorian phrases by Guillaume Franc. The first 
important collection of psalm tunes for four voices pub- 
lished in England was made by Thomas Ravenscroft, 
Mus. Bac., and appeared in 1621; it was entitled “ The 
whole Booke of Psalms, etc., composed into four parts 
by sundry authors, to such several tunes as have been 
and are usually sung in England, Scotland, Wales, Ger- 


1 many, Italy, France, and the Netherlands.” In this col- 
lection were included contributions by Tallis, Morley, 

! Doivland, and all the great masters of the day, as well 
as by Ravenscroft himself, who contributed the tunes 
St. David's, Bangor, and Canterbury. The name of 
I John Milton, father of the poet, appears as composer of 
the tunes York and Norwich. According to the then 
prevalent usage, the subject, or air, was given to the 
tenor voice. This custom was first departed from in 
the Whole Book of Psalms, in Three Parts, published 
in 1671, compiled and arranged by John Playford — 
whom Sir J. Hawkins calls the “father of modern 
psalmody” — where we have the more proper practice, 
which has since obtained, of making the melody the 
soprano part. Croft, Courteville, Cary, the Bachs, and 
Handel have since that time contributed to the psal- 
mody in use in Britain. 

In 1603 was printed a Welsh translation of the 
Psalms, made by William Mvddleton, a celebrated poet 
and navigator. Another version appeared about the 
commencement of the 17th century, from the pen of 
another eminent Welsh poet, Edmund Prys, archdea- 
con of Merioneth. A revised edition of this version, by 
the Rev. Peter Williams, is now in use throughout the 
principality of Wales. An entire version of the Psalms 
in the Erse, or native Irish language, made by the Rev. 
Dr. M’Leod, the Rev. F. 11. Beamish, Mr. Thaddeus Con- 
nellan, and Mr. David Murphy, was published at Lon- 
don in 1836; and some portions of the Psalms have 
been translated into the Mohawk language by an un- 
known author (London, 1787, and Hamilton, Toronto, 
1839), and into the language of the Muncevs, a native 
tribe of North Americans, by the Rev. Richard Flood, a 
missionary to them from the Society for the Propaga- 
tion of the Gospel in Foreign Parts. 

Admirably as most of the psalms are adapted to gen- 
eral use in public worship, it was yet felt, in the English 
churches, that some other metrical expressions of those 
astonishing hopes and consoling promises which the new 
dispensation has given to man in the N. T. would not 
be altogether inappropriate. The great German Re- 
former had written hymns, and many of the other Con- 
tinental divines of the revived faith in Christ had done 
likewise. Yet no English People’s Hymn-book was 
brought out until the closing years of the 18th centu- 
ry, i. e. none that was placed on cottage tables beside 
the Bible, and none for use when Christians met and 
chanted beside the grave, although they had the Te 
Deum and Magnificat and the Psalms. Bishop Maltby 
published A Selection of Psalms and Hymns before his 
elevation to the episcopate. Various selections were 
made and published by various individuals, principally 
(as it appears) since the year 1770, and these selections 
are derived from Dr. Watts’s Imitation of the Psalms 
of David in the Language of the Neio Testament (1707), 
and from his Hymns (1719); the Hymns of the Rev. Dr. 
Doddridge; those of the Rev. Messrs. John and Charles 
Wesley; the Olney Hymns, composed by William Cow- 
per and John Newton ; and the sacred compositions 
dispersed through the works of the British poets of the 
18th century. The Wesleys, however — so it seems — 
were the first who really gave a People’s Hymn-book 
to England, unless that of Dr. Watts, published about 
the beginning of the 18th century (in 1709), may be 
called so. “To Dr. Watts,” says a modern biographer, 
“ must be assigned the praise of beginning, in our lan- 
guage, a class of productions which have taken a de- 
cided hold upon the universal religious mind. On this 
account Christian worshippers of every denomination, 
I and of every English-speaking land, owe him an incal- 
culable debt of gratitude. Mason, Baxter, and others 
had preceded Watts as hymn-writers; but their hymns 
were not used in public worship. Prejudice prevented 
the use of anything beyond the Psalms, and those not 
yet in their Christian rendering; but Watts made the 
Christian hymn part of modern public worship.” As a 
I supplement to Dr. Watts’s hymns, Dr. Doddridge pub- 


PSALMODY 


742 


PSALMODY 


liahed a collection entitled Hymns Founded on Various 
Texts in the Holy Scriptures (1755\ After these sing- 
ers came the two Wesleys, whose hymns are sung up to 
this day. and John Newton and Cowper, who produced 
the Olney Hymn-book. 

Of the state of psalmody among the Puritans at the 
close of the 10th. and in the former part of the 17th 
century, we have no certain information. During the 
commonwealth. William Barton published a metrical 
version in 1644. reprinted in 1*545 with the license of 
rhe Protector Cromwell. This version was received 
with much favor, and appears to have retained its pop- 
ularity fur many years. In 1646. Francis Rous. the 
Presbyterian provost of Eton College, published his 
version of the psalms, sanctioned by the imprimatur 
of the House of Commons, in pursuance of the recom- 
mendation of the Westminster assembly of divines. 
This version was subsequently revised by William 
Barton for the optional use of churches in England, 
but it never became popular. But the greatest im- 
provement in psalmody, not merely among Protestant 
dissenters, but among all English congregations, was 
effected by the learned and Rev. Dr. Isaac Watts. For 
a just appreciation of the value of bis publication the 
reader is necessarily referred to Mr. Conder's Poet of 
the Sanctuary , p. 48-105, in w hich work will be found 
notices of some eminent versifiers of psalms and hymns, 
both Episcopalian and Nonconformist, who preceded 
Dr. Watts. The best compositions of Dr. Watts, and 
of his learned and pious friend the Rev. Dr. Doddridge, 
are found in every selection of psalms and hymns which 
has been published siuce the year 1770. All the great 
bodies of dissenters from the Church of England now- 
have denominational hymn-books, containing the best 
versions or imitations of the Psalms of David, together 
with hymns selected from the most emiuent modern 
devotional poets. 

A curious controversy on psalmody arose among the 
dissenters in the end of the 17th century. Whether 
singing in public worship had been partially discontin- 
ued during the times of persecution to avoid informers, 
or whether the miserable manner in which it was per- 
formed gave persons a distaste lbr it. it appears that, 
in 1691, Mr. Benjamin Reach published a tract entitled 
The Breach Repaired in God's Worship; or, Psalms , 
Hymns, etc., proved to be a Holy Ordinance of Jesus 
Christ. To us it may seem strange that such a 
point should be disputed: but Mr. Reach was obliged 
to labor earnestly, and with a great deal of prudence 
and caution, to obtain the consent of bis people to sing 
a hymn at the conclusion of the Lord’s Supper. After 
six years more, they agreed to sing on the thanksgiv- 
ing-days; but it required still fourteen years more be- 
fore he could persuade them to sing every Lord's-day, 
and then it was only after the last prayer, that those 
who chose might withdraw- without joining in it ! Nor 
did even this satisfy these scrupulous consciences: for. 
after all, a separation took place, and the inharmo- 
nious seceders formed a new church in May's Rond, 
where it was above twenty years longer before singing 
the praises of God could be endured. It is difficult at 
this period to believe it; but Mr. lvimev quotes Mr. 
Crosby as saying that Mr. Reach's was the fir«t church 
in which psalm-singing was introduced. This remark, 
however, must probably be confined to the Baptist 
churches. The Presbyterians, it seems, were not quite 
so unmusical; for the Directory of the Westminster 
divines distinctly stated that it is the duty of Chris- 
tians to praise God publicly by singing of psalms to- 
gether in the congregation.” And besides the old 
Scotch Psalms. Dr. John Patrick, of the Charter-house, 
made a version which was in very general use among 
dissenters. Presbyterians, and Independents before it 
was superseded by the far superior compositions of Dr. 
Watts. These Psalms, however, like those of the Eng- 
lish and Scotch Establishment, were drawled out in 
notes of equal length, without accent or variety. Even 


'the introduction of the triple -timed tunes, probably 
about the time of Dr. Watts's psalms, gave also great 
offence to some people, because it marked the accent of 
the measure. Old 51 r. Thomas Bradbury used to call 
this time "a long leg and a short one.” The beautiful 
compositions of Dr. Watts, the Wesleys, and others pro- 
duced a revolution in modem psalmody. Better ver- 
sions of the Psalms, and many excellent collections of 
hymns, are now in use. and may be considered as high- 
ly important gifts bestowed upon the modem Church 
of God. 

In Scotland, the early Reformers, while they banished 
instrumental music from churches, paid great attention 
to singing. In John Rnox's P-alter, arranged for use 
in churches, the metrical psalms are set to music in har- 
mony of four parts. Several early translations of the 
Psalms were produced in North Britain, but that of 
Stemhold and Hopkins was used in worship from 1564 
down to the middle of the 17th ceutury. In 1632 an 
attempt made by Charles I to supersede it by king 
James’s version was more resolutely and decidedly op- 
posed than in England. During the Commonwealth, 
the commission of the General Assembly, in pursuance 
of a reference made to them in August, 1649. issued on 
the 23d of November following their decision in favor of 
the revised version of Francis Rous, a member of Crom- 
well’s council, which Parliament had in vain endeavored 
to bring into general use in England. It was adopted 
in the main to be used as the only authorized metrical 
version of the Psalms for the Rirk of Scotland, not onlv 
in congregations, but also in families. Though some- 
what rough and uncouth, it is sometimes expressive and 
forcible, and perhaps nearer the original than any other 
metrical translation of the Psalms. A few paraphrases 
and hymns have since been added, by authority of the 
General Assembly, and form together the psalmody in 
use in Presbyterian worship in Scotland. In 1706 the 
assembly commended the Scripture songs of Mr. Patrick 
Sympson for use in private families; and to prepare 
them for public use the act was renewed in the follow- 
ing year, and in 1708 the commission was authorized to 
compare the remarks of presbyteries on these songs. 
Thus matters passed on for years. In 1742 the assem- 
bly anew expressed a wish for an addition to the psal- 
mody. and in 1751 forty-five paraphrases had been se- 
lected. In 1781, after many delays, a new and fuller 
collection was made, twenty-two being added to the 
previous forty-five selections. This collection, though 
never formally sanctioned by the assembly, is that now- 
in use and printed along with the Psalms in Scottish 
Bibles. Some of the paraphrases have an Arminian 
tinge. In 17*7 a committee of the General Assembly, 
duly empowered, published a selection of Paraphrases 
in Verse of several Passages of Scripture ... to be sung 
in Churches. It retained, in substance, the translations 
which had been published in 1745, under the authority 
of the General Assembly, and which had been in use in 
several churches; and a considerable number of new 
paraphrases were added, chiefly from the psalms or 
hymns of Drs. Watts Doddridge, and Blacklock. and Mr. 
Logan. In 17*1 a faithful and beautiful version of the 
psalmody of the Church of Scotland, in the Gaelic lan- 
guage. was made by the Rev. John Smith, by whom it 
was revised and published in 17*3. From 1*07 to 1*22 
rhe subject of a revision of the metrical psalms was be- 
fore everv assembly. Sir Walter Scott, when applied 
to. was wisely against the project: ‘-for the Psalms,” 
said he, often possessed a rude sort of majesty, which 
would be ill exchanged for mere elegance.” In 1*60 an 
addition to a collection of paraphrases was published by 
the General Assembly. The Relief synod published a 
hymn-book for their churches in 1794. and enlarged it 
in 1*32. The Burgher branch of the Secession had, in 
174*. requested Ralph Erskine, the author of the Gospel 
Somttts, to undertake the duty of enlarging the psal- 
mody. but the proposal led to no result. The United 
Presbyterian Church, after some years’ preparation, 


PSALMODY 


743 


PSALMODY 


published, in 1851, a hymn-book for the use of their 
churches. The most of the paraphrases are incorpo- 
rated into it. In addition to what is stated in the pre- 
vious portion of this article about psalmody in Scotland, 
it may be mentioned that there was published at the pe- 
riod of the Reformation a Compendious Booke of Godly 
and Spiriiuall Bongs. Many of these are satires on the 
Romish clergy, and many are profane songs ( prophaine 
sangis) metamorphosed. The Romish clergy published 
a canon against this book — such was its popularity — 
and the fifth Parliament of queen Maty passed an act 
against such rhymes. 

The first song of praise to Almighty God in the Eng- 
lish language, on our New -England coast, was raised 
by the Pilgrim fathers when they landed on Plymouth 
Rock. Cold, ice-bound, without a roof over their heads, 
they remembered their first Sabbath-day to keep it holy 
— •“ 10 of December, on the Sabbath day, wee rested,” is 
the simple and impressive record of their journal. 

“Amid the storm they sang. 

And the stars heard, and the sea. 

And the sounding aisles of the dim woods rang 
With the anthem of the free.’' 

As the first book ever printed with movable metal 
types was the Bible, so, as if to keep up the sacred paral- 
lel on this continent, the first book printed here was 
a portion of the inspired volume “done into metre." 
The first press was put up at Cambridge in 1639, by 
Stephen Day. Ilis first book was The Psalms in Metre, 
faithfully translated for the use and edif cation of the 
saints in public and private, especially in Xew England 
(printed at Cambridge in 1640 . This version was made 
from the Hebrew by Thomas Welde, of Roxbury ; Rich- 
ard Mather, of Dorchester; and John Eliot, the Apostle 
of the Indians. They were a committee appointed by 
the Congregational or Independent churches as early as 
1636. In their preface they say, “We have respected 
rather a plain translation than to smoothe our verses 
with the sweetness of any paraphrase, and so have at- 
tended to conscience rather than to elegance, and fidel- 
ity rather than poetry, in translating Hebrew words 
into English language and David's poetry into English 
metre/’ Three hundred acres of land were granted to 
Stephen Day, “being the first that set up printing." 
Eliot's Indian Bible, in the Nipmuck language, was 
printed at Cambridge in 1663. the whole of the type be- 
ing set up by an Indian, and the Psalms “ done in com- 
nyn metre" — of which the first verse from the 19th 
Psalm may suffice as a specimen — 

,: Ke=ok kukootumnsheaumon 
God wussosnmoouk 
Mamahehekesnk wnmatnhkon 
Wutaua kausnonk.” 

In 1718 Dr. Cotton Mather issued bis Psalterium A mer- 
icanum ; the Book of Psalms in a translation exactly con- 
formed unto the original, but all in blank verse, ftted unto 
tunes commonly used in our churches. From this curious 
book we extract a few lines, as printed: 

“PSALM XXTII. — A PSALM OF PA VXD. 

“1. My Shepherd is th’ f.teenal God I shall not be in 
[any] want : 

“2. In pastures of a tender grass He [ever] makes me to 
lie down : | To waters of trauquillities j He geutly car- 
ries me [alons] : 

“3. My feeble and my vandering soul | He [kindly] does 
fetch back again ; Iu the plain paths of righteous- 
ness He does lead [and guide] me along ; because 
of the regard he has [ererjunto his glorioas Name." | 

In an Admonition concerning the Tunes. Dr. Mather 
states that “the director of psalmody need only say, 
■ Sing with the black letter/ or ; Sing without the black 
letter/ and tbe tune will be sufficiently directed” (see 
Belcher. Historical Sketches of Hymns and Hymn-vrit- 
ers, p. 47. 48 — a work which contains much interesting 
information on the whole subject of Church psalmody, 
hymnology. and music). These and other primitive ef- 
forts to furnish an American psalmody and hymnal were 
not followed with success. Between the years 1755 and 
1757 the version of the Psalms of 1640 was carefully re- 


vised by the Rev. Thomas Prince, M.A., and published 
in 1758. In 1783 Mr. Joel Barlow, an American states- 
man and poet, published a corrected and enlarged edi- 
tion of Dr. Watts's version of the Psalms, and a collec- 
tion of hymns, with the recommendation of the General 
Assembly of the Congregational Ministers of Connecti- 
cut, at whose request the work had been undertaken. 
[Many of the psalms were altered, several were written 
anew, and several, which had been omitted by Dr. 
Watts, were supplied. This collection was in general 
use in that state until the bad character of the author 
(who died a wretched infidel) brought them into dis- 
repute ; and in the year 18«k>, the Rev. Timothy Dwight, 
D.D., president of Yale College, published a revised edi- 
tion of Dr. Watts's version of the Psalms (in which he 
versified upwards of twenty psalms omitted by Watts), 
with the approbation of the General Assembly of Min- 
isters in the state of Connecticut, at whose request it 
had originally been undertaken. This edition, with the 
contributions of Dr. Dwight, has never been adopted by 
the Congregationalists of this country. Many of tbe 
leading denominations in the United States of America 
now have their own separate psalm- and hymn-books. 

Iu 1789 the new version of the Psalms by Messrs. 
Tate and Brady was adopted entire by the Protestant 
Episcopal Church in the United States of America, with 
the additiou of a few hymns. Since the year 1826 a 
collection of 212 hymns has been in use under the au- 
thority of the General Convention of that Church, com- 
posed of the House of Bishops and of clerical and lay 
delegates: and since October, 1832. under the same au- 
thority, 124 selections of entire psalms, or of portions 
of psalms, from tbe new version (with certain necessary 
alterations or corrections, and occasionally with the sub- 
stitution of a better version) has been in use in all the 
churches of that communion. 

The constitution of the Reformed Chnrch in America 
declares that "No psalms or hymns may be publicly 
sung in the Reformed Dutch) churches bnt such as are 
approved and recommended by the ^General Synod." 
The manifest reason of this prohibition is to be found in 
the vital relation that subsists between the psalmody 
and the theology of that Church. This is further il- 
lustrated by a rule of its General Synod which forbids 
the issue of any edition of the psalms and hymns of this 
Church without the Confession of Faith, the Catechisms, 
and the Liturgy. The history of the hymnology of this 
denomination, which dates back to the period of the 
Reformation, makes an interesting chapter of the gen- 
eral subject. From an elaborate report made to the 
General Synod of 1869 by the committee which pre- 
pared the •• Hymns of the Church," we condense a brief 
narrative : •• The Church Orders ratified by the National 
Svnod of Dordrecht < A.D. 1618-19). which are still " rec- 
ognised' as containing the distinctive and fundamental 
principles of our Church government, declare that * the 
one hundred and fifty psalms of David, the Ten Com- 
mandments. the Lord s Prayer, the Twelve Articles of 
the Christian faith, tbe songs of Mary, Zacharias. and 
'dmeon. versified only, shall be sung in public worship.’ 
The churches are left at liberry to adopt or omit that 
entitled 0 thou, vho art our Father. God l All others 
are prohibited. This usage, prevailing in the Nether- 
lands, was transferred to this country. Several copies 
of the psalm -books which the fathers brought with 
them are in the hands of the committee.” They are in- 
variably bound up with the Bible, or the New Testa- 
ment at least, the Catechism, and Liturgy. These 
Psalms iu Dutch are the version of Peter Dache. the 
eminent Biblical scholar and critic, by whom they 
were translated : however, not from the original, bnt 
from ihe French. This was the.ririf book in use in tbe 
Reformed Church in America. It contains, besides the 
Psalms, the Ten Commandments, the Song of Zacharias, 
the Song of the Virgin Mars*, the Apostles’ Creed, the 
Lord's Prayer, the Articles of the Christian faith trans- 
lated from the German by Jan Uytenhoven), the Mem- 


PSALMODY 


744 


PSALMODY 


ing Prayer, the Evening Prayer, the Prayer before ' 
Sermon, Prayer before Eating. Prayer after Eating, t he 
Evening Prayer entitled Chris/e gui Lux es et J)ies, 
and a translation by Abraham Van der Mecr, from the 
Greek I5ible, of the 151st Psalm of David. Every 
word of these psalms and creeds and prayers is set 
to music of a simple recitative character, in which 
all might join, by Cornelius De Leeuw. This book was 
in use in all the Dutch churches in this country, until 
the consistory of the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church 
of the city of New’ York found it necessary to have di- 
vine service performed in the English language; and 
on .Nov. 9, 1767, approved and recommended for the use 
of their Church and schools an English psalm-book, 
published by their order, ‘‘which is greatly indebted to 
that of Dr. Brady and Mr. Tate, sonic of the psalms be- 
ing transcribed verbatim from their version, and others 
altered so as to tit them to the music used in the Dutch 
Church” (prefatory note). This book contains, besides 
the Psalms of David, fifteen pages of “ hymns” — viz. the 
Ten Commandments, the Song of Zacharias, the Song of 
the Virgin Mary, the Song of Simeon, the Creed, and 
the Lord’s Prayer — all set to the simple music in which 
all the people joined, so that the compiler could truth- 
fully say, “A great part of divine worship consists in 
harmonious singing.” This first book in English was 
the second book in use in our churches. The ‘‘Articles 
of Union,” adopted in 1771, make no mention of psal- 
mody, but agree to “abide in all things" by the regula- 
tions of the Synod of Dort, hereinbefore quoted. In 
1773 a new version of the psalms and hymns was com- 
piled and adopted in the Netherlands, and was soon in- 
troduced into some of the Dutch churches in America, 
constituting the third book thus used. It differs from 
the preceding chiefly in the higher critical character of 
the psalms. In 1787 the General Synod appointed a 
committee to compile a psalm-book “out of other collec- 
tions of English psalms in repute and received in the 
Reformed churches; no congregation, however, to be 
obliged thereto where that of t lie New- York consisto- 
ry is in use.” Additional instructions w’ere given the 
next year to print “ some w'ell-composed spiritual hymns 
in connection with the psalms,” After approval by the 
Synod of 1789, this book “ was speedily published." it 
contains, besides the Psalms of David, a century of 
hymns, of which “ 1 to 52 are suited to the Heidelberg 
Catechism, 53 to 73 are adapted to the holy ordinance 
of the Lord’s Supper, and Hymn 74, to the end, on mis- 
cellaneous subjects.” Among these arc such titles as 
“Christmas,” “The Song of the Angels,” “Resurrec- 
tion,” “Ascension,” “Whitsuntide,” “New Year.” etc. 
This book, prepared by order of the General Synod, be- 
ing the fourth book used in their churches, is without 
music, as have been all subsequent books until this 
time. This selection continued in use for full a quarter 
of a century, and is still an admirable one. In 1812, on 
petition of the Classis of New York, the General Synod 
requested the Rev. Dr. John II. Livingston to prepare 
an improved and enlarged selection of psalms and 
hymns. This was reported to the Synod of 1813, and 
by its order was “forthwith introduced into all our 
churches.” Its use was recommended also “ to all fam- 
ilies and individuals in place of the book hitherto in use.” 
No radical change has been made in the psalmody of 
the Reformed Church from that day to this — the fifth 
book sanctioned in the churches. It embraced 273 more 
hymns than the former collection. Additions, however, 
were made, in 1831, of 172 hymns, and published as 
Book 11. Rev. l>r. Thomas DeWitt was chairman of 
the committee which prepared it. This was the sixth 
book. In 1813 a book of Sabbath -school and Social 
Hymns, 331 in number, was published by order of the 
Synod. In 1845-46 a committee, of which Rev. Dr. 
Isaac Ferris was chairman, prepared, by authority of the 
Synod, a new arrangement of psalms and hymns, em- 
bracing 312 additional selections. This was soon pub- 
lished, and constituted the seventh book thus used in the 


Reformed Church in America — containing, in addition 
to the psalms, 788 hymns. An edition with music has 
been published within three or four years past, under 
the title of The Book of Praise. In I8G2 the Fulton 
Street llymn-book, which is used in the celebrated daily 
noon prayer -meeting which bears the name of that 
street, and numbering 32G hymns, was published, and 
“recommended to the churches” by the Synod. 

In this chronological sketch no reference has been 
made to books in the French and German languages; 
but so long ago as 1792 the Synod approved and rec- 
ommended, in the French language, the psalms and 
hymns compiled by Theodore de Bcza and La Marot ; 
and in the German language, the psalms and hymns, 
published at Marburg and Amsterdam, used in the Re- 
formed churches in Germany, in the Netherlands, and 
Pennsylvania. In October, 1852, a valuable and large 
collection of hymns in the German language was print- 
ed by order of the General Synod, for use in the < h rman 
churches of this denomination. It was compiled by the 
late Rev. John C. Guldin, of New York, Rev. Joseph E. 
Berg, D.IX, and Rev. Abraham 1 lerkv. Since then a 
German Jlymn-book for Sunday-schools, with music, has 
been issued. The General Synod of 18G9 sanctioned a 
new volume, entitled Hymns of the Church, with tunes, 
which is now coming in use in many congregations. 
The full history of the preparation of this elegant vol- 
ume is given in the Report of the Synod. In many re- 
spects it is the most admirable collection of hymns for 
public worship now in use among Protestant denomina- 
tions. It numbers 1007 hymns, together with many 
chants, sentences, etc. The music, which is designed 
to promote congregational singing, is of a very high or- 
der. The wide range of topics, the rich selection from 
the most celebrated devotional lyrics of all ages, and its 
fine adaptation to the great purpose of the praises of 
(iod, entitle it to a foremost place among modern collec- 
tions. The committee who made the compilation were 
Rev. John B. Thompson, Rev. Aslibel G. Vermilye, D.I)., 
Rev. Alexander Ii. Thompson, D.I)., with whom was as- 
sociated, as a prominent co-laborer, the Rev. Zachary 
Eddy, D.D. This book and the previous one are now 
both in use in the Reformed Church in America. It has 
also been introduced into a number of churches of other 
denominations. 

The hymn-books of the various other Christian de- 
nominations embrace a large proportion of the psalms 
and hymns which have become the property of khe 
Church universal, and of these it is necessary only to 
give the titles, which we subjoin in a list of all hymn- 
books. But there arc hymns and hymnals characteris- 
tic of the particular doctrines, ordinances, and spirit of 
the Methodists so distinctive in these respects that we 
append a history of their hymn-books, recognising there- 
by the general assertion that their hymns and tunes 
have been among the greatest instrumentalities of tlieir 
immense successes. 

The origin of the first collection of hymns in use 
among the }fethodists of this country cannot he satis- 
factorily ascertained. In 1773 one of Wesley’s publica- 
tions, divided into three books — 1, Hymns and Spiritual 
Songs; 2, Psalms and Hymns; 3, Redemption Hymns 
(16th cd. Bristol)— was reprinted by Isaac Collins, in 
Burlington, N. J. At the formation of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church in 1784, Wesley’s abridgment of the 
Book of Common Prayer, with a “Collection of Psalms 
and Hymns” appended, was adopted by the new com- 
munion. It was not, however, long employed. There 
is extant a copy of the Pocket Hymn-book (9th cd. Phila. 
1788). This contains 250 hymns. Wc may infer from 
the number of Methodists in the country that the first 
edition may have been published about 1785 or 1786. 
There is also an edition “revised and improved,” copy- 
righted in 1802 by Ezekiel Cooper. This contains 320 
hymns. In 1808 a supplement was added hv bishop 
Asbnry, containing 337 hymns, the whole being pub- 
lished in two books. This was revised under the su- 


PSALMODY 


Uo 


PSALMODY 


pervision of Nathan Bangs in the i r ear 1820. To this 
again a supplement was added in 183G. The General 
Conference of 1848 appointed a committee to carefully 
revise the then existing book, and to “judiciously mul- 
tiply the number of hymns/’ Their work was com- 
pleted, and approved by the Book Committee, the edit- 
ors of the Book Concern, and finally by the bishops, by 
whom it was commended to the Church in May, 1849. 
A revision of this hymn-book was undertaken in 1876 
by order of that year’s General Conference, and it is 
completed at our writing (1878). The Hymnal, so it is 
entitled, is to be the sole book containing songs of praise 
to be used hereafter in the Methodist Episcopal Church. 
The Methodist Episcopal Church, South, after the sep- 
aration, in 1846 ordered the preparation of a collection 
specially designed for its members, which was in some 
respects a decided improvement on the book of 1820 
with supplement. The various smaller bodies of Meth- 
odists have employed books prepared by themselves. 

During the last twenty years nearly every religions 
organization has revised its “ book of praise,” and we ap- 
pend a list of these standard collections used in America 
and England: 

A . England. 

1. Baptist.— Psalms and Hymns for Public, Social, and 

Private Worship (1857). 

The New Hymn-book, published under the direction 
of the General Baptist Association (1851). 

Onr Own Ilymn-hook, compiled by C. II. Spurgeon. 

2. Church of England. — The Year of Praise, edited by 

Dean Alford (18(17). 

Christian Psalmody, bv E. Bickersteth (1S33). 

Psalms and Hymns, bv E. II. Bickersteth (1S5S; 6th 
ed. 1867). 

Psalms and Hymns for Pnblic Worship, by Burgess 
and Money (10th ed. 1S66). 

The Hymnal, by Chope (tS58). 

Psalms and Hymns, by W. J. Ilall (1S36); sometimes 
called the “ Mitre” Hymn-book. 

A Church Psalter and Hymnal, by Harland (1S55, 
1867). 

A Selection of Psalms and Hymns, by Kemble (1S53). 
The Church Psalter and Hymn-book, by W. Mercer 
(1864). 

The People’s Hymnal (1S67). 

The Sarum Hymnal, by Nelson, Woodford, and Day- 
man (1863). 

The Choral Book for England (1865). 

3. Cong relational.— The Hymn-book, by A. Reed (1S4I). 

The Church and Home Metrical Psalter and Hymnal, 
by W. Windle. 

Psalms, Hymns, and Passages of Scripture for Chris- 
tian Worship, compiled by the Congregational Min- 
isters of Leeds (1853). 

The New Congregational Hymn-book, compiled by a 
Committee of the Congregational Union (1859). 
[This is one of the most comprehensive aiul excel- 
lent of modern English collections. It was com- 
piled by a competent committee in London, who 
were occupied from 1S55 to 1859 in its preparation. 
They met frequently, and had the assistance of nti- 
merons ministers and others in all parts of the 
country. It includes 1000 of the best psalms and 
hymns, of nearly 200 writers of almost every coun- 
try and religions denomination, and of various ages < 
of the world, from the time of David to our own. 
It was prepared upon the broadest basis of Chris- 
tian catholicity, and the sale of nearly a million 
copies already evinces its usefulness and accepta- 
bility to the worshipping assemblies in Euglish- 
speakiug countries.] 

4. Methodist. —“Hymns for Divine Worship, compiled for 

the Use of the Methodist New Connection (1S65). 

A Collection of Hymns for the Use of the People 
called Methodists, by J. Wesley, with a Supplement 
(1831). 

The Wesleyau Methodist Hymn-book, by J. Everett 
(1S53). 

5. Presbyterian — Psalms and Hymns for Divine Worship 

for the Presbyterian Church in England (1867). 

6. Miscellaneous. — Hymns for Christian Worship, by the 

Religious Tract Society (1S66). 

Psalins and Hymns for Public Worship, by the Soci- 
ety for Promoting Christian Knowledge. 
Ilymnologia Christiana, or Psalms and Hymns, by B. 
H. Kennedy (1S63). 

B. America. 

1. Baptist.— Baptist Praise-book, by Fuller, Levy, Phelps, 
Fish, etc. 

Songs for the Sauctnary. 

The Psalmist, by Baron Stow and S. F. Smith, with 
supplement by Richard Fuller and J. B. Jeter. 


2. Congregational. — Songs for the Sanctuary. 

Plymouth Collection, by H. W. Beecher. 

3. Lutheran.— A Collection of Hymns, and a Liturgy, for 

the Use ofthe Evangelical Lutheran Churches (1865). 
The Church-book. 

4. Methodist. — Hymnal of the Methodist Episcopal Church 

(1878). 

5. Moravian. — Liturgy aiul Hymns for the Use of the Prot- 

estant Church of the United Brethren, or Moravians 
(1872). 

6. Presbyterian.— Songs for the Sanctuary. 

Church Hymn-book for the Worship of God, by E. F. 
Hatfield. 

Hymns and Songs of Praise, by Hitchcock and others. 
Presbyterian Ilyinnal (official). 

7. Protestant Episcopal llymnal, according to the Use 

of the Protestant Episcopal Church iu the Uuited 
States of America. 

Hymns, Ancient anil Modern (1SG9). 

Hymns for Church nnd Home, compiled by Burgess, 
Muhlenberg, Howe, Coxe, and Wharton. 

S. Undenominational.— Hymns ofthe Church, by Thomp- 
son, Vermilye, and Eddy. The use of this book is 
required in all congregations of the Reformed Church 
iu America. 

C. German Hymn-books. 

Germany is very rich in hymn-books, to enumerate 
which would fill pages. Each state, each province, has its 
own hymn-book. The following may be mentioned among 
the most complete collections at present extant, viz. : i, 
The Geistlicher Liedersehatz , containing 2020 hymns (Berk 
1832, Svo) ; 2, Archdeacon Knapp’s Evangelischcn Lieder- 
sehatz fur Kirche urul llaus , containing 3572 hymns (Stntt- 
gard, 1837, 2 vols. Svo); and, 3, The chevalier Christian 
Carl Josias Bunsen’s A llgemeines Eoangeb'sches Gesang 
und Gebet Bach (2d ed. llamb. 1S46, Svo). This work is 
deservedly held in the highest estimation iu Germany. 
Besides a selection of 440 of the choicest hymns of the Lu- 
theran and Reformed churches, it contains a table of les- 
sons from the Old and New Tests, for the whole of the ec- 
clesia-tical year, a series of formularies, and a collection 
of prayers adapted to ordinary public worship, to the fes- 
tivals celebrated by the universal Christian Church, and 
to sacramental and other occasions. The following are 
the hymn-books used in this country iu the different de- 
nominations: 

1. Baptist. — Glanbensstirmne der Gemeiue . des Herrn 

(Hamburg, 1860). 

2. Evangelical Association. — Gesangburii der evangeli- 

scheu Gemeinscliaft (Cleveland, 1S77). 

3. Lutheran.— Das gemeinschaftliche Gesangbnch. 

Lntherisches Gesangbnch. 

4. Methodist. — Deutsches Gesangbuch der Bisch. Metho- 

disten-Kirche (Cincinnati). 

5. Moravian Gesangbnch zum Gebrauch der evangel. 

Bruedergemeinen (Bethlehem, Pa.). 

6. Reformed and German Presbyterian. — Deutsches Ge- 

sangbuch, von Pli. Schaff. This is one of the best 
German hymn-books in this conn try. 

During the American Civil AVar (1861-65) many 
new patriotic and Christian songs resounded through 
the camps of the contending armies. The religions ser- 
vices, the meetings for prayer, the labors of chaplains 
and army missionaries, and of the sanitary and Chris- 
tian commissions, and other voluntary organizations for 
the temporal and spiritual welfare of the military and 
naval forces, and for hospital service, were all attended 
with the cheering influence of Christian song. Few 
of these new songs, whether patriotic or religious, sur- 
vive the conflict. But the dear old hymns that re- 
sounded in the homes and churches of the soldiers in 
happier times rang out their inspiring strains, and stirred 
all the deepest sympathies and memories of peace and 
love. Two of these little soldiers’ and sailors’ hymn- 
books are before us as we write — one printed for the 
Union and the other for the Confederate army. Both 
of them contain a majority of the same familiar psalms 
and hymns, both end with “Lord, dismiss us with thy 
blessing,” and, with perhaps the exception of only a 
single hymn, either collection could have been used 
with equal profit on both sides of the line, just as they 
used the same old English Bible. Was it not prophetic 
of the restoration of national and Christian union which 
is yet advancing to a blessed consummation? Not a 
few waifs from the sea of newspaper and periodical lit- 
erature have found fit and permanent places in modern 
hymn-books, and in such exquisite collections as The 
Changed Cross , The Shadow of the Rock, Drifted Snow- 
flakes, and similar popular volumes of the poetry of 
devotion and of affliction. 


PSALMS 


746 


PSALMS 


It may be proper here to allude to the large addition 
to our psalmody in consequence of the labors of evange- 
lists, such as Bliss and Sankey. These have produced 
numerous books of hymns, chiefly with the music at- 
tached, which contain, along with much that is merely 
ephemeral, some songs and tunes which are destined to 
survive the occasions that have called them forth. 

We close this article with a brief reference to the 
great increase of hymns and tunes for children, and es- 
pecially for Sabbath and mission schools. It is the 
marvellous outgrowth of the city and home missionary 
and Sunday-school system of the times. Advantage 
has been taken of the demand to flood the market with 
books which are utterly unworthy of their authors and 
unfit for use— full of trashy verses, and of tunes that arc 
no better. But a happy reaction has begun, which 
will soon result in elevating the standard, purifying the 
taste, and ennobling this delightful branch of Christian 
instruction and worship. The best poetical and musical 
talent of the country is now engaged in the work, and 
we may soon look for its ripe fruit. The songs of the 
children, like books and addresses for them, must not be 
childish nor weak, if they are to bear their part in the 
religions training of the rising race, and in an age like 
this. The hosannas which were sung to Jesus in the 
Temple by the youthful throng were in full unison and 
of equal grandeur with those of the multitudes that 
went before and that followed him, and spread their 
garments in the way, and cried, saying, “Hosanna to 
the Son of David!” “Hosanna in the highest!” See 
St'NDAv School. 

In the preparation of this article we have freely used 
the labors of other reference books. We have also had 
valuable contributions in sections from the pens of emi- 
nent writers. l)r. W. J. II. Taylor has greatly enriched 
our treatment of American psalmody, especially that 
treating of the Ileformed Church. The Rev. Dr. Rick 
has aided in the bibliography. Those desiring fuller 
information will consult the list of works quoted in the 
article Hymnology. 

Psalms, Book of, one of the most important of 
the Biblical components, standing in the English 
Scriptures at the beginning of the practical or experi- 
mental books, and in the Hebrew Bible of the Kethu- 
bim, or llagiographa. (In the following accounts we 
make use, in part, of the articles in Kitto’s and Smith’s 
dictionaries, but we have thrown some new light, we 
trust, especially upon the difficult questions connected 
with the titles of the several Psalms.) See llmi.K. 

I. General Title of the Hook . — This collection of sa- 
cred poetry received its English name, Psalms, from 
the Creek of the Septuagint, '} >a.\pot, in consequence 
of the lyrical character of the pieces of which it con- 
sists, as intended to be sung to stringed and other in- 
struments of music. The word (from xpdWio, to touch 
or strike a chord) is aptly defined by Cregory of Nyssa 
(Tract, ii, in Fsalmos, c. J) as melody produced by a 
musical instrument. Another name, Psalter, wan given 
to this book from the Creek \pa\ri/pioi’, the stringed 
instrument to which its contents were originally sung. 
See Psaj.tf.kv. 

It does not appear how the Psalms were, as a whole, 
anciently designated. Their present Hebrew appella- 
tion is Tehillim, elsewhere rendered “Praises.” 

But in the actual superscriptions of the psalms the word 
Pi* nr is applied only to one, Psa. cxlv, which is indeed 
emphatically a praise -hymn. The Sept, (as above 
noted) entitled them VaX/ioi, or “ Psalms,” using the 
word at the same time as the translation of 

mizmor, which signifies strictly a rhythmical 
composition (Lowth, Prerlect. iii), and which was prob- 
ably applied in practice to any poem specially intended, 
by reason of its rhythm, for musical performance with 
instrumental accompaniment. But the Hebrew word 
is, in the Old Test., never used elsewhere in the plural; 


and in the superscriptions of even the Davidic psalms it 
is applied only to some, not to all; probably to those 
which had been composed most expressly for the harp. 
The Hebrew title, Z"2”“ (Rabbinic form, with H elided, 
-"“T or tillim or tillin), signifies hymns or praises, 

and was probably adopted on account of the use made 
of the collection in divine service, though only a part 
can be strictly called songs of praise, not a few being 
lamentations and prayers. There is evidently no prop- 
er correspondence between the titles in the two lan- 
guages, though each is suitable. The word answering 
to is i'fivot, and not \pa\/ioi, which rather (as 

above noted) corresponds to “"‘"'’"-'.'t* viizmorim, lyric- 
al odes — a name which, though so plainly appropriate, 
does not appear to have been generally given to the 
book, at least so far as the Hebrew usage can now be 
ascertained. This is the more singular, inasmuch as no 
fewer than sixty-five of the songs distinctly bear the 
title of “‘"2V2, while only one (Psa. cxlv, 1) is styled 
““•"tr. That the name did, however, obtain 

in ancient times, rather than the present title, -^nr, 
may be presumed from the use of \J,a\poi in the Sept, 
and the New Test., and of mizmtru in the reshito. See 
Pkaish. 

In Psa. Ixxii, 20 we find all the preceding composi- 
tions (i-lxxii) styled Prayers of David, because many 
of them are strictly prayers, and all are pervaded by 
the spirit and tone of supplication. This notice has 
suggested that the Psalms inav in the earliest times 
have been known as r *2 SFl, tephilloth, “ Prayers;” and, 
in fact, “Prayer” is the title prefixed to the most an- 
cient of all the psalms, that of Moses (Psa. xc). But 
the same designation is in the superscriptions applied 
to only three besides, Psa. xvii, lxxxvi, cii ; nor have 
all the psalms the character of prayers. See Praykr. 

The other special designations applied to particular 
psalms are the following: “P'A 1 , Shir, “Song,” the out- 
pouring of the soul in thanksgiving, used in the 
first instance of a hymn of private gratitude (Psa. 
xxx), afterwards of hymns of great national thanksgiv- 
ing (Psa. xlvi, xlviii, lxv, etc.) ; Muskil, “In- 

struction” or “Homily” (Psa. xxxii, xlii, xliv, etc.; 
comp, the “ T will instruct thee,” in Psa. xxxii, 

8); EP2., Mik/dm, “Private Memorial,” if from the 
root Zrz (perhaps also with an anagram mat ical allu- 
sion to the root “to support,” “ maintain ;" comp. 

Psa. xvi, 5) (Psa. xvi, Ivi-lix); Eduth, “Testi- 

mony” (Psa. lx, Ixxx) ; and “'“‘'1', Shiggaydn, 1 ‘ Irreg- 
ular or Pithyrambie Ode” (Psa. vii). The strict mean- 
ing of these terms is in general to be gathered from the 
earlier superscriptions. Once made familiar to the 
psalmists, they were afterwards employed by them 
more loosely. (Sec § iv, below.) 

II. Xnmeration of the Psalms . — The Christian Church 
obviously received the Psalter from the Jews not only 
as a constituent portion of the sacred volume of Holy 
Scripture, but also as the liturgical hymn-book which 
the Jewish Church had regularly used in the Temple. 
The number of separate psalms contained in it is, by the 
concordant testimony of all ancient authorities, one hun- 
dred and fifty; the avowedly “ supernumerary” psalm 
which appears at the end of the Creek and Syriac Psal- 
ters, “on David’s victory over floliath," being manifest- 
ly apocryphal. This total number commends itself bv 
its internal probability as having proceeded from the 
last sacred collector and editor of the Psalter. In the 
details, however, of the numbering, both the Creek and 
Syriac Psalters differ from the Hebrew. The Creek 
translators joined together Psa. ix, x and Psa. cxiv, 
cxv, and then divided Psa. cxvi and Psa. cxlvii: this 
was perpetuated in the versions derived from the Creek, 
and among others in the Latin Vulgate. The Syriac 


PSALMS 


747 


PSALMS 


so far followed the Greek as to join together Tsa. cxiv, 
cxv, and to divide Psa. cxlvii. Of the three divergent 
systems of numbering, the Hebrew (as followed in our 
A. V.) is, even on internal grounds, to be preferred. It 
is decisive against the Greek numbering that Psa.cxvi, 
being symmetrical in its construction, will not bear to 
be divided; and against the Syriac that it destroys the 
outward correspondence in numerical place between the 
three great triumphal psalms, Psa. xviii, lxviii, cxviii, 
as also between the two psalms containing the praise of 
the Law, Psa. xix, cxix. That Psa. xlii, xliii were 
originally one is evident from the continuation of the 
refrain. There are also some discrepancies in the ver- 
sual numberings. That of our A. V. frequently differs 
from that of the Hebrew in consequence of the Jewish 
practice of reckoning the superscription as the first 
verse. See Verse. 

111. Ancient Collection and Division . — When the 
Psalms, as a whole, were collected, and by whom, are 
questions that cannot be confidently answered. The 
Talmudists most absurdly considered David the collec- 
tor of them all (Berakoth, i, 9). It is certain that the 
book, as it now stands, could not have been formed be- 
fore the building of the second Temple, for Psa. cxxvi 
was evidently composed at that period. In all prob- 
ability it was formed by Ezra and his contemporaries, 
about B.C. 450 (Ewald, Poet. Bucher, ii, 205). 

But in the arrangement of the book there is manifest 
proof of its gradual formation out of several smaller col- 
lections, each ending with a peculiar formula. The Psal- 
ter is divided in the Hebrew into five books (detailed 
below) and also in the Sept, version, which proves the 
division to be older than B.C. 200. Some have fancied 
that this fivefold division did not originally exist, but 
that it arose simply from a desire to have as many parts 
in the Psalms as there are in the law of Moses. But 
strong reasons demand the rejection of such a fancy. 
Why should this conformity to the Pentateuch be de- 
sired and effected in the Psalms, and not also in Prov- 
erbs or in the Prophets? The five books bear decided 
marks, both from tradition and internal evidence, of be- 
ing not arbitrary divisions, but distinct and independent 
collections by various hands. 

The Ju'si book (i-xli) consists wholly of David’s songs 
(see Vriemoet, Nomenclator David is ad solos Psalmos 
pertinet [Host. 1628]), his name being prefixed to all ' 
except i, ii. x, and xxxiii ; nor do we find in it a trace 
of any but David’s authorship. No such trace exists in 
the mention of the “Temple” (v, 7), for that word is 
evfen in 1 Sam. i, 9, iii, 3 applied to the Tabernacle ; nor 
yet in the phrase “ briugeth back the captivity” (xiv, 
7), which is elsewhere used, idiomatically, with great 
latitude of meaning (Job xlii, 10 ; Dos. vi, 1 1 ; Ezra xvi, 
53) ; nor yet in the acrostieism of Psa. xxv, etc., for 
that all acrostic psalms are of late date is a purely gra- 
tuitous assumption, and some even of the most sceptical 
critics admit the Davidic authorship of the partially 
acrostic Psa. ix, x. All the psalms of book i being 
thus Davidic, we may well believe that the compilation 
of the book was also David’s work. In favor of this is 
the circumstance that it does not comprise all David’s 
psalms, nor his latest, which yet would have been all 
included in it by any subsequent collector; also the cir- 
cumstance that its two prefatory psalms, although not 
superscribed, are yet shown by internal evidence to 
have proceeded from David himself ; and furthermore, 
that of the two recensions of the same hymn (Psa. xiv, 
liii), it prefers that which seems to have been more spe- 
cially adapted by its royal author to the Temple service. 
Others with less reason assign this division to the time 
of Hezekiah, who is known to have ordered a collection 
of Solomon’s proverbs (Prov. xxv, 1), and to have com- 
manded the Levites to sing the words of David (2 Cliron. 
xxix, 30). 

The second book (xlii-lxxii) consists mainly of pieces 
by the sons of Korali (xlii-xlix), and by David (li-lxv), 
which may have been separate minor collections. At 


the end of this book is found the notice, “ The prayers 
of David the son of Jesse are ended;” and hence some 
have thought that this was originally the close of a 
large collection comprising Psa. i-lxxii (Carpzov, Intro- 
ductio, etc., ii, 107). But that the second was oriyinally 
distinct from the first book is proved by the repetition 
of one or two pieces; thus Psa. liii is plainly the same 
as Psa. xiv, with only a notable variation in the divine 
name, Elohim, God, being used in the former 

wherever ITIPP, Jehovah , Lord, is found in the latter. 
So also Psa. lxx is but a repetition of Psa. xl, 13-17, 
with the same singular variation in the divine name. 
This division appears by the date of its latest psalm 
(Psa. xlvi) to have been compiled in the reign of king 
Hezekiah. It would naturally comprise, first, several 
or most of the Levitical psalms anterior to that date, 
and, secondly, the remainder of the psalms of David 
, previously uncompiled. According to others, this col- 
lection was not made till the period of the captivity, on 
the ground that Psa. xliv refers to the da} r s of Jeremiah. 

The third book (Ixxiii-lxxxix) consists chiefly of 
Asaph’s psalms, but comprises apparently two smaller 
collections — the one Asaphitic (lxxiii-lxxxiii), the oth- 
er mostly Korahitic (lxxxiv-lxxxix). The collector of 
this book had no intention to bring together songs writ- 
ten by David, and therefore he put the above notice 
at the end of the second book (see De Wette, Psalmen, 
Einleitung, p. 21). This book, the interest of which 
centres in the times of Hezekiah, stretches out, by its 
last two psalms, to the reign of Manasseh : it was prob- 
ably compiled in the reign of Josiah. In the opinion 
of others, the date of this collection must be as late as 
the return from Babylon, on the supposition that Psa. 
lxxxv implies as much. 

The fourth book (xc-cvi), containing the remainder 
of the psalms up to the date of the captivity; and the 
ffth (cvii-cl), comprising the psalms of the return, are 
made up chiefly of anonymous liturgic pieces, many of 
which were composed for the service of the second Tem- 
ple. In the last book we have the Songs of Degrees 
(cxx-cxxxiv), which seem to have been originally a 
separate collection. There is nothing to distinguish 
these two books from each other in respect of outward 
decoration or arrangement, .and they may have been 
compiled together in the days of Nehemiah. 

The five books may, with some propriety, be thus dis- 
tinguished : the first Davidic, the second Korahitic, the 
third Asaphitic, and the two remaining lituryic. (Comp. 
§ v, below.) 

The ancient Jewish tradition as to this division is 
preserved to us by the abundant testimonies of the 
Christian fathers. Of the indications which the sa- 
cred text itself contains of this division the most ob- 
vious are the doxologies which we find at the end of 
Psa. xli, Ixxii. lxxxix, evi, and which, having lor the 
most part no special connection with the psalms to 
which they are attached, mark the several ends of the 
first four of the five books. It suggests itself at once 
that these books must have been originally formed at 
different periods. 

This conclusion is by various further considerations 
rendered all but certain, while the few difficulties which 
stand in the way of admitting it vanish when closely 
examined. Thus there is a remarkable difference be- 
tween the several books in their use of the divine names 
Jehovah and Elohim to designate Almighty God. In 
book i the former name prevails: it is found 272 times, 
while Elohim occurs but fifteen times. (We here take 
no account of the superscriptions or doxology, nor yet 
of the occurrences of Elohim when inflected with a pos- 
sessive suffix.) On the other hand, in book ii Elohim 
is found more than five times as often as Jehovah. In 
book iii the preponderance of Elohim in the earlier is 
balanced by that of Jehovah in the later psalms of the 
book. In book iv the name Jehovah is exclusively em- 
ployed; and so also, virtually, in book v, Elohim being 


PSALMS 


748 


PSALMS 


there found only in two passages incorporated from 
earlier psalms. Those who maintain, therefore, that 
the psalms were all collected and arranged at once, con- 
tend that the collector distributed the Psalms according 
to the divine names which they severally exhibited. 
But to this theory the existence of book iii, in which 
the preferential use of the Eloliim gradually yields to 
that of the Jehovah, is fatal. The large appearance, in 
fact, of the name Eloliim in books ii and iii depends in 
great measure on the period to which many of the 
psalms of those books belong — the period from the reign 
of .Solomon to that of Hczekiah, when through certain 
causes the name Jehovah was exceptionally disused. 
The preference for the name Eloliim in most of the 
Davidic psalms which are included in book ii is closely 
allied with that character of those psalms which in- 
duced David himself to exclude them from his own col- 
lection, book i ; while, lastly, the sparing use of the Je- 
hovah in I’sa. lxviii, and the three introductory psalms 
which precede it, is designed to cause the name, when 
it occurs, and above all Jah, which is emphatic for Je- 
hovah, to shine out with greater force and splendor. 

IV. Superscriptions . — All the Psalms, except thirty- 
four, bear superscriptions. According to some, there are 
only twenty-five exceptions, as they reckon ST'^Pn, 
hallelujah , a title in all the Psalms which commence 
with it. To each of these exceptions the Talmud 
(Babyl. Cod. Ahoda Sarah, fol. 24, col. 2) gives the 
name N -T"’ X"i*l -P2, Orphan Psalm. It is confess- 
edly very difficult, if not impossible, to explain all the 
terms employed in the inscriptions; and hence critics 
have differed exceedingly in their conjectures. The 
difficulty, arising no doubt from ignorance of the Tem- 
ple music, was felt, it would seem, as early as the age 
of the Sept.; and it was felt so much by the translators 
of onr A. V. that they generally retained the Hebrew 
words, even though Luther had set the example of 
translating them to the best of his ability'. It is worth 
observing that the difficulty appears to have determined 
Coverdale (1535) to omit nearly all except names of au- 
thors; thus in Psa. lx, which is lix in his version, he 
gives only a Psalm e of Da rid. 

The authority of the titles is a matter of doubt. By 
most of the ancient critics they were considered gen- 
uine and of equal authority with the Psalms themselves, 
while most of the moderns reject them wholly or in 
part. They were wholly rejected at the dose of the 1th 
century by Theodore of Mopsuestia, one of the ablest 
and most judicious of ancient interpreters (Kosenm idler, 
Hist. Inter pretut ionis Lihrorum Sacrornm, iii, 25(5). ( )n 
the other baud, it deserves to be noticed that they are 
received bv Tholuck and Ilengsteuberg in their works 
on the Psalms. Of the antiquity of the inscriptions 
there can be no question, for they are found in the 
Sept. They are supposed to be even much older than 
this version, since they were no longer intelligible to 
the translator, who often makes no sense of them. 
Their obscurity might, however, have been owing not 
so much to their antiquity as to the translator's resi- 
dence in Egypt, and consequent ignorance of the psal- 
mody of the Temple service in Jerusalem. At any rate, 
the appearance of the titles in the Sept, can only prove 
them to lie about as ancient as the days of Ezra. Then 
it is argued by many that they must be as old as the 
Psalms themselves, since it is customary for Oriental 
poets to prefix titles to their songs. Instances are 
found in Arabic poems, but these are very unlike the 
Hebrew inscriptions. Much more important traces of 
the custom appear in Isa. xxxviii, 9, in Hub. iii, I, and 
in 2 Sam. i, 17, 18 (Tholuck, Psalmen, p. xxiv). The 
other instances commonly appealed to in Exod. xv, I ; 
I)eut. xxxi, 30; Judg. v, 1 ; 2 Sam. xxii, 1, furnish no 
evidence, since they are not proper titles of the songs 
so much as brief statements connecting them with the 
narrative. But in 2 Sam. xxiii, 1 and Numb, xxiv, 3 
there is strong proof of the usage, if, with Tholuck, we 


take the verses as inscriptions, and not as integral parts 
of the songs, which most hold them justly to be from 
their poetical form. 

The following considerations seem to militate against 
the authority of the titles: (1.) The analogy between 
them and the subscriptions to the apostolical epistles. 
The latter are now universally rejected: why not the 
former? (2.) The Greek and Syriac versions exhibit 
them with great and numerous variations, often alter- 
ing the Hebrew (as in Psa. xxvii), and sometimes giv- 
ing a heading where the Hebrew has none (as in Psa. 
xciii-xcvii). Would the ancient translators have taken 
such liberties, or could such variations have arisen, if 
the titles had been considered sacred like the Psalms 
themselves? At any rate, the existence of these glaring 
variations is sufficient to induce a distrust of the titles 
in their present form, even though they had been once 
sanctioned by inspired authority. If ever Ezra settled 
them, the variations in versions and manuscripts (Eich- 
horn, Kinleitung, iii, 490, 495) have tended since to 
make them doubtful. (3.) The inscriptions are occa- 
sionally thought to be at variance with the contents of 
the Psalms. Sometimes the author is believed to be 
incorrectly given, as when David is named over psalms 
referring to the captivity, as in Psa. xiv, 7; xxv, 22; 
li, 20, 21; lxix, 30. It is not unlikely, however, as 
Tholuck thinks, that these references to the exile were 
added during that period to the genuine text of the 
royal singer. Others, as Calvin and Ilengsteuberg, with 
far less probability, take these passages in a figurative 
or spiritual sense. Also Psa. cxxxix, it is supposed, 
cannot well be David's, for its style is not free from 
Chaldaisms. Then sometimes the occasion is incorrect- 
ly specified, as in Psa. xxx, unless, indeed, this refers to 
the dedication of the site of the Temple (1 Chron.xxii, 1), 
as Bosenmiiller, Tholuck, and Ilengsteuberg think after 
Venema. The real solution of the controversy lies in the 
answer to this question : Do they, when individually 
sifted, approve themselves as so generally correct, and as 
so free from any single fatal objection to their credit, as 
to claim our universal confidence ? This cannot be fully 
discussed here, although intimations are given below 
calculated to confirm the accuracy of the titles as found 
in the Hebrew and English Bible, especially as to au- 
thorship and occasion. We must simply avow our con- 
viction, founded on thorough examination, that they 
are, when rightly interpreted, fully trustworthy, and 
that every separate objection that has been made to the 
correctness of any one of them can be fairly met. More- 
over, some of the arguments of their assailants obvious- 
ly recoil upon themselves. Tims when it is alleged that 
the contents of Psa. xxxivliave no connection with the 
occasion indicated in the superscription, we reply that 
the fact of the connection not being readily apparent 
renders it improbable that the superscription should 
have been prefixed by any but David himself. 

Of the terms left untranslated or obscure in our Bible, 
it may be well to offer some explanation in this place, 
referring to them in alphabetical order for a fuller elu- 
cidation. On this subject most commentators offer in- 
struction, but the reader may especially consult Base-li- 
mit Her, Scholia in Comp, Redacfa, iii, 14-22 ; Do Wette, 
Commentar iiber die Psalmen, p. 27-37 ; Ewald, Poet. 
Hitcher, i, 1G9-180, 195. The following summary ex- 
hibits the literary and musical systems of notation found 
in the individual titles to the Psalms at one view, clas- 
sified under the several terms and particles used to point 
out their bearing and significance: 

I. With the prefix le- (to or by) : 

a. The author : namely, 

1. David: iii-viii, xi-xxxii, xxxiv-xli, li, liii-lxv, l.xviii- 
Ixx, Ixxxvi, ei, ciii, cviii-cx, cxxii, cxxiv, cxxxi, cxxxiii, 
cxxxviii-cxliv. 

‘2. Levites: (1.) Korahites only: xlii, xliv-xlix, lxxxiv, 
Ixxxv, Ixxxvii. 

<2.) Asaphtites] specially, as a branch of the Korah- 
iles: 1, lxxiii-lxxxiii. 


PSAL3IS 


PSALMS 749 


(3.) Ilernan the [Ezraite, i. e.] Korahite individually: 
lxxxviii. 

(4.) Ethan the [Ezraite, i. e.] Korahite individually: 
lxxxix. 

3. Moses: xc. 

4. Solomon: lxxii, cxxvii. 

5. General terms: (1) “Man of God,” xc: (2) “Jeho- 
vah’s servant,” xviii, xxxvi; (3) “an afflicted one,”cii. 

6. The person to whom the poem was dedicated , or by 
whom it was set to music, or under whose direction it 
was to he rendered : 

1. nSSEH, ham-menatstsedch (A. V. “the chief musi- 
cian”), the musical precentor of the Temple for the time 
being: iv-vi, viii, xi-xiv, xviii-xxii, xxxi, xxxvi, xxxix- 
xlii.'xliv-xlvii, xlix, li-lxii, lxiv-lxx, lxxv-lxxvii, lxxx, 
lxxxiv, lxxxv, lxxxviii, cix, cxxxix, cxl. 

2. Jeduthun in particular: xxxix. 

c. The object or special purpose of the writer: 

1. V2*n, hazkir (to remind, A.V, “to bring to remem- 
brance”), as a memento of some special deliverance, etc. : 
xxxviii, lxx. 

2. “152b, lammed (“ to teach”), perhaps to be publicly 
pronounced memoriter: lx. 

3. pfi'S?, ann&th (to reply, A.V. “Leannoth,” q.v.), re- 
sponsive, perhaps a note of the style of recitation : lxxxviii. 

4. min, toddh (confession, A.V. “to praise”), iu ac- 
knowledgment, i. e. of God’s mercy : ci. 

5. Commemorative of the Sabbath-day : xcii. 

II. With the prefix 3, be- (with) : 

a. To designate the orchestral accompaniment: .only 
Pi3 n 53, neginbth [q.v.), or stringed instruments in gener- 
al : iv,"vi, liv, Iv, lxviii, Ixxvi. 

b. To designate the occasion of composition: iii, xxxiv, 
]i, lii, lvi, lvii, lix, lx, Ixiii, cxlii. The occasion is some- 
times otherwise stated: vii, xviii, xxx. 

III. With the preposition bp, al (upon), to denote the 
musical style of performance, as indicated by: 

a. The instrument employed by the leader: 

1. hash-shoshannim (the lilies, i.e. lily-shaped, 
A.V. “ Shoshannim," q.v.), straight trumpets: xlv, lxix 
[c^rriri, ix t’javij, sing.]. 

2. rbn-s, machaldth (the smoot/i-toned, A.V. “Maha- 
lath,” q. v.), probably a lute or light stringed instrument: 
liii, lxxxviii. 

3. “3 ■'53, negindth , a stringed instrument in general: 
lxi. See Nf.ginotii. 

4. r-Pifn, hag-gittlth, the Gittitish, probably a peculiar 
form of lyre: viii; or perhaps on an eight- stringed lyre. 
See Gittitu. 

b. The pitch of the singing: 

1. P"'3 n, 3'A*ri, hash-shemimth (the eighth), the octave, i. e. 
in a “ tenor” voice: vi, xii. See Sueminitii. 

2. r.tab?, alambth (q.v.), (virgins), in a female key, i. e. 
“soprano:” xlvi. 

c. After the style of some noted performer: only Judu- 
thun: Ixii, lxxvii. 

d. The tune or melody to be imitated: 

1. ‘|3b p!P3, ninth lab-ben (q. v.) (death to the son), i. e. a 
ditty so beginning or thus entitled: ix. 

2. rb^X, ayyekth hash-shdhar (q.v.), (hind of 
the dawn), a popular song so called : xxii. 

3. C-'pm ebs F3'P, yondth elem rechokim (q. v.) 
(dove of silence of distant ones), an emblematic title of 
some^ well-known air: lvi. 

4. (b? omitted on account of the alliteration with bX) 
mrrrn-bs: [or rn - ], al-tashchith [or- cheth) (q. v.) (thou 
mayest not destroy), the symbolical designation of some 
familiar measure : lvii— lix, lxxv, Ixxxi, lxxxiv. 

IV. With the preposition bx (el, towards) ; in imitation 
of (French d la) some peculiar “quality” of tone (as we 
say, the stop of the organ) : 

1. mb ■’Hill, han-nechildth (q.v.) (the contracted), the 
flute or continuous sound : v. 

2. shoshannim (q.v.) (lilies), the trumpet blast: 

lxxx. 


V. The species of poetical composition: 

1. "HH3, shir (song), simply an ode or lyrical piece : xlvi, 
xlviii, lxv-lxviii, lxxv, Ixxvi, lxxxiii, lxxxvii, lxxxviii, 
cviii. Iu some of these instances it is joined with the 
term following. In a certain series it is coupled wiih the 
expression mbs'BIj, ham-maalbth (the steps, A.V. “de- 
grees,” q. v.), i. e. climactic in construction of phrases: 
cxx-cxxxiv. In one case it is joined with the term 
ri“P*]7, yediduth (i. e. “loves”), i. e. an epithalamium : 
xlv. 

2. mizmbr (playing on an instrument), simply 
a hgmn, to be sung with musical accompaniment: iii-vi, 
viii, xii, xiii, xv, xix-xxiv, xxix-xxxi, xxxviii-xli, xlvii- 
li, lxii-lxviii, lxxiii, lxxv-lxxvii, lxxix, lxxx, lxxxii-lxxxv, 
lxxxvii, lxxxviii, xcviii, c, ci, cviii-cx, cxxxix-cxli, cxliii. 

3. EFCE, miktdm (written, “michtam,” q. v.), perhaps 
i. q. a “set piece” or “mottet:” xvi, lvi-lx. 

4. fibs Pi, tephilldh, a “prayer:” xvii, lxxxvi, xc, cii, 
cxlii. 

5. flbflFl, tchilldh, a “psalm” simply: cxlv. 

6. b^Sil'E, maskil (instructive, “maschil," q.v.), a di- 
dactic poem: xxii, xlii, xliv, xlv, lii-lv, lxxiv, Ixxviii, 
lxxxviii, lxxxix, cxlii. 

7. nsn2, cduth (precept, “ eduth,” q. v.), an ethical poem : 
lx, lxxx. 

8. "|'P513, shiggaydn (sighing, “shiggaion,” q.v.), an ele- 
giac or plaintive song: vii. 

V. Original Authorship of the Psalms. — Many of the 
ancients, both Jews and Christians, maintained that all 
the Psalms were written by David, which is one of the 
most striking proofs of their uncritical judgment. So 
the Talmudists (Cod. Pesachim, x, 117); Augustine, 
who is never a good critic (De Civ. Dei, xvii, 14); and 
Chrysostom {Prol. ad Psalmosj. But Jerome, as might 
be expected, held the opinion which now universally 
prevails (Epist. ad Sophroniumj. The titles and the 
contents of the Psalms most clearly show that they 
were composed at different and remote periods by sev- 
eral poets, of whom David was only the largest and 
most eminent contributor. 

1. David, “the sweet psalmist of Israel” (2 Sam. 
xxiii, 1). To him are ascribed seventy-three psalms 
in the Hebrew text (not seventy-four, as De Wette and 
Tholnck state; nor seventy-one, as most others have 
counted), and at least eleven others in the Sept.— name- 
ly, xxxiii, xliii, xci, xciv-xcix, civ, cxxxvii ; to which 
may be added Psa. x, as it forms part of Psa. ix in that 
version. 

To these psalms the collector, after properly append- 
ing the single psalm of Solomon, has affixed the notice 
that “ the prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended” 
(Psa. lxxii, 20); evidently implying, at least on the 
primd facie view, that no more compositions of the 
royal psalmist remained. How, then, do we find in the 
later books — iii, iv, v— further psalms yet marked with 
David’s name? Some have sought to answer this 
question by a reference to the authorship assigned in 
the superscriptions of other psalms. If (as we shall 
presently see) in the times posterior to those of David 
the Levitical choirs prefixed to the psalms which they 
composed the names of Asaph, Ilernan, and Ethan, out 
of a feeling of veneration for their memories, how much 
more might the name of David be prefixed to the utter- 
ances of those who were not merely his descendants, but 
also the representatives for the time being, and so in 
some sort the pledges of the perpetual royalty of his 
lineage ! The name David is used to denote, in other 
parts of Scripture, after the original David’s death, the 
then head of the Davidic family; and so, in prophecy, 
the Messiah of the seed of David, who was to sit on 
David’s throne (1 Kings xii, 16; Ilos. iii, 5; Isa. Iv, 3; 
Jer. xxx. 9; Ezra xxxiv, 23, 24). Thus some seek to 
explain the meaning of the later Davidic superscrip- 
tions in the Psalter. The psalms to which they belong 
are thought to have been written by Hczckiah, by 
Josiah, by Zerubbabel, or others of David’s posterity. 
This view is supposed to be confirmed by various con- 


PSALMS 


750 


PSALMS 


siderations. In the later books, and even in book v I 
taken alone, the psalms marked with David’s name are 
not grouped all together. In some instances there is 
internal evidence of occasion : thus Psa. ci can ill be 
reconciled with the historical circumstances of any pe- 
riod of David’s life, but suits exactly with those of the 
opening of the reign of Josiah. Some of these psalms 
— Psa. Ixxxvi, cviii, cxliv — are compacted of passages 
from previous psalms of David. Lastly, the Hebrew 
text of many (see, above all, Psa. cxxxix) is marked 
by grammatical Chaldaisms, which are entirely un- 
paralleled in l’sa. i-lxxii, and which thus afford strong 
evidence of a comparatively recent date. They cannot, 
therefore, it is claimed, be David’s own; yet it is held 
that the superscriptions are not on that account to be 
rejected as false, but must rather be properly inter- 
preted, on the ground of the improbability that any 
would, carelessly or presumptuously, have prefixed Da- 
vid’s name to various psalms scattered through a collec- 
tion, while yet leaving the rest— at least in books iv, v 
— altogether unsuperscribed. Ingenious as is this ex- 
planation, we prefer to adhere to the simple and obvious 
meaning of the titles as ascribing the psalms in question 
to David himself, and we do not feel constrained to seek 
other authors by the nature of the contents. 

When we consider David’s eminence as a poet, and 
the delight he took in sacred song, we cannot wonder 
that he should be the author of so many of the Psalms 
— no fewer, in all likelihood, than half the collection: 
the wonder rather should be that we do not find more 
of his fine odes, for it is certain he wrote some which 
are not in this book; see in 2 Sam. i, 19-27 his lament 
over Saul and Jonathan, and in xxiii, 17 his last in- 
spired effusion. 11 is character and merit as the father 
of Hebrew melody and music — for it was in his hands 
and under his auspices that these flourished most — are 
thus set forth by the son of Sirach (xlvii, 8-10), “ In all 
his work he gave thanks. To the llolv and Most High 
he sang songs with all his heart in words of praise (pt) - 
pan ed&jc), and l ,c loved his Maker. lie set singers 
also before the altar, and from their music (j/\ou) sweet 
melody resounded. lie gave splendor to the feasts, and 
adorned the solemn times unto perfection ori'- 

reXting), in that they praised his holy name, and the 
sanctuary pealed with music from early morn.” 

David’s compositions are generally distinguished by 
sweetness, softness, and grace, but sometimes, as in Psa. 
xviii, they exhibit the sublime. 1 1 is prevailing strain 
is plaintive, owing to his multiplied and sore trials, both 
before and after his occupation of the throne. How 
often was he beset with dangers, harassed by foes, and 
chastised of God ! Under these circumstances, how was 
his spirit bowed down, and gave vent to its plaints 
and sorrows on the saddened chords of the lyre! Put 
in the midst of all he generally found relief, and his 
sorrow gave place to calm confidence and joy in God. 
What wonder that a soul so susceptible and devout as 
his should manifest emotions so strong, so changeful, 
and so various, seeing that he passed through the great- 
est vicissitudes of life? God took him from the sheep- 
folds to feed Jacob his people and Israel his inheritance 
(Psa. lxxviii, 70,71). See Herder, Geist tier ebr. Poesie, 
ii, 297-301 ; and especially Tholuek ( Psalmev , Kinleit- 
nn(j,§ 3), who gives a most admirable exhibition of the 
psalmist’s history and services. Sec David. 

The example and countenance of the king naturally 
led others to cultivate poetry and music. It appears ; 
from Amos vi, 5 that lovers of pleasure took David’s j 
compositions as a model for their worldly songs: how ] 
much more would the lovers of piety be induced to fol- i 
low him by producing sacred songs and hymns! The , 
fine psalm in 1 lab. iii is an exact imitation of his style 
as seen in Psa. xviii. The celebrated singers of his day 
were men, like himself, moved by the divine afllatus ( 
not only to excel in music, but also to indite hallowed 
poetry. Of tltcse psalmists the names of several are 
preserved in the titles. 


2. Asaph is named as the author of twelve psalms 
— viz. 1, lxxiii-lxxxiii. He was one of David’s chief 
musicians. All the poems bearing his name cannot be 
his, for in Psa. lxxiv, Ixxix, and lxxx there are mani- 
fest allusions to very late events in the history of Israel. 
Hither, then, the titles of these three psalms must be 
wholly rejected, or the name must be here taken for the 
“sons of Asaph which is not improbable, as the family 
continued fur many generations in the choral sen-ice 
of the Temple. Asaph appears from Psa. 1, Ixxiii. and 
lxxviii to have been the greatest master of didactic 
poetry, excelling alike in sentiment and in diction. No 
critic whatever contends that all these eleven belong to 
the age of David, and, in real truth, internal evidence is 
in every single instance in favor of a later origin. They 
were composed, then, by the “sons of Asaph” (2 Chron. 
xxix, 13; xxxv, 15, etc.), the members, by hereditary 
descent, of the choir which Asaph founded. It was to 
be expected that these psalmists would, in superscribing 
their psalms, prefer honoring and perpetuating the mem- 
ory of their ancestor to obtruding their own personal 
names on the Church — a consideration which both ex- 
plains the present superscriptions and also renders it 
improbable that the person intended in them could, ac- 
cording to a frequent but now waning hypothesis, be 
any second Asaph of younger generation and of inferior 
fame. See Asaph. 

3. The sons of Korah were another family of choris- 
ters, to whom eleven of the most beautiful psalms are 
ascribed. The authorship is assigned to the Korah- 
ites in general, not because many of them could have 
been engaged in composing one and the same song, but 
because the name of the particular writer was unknown 
or omitted. See Kohah. However, in Psa. Ixxxviii 
we find, besides the family designation, the name of the 
individual who wrote it — viz.: 

4. llemun was another of David’s chief singers (1 
Chron. xv, 19) : he is called the Ezraitc, as being de- 
scended from some Ezra, who appears to have been a 
descendant of Korah ; at least Ileman is reckoned a 
Kohathite (1 Chron. vi, 33-38), and was therefore prob- 
ably a Korahite, for the Kohathites were continuedTind 
counted in the line of Korah; see 1 Chron. vi, 22, 37, 
38. Thus Ileman was both an Ezraite and of the sons 

| of Korah. That Psa. Ixxxviii was written by him is 
not unlikely, though many question it, regarding this 
term likewise as a mere patronymic. See Hem ax. 

5. Ethan is reputed the author of Psa. Ixxxix. lie 
also is called the Ezraite, but this is either a mistake, 
or he as well as Ileman had an ancestor named Ezra, 
of whom nothing is known. The Ethan intended in 
the title is doubtless the LeviteofMerari’s family whom 
David made chief musician along with Asaph and He- 
man (1 Chron. vi, 44; xxv, 1, (5). See Etii ax. 

6. Solomon is given as the author of Psa. lxxii and 
exxvii, and there is no decided internal evidence to the 
contrary, though most consider him to be the subject, 
and not the author, of Psa. lxxii. See Solomon. 

7. Moses is reputed the writer of Psa. xc, and there 
is no strong reason to doubt the tradition; but the Tal- 
mudists, whom Origen, and even Jerome, follow, ascribe 
to him also the ten succeeding psalms (xei-c), on the 
principle that the anonymous productions belonged to 
the last-named author. This principle is manifestly 
false, since in several of these psalms we find evidence 
that Moses was not the author. In Psa. xev the forty 
years’ wandering in the wilderness is referred to as past ; 
in Psa. xevii, 8 mention is made of Zion and Judah, 
which proves that it cannot be dated earlier than the 
time of David; and in Psa. xeix. f> the prophet Samuel 
is named, which also proves that Moses could not be the 
writer. See Moses. 

Jeduihun is sometimes, without just ground, held to 
be named as the author of Psa. xxxix; the ascription 
there being merely a dedication to the leader of the 
Levitical orchestra. In the view of others, this, like 
the superscriptions of Psa. Ixxxviii, Ixxxix, “Maschil 


lol 


PSALMS 


PSALMS 


of Heman,” “ Maschil of Ethan,” have simply a conven- f 
tional purport— the one psalm having been written, as, 
in fact, the rest of its superscription states, by the sons 
of Korah, the choir of which Heman was the founder; 
and the other correspondingly proceeding from the third 
Levitical choir, which owed its origin to Ethan or Jedu- 
thun. See Jedcthcjt. 

Many conjectures have been formed respecting other 
writers* especially of the anonymous psalms. The Sept, 
seemingly gives' as authors, Jeremiah (Psa. cxxxvii), 
and Haggai and Zechariah (Psa. cxxxviii). But these 
conjectures are too uncertain to call for further notice 
in this place. Hitzig ( Comment . iiber die Psalmen ) as- 
cribes to Jeremiah a large number of the elegiac or 
plaintive psalms. 

More particularly, the Psalms may be arranged, ac- 
cording to the intimations of authorship contained in 
the titles, as follows : 


A. Exclusively Davidic i-xli. 

(Only Psa. i, ii, x, xxxiii, are somewhat doubtful.) 

B. Exclusively Levitical— 

a. Korahites xlii-xlix. 

b. Asaph 1. 

C. Chiefly Davidic — 

a. David li-lxiv. 

b. Uncertain lxv-lxvii. 

c. David Ixviii-lxx. 

d. Uncertain lxxi. 

e. David (tor Solomou) lxxii. 

D. Chiefly Levitical— 

a. Asaph ...lxxiii-lxxxiii, 

b. Korahites Ixxxiv-lxxxv. 

c. David lxxxvi. 

d. Korahites and Heman Ixxxvii, Ixxxviii. 

e. Ethan Ixxxix. 

/.Moses ...xc. 

g. Uncertain xci-c. 

h. David ci. 

i. Uncertain cii. 

j. David ciii. 

k. Uncertain civ-cvii. 

l. David cviii-cx. 

m. Uncertain cxi-cxix. 

E. ** Degrees”— 

a. Uncertain cxx-cxxi. 

b . David cxxii. 

c. Uncertain cxxiii. 

d. David cxxiv. 

e. Uncertain cxxv, cxxvi. 

/. Solomon cxxvii. 

g. Uncertain cxxviii-cxxx. 

h. David cxxxi. 

t. Uncertain cxxxii. 

j. David cxxxiii. 

k. Uncertain cxxxi v. 

F. Miscellaneous— 

a. Uncertain cxxxv-cxxxvii. 

b. David cxxxviii-cxlv. 

c. Uncertain cxlvi-cl. 


VI. Dates and Occasions of the Psalms. — The dates 
of the Psalms, as must be obvious from what has been 
stated respecting the authors, are very various, ranging 
from the time of Moses to that of the captivity — a pe- 
riod of nearly 1000 years. In the time of king Jehosh- 
apliat (about B.C. 896) Psa. Ixxxiii, setting forth the 
dangers of the nation, as we read in 2 Chron. xx, 1-25, 
was composed either by himself, as some suppose, or 
most likely, according to the title, by Jahaziel, “ a Le- 
vite of the sons of Asaph,” who was then an inspired 
teacher (see ver. II). In the days of Hezekiah, who 
was himself a poet (Isa. xxxviii, 9-20), we may date, 
with great probability, the Korahitic Psalms xlvi and 
xlviii, which seem to celebrate the deliverance from 
Sennacherib (2 Kings xix, 35). In the period of the 
captivity were evidently written such laments as Psa. 
xliv, lxxix, cii, and cxxxvii; and after its close, when 
the captives returned, we must manifestly date Psa. 
lxxxv and cxxvi. 

Some have maintained that several psalms, especially 
lxxiv, were written even in the days of the Maccabees; 
but this is contrary to every probability, for, according 
to all accounts, the Canon had been closed before that 
time. See Cano.w Moreover, the hypothesis of a Mac- 
cabaean authorship of any portion of the Psalter can ill 
be reconciled with the history of the translation of the 
Septuagint. But the difficulties do not end here. How 


— for we shall not here discuss the theories of Hitzig 
and his followers Lengerke and Justus Olshausen, who 
would represent the greater part of the Psalter as Mac- 
caboean — how is it that the psalms which one would 
most naturally assign to the Maccalwean period meet ns 
not in the close, but in the middle (i. e. in the second 
and third books) of the Psalter? The three named by 
De Wette (Einl. in das A . T. § 270) as bearing appar- 
ently a Maccabaean impress are Psa. xliv, lx, lxxiv; 
and, in fact, these, together with Psa. lxxix, are perhaps . 
all that would, when taken alone, seriously suggest the 
hypothesis of a Maccabaian date. Whence, then, arise 
the early places in the Psalter which these occupy? 
But even in the case of these, the internal evidence, 
when more narrowly examined, proves to be in favor 
of an earlier date. In the first place, the superscription 
of Psa. lx cannot possibly have been invented from the 
historical books, inasmuch as it disagrees with them in 
its details. Then the mention by name in that psalm 
of the Israelitish tribes, and of Moab and Philistia, is 
unsuited to the Maccabaean epoch. In Psa. xliv the 
complaint is made that the tree of the nation of Israel 
was no longer spreading over the territory that God 
had assigned it. Is it conceivable that a Maccabajan 
psalmist should have held this language without mak- 
ing the slightest allusion to the Babylonian captivity, 
as if the tree's growth were now first seriously impeded 
b} r the wild stocks around, notwithstanding that it had 
once been entirely transplanted, and that, though re- 
stored to its place, it had been weakly ever since? In 
Psa. lxxiv it is complained that “there is no more any 
prophet.” Would that be a natural complaint at a 
time when Jewish prophecy had ceased for more than 
two centuries? Lastly, in Psa. lxxix, the mention of 
“kingdoms” in ver. 6 ill suits the Maccabtean time; 
while the way in which the psalm is cited by the au- 
thor of the first book of Maccabees (vii, 16, 17), who 
omits those words which are foreign to his purpose, is 
such as would have hardly been adopted in reference to 
a contemporary composition. 

The superscriptions, and the places which the psalms 
themselves severally occupy in the Psalter, are thus the 
two guiding clews by which, in conjunction with the 
internal evidence, their various occasions are to be de- 
termined. In the critical results obtained on these 
points by those scholars who have recognised and used 
these helps there is, not indeed uniformity, but at least 
a visible tendency towards it. The same cannot be 
said for the results of the judgments of those, of what- 
ever school, who have neglected or rejected them ; nor, 
indeed, is it easily to be imagined that internal evidence 
alone should suffice to assign 150 devotional hymns, even 
approximately, to their several epochs. The table on 
the following pages exhibits all that can with proba- 
bility be ascertained on this head as to each psalm. 

VII. Canonicity and Use. — The inspiration and ca- 
nonical authority of the Psalms are established by the 
most abundant and convincing evidence. They never 
w r ere, and never can be, rejected, except by impious im- 
pugners of all divine revelation. Not to mention other 
ancient testimonies [see Canon* J, we find complete evi- 
dence in the N. T., where the book is quoted or referred 
to as divine by Christ and his apostles at least seventy 
times . No other writing is so frequently cited, Isaiah, 
the next in the scale of quotation, being cited only 
abont fifty-five times. Twice (Luke xx, 42 and Acts 
i, 20) we find distinct mention of the Book of Psalms 
(Bf/3\o£ SI r a\gh>v). Once, however (Luke xxiv, 44), 
the name Psalms is used, not simply for this book, but 
for the Hagiographa, or the whole of the third division 
of the Hebrew Scriptures [see Hagiographa], because 
in it the Psalms are the first and chief part, or possibly, 
as Havernick suggests ( Einleitung , § xiv, p. 78), because 
the division consists mainly of poetry. It deserves no- 
tice that in Heb. iv, 7, where the quotation is taken 
from the anonymous Psa. xcv, the book is indicated by 
David, most likely because he was the largest and most 


PSALMS 


Id 2 


PSALMS 


eminent contributor, and 
also the patron and model 
of the other psalmists. For 
the same reasons many an- 
cient and modern authors 
often speak of the book as 
the Psalms of David. (Carp- 
zov, Introd. ii, 98), without 
intending to ascribe all the 
productions to him. 

In every age of the Church, 
the I’salms have been ex- 
tolled for their excellence 
and their use for godly edi- 
fying (Carpzov, l. c. p. 109- 
116). Indeed, if Paul’s es- 
timate of ancient inspired 
Scripture (2 Tim. iii, 15-17) 
can be justly applied to any 
single book, that book must 
be the Psalms. Even in 
the N. T. there is scarcely a 
work of equal practical util- 
ity. Basil the Great and 
Chrysostom, in their homi- 
lies (see Suiccri Thcs. Eccles. 
s. v. ipaXpog), expatiate 
most eloquently, and j'et 
judiciously, on its excel- 
lence. The close of Basil's 
eulogy is to this effect : “ In 
it is found a perfect theolo- 
gy (ti'rai’Sa tvi StoXoyta 
rtXeia ) : prophecy ol’Christ’s 
sojourn in the flesh, threat- 
ening of judgment, hope of 
resurrection, fear of retribu- 
tion, promises of glory, rev- 
elations of mysteries — all 
things are treasured in the 
book of Psalms, as in some 
great and common store- 
house.” Among the early 
Christians it was customary 
to learn the book by heart, 
that psalmody might enli- 
ven their social hours, and 
soften the fatigues and soothe 
the sorrows of life. They 
employed the Psalms, not 
only in their religious as- 
semblies, of which use we 
find probable mention in 1 
Cor. xi v, 26. but also at their 
meals and before retiring to 
rest, as Clement of Alexan- 
dria testifies: Swict rip Beip 
xpaXpoi Kai cpvoi Trapd n) v 
iariamv, tt po re rijg <co t- 
rgg. Of their use at meals 
we find an example also in 
the institution of the Lord’s 
Supper (Matt, xxvi, 30). 
For their modern liturgical 
use, see Psalmody; Ps.vl- 
tkk. 

VIII. Classification . — 
Various classifications of the 
I’salms have been proposed 
(Carpzov, Introd. ii, 132- 
131). Tholuck would divide 
them, according to the mat- 
ter, into songs id praise, of 
thanksgiving, of complaint, 
and of inst ruction. Dc 
Wctte suggests another 
method of sorting them 


Scripture. 


XV. 

xvi. 

xvii. 
xviii. 

xix. 

xx. 


xxm. 

xxiv. 

xxv. 

xxvi. 
xxvii. 
xxviii. 

xxix. 

xxx. 

xxxi. 
xxxii. 
xxxiii. 
xxxiv. 
xxxv. 
xxxvi. 
xxxvii. 


xxxviii.) 
xxxix. j 
xl.) 
xli. ( 
xlii. | 
xliii.J 
xliv. 
xlv. 
xlvi. 
xlvii. 
xlviii.. 
xlix. 

1 . 

Ii. 

Iii. 

liii. 

liv. 

lv. 

Ivi. 

lvii. 

lviii. 

lix. 

lx. 

lxi.I 

lxii.f 

lxiii. 

Ixiv. 

lxv. 

lxvi. 

Ixvii. 

Ixviii. 


Unknown. (Probably Davidic.) 

Nathan’s promise to David 

David’s flight from Absalom 

I The sack ofZiklag by the Amalekites. 
David’s traducers at the court of Saul. 
'Unknown. (Probably Davidic.) 

David’s sparing Saul a second time. .. 

David’s tending sheep by night 

David’s couqnest of the neighboring tribe! 
David’s first flight from Saul’s court... 

Corruption at Saul’s court 

[David’s retreat to Ziklag 

| Unknown. (Apparently Davidic.) 

Second removal of the ark 

Nathan’s promise to David 

.Jonathan’s covenant with David 

David’s dual conquest of the Philistine 
Unknown. (Apparently Davidic.) 

David’s couquest of the Syrians 

David’s conquest of the Ammonites. . . 
David’s escape from Saul by the aid of 

wife 

David’s first introduction to Saul 

Second removal of the ark 

David’s retreat with Samuel 

.Jonathan’s secret visit to David 

David’s flight from Absalom 

Absalom’s rebellion 

After the three years’ drought 

Dedication of Aran n ah’s threshiug-floor. . 

David’s escape from Keilah 

David’s penitence after his adultery... 
Unknown. (Apparently Davidic.) 

David’s escape from Gath 

David’s retreat to En-gedi 

Unknown. (Apparently Davidic.) 
Unknown. (Probably latter part of Da- 
vid’s life.) 

David’s siu with Batbshcba 


bis 


2 Sam. vii, 1-29. 

2 Sam. xvii, 1-29. 

1 Sam. xxx. 1-6. 

1 Sam. xviii, 5-13. 

1 Sam. xxvi, 1-25. 

1 Sam. xvi, 1-13. 

2 Sam. viii, 1-5. 

1 Sam. xix, 1-3. 

1 Sam. xviii, 14-30. 

1 Sam. xxvii, 1. 

(Comp. Psa. liii.) 

2 Sam. vi, 17. 

2 Sam. vii, 1-29. 
il Sam. xxiii, 14-18. 
(Comp. 2 Sam. xxii, 1-51.) 

! 2 Sam. x, 1-14. 

2 Sam. xii, 26-31. 


1 Sam 

2 Sam. 
1 Sam. 

1 Sam. 

2 Sam. 
Sam. 

2 Sam. 
2 Sam. 

1 Sam. 

2 Sam. 


Absalom’s rebelliou.. 


Sennacherib’s invasion . 
Solomon’s marriage 


Jehoshaphat’s victory.. 


Sam. 


xix, 4-11. 
xviii, 1-4. 
vi, 17. 

xix, lS-24. 

xx, 1-42. 
xvii, 27-29. 
xvii, 1-29. 

xxi, 1-14. 
xxiv, 10-30. 
xxiii, 1-13. 
xii, 15-23. 


Conclusion to Ecclesiastes. 

Idolatry of Ahaz 

David's adultery 

Doeg’s massacre of the priests 

Identical with Psa. xiv. 

David's escape in Maon 

Absnlom’s rebellion 

David’s escape from Achish 

David’s retreat to En-gedi 

David’s expulsion from court 

David’s deliverance by Michal 

David’s subjugation of Edom 

Unknown. (Davidic.) 

David’s placing of his parents in Moab. .. 

David's retreat to Ilareth 

Return of rain after three years’ drought. 

Jehoshaphat’s victory 

Unknown. (Davidic.) 

First removal of the ark 


1 Sam. xxi, 1-15. 

1 Sam. xxiii, 14-29. 


2 Sam. xii, 1-15. 


2 Sam. xvii, 1-29. 

2 Kings xix, 1. 

1 Kings iii, 1. 

(2 C’hruu. xx, 14-19. 
■<2 Cbron. xx, 20-21. 
(2 C’hrou. xx, 22-2S. 

2 Chron. xxviii, 1-19. 
2 Sam. xii, 15-23. 

1 Sam. xxii, 6-23. 


lxx. > Absalom’s rebellion, 
lxxi.j 
lxxii. 

Ixxiii. 
lxxiv. 
lxxv. 1 


Solomon’s coronation 

Sennacherib’s invasion 

Jerusalem’s fall 


Ixxvi, j 
Ixxvii. 
l.xxviii. 
Ixxix. 
lxxx.- 
lxxxi.j 
Ixxxii.j 
lxxxiii. 
Ixxxiv. 
lxxxv. 
lxxxvi. 
lxxxvii.l 
lxxxviii.) I 
Ixxxix.f j 
xc.) 
xci.j 
xcii.) I 
xciii.J 
xciv. 1 
xcv. 
xevi, 


Sennacherib’s iuvasion 

Asa’s victory 

First removal of the ark 

Jerusalem’s fall 

Assyrian captivity 

Ile/.ekiah's reformation 

Jeboshnphat’s reformation 

Jehoshaphat’s victory 

Unknown. (Probably Davidic.) 

Cyrus’s decree 

Unknown. (Probably Davidic.) 

Sennacherib’s invasion 

During the captivity. 


1 Sam. xxiii, 19-28. 

2 Sam. xvii, 1-29. 

1 Sam. xxi, 1-15. 

1 Sam. xxiv, 1-22. 

1 Sam. xx, 1-42. 

1 Sam. xix, 12-1S. 

2 Sam. viii, 1-5. 


1 Sam. xxii, 3, 4. 

1 Sam. xxii, 5. 

2 Sam. xxi, 1-14. 

2 Chron. xx, 29, 30. 

1 Chron. xiii, 1-6. 

(2 Sam. xvii, 1-29. 

Identical with Psa. xl, 13-17. 
(2 Sam. xvii, 1-29. 

1 Chron. xix, 1-19. 

2 Kings xix, 8-19. 

2 Kings xxv, 2-1S. 

2 Kings xix, 20-34. 

^2 Chron. xxxii, 21-23. 

2 Chron. xiv, 9-15. 

2 Sam. vi, 3—5. 

2 Kings xxv, 2-18. 

“2 Kings xvii, 3-23. 

2 Chron. xxx, 1-27. 

2 Chron. xix, 4-11. 

2 Chron. xx, 1-13. 


The wandering in the desert.. 


Unknown. (Davidic.) 

Jerusalem’s fall 

Unknown. (I)avidie.) 
,Secoud removal of the ark. . 


Chron. xxxvi, 22, 23. 
2 Chron. xix, 2-7. 


Numb, xiv, 1^15. 


2 Kings xxv, 2-18. 

(Comp. 1 Chron. xvi, 23-33.) 


PSALMS 


753 


PSALMS 


( Einleitung , p. 3), somewhat as below. It is obvious, 
however, that no very accurate classification can be 
made, since many are of diversified contents and un- 
certain tenor. The following distribution will, perhaps, 
best comprise them in their general import. 

1. Hymns in praise of Jehovah — tehillim, in the 
proper sense. These are directed to Jehovah, from va- 
rious motives and views, e. g. as the Creator of the uni- 
verse and Lord of all (Psa. viii, xix, lxv, xciii, civ, cxlv, 
cxlvii) ; as the Protector and Helper of Israel (Psa. xx, 
xxix, xxxiii, xlvi, xlvii, xlviii, lxvi, lxvii, lxxv, lxxvi, 
cxxxv, cxxxvi) ; or as the Helper of individuals, with 
thanksgiving for deliverance (Psa. xviii, xxx, xxxiv, 
xl, cxxxviii) ; while others refer to them or especial 
attributes of Jehovah (Psa. xc,cxxxix). These psalms 
contain the most sublime thoughts respecting God, nat- 
ure, the government of the world, etc. ; they also furnish 
the sources of many doctrinal ideas. 

2. Temple hyituis, sung at the consecration of the Tem- 
ple, the entrance of the ark, or intended for the Temple 
service (Psa. xv, xxiv, lxviii, lxxxi, lxxxvii, cxxxii, 
cxxxiv, cxxxv). So also pilgrim songs , sung by those 
who came to worship at the temple, etc. See Degrees. 

3. Religions and moral psalms of a general charac- 
ter, containing the poetical expression of emotions and 
feelings, and therefore subjective, e. g. confidence in 
God (Psa. xxiii, xlii, xliii, lxii, xci, exxi, exxv, cxxvii, 
cxxviii); longing for the worship of the sanctuary 
(Psa. xlii, xliii) ; and prayers for the forgiveness o( 
sin (Psa. li). So, also, didactic songs relating to relig- 

VIII.— Bub 


ion, or the expression of 
some truth or maxim (Psa. 
i, xv, xxxii, xxxiv, 1, 
cxxviii, cxxxiii). This is 
a numerous class. 

4. Elegiac psalms . con- 
taining complaints under af- 
fliction and the persecution 
of enemies, and prayers for 
succor. This class, which 
comprises more than a third 
of the whole collection, has 
several subdivisions: (1.) 
The lamentations or com- 
plaints of particular indi- 
viduals (Psa. vii, xvii, xxii, 
li, lii, lv, lvi, cix). (2.) Na- 
tional lamentations, mostly 
in a religious point of view 
(Psa. xliv, lxxiv, lxxix, 
lxxx, cxxxvii). Some are 
both individual and national 
lamentations (Psa. lxix, 
Ixxvii, cii). Most of these 
psalms are of a late date. 
(3.) General psalms of com- 
plaint, reflections on the 
wickedness of the world 
(Psa. x, xii, xiv, xxxvi). 
Didactic psalms, respecting 
the goodness of God, the 
condition of the pious and 
of the godless (Psa. xxxvii, 
xlix, lxiii, lxxiii). 

5. Psalms relating to the 
Icing , patriotic hymns, etc. 
(Psa. xx, xxi, xlv, cx). 

G. National psahns, con- 
taining allusions to the an- 
cient history of the He- 
brews and of the relation 
of the people to Jehovah 
(Psa. lxxviii, cv, evi, cxiv). 

The Messianic psalms 
ought properly to consti- 
tute another separate class 
(Psa. ii, xvi, xxii, xl, lxxii, 
Many of the prophetic psalms are distributed 
among the other classes, while the few which cannot be 
brought under any of the above classes and divisions 
either constitute new ones by themselves or possess ait 
intermediate character. 

IX. Literary Features. — The book has been styled 
by some moderns the anthology of Hebrew lyric poetry, 
as if it consisted of a selection of the most admired 
productions of the sacred muse; but the name is not 
altogether appropriate, since several pieces of the high- 
est poetic merit are, to our knowledge, not included — 
namely, the songs of Moses, in Exod. xv and Dent, 
xxxii; the song of Deborah, in Judg. v; the prayer 
of Hannah, in 1 Sam. ii, 1-10; and even David’s lament 
over Saul and Jonathan, in 2 Sam. i, 18-27. To these 
may be added the song of llezekiah, in Isa. xxxviii, 9- 
20, and the prayers of Ilabakkuk, in Hab. iii, and Jo- 
nah, in Jon. ii. The truth seems to be, as Ewald and 
Tholuck maintain, that the collection was made not so 
much with reference to the beauty of the pieces as to their 
adaptation for devotional use in public worship. This 
view sufficiently accounts for omitting most of the above 
pieces and many others as being either too individual or 
too secular in their application. It may account for not 
including the lament over Jonathan, and for the fact 
that only two of Solomon’s compositions (Psa. lxxii and 
cxxvii) are professedly given, though “ his songs were a 
thousand and five” (1 Kings iv,82,33). His themeswere 
secular, and therefore not suitable for this collection. 

All the best judges, as Lowth, Herder, De Wette, 


Scripture 


evii.) 
viii . ) 
:cix.l 
c.( 


Second removal of the ark. 


cvi.f 

evii. 

cviii. 

cix. 

cx. 

cxi. 

cxii. 

cxiii. 

cxiv.. 

cx’v. 

cxvi.) 

cxvii.j 


Dedication of Solomon’s Temple. . . . 

David’s capture of Jerusalem 

Daniel’s prayer for the restoration. . 
Unknowu. (Davidic.) 

Second removal of the ark 


Return from Babylon 

Identical with Psa. lvii, 7-11 ; lx, 5-12. 

Doeg’s murder of the priests 

Nathan’s promise to David 


Completion of the second Temple. . 


CXVlll. 


Dedication of Solomon’s Temple 

Completion of the second Temple 

(Ver. 1-4, 29. Dedication of Solomon’ 

■< Temple 

iVer. 5-2S. David’s capture of Jerusalem 

Ezra’s completion of the Jewish canon. 

cxx. David's marriage with Abigail 

exxi. Unknown. (Probably Davidic.) 
exxii. 'David's restoration after Absalom’s rebell- 
ion 

cxxiii. I During the captivity. 

exxiv. .Unknown. (Probably Davidic.) 

exxv. Opposition of the Samaritans 

exxvi. [Cyrus’s decree 

cxxviii f | Coustruction of Solomon’s Temple 

cxxix. Opposition of the Samaritans 

cxxx.jDnring the exile. 

cxxxi. David's submission to the pestilence 

cxxxii. Dedication of Solomon’s Temple 

cxxxiii. Unknown. (Probably Davidic.) 

cxxxiv. Dedication of Solomon’s Temple ) 

cxxxv. A var. of Psa. cxxxiv, cxxxvi, and cxv. . . > 

cxxxvi. Dedication of Solomon’s Temple ) 

cxxxvii. Jerusalem’s fall 

C cxxxi x.'} Unknown. (Probably Davidic.) 

cxl. Doeg’s slaughtei*of the priests 

exfii* | Davi ^’ s retreat to Adullam 

cxl fit. Absalom’s rebellion 

cxliv. Close of David's wars 


cxiv. 
cxlvi. 
cxlvii.'l 
cxlviii. I 
cxlix. | 

clj 


David’s charge to Solomon 

Building of the second Temple ...?.. , 


Dedication of the second Temple . 


1 Chron. xv, 25-2S. 

(Psa. xcviii, 7-9, is identical 
„ with 1 Chron. xvi, 32, 33.) 

2 Chron. vi, 1-6. 

,2 Chron. vi, 7-10. 

l'Sam. v, 9-12. 

Dan. ix, 1-27. 


/(Corap. 1 Chron. xvi, S-22.) 
(I Chron. xv, 1-24. 

Ezra iii, S-13, 

1 Sam. xxii, 6-23. 

2 Sam. vii, 1-29. 

Ezra vii, 14-22. 

2 Chron. v, 1-14. 

Ezra vii, 14-22. 

2 Chron. v, 1-14. 

' Sam. v, 6-9. 

1 Sara, xv, 1-14. 

•2 Sam. xix, 9, 10. 

Ezra iv, 1-5. 

Ezra i, 1-4. 

1 Kings vi, 11-14. 

Ezra iv, 6-24. 

1 Chron. xxi, 6-30. 

2 Chron. Yi, 1-11. 

1 Kings viii, 1-11. 

Jer. lii, 5-27. 

1 Sam. xxii, 6-23. 

1 Sam. xxii, 1, 2. 

.1 Chron. xi, 15-19. 

2 Sam. xvii, 1-29. 

2 Sam. xxii, 1-51. 

1 Chrou. xxii, 1-19. 

Ezra vi, 1-13. 

Neh. xii, 27-43. 


cx). 


PSALMS 


T54 


PSALMS 


Ew-ald, Tholuck, and others, pronounce the poetry of 
the Psalms to be of the lyric order. “They are.” says 
De Wette (Einleituny in die J ‘sal men, p. 2), “ lyric in the 
proper sense ; for among the Hebrews, as among the an- 
cients generally, poetry, singing, and music were united, 
and l lie inscriptions to most of the Psalms determine 
their connection with music, though in a way not always 
intelligible to us. Also, as works of taste, these compo- 
sitions deserve to be called lyric. The essence of lyric 
poetry is the immediate expression of feeling, and feel- 
ing is the sphere in which most of the Psalms move. 
Pain, grief, fear, hope, joy, trust, gratitude, submission 
to God — everything that moves and elevates the heart 
is expressed in these songs. Most of them are the lively 
effusions of the excited, susceptible heart, the fresh off- 
spring of inspiration and elevation of thought; while 
only a few are spiritless imitations and compilations, or 
unpoetic forms of prayer, temple hymns, and collections 
of proverbs.” For fuller information on this subject, see 
POKTKV. 

X. Prophetic and Messianic significance . — The moral 
struggle between godliness and ungodliness, so vividly 
depicted in the Psalms, culminates, in Iloly Scripture, 
in the life of the Incarnate Son of God upon earth. It 
only remains to show that the Psalms themselves defi- 
nitely anticipated this culmination. Now, there are in 
the Psalter at least three psalms of which the interest 
evidently centres in a person distinct from the speaker, 
and which, since they cannot, without violence to the 
language, be interpreted of any but the Messiah, may 
he termed directly and exclusively Messianic. We re- 
fer to Psa. ii, xlv, ex, to which may, perhaps, be added 
Psa. lxxii. 

It would be strange if these few psalms stood, in 
their prophetical significance, absolutely alone among 
the rest ; the more so inasmuch as Psa. ii forms part of 
the preface to the first book of the Psalter, and would, 
as such, be entirely out of place, did not its general 
theme virtually extend itself over those that follow, 
in which the interest generally centres in the figure of 
the suppliant or worshipper himself. Hence the im- 
possibility of viewing the psalms generally, notwith- 
standing the historical drapery in which they are out- 
wardly clothed, as simply the past devotions of the his- 
torical David or the historical Israel. Other arguments 
to the same effect arc furnished by the idealized repre- 
sentations which many of them present: by the out- 
ward points of contact between their language and the 
actual earthly career of our Saviour; by the frequent 
references made to them both by our Saviour himself 
and by the Evangelists; and by the view taken of them 
by the Jews, as evinced in several passages of the Tar- 
gum. There is yet another circumstance well worthy 
of note in its bearing upon this subject. Alike in the 
earlier and in the later portions of the Psalter, all those 
psalms which are of a personal rather than of a national 
character are marked in the superscriptions with the 
name of David. It results from this that, while the 
Davidic psalms are partly personal, partly national, the 
Eevitical psalms are uniformly national. Exceptions to 
this rule exist only in appearance: thus Psa. lxxiii, al- 
though couched in the first person singular, is really a 
prayer of the Jewish faithful against the Assyrian in- 
vaders; and in Psa. xlii, xl i ii, it is the feelings of an ex- 
iled company rather than of a single individual to which 
utterance is given. It thus follows that it was only those 
psalmists who wore types of Christ by external office 
and lineage as well as by inward piety that were charged 
by the Holy Spirit to set forth beforehand, in Christ’s 
own name and person, the sufferings that awaited him 
ami the glory that should follow. The national hymns 
of Israel are, indeed, also prospective; but in general 
they anticipate rather the struggles and the triumphs 
of the Christian Church than those of Christ himself. 

We annex a list, of the chief passages in the Psalms 
which are in anywise quoted or embodied in the N. T., 
showing more or less clearly this anticipative character: 


Psa. ii, 1,2, 7, 8, 9; iv,4; v.9; vi,3,8; viii,2,4-G; x,7; 
xiv, 1-3; xvi, 8-11 ; xviii, 4, 49; xix, 4 ; xxii, 1, 8, 18, 
22; xxiii, G; xxiv, 1 ; xxxi, 5; xxxii, 1, 2; xxxiv, 8, 
12-1G, 20; xxxv, 9; xxxvi, 1 ; xxxvii, 11; xl, G-8 : xli, 
9; xliv, 22; xlv, G, 7 ; xlviii,2; li, 4 ; Iv, 22; lxviii, 18; 
Ixix, 4, 9, 22, 23, 25; lxxv, 8 ; lxxviii, 2, 24 ; lxxxii, G ; 
Ixxxvi, 9 ; Ixxxix, 20; xc, 4; xci,ll,12; xcii,7; xciv, 
11; xev, 7-11; cii, 25-27; civ, 4; cix, 8; ex. 1,4; cxii, 
9; cxvi, 10; cxvii, 1 ; cxviii, G, 22, 23, 25, 2G ; exxv, 5; 
cxl, 3. See Quotations. 

XI. Moral Characteristics of the Psalms. — The great 
doctrines and precepts embodied in the Psalms — what 
views they give of God and his government, of man 
and his sinfulness, of piety and morals, of a future state, 
and of the Messiah — are most ably set forth by Tholuck 
in his Eiitleitung, § 4. 

Foremost among these meets us, undoubtedly, the 
universal recourse to communion with God. “My 
voice is unto God, and 1 will cry" (Psa. lxxvii, 1), 
might well stand as a motto to the whole of the Psal- 
ter; for, whether immersed in the depths, or blessed 
with greatness and comfort on every side, it is to God 
that the psalmist’s voice seems ever to soar spontane- 
ously aloft. Alike in the welcome of present deliver- 
ance or in the contemplation of past mercies, he ad- 
dresses himself straight to God as the object of his 
praise. Alike in the persecutions of his enemies and 
in the desertions of his friends, in wretchedness of body 
and in the agonies of inward repentance, in the mo- 
ment of impending danger and in the hour of apparent 
despair, it is direct to God that he utters forth his sup- 
plications. Despair, we say ; for such, as far as the de- 
scription goes, is the psalmist’s state in Psa. lxxxviii. 
But meanwhile he is praying: the apparent impossi- 
bility of deliverance cannot restrain his Godward voice; 
and so the very force of communion with God carries 
him, almost unawares to himself, through the trial. 

Connected with this is the faith by which he every- 
where lives in God rather than in himself. God’s 
mercies, God’s greatness, form the sphere in which his 
thoughts are ever moving. Even when, through ex- 
cess of affliction, reason is rendered powerless, the naked 
contemplation of God’s wonders of old forms his effect- 
ual support (Psa. lxxvii). 

It is of the essence of such faith that the psalmist’s 
view’ of the perfections of God should be true and viv- 
id. The Psalter describes God as he is; it glows with 
testimonies to his power and providence, his love and 
faithfulness, his holiness and righteousness. Corre- 
spondingly it testifies against every form of idol which 
men would substitute in the living God’s place, wheth- 
er it be the outward image, the work of men’s hands 
(Psa.cxv), or whether it be the inward vanity of earth- 
ly comfort or prosperity, to be purchased at the cost of 
the honor which cometh from God alone ( Psa. iv). The 
solemn “See that there is no idol-way (lU" ““1) in 
me” of Psa. cxx.xix — the striving of the heart after the 
very truth, and naught besides — is the exact anticipa- 
tion of the “Little children, keep yourselves from idols” 
of the loved apostle in the N. T. 

The Psalms not only sot forth the perfections of 
God; they proclaim also the duty of worshipping him 
by the acknowledgment and adulation of his perfec- 
tions. They encourage all outward rites and means of 
worship: new songs, use of musical instruments of all 
kinds, appearance in God’s courts, lifting-up of hands, 
prostration at his footstool, holy apparel (A. V. "beauty 
of holiness”). Among these they recognise the ordi- 
nance of sacrifice (Psa. iv, v, xxvii. li) as an expression 
of the worshipper’s consecration of himself to (bid’s ser- 
vice. l’ut not the less do they repudiate the outward 
rite when separated from that which it was designed to 
express (Psa. xl, Ixix) : a broken and contrite heart is, 
from erring man, the genuine sacrifice which God re- 
quires (Psa. li). 

Similar depth is observable in the view taken by the 


PSALMS 


755 


PSALMS 


psalmists of human sin. It is to be traced not only in 
its outward manifestations, but also in the inward work- 
ings of the heart (Psa. xxxvi), and is to be primarily 
ascribed to man’s innate corruption (Psa. li, lviii). It 
shows itself alike in deeds, in words (Psa. xvii, cxli), 
and in thoughts (Psa. cxxxix); nor is even the believer 
able to discern all its various ramifications (Psa. xix). 
Connected with this view of sin is, on the one hand, the 
picture of the utter corruption of the ungodly world 
(Psa.xiv); on the other, the encouragement to genuine 
repentance, the assurance of divine forgiveness (Psa. 
xxxii), and the trust in Cod as the source of complete 
redemption (Psa. cxxx). 

With regard to the law, the psalmist, while warmly 
acknowledging its excellence, feels yet that it cannot so 
effectually guide his own unassisted exertions as to pre- 
serve him from error (Psa. xix). He needs an addi- 
tional grace from above, the grace of God’s Holy Spirit 
(Psa. li). But God’s Spirit is also a free spirit (ibid.); 
led by this, he will discern the law, with all its precepts, 
to be no arbitrary rule of bondage, but rather a charter 
and instrument of liberty (Psa. cxix). 

The Psalms bear repeated testimony to the duty of 
instructing others in the ways of holiness (Psa. xxxii, 
xxxiv, li). The}’ - also indirectly enforce the duty of 
love, even to our enemies (Psa. vii, 4 ; xxxv, 13 ; cix, 
4). On the other hand, they denounce, in the strong- 
est terms, the judgments of God on transgressors. We 
here particularly notice what are called the vindictive \ 
psalms — namely, those which contain expressions of 
wrath and imprecations against the enemies of God | 
and his people, such as Psa. lix, lxix, lxxix, and which, 
in consequence, are apt to shock the feelings of some 
Christian readers. In order to obviate this offence, 
most of our pious commentators insist that the expres- 
sions are not maledictions or imprecations, but simple 
declarations of what will or may take place. But this 
is utterly inadmissible ; for in several of the most star- 
tling passages the language in the original is plainly 
imperative, and not indicative (see Psa. lix, 14 : lxix, 
25, 28; lxxix, 6). The truth is that only a morbid be- 
nevolence, a mistaken philanthropy, takes offence at 
these psalms; for in reality they are not opposed to the 
spirit of the Gospel, or to that love of enemies which 
Christ enjoined, Resentment against evil-doers is so 
far from being sinful that we find it exemplified in the 
meek and spotless Redeemer himself (see Mark iii, 5). 
If the emotion and its utterance were essentially sinful, 
how could Paul (1 Cor. xvi, 22) wish the enemy of 
Christ to be accursed (dvaSepa), or say of his own en- 
emy, Alexander the coppersmith, “ The Lord reward 
him according to his works” (2 Tim. iv, 14) ; and, espe- 
cially, how could the spirits of the just in heaven call 
on God for vengeance? (Kev. vi, 10.) See a good article 
on this subject (“The Imprecations in the Scriptures”) 
in the American Bibliotheca Sacra for February, 1844. 
Such imprecations in the Psalms, however, are usually 
levelled at transgressors as a body, and are uniformly 
uttered on the hypothesis of their wilful persistence in 
evil, in which case the overthrow of the sinner becomes 
a necessary part of the uprooting of sin. They are in 
nowise inconsistent with any efforts to lead sinners, in- 
dividually, to repentance. See Imprecation. 

This brings us to notice the faith of the psalmists in 
a righteous recompense to all men according to their 
deeds (Psa. xxxvii, etc.). They generally expected that 
men would receive such recompense, in great measure, 
during their own lifetime. Yet they felt withal that it 
was not then complete; it perpetuated itself to their 
children (Psa. xxxvii, 25; cix, 12, etc.); and thus we 
find set forth in the Psalms, with sufficient distinctness, 
though in an unmatured, and consequently imperfect, 
form, the doctrine of a retribution after death. 

XII. Commentaries. — The following are the special 
exegetical helps on the whole book; we designate a 
few of the most important by an asterisk, and we omit 
many that are merely practical, homiletical, and litur- 


gical: Origen, Selecta (in Opp. ii, 510); also Scholia 
(in Galland’s Bibl. Patr. vol. xiv); Eusebius, Commen- 
tarii (Gr. and Lat. in Montfa neon’s Collectio Nova, vol. 
i) ; Athanasius, Expositiones ; also Jnterpretatio, etc. 
(all in Opp. vol. i and iii); Apollinarius, Metaphrasis 
(Lat. and Gr. in Galland, v, 359); Gregory Nyssen. 
Inscriptiones (in Opp. i, 257) ; Jerome, Emendatio and 
De Yirtute (in Opp. [Suppos.~], vol. xi) ; also Brevia- 
rium [spurious] (ibid, append.); Augustine, Enarrati - 
ones (in Opp.; transl. Expositions, Oxf. 1847, 6 vols.- 
8vo) ; Halius, Commentarii (in Opp. vol. i) ; Chrysos- 
tom, Expositio (in Opp. vol. v) ; Theodoret, Commentarii 
(Gr. and Lat. Padua, 1565, 4to; Halle, 1768, 8vo; also 
in Opp. vol. ii); Gregory Turonensis, Commentarii (in 
Opp. p. 1257) ; Arnobius, Commentarium (in Bibl. Max. 
Patr. vol. viii) ; Cassiodorus, Expositio (in Opp. vol. ii) ; 
Isidore, Prologus (in Mai’s Script. Pet. vol. iii); Albert, 
Commentarii (in Opp. vol. vii) ; Bede, Commentaria (in 
Opp. vol. viii); Kemigius, Enarratio (in Bibl. Max. 
Patr. vol. xvi) ; Bruuo Herbip. Expositio (ibid. vol. 
xviii); Bruno Altensis, Psalterium (in Opp. vol. i) ; Ru- 
pert, In Psalmos (in Opp. vol. i) ; Euthymius Zigabe- 
nus, Commentarii (Gr, and Lat. in Bibl. Max. Patr. vol. 
xix; also Gr. Yen. 1530, fol. ; Lat. Verona, 1530, fol.; 
Par. 1545, 4to; 1560, 8vo); Hugo a St. Yict. A nnota- 
tiones (in Opp. vol. i) ; Gerhobus, Commentarius (in Pez, 
Thesaur. vol. v) ; Oddo, Expositio (in Bibl. Max. Patr. 
vol. xx) ; Bonaventura, Expositio (in Opp. vol. i) ; Kim- 
chi, (first published separately, s. 1. 1477, 4to, and 

often later in various forms; Lat. ed. Janvier, Par. 1666, 
4 to ; in English by M ; Caul, Lond. 1850. 12mo) ; Turre- 
cremata, Expositio (Rom. 1470, 4to, and later in various 
forms) ; Parez [Rom. Cath.], Commentarius (Valenc. 
1493, fol., and often later elsewhere); Pclbart [Rom. 
Cath.], CommenUirius (Hag. 1504, 1513, fol.); Ludol- 
phus, Expositio (Par. 1506, fol.); Felix Pratensis, Notoe 
(Yen. 1515, 8vo; Hag. 1522, 4to; Basil. 1526, lffmo); 
Arnobius, Commentarius (Iioterd. 1522, 4to) ; Bugenha- 
gen, Adnotationes (Argent. 1524, 4to, and often later 
elsewhere in various forms); Ayguanus [Rom. Cath.], 
Commentaria (Complut. 1524, 2 vols. fol., and often later 
in various forms); Cajetan [Rom. Cath.], Enarratio 
(Yen. 1525; Par. 1532, 1540, fol.); Bucer, Commentarii 
(Argent.' 1526, fol., and often; also in French, Geneva, 
1553, 8vo) ; Titelmann [Rom. Cath.], Elucidationes 
(Antw. 1531, fol., and often later and elsewhere in va- 
rious forms) ; Campensis [Rom. Cath.], Interpretatio 
[with Eccles.] (Par. 1534, 4to, and often later in various 
forms and at various places ; also in French and English); 
Parmensis [Rom. Cath.], Interpretatio (Yen. 1537, 1559, 
4to) ; Flaminius, Explanatio (Yen. 1545, fol.; ed. Wald, 
Hal. 1785, 8vo) ; Athias, C n 2Hri 111*03 [from Rashi, 
Kimchi, etc.] (Yen. 1549, fol.); Foleng [Rom. Cath.], 
Commentaria (Basil. 1549, 1557; Rom. 1585; Colon. 
1594, fol.); Musculus, Commentarius (Basil. 1550, and 
often, fol.); yEpinus, Enarrationes (Francf. 1555-56, 2 
vols. 8vo); *Calvin, Commentarius (Genev. 1557 and 
often, fol.; also in French, ibid. 1561 and often, fol.; in 
English, Lond. 1571, 2 vols. 4to; Oxf. 1840, 3 vols. 8vo; 
Edinb. 1845-49, 5 vols. 8vo); Yairlenius [Rom. Cath.], 
Commentarius (Lov. 1557, 3 vols. fol.) ; Marloratus, Ex- 
positio (Par. 1562 and often, fol.) ; Draconis, Psalterium 
(Vitemb. 1563, fol.) ; Forerius [Rom. Cath.], Commenta- 
rius (Yen. 1563, fol.) ; Strigel, llypomnemata (Lips. 1563, 
fol. and 8vo: Neost. 1574, 8vo); Selnecker, Auslegung 
(Norib. 1566 and often, fol.); Del Pozo [Rom. Cath.], 
Elucidationes (Complut. 1567, fol.) ; Shoeib, 

(Salonica, 1569, 4to) ; Jansen [Rom. C’ath.], 
Paraphrasis (Lov. 1569, 4to; Lugd. 1577, 1586, fol.); 
Jachez, (Salonica, 1571, 4to); M oiler, Commenta- 

rius (Yiteb. 1573, 8vo, and often in various forms); Ge- 
nebrard [Rom. Cath.], Commentarii (Par. 1577, 8vo; 
and often later anil elsewhere in various forms); Iles- 
hnsius, Commentamus (Helmst. 1586, fol.); Arama, 
n'-^nn (Yen. 1590, 4to; Germ. ed. by Bathysen, 


PSALMS 


Y5G 


PSALMS 


Ilanau, 1712, 12mo); Fischer, Auslegung (Ulz. 1590; 
Leips. 1 GO 1 , fol.) ; Mencel, A mlegung (Leips. 1594, 1005, 
fol.) ; Palanthcr [Korn. Cath.], Commentarius (Brix. 
1G00 ; Veil. 1017, -1 to) ; Dosma [Rom. Cath.], Expositio 
[includ. Cant.] (Madr. 1001, 4to); Nicholson, Analysis 
[Engl.J (Lonil. 1002, fol.); Alseheich, 5X r"2'2" 
(Veil. 1005, 4to; Amst. 1095, 4to; Jessnitz, 1721, fol.; 
Zolkiew, 1704, fol.); Gcsner, Comment ationes (Yitemb. 
1005, 1009, 1029, 1005, fol.); Agelli [Horn. Cath.], Com- 
mentarius (Kom, 1000; Colon. 1007; Par. 1011, fol.); 
Bellarmine [Kom. Cath.], Explanutio (Kom. 1011, 4to, 
and often later elsewhere); Achselrad, (I Ia- 

n an, 1010, 4to); Witmeller [Kom. Cath.], Commenta- 
rius (Constance, 1017, 3 vols. 4to; in Germ., Cologne, 
1043, 3 vols. 4to) ; Lorinns [Kom. Cath.], Commentarii 
(Lngd. 1017, 3 vols. fol., and often later) ; Cramer, A us- 
legungen ((lies. 1018, 4to) ; Top, Commentarius (Loud. 
1019, fol.); Coppen, Notes (Ileidelb. 1019; llanov. 1057, 
4to) ; Schnepf, Commentarius (Lips. 1019, 1028, 1035, 
fol.); Dnpin, Kotin (Par. 1091, 8vo) ; Ainsworth, Anno- 
tations [with Pent, and Cant.] (Loiul. 1027, 1039, fol.; 
in Dutch, Leon. 1090, fol.); Crommius [Kom. Cath.], 
Expositio (Lov. 1G28, 4 to ; Antw. 1052, 8vo) ; Pulsictius 
[Kom. Cath.], Expositiones (Veil. 1028, 4to); Marotte, 
[Kom. Cath.], Commentarius [incliul. other passages] 
(Par. 1030, fol.); Wilcox, Exposition (in U'criv): Boys, 
Exposition (in 11 r orks) ; Borgliesins [Kom. Cath.], Com- 
mentaria (l)uaci, 1034, 1037, 8vo) ; (linnasius [Kom. 
Cath.], Interpretationes (Kom. 1030, 2 vols. fol.); Vic- 
caro, Commentarius [rabbinical] (Lond. 1039, 1055, 
fol.); Kohl, A ujlijsung (Host. 1039, 12mo; 1709, 8 vo) ; 
Maldonatus [Kom. Cath.], Commentarii [incliul. other 
books] (Par. 1043, fol.); Gcrschau, Intcrpretatio [an- 
cient texts] (Rost. 1043, fol.); Dickson, Explication 
(Lond. 1045, 3 vols. 8vo; 1059, fol.: Glasg. 1834, 2 
vols. 12mo); Ford, Expositio (Lond. 1040, 4 to); llul- 
sius, Annotations (Lugd. 1050, 4to) ; Bythner, Lyre 
[grammatical] (Lond. 1G50, 4to, and often since in va- 
rious forms); Mercado, [includ. Eccles.] (Amst. 

1G53, 4fo); Ileser [Rom. Cath.], Explanaiio (Ingolst. 
1054, 8vo; enlarged, Monach. 1073,2 vols. fol.); Leigh, 
Annotations [includ. other books] (Lond. 1057, fol.); 
Hammond, Annotations (ibid. 1059, fol.; also in IFor/s, 
vol. iv) ; Price, A ilnotationes (in Critici Karri, vol. iii, 
ibid. 1000, fol.); Coceeius, Commentarius (L. B. 1000, 
fol.); Wright, Expositio (Lond. 1002, fol.); Amyraut, 
Paraphrasis (Salmur. 1002; Traj. 1702, 4to); Bake, 
Commentarius (l'rancf. 1005, 1083, lol.) ; Le Blanc [Kom. 
Cath.], Commentarius (Lugd. 1005-77; Colon. 1080-97, 
0 vols. fol.); La Palisse [Kom. Cath.], Expositio (Tou- 
louse, 1000, 2 vols. fol.) ; Geier, Commentarius (Dresd. 1008, 
2 vols. 4to, and later); Ileser f Commentarius (Monach. 
1073, 2 vols. fol.); Bull, Commentary (Lond. 1075, 4 to) ; 
Dauderstadt, Labores (Lips. 1G79, fol.) ; I lamer, Verklaa- 
ringe (Koferd. 1081, 4 to) ; Ferrand [Kom. Cath.], Adno- 
tutiones (Par. 1083, 4fo) ; Groenwegen, Verklaaringe 
(lvnch. 1087, 4lo); Moldcrson, Condones (Antw. 1091, 
8vo); Baxter, Paraphrase (Lond. 1092, 8vo) ; Van Til, 
Psalmen (Dort, 1093 and later, 4to; in Germ., Cassel, 
1097 ami later, 4to) ; Clutterbuek, Explanation (Loud. 
1702, 8vo) ; Frisch, llarfe (Stuttg. 1703, 8vo, and often 
later); lvortum, Anmerkungen ( Frank f. 1700, 4to) ; J. 
Johnson, Notes (Lond. 1707, 8vo); De Carrie res [Kom. 
Cath.], Comment a ire (Par. 1709, 12mo) ; Arnold, Pe- 
trachtuur/en (Cassel, 1713, 8vo) ; Allix, A rgument (Lond. 
1717, Svo); I*. L. D. G. [Kom. Cath.]. Reflexions (Par. 
1717, 2 vols. 12mo); Petersen, Aufschliessuny (Francf. 
1719, 4to); II. Michaelis, A ilnotationes (Ilal. 1720, 4to); 
Dii llamel j Kom. Cath.], A ilnotationes (Kothom. 1701, 
12mo); Clmsnn, "T~ !"!T in (Amst. 1724, 4 to); Zeibich, 
Ammrk. (Eileuh. 1724, 8vo); Merkerlihicl), [from 
Kimehi] (Sulzb. 1728. 4 to) ; Irboven, In Titulos (Lugd. 
1728, 4to); Franeke, Erklarnng (Hal. 1730-31, 2 vols. 
4to); Zeysch, E.inleitnng (Leips. 1732, 8vo) ; Quesnel, Re- 
Jlexions (Par. 1736, 3 vols. 12mo); 1’ranke, Xotce (Ilal. 


| 1738, 1827, 8vo) ; A. Johnston, Xotce (Lond. 1741, 8vo) ; 
Foinard, Traduction (Par. 1742, 12nio); kludge, Version 
(Lond. 174-1, 4 to); Van Bash uy sen. Xotce (ed. Meintell, 
Suab. 1744, 8vo); Oetinger, Einleitung (Essling. 1748, 
8vo); Marini, Annotations (Bonon. 1748-50. 2 vols. 
4to) ; Edwards, Xotes (Lond. 1755, 1850, 8vo) ; Fenwick, 
Xotes (ibid. 1759, 8vo); Burk, Gnomon (Stuttg. 17(50, 2 
vols. 4to); Green, Xotes (Cambr. 1702, 8vo) ; Venema, 
Commentarius (Leov. 1702-07, 0 vols. 4 to); Vatablns, 
A nnotationes (ed. Grotins and Vogel, Ilal. 1707, 8vo) ; 
Vogel, Inscriptiones (ibid. 1707, 4to); Merrick, A nnota- 
tions (Leading, 1708, 4 to) ; Keseh, llypomnemu (Prag. 
1709-77, 3 vols, 8vo) ; Serranus, Metaphrusis (ed, Oke- 
ly, Gr. and Lat. Lond. 1770, Kvo) ; Horne, Commentary 
(Oxf. 1771, 2 vols. 4t<>. and often since in various forms) ; 
Zaeliariii, Erklarnng (< hitt. 1773, 8vo) ; Knapp, A nmerk. 
(Hal. 1773, 1789, 8vo); Masillon, Paraphrase [French] 
(Par. 1770, 2 vols. 12mo); Moldeuhaiter, Erkliir. (Qued- 
linb. 1777, 4to); Struensee, Uebers. [with Prov.] (Ilal. 
1783, 8vo); Mendelssohn [Jewish]. Ethers. (Berl. 1783, 
1785, 8vo); Seiler, Uebers. (Erl. 1784, 1788, 8vo); The- 
nius, Erliint. (Dresd. 17«5, 8vo); Berthier, Reflexions 
(Par. 1785. 8 vols. 8vo) : Dathe, Xotcr. (Hal. 1787, 1792, 
8vo) : Boaretli, Volgarizzamento (Ven. 17*8, 2 vols. 
8vo); Cole, Key (Cambr. 1788. 8vo); Variseo, Annota- 
zioni (Milan, 1788, 8vo); Lowe, (Berl. 1788, 8vo, 

and often); Briegleb, Uebers. (Amst. 1789-93, 5 vols. 
8vo) ; Street, Xotes (Lond. 1790, 2 vols. 8vo); Paulus, 
Claris (Jen. 1791 ; Ileidelb. 1815, 8vo) ; Dimmoek, 
Xotes (Lond. 1791, 4to); Muntinghe, Vertaahl. (Levd. 
1791-92, 2 vols. 8vo; in Germ, by Sclible, Halle, 1792 
sq., 3 vols. Svo); Wetzel, A nimadversiones (Francf. 1792, 
4t.o) ; A I e i r, (ed. Satanow, Berl. 1794; Vien. 1810, 

8vo) ; Travel, Paraphrase (Gloucester, 1794. 8vo) ; Bed- 
ding, Obserrationes (Franec. 1796, 8vo) ; Jacobi, A nmerk. 
(Jena, 1790, 2 vols. 8vo); Bezel, Uebers. (Altenb. 1797, 
8vo) ; Kiihnol, A nmerk. (Leips. 1799, Svo) ; Asnlai, 
r'?nr, rS” 1 (Leghorn, 1801, 4to); Kelle, Aujlvsung 
(Meissen, 1801, 8vo); Berlin, Xotce (Upsal. 1805, 8vo); 
Geddes, Xotes (Lond. 1807, Svo); Pinehas, 

Z *’'£ Z n : yAl insk, 1 809, 4 to) ; Anon. Explications [French] 
(Par. 1809, 3 vols. 8vo) ; Agier, Xotes [French] (ibid. 
1809, 2 vols. 8vo) ; *De Wette. Commentar (Ileidelb. 
1811, 1823, 1829, 1830, 1850, 1850, 8vo) : Stuhlmann, Er- 
liint. (Ilamb. 1812, 8vo) ; Schiirer. A nmerk. (Berne. 1812, 
1852, 8vo); Hacker, Erklarnng (Leips. 1813, 8vo): Stolz, 
A mlegung (Ziir. 1814, Svo); Keinhard, Erl ant. (Leips. 
1814, Svo): Hnrslev, Xotes [on a part only] (Lond, 1815, 
1820, 1833, 18-18, 8vo) ; (ioode. Version (ibid. 1810, 
8vo) ; Sheriffe, Re flections (ibid. 1821, 2 vols. 12ino); 
Ewart, Lectures (ibid. 1822-20, 2 vols. 8vo) : Mant, 
Xotes (Oxf. 1824, Svo); Boys, Key (Lond. 1825, 8vo ; 
I’arkhurst, Translation (ibid. 1825. Svo); Anon. Para- 
phrasis (Argent. 1820, 2 vols. 8vo); Anon. Illustration 
(York, 1820, 2 vols. 12mo); Kaiser, Erkliir. (Numb. 
1827, Svo); Goldwitzer, Uebers. (Sulzb. 1827, 8vo); 
Warner, illustrations (Lond. 1828, Svo) ; (lower. Expla- 
nation (ibid. 1831, 12mo); Claims, Pi it rage (Berl. 1831, 
8vo); Noyes, Translation (Bost. 1831, 1833, 1837, 12mo); 
Slade, Explanation (Lond. 1832, 12mo); M orison, Expo- 
sition (ibid. 1832,3 vols. Svo); Rogers. J rrangement (Oxf. 
1833, 2 vols. 12mo); French and Skinner, Xotes (Lond. 
1833, 1812. 8vo); Koil, .1 nslegnng [on sixty psalms] 
(Leips. 1834-35. 2 vols. Svo) ; Carpenter, Reflections 
(Lond. 1835. 1811, l8mo); Sachs, Erliint. (Berl. 1835, 
8vo); *IIitzig, Commentar (Ileidelb. 1835 37. 2 vols. 
I 8vo) ; Fry, Exposition (Lond. 1830, 1842, Svo); Stier, 

[ A nslegnng [on seventy psalms] (Halle, 1830, Svo) ; Wnl- 
ford, Xotes (Lond. 1837. Svo); Kiister, A nmerk. (Kii- 
nigsh. 18.37, Svo) ; Krahmer, Erk/iintng ( Leips. 1837-38, 
2 vols. Svo); Bargain!, Traduction (Par. 1838. Svo); 
Bush, Commentary (N. V. 1838, 8vo); * Evald, Erkla- 
rung (Giitt. ] 839, 1840, I860, Svo); Kcble, Metrical Ver- 
sion (Oxf. 1839. Svo); Reisenthal, I ’ersio (Berl. 1840, 
Svo); Wiener, De Indole (Erlang. 1840, Svo); Tucker, 


PSALTER 


PSALTER OF SOLOMON 


7 57 


Notes (Loncl. 1840, l2mo) ; Biesenthal, Commentar (Berl. 
1841, 8vo) ; Anon. Commentar (ibid. 1842, 8vo) ; Dentsch, 
Commentar (Leips. 1842, 8vo) ; *Hengstenberg, Com- 
mentar (Berl. 1842-47, 1849-54 ; in Engl., Edinb. 1846- 
48, 3 vols. 8vo); Tboluck, A usleyuny (Halle, 1843, 8vo; 
transl. by Mombert, Loud. 1856 ; N. Y. 1858, 8vo) ; Cress- 
well, Notes (Loud. 1843, 12rao); Camming, Paraphrase 
(ibid. 1843, 12mo) ; *Vaihinger, Erkldrung (Leips. 1845, 
2 vols. 8vo); ““Philips, Commentary (Lond. 1846, 2 vols. 
8vo) ; Jones, Reflections (ibid. 1846, 12mo) ; Jebb, Trans- 
lation (ibid. 1846, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Lengerke, A usleyuny 
(Leips. 1847, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Clowes, Translation (Lond. 
1849, 8vo); Pridliam, Notes (ibid. 1852, 12mo) ; Weiss, 
Exposition (Edinb. 1852, 8vo) ; Olshausen, Erkldrung 
(Leips. 1853, 8vo) ; Byland, Commentary (Lond. 1853, 
12mo) ; ““Alexander, Notes (X. Y. 1853-56,3 vols. 12rao) ; 
Good, Notes (Lond. 1854, 8vo) ; *Hupfeld, A usleyuny 
(Gotha, 1855-62, 1867-69, 4 vols. 8vo); Scliegg, Erkla- 
runy (Miin. 1856, 8vo) ; Hawkins, Notes (Lond. 1857, 
12mo); Iiokach, (Leghorn, 1858, 8vo); Bendu, 

Notes [French] (Par. 1858, 8vo) ; Claude, Notes [French] 
(ibid. 1858, 8vo) ; Bonar, Commentary (Lond. 1859, 8vo) ; 
““Delitzsch, Commentar (Leips. 1859-60, 2 vols. 8vo; 
rewritten in the Commentary of Iveil and Delitzsch) ; 
““Thrupp, Introduction (Lond. 1860, 2 vols. 8vo); Wil- 
son, Exposition (ibid. 1860, 2 vols. 8vo) ; De Burgh, 
Commentary (Dubl. 1860, 8vo) ; Neale, Commentary [from 
primitive and mediaeval sources] (Lond. 1860-71, 3 vols. 
8vo); Hammer, Erlaut. (Leips. 1861, 8vo); *Perrowne, 
Notes (Lond. 1864-66, 1868-70, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Kay, Notes 
(Oxf. 1864, 8vo) ; Monrad, Oversatt. (Copenh. 1865, 8vo) ; 
Kurtz, Zur Theoloyie (Leips. 1865, 8vo) ; Plurner, Studies 
(Lond. 1867, 8voj ; Barnes, Notes (X. Y. 1869, 3 vols. 
8vo) ; Spurgeon, Exposition (Lond. 1870-72,3 vols.8vo) ; 
Linton, Explanation (ibid. 1871, 8vo) ; Burton, Para- 
phrase (ibid. 1871, 8vo); Conant, Version (X. Y. 1871, 
4to) ; Cowles, Notes (ibid. 1872, 12mo) ; * Murphv, Com- 
mentary (Lond. 1875, 8vo); M"Lean, Expositions (ibid. 
1875, 8vo); Heiligstedt, Auslegung (vol. i, Halle, 1876, 
8vo). See Oli> Testament. 

Psalter. This word is often used by ancient writers 
for the book of Psalms, considered as a separate book of 
Holy Scripture. It obtained among later Church writ- 
ers a more technical meaning as the book in which the 
Psalms are arranged for the service of the Church. The 
Boman Catholic Psalter, for instance, does not follow the 
Scriptural order of the Psalms, but arranges them for 
the various services in a different manner. In the Eng- 
lish Psalter, as it exists in the Book of Common Prayer, 
the Psalms are arranged in such a way as to give a read- 
ing for every day in the month, and there are also spe- 
cial selections to be used in the discretion of the minis- 
ter. The translation is not that of the King James Ver- 
sion (i. e. our common Bible), but the earlier version of 
Cranmer’s Bible, which accounts fur the difference be- 
tween the Psalms of the Prayer-book and those of the 
ordinary version of the Bible. The use of the Psalter 
as a system of psalmody seems to have been borrowed 
from the synagogue. The Psalter was always a favorite 
book, and one which obtained a most extensive use both 
in private and public. It was regarded as an epitome 
of the Bible, and as especially adapted to the use of 
youth and the people, at large. The clergy were re- 
quired to commit this book to memory. In later times, 
when the Bible as a whole was denied to the people, 
the Latin Psalter was left in their hands; and at the 
time of the Beformation the penitential psalms were in 
the hands and mouths of the people. 

Sometimes the book, for the sake of convenience, was 
divided into five portions, to correspond with the Penta- 
teuch; and again the Psalms were arranged in different 
classes according to their character, as hallelujah, bap- 
tismal, penitential, burial psalms, etc. In the time of 
St. Augustine and St. Chrysostom the burial psalms were 
xxiii, xlii, xliii, lix, ci; in the Roman Church they are 
xxiii, xxv, xxvii, and the seven penitentials; in the 


English Church, xxxiii, xc; in the Greek Church, xci, 
cxix ; and for clerks, xxiv, lxxxiv. Beleth mentions 
Psa. cxiv and Confltemini ; he says charcoal was placed 
in the grave to show that the ground could never again 
be occupied. Psalms Gradual , Pilgrims' Songs, or Psalms 
of Degrees, were Psa. exx to cxxxiv, which were sung 
in ascending the fifteen steps of Solomon’s Temple. Hal- 
lelujah Psalms were cxlvi to cl, each beginning with 
the words “ Praise ye the Lord.” Psalms Lucernal 
were those sung in the primitive Church at the light- 
ing of the lamps the first hour of the night. The Clem- 
entine Constitutions, Cassian, and St. Chrysostom men- 
tion the office said at this time under the same appel- 
lation. Psalms of Praise (llallel) were Psa. cxiii to 
cxviii, the hymn sung by Christ before his agony. 
Psalms Penitential were seven: St. Augustine, when 
dying and lying speechless on his bed, had the seven 
psalms painted on the walls of his chamber, that, look- 
ing towards them, he might resist any temptations of 
the devil (Psa. vi, xxxii, xxxviii, li [Miserere], cii, 
exxx [ De Profund is], cxliii). Psalms Prostrate were 
those during the saying of which seniors knelt in their 
stalls and the junior monks lay prostrate on the floor or 
forms. These were said after vespers and in Lent, be- 
fore the Collects of the Hours and Verba mea auribus 
percipe. Twelve psalms, called the Dicta, were sung 
(with three lections and responsories and six anthems) 
on the nocturns of ordinary days, one for each hour of 
the night. Six, says Beleth, are sung at matins, lauds, 
and other hours, in memory of the six works of mercy; 
live at vespers, one for each of the senses; and four at 
compline, the number of perfection. — Walcott, id acred 
Archeology , s. v.; Farrar, Eccles. Did. s. v. 

Psalter of Solomon. Under this title is extant 
in a Greek translation a collection of eighteen psalms 
or hymns, evidently modelled on the canonical psalms, 
breathing Messianic hopes, and forming a favorable 
specimen of the later popular Jewish literature. It 
was first edited by De la Cerda, according to an Augs- 
burg manuscript, now no more extant, in his A dversaria 
Sacra (Lugd. 1626), and then again by Fabricius in his 
Codex Pseudepigraphus Vet. Test. (1722, 2d ed.), i, 914 
sq. An English version is given by Whiston, A uthentic 
Records (Lond. 1827), vol. i. Of late it has been edited 
by Ililgenfeld, who collated for this purpose a Vienna 
codex in his Zeitschrift (1868), p. 134-168, and in his 
Messias Judceorum, who was followed by Geiger and 
Fritzsche. Later transcribers have made Solomon the 
author of these psalms, but the psalms themselves are 
against this assumption; on the contrary, they are the 
best proof of their later origin. Some — as Ewald, Grimm, 
Oehler, Dillmann, Weiffenbach — assign these psalms to 
the time of Antiochus Epiphanes (q. v.); others — as 
Movers, Delitzsch, and Keim — to the time of Herod ; but 
neither of these dates is correct. It is now generally 
held by critics like Laugen, Ililgenfeld, Noldeke, Haus- 
rath, Geiger, Fritzsche, Wittichen, that they originated 
soon after the taking of Jerusalem by Pompey, and this 
opinion is corroborated by the tenor of especially the 
2d, 8th, and 17th psalms. Looking at the circum- 
stances of the time which is presupposed in these psalms, 
we find the following: A generation to which the 
rule over Israel had not been promised took pos- 
session of it by force (oJg o vk t7r?;yyeiXti» ptrd (Siag 
a(pti\oi>TO, xvii, 6). They did not give God the honor, 
but put on the royal crown and took possession of Da- 
vid’s throne (xvii, 7, 8). In their time Israel sinned. 
The king was in transgression of the law ( iv uapavo- 
ptq), the judge was not in truth (ovk Iv aXyStiy), and 
the people were in sin (ica! o \aog iv dpaprigt, xvii, 22, 
22). But God put these princes down by raising against 
them a foreign man who did not belong to the tribe of 
Israel (xvii, 8, 9). From the ends of the world God 
brought a strong man, who made war with Jerusalem 
and the country. The princes of the land, in their in- 
fatuation, met him with joy, and said, “ You are wel- 
come; come hither; enter in peace.” The doors were 


PSALTERY 


PSALTER OF SOLOMON Ii 

opened to him, and lie entered like a father in the house 
of his sons (viii, 15-20). < bice in the city, he also took 

the castles and broke the walls of Jerusalem with the 
battering-rams (viii, 21 ; ii, 1). Jerusalem was trodden 
down by the heathen (ii, 20); even the altar of God 
was ascended by foreign people (ii, 2). The most prom- 
inent men and sages of the council were killed, and the 
blood of the inhabitants of Jerusalem was shed like the 
water of impurity (viii, 23). The inhabitants of the 
country were carried away as captives into the West, 
and the princes for a derision (xvii, 13, 14; ii, 6; viii, 
24). At last, the dragon who took Jerusalem was 
killed at the mountain of Egypt on the sea (ii, 29). It 
hardly needs any further explanation that all these 
events fully agree with the history of Pompey. The 
princes who arrogated to themselves the throne of Da- 
vid are the Asmomeans (q. v.), who, since the time of 
Aristobulus 1, called themselves kings. The last princes 
of this house, Alexander Jamncus and Aristobulus II, 
favored the Sadducees, and in the eyes of the Pharisaic 
author they are sinners and unlawful. The “ foreign and 
strong man” whom God brings from the ends of the earth 
is Pompey. The princes who meet him are Aristobulus 
II and Ilyreanus II; the adherents of the latter admit 
Pompey into the city, and lie soon takes the other part 
with force ( Iv Kpitp, ii, 1), which was held by Aristo- 
bulus’s party. All the other circumstances fully agree 
with wdiat we know’ of Pompey’s campaign in Palestine; 
and the fact that the 2d psalm speaks of the manner 
in which Pompey died, in B.C. 48, fully proves the as- 
sumption that it was written soon after this event, while 
the 8tli and 17th psalms, as well as the greater part of 
the others, may have been written between 03 and 48. 

The spirit which runs through these psalms is that 
of Pharisaic Judaism. They breathe an earnest moral 
tone and true piety; but the righteousness which they 
preach, and the absence of which they deplore, is the 
one which can only be attained by keeping the Phar- 
isaic ordinances, the CiKaioabvi) 7rpo<TTaypdTU)v (xiv, 
1). After death man is judged according to his works, 
lie is at liberty to choose between righteousness or un- 
righteousness (comp, especially ix, 7). l’y doing the 
former he will rise to eternal life (iii, 10); by doing the 
latter, eternal damnation is his destiny (xiii, 9 sq.; xiv, 
2 sq.; xv). In opposition to the unlawfully arrogated 
reign of the Asmonaeans, which is already overthrown 
by Pompey, the author looks for the Messianic king of 
the house of David who will bring Israel to the prom- 
ised glory (xvii, 1,5,23-51 ; xviii, 6—10 ; comp.vii,9; xi). 

The hypothesis of Griitz (Gesch. d. Juden [2d e<l.], 
iii, 439) that these psalms were written by a Christian 
author deserves no refutation. Nor are we justified in 
assuming Christian interpolations; for the sinlessness 
and holiness which the author ascribes to his expected 
Messiah (xvii, 41,46) is not the sinlessness in the sense 
of Christian dogmatics, but merely the strict legality in 
the sense of Pharisaism. As to the original language 
of the psalms, it is now generally held against Ililgen- 
feld that it was Hebrew, because it is very Hebraizing, 
which would not be the case if Ililgenfeld were correct. 
Hence we are justified in the assumption that the psalms 
were not written at Alexandria, but in Palestine. 

Literature. — Ililgenfeld, Zeitschrift fur irissenschaftl. 
Theologie (1808), p. 134-108; (1871), p. 383-118 ; J/m- 
sias Judeeornm Libris eorum panto ante it paulo post 
('fir. nat. conscriptis illnstratus (Lips. 1869), p. 1-33; 
Geiger, I ter Psalter Salomons (Augs. 1871), and review 
of it in Gbttinger gel. Anzeigen (1871), p. 811-850, and 
in Ilauck, Thiol. J ahresbericht , vi, 421 sq. ; Fritzsche, 
Libn A pocn/phi 1 'eteris Test ament i Greece (Lips. 1871), 
p. 569-589; Wittichen, Jtie Idee des Reiches Gottes, p. 
155-160; Ewald, Gesch. des Yolkcs Israel , iv, 392 sq.; 
Grimm, Zn 1. Makknb. p. xxvii ; Odder, art. “ Messias” 
in Herzog, Real- Enn/ldop. ix. 426 sq. ; Dillmann, art. 
“ Psendcpigraphen,” ibid, xii, 305 sq. ; Wciftenbach, Qua- 
Jesu in Regno Ca lesti Itignitas sit Synopiiconim Sententia 
erjionitur (Gissic, 1868), p. 49 sq. ; Movers, in Wetzer 


u. YTelte’s Kirchen-Lexicon, i, 340; Delitzsch, Psalmen , 
(1st ed.), ii, 381 sq. ; Keim, Geschichfe Jesu von A'a- 
zara, i, 243 (Engl, transl. [Loud. 1873], p. 313 sq.); 
Langeii, J)as Judenthnm in Pulestina zur Zeit Christi 
(1866), p. 04-70; Xoldeke, A Ittestamentl. Liieratur 
(1868), p. 141 sq. ; Ilausrath, Zeitgeschichte, i, 164 sq., 
176; Carriere, Ite Psalterin Salomonis (Argentorati, 
1870), p. 8, and Ewald’s notice of it in Gbttinger gel. 
Anzeigen (1873), p. 237-240; Anger, Vorlesungen iiber 
die Geschichfe der messiunischm Idee (1873), p. 81 sq. ; 
Sehiirer, Xeutestamentliche Zeitgeschichte (Leips. 1874), 
p. 140 sq., 569 sq.; Stanley, Hist, of the Jewish Church 
(X.Y. 1877), iii, 335. (B*. P.) 

Fsalterium Marianum is the name by which 
the devotion of the rosary is sometimes indicated, be- 
cause in it (excepting the initial prayers), instead of 
the 150 psalms of the Scripture, the .1 re Maria, in hon- 
or of the Virgin Mary, is recited 150 times. 

Psaltery, an Anglicism of the Greek ipaXrijpioi’, 
is used in the A. V. as the rendering of two Hebrew 
words, both of which signified stringed instruments of 
music to accompany the voice. (In our treatment of 
them we use, in part, the article in Smith’s Diet, of the 
Jiible.') See Kitto’s note on Psa. xcii, 3, in his Pictorial 
liiblc; Bible Educator, i, 70, 215; and comp. Musical 

lXSTRUMKXTS. 

1. S2*, or bz*,nebel, is so rendered in the A. V. in all 
passages where it occurs, except in Isa. v, 12; xiv, 11 ; 
xxii, 24 marg.; Amos v, 23; vi, 5, where it is trans- 
lated viol, following the Geneva Version, which has no/e 
in all cases except 2 Sam. vi, 5; 1 Kings x, 12 (“ psal- 
tery”) ; 2 Esd. x, 22; Ecclus. xl, 21 (“psalterion"); Isa. 
xxii, 24 (“ musicke”) ; and Wisd. xix, 18 (“instrument 
of mnsike”). The ancient viol was a six-stringed guitar. 
“Viols had six strings, and the position of the lingers 
was marked on the finger-board by frets, as in the guitars 
of the present day” (Chappell, Pop. Mus. i, 216). In 
the Prayer-book version of the Psalms, the Hebrew 
word is rendered “lute.” This instrument resembled 
the guitar, but was superior in tone, “being larger, and 
having a convex back, somewhat like the vertical sec- 
tion of a gourd, or more nearly resembling that of a 
pear. . . . It had virtually six strings, because, although 
the number was eleven or twelve, five, at least, were 
doubled; the first, or treble, being sometimes a single 
string. The head in which the pegs to turn the strings 
were inserted receded almost at a right angle” (Chap- 
pell, i, 102). These three instruments — the psaltery or 
san try, the viol, and the lute — are frequently associated 
in the old English poets, and were clearly instruments 
resembling each other, though still different. Thus in 
Chaucer’s Flower and Leaf, p. 337 — 

“And before hem went niinstreles inauy one. 

As liarpes, pipes, lutes, and sautri/;" 
and again in Drayton’s Polyolbion, iv, 35G — 

“The trembliug lute some touch, some strain the viol 
best.” 

The word psalten / in its present form appears to have 
been introduced about the end of the 16th century, for 
it occurs in the unmodified form psalterion in two pas- 
sages of the Geneva Version (1560). Again, in North’s 
Plutarch {Them. [ed. 1595], p. 124) we read that The- 
mistocles, “ being mocked . . . by some that had studied 
humanitie, and other liberall sciences, was drinen for 
reuengc and his owuc defence, to aunswor with greate 
and stoute words, saying, that in deed he could no skill 
to time a harpe, nor a violl, nor to play of a psalterion ; 
but if they did put a citie into bis bands that was of 
small name, weake, and litle, lie knew waves enough 
bow to make it noble, strong, and great.” The Greek 
\f/a\r/'ipioi>, from which our word is derived, denotes an 
instrument played with the fingers instead of a plectrum 
or quill, the verb being used (Eurip. Bacch. p. 

78l> of twanging the bowstring (comp, \pa\yoi rd$wi’, 
Eurip. Jon, p. 173). But it only occurs in the Sept, as 
the rendering of the Hebrew nebel in Nell, xii, 27 and 


PSALTERY 


759 


PSALTERY 


Isa. v, 12, and in all the passages of the Psalms, except 
Psa. lxxi, 22 (\(/aXpug) and Psa. lxxxi, 2 (iciSdpa), while 
in Amos v, 23; vi, 5, the general term bpyavov is em- 
ployed. In all other cases vafiXa represents nebel or 
nebel. These various renderings are sufficient to show 
that at the time the translation of the Sept, was made 
there was no certain identification of the Hebrew in- 
strument with any known to the translators. The ren- 
dering vctfiXa commends itself on account of the simi- 
larity of the Greek word with the Hebrew. Josephus 
appears to have regarded them as equivalent, and his is 
the only direct evidence upon the point, lie tells us 
{Ant. vii, 12, 3) that the difference between the Kivvpa 
(Ileb. WlSS, kinnor) and the vafiXcc was that the former 
had ten strings and was played with the plectrum, the 
latter had twelve notes and was played with the hand. 
Forty thousand of these instruments, he adds (A nt. viii, 
3, 8), were made of electrum by Solomon for the Temple 
choir. Rashi (on Isa. v, 12) says that the nebel had 
more strings and pegs than the kinnor. That ncibla was 
a foreign name is evident from Strabo (x, 471) and from 
Atliemeus (iv, 175), where its origin is said to be Sido- 
nian. Beyond this, and that it was a stringed instru- 
ment (Athen. iv, 175), played by the hand (Ovid, Ars 
Am. iii, 327), w r e know nothing of it; but in these facts 
we have strong presumptive evidence that nabla and 
nebel are the same ; and that the nabla and psalterion 
are identical appears from the glossary of Philoxenus, 
where nablio — ^aXTgg, and nablizo = tpdWoj. and from 
Suidas, who makes j^salterion and naula, or nabla, syn- 
onymous. Of the psaltery among the Greeks there ap- 
pear to have been two kinds — the ttijktiq, which was 
of Persian (Athen. xiv, 636) or Lydian (ibid. p. 635) 
origin, and the payddtg. The former had only two 
(ibid, iv, 183) or three (ibid.) strings; the latter as 
many as twenty (ibid, xiv, 634), though sometimes 
only five (ibid. p. 637). They are sometimes said to be 
the same, and were evidently of the same kind. Both 
Isidore ( De Origg. iii, 21) and Cassiodorus ( Prof in 
Psal. c. 4) describe the psaltery as triangular in shape, 
like the Greek A, with the sounding-board above the 
strings, which were struck downwards. The latter adds 
that it was played with a plectrum, so that he contra- 
dicts Josephus if the psaltery and nebel are really the 
same. In this case Josephus is the rather to be trusted. 
St. Augustine (on Psa. xxxii [xxxiii]) makes the po- 
sition of the sounding-board the point in which the 
cithara and psaltery differ; in the former it is below, in 
the latter above the strings. Ilis language implies that 
both w r ere played with the plectrum. The distinction 
between the cithara and psaltery is observed by Jerome 
{Prol, in Psal.). From these conflicting accounts it is 
impossible to say positively with what instrument the 
nebel of the Hebrew exactly corresponded. It was prob- 
ably of various kinds, as Kimchi says in his note on Isa. 



Triangnlar Musical Instrument from Herculaneum. 


xxii, 21, differing from each other both with regard to 
the position of the pegs and the number of the strings. 
In illustration of the descriptions oflsidorus and Cassio- 
dorus reference may be made to the drawings from 
Egyptian musical instruments given by Sir Gard. Wil- 
kinson (.l«c. Kg. ii, 280, 287), some one of which may 
correspond to the Hebrew nebel. Munk ( Palestine , pi. 
16, figs. 12, 13) gives an engraving of an instrument 
which Niebuhr saw. Its form is that of an inverted 
Delta placed upon a round box of wood covered with 
skin. Abraham de Porta-Leone, the author of Shiite 
Ilaggibborim (c. 5), identifies the nebel with the Italian 
liuto (the lute), or rather with the particular kind called 
liuto chitarronato (the German mandoline'), the thirteen 
strings of which were of gut or sinew, and were struck 
with a quill. See Hake. 

The nebel asur (Psa. xxxiii, 2 ; xcii, 3 [4] ; cxliv, 9) 
appears to have been an instrument of the psaltery kind 
of a peculiar form or number of strings (Forkel, Gesch. 
der J lus. i, 133). Aben-Ezra (on Psa. cl, 3) says the 
nebel had ten holes; so that he must have considered it 
to be a kind of pipe. As the latter term signifies ten, 
and never occurs but in connection with the nebel, the 
conjecture is natural that the two instruments may have 
differed from each other only in the number of their 
strings, or the openings at the bottom. Hence we meet 
with the Sept, translation iv ltKa\ppSip, and in the 
Chaldee, Syriac, and Arabic words expressing an in- 
strument of ten strings, which is also followed in the 
A. Y. (Psa. xxxiii, 2; cxliv, 1). We see no reason to 
dissent from this conclusion. Pfeiffer was inclined to 
think that the asur may have been the quadrangular 
lyre which is represented in different varieties in an- 
cient monuments (figs. 1 and 2 of the accompanying cut), 
and which has usually ten strings, though sometimes 
more. See Viol. 



Miscellaneous Aucient Stringed Instruments. 


From the fact that nebel in Hebrew also signifies a 
wine-bottle or skin, it has been conjectured that the 
term when applied to a musical instrument denotes a 
kind of bagpipe — the old English cornamute, French 
cornemnse ; but it seems clear, whatever else may be ob- 
scure concerning it, that the nebel was a stringed instru- 
ment. In the Mishna ( Kelim , xvi, 7) mention is made 
of a case (p^H— Sp/cg) in which it was kept. See 
Bottle. 

The first appearance of the nebel in the history of the 
Old Test, is in connection with the “ string” of prophets 
who met Saul as they came down from the high place 
(1 Sam. x, 5). Here it is clearly used in a religious 
service, as again (2 Sam. vi, 5 ; I Chron. xiii, 8) when 
David brought the ark from Kirjath-jearim. In the 
Temple band organized by David were the players on 
psalteries (1 Chron. xv, 16, 20), who accompanied the 
ark from the house of Obed-edom (xv, 28). They 
played when the ark was brought into the Temple (2 
Chron. v, 12) ; at the thanksgiving for Jehoshaphat’s 


PSATIIYllIAXS 


760 PSYCHIC I 


victory (xx, 28) ; at the restoration of the Temple under 
Ilezekiah (xxix, 25), and the dedication of the walls of 
Jerusalem after they were rebuilt by Nehemiah (Nell, 
xii, 27). In all these cases, and in the passages in the 
Psalms where allusion is made to it, the psaltery is as- 
sociated with religious services (comp. Amos v, 23; 2 
Ksd. x, 22). But it had its part also in private festivi- 
ties, as is evident from Isa. v, 12; xiv, 11; xxii, 24; 
Amos vi, 5, where it is associated with banquets and 
luxurious indulgence. It appears (Isa. xiv, 11) to have 
had a soft, plaintive note. The psalteries of David 
were made of cypress (2 Sam. vi, 5), those of Solomon 
of algum or almug trees (2 Chron. ix, 11). See Psal- 
mody. 

2. Among the instruments of the band which played 
before Nebuchadnezzar’s golden image on the plains of 
Dura, we again meet with the “psaltery” Cp“r:CE, 
Dan. iii, 5, 10, 15; pesunteriri). The Chaldee 

word appears to be merely a modification of the Greek 
xpaXr/'/pior. Attention is called to the fact that the 
word is singular (see Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1 1 1G), the 
termination * ( n “ corresponding to the Greek -tov. This, 
in a more narrow and exact sense, denotes an instru- 
ment like the cithara (Lemprid. A l Sever), played 
with both hands, and called the magadis , pay dug 
(Athen. xiv, 63li) ; but according to Jerome ( Proanti . in 
Psalm.) it was the later Greek name for the nulla or 
nebel above. See Music. 

Psathyrians or Fsatyrians, a sect of Arians, 
who were followers of Tlieocti.stus, a zealous pastry-cook 
(xpazvpoTrwXijg) of Constantinople, who maintained the 
heresy of Arius in the form that the first person in the 
Trinity existed before the Son had a being; thus deny- 
ing the eternal generation of Christ. Brought to trial 
in the Council of Antioch, A.D. 3(50, they maintained 
that the Son was not like the Father as to will; that 
he was taken from nothing, or made of nothing; and 
that in God generation was not to be distinguished from 
creation. They were also called Doulcians and Cyrti- 
ani. See Theodoras, liter. Fab. vol. iv. 

Psaunte, Nicholas, a French prelate, was born in 
1518 at Chaumont-sur-Aine. diocese of Verdun, of very 
humble parentage, lie was educated by his uncle, 
Francois Psaume, abbe of St. Paul of Verdun, who sent 
him successively to the universities of Paris, Orleans, 
and Poitiers, and resigned the abbey in his favor in 
1^38. Soon after, Nicholas took the habit of the Pre- 
monstrants. In 1548 the cardinal Jean de Lorraine 
abdicated in his favor the bishopric of Verdun. He as- 
sisted at the Council of Trent in 1550 and in 15(32, ar- 
guing against the abuse of the regidar benefices, and 
made for himself some enemies. lie died at Verdun, 
Aug. 10, 1575. lie gave to the world Collectio Actornm 
c-t Deere torum Concilii Trident ini (Etival, 1725), a curi- 
ous journal of all that was done at the council from 
Nov. 13, 1502, until its conclusion, which was published 
by P. 1 1 ugo, abbe d’Et i val : — P riser vat if contre le Change- 
ment de Religion (Verdun, 1563, 8vo): — an edition of the 
canons of the provincial council of Treves in 15-18 
Missalt Yirdunense (1557) : — Portrait de VEglise (1573), 
dedicated to the cardinal of Lorraine: — some other 
works relative to the Council of Trent, which he pub- 
lished in 1504. — lloefer, Xouc. Plug. Gene rale, s. v. 

FseudepigiSpha (\pfv?t7riypa(pa) means those 
writings the title ( hnypaept '/) of which names a false 
author instead of the true one. This designation is 
often applied to the Apocrypha, although iliere are 
many Apocrypha which name no author at all in their 
title. A number of Protestant theologians restrict the 
term pseudepigrapha to such writings of the <>. T. as 
were composed in the Greek language shortly before or 
after Christ, and falsely attributed to the patriarchs and 
prophets of the l )ld Covenant, as, e. g. the testament of 
the twelve patriarchs, the book of Enoch, etc. They 
designate by the name of Apocrypha the writings falsely 


attributed to the apostles and disciples of Jesus. See 
ArocitYJ’iiA. 

Pseudodoxy (xpweocoZia, from xpn^og, false- 
hood, and Cu£a, opinion) designates a false or decep- 
tive opinion, and hence is employed for superstition and 
error. A synonymous expression is pseudodidascalg 
(from cicaoKaXia, instruction), as he who holds errone- 
ous opinions (xpercocoZog), if he communicates them, 
becomes a false teacher (xltvcouCuoicaXog). The op- 
posite of these two expressions ought to be orthodoxy 
and orthodidascaly, but the latter two words arc used 
in a somewhat different sense. See 1 1 ltekodox. The 
word pseudoistn is of recent formation, and means a 
general inclination to the false, which shows itself in 
thoughts, words, and doctrines, as well as in acts and in 
the social intercourse of life. 

Pseudolatry (xpevCoXarpeia, from xp ev^oc, false- 
hood, and Xarptm, service) designates a false worship, 
of which the Christian writers, who seem to have first 
formed this word, accused the pagans, on account of 
their polytheism. Pseudolatry lias also penetrated 
into the Christian Church; for where we find the wor- 
ship of images (iconolatry, or idolatry), there is pseu- 
dolatry likewise. 

Pseudology and Pseudomancy (^ei-coXoy/a, 
xpevdopavTtia, from Xuyog, speech, and pavrtia , predic- 
tion) are in the mutual relation of species and genus. 
The former refers to false and deceptive speaking in 
general; the latter to the foretelling of future events, 
in which, in this sense, there is neither truth nor wis- 
dom. The same relation exists between thepscudolo- 
gist and the pseudomantist, called also pseudo-prophet. 
.See Prophkt. Comp, also Lucian’s Pseudomantis, by 
which title he designates an impostor of his time called 
Alexander (Alexander Impostor). Pseudomania would 
be simulated lolly ( pavia ); for mental diseases can be 
simulated as well as bodily. Both pretences are mean, 
the former still more than the latter; for he who pre- 
tends to be mentally diseased plays the part of a being 
J deprived of reason and freedom. Criminals sometimes 
recur to this artifice to escape the responsibility of their 
actions; lawyers like, in desperate cases, to resort to the 
plea of insanity. The judge must, where such an ex- 
cuse is attempted, take the advice of the physicians, 
who have to examine how far such a plea is warranted 
by the facts, else this mode of defence would lead to 
the impunity of all criminals, even the most danger- 
ous. The words xPevCopavia and xpevcopavreia are 
both unknown to antiquity, although xptvcdpctvTig was 
employed. Instead of xptvdoXoyia, the ancients used 
also xptx'CoprSia (from pr5og = Xdyoc) ; hence it would 
be a mistake if we employed the latter word for false 
fables, although myth is synonymous with fable. 

Psilantlnopists are those who maintain the ex- 
treme form of Unitarian doctrine that Christ was merely 
(xptXitg) a man (uvSpioTrog), and not God and man 
(SfavSptoTTog) in one person. 

Fsychici and Pneumatici (xpr\tKoi and irvfv- 
pariroi, scil. rti-3pai7roi) are often contrasted in such a 
manner that the former word is employed in a lower 
sense, the second with a more refined and noble signifi- 
cation. The Montanists thus designated the ortho- 
dox, because they rejected the prophecies and pretend- 
ed inspiral ions of their founder, and would not receive 
his rigid laws respecting fasting, etc. This was the 
term constantly used hv Tertullian after he had fallen 
into the errors of the Montanists. He calls his own 
party the spiritual, and the orthodox the carnal. Ter- 
tullian, who ranged himself with the Pneumaticists, 
wrote a book t'ontru Psych icos s. Orthodoxos. But this 
meaning is very seldom given to these words in onr 
times. See Okkjkn. The latter found in the Script- 
ures a somatic, psychical, and pneumatieal meaning, lie- 
cause man is composed of body, soul, and mind. The 
name appears to have originated with the Valentinians, 
who styled themselves the spiritual and the perfect, and 


PSYCHISM 


PTOLEM^EUS 


761 


said they had no need of abstinence and good works, 
which were unnecessary for them that were perfect. 

Psychism (a new formation, from \pv\i), soul) is 
the opinion that everything is soul. The followers of 
this doctrine are called Psychists. Although poets put 
a soul in every inanimate object, they do not belong tu 
this sect of philosophers; for they do not think in the 
least of suppressing all distinction between the somatic 
and the psychical nature. Michel Petdcz, a Hungarian, 
published in 1833 (Pesth, 8vo) a book in which he at- 
tempts to prove that the so-called bodily world is com- 
posed of nothing but sonls. He divides the souls into 
two classes, the living and the dead; the latter, in a 
state of aggregation, constitute the bodies. This opin- 
ion is not so new as it would appear at first sight. It 
bears a striking resemblance to Leibnitz’s monadologv, 
and may be a branch of that tree. Leibnitz considers 
the whole universe as composed of monads, which he 
divides into conscious and unconscious, or slumbering; 
he also holds bodies to be aggregations of the second 
kind of monads. If they are consistent, the strict ideal- 
ists will likewise be compelled to consider all that ex- 
ists as soul or spirit, as they hold the bodies to be mere 
representations or ideas, to which the thinking mind 
lends objective existence. M. Quesne ( Lettres sur le 
Psychisme [Paris, 1852, 8vo]) teaches that there is a 
fluid diffused throughout all nature, animating equally 
all living and organized beings, and that the difference 
which appears in their actions comes of their particular 
organization. The fluid is general, the organization is 
individual. This opinion differs from that of Pythag- 
oras (q. v.), who held that the soul of a man passed in- 
dividually into the body of a brute. While M. Quesne 
holds that, though the body dies, the soul does not; the ! 
organization perishes, but not the psvchal, or psychical, 
fluid. See Krug, Philos. Worterbuch, s. v. 

Psychology (from ^vxu, the soul, and Aoyog, a 
discourse) is that branch of metaphysics which treats 
of the nature and relations of the human spirit. It 
has been divided into rational, or speculative, and em- 
pirical, or practical. (See Fleming and Krauth, Vocab. 
of Ph ilos, s. v.) 

Biblical Psychology is a term lately applied to the 
doctrines of the Holy Scriptures on the subject, espe- 
cially as to the distinction between the rational and 
immortal soul in man (n*H, Trvtvpa), and the animal, 
sensitive, and affectional spirit ('CJE3, ipvx>))- The sub- 
ject has been treated with great acumen by Delitzsch 
( Biblical Psychology , tr. from the German, Edinb. 1867) ; 
but the results are rather curious than satisfactory. 
(See Brit. Qnar. Rev. Jan. 1873, p. 162; New- Englander, 
July, 1873, art. iv.) In fact, the Bible has no scientific 
nomenclature, and the attempt to reduce its terms to 
the strict definitions of modern classification, especially 
on so obscure and abstract a subject, must necessarily 
prove abortive. See Mind. 


Psychomancy (from i pvxri, soul, and pavreia, 
prediction) is the pretended art of summoning the 
souls of the deceased, and learning the future by their 
communications; it is one of the branches of divina- 
tion, or mantics. The ancients use only \pvx<>^avTig,. 
a sorcerer of this kind, and xf/vxopavreior, the place' 
where such performances took place ( oraculum anima- 
rum). The same art is called necromancy, and, in a 
more extensive sense, pneumatomancy. See Divina- 
tion. 

Psychometry (a new formation, from ipvx>), soul, 
and perpov, measure) is the art of measuring souls. It 
cannot give an acconnt with mathematical exactitude of 
the powers of the soul and their effects; it must content 
itself with an approximative valuation, the soul being a 
quantity inapproachable to the senses, which cannot be 
measured like bodies. Cli. Jul. Sim. Portius, a teacher 
in Leipsic, invented an instrument of psychometry, 
which he thus describes : “ The psychometer is an in- 
strument which show's what a man is in respect to his 
temperament, mind, and heart. One hundred and ten 
different impressions can be made on the instrument. 
The impression made by the person whose soul is meas- 
ured shows by which of the one hundred and ten quali- 
ties enumerated on a board” — and most arbitrarily and 
illogically, as to that — “this person is distinguished 
from others.” We may ask, Only those by which he 
or she is distinguished from, not also those which he 
has iu common with, other people? But, then, the in- 
strument could not indicate any of those one hundred 
and ten qualities, as each of them must be held in com- 
mon by several persons. See the description of this 
psvchometer by its author (Leipsic, 1833, 8vo). 

Psychopannychism (\f/ vxn,soul ; Trdi>, all; and 
vv%, night — the sleep of the soul) is the doctrine to 
which Luther, among divines, and Forney, among phi- 
I losophers, v'ere inclined, that at death the soul falls 
asleep, and does not awake till the resurrection of the 
body. Calvin wrote a treatise against this view in 
1534, and there is much against it in Henry Mori’s 
Works. Pagett says, in his Ileresiography , written 
about 1638, that this “ heresy” revived in his time 
through the publication of a work entitled Man's 
Mortality. See Soul-sleep. 

Fsychopneumones were those who maintained 
the opinion that the souls of the good, after death, be- 
came angels, and the souls of the evil became devils. 
See Augustinus, Hceres. ch. lxxviii; Pried est. Ilceres. 
ch. lxxviii. 

Ftolemae'us, or Ptolemy (nroAquaTof , i. e. “ the 
warlike,” from irroXepog = iroXtpog), the dynastic name 
of the Greek kings of Egypt (A. V. “ Ptoreraee” or 
“ Ptoleme'us”), and hence employed also by many pri- 
vate persons. The name, which occurs in early legends 
(II. iv, 228 ; Pausan. x, 5), appears first in the historic 
period in the time of Alexander the Great, and became 


1. Ptolfaleus I, Soter (son of Lagns), B.C. oir. 323-26 

Arsinoe to 2. Ptot.em.eus II, Puiladelpucs (B.C. 2S5-247), to 3. Arsinoe. 

I 


4. Ptolem.eus III, Euergetes I (B.C. 247-222). 


5. Berenice to Antiochus II. 


6. Ptolem.eus IV, Pm locator (B.C. 222-206), to 7. Arsinoe. 


8. Ptole.m.eu8 V, Epiphanes (B.C. 205-1S1), to Cleopatra (daughter of Antiochus Magnus). 


9. Ptolem.eus VI, Piitlometok 
(B.C. 181-146), 
to Cleopatra (11). 


I 


10. Ptolem.eus VII, Euergetes II (Phvscou), to 11. Cleopatra, 

(B.C. 171-146-117) to (2) Cleopatra (14). 


(12.) CJeopatra, 13. Ptolemleus Eupator. 14. Cleopatra. 15. Ptolem.eus VIII, Soter II 

to Alexander Balas. (B .C. 117-4,1). 

to Demetrius II. ‘ 


PTOLE^LEUS 


7G2 


PTOLEM^EUS 


afterwards very frequent among the states which arose J 
out of his conquests. For the following, which are the j 
only persons of the name mentioned in the Scriptures 
(and these in the Apocrypha alone, although refer- 
red to in Daniel), we adopt the statements found 
in Smith's Diet. of the Bible. For the civil history 
of the Ptolemies the student will find ample refer- 
ences to the original authorities in the articles in 
Smith's Diet, of Classical Biography, ii, 581, etc., and in 
Pauly’s lieal-Kncyklopddie. The literature of the sub- 
ject in its religious aspects has been noticed under Ai.- 
kxandkia; Disi'KHsion, A curious account of the lit- 
erary activity of Ptolemy Philadelphia is given (by 
Simon de Magistris) in the Apologia sent. Bat. de. LX X 
1 ’ers., appended to Daniel sec. LX X (Koma?, 177 2) ; but 
this is not always trustworthy. More complete details 
of the history of the Alexandrine libraries are given by 
Kitsch], Die A lexandriniseken Bibliotkeken (Breslau, 
1838); and Part hey, Das Alexandr. Museum (Berlin, 
1838). The foregoing table gives the descent of the 
royal line as far as it is connected with Biblical history. 
See IviYi’T. 

1. Ptousmy T, Sotcr (Sum/p, savior ), known as the 
son of Lagus, a Macedonian of low rank, was gener- 
ally supposed to be an illegitimate son of Philip, lie 
distinguished himself greatly during the campaigns of 
Alexander; at whose death, foreseeing the necessary 
subdivision of the empire, he secured for himself the 
government of Egypt, where he proceeded at once to 
lay the foundations of a kingdom (B.C. 323). 11 is pol- 

icy during the wars of the succession was mainly di- 
rected towards the consolidation of his power, and not 
to wide conquests, lie maintained himself against the 
attacks of Pcrdiccas (B.C. 321) and Demetrius (B.C. 
312), and gained a precarious footing in Syria and Phce- 
nicia. In B.C. 307 he suffered a very severe defeat at 
sea off Cyprus from Antigonus, but successfully defended 
Egypt against invasion. After the final defeat of An- 
tigonus, B.C. 301. he was obliged to concede the debat- 
able provinces of Phoenicia and ( <ele-Syria to Selcucus; 
and during the remainder of his reign his only impor- 
tant achievement abroad was the recovery of Cyprus, 
which he permanently attached to the Egyptian mon- 
archy (B.C. 295). lie abdicated in favor of his young- 
est son, Ptolemy II Philadelphus, two years before his 
death, which took place in B.C. 288. 

Ptolemy Soter is described very briefly in Daniel (xi, 
5) as one of those who should receive part of the empire 
of Alexander when it was “divided towards the four 
winds of heaven.” “ The Ling of the south [Egypt in 
respect of Judaea] shall be strong ; and one of his princes 
[Selencus Nieator, shall be strong]; and he [Selcucus] 
shall be strong above him [Ptolemy], and have domin- 
ion .” Selencus, who is here mentioned, fled from Bab- 
ylon, where Antigonus sought his life, to Egypt in B.C. 
31G, and attached himself to Ptolemy. At last the de- 
cisive victory of Ipsus (B.C. 301), which was mainly 
gained by his services, gave him the command of an 
empire which was greater than any other held by Al- 
exander’s successors; and "his dominion vas a great 
dominion" (Dan. 1. e.). Jerome (ad Dan. 1. c.) very 
strangely refers the latter clauses of the verse to Ptole- 
my Philadelphus, “whose empire surpassed that of his 
father.” The whole tenor of the passage requires the 



Al«xftndrinn talent. ( Ohv. tlemt of kinp, r. f., bound wilti fillet. Jltv. 
nTOAEMAior suthfos. En^le, 1., on lliundorbott.) Struck ul Tyre. 


contrast of the two kingdoms on which the fortunes of 
Juda?a hung. 

In one of his expeditions into Syria, probably B.C. 
320, Ptolemy treacherously occupied Jerusalem on the 
Sabbath, a fact which arrested the attention of the hea- 
then historian Agatharcides (ap. Joseph. C. Ap. i, 22; 
Ant. xii, 1). lie carried away many Jews and Samari- 
tans captive to Alexandria; but, aware probably of the 
great importance of the good-will of the inhabitants of 
Palestine in the event of a Syrian war, he gave them 
the full privileges of citizenship in the new city. In 
the campaign of Gaza (B.C. 312) he reaped the fruits 
of his liberal policy; and many Jews voluntarily emi- 
grated to Egypt, though the colony was from the first 
disturbed by internal dissensions (Josephus, as above; 
llceat. ap. Joseph. C. Ap. 1. e.). 

2. Ptoi.kmy II, Philadelphus (<l>i\nct\0of, i. e. 
brother-loving), the youngest son of Ptolemy I, was 
made king two years before his death, to confirm the 
irregular succession. The conflict between Egypt and 
Syria was renewed during bis reign in consequence 
of the intrigue of his half-brother Magas. “ Bui in 
the end of years they [the kings of Syria and Egypt] 
joined themselves together [in friendship]. For the 
king's daughter of the south [Berenice, the daughter of 
Ptolemy Philadelphus] came [as bride] to the king of 
the north [Antiochns II], to make an agreement ” (Dan. 
xi, 6). The unhappy issue of this marriage has been 
noticed already [see Antioch vs II] ; and the political 
events of the reign of Ptolemy, who, however, retained 
possession of the disputed provinces of Phoenicia and 
Coele-Syria, offer no further points of interest in con- 
nection with Jewish history. 

In other respects, however, this reign was a critical 
epoch for the development of Judaism, as it was for the 
intellectual history of the ancient world. The liberal 
encouragement which Ptolemy bestowed on literature 
and science (following out in this the designs of Ills fa- 
ther) gave birth to a new school of writers and think- 
ers. The critical faculty was called forth in place of 
the creative, and learning, in some sense, supplied the 
place of original speculation. Eclecticism was the nec- 
essary result of the concurrence and comparison of dog- 
mas; and it was impossible that the Jew, who was now 
become as true a citizen of the world as the Greek, 
should remain passive in the conflict of opinions. The 
origin and influence of the translation of the Sept, will 
be considered in another place. See SicrTVAc.iNT. It 
is enough now to observe the greatness of the conse- 
quences involved in the union of (Jreek language with 
Jewish thought. Erom this time the Jew was famil- 
iarized with the great types of Western literature, and 
in some degree aimed at imitating them. Ezeehiel (6 
tmv ’[ovCa'iKwv Tpay<i>CiC,>r 7 ron/r/j£,Clem. Alex. Strom. 
i, 23, § 155) wrote a drama on the subject of the Exo- 
dus, of which considerable fragments, in fair iambic 
verse, remain (Enscb. Pnrp. Fr. ix. 28, 29; t’lem. Alex. 
/. e.), though he does not appear to have adhered strictly 
to the laws of classical composition. An older Philo 
celebrated Jerusalem in a long hexameter poem— Euse- 
bius quotes the 1 1th book — of which the few corrupt 
lines still preserved (Enscb. Prop. Fr. ix. 20, 24, 28) 
convey no satisfactory notion. Another epic poem, On 
the Jews, was written by Tlieodotus, and as the extant 
passages (ibid, ix, 22) treat of the history of Sicliein. it 
lias been conjectured that lie was a Samaritan. The 
work of Aristobnlus on the interpretation of the law 
was a still more important residt of the combination of 
the old faith with Greek culture, as forming the ground- 
work of later allegories. While the Jews appropri- 
ated the fruits of Western science, the (Irecks looked 
towards the East, with a new curiosity. The histories 
of Berosns and Manetlm and llecata-us opened a world 
as wide and as novel as the conquests of Alexander. 
The legendary sibvls were taught to speak in the lan- 
guage of the prophets. The name of Orpheus, which 
was connected with the first rise of Greek polytheism, 


PTOLEM^EUS 


763 


PTOLEMJ2US 


gave sanction to verses which set forth nobler views of 
the Godhead (ibid, xiii, 12, etc.). Even the most fa- 
mous poets were not free from interpolation (Ewald, 
Gesch. iv, 297, note). Everywhere the intellectual ap- 
proximation of Jew and Gentile was growing closer, or 
at least more possible. The later specific forms of teach- 
ing to which this syncretism of East and West gave 
rise have already been noticed. See Alexandria. A 
second time, and in a new' fashion, Egypt disciplined a 
people of God. It first impressed upon a nation the 
firm unitv of a family, and then in due time reconnected 
a matured people with the world from which it had been 
called out. 



Obv. AAEA<frQN. Busts of Ptolemy II and Arsinoe, r. Rev. 6EQN. Busts 
of Ptolemy I and Berenice, r. 

3. Ptolemy I IT, Euergetes (Ebepyerrjc, i. e. well- 
doer), was the eldest son of Ptolemy Philadelphus, and 
brother of Berenice, the w ife of Antioclius II. The re- 
pudiation and murder of his sister furnished him with 
an occasion for invading Syria (B.C. cir. 246). He 
“stood up, a branch out of her stock [sprung from the 
same parents] in his [father’s] estate ; and set himself at 
[the head of] his army, and came against the fortresses 
of the king of the north [Antiochnsl, and dealt against 
them and prevailed ” (Dan. xi, 7). He extended his 
conquests as far as Antioch, and then eastward to Bab- 
ylon, but w'as recalled to Egypt by tidings of seditions 
which had broken out there, llis success was brilliant 
and complete. “ lie can-ied captive into Egypt the gods 
[of the conquered nations] with their molten images, and 
with their precious vessels of silver and gold ” (ver. 8). 
This capture of sacred trophies, which included the re- 
covery of images taken from Egypt by Camliyses (Jer- 
ome, ad loc.), earned for the king the name Euergetes — 
“Benefactor” — from the superstitious Egyptians, and 
w'as specially recorded in the inscriptions which he set 
up at Adule in memory of his achievements (Cosmas 
Ind. ap. Clinton, F. II. p. 382, n.). After his return to 
Egypt (B.C. cir. 243) he suffered a great part of the 
conquered provinces to fall again under the power of 
Seleucns. But the attempts which Seleucus made to 
attack Egypt terminated disastrously to himself. lie 
first collected a fleet, which was almost totally destroyed 
by a storm ; and then, “as if by some judicial infatua- 
tion,” “ he came against the realm of the king of the south 
and [being defeated] returned to his own land [to Anti- 
och]” (Dan. xi, 9; Justin, xxvii, 2). After this Ptole- 
my “ desisted some years from [attacking] the king of 
the north ” (Dan. xi, 8), since the civil war between Se- 
leucus and Antiochus Hierax, which he fomented, se- 
cured him from any further Syrian invasion. The re- 
mainder of the reign of Ptolemy seems to have been 
spent chiefly in developing the resources of the empire, 


Octodrachm of Ptolemy III. 

Egyptian talent. (Obv. Bust of king, r., wearing radiate diadem, and car- 
rying trident. Rev. BAS1AEUS iiioaemaiot. Radiate cornucopia.) 


which he raised to the highest pitch of its prosperity, 
llis policy towards the Jews was similar to that of his 
predecessors, and on his occupation of Syria he “offered 
sacrifices, after the custom of the law', in acknowledg- 
ment of his success, in the Temple at Jerusalem, and 
added gifts worthy of his victory” (Joseph. C. Ap. ii, 
5). The famous story of the manner in which Joseph, 
the son of Tobias, obtained from him the lease of the 
revenues of Judiea is a striking illustration both of the 
condition of the country and of the influence of individ- 
ual Jews (id. Ant. xii, 4). See Onias. 

4. Ptolemy IV, Philopator ('biXtordrwp, i. a. father- 
loving). After the death of Ptolemy Euergetes, the 
line of the Ptolemies rapidly degenerated (Strabo, xvi, 
12, 13, p. 798). Ptolemy Philopator, his eldest son, w'ho 
succeeded him, was, to the last degree, sensual, effemi- 
nate, and debased. But, externally, his kingdom re- 
tained its power and splendor; and when circumstances 
forced him to action, Ptolemy himself showed ability 
not unworthy of his race. The description of the cam- 
paign of Raphia (B.C. 217) in the book of Daniel gives 
a vivid description of his character. “The sons of Se- 
leucus [Seleucus Ceraunus and Antiochus the Great] 
were stirred up, and assembled a multitude of great 
forces; and one of them [Antiochus] came, and over- 
floived, and passed through [even to Pelusium : Polyb. 
v, 62] ; and he returned [from Seleucia, to which he had 
retired during a faithless truce : Polyb. v, 66] ; and 
they [Antiochus and Ptolemy] were stirred up [in war] 
even to his [Antiochus’s] fortress. And the king of the 
south [Ptolemy Philopator] was moved with choler, and 
came, forth and fought with him [at Raphia]; and he set 
forth a great multitude; and the multitude was given into 
his hand [to lead to battle]." And the multitude raised 
itself [proudly for the conflict], and his heart was lifted 
up, and he cast down ten thousands (comp. Polyb. v, 86) ; 
but he was not vigorous ” [to reap the fruits of his victo- 
ry] (Dan. xi, 10-12; comp. 3 Macc. i, 1-5). After this 
decisive success, Ptolemy Philopator visited the neigh- 
boring cities of Syria, and, among others, Jerusalem. 
After offering sacrifices of thanksgiving in the Temple, 
he attempted to enter the sanctuary. A sudden paral- 
ysis hindered his design; but when he returned to Al- 
exandria, he determined to inflict on the Alexandrian 
Jews the vengeance for his disappointment. In this, 
how'ever, he was again hindered; and eventually he 
confirmed to them the full privileges which they had 
enjoyed before. See Maccabees, The Third Book of. 
The recklessness of his reign w r as further marked by 
the first insurrection of the native Egyptians against 
their Greek rulers (Polyb. v, 107). This was put down, 
and Ptolemy, during the remainder of his life, gave him- 
self up to unbridled excesses. He died B.C. 205, and 
was succeeded by his only child, Ptolemy V, Epipha- 
nes, who was at the time only four or five years old 
(Jerome, ad Dan. xi, 10-12). 



Egyptian talent. (Obv. Bust of king, r., bound with fillet. Rev. nTOAE- 

maioy <haoiiatupos. Eagle, 1., on thunderbolt.) Struck at Tyre. 

5. Ptolemy V, Epiphanes (’E7 rapureg, i. e. illusttdous). 
The reign of Ptolemy Epiphanes was a critical epoch 
in the history of the Jews. The rivalry between the 
Syrian and Egyptian parties, wdiich had for some time 
divided the people, came to an open rupture in the 
struggles which marked his minority. The Syrian 
faction openly declared for Antiochus the Great when 
he advanced on his second expedition against Egypt; 




FTOLEM.EUS 


764 


and the Jews, who remained faithful to the old alliance, 
fled to Egypt in great numbers, where Onias. the right- 
ful successor to tbe liigh-priesthood, not long afterwards 
established tbe temple at Leontopolis. (Jerome [ml 
Dan, xi, 14] places tbe flight of Onias to Egypt and tbe 
foundation of the temple of leontopolis in tbe reign of 
Ptolemy Kpiphanes; but Onias was still a youth at tbe 
time of bis father's death, B.C. cir. 171.) See Onias. 
In tbe strong language of Daniel, “The robbers of the 
people exalted themselves to establish the vision " (Dan. 
xi, 14) — to confirm by the issue of their attempt the 
truth of the prophetic word, and at the same time to 
forward unconsciously the establishment of the heav- 
enly kingdom which they sought to anticipate. The 
accession of Ptolemy, and the confusion of a disputed 
regency furnished a favorable opportunity for foreign 
invasion. “ Many stood up against the king of the 
south," under Antioch us the Great and Philip III of 
Macedonia, who formed a league for the dismember- 
ment of his kingdom, “iso the king of the north [An- 
tioch us] came, and cast up a mount, and took the most 
fenced city [Sidon, to which Scopas, the general of 
Ptolemy, had fled: Jerome, ad /or.], and the arms of 
the south did not withstand" [at Paneas, B.C. 198, where 
Antiochus gained a decisive victory] (Dan. xi, 14, 15). 
The interference of the Homans, to whom the regents 
had turned for help, cheeked Antiochus in his career: 
but in order to retain the provinces of Ccele-Syria, Phoe- 
nicia, and Judaea, which he had reconquered, really un- 
der his power, while lie seemed to comply with the de- 
mands of the Homans, who required them to be surren- 
dered to Ptolemy, “he gave him [Ptolemy, bis daugh- 
ter Cleopatra] a young maiden ” [as his betrothed wife] 
(Dan. xi, 17). Hut in the end his policy only partially 
succeeded. After the marriage of Ptolemy and Cleo- 
patra was consummated (1J.C. 193), Cleopatra did “not 
stand on his side," but supported her husband in main- 
taining the alliance with Home. The disputed prov- 
inces, however, remained in the possession of Antio- 
chus; and Ptolemy was poisoned at tbe time when he 
was preparing an expedition to recover them from Se- 
leucus, the unworthy successor of Antiochus, B.C. 181. 



Tctradrachm of Ptolemy V. 

Egyplian talent. (Obv. Bust of Vine, r., bound with fillet adorned with 
ears of wheat. Rev. basiaeoe iitoakm aiot. Eagle, 1., on thunder- 
bolt.) 

6. Ptolemy VI, Philometor (*\>i\opi]Ttop, i. c. mother- 
loving). On the death of Ptolemy Kpiphanes, his wife, 
Cleopatra, held the regency for her young son, Ptolemy 
Philometor. and preserved peace with Syria till she 
died, B.C. 173. The government then fell into unwor- 
thy hands, and an attempt was made to recover Syria 
(comp. 2 Mace, iv, 21). Antiochus Kpiphanes seems to 
have made the claim a pretext for invading Egypt. 
The generals of Ptolemy were defeated near Pclusium, 
probably at the close of B.C. 171 (Clinton,/’. II. iii,319: 
1 Macc. i, IG sq.) ; and in the next year Antiochus, hav- 
ing secured the person of the young king, reduced al- 
most the whole of Egypt (comp. 2 Mace, v, 1). Mean- 
while Ptolemy Kuergetcs II. the younger brother of 
Ptolemy Philometor. assumed the supreme power at 
Alexandria; and Antiochus. under the pretext of re- 
covering the crown for Philometor, besieged Alexan- 
dria in B.C. 1G9. By this time, however, his sellish de- 
signs were apparent: the brothers were reconciled, and 
Antiochus was obliged to acquiesce for the time in the 
arrangement which they made. But while doing so, 


PTOLE3LEUS 

he prepared for another invasion of Egypt, and was al- 
ready approaching Alexandria, when be was met by 
the Homan embassy, led by C. Popillius Lamas, who, in 
the name of the Homan senate, insisted on his immedi- 
ate retreat (B.C. 1G8), a command which the late vic- 
tory at Pydna made it impossible to disobey. (Oth- 
ers reckon only three campaigns of Antiochus against 
Egypt in 171, 470, 1G8 [ Grimm on 1 Macc. i, 18]. Yet 
the campaign of 1G9 seems clearly distinguished from 
those in the years before and after, though in the de- 
scription of Daniel the campaigns of 170 and 1G9 are 
not noticed separately.) 



Egyptian talent (Obv. Head of king, r., bound wilb fillet. Rtv. htoae- 
maiot 41AOMHTOPOZ. Eagle, I., with palm-branch, on thunderbolt.) 

These campaigns, which arc intimately connected 
with the visits of Antiochus to Jerusalem in B.C. 170, 
1G8, arc briefly described in Dan. xi, 25-30: “He [An- 
tiochus] shall stir up his power and his courage against 
the king of the south with a great army ; and the king of 
the south [Ptolemy Philometor] shall be stirred up to 
battle icith a very great and mighty army ; but he shall 
not stand: for they [the ministers, as it appears, in 
whom he trusted] shall forecast devices against him. 
Yea, they that feed of the portion of his meat shall de- 
stroy him, and his army shall melt away, and many shall 
fall down slain. And both these kings' hearts shall be 
to do mischief and they shall speak lies at one table [An- 
tiochus shall profess falsely to maintain the cause of 
Philometor against his brother, and Philometor to trust 
in his good faith]; but it shall not prosper [the resist- 
ance of Alexandria shall preserve the independence of 
Egypt ] ; for the end shall be at the time appointed . 
Then shall he [Antiochus] return into his land, and his 
heart shall be against the holy covenant ; and he shall do 
exploits, and return to his own land. A t the time ap- 
pointed he shall return and come totrards the south ; but 
it shall not be as the former, so also the latter time. 
[II is career shall be checked at once.] For the ships of 
Chittim [comp. Numb, xxiv, 24 : the Homan fleet] shall 
come against him : therefore he shall be dismayed and 
return and hare indignation against the holy covenant." 

After the discomfiture of Antiochus, Philometor was 
for some time occupied in resisting the ambitious de- 
signs of his brother, who made two attempts to add Cy- 
prus to the kingdom of Pyrene, which was allotted to 
him. Having effectually put down these attempts, he 
turned his attention again to Syria. During the brief 
reign of Antiochus Eupator he seems to have support- 
ed Philip against the regent Lysias (comp. 2 Macc. ix, 
29). After the murder of Eupator by Demetrius I, 
Philometor espoused the cause of Alexander Balas, the 
rival claimant to the throne, because Demetrius had 
made an attempt on Cyprus; and when Alexander had 
defeated and slain his rival, lie accepted the overtures 
which he made, and gave him his daughter Cleopatra 
in marriage (B.C. 15H : 1 Macc. x, 51-58). Yet, accord- 
ing to 1 Macc. xi, 1. 1(>, etc., the alliance was not made 
in good faith, hut only as a means towards securing 
possession of Syria. According to others, Alexander 
himself made a treacherous attempt on the life of Ptol- 
emy (comp. 1 Macc. xi, ID), which caused him to trans- 
fer his support to Demetrius II, to whom also he gave 
bis daughter, whom he had taken from Alexander. 
The whole of Syria was quickly subdued, and he was 
crowned at Antioch king of Egypt and Asia (1 Macc. 
xi,13). Alexander made an effort to recover his crowu, 


PTOLEMiEUS 


765 


PTOLEMiEUS 


bat was defeated by the forces of Ptolemy and Deme- 
trius, and shortly afterwards put to death in Arabia. 
But Ptolemy did not long enjoy his success. He fell 
from his horse in the battle, and died within a few days 
(L Macc. xi, 18), B.C. 145. 

Ptolemy Philometor is the last king of Egypt who 
is noticed" in sacred history, and his reign was marked 
also by the erection of the temple at Leontopolis. The 
coincidence is worthy of notice, for the consecration of 
a new centre of worship placed a religions as well as a 
political barrier between the Alexandrian and Palestin- 
ian Jews. Henceforth the nation was again divided. 
The history of the temple itself is extremely obscure, 
but even in its origin it was a monument of civil strife. 
Onias, the son of Onias III (Josephus, in one place 
[lP«r, vii, 10, 2], calls him “ the son of Simon,” and he 
appears under the same name in Jewish legends; but it 
seems certain that this was a mere error, occasioned by 
the patronymic of the most famous Onias [comp. Herz- 
feld, Gesch.d.Judenth. ii, 557]), who was murdered at An- 
tioch B.C. 171, when he saw that he was excluded from 
the succession to the high-priesthood by mercenary in- 
trigues, fled to Egypt, either shortly after his father’s 
death or upon the transfer of the office to Alcimus, B.C. 
1G2 (Josephus, Ant. xii, 9, 7). It is probable that his 
retirement must be placed at the later date, for he was 
a child, ttcuq (Josephus, Ant. xii, 5), at the time of his 
father’s death, and he is elsewhere mentioned as one of 
those who actively opposed the Syrian party in Jerusa- 
lem (Josephus, War, i, 1). In Egypt, he entered the ser- 
vice of the king, and rose, with another Jew. Dositheus, 
to the supreme command. In this office he rendered 
important services during the war which Ptolemy Phys- 
con waged against his brother; and he pleaded these to 
induce the king to grant him a ruined temple of Diana 
(tT)Q dypiag Bor/3«<rr£wc) at Leontopolis as the site 
of a temple which he proposed to build “after the pat- 
tern of that at Jerusalem, and of the same dimensions.” 
His alleged object was to unite the Jews in one body 
who were at the time “divided into hostile factions, 
even as the Egyptians were, from their differences in 
religious services” (Josephus, A nt. xiii, 3, 1). In defence 
of the locality which he chose, he quoted the words of 
Isaiah (Isa. xix, 18, 19), who spoke of “an altar to the 
Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt,” and, according 
to one interpretation, mentioned “ the city of the Sun” 
" p ") by name. The site was granted and the 
temple built, but the original plan was not exactly car- 
ried out. The A r aos rose “like a tower to the height 
of sixty cubits” (Josephus, War, vii, 10, 3 , Trvpyip irapa- 
7r\i)oiov . . . e/<; t%i]KavTa 7n)\fiG arfarijKora). The 
altar and the offerings were similar to those at Jerusa- 
lem, but in place of the seven-branched candlestick was 
“a single lamp of gold suspended by a goldeu chain.” 
The service was performed by priests and Levites of 
pure descent; and the temple possessed considerable 
revenues, which were devoted to their support and to 
the adequate celebration of the divine ritual (Josephus, 
War, vii, 10, 3 ; Ant. xiii, 3, 3). The ohject of Ptolemy 
Philometor in furthering the design of Onias was doubt- 
less the same as that which let! to the erection of the 
“golden calves” in Israel. The Jewish residents in 
Egypt were numerous and powerful; and when Jerusa- 
lem was in the hands of the Syrians, it became of the 
utmost importance to weaken their connection* with 
their mother city. In this respect the position of the 
temple on the eastern border of the kingdom was pe- 
culiarly important (Jost, Gesch. des Judenthums, i. 117). 
On the other hand, it is probable that Onias saw no 
hope in the hellenized Judaism of a Syrian province; 
and the triumph of the Maccabees was still unachieved 
when the temple at Leontopolis was founded. The date 
of this event cannot, indeed, be exactly determined. 
Josephus says {War, vii, 10, 4) that the temple had 
existed “343 years” at the time of its destruction, A.D. 
cir. 71; but the text is manifestly corrupt. Eusebius 


(ap. Hieron. viii, p. 507, ed.Migne) notices the flight of 
Onias and the building of the temple under the same 
year (B.C. 162), possibly from the natural connection 
of the events without regard to the exact date of the 
latter. Some time at least must be allowed for the mil- 
itary service of Onias, and the building of the temple 
may, perhaps, be placed after the conclusion of the last 
war With Ptolemy Phvscon (B.C. cir. 154), when Jona- 
than “ began to judge the people at Machmas” (1 Macc. 
ix, 73). In Palestine the erection of this second tem- 
ple was not condemned so strongly as might have been 
expected. A question, indeed, was raised in later times 
whether the service were not idolatrous {Jerus. Jonui, 43 
d, ap. Jost, Gesch.des Judenthums. i, 119) ; but the Mishna, 
embodying, without doubt, the old decisions, determines 
the point more favorably. “ Priests who had served at 
Leontopolis were forbidden to serve at Jerusalem, but 
were not excluded from attending the public services.” 
“A vow might be discharged rightly at Leontopolis as 
well as at Jerusalem, but it was not enough to discharge 
it at the former place only” {Menach. 109 a, ap. Jost, as 
above). The circumstances under which the new temple 
was erected were evidently accepted as in some degree 
an excuse for the irregular worship. The connection with 
Jerusalem, though weakened in popular estimation, was 
not broken ; and the spiritual significance of the one Tem- 
ple remained unchanged for the devout believer (Philo, 
I)e Monarch, ii, § 1, etc.). See Alexandria. 

The Jewish colony in Egypt, of which Leontopolis 
was the immediate religious centre, was formed of va- 
rious elements and at different times. The settlements 
which were made under the Greek sovereigns, though 
the most important, were by no means the first. In 
the later times of the kingdom of Judah many “trusted 
in Egypt,” and took refuge there (Jer. xliii, 6, 7) ; and 
when Jeremiah was taken to Tahapanes, he spoke to 
“ all the Jews which dwell in the land of Egypt, which 
dwell at Migdol and Tahapanes, and at Noph, and in 
the country of Pathros” (Jer. xliv, 1). This colony, 
formed against the command of God, was devoted to 
complete destruction (Jer. xliv, 27) ; but when the con- 
nection was once formed, it is probable that the Per- 
sians, acting on the same policy as the Ptolemies, en- 
couraged the settlement of Jews in Egypt to keep in 
check the native population. After the Return, the 
spirit of commerce must have contributed to increase 
the number of emigrants; but the history of the Egyp- 
tian Jews is involved in the same deep obscurity as 
that of the Jews of Palestine till the invasion of Al- 
exander. There cannot, however, be any reasonable 
doubt as to the power and influence of the colony; and 
the mere fact of its existence is an important consider- 
ation in estimating the possibility of Jewish ideas find- 
ing their way to the West. Judaism had secured, in 
old times, all the treasures of Egypt, and thus the first 
instalment of the debt was repaid. A preparation was 
already made for a great work when the founding of 
Alexandria opened a new era in the history of the 
Jews. Alexander, according to the policy of all great 
conquerors, incorporated the conquered in his armies. 
Samaritans (Josephus, A nt. xi. 8, 6) and Jews (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xi, 8, 5; Ilecat. ap. Joseph. C. Ap. i, 22) are 
mentioned among his troops; and the tradition is prob- 
ably true which reckons them among the first settlers 
at Alexandria (Josephus, ir«r, ii, 18, 7; C. Ap. ii, 4). 
Ptolemy Soter increased the colony of the Jews in 
Egypt both bv force and by policy ; and their num- 
bers in the next reign may be estimated by the state- 
ment (Josephus, Jut. xii, 2, 1) that Ptolemy Philadel- 
phus gave freedom to one hundred and twenty thou- 
sand. The position occupied by Joseph (Josephus, 
Ant. xii, 4) at the court of Ptolemy Euergetes I implies 
that the Jews were not only numerous, but influential. 
As we go onward, the legendary accounts of the per- 
secution of Ptolemy Philopator bear witness at least 
to the great number of Jewish residents in Egypt (3 
| Macc. iv, 15, 17), and to their dispersion throughout the 


PTOLEMAIS 


GG 


PTOLEMY 


Delta. In the next reign many of the inhabitants of 
Palestine who remained faithful to the Egyptian al- 
liance fled ro Egypt to escape from the Syrian rule 
(comp. Jerome, ad J)an. xi, 14, who is, however, con- 
fused in his account). The consideration which their 
leaders must have thus gained accounts for the rank 
which a Jew, Aristobulus, is said to have held under 
Ptolemy Philometor as ‘’tutor of the king” (cadoKa- 
Xoc, 2 Macc. i, 10). The later history of the Alex- 
andrian Jews has already been noticed. .See Alkxan- 
luua. They retained their privileges under the Ho- 
mans, though they were exposed to the illegal oppression 
of individual governors, and quietly acquiesced in the 
foreign dominion (Josephus, War, vii, 10, 1). An at- 
tempt which was made by some of the fugitives from 
Palestine to create a rising in Alexandria after the de- 
struction of Jerusalem entirely failed; but the attempt 
gave the Homans an excuse for plundering, and after- 
wards (B.C. 71) for closing entirely, the temple at Le- 
onlopolis (Josephus, War, vii, 10). 

7. “ The son of Dorymenes” (1 Macc. iii, 38 ; 2 Macc. 
iv, 45; comp. Polyb. v, 01), a courtier who possessed 
great influence with Antioclms Epiphanes. lie was 
induced by a bribe to support the cause of Mcnelaus (2 
Macc. iv, 45-50), and afterwards took an active part in 
forcing the Jews to apostatize (2 Macc. vi, 8, according 
to the true reading). When Judas had successfully 
resisted the lirst assaults of the Syrians, Ptolemy took 
part in the great expedition which Lysias organized 
against him, which ended in the defeat at Emmaus 
(B.C. 100); but nothing is said of his personal fortunes 
in the campaign (1 Macc. iii, 3s). 

8. The son of Agesarchns (Ath. vi, p. 240 C), a Meg- 
alopolitan, surnamed Macron (2 Macc. x, 12), who was 
governor of Cyprus during the minority of Ptolemy 
Philometor. This office he discharged with singular 
fidelity (Polyb. xxvii, 12); but afterwards he deserted 
the Egyptian service to join Antiochus Epiphanes. 
lie stood high in the favor of Antiochus, and received 
from him the government of Phoenicia and Ccele-Syria 
(2 Macc. viii, 8; x, 11, 12). On the accession of Anti- 
ochus Eupator, his conciliatory policy towards the Jews 
brought him into suspicion at court, lie was deprived 
of his government, and in consequence of this disgrace 
he poisoned himself, B.C. cir. 104 (2 Macc. x, 13). 

Ptolemy Macron is commonly identified with Ptole- 
my “the son of Dorymenes;” and it seems likely, from 
a comparison of 1 Macc. iii, 38 with 2 Macc. viii, 8, 9, 
that they were confused in the popular account of the 
war. Hut the testimony of Athemeus distinctly sepa- 
rates the governor of Cyprus from “the son of Dorym- 
enes'’ by his parentage. It is also doubtful whether 
Ptolemy Macron had left Cyprus as early as B.C. 170, 
when “the son of Dorymenes” was at Tyre (2 Macc. 
iv, 45); though there is no authority for the common 
statement that he gave up the island into the hands of 
Antiochus, who did not gain it till B.C. 108. 

9. The son of Abubus, who married the daughter of 
Simon the Maccabee. lie was a man of great wealth, 
and, being invested with the government of the district 
of Jericho, formed the design of usurping the sovereign- 
ty of Juda?a. With this view he treacherously mur- 
dered Simon and two of his sons (1 Macc. xvi, 11 10; 
Josephus, Ant. xiii, 7, 4; 8, 1, with some variations); 

i but John Ilyrcanus received timely intimation of his 
design, and escaped. Ilyrcanus afterwards besieged 

| him in his stronghold of Dok ; but in consequence of 
the occurrence of the Sabbatical year, Ptolemy was en- 
abled to make his escape to Zeno Cotylas, prince of 
Philadelphia (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 8,1). 

10. A citizen of Jerusalem, father of Lysimachus. the 
Creek translator of Esther (Estli. xiii). Whether this 
is the same Ptolemy who is mentioned in the same 
verse as the carrier of the book to Egypt remains un- 
certain. See Lvsim A cut'S, 1. 

Ftolema'is (llroXf/mic), the name of two places 
in Scripture. 


1. The same as A echo (q. v.). The name is, in fact, 
an interpolation in the history of the place. The city 
which was called Accho in the earliest Jewish annals, 
and which is again the .1 kka or iSt.Jean d'A ere of cru- 
sading and modern times, was named Ptolemais in the 
Macedonian and Homan periods. In the former of these 
periods it was the most important town upon the coast, 
and it is prominently mentioned in the first book of 
Maccabees (v, 15, 55; x, 1, 58, 00; xii, 48). In the lat- 
ter its eminence was far outdone by Herod’s new city 
of Civsarca. It is worthy of notice that llerod, on his 
return from Italy to Syria, landed at Ptolemais (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xiv, 15, 1). Still in the New 'lest. Ptolemais 
is a marked point in Paul’s travels both by land and sea. 
lie must have passed through it on all his journeys 
along the great coast road which connected Cjesarea 
and Antioch (Acts xi, 30; xii, 25; xv, 2, 30; xviii, 22); 
and the distances are given both in the Antonine and 
Jerusalem itineraries (Wesseling, /tin. p. 158, 584). But 
it is specifically mentioned in Acts xxi, 7 as containing 
a Christian community, visited for one day by Paul. 
On this occasion he came to Ptolemais by sea. lie was 
then on his return voyage from the third missionary 
journey. The last harbor at which he had touched 
was Tyre (ver. 3). From Ptolemais he proceeded, ap- 
parently by land, to Caesarea (ver. 8), and thence to Je- 
rusalem (ver. 17). — Smith. See Paul. 

2. A place described as pocotyopvc, rose-producing (3 
Macc. vii, 17), and supposed to be the dppoq IlroXf/Ku£ 
of Ptolemy (iv, 5. 57). in Central Egypt, in the Arsino- 
ite noine, a district still abounding in roses (Mannert, 
Geogr. der Griecheu u. Jiomanen, x, 1, p. 419; Hitter, 
Krdlcunde, i, 795, 797). — Kitto. 

Ptolemaites, a branch of the Onostic sect of the 
2d century, described by Irenaeus as “a bud from the 
Valentinians,” take their name from their leader Ptol- 
emy (q. v.), who differed in opinion from Valentinian 
with respect to the number and nature of the a’ons, as 
well as the authorship and design of some portions of 
the Old Testament. See Ptolemy. 

Ptol'emee, Ptolonice'us, Ptol'omee, forms 
of the name Ptolemg sometimes found in the Apocry- 
phal hooks of Esther and Maccabees. See Proui.w.Kus. 

Ptol'emy. See Ptolkm.kus. 

Ptolemy was a Onostic philosopher, in whom, ac- 
cording to St. Irenams {l'rof. ad lib. i, Adv. Nor.'), the 
system of Valentinus reached its bloom. Irena?us gives 
a full exposition of it in his work A di\ 1/areses, lib. i, 
c. i, 8. Ptolemy is also named by Tertnllian, hut witli- 
1 out any particulars of his history (Cvntr. Valent, c. 
xxxiii), and in a very few words by Philaster (//or. 
c. xxxix), Augustine (//or. c. xiii), Priedest hiatus (//or. 
c. xii), and the continuator of Tertnllian ( Pscudo- 
Tertullian, //or. c. xii). St. Epiphanius, in his great 
work on heresies (//or. lib. xxx. c. iii), communicates 
a letter of this Ptolemy to Flora, in which the for- 
mer explains to the lady the fundamental features of 
his doctrine. The only difference between the Ptole- 
lweans and the Valentinians in general appears to have 
been in respect to the number of a?ons which they in- 
vented for their respective systems, and the name of 
Ptolemy is associated particularly with that of llcrac- 
leon as regards a duplex system of four. See IIkhac- 
lkomtes. In the year 1843 Mr. Stieren.who has since 
made himself more generally known by his recently 
commenced edition of the works of St. Ircnivus, pub- 
lished a dissertation under the title l)e Ptolnnai Gno- 
stin ad Flo ram Fpistola, etc. (Jena > , ap. C. Hoehhau- 
sen), in which he endeavors to prove that the doctrine 
contained in the letter to Flora is at variance with the 
system of Ptolemy as known by the writings of St. 
lronams, and that, in consequence, the letter must he 
considered as apocryphal. 1 Icfele, in the Tiihinger Qnar- 
talschrift , 1815, p. 387-390, undertook to show that there 
is no real contradiction between the letter and the sys- 


PUA 


767 


PUBLIC WORSHIP 


tem, and that neither the authenticity nor the integrity 
(except one marginal note in cap. 1, § 6) of the former 
can be questioned. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon, 
s. v. 

Pu'a (Numb, xxvi, 23). See Phuvah. 

Pu'ah, the form in the A. V. of the name of two 
men and one woman, each different in the Hebrew. 

1. (Hch. Fuvvah', n*IB, 1 Chron. vii, 1.) See Phu- 
vah. 

2. (Heb. Puah , iTJttB, thought by Gesenius and 

Fiirst to he for rWS“?, splendid ; Sept. d>oua, Vulg. 
Phua.') The last named of the two midwives to whom 
Pharaoh gave instructions to kill the Hebrew male 
children at their birth (Exod. i, 15). B.C. cir. 1740. 
In the A.V. they are called “ Hebrew midwives,” a ren- 
dering which is not required by the original, and which 
is regarded by many as doubtful, both from the improb- 
ability that the king would have intrusted the execu- 
tion of such a task to the women of the nation he was 
endeavoring to destroy, as well as from the answer of 
the women themselves in ver. 19. “for the Hebrew 
women are not like the Egyptian women;” from which 
we may infer that they were accustomed to attend upon 
the latter, and were themselves Egyptians. If we trans- 
late Exod. i, 18 in this way, “And the king of Egypt 
said to the women who acted as midwives to the He- 
brew women,” this difficulty is removed. The two, 
Shiphrah and Puah, are supposed to have been the 
chief and representatives of their profession ; as Aben- 
Ezra says, “They were chiefs over all the midwives: 
for no doubt there were more than 500 midwives, but 
these two were chiefs over them to give tribute to the 
king of the hire.” According to Jewish tradition, Shiph- 
rah was Jochebed, and Puah Miriam; “because,” says 
Rashi, “ she cried and talked and murmured to the child, 
after the manner of the women that lull a weeping in- 
fant.” The origin of all this is an imaginary play upon 
the name Puah, which is derived from a root signifying 
“to cry out,” as in Isa. xlii, 14, and used in Rabbinical 
writers of the bleating of sheep. — Smith. Josephus (.4 nt. 
ii, 9, 9) intimates that these were Egyptian womens 
but when it is considered that no Egyptian woman was 
likely to pollute herself by rendering such offices to a 
Hebrew woman ; that Puah and Shiphrah are described 
as fearing Jehovah (Exod. i, 17) ; that their names are 
Hebrew; and that though the words rTS -1 -b 

may be translated “ midwives of the Hebrews,” they 
more probably mean, as the A. V. gives them, “ Hebrew 
midwives;” and that had Moses intended to convey the 
other meaning, he would have written m rx * “b, 
reason will be found for preferring the opinion that they 
were Hebrew women. — Ivit to. 

3. (Heb. Pu'ah , PIX^E, perhaps i. q. ilS, mouth; 
Sept. <!>oj>d, Vulg. Phua.') The father of Tola, who was 
of the tribe of Issachar, and judge of Israel after Abim- 
elech (Judg. x, 1). B.C. ante 1319. In the Vulg., in- 
stead of “the son of Dodo,” he is called “the uncle of 
Abimelech ;” and in the Sept. Tola is said to be “ the 
son of Phua, the son (oiog) of his father’s brother;” 
both versions endeavoring to render “ Dodo” as an ap- 
pellative, while the latter introduces a remarkable ge- 
nealogical difficulty. — Smith. 

Public Worship is the service of the different 
religions bodies open to all worshippers, and is so desig- 
nated in distinction from minor services intended simply 
as auxiliaries to the devoted in their religious life. It 
is usually supposed to be a service under charge of 
clergy, though it need not be thus limited. It is at 
any rate supposed to embrace a public address in behalf 
of the truth espoused by the congregation convened. 
In the Christian Church the outward forms of religion 
tended in her very infancy to the imposing. From the 
ancient temples the incense and many customs of hea- 
thenism were transferred to the churches. By the use 


! of tapers and perpetual lamps, the solemnity of noctur- 
nal festivals was combined with the light of day. The 
people were called together by a piece of metal struck 
by a hammer, until this method led to the adoption of 
bells in the 7th century. Soon after the organ came 
I into use, and added to the spectacular action of Chris- 
tian worship. But notwithstanding this unwarranted 
I tendency towards the dramatic, the expounding of Iloly 
Scripture and prayer formed a principal part in early 
worship. In the Greek Church the principal part of 
public worship consisted in the sermon, though it was 
! often only a rhetorical amusement rewarded by the 
clapping of hands. As the Church had been formed 
under the Roman empire, it retained many Roman 
usages. The first to protest against the peculiarities of 
the Romish clergy were the Christians of Britain, who 
worshipped in the simplicity of apostolic times. But 
no effectual check w r as put upon ecclesiastical usages 
[see Image -worship] until the great Reformatory 
movement which resulted in restoring the beautiful 
and impressive order of the .Saviour and his disciples. 
See Worship. Nearly all Protestant churches have 
regulations regarding the form and order of public wor- 
ship. In the Anglican service-book the rubrics (q. v.) 
present it. According to article xx, the Church has 
power to decree rites or ceremonies that are not con- 
trary to God’s Word; and according to article xxxiv 
“it is not necessary that traditions and ceremonies be 
in all places one, or utterly like; for all times they have 
been divers, and may be changed according to the di- 
versity of countries, times, and men’s manners; so that 
nothing be ordained against God’s Word.” But in this 
same article provision is also made against nnscriptural 
(popish) innovations, as well as against the abandon- 
ment of those regulations instituted by the proper au- 
thority. 

“■Whosoever, through his pr'vate judgment, williugly 
and pnrposely doth opeuly bveak the traditions and cere- 
mouies of the Church, which be not repugnant to the 
Word of God, and be ordained and approved by common 
authority, ought to be rebuked openly (that others may 
fear to do the like), as he that offeuds against the com- 
mon order of the Church, aud hurts the authority of the 
magistrate, and w’onnds the consciences of weak breth- 
ren. Every particular or national Church hath authority 
to ordaiu, change, and abolish the ceremonies or rites of 
the Church, ordained only by mau’s authority, so that all 
things be doue to edifying.” 

Canon 6 provides : “ Whoever shall affirm that the rites 
and ceremonies of the Church of England by law estab- 
lished are wicked, anti-Christian, dr superstitions; or 
snch as, being commanded by lawful authority, men w-ho 
are zealously and godly affected may not with any good 
conscience approve them, nse them, or, as occasion re- 
quireth, subscribe unto them; let him be excommuni- 
cated ipsn facto, and not restored until he repent, and pub- 
licly revoke snch his wicked errors.” 

Canon 80. “The churchwardens or questmen of every 
church and chapel shall, at the charge of the parish, pro- 
vide the Book of Common Prayer, lately explained in 
some few points by his majesty’s authority, according to 
the law's and his highness’s prerogative in that behalf; 
and that with all convenient speed, but at the furthest 
within two months after the publishing of these our con- 
stitutions. Every dean, canon, or prebendary of every 
cathedral or collegiate church, aud all masters and other 
heads, fellows, chaplains, and tutors of or in any college, 
hall, house of learning, or hospital, and every public pro- 
fessor and reader iu either of the universities, or in every 
college elsewhere, and every parson, vicar, curate, lect- 
urer, aud every other person in holy orders, and every 
schoolmaster keeping auy public or private school, and 
every person instructing or teachiug any youth in any 
house or private family as tutor or schoolmaster, who 
shall be incumbent, or have possession of any deanery, 
canonry, prebend, mastership, headship, fellowship, pro- 
fessor’s place or reader’s place, parsonage, vicarage, or 
any other ecclesiastical dignity or promotion, or of any 
curate’s place, lecture, or school, or shall instruct or teach 
any youth as tutor or schoolmaster, shall at or before his 
admission to be incumbent, or having possession afore- 
said, subscribe the declaration following: ‘I, A. B., do 
declare that I will conform to the liturgy of the Church 
of England, as it is now by law established’ (13 aud 14 
Charles II, c. 4, s. S, and 1 William, sess. 1, c. 8, s. 11). And 
no form or order of common prayers, administration of 
sacraments, rites, or ceremonies, shall be openly used iu 
any church, chapel, or other place than that which is pre- 
scribed in the said book (§ 17).” 


PUBLIC "WORSHIP 


168 


PUBLICAN 


Canon 4. “Whosoever shall affirm that the form of 
God’s worship in the Church of England, established by 
law, and contained in the Book of Common Prayer and 
Administration of Sacraments, is a corrupt, superstitious, 
or unlawful worship of God, or containeth anything in it 
that is repugnant to the Scriptures, let him he excommu- 
nicated i pm facto, and not restored hut by the bishop of 
the plac e, or archbishop, after his repentance and public 
revocation of such his wicked errors." 

Canon 3S. “ If auy minister, after he hath subscribed to 
the Book of Common Prayer, shall omit to use the form 
of prayer, or any of the orders or ceremonies prescribed 
in the Communion Book, let him be suspended ; and if 
after a month lie do not reform and submit himself, let 
him be excommunicated; and then if he shall not submit 
himself within the space of another mouth, let him be de- 
posed from the miuistry.” 

Canon IS requires that “no man shall cover his head 
in the church or chapel in the time of divine service, ex- 
cept he have some intirmitv, in which case let him wear a 
nightcap or coif. All manner of persons then present 
shall reverently kneel upou their knees, when the general 
confession, litany, or other prayers are read; and shall 
stand up at the saying of the Belief, according to the rules 
in that behalf prescribed in the Book of Common Prayer. 
And likewise, when in time of divine service the Lord Je- 
sus shall be mentioned, due and lowly reverence shall be 
done by all persons present, as it hath been accustomed; 
testifying by these outward ceremonies and gestures their 
inward humility, Christian resolution, aud due acknowl- 
edgment that the Lord Jesus Christ, the true eternal Son 
ot' God, is the only Saviour of the world, in whom alone 
all the mercies, graces, aud promises of God to mankind, 
for this life and the life to come, are fully and wholly 
comprised. And none, either man, womau, or child, of 
what calling soever, shall be otherwise at such times 
busied in the church than in quiet attendance to hear, 
mark, and understand that which is read, preached, or 
ministered: saying in their due places audibly, with the 
minister, the Confession, the Lord’s Prayer, and the Creed, 
and making such other answers to the public prayers as are 
appointed in the Book of Common Prayer; neither shall 
they disturb the service or sermon by walking or talking, 
or auy other way ; nor depart out of the church during 
the time of divine service or sermon without some urgent 
or reasouable cause.” 

Canon 14. “The common prayer shall be said or sung 
distinctly and reverently, upon such days as are appointed 
to be kept holy by the Book of Commou Prayer, and their 
eves, and at convenient and usual times of those days, and 
in such places of every church, as the bishop of the dio- 
cese or ecclesiastical ordinary of the place shall think 
meet for the largeness or straitness of the same, so as the 
people may be most edified. All ministers likewise shall 
observe the orders, rites, aud ceremouies prescribed in 
the Book of Common Prayer, as well in reading the Holy 
Scriptures and saying of prayers as in the administration 
of the sacraments, without either diminishing in regard 
of preaching or in any other respect, or adding anything 
iu the matter or form thereof." 

Preface to the Book of Common Prayer: “All priests 
and deacons are to say daily the morning and evening 
prayer, either privately or openly, not being let by sick- 
ness or some other urgent cause. And the curate that 
ministeretli in every parish church or chapel, being at 
home, and not being otherwise reasonably hindered, shall 
say the same in the parish church or chapel where he min- 
istereth ; and shall cause a bell to be tolled thereunto, a 
convenient time before he begin, that the people may 
come to hear God’s Word, and to pray with him.” 

The American reviewers omitted from the Prayer-book 
the 45th canon of 1832, which enjoins that “every minis- 
ter shall, before all sermons and lectures, and on ail other 
occasions of public worship, use the Book of Common 
Prayer as the same is or may be established by the au- 
thority of the General Convention of this Church. And 
in performing said service, no other prayer shall be used 
than those prescribed by the said book." 

The Westminster Directory enacts: 

“Let all enter the assembly, not irreverently, but in a 
grave and seemly manner, taking their seats or places 
without adoration, or bowing themselves towards one 
place or other. The congregation being assembled, the 
minister, after solemn calling on them to the worshipping 
of the great name of God, is to begin with prayer. The 
public worship being begun, the people are wholly to at- 
icnd upon it, forbearing to read anything except what the 
minister is then reading or citing; ami abstaining much 
more from all private whisperings, conferences, saluta- 
tions, or doing reverence to any person present, or coming 
in; as also from all gazing, sleeping, and other indecent 
behavior which may disturb the minister or people, or 
liiuder themselves or others in the service of God. If any, 
through necessity, be hindered from being present at the 
beginning, they ought not, when they come into the con- 

legation, to betake themselves to their private devotions, 

nt reverently to compose themselves to join with the as- 
sembly in that ordinance of God which is then in hand.” 
This injunction to begin with prayer has been univer- 


sally departed from in Scotland, and the reason assigned 
is this: “The reader or precentor began the service 
with reading a chapter, and gave out a psalm as the 
minister came into church — so that the minister, the 
psalm being sung, began with prayer. But the precen- 
tor’s function has ceased since the middle or towards the 
end of last century, and the minister now begins with 
praise, doing himself what used to be done by his sub- 
ordinate.” See Precentor; Header. 

In most of the American churches the principal ob- 
ject of public worship is the expounding of the Word 
of God by the minister in a sermon. This is usually 
preceded by song ami prayer and the reading of the 
Scriptures, and followed by prayer and song. The or- 
der of arrangement differs, being usually regarded as 
immaterial. See Church ; Clergy; Litany; Pray- 
er; Worship. 

Publican (rfXwnjg). wor ‘l thus translated 

belongs only, in the New Test., to the three Synoptic 
Gospels. The class designated by the Greek word were 
employed as collectors of the Homan revenue. The 
Latin word from which the English of the A. V. has 
been taken was applied to a higher order of men. It 
will be necessary to glance at the financial administra- 
tion of the Roman provinces in order to understand the 
relation of the two classes to each other, and the grounds 
of the hatred and scorn which appear in the New Test, 
to have fallen on the former. 

The Roman senate had found it convenient, at a pe- 
riod as early as, if not earlier than, the second Punic 
war, to farm out at public auction the vectigalia (direct 
taxes) and the portoria (customs, including the octroi 
on goods carried into or out of cities) to capitalists who 
undertook to pay a given sum into the treasury ( in pub - 
lictnn), and so received the name of publicani (Livy, 
xxxii, 7). Contracts of this kind fell naturally into the 
hands of the equites , as the richest class of Homans. 
These knights were an order instituted as early as the 
time of Romulus, and composed of men of great consid- 
eration with the government — “the principal men of 
dignity in their several countries,” who occupied a kind 
of middle rank between the senators and the people 
(Josephus, Ant, xii, 4). Although these officers were, 
according to Cicero, the ornament of the city' and the 
strength of the commonwealth, they did not attain to 
great offices, nor enter the senate, so long as they con- 
tinued in the order of knights. They were thus more 
capable of devoting their attention to the collection of 
the public revenue. Not unfrequentlv the sum bidden 
went beyond the means of any individual capitalist, and 
i a joint-stock company ( socielas ) was formed, with one 
i of the partners, or an agent appointed by them, acting 
as managing director (niagister; Cicero, Ad Dir. xiii, 
0). L’luicr this officer, who commonly resided at Home, 
transacting the business of the company, paying profits 
to the partners and the like, were the submagistri , liv- 
ing in the provinces. Under them, in like manner, were 
I the port it ores, the actual custom-house officers ( doua - 
niers), who examined each bale of goods exported or im- 
I ported, assessed its value more or less arbitrarily, wrote 
out the ticket, and enforced payment. The latter were 
I commonly natives of the province in which they were 
stationed, as being brought daily into contact with all 
, classes of the population. The word TtX&rat, which 
' etymologically might have been used of the publicani 
properly so called wi^o/im), was used popularly, 

and in the New Test, exclusively, of (he portitores . The 
, same practice prevailed in the Last, from which an illns- 
j tration of it has been preserved to ns hv Josephus. He 
tells ns that on the marriage of Cleopatra to Ptolemy, 
the latter received from Antiochns as his daughter's 
dowry Ccele-Svria, Samaria, Judaea, and Pliomicia; that 
“upon the division of the taxes between t lie two kings, 
the principal men farmed the taxes of their several 
countries," paying to the kings the stipulated sum; and 
that “when the day came on which the king was to let 
i the taxes of the cities to farm, and those that were the 


PUBLICAN 


769 


PUBLICAN 


principal men of dignity in their several countries were 
to bid for them, the sum of the taxes together of Coele- 
Syria, and Phoenicia, and Judaea, and Samaria, as they 
were bidden for, came to eight thousand talents’’ ( Ant . 

xii, 4, 1, 4). Those thus spoken of by the Jewish his- 
torian as “principal men of dignity” were the realpub- 
licani of antiquity. In the Roman empire especially 
they were persons of no small consequence ; in times of 
trouble they advanced large sums of money to the State, 
and towards the close of the republic they were so gen- 
erally members of the equestrian order that the words 
equites and publicani were sometimes used as synony- 
mous (Smith, Diet. Gr . and Rom. Antiq. s. v.). 

The publicani were thus an important section of the 
equestrian order. An orator wishing, for political pur- 
poses, to court that order, might describe them as “ flos 
equitum Romanorum, ornamentum civitatis, firmamen- 
tum Rcipublicie” (Cicero, Pro Plane. 9). The system 
was, however, essentially a vicious one — the most de- 
testable, perhaps, of all modes of managing a revenue 
(comp. Adam Smith, Wealth of Nations , vol. ii), and it 
bore its natural fruits. The publicani were banded to- 
gether to support each other’s interest, and at once re- 
sented and defied all interference (Livy, xxv, 8). They 
demanded severe laws, and put every such law into ex- 
ecution. Their agents, the portitores, were encouraged 
in the most vexatious or fraudulent exactions, and a 
remedy was all but impossible. The popular feeling ran 
strong even against the equestrian capitalists. The 
Macedonians complained, as soon as they w r ere brought 
under Roman government, that “ubi publicanus est, ibi 
aut jus publicum vanum, aut libertas sociis nulla” (Livy, 
xlv, 18). Cicero, in writing to his brother (Ad Quint. 
i, 1, 11), speaks of the difficulty of keeping the publicani 
within bounds, and yet not. offending them, as the hard- 
est task of the governor of a province. Tacitus counted 
it as one bright feature of the ideal life of a people un- 
like his own that there “nec publicanus atterit” (Germ. 
29). For a moment the capricious liberalism of Nero 
led him to entertain the thought of sweeping away the 
whole system of portoi'ia ; but the conservatism of the 
senate, servile as it was in all things else, rose in arms 
against it, and the scheme was dropped (Tacitus, A nn. 

xiii, 50), and the “ immodestia publicanorum” (ibid.') re- 
mained unchecked. 

If this tvas the case with the directors of the com- 
pany, ive may imagine how it stood with the underlings. 
They overcharged whenever the}' had an opportunity 
(Luke iii, 18). They brought false charges of smug- 
gling in the hope of extorting hush-money (ibid, xix, 
8). They detained and opened letters on mere sus- 
picion (Terence, Phorm. i, 2, 99; Plautus, Trinumm. iii, 
3, 64). The injuria port it ovum, rather than th e portoria 
themselves, w r ere in most cases the subject of complaint 
(Cicero, Ad Quint, i, 1, 11). It was the basest of all 
livelihoods (Cicero, De Off. i, 42). They were the 
wolves and bears of human society (Stoteeus, Rerun, ii, 
34). IldvTtg reXibyai , irdvTtg upTraytg had become 
a proverb, even under an earlier re'gime, and it was 
truer than ever now (Xenoph. Comic, ap. D^arch. 
Meineke, Frag. Com. iv, 596). Of these subordinate 
officials there appear to have been two classes, both in- 
cluded by us under the general name publican — the 
dpxirsXun'at, or “chief of the publicans,” of whom we 
have an instance in Zacchams ; and the ordinary publi- 
cans (reXuii'ai), the lowest class of servants engaged in 
the collection of the revenue, and of whom Levi, after- 
wards the apostle Matthew-, is an example. The for- 
mer, the apxirtXmyai, appear to have been managers 
under the jmblicani proper, or associations of publicans, 
already spoken of. They were intrusted with the su- 
pervision of a collecting district, and it was their duty 
to see that, in that district, the inferior officers were 
faithful, and that the various taxes were regularly gath- 
ered in. Their situation was thus one of much greater 
consequence than that of the ordinary “ publican” of the 
Gospels. Thev seem to have possessed a much higher 
V11I.-C c c 


character, and many of them became wealthy men. Zac- 
chseus is the only example of an dpxiTeXdjvqg mention- 
ed in the New Test., and it is the ordinary reXiovai, 
neither the farmers of the revenues, nor the superin- 
tendents whom they employed, but a still lower class of 
servants, who most interest us. These w’ere not the 
publicani, but the portito?-es of the Roman empire, who 
derived their name from their levying the taxes known 
as the portoria. The portoria included the duties upon 
imported and exported goods, and upon merchandise 
passing through the country— one important source of 
the wealth of Solomon : “ Resides that, he had of the 
merchantmen, and of the traffic of the spice merchants” 
(l Kings x, 15). They included also the tribute or 
head-money levied from individuals, and the various 
tolls which appear to have been exigible for the use of 
roads and bridges. They thus extended over a large 
number of particulars, and, however honorably and gen- 
tly the function of the portitor had been discharged, it 
would have been impossible for him to avoid that odium 
which the tax-collector seldom escapes from the tax- 
payer. But the office, invidious enough in itself, was in 
the ancient w-orld rendered still more hateful, as we 
have seen, by the inquisitorial proceedings and the un- 
scrupulous exactions of those who discharged its duties. 
The frightful abuses practiced in conquered provinces 
by the governors who were sent to rule them arc well 
know'll to all ; but the same system of abuse marked the 
whole army of officials from the highest to the lowest, 
only that the lowest came in contact with the great 
mass of the people, and that their petty interferences 
and severities must have been felt, under one form or 
another, by almost all. To such an extent, indeed, did 
these exactions proceed, even in the very neighborhood 
of Rome, that at one time the Roman government, as 
the only means of introducing a remedy, abolished all 
the import and export duties in the ports of Italy 
(Smith, Diet. Gr. and Rom. Antiq. s. v. Portitores). 

All this was enough to bring the class into ill-favor 
everywhere. In Judiea and Galilee there were special 
circumstances of aggravation. The employment brought 
out all the besetting vices of the Jewish character. The 
strong feeling of many Jews as to the absolute unlaw- 
fulness of paying tribute at all made matters w’orse. 
The Scribes who discussed the question (Matt, xxii, 15) 
for the most part answered it in the negative. The 
Galilaeans or Herodians, the disciples of Judas the Gau- 
lonite, were the most turbulent and rebellious (Acts v, 
37). They thought it unlawful to pay tribute, and 
founded their refusal to do so on their being the people 
of the Lord, because a true Israelite w r as not permitted 
to acknowdedge any other sovereign than God (Josephus, 
Ant. xviii, 2). The publicans were hated as the instru- 
ments by which the subjection of the Jews to the Roman 
emperor was perpetuated, and the paying of tribute w-as 
regarded as a virtual acknow ledgment of his sovereign- 
ty. They were also noted for their imposition, rapine, 
and extortion, to which they were, perhaps, more espe- 
cially prompted by having a share in the farm of the 
tribute, as they were thus tempted to oppress the people 
with illegal exactions that they might the more speed- 
ily enrich themselves. Theocritus considered the bear 
and the lion the most cruel among the beasts of the wil- 
derness, and among the beasts of the city the publican 
and the parasite. In addition to their other faults, ac- 
cordingly, the publicans of the New Test, were regarded 
as traitors and apostates, defiled by their frequent inter- 
course with the heathen, willing tools of the oppressor. 
They W’ere classed with sinners (Matt, ix, 11; xi, 19), 
with harlots (xxi, 31, 32), with the heathen (xviii, 17). 
In Galilee they consisted probably of the least reputable 
members of the fisherman and peasant class. Left to 
themselves, men of decent lives holding aloof from them, 
their only friends or companions w'ere found among 
those who, like themselves, w r ere outcasts from the 
world’s law. Scribes and people alike hated them. 

The Gospels present us with some instances of this 


PUBLICAN 


770 


PUCCI 


feeling. To cat and drink “with publicans” seems to 
the Pharisaic mind incompatible with t lie character of 
a recognised rabbi (Matt. ix. 11). They spoke in their 
scorn of our Lord as t lie friend of publicans (xi, 19). 
Rabbinic writings furnish some curious illustrations 
of the same feeling. The Chaldee Targum and K. Sol- 
omon find in “the archers who sit by the waters” of 
Judg. v, 11, a description of the rtXwi’ai sitting on the 
banks of rivers or seas in ambush for the wayfarer. 
The casuistry of the Talmud enumerates three classes 
of men with whom promises need not be kept, and the 
three are murderers, thieves, and publicans {Seda r. iii. 
4). No money known to come front them was received 
into the alms- box of the synagogue or the corban of 
the Temple {Bab< i Kama, x, 1). To write a publican’s 
ticket, or even to carry the ink for it on the Sabbath- 
day, was a distinct breach of the commandment {Shabh. 
viii, 2). They were not fit to sit in judgment, or even 
to give testimony ( Sanhedr . fob 25. 2). Sometimes there 
is an exceptional notice in their favor. It was recorded 
as a special excellence in the father of a rabbi that, 
having been a publican for thirteen years, he had les- 
sened instead of increasing the pressure of taxation 
{ibid.'). The early Christian fathers take up the same 
complaint. “ Pnblicanus ex ollicio peccator," exclaims 
TcrtuUian ; and from the exhaustless vocabulary of 
Chrysostom they have heaped upon them every epithet 
of abuse. See the passages bearing upon this point in 
Wetstein’s rfote on Matt, v, 40; also Suicer’s Thesaurus, 
s. v. T fcXw)'f/£ ; (irotius, Ad Matt, xviii ; Lightfoot, Uor. 
Ileb. ad Matt, xviii. 

The class thus practically excommunicated furnished 
some of the earliest disciples both of the Baptist and 
of our Lord. Like the outlying, so-called “dangerous 
classes” of other times, they were at least free from hy- 
pocrisy. Whatever morality they had was real, and not 
conventional. We may think of the Baptist's preach- 
ing as having been to them what Wesley’s was to the 
colliers of Kingswood or the Cornish miners. The pub- 
lican who cried in the bitterness of his spirit, “ <»od be 
merciful to me a sinner” (Luke xviii, may be taken 
as the representative of those who had come under this 
influence (Matt, xxi, 32). The (laliltean fishermen had 
probably learned, even before their Master taught them, 
to overcome their repugnance to the publicans who with 
them had been sharers in the same baptism. The pub- 
licans (Matthew perhaps among them) had probably 
gone back to their work learning to exact no more than 
what was appointed them (Luke iii, 13). However 
startling the choice of Matthew, the publican, to be of 
the number of the twelve may have seemed to the 
Pharisees, we have no trace of any perplexity or offence 
on the part of the disciples. 

The position of Zacchams as an apxtrtXwi’i/g (Luke 
xix, 2) implies a position of some importance among 
the persons thus employed. Possibly the balsam trade, 
of which Jericho was the centre, may have brought 
larger profits; possibly he was one of the submagistri 
in immediate communication with the bureau at Home. 
That it was possible for even a Jewish publican to at- 
tain considerable wealth we find from the history of 
John the rfXwj o/r (Josephus, 11’ur, ii, 14, 4), who acts 
with the leading Jews and oilers a bribe olTight talents i 
to the procurator, I lessius Horns. The fact that Jericho 
was at this time a city of the priests — 12,000 are said to 
have lived there— gives, it need hardly be said, a special 
significance to our Lord’s preference of the house of 
Zacchivus. When Jesus visited the house of Zaceluvns, 
who appears to have been eminently honest and up- 
right, lie was assured by him that he was ready to give 
one half of his goods to the poor, and if he had taken 
anything from any man hv false accusation, to “restore 
him fourfold” (Luke xix, K). This was in reference to 
the Homan law, which required that when any farmer 
was convicted of extortion he should return four times 
the value of what he had fraudulently obtained. There 
is no reason to suppose that either Zacchams or Matthew 


had been guilty of unjust practices, or that there was 
any exception to their characters beyond that of being 
engaged in an odious employment. .Some other exam- 
ples of this occur. Suetonius (Tesy). 1) mentions the 
ease of Sabinus, a collector of the fortieth penny in Asia, 
who had several statues erected to him by the cities of 
the province, with this inscription, “To the honest tax- 
farmer.”— Kitto; Smith: Fairbairn. See Bible Educa- 
tor, iii, 193. For monographs on the publicans, see Yol- 
beding, Index Progrummatum, p. 52, 07. See Tax-H .vrit- 

EttKIi. 

Publicani, English Waldenses (q. v.), of whom 
Lapin, in relating the transactions of the councils of 
Henry 11, gives the following account. «n the authority 
of archbishop I'sher : “ Henry ordered a council to meet 
at Oxford in 1 Kid. to examine the tenets of certain here- 
tics, called Publicani. Very probably they were disci- 
ples of the Waldenses, who began then to appear. 
When they were asked in the council who they were, 
they answ ered they were Christians and followers of the 
apostles. After that, being questioned upon the Creed, 
their replies were very orthodox as to the Trinity and 
incarnation. Hut (says Lapin) if the historian is to 
be depended on, they rejected baptism, the Eucharist, 
marriage, and the communion of saints. They showed 
much modesty and meekness in their whole behavior. 
When they were threatened with death, in order to 
oblige them to renounce their tenets, they only said, 
•Blessed are they that suffer for righteousness’ sake.’” 
There is no difficulty in understanding wliat were their 
sentiments on these heretical points. When a monk 
says they rejected the Eneharist.it is to be understood 
they rejected the doctrine of transubstantiation ; when 
he says they rejected marriage, lie means that they de- 
nied it to be a sacrament, and maintained it to be a civil 
institution; when he says they rejected the communion 
of saints, nothing more is to he understood than that 
they refused to hold communion with the corrupt 
Church of Home; and when he says that they rejected 
baptism, we understand by it that they rejected the bap- 
tism of infants. These were the errors for which they 
were branded with a hot iron in their foreheads. See 
Ivirney, Hist, of the Baptists, i, 50 sq. ; Brow n, Relig. 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Publius ((Jnecized HottXioc), the chief man — 
probably the governor — of Melita, or Malta, who re- 
ceived and lodged Paul and his companions on the oc- 
casion of their being shipwrecked off that island (Acts 
xxviii, 7) A.D. 55. It soon appeared that he was en- 
tertaining an angel unawares, for Paul gave proof of his 
divine commission by miraculously healing the father 
of Publius of a fever, and afterwards working other 
cures on the sick who were brought to him. Publius 
possessed property in Melita: the distinctive title given 
to him is “the first (irpiZrog) of the island;’’ and two 
inscriptions— one in Creek, the other in Latin — have 
been found at Civita Yecchia, in which that apparently 
official title occurs. An inscription found in Malta desig- 
nates the governor of the island by the same title. (See 
Lewiu’s St. Paul, ii, 209, where t lie originals are given, 
showing this to be the only natural interpretation.) 
Publius may perhaps have been the delegate of the Ho- 
man prador of Sicily, to whose jurisdiction Melita, or 
Malta, belonged. The Homan martymlogies assert that 
he was the first bishop of the island, and that he was 
afterwards appointed to succeed Uionysins as bishop of 
Athens. Jerome records a tradition that he was crowned 
with martyrdom {Be I 'iris Illust. xix; Baron. Annul, i, 
554).- Smith. See Walcli, Be Pulido i:pd)T>p Militen - 
sium (Jen. 1755). 

Pucci, Fraxcksoo (Lat. Puccius\ an Italian theolo- 
gian. noted as the founder of a heretical school, flourished 
in the Ifitli century. He was a native of Florence, and 
belonged to a noble and ancient family which produced 
three cardinals. He went to Lyons to engage in com- 
merce, but having assisted in the religious disputes so 


PUCCIANITES 


111 


PUDEXS 


frequent at that epoch, he left his country to give him- 
self to the study of theology. From Lyons he went to 
England, and in 1574 he took the degree of master of 
arts at Oxford. In adopting the greater part of the 
opinions of the Reformation, he expected to make ample 
use of that most precious conquest, liberty of search ; 
he joined himself to no sect, or, rather, he took from 
each that which best accorded with his own mind, nat- 
urally bold and restless. This independence created for 
him enemies and disputes in all the countries which he 
visited; he led a wandering life, and instead of passing 
for a person of troubled mind in search of truth, he was 
loaded with invectives and charged with fanaticism. 
At Oxford, being a candidate for a chair, he was advised 
to write a thesis De Fide in Deum quee et qualis sit, and 
raised the opposition of all his future colleagues, less by 
the scruples which he had shown of the method of com- 
prehending God than because he had openly combated 
the dogmas of Calvinism. Pucci then went to Basle, 
and there made the acquaintance of Faustus Socinus, 
but a dispute that he had with him about the first man, 
and his ideas of universal mercy, exposed him anew to 
persecution. Exiled from Basle in 1578, he returned 
to London, where his opinions, too frankly expressed, 
caused him to be imprisoned. After his release, he took 
refuge in the Low Countries ; but always studying, writ- 
ing, and disputing, he did not find his halting-place un- 
til he reached Poland. At Cracow he encountered two 
Englishmen — John Dee and Edward Kelly, companions 
of John a Laski ; they won Pucci to the study of oc- 
cult science, and persuaded him that by familiar inter- 
course with spirits he would have the privilege of dis- 
covering much that was unknown. The attraction of 
the marvellous, and the novelty of the phenomena that 
John Dee seemed to control, were strong enough to 
attach Pucci for four years. The papal nuncio at 
Prague became acquainted with Pucci, and by his per- 
sonal influence drew him into the bosom of the Romish 
Church in 1586. In 1592 Pucci wrote a book dedicated 
to pope Clement VIII, under the title De Christi Salva- 
toris Efficcicitate (Gouda, 1592), in which he used new 
arguments in support of the doctrine of the universal 
atonement as follows: “Christ having made an atone- 
ment for all men by his death, no other means are 
now necessary for salvation than those which are pro- 
vided by natural religion, and not only those who bear 
the name of the Saviour, but all honest men, can be 
saved, even in paganism." The doctrine thus espoused 
was not likely to please the pontiff, though he was hon- 
ored by the dedication, and Pucci was made so uncom- 
fortable that in 1595 there came from him a public re- 
traction of his preceding opinions. He then received 
sacerdotal ordination, and became secretary of cardinal 
Pompev, with whom he passed the last years of his life 
in peace. He died in 1600. He had composed the fol- 
lowing couplet to be engraved upon his tomb : 

“Invent portnm: spes et forfnna, valete ! 

Nil mihi vubiscnm, ludite nunc alios." 

Some authors have asserted without proof that Pucci 
was sent to Rome and burned. See Universalist Quar- 
terly, July, 1873, art. i ; Ittig, De Puceianismo ; Schmid, 
Dr. F. Puccio in Xaturalistis et Indijfereniistis Redivivo 
(Lips. 1712, 4to) ; Bavle, /list. Diet. s. v. (J. II. TV.) 

Puccianites is the name of the followers of Fran- 
cesco Pucci (q. v.), a class of Italian Universalists. See 

U NI VKRSALIS 31 . 

Pucelle, Abbe, a French ecclesiastic who flourished 
in the first half of the 18th century, is noted as one of 
the ablest defenders of the Galliean liberties. He was 
born at Paris in 1655, and was in Parliament in 1714 
when the adoption and registration of the bull Unigenitus, 
which aimed at the destruction of the Jansenists (q. v.), 
was discussed, and he most vigorously opposed this act 
on the part of the French state. He was then one of the 
clerical counsellors of the “Grand Chamber." In 1730, 
also, after the archbishop of Paris, De Vintiraille, at- 


tempted to enforce the Unigenitus, and the king had 
suffered the “lit de justice” to strengthen the papists, 
Pucelle stood strong, and caused the counsellors to keep 
their places and assert the independence and supremacy 
of the temporal power of France over Roman ecclesiasti- 
cism. They contended that it does not belong to eccle- 
siastics to define the limits between civil and spiritual 
authority; that the laws of the Church do not become 
laws of the State until they are sanctioned and promul- 
gated by the sovereign; and that the ministers of the 
Church are accountable to the king and the Parliament 
j for any offence against the statute law of the realm 
! (see Memoires du, Marechal Due de Richelieu , iii, 203). 
It was the first step of the opposition of the clergy of 
France to the crown and the hierarchy. See France; 
Gallic an Church. Of Pucelle’s personal history 
nothing further is accessible to us than that he was 
obliged to go into exile after 1732, and returned only 
when peace was concluded between court and Parlia- 
ment. He died at Paris Jan. 7, 1745. See Guettee, 
Ilist. de VEglise de France; Jervis, Hist. Ch. of France, 
ii, 220, 231, 272. (J. H. TV.) 

Puchta, Christian Rudolph Heinrich, a Lu- 
theran minister, was born Aug. 19, 1808, at Cadolzburg, 
in IMiddle Franconia. After having received his pre- 
paratory education, he entered the university in 1826, 
and studied at Erlangen and Berlin. In 1832 he was 
appointed vicar at Munich, in 1837 he went to Erlangen 
as private teacher, and in 1839 he was appointed professor 
of philosophy and religion at the newly founded lyceum 
in Speyer. Being mentally and physically broken down 
by too much work, he retired from his professorship un- 
til 1842, when he took charge of the small congregation 
at Eyb, not far from Anspach. Here he wrote his 
Morgen- und A bendandaehten (Erlangenj 1843). For ten 
years he labored at Eyb, in the meantime restoring his 
broken health. In 1852 he was called as second pastor 
of St. James’s to Augsburg, advanced in 1856 to the posi- 
tion of the first pastor, and died Sept. 12, 1858. ruchta 
was one of the most excellent of modern liymnists, his 
hymns being full of depth and richness of thought. Be- 
sides his Morgen- und A bendandaehten, he also published 
Der Hausaltar (Frankfort-on-the-Main, 1857) ; Hand- 
buck der praktischen Katechese (Stuttgart, 1854), 1st pt. 
His hymns are found in Knapp’s Liederschatz and in 
some of our modern hymn-books. See Knapp, Biogra- 
phy of Puchta, printed in the preface to Puehta’s hymns 
(Stuttgart, 1860).p.iv-xxiii; .4 ugsburger Allgemeine Zei- 
tung, 1858, No. 268; Koch, Geschichte des deutschen Kir- 
chenliedes, vii, 277 sq. ; Zuchold, Bibliotheca Tkeologica, 
ii, 1021 ; Hauck, Theol. Jakresbericht, 1865, p. 404 sq. 
(B.P.) 

Pudari were, in the Indian mythology, gigantic be- 
ings with flaming hair and a number of arms, who were 
held in great honor as protectors of the cities. Temples 
were built in their honor outside of the places which 
stood under their guard. Sacrifices, even human victims, 
were offered to them. — Vollmer, Worterb.d. Mythol. s.y. 

Pudas, an Indian god whom we find frequently in 
the company of Ixora (one of the incarnations of Siva). 
Nothing is known as to his attributes. His Appearance 
is strange and grotesque : he is small, with an enormous 
belly; his head is surrounded with snakes; another snake 
winds itself in many circles around his legs, chest, and 
arms; his right hand holds a staff'. — Vollmer, Wurterb. 
d. Mythol. s. v. 

Pu'dens ( Gracized, UoiCijc), a Christian friend of 
Timothy at Rome. St. Paul, writing about A.D. 64, 
says, “ Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, 
and Claudia" (2 Tim. iv, 21). Pudens is commemo- 
rated in the Byzantine Church on April 14, in the Ro- 
man Church on May 19. He is included in the list 
of the seventy disciples given by Psendo-Hippolytus. 
Papebroch, the Bollandist editor (Acta Sanctorum, Maii, 
iv. 296), while printing the legendary histories, distin- 
guishes between two saints of this name, both Roman 


PUDEXS 


772 


PUDEXS 


senators — one the host of St. Peter and friend of St. 
Paul, martyred under Nero; the other the grandson of 
the former, living about A.D. 150, the lather of Nova- 
t us, Timothy (who is said to have preached the Gospel 
in Britain). Praxedis, and Pudentiana, whose house, in 
the vallcv between the Yiminal hill and the Ksquilinc, 
served, in his lifetime, for the assembly of Homan Chris- 
tians, and afterwards gave place to a church, now the 
Church of Sta. l’udcnziana, a short distance at the back 
of the Basilica of Sta. Maria Maggiore. Earlier writers 
(as Baronius, /Inn. 41, § til ; 59, § 18 ; 1G2) are disposed 
to believe in the existence of one Pudens only. About 
the end of the 16th century it was observed (l\de Mon- 
eeaux, Keel. Christiana; 1 'eteris Britannica Incunabula , 
Tournay, 1G14; Estius, or his editor; Abp. Parker, De 
Antiquit. Britann. Eccl. 1G05; M. Alford, Annalcs Eccl. 
Brit. 1GG3; Camden, Britannia, 158G) that Martial, the ; 
Spanish poet, who went to Home A.l). GG or earlier, in 
his twenty-third year, and dwelt there for nearly forty 
years, mentions two contemporaries, Pudens and Clau- 
dia, as husband and wife (Ejiig. iv, 13); that he men- 
tions Pudens or Aldus Pudens in i, 32; iv, 29; v, 48; 
vi, 58; vii, 11, 97; Claudia or Claudia Butina in viii, 
GO; xi, 53; and, it might he added, Linus, in 5, 7G; ii, 
54; iv, GG; xi,25; xii, 49. That Timothy and Martial 
should each have three friends bearing the same names 
at the same time and place is at least a very singular 
coincidence. The poet’s Pudens was his intimate ac- 
quaintance, an admiring critic of his epigrams, an im- 
moral man if judged by the Christian rule, lie was i 
an Umbrian and a soldier. First he appears as a cen- 
turion aspiring to become a primipilus; afterwards he 
is on military duty in the remote north, and the poet 
hopes that on his return thence he may be raised to 
equestrian rank. 11 is wife Claudia is described as of 
British birth, of remarkable beauty and wit, and the : 
mother of a flourishing family. A Latin inscription j 
found in 1723 at Chichester connects a [Pudjens with ; 
Britain and with the Claudian name. It is as fol- j 


lows, if we fill out the usual abbreviations: “[N~|cp- 
tuno et Mincrvac tcmplum [pr]o salute domus divi- 
nae anctoritatc Tiherii Claudii [Cojgidubni regis le- 
gati August! in Brit., [colic ]gium fabrormn et qui in 
eo [a saeris suntj de suo dedicaverunt, donantc a ream 
f Pudjente, Pudcntini lilio.” A corner of the stone was 
broken off, and the letters within brackets have been 
inserted on conjecture. The inscription thus commem- 
orates the erection of a temple by a guild of carpenters, 
with the sanction of king Tiberius Claudius Cogidub- 
nus, the site being the gift of [Pudjens, the son of 
Pudcntinus. Cogidubnus was a native king, appoint- 
ed and supported by Borne ( I'acit. Agricofu, 14). lie 
reigned with delegated power probably from A.D. 52 
to A.D. 7G. If he had a daughter, she would inherit 
the name Claudia, and might, perhaps as a hostage, be 
educated at Borne. Another link seems to connect the 


Homanizing Britons of that time with Claudia Kufina 
and with Christianity (see Musgrave, quoted by l'abri- 
cius, Lux Evangelii, p. 702). The wife of Aldus Plau- 
tius, who commanded in Britain from A.D. 43 to A.D. 
52, was Pomponia Griecina, and the Hufi were a branch 
of her house. ^She was accused at. Borne, A.D. 57, on a 
capital charge of “ foreign superstition;” was acquitted, 
and lived, lor nearly forty years, in a state of austere 
and mysterious melancholy (Tacit. Ann. xiii, 32). We 
know from the Epistle to the Homans (xvi, 13) that the 
Bull were well represented among the Homan Chris- 
tians in A.D. 55. Modern researches among the Col- 
umbaria at Home, appropriated to members of the im- 
perial household, have brought to light an inscription 
in which the name of Pudens occurs as that of a ser- 
vant of Tiberius or Claudius (Journal of Classical and 
Sacred Philology , iv, 7G). — Smith. 

In certain ancient documents, called the .4 cts of Pas- 
tor , it is recorded that Pudens, after the death of his 
wife, desired that his house should be consecrated as a 
church, and that this was done; that subsequently, at 
his daughters’ request, a baptistery was constructed 
there ; that these daughters gathered together their 
slaves, both from the city and from their country pos- 
sessions, and gave liberty to those who were Christians, 
and exhorted those who were not believers in the holy 
law of Christ, and that the act of manumission was cel- 
ebrated in the title (church) established by Pudens; 
that there, also, in a time of persecution, Praxedis and 
Pudentiana sheltered those who through their instru- 
mentality had become believers; and that afterwards, 
when the latter, and her brother Novatus also, were 
dead, his property, with the consent of Timothcus. pass- 
ed into the hands of Praxedis, by whose request the 
thermo? , or baths, of Novatus, which are described as 
spacious and no longer in use, were consecrated as a 
church, in the name of Pudentiana, by Pius (bishop of 
the Church in Home, A.D. 139-155). In this place, it 
is further reported, Pius also consecrated a baptistery. 

Here, moreover, af- 
terwards, when a 
great persecution 
arose, numbers of 
Christians were con- 
cealed by Praxedis, 
and nourished with 
food and with the 
word of God. Pu- 
dens and his daugh- 
ters. it is also nar- 
rated, were buried 
in the cemetery of 
Priscilla, on the Via 
Salaria. Anastasias, 
librarian of the Vat- 
ican in the 9tli cen- 
tury. also asserts that 
Pius dedicated the 
thermo? of Novatus 
as a church in honor 
of Pudentiana. The same fact is said to be aftirmed by 
Damasus in the latter part of the 4th century. These 
may be mere repetitions. The .Ic/s of Pastor locate 
the house of Pudens in the Vicns Patricius, which cor- 
responds with the modern Via di Sta. Pndenziana. On 
this street still stands a church, which is reputed to he 
the oldest in Home. It is named Sta. Pndenziana. and 
is supposed to be located where Pudens and his family 
once dwelt. The text of the Acts of Pastor is unset- 
tled, and is not free from anachronisms. The docu- 
ments cannot have conic in their present form, or forms 
rather, from their reputed author, or from the 2d cen- 
tury. Since Tillemont’s learned criticism, they have 
fallen into disrepute. The Bollandist writer in the 
.1 eta Sanctorum is compelled to propose alterations of 
the text without authority, and to suppose the exist- 
ence of two persons, each named Pudens, one either the 



PUDENS 


773 


PUDICITIA 


grandfather or the paternal uncle of the other. Nor 
does anything preserved in the interior of the present 
church of Pudentiana carry us back decisively to the 
first generations of Roman Christians; the older portions 
of the edifice, however, do contain such indications. 

One of the priests of the Church of St. Pudentiana 
attended a Roman synod in the year 499, and was en- 
rolled as “ Presbyter Tituli Pudentis" (Presbyter of the 
Church of Rodens). The building was repaired or re- 
built under Adrian l (A.D. 772-795) ; hut portions of 
an older structure remain. The north aisle runs back 
much beyond the choir and its apse. In its side to- 
wards the choir there is a slab with the inscription 
siricivs episcopvs. Siricins was bishop A.D. 384- 
398. It is thought that at this time, and in that of 
Innocent I (402-417), an old hall, or basilica, of a fami- 
ly mansion which had been used as a church, and was 
called “Titulus Pudentis,” was taken down, and a new 
church constructed. One wall, however, was left stand- 
ing — the one at the end of the north aisle and in the 
rear of the choir. It is now the outer end wall of the 
church. This, according to competent judges, is a con- 
struction of the 1st century, and a part of some great 
palace. Its large hall windows can be readily distin- 
guished. Made in the 1st century, they are now filled 
up with brickwork of the 2d. At this time the hall 
seems to have been changed for some purpose distinct 
from its primary design. The present church stands 
in the original hall of the palace. Probably long be- 
fore its construction the hall itself was a place of assem- 
bly for Christians in Rome. There are, also, some sub- 
terranean chambers, said to have been first opened in 
1865. Here are three long, narrow, vaulted rooms, now 
opening into each other, but originally separated by 
brick walls. The walls are regarded as 1st -century 
work; but the openings which throw together the three 
chambers were evidently made subsequently, and ap- 
parently in the 2d century. This is indicated by the 
construction of the arches. In the original or lst-cen- 
,tury wall may still be seen hot-air flues, such as be- 
long to thermae. The cutting of the arches would have 
spoiled the baths. It secured an admirable arrange- 
ment for the meetings of a Christian Church in troub- 
lous times. The combined chambers made a spacious 
room, remote from the street and below its level. Its 
windows were apertures in the clear-story, and opened 
into an inner area. Worship could be conducted with- 
out attracting attention. The testimony of the walls 
and the bricks and the arches thus accords with the 
ancient tradition that the disused baths of Novatus, the 
son of Pndens, were dedicated about the middle of the 
2d century as a Christian church. It is thought that 
in still another room of this subterranean portion of the 
traditional mansion of Pndens there was once a bap- 
tistery. Tradition may present another point of con- 
tact with these baths. In Justin Martyr’s examination 
by the praefect of Rome, (about A.D. 166), the following 
dialogue is reported : 

“ Praefect. Where do yon assemble? 

“Justin. Where each one chooses and can. . . . The 
God of the Christians is not circumscribed by place, but, 
being invisible, fills heaven and earth, and everywhere is 
worshipped and glorified by the faithful. 

“ Praefect . Say, where do you assemble, or into what 
place do yon collect yonr disciples? 

“ Justin . I dwell above one Martin’s, at the Timoline 
Bath. ... I know of no other meeting than his. 

“ Praefect. Are yon uot, then, a Christian ? 

“ Justin . Yes, 1 am a Christian.” 

In the Roman tradition, the house of Pudens was the 
place where Christians coming to Rome were freely en- 
tertained; and in the baths of Novatus or Timotheus 
were held, in Justin’s time, Christian assemblies. 

On the Via Salaria is a cemetery called after Pris- 
cilla, the traditional mother of Pudens, which bears un- 
mistakable signs of having been used by persons of 
wealth and standing belonging to the earliest genera- 
tions of Roman Christians. These evidences are suffi- 
ciently indicated in Northcote and Brownlow’s Roma 


Sotteranea, and need not here be specified. It may be 
added, however, that, in the lower story of this cata- 
comb, imprints have been found of the seal of a pvdens 
felix upon the cement which closes a loculus or grave 
(De Rossi, Images de la T. S. Vierge chainics dans les 
Catacombes de Rome [Rome, 1863], p. 17). The cogno- 
men suits exactly the tradition that the Pudens family 
belonged to the gens Cornelia (Cornelius Sulla being 
the first who took the surname Felix), and the further 
uniform tradition that this cemetery was their burial- 
place. The traditions are thus confirmed which repre- 
sent a Pudens family of wealth and distinction to have 
been very early connected with the Christian Church 
in Rome. They increase so far the coincidences in fa- 
vor of the identity of Martial’s friends with the Pudens 
and Claudia of Paul’s Epistle. The resemblance is one 
of family distinction, as well as of name, time, and place. 
See The House of Pudens in Rome: a Lecture delivered 
to the Royal Archaeological Institute, June 2, 1871, by 
John Henry Parker, C.B., F.S.A., etc.; reprinted from 
the A rchaeological Journal. 

On the whole, although the identity of St. Paul’s Pu- 
denswith any legendary or heathen namesake is not abso- 
lutely proved, yet it is difficult to believe that these facts 
add nothing to our knowledge of the friend of Paul and 
Timothy. The identity is favored by Alford, Conybeare 
and Ilowson, and others. Objections to the details of the 
story do not seem to be insuperable. The difficulty is 
that so much is pure conjecture. In the .4 cts of Pastor, 
the wife of Pudens, and mother of his children, is named 
Savinilla. The Welsh legends are said to affirm Pudens’s 
marriage with Gladys, the daughter or niece of Caracta- 
cus. The facts and arguments are treated at great length 
in a pamphlet entitled Claudia and Pudens, by archdea- 
con Williams (Llandovery, 1848), p.58; and more briefly 
by dean Alford, Greek Testament (ed. 1856), iii, 104; and 
by' Conybeare and Howson, Life of St. Paul (ed. 1858), 
ii, 594 ; alsq by Lewin, St. Paul, ii, 392 sq. They 7 are in- 
geniously woven into a pleasing romance by 7 a writer in 
the Quarterly Review, xcvii, 100-105. See Prof. Smyth 
in the Biblioth. Sacra, 1875, p. 174 sq. ; also Usher, Keel. 
Brit. Antiquitates, § 3, and Stilliugtieet, Antiquities. 

Pudentiana, St. Among the Roman families 
who, in the 2d century 7 , embraced the Christian faith, 
one of the most distinguished seems to have been that 
of the senator Pudens, his mother Priscilla, and his 
daughters Pudentiana and Praxedis. Pudens is fre- 
quently alleged to have been a disciple of the apostles 
Peter and Paul, and there is really a Pudens named in 
the second letter to Timothy 7 ; but this Pudens seems 
not to be identical with the father of Pudentiana and 
Praxedis. According to the Bollandists, our Pudens 
was converted by pope Pius I, who lived in the middle 
of the 2d century. After the death of his wife, the 
new convert had his house transformed into a church. 
He taught his two daughters the doctrines and all good 
works of Christianity 7 , in which they soon distinguished 
themselves, converting to their new faith, with the as- 
sistance of the pope, who used to say 7 mass in the now 
consecrated building, not only the members of their 
family and inmates of their house, but a large number 
of other pagans. We do not know when Pudens and 
his holy daughters died. Pudentiana, as well as Praxe- 
dis, had churches in Rome in the earliest times. See 
the Bollandists on May 7 19, where a learned commenta- 
ry 7 is given about Pudens and his two daughters, with 
the documents relating to them. See Pudens. 

Pudicitia (Ai’owg), a personification of modesty, 
was worshipped both in Greece and at Rome. At Ath- 
ens an altar was dedicated to her (Pausan. 3, 17, § 1). 
1 At Rome two sanctuaries were dedicated to her, one 
under the name of Pudicitia patricia, and the other 
under that of Pudicitia plebeia. The former was in the 
Forum Boarium, near the temple of Hercules. When 
the patrician Virginia was driven from this sanctuary 
by the other patrician women, because she had married 


PUEJi NATUS IX BETHLEHEM 774 


PUGET 


the plebeian consul L. Volumnius, she built a separate I 
sanctuary to Pudicitia plebeia in the Vicns bongos J 
(Livy, x, 2:5; Festus, p. 242, eel. M filler). Xo woman 
who had married twice was allowed to touch her statue; 
and Pudicitia, moreover, was considered by some to be 
the same as Fortuna Muliebris. She is represented in 
works of art as a matron in modest attire. See llirt, 
Mgthol. Dilderb, p. 114, tab. 13.— Smith, Diet, of (Jr. 
ami Rom. Ding, and Mythul. s. v. 

Puer natus in Bethlehem. This joyous Christ- 
mas hymn, which belongs to the 14th century, of a 
beautiful simplicity, and absorbing easily so much the- 
ology in its poetry, continued long a great favorite in 
the Lutheran churches of Germany, well-nigh to this 
day. The original is given by Daniel, Thesaurus, i, 
334; Trench, Sacred Latin Poetry , p. 97; Simrock, 
Landes Sion, p. 42; Kdnigsfeld, Uymnen, ii, 304. Eng- 
lish translations are given in Lyra Messianica, p. 88; . 
Christian Life in Song, p. 173; Schatf, Christ in Song, 
p. 50. German translations are given by Simrock and 
Kdnigsfeld, and especially by Hoffmann von Fallerslc- 
ben in his (,'eschichte des deutseh. Kirchenlicdes, p. 340 sq. 
See also Trench, Daniel, and especially Wackernagel, 
who, in his Das deutsche Kirchenlied , i, 198-200, gives 
ten forms of this hymn. (B. P.) 

Pueri (boys), a name often given in the Latin Church 
to catechumens (q. v.). They were also called Audi- 
entes, Incipientes , Xovitii, R tides, Tirones. 

Pueris Similes ( like boys) is a sect of Anabaptists 
mentioned by Bollinger in his treatise on Anabaptism 
(q. v.). They practiced childish tricks, under the no- 
tion that this was being childlike, as required by the 
Gospel precept of entering into the kingdom of heaven 
by becoming as a little child, lienee they would ride 
upon sticks and hobby-horses, and take off their clothes 
that they might practice the innocence of childhood; 
ending, of course, in extremely immoral excesses. 

Puffer, Isaac, a well-known pioneer preacher of 
American Methodism, was born in Westminster County, 
INI ass., in June. 1784. As a hoy he came with his par- 
ents to Central New York. At. lifteen he was converted. 
Ten years later he joined the Xew York Conference as 
a travelling preacher, and was appointed to the Otsego 
Circuit, then a far-reaching territory, which in the fol- 
lowing year was incorporated in the Oenesee Confer- 
ence. That conference was then made to cover not 
only much of Northern and Western New York, but 
also the Upper and Lower Canadas. In this large field 
Puffer labored for full forty years with remarkable per- 
severance, and had the pleasure of seeing the most won- 
derful results that ever crowned the labor of any Meth- 
odist preacher. Though his early advantages must 
have been inconsiderable, he became one of the most, 
useful, it might almost be said one of the most popular, 
preachers of his time, llis great strength lay in the 
ease and skill with which he quoted the Scriptures, 
'flic Bible was the one book he hneic, and he used it 
with most marvellous power and success, lie was the 
sturdy opponent of Calvinism and Universalism, and 
combated them with such vigor that lie was regarded 
as a worthy foeman for the best advocates of those forms 
of Christian dogma. After his superannuation in 1843 
the venerable preacher contented himself with visiting 
bis former charges, until, in 1818. he. was attracted 
West, and lived chiefly in Wisconsin and Illinois. New 
associations, new scenes, and new calls to moral combat 
had a reinvigorating influence, and he again became ac- 
tive until 18f>3, when he suddenly died after a short ill- 
ness. Puffer was of a large, muscular frame, and made 
therefore a striking appearance in public, lie also at- 
tracted, aside from his religious earnestness, by a fine 
musical voice. lie was an honest, devoted, childlike 
Christian, and blessed his generation by his life and his 
works. See Memoir of the Rev. D. (1. Paddock, p. 341 
sq. ; Conable, Hist, of the (Jenesec Conference, ell, i, § 7 ; 
ch. ii, § 5. 


Puffer, John M. ( a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Bicliford, Vt., Jan. 29, 1835. 
From a child he was noticeably correct in his habits, 
and thus well fitted for a life of self-reliance. Ilis 
mother died when he was about six years of age, and 
his educational opportunities were limited to the district 
school and a few terms at the academy, lie was con- 
verted in 1852, and united with the Methodists, lie 
was licensed to preach in 185ti. The following year lie 
entered the Troy Conference, and filled the following 
appointments: Johnson and llyde Park, under the pre- 
siding elder; Essex, Milton, and Pittsford, one year 
each ; Essex, N. Y., two years. By a change of confer- 
ence boundaries he went into Vermont Conference in 
1832, and was stationed at Grand Isle two years; at St. 
Alban's Bay, one year; at Highgate, Waterbary Centre, 
Bandolph, and Chelsea, two years each; and at- Barre, 
his last appointment, which he served only the fraction 
of a year, when called from toil to reward, lie died 
Jan. 7, 1874. Puffer labored with great acceptance, and 
almost literally “ceased at once to work and live.” His 
last sermon was upon a funeral occasion, while ill him- 
self, on the text, “If a man die, shall he live again?” 
— Conference Minutes, 1874. p. 9G. 

Puffer, Reuben, D.D., an American divine of 
note, was born at Sudbury, Mass., in 175G, and was ed- 
ucated at Harvard College, class of 1778. lie then 
studied divinity, and became pastor of a Congregational 
church in Bolton (afterwards called Berlin), Mass, lie 
held this place until his death, in 1829. He published : 
Election Sermon (1803 ) : — Dudleian Lecture in Harvard 
College (1808 ) : — Convention Sermon (181 1 ) : — Two Ser- 
mons (182G) ; and some secular addresses. See Sprague, 
A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, ii, 20G sq. 

Puget, Pierije, called the Michael Angelo of France, 
on account of his ability in painting ami architecture, 
as well as in sculpture, and perhaps also on account of 
a kindred enthusiasm and decision of character, was 
born in 1G22 at Marseilles, where his father practiced as 
an architect and sculptor. It was from him that he re- 
ceived his first instructions in art, after which he was 
placed under a shipwright, or builder of galleys, to learn 
to carve the ornaments used in these vessels. Disgusted 
with the drudgery of such workmanship, he set out for 
Italy, and passed a considerable time at Florence, where 
he pursued his studies as a sculptor with great success, 
lie next repaired to Borne, whither he was attracted by 
the fame of Pietro de Cortona. He became the pupil 
of that artist, but made such progress that he accompa- 
nied him to Florence as assistant to paint the ceilings 
of the Pitti palace, lie suddenly resolved upon return- 
ing to France, when only twenty-one. But, commis- 
sioned to design a vessel of extraordinary magnificence, 
Puget proceeded a second time to Borne, and there spent 
between five and six years: what afterwards became 
of his valuable collection of drawings is not known. 
On his second return from Italy he painted; but ex- 
cessive application so seriously affected his health that 
he confined himself thenceforth to architecture and 
sculpture, llis talents met with employment at Tou- 
lon and Marseilles, and for the latter city he projected 
many embellishments, which established his reputation 
as an architect ; and he further gave proof of great skill 
in engineering by different ingenious machines and in- 
ventions. He was sent by Fouquet to Genoa fur the 
purpose of selecting marble for some of tlie works pro- 
posed to be executed at Marseilles; but that minister 
being shortly afterwards disgraced, instead of returning 
home, Puget preferred remaining at Genoa, where he 
produced some of his most noted pieces of sculpture, 
the two statues of St. Sebastian and St. Ambrosias, and 
the grand bas-relief of the Assumption, in the chapel of 
the Albergo de’ Poveri. besides various architectural 
ornaments. At length he was recalled by Colbert, who 
obtained for him a pension of 1200 crowns, in conse- 
quence, it is said, of the earnest recommendation of Ber- 


PUGILLAKIS 


775 


PUL 


nini. That the patronage of the one and the recom- j 
mendation of the other were not discredited is proved 
by his two celebrated performances at Versailles, the j 
Milo of Crotona and the group of Perseus and Androm- 
eda. the former of which is generally reckoned the chef- 
d'oeuvre of his chisel, and a work that will bear compar- 
ison with the antique. He died at Marseilles, where he 
spent his last days, Dee. 2, 1G94 .—Engl. Cyclop, s. v.; 
Lenoir, Musee des Monuments Francois , s. v. ; Iloefer, 
Nouv. liiog. Generate, s. v. 

Pugillaris is a name for the reed of gold or silver, 
or ivory, used for drinking from the chalice (q. v.). 

Pugin, Augustus Nokthmore Welby, one of the I 
most distinguished of modern ecclesiastical architects, 
tvas the son of a French gentleman who Med to England 
at the period of the .Revolution. He was born in 1811, 
and commenced his professional career as a scene-painter 
and decorator at the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden, 
and then devoted himself to decoration in furniture, etc. 
Joining the Roman Catholic Church, he determined 
thenceforth to devote his best energies to ecclesiology, 
and during the few years that he lived to practice his 
profession he was called upon to erect a larger number 
of Roman Catholic churches, chapels, convents, and 
schools than has probably fallen to the lot of any Eng- 
lishman since the Reformation. The following list in- 
cludes his chief works: the cathedral church of St. Ma- 
rie at Derby, one of his earlier and more pleasing works ; 
St. Chad’s, Birmingham; three churches at Liverpool; 
St. Wilfred’s, Manchester ; church and convent at Edge- 
hill; churches at Oxford, Cambridge, Reading, Kenil- 
worth, Stockton-on-Tees, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Pres- 
ton, Keightley, Rugby, Northampton, Stoke-npon-Trent, 
Brewood, Woolwich, Hammersmith, Fulham, Pontefract, 
St. Edward’s near Ware, Buckingham, and St. Wilfred . 
near Alton ; a church, and a convent and chapel, at Not- ' 
tingham; convents of the Sisters of Mercy at London, ! 
Birmingham, and Liverpool ; a priory at Downside, near 
Bath; colleges at Radcliffe and Rugby; improvements j 
at Mavnooth ; and cathedrals, with schools and priests’ 
houses attached, at St. George's (Southwark), Killarnev, 
and Enniscorthv. To these must be added the exten- 
sive and costly works executed for his great patron, the 
earl of Shrewsbury, consisting, besides the alterations 
made in the mansion, of a church, school -house, and 
monastery at Alton Towers; and a church at Cheadle, 
which has the most splendid interior of any of his 
churches. The very pretty gateway to Magdalen Col- 
lege, Oxford, is one of the very few works executed by I 
him for any Protestant body; indeed, he is said to have 
refused to accept any commissions for Protestant places 
of worship. The list of works given above would in 
truth seem to have been more than sufficient to exhaust 
the time and energies of a man who ceased laboring at 
the age of forty; yet he was chiefly employed during 
his last years in designing and superintending the orna- 
mentation of the New Palace of Westminster, which prob- 
ably owes its somewhat extravagantly mediaeval and 
ecclesiastical character to Pugin’s idiosyncrasies. But, 
besides the practice of his profession, he found time to 
add to its literature a second and revised edition of his 
Contrasts : — a treatise on the True Principles of Pointed 
or Christian Architecture (1841 ) : — An Apology for the 
Revival of Christian Architecture (1843): — a Glossary 
of Ecclesiastical Ornament (1844) : — a treatise on Flori- 
ated Ornaments (1849): — and a treatise on Chancel 
Screens (1851). As he advanced in life his religious 
feelings took more and more entire possession of him. 
In 1850 he wrote and published An Address to the In- 
habitants of Ramsgate: — An Earnest Appeal for the 
Revival of the Ancient Plain Song: — The Present State 
of Public Worship among the Roman Catholics; and 
other pamphlets of a religious character. At length, 
overtasked with all this excessive labor and excitement, 
his intellect began to give way, and in his fortieth year 
he was removed to a lunatic asylum. For a brief space 


his mental powders were so far restored that it became 
practicable for him to return to his home at Ramsgate; 
but he expired there Sept. 14, 1852, three days after his 
return, lie was buried in a vault of his own church of 
St. Augustine, which he had built on his estates. Pu- 
gin was a man of extraordinary industry and energy, 
and he possessed a very unusual amount of knowledge 
and great ability. He attempted, however, too many 
things, and he worked too much and too fast to produce 
many great works, even had he been a man of original 
power. In truth, his was not a creative mind, and he 
lacked comprehensive thought. See English Cyclop. 
s. v. 

Pu'llite (Heb. only as a collective, and with the 
art. hap-ruthi ', n “*2n, patronymic from some unknown 
primitive; Sept. HcpiSfiv v. r. M ap&ip; Vulg. Aphn- 
thei), a designation of the second named of the “fami- 
lies of Kirjath-jearim” descended from Shobel (1 Chron. 
ii, 53). “There is a Jewish tradition, embodied in the 
Targum of R. Joseph, that these families of Kirjath- 
jearim were the sons of Moses whom Zipporah bare 
him, and that from them were descended the disciples 
of the prophets of Zorah and Eshtaol” (Smith). 

Pui, the name of a fraternity, partly religious, in 
honor of St. Mary, and partly literary, established in 
Picardy and Normandy, and translated to England 
about the beginning of the 14th century, deriving its 
name from the Virgin of the Cathedral of La Puv, to 
which pilgrims greatly resorted. They yearly elected 
a prince, who was crowned with garlands or circlets, 
like those still used on certain occasions by the city 
companies ; the loving cup was gayly passed at the 
election, and the author of the best ballad royal w’as 
also crowned. They had a chaplain - priest to sing 
masses, maintained a grand feast annually, and kept a 
common hutch for the contributions of the brotherhood. 
There was a chapel of St. Mary de Pui at Westminster. 
No woman was admitted at their meetings. Perhaps 
Pints, another form, may allude to the Song of Solomon 
(iv, 15). — Walcott, Sacred Archaeology, s. v. 

Pfik. See Paint. 

Pul (Heb. id. ?*!2 [for derivation, see below]), the 
name of a people and of a man. 

1. (Sept. <i>ovd v. r. <Pov3 ; Vulg. A frica.) A country 
or people located at a great distance from Judaea, and 
named once (Isa. Ixvi, 19) between Tarshish and Lud: 
“The nations (£Vi«il), [to] Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, 
that draw the bow, [to] Tubal and Javan, [to] the 
isles afar off.” Hitzig, Knobel, and some others sup- 
pose that the true reading is L2*2, Put, which is else- 
where joined with Lud (Ezek. xxvii, 10; Jer. xlvi, 9; 
A. V. “ Libyans”) ; and which is sometimes rendered in 
the Sept. d»o»)c> (Gen. x, 6; 1 Chron. i, 8), the same form 
which occurs here in that version ; for this, however, 
there is no MS. authority, and we are therefore bound 
to receive the Masoretic reading as correct. Gesenius 
observes ( Thesaur . s. v. VlD) that <FOVA could be easily 
changed to <FOYA by the error of a copyist. See I’iiul. 
If a Mizraite Lud (q. v.) be intended in this connection, 
Pul may be African. It has accordingly been compared 
by Bochart ( Phaleg , iv, 2G) and Michaelis ( Spicileg . 
i, 25G; ii, 114) with the island Philce, called in Coptic 
Pelak, Pilak, Pilakt ; the hieroglyphic name being 
Eelek, P-eelek, or Eelekt (Quatremere, Memoirs sur 
I'Egypte, i, 387 sq.). This island was inhabited jointly 
by Egyptians and Ethiopians (Strabo, xvii, 818; Diod. 
Sic. i, 22; Pliny, v, 10; Ptolemy, iv, 5, 74; comp. Mannert, 
X, i, 235 sq.), and Bochart supposes the name to be, like 
Elephantine, derived from a word meaning elephant 
(xb^S). But it must be kept in mind that the other 
names here mentioned are those of great countries, while 
Philae is a very small island. Isaiah would scarcely 
speak of the Jewish people being driven to it. It seems 
much more probable that Pul was the name ofsomedis* 


PUL 


776 


PULCHEIMA 


taut province of Africa; and perhaps the suggestion of 
(iesenius ( Thesaur. p. 1091) may be right, that we have 
a vestige of the old name in the word IIo\o which ap- 
pears on inscriptions (Chanipollion, Grammaire , p. 150). 
Hitzig ( Grabschri/t des Darius, p. 71) finds a Pliul not 
far from Punicus. This only adds to the uncertainty. 
See Egyj’t. 

2. (Sept. 4>oe\ v. r. 4>o?»\h. 4>ov«, <1 >nXw\', fyaXwc; 
Vulg. r/iul.) A king of Assyria, and the first of those 
monarehs who is mentioned in the Bible (2 Kings xv, 

10, 20; 1 Chron. v, 2(5). Menahem, having succeeded 
in mounting the throne of Israel, proceeded to make 
himself master of the whole territory belonging to that 
kingdom. Setting forth from Tirzali, he attacked and 
took by storm Tiphsah. or Thapsacns, on the Euphrates, 
which had once more been made a border town of Israel 
by the conquests of Jeroboam 1 1, whose victorious career 
had restored the ancient boundaries of the land in that 
direction as they had been in the days of .Solomon (2 
Kings xv, 16; xiv, 25, 28; 1 Kings iv, 24). lie ap- 
pears to have thus drawn on himself the notice of Pul, 

11. C. 769. Menahem is thought by some to have in- 
herited a kingdom which was already included among 
the dependencies of Assyria; for as early as B.C. 880 
Jehu gave tribute to Shalmaneser, according to the in- 
scription on the black obelisk [see Shai.siank.skuJ; 
and if Judaea was, as it seems to have been, a regular 
tributary from the beginning of the reign of Amaziah 
(B.C. 837), Samaria, which lay between Jiukva and As- 
syria, can scarcely have been independent. Under the 
Assyrian system the monarehs of tributary kingdoms, 
on ascending the throne, applied for “confirmation in 
their kingdoms” to the lord paramount, and only be- 
came established on receiving it. We may gather from 
2 Kings xv, 19, 20 that. Menahem neglected to make 
any such application to his liege lord. Pul — a neglect 
which would have been regarded as a plain act of rebell- 
ion. Possibly, in the campaign against Tiphsah, we 
must regard Menahem as having attacked the Assyrians, 
and deprived them for a while of their dominion west of 
the Euphrates. However this may have been, it is evi- 
dent that Pul looked upon Menahem as an enemy, lie 
consequently marched an army into Palestine for the 
purpose of punishing his revolt, when Menahem hast- 
ened to make his submission, and having collected hv 
means of a poll-tax the large sum of a thousand talents 
of gold, he paid it over to the Assyrian monarch, who 
consented thereupon to “confirm” him as king. Sec 
Men au km. 

There is great difficulty in determining what Assyrian 
king is referred to under the name Pul. lie must have 
ruled over Assyria as the immediate predecessor of Tig- 
lath-pileser II, for this latter monarch, according to Sir 
11. Uawlinson ( Athenenim , No. 1793), is recorded to have 
received tribute in his eighth year from Menahem, 
whose reign occupied only ten years. Eor some time 
Sir II. Uawlinson identified him with a king whose 
cuneiform name he has variously represented as Ira- 
lush, Yul-lush, and Yuma-zulu-khus (Oppcrt, Ilee-likh- 
khus), and who reckoned among the countries tributary 
to himself that of Khumri or Samaria (Uawlinson, He- 
rodotus, i, 467). [Smith revives this theory (Assyrian 
Eponym Canon, p. 187) of the identity of Pul with Yul- 
nirari fas he reads the name), who, according to his 
dates, invaded Damascus in 15.C. 773.] This identifica- 
tion, however, Uawlinson gave up on ascertaining that 
the lately deciphered Assyrian canon interposed the 
reigns of three kings, comprising thirty-seven years, in 
addition to a probable interregnum of two or three 
years between this king and Tiglath-piloser (.1 thenirum, 
No. 1805). Subsequently he suggested that one and the 
same individual is denoted by the names Pul and Tig- 
lath-pilesor in the sacred narrative. II is chief argu- 
ment for this is that in 1 Chron. v, 26 the same event 
— namely, the deportation of the tribes beyond the. Jor- 
dan — is attributed to the two kings associated together 
as if they were one and the same individual (.1 thenceum, 


No. 1869). But, as already remarked by Winer ( Itealw . 
ii, 259), the passage in 1 Chron. does not necessarily as- 
cribe to the two kings the accomplishment of the same 
measure. Pul is mentioned in it as the first Assyrian 
king who came into collision with the Israelites, and 
thus prepared the way for the subsequent deportation 
of the transjordauic tribes. But tliat this measure is 
attributed solely to Tiglath-pileser, as io 2 Kings nx, 
29, is manifest from the use of the singular Dr. 

Julius Oppert,who accepts the account of Ctesias, and 
takes it to refer to the subversion of the first Assyrian 
empire, supposes Pul to be the Babylonian Btlesys. 
The eminent Assyriologist Dr. llincks maintains that 
“Pul became king of Babylon, holding Assyria in sub- 
jection, in 78" B.C. Tiglath-pileser revolted from him 
and established an independent kingdom of Assyria in 
768 B.C.” (Athenaeum, No. 1810). The main difference 
between this view and that of Dr. Oppcrt is that Dr. 
llincks supposes a considerable interval to have elapsed 
between Belesys, the conqueror of Nineveh, and Pul. It 
certainly appears the most plausible opinion; and it 
seems safest to acquiesce in it until further discoveries 
of cuneiform students lead to a more exact determina- 
tion. It is in accordance with the Scriptural chronolo- 
gy, and it falls in with what we can glean of Assyrian 
history from classical and monumental sources. The ac- 
count of Ctesias, as found in Diodorus Siculus (Hist, ii), 
though rejected by Sir II. Uawlinson and his followers 
(comp. Prof. Uawlinson, A nr. Mon. ii, 521), has received 
the support of many eminent modern critics. It has 
been shown to bo reconcilable with the narrative of He- 
rodotus (Ilist. i, 102, 106), which contains intimations 
that there had been a subvorsal of the Assyrian empire 
prior to its filial overthrow alluded to by tliat historian 
(see Winer, Itealw. i, 104). It is admitted that the As- 
syrian canon, in the period between Iva-Iush IV and 
Tiglath-pileser II, gives indication “ of troublous times, 
and of a disputed, or, at any rate, a disturbed succession” 
(Uawlinson, A nc. Mott, ii, 386). The writer last cited 
also asserts tliat the inscriptions of Tiglath-piloser II 
“support the notion of a revolution and change of dynas- 
ty in Assyria at this point of its history” (Uawlinson, 
Herodotus, i, 468). Tliat Pul was a Babylonian hold- 
ing rule in Assyria at this time is confirmed by the 
notice of Alexander Polyhistor (Kitsch. Chron. i, 4); 
“Post hos ait exstitisse < haldseorum regem, cui nomen 
Phnlus erat ;” and also by the form of the name. The 
name Pul, while having, according to Prof. Uawlinson, 
its counterpart among known Babylonian names, is 
wholly alien to the rules on which Assyrian names are 
formed. They arc “always compounds, consisting of 
two, three, or more characters” (.4 we. Mon. ii. 388, note). 
— Kitto. The name is probably the same as the San- 
scrit pala, lofty, highest; hence lord, king; perhaps the 
same as hel, i. e. lord. The same syllable is found in the 
names Sardana/jo/us and Nabo/)o/assar. Pul is also men- 
tioned in the extracts of Alexander Polyhistor, in Eu- 
sebius (Chron. .4 rm. i, 41), hut not elsewhere. Eusebius 
adds, “ Polyhistor says that Senecherilms was king after 
him,” but this is not to be understood of immediate suc- 
cession. See Assywa. 

Pulalia, n divinity of Indian mythology. Brahma 
created nine Urahmins from different parts of his body. 
At the same time Sunyamblui. Brahma’s son, created the 
ten celebrated rishis, or forefathers, of all existing be- 
ings. These are identical with the nine Brahmins men- 
tioned, and one of them is Pulalia. lie was so pious 
that he could, by his prayers, create men, animals, and 
gods.— Vollmer, Wortnb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Pulclieria, vEi.iA.one of the most celebrated saints 
of the Creek Church, was an empress. She was the 
eldest daughter of the emperor Areadius, and was born 
between 398 and 400. In early youth she showed rare 
intellectual gifts and a fervent piety. Her wisdom was 
an object of general admiration. She was about fifteen 
when she came to assist her younger brother Thcodo- 


PULEAR 


777 


PULIAIIS 


sins TI in the government. Pulcheria then made a vow 
of eternal eliastitv, prevailed upon her sisters to follow 
her example, and gave to the Byzantine court the pu- 
rity which should prevail in a monastery. Some writ- 
ers eharge that this chastity was feigned from political 
reasons, Pulcheria desiring to prevent the marriage of 
her sisters, and thus avoid controversy on the elaims to 
the throne. By her wisdom and piety the prosperity 
of the empire was certainly promoted : she seemed to 
be its good genius. She defended zealously the purity 
of the Christian faith against the doctrines of Nestorius 
and Eutyches, and her influence was most beneficial at 
the synods of Ephesus and Chaleedon. St. Cyril of 
Alexandria sent her his celebrated work De Fide ad 
Pulcheriam. She was in correspondence with the popes, 
especially with Leo I. This great pope, in many letters, 
praises her wisdom and kindness. lie entreats her, in 
449, to take measures against the heresy of Eutyches 
(Jaffe, Reg. Pontif. n. 203, 204, p. 37); rejoiees at the 
vigor and energy of her faith (ibid. n. 226, p. 339), and 
praises her activity in suppressing Eutyeliianism (451 ; 
ibid. n. 237, p. 40). There are in all ten letters extant 
from Leo I to Pulcheria. The learned Theodoret, bishop 
of Cyrrhus, also praised her attachment to the Church, 
and interceded with her for his city, heavily burdened 
with taxes (Tlieod. Ep. 43 ; Baron, ad ann. 444). All 
her contemporaries praise her benefieent influence. She 
dissuaded her brother Theodosius from Nestorianism, 
and celebrated the victory of the orthodox creed over 
this heresy by building a splendid ehureh in honor of the 
Virgin Mary (Niceph. II. E. xiv, 2 ; Baron, ad ann. 431). 
She sent valuable presents to Jerusalem, and built a 
number of new churches (Baron, ad ann. 439, 453). She 
was several times exposed to the plots of the eourts, 
which tried to destroy her good understanding with her 
brother and his wife Eudoeia. In 446 she retired en- 
tirely from the eourt: but her absence was soon felt. 
After the death of Theodosius, Pulcheria and Mareianus, 
who had been honored with the title of Augustus, and 
whom she had wedded, took the reins of the empire. 
She had married for the good of the empire, and with 
the stipulation that she should be allowed to keep her 
vow of virginity. After benefiting the Chureli in many 
ways as empress, and opposing Eutyeliianism with the 
same decision as she had previously Nestorianism, she 
died, Sept. 11, 453. Her saintship is reeognised by the 
Latin as well as by the Greek Church. Baronins (ad 
ann. 453) and the Bollandists (vol. i, Jill.) erected literary 
memorials to her memory. Benedict XIV permitted, 
by decree of the Congregation of the Bites of Jan. 31, 
1752, to the regular canons of St. Augustine in Portugal, 
and to some houses of Jesuits, the celebration of her 
feast on July 7, sub ritu duplici: soon afterwards, Feb. 
11, the same year, this permission was extended to the 
whole eompany of Jesus. These deerees, with the office 
and mass of St. Pulcheria, are in the appendix of Benedict 
XIV’s work De Sanctorum Canonizatione. The oration 
of the feast praises the chastity of the saint, and her 
zeal for the purity of the faith. See Smith, Diet, of 
Gr. and Rom. Blog, and Mytkol. s. v. ; Wetzer u.Welte, 
Kirchen-Lexikon, vol. xii, s. v. ; Hefele, Coneiliengesch. 
vol. ii; Alzog, Kirchengesch. i, 309; Milman, Hist, of 
Latin Christianity, ii, 243 sq. (J. II. W.) 



Coin of Pulcheria. 


Pulear, or Ganesha, a divinity of Indian my- 
thology, was the son of the wife of Siva, Parwati. She 
formed him, without the co-operation of her husband, 
by shaping into the frame of a youth what was washed 
away from her body during her bath. Siva thought 


himself betrayed by Parwati, and in his wrath he struck 
off the head of the young god. When he found out his 
mistake, he wished to heal his victim ; but the head had 
been earried away by the waters of the Ganges, and 
had been eaten by fishes. Siva solved this difficulty 
by telling the son of his wife to cut off the head of the 
first creature he should meet and put it on his shoulders : 
as misfortune would have it, this ereature was an ele- 
phant. Therefore Gancsha is always represented with 
an elephant’s trunk. Ganesha sits astride of a mouse, 
which is nothing else than the metamorphosed giant 
Gedjemuyasliurim, vanquished by him while warring 
against the gods. Ganesha is incredibly strong, and 
therefore of great use to the gods in their perpetual 
warfare against the daemons. He is a great eater, and 
would eat the whole world if he had his own way : it is 
only in the sea of sugar, in which he has a floating 
abode, that he can, in some measure, satisfy the crav- 
iugs of his hunger. Being the favorite son of Siva, 
he is worshipped like that god himself, and invoked 
first before every sacrifice. The Indians believed that 
he could at his will accumulate or remove obstacles: all 
Indian books commence with a prayer to him. His 
image is frequently found painted on the house doors, 
and almost every family has his statue in bronze, mar- 
ble, or elav. Pulear is his name as god of matrimony : 
it was the natural question of his father at his first ap- 
pearance in the world — Pulei-ar. i. e. Whose son? — 
Vollmer, Wbrterb. dev Mythologie, s. v. 



Pulgar, Isaac, a Jewish convert to Christianity, 
flourished at Avila, in Spain, about 1300 to 1349. lie 
was a friend of Abner of Burgos, better known (after his 
baptism) as Alphonso of Valladolid, against whom he af- 
terwards wrote a polemical work entitled O, 

“The Book of Answers.” lie also wrote, besides some 
other works which are still in MS., a work under the title 
CP nsisi, “A Contest between an 

Orthodox and a Philosopher,” wherein he endeavors to 
reconcile the difference between philosophy and faith, 
and whieh was reprinted after a Paris MS. in the CPC 
D"2]PT of E. Ashkenasi (Frankf. a. M. 1854), p. 12-19. 
Pulgar was the first to say that “ the belief in the Mes- 
sianic redemption is not an essential point of Judaism, 
with which it stands or falls, although many passages 
in the prophets speak of the coming of the Messiah.” 
See Flirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 110 sq. ; De Bossi, Dizionario 
Storico degli Autori Ebrei, p. 266 (Germ, transl. by 
Hamberger); the same, Bibliotheca Judaica Antichris- 
tiana, p. 93; Gratz, Gesc.hichte der Juden, vii, 337 sq., 
485 sq. (2d ed. Leips. 1873); Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. i, 1259. 
(B. P.) 

Puliahs, the lowest of all Indian castes, or, rather, 
the scum of the lowest, being still more despised than 
the Pariahs. They are not allowed to walk on the regu- 


PULLET i 


778 


PULPIT 


lar roads, but must, at the distance of a hundred paces, 
warn every wanderer of their vicinity by uttering a 
well-known yell. They are not even allowed to dwell 
in huts, but live at a great distance from all inhabited 
places, in dense forests, where they build their nests on 
trees, like monkeys. — Vollmer, Worterb.d. Mythol. s. v. 

Puller, Timothy, D.D., an English divine of some 
distinction, nourished in the second half of the 17th 
century, lie was rector of Saeomb, Herts, in 1G7I, and 
or St. Mary le l’ow in 1G7‘J. lie died in 1G'J3. lie pub- 
lished Moderation of the Church of England (bond. 
1G73, 8vo ; new ed. by the Rev. Robert Eden. 1843, 8vo). 
.Sec Fuller, Tracts of Anglican Fathers , iii, 30H. 

Pulleyn, Roukht, an English Roman Catholic 
prelate of the Pith century, was born, according to Ful- 
ler, in the county of Oxford. After having studied in 
Paris, lie returned to England in 1130, and found the 
University of Oxford devastated and almost ruined by 
the Hanes, and lie zealously contributed to restore it to 
its previously flourishing condition. In the reign of 
Henry I he was charged with the work of explaining 
the writings of, and commenting upon, Aristotle, and he 
acquitted himself in this double task to the great satis- 
faction of his scholars and the king, his constant patron. 
He received as recompense the archdeaconr}' of Roches- 
ter. After a short time he returned to Paris, and taught 
theology at the Sorbonne. In vain his bishop sum- 
moned him to return to England, and in order to com- 
pel him to do so, seized the revenues of his benefice. 
Pulleyn appealed against these proceedings to the pope, 
who decided in his favor. .Such was his renown that 
Innocent II summoned him to Rome, and there received 
him with great honor. In 1144 Celestine II created him 
cardinal, and soon after Lucius II made him chancel- 
lor of the Roman Church. lie died in 1150. Pulleyn 
wrote several works. The one which remains to us is 
the Sententiarum Liber (Paris, 1G55). From it it is ev- 
ident that he preferred the authority of the llible and 
of reason to the testimony of the fathers or to the sub- 
tleties of the scholastics. Pulleyn belonged to the Abe- 
lard school of theology, and inclined to free dialectic dis- 
cussion. 1 1c advocated the doctrine of free will, but did 
not admit gratia i r resist ibilis. “Through pride,” be 
writes, “man fell; his salvation must proceed from the 
opposite quarter. The rational man, who was des- 
tined to rule over nature, must humble himself before 
the sensible elements to receive grace through them.” 
But this was a lowering of the idea of humility to an 
outward act. He favored, strangely enough for one 
so liberal in many things, the withholding of the cup 
from the laity, in order, as he taught, “that the blood 
might not be spilled again,” and supported the doctrine 
of indulgences (q. v.) in a most extreme manner. But 
the most eccentric of all his theological notions was the 
absurd question he raised as to the exact moment at 
which, and the manner in which, the union of the di- 
vine nature of the Son with the human assumed in the 
womb of Mary had taken place; and that on the cross 
only Christ’s body had died, but not the whole man 
Christ. Pulleyn appears to have written also on the 
Apocalypse. There arc still twenty of his sermons pre- 
served among the Lambeth MSS. See Wright, /Hog. 
Frit, ii, 183; Hardwick, Church Hist, of the Middle 
Ages , p. ‘203, 2G4; Xcandcr, Dogmas, ii, 18G, 521, 524 
sq., et al.; llagonbach, Hist, of Doctrines , ii, I I, 11, 05, 
et al. 

Pulling, Alonzo B.. a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal < ’hurch, was born at Ridgetield, Conn., Nov. 
28, 1*18. He experienced religion in the summer of 
1810. He was licensed to preach March 1, 1815, was 
received into the New York Conference in the fol- 
lowing May, and appointed to 1‘onsett and Killing- 
worth t ’irciilt , v hieh lie si rved two years. 1 lc was ad- 
mitted to full membership June 21, 1818, and ordained 
deacon. 1 Ie was t hen appointed to West ( iranby, which 
charge he served two years; was ordained an elder at 


[ New Haven in May, 1850, and appointed to Pleasant 
Valley and New Hartford Mission, where he labored two 
I years. He thenceforth served New Milford, Woodbury, 
and Berlin ; was supernumerary one year, and was after- 
| wards stationed at Southington and Forcstville, West- 
I port, Ansonia, Seymour, New Milford, Nichol’s Farms, 
Roxbury, East Village, and Riverside. In 187G failing 
health compelled him to take a superannuated relation, 
lie died Jan. 12. 1878. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1878. p. 50. 

Pulolali is the name of the temple of the C.raml 
Lama at Dcshesho. It signifies “the temple with the 
golden roof.” In this temple dwell, when the Dalai 
Lama is present, 800 priests, exclusively employed in 
his service. In the interior, it is said, there is a multi- 
tude of statues, every one representing a woman with a 
child in her arms. These are probably the mothers of 
as many former dalai lamas. — Vollracr, Wurterb. d. My- 
th ol. s. v. 

Pulpit ( migdul, Nell, viii, 4. properly tower), 

an elevated stage, whence Ezra read the law unto the 
congregation (comp, ix, 4). See Bible Educator , ii, 2G3. 

PULPIT (Lat .pnlpitum ; Fr. chaire, pupitre meaning 
a lectern, lection being a book-desk), an elevated place 
from which sermons are delivered. Ezra, when reading 
the law, stood on a pulpit of wood high above the peo- 
ple (Nell, viii, 4); and Solomon prayed on a brazen scaf- 
fold (2 Chron. vi, 13). 1 n medueval times the word desig- 
nates the rood-loft. Bccon uses it in its modern sense. 
It is said to remind the hearer of Christ going up on the 
mountain to preach his Sermon of Beatitudes. Origi- 
nally, it would appear to have been used chiefly for the 
singing, chanting, or recitation which forms part of the 
public service, and was a kind of stage sufficiently large 
to accommodate two, or even more, chanters. For the 
convenience of the hearers, this stage began to be used 
by the bishop, priest, or deacon, in the deliver}' of the 
homily; and thus, by degrees, a tribune expressly suit- 
ed to the latter use alone came to be introduced. The 
earliest pulpit was the ambo, tribune, or tribunal, as it is 
called by Prndcntius. Epiphanius says that St. Chrys- 
ostom usually preached from the ambo; so did St. Am- 
brose and St. Augustine; and Nicephorus records that 
Macedonius, patriarch of Constantinople in 48P. mount- 
ed the ambo when he desired to clear himself of a 
charge of heresy. In some of the older churches, the 
ambo, or pulpit um, is still used for the chanting of the 
(iospel and Epistles. The ambo was placed in the cen- 
tre of the church by the Creeks; it is in the middle 
of the nave at St. Pancras’s, at Rome, on the left side, 
but on the right at Milan and Ravenna. At St. Clem- 
ent’s, Rome, the Epistle desk is on the left, and that of 
the prophecies on the right. At Chartres, Baycux, and 
Roiamcnt the matin lections were sung on the left side 
of the choir-entrance, and the desk was called the leg- 
end at Chartres. At Bourges, an eagle stood in front 
of the matin altar. A pulpit at Orleans and Clullons- 
sur -Marne was used for reading the Epistle, Oradu.nl, 
Tract, and Alleluia; the (Iospel was sung on the west 
side of the jnbe at Chartres, Chalons, and Lyons, that 
for the lections facing the east. At Baveux and No- 
von there were several desks. At Lyons and Vienne, 
the (Iospel was read in the lower part of the choir, and 
the Epistle from the ambo; but the latter was used at 
both times at Rlieims, Cambrai, Tours, Rouen, Sens, 
t ’billons, Laon, Soissons, Novon, Amiens. Beauvais, Scn- 
lis, Orleans, Mcaux, Tournay, Baveux, and St. Denis. 
The desk for reading the (Iospel was called the pulpit ; 
the lectern held the choir-books. The former was mov- 
able, so as to be transferred from the one side to the 
other of the choir, and used by the subdeaeon for read- 
ing the Epistle; whereas the lectern stood in the cen- 
tre of the choir as a lixturc, and was common to all the 
cantors in time of singing. Both, from their common 
ornament, the symbol of St. John Evangelist, were call- 
ed the Eagle; and it appears on the amboncs of Pis- 


PULPIT 


779 


PULPIT 


toja of the 13th century, and in three ancient churches 
at ltome. The deacon, taking the Book of the Gos- 
pels, richly bound in ivory, metal, and jewelry, carried 
it proeessionallv, preceded by thurifers and taper-bear- 
ers, to the north side, where the pulpit stood. Fulk, 
abbot of Lobbes in the 9th century, made a wonderful 
eagle, on which burned four tapers in the form of a 
cross; a censer was contrived in its neck, which poured 
fragrant smoke from the beak and flaming eyes of the 
bird ; and the head and wings were movable, for the 
convenience of turning the book. Often the other three 
evangelists were represented as writing the words sung 
by the deacon; at Messina there is one with the pel- 
ican, as the symbol of the Saviour, above all. At Nar- 
bonne, in the cathedral, there is a movable pulpit of 
the 14th century, consisting of two iron supports set sal- 
tierwise, and supporting a bookstand of supple leather. 
Those of St. Augustine’s, Canterbury, and Bury St. Ed- 
mund’s, mentioned in the 12th century, were movable 
until the 14th century. In Belgium, the ambo or a 
faldstool, set before the altar, served as a pulpit. Ac- 
cording to John de Garlande, who wrote at the close of 
the 11th century, a pulpit is the ascent of steps to the 
lectern, upon which the chant- or reading -book was 
laid. The double pulpits of Milan, Narni, and Perugia 
connect the tradition with the ambones; those of Tole- 
do are of bronze, and those at Seville are still used for 
singing the Gospel and Epistle. In three of the an- 
cient churches at Rome, the Epistle ambo is square, 
and stands on the north ; while that for the Gospel is 
round, and stands on the south side, with flights of stairs 
leading up to it. The ordinary pulpit also stood on the 
south side, as at Toledo, because the Gospel was preach- 
ed from it. The jube for the gospeller and epistoler in 
large churches took the place of the ambo, and within 
two centuries was used by the preacher at Rouen; but 
in smaller churches a pulpit was used, yet there is no 
existing example or record of such furniture until the 
13th century. Pulpits were formerly placed not onlj r 
in churches, but also in the refectories of monasteries, 
as at Beverley, Shrewsbury, Chester, etc. ; in the clois- 
ters, as at St. Die, in France; and occasionally in pub- 
lic thoroughfares, as on the north side of the church of 



Fotheriugay, Northamptonshire. 


Notre Dame; at St. Ld, in Normandy, and in the outer 
court of Magdalen College, Oxford. In France there 
are several overlooking cemeteries. In churches the 
pulpits were formerly always placed in the nave, at- 
tached to a wall, pillar, or screen, and the ecclesiastics 
and others who occupied the choir during the mass re- 
moved into the nave to hear the sermon: this custom 
was continued at Ely until quite recently. 

The church pulpit is usually hexagonal or octagonal, 
and of wood, possibly in allusion to Christ’s preaching 
from the boat (Luke v, 1). In Roman Catholic church- 
es the pulpit is generally distinguished by some relig- 
ious emblems, especially by the crucifix; and the pul- 
pits of the Low Countries and of Germany are often 
masterpieces of wood- carving, the preaching- place in 
some of them forming part of a great artistic group, as 
of the Conversion of St. Paul , the Vocafion of Peter and 
Andrew, the Temptation of Adam and Eve , and other 
similar subjects. 



Beaulieu, Hants. 


Early pulpits were, no doubt, movable, and kept in 
corners until required for use, like that still preserved 
at Hereford; and at Bun-, the analogium,or pulpit, we 
know, was removed from the chapter -house into the 
church when it was necessary. This, no doubt, is the 
cause of their present rarity. There are fine exam- 
ples of pulpits at King’s Sutton, Kingsbury Episcopi, 
Wolvercot, North Kilworth, Dartmouth, and Framp- 
ton (which has images of saints). Those of Sudbury, 
Southwold, Hereford, and Winchester are of wood, and 
of the 10th century. The earliest Jacobean example 
is at Sopley (1006). There are stationary pulpits of 
stone at Wells of the 16th century, at Worcester (1504), 
Ripon, Combe, Nantwich, and Wolverhampton. The 
oldest wooden pulpit is at Fulbourne (eir. 1350), In It- 
aly there are examples of the 13th and 14th centuries at 
Siena and St. Miniato, Florence; in Germany there are 
stone pulpits at Freiburg and Ulm of the latter part of 
the 15tli century; at Avignon, in France; and Nieuport, 
in Belgium. There is a Byzantine pulpit, said to have 
been brought from St. Sophia’s, Constantinople, at St. 
Mark’s, Venice. Romanesque pulpits may be seen in 
St. Ambrose’s, Milan; St. Mary’s, Toscanella; and St. 
Sabino’s, Canova. There is an octagonal pulpit, dated 
1482, at Ratisbon ; that of Kidrich is cir. 1491. An hex- 
agonal pulpit is at St. Andrew’s, Pistoja. The octago- 


PULPIT ELOQUENCE 7S0 PULPIT ELOQUENCE 


nal pulpit of Perugia is used for giving the benedic- 
tion. There is a superb 13th-century pulpit on seven 
pillars in the baptistery at l’isa, with lecterns for the 
Gospel and Epistle on the stairs. Abbot Wygmorc’s 
pulpit, Gloucester, was on the north, anil placed against 
the third pillar westward of the crossing. The south, 
or men's, side is the most common position, as at Wells, 
Chartres, Haarlem, Aix, and formerly at Winchester, 
Peterborough, Gloucester, and Worcester. In England 
the pulpits were copied from those of the refectory, and 
such as stood in the open air. In cathedral churches the 
pulpit was often large enough to contain several persons, 
as t lie bishop, when preaching, was accompanied by his 
two archdeacons. Gilding and color w ere not employed 
on pulpits until the 15th century. Many of these pul- 
pits were highly enriched with carving; that of Worces- 
ter lias the Xew Jerusalem, and one of stone at Newton 
Nottage has the Scourging sculptured upon it. One at 
Ihirnham Norton, of wood, is painted with the Doctors 
of the Church. In the 10th century stone pulpits were 
introduced. There are magnificent wooden pulpits at 
Strasburg (1431); Mavencc. Ant worp, Faye la Vineuse, 
Nuremberg, Brussels (1099); and Vienna, from which 
Joint Capistran preached a Turkish crusade in 1451. 
At Durham there was an iron pulpit, or ambo, in the 
galilec, from which the Sunday sermon was preached 
to women. There is another on the north-west at San 
Gil, Burgos; and two like amboncs, fitted with desks, of 
the 15th century, flank the screen of Zamora. The two 
pulpits of Milan are of metal, and circular. At Aix the 
choir pulpit is silvergilt and jewelled. At Lugo, one 
of the two metal amboncs has an eagle on the south. 
The pulpit (in Arabic, mimher) forms one of the scanty 
appliances of Mohammedan worship. — Walcott, Sacred 
A rchitecture , s. v.; Parker, Glossary of A rchitecture, s. v. 

Pulpit Eloquence. As pulpits in churches are 
constructed for the convenience of preachers and preach- 
ing, so the term pulpit , by a common form of metonymy, 
is often used to signify the collective body of the clergy 
or those who use the pulpit. By a slight variation of 
the same principle, the term is also made to signify the 
collective agency of preaching, as seen in the phrases 
“ influence of the pulpit” and power of the pulpit.” In 
a signification which, to some extent, blends both the 
above meanings, the term pulpit is often used in the 
figure of personification, as in the expressions “Let the 
pulpit speak,” “The voice of the pulpit must be heard.” 
The word is thus used in the well-known passage of 
Cow per : 

“I say ihe pulpit (in the sober use 
Of its legitimate, peculiar poweis) 

Must stand acknowledged while the w r orld shall stand, 
The most important and eflectual guard, 

Support, aud oruameut of virtue’s cause.” 

From such uses as a substantive, the same word derives 
its significance as an adjective; it being often used in 
the expressions “pulpit orator,” “pulpit eloquence,” and 
the like, 'flic term pulpit eloquence has, in fact, come 
into general use as designating (1) the quality and char- 
acter of the eloquence produced from the pulpit, and (2) 
the body of eloquent productions now in preservation as 
representing the utterances of preachers of the present 
and past generations. 

No just treatment of eloquence in any of its phases 
can ignore the fact that its highest character and results 
can only be secured from the expression of the living 
speaker. There must be voice for the ear, action for 
the eye, and a certain projection of the sentiments, the 
sympathies, and the emotions of an animated soul upon 
the minds and hearts of others. Nor can it be denied 
that the sympathy of numbers in an audience reacts 
upon a speaker aud augments within him the power of 
moving those whom he addresses. 1 fence, whether elo- 
quence he considered subjectively as that subtle power 
which enables an orator to influence men by uttered 
language, or objectively in the (‘fleets produced upon 
those to whom he speaks, it needs to be beard and felt 


in order to be appreciated in its completeness. Never- 
theless, this fullest realization of eloquence has its limi- 
tations, for when once heard and felt it is in that sense 
ended. It can thenceforward only he remembered as a 
thing of the past. It can neither he repeated nor trans- 
ferred to other persons, times, or places. In view of this 
condition of eloquence in its highest realization, we can 
more fully appreciate the eloquence of written or printed 
language, which is to some extent independent both of 
speakers and hearers, and which may, in a partial hut 
yet not wholly unsatisfactory degree, represent to per- 
sons distant, both in time and space, the utterances of 
eloquent men. To this cud, writing and printing arc 
conservative agencies of essential importance and of in- 
estimable value. By means of them the orations and 
sermons of one age are handed down to ages following, 
and, so far as reading is substituted for hearing, the au- 
diences of orators and preachers are multiplied without 
limit. It >s therefore to what is preserved in books that 
any article upon the eloquence of the past must chiefly 
refer. 

In order to rightly comprehend the character and 
relative importance of pulpit eloquence, reference must 
he made to preaching (q. v.) as a divinely appointed 
agency for the promotion of Christianity in the world. 
When it was so appointed hv the Lord Jesus Christ (see 
Matt, xxviii, 19; Mark iii, 14; xvi, 15), a new and pe- 
culiar field was opened for eloquence. Indeed, a new 
dignity was conferred upon human speech in making it 
the chief agency for the spread of that truth which was 
designed to make men free from sin and to prepare them 
for the heavenly world. The very nature of this high 
appointment indicates that the pulpit, as representing 
the public utterances of Christian ministers, affords un- 
rivalled opportunities for the production and employ- 
ment of eloquence in its best forms, h It demands 
capacity, convictions, and moral power on the part of 
preachers, which should go very far towards making 
them eloquent men. 2. It furnishes them with ever- 
rceurring and highly favorable occasions for addressing 
assemblies. For that object it avails itself of the con- 
secrated time of the holy Sabbath and of the sanctuary 
as a hallowed place for the delivery of its message. 3. 
The themes which it appropriately discusses arc all of 
an elevating and inspiring character, having an intrin- 
sic importance superior to that of any earthly interest, 
being also invested with the authority of divinely re- 
vealed truth. It was in the light of such considerations 
that John Quincy Adams declared that “the pulpit is 
especially the throne of modern eloquence.” Certainly, 
neither the hema of the Greeks nor the forum of the Bo- 
mans ever afforded such an agency of power over hu- 
man minds and hearts. Nor is this agency limited in 
its exercise to any narrow routine of forms or circum- 
stances. It is as much in place and as full of power in 
the catacombs as in a cathedral; on the shores of Galilee 
as in the synagogues of the Jews; in the sequestered 
glens where persecuted worshippers gather as in church- 
es where kings and magistrates assemble. Indeed, its 
greatest triumphs have often been in circumstances out- 
wardly the most untoward and in which any earthly 
record was impossible. Hence, while the function of 
preaching has been in exorcise for nearly nineteen cen- 
turies by countless thousands of preachers, hut a very 
small proportion of the sermons that have been deliv- 
ered have been, or could have been, preserved to the 
reading world: yet the combined literature of the an- 
cient and modern pulpit is of immense extent. 

It is by no means assumed that all printed sermons 
' are eloquent in any superlative sense. Many, no doubt, 
are far less so than thousands that have vanished with 
the breath that uttered them, or have only lived in the 
memory and lives of those who heard them. Never- 
theless, study and criticism are limited to those prod- 
ucts of the pulpit which have been preserved from the 
oblivion of the past and made accessible to persons liv- 
i iug in subsequent periods. But of these there is an 


PULPIT ELOQUENCE 7S1 PULPIT ELOQUENCE 


ever-increasing abundance, so that the task of the stu- 
dent is necessarily one of selection. A general or com- 
prehensive view of pulpit eloquence can only be obtained 
bv the study of the subject in chronological order, begin- 
ning with the apostolic age and descending to the pres- 
ent period, with proper attention to the characteristics 
of successive periods. The limits of the present article 
only admit of a summary outline. 

1. The Period of the Apostles and Early Fathers . — 
Notwithstanding the brevity of its record, the New 
Testament is by no means silent as to the subject of 
preaching. The Gospels not only contain our Lord’s 
Sermon on the Mount, but many fragments of the ad- 
dresses or sermons which he delivered to his disciples 
and the multitudes. The Acts of the Apostles report 
in brief several of the discourses of Peter and Paul, 
while the Epistles may be understood to be summaries 
of the discussions and instructions which the different 
apostles were accustomed to give in their discourses as 
preachers. The specimens of preaching contained in 
the New Testament are, in fact, more full and satisfac- 
tory than any found in ecclesiastical history for several 
centuries after the close of the sacred canon. Indeed, 
our chief mode of forming any judgment of the preach- 
ing of those early centuries is from the fruits following. 
Even Eusebius, who wrote in the early part of the 4th 
century, acknowledges himself indebted to tradition for 
all that he knew of those successors of the apostles who 
had “spread the seeds of salvation and of the heavenly 
kingdom throughout the world far and wide.” 

During most, if not all, of this period, pulpits were 
not in existence, and even churches, as separate religious 
edifices, were unknown, or, at most, only beginning to 
exist. Worshippers, instead of assembling in large 
numbers, met by twos and threes wherever they could 
escape the surveillance of persecutors. Such circum- 
stances would necessarily control, to no small extent, 
the form of address employed by Christian ministers 
and teachers for the propagation of the Gospel, making 
especially necessary personal address to individuals 
wherever a listener could be found. Moreover, as the 
New-Testament Scriptures only existed in fragmentary 
manuscripts, it would be necessary to employ a part of 
the time allotted to pastoral instruction in reciting and 
explaining such portions of them as were in the posses- 
sion of the several pastors and teachers. 

The prevailing form of ministerial address during the 
period referred to must, therefore, have been that of ex- 
planation and exhortation ; but of its efficiency in the 
best result of eloquence — namely, that of persuading 
men to abandon error and embrace the truth — the prog- 
ress of Christianity during that period of abounding pa- 
ganism is the best possible proof. The powder of the 
early preachers of Christianity, like that of the apostles 
themselves, must have consisted chiefly in a straight- 
forward utterance of the truth — the direct witness of the 
Gospel and its appeal to the human heart. There is no 
reason to think that oratory was studied, or perhaps 
thought of; but the influence of Christian truth and life 
was in plain words brought to bear upon the thoughts 
and lives of others, as well as upon the errors and super- 
stitions of heathenism. 

II. The Period of the Later Fathers, or the Oratorical 
Period of the Ancient Church. — During and following 
the age of Constantine, Christian churches became com- 
mon, and the canon of Scripture having been completed, 
copies were multiplied by transcription. But as manu- 
scripts were costly, they could rarely be possessed by in- 
dividuals, not always even by churches; hence a great 
part of the work of preachers was to expound consecu- 
tively portions of the sacred text. Thus homilies or fa- 
miliar expositions of Scripture became the form of pul- 
pit address which primarily characterized that period. 
Voluminous and valuable examples have come down to 
us in the homilies of Athanasius, Ephraem Syrus, Basil, 
the Gregories, the Cyrils, Hilary, Ambrose, Chrysostom, 
and Augustine. 


The same period was also marked by the cultivation, 
among the more prominent preachers, of the Grecian 
style of oratory. Several of the most distinguished 
fathers having not only been students, but teachers of 
rhetoric, they did not neglect opportunities offered them 
for sacred orations and panegyrics. The latter style of 
address, in fact, became very common in commemoration 
of the martyrs and in celebrations of the great feasts of 
the Church. 

The best specimens of the Christian oratory of this 
period have been much eulogized, and having been of- 
ten pointed out as models for study and imitation, have 
exerted no little influence on the preaching of modern 
times, more particularly in France and on the continent 
of Europe. Even the historian Gibbon, in a paragraph 
which severely, but not without justice, censures certain 
serious errors into which many of the teachers of the 
Church had already fallen, says, *• But the compositions 
of Gregory and Chrysostom have been compared with 
the most splendid models of Attic, or at least of Asiatic, 
eloquence.” 

That the mistakes of the preachers of the ancient 
Church came largely from ignorance, and that the ten- 
dency of education and enlightenment was to increase 
the influence of truth and the power of the pulpit, is 
sufficiently evident from the edict of the apostate em- 
peror Julian, which prohibited the Christians from teach- 
ing or being taught the arts of grammar and rhetoric. 
The motives which prompted the edict are thus set forth 
by Gibbon: “Julian had reason to expect that (under 
the influence of his edict) in the space of a few years 
the Church would relapse into its primeval simplicity, 
and that the theologians who possessed an adequate 
share of the learning and eloquence of the age would be 
succeeded by a generation of blind and ignorant fanat- 
ics incapable of defending the truth of their own princi- 
ples or of exposing the various follies of polytheism.” 
Notwithstanding the early death of Julian and the res- 
toration of the civil rights of the Christians, yet, through 
a series of untoward events, to which prevailing corrup- 
tion in the Church greatly contributed, the evils of gen- 
eral ignorance and the degradation of preaching and of 
the clergv came only too soon and remained too long. 
| From tiie first development of ceremonialism in the 
Church there was manifested a tendency to limit preach- 
ing to bishops only. This tendency grew with the mul- 
tiplication of ceremonial observances, until it resulted in 
a general transposition of preaching from its primary 
design as an ever-active agency of evangelization into 
a ceremony itself, in which it was shorn even of its ora- 
torical power. When the number of preachers was re- 
duced to a minimum, the chances for the development 
of the talent of eloquence were correspondingly dimin- 
ished, and the more so since an election to the office of 
bishop would do little towards conferring the gift of elo- 
quence upon men previously unaccustomed to preach. 
Thus it may be seen that what has been called the ora- 
torical period of the ancient Church derived that char- 
acter from a comparatively few men of extraordinary 
ability, rather than from the general prevalence of 
preaching power among the clergy. Moreover, the lat- 
ter part of that period witnessed a serious decline in the 
spirit and practice of preaching, which was destined to 
project itself forward into centuries following. 

III. The Period of the Middle Ages. — The terms 
“ Middle Ages” and “ Dark Ages” have long been nearly 
synonymous: but historians have not often pointed out 
with sufficient clearness the extent to which the dark- 
ness of those ages was chargeable to the incompetence 
and unfaithfulness of those who, as Christian teachers, 
ought to have been the light of the world. The causes 
of the prevailing ignorance and degradation were nu- 
merous and complicated, but nothing would have more 
certainly or powerfully tended to remove them than 
true and zealous utterances from the clergy in the char- 
acter of Christian preachers. Churches, and even cathe- 
drals, existed in great numbers, but the idea of preach- 


7S2 


PULPIT ELOQUENCE 

ing hail fallen so low that postils came to be substitute'll 1 
fur sermons, 'flic term postil, primarily meaning a note 
upon a text or texts ( postilln ), came to designate a re- 
ligious discourse following the reading (in Latin) of the 
Gospel and Epistle of the day at public mass. The term 
itself was diminutive, showing that preaching was re- 
garded as of small account in comparison with the cere- , 
moniais of worship, flic postil in its best form— that i 
of a running comment on the verses of a Scripture les- | 
son resembled the homily. It continued in use, both 
among 1 toman Catholics and Protestants, for several 
generations after the dawn of the Reformation. Persons 
specially skilful in delivering postils were called postil- 
lists, or postillators. Specimens of the postil abound in 
the ecclesiastical literature of the period under consider- 
ation, but few of them are of much present value. The 
best sermons of the period that have come down to us 
are several discourses delivered by bishops in connection 
with the. festivals of the Church, such as the Advent, 
Whitsuntide, Christmas, the t Tucilixion, and the Ascen- 
sion, As these topics involved Scripture narrations, 
they rose in character far above those treated in connec- 
tion with the festivals of the saints, of which tradition 
furnished the staple material. The most tangible, 
though sinister, results of preaching in mediaeval times 
were produced by the so-called preachers of the Crusades. 
Those results were not the peaceable fruits of righteous- 
ness, but passion, strife, and bloodshed. Peter the Her- 
mit, a fanatical monk ofthe 1 1th century, was the preach- 
er and prime instigator of the first Crusade. On this 
warlike mission he traversed Europe from country to 
country, enlisting high and low in his desperate scheme, 
lie even induced pope Urban 11 to join him in ha- 
ranguing a vast multitude assembled at Clermont, in the 
south of France, preparatory to the first great movement 
towards the Holy Laud. It was under t lie hortations 
of Urban that the multitude cried out Dens id vult, and 
thus initiated the war-cry of all the Crusades. Ber- 
nard of ( ’lairvaux, subsequently canonized as St. Ber- 
nard, preached the second Crusade, lie was not only 
appointed by Louis YU, king of France, for that pur- 
pose, but commissioned by pope Eugeuius IJI to offer 
plenary indulgence, to those who would join the new 
Crusade, lie also provided himself with badges in the 
form of a cross to be attached to the shoulders of all who 
Mould enlist. Whereas Peter stirred the lowest dregs 
of the populace, Bernard succeeded in enlisting kings, 
emperors, barons, and knights to attempt “to rescue the 
home and sanctuary of David from t lie hands of the 
Philistines.” Parliaments and inass-meetings were held 
and addressed by Bernard from a lofty pulpit, and at 
these the response to his appeals was the reiterated 
shout Dens id cult. In such circumstances, and backed 
by such influences, it was said that the eloquence of 
Bernard “raised armies and depopulated cities.” Ac- 
cording to his own statement, towns Mere deserted so 
that the only people left in them were willows and or- 
phans whose husbands and fathers were yet living. 
The third and fourth Crusades M’erc set in motion by 
the ordinary influences of papal power and kingly au- 
thority, wiLhout any special co-operation of the pulpit. 
The fifth, however, M’as brought into action by a preach- 
er named Fulk, a Frenchman. As a result of previous 
disasters, the spirit of crusading had so far declined that 
for two years the preaching of Fulk seemed unavailing. 
But at length it began to be said that miracles attested 
his exhortations, and soon after pope Innocent 111 sent, 
to his aid numerous nuncios, who traversed Europe of- 
fering absolutions ami indulgences to stimulate enlist- 
ments. Robert de Courcon, an Englishman by birth, 
was the preacher of the sixtli Crusade. lie had been 
an assistant to Folk, under whom lie had learned the art 
of exciting the people. Although inferior in talents to 
the earlier preachers of the Crusades, he was equal to 
any of them in zeal and fanaticism, ami if history does 
not misrepresent him, he at length became so unscrupu- 
lous as to embezzle the alms of his followers. The sev- 


PULPIT ELOQUENCE 

euth and eighth Crusades followed like receding waves 
ofthe sea, growing smaller and weaker as the impulses 
of fanaticism abated. They were without any preach- 
ers of distinction, and may be regarded as results of tbe 
earlier agitation. 

The general decadence of preaching throughout the 
Roman Church became a pretext, during the latter part 
of the medieval period, for the organization of several 
preaching orders of monks, llad these orders devoted 
themselves to intelligent activity in proclaiming the 
truths of God's Word and the practical duties of Chris- 
tianity, the best of results might have been expected. 
But their zeal M’as devoted to very different objects. It 
Mas, in fact, absorbed in efforts to excite persecution 
against the Albigenscs and other supposed heretics, to- 
gether M’ith general exertions to promote the schemes 
of the papacy and the inquisition. Hence it is not sur- 
prising that the preaching orders as such failed to make 
any valuable contributions to the eloquence of the pulpit 
or to stimulate activity in preaching among the clergy 
at large. ( )f the ecclesiastical celebrities of the medie- 
val period, few can be mentioned on account of distin- 
guished ability as preachers. The two men who, per- 
haps, more than others deserve such mention Mere An- 
tony of Badua, subsequently canonized as a saint, and 
the Jesuit Antonio Vievra, both natives of Portugal. 
Of the former, it has been said that “ his rare talents as 
a preacher caused him to be employed on unceasing 
missions through the north and centre of Italy, especial- 
ly in the neighborhood of Bologna and Padua.” “We 
have the most ample testimony to the popularity of liis 
sermons. The churches where he Mas to preach Mere 
thronged from daybreak. Multitudes were unable to 
force their way in at the doors. Often it happened that 
the preacher had to come out of the building and ad- 
dress his auditors in the open air. {Shops were closed, 
thoroughfares deserted. The crowds that flocked to 
sermon were sometimes calculated at thirty thousand 
persons. Nor Mere the effects less striking— Italian 
hatreds reconciled; men that had prepared the stiletto 
for an enemy hurrying into his embrace, a forgiving 
and a forgiven friend; women leaving oft' their orna- 
ments, and selling them for the benetit ofthe poor; old, 
hardened sinners brought to immediate confession” 
(Neale, Medieval Preuctnnf/). As in the case of many 
other popular preachers, Antony was greatly given to 
allegorizing, often introducing into his sermons animals, 
birds, and even tislics, and putting into their mouths 
quaint messages for human ears. 

Vievra Mas born in lt>08. later than the usual limit 
of the period under consideration; nevertheless, from 
his style and general character, he has been usually 
called “ the last ofthe metlia-val preachers.” The great- 
er part of his life was spent in Brazil, though for a time 
he served as court preacher at Lisbon. During that 
period he visited various cities of Europe, and even 
preached at Rome in the Italian language. His labors 
as superior of the missions in Brazil were self-sacrilicing, 
requiring him to travel thousands of leagues on foot 
through the Mildest regions, and to traverse immense 
rivers in canoes; yet he Mas ever ready to preach to a 
few natives through an interpreter, or to persons of rank 
and influence in society. 11 is great talent Mas satire, 
which he did not scruple to employ both in and out of 
the pulpit. At Mnranliam, one of the northern cities 
of Brazil, he preached a noted sermon “ To the Fishes," 
after the method of Antony of Padua. It was based 
upon the text “ Ye are tbe salt of the earth.” In style 
and ingenuity it is not unlike his book entitled The . t rt 
of atealinff, which is regarded as a species of classic in 
the Portuguese language. Vievra lived to an advanced 
age and died at the city of Bahia, having, in circum- 
stances where printing Mas ditlicult, published not less 
than thirteen volumes of sermons, which were followed 
by two others after his death. 

IV. The Modern Period . — 1 The beginning of the great 
Reformation M’as characterized by a revival of preach- 


PULPIT ELOQUENCE 783 PULPIT ELOQUENCE 


ing. It was by preaching that the Reformers sought to 
expose the errors and corruptions into which the Church 
had fallen, as well as to set forth the doctrines of the 
Word of God. Thus Peter Waldo in the south of France, 
Wycliffe in England, IIuss and Jerome of Prague in 
Bohemia, Savonarola in Italy, Luther and Melancthon 
in Germany, Zwingli in Switzerland, and Farel and 
Calvin in Switzerland and France, pursued similar 
courses and with similar success. Wherever such men 
were not overborne and crushed by opposition, they 
were sustained and followed by an ever-increasing num- 
ber of preachers. Hence it may be said that since the 
Reformation preaching has been in all Protestant coun- 
tries a universal accompaniment of public worship. It 
has not only been maintained at a single service on the 
Lord’s-dav, but usually twice or thrice in each church, 
and often at other times during the week. This custom 
has called into action a vast number of preachers, and 
developed the preaching talent of the Church more 
thoroughly than it had ever been previously cultivated 
subsequent to the apostolic age. 

As attack prompts defence, so the zeal of Protestant 
preachers called out new activity and enlisted new tal- 
ent among the preachers of the Roman Catholic Church. 
The preachingordersbecamegreatly stimulated. Preach- 
ing ceased to be confined to bishops. Priests and curates 
began to preach, at least to the extent of endeavoring to 
antagonize Protestant influences. Thus in the two great 
sections of Christendom a new prominence was given to 
the preaching office. It is true that among Roman 
Catholics the mass still held the precedence and preach- 
ing did not universally become a part of Sabbath ser- 
vices. Nevertheless, in Protestant countries Roman 
Catholics came by degrees to maintain preaching in 
about as great frequency as the Protestants around 
them. Even the seating of churches and cathedrals 
for the convenience of auditors — a custom still unknown 
in Roman Catholic countries — has come to be common 
among the Roman Catholics of England and America. 

It may thus be seen that the influence of the Refor- 
mation tended to increase in various ways the activity 
and power of the pulpit. It certainly secured for preach- 
ing a degree of prominence and frequency unknown to 
any previous period following the days of the apostles. 
While the impulse thus given to pulpit eloquence has 
never died out, its effects have been variable in different 
countries and at different periods. In Germany, for ex- 
ample, after the Reformation became so far established 
as to be incorporated into the political institutions of the 
people, the Protestant pulpit suffered a decline in its 
power from which it has not even yet fully recovered. 
The causes of that decline were numerous, involving the 
influence of Jesuitic opposition, false philosophy, scepti- 
cism in various forms, and, worst of all, a prevalent in- 
difference to the power of religious truth and the neces- 
sity of a personal religious life. 

In France the most celebrated epoch of pulpit elo- 
quence occurred during the reign of Louis XIV, a mon- 
arch who, notwithstanding personal vices anil official 
cruelties that have made his name detestable, was a 
zealous patron of preaching. Through his command 
and example, attendance upon court preaching was 
made fashionable in a dissolute age, and it cannot be 
doubted that the influence of his patronage greatly 
stimulated the study and practice of pulpit oratory 
among the Catholic clergy of his day. It is not less 
true that his influence fostered among the preachers 
that appeared before him a spirit of servility and adula- 
tion wholly unworthy of the ministerial office. The ex- 
tent to which such truly great men as Bossnet, Massil- 
lon, and even Bourdaloue carried personal compliment, 
not to say flattery, in their sermons before the king and 
the aristocracy, is equally offensive and amazing to 
readers of the present day. When to the names just 
mentioned that of Fe'nelon is added, we have a represen- 
tation of the highest phase of pulpit oratory known to 
the Catholic Church of France in any age. The Prot- 


estant Church of France, including Switzerland, has fur- 
nished many distinguished preachers. Calvin and Farel, 
of the period of the Reformation, were worthily suc- 
ceeded by such men as Du Moulin, Fauchenr, Daille, 
Claude, Superville, Saurin, Vinet, Monod, and many 
others. The positions of these men were comparatively 
obscure, and their circumstances often greatly embar- 
rassed by persecution ; yet the specimens of printed ser- 
mons by which they are represented to succeeding gen- 
erations compare favorably with any to be found in their 
own or other languages. During the current century, 
Roman Catholic preachers of great ability have been 
rare in France. Beyond Lacordaire, Ravignan, and Hy- 
acinthe, few can be named as having attained a national 
reputation. 

Great Britain may be said to be the home of mod- 
em pulpit eloquence. Taking England, including Wales, 
Scotland, and Ireland, into one view, it may be doubted 
if any country of the world has produced more or better 
sermons during the last three hundred years. Since 
the days of Wycliffe, preaching in Great Britain has 
been common among “ all classes and conditions of men.” 
Successive generations have been educated to appreci- 
ate it, so that not only has the pulpit been free to speak, 
but the masses of the people have been disposed to 
hear. The British pulpit, moreover, has been favored 
above that of any other European country in two aux- 
iliary conditions of great importance, namely, the free 
use of the Word of God and the religious observance 
of the Lord’s-day. Without the former, there is no 
valid basis for pulpit instruction or appeal, and hence 
the sermon usually degenerates into a mere oration. 
Without the latter, hearers are wanting, or at least 
irregular in attendance, a circumstance that deprives 
preachers of one of the most inspiring motives for dili- 
gent preparation and high effort. More truly than in 
any other country, unless possibly in the English-speak- 
ing portions of North America, the pulpit of Great Brit- 
ain has been an exponent of the religious life and senti- 
ments of the people. Its utterances have consequently 
been greatly diversified at different periods and in dif- 
ferent circumstances. In times of religious indifference, 
and in those portions or branches of the Church in which 
religious sentiment has run low, preaching has declined 
to its lowest grade of influence ; whereas in periods of 
religious awakening, and in the more evangelical sec- 
tions of the Church, pulpit eloquence has attained its 
maximum power, not only in the sermons of a few men 
of extraordinary talent, but in the average ability and 
success of great numbers of preachers. England, having 
not only had a free pulpit, but also a free press, has fur- 
nished a body of sermon literature unsurpassed in qual- 
ity and extent by that of any other country in the world. 

The more distinguished preachers of Great Britain may 
be classified by epochs and religious associations. The 
names of Wycliffe, Latimer, Knox, and Jewell repre- 
sent the great preachers of the Reformation. A similar 
selection for the 17th century would embrace the names 
of Jeremy Taylor, Barrow, Baxter, Bunyan, Howe, 
Charnock, Tillotson, South, and possibly many others. 
In the I8tli century, Wesley and Wliitefield, as preach- 
ers of extraordinary zeal and effectiveness, were instru- 
mental in awakening a religious movement which ex- 
tended not onh r throughout Great Britain, but, in fact, 
throughout the English-speaking world. One of its 
effects was to improve the tone and quality of preaching 
in all the churches. The number of great preachers 
who have adorned the British pulpit in the course' of 
the 18th and 19th centuries is beyond enumeration. 
The following are representative names, and associated 
with volumes of published sermons: Cecil, Robert Hall, 
Chalmers, Wardlaw, Richard Watson, Robert Newton, 
Duff, Guthrie, F. W. Robertson, Stanley, Melville, Pun- 
shon, and Spurgeon. To this list might be added the 
names of a large number of other preachers of no less 
moral and intellectual worth, and of nearly equal though 
somewhat more local celebrity. 


PULPIT ELOQUENCE 784 PULPIT ELOQUENCE 


The freedom of the English pulpit, and, in fact, a 
greater freedom than was enjoyed in England at that 
day, came to America with the Pilgrim Fathers. Hav- 
ing been by them established on the Atlantic coast, it 
has been extended with the advance of civilization un- 
til the whole continent has felt its power. The pulpit 
in America, as in Great Britain, has been greatly aided 
in the accomplishment of its mission by the general ob- 
servance of (lie Christian Sabbath and a free use of the 
Holy Scriptures. The importance of preaching has also 
been recognised from the first in the Church architect- 
ure of America. All edifices constructed as places of 
worship, from the log structures of the frontier to the 
great tabernacles of crowded cities and the Homan Cath- 
olic cathedrals, have been seated for auditors. In these 
and other conditions of society, not excepting that of 
all churches being alike thrown upon the voluntary 
system of self-support, the Christian pulpit has had iu | 
America one of its fairest and widest fields of effort. It 
would not have been creditable if in such circumstances 
pulpit eloquence had not been extensively and success- 
fully cultivated. That it has been will appear from the 
long list of good and great preachers who have adorned 
the American Church, many of whom have given to 
the world volumes of published sermons. Probably in 
no country has the average grade of pulpit eloquence 
been higher than in the United States of America; and, 
owing iu part to its vast extent, in no country is it more 
difficult to determine who may justly be said to have 
attained a national reputation as preachers. The truth 
is that each great denomination of Christians forms, in 
a certain sense, a world of itself, within which the prin- 
cipal preachers are far better known than in other sim- 
ilar worlds surrounding. Nevertheless, there have not 
been wanting a goodly number of men whose reputa- 
tion for pulpit eloquence has transcended all denomina- 
tional boundaries and become indeed national. "Without 
attempting to make an arbitrary decision as to all whose 
names might be thought worthy of record in this cate- 
gory, it may be safe to designate a few both of the dead 
and the living. In so doing we purposely limit our list 
to a careful selection, preferring for the most part to 
consider living men as candidates for a similar list in 
future years. If our selection is judiciously made, it 
will be sufficient to append in chronological order, with- 
out title or classification, the names of the men who 
may be pronounced as, thus far, the representative 
preachers of America: e. g. Jonathan Edwards, Samuel 
Davies, Timothy Dwight, John M. Mason, John Sum- 
merficld, Edw r ard Payson, John Newlaiul Maffit. Lyman 
Beecher, William Ellery Channing, Francis Way land, 
Stephen (Min, Henry B. Bascom, diaries P. M'llvaine, 
George W. Bethune, Stephen 11. Tvng, and Matthew 
Simpson. No doubt the above list might be considera- 
bly increased even at the present time; but since there 
is no absolute standard of determination, it is deemed 
preferable to incur the risk of error by diminution rather 
than by excess. 

In such a connection, it is only just to remark that 
in modern times the press serves as an important factor 
in the creation of public reputations, both local and na- 
tional. Ilcnce those preachers who have availed them- 
selves of its agency as a means of giving their sermons 
to the public, and others whose friends have been zeal- 
ous to do a similar office for them, have become much 
more widely known than many of equal and perhaps 
greater ability who have not been thus represented. 
But as mere publicity does not secure reputation, it is 
also true that the reputation of some men has been 
more damaged than helped by t lie publication of their 
sermons. It is, iu fact, no uncommon thing that pub- j 
lished sermons wholly fail to convey to readers the im- 
pression they produced upon their hearers when deliv- 
ered. Hence, to form historic judgments of the ability 
of preachers, attention should he given both to the in- 
lluence they exerted upon their auditors and to the 
matter they employed iu their sermons, as tested by the I 


established principles of criticism. It was not our in- 
tention to include among the preachers named above 
any who have not favorably passed the double test. 
That many others have already done so will no doubt 
be the opinion of some; but time, which tries all things, 
will enable readers at a future day better to determine. 

Even a cursory survey of the varied character and 
results of pulpit eloquence during the nineteen centuries 
of its history is suggestive of important lessons. A few 
may be noted : 

1. There arc different kinds of pulpit eloquence. In 
order to be intelligently studied or judged, sermons must 
be classified. Some are didactic, having for their chief 
object instruction in Christian truth. Some are horta- 
tory, having for their object the enforcement of truth 
already familiar. Some are cxegctical, seeking to ex- 
pound the meaning of the Scriptures. Some are illus- 
trative, seeking to create an interest in Christian truth 
by exhibitions of its correspondences in nature, in hu- 
man consciousness, and in the facts of history; while 
some are composite, seeking to blend two or more of the 
above characteristics into a harmonious whole. Each 
of these different kinds of pulpit address demands a style 
oflanguage and discussion adapted to its special object. 
Inattention to this fact might lead to gross misjndg- 
ments on the part of critics, and equal mistakes on the 
part of preachers. A hortatory style of address might 
spoil a didactic discourse, while the coolness of didactic 
address would render an exhortation powerless. An 
essential element, therefore, in determining whether a 
given sermon is eloquent is a just consideration of its 
object. Accepting the etymological, and in fact the 
scriptural, idea of eloquence — namely, that of speaking 
w'cll (Exod. iv, 14) — it must be conceded that a certain 
degree of eloquence must be recognised in sermons well 
adapted to the promotion of the most common and fa- 
miliar objects of Christian discourse. But inasmuch as 
the higher and more difficult results of human effort 
challenge degrees of admiration not accorded to well- 
doing in more common matters, so it is customary to 
restrict the term eloquence to those higher and more 
unusual qualities of speech which excite emotions and 
control actions. In fact, one of the best definitions of 
eloquence states it to be the language of emotion. This 
definition implies that it is easier to instruct the mind 
and convince the judgment than to move the sensibil- 
ities of men. Nevertheless, instruction and conviction 
are essential conditions to the excitement of strong 
emotions. Few speakers accomplish the latter without 
the use of those conditions as antecedent agencies. 

2. The natural temperament of speakers governs in a 
great measure the kind of eloquence in which they may 
excel. Sons of thunder and sons of consolation have 
each tlicir mission; but for cither to attempt the office 
or adopt the style of the other is to hazard failure. 
Nevertheless, mere natural endowments arc insufficient 
to insure success without studious self-cultivation; 
whereas laborious efforts in right lines tend to the 
highly successful development of ordinary talents. An 
instance iu point is that of Thomas Guthrie, the distin- 
guished preacher of the Free Church of Scotland, than 
whom no man ever wielded the power of illustration 
more effectively. Yet, as shown in his biography, that 
power was acquired l»y diligent and continuous effort 
after his entrance into mature ministerial life, and as a 
result of personal experiences convincing him of its im- 
portance. 

3. Successful pulpit address demands a wise choice of 
subjects, the vivid presentation of thought, and the use 
of language adapted to the comprehension of hearers, 
'fhe character and influence of the Christian pulpit have 
at times been greatly lowered by tbe introduction of 
improper topics — topics either trivial in themselves or 
out of harmony with the spirit and truths of the Gospel. 
But even when the themes of discussion have been ap- 
propriate, the peculiar and more important objects of 
preaching have often been neutralized by languid ut- 


PULSE 


PULPIT ELOQUENCE 785 


terances, or by styles of expression ill adapted to the 
comprehension of the hearers addressed. The expres- 
sion of the apostle Paul, “In the Church I had rather 
speak five words with my understanding, that by my 
voice I might teach others also, than ten thousand 
words in an unknown tongue” (1 Cor. xiv, 19), eluci- 
dates an important principle of all true eloquence. No 
matter how eloquent a man may be in his own estima- 
tion, if others fail to comprehend him liis efforts will 
be to them either an enigma, or at best a vain show. 
In short, all genuine pulpit eloquence must be in har- 
mony with those principles of human nature on which 
the success of secular eloquence depends. It was criti- 
cally and justly shown by lord Brougham that the tri- 
umphs in eloquence secured by Demosthenes were won 
by his “handling in succession a variety of topics all 
calculated to strike his audience.” So the successful 
proclamation of the Gospel depends largely upon the ca- 
pacity of its preachers to present in striking forms, and 
in proper succession, the great truths of God’s Word 
and providence. 

4. The higher degrees of pulpit eloquence are not at- 
tained apart from deep religious feeling on the part of 
preachers. Men who are secular in their lives and low 
in the grade of their religious opinions and experience 
neither choose the themes that strike the deep chords 
of the human soul, nor are capable of treating them in 
the most affecting and moving manner. Whereas men 
who have a profound sense of the divine presence and 
authority, who have a vivid conception of the realities 
of eternity, the value of immortal souls, and the power 
of Christ as the Saviour of the perishing, they, and they 
only, have the proper moral basis for effective, and 
hence, in the most important sense, eloquent religious 
address to their fellow-men. “ Out of the fulness of 
the heart the mouth speaketh.” When, therefore, the 
heart is full of God’s truth and love, it gives forth its 
sentiments in impressive utterances, and makes objec- 
tive to others the eloquent feelings that glow within it. 
When the emotions of the speaker are not enlisted — in 
other words, when subjective eloquence is wanting on 
his part — the objective results of eloquence cannot be 
produced in the minds and hearts of hearers. 

5. The higher effects of eloquence depend largely 
upon accessories favorable both to speakers and hearers. 
It is not sufficient that an orator realize in himself the 
qualities and conditions essential to eloquence. He also 
has need of all available agencies as helps in the task 
of transferring his thoughts and emotions to others. 
His first requisite is language, as a common medium 
for the expression and reception of thought. But the 
force of the best language may be greatly weakened by 
indistinct articulation, by feeble utterance, by uncouth 
gestures, and other faults of delivery. On the other 
hand, it may be greatly intensified by a corresponding 
physical expression, in which not only the tongue ad- 
dresses the ear, but the eye, the countenance, the atti- 
tudes, and the action of an earnest speaker fix the gaze 
of his auditors and concentrate the magnetism of his 
presence and purposes upon the perception and sympa- 
thy of his hearers. That the full effect of such an ad- 
dress may be realized, the auditors need to be comforta- 
bly placed, and within easy range of his voice, since 
any form of discomfort, or any effort to understand, dis- 
tracts their attention and weakens the impression they 
will receive. When, in circumstances like these, the 
thoughts and emotions of an eloquent man flow into the 
sonls and kindle the emotions of a mass of hearers, their 
presence, in turn, reacts upon him, quickening his men- 
tal powers, and rousing his sensibilities to a degree un- 
attainable in other circumstances. This mutuality of 
emotion rises with the increase of numbers and the 
unity of sentiment that pervades the mass. It may be 
said, therefore, that when speakers are equal to their 
task, large audiences are important, if not essential, to 
the higher effects of eloquence. Favorable expectancy 
on the part of hearers is also another condition greatly 

VIII.— D D D 


helpful to a speaker. It relieves him of the necessity 
of creating a bond of sympathy between himself and 
persons ignorant of him, or perhaps prejudiced against 
him. It is in this respect that a speaker’s reputation 
may become to him an auxiliary of great value. While 
the conditions above specified, and others of like char- 
acter, are not always within the control of ministers of 
the Gospel, and may sometimes be dependent on con- 
tingencies quite beyond their control, nevertheless a 
diligent discharge of ministerial and pastoral duty tends 
to create them. It was a precept of the ancient rheto- 
ricians that the orator must be a good man, and a Ger- 
man writer has published a book to demonstrate that 
eloquence is a virtue. It is in accordance with princi- 
ples thus sanctioned that extensive personal acquaint- 
ance, a high moral and religious character, and a repu- 
tation based on faithful labor and habits of doing good, 
all challenge sympathy, attract hearers, and awaken 
hopeful expectations. 

6. The influence of the Holy Spirit is the crown- 
ing auxiliary of pulpit eloquence. Apart from this the 
preacher is like any other man. But, over and above 
all merely human aids, a Christian preacher of the right 
character and spirit is entitled to expect the influence 
of the Holy Ghost to give to the truths he may utter 
increased impressiveness, and to his hearers increased 
sensibility. 

It is only under this last-named condition that pulpit 
eloquence can be hoped to attain its highest power. 
But this is a condition that no indolent man can rea- 
sonably hope to enjoy. It neither follows in the train 
of religious presumption, nor of an undue reliance upon 
genius or personal ability, but rather comes in answer 
to “the fervent, effectual praj’er of a righteous man.” 
He, therefore, who as a minister of the Gospel would, 
according to the apostolic injunction, study to show 
himself “approved, a workman that needeth not to be 
ashamed,” should be equally diligent in the acquisition 
of sacred knowledge, and in the highest possible culti- 
vation of his powers of expression, that he may with 
confidence ask for the unction of the Holy One as a 
means of rendering his utterances as a preacher of 
Christian truth in the highest degree efficacious. In 
view of this supreme object, the diligent study of pulpit 
eloquence, whether in its history, its principles, or its 
diversified illustrations, both in the published sermons 
and in the biographies of distinguished preachers, is of 
equal interest and importance. 

Literature. — Bingham, Christian Antiquities ; Smith, 
Dictionary of Christian Antiquities ; Paniel, Geschichte 
tier chrisilichen Beredsamkeit und tier Ilomiletik; Yille- 
main, Tableau de V Eloquence Chretienne au IV e Siecle; 
Moule, Christian Oratory during the First Five Centuries 
(Lond. 1859); Neale, Media cat Preaching (ibid. 1856); 
Baring-Gould, Post-Mediaval Preaching (ibid. 1865); 
Vinet, Ilistoire de la Predication parmi les Reformes 
de France au Dix-septieme Siecle (Paris, 1860); Rog- 
ers, The British Pulpit , in the Edinburgh Review, 1840 ; 
Vaughan, The Modem Pulpit (Lond. 1842); Turnbull, 
Pulpit Orators of France and Switzerland (N. Y. 1848) ; 
Bungener, The Preacher and the King , or Bourdaloue 
in the Court of Louis XIV (Bost. 1855); Spring, The 
Power of the Pulpit (N. Y. 1854) ; Fish, History and Re- 
pository of Pulpit Eloquence (N. Y. 1856, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Sprague, Annals of the American Pulpit (ibid. 1850-60, 
9 vols. 8vo); Potter, Sacred Eloquence (Dublin, 1868); 
Hall, God's Word through Preaching (N. Y. 1875) ; Tay- 
lor, The Ministry of the Word (ibid. 1876); Brooks, 
Lectures on Preaching (ibid. 1877) ; Dale, Seven Lectures 
on Preaching (ibid. 1878) ; Broadus, Lectures on the His- 
tory of Preaching (ibid. 1876) ; Pettengill, Ilomiletical 
Index (ibid. 1878, 8vo). See Homiletics; Sermon. 
(D. P. Iv.) 

Pulse (E^~"iT, zeroim, and zeronim; Sept. 

bawpia ; Tlieod. aweppara ; Vulg. legumina ) occurs only 
in the A. V. in Dan. i, 12, 16, as the translation of the 


PULTOX 


786 


PUXGEL 


above plural nouns, the literal meaning of which is 
“ seedn” of any kind. The food on which “the four 
children” thrived fur ten days is perhaps not to be re- 
stricted to what we now understand by “pulse,” i. e. 
the grains of leguminous vegetables: the term probably 
includes edible seeds in general. Gescnius translates 
the words “vegetables, herbs, such as are eaten in a 
half-fast, as opposed to flesh and more delicate food.” 
Probably the term denotes uncooked grains of any kind, 
whether barley, wheat, millet, vetches, etc.— Smith. 

Our translators have also inserted in italics the word 
“ pulse” as one of the “ parched” sorts of provision which 
Barzillai brought to king David (2 Sain, xvii, 28). In 
this they are probably right. Leguminous seeds roast- 
ed arc still used in the East; and in his commentary 
on Matt, xxi, 12 Jerome mentions roasted chick-pease, 
along with raisins and apples, as the small-wares in 
which the huckster fruiterers used to deal: “Frixum 
cicer, uvmque passa?, et poma diversi generis.” Allu- 
sions in Plautus and Horace show that parched pease 
were a familiar article of diet among the poorer Ro- 
mans. — Fairbairn. 

Pulton, Andkew, a Homan Catholic divine of the 
Society of Jesus, flourished in the second half of the 
17th century, and is noted as a zealous defender of his 
order and Church. lie was quite a pulpit orator, but 
he was more successful still as a polemic. He pub- 
lished, Remarks upon Dr. Tenison's Narrative , etc. 
(Loud. 1087, 4to): — Reply to a Challenge (1G88): — Total 
Defeat of the Protestant Rule of Faith (4to). See Oli- 
ver, Blog, of English Jesuits ; Macaulay, Hist, of Eng- 
land, vol. ii, ch. vi. 

Pumbaditlia (Xr“”-"2*S), a name celebrated in 
Jewish literature as the home of one of the great schools 
of Judaism, was located in Babylonia, and derived its 
name from its situation at the ( pum ) mouth of the Ba- 
ditha, a canal between the Tigris and Euphrates. Its 
academy, except only that of Sora (q. v.), was the most 
enduring and influential of all the Iiabbinic institutions 
in Babylonia. Founded towards the end of the 3d cen- 
tury by H. Jcluidah bcu-Jccheskel, one of the most dis- 
tinguished disciples of Abba Arcka, also called Bab 
(q. v.), it flourished until towards the beginning of the 
Uth century, thus moulding, shaping, and influencing 
the life and literature of the Jews. Many of the rectors 
of this academy acquired a great renown for their Uab- 
binic lore, some of whom have already been mentioned 
in this Cyclopaedia, or will be treated in the succeeding 
volumes. The following list, giving the names of the 
famous teachers at that academy, prepared after a care- 
ful and diligent, perusal of the best authorities, we hope 
will aid the student of Jewish literature, since it is not 
easy to bring the membra disjecta into a chronological 
order out of the rudis indigestaque moles of the different 
sources : . „ 


1. It. Jehudah ben-Jecheskel 21)7-290 

2. C has da of Kafri 209-309 

3. Rabba ben-Nachman 300-330 

4. Joseph ben-Chija, the Blind (q. v.) 330-333 

r>. Abaji ben-Cajlil 333-33S 

fi. Rabba bar-Joseph bar-Chama 338-352 

7. Nachman ben-Isaac 352-356 

8. Ohania of Nabardea 356-377 

0. Zebid ben-Ushaja 377-385 

10. Diini ben-Chinena SSS-S^S 

11. Rafrem ben-Papa 3SS-400 

12. R. Kahana 400-411 

13. Mar 8utm 411-414 

14. Aclia ben-Rabba 414-410 

15. (Jebiha of Be-Katil 410-433 

16. Rafrem II 433-443 

17. Rachnmai, or Nachnmai 443-456 

IS. Salim beu-Rabba 456-471 

10. R. Jose 471-520 


At this time the final redaction of the Babylonian Tal- 
mud (q. v.) was made, and, according to Jewish tradi- 
tion, to B. Jose, who forms the end of the Amoraim 
(Soph If amah), the honor is assigned of “ completing to 
write ami of sealing the Gcmara of Babylon, in the twen- 
ty-fourth year of his rcctoral and magisterial dignity, 


in the year from the creation 42G0, and 311 years from 
the sealing of ilie Mislina.” After the death of B. Jose, 
the chronological chain is interrupted, and, with the 
exception of a few names which have come down to us, 
it is difficult to say who filled the space up to the year 
G70, for the probability is that, in the vicissitudes and 
persecutions of those times, the names of those famous 
teachers have been forgotten. With Mar Babba, who 
belonged to the so-called Gaonastic period, the chrono- 
logical order can again be followed down to the last of 
the heads of the academy of Pumbaditlia, whose death 
sealed the closing of that famous academy forever. The 


following are the names: ^ 

1. Mar Rabba J ™ m 

2. Mar Bnssai, or Bostauai 080- 089 

3. llnnal Mari ben-Joseph 689- 700 

4. R. Chija of Meseue Too- 710 

5. Mar-Rabjah 710- 719 

0. Natronni ben-Nehemia, suruamed Mar 

Janka 719- 730 

7. Mar Jehiulah 730- 739 


8. Mar Joseph ben-C'iiutanai 

9. Samuel ben-Mari 

10. Mar Natroi Kuhnua ben-Eimma 

11. Abraham Kahana 

12. R. Dadai ben-Nachman 

13. C’hananja ben-Meshai>haja 764- 771 

14. Malkaben-Acha 771- 773 

15. Rabba ben-Dndai 773- 782 

16. R. Shimii a few months 

17. Chaniuni ben-Abraham Kaliaua 782- 7SG 

18. Iluna Mar Halevi ben-Isaac 786- 7SS 

19. Mnnasseh ben-Joeeph 78S- 796 

20. Isaiah hen-Abba 796- 708 

21. Joseph ben-Shiln 70S- 804 

22. Mar Kahana ben-C'haniuai 804- S10 

23. Abumari ben-Abraham 810- 814 

24. Joseph ben-Abba S14- 816 

25. Mar Abraham ben-Sherira S16- S2S 

R. Joseph ben-Chija anti-Gann. 

2G. R. Joseph ben-Chija sole Gaon 828- 833 

27. R. Joseph ben-Rabbi 833- 842 

28. Paltoj ben-Abaji S42- 85S 

29. Meuachem ben-Joseph ben-Chija S5S- SCO 

Mar Mattathias anti-Gaon. 

30. Mar Mattathias sole Gaon 860- 860 

31. Rabba ben-Ami 860- S72 

32. Mar Zemach i. bcn-Paltoj 872- S90 

33. Hai ben-l)avi(l 890- 897 

34. Kimoj ben-Achai 807- 006 

35. Mar Jehudai ben-Samnel 006- 917 

36. Mar Kohen Zedok ii. beu-Joseph 917- 930 

37. Zemach ben-Knfnni 936- 93S 

38. Chaninni ben-Jelnnlai 90S- 943 

30. Aarou Ibn Sargada 043- 960 

40. Neheinia bcn-Kohen Zedek 060- 9GS 

41. Sherira ben-Chanania 90S- 90S 

42. Ilai beu-Sherira 99S-103S 

Literature. — Pinner, Compendium des hierosolymita- 

nischen n. babylonischen Talmud (Berlin, 1832), p. 117 
sq. ; J / onatsschrift fur Cesch. u. 1 1 'issenschaft d. Juden- 
thums, i, 203 sq., 403 sq. ; vii, 33G sq., 381 sq.; Grittz, 
Gesch. der Juden, vols. iv, v ; Ginsbnrg, in Kitto’s Cyclo- 
perdia, arts. “ Education” and “ .Scribes ;” Jost, Gesch. der 
J talent h. v. s. Seeten, vol. ii (see Index in vol. iii); Cas- 
scl, Leitfaden zurjiid. Gesch. it. Literatur (Berlin, 1872), 
p. 4<8, 55; Etheridge, hit rod. to Hebrew Literature, p. 
1G 1-220 (where names and dates are, however, very often 
incorrect); Liber Juchassin sire Lexicon liiographicum 
et Historicuni (ed. II. Filipowski, Loud. 1857), p. 109 sq.; 
Worman, in Kiddle and Schem’s Cyclop, of Education, 
art. “Hebrews, Education of.” (B. P.) 

Punchao was the greatest of the Peruvian gods, 
the lord of the day, the creator of light. 

Fundeka (Np“il'2), a village of the tribe of Dan 
mentioned in the Talmud (Schwarz, Palest, p. 141); 
now the village Fundak, about midway between NablAs 
and the plain of Sharon towards Jaffa, on the south side 
of the road (Robinson. Later Researches, p. 135). — Van 
dc Velde, Memoir, p. 3 10. 

Pimgel, Nu'oi.avs, Dr., a Roman Catholic divine, 
was born at M fluster in 1802. Having completed his 
studies, he was ordained priest in 1825, and for several 
years labored as chaplain in Ricsenbcck and Minister. 
From 1835 to 18 IG he superintended the parish of Ric- 
scnbeck, in the meantime pursuing his studies. The 


| 739- 7C1 
. . 761- 704 


PUNISHMENT 787 PUNISHMENT 


result was his work on Gerson’s tract, De Parvulis ad 
Christum Trahendis , together with a Vita Gersonis , 
which he published in 1853, and thus became a privat- 
docent at the University of Munster, lie soon became 
professor of pastoral theology, and died April 24, 1876, 
as senior of the chapter. — Litcrarischer Uandweiser , 
1876, p. 238. 

Punishment (most properly expressed in Hebrew 
by some form of pakdd, strictly “to visit,” and in 
Greek by KoXaaiQ or ripwpia, but frequently denoted 
by other terms). (The following account is based upon 
that found in Smith’s Piet, of the Bible , with additions 
from other sources.) See Corpouai. Inflictions. 

I. Historical Review of Bodily Inflictions amony the 
Hebrews.— The earliest theory of punishment current 
among mankind is doubtless the one of simple retalia- 
tion, “blood for blood” [see Blood Revenge], a view 
which in a limited form appears even in the Mosaic law. 
Viewed historically, the first case of punishment for 
crime mentioned in Scripture, next to the fall itself, is 
that of Cain, the first murderer. His punishment, how- 
ever, was a substitute for the retaliation which might 
have been looked for from the hand of man, and the 
mark set on him, whatever it was, served at once to 
designate, protect, and perhaps correct the criminal. 
That death was regarded as the fitting punishment for 
murder appears plain from the remark of Lantech (Gen. 
iv, 24). In the post-diluvian code, if we may so call it, 
retribution by the hand of man, even in the case of an 
offending animal, for blood shed, is clearly laid down 
(ix, 5, 6); but its terms give no sanction to that 
“wild justice” executed even to the present day by in- 
dividuals and families on their own behalf by so many 
of the uncivilized races of mankind. The prevalence 
of a feeling of retribution due for blood shed may be re- 
marked as arising among the brethren of Joseph in ref- 
erence to their virtual fratricide (xlii, 21). The punish- 
ment of death appears among the legal powers of Judah, 
as the head of his family, and he ordered his daughter- 
in-law, Tamar, to be burned (xxxviii, 24). It is de- 
nounced by the king of the Philistines, Abimelech, 
against those of his people who should injure or insult 
Isaac or his wife (xxvi, 11, 29). Similar power seems 
to have been possessed by the reigning Pharaoh in the 
time of Joseph (xli, 13). 

Passing onwards to Mosaic times, we find the sentence 
of capital punishment, in the case of murder, plainly laid 
down in the law. The murderer was to be put to death, 
even if he should have taken refuge at God’s altar or in 
an asylum city, and the same principle was to be carried 
out even in the case of an animal (Exod. xxi, 12, 14, 28, 
36; Lev. xxiv, 17, 21 ; Numb, xxxv, 31 ; Deut. xix, 11, 
12 ; and see 1 Kings ii, 28, 34). Moses, however, did 
not allow parents to be put to death for their children, 
nor children for their parents (Deut. xxiv, 16), as did 
the Chaldaaans (Dan. vi, 24) and the kings of Israel 
(comp. 1 Kings xxi; 2 Kings ix, 26). 

The extensive prescription of capital punishment by 
the Mosaic law, which we cannot consider as a dead let- 
ter, may be accounted for by the peculiar circumstances 
of the people. They were a nation of newly emanci- 
pated slaves, and were by nature perhaps more than 
commonly intractable ; and if we may judge by the laws 
enjoined on them, which Sir. Hume well remarks are a 
safe index to the manners and disposition of any peo- 
ple, we must infer that they had imbibed all the de- 
grading influences of slavery among heathens. Their 
wanderings and isolation did not admit of penal settle- 
ments or remedial punishments. They were placed un- 
der immediate divine government and surveillance. 
Hence, wilful offences evinced an incorrigibleness which 
rendered death the only means of ridding the communi- 
ty of such transgressors, and this was ultimately re- 
sorted to in regard to all individuals above a certain 
age, in order that a better class might enter Canaan 
(Numb, xiv, 29, 32, 35). If capital punishment in Chris- 


tian nations be defended from the Mosaic law, it ought 
in fairness to be extended to all the cases sanctioned by 
that law, and, amoug the rest, as Paley argues, to the 
doing of any work oil the Sabbath day (J lor. Phil. b. v, 
c. 7). 

II. Capital Crimes under Mosaism. — (A.) Absolute . — 
The following offences also are mentioned in the law 
as liable to the punishment of death : 

1. Striking, or even reviling, a parent (Exod. xxi, 
15, 17). 

2. Blasphemy (Lev. xxiv, 14, 16, 23 : see Philo, V. 
M. iii, 25; 1 Kings xxi, 10; Matt, xxvi, 65, 66). 

3. Sabbath-breaking (Numb, xv, 32-36 ; Exod. xxxi, 
14; xxxv, 2). 

4. Witchcraft, and false pretension to prophecy (Exod. 
xxii, 18 ; Lev. xx, 27 ; Deut. xiii, 5; xviii, 20 ; 1 Sam. 
xxviii, 9). 

5. Adulter}’ (Lev. xx, 10; Deut. xxii, 22: see John 
viii, 5, and Josephus, Ant. iii, 12, 1). 

6. Unchastity — a. Previous to marriage, but detect- 
ed afterwards (Deut. xxii, 21). 6. In a betrothed wom- 
an with some one not affianced to her (ibid. ver. 23). 
c. In a priest’s daughter (Lev', xxi, 9). 

7. Rape (Deut. xxii, 25). 

8. Incestuous and unnatural connections (Lev. xx, II, 
14, 16; Exod. xxii, 19). 

9. Man-stealing (Exod. xxi, 16; Deut. xxiv, 7). 

10. Idolatry, actual or virtual, in any shape (Lev. xx, 
2 ; Deut. xiii, 6, 10, 15 ; xvii, 2-7 : see Josh, vii and xxii, 
20, and Numb, xxv, 8). 

11. False witness in certain cases (Deut. xix, 16, 19). 

Some of the foregoing are mentioned as being in ear- 
lier times liable to capital or severe punishment by the 
hand either of God or of man, as (1) Gen. ix, 25; (5) 
Gen. xii, 17 ; xx, 7 ; xxxix, 19; (6) Gen. xxxviii, 24; 
(8) Gen. xix, xxxviii, 10. 

(Z?.) Relative. — But there is a large number of of- 
fences — some of them included in this list — which are 
named in the law as involving the penalty of “cutting 
off (rH3 ; Sept. t£o\o3 pevw) from the people.” On 
the meaning of this expression some controversy has 
arisen. There are all together thirty-six or thirty-sev- 
en cases in the Pentateuch in which this formula is 
used, which may be thus classified: 

1. Breach of Morals. — Under this head we have the 
following : 

Wilful sin in general (Numb, xv, 30, 31). 
♦Fifteen cases of incestuous or unclean connec- 
tion (Lev. xviii, 29, and xx, 9-21). 

2. Breach of Covenant , as follows : 

♦fUncircumcision (Gen. xvii, 14; Exod. iv, 24). 

Neglect of Passover (Numb, ix, 13). 
♦Sabbath-breaking (Exod. xxxi, 14). 

Neglect of Atonement-dav (Lev. xxiii, 29). 
fWork done on that day (Lev. xxiii, 30). 

*f Children offered to Molech (Lev. xx,3). 

*j Witchcraft (Lev', xx, 6). 

Anointing a stranger with holy oil (Exod.xxx, 
33). 

3. Breach of Ritual, as follows : 

Eating leavened bread during Passover (Exod. 
xii, 15, 19). 

Eating fat of sacrifices (Lev. vii, 25). 

Eating blood (Lev. vii, 27 ; xvii, 14). 

♦Eating sacrifice in an unclean condition (Lev. 
vii, 20, 21; xxii, 3, 4, 9). 

Offering too late (Lev. xix, 8). 

Making holv ointment for private use (Exod. 
xxx, 32, 33). 

Making perfume for private use (Exod. xxx, 38). 

Neglect of purification in general (Numb, xix, 
13, 20). 

Not bringing offering after slaying a beast for 
food (Lev', xvii, 9). 

Not slaying the animal at the tabernacle door 
(Lev 7 , xvii, 4). 


PUNISHMENT V; 

Touching holy things illegally (Numb, iv, 15, 
is. 20 ; and see 2 Sam. vi, 7 ; 2 Chron. xxvi, 
21 ). 

In the foregoing list, which, it will be seen, is classified 
according to the view supposed to be taken by the law 
of the principle of condemnation, the cases marked with 
* are (a) those which are expressly threatened or act- 
ually visited with death, as well as with cutting off. 
In those ( b ) marked f, the hand of God is expressly 
named as the instrument of execution. We thus find 
that of (a) there are in class 1 seven cases, all named 
in Lev. xx. 9-16; in class 2, four cases; in class 3, two 
cases; while of (5) we find in class 2 four cases, of 
which three belong also to («), and in class 3 one 
case. The question to be determined is, whether the 
phrase “cut off” be likely ( o mean death in all cases; 
and to avoid that conclusion Le Clerc, Micliaelis, and 
others have suggested that in some of them — the cere- 
monial ones— it was intended to be commuted for ban- 
ishment or privation of civil rights (Micliaelis, Laws 
of Moses, vol. iii, § 237, p. 436, trails.). Rabbinical writ- 
ers explained “cutting off” to mean excommunication, 
and laid down three degrees of severity as belonging to 
it (Sclden, De Syn. i, 6). See Anathema. But most 
commentators agree that, in accordance with the printa- 
facie meaning of Ileb. x, 28, the sentence of “cutting 
off” must be understood to be death -punishment of 
some sort. Saalschiitz explains it to he premature 
death by God’s hand, as if God took into his own hand 
such cases of ceremonial defilement as would create 
difficulty for human judges to decide. Knobel thinks 
death-punishment absolutely is meant; so Corn. a La- 
pide and Ewald. Jahn explains that when God is said 
to cut off', an act of divine providence is meant, which 
in the end destroys the family, but that “cutting oft” 
in general means stoning to death, as the usual capital 
punishment of the law. Calmet thinks it means pri- 
vation of all rights belonging to the Covenant. It may 
be remarked (a) that two instances are recorded in 
which violation of a ritual command took place with- 
out the actual infliction of a death -punishment: (1) 
that of the people eating with the blood (1 Sam. xiv, 
32); (2) that of Uzziah (2 Chron. xxvi, 19, 21), and 
that in the latter case the offender was, in fact, excom- 
municated for life; (5) that there are also instances of 
the directly contrary course, viz. in which the offend- 
ers were punished with death for similar offences: Na- 
dab and Abihu (Lev. x, 1,2); Korah and his company 
(Xumb. xvi, 10, 33), who “ perished from the congrega- 
tion;” ITzzah (2 Sam. vi, 7); and, further, that the lep- 
rosy inflicted on Uzziah might be. regarded as a virtual 
death (Numb, xii, 12). To whichever side of the ques- 
tion this case may be thought to incline, we may per- 
haps conclude that the primary meaning of “cutting 
off” is a sentence of death to be executed, in some cases, 
without remission, but in others voidable (1) by im- 
mediate atonement on the offender’s part; (2) by di- 
rect interposition of the Almighty, i. e. a sentence of 
death always “recorded,” but not always executed. 
It is also probable that the severity of the sentence 
produced in practice an immediate recourse to the pre- 
scribed means of propitiation in almost every actual 
case of ceremonial defilement (Numb, xv, 27, 28). See 
Saalschiitz, Arch. II dr. x, 74, 75, vol. ii, 299; Knobel, 
Calmet, Corn, a Lapide on Gen. xrii , 13, 14; Keil, liihl. 
A rch. vol. ii, p. 264, § 153; Ewald, Gcsch. App. to vol. 
iii, p. 158; Jahn, .1 rch. Ilihl. § 257. 

III. Penalties. — Punishments, in themselves, are two- 
fold, capital and secondary; and in the cases we are con- 
sidering they were either native or foreign. 

(.1.) Of cnpilal punishments, properly Hebrew, the 
following only are prescribed by the law. 

1. Stoning, which was the ordinary mode of execu- 
tion (Exod. xvii, 4; Luke xx, 6; John x,31 ; Acts xiv. 
5). We find it ordered in the cases which arc marked 
in the lists above as punishable with death; and we 
may remark further that it is ordered also in the case 


!S PUNISHMENT 

of an offending animal (Exod. xix, 13; xxi, 29). The 
false witness, likewise, in a capital case would, by the 
law of retaliation, become liable to death (Dent, xix, 19; 
Maccoth, i, 1, 6). In the case of idolatry, and, it may 
be presumed, in other cases also, the witnesses, of whom 
there were to be at least two. were required to cast the 
first stone (Deut. xiii, 9 ; xvii, 7; John viii, 7; Acts vii, 
58). The Kabbinical writers add that the first stone 
was cast by one of them on the chest of the convict, 
and if this failed to cause death, the bystanders pro- 
ceeded to complete the sentence (Sanhedr. vi, 1,3,4; 
Goodwyn, Moses and Aaron, p. 121), The body was 
then to be suspended till sunset (Dent, xxi, 23 ; Josh, 
x, 26; Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 24), and not buried in the 
family grave ( Sanhedr . vi, 5). 

2. Hanging is mentioned as a distinct punishment 
(Numb, xxv, 4; 2 Sam. xxi, 6, 9), but is generally, in 
the case of Jews, spoken of as following death by some 
other means. Hanging alive may have been a Canaan- 
itish punishment, since it was practiced by the Gibeou- 
ites on the sons of Saul (2 Sam. xxi, 9). 

3. Burning, in pre-Mosaic times, was the punishment 
for nnchnstity (Gen. xxxviii, 24). Under the law it is 
ordered in the case of a priest’s daughter (Lev. xxi, 9), 
of which an instance is mentioned (Sanhedr. vii, 2); 
likewise in case of incest (Lev. xx, 11); but it is also 
mentioned as following death by other means (Josh, vii, 
25), and some have thought it was never used except- 
ing after death. Among the heathens this merciful 
preliminary was not always observed, as, for instance, 
in the case of Shadrach, Meshaeh, and Abednego (Dan. 
iii). The Rabbinical account of burning by means of 
molten lead poured down the throat has no authority 
in Scripture. 

4. Death by the sword or spear is named in the law 
(Exod. xix, 13; xxxii, 27; Numb, xxv, 7), although 
two of the cases may be regarded as exceptional; but 
it occurs frequently in regal and post-Babylonian times 
(Judg. ix, 5; 1 Sam. xv, 33; xxii, 18; 2 Sam. i, 15; iv, 
12; xx, 22; 1 Kings ii, 25,34; xix, 1; 2 Kings x, 7; 
2 Chron. xxi, 4; Jer. xxvi, 23; Matt, xiv, 8, 10)— a list 
in which more than one case of assassination, cither 
with or without legal forms, is included. 

5. Strangling is said by the rabbins to have been 
regarded as the most common but least severe of the 
capital punishments, and to have been performed by 
immersing the convict in clay or mud, and then stran- 
gling him by a cloth twisted round the neck (Good- 
wyn, M. ami A . p. 122: Otho, Lex. Bab. s. v, “. Suppli- 
ed;” Sanhedr. vii, 3; Ker l’orter, True, ii, 177; C. B. 
Michaclis, De Judiciis, ap. Pott, Syll. Comm. iv. § 10, 
12). This Rabbinical opinion, founded, it is said, on 
oral tradition from Moses, has no Scripture authority. 

(II.) Besides these ordinary capital punishments, we 
read of others, either of foreign introduction or of an ir- 
regular kind. Among the former, 

1. Crncijixion (q. v.) is treated separately, to which 
article the following remark may be added, that the 
Jewish tradition of capital punishment, independent of 
the Roman governor, being interdicted for forty years 
previous to the Destruction, appears in fact, if not in 
time, to be justified (John xviii, 31, with De Wetto, 
Comment.; Goodwyn, ]>. 121; Keil, ii, 264 ; Josephus, 
Ant. xx, 9, 1). 

2. Drowning, though not ordered under the law. was 
practiced at Rome, and is said bv St. Jerome to have 
been in use among the Jews (Cicero, Pro Scxf. Bose. .1 ni, 
25; Jerome, Com. on Matt. lib. iii, p. 138; Matt, xviii, 
6; Mark ix, 42). Josephus records that the Galiheans, 
revolting from their commanders, drowned the parti- 
sans of Herod (Ant. xiv, 15, 20). 

3. Sawing asunder or crushing beneath iron instru- 
ments. The former is said to have been piaeticed on 
Isaiah; the latter may. perhaps, not always have caused 
death, and thus have been a torture rather than a capi- 
tal punishment (2 Sam. xii, 31, and perhaps Prov. xx, 
26: lleb. xi,37 ; Just. Mart. Tryph. 120). The process 


PUNISHMENT 


PUNISHMENT 


789 


of sawing asunder, as practiced in Barbaiy, is described 
by Shaw ( Trav . p. 254). 

4. Pounding in a mortar is alluded to in Prow xxvii, 
22, but not as a legal punishment. It is mentioned as 
a Cingalese punishment by Sir E. Tennant ( Ceylon , ii, 
88). Something similar to this, beating to death (rvp- 
naviagog), was a Greek punishment for slaves. It was 
inflicted on a wooden frame, which probably derived its 
name from resembling a drum or timbrel in form, on 
which the criminal was bound, and beaten to death (2 
Macc. vi, 19, 28 ; comp. ver. 30). In Josephus (I)e Mucc.) 
the same instrument is called rpoxoc, or “wheel” (5,9), 
Hence, to beat upon the tympanum, to drum to death, 
is similar to “breaking on the wheel” (Heb. xi, 35). 
David inflicted this among other cruelties upon the in- 
habitants of Eabbath-annnou (1 Chron. xx, 3). 

5. Precipitation, attempted in the case of our Lord at 
Nazareth, and carried out in that of captives from the 
Edomites, and of St. James, who is said to have been 
cast from “the pinnacle” of the Temple; also said to 
have been executed on some Jewish women by the Syr- 
ians (2 Chrou. xxv, 12; 2 Macc. vi, 10; Luke iv, 29; 
Euseb. II. E. ii, 23). This punishment resembles that 
of the Tarpeian rock among the Romans. 

6. The Persians had a singular punishment for great 
criminals. A high tower was filled a great way up 
with ashes, the criminal was thrown into it, and the 
ashes, by means of a wheel, were continually stirred up 
and raised about him till he was suffocated (2 Macc. 
xiii, 4-6). 

Criminals executed by law were buried outside the 
city gates, and heaps of stones were flung upon their 
graves (Josh, vii, 25, 26 ; 2 Sam. xviii, 17 ; Jer. xxii, 19). 
Mohammedans, to this day, cast stones, in passing, at 
the supposed tomb of Absalom (Fabri Evagatorium, i, 
409 ; Sandys, Trav. p. 189 ; Raumer, Palast. p. 272). 

(C.) Of secondary punishments among the Jews, the 
original principles were, 

1. Retaliation, “eye for eye,” etc. (Exod. xxi, 24, 25; 
see Gell. Noct. Att. xx, 1). Retaliation, the lex talionis 
of the Latins, and the dvTnrtTrovSog of the Greeks, is 
doubtless the most natural of all kinds of punishment, 
and would be the most just of all if it could be instan- 
taneously and universally inflicted; but when delayed, 
it is apt to degenerate into revenge. Hence the desir- 
ableness that it should be regulated and modified by 
law. The one-eyed man mentioned by Diodorus Sicu- 
lus (xii) complained that if he lost his remaining eye, 
he would then suffer more than his victim, who would 
still have one left. Phavorinus argues against this 
law, which was one of the twelve tables, as not admit- 
ting literal execution, because the same member was 
more valuable to one man than another; for instance, 
the right hand of a scribe or painter could not be so 
well spared as that of a singer. Hence that law, in 
later times, was administered with the modification, 
“Ni cum eo pacet,” except the aggressor came to an 
agreement with the mutilated person, de talione redi- 
menda, to redeem the punishment by making compen- 
sation. Moses, accordingly, adopted the principle, but 
lodged the application of it in the judge. “If a man 
blemish his neighbor, as he hath done, so shall it be 
done to him. Life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, 
wound for wound, stripe for stripe, breach for breach” 
(Lev. xxiv, 19-22). lie, however, makes wilful mur- 
der, even of a slave, always capital, as did the Egyp- 
tians. Roman masters had an absolute right over the 
lives of their slaves (Juvenal, vi, 219). The Egyptians 
doomed the false accuser to the same punishment which 
he endeavored to bring cn his victim, as did Moses 
(Deut. xix, 19). 

2. Compensation, identical (restitution) or analogous; 
payment for loss of time or of power (Exod. xxi, 18-36 ; 
Lev. xxiv, 18-21 ; Deut. xix, 21). The man who stole 
a sheep or an ox was required to restore four sheep for 
a sheep, and five oxen for an ox thus stolen (Exod. 
xxii, 1), The thief caught in the fact in a dwelling 


might even be killed or sold ; or if a stolen animal were 
found alive, he might be compelled to restore double 
(Exod. xxii, 2-4). Damage done by an animal was to 
be fully compensated (ver. 5). Eire caused to a neigh- 
bor’s corn was to be compensated (ver. 6). A pledge 
stolen, and found in the thiefs possession, was to be 
compensated by double (ver. 7). All trespass was to 
pay double (ver. 9). A pledge lost or damaged was to 
be compensated (vers. 12, 13); a pledge withheld, to be 
restored with 20 per cent, of the value (Lev. vi, 4, 5). 
The “sevenfold” of Prov. vi, 31, by its notion of com- 
pleteness, probably indicates servitude in default of full 
restitution (Exod. xxii, 2-4). Slander against a wife’s 
honor was to be compensated to her parents by a fine 
of one hundred shekels, and the traducer himself to be 
punished with stripes (Deut. xxii, 18, 19). 

3. Stripes, whose number was not to exceed forty 
(Deut. xxv, 3); whence the Jews took care not to ex- 
ceed thirty -nine (2 Cor. xi, 24 ; Josephus, A nt. iv, 8, 21). 
This penaltj' was to be inflicted on the offender lying 
on the ground in the presence of a judge (Lev. xix, 20; 
Deut. xxii, 18). In later times, the convict was strip- 
ped to the waist and tied, in a bent position, to a low 
pillar, and the stripes, with a whip of three thongs, were 
inflicted on the back between the shoulders. A single 
stripe in excess subjected the executioner to punish- 
ment (. Maccoth , iii, 1, 2, 3, 13, 14). It is remarkable that 
the Abvssinians use the same number (Wolff, Trav. ii, 
276). We have abundant evidence that it was an an- 
cient Egyptian punishment. Nor was it unusual for 
Egyptian superintendents to stimulate laborers to their 
work by the persuasive powers of the stick. ‘Women 
received the stripes on the back, while sitting, from the 
hand of a man; and boys also, sometimes with their 
hands tied behind them. The modern inhabitants of 
the valley of the Nile retain the predilection of their 
forefathers for this punishment. The Moslems say, 
“The stick came down from heaven a blessing from 
God.” Moses allowed corporal punishment of this kind 
by masters to servants or slaves of both sexes (Exod. 
xxi, 20). Scourging was common in after-times among 
the Jews, who associated with it no disgrace or incon- 
venience beyond the physical pain it occasioned, and 
from which no station was exempt (Prov. xvii, 26; 
comp, x, 13; Jer. xxxvii, 15-20). Hence it became 
the symbol for correction in general (Psa. lxxxix, 32). 
Solomon is a zealous advocate for its use in education 
(Prov. xiii, 24; xxiii, 13, 14; comp. Ecelus. xxx, 1). In 
his opinion, “ the blueness of a wound eleanseth away 
evil, and stripes the inward parts of the belly” (Prov. 
xx, 30). It was inflicted for ecclesiastical offences in 
the synagogue (Matt, x, 17 ; Acts xxvi, 11). Among 
torturing or tedious penalties, 

4. Scourging with thorns is mentioned (Jndg. viii, 
16). Reference to the scourge with scorpions, i. e. a 
whip or scourge armed with knots or thorns, occurs in 
1 Kings xii, 11. JSo in Latin, scorpio means a knotted 
or thorny switch. The stocks are mentioned (Jer. xx, 
2) ; passing through fire (2 Sam. xii, 31) ; mutilation 
(Judg. i, 6; 2 Macc. vii, 4; and see 2 Sam. iv, 12); 
plucking out hair (Isa. 1, 6 ; Neh. xiii, 25) ; in later 
times, imprisonment, and confiscation or exile (Ezra vii, 
26; Jer. xxxvii, 15 ; xxxviii, 6; Acts iv, 3; v, 18; xii, 
4). Imprisonment, not as a punishment, but custody 
till the royal pleasure was known, appears among the 
Egyptians (Gen. xxxix, 20, 21). Moses adopted it for 
like purposes (Lev. xxvi, 12). It appears as a pun- 
ishment inflicted by the kings of Judah and Israel (1 
Kings xxii, 27 ; 2 Chron. xvi, 10; Jer. xxxvii, 21); and 
during the Christian asra, as in the instance of John 
(Matt, iv, 12) and Peter (Acts xii, 4). Murderers and 
debtors were also committed to prison, and the latter 
“ tormented” till they paid (Matt, xviii, 30 ; Luke xxiii, 
19). A common prison is mentioned (Acts v, 18) ; and 
also an inner prison, or dungeon, which was sometimes 
a pit (Jer. xxxviii, 6), in which were “ stocks” (Jer. xx, 
2; xxix, 26; Acts xvi, 24). Prisoners are alluded to 


PUNISHMENT 


Y90 


PUNISHMENT 


(Job iii, 18), and stocks (xiii, 27). Banishment was 
inflicted by the Romans on John (Rev. i, 9). As in 
earlier times imprisonment formed no part of the Jew- 
ish system, the sentences were executed at once (sec 
Ksth. vii, 8-10; Selden, De Syn. ii, c. 13, p. 888). Be- 
fore death, a grain of frankincense in a cup of wine was 
given to the criminal to intoxicate him {ibid. 889). The 
command for witnesses to cast the first stone shows 
that the duty of execution did not belong to any spe- 
cial officer (Dent. xvii, 7). 

(/A) Of punishments, especially non-capital, inflict- 
ed by other nations we have the following notices: In 
Egypt, the power of life and death and imprisonment 
rested with the king, and to some extent also with of- 
ficers of high rank (Gen. xl, 3, 22; xlii, 20). Death 
might be commuted for slavery (xlii, 19; xliv, 9,33). 
The law of retaliation was also in use in Egypt (Wil- 
kinson, .1 ncient Egyptians, ii, 211, 215, 217). In Egypt, 
and also in Babylon, the chief of the executioners, Rab- 
Tabbachim, was a great officer of state (Gen. xxxvii, 
30; xxxix; xl; Jer. xxxix, 13 ; xli, 10; xliii.G; lii, 15, 
10 ; Dan. ii, 14 ; Mark vi, 27 ; Michaelis, Mos. Recht, iii, 
412; Josephus, Ant. x, 8, 5). lie was sometimes a eu- 
nuch (Josephus, Ant. vii, 5, 4). See Cmkhetiiite. 

Putting out the eyes of captives, and other cruelties, 
as flaying alive, burning, tearing out the tongue, etc., 
were practiced by Assyrian and Babylonian conquer- 
ors ; and parallel instances of despotic cruelty are found 
in abundance in both ancient and modern times in Per- 
sian and other history. The execution of Hainan and 
the story of Daniel arc pictures of summary Oriental 
procedure (2 Kings xxv, 7 ; Esth. vii, 9, 10; Jer. xxix, 
22; Dan. iii, 0; vi, 7, 24; comp. Herod, vii, 39; ix, 112, 
113; see Chardin, Voy. vi, 21, 118; Lavard, Ainevek, ii, 
309, 374, 377 ; Ain. and Bab. p. 450, 457). The duty 
of counting the numbers of the victims, which is there 
represented, agrees with the story of Jehu (2 Kings x, 
7), and with one recorded of Shah Abbas Mirza, by Ker 
l’orter (Travel*, ii, 524, 525 ; see also Burckhardt, Syria, 
p. 57 ; and Malcolm, Sketches of Persia, p. 47). 

With the Romans, stripes and the stocks, tti vrtav- 
piyyov £u\ov, nervus and columbar, were in use, and 
imprisonment with a chain attached to a soldier. 
There were also the liberee custodies in private houses 
(Acts xvi, 23; xxii, 21; xxviii, 10; comp. Xenoph. 
Hell, iii, 3, 11 ; llerod. ix, 37 ; Plautus, Rud. iii, G, 30, 
34, 38, 50; Aristot. Eq. [ed. Bekkcr] 1044; Josephus, 
Ant. xviii, 0, 7 ; xix, 0, 1 ; Sallust, Cut. 47). 

Exposure to wild beasts appears to be mentioned by 
St. Paul (1 Cor. xv, 32; 2 Tim. iv, 17), but not with any 
precision. The lion's den was a Babylonian punishment 
(Dan. vi), and is still customary in Fez and Morocco (see 
accounts of, by Iloest. c. ii, p. 77). 

PUNIS1 1 M ENT, Futitke. The obvious fact that the 
sufferings of the wicked in this life are not in proportion 
to their sins has led even the heathen of all ages to the 
belief in a state of retribution after death. The Scrip- 
tures abundantly confirm this position, so that fmv in 
the present day deny its truth in some form. The only 
questions that arise arc those relating to its character 
and its duration. The former of these yjoints lias been 
discussed under Hell, Punishments; the latter we will 
briefly consider here. 

1. No one approaching the New Testament without 
preconceived opinions could get any other impression 
from its language on this subject than that the punish- 
ments of the wicked in hell are to be everlasting. (For 
special passages, see Matt. xii,32 ; xxv; xxvi, 24; M ark 
iii, 29; ix, 43; Rev. xiv, 11; xx, 10.) Moreover, apart 
from special passages, the general tone of the New Tes- 
tament indicates the final and irrevocable ruin of those 
who persist to the last in sin and in the rejection of 
Christ the Saviour. 

2. In the. ancient Church, the. Alexandrian theolo- 
gians were the first to teach that there could be an end 
to the punishments of hell. According to them disci- 
pline and reformation were the only ends of punishmeut, 


so that it could not be eternal: the final end is dwoKa- 
Tdoraeric, the entire freedom from evil. Hence Clement 
says, “ If in this life there are so many ways for purifi- 
cation and repentance, how much more should there be 
after death 1 The purification of souls, when separated 
from the body, will be easier. We can set no limits to 
the agency of the Redeemer; to redeem, to rescue, to 
discipline, is his work; and so will ho continue to oper- 
ate alter this life” ( Stromata , vi, 038). Clement did 
not deem it proper to express himself more fully respect- 
ing this doctrine, because he considered that it formed 
a part of the Gnosis, lienee he says, “As to the rest, I 
am silent, and praise the Lord" (ibid, vii, 700). Origen 
infers from the variety of ways and methods by which 
men are led to the faith in this life that there will be a 
diversity in the divine modes of discipline after death; 
notwithstanding this, however, he considers it extreme- 
ly important that every one should in this life become 
a believer. Whoever neglects the Gospel, or after bap- 
tism commits grievous sins, will suffer so much heavier 
punishments after death (In Joann, vi, 207). The doc- 
trine of a general restoration he found explicitly in 1 
Cor. xv, 28. Yet he reckons this among the Gnostic (or 
esoteric) doctrines; for he says, “ It would not be useful 
for all to have this knowledge; but it is well if at least 
fear of a material bell keep them back from sin” (In 
Jerem. Rom. xix). (See Neander, Jlist. of Dogmas, i, 
254.) “But, in opposition to these, the doctrine of the 
eternity of future punishments was affirmed by other 
equally distinguished teachers, e. g. Basil, John of Con- 
stantinople, among the Greeks, and, among the Latins, 
by Jerome, Augustine, and others.” Gregory of Nyssa, 
however, defended the restorationism (arroKaTaaraaig) 
of Origen. Augustine, on the other hand, opposed it 
strenuously; the whole spirit of his system, and his full 
and strong conception of the justice of God, were fun- 
damentally opposed to restorationism. “ The doctrine 
of Origen was condemned by the Council of Alexan- 
dria, A.D. 399, and afterwards by many other councils, 
and the doctrine of the eternity of future punishments 
was established as the faith of the Church” (Knapp, 
Theology, § 158). The doctrine of purgatory soon grew 
up to take the place of the theory of restorationism. 
“The doctrine of the limited duration of future punish- 
ment fell into very ill repute in the Western Church, on 
account of its being professed bv some of the enthusias- 
tic and revolutionary parties in the 10th century (e. g. by 
the Anabaptists), and from its being intimately connect- 
ed with their expectations aild schemes. The mere 
profession of the doctrine came to be regarded as imply- 
ing assent to the other extravagances of these parties, 
and as the signal for rebellion. Hence it is rejected in 
the symbolical hooks of the Lutheran Church as an 
Anabaptistical doctrine (Augs. Confess, art. xvii). In 
the form in which this doctrine was held by these sects 
it deserves the most unmingled disapprobation. Again, 
among the ill-famed Christian free-thinkers— e. g. the 
Socinians — there were some who professed it. In mod- 
ern times it has been the same. This doctrine has been 
advocated in the Protestant Church botli by men who 
have stood in suspicion of enthusiasm (e. g. Peterson, 
Lavater, and others) and by some of the free-thinkers 
in philosophy and theology, although for very different 
causes and on very different grounds by these two 
classes” (Knapp, vt sup.). Sec Burnet, De Statu Mor- 
tuorum; Cotta, J/istoria Succincta Jtogmutis de Peena- 
nnn InfernaUum Jturaiionc (Tllhingen, 1774, 8vo); 
Dictelmair, .4 ntiq. Comment. Fanatiei de e’uroicciraoeutc 
ituvtujv (Altorf, 1709, 8vo); Tillotson, Sermons, vo\. ii; 
Lewis, The An tore of Hell (Lond. 1720, 8vo) ; Strong, 
Doctrine of Eternal Misery (Hartford, 1790, Nvo); 
Stuart, Exegetieal Essays on Future Punishment (An- 
dover, 1830, 12mo); liaumgarten, 1 Indicia- Panarum 
yEtenmrum (Halle, 1742) ; Meth. Quur. Rev. April, 1801 ; 
Aew-Englander. 1801, p. 03; Contemporary Rev. April, 
1872; Presbyterian Rev. Oct. 1872. Sec also the arti- 
cles Puv.gatouy, Retiudutiox, and Univeusalism, 


PUNITES 791 PURANA 


imder which latter title the subject will be more fully 
treated. 

Pu'nites (Ileb. Puni', a Geutile term, from 
Puvouh, m3 ; Sept, o 4>o vd dijpoQ v. r. 6 ‘bourn)) a 
collective term for the descendants of Phuvah or Pua 
(Numb, xxvi, 23). See Piiuvaii, 

Punjabi or Sikh Version. A version of the 
New Test, for the people inhabiting an extensive coun- 
try of North-west Hindostan called Punjab was com- 
menced in 1807 at Serampore, but the fonts of type 
were destroyed by fire. The loss, however, was soon 
replaced, and in i813 the Gospels and Acts were an- 
nounced as finished. In 1815 the entire New Test., in 
an edition of 1000 copies, was completed, and in 1832 a 
second edition was undertaken. The translation of the 
Old Test, was also undertaken, and in 1820 the Penta- 
teuch and historical books Avere issued, and now the 
whole llible, published by the Serampore Mission, is read 
iu Punjabi, as the seventy-third report of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society (1877) show’s. (B. P.) 

Fu'non (Heb. Punon', *jb s l3, darkness [Gesenius], 
ore-pit [Fiirst] ; Sept. <Pivun> v. r. <f>u'w), a camp sta- 
tion of the Israelites on their journey to Canaan (Numb, 
xxxiii, 42), on the east side of the mountains of Edom, 
and perhaps belonging to that district, since a duke 
Pinon is mentioned (Gen. xxxvi, 41; 1 Chron. i, 52) 
among the chieftains of the Edomites. It lay next be- 
yond Zalmonah, between it and Obotl), and three days’ 
journey from the mountains of Abarim, which formed 
the boundary of Moab. By Eusebius and Jerome ( Ono - 
masticon, &iviov, “ Fen on”) it is identified with Pinon, 
the seat of the Edomitish tribe of that name, and, fur- 
ther, with Phceno , which contained the copper- mines 
so noted at that period, and was situated between Pe- 
tra and Zoar. It is often mentioned by other Christian 
authors (see Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1095). It is not to 
be identified with the modem Tufileh (Burckhardt, ii, 
677 ; see Ilaumer, Zug der Israel , p. 46) ; but on the 
Kalaat Phenan of Seetzen (Zach’s Monatl. Corresp. 
xvii, 137) we must aw’ait more particular intelligence. 
See Exode. 

Punti Version. The Punti, or Canton Collo- 
quial, as it is sometimes called, is a dialect spoken by a 
large population which is to be found in and around 
Canton, in China. Into this dialect only portions of 
the Bible were translated, viz. Mark’s Gospel, by the 
Rev. G. Piercy, and published in 1872, with the title 
Ma kofuh yin chuen. Luke’s Gospel was translated in 
the Roman character by members of the Rhenish Mis- 
sion, and published in 1867, with the title Pus Erange- 
lium des Lucas in Volkesdialekte der Punti Chinesen. 
John’s Gospel was translated by the Rev. C. F. Preston, 
and published at Canton on wooden blocks, under the 
title Yd han cliuen fuh yin shoo. In 1872 St. Paid’s 
Epistles — Galatians to Philemon — w’ere published, un- 
der the title Paou le ta hwuy seaou shoo, as translated 
by Air. Piercy; while the Acts of the Apostles w’ere also 
published in the same year, with the title She Cod hiny 
chuen, in the translation of Mr. Preston. These are ail 
the parts of the New Test, published in that dialect, of 
which St. Mark and St. Luke have been reprinted by 
the American Bible Society, changing the term for 
“God.” Of the Old Test., the book of Genesis was 
translated by the Rev. G. Piercy, and published iu 1S73, 
under the title K'ew yd chwang she k'e, to which the 
book of Psalms must be added, w’hich has been trans- 
lated by the Rev. A. B. Hutchinson, of the Church Mis- 
sionary Society, and was published in 1876. Comp, the 
annual reports of the British and Foreign Bible Society 
for 1872, 1873, 1874, and 1877. (B. P.) 

Pupilla Oculi ( pupil of the eye) is a clerical manual 
written by John de Burgh. It was very popular during 
the 15th and 16th centuries. 

Puppet-plays (Lat. pupa, a girl; Fr. poupee, a 


doll) are exhibitions in which the parts of the different 
characters are taken by miniature figures worked by 
wires, while the dialogue is given by persons behind 
the scenes. These plays are of very ancient date, and, 
originally intended to gratify children, they ended iu 
being a diversion for adults. In China and India pup- 
pets are still made to act dramas, either as movable fig- 
ures or as shadows behind a curtain. In Italy and 
France puppet-plays were at one time carried to a con- 
siderable degree of artistic perfection ; and even Lessing 
and Goethe, in Germany, thought the subject worth 
their serious attention. In England, they are mentioned 
under the name of motions by many of our early au- 
thors; and frequent allusions to them occur in the plays 
of Shakspeare, Ben Jonson, and the older dramatists. 
The earliest exhibitions of this kind consisted of repre- 
sentations of stories taken from the Old and New Tes- 
taments, or from the lives and legends of saints. They 
thus seem to have been the last remnant of the morali- 
ties of the 15th century. See Mysteries. We learn 
from Ben Jonson and his contemporaries that the most 
popular of these exhibitions at that time were the Prod- 
igal Son and Nineveh with Jonas and the Whale. Even 
the Puritans, with all their hatred of the regular stage, 
did not object to be present at such representations. 
The most noted exhibitions of the kind were those of 
Robert Powel, in the beginning of the L8th century (see 
Chambers, Book of Days, ii, 167). So recently as the 
time of Goldsmith, scriptural “motions” were common; 
and in She Stoops to Conquer reference is made to the 
display of Solomon’s Temple in one of these shows. The 
regular performances of the stage were also sometimes 
imitated; and Dr. Samuel Johnson has observed that 
puppets were so capable of representing even the plays 
of Shakspeare that Macbeth might be represented bv 
them as well as by living actors. These exhibitions, 
however, much degenerated, and latterly consisted of a 
wretched display of wooden figures, barbarously formed, 
and decorated without the least degree of taste or pro- 
priety, while the dialogues were jumbles of absurdities 
and nonsense. — Chambers. 

Purana (literally, “old,” from the Sanscrit pura , 
before, past) is the name of that class of religions Avorks 
Avhich, besides the Tantras (q. v.), is the main foun- 
dation of the actual popular creed of the Brahminical 
Hindus (q. v.). According to the popular belief, these 
works Avere compiled by Yyasa (q. v.), the supposed ar- 
ranger of the Vedas (q. v.), and the author of the Ma- 
habhdrata (q. v,), and possess an antiquity far beyond 
the reach of historical computation. A critical inves- 
tigation, however, of the contents of the existing Avorks 
leads to the conclusion that, in their present form, they 
do not only not belong to a remote age, but can barely 
claim an antiquity of a thousand years. The word 
Parana occurs in some passages of the Mahabhdrata, 
the law-books of Yajnavalkya and Manu (q. v.) ; it is 
e\’en met Avith in some Upaimhads and the great Brah- 
mana portion of the White- Yajur- Veda ; but it is easy 
to shoAv that in all these ancient ivorks it cannot refer 
to the existing Purana, and therefore that no inference 
relath’e to the age of the ancient can be drawn from 
the modern. There are, hoAvever, several circumstances 
tending to sIioav that there AA’ere a number of Avorks 
called Purana Avhich preceded the existing, and Avere 
the source Avhence these probably derived a portion of 
their contents. The oldest knoAvn author of a Sanscrit 
vocabulary, Amara-Sinha, gives as a synonym of Pu- 
rana the Avord Pancha-lukshuna, Avhich means “that 
Avhich has five (pa?ichan ) characteristic marks” (lak- 
shana ) ; and the scholiasts of that A’ocabulary agree in 
stating that these lakshanas are: 1. Primary creation, 
or cosmogony; 2. Secondary creation, or the destruction 
1 and renoA’ation of Avorlds; 3. Genealogy of gods and 
patriarchs ; 4. Manwantaras , or reigns of Manus ; and, 5. 
The history of the princes of the solar and lunar races. 
Such, then, A\'ere the characteristic topics of a Purana 
at the time, if not of Amara-Sinha himself— which is 


PUR ANA 


792 


PURAXA 


probable — at least, of bis oldest commentators. Yet 1 
the distinguished scholar most conversant with the ex- 
isting l’uranas, who, in his preface to the translation of 
the Vishnu- Purana, gives a more or less detailed ac- , 
count of their chief contents (Prof. 11. 11. Wilson), ob- 
serves, in regard to the quoted definition of the com- 
mentators on Amara-Sinlia, that in no one instance do 
the actual Puranas conform to it exactly; that “to 
some of them it is utterly inapplicable; to others, it 
only partially applies.’’ To the Vishnu- Pur ana, he 
adds, it belongs more than to any other Purana; but 
even in the case of this Purana lie shows that it can- 
not be supposed to be included in the term explained 
by the commentators. The age of Amara-Sinlia is, 
according to Wilson, the last half of the century pre- 
ceding the Christian era; others conjecture that it dates 
some centuries later. On the supposition, then, that 
Amara-SinhA himself implied by Pancha-lakshana the 
sense given to this term by liis commentators, there 
would have been Puranas about 1900 years ago; but 
none of these has descended to our time in the shape 
it then possessed. Various passages in the actual Pu- 
ranas furnish proof of the existence of such elder Pu- 
riinas. The strongest evidence in this respect is that 
afforded by a general description given by the Malsya- 
Puruna of the extent of each of the Puranas (which 
are uniformly stated to be eighteen in number), includ- 
ing itself; for, leaving aside the exceptional case in 
which it may be doubtful whether we possess the com- 
plete work now going by the name of a special Purana, 
Prof. Wilson, in quoting the description from the J lat- 
sya-Puruna , and in comparing with it the real extent 
of the great majority of Puranas, the completeness of 
which, in their actual state, docs not admit of a rea- 
sonable doubt, has conclusively shown that the Mat- 
sya- Puruna speaks of works which are not those we 
now possess. We arc, then, bound to infer that there 
have been Puranas older than those preserved, and that 
their number has been eighteen ; whereas, on the con- 
trary, it will be hereafter seen that it is very doubtful 
whether we arc entitled to assign this number to the 
actual Purana literature. 

The modern age of this latter literature, in the form 
in which it is known to us, is borne out by the change 
which the religious and philosophical ideas taught in 
the epic poems and the philosophical Sdtras have un- 
dergone in it; by the legendary detail into which old- 
er legends and myths have expanded; by the numer- 
ous religious rites — not countenanced b}' the Vedic or 
epic works — which are taught; and, in some Puranas 
at least, by the historical or quasi-seientific instruction 
which is imparted in it. To divest that which, in these 
Puranas, is ancient, in idea or fact, from that which is 
of parasitical growth, is a task which Sanscrit philolo- 
gy has yet to fulfil; but even a superficial comparison 
of the contents of the present Puranas with the ancient 
lore of Hind A religion, philosophy, and science must 
convince every one that the picture of religion and life 
unfolded by them is a caricature of that afforded by the 
Vedic works, and that it was drawn by priestcraft, in- 
terested iu submitting to its sway the popular mind, 
and unscrupulous in the use of the means which had to 
serve its ends. The plea on which the composition of 
the Puranas was justified, even by great Hindu author- 
ities — probably because they did not feel etpial to the 
task of destroying a system already deeply rooted in 
the national mind, or because they apprehended that 
the nation at large would remain without any religion 
at all, if, without possessing the Vedic creed, it likewise 
became deprived of that based on the Puranas — this 
plea is best illustrated by a quotation from Sayana, the 
celebrated commentator on the three principal Vedas. 
He says (Piyr. ed. M idler, vol. i, p. 33): “Women and 
Sudras, though they, too, are in want of knowledge, 
have no right to the Veda, for they are deprived of 
[the advantage of reading it, in consequence of their 
not being invested with the sacred cord ; but the knowl- 


edge of law [or duty] and that of the supreme spirit 
arises to them by means of the Puranas and other 
books [of this kind]." Yet, to enlighten the Ilindft 
nation as to whether or not these books — which some- 
times are even called a fifth Veda— teach that religion 
which is contained in the Vedas and Upanishads, there 
would be no better method than to initiate such a sys- 
tem of popular education as would reopen to the native 
mind those ancient works, now virtually closed to it. 

Though the reason given by Sayana, as clearly re- 
sults from a comparison of the Puranas with the oldest 
works of Sanscrit literature, is but a poor justification 
of the origin of the former; and though it is likewise 
indubitable that, even at bis time (the middle of the 
loth century A.D.), they were, as they still are, not 
merely an authoritative source of religion for “women 
and Sudras,” but for the great majority of the males of 
other castes also, it nevertheless explains the great va- 
riety of matter of which the present Puranas arc com- 
posed — so great and so multifarious, indeed, that, in the 
case of some of them, it imparts to them a kind of cy- 
clopaalical character. They became, as it seems, the 
source of all popular knowledge; a substitute to the 
masses of the nation not only for theological litera- 
ture, but for scientific works, the study of which was 
gradually restricted to the leisure of the learned few. 
Thus, while the principal subjects tauglit by nearly all 
the Puranas are cosmogony, religion (including law), 
and the legendary matter which, to a Hind it, assumes 
the value of history, in some of them we meet with a 
description of places which gives to them something of 
the character of geography; and one, the Agni-Pura- 
na, also pretends to teach archery, medicine, rhetoric, 
prosody, and grammar; though it is needless to add 
that its teaching lias no real worth. 

One purpose, however, and that a paramount one, is 
not included in the argument by which Sayana en- 
deavored to account for the composition of the Pu- 
ranas ; it is the purpose of establishing a sectarian 
creed. At the third phase of the Hindu religion, two 
gods of the Hindu pantheon especially engrossed the 
religious faith of the masses — Vishnu (q. v.) and Siva 
(q. v.), each being looked upon by bis worshippers as 
the supreme deity, to whom the other, as well as the 
remaining gods, was subordinate. Moreover, when the 
power or energy of these gods bad been raised to the 
rank of a separate deity, it was the female Sakti, or en- 
ergy, of Siva who, as Durga, or the consort of this god, 
was held in peculiar awe by a numerous host of believ- 
ers. Now, apart from the general reasons mentioned 
before, a principal object, and probably the principal one, 
of the Puranas was to establish, as the case might be, 
the supremacy of Vishnu or Siva, and, it may be like- 
wise assumed, of the female energy of Siva, though the 
worship of the latter belongs more exclusively to the 
class of works known as Tantras. There arc, accord- 
ingly, Vaishuava- Puranas, or those composed for the 
glory of Vishnu ; Saiva-Puranas, or those which extol 
the worship of Siva; and one or two Puranas, perhaps, 
but merely as far as a portion of them is concerned, 
will be more consistently assigned to the Sakta wor- 
ship, or that of Durga, than to that of Vishnu or Siva. 

“The invariable form of the Puranas,” says Prof. 
Wilson, in bis preface to the Vishnu- Puruna, “is that 
of a dialogue, in which some person relates its con- 
tents in reply to the inquiries of another. This di- 
alogue is interwoven with others, which are repeated 
as having been held on other occasions, between dif- 
ferent individuals, in consequence of similar questions 
having been asked. The immediate narrator is com- 
monly, though not constantly, Lomaharshana. or llo- 
maliarshana, the disciple of Vyasa. who is supposed to 
communicate what was imparted to him by his precep- 
tor as be had beard it from some other sage. . . . Lo- 
mabarsbana is called SiUa, as if it were a proper name; 
but it is, more correctly, a title, and Lomaharshana was 
‘a Sfttn,’ that is, a bard or panegyrist, who was ere- 


PUR ANA 


793 


PURCELL 


ated, according to the Vishnu- Pur unci, to celebrate the | 
exploits of princes, and who, according to the Vdyu and 
Pudma Pur anas, has a right, by birth and profession, 
to narrate the Puranas, in preference even to the Brah- 
mins.” The number of the actual Puranas is stated to j 
be eighteen, and their names, in the order given, are 
the following: 1. Brahma -; 2. Padma-; 3. Vishnu-; 4. I 
Siva- ; 5. Bhagavata- ; 6. Naradiya- ; 7. Markande- ! 
ya- ; 8. A gni- ; 9. Bhavishya- ; 10. Brahma-vaivarita- ; 
11. Linga-; 12. Vardha-; 13. Slcanda-; 14. Vatnana-; 
15. Kurma- ; 16. Matsya- ; 17. Garuda-; and 1 S.Brah- 
manda - Purana. In other lists, the Agni-Purana is 
omitted, and the Vayu-Purdna inserted instead of it; 
or the Garuda and Brahmanda are omitted, and re- 
placed by the Vdyu and Nrisinha Puranas. Of these 
Puranas, 2, 3, 5, 6, 10, 12, 17 and probably 1, are Pu- j 
ranas of the Vaishnava sect; 4, 8, 11, 13, 15, 16, of the j 
Saiva sect; 7 is, in one portion of it, called Devima- 
hatmya, the text-book of the worshippers of Durga; 
otherwise, it has little of a sectarian spirit, and would, 
therefore, neither belong to the Vaishnava nor to the 
Saiva class; 14, as Prof. Wilson observes, “divides its 
homage between Siva and Vishnu with tolerable im- 
partiality; it is not connected, therefore, with any sec- 
tarial principles, and may have preceded their introduc- 
tion.” The Bhavishya-Purdna (9), as described by the 
Matsya-Purdna , would be a book of prophecies ; but 
the Bhavishya- Purana known to Prof. Wilson con- 
sists of five books, four of which are dedicated to the 
gods Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, and Twashtri ; and the 
same scholar doubts whether this work conld have any 
claim to the name of a Purana, as its first portion is 
merely a transcript of the words of the first chapter of 
Manu, and the rest is entirely a manual of religious 
rites and ceremonies. There are similar grounds for 
doubt regarding other works of the list. 

If the entire number of works, nominally, at least, 
corresponding with those of the native list, were taken 
as a whole, their contents might be so defined as to em- 
brace the five topics specified by the commentators on 
the glossary of Amara-Sinha ; philosophical speculations 
on the nature of matter and soul, individual as well as 
supreme; small codes of law; descriptions of places of 
pilgrimage; a vast ritual relating to the modern wor- 
ship of the gods; numerous legends; and, exception- 
ally, as in the Agni-Purana, scientific tracts. If taken 
individually, however, the difference betw’een most of 
them, both in style and contents, is so considerable that 
a general definition would become inaccurate. A short 
description of each Purana has been given by the late 
Prof. H. H. Wilson in his preface to his translation of 
the Vishnu - Purana ; and to it, as well as to his de- 
tailed account of some Pnranas in separate essays (col- 
lected in his works) we must therefore refer the reader 
who would wish to obtain a fuller knowledge of these 
works. 

The age of the Puranas, though doubtless modern, 
is uncertain. The Bhagavata, on account of its being 
ascribed to the authorship of the grammarian Vopa- 
deva, would appear to yield a safer computation of its 
age than the rest; for Vopadeva lived in the 12th cen- 
tury, or, as some hold, 13th century after Christ; but 
this authorship, though probable, is not proved to a cer- 
tainty. As to the other Puranas, their age is supposed 
by Prof. Wilson to fall within the 12th and 17th centu- 
ries of the Christian aera, with the exception, though, 
of the Markandeya-Purana, which, in consideration of 
its unsectarian character, he would place in the 9th or 
10th century. But it must be borne in mind that all 
these dates are purely conjectural, and given as such by 
the scholar whose impressions they convey. 

Besides these eighteen Puranas or great Puranas, 
there are minor or Upapuranas, “differing little in ex- 
tent or subject from some of those to which the title 
of Purana is ascribed.” Their number is given by one 
Purana as four ; another, however, names the following 
eighteen: 1. Sanatkumdra- ; 2. Narasinha- ; 3. Kara- \ 


diya- ; 4. Siva- ; 5. Durvasasa- ; 6. Kfipila- ; 7. M fi- 
nal' a- ; 8. Ausanasa-; 9. Vdruna- ; 10. Kalika- ; 11. 
Samba-; 12. Nandi-; 13. Saura- ; 14 .Parasara-; 15. 
Aditya- ; 16. Maheswara- ; 17. Bhagavata- (probably, 
however, a misreading for Bhdrgava ) ; and 18. Vasish- 
tha-Upapurdna. Another list, differing from the lat- 
i ter, not in the number, but in the names of the Upa- 
puranas, is likewise given in Prof. Wilson’s preface to 
the Vishnu- Purana. Many of these Upapuranas are, 
apparently, no longer procurable, while other works so 
called, but not included in either list, are sometimes 
met with ; for instance, a Mudgala- and Gcmesa-Upa- 
purdna. The character of the Upapuranas is, like that 
of the Puranas, sectarian ; the Siva-Upapurdna, for in- 
stance, inculcates the worship of Siva, the Kalika- Upa- 
purdna that of Durga or Devi. 

Both Puranas and Upapuranas are for a considerable 
portion of their contents largely indebted to the two 
great epic works, the Mahabharata (q. v.) and Rama - 
yam (q. v.), more especially to the former of them. 
Of the Puranas, the original text of three has already 
appeared in print: that of the Bhagavata in several 
native editions, published at Bombay, with the com- 
mentary of Sridharaswamin, and partly in a Paris edi- 
tion by Engene Burnouf, which remained incomplete 
through the premature death of that distinguished 
scholar; that of the Markandeya-Purana, edited at 
Calcutta in the Bibliotheca Indica, by the Rev. K. M. 
Banerjea; and that of the Linga- Purana, edited at 
Bombay; for, regarding a fourth, the Garuda-Pura- 
na, edited at Benares and Bombay, it seems doubtful 
whether that little work is the same as the Purana 
spoken of in the native list. Besides these, small por- 
tions from the Padma, Skanda, Bhavishyottara, Mar- 
kandeya, and other Puranas have been published in 
India and Europe. Of translations, we have ouly to 
name the excellent French translation by Burnouf of 
the first nine books of the Bhagavata, and the elegant 
translation of the whole Vishnu-Purdna, together with 
valuable notes, by the late Prof. II. II. Wilson, which is 
now in course of republication in his IFoi-Fs, in a new 
edition, amplified with numerous notes, by Prof. F. E. 
Hall. — Chambers's Cyclop, s. v. For general informa- 
tion on the character and contents of the Puranas, see 
especially Wilson’s preface to his translation of the 
Vishnu-Purdna ( Works, vol. vi, Lond. 1864) ; Burnouf s 
preface to his edition of the Bhagavata (Paris, 1840); 
Wilson, A nalysis of the Puranas (Works, vol. iii, Lond. 
1864, edited by Prof. R. Rost); Banerjea, Introduction to 
the Markandeya (Calcutta, 1862); and Muir, Original 
Sanscrit Texts on the Origin and History of the People 
of India (Lond. 1858-lS63),vols. i-iv ; Hardwick, Chr ist 
and other Masters (see Index in vol. ii); Muller, Chips, 
ii, 3, 75, 316 ; Clarke, Ten Great Religions (see ludex). 

Purasa was, according to the Indian mythology, 
the first man— the father of the human race ; his wife, 
the first woman, Prakriti, gave birth to the ancestors 
of the Indian castes. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Purcell, IIexry, an English composer of great 
note, celebrated especially as the author of church 
music, was born at Westminster in 1658. He was the 
son of a musician attached to the chapel of Charles II. 
At the age of six, having lost his father, he was admit- 
ted into the choir of boys at the royal chapel. His 
masters were Cooke, Pellham, Humphrey, and Dr. Blow. 
He was remarkable for precocity of talent; but, what 
was better, he seconded the liberality of natnre by his 
zeal and diligence. His progress was so rapid that, 
while still a member of the choir, he produced several 
anthems of his own composition, which were eagerly 
sought for almost as soon as written; and at eighteen 
he received the fullest recognition of his ability, by be- 
ing chosen organist of Westminster Abbey (1676) to 
succeed Dr. Christopher Gibbons. In 1682, Purcell was 
given the place of organist of the royal chapel, and this 
position he held until his death, in 1695. Purcell is the 


PURCIIAS 


794 


PURGATORY 


first English composer who introduced the use of various 
instruments in the church to support the voice, which, 
until then, the organ had alone accompanied. The orig- 
inal character of his music, the variety of its forms, the 
majesty of style which governs all his works — principal- 
ly his TV Deum and his Jubilate — extended the renown 
of Purcell throughout Great Britain. Although English 
writers are extravagant in their eulogies in comparing 
Purcell to .Scarlati and to Reiser, yet he is doubtless the 
greatest composer England has produced, lie hastreated 
of all kinds of music, and upon all has impressed the. seal 
of his greatness. One is astonished at the great fruit- 
fulness of his genius, when it is considered how young 
he died. 1 1 is said of Purcell that “ his anthems far ex- 
ceed in number those of any other composer, and would 
alone have furnished sufficient employment for a mod- 
erately active mind and a life of average duration.” It 
is to be regretted, however, that his ambition was bound- 
less. lie attempted dramatic music, for which the 
vividness of his imagination and the fertility of his in- 
vention remarkably fitted him ; but he had been reared 
in the midst of religious influences, and if confined to 
ecclesiastical music would have stood out as its cura- 
tor and propagator in the modern Church. Ilis efforts 
in several directions weakened any one line he under- 
took to cover, and he failed to attain that perfection 
which alone entitles to enduring greatness. Ilis own 
countrymen so greatly revered his memory that they 
buried him in the mausoleum of their greatest. He 
rests in the north transept of Westminster Abbey. His 
epitaph was composed by Dryden. A part of the music 
written for the theatre has been published in the collec- 
tion of A irs composed for the Theatre and on other Occa- 
sions, by Henry Purcell (Lond. 1697). All his sacred 
works, which have retained their place to the present 
day, and include fifty anthems, besides the Te Deum 
and Jubilate , with orchestral accompaniments, a com- 
plete service, and a number of hymns and psalms, have 
been collected by M. Vincent Novello, who has published 
them in seventy-two numbers, under the title of Pur- 
cell’s Sacred Music (Lond. 1826-86). This publication 
is preceded by a notice of the life and works of the 
composer and his portrait. See Ambros, Gesch. der 
Musik (Leips. 1878, 8vo), vol. iv. 

Purchas, John, an Anglican divine, noted especial- 
ly in the department of belles-lettres, was born at Cam- 
bridge in 1828, received his preparatory training at Rug- 
by, and then studied at Christ’s College, Cambridge, in 
1840, graduating in 1814. Entering the Church of Eng- 
land, Air. Purchas became curate of Ellsworth, Cam- 1 
bridge, in 1851, remaining there two years. In 1856 he 
was appointed curate of Orwell, in the same comity, and 
remained until 1859. In 1861 he went to St. Paul’s, in 
West Street, Brighton, and soon became notorious for 
his ritualistic proclivities, lie was appointed perpetual 
curate in St. James’s Chapel, Brighton, becoming incum- 
bent in 1866. Ilis mode of conducting public worship 
culminated in his trial in the Court of Arches, the case 
being subsequently carried by appeal before the judicial 
committee of the Privy Council. The final result of 
these trials was that Mr. Purchas was admonished to 
discontinue the use of certain vestments, lighted candles, 
incense, wafer bread, and the ceremonies he had prac- 
ticed in the regular services, lie failed to obey, how- 
ever, and was in consequence suspended ab officio on 
Eeb. 7, 1872, a sequestration being levied upon his lay 
property to defray the costs of the proceedings. He 
contemplated thereafter entering the Roman Catholic 
Church, but was probably prevented by his sudden ill- 
ness and decease in October, 1872. Among the works 
published by him were the ltirectorium Anglicauum , 
which forms the text-book of Anglican ritualism. His 
other works are : The Miser's Daughter, a comedy and 
poems (1839): — Poems mid Ballads (1846): — Hook of 
Feasts , a series of sermons (1853): — The Death of Eze- 
kiel's Wife: — and Three Sermons, preached at ist. Paul's, 
West Street, Brighton (18Gt5). 


Purchas, Samuel, a learned English divine, and 
compiler of a valuable collection of travels, was born at 
Thaxstead, in Essex, in 1577, and educated at Cam- 
bridge. In 1604 he was instituted vicar of Eastwood, 
in Essex, but, leaving the cure of it to his brother, re- 
moved to London, the better to carry on the great work 
he had undertaken. He published the first volume in 
1613, and the four last in 1625, under this title: Purchas : 
his Pilgrimage, or Relations of the World, and the Relig- 
ions obserred in All Ages and Places discovered from the 
Creation unto this present. In 1615 he was incorporated 
at Oxford, as he stood at Cambridge, bachelor of divin- 
ity, and a little before had been collated to the rectory 
of St. Martin’s, Ludgate, in London. He was also chap- 
lain to Abbott, archbishop of Canterbury. By the pub- 
lishing of his books he brought himself into debt : how- 
ever, he did not die in prison, as some have asserted, but 
in his own house, and about 1628. Ilis Pilgrimages, and 
the learned llackluvt’s 1 ’oguges, led the way to all other 
collections of that kind, and have been justly valued and 
esteemed. Boissard says of Purchas that be was “ a man 
exquisitely skilled in languages and all arts divine and 
human; a very great philosopher, historian, and divine; 
a faithful presbyter of the Church of England; very 
famous for many excellent writings, and especially for 
his vast volumes of the East and 11 Vs/ Judies, written 
in his native tongue” (in Hiblioth. Joannis Boissardi). 
See Wood, A thence Oxonienses ; Ilallam. Lit. Jlist. of 
Europe, iii, 227 ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. A uth. s. v. 

Purdman, in Indian mythology, is an embodiment 
of Kamadewa, in which he was born as son of Krishna 
and Rukmani. The gigantic demon Samber caused 
him to be cast into the sea ; lie was swallowed by a 
fish, but the fish being caught, the child was saved and 
brought back to his parents. — Vollmer, Wdrtcrb. d. My- 
thol. s. v. 

Purgation, a clearing of an accused person from 
impeachment by oath of himself and others: this, in 
696, was done at the altar. The number of witnesses, 
or consacramentals, varied ; the common man had four. 
In Wales three hundred were required; and in 1194 
the bishop of Ely purged himself with one hundred 
priests’ hands. The practice was general among the 
Teutonic nations; in England it was called the atha. 
If the offence was alleged to have been committed in 
Lent or on a festival, a triple purgation was enjoined 
in 1018. See Ordeal. 

Purgatory fi^at.purgatorium, from pur go, I cleanse) 
is the name given in ecclesiastical language to the place 
of durance which the Church of Rome and the Eastern 
Church teach Holds the departed souls until fitted for 
the divine presence. According to the teachings of 
these churches, the Protestant is wrong in declaring 
that Christ brings a full and perfect pardon for all the 
sins of man. Before man can be received into heaven, 
bis soul must be purged by fire from all carnal impuri- 
ties. Christ only affords a way wherchv eternal pun- 
ishment may be escaped, and though contrition (q. v.) 
secures forgiveness of sins, the ordinary experiences of 



theology, to complete salvation and purification, that 
the soul should suffer a part of the penally of its sins; 
and if these are not voluntarily borne in penances in 
this life, they will be inflicted in purgatory in the life 
to come, except when special suffering, inflicted hv Bi- 
vine Providence, serves the same purifying purpose. 
The doctrine of purgatory does not, therefore, involve 
the idea of the future redemption of the impenitent. 
“ The souls who go to purgatory are only such as die in 
the state of grace, united to Jesus Christ. It is their 
imperfect works for which they are condemned to that 
place of suffering, and which must all be there con- 
sumed, and their stains purged away from them before 
they can go to heaven.” The Council of Trent decides 
thus: “If any one say that after the grace of justifica- 


PURGATORY 


795 


PURGATORY 


tion received the fault is so pardoned to every penitent 
sinner, and the guilt of temporal punishment is so blot- 
ted out that there remains no guilt of temporal punish- 
ment to be done away in this world, or that which is to 
come in purgatory, before the passage can be opened 
into heaven, let him be accursed.” Elsewhere it is said, 
“ There is a purgatory, and the souls detained there are 
helped by the suffrages of the faithful, but principally 
by the sacrifices of the acceptable altar” — a statement 
obviously vague and indefinite. It leaves the most im- 
portant inquiry undetermined — viz. whether the souls 
in purgatory are in a state of happiness or misery: they 
are •‘detained,” but nothing more as de Jide is stated. 
By referring, however, to the Catechism of the Council 
of Trent, drawn up by order of the fathers there assem- 
bled, we get a clearer and more explicit definition : 
“There is a purgatorial fire, where the souls of the 
righteous are purified by a temporary punishment [ad 
dejinitum tempus cruciatce expiantur~\, that entrance 
may be given them into their eternal home, where 
nothing that is defiled can have a place. And of the 
truth of this doctrine, which holy councils declare to be 
confirmed by the testimony of Scripture and of apostolic 
tradition, the pastor will have to declare more diligent- 
ly and frequently, because we are fallen on times in 
which men will not endure sound doctrine” (Cone. Tri- 
dent. sess. vi, can. 30; sess. xxv, § 1; Catech. Trident. 
c. vi, qu. 3). Thus a definite meaning is given to the 
vague teaching of the council: there is a purgatorial 
fire, and the souls of the faithful are punished for a de- 
fined period till their sins are expiated. The almost 
universal belief prevailing among Korean Catholics — 
though they do not consider torment by fire as being de 
fide, but only the most probable opinion — is that purga- 
tory is a place of suffering or punishment for imperfect 
Christians. Thus Dr. Vilmer, though he says that “in 
the Council of Trent all is contained that is necessary to 
be believed on this subject,” yet afterwards defines pur- 
gatory “as a place of temporary punishment ,” which is 
not asserted by, and goes beyond, the decree of the coun- 
cil (End of Controversy, p. 173^174). Bcllarmine says, 
“Purgatory is a certain place in which, as in a prison, 
the souls are purged after this life which were not fully 
purged in this life — to wit, so that they may be able to 
enter into heaven, where no unclean thing can enter;” 
and elsewhere, “ that the fathers unanimously [sac] teach 
that the pains of purgatory are most severe or terrible” 
(De Puryatorio, ii, 14). 

The arguments advanced for purgatory are these: 1. 
Every sin, how slight soever, though no more than an 
idle word, as it is an offence to God, deserves punish- 
ment from him, and will be punished by him hereafter, 
if not cancelled by repentance here. 2. Such small sins 
do not deserve eternal punishment. 3. Few depart this 
life so pure as to be totally exempt from spots of this 
nature, and from every kind of debt due to God’s jus- 
tice. 4. Therefore, few will escape without suffering 
something from his justice for such debts as they have 
carried with them out of this world, according to the 
rule of divine justice, by which he treats every soul 
hereafter according to his works, and according to the 
state in which he finds it in death. From these posi- 
tions, which the advocates of the doctrine of purgatory 
consider as so many self-evident truths, they infer that 
there must be some third place of punishment; for since 
the infinite holiness of God can admit nothing into 
heaven that is not clean and pure from all sin, both 
great and small, and his infinite justice can permit none 
to receive the reward of bliss who as yet are not out of 
debt, but have something in justice to suffer, there must, 
of necessity, be some place or state where souls depart- 
ing this life, pardoned as to the eternal guilt of sin, yet 
obnoxious to some temporal penalty, or with the guilt 
of some mortal sins (peccata mortalid), or some venial 
faults (peccata venalia), are purged and purified before 
their admittance into heaven. Those in purgatory are 
relieved by the prayers of their fellow-members here on 


earth, also by alms and masses offered up to God for 
their souls. Such as have no relations or friends to 
pray for them, or give alms to procure masses for their 
relief, are remembered by the Church, which makes a 
general commemoration of all the faithful departed in 
every mass and in every one of the canonical hours of 
the divine office. Besides the above arguments, the 
following Bible passages are alleged by them in support 
of these views: 2 Mace, xii, 43-4G (on which they rely, 
on the supposition of its being inspired) ; Matt, v, 25 
(the “prison” therein referred to being interpreted by 
them to mean purgatory) ; xii, 32 ; 1 Cor. iii, 1 1-15 ; xv, 
29 ; Rev. xxi, 27 ; as well as on certain less decisive 
indications contained in the language of some of the 
Psalms, as xxxvii (in the A. Y. xxxviii), 1; lxv, 12; 
Isa. iv, 4; xxii, 14; Mai. iii, 3. Respecting all these 
passages as containing the doctrine of a purgatory, ar- 
guments are drawn not alone from the words themselves, 
but from the interpretation of them by the fathers. 

The direct testimonies cited by Roman Catholic writ- 
ers from the fathers to the belief of their respective ages 
as to the existence of a purgatory are very numerous. 
We may instance among the Greeks, Clement of Alexan- 
dria, Stromata, vii, 12; Origen, Horn, xvi, c. 5, 6, in 
Jeremiam; vi, l/om. in Exod.; xiv, Horn, in Levit.; 
xxviii, flam, in Numb, ; Eusebius, De Vita Constantini, 

iv, 71; Athanasius, Qucest. xxxiv, ad Antioch.; Cyril 
of Jerusalem, Cat. Mystag. v, 9; Basil, Horn, in Psalm. 

v, 7 ; Gregory of Nazianznm, xii, Orat. de Laude A tha- 
nasii; Gregory of Nyssa, Orat. de Bapt. ; as also Epi- 
phanius, Ephracm, Theodoret, and others. Among the 
Latins, Tertnllian, Cyprian, Arnobi ns, Lactantius, Hilary, 
Ambrose, and, above all, Augustine (from w hom many 
passages are cited), Paulinus of Nola, and Gregory the 
Great, in whom the doctrine is found in all the fulness 
of its modern detail. The epitaphs of the catacombs, 
too, occasionally supply Romish controversialists with 
some testimonies to the belief of a purgatory, and of the 
value of the intercessory prayers of the living in obtain- 
ing not merely repose, but relief from suffering for the 
deceased; and the liturgies of the various rites are still 
more decisive and circumstantial. Beyond these two 
points, Romish faith, as defined by the Council of Trent, 
does not go. The council expressly prohibits the popu- 
lar discussion of the “more difficult and subtle ques- 
tions, and everything that tends to curiosity or super- 
stition, or savors of filthy lucre.” 

Of the further questions as to the nature of purgato- 
ry, there is one of great historical importance, inasmuch 
as it constitutes one of the grounds of difference between 
the Greek and Latin churches. As to the existence of 
purgatory, both these churches are agreed, and they are 
further agreed that it is a place of suffering; but, while 
the Latins commonly hold that this suffering is “by fire,” 
the Greeks do not determine the manner of the suffer- 
ing, but are content to regard it as “through tribula- 
tion.” The decree of union in the Council of Florence 
(1439) left this point free for discussion. Equally free 
are the questions as to the situation of purgato^ ; as to 
the duration of the purgatorial suffering; as to the prob- 
able number of its inmates; as to whether they have, 
while there detained, a certainty of their ultimate sal- 
vation ; and vdiether a “ particular judgment” takes 
place on each individual case immediately after death. 
Throughout the Eastern liturgies there is no express 
mention of the purgatorial suffering of souls in the inter- 
mediate state. In the apostolical constitutions and in 
the liturgy of St. Chrysostom, the Church prays for 
those who rest in faith (vvip tmv tv ttigth avairav- 
oaptviov ctifoioptv, lib. viii, c. 13). In other liturgies, 
as of St. James, St. Mark, and St. Basil, there is prayer 
for the rest and forgiveness of the departed (rot; if/vyac 
drctiravaov: St. Mark). Even in the Roman canon 
there is only a prayer for those resting in Christ, and a 
common inscription in the catacombs over the depart- 
ed is In j)ace. Such statements are not, indeed, neces- 
sarily inconsistent v r ith the departed Christian being 


PURGATORY 


PURGATORY 796 


in a state of suffering; for even then he would rest 
from the sorrows and trials of life, and have the assured 
hope of eternal life. Still, where there is no direct al- 
lusion (as in the Mozarabic and Gallican missals) to the 
suffering of the departed, we cannot fairly and reason- 
ably suppose that a state of suffering is implied when 
the faithful departed are said to be at rest. Such an 
expression must be taken in its ordinary meaning as de- 
noting a more or less perfect happiness. (The theory of 
the early Church, which maybe called the “Judgment- 
day Purgatory,” we treat of below.) See Bellarmine, 
J)e Purgatorio ; Siiaresius, De Purgatorio ; and on the 
Greek portion of the subject. Leo Allatius, De Utriu&que 
Ecclesuc in Dogmute de Purguiorio Perpetud Consensione. 

The mediteval doctrine and practice regarding pur- 
gatory were among the leading grounds of the protest 
of the Waldenses and other sects of that age. The lie- 
formers as a body rejected the doctrine. 

In the modern Romish Church the doctrine of purga- 
tory has led to others more directly injurious and cor- 
rupting. l>y the terror which it inspires it gives the 
priesthood power to impose penances; it leads to in- 
dulgences (q. v.) and prayers for the dead, for it is held 
that the sufferings in purgatory may be greatly miti- 
gated and shortened by the prayers, the services, the 
masses, the charities, and other works of supererogation 
of their friends upon the earth. The extent to which 
this doctrine has been employed in increasing the in- 
come of the Church receives a significant illustration in 
one singular fact. There exists a purgatorial insurance 
company which, for a certain premium paid annually, 
insures the payor a given number of masses for his soul 
in the event of his death, and the certificates of this in- 
surance company may be seen hung up on the walls in 
hundreds of rooms in the tenement-houses of our great 
cities, especially of New York. 

Protestantism, in rejecting the doctrine of purga- 
tory, takes the ground that it is inadmissible to de- 
pend upon any authority outside of the Bible and not 
in harmony therewith. It not only, however, re- 
fuses to admit the authority of tradition or the testi- 
monies of the fathers, but, at the same time, alleges 
that most, if not all, of the passages quoted from the 
fathers as in favor of purgatory are in themselves in- 
sufficient to prove that they held any such doctrine as 
that now taught by the Roman Catholic Church, some 
of them properly relating only to the subject of prayer 
for the dead (q. v.), and others to the doctrine of Lim- 
bo (q. v.). That the doctrine of purgatory is the fair 1 
development of that which maintains that prayer ought 
to be made for the dead, Protestants generally acknowl- 
edge, but refuse to admit that the fathers carried out 
their views to any such consequence. For Origen says, 
“We, after the labors and strivings of this present life, 
hope to be in the highest heavens,” not in purgatory. 
So Chrysostom, “Those that truly follow virtue, after 
they are changed from this life, are truly freed from 
their fightings, and loosed from their bonds. For 
death, to such as live honestly, is a change from worse 
things to better, from this transitory to an eternal and 
immortal life that hath no end.” Macarius, speaking 
of the faithful, says, “When they go out of their bod- 
ies, the choirs of angels receive their souls into their 
proper places, to the pure world, and so lead them to 
the Lord.” lienee Athanasius says, “To the right- 
eous it is not death, but only a change, for they are 
changed from this world to an eternal rest. And as a 
man comes out of prison, so do the saints go from this 
troublesome life to the good things prepared for them.” 
Certainly, these fathers were no purgatorians, since the)' 
unanimously affirmed that the souls of the saints go di- 
rectly from earth to heaven, ucver touching upon purga- 
tory. To these we may add Gcnnadius, who assures us 
that, “after the ascension of the Lord to heaven, the 
souls of all the saints are with Christ, and. going out of 
the body, go to Christ, expecting the resurrection of their 
body.” Prosper tells us: “According to the language 


of the Scriptures, the whole life of man upon earth is 
a temptation or trial. Temptation is to be avoided 
until the fight is ended; and the fight is to be ended 
when, after this life, secure victory succeeds the tight; 
so that when all the soldiers of Christ, being helped 
by God, have to the end of this present life unwearily 
resisted their enemies, their wearisome travail being 
ended, they may reign happily in their country.” Evi- 
dently they do not, according to Prosper, go from one 
fight here to another in purgatory, but immediately 
from the Church militant on earth to the Church tri- 
umphant in heaven. But whatever the views of some 
Church fathers on the subject, as a doctrine it was un- 
known in the Christian Church for the first GOO years, 
and it does not appear to have been made an article of 
faith until the 10th century, when “the clergy,” says 
Moshcim, “finding these superstitious terrors admirably 
adapted to increase their authority and promote their 
interest, used every method to augment them; and by 
the most pathetic discourses, accompanied with mon- 
strous fables and fictitious miracles, they labored to es- 
tablish the doctrine of purgatory, and also to make it 
appear that they had a mighty influence in that for- 
midable region” ( Keel . Hist. cent, x, pt. ii, ch. iii, § 1). 
“ Purgatory as a burning-awav of sins,” said Bollinger 
at the Bonn Conference of Old" Catholics in 1875, “was 
an idea unknown in the East as well as the West till 
Gregory the Great introduced it. What was thought 
was that after death those who were not ready for heav- 
en were kept for some time in a state of preparation, and 
that the prayers of the living were an advantage for 
them. See Invocation of Saints. Gregory the Great 
added the idea of a tormenting fire. This the school- 
men gradually converted into doctrine which they as- 
sociated with papal indulgence, till it came to apply 
to the dead generally, which, of course, made all seek 
indulgence. It went on to have degrees: some could 
receive indulgence for a few of their sins, others for all, 
and so on; so that eventually the pope, having already 
the keeping of heaven and the dominion on earth, ob- 
tained also sovereignty under the earth.” Certain it 
is, and beyond reasonable dispute, that the doctrine of 
purgatory, in all its representations and forms, is a va- 
riation from scriptural authority : divine revelation af- 
fords it no countenance. The doctrine of an intermedi- 
ate state (q. v.), from which the merits of Jesus Christ 
cannot deliver man, is not only “ grounded on no war- 
ranty of Scripture,” but is so far positively “repugnant 
to the Word of God” as it is contrary to the absolute 
and unreserved offers of merev, peace, and happiness 
contained in the Gospel, and as it derogates from the 
fulness and perfection of the one expiatory sacrifice 
made by the death of Christ for the sins of mankind. 
For the Scriptures say, “The dead know not anything, 
neither have they any more a reward, for the memory 
of them is forgotten. Also their love and their hatred 
and their envy are now perished; neither have they 
any more a portion, forever, in anything that is done 
under the sun” (Kcclcs. ix, 5, G) ; whereas this Romish 
doctrine of an intermediate state for purgation teach- 
es, quite to the contrary, that when they are dead 
they have a part or portion in the prayers of the faith- 
ful and the sacrifices of the altar. Again, the Script- 
ure makes mention but of a twofold receptacle of souls 
after death— the one of happiness, the other of misery 
(1 Sam. xxv, 29; Matt, vii, Iff, 14 ; viii, 11 ; Luke xvi, 
22, 23); whereas this doctrine brings in a third, called 
purgatory, between heaven and hell, half happiness and 
half misery. Again, Scripture says, “The blood of Je- 
sus Christ, his Son, eleanseth [or purgeth] us from all 
sin” (1 John i, 7); but this doctrine would persuade 
us there are some sins which are to be purged away by 
the prayers and good works of others. To name no 
more, the Gospel represents Lazarus as at once con- 
veyed to a state of comfort and joy (Luke xvi, 22, 23); 
Christ promised to the penitent thief upon the cross, 
“ This dag shalt thou be with me iu paradise” (Luke 


PURGATORY 


797 


PURGATORY 


xxiii, 43) ; Paul exults in the prospect of a “ crown of 
righteousness after death” (2 Tim. iv, 8) ; and he rep- 
resents “to depart and to be with Christ” (Phil, i, 23), 
and “to be absent from the body and present with the 
Lord” (2 Cor. v, 8), as states which were immediately to 
follow each other. On the contrary, this Romish doc- 
trine about purgatory bids him not to be so hasty, for 
he might depart and yet not be with Christ ; he might 
pass from death, and yet not to life; he might and must 
be absent from the body a good while before he can be 
present with the Lord ; he might go from earth, yet 
not to heaven, but to purgatory, a place St. Paul never 
dreamed of. 

The Bible passages quoted by Romanists as in direct 
support of the doctrine of purgatory, Protestants sim- 
ply set aside as a ridiculous attempt at malpractice in 
exegesis. First it is answered that the books of Mac- 
cabees have no evidence of inspiration, and that the 
second of these books, whence the support is purported 
to come, is far from being one of the best books of the 
Apocrypha (q. v.) ; besides, that the passage referred to 
would rather prove that there is no such place as pur- 
gatory, since Judas did not expect the souls departed 
to reap any benefit from the sin-offering till the resur- 
rection. The texts quoted from the Scriptures have 
no reference to the doctrine, as may be seen by con- 
sulting the context, and any just commentator upon 
it; they relate to nothing more than prayer for the 
dead. The text Matt, xii, 32 is explained as relating 
to the final judgment; and 1 Cor. iii, 11, 15, as relating 
to a trial of works, and not of persons; while 1 Cor. xv, 
29 is regarded as having nothing more to do with the 
subject than any verse taken at random from any part 
of the Bible. (An excellent examination of all these 
passages was made in the Episcopalian , Feb. 16, 1867.) 
What is called the “historical” or critical view of 
the genesis of this doctrine is well given by Neander 
(Dogmenyeschichte, vol. i). This learned Church histo- 
rian conceives that its source is to be sought for in the 
ancient Persian doctrine of a purifying conflagration 
which was to precede the victory of Ormuzd, and con- 
sume everything that was impure. From the Persians 
it passed with modifications to the Jews, and from them 
found its way into the ethical speculations of the more 
cultivated Christians. It harmonized admirably with 
the wide-spread philosophical notion borrowed by the 
Gnostic Christians from Neo-Platonism, that matter is 
inherently evil. If, then, the body was to rise, it must 
be purged of evil, and the instrument of purification— 
fire — was at hand for the purpose. Moreover, the high 
and pure conception of the character of God revealed in 
the New Testament, necessitating a corresponding mor- 
al excellence on the part of his worshippers — “ without 
holiness shall no man see the Lord”' — must have great- 
ly assisted in the establishment of the doctrine; for how 
could men, only lately gross heathens, possessing yet 
but the rudiments of the new faith, and with most of 
their heathen habits still clinging about them, be pro- 
nounced “ holy” or “ fit for the presence of God ?” Their 
“faith” in Christ was sufficient to save them, but the 
work of sanctification was incomplete when they died, 
and must go on. Probably it was a strong Christian 
feeling of this sort that determined the reception of 
the doctrine of purgatory into the creed of the Roman 
Church, rather than any Gnostic philosophizings, though 
the Neo-Platonic divines of Alexandria are the first to 
mention it. 

It remains for us to speak of the theory in the Chris- 
tian Church regarding the preparation for final admis- 
sion into the divine presence. Blunt is pleased to call 
it the “Judgment-day Purgatory.” In its support are 
pleaded the words of the apostle Paul literally under- 
stood, that the “ fire shall try every man’s work,” and 
that even he who has built wood, hay, straw, stubble, on 
the true foundation “ shall be saved, yet so as by fire” 
(1 Cor. iii, 11-15). In proof of this doctrine is also 
quoted the frequent use of the word Jire in connection 


with Christ’s coming or the Day of Judgment (see Psa. 
i, 3 ; Isa. iv, 4; Dan. vii, 9; Zech. xii, 9; Mai. iii, 2, 3; 
iv, 1). Many of the Church fathers are cited in sup- 
port of the belief that Christians must pass through 
the fire on the Day of Judgment, though all will not be 
injured by it — the highest saints passing through un- 
hurt, and others suffering a punishment proportioned to 
their sins, till “the wood, hay, straw, and stubble” built 
on the true foundation be consumed. Among the fathers 
of the Western Church, St. Hilary thus speaks of the 
severity of the Judgment-day purgation by fire, through 
which all, even the Virgin Mary, must pass (Luc. ii, 35 ; 
Tract, in Psalm, cxviii, lib. iii, § 12) ; and St. Ambrose 
says : “ We must all pass through the fire, whether it be 
John the Evangelist, whom the Lord so loved that he 
said to Peter, ‘ If I will that he remain, what is that to 
thee ; follow thou me.’ Of his death some have doubt- 
ed, of his passing through the fire we cannot doubt ; 
for he is in paradise, and not separated from Christ” 
(Jerome, in Psalm, cxviii, serm. xx, § 12, et rid. § 15). 
St. Jerome likewise compares the ten revolted tribes of 
Israel to heretics, and the other two “ to the Church, and 
to sinners [members] of the Church, who confess the 
true faith, but on account of the defilement of vice [vi- 
tiorum sorrfes] have need of the purging fires” (Jerome, 
Comment, in Amos, lib. iii, c. 7). Again he says, “As 
we believe that the torments of the devil, and of all 
infidel \_negatorum~\ and wicked men who have said in 
their hearts ‘ There is no God,’ are eternal, so of sinners, 
although Christians [the common reading is “sic pecca- 
torum atque impiorum et tamen Christianorum.” “ In 
vetustiori Ambrosiano MS, { sic peeeatorum et tamen 
Christianorum,’ verius opinor ad Hieronymi mentem” 
(Note, Migne ed.)], whose works are to be tried and 
purged by fire [«j igne~\, we believe that the sentence 
of the Judge will be lenient \jnoderatam~], and tem- 
pered with mercy.” “Let me not be among those,” 
saj’s St. Augustine, “ to whom thou wilt hereafter say, 
Go into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his 
angels. Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure, so 
that thou mavest cleanse me in this life, and make me 
such that I may after that stand in no need of the cleans- 
ing fire for those who are to be saved so as by fire. 
Why? Why, but because they build upon the foun- 
dation wood, stnbble, and hay. Now, they should build 
on it gold, silver, and precious stones, and should have 
nothing to fear from either fire; not only that which is 
to consume the ungodly forever, but also that which is 
to purge those who are to escape through [/?(->■] the 
fire. For it is said, he himself shall be saved, yet. so as 
by fire. And because it is said he shall be saved, that 
fire is thought lightly of. For all that, though we shall 
be saved by fire, yet will that fire be more grievous than 
anything that man can suffer in this life whatsoever” 
(Augustine on the Psalms [Oxf. transl.], ii, 7l\ Again, 
“But if he shall have built on the foundation wood, 
hay, stubble, that is, have built worldly attachments on 
the foundation of his faith ; yet if Christ be in the foun- 
dation, so that he have the first place in the heart, and 
nothing absolutely is preferred to him, even such are 
borne, even such are tolerated. The furnace shall 
come; it shall burn the wood, the hay, the stubble : but 
‘ himself, he saith, shall be saved, yet so as bj- fire.’ 
This shall the furnace do ; some it shall sever to the left, 
others it shall in a manner melt out to the right” (ibid, v, 
105). To illustrate the doctrine of the Eastern Church, 
a passage may first be quoted from Clement of Alex- 
andria : “ We say that fire sanctifies not flesh, but sin- 
ful souls, speaking of that fire which is not all-devour- 
ing, such as is used by artisans (irap<pdyov icai fiavav- 
<70J'), but of that which is discriminative ( (ppovipov ), 
pervading the soul which passes through the fire” (Clem. 
Alex. Stromata, lib. v, c. 6). Origen often speaks of 
the Judgment-day fire: thus he says that though Peter 
and Paul must pass through the fire, they shall hear 
the words, “When thou passest through the fire, the 
flame shall not harm thee” (Orig. Homil. iii, in Psalm. 


PURGATORY 


798 


PURGATORY 


xxxv i; rid. llomil. vi.in Fxod.'). St. Basil, in his Com- 
mentary on Isaiah (iv, 4), says that baptism may be 
understood in three senses — in the one, of regeneration 
by the Holy Spirit; in another, of the punishment of 
sin in the present life; and in a third, “of the trial of 
judgment bv tire.” They who have committed deadly 
sins after they have received the knowledge of the 
truth, need the judgment which is by lire (ryg iv rw 
tcavyari Kpiatojg) (Basil. Opera, t. i, ad loc. (iaume). 
In his work on t lie lloly Spirit, illustrating the passage 
“lie shall baptize yon with the lloly Ghost and with 
fire,’’ lie calls the trial of judgment a “baptism of tire;” 
as the apostle says, “ the tire shall try every man’s work 
of what sort it is” (ibid, iii, p. 40). Gregory of Xazian- 
zum, speaking of the Novations, says : “ Perchance in 
the future world they shall be baptized with fire, the last 
baptism more severe and long continued, which devours 
as grass the stubble, and consumes every vestige of 
wickedness” (Pairai’qi t rdayg lean lag KovtyuTtjra) (Greg. 
Naz. Opera, t. ii, c. 358, Migne). Also in one of his 
poems he speaks of standing in fear of the fiery river of 
judgment (ptoog (f>6jiojv eortjKa 7rvpu)7rordpov) (ibid. 
t. iii, c. 1423). Gregory of Nvssa says, speaking of in- 
fants who die nnbaptized: “How shall we judge of 
those who thus died? .Shall that soul behold its Judge, 
and shall it be placed with others before his tribunal? 
Shall its past life be judged, and will it receive a de- 
served recompense, purified by fire according to the 
teaching (< pwvdg ) of the Gospel, or refreshed by the 
dew of benediction?” (Greg. Nvss. t. iii, c. 161). So 
he teaches, in another oration, that “we must either be 
purified in this present life by prayer and the love of 
wisdom ( (faXoaoepiag), or after our departure hence in 
the furnace of the purging fire” (ibid. t. iii, c. 498). See 
Willct, Synopsis Papismi; Bull, On the Trinity; Haag, 
Jlist.des Doymes; Elliott, Delineation of Romanism, ch. 
xii ; Cramp, Text -book of Popery; Ivnapp, Theology, 
p. 52 ; Xcandcr. Hist, of Dogmas, p. 618 sq. ; Doddridge, 
Lectures, lect. 270; Barnett, On the XXX IX A r tides, 
art. 22; Edgar, Variations of Popery , ch. xiv; Faber, 
Difficulties of Romanism, p. 157-192, 448-471, 2d ed. ; 
and especially Hale, Doctrine of Purgatory and the 
Practice of Prayer for the Dead Examined (Loud. 
1843); Alger, Hist, of the Doctrine of a Future Life; 
Ilagcnbach, 1 list, of Doctrines, ii, 126 sq., 130 sq., 326 
sq. ; Tracts for the Times, No. 79 and No. 90; Wet stein, 
De Vanitate Purgatorii; Allen, Defence of Purgatory; 
Marshall, Doctrine of J'urgatory, Patriarchal, Papisti- 
cal, and Rational ; Val verde, Ignis Purgutorius Asser- 
tus ; Bellarmine, De Controversiis Fulei ; Usher, An- 
swer to a Jesuit's Challenge; Hall, Doctrine of Purga- 
tory ; Kit to, Journ. of Sacred Literature, i, 289 sq. ; 
vol. xx Wesleyan Mag. 1843, p. 832 sq. See also the 
literature quoted in the art. Hades; Intermediate 
State. (J.II.W.) 

PURGATORY, Rabbinic. The doctrine of purga- 
tory (q. v.) is not only a peculiarity of the Romish 
Church, but also of orthodox Judaism. The latter 
maintains “that the souls of the righteous enjoy the 
beatific vision of God in paradise, and that the souls of 
the wicked are tormented in hell with tire and other 
punishments. It teaches that the sufferings of the 
most atrocious criminals are of eternal duration, while 
others remain only for a limited time in purgatory, 
which does not (filler from hell with respect to the place, 
but to the duration. They pray for the souls of the 
dead, and imagine that many are delivered from pur- 
gatory on the great day of expiation. They suppose 
that no Jew, unless guilty of heresy, or certain crimes 
specilied by the rabbins, shall continue in purgatory 
above a year, and that there are but few who suffer eter- 
nal punishment.” Maimonidcs (q. v.), Abrabancl (q. v.), 
and other celebrated Jewish writers maintain the anni- 
hilation of the wicked. Others suppose that the suffer- 
ings of hell have the power of purifying souls and expi- 
ating sin. This statement will be made the more clear 
when we examine some of the writings bearing on this 


subject. Among the prayers of the Feast of Taberna- 
cles we find the following declaration and prayer: “It 
is customary among the dispersions of Israel to make 
mention of the souls of their departed parents, etc., on 
the day of atonement, and the ultimate days of the three 
festivals, and to offer prayers for the repose of their 
souls. ‘May God remember the soul of my honored 
father, A. B., who is gone to his repose; for that I now 
solemnly vow charity for his sake; in reward of this, 
may his soul be bound up in the bundle of life, with the 
souls of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; .Sarah, Ilebekah, 
Rachel, and Leah ; with the rest of the righteous males 
and females that are in paradise, and let us say Amen.’ 
‘May God remember the soul of my honored mother,’” 
etc. In the Jewish ritualistic work called Joreh Deah, 
by Joseph Karo (q. v.), p. 376, we read : “ Therefore the 
custom is for twelve months to repeat the prayer called 
Kaddish, and also to read the lesson in the prophets, 
and to pray the evening prayer at the going-out of the 
Sabbath, lor that is the hour when the souls return to 
hell; but when the son prays and sanctifies the public, 
he redeems his father and his mother from hell.” The 
doctrine of the Talmud is that those who die in com- 
munion with the synagogue, or who have never been 
Jeivs, are punished for twelve months, but that Jewish 
heretics and apostates are doomed to eternal punish- 
ment. “Israelites who sin with their body, and also 
Gentiles, descend into hell, and are judged there for 
twelve months. After the twelve months their body is 
consumed and their soul is burned, and the wind scat- 
ters them under the soles of the feet of the righteous, as 
it is said: ‘Ye shall tread down the wicked, for they 
shall be ashes under the soles of your feet’ (Mai. iv, 3). 
But heretics, and informers, and Epicureans, who have 
denied the law or the resurrection of the dead, or who 
have separated from the customs of the congregation, 
or who have caused their fear in the land of the living, 
who have sinned, or eaused many to sin, as Jeroboam, 
the son of Nebat, all such go down to hell, and are 
judged forever” (Rosh llushanah, p. 17, a). According 
to this, the dying Israelite ought to expect twelve 
months of torment, and his surviving son ought to re- 
peat the prescribed prayer for twelve months; but the 
rabbins have commanded that the prayer should be re- 
peated only for eleven months, to intimate that the de- 
ceased was not so wicked as to be obliged to remain all 
the time of torment: “The custom is not to say Kail- 
dish more than eleven months, so as not to cast a re- 
proach on the character of the deceased father and 
mother as if they were wicked, for twelve months are 
the term appointed for the wicked” (Joreh Deah, i, 1). 
As to the prayer used, it is found in all Hebrew prayer- 
books, and runs thus: “May his great name be exalted 
and sanctified throughout the world, which he has cre- 
ated according to his will. May he establish his king- 
dom in our lifetime, and in the lifetime of the whole 
house of Israel, soon, and in a short time, and say ye, 
Amen, Amen. May his great name be blessed and glo- 
rified for ever and ever. May his hallowed name be 
praised, glorified, exalted, magnified, honored, and most 
excellently adored ; blessed is he, far exceeding all bless- 
ings, hymns, praises, and beatitudes that are repeated 
throughout the world, and say ye Amen. May our 
prayer be accepted with mercy and kindness. May the 
prayers and supplications of the whole house of Israel 
be accepted in the presence of their Father, who is in 
heaven, and sav ye Amen. Blessed be the name of the 
I xml from henceforth and for evermore. May the ful- 
ness of peace from heaven, with life, be granted unto us, 
and all Israel; and say ye Amen. My help is from the 
Lord, who made heaven and earth. May he who mak- 
oth peace in his high heavens bestow peace on us, and 
on all Israel; and say ye Amen.” See Adams, Jlist. 
of the Jews, ii, 249 sq. ; M'Caul, Old J'aths, p. 295 si].; 
Basnage, Hist, des Juifs (Taylor’s transl.), p. 390; Bo- 
dcnschatz, Kirchliche Yerjdssung der heiligen Juden, iii, 
78 sq. (B. 1\) 


PURIFICATION 


799 


PURIFICATION 


Purification (prop, rtirsa, tohordh , KaSaptopoc), 
a ceremony enjoined in the Mosaic law for the purpose 
of cleansing from pollution or defilement (Numb, xix, 9). 
Purifications were, for the most part, performed with 
water, sometimes with blood and with oil (Ileb. ix, 21, 
22; Exod. xxx, 26-29; Lev. viii, 10, 11). Sometimes 
fire was used for the purpose of purging or purifying 
(Isa. i, 25; x, 26; Zech. xiii, 9; Mai. iii, 3). 

In its legal and technical sense, the term is specially 
applied to the ritual observances whereby an Israelite 
was formally absolved from the taint of uncleanness, 
whether evidenced by any overt act or state, or con- 
nected with man’s natural depravity. The cases that 
demanded it in the former instance are defined in the 
Levitical law [see Uncleanness] : with regard to the 
latter, it is only possible to lay down the general rule 
that it was a fitting prelude to any nearer approach 
to the Deity; as, for instance, in the admission of a 
proselyte to the congregation [see Proselyte], in the 
baptism (KaSapiapog, John iii, 25) of the Jews as a 
sign of repentance [see Baptism], in the consecration 
of priests and Levites [see Levite; Priest], or in the 
performance of special religious acts (Lev. xvi, 4; 2 
Chron. xxx, 19). In the present article we are con- 
cerned solely with the former class, inasmuch as in this 
alone were the ritual observances of a special character. 
The essence of purification, indeed, in all cases, consisted 
in the use of water, whether by way of ablution or as- 
persion; but in the majora delicta of legal uncleanness, 
sacrifices of various kinds were added, and the ceremo- 
nies throughout bore an expiatory character. Simple 
ablution of the person was required after sexual inter- 
course (Lev. xv, 18; 2 Sara, xi, 4); ablution of the 
clothes after touching the carcass of an unclean beast, 
or eating or carrying the carcass of a clean beast that 
had died a natural death (Lev. xi, 25, 40) ; ablution 
both of the person and of the defiled garments in cases 
of gonorrhoea dormientium (xv, 16, 17) — the ceremony 
in each of the above instances to take place on the day 
on which the uncleanness was contracted. A higher 
degree of uncleanness resulted from prolonged gonoi'- 
rhcea in males and menstruation in women : in these 
cases a probationary interval of seven days was to be 
allowed after the cessation of the symptoms; on the 
evening of the seventh day the candidate for purifica- 
tion performed an ablution both of the person and of 
the garments, and on the eighth offered two turtle- 
doves or two young pigeons, one for a sin-offering, the 
other for a burnt-offering (vers. 1-15, 19-30). Contact 
with persons in the above states, or even with clothing 
or furniture that had been used by them while in those 
states, involved uncleanness in a minor degree, to be 
absolved by ablution on the day of infection generally 
(vers. 5-11, 21-23), but in one particular case after an 
interval of seven days (ver. 24). In cases of childbirth 
the sacrifice was increased to a lamb of the first year, 
with a pigeon or turtle-dove (xii, 6), an exception be- 
ing made in favor of the poor, who might present the 
same offering as in the preceding case (ver. 8 ; Luke ii, 
22-24). The purification took place forty days after 
the birth of a son, and eighty after that of a daughter, 
the difference in the interval being based on physical 
considerations. The uncleannesses already specified 
were comparatively of a mild character: the more se- 
vere were connected with death, which, viewed as the 
penalty of sin, was in the highest degree contaminating. 
To this head we refer the two cases of (1) touching a 
corpse, or a grave (Numb, xix, 16), or even killing a 
man in war (xxxi, 19) ; and (2) leprosy, which was re- 
garded by the Hebrews as nothing less than a living 
death. The ceremonies of purification in the first of 
these two cases are detailed in Numb. xix. 

A peculiar kind of water, termed the water of un- 
cleanness (n‘ni(l”*' , D, A. V. “water of separation”), was 
prepared in the following manner: an unblemished red 
heifer, on which the yoke had not passed, was slain by 


the eldest son of the high-priest outside the camp. A 
portion of its blood was sprinkled seven times towards 
(*'3Q rcb’PX) the sanctuary; the rest of it, and the 
whole of the carcass, including even its dung, were then 
burned in the sight of the officiating priest, together 
with cedar-wood, hyssop, and scarlet. The ashes were 
collected by a clean man and deposited in a clean place 
outside the camp. Whenever occasion required, a por- 
tion of the ashes was mixed with spring-water in a jar, 
and the unclean person was sprinkled with it on the 
third and again on the seventh day after the contrac- 
tion of the uncleanness. That the water had an expia- 
tory efficacy is implied in the term sin-ojfering (PNI2I1, 
A. Y. “purification for sin”) applied to it (Numb, xix, 
9), and all the particulars connected with its prepara- 
tion had a symbolical significance appropriate to the ob- 
ject sought. The sex of the victim (female, and hence 
life-giving), its red color (the color of blood, the seat of 
life), its unimpaired vigor (never having borne the 
yoke), its youth, and the absence in it of spot or blem- 
ish, the cedar and the hyssop (possessing the qualities, 
the former of incorruption, the latter of purity), and the 
scarlet (again the color of blood) — all these symbolized 
life in its fulness and freshness as the antidote of death. 
At the same time, the extreme virulence of the unclean- 
ness is taught by the regulations that the victim should 
be wholly consumed outside the camp, whereas generally 
certain parts were consumed on the altar, and the offal 
only outside the camp (comp. Lev. iv, 11, 12) ; that the 
I blood was sprinkled towards , and not before, the sanc- 
I tuary; that the officiating minister should be neither 
the high-priest, nor yet simply a priest, but the^ire- 
sumptive high-priest, the office being too impure for 
the first and too important for the second ; that even 
the priest and the person that burned the heifer were 
rendered unclean by reason of their contact with the 
victim; and, lastly, that the purification should be ef- 
fected, not simply by the use of water, but of water 
mixed with ashes which served as a lye, and would, 
therefore, have peculiarly cleansing qualities. See 
P u rific at ion- waters. 

The purification of the leper was a yet more formal 
proceeding, and indicated the highest pitch of un- 
cleanness. The rites are thus described in Lev. xiv, 
4-32: The priest having examined the leper and pro- 
nounced him clear of his disease, took for him two 
birds “alive and clean,” with cedar, scarlet, and hys- 
sop. One of the birds was killed under the priest’s 
directions over a vessel filled with spring-water, into 
which its blood fell; the other, with the adjuncts, ce- 
dar, etc., was dipped by the priest into the mixed blood 
and water, and, after the unclean person had been seven 
times sprinkled with the same liquid, was permitted to 
fly away “ into the open field.” The leper then wash- 
ed himself and his clothes, and shaved his head. The 
above proceedings took place outside the camp, and 
formed the first stage of purification. A probation- 
ary interval of seven days was then allowed, which 
period the leper was to pass “ abroad out of his tent 
on the last of these days the washing was repeated, 
and the shaving was more rigidly performed, even to 
the eyebrows and all his hair. The second stage of 
the purification took place on the eighth day, and was 
performed “before the Lord at the door of the taber- 
nacle of the congregation.” The leper brought thither 
ail offering consisting of two lie-lambs, a yearling ewe- 
lamb, fine flour mingled with oil, and a log of oil. In 
cases of poverty the offering was reduced to one lamb, 
and two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, with a less 
quantity of fine flour, and a log of oil. The priest slew 
one of the he-lambs as a trespass-offering, and applied 
a portion of its blood to the right ear, right thumb, and 
great toe of the right foot of the leper; he next sprin- 
kled a portion of the oil seven times before the Lord, 
applied another portion of it to the parts of the body 
already specified, and poured the remainder over the 


PURIFICATION 


800 


PURIFICATION 


leper’s head. The other he-lamb and the ewe-lamb, 
or the two birds, as the ease might be, were then offer- 
ed as a sin-offering and a burnt-offering, together with 
the meat-offering. The significance of the cedar, the 
scarlet, and the hyssop, of the running water, and of 
the 44 alive (full of life) and clean” condition of the 
birds, is the same as in the case previously described. 
The two stages of the proceedings indicated, the lirst, 
which took place outside the camp, the readmission of 
the leper to the community of men ; the second, before 
the sanctuary, his readmission to communion with God. 
In the first stage, the slaughter of the one bird and the 
dismissal of the other symbolized the punishment of 
death deserved and fully remitted. In the second, the 
use of oil and its application to the same parts of the 
body as in the consecration of priests (Lev. viii, 23, 24) 
symbolized the rcdedication of the leper to the service 
of Jehovah. See Purification-offering. 

The ceremonies to be observed in the purification of 
a house or a garment infected with leprosy were iden- 
tical with the first stage of the proceedings used for the 
leper (Lev. xiv, 33-53). See Leprosy. 

The necessity of purification was extended in the 
post- Babylonian period to a variety of unauthorized 
cases. Cups and pots, brazen vessels and couches, were 
washed as a matter of ritual observance (Mark vii, 4). 
The washing of the hands before meals was conducted 
in a formal manner (vii, 3), and minute regulations 
are laid down on this subject in a treatise of the Mish- 
na entitled Yadaim. These ablutions required a large 
supply of water, and hence we find at a marriage feast 
no less than six jars containing two or three firkins 
apiece, prepared for the purpose (John ii, G). We 
meet with references to purification after childbirth 
(Luke ii, 22), and after the cure of leprosy (Matt, viii, 
4; Luke xvii, 11), the sprinkling of the water mixed 
with ashes being still retained in the latter case (Hcb. 
ix, 13). What may have been the specific causes of 
nncleanness in those who came up to purify themselves 
before the Passover (John xi, 55), or in those who had 
taken upon themselves the Nazarite’s vow (Acts xxi, 
24, 2G), we arc not informed; in either case it may 
have been contact with a corpse, though in the latter 
it would rather appear to have been a general purifi- 
cation preparatory to the accomplishment of the vow. 
See Washing. 

In conclusion, it may be observed that the distinc- 
tive feature in the Mosaic rites of purification is their 
expiatory character. The idea of unclcanncss was not 
peculiar to the Jew: it was attached b} T the Greeks to 
the events of childbirth and death (Thucyd. iii, 104; 
Eurip. Iph. in Tour. 383), and by various nations to 
the case of sexual intercourse (Herod, i, 198; ii, 61; 
Fers. ii, IG). But with all these nations simple ablu- 
tion sufficed: no sacrifices were demanded. The Jew' 
alone was taught by the use of expiatory offerings to 
discern to its full extent the connection between the 
outward sign and the inward fount of impurity. — Smith. 
See Ablution. 

Pl’KiriCATION in the Christian Church. The 
Protestant Church recognises no ceremonial purifica- 
tions, because it does not seek for anything emblematic 
to point to the necessity of holiness in the people of the 
Lord. Christ taught purification of the heart only, and 
so the evangelical Christians teach purity of heart as 
the fit condition in which to approach the Deity in wor- 
ship; the blood of the Son of God having cleansed from 
all sin those who accept of his atonement in righteous- 
ness. See In purity; Sin. 

In the ltoman Catholic Church and the Greek Church, 
as well as some of the ultra-ritualistic churches which 
still cling to Protestantism, acts of purification prevail 
to some extent. There is, firstly, the act of purification 
after the communion in the mass. It relates (<?) to the 
purification of the chalice; some wine is poured into it 
by the servant of the altar, and slightly shaken with a 
circular motion, to take in all particles of the holy blood ; 


then the chalice is emptied in two draughts, the month 
touching the same place from which the holy blood has 
been drunk. During this performance the prayer Quod 
ore sumsimus is recited : this prayer stands in an old 
Gothic missal of Charlemagne’s time as Postcommunio. 
In the oldest times of Christianity the purification of 
the chalice was done with water, which was afterwards 
poured into a special vessel placed at the side of the 
altar, and called piscina (q. v.). It was Innocent III 
who directed that the purification of the chaliee should 
be done with wine, (b) To the periodical purification 
of the ciborium (q. v.), which is performed after the par- 
taking of the holy blood and before the purification of 
the chalice, by gathering with wine the rest of the holy 
blood left in the ciborium, and emptying it as beforo, and 
then wiping out its inside with the jmrifeatorium (q. v.). 
There is, secondly, the act of purification for women, 
which has been derived through rather than from the 
Jewish rite (Lev. xii). It is based upon the practice of 
the Blessed Virgin 5 1 ary, whose compliance with the de- 
mand of the Jewish ceremonial law is related in Luke 
ii, 22-24. The llomish Church has in commemoration 
of this purification act instituted a festival called Feast 
of rurijication of the Blessed Virgin Mary; and as by 
the Levitical law the ceremony was appointed for the 
fortieth day after childbirth, the feast is put on Feb. 2 
(reckoning from Dec. 25, the Nativity of Christ). As on 
the same occasion the Holy Virgin complied also with 
the law of Numb, xviii, 15, by the offering prescribed in 
redemption of the first-born, the festival is also called by 
the name of the Presentation of the Child Jesus, or the 
Feast of Simeon, and sometimes, also, of the Meeting 
(occursus), in allusion to Simeon’s meeting the Virgin 
Mother, and taking the child into his arms (Luke ii, 25). 
The date of the introduction of this festival is uncertain. 
The first clear trace of it is about the middle of the 5th 
century, during the reign of Marcia, and in the Church 
of Jerusalem. Its introduction in the lloman Church, in 
494, was made by pope Gclasius the occasion of trans- 
ferring to a Christian use the festivities which at that 
season were annexed to the pagan festival of the Luper- 
calia. 

In the Church of England, the restoration of woman 
to the privileges of the Church is accompanied by a sol- 
emn thanksgiving for deliverance in her great danger. 
The title of the service, The Thanksgiving of Women 
after Childbirth, was adopted in 1552 to bring this point 
into prominence. The old Sarum title, Ordo ad Purif- 
candam Mulierem post Partum, and that in the Prayer- 
book of 1549, The Order of the Purification of Women, 
seemed to mark an unholiness in the woman which the 
service removed. The Puritans objected to the use of 
the service for this very reason — •** For what else doth 
this churching imply but a restoring her unto the Church, 
which cannot be without some bar or shutting forth pre- 
supposed?” They complained, too, against such indi- 
vidualizing of prayer and praise (see the controversy 
between Cartwright and Whitgift and Hooker, in Ke- 
blc, 3d ed. of Hooker’s H'ouFs, ii, 434-438). In the 
Sarum use the service was read at the church door, ante 
ostium ecclesitp; in the book of 1549, “ nigh unto the 
quire door,” afterwards at the altar rails; now at “some 
convenient place.” The solemn rcadmission of the 
woman to divine service of the Sarum use has been 
wholly discontinued. The Book of Common Prayer re- 
quires of the woman to be “ decently apparelled,” which 
means that she shall appear at church veiled. Hooker 
gives an instance where a woman appeared unveiled 
and was therefore excommunicated, and when the case 
was appealed to the bishops they confirmed the de- 
cision. Palmer says that all the Western rituals and 
that of Constantinople had offices for this rite. A ser- 
vice of the 10th century is given by Mignc, Cnrsus 
(Paris, 1811), cxxxviii: “ Bcnedictio Puerpeme secun- 
dum usum .Ethiopum.” The anointing the forehead of 
the woman and child, sacra unctione, the imposition of 
, hands, the reception of holy communion, the giving of 


PUPJFI CATION - W ATEliS 


PURIFICATION-OFFERINGS 801 


incense, are parts of this rite. See Siegel, ChristUche 
A lie rth timer (index in vol. iv); Kiddle, Christian A n- 
tiquities (sec Index) ; Brit. Quar. Rev. July, 1871, p. 110. 
See also Ablution. (J. H. W.) 

Purification-offerings were such as the law en- 
joined upon those who had been raised from leprosy, 
unelean issues, haemorrhages, and childbed. See Pol- 
lution. Those for lepers were the most burdensome, 
since a trespass-offering was among them. 

1. The purifying offerings of menstrual women and 
of men after unclean issues were just the same (Lev. 
xv). And the eighth day after the cure was certain, 
each brought two turtle-doves, or young pigeons, to be 
slain by the priests — the one as a sin-offering, the other 
as a burnt-offering (xv, 14 sq.,29 sq.). Drink-offerings 
are not expressly mentioned in connection with these. 
See Woman. 

2. The offerings of purification of women after child- 
birth (Lev. xii, G-8), offered thirty-three or sixty-six 
days after confinement, consisted in a yearling lamb as 
a burnt-offering, and a young pigeon or a turtle-dove 
as a sin-offering. In case of poverty, two turtle-doves 
or young pigeons sufficed — the one as a burnt-offering, 
the other as a sin-offering (comp. Luke ii, 24). See 
Child. 

3. More extended was the purifying ceremony of 
healed lepers (Lev. xiv; comp. Xegaim, in the Gth part 
of the Mishna, ch. xiv). The ritual is composed of two 
parts: («) vers. 2-8. The healed leper brought to the 
priest for cleansing must present two small birds, alive 
and clean (according to the A iegaim, xiv, 5, they must 
be in form, size, and value precisely alike and bought at 
the same time; but this was not necessary, comp. Lutz, 
Be Duah. .4 rib. Purr/at. Leprosi Best in. eurumq. Alyster. 
[Hal. 1737]). The one was to be slain over an earthen 
vessel filled with fresh spring-water (and then buried; 
Xegaim, xiv, 1), and the living bird, together with a 
bundle consisting of cedar-wood, scarlet wool, and hys- 
sop, was dipped into the vessel, now containing water 
and blood mixed together, and the leper was sprinkled 
with it seven times. The priest then let the living bird 
loose into the open air (perhaps bearing away the guilt). 
See Expiation. Then the man healed was required to 
wash, shave off all his hair, and bathe, lie was now so 
far cleansed as no longer to render unclean the place he 
occupied ( Xegaim , xiv, 2), and might again abide in 
the city, but was required to “tarry abroad out of his 
own tent" or house. This is referred by the rabbins, as 
a euphemism, to sexual intercourse, but without, reason 
(yet Biihr follows them; Symbol, ii, 520 sq.). The cere- 
mony with the two birds is not a sacrifice, but a mere 
symbol of the purifying of the blood from the humors 
of the disease, and the return of freedom on the part of 
the leper again to associate with men (otherwise ex- 
plained in Biihr, op. cit. p. 515 sq.). (6) Vers. 9-31 . On 
the seventh day, the leper was required again to shave 
his whole body with the utmost care — not even sparing 
the eyebrows — to wash, and to bathe. A special cham- 
ber was provided in a corner of the women’s cotirt-vard 
of the second Temple for this purpose ( Middoth , ii, 5; 
comp. Xegaim, xiv, 8. Biihr is mistaken, and contra- 
dicts Lev. xiv, 9, in referring this washing to the eighth 
day). On the eighth day he presented two lambs and 
a yearling sheep. The lamb was first slain as a tres- 
pass-offering, and the healed man was touched with its 
blood in three places — on the right ear, the right thumb, 
and the great toe of the right foot. Then the priest 
took the oil offered by the leper, and, after sprinkling of 
it seven times “before the Lord,” touched the leper with 
it in the same three places of the body, and poured the 
remainder over his head. Finally, the sin-offering and 
the burnt-offering were slain. Poor persons were al- 
lowed to bring for these two turtle-doves or young 
pigeons. See Leprosy. 

The putting of the blood on the body, as well as 
touching it with oil, in this second service, is considered 
as a ceremony expressing reconciliation ; but the rab- 
VIII. — E E E 


bins consider the final anointing with the oil as the es- 
sential part ( Xegaim , xiv, 10), because in this connec- 
tion alone is mention made of “an atonement before the 
Lord” (Lev. xiv, 18). In other respects, the whole cere- 
mony strongly resembles the consecration of priests 
(Biihr, op. cit. 521 sq.). The cutting-off of the hair be- 
longed to the medical police of the law, for the leprosy 
conceals itself most easily under the hair, and hence the 
last traces of the disease could thus be detected. On the 
ceremonies of purification in consecrating priests and 
Levites, see those articles. — Winer, ii, 319. See Naz- 

APvITE. 

Purification - waters (n~: 2, mey-niiTddh', 

properlj' waters oJ‘ uncleanness, i. e. of purification ; Sept. 
vCiop pavTiopov, water of sprinkling, after the Chaldee 
usage; comp, nerlah', m3. to sprinkle [see Kosonmiiller, 
on Xumb. xix, 9]). This was a holy water of cleans- 
ing, which was mixed with the ashes of a red or red- 
dish-brown heifer — one which had never been under the 
j oke (comp. Dent, xxi, 3; Boehart, llieroz. i, 328 : on 
the age of this heifer the interpreters of the law were 
not agreed; see Para, i, 1; Jonathan, ok Xumb. 1. c., 
speaks of a two-vcar-old). With this water those who 
had contracted impurity by contact with a corpse or 
otherwise were sprinkled by means of a sprig or branch 
of hyssop, and were thus cleansed (Numb, xix, 2 sq. ; 
xxxi, 19 sq.; lleb. ix, 13 ; Josephus, Ant. iv, 4, G; comp, 
the Talmudieal tract Para . in the Gth part of the Misli- 
1 na). The ceremony of burning the heifer, which was 
accounted a sin-offering (Xumb. xix, 9, 17), w'as as fol- 
lows according to the law (comp. Mishna, Para, vi, 4): 
A priest, who had set himself apart and purified himself 
for this work for seven days previous {ibid, iii, 1 ; Jo- 
sephus ascribes the duty to the higli-priest, which may 
have been the custom in his time, although the Mishna 
usually speaks onlj-ofa priest, iii, 1, 9, 10; comp. Philo, 
Opp. ii, 252; Para, iii, 8), led it out of the Temple 
(through the east door, Mishna, Middoth, i, 3) before 
the city (on the Mount of Olives, Para, iii, 6), slew it, 
and burned it entire, with its flesh, skin, blood, and dung 
(Numb, xix, 5), on a fire fed with cedar-wood, scarlet 
wool, and hyssop (comp. Lev. xiv, G). The ashes were 
then gathered, and kept in a clean place outside the city 
(according to the Para, iii, 2, the} 7 were divided into 
three parts, one of which was kept in a court outside the 
Temple, the second on the Mount of Olives, and the 
third was given to the priests). A heifer was burned 
thus anew whenever the supply of ashes was exhausted. 
The Para (iii, 5) tells us that only nine in all were 
ever burned, and only one of them before the captiv- 
ity (Jerome, Ep. 108 ad Eustach., says that one was 
burned yearly). A part of these ashes was mixed with 
fresh water (comp. Para, viii, 8), and a clean person 
sprinkled with it the unclean on the third and on the 
seventh day after the contraction of uncleanness. With 
it, too, the house of the dead and the vessels rendered 
unclean by a corpse were sprinkled. He who burned 
the heifer, the priest who slew her, and the man who 
collected the ashes were unclean until evening (Numb, 
xix, 7, 8, 10). The same took place in the use of the 
water; he who sprinkled it on the unclean, and all that 
touched it, were unclean until evening (xix, 21 sq.). 
This is analogous to Lev. xvi, 24, 2G, 28; although in 
that case tffe uncleanness contracted by contact with 
the goats was considered as removed immediately after 
the required washings. Clericus properly remarks on 
this passage in Numbers, “The victim was considered as 
unclean through the sins which the prayer of the priest 
placed on his head. The ashes of this victim cleansed 
the unclean by taking his pollution; but they also de- 
filed the elean, because no pollution could seem to pass 
from them to the water.” The last clause, however, is 
not clear. 

The whole ceremony is peculiar, and suggests many 
questions which have never been fully solved. In par- 
ticular, the symbolic meaning of the details is still un- 


PU I i I FI C ATI OX - WATERS 


802 


PURIM 


settled, as the disagreement of recent expositors shows 
(Biihr, Symbol, ii, 493 sq. ; Ilengsteuberg, Mourn v ml 
Kyypten, p. 181 sq. ; Anonymous, Evangel. K.-Z. 1843, 
No. 19; Baumgarten, Comment, znm Pentat. ii, 333 sq. ; 
rhilippson, Pentat. p. 70S sq.: Kurtz, in the Shal. v. 
Krit. [ 1840]. iii, 029 sq.). We cannot here dwell upon 
this unfruitful investigation, but will refer singly to the 
principal points. 

1. The purification of those made unclean by a corpse 
was effected, not by the usual means of cleansing— pure 
water — but by this sharp fluid, because this kind of 
uncleanness was considered very deep and sad. The 
reason of this is obvious, lienee the means of cleansing 
is a kind of lye, which is strong in its action. We find 
ashes and lye among the means of purification used not 
merely by the Homans (Virgil, Ecloy. viii, 101 ; Ovid, 
Fast, iv, 639, 725, 733; Arnob. Cent, v, 32), but by the 
old Persians, who made their most powerful cleansing 
stuff out of water and ashes by means of fire (Zenda- 
vesta, iii, 216; another kind of sacred water used by 
Egyptian priests is mentioned in -Elian. .1 nim. vii, 45). 
Besides, this lye among the Israelites was made, not 
out of ashes in general, but from the ashes of a sin- 
ollering, and from that which alone remained of this 
sin-offering. 

2. A heifer, not a bull (Lev. iv, 14), is used, perhaps 
(Biihr, p. 498) because the female sex is that which 
brings forth life (comp. tlen. iii, 20; otherwise lleng- 
stenberg and Baumgarten — the former interpreting too 
outwardly, op. cit. p. 182; the hitter too artificially). 
But the object may have been simply to distinguish 
this particular sin-offering, when the animal was made 
a means to a hallowing purpose, from that in which it 
was presented to Jehovah in his sanctuary as a sacrifice 
of reconciliation. Yet physical uncleanness is always 
less burdensome than sin against the moral law (eomp. 
rhilippson, p. 769). Why a red heifer? The explana- 
tion of Spencer {Leg. Pit. ii, 15, 2, 6), that a red heifer 
was chosen in token of opposition to the Egyptian cus- 
tom of sacrificing red cattle to Tvphon, who was fancied 
to be of a red color (l’lnt. Jsidor. 22), is worthless. The 
recent expositors of the symbols waver between red as 
the color of life (Biihr, Kurtz) and of sin and death 
(llengstenberg). According to the rabbins, Solomon 
did not know the reason, and no ancient tradition re- 
specting it has reached ns. The secret will never be 
discovered. If it be said that red heifers were chosen 
for their scarcity, which rendered them prized in the 
East (Belaud, Antiq. Sacr. ii, 5, 23; A mrulkeis [ed. 
Lette], p. 74), the answer is only rendered more dilli- 
eult. Parity is not made an object in the directions 
given. Perhaps the dark color is simply selected as ac- 
cording with the serious nature of the work in hand, and 
aiding to keep the removal of sin steadily before the 
eye. White heifers were unfitted for this purpose; 
black ones are very rare in the East. As the accom- 
paniments — cedar-wood, hyssop, and scarlet wool, which 
Maimonides in his time already felt the diflieulty of 
explaining — have never yet been fully accounted for, 
Biihr’s explanation is the most intelligent (p. 502 sq.), 
while Baumgarten’s is absurd. See Ilvssor. 

3. The twofold sprinkling on the third and seventh 
days has an analogy in two other places (Lev. xii, 2 sq. ; 
xiv, 8 sq.). That terrible impurity was not to be re- 
moved in a moment; its serious nature demanded two 
periods of effort. Three and seven, too, are significant 
numbers in themselves. The seven, or week, is also a 
liturgieallv complete period, and with it the ceremony 
of purification ends. 

4. The reason why the heifer was burned without the 
holy city, and the persons occupied in this work were 
accounted unclean, is not the impurity of the sacrifice in 
itself (as Biihr has will remarked), but in the fact of its 
relation with the most unclean things— death and the 
corpse. 

See, in general, Moses Maimon. TV. de 1 'area Pufa, 
Ilebr. ct Lat. (ed. Zeller, Amstcrd. 1711); Marek, Dis- 


sert. ad Yet. Test. Fascic. p. 114 sq.; Deyling, Observat. 
iii, 89 sq. ; Th. Dassov. De I \teca Pufa , Observat. Jn- 
strux. (J. (1. W. Dunkel, Lips. 1758); Basluiyscn, De 
Aspersione Sacra ex Menfe Cemaristar. (Serv. 1717); 
Belaud, Antiq. Suer, ii, 5, 23. — Winer, ii, 504. 

Purificatoi'ium is a piece of linen folded several 
times, which is used in drying the chalice and wiping the 
paten during the mass. It was originally a towel fast- 
ened to the piscina, or vessel placed at the side of the 
altar. Only in later times it took the present simpler 
form — probably at the time when the priest himself 
drank the wine which had been used for the puriticatiun 
of the chalice and the ablution of the fingers. The clean- 
ing oft he purificatorium, as it comes in immediate con- 
tact with the consecrated forms, must, by prescription 
of the canon, be done by the priest himseif. Its length 
and width must be about half an ell, and as it is exclu- 
sively employed for the ritual use, it must be conse- 
crated and marked in the middle with a cross. The 
(•recks use a sponge for the cleaning of the chalice and 
paten— a custom mentioned by Chrysostom ( f/omil . in 
Episf. ad Ephes.). — Wetzer n. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 
Purifier. See ITkikicatokic.m. 

PuTim (2 n ”;“2, Purim ; Sept. «I»poupot v. r. 4>pou- 
pip, etc.; also ""C", days of the Purim, Esth. 

ix, 26. 31), the annual festival instituted by Mordecai, 
at the suggestion of Esther, to commemorate the won- 
derful deliverance of the Jews in Persia from the de- 
struction with which they were threatened through the 
designs of Unman (Esth. ix; Josephus, Ant. xi. 6. 13). 
(In the following article we chiefly follow that by (Jins- 
burg in Kitto’s Cyclopmlia, with additions from other 
sources.) See Eestivai.. 

I. Same of the Festival and its Signification. — The 
name “"“*2 (singular ““2), which is derived from the 
Persian pare, cognate with pars, part, and which is 
explained in Esther (iii, 7 ; ix, 24) by the Hebrew 

lot, has been given to this festival because it re- 
cords the casting of lots by Ilaman to ascertain when 
he should carry into effect the decree which the king 
issued for the extermination of the Jews (Esth. ix, 24). 
The name 4>povpai, which, as Schleusner {Lex. in LSS, 
s. v.) and others rightly maintain, is a corruption of 
•Povpai, is the (Jreck pronunciation of the Hebrew 
term. In like manner, the modern editors of Josephus 
have changed <Pporpatoi into 4>oi'jooiot (.4 nt. xi, 6, 13). 
The old editors imagined that Josephus connected the 
word with (ppovpttr. In 2 Mace, xv, 36 this festival is 
denominated i) M apco^niKi) qpipa. 

It was probably called Purim by the Jews in irony. 
Their great enemy Ilaman appears to have been very 
superstitious and much given to casting lots (Esth. iii, 
7), They gave the name Purim, or Lots, to the com- 
memorative festival because he had thrown lots to as- 
certain what day would he auspicious for him to carry 
into effect the bloody decree which the king had issued 
at his instance (ix, 24). 

Ewald, in support of his theory that there was in pa- 
triarchal times a religious festival at every new and full 
moon, conjectures that Purim was originally the lull- 
moon feast of Adar, as the Passover was that of Nisan, 
and Tabernacles that of Tisri. 

II. The Manner in which the Feast was and still is 
observed. — All that the Bible tells us about it is that 
Mordecai ordered the Mill and 15th of Adar to be kept 
annually hv the Jews, both nigh and afar; that these 
two days are to he made days of feasting and of joy, as 
well as of interchange of presents and of sending gifts 
to the poor, and that the Jews agreed to continue to 
observe this festival every year in the same manner as 
they had begun it (Esth. ix, 17-24). No further di- 
rections are given about its observance, and the Bible 
here, as elsewhere, left the rites and ceremonies to de- 
velop themselves with the circumstances of the nation. 
It is not easy to conjecture what may have been the 


PUPJM 


803 


PURIM 


ancient mode of observance, so as to have given the oc- 
casion something of the dignity of a national religions 
festival. The traditions of the Jews, and their modern 
usage respecting it, are curious. It is stated that eightv- 
live" of the Jewish elders objected at first to the insti- 
tution of the feast, when it was proposed hy Mordecai 
(Jerus. Gem. Megillah ; Lightfoot, on John x, 21). A 
preliminary fast was appointed, called “the fast of Es- 
ther,” to be observed on the 13th of Adar, in memory 
of the fast which Esther and her maids observed, and 
which she enjoined, through Mordecai, on the Jews of 
Shushan (Esth. iv, 16). See Moudecai. 

The following is the mode in which the festival of 
Purim is kept at the present day. The day preced- 
ing—!. e. the 13th of Adar— is kept as a fast-day, and 
is called “the fast of Esther” (“iTipS; P^^ri), in ac- 
cordance with the command of this Jewish queen (Esth. 
iv, 5, 6) ; and sundry prayers expressive of repentance, 
humiliation, etc. (rirrbo), are introduced into the 
regular ritual for the day. As on all the fast-days, 
Exod. xxxii, 1 1-14 ; xxxiv, 1-1 1, are read as the lesson 
from the law, and Isa. Iv, 6-lvi, 9, as the llaphtarah. If 
the I3th of Adar falls on a Sabbath, the first takes place 
on the Thursday previous, as no fasting is allowed on 
this sacred day, nor on the preparation-day for the Sab- 
bath. Some people fast three days, as Esther enjoined 
at first. On the evening of this fast-day — i. e. the 
one closing the 13th of Adar and introducing the 14th, 
as soon as the stars appear — the festival commences, 
when the candles are lighted, and all the Israelites resort 
to the synagogue, where, after the evening service, the ' 
book of Esther, called, tear the Megilluh 

the Roll), is read by the pnelector. Before commencing 
to read it he pronounces the following benediction : 
“Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, King of the uni- 
verse, who hast sanctified us with thy commandments, 
and hast enjoined us to read the Megillali! Blessed art 
thou, O Lord our God, King of the universe, who hast 
wrought miracles for our forefathers in those days and 
at this time. Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, King 
of the universe, who hast preserved us alive, sustained 
ns, and brought us to this season!” The Megillah is 
then read. The praelector reads in a histrionic manner, 
suiting his tones and gestures to the changes in the 
subject-matter. As often as he pronounces the name 


I of Ilaman the congregation stamp on the floor, saying, 
“ Let his name be. blotted out. The name of the wicked 
shall rot!” while the children spring rattles. The pas- 
sage in which the names of llaman and his sons occur 
(Esth. ix, 7, 9) is read very rapidly, and if possible in 
one breath, to signify that they were all hanged at the 
same time, the congregation stamping and rattling all 
the time. It is for this reason that this passage is writ- 
ten in the MSS. in larger letters than the rest, and that 
the names are arranged under one another. After the 
Megillah is read through, the whole congregation ex- 
claim, “ Cursed be Hainan ; blessed be Mordecai. Cursed 
be Zoresli (the wife of Hainan) ; blessed be Esther. 
Cursed be all idolaters; blessed be all Israelites, and 
blessed be Ilarbonah who hanged llaman.” The vol- 
ume is then solemnly rolled up. Lastly, the following 
benediction is pronounced by the reader : “ Blessed art 
thou, O Lord our God, King of the universe, who hast 
contended our contest, judged our cause, hast avenged 
our wrongs, requited all the enemies of our souls, and 
hast delivered us from our oppressors. Blessed art thou 
who hast delivered thy people from all their oppressors, 
thou Lord of salvation!” All go home and partake of a 
repast said to consist mainly of milk and eggs. 

On the morning of the 14th of Adar the Jews again re- 
sort to the synagogue, insert several appointed prayers 
into the ordinary daily ritual ; Exod. xvii, 8-16 is read 
as the lesson from the law, which relates the destruc- 
tion of the Amalekites, the people of Agag (1 Sam.xv, 
8), Jbe supposed ancestor of llaman (Esth. iii, I), and 
the Megillah or the Book of Esther as the llaphtarah, 
under the same circumstances as those of the previous 
evening. The rest of the festival is spent in great re- 
joicings; presents are sent backwards and forwards 
among friends and relations, and gifts are liberally 
forwarded to the poor. Games of all sorts, with danc- 
ing and music, commence. In the evening a quaint 
dramatic entertainment, the subject of which is con- 
nected with the occasion, sometimes takes place, and 
men frequently put ou female attire, declaring that the 
festivities of Purim, according to Esth. ix, 22, suspend 
the law of Deut. xxii, 5, which forbids one sex to wear 
the dress of the other. A dainty meal then follows, 
sometimes with a free indulgence of wine, both un- 
mixed and mulled. According to the Gemara ( Megilla , 
vii. 2), “ tenetur homo in festo Purim eo usque inebri- 



The Feast of Purim iu a Modern Syungogue. 


purim 


804 


PURITANS 


ari, nt nullum discrimcn norit inter maledictionem 11a- 
maitis et benedict ionem Manioc! t;vi.” 

From the canons which obtained in the time of 
Christ, we learn that the Megillah had to be written 
in Hebrew characters, on good parchment, and with ink 
(Misltna. Megilla. ii, 2) ; that if the 14th of Aiiar fell 
on a Tuesday or Wednesday, the inhabitants of villages 
read the Megillali on the Monday in advance, or on 
Thursday, because the country people came to town to 
attend the markets and the synagogues in which the 
law was read and tribunals held {Megilla, i, 1-3); that 
any one was qnalilied to read it except deaf people, 
fools, and minors (ibid, ii, 4), and that it was lawful to 
read it in a foreign language to those who understood 
foreign languages (ibid, ii, 1). But though the Mishna 
allows it to be read in other languages, yet the Megillah 
is generally read in Hebrew. 

The rejoicings continue on the loth, and the festival 
terminates on the evening of this day. During the 
whole, of the festival the Jews may engage in trade, or 
any labor, if they arc so inclined, as there is no prohibi- 
tion against it. When the month Adar used to be 
doubled, in the Jewish leap-year, the festival was re- 
peated on the l ltli and 15th of the second Adar. 

It would seem that the Jews were tempted to associ- 
ate the Christians with the Persians and Amalekites in 
the curses of the synagogue (see Cod. Theodos. xvi, 8, 
18). Hence probably arose the popularity of the feast 
of Purim in those ages in which the feeling of enmity 
was so strongly manifested between Jews and Chris- 
tians. Several Jewish proverbs are preserved which 
strikingly show the way in which Purim was regarded, 
such as, “The Temple may fail, but Purim never;” 
“The Prophets may fail, but not the Megillali.” It. 
was said that no books would survive in the Messiah's 
kingdom except the law and the Megillah. This af- 
fection for the book and the festival connected with it 
is the more remarkable because the events on which 
they are founded affected only an exiled portion of the 
Hebrew race, and because there was so much in them 
to shock the principles and prejudices of the Jewish 
mind. So popular was this festival in the days of 
Christ that Josephus tells us that, “even now, all the 
Jews that are in the habitable earth keep these days 
festivals, and send portions to one another” (.1 m/. xi, 11, 
13), and certainly its popularity has not diminished in 
the present day. 

HI. Did Christ celebrate this Feast?— It was first 
suggested by Kepler that the iopn) tmi> ’Jo i>caiu)i> of 
John v, 1 was the feast of Purim. The notion has 
been confidently espoused by Petavius, Outram, Lamv, 
Hug, Tholuck, Liieke, ( Mshausen, Stier, Wieseler, Winer, 
and Anger (who, according to Winer, has proved the 
point beyond contradiction), and is favored by Alford 
and KUicott. The question is a difficult one. It seems 
to be generally allowed that the opinion of Chrysostom, 
Cyril, and most of the fathers, which was taken up by 
Krasmus, Calvin, Bczn, and Bongcl. that the feast was 
Pentecost, and that of Cocceius, that it was Tabernacles 
(which is countenanced by the reading of one inferior 
MS.), are precluded by the general course of the nar- 
rative. anti especially by John iv, 35 (assuming that 
the words of our Lord which are there given were spok- 
en iu seed-time) compared with v, 1. The interval in- 
dicated by a comparison of these texts could scarcely 
have extended beyond Xisan, The choice is thus left 
between Purim and the Passover. 

The principal objections to Purim are, (a) that it was 
not necessary to go up to Jerusalem to keep the festi- 
val ; (b) that it is not very likely that our Lord would 
have made a point of paying especial honor to a festi- 
val which appears to have bail hut a very small relig- 
ions element in it. and which seems rather to have been 
the means of keeping alive a feeling of national revenge 
and hatred. It is alleged, on the other hand, that our 
Lord’s attending the feast would be in harmony with 
his deep sympathy with the feelings of the Jewish 


1 people, which went further than his merely “fulfilling 
ail righteousness” in carrying out the precepts of the 
Mosaic law. It is further urged that the narrative of 
John is best made out by supposing that t lie incident 
at the pool of Bethesda occurred at the festival which 
was characterized by showing kindness to the poor, 
and that our Lord was induced, by the enmity of the 
Jews then evinced, not to remain at Jerusalem till the 
Passover, mentioned John vi, 4 (Stier). 

The identity of the Passover with the feast in ques- 
tion has been maintained by Irenams, Kiim bins, and 
Tlioodorct, and, in modern times, by Luther. Scaligtr, 
tirotius, llcngstenberg, (IroswoH, Neander. Tholnel., 
Bohinson, and the majority of commentators. The 
principal difficulties in the way are, (</) the omission 
of the article, involving the improbability that the 
great festival of the year should be spoken of as “ it 
feast of the Jews;” (5) that as our Lord did not go up 
to the Passover mentioned John vi, 4. lie must have 
absented himself from Jerusalem for a year and a half, 
that is, till the feast of Tabernacles (John vii. 2). 
Against these points it is contended that the applica- 
tion of iopri] without the article to the Passover is 
countenanced by Matt, xxvii, 15; Luke xxiii, 17 (comp. 
John xviii, 3‘J) ; indeed, it makes blit little difference 
in Hellenistic Greek whether the article is present or 
absent with a noun thus in regimen with a following 
genitive ; that it is assigned as a reason lor his staying 
away from Jerusalem for a longer period than usual, 
that “the Jews sought to kill him” (John vii, 1 ; cf. v, 
18); that Ibis long period satisfactorily accounts for 
the surprise expressed by his brethren (John vii. 3); 
and that, as it was evidently his custom to visit Jeru- 
salem once a year, lie went up to the feast of Taber- 
nacles (vii, 2) instead of going to the Passover. A 
still more conclusive argument in favor eif the Passover 
is the use of the peculiar epithet CtvTtpoirpwToe; in Luke 
vi, 1, for the Sabbath following, which can mean no other 
than that occurring after the Paschal week. Moreover, 
the fact of the ripe but unharvested barley at that 
time leads to tbe same conclusion. See Passovku. 

The arguments on one side are best set forth by 
Stier and Olshausen on John v, 1. by Kepler (Eclogee 
Chronica-, Frankfort, 1015), and bv Anger (Dc Temp, in 
.1 cf. A post, i, 24) ; also, in 1 1 ug’s Jut rod. (pt. ii, § 04). and 
in Liicke’s Comment, on St. John's (Jospel (see tbe Eng- 
lish translation of Liicke’s Dissertation in the appendix 
to Tittmann’s Meleientata Sacra, or a Commentary on 
St. John's (iospel, iu Bib. Cabinet, vol. xlv) ; those on 
the other side, by llcngstenberg (Christ ologg vol. ii, 
“On the Seventy Weeks of Daniel,” p. 408-414. Engl, 
transl., Washington, 1830) ; Bohinson, Harmony , note 
on the “Second Passover;” and Neander. I.iJ'e of Christ, 
§ 143. See also Light foot. Kuiniil, and Tholuck. on 
John v, 1, and Gresswell, Diss. viii, vol. ii ; Kllicott 
Led. 135. 

IV. Literature. — See Carpzov, A pp. C< it. iii. 1 1 ; Be- 
i land, .1 nt. iv, 9; Schickart, Purim sire Bacchanalia 
Judteorum ((’rit. Sac. iii, col. 1184) ; lhixtorf. Syn. Jud. 
xxix. The Mislmical treatise Megilla contains direc- 
| tions respecting the mode in which the scroll should be 
written out and in which it should he read, with other 
matters, not much to the point in hand, connected with 
the service of the synagogue. See also Stauben, La 
Vie Juive en Alsace ; Mills. British Jews. p. 188; Ax- 
enfeld, Betrachten E^E 7” (Erlang. 1807); Bible 
Educator, iii, 26. See Estiiku. 

Puritans, a name given to a large party in the 
reign of queen Elizabeth, who complained that the 
Bcformation in England was left in an imperfect state, 
many abuses both in worship and discipline living still 
retained. The name Puritans was derived from the 
frequent assertion of those who composed the party 
that the Church of England was corrupted with the 
remains of popery, and that what they desired was a 
“ pure” system of doctrine and discipline; but tbe Lug.- 


PURITANS 


805 


PURITANS 


lish word “ Puritans” happens accidentally to represent ] 
the Greek name “Cathari” which had been assumed 
by the Novatians, and which had been adopted in Ger- ! 
many during the Middle Ages in the vernacular form 
“Keizer” for the Albigenses and other opponents of 
the Church. It first came into use as the designation 
of an English Church party about the year 1564 (Ful- 
ler, Ch. Hist, is, GG), but after a few years it got to be 
used also as inclusive of many who had separated from 
the Church of England. It was gradually superseded 
as regards the latter by the names of their various 
sects, as Independents, Presbyterians, Baptists, etc., and 
as regards the former by the term “Nonconformists.” 
At a still later time, towards the end of the 17th cen- 
tury. the Church Puritans were represented by “ Low- 
Churchmen,” and the Non-Church Puritans by “Dis- 
senters.” v 

The presence of a Puritan party in the Church of 
England is, however, traceable for two centuries before 
the name of “Puritan” was assumed. In the 14th cen- 
tury the common people had become alienated from 
their parish priests by the influence of the friars, who 
had authority from the pope to preach and to receive 
confessions wherever they pleased, and quite indepen- 
dently of the ordinary clergy. This extra - parochial 
system of mission clergy weakened the hold of the 
Church upon the populace at. large; and, when the 
friars themselves began to lose their influence, aliena- 
tion from the clergy developed into alienation from the 
Church. Thus arose the Lollards of the loth centu- 
ry, a party which made no attempt to set up separate 
places of worship or a separate ministry, but which in- 
troduced its antisacerdotal principles into many parisli 
churches, and made many of the clergy as strong op- 
ponents of the existing ecclesiastical system as was 
Wyeliffe himself. During the trying times of the 
Reformation the party thus formed was largely aug- 
mented by those whose opposition to Romish abuses 
had, by a similar excess, developed into opposition to 
the whole of the established ecclesiastical system — men 
who thought that “pure” doctrine and “pure” wor- 
ship eould only be attained by an utter departure from 
all that had been believed and practiced during the 
times when the Church of England had contracted im- 
purities of doctrine and worship through popish influ- 
ences. 

While Luther’s movement was at its height, the par- 
ty which thus became the progenitors of the Puritans 
was formed into a society under the name of “The 
Christian Brethren,” which seems, from the faint view 
we get of it, to have been very similar to that organ- 
ized by John Wesley two centuries later. The head- 
quarters of the Brethren were in London, but they had 
gained a footing at both the universities, apparently 
among the undergraduates and younger graduates. As 
early as the year 1523, a body of Cambridge residents 
“met often at a house called ‘The White Horse* to con- 
fer together with others, in mockery called Germans, 
because they conversed much in the books of the di- 
vines of Germany brought thence. This house was 
chosen because those of King’s College, Queen’s Col- 
lege, and St. John’s might come in at the back side 
and so be tbc more private and undiscovered” (Strype, 
Eccles. Mem. i, 568, ed. 1822). Among those mentioned 
as so meeting arc the names of Barnes, Arthur, Bilnev, 
Latiiner, and Coverdale, familiarly known as precursors 
of the Puritan movement in Edward Vi’s and queen 
Elizabeth’s reign. A few years later, in 1527, similar 
gatherings were detected at Oxford, where the names 
of Frith, Taverner, Udal, Farrar, and Cox, Edward Vi’s 
tutor, are found among those who met together for the 
same purpose (ibid, i, 569). Among the Oxford party 
the men of Wolsey’s college held a conspicuous posi- 
tion, and his leniency towards all who were brought 
before him on charges of heresy was very striking. 

The principles which were developed among the 
more extreme section of these early Puritans may be 


seen by an extract from a work written by William 
Tvndale (himself a friar and a priest), who was their 
representative man. Writing of the ministerial oftiee, 
he says: “Subdeacon, deacon, priest, bishop, cardinal, 
patriarch, and pope be names of oftices and service, or 
should be, ami not sacraments. There is no promise 
coupled therewith. If they minister their oftices truly, 
it is a sign that Christ’s Spirit is in them; if not, that 
the devil is in them. . . . O dreamers and natural beasts, 
without the seal of the Spirit of God, but sealed with" 
the mark of the beast, and with cankered consciences, 

. . . By a pri *st understand nothing but an elder to 
teaeh the younger, and to bring them unto the full 
knowledge anil understanding of Christ, and to minister 
the sacraments wliieh Christ ordained, which is also 
nothing but to preach Christ’s promises. . . . According, 
therefore, as every man believeth God’s promises, long- 
eth for them, and is diligent to pray unto God to fulfil 
them, so is his prayer heard ; and as good is the prayer 
of a cobbler as of a cardinal, and of a butcher as of a 
bishop; and the blessing of a baker that knoweth the 
truth is as good as the blessing of our most holy father 
the pope. . . . Neither is there any other manner of cer- 
emony at all required in making our spiritual officers 
than to choose an able person, and then to rehearse him 
his duty, and give him his charge, and so put him in 
his room” (Obed. of Christ. Man [Park. Soc. ed.], p. 
254-259). 

These floating elements of Puritanism had, however, 
very little compactness and unity except in the one 
particular of opposition to the principles and practices 
which then prevailed in the Church of England. But 
in the latter years of Henry VIII’s reign, Calvin was 
consolidating a system of doctrine, worship, and ecclesi- 
astical discipline which was exactly calculated to unite 
in a wieldy form the individual particles which had 
previously been comparatively powerless for want of 
cohesion. Calvin gained some personal influence in 
England by means of pertinacious letters addressed to 
the king, the protect >r Somerset, and archbishop Cran- 
mer; but the principles of his system were chiefly 
propagated through the introduction of some of his 
foreign disciples into positions of influence in the 
Church of England. Thus an Italian named Pietro 
Vermigli, who had been an Augustinian friar, was made 
regins professor of divinity at Oxford, and is known 
to history as Peter Martyr (q. v.). A similar appoint- 
ment was made at Cambridge, where the regius pro- 
fessor of divinity was a German named Martin Buecr 
(q. v.), who had been a Dominican friar. Paid Bilcher, 
or Fagiits, a companion of Bueer, was destined for the 
professorship of Hebrew at Cambridge, but died in 
1549. Bernard Ochinus (q. v.), ex-vicar-general of 
the Capuchin friars and confessor to pope Paid 111, 
came from Geneva with Peter Martyr, and was made 
canon of Canterbury, being afterwards banished from 
place to place on the Continent for his Sociuianisra and 
his advocacy of polygamy. John ii Lasco, the Pole, 
was an inmate of Lambeth Palace, where he and other 
foreigners formed a kind of Calvinistic privy council to 
Cramner; and John Knox (A.D. 1505-72), the Scotch 
preacher, was at one time carrying out his duties as 
chaplain to the young king, and at another going on a 
roving commission to preach down the Church in Nor- 
thumberland, Durham, and the other northern comities 
(Jaekson, 1 Porta-, iii, 273). 

It was not to be expected from his character that 
Henry VIII, though he reseued the kingdom from the 
papal yoke, would proceed very far in reforming the 
religion of the country. 1 1 is successor, however, Ed- 
ward VI. a young prince or earnest piety, was likely,- 
had his valuable life been spared, to have carried out a 
real reform, which would have rendered the Church of 
England more simple in her ritual and more strict in. 
her discipline than she has ever had it in her power to 
be. But Mary succeeded to the throne, and the an- 
cient superstitions were restored. Several congrega- 


PURITANS 


80 G 


PURITANS 


tions of German Protestants, fleeing from Continental 
persecution, had found an asylum in England. One of 
the principal of these was settled in London under the 
pastoral care of John ii Laseo, a man of great repute, 
the friend and patron of Erasmus; while another was 
placed by the duke of Somerset, the protector during 
the king’s minority, at Glastonbury, upon the lands of 
the famous monastery then recently dissolved. The 
influence of the foreigners in matters of religion, how- 
ever imperceptible, must have already been such as to 
excite suspicion, for they were, commanded to leave 
the kingdom without delay. Nor did they retire alone. 
A furious burst of persecution drove with them a thou- 
sand Englishmen, who felt that to remain at home was 
to incur a needless hazard. The Low Countries, the free 
cities of the Rhine, and Switzerland were now filled 
with these wanderers. Frankfort, Basle, Zurich, and 
Geneva particularly attracted them; for there the doc- 
trines of the Reformation had taken the strongest hold, 
and there its most eminent professors dwelt. Mingled 
with these were the leaders of the Continental Refor- 
mation. The English refugees had constant inter- 
course with Calvin, with Gualtcr, with Peter Martyr, 
and John a Lasco, and, above all, with llenrv Bollinger. 

On the death of Mary, the English exiles returned 
home, “ bringing nothing back with them.’' says Ful- 
ler. “ but much learning and some experience.” It is 
likely that they were influenced by the manners of the 
German churches. On their return to England, the 
contrast between the splendor of the English ceremoni- 
al and the simplicity of that abroad was the more strik- 
ing. Their opponents never ceased to attribute much 
of the discontent that followed to the Genevan exile. 
“They were for the most part Zwiuglian-gospellers at 
their going hence,’' says lleylin, “and became the great 
promoters of the Puritan faction at their coming home.” 
The Puritans themselves were never unwilling to own 
their obligations to the German Reformers, still, how- 
ever, founding their scruples rather upon what they 
themselves conceived to be the absence of scriptural 
simplicity than upon the practice of other Christians. 
The question of the habits, or, as it has since been 
termed, the vesliarian controversy (q. v.), most unset- 
tled them, and it then began to wear ail anxious, if not 
a threatening aspect. 

It was urged by the dissatisfied party that the im- 
position of the vestments was an infringement of their 
Christian liberty. They wore called under the Gospel 
to worship God in spirit and in truth; and no outward 
forms or splendors could contribute in any measure to 
assist the devout mind in a service so spiritual and ex- 
alted. On the contrary, the tendency of these official 
garments was to distract the worshipper, and to debase 
his devotions by an admixture of those sentiments 
which arc allowed no place in spiritual things. The 
Church of Christ was only safe in its simplicity, and 
such was its inward glory that, any attempts to deco- 
rate could but in fact degrade it. They objected, too. 
that the vestments against which they were contend- 
ing had a Jewish origin, and belonged not to t lie Chris- 
tian ministry, but to the priesthood of the house of 
Aaron. To introduce them into the Church of Christ 
was to pervert their meaning. They were a part of the 
divinely appointed constitution of the Jewish Church, 
and had passed away, together with the rest of its fig- 
urative and mystic ceremonial. 

It was a further objection, and one that appealed not 
only to divines and controversialists, but to the feelings 
of the common people, that the vestments were identi- 
cal with all the superstitions of popery. They were 
looked upon as the badge of antichrist; and those who 
wore them were regarded with suspicion, as men ei- 
ther indifferent to the cause of the Reformation, or not 
yet sufficiently enlightened as to the danger, and in- 
deed the sinfulness, of approaching the most distant 
confines of a system which ought to be avoided with 
alarm and horror. “If we are bound to wear popish 


apparel when commanded, we may be obliged to have 
shaven crowns, and to use oil, and cream, and spittle, 
and all the rest of the papistical additions to the ordi- 
nances of Christ.” 

The accession of Elizabeth, after the brief but bloody 
reign of .Marv, revived the hopes of those who had 
been longing for a day of more complete reformation. 
Ihit it soon became quite apparent that the queen, 
though opposed in principle to popery, was resolved, 
notwithstanding, to retain as much show and pomp in 
religious matters as might he possible. A meeting of 
! convocation was held in the beginning of the year 
! 1 5G*2, at which the proposal for a further reformation 
j was seriously discussed. .Six alterations in particular 
I were suggested the abrogation of all holidays except 
! Sabbaths and those relating to Christ ; that in prayer 
the minister should turn his face to the people; that 
the signing of the cross in baptism should be omitted; 
that the sick and aged should not be compelled to 
kneel at the communion; that the partial use of the 
surplice should be sufficient; and that the use of organs 
should be laid aside. l$y a majority of one, and that 
the proxy of an absent person, these proposed altera- 
tions were rejected. 

From this time the court party and the Reformers, as 
they may be termed, became more decidedly opposed 
to each other. The difference in their views is well 
described by Hr. Iletlierington in his History of the 
Westminster Assembly. “The main question,” says he, 
“on which they were divided may he thus stated: 
whether it were lawful and expedient to retain in the 
external aspect of religion a close resemblance to what 
had prevailed in the times of poperv, or not? The 
court divines argued that this process would lead the 
people more easily to the reception of the real doctrinal 
changes, when they saw outward appearances so little 
altered, so that this method seemed to be recommended 
by expediency. The Reformers replied that this tend- 
ed to perpetuate in the people their inclination to their 
former superstitions, led them to think there was, after 
all, little difference between the Reformed and the Pa- 
pal churches; and, consequently, that if it made them 
quit popery the more readily at present, it would leave 
them at least equally ready to return to it should an 
opportunity offer; and for this reason they thought 
it best to leave as few traces of popery remaining as 
possible. It was urged by the court party that every 
sovereign had authority to correct all abuses of doctrine 
and worship within his own dominions: this, they as- 
serted, was the true meaning of the Act of Supremacy, 
and consequently the source of the Reformation in Eng- 
land. The true Reformers admitted the Act of Suprem- 
acy in the sense of the queen's explanation given in 
the Injunctions, but could not admit that the conscience 
and tlie religion of the whole nation were subject to the 
arbitrary disposal of the sovereign. The court party 
recognised the Church of Rome as a true Church, though 
corrupt in some points of doctrine and government ; and 
this view it was thought necessary to maintain, for 
without this the English bishops could not trace their 
succession from the apostles. But the decided Reform- 
ers affirmed the pope to he antichrist, and the Church 
of Rome to be no true Church; nor would they risk the 
validity of their ordinations on the idea of a succession 
through such a channel. Neither party denied that 
the Bible was a perfect rule of faith ; hut the court par- 
ty did not admit it to be a standard of Church govern- 
ment and discipline, asserting that it had been left to 
the judgment of the civil magistrate in Christian coun- 
tries to accommodate the government of ihe Church to 
the policy of the State. The Reformers maintained the 
Scriptures to be the standard of Church government and 
discipline as well as of doctrine; to the extent, at the 
very least, that nothing should be imposed as necessary 
which was not expressly contained in, or derived from, 

! them by necessary consequence, adding that if any dis- 
( cretionnry power in minor matters were necessary, it 


PURITANS 


807 


PURITANS 


must be vested, not in the civil magistrate, but in the 
spiritual office-bearers of the Church itself. The court 
Reformers held that the practice of the primitive Church 
for the four or five earliest centuries was a proper stand- 
ard of Church government and discipline, even better 
suited to the dignity of a national establishment than 
the times of the apostles; and that, therefore, nothing 
more was needed than merely to remove the more mod- 
ern innovations of popery. The true lieformers wished 
to keep close to the Scripture model, and to admit nei- 
ther office-bearers, ceremonies, nor ordinances, but such 
as were therein appointed or sanctioned. The court 
party affirmed that things in their own nature indiffer- 
ent, such as rites, ceremonies, and vestments, might be 
appointed and made necessary by the command of the 
civil magistrates; and that then it was the bounden 
duty of all subjects to obey. But the Reformers main- 
tained that what Christ had left indifferent no human 
laws ought to make necessary; and, besides, that such 
rites and ceremonies as had been abused to idolatry, 
ami tended to lead men back to popery and supersti- 
tion, were no longer indifferent, but were to be rejected 
as unlawful. Finally, the court party held that there 
must be a standard of uniformity, which standard was 
the queen’s supremacy and the laws of the land. The 
Reformers regarded the Bible as the only standard, but 
thought compliance was due to the decrees of provin- 
cial and national synods, which might be approved and 
enforced by civil authority.” 

From this contrast between the opinions of the two 
parties, it is plain that, though the use of the sacerdotal 
vestments formed the rallving-point of the whole con- 
troversy, its foundation lay deeper than any mere out- 
ward forms. The queen gave strict orders to the arch- 
bishop of Canterbury that exact order and uniformity 
should be maintained in all external rites and ceremo- 
nies. Nay, so determined was she that her royal will 
should be obeyed that she issued a proclamation re- 
quiring immediate uniformity in the vestments on pain 
of prohibition from preaching and deprivation from of- 
fice. Matters were now brought to a crisis by this de- 
cided step on the part of the queen. Multitudes of 
godly ministers were ejected from their churches and 
forbidden to preach anywhere else. Hitherto they had 
sought reformation within the Church, but now, their 
hopes from that quarter being wholly blasted, they 
came to the resolution in 1566 to form themselves into 
a body distinct from the Church of England, which 
they regarded as only half reformed. 

Elizabeth was enraged to see her royal mandate 
so signally set at naught. The suspended ministers 
took strong ground, and, having separated from the 
Church as by law established, they published a treatise 
in their own vindication, boldly declaring that the im- 
position of mere human appointments, such as the wear- 
ing of particular vestments bv the clergy, was a decided 
infringement on Christian liberty, which it was not 
only lawful but a duty to resist. In the face of perse- 
cution, and under threats of the royal displeasure, the 
Puritans, who, since the Act of Uniformity had been 
passed, in 1562, were sometimes called Nonconformists , 
continued to hold their private meetings. Their first 
attempt to engage in public worship was rudely inter- 
rupted by the officers of justice, and under color of law 
several were sent to prison and were afterwards tried. 
The party, however, continued to increase, and so in- 
fected were the younger students at Cambridge with 
the Puritan doctrines that the famous Thomas Cart- 
wright, with three hundred more, threw off their sur- 
plices in one day within the walls of one college. 

The religious condition of England at this time was 
truly deplorable. “ The Churchmen,” says Strype, in 
his Life of Parker, “heaped up many benefices upon 
themselves, and resided upon none, neglecting their 
cures; many of them alienated their lands, made un- 
reasonable leases and wastes of their woods, granted 
reversions and advowsons to their wives and children, 


or to others for their use. Churches ran greatly into 
dilapidations and decays, and were kept nasty and 
filthy, and indecent for Cod’s worship. Among the 
laity there was little devotion. The Lord’s day was 
greatly profaned and little observed. The common 
prayers were not frequented. Some lived without any 
service of Cod at all. Many were mere heathens and 
atheists. The queen’s own court was a harbor for 
epicures and atheists, and a kind of lawless place, be- 
cause it stood in no parish. Which things made good 
men fear some sad judgments impending over the na- 
tion.” 

To provide a remedy for the ignorance and inefficien- 
cy of the clergy, associations were established in differ- 
ent dioceses for the purpose of conducting “propliesy- 
ings,” as they were called, or private expositions of 
difficult passages of Scripture. These meetings, how- 
ever, excited the jealousy of the queen, who issued an 
order for their suppression. The Parliament seemed to 
be somewhat disposed to mitigate the sufferings of the 
Puritans, and in 1572 two bills were passed having 
that object in view. Encouraged by this movemeut 
in their favor, they prepared a full statement of their 
grievances under the title of an “Admonition to the 
Parliament;” and in this document, which is understood 
to have been the production of Cartwright, the Parlia- 
ment was urged to reform the churches. Instead of 
obtaining redress, several of the leading Puritans were 
imprisoned and treated with great severity. The de- 
cided opposition which the queen had manifested to all 
reform in the Church finally led the Puritans to sur- 
render all hope of any legislative act in favor of their 
views; and being most of them Presbyterians in prin- 
ciple, those of them resident in London and its neigh- 
borhood formed themselves into a presbytery, although 
the step thus taken called forth from the queen another 
proclamation enforcing uniformity. 

In 1572, a Presbyterian Church was formed and a 
meeting-house erected at Wandsworth, in Surrey. Field, 
the lecturer of Wandsworth, was its first minister; and 
several names of consideration with the Puritans, in- 
cluding those of Travers and Wilcox, were among its 
founders. Presbyteries were formed in other parts of 
the kingdom, and numerous secret meetings wore held 
in private houses, Which gave more alarm to the gov- 
ernment, or at least a stronger pretext for severity. 
Even moderate men began to express anxiety. To 
meet the danger, the High Court of Commission was now 
first put in motion. It empowered the queen and her 
successors, by their letters patent under the great seal, 
to authorize, whenever they thought fit, and for as long 
a period as they pleased, a commission of persons, lay 
or clerical, to exercise all manner of jurisdiction, under 
the queen and her successors, in spiritual things; and 
“to order, visit, reform, and redress all heresies, errors, 
schisms, abuses, contempts, offences, and enormities 
whatsoever.” One of its first acts was the violent sup- 
pression of the Presbyterian meeting at Wandsworth ; 
its subsequent labors were of the same character. Not- 
withstanding these severities, Puritanism continued to 
increase; for the persecution which does not extermi- 
nate a religious party never fails to strengthen it. And 
while the cause was gaining strength in London, it was 
taking firm root in the great seats of learning. 

The Puritans were now effectually separated from 
the Church of England, and were organized under a 
different form of Church polity. But the independent 
attitude which they had thus assumed rendered them 
only the more obnoxious to the queen and the Iligh- 
Church party. Stronger measures were accordingly 
adopted to discourage them and destroy their influence; 
many of them were silenced, imprisoned, banished, and 
otherwise oppressed. In 1580, an act of Parliament was 
passed prohibiting the publication of such books or 
pamphlets as assailed the opinions of the prelates and 
defended those of the Puritans. This was followed in 
the same session by another act authorizing the inflic- 


808 


rUKITAXS 


ITIilTAXS 


tion of heavy fines ami imprisonment upon those who 
absented themselves Irom “ church, chapel, or other 
jilace where common prayer is said according to the 
Act of Uniformity.” 

The elfect of these harsh and rigorous enactments 
was to render the Puritans holder and more deter- 
mined. No longer limiting their complaints against 
the Established Church to merely outward rites and 
ceremonies, some of them even went so far as to re- 
nounce her communion, and to declare her as scarcely 
entitled to the name of a Christian Church. Political 
discussion broke in upon religious impiiry. The hie- 
rarchy was assailed, the Prayer-book vilified, and min- 
isters who had been silenced for their irregularities 
were listened to, perhaps with the greater satisfaction 
because of their nonconformity, in the prophesy ings. 
The general religious condition of the country mean- 
while suIVcred greatly. In many counties scarcely one 
preacher could be found. In some dioceses there were 
two or three; there was a general thirst for religions 
instruction, but the people, as the archbishop told the 
,(|iieen, were allowed to perish for lack of knowledge. 
Crindal resolved to take the “ prophesy ings” under his 
own care, and at the same time to remove the causes 
of objection. He therefore forbade the introduction of 
politics, the speaking of laymen, or ministers sup- 
pressed, and tlie allusions, hitherto not (infrequent, 
to matters of government ; and instead of a chairman 
elected by the societies, he placed the meetings for the 
lot ure under the care of the archdeacon, or of some 
grave divine to be appointed by the bishop. Ten 
bishops heartily approved of the primate's decision, and 
encouraged the prophesy ings in their dioceses, lhit 
the queen regarded them with great dislike, and the 
court resolved on their suppression. It was in vain the 
faithful primate remonstrated with the queen. “Alas! 
madam, is the Scripture more plain in any one thing 
than that the tiospel of Christ should be plentifully 
preached ? I am forced, with all humility, and yet 
plainly, to profess that I cannot with safe conscience, 
and without offence to the majesty of Cod, give my 
assent to the suppressing of the said exercises.” In 
vain did the earl of Leicester and the lord- treasurer 
Ilurleigh, who presented the remonstrance, add the 
weight of their intercessions. The queen was enraged, 
and the primate, who was old and sick, was ordered to 
consider himself a prisoner in his own house, and would 
probably have been deprived if death had not stepped 
in to his release. He died July <>, 15*3. Breaching 
fell into contempt, and the Church of England has nev- 
er since entirely recovered from the blow. There lias 
always since this event been a party in the Church 
which has regarded this divine ordinance with real or 
well-feigned contempt. 

One of the leaders of the extreme section of the 
Puritan party was Hubert Brown, who is thought to 
have been the founder of the Independent- or Congre- 
gational Church in England. See Bhowmsts. The 
greater number of tbc Puritans, however, were either 
Presbyterians, or still retained their connection with 
the Church of England. But in all circumstances they 
were the objects of the most bitter and unrelenting hos- 
tility on the part of Elizabeth. The tide of persecu- 
tion ran high and strong. In vain did the House of 
Commons attempt to throw the shield of their protec- 
tion over the poor oppressed Puritans; the queen was 
inexorable, and parliament was compelled to yield. 

In this state of matters all hope of a legislative 
remedy was abandoned, and the Puritan ministers set 
themselves to devise plans for their own usefulness and 
{•tlifiency as Christian teachers. Although many of 
the Puritans thus formed separate sects, a very large 
proportion of them still continued in the Church; and 
very subtle measures were taken by some of their lead- 
rs a lew years later, under Cartwright’s advice and di- 
rection, for the inoculation of the country with Presby- 
terian principles in such a manner as to avoid the for- 


feiture of their benefices. On May x, 15X2, sixty cler- 
gymen from the eastern counties met at Coekfield, in 
iMillblk, of which parish one of them — Knewstub — was 
vicar (oddly enough, Cock field is within a short dis- 
tance of Hadloigh, w here the earliest plans of the Trac- 
tarians were laid), to consult about the ordinary Puri- 
tan platform — “apparel, matter, form, days, fastings, in- 
junctions.” etc. They adjourned to Cambridge, and 
from thence to London, “where they hoped to be con- 
cealed by the general resort of the people to Parlia- 
ment.” At length, under the guidance of Cartwright, 
(he late Margaret professor, and of Travers, afterwards 
Hooker’s opponent, and who was at the time domestic 
chaplain and tutor in the family of lord Burleigh, this 
convocation of Puritan clergy framed the following 
systematic plan for grafting their new' system on that 
of the Church. The document is of sutlicient impor- 
tance to he given at full length : 

“ Concerning Ministers. — Let no man, though lie be a 
university man, offer himself to the ministiy; nor let 
any man take upon him an nncertaiu and vague minis- 
try, though it be offered unto him. 

“But such as he called to the ministry by some certain 
Church, let them impart it unto that Classt's or Conference 
whereof themselves aie, or else unto some greater church 
assembly; and if such shall be found fit by them, then let 
them be commended by their letiers unto the bishop, that 
they may be ordained ministers by him. 

“Those ceremonies in the Book of Common Prayer 
which, being taken from popery, are in controversy 
ought to he omitted and given over, if it may be done 
without danger of being put from ihe ministry. But if 
theie be any imminent danger to be deprived* then ibis 
matter must be coniiniinicaied to the Classis in which 
that Church is, that by the judgment theicof it may be 
determined wlnu ought to he done. 

“If subscription to the Articles oflteligion and to the 
Book of Common Prayer shall be again urged, it is 
thought that the Book of Articles may be subscribed 
unto, according to the statutes 13 Eliz., that is, nnto such 
of them only as contain the sum of Christian faith and 
doctrine of the sacraments. But, for many w eighty canses, 
neither the rest of the Articles in that book nor the Book 
of Common Prayer may be allowed: no, though a man 
should be deprived of his ministry for it. 

“ Concerning Churchtcarihvs. — It seemeth that church- 
wardens aud collectors for the poor might be thus turned 
into elders and deacons. 

“When they me to be chosen, let the Church have 
warniug lift ecu days before of the time of elections, and 
of the oidinnnces of the realm; but especially of Christ’s 
ordinance touching appointing of watchmen nnd over- 
seers in his Church, who are to foresee that none offence 
or scandal do arise in the Church; and if any such hap- 
pen, that by ihein it lie duly abolished. 

“ Of Collectors fur the Poor , or Deacons. — And touching 
deacmis of both soils— viz., men nnd w< men— i he Church 
shall be monished what is required by the apostle; and 
that they are not to choose men of custom ami of course, 

I or of riches, hut for their faith, zeal, and integrity; and 
that the Church is to pray, in the meantime, to be so di- 
rected that they make choice of them that be meet. 

“Let 1 he names of such as are chosen be published the 
next Lord's day, and after that their duties to the Church, 
and the Church's towards them, shall be declined; then 
let them he received unto the ministry to which they are 
chosen with t lie general prayers of the whole Church. 

“0/ Classes The hretliteii are to be requested to or- 

dain a distribution of all churches, according to these 
rules in that behalf that are set down in the* Synodical 
Discipline, touching classical, provincial, coinitial, or of 
commencements and assemblies for ihe whole kingdom. 

“The Classes are to be rcqniied to keep acts of memo- 
rable matters, which they shall sec delivered to the conii- 
tial assembly, that from ’thence they may be brought by 
the provincial assembly. 

“They are to deal earnestly with patrons to present lit 
men whensoever any Chnrclfis fallen void in that classis. 

“The comitinl assemblies are to he admonished to 
make collections for the lelief of the poor and of schol- 
ars, but especially for Ihe relief of such ministers heie as 
are put out for not subscribing to the articles tendered 
hv Inc bishops; also for relief of Scottish ministers and 
others, and for other profitable and necessary uses. 

“All the provincial synods must continually aforehnnd 
foresee in due time to appoint the keeping of their next 
pioviucial synods, and for the sending of chosen persons 
with certain instructions unto the national synod, to be 
holdeii whensoever the Parliament for the kingdom shall 
he called, and at some certain time every year” ( Danger - 
ous Cushions ami Proceedings [1S'J3], p. 40 ; Neal, Hist, of 
the Puritans, i, 34fi). 

A Book of Discipline was prepared for their direc- 
tion in their pastoral work; and this document was 


PUItITANS 


800 


PURITANS 


subscribed by upwards of five hundred of the most de- I 
voted ministers in England. 

The High-Church party now took a bold step in ad- | 
vance. L)r. Bancroft, in a sermon which he preached 
at Paul’s Cross, Jan. 12, 1588, maintained the divine 
right of bishops, thus exposing the Puritans to the 
charge of heresy. The promulgation of a doctrine so 
novel and startling excited the utmost commotion 
throughout all England. Many of the moderate sup- 
porters of episcopacy were not prepared to coincide in 
the extreme view which Dr. Bancroft had taken, and 
the friends of royal supremacy were alarmed lest the 
propagation of such opinions might lead to an infringe- 
ment of the queen’s prerogative as head of the Church 
of England. The Puritans, on the other hand, were for 
a considerable time disposed to treat the whole matter 
with ridicule, and, accordingly, the famous Martin Mar- 
Prelate tracts were issued at this time, characterized by 
the most pungent wit and caustic satire, levelled against 
the bishops and their supporters. These anonymous 
pamphlets were circulated in great numbers through- 
out the country, and read with the utmost avidity by 
all classes of the people. The authors of these clever 
though coarse productions were never discovered, and 
their damaging effect upon the High-Church party was 
only arrested by the seizure of the printing-press from 
which they had been thrown off. 

But the evil which Bancroft wrought was not limit- 
ed to the extravagant assertion of the divine right of 
episcopacy; he persecuted the Puritans with such re- 
lentless fury that in one year three hundred ministers 
were silenced, excommunicated, imprisoned, or com- 
pelled to leave the country. An act was passed for 
the suppression of conventicles on pain of perpetual 
banishment. In short, throughout the whole reign of 
Elizabeth, the Puritans were assailed with the most 
cruel persecution in almost every conceivable form. At 
length, as the life of the despotic queen approached its 
close, the hopes of the oppressed and down -trodden 
party began to revive. The throne, when vacant, was 
likely to be filled by James VI of Scotland, whose edu- 
cation in a Presbyterian country, as well as his avowed 
preference for a Presbyterian Church, was likely to 
predispose him to favor their views. 

March 24, 1603, queen Elizabeth died, and the Scot- 
tish king was proclaimed sovereign of England. The 
Puritans lost no time in taking steps to call the atten- 
tion of the new king to the heavy grievances under 
which they had long labored. As James was travel- 
ling southwards to take possession of the English 
throne, a document, commonly known by the name of 
the Millenary Petition, was put into his hands, in the 
preamble of which the petitioners declared — and hence 
the name — “That they, to the number of more than a 
thousand ministers, groaned under the burden of human 
rites and ceremonies, and cast themselves at his majes- 
ty’s feet for relief.” This petition was signed by seven 
hundred and fifty ministers, which was probably about 
one half of the Puritan ministers in England. As was 
to have been expected, the prelatic party also assailed 
the royal ear with plausible statements of their High- 
Church view's. James professed to have a peculiar 
skill in theological debate, and by w'ay of appearing to 
be impartial, he arranged a public discussion of the con- 
tested points to take place in his presence on an ap- 
pointed day. 'I’li is is well known as the Hampton 
Court Conference , wdiich ended in convincing the Puri- 
tans that they were utterly mistaken in looking for 
protection, not to speak of favor, from the new monarch, 
who had evidently become a sudden convert to Epis- 
copacy, and that, too, of the strongest and most High- 
Church character. 

James had no sooner ascended the throne of Eng- 
land than he began to manifest a disposition to be still 
more tyrannical and despotic than even Elizabeth her- 
sell had been. The High Commission, which had long 
been an engine of the most cruel oppression against the 


Puritans, was continued ; subscription to canons and ar- 
ticles was enforced with the utmost rigor, and those 
ministers who refused to subscribe were silenced or de- 
posed. Thus insulted and oppressed, both by the gov- 
ernment and the dominant party in the Church, the 
Puritans felt it to be important that their true princi- 
ples should be thoroughly understood by the people 
With this view a treatise was published, entitled Eng- 
lish Puritanism, which afforded a full and impartial 
statement of their peculiar opinions. 

The extent to which James was disposed to push the 
royal prerogative was well fitted to awaken alarm both 
in the Parliament and the people. Both civil and re- 
ligious liberty were evidently in danger, and Parlia- 
ment prepared to interfere and to demand redress of 
I grievances which had now become intolerable. “But 
the king,” says Dr. lletlierington, “ met all their re- 
monstrances and petitions for redress with the most 
lofty assertions of his royal prerogative, in the exercise 
of which he held himself to be accountable to Cod alone, 
affirming it to be sedition in a subject to dispute what 
a king might do in the height of his power. The 
Parliament repeated the assertion of their own rights, 
accused the High Commission of illegal and tyrannical 
conduct, and advocated a more mild and merciful 
, course of procedure towards the Puritans. Offended 
with the awakening spirit of freedom thus displayed, 
the king, by the advice of Bancroft, dissolved the Par- 
liament, resolved to govern, if possible, without par- 
liaments in future. This arbitrary conduct on the 
part of James aroused, in the mind of England, a deep 
and vigilant jealousy with regard to their sovereign’s 
intentions, which rested not till, in the reign of his 
son, it broke forth in its strength and overthrew tho 
monarchy.” 

Deprived of all hope of redress, numbers of the Puri- 
tans tied to the Continent, and some of them, having 
there become imbued with the principles of Indepen- 
dency, returned to introduce that system of Church 
polity into England. Thus arose a body of Christians 
which ere long assumed a prominent place both in the 
religious and political history of the kingdom. The 
king, though a professed religionist, was still more a 
politician ; and so completely was the former character 
merged in the latter that he had come to rank all as 
Puritans who dared to limit the royal prerogative or 
to uphold the rights and liberties of the people as es- 
tablished by law and the constitution of the country. 
To the maintenance of despotism in the State he added 
also the fostering of a novel theology in the Church, 
avowing his hostility to the Calvinistic views in which 
he had been reared in Scotland, and bestowing his fa- 
vors upon those of the English clergy who were begin- 
ning to teach Arminian sentiments. The condition of 
the country, both in a political and religious aspect, was 
every day becoming more agitated, and matters were 
fast ripening for a great national convulsion, when the 
death of James, in 1625, and the accession of his son 
Charles 1, arrested the revolutionary .tendencies for a 
time. Additional cruelties, however, were inflicted upon 
the Puritans under the new reign; fresh ceremonies of 
a thoroughly Bomish character were introduced by Laud 
with the royal sanction ; and, in consequence, numbers 
who refused to conform were obliged to seek refuge in 
other countries. 

A few years before the new reign had commenced, 
a body of Puritans, unable longer to endure the perse- 
cution to which they were exposed, had embarked as 
exiles, seeking a new home on the western shores of 
the Atlantic, and had formed a settlement in New r Eng- 
land, destined to be the foundation of a new empire. 
This colony of the Pilgrim fathers (q.v.) received vast 
accessions in consequence of the arbitrary measures of 
Laud. An association for promoting emigration to New 
England was formed on a large scale. Men of rank and 
influence and ejected Puritan ministers of high stand- 
ing encouraged the scheme, and a grant of land from 


PUUITAXS 


810 


PUUITAXS 


the government was applied for. The king was not 1 
opposed to the design, and a patent was obtained for 
the government and company of Massachusetts Hay. 
Emigrants to the number of 200 set sail, and, landing 
at .Salem in 1020, established a new colony there. 
Next year 1500 left the shores of England, including 
manv both of wealth and education. The desire for 
emigration on the part of the oppressed Puritans con- 
tinued to gather strength, and year after year large 
numbers of them proceeded to New England. Neal al- 
leges that had not the civil power interfered to check 
the rage for emigration, in a few years one-fourth part 
of the property of the kingdom would have been taken 
to America. But the government became alarmed, and 
a proclamation was issued “to restrain the disorderly 
transporting of his majesty’s subjects, because of the 
many idle and refractory humors, whose only or prin- 
cipal end is to live beyond the reach of authority.” 
Next day an order appeared to “stay eight ships now 
in the river of Thames prepared to go for New England,” 
and the passengers, among whom was Oliver Crom- 
well, were obliged to disembark. Notwithstanding the 
check thus given to emigration, it is calculated that 
during twelve years the emigrants amounted to no less 
than 21,000 persons. 

The tyrannical conduct of Charles and his minions, 
both in the government and the Church, soon precipi- 
tated the country into all the horrors of a civil war, 
which ended in the death of the king by the axe of 
the executioner, and in the establishment of the Com- 
monwealth under the protectorate of Cromwell. By 
the act of Sept. 10, 1042, it was declared that prel- 
acy should be abolished in England from and after 
Nov. 5, 1G4.3, and it was resolved to summon togeth- 
er an assembly of divines in order to complete the 
necessary reformation. In the meantime, various en- 
actments were passed for the suppression of some of 
the most crying evils, and for affording some support 
to those Puritan ministers who had been ejected in 
former times for nonconformity, or had recently suffer- 
ed from the ravages of the king’s army. It was a re- 
ligious age; and though the people had trampled the 
crown beneath their feet, they showed no disposition to 
depreciate the office of the clergy. Poring the heat 
of the war the Puritans, who almost to a man sided 
witli the Parliament, preached to large congregations; 
and, in all the great towns at least, they had the im- 
plicit ear of the people. Episcopacy being at an end, 
they acted, for a while, according to the dictates of 
conscience or mere taste; the surplice was generally 
laid aside; and extempore prayer was used in the par- 
ish churches even before the ordinance of Parliament 
appeared, in 1045, forbidding the Book of Common 
Prayer. The old Puritanism, however, was now pass- 
ing away. A generation had arisen in whose eyes the 
principles of Cartwright were crude and imperfect. 
They no longer contended against the forms and vest- 
ments, but against the constitution of t lie Church of 
England. Prelacy, by which we understand the epis- 
copacy titled and associated with civil authority, was 
detested; all forms of prayer were decried; and episco- 
pacy, even in its mildest forms, was thought nnscriptu- 
ral. Thus Puritanism, properly so called, became ex- 
tinct because the grounds of the old contention no long- 
er existed. The later Puritans appeared and immedi- 
ately fell into two great parties, Presbyterians (q, v.)aml 
Independents (q. v.). For nine months after the passing 
of the act for the abolition of prelacy there was no fixed 
and legalized form of Church government in England 
at all. Even Charles had consented to the removal of 
the bishops from the House of Lords; and though he 
had not sanctioned the abolition of the. hierarchy, yet 
a large party regarded the measure as called for in the 
circumstances of the country. In this state of matters 
the Westminster Assembly of Divines was convened, 
consisting largely of Puritan preachers who had gradu- 
ally become attached to Presbyterianism. The Inde- 


pendent or Congregational party in the Assembly, how- 
ever, though few in point of number, yet had sufficient 
influence to prevent presbytery from being established 
in England. Throughout the days of the Common- 
wealth Puritanism existed in the form chiefly of Inde- 
pendency. Oil Dec. 25, 1655, Cromwell issued a proc- 
lamation that thenceforth no minister of the Church 
of England should dare to preach, administer the sac- 
raments, or teach schools, on pain of imprisonment or 
exile. After the Perforation of Charles II, in 1002, the 
name of Puritan was changed into that of Xovcon- 
JbiTiilst, which comprehended all who refused to ob- 
serve the rites and subscribe to the doctrines of the 
Church of England in obedience to the Act of Uniform- 
ity. By this act nearly 2000 ministers of the Church 
of England were ejected from their charges and thrown 
into the ranks of the Nonconformists (q. v.). 

It may be proper to mention, in conclusion, the doc- 
trinal Puritans. These formed, in fact, the moderate 
Church party during the reign of Charles I. Their 
leaders were bishops Pavenant. Hall, Williams, and 
Carleton. The title of doctrinal Puritans was fastened 
upon them by the Laudinn party. They held and 
taught the doctrines of the Peformation, in opposition 
to the sacramental system which Laud had recently 
introduced. They entertained no scruples as to the 
forms and ceremonies of the Church of England, to which 
they willingly conformed. But they rejected with in- 
dignation the innovations of the Laudian party, who, 
in return, branded them with the name of Puritans. 
It was an entirely new' application of the word, and 
one against which they did not fail to protest. It 
seems to have been first used about 1025 by bishop 
Montague in a controversy with Carleton. and the lat- 
ter exclaims, “This is the first time that 1 ever heard 
of a Puritan doctrine in points dogmatical, and 1 have 
lived longer in the Church than he hath done. I 
thought that Puritans were only such as were factious 
against the bishops, in the point of pretended disci- 
pline; and so 1 am sure it hath been understood in our 
Church.” The controversies which have ever since ex- 
isted within the bosom of the Church of England now 
for the first time appeared. The construction of the 
baptismal offices became a subject of contention, and 
the whole question of baptismal and sacramental grace. 
The doctrinal Puritans adhered to the ancient forms of 
worship, and for doing so were severely harassed. The 
Laudian party maintained “that whatever rites were 
practiced in the Church of Borne, and not expressly 
abolished at the Peformation, nor disclaimed hv any 
doctrine, law, or canon, were consistent with the Church 
of England.” Under this general maxim they intro- 
duced a multitude of ceremonies — such, for instance, as 
bowing to the east and placing candles on the altar, 
now gorgeously decorated once more — which had long 
been dismissed as badges of popery. Thus in a short 
time a difference was apparent between the two par- 
ties both in doctrinal teaching and in visible forms. 
To complete the quarrel, the Laudians were of the Ar- 
minian school, while the doctrinal Puritans were mod- 
erate Calvinists. For twenty years the doctrinal Pu- 
ritans were subjected to all manner of annoyance; but 
they remained steadfast in their attachment to the 
Church, and when the storm burst upon it they were 
exposed to all its fun'. They took no share in Laud’s 
convocation of 1010, and greatly disapproved of its ar- 
bitrary measures. But the popular rage made no dis- 
tinctions, and the Church Puritans suffered just as 
much as their old opponents of the high prelatie party. 
The Church itself was overthrown; and in the dark- 
ness and confusion that ensued they disappear from 
sight during the civil war. 

The literature of the Puritans, as a religious party, 
consists chietlv of controversial and practical theology, 
and in both its ability is confessed by friend and foe. 
As Whitgift and bis disciple Hooker exhausted the ar- 
gument in favor of episcopacy and a liturgical Church, 


PURITY 


811 


PURNER 


so did Cartwright and Travers that in behalf of Presby- 
terian discipline. The student, alter a wide search 
among the combatants of iater times, tinds, to his sur- 
prise, how insignificant are all their additions to a con- 
troversy opened, and, as far as learning and argument 
can go, dually closed, by the earliest champions on either 
side. Of the practical divinity of Elizabeth’s reign, a 
large proportion was contributed by the Puritans. The 
party embraced men of high rank and general educa- 
tion as well as men of theological learning; and the lit- 
erature of the age bears many tokens of their influence. 
If we descend to the next age, the names of the great- 
est men of the reigns of James, Charles I, and the Com- 
monwealth present themselves as in a greater or less 
degree connected with the Puritans, iselden, White- 
lock, Milton, with their pens; Budvard, Hampden, 
Vane, in Parliament; Owen, Marshall, Calamy, Baxter, 
and a host of others, in the pulpit ; Cromwell, Essex, 
anti Fairfax, in the held — all ranged themselves under 
the Puritan cause. Never was a party more distin- 
guished in its advocates; never w'as a cause lost amid 
more hopeful prospects, or when to human eyes its tri- 
umph was more secure. In 1G50 it was at the summit 
of its pride and power, with the Church of England at 
its feet. Ten years afterwards its influence had passed 
away; and, in the persons of the Presbyterians who 
crossed over to propitiate the young king at Breda, it 
was submissively pleading for its life. See Zurich Let- 
ters; Strype, Life of Cranmer ; Pauli, Life of Whit- 
f/ift ; Brook, Memoir of Thomas Cartwright ; Hall, 
Hard Measure and Shaking of the Olive Tree; White- 
lock, Memorials ; Speeches in this Great and Happy 
Parliament, 1615; History of the Westminster Assem- 
bly; Clarendon, History of the Great Rebellion; Neal, 
History of the Puritans; Heylin, History of the Refor- 
mation, and Life of Laud; Gardiner, History of the 
English Revolution (republished in the excellent series 
of history manuals by Scribner & Co., New York); 
Marsden, Dictionary of Sects and Heresies', and the ex- 
haustive articles in Gardner, Dictionary of Faiths, and 
Blunt, Dictionary of Historical Theology, both of which 
we have freely used. 

Purity, the freedom of anything from foreign ad- 
mixture; but more particularly it signifies the temper 
directly opposite to criminal sensualities, or the ascen- 
dency of irregular passions. See Chastity. 

Purity implies — 1. A fixed, habitual abhorrence of 
all forbidden indulgences of the tlesh. 2. All past im- 
purities, either of heart or life, will be reflected on with 
shame and sorrow. 3. The heart will be freed, in a 
great measure, from impure and irregular desires. 4. 
It will discover itself by a cautions fear of the least de- 
gree of impurity. 5. It implies a careful and habitual 
guard against everything which tends to pollute the 
mind. In the relations of the sexes purity was strictly 
guarded in the early Church. It needed to be so, for 
heathenism around it was one mass of defilement, as the 
first chapter of the Epistle to the Romans, the satires 
of Juvenal, the poems of Catullus, Petronius Arbiter, 
Johannes Secundus, etc., abundantly show. Women 
were, therefore, forbidden to wash in the same bath 
with men. If a clergyman bathed with women, he 
was to be deposed, and a layman so guilty was to be 
excommunicated. A man, by one of the laws of Jus- 
tinian, might divorce his wife if she had been found 
bathing with men. Certain kinds of dancing and 
songs were also strictly forbidden, especially at mar- 
riage feasts, for they were the remains of old pagan 
obscenities. Women, also, were not allowed to keep 
vigils in churches under pretence of devotion, because 
the practice led to secret wickedness, as the council of 
Elvira intimates. Lascivious books were condemned, 
and these at the period must have been common. 
Stage-plays were no less put under ban. Cyprian says, 
“ Adultery was learned by seeing it acted.” To know 
what this means, the reader has only to be referred to 
the English comedies of the reign of Charles II. The 


heathen deities in those primitive times were brought 
upon the stage— the wanton Venus and the rake Jupi- 
ter — and men, as Cyprian sa^vs again, “imitate the gods 
whom they worship.” The impurities of the stage 
| were virtually the “ pomps of Satan,” which Christians 

1 renounced at baptism. For similar reasons intemper- 
ance was reprobated. “Drunkenness and lust,” said 
Tertullian, “ are two devils combining.” Changing of 

j their respective dresses on the part of the sexes was 
also condemned. “ If any woman,” said the council of' 
Gangra, “on pretence of living a religious life, take the 
apparel of men, let her be anathema.” Similar enact- 
ments may be found in more recent times. “ The Gen- 
eral Assembly of the Church of Scotland, by their act, 
July 19, 1649, finding that scandal and abuse arose from 
promiscuous dancing, do therefore discharge the same; 
the censure is referred to the several presbyteries.” By 
the Church discipline of France, c. xiv, art. 27, “those 
who make account to dance, or are present at dancing, 
after having been several times admonished, shall be 
excommunicated upon their growing obstinate and re- 
bellious, and all Church judicatures are to see this act 
put to execution.” By art. 26, “all persons who wear 
habits to have open marks of dissoluteness, shame, and 
too much newness, as painting, naked breasts, and the 
like, the consistory shall use all possible means to sup- 
press such badges of immodesty by censures. All ob- 
scene pictures, which are apt to dispose and incite to 
unclean thoughts and desires, are declared to be most 
improper furniture for the houses of Christians, and 
therefore the users of them may fall under Church 
censure, if they be not removed.” See Taylor, Holy 
Living ; Evans, Sermons on the Christian Temper, ser. 
23 ; and Watts, Sermons, ser. 27 ; Meth. Qu. Rev. April, 
1873, art. ii. — Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. ; Eadie, Eccles. 
Diet. s. v. 

Furkhiser, Micaii Gilbert, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Washington 
township, Clermont County, O., Oct. 15, 1813. In his 
nineteenth year he was converted at a camp -meet- 
ing, and united with the Church. In 1834 he was li- 
censed to preach, and in the following year joined the 
travelling connection in the Ohio Conference, and was 
appointed to Monroe Circuit, in Michigan Territory. 
During the year he rode about 2900 miles, preached 
nearly 200 times, obtained many seals to his ministry, 
and for his living received the modest sum of $47 37£. 
His next appointment was to Spring Arbor Circuit. 
His next charge was as assistant on Georgetown Cir- 
cuit, O. Next he preached on the West Charge, Cin- 
cinnati, and then removed to Batavia Circuit, where he 
labored two years. His subsequent appointments were : 
1841, Fulton, Guvandotte, W. Va. ; Frankfort, West 
Union, Highland, New Lexington, West White Oak, 
New Richmond, Goshen, Clarksville, Highland, Lynch- 
burgh, New Market, Union, Miamisburgh and German- 
town, New Taris, Highland, and Sinking Springs. At 
the conference of 1869 he took a supernumerary relation, 
and he died April 29, 1875. See Minutes of Conferences , 
1875, p. 1 14. 

Purmann, Joiiaxn G.. a German theologian and 
educator, was born Jan. 1. 1733, at Konigsberg. After 
having completed his studies, in 1760 he was appointed 
co-rector at Frankfort-on-the-Main, and in 1770 rector 
of the gymnasium, and there he died, Dec. 11, 1813. 
He wrote, Archceologiee Georgicm Spec, de Re Rustica 
Veterum Hebreeorum (Frankf.-on-the-Main, 1786-87) : 
— Geschichte des Glaubens an einen Gott (ibid. 1795-96, 

2 pts.) : — Fata Doctrines de fmmortalitate .4 nimorum 
(ibid. 1798-1802, 6 pts.): — De Paschate Christ, ex An- 
tiquitate (ibid. 1799): — Xar ratio de Synodo Ecclesiast. 
anno 794. a Carolo M. Francofurti ad Mcenum kabita 
(ibid. 1794, 2 pts.). See Winer, Handbuch der theolog. 
Literatur, p. 717 and Index; Fiirst, Bibl. Judaica, iii, 
124. (B.I>.) 

Punier, John Milton, a minister of the Methodist 


PURPLE 


812 


PURPLE 


Episcopal Church, was born in Cecil County, Mil., March 
31, 1*33. lie was converted at Elkton, Mil., in 1< S 04, 
and was for some time engaged in business at Oxford, 
I’a. In 1858 he felt called to preach, and was made 
assistant pastor on Lewistown Circuit. In the follow- 
ing year he joined the 1’hiladclphin Conference, and 
was made junior preacher on Laurel Circuit, Del., in 
1859, and on Church Creek Circuit, Md., in 1830. In 
1831 and 1*32 he was in charge on Aries Circuit, Md. 
In 1*33 and 1804 he was in charge on Sharptown Cir- 
cuit. Mil., and in 1835 was appointed junior preacher 
on Princess Anne Circuit, Mil., and at the same time 
attended the Biblical Institute, Concord, N. II. In 
1833 he was in charge of Atlantic Circuit, Va., and in 
1837 he preached in Accomac Circuit for a short time, 
whence he was removed by the presiding elder and ap- 
pointed in charge of Princess Anne Circuit, Md. There 
lie closed his labor and his life in September, 1837. 8ee 
Minutes of Conferences, 1837. 

Purple (*|'Cii“N!. urgamdn, from the Sanscrit ruga, 
red; see tlesen. Tfies. s. v.; Chald. cirgevun, 

from the same root, in 2 Chron. ii, 7 ; Dau.'v, 7, 13, 29 ; 
Sept, and Creek Test, irop^vpa , Vul g. purpura) oc- 
curs in Exod. xxv, 4; xxvi, 1, 31, 30; xxvii, 10; 
xxviii, 5, 3, 8, 15, 33; xxxv, 3, 23, 25, 35; xxxvi, 8, 
35, 37; xxxviii, 18, 23; xxxix, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 21, 29;, 
Numb, iv, 13; Judg. viii, 23; 2 Chron. ii, 11; iii, 14; 
Esth. i, 3; viii, 15; Prov. xxxi, 22; Cant, iii, 10; vii, 
5; Jcr. x, 9; Ezck. xxvii, 7, 13, Ecclus. xlv, 10; Bar. 
vi, 12, 72; 1 Macc. iv, 23; viii, 14; x, 20, 32; 2 Macc. 
iv, 38; Mark xv, 17. 20; Luke xvi, 19, .John xix, 2, 
5; Acts xvi, 14; Lev. xvii, 4; xviii, 12, 13. In 
many of these passages the word translated “purple” 
means “ purple cloth,” or some other material dyed 
purple, as wool, thread, etc.; hut no reference occurs 
to the means bv which the dye was obtained, except 
in 1 Macc. iv, 23, where we have 7 Toptpfpa SaXtwoia, 
“purple of the sea” (comp. Diod. Sic. iii, 38: Josephus, 
War, v, 5, 4). There is, however, no reason to doubt 
that it was obtained, like the far-famed Tyrian purple, 
from the juice of certain species of shcli-lish. Ditl'cr- 
ent accounts are given by the ancients respecting the 
date and origin of this invention. Some place it in 
the reign of Pliienix, second king of Tyre, 1>.C. 500; 
others at the time that Minos 1 reigned in Crete, 
B.C. 1439. and consequently before the Exodus (Sai- 
das, s. v. 'UpatcXpr, ii, 73). But the person to whom 
the majority ascribe it is the Tyrian Hercules, whose 
dog, it is said, instigated by hunger, broke a certain 
kind of shell-tish on the coast of Tyre, and his month 
becoming stained of a beautiful color, his master was 
induced to try its properties on wool, and gave his 
first specimens to the king of Tyre, who admired the 
color so much that he restricted the use of it by law 
to the royal garments ( Pollux, Onom. i, 1 ; Achilles 
'Tat ius, l)e Clitojd/.; Pahcphat. in Cl iron . Paschal, p. 
43). It is remarkable that though the Israelites, as 
early as the first construction of the tabernacle in the 
wilderness, appear to have had purple Stull' in profu- 
sion (Exod. xxv, I 4), which they had most likely 
brought with them out of Egypt, yet no instance oc- 
curs in the pictorial language of the Egyptians, nor 
in Wilkinson’s Ancient j fanners and Customs, of the 
actual process of dyeing either linen or woollen, al- 
though dyes similar to the Tyrian were found among 
them. 'These facts agree, at least, with the accounts 
which ascribe the invention to the earliest of these 
two periods, and the pre-eminent trade in it to the 
Tyrians. 'The Hrceks attributed its first introduction 
among themselves to the Phicnicians (Etirip. Phan. 
1197). 'Tlu ir word 0o iVig, Phernir, means both Phce- 
uician and purple. 'The word irop^rpa is, according 
to Martinius. of Tvrian origin. Though purple dyes 
were by no means confined to the Pluenicians (comp. 
Ezck, xxvii, 7, “purple from the isles of Elisha,” sup- 
posed to mean Elis, “ and from Syria,” vcr. 13), yet 


violet purples and scarlet were nowhere dyed so well 
as at 'Tyre, whose shores abounded with the best kind 
of purples (Pliny, Ilist. A 'at. ix, 39, p. 524, ed. llardiiin), 
and which was supplied with the best wool by the 
neighboring nomads. 'The dye called purple by the 
ancients, and its various shades, were obtained from 
many kinds of shell -fish, all of which are. however, 
ranged by Pliny under two classes: one called “bueei- 
num,” because shaped like a horn, found, he says, in 
clills and rocks, and yielding a sullen blue dye, which 
he compares to the color of the angry raging sea in a 
tempest ; the other called *• purpura,” or “ pelagia,” the 
proper purple shell, taken by fishing in the sea, and 
yielding the deep-red color which he compares to the 
rich, fresh, and bright color of deep-red purple roses and 
to coagulated blood, and which was chiefly valued (ibid. 
c. 31,32). The latter is the Mu rex trunculus of Linmeus 
and Lamarck (see iSyst. Xat. p. 1215, and Animaux sans 
Vtrtebres [Paris, 1822], vii, 170). Both sorts were 
supposed to be as many years old as they had spi- 
rals round. Michaelis thinks that Solomon alludes to 
their shape when he says (Cant. vii. 5), “The hair of 
thine head is like purple,” meaning that the tresses 
(Sept. irXuKtov KfQaXiic, Yulg. comee capitis) were tied 
up in a spiral or pyramidal form on the top. Others 
say that the word “ purple” is here used like the Latin 
purpureus, for beautiful, etc., and instance the “ pur- 
purei olores,” “beautiful swans” of Horace ( Carm . iv, 1, 
10), and the “purpureus eapillus” of Virgil (Georg. 1, 
405); but these phrases are not parallel. The juice of 
the whole shell-fish was not used, but only a little thin 
liquor called the flower, contained in a white vein or 
vessel in the neck. The larger purples were broken at 
the top to get at this vein without injuring it, but the 
smaller were pressed in mills (Aristot. Hist. An. v. 13, 
75; Pliny, Ilist. Xat. ix, CO). The Mu rex trunculus 
has been demonstrated to be the species used by the 
ancient Tyrians by Wilde, who found a concrete mass 
of the shells in some of the ancient dye-pots sunk in 
the rocks of Tyre (Narrative [Dublin, 1840], ii, 482). 
It is of common occurrence now on the same coasts 
(Kit to, Physical History of Palestine, p. 418), and 
throughout the whole of the Mediterranean, and even 
of t he Atlantic. In the Mediterranean, the countries 
most celebrated for purples were the. shores of Pelo- 
ponnesus and Sicily, and in the Atlantic the coasts of 
Britain, Ireland, and France. Horace alludes to the 
African (Carm. ii, 13, 35). There is, indeed, an essen- 
tial diflcroncc in the color obtained from the purples of 
dillerent coasts. Thus the shells from the Atlantic are 
said to give the darkest juice ; those of the Italian and 
Sicilian coasts, a violet or purple ; and those of the 
Phoenician, a crimson. It appears from the experi- 
ments of Kcaunmr and Dnhamel that the tinging 
juice is perfectly white while in the vein; but upon 
being laid on linen, it soon appears first of a light- 
green color, and, if exposed to the air and sun, soon 
after changes into a deep green, in a few minutes into 
a sea-green, and in a few more into a blue; thence it 
speedily becomes of a purple red, and in an hour more 
of a deep purple red, which, upon being washed in 
scalding water and soap, ripens into a most bright and 
beautiful crimson, which is permanent. The ancients 
applied the word translated “ purple" not to one color 
only, but to the whole class of dyes manufactured from 
the juices of shell-tish, as distinguished from the vege- 
table dyes (colores herbacei), and comprehending not 
only what is commonly called purple, but also light and 
dark purple, and almost every shade between. Various 
methods were adopted to produce these different colors. 
Thus, a sullen blue was obtained from the juice of 
the buccimim alone ; a plain red, yet also deep and 
brown, from the pelagia; a dark red by dipping the 
wool, etc., first in t he juice of the purpura, and then in 
that of the buccinuni ; a violet (which was the ame- 
thyst color so much valued by the Homans) by revers- 
ing the process ; and another, the most valued and ad* 


PURPLE 


813 


PURPLE 


mired of all — the tyriamethystus — bv again dipping 
the amethyst in the juice of the pelagia. This l J liny 
calls dibapha Tyria; so named, he says, because “bis 
tiucta” (Hist. Xat. ix, 39). No reference to this proc- 
ess occurs in the Scriptures, but it is often alluded to in 
Roman authors. Thus, Horace (Epod. xii, 21): “ Mu- 
rieibus Tyriis iterate vellera lame'’ (the wools with 
Tyrian purple double dyed). Other varieties of color 
may have been produced by the use of various species 
of mollusks, and of those from different coasts. The 
Phoenicians also understood the art of throwing a pe- 
culiar lustre into this color by making other tints play 
over it, and producing what we call a shot color, which 
seems to have been wonderfully attractive (Plinv, ix, 
41). 

Purple was employed in religious worship both 
among Jews and Gentiles. It was one of the colors 
of the curtains of the tabernacle (Exod. xxvi, 1); of 
the veil (ver. 31); of the curtain over the grand en- 
trance (ver. 36) ; of the cphod of the high-priest (xxviii, 
5, 6), and of its girdle (ver. 8) ; of the breastplate (ver. 
15) ; of the hem of the robe of the cphod (ver. 33) ; 
(comp. Ecclus. xlv, 10); of cloths for divine service 
(Exod. xxxix, 1 ; comp. Numb. iv. 13), resumed when 
the Temple was built (2 Chron. ii,7, 14 ; iii, 14). The 
material upon which the Jews used purple and other 
brilliant colors, at least in tbeir sacred paraphernalia, 
seems to have been exclusively iconl, which, it is well 
known, takes colors better than linen. See Taber- 
nacle. Pliny records a similar use of it among the 
Romans; “ Diis advocator placandis” (Hist. Xat. ix, 
60 ; Cicero, Epist. ad A tiicum, ii, 9). The Babylonians 
arrayed their idols in it (Jer. x, 9; liar, xii, 72). It 
was at an early period worn by kings (Judg. viii, 26). 
Homer speaks as if it were almost peculiar to them (II. 
iv, 144; 1 Mace, viii, 14). Pliny says it was worn by 
Romulus and the succeeding kings of Rome, and by 
the consuls and first magistrates under the republic. 
Suetonius relates that Julius Csesar prohibited its use 
by Roman subjects, except on certain days; and that 
Nero forbade it altogether, upon pain of death. The 
use of it was bestowed by kings upon favorites, ete.; 
Josephus saj-s by Pharaoh on Joseph (,4»f. ii. 5, 7). 
It was given by Ahasuerus to Mordecai (Esth. viii, 
15); to Daniel by Belshazzar (Dan. v, 7, 16,29). It 
was the dress of an ethnareh or prince, and as such 
given by Alexander to Jonathan (1 Mace, x, 20, 62, 64, 
65; comp. 2 Macc. iv, 38). In the last chapter of the 
Proverbs it. is represented as the dress of a matron 
(ver. 22). It was at one time worn by Roman ladies 
and rieli men (Livy, xxxiv, 7, and Valerius Max. ii, 1). 
See also the parable of the rich man and Lazarus (Luke 
xvi, 19). In Esth. i, 6, it appears as part of the royal 
furniture of Ahasuerus; and in Cant, iii, 10, as the 
covering of the royal chariot.; and Pliny refers to its 
general use, not only for clothes, but carpets, cushions, 
etc. (ix,39). The robe in which the Praetorian guard ar- 
rayed the Saviour, called \\aftvQ kokkiv)) by Matthew 
(xxvii, 28), and irop<pvpa by Mark (xv, 17, 20), and 
i fiartov jroprpopovv by John (xix, 2), and which ap- 
pears to have been the cast-off sagum of one of their 
officers, was no doubt scarlet— that is, proper crimson, 
as will hereafter appear — of a deeper hue and liner 
texture than the sagum or cldamvs of the common 
soldier, but inferior in both respects to that of the 
emperor, which was also of this color in the time of 
war, though purple during peace. The adjectives used 
by the evangelists are, however, often interchanged. 
Thus a vest, which Horace (Sat. ii, 6, 102) calls “rubro 
cocco tincta,” in 1, 106 he styles “purpurea.” Brau- 
nius shows that the Romans gave this name to any 
color that had a mixture of red (De Vestitu Sacerdo- 
tum [Lugd. Bat. 1680], i, 14). Ovid applies the term 
“purpureus” to the cheeks and lips (.4 mor. i, 3). In 
Acts x, 14, reference is found to Lydia, of the city of 
Thvatira, a seller of purple cloth. The manufacture 
seems to have decayed with its native city. A col- 


| onv of Jews which was established at Thebes in Greece 
in the 12th century carried on an extensive manufac- 
tory for dyeing purple. It ultimately became super- 
I seded by the use of indigo, cochineal, etc., whence a 
cheaper and finer purple was obtained, and free from 
the disagreeable odor which attended that derived from 
shell-fish (Martial, i, 50, 32). The method of the an- 
cients in preparing and applying it, and other partic- 
lars respecting its history, uses, and estimation, are 
most fully given by Pliny (Hist. Xat. ix, 36-42). The 
best modern books are Amati, I)e Restitutione Purpu- 
rarum (3d ed. Cesena, 1784) ; the treatise by Ca- 
pelli, De Autiqua et. Xitpera Purpura, with notes; and 
Don Michaele Rosa, Dissertazione delle Porpore, etc. 
(1768). See also Dictionnaire des Sciences Xat it relies, 
xliii, 219, etc. ; Boehart, edit. Rosenmilller, iii, 675, etc. ; 
Heeren, Historical Researches, translated (Oxford, 1833), 
ii, 85, etc. Steger, De Purpura, Sacra: Diynitatis Insiy- 
ni (Lips. 1741). 

Crimson (lleb. karmil', a Persian word akin 

to Sanscrit krimi, Eng. crimson. It occurs in 2 Chron. 
ii, 7-14; iii, 14, Sept. kccvm'Oc, Vulg. coccinum). This 
word is by some supposed to signify another kind of 
shell -fish, yielding a crimson dye, so called because 
found on the shore near Mount Carmel. If so, these 
words (Cant, vii, 5), “ thine head upon thee is like 
Carmel,” may contain another reference to the shape 
of some sort of purpura (Boehart, iii, 661, etc.). Gese- 
nius says it is a word belonging to later Hebrew, and 
most probably of Persian or Armenian origin. — Kitto. 

The purple dye itself was a liquor, contained in a 
vein situated in the neck of the animal, which when 
first opened resembled cream in color and consistence. 
Small shells were collected and bruised in mortars, but 
the larger ones were opened singly, the fluid carefully 
removed, and mingled with salt to prevent decomposi- 
tion. It was diluted with five or six times as much 
water, and kept moderately hot in leaden or tin ves- 
sels for eight or ten days, during which the liquor was 
often skimmed, to separate all the impurities. After 
this, the wool to be dyed, being first well washed, was 
immersed, and kept therein for five hours, then taken 
out, cooled, and again immersed, and continued in the 
liquor till all the color was exhausted (Thomson, / list, 
of Chemistry, i, 91). Prior to the researches of Mr. 
Wilde, noticed above, it had been concluded that the 
purpura of Pliny was the Murex truncvlus of Lin- 
ineus from indirect evidence. The bueciuum of the 
same ancient writer is thought to be the Purpura pa- 
tula of Lamarck: and probably the P. lapillus, one of 
the most abundant of species on the rocky shores of Eu- 
rope, including Great Britain, may have been the chief 
of the smaller sorts. It has been supposed by some 
that the eonchylium of Pliny, which gave a paler and 
bluer purple, was our Janthiuu frayilis but this is out 
of the question, because though this snail-like mollusk 
discharges a violet fluid, it is exceedingly volatile, and 
therefore wholly unfit for dyeing, whereas unalterable 
permanency characterized the Phoenician purples, Sca- 
laria clathrus, another European shell-fish which dis- 
charges a coloring fluid, is liable to the same objec- 
tion, unless the ancients had some mode of fixing what 
we find evanescent.- Colonel Montagu instituted some 
experiments on this. “The purple juice,” he says, 
“ may be collected either from the recent or dried 
animal, by opening the part behind the head; and as 
much can be procured from five individuals as is suf- 
ficient, when mixed with a few drops of spring-water, 
to cover half a sheet of paper.” Neither volatile nor 
fixed alkali materially affects it; mineral acids turn it 
a bluish green or sea-green ; sulphuric acid renders it 
a shade more inclining to blue; vegetable acids prob- 
ably do not affect it. since cream of tartar did not in 
the least alter it. These colors, laid on paper, were 
very bright, and appeared for some months unchanged 
by the action of the air or the sun ; but being exposed 


PURPLE 


814 


PURPLE MANUSCRIPT 


for a whole summer to the solar rays in a south win- chemical means as were at hand; and it was found that 
dow, they almost vanished. The application of al- after the color was fixed at its last natural change, ni- 
kali to the acidulated color always restores it to its Irons no more than vitriolic acid had any other effect 
primitive state, and it is as readily changed again by than that of rather brightening it; aqua regia, with or 
mineral acid (Montagu, Testacea Iirit. Supp. p. 1:22). without solution of tin, and marine acid, produced no 
The circumstance that the fluid effused by Janthina change; nor had fixed or volatile alkali any sensible 
and Scolaria is purple from the first is conclusive effect. It does not in the least give out. its color to 
against its being the purple dye of the ancients, who alcohol, like cochineal, and the sneens of the animal 

of Turbo (Scolaria) clathrus ; but it communicates its 
very disagreeable odor to it most copiously, so that 
opening the bottle has been more powerful in its effects 
on the olfactory nerves than the effluvia of assafietida, 
to which it may be compared. All the markings which 
had been alkalized and acidulated, together with those 
to which nothing had been applied, became, after wash- 
ing in soap and water, of a uniform color rather brighter 
than before, and were fixed at a tine unchangeable crim- 
son” ( Test. Iirit. Supp. p. lUti). The changes of color are 
absolutely dependent on the stimulus of light. Dr. 
Bancroft found that linen stained with the fluid of 
the Purpura might be kept for years shut between 
tell us distinctly that this was white or cream -like the leaves of a book without any visible change, which 
while within the vein. This agrees accurately with at the expiration of its incarceration presently passed 
the genera Murex and Purpura, as may be readily test- through all the changes, under the influence of light, 
ed in the case of /’. lupillus, to a glowing purple (On Pennon. Col. i. 145). Heau- 
thc common dog -whelk of miir asserts that the immature egg -capsules of the 
the British coast. Montagu same moilusk will yield the dye more abundantly, and 
thus records the result of his with more facility, than the animal itself (Hist. Acad. 
experiments on this species: Sri. 1711). It would appear as if the knowledge of 
“The part containing the this art had never been lost, but had been perpetu- 
eoloring-matter is a slender ated even in (treat Britain from the classical ages, 
longitudinal vein, just under Bede, in the 8th century, alludes to it familiarly, and 
the skin on the back, behind with admiration of the brilliancy and permanency of 
the head, appearing whiter the hue {I list. Tories. A up. i, 1); and Richard of Ci- 
than the rest of the animal. The fluid itself is of the col- rencester speaks of it in the 14th ( Descr . of Brit. p. 28). 
or and consistence of cream. As soon as it is exposed to About the same time the following description was giv- 
the air it becomes of a bright yellow, speedily turns to cn in a translation of Higdon's Polyehronicon : “T her is 
a pale green, and continues to change imperceptibly, aliso of shol that we dyetli with fvne reede. The reed- 
nntil it assumes a bluish cast, and then a purplish red. nessc thcr of is wondre fayre and stable and stcyn- 
Without the influence of the solar rays, it will go eth nevvr with eolde ne with hete ne with dric but 
through all these changes in the course of two or three ever the eldcre the hew is fayrere” (Of Bretayne , i, 
hours; but the process is much accelerated by expos- 88). Three hundred years later the art was practiced 
ure to the sun. A portion of the fluid, mixed with for profit by persons on the coast of Ireland, who guard- 
diluted vitriolic acid, did not at first appear to have ed it as an heir-loom secret, (’ole. however, found that 
been sensibly affected; but, by more intimately mix- the Purpura lapillns was the shell employed. — Fair- 
ing it in the sun, it became of a pale purple, or pur- bairn. See Bible Educator , iii, 327 sq. , iv, 217 ; and 
plish red, without any of the intermediate changes, comp. Count. 

Several marks were now made on fine calico, in order Purple Manuscript (Codex Ptnrx'RF.rs, some- 
t<> try if it were possible to discharge the color by such i times called "the Cotton M S’.,” variously designated as 

rp 5 ToyAoroyoy 

ercuenTONy 
Ml H’Oyi<GCT.H 

Aoy^o c m 

T'oyKY^V 

Specimen of the Codex Purpureus (containing John xv, 20: top \oyov ov | tarov ii|/uuv’ ovk to rti | 

/Jit’" I TOV a^TOv). 


I IZL*-" 

T or 



Dog-whelk — Purpura 
lapillns. 



Tyrian Rock-shell — Murex trunculm. 


PURPOSE OF GOD 


815 


PURVEY 


N, J, and P of tlio Gospels), a beautiful uncial MS. of 
the Greek Gospels, of which only twelve leaves remain : 
four of these (containing Matt, xxvi, 57-65; xxvii, 26- 
34; John xiv, 2-10; xv, 15-22) are in the Cotton Li- 
brary ( Codex Cottonianus , the “J” of Wetstein) of the 
British Museum ; two (containing Luke xxiv, 13-21, 
and 34-39) are in the Imperial Library at Vienna (“N” 
of Wetstein and others); and six (containing Matt, xix, 
6-13; xx, 6-22; xx, 29-xxi, 19) are in the Vatican Li- 
brary at Borne (called “ F” by Scholz). These arc writ- 
ten in silver letters (now turned black), occasionally in 
gold letters, on purple vellum, in a large round hand, 
and in two columns, with the Ammonian sections and 
Eusebian canons in the margin. The date is of the 
end of the 6th or the beginning of the 7th century. 
Some of the fragments were collated in part by Wet- 
stein and Scholz, and the whole were accurately pub- 
lished by Tischeiulorf in his Monumenta Sacra Inedita 
(Lips. 1846). See Tregelles, in Horne’s Introd. iv, 177 ; 
Scrivener, Introd. p. 110 sq. See Manuscripts, Bib- 
lical. 

Purpose of God. The word purpose is common- 
ly used and preferred to the word decree when God’s de- 
termination regarding man’s relation to eternity is re- 
ferred to. The word purpose owes its use to the fact 
that it is more comprehensive and expresses the idea of 
intelligent design, and therefore more clearly and with 
less of prejudice sets forth the true scope of the divine 
government. See Predestination. 

Purpureus, Codex. See Purple Manuscript. 

Purse (O^S, kis, Prov. i, 14; a “bag” for money, 
Isa. xlvi, 6, or for weights, Dent, xxv, 13: Prov. xvi, 
1 1 ; Mic. vi, 1 1 ; fiaXavriov, Luke x, 4 ; xii, 23 [“bag”] ; 
xxii, 35, 36; but £u»pi/. Matt, x, 9; Mark vi, 8, is the 
girdle, as elsewhere rendered). The Hebrews, when on 
a journey, were provided with a bag, in which they 
carried their money (Gen. xlii, 35; Prov. i, 14 ; vii, 20; 
Isa. xlvi, 6), and if they were merchants, also their 
weights (Dent, xxv, 13; Mic. vi, 11). This bag is va- 
riously termed in lleb. 0"'2, kis (as above); “I’PS, tse- 
i dr; and charit. The last occurs only in 2 

Kings v, 23 (“bags”); Isa. iii, 22 (A. V. “ crisping- 
pins”). The latter is supposed to refer to the long, 
round form of the purse. The money-bag is described 
in the New Test, by the terms f SaXavnov (as above, 
peculiar to Luke x,4; xii, 33; xxii, 35, 36), and yXwa- 
erutcopov (peculiar to John xii, 6; xiii, 29). The former 
is a classical term (Plato, Conch', p. 190, e, abairaara 
fiaXdvna); the latter is connected with the classical 
yXioaooKopuov, which originally meant the bag in 
which musicians carried the mouthpieces of their in- 
struments. In the Sept, the term is applied to the 
chest for the offerings at the Temple (2 Chron. xxiv, 8, 
10, 11), and was hence adopted by John to describe the 
common purse carried by the disciples. The girdle also 
served as a purse, and hence the term £«5i7/ occurs in 
Matt, x, 9, Mark vi, 8. See Girdle. Ladies wore 
ornamental purses (Isa. iii, 23). The Babbinists for- 
bade any one passing through the Temple with stick, 
shoes, and purse, these three being the indications of 
travelling (Mishna, Berachoth, 9, § 5). — Smith. See 
Bag; Money. 

Purslain. See M allows; White of an Egg. 

Purtenance ("“;£, ke'reb, midst, or inner part) 
stands improperly in one passage of the A.V. (Exod. 
xii, 9) for the viscera, or “inwards” (as elsewhere ren- 
dered), of a sacrificial victim. 

Piuu, in Ilindvt mythology, was the son of Jajadu 
and of Devajani, the daughter of a Brahmin. He was 
the boldest warrior in the army of the Devas during 
their struggles against the daemons and giants: he dis- 
tinguished himself by the terrible use he knew how to 
make of his war-hatchet. There was another Puru— 
the first king of India from the family of the Children 


of the Moon: his father, Buddha, was the son of the 
Moon. He is the forefather of the whole dynasty of the 
Children of the Moon, who were all celebrated rulers, 
and seemed to have founded on the upper Ganges an 
eternal empire. The kings Dushmanta, Kuril, Drita- 
rashtra, Pandu, etc., belonged to this family, in which 
Krishna was born several times. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. 
Mythol. s. v. 

Purus, in Hindu mythology, was the name of the 
first man created, the Adam of the Indians. The name 
of his wife was Pargute. See Puru. 

Purver, Anthony, a Quaker preacher of great note 
for his remarkable literary attainments, especially his 
exegctical knowledge, was born at Up Hurstbourne, in 
Hampshire, about 1702. He was originally appren- 
ticed to a shoemaker, but later he was employed in 
keeping sheep. Though his early education was very 
limited, his capacity and inclination for the acquisition 
of learning were very great. lie found leisure for study, 
and his curiosity being excited by the perusal of a tract 
■ in which some inaccuracies of the A. V. were pointed 
out, he determined to study the original languages of 
the Scriptures. He secured the assistance of a Jew in 
the acquisition of Hebrew, Chaldee, etc., and other aid 
for learning Greek and Latin. He joined the Society 
of Friends, and preached among them. While labor- 
ing as a schoolmaster at Andover, he occupied him- 
self in preparing a new version of the Scriptures; and 
this, after spending more than thirty years over it, he 
published by the aid of Dr. Fothergill, who gave him 
L'1000, and carried it through the press at his own ex- 
pense. It appeared in 1764, entitled A New Transla- 
tion o f the Old and New Testaments, with Notes, Critical 
and Explanatory, in two volumes folio, beautifully got 
up. Notwithstanding the enormous labor bestowed 
upon it by its author, and though there is now and 
then a better rendering to be found in it than in the 
A. V., Purver’s translation, as a whole, is not of much 
critical value. The style is crude and bombastic, the 
very reverse of what might have been expected from a 
member of the society whose language is so simple; 
while the notes, though containing much valuable mat- 
ter, abound in contemptuous expressions about the la- 
bors of others in the same department. Purver’s Bible 
is therefore deservedly scarce. He died in 1777. See 
Orme, Biblioth. Bibl. s. v. ; Kitto, Bible Diet. s. v. ; Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. .4 uthors, s. v. (J. 1 1. W.) 

Purvey, John, the friend and fellow - laborer of 
Wycliffe, with whom he lived in his latter years. His 
denunciations of the errors of the Romish Church, as 
well as his endeavors to make the Bible accessible to 
the people at large by translating it into English, drew 
upon him the severest penalties which it was in the 
power of the hierarchy to inflict. He was forbidden, by 
a mandate of the bishop of Bristol, dated August, 1387, 
to preach in the diocese where he officiated after the 
I death of Wycliffe; his hooks were declared to be errone- 
ous and heretical, and were among those which the bish- 
ops of Worcester, Salisbury, and Hereford were author- 
ized to seize (May 29, 1388 , Jan. 18, Dec. 16, 1389). Some 
years after, however, he made a recantation at St. Paul’s 
Cross (Sunday, March 6, 1401), and was admitted (Aug. 
1 1, 1401), on the presentation of the archdeacon of Can- 
terbury, to the vicarage of West Ilythe, in Kent, which 
he resigned Oct. 8, 1403. lie then returned to the sim- 
ple teaching of the Bible, denouncing the erroneous doc- 
trines of the Church, for which he was again imprisoned, 
and in 1421 recanted a second time, at Saltwood, before 
archbishop Arundel. He is supposed to have died about 
1427. Purvey immortalized his name through his 
translation of the Scriptures into English. As the Bible 
of late translated by Wycliffe required correction, he 
tells us, in the general introduction, that he undertook 
to make the version more faithful, intelligible, and pop- 
ular. The plan which he adopted to effect this, ac- 
cording to his own description, was as follows: With 


PURVEYOR 


S1G 


PUSEYISM 


the assistance of several fellow-laborers he (1) corrected 
the Latin text by comparison of Bibles, doctors, and 
glosses; (2) studied the text thus corrected with the 
gloss and other authorities, particularly De Lyra on 
the Old Test.; (3) made special reference to the works 
of grammarians and theologians for the meaning of dif- 
ticult words and passages; and (4) did not translate lit- 
erally. hut according to the sense and meaning as clear- 
ly as he could, taking care to have many persons of 
ability present at the correction of the translation. lie 
inserted numerous textual glosses in the Old Test., and 
only occasionally omitted those of Wye] i He’s version, 
hut made no such insertions in the New Test., and care- 
fully excluded all the glosses which were introduced 
into the former version. That lie improved upon Wyc- 
li lie's translation is beyond doubt, as may be seen from 
a comparison of the following passages in the respective 
versions: (Jen.ix, 13; Exod. xxix, 2; Dent, xxxii, 2 ; 
xxxiii, 7; Josh, v, 15; vi, *25; dob x, 1 ; xi, 12; xiv, 12; 
Matt, xii, 5; xiii,52; 1 Cor. iii, 13-15; which arc point- 
ed out l>v the erudite editors, the Rev. Josiah Forshall j 
ami Sir Frederic Madden, who for the first time publish- 
ed this early English version, together with Wy (Title’s j 
translation, in an entire form, in parallel columns, 4 1 
vols. 4to, Oxford t T ni versify Press, 1850. Purvey ’s 

translation of the New Test, was first published by 
Lewis (Loud. 1731, fob) as Wvcliffe’s translation; it 
was then erroneously reprinted as Wvelift'e’s by Baber 
(Lon cl. 1.310, 4 to"), and by Bags ter in the English Uex- 
upla. Comp. Eoxe, The . 1 els and Monuments, Towns- 
end’s ed. (Loud. 1314), iii, 2-3.5, 292. 3*22, 82<>; and the 
elaborate preface by Eorsliall and Madden to their edi- 
tion of Wyelifte’s and Purvey’s translations of the Bible. 

Ki t to, ( 'yclop. s. v. 

Purveyor. This word is not found in the A. V., 
although it would perhaps represent the meaning of the 
1 lob. -!I3, nitstsab ', in 1 Kings iv, 5, 7, rather than the 
word vnSa-oTrt/cf i’oi, or the similar “officers’’ of our ver- , 
sion. 'I’he Hebrew word, however, is the Niphal (pas- 
sive) participle of the word -123, natsah’, to put or sta- 
tion, and is literally translated by the (ircek, which has 
the same meaning, the appointed. Solomon divided his 
kingdom into twelve parts, and these men were placed, 
one over each province, to procure provisions for the 
king’s household. Thus he was enabled to entertain 
foreigners, and to support a vast number of wives, ser- 
vants, and attendants (Patrick. Comment, ad loc.). The 
number twelve refers, not to the. tribes, hut the mouths 1 
of the year, each being required to furnish the provi- 
sions of a month. These collections probably corre- 
sponded to tax-gathering among the moderns. Patrick 
thinks the officers were merely purchasers; but Kitto 
regards this as an error (Kitto, Piet. Bible, ad loc.). 
Boscum idler calls these ollicors bead collectors of taxes 
(.1//. u. n. Moryeuland, iii, and Ewald thinks they 
were stewards of the royal domains; but Theniiis ( F.xey, 
JIandb. ad loc.) holds that they were officers of higher 
rank, of whose duties the supply of the royal table form- 
ed only a part. Josephus calls them >)ytfu\vt<j (Ant. 
x- iii, 2, I). Sec P.MJisrtXK; Solomon. 

Puseyism is one of the names by which the ritual- 
istic movement of the Church of England and her off- 
spring is sometimes designated, hut it is properly de- 
scriptive only of the followers of the much-celebrated 
Oxford professor in theology, the Ucv. Dr. E. B. l’usey. 
Though he was by no means alone in originating the 
movement to which his name has been given, the Pusey- 
ites now form a very different class from that which or- 
ganized and kept alive what is known as the Traetarinn 
movement, ami of which we have treated in the art. 
OXKCltll* Tu.u TS (l|. v.). 

Tlic Tractarians advocated the acceptance hv the 
Church of England of the doctrines of Apostolical Suc- 
cession, Priestly Absolution, Baptismal liegeneratiun, 
the Ileal Presence, the Authority of the Church, and of 


Tradition. “Scripture and tradition,” says one of the 
Tractarians, “taken together, are the joint rule of faith” 
(No. 73. p. 2, English ed.). “Consentient patristical 
tradition,” says Keble in his Sermons, “ is the record of 
t hat oral teaching ol’thc apostles which the Holy Spirit 
inspired.” By this patristic tradition, which these trac- 
tarians extolled as an infallible interpretation of Script- 
ure and test of doctrinal truth, they understood the 
voice of Catholic antiquity, or the voice of the theolo- 
gians of the Nicene age, of the -1th century; and yet a 
j majority of them were at one lime devoted to the Arian 
'heresy. For example, Fronde says, “Your trumpery 
principles about Scripture being i lie sole rule in funda- 
mentals, I nauseate tbc word" (i. 413). Thus, having 
broken away from the corner-stone of Protestantism, it 
was easy for them to accept the Iiomisli view of the 
sacraments (q. v.), restoring also the old Romish num- 
ber of seven ( Tract 90), and affirming with the Church 
of Rome that “the sacraments, and not preaching, are 
the sources of divine grace." Says Mr. Dennison, “I 
understand the Tractarian doctrine of the sacraments 
to be this: 

“I. That man is ‘made a member of Christ, the child 
of God, and an inheritor of the kingdom of heaven,’ in 
and by holy baptism. 

“II. That man ‘made a member of Christ, the child of 
God, and an inheritor of the kingdom of heaven,’ in and 
by holy baptism, is renewed from time to time in holy 
communion. 

“III. That ‘a death unto sin and a new birth unto 
righteousness* are given to every adult and everv infant, 
in and by the outward visible sign or form in baptism, 
‘water in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and 
of the Holy Ghost.’ 

“IV. That the gift may he received, in the case of adults, 
worthily or unworthily, but that it is always received. 

“ V. That the body and blood of Christ are given to 
every one who receives the sacramental bread and wine. 

“VI. That the gift may be received worthily or unwor- 
thily, but that it is always received.” 

“Antiquity, "wrote the author of Tract 90, “continually 
affirms a cfianye in the sacred elements ' ’ (p. 73). Palnu r, 
in bis Letter to a Protestant Catholic, declared that “tbc 
bread ami wine are changed by the consecration of the 
priest and the operation of the llolv Ghost, and become 
the very body and blood of our Lord” (p. 30). “The 
table is properly an altar,” said their organ, the British 
Critic, “and altars presume a propitiatory sacrifice” 
(July, 1341, p. 24).* With such views of the sacra- 
ments evangelical views on regeneration were impossi- 
ble for the Tractarians, and there need be no surprise 
that they stigmatized the grand Protestant doctrine 
of justification by faith alone as a “Lutheran heresy.” 
“Whether any one heresy.” says the C) (tie, “has ever 
infested the Church so hateful and unchristian as this 
doctrine [of justification], it is perhaps not necessary to 
determine: none certainly has ever prevailed so subtle 
and extensively poisonous. We must plainly express 
our conviction that a religious heathen, were lie really 
to accept the doctrine which Lutheran language ex- 
presses, so far from making any advance, would sustain 
a heavy loss in exchanging fundamental truth for fun- 
damental error” (No. lxiv, p. 391). Again, speaking of 
the Tractarian party, this open confession is made: 
“ We cannot stand where we art 1 ; we must go backward 
or forward, and it will surely be the latter. As we go 
on, we must recede more and more from the principles, 

! if any such there be. of the English Reformation” (No. 
lix. p. 45). “The Reformation,” says Fronde (i. 433), 
“was a limb badly set; it must be broken again, in 
order to be righted." “ I’tterly reject and anathema- 
tize the principle of the Reformation as a heresy, with 
all its forms, sects, and denominations.” says Palmer 
( Letter to C< 'lightly, p. 9). 

t * This inference is undoubtedly correct, and as Christ is 
not sacrificed in Protestant churches, the table on which 
the sacramental elements are placed ought not to be 
termed an altar, but a table. Allan* are not congenial to 
j the spirit of Protestantism ; and as t he thing was wisely 
I discarded by the Reformers, the inline also should be 
! dropped. 


PUSEYISM 


817 


PUSEYISM 


The Tractarian movement terminated with New- 1 
man’s secession to Rome, but its effect remains in sev- I 
eral visible results: the revival and strengthening of 
the High-Church party, which still maintains, to a great 
extent, the principles advocated in the Tracts; the in- 
troduction of various alterations in the mode of perform- 
ing divine service, such as the use of the surplice in- 
stead of the gown, intoning the prayers and singing the 
responses, the elevation of the communion-table into an 
altar, the substitution of low, open benches for high l 
pews; a remarkable impulse given to the building and , 
restoration of churches, and the revival of Gothic archi- 
tecture in all parts of England ; the secession of many 
English clergy and laity, some of them men of consider- 
able ability and distinction, to the Church of Rome; 
and the establishment of colleges and sisterhoods, and 
other religions and charitable institutions, under Epis- 
copal auspices. 

Dr. Pusey himself, in his earlier years, inclined to that 
Protestant view of Christianity according to which all 
things and ceremonies acting on the senses must be re- 
moved from the Church (see his Rise and Decline of 
Rationalism in Germany ). But he gradually turned 
away from that system in which the heart and soul are 
sustained by the intellectual appreciation of theological 
truths, and came to accept another which is dependent 
upon the outward actions of the body — one which 
abounds in observances, reaching the heart through the 
medium of the senses, and encouraging a habit of devo- 
tion by the use of bodily action. This change in Puscv’s 
ideas is attributed to the influence of his friend, John 
Henry Newman, and in the year 1833 Pusey accepted 
the confession of faith and practice drawn up by New- 
man. The publication of writings called Tracts for the 
Times was in 1841 interdicted by the bishop of Oxford, 
but the ninety that had reached the public gave a clear 
insight into the new religious tendencies. Newman, 
Pusey, and their friends wished no fusion with the Ro- 
man Church, some of the tenets of which filled them 
with actual horror; but they tried to introduce into the 
English Church, the origin of which they did not ap- 
prove and the decay of which they acknowledged, such 
doctrines as the Romish Church has distinctively pre- 
served. Newman tried, in consequence, to conciliate 
the Thirt} r -nine Anglican Articles with the resolutions 
of the Council of Trent, in w hich, of course, he did not 
succeed, as he could satisfy neither of the parties, Cath- 
olics nor Anglicans. Newman was made aware that 
his position between the two churches was a false and 
untenable one, and he passed over to Romanism. His 
example was followed by several ecclesiastics and pro- 
fessors of the High Church, and by men belonging to 
the first families of the kingdom. Pusey, how'ever, has 
persevered in his former course. He and his followers 
have remained to this day in the Anglican Church, the 
situation of which they do not despair of mending. But 
they discard the name by which they are generally des- 
ignated as a class. In 1870, I>r. Puse 3 r himself wrote 
respecting this party-name as follows: “I never was a 
party leader, I never acted on any system. My name 
was used first to designate those of us who gave them- 
selves to revive the teaching of forgotten truth and j 
piety, because I first had occasion to write on baptismal 
regeneration ; but it was by opponents, and not b} r con- 
federates. We should have thought it a note against us 
to have deserved any party name, or to have been any- 
thing but the followers of Jesus, the disciples of the 
Church, the sons and pupils of the great fathers whom 
he raised up in her. I never had any temptation to try 
to form a party, for it was against our principles. . . . 
Then, personally, I was the more exempt from this 
temptation, because God has given me neither the pe- 
culiar organizing abilities which tempt men to it, nor 
any office — as that of an archdeacon — which would en- 
title me directly to counsel thus. . . . My life, contrary 
to the character of party leaders, has been spent in a 
succession of insulated efforts; bearing, indeed, upon 
VIII.— F F F 


one great end — the growth of Catholic truth and piety 
among ns, or, contrariwise, resistance to what might 
hinder, retard, or obscure it; but still insulated” (. Eiren- 
icon , iii, 338). 

The Puseyites have adopted from the Romish Church, 
without assenting in a general way to her dogmas, a 
number of ritual institutions, and even some points of 
faith. They affix to their churches portable crosses; 
have burning tapers on their altars; adorn chasubles 
and Prayer-books with crosses; have a Latin choir; 
and, what is more than these exterior conformities, they 
have declared for the Romish doctrine about the situa- 
tion and power of the Church, and about the sacraments, 
the number of which they have increased ; they also 
introduced auricular confession. In the doctrine of jus- 
tification, where it was first intended to deviate from 
the Roman Catholic tenets, the resolutions of the Tri- 
dentinum were finally admitted as a base. The Pusey- 
ites went even the length of acknowledging in the pope 
a pre-eminence of spiritual honor and authority; they 
say that, as patriarch of Rome, not only his spiritual, 
but also his temporal authority extends over Italy ; that 
the Church of England is bound to recognise it; and 
that all decrees of the Council of Trent may be authori- 
tatively construed in such a sense as to make them ac- 
ceptable to the Anglican Church. The Puse 3 *ites call 
themselves Catholics, a branch of the universal Catholic 
Church : they object most decided h* to being called 
Protestants. They regard the Church as one organic 
body, and primitive apostolic Christianity as a mere 
germ or seminal principle, to be developed and properly 
matured in the progress of ages. They adopt as such 
legitimate additions to Biblical Christianity obvious 
gross corruptions, which gained currency in the Church 
in different centuries, and were taught by leading fathers 
or councils — a practice which “throws an uncertainty 
about the lineaments of Christianity, and opens the 
door for every species of error that designing men ma 3 r be 
inclined to adopt, while it enables the so-called Church 
Catholic to justify every one of her errors, both doctri- 
nal and ritual” (Sclnnucker). Another gross appendage 
sometimes associated with this theory of development is 
that Christ has placed himself in some kind of physical 
connection or concorporation with the mass of his dis- 
ciples, the Church, by which his body nourishes them in 
some im-stical manner through the Eucharist, and fur- 
nishes the germ of their resurrection body. Though 
Newman, still before his perversion, recommended, in 
the Ninetieth Tract for the Times, the acceptance of the 
doctrines of purgatory, of the invocation of saints, and 
of papal authority, Pusey has persisted in rejecting 
them. He also rejects the worship of Mar 3 r , the use 
of Latin in the mass, and the communion in one form 
(corap. Puse 3 *, A Letter to his Grace the Archbishop of 
Canterbury [Oxf. 1842], and The Holy Eucharist [ibid. 
1843]). As Pusevism is in progress among the culti- 
vated classes of England, especially among the clergy, 
and as it is thought to be only a forerunner of Catholi- 
cism, it is combated b 3 T the English bishops with admo- 
nitions, speeches, and disciplinary measures. They do 
not tolerate the rites introduced by the Pusey ite eccle- 
siastics, and pronounce them a “mixture of Romanism 
or popery.” They ordain no student of divinity if sus- 
pected of Puse\ T istic tendencies. At the University of 
Oxford, the seminar of the High-Church clcrg 3 r , the 
antagonism of Puse\ntes and anti-Puse 3 r ites has broken 
out so openly that there is a storm of both parties on 
every vacant professorship. Pnseyism has its represen- 
tatives in the most influential literary papers : the Quar~ 
terly Review has published a scries of articles in favor of 
the Puse 3 r ite innovations. The chief adversaries of the 
Puseyites, or Anglo-Catholics, are the Evangelicals, a 
party which originated in Methodism — the latter be- 
ing opposed both to the Puseyites and to the Episcopa- 
lians. If we compare the judgment of the English 
papers of different colors on the religious situation of 
Great Britain, and especially on Pusevism, we find a 


818 


PUSHTU VERSION 


PUTEOLI 


great diversity of appreciations. The radical press of 
the Dissenters, averse to Anglicanism, rejoices at its 
visible decay, and attributes the embarrassment of the 
Church to the circumstance that, owing to the opposi- 
tion of the bishops, reformation could not completely 
achieve its work. It could only produce an imperfect, 
undecided form, and was smothered in the arms of an 
exterior political priesthood. The Tory papers original- 
ly advocated Puseyism, in which they saw a support for 
the lligh-Cluirch ; but they soon changed their mind: 
they agree with the Whig papers on this point that the 
manner in which philosophy is taught at the Universi- 
ty of Oxford is the cause of these religious phenomena. 
It is thought that the facility with which so many 
leave the lligh-Chnrch for Puseyism, and from Pusey- 
ism step over to llomanism, is due to the miserable sit- 
uation of philosophical studies in general, and espe- 
cially in the latitudinarianism of the Aristotelian logic 
which is taught at Oxford, and of the Platonic mysti- 
cism after the scholastic fashion. Others expect from 
Puseyism a regeneration of the lligh-Chnrch and of the 
whole Anglican religious situation. See Petri, W'iirdi- 
gnng ties 1 1 'esens unci Her Bedeutuny lies Puseyismus (Gott. 
1843); Sclilcycr, Der Puseyismus nach seinem Ersprung 
vnd uls Lehrsystem (Freib. 1.845); Hurst’s Ilagenbach, 
Church Hist. 1 Htk and 19 th Centuries , ii, 392 sq. ; Selui- 
maker, Elemental Contrast (Gettvsb. 1852); Oarbett, 
Pusey and the University o f Oxford (1847) ; Taylor. .1 n- 
cient Christianity and the Doctrines of the Oxford Tracts 
for the Tvnes (Loud. 1844, 3 vols.); Fletcher, Lectures 
on the Principles of the Homan Catholic Church and of 
Puseyism (Lond. 1846); Boyd, England, Home, and Ox- 
ford (Loud. 1846); Saville, A Letter to Her. Dr. Pusey 
on Auricular Confession (Bond. 1878); Dorner, Hist. 
Prof. Theol. ii, 488 sq., 504 sq. ; London Academy, 1873, 
p. 87; Nov. 14, 1874, p. 529; Ch. of Engl. Qttar. Her. 
duly, 1855, art. vii ; Amer. Presb. Her. Oct. 1861 ; Bez, 
Sfudien u. Kritiken , 1838-47 ; Brit, and For. Rev. 1844, 
p. 5; 1846, p. 189; Christian Remembrancer, Jan. 1866, 
p. 164; Oct. 1868, p. 381. (J. 11. W.) 

Pushtu Version. Pushtu is the language spo- 
ken in Afghanistan (q. v.), in Asia; lienee it is also 
called Afghan . We have not as yet a complete ver- 
sion of the Holy Scriptures. The New Testament was 
first translated by the I lev. J. Bdwenthal (d. 1861), a 
convert from Judaism. Besides the New Testament, the 
historical books of the Old Testament have been pub- 
lished by the Serampore A1 ission. At present the Bcv. T. 
I*. Hughes, of the Church Missionary Society at Pcsha- 
wer, is preparing a translation of the Old Testament in 
Pushtu, 'flic committee of the British and Foreign Bible 
Society had some sheets of his 3\IS. printed hv the zinco- 
photographic process, to be submitted to Afghan schol- 
ars with a view of having the whole work printed in the 
same manner. For the study of the language, comp. 
Bellow, A Dictionary of the Pnkkhto or Pukshto Lan- 
guage, on a Xcw and Improved System (Lond. 1867) ; t lie 
same, .1 Orammar of the Pnkkhto or Pukshto Language 
(ibid. 1867); Poverty,.! Dictionary of the Pukhto, Push- 
to, or Language of the A fghans ; with Remarks on the 
Originality of the Language, and its AJJinity to the Se- 
mitic and other Oriental Languages (ibid. I860) ; the 
same, .1 Grammar of the Pukhto, Pushto, or Language 
of the Afghans (ibid. I860); Selections from the Poetry 
of the A fghans (ibid. 1862) ; The Gulshan-i-Roh : being 
S> fictions , Prose and Poetical, in the Pashto or Afghan 
Language (ibid. I860;; The Poetry of the Afghans, 
from the 1 ()/h to the BV/i Century (ibid. *1863); Dorn, .1 
(' hrestomuthy of the Pushtu or Afghan Language (St. 
Petersburg, 1847). and bis contributions to The Pushtu 
Grammar in the Mi-moires de V Academic Imperia/e ties 
Sciences de St.-Pelersbourg (ibid. 1840, 1815); F. M tiller, 
Die t 'onjugatinn des .1 cghdnischen I 'erbums (Wien, 1867) ; 
Ether die Sprache der 1 cghdnen (ibid. 1862-63); 1C. 
Trumpp, Grammar of the Pashto, or Language of the 
Afghans, compared with the Iranian and : Xorth-Indian 
Idioms (Tubingen, 1873). (B. P.) 


I Pusillanimity is a feebleness of mind, bv which 
one is terrified at mere trifles or imaginary dangers, un- 
authorized by the most distant probability. 

Puspadanta, in Hindu mythology, was one of the 
celebrated twelve Buddhas who were particularly wor- 
shipped by the Jainas. lie was the son of Sugriva 
and of lloma, from the family of Ikswaku. He is rep- 
resented as a man ending in the body of a fish. — Yoll- 
mer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Pustkuclien-Glanzow, Fu. Crn., a Herman 
theologian of some note, nourished as pastor at Wiebels- 
kirehen, near Treves, lie was born Feb, 4, 1793, at 
Dot mold, and died Jan. 2, 1834. He wrote, Die Erge- 
schichte der Mensch licit in ihrtm rollen Cmfuvge (Lemgo, 
1821): — IJistorisch-kritische Untersnchung der bibl. Er- 
geschichte (Halle, 1823): — Wiederherstellung des iichten 
Protestant ismus, etc. (Hamb. 1827): — l)er Beruf des 
evangel. Pfarrers nach stinem Z week u. Wesm, etc. (Bar- 
men, 1832): — Grundziige des Christenthums (Hamb. 1827, 
3d ed.) : — Glaubens- u. Sittenlehre (Barmen, 1831-33, 2 
vols.) : — M aria, oder die Erbmmigkeit der Weiber (Hamb. 
1827, 2d ed.) : — Kirche, Schuk u. Hans (Elbcrfeld. 1832). 
See Winer, IJandbuch der theolog. Literatur , p. 717 (see 
Index); Fiirst, Bibl. Judaica, iii, 124; Ziich old, Bibl. 
Theologica, iii. 1022; Diestel, Gesch. des Allen Testa- 
ments, p. 726, 733, (B. P.) 

Piistricli, an ill -shaped Slavonic idol: it is of 
bronze, ami hollow. It represents a small, chubby boy 
holding one of his hands over his head. The head has 
two holes, one at the top, the oilier at the place of the 
mouth. It is believed that the priests used this figure 
to terrify the people by the spectacle of an infuriated 
deity. It was filled with water, and, the holes being 
stopped, put on a fire: in due time the stoppers were 
driven out of the holes with considerable noise and tre- 
mendous eruption of steam and boiling water. Other 
more modern investigations would lead to the conclu- 
sion that the chubby god was nothing hut an instrument 
of distillery. — Yollmer, IPor/erA. 1 1. Mythol. s. v. 

Put (l Chron. i, 8; Nah. iii, 9). bee Phut. 

Pute'oli (Hra*cized Jlor/oXoi [Acts xxviii, 13], hut 
in classical Greek often IlourfoXot; a Latin word, from 
pvteus, a well, on account of the wells or sources of a 
volcanic origin with which it abounded), a maritime 
town of Campania, in Italy, on the northern shore of 
the hay of Naples, and about eight miles north-west 
from that city. Here Paul landed on his way to Borne 
(Acts xxviii. 13). As above noted, it derived its name 
from its tepid baths, and the district in which they 
j exist is now called Terra di Lavoro. The earlier name 
of Puteoli, when the lower part of Italy was Greek, was 
Dictrurchia ; and this name continued to be used to a 
late period. Josephus uses it in two passages (.4 m/. 
xvii, 12. 7 ; xviii, 7, 2); in a third (Life, 3), he speaks 
of himself (after the shipwreck which, like St. Paul, be 
bad recently gone through) as cuimoStig tic Ti)r Ai- 
Kinapy-inv, lIori(i\oi>c lruXoi vaXocatv. So Philo, 
in describing the curious interview which lie and bis 
fellow Jewish ambassadors had here with Caligula, uses 
the old name (Legal, ad Caium, ii. 521). Its Boman 
history may he said to have begun with the Second Punic 
War. It was a favorite watering-place of the Bomans, 
ns its numerous lmt -springs were judged efficacious 
for the cure of various diseases. It was also the port 
where ships usually discharged their passengers and 
cargoes, partly to avoid doubling the promontory of 
Circeinm, and partly because there was no commodious 
harbor nearer to Borne. Hence the ship in which Paul 
was conveyed from Mclita landed the prisoners at this 
place, where the apostle stayed for a week (Acts xxviii, 
13). In connection with St. Paul's movements, we must 
notice its communications, in Nero's reign, along the 
mainland with Borne. The coast road leading north- 
ward to Simtessa was not made till the reign of Domi- 
tian ; but there was a cross-road leading to Capua, and 


PUTEOLI 


819 


PUTEOLI 



Map of the Bay of Puteoli. 



there joining the Appian 'Wav. See Three Taverns. 
The remains of this road may be traced at intervals; 
and thus the apostle’s route can be followed almost 
step by step. We should also notice the fact that there 
were Jewish residents at Puteoli. We might he sure 
of this from its mercantile importance ; but we are pos- 
itively informed of it by Josephus (Ant. xvii, 12, 1) in 
his account of the visit of the pretended Herod-Alex- 
ander to Augustus; and the circumstance shows how 
natural it was that the apostle should find Christian 
“brethren” there immediately on landing. From this 
port it was that the Roman armies were despatched to 
Spain, and here the ambassadors from Carthage land- 
ed. It had the privileges of a 
colony from a very early period, 
and these were successively re- 
newed by Nero and Vespasian, 
the latter bestowing on the place 
the title of Colonia Flavia. Pu- 
teoli was at that period a place 
of very great importance. We 
cannot elucidate this better than 
by saying that the celebrated 
bay a part of which is now 
“ the bay of Naples,” and in 
early times was “the bay of 
Cumae,” was then called “ Sinus 
Puteolanus.” The city was at 
the north-eastern angle of the 
bay. Close to it was Baiae, one 
of the most fashionable of the 
Roman watering-places. The 
emperor Caligula once built a 
ridiculous bridge between the 
two towns; and the remains of 
it must have been conspicuous 
when St. Paul landed at Pu- 
teoli in the Alexandrian ship 
which brought him from Malta. 

See Castor and Pollux; Mer- 
ita; Uhegium; Syracuse. In 
illustration of the arrival here 
of the corn-ships we may refer 
to Seneca (Ep. 77) and Sueto- 
nius (Octav. 98). No part of the 
Campanian shore was more fre- 
quented. The associations of 
Puteoli w r ith historical person- 
ages are very numerous. Scipio 
sailed from hence to Spain. Cic- 
ero had a villa (his “Puteola- 
num”) in the neighborhood. 

Here Nero planned the murder 
of his mother. Vespasian gave 
to this city peculiar privileges, 
and here Hadrian was buried. 

In the 5th century Puteoli was 
ravaged both by Alaric and 


Genseric, and it never afterwards recovered its former 
eminence. It is now a fourth -rate Italian town, still 
retaining the name of Pozznoli. 

The remains of Puteoli are considerable. The aque- 
duct, the reservoirs, portions (probably) of baths, the 
great amphitheatre, the building called the temple of 
Serapis, which affords very curious indications of 
changes of level in the soil, are all well worthy of no- 
tice. But our chief interest here is concentrated on 
the ruins of the ancient mole, which is formed of the 
concrete called Pozzolana, and sixteen of the piers of 
which still remain. No Roman harbor has left so solid 
a memorial of itself as this one at which St. Paul land- 


Mole of Puteoli. 


PUT I EL 


820 


PYGARG 


cd in Italy. Here, too, was the statue erected to Tibc- ' 
rius to commemorate his restoration of the Asiatic cities 
destroyed by an earthquake, and of which statue the 
pedestal with its inscription remains almost entire to 
this day. See Mazzella, Situs et Antiquitas Puteol. in 
(.■toy ill's and Burnam, The sour. ix, pt. iv; Bomanelli. 
Yiagyio a Pozznoli (Naples, 1817); Jorio, Guida <li 
Pozzuoli (ibid. 1830); Liiwcnigb, Die Landschafl Poz- 
zuoli (Aachen, 1841) ; Lew in, St. Paul, ii, “218 sq. See 
Italy; Bail. 

Pu'tiel (llcb. Putiel', afflicted of God; , 

Sept. •honrti/X), the father of the wife of Kleazar the 
priest and the mother of Phinchas (Exod. vi, 25). B.C. 
cir. 1619. In modern Jewish traditions Putiel is con- 
founded with Jethro the Midianite, “who fatted the 
calves for idolatrous worship” (Targum Pseudojon. On 
Kxod. vi, 25; Gemara of Sot a by Wagcnscil, c. viii, 
§ 6 ). 

Putnam, Franklin, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Marietta, (>., July 22, 1801. After receiving a 
good academical training, he entered Athens College, 
()., and graduated with honor in 1823. During the last 
year of his college course lie was converted, and though 
up to this time the law had been the object of his stud- 
ies, the (lospel now became his all-absorbing hope. lie 
entered the Theological Seminary at Auburn, N.Y., and 
in 1826 was licensed bv Oneida Presbytery, N. Y. In 
1827 he returned to Ohio, and was appointed to labor 
as a missionary and evangelist to the feeble churches in 
Springfield, Urban a, and Buck Creek, O. Subsequently 
he accepted a call to Springfield Church, and was or- 
dained and installed pastor by Dayton Presbytery; 
here lie labored for eighteen months, when lie accepted 
a call to the Church in Dayton, O. In 1837, at the di- 
vision in the Church, he resigned, and accepted a call to 
Cireleville, O., where he continued to labor for over six 
years, when, by reason of paralysis of one half of his 
body, lie resigned his charge, and removed to Dela- 
ware, (). Here, after devoted care on the part of his 
family, his health was restored, and he resumed preach- 
ing and ministered to the Church at Delaware, and sub- 
sequently at Tiffin, Greenville, and Ucpublic, O., and 
Thorntown. Iml. lie died at the latter place Oct. 11, 
1859. Mr. Putnam was a logical thinker, and full of 
zeal for the cause of Christ; an excellent pastor, ever 
ready in sorrow to administer comfort and consolation. 
See Wilson, Presh. Hist. A Imanac, 1861, p. 1G2. (J. L. S.) 

Putnam, George, D.D., a Unitarian minister of 
the Old School, was born in Massachusetts in 1808, and 
was educated at Harvard University, class of 1826. lie 
early entered the ministry, and finally became pastor at 
lloxbury, Mass., where lie sustained a pastorate of 
nearly half a century, enjoying not only the warm af- 
fection of his own people, but the highest respect and 
confidence of the whole community. Away from home 
also Dr. Putnam wielded a very wide influence in all 
directions, and lie was beloved by men of every relig- 
ious school in an eminent degree. Dr. Putnam was 
more than an ordinary man. lie was not only pos- 
sessed of the most noble personal characteristics, but 
was endowed with excellent scholarship, remarkable 
intellectual powers, and great wisdom in judgment, lie 
w’as always vigorous, fresh, and often very eloquent in liis 
pulpit discourses. For years his Fast-dav and Thanks- 
giving services were largely attended by visitors from 
what was then the adjoining city (Boston), to listen to 
his thoughtful and powerful discussions upon public 
and national questions. A shock of paralysis in 1872 
warned him that the period of his vigor was terminat- 
ing, and he was obliged to consent to have a younger 
associate with him in the pastorate. For the last two 
years before his death, which occurred in 1878, he was 
able to render service only at the marriage or funeral 
of some one of his beloved parishioners, who, in these 
joyful and painful domestic :eras, especially welcomed 
even the trembling voice of their old pastor. From 


1849 to 1856 Dr. Putnam was editorially connected with 
the Christian Examiner. lie published a number of 
separate sermons, orations, etc. 

Putnam, Jonathan W., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Leyden, N. Y., July 
31, 1815. lie was converted at the age of twelve, and 
was received into the Methodist Episcopal Church, lie 
was licensed to exhort in 1835 ; in 1836 he received li- 
cense to preach. He travelled four years in the Now- 
Jersey Conference, ami then went to the ’Wisconsin 
Conference. In 1856 lie was transferred to the Kast- 
(lencsce Conference, and stationed at East Palmyra. 
Afterwards he was successively appointed to Tyrone, 
Catharine, Southport, Jackson, Canton. Pittsburgh, 
Dresden, and Middlesex, lie bad just begun the work 
of the second year on this last charge, with good prom- 
ise of success, when death overtook him on Sept. 9, 
1871. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1872, p. 130, 
131; Northern Christian Advocate. 1871. 

Putsha, in Hindu mythology, is the name of the 
small, bloodless sacrifices, consisting of fruits and flow- 
ers, which were offered to the genii, as well as to the 
three great gods. 

Putshiari, in Hindi! mythology, is the name of 
the Brahmins who, after twelve years' study, determine 
to devote their lives entirely to the gods, and in conse- 
quence attach themselves to some pagoda. 

Puxis is the box in which the consecrated hosts for 
the sick are preserved. See Pyx. 

Puzza is a Chinese goddess who has some resem- 
blance to the Cvbele of the Creeks and the Isis of the 
Egyptians. The bonzes relate that three genii of the 
female sex descended once from their heavenly abode 
to enjoy a bath in an earthly stream. The water had 
scarcely touched their bodies when the most beautiful 
of them perceived on her garment a lotos-plant, with 
blossoms and fruit, and could not imagine whence the 
plant had come. She could not resist the desire of 
tasting the fruit ; but this was attended with evil con- 
sequences, for behold a little son was born from her at 
the same moment. .She brought him up, and when 
lie had reached the years of maturity she returned to 
heaven. This nymph was Puzza; and. as her offspring 
became a mighty ruler of the heavenly empire of China, 
she was worshipped as the queen of the world, the 
mother of all that is good, and the supporter of all that 
is living. Puzza is represented with eighteen arms, 
sitting on a flower, and her head surrounded with au 
aureola. — Yollmor, Wbrterh. d. Mythol . s. v. 

Pyer, John, an English minister who labored suc- 
cessively with the Weslcyans and the Independents, 
was born in 1790. lie began his labors as a tent mis- 
sionary, devoting himself entirely to the connected 
evangelistic work. After the tent ceased to be the 
property of the Methodist body, he built a chapel at 
Manchester, where he remained nine years. As lie 
changed his doctrinal views, he abandoned t lie Wes- 
leyan Church, and joined the Congregationalists. For 
the succeeding four years lie was agent of the London 
Christian -Instruction Society. Ill - health finally re- 
quired him to seek a loss laborious position, and lie be- 
came the Congregational pastor of South Molton. Later 
he removed to Cork, and in 1839 accepted a pastorate 
at Devon, where lie remained the last twenty years of 
his life, and died in 1859, laborious and active to the 
very last: he was found by the servants lifeless, having 
literally fallen asleep in Jesus. Pyer was the w riter of 
a few useful hymns; among them, "Met again in Je- 
sus’ name,” which is found in the New Congregational 
Ilgmn-book, No. 803. 

Pygaig (-("""Tj. dish on, from dush, to tread, 

or perhaps diets, to leap; Sept. irvyapyog, Yulg. 
pt/gargus) occurs only ( I lent, xiv, f»> in the list of clean 
animals, being the name apparently of some species of 
antelope, though it is by no means easy to identify it. 


PYGARG 


821 


PYNCHON 


The Greek irvyapyog denotes an animal with a li white 
rump,” and is used by Herodotus (iv, 192) as the name 
of some Libyan deer or antelope. iElian (vii, 19) also 
mentions the wbyapyog, but gives no more than the 
name; comp, also Juvenal (Sat. xi, 138). It is usual 
to identify the pygarg of the Greek ami Latin writers 
with the addax of North Africa, Nubia, etc. ( Addax 
nasomaculatus ), known to the ancient Greeks under 
the same title ( Oryx addax, Lieht.), which has been 
recognised as a beast of chase in the old Egyptian 
sculptures. It is widely spread over Central Africa, 
extending to the borders of the Nile in Nubia, and is 
well known to the Arabs, who still distinguish it by 
its ancient name, with the familiar prefix of Abu, or 
father — Father Addas. The addax is a coarse and 
heavy antelope, three feet high at the withers, with a 
large clumsy head and stout legs. The horns exist in 
both sexes, are long, twisted outwards, covered with 
rings nearly to the points, which are sharp ; the tail is 
long and tufted. The head and neck are of a deep red- 
dish brown color, with a band of white across the face; 
the forehead and throat are clothed with coarse black 
hair, and all the rest of the body and limbs is of a 
whitish gray hue. It is one of that group of antelopes 
in which we may clearly discern an approach to the 
bovine race. See Ox. 



Addax Antelope ( Oryx addax). 

Against this identification of the dishon with the ad- 
dax, however, there are some considerable objections. I 
In the first place, this antelope does not present at all 
the required characteristic implied by its name; and, 
in the second, there is much reason for believing, with 
Eiippell (Atlas zu der Reise im nord. Afrika, p. 21) and 
Hamilton Smith (Griffith’s Cuvier’s Anim. Kingdom, iv, 
193), that the addax is identical with the strepsiceros 
of Pliny (A r . II. xi, 87), which animal, it must be ob- 
served, the Roman naturalist distinguishes from the 
pygargus (viii, 53). Indeed, we may regard the iden- 
tity of the addax and Pliny’s strepsiceros as established ; 
for when this species was, after many years, at length 
rediscovered by Hemprich and Ruppell, it was found to 
be called by the Arabic name of akas or adas, the very 
name which Pliny gives as the local one of his strepsi- 
ceros. The pygargus, therefore, must be sought for in 
some animal different from the addax. The required 
characters seem to be found in a group of antelopes de- 
scribed by Mr. Bennett (Trans. Zool. Soc. vol. i). They 
have many peculiarities in common with the group 
which includes the spring-bolt ( Antulorcas euchore ) and 
the houte-hok ( Damalis pygargd), those fine white- 
rumped species of South Africa, but are distinguished 
by the characters of the horns, which are larger, thick- 
er, more bovine, and of bolder curvature, turning first 
almost horizontally backwards, and then hooked ab- 
ruptly forwards. The legs are long, the neck long and 
slender, and there is a white patch on the throat in all 
the species. The group is confined to the northern 
half of the African continent. The best-known species 
is the mhorr (Antilope nihorr, Bennett), which stands 


two feet eight inches high at the croup. The horns 
are ringed from the base about half-way up, whence to 
the tip they are round, smooth, and obtusely pointed. 
The expression of the face is gentle; the eye large, 
dark, and liquid. The tail is long, close-haired at the 
base, but tipped with a tuft of long black hair — a very 
ox-like character. The general hue of the coat, which 
is short and sleek, is a deep brownish red; the line of 
the belly and the inner surface of the limbs are white- 
But the whole region around the base of the tail is pure 
white, abruptly separated from the dark red of the flanks; 
the patch running forwards in a point on each hip, and 
downwards on the posterior surface of the thighs. The 
strong contrast of the two colors has a very singular 
effect, and would probably be seized on to form a de- 
scriptive appellation. Two males of this beautiful spe- 
cies were sent to the Zoological Society from Morocco; 
they were not, however, indigenous to that country, 
but had been brought from the eastern side of the des- 
ert. The species is hunted by the Arabs for the sake 
of the stomachal concretion called bezoar, to which it is 
peculiarly subject, and which is so highly valued in 
Oriental pharmacy. These stones are called in Mo- 
rocco baid el-mhorr, or mhorr’s eggs. There is, how- 
ever, another species, considerably larger than the 
mhorr, but having the same general form and the same 
distributions of the colors. It is the addra (.1. rvfi- 
collis), a fine beast found in the wastes of Nubia by 
Ruppell, and by Hemprich and Ehrenberg in Dongola. 
This animal stands about three feet three inches high 
at the croup, and is five feet four inches in length. It 
is seen in considerable flocks on the eastern borders of 
the Great Desert, and may well have been the pygarg 
of the ancients. — Smith ; Eairbairn. See Tristram, 
A 'at. Hist, of the Bible, p. 126; Wood, Bible Animals, p. 
141 sq. ; Bible Educator, ii, 24, 135, 167. Comp. Ante- 
lope. 

Pygmies of Western Africa. The existence 
of pygmy races of human beings in Africa has often 
been asserted, and many circumstances less easily cred- 
ible than their diminutive size have been reported. Du 
Chaillu has recently discovered the actual existence of 
a pygmy race, but of whom the diminutive size is the 
only remarkable characteristic. He found them in the 
mountainous country on the east of the southern great 
branch of the Ogobai. They are called Obongos, and 
live in the midst of negro tribes of ordinary stature. 
They showed extreme timidity on being visited by a 
white man. In stature they are only about four feet 
and a half. They subsist chiefly on animal food, but 
partly also on the roots, berries, and lints which they 
find in the forests. In their mental calibre, these pyg- 
mies vary as greatly as ordinary races. Hence there is 
no settled theory as to their religious tendency, some 
of them comprehending their religious need, while oth- 
ers seem to be almost void of any religious conscious- 
ness. See Pre-Adamitf.s ; Religion. 

Pyle, Thomas, an eminent Anglican divine, was 
born at Stodey, near Holt, Norfolk, in 1674. He was 
educated at Caius College, Cambridge, and, after tak- 
ing holy orders, distinguished himself as minister of St. 
Margaret’s parish, in King’s Lynn. He was afterwards 
made prebendary of Salisbury by Dr. Hoadly for his 
services in the Bangorian Controversy. His Pai'aphrase 
on the Acts and all the Epistles is an excellent work, of- 
ten reprinted. He published, besides, Pai'aphrase of 
the Books of the Old Testament (Lond. 1717-25, 4 vols. 
j 8vo) : — The Scripture, Preservative against Popery (ibid. 

! 1785): — and three volumes of Sennons. He died at 
j Lynn in 1757, greatly respected and highly admired in 
j all England for his excellency in purpose and superior- 
! ity in scholarship. See Hook, Eccles. Biog. viii. 172; 

I Gentlemans Magazine (Lond. 1783), p. 659, 692 ; Nich- 
I ols, Literary Anecdotes. 

Pynclion, William, an English divine, was born 
| in the second half of the 16th century, and, after mi- 


PYXE 


822 


PYRAMID 


It ^ <§3 


grating to this country, settled at Eoxbnry, Mass., in the pyramids was co- 
1630, aged 71 or 73. In 1637 lie removed to Springfield, oval with that of the 
Mass, lie finally returned to England, and died at city. It is probable awwvw 
',V, ra - v r! ,ur - v ' lie published, that the title of being In , h of Mentphta. 

The Meritorious Trice of Christs Redemption (Lond. the budders of them, 

1650 and 1655, 4to) ; which was so heretical in tendency and the honor of being buried in them, were given 
that it offended t lie Puritanic fathers, and was burned to the monarchs bv whom they were finished. The 
on the Coin mini by order of the authorities of Massa- pyramids are solid mounds raised over the sepulchral 


chusetts : — The Jc iris' Si/nof/or/ue (1652, 4to ): — Time 
inifl Manner how the First Sabbath was Ordained , etc. 
(1654, 4to). 

Pyne, Smith, 1 ).!)., a clergyman of the Protestant 


chambers of the kings, the first act of an Egyptian 
monarch being to prepare his future “eternal abode.” 
For this purpose, a passage of the size of the intended 
sarcophagus was first hollowed in the rock at a suit- 

... . , . o T i i i ?ia 'i U able incline to lower it, and at a convenient depth a 

Episcopal C hurch, was a native of Ireland, and was ed- . . , , . ’ . , • , 

, .. c . .. , , . .. . . I rectangular chamber was excavated in the solid rock, 

ucated at Eton and Oxford. England. Alter arriving ... f f 

. . . . . , . . ... , Over this chamber a cubical mass of masonrv, of square 

in this country lie studied theology, and was admitted . , , . . . 

. , , , *, ... blocks, was then placed, leaving the orifice ol the shaft 

to holy orders by bishop Hobart in 1X26. lie was in ’ 1 i: ’ , t t M 

turn rector of a parish at Elizabeth, X. J. ; Christ 


open. Additions continued to be made to this cubical 
mass both in height and breadth as long as the mon- 
arch lived, so that at his death all that remained to be 
done was to face or smooth the exterior of the step- 
formed mound. But in some cases the masonry passed 
beyond the orifice of the shaft, which involved the con- 
struction of a new shaft, having its orifice beyond it. 
The pyramid was faced by adding courses of long blocks 
on each layer of the steps, and then cutting the whole 
to a fiat or even surface, commencing from the summit. 
The outer masonry, however, or casing, as it is called, 
has in most instances been partially stripped off. Pro* 
vision was made for protecting the vertical joints by 
placing each stone half way over another. The ma- 
sonry is admirably finished, and the mechanical means 
by which such immense masses of stone were raised to 
their places has long been a mystery ; the discovery, 


Church, Middletown, Conn.; St. John’s Church, Yon- 
kers, X. V. ; Calvary parish and St. John’s Church, 

Washington. In the latter position he remained up- 
wards of twenty years. During the war, Dr. Pyne 
worked in the camps and hospitals and among the sol- 
diers. lie was at one time a trustee of the General 
Theological Seminary, and of Trinity College, Hart- 
ford. He died in New York Dec. 7, 1875. 

Pyramid (irvpapic, perhaps from the Egyptian 
hr), a structure of the shape of the geometric figure so 
called, erected in different parts of the Old and the New 
World, the most important being the pyramids of Egypt 
and Mexico. Those of Egypt were considered one of 
the seven wonders of the world. They are in all seventy 
In number, of different sizes, lying between 29 3 and 30 3 
X. lat., and are masses of stone or brick, with square bases however, of large circular holes in some of the stones 
and triangular sides. Although various opinions have f has led to the conclusion that they were wound up by 
prevailed as to their use, as that they were erected for machines. The stones were quarried on or near the spot ; 
astronomical purposes, for resisting the encroachment sometimes, however, granite taken from the quarries of 
of the sand of the desert, for granaries, reservoirs, or Syene was partially employed. The entrances were 
sepulchres, the last - mentioned hypothesis has been carefully filled up, and the passage protected by stone 
proved to be correct in recent times by the excavations portcullises aixl other contrivances, to prevent ingress 
of the late general Howard Vysc. They were all the to the sepulchral chamber. There appears to have been 
tombs of monarchs of Egypt who flourished from the also a door, or pylon, at the entrance of the shaft, orna- 
fburth to the twelfth dynasty, none having been con- mentedwith Egyptian sculptures and hieroglyphs. The 
structed later than that time, the subsequent kings be- sides of the pyramids face the cardinal points, and the 
ing buried at Abydos, Thebes, and other places, in tombs entrances face the north. The work of the larger pyr- 
of a very different construction. The picture of a pyra- amids was executed by corvdes of laborers, 
mid forms a part of the hieroglyphic name of Memphis, The most remarkable and finest pyramids are those 
and the immutability of most things in Egypt leads us of Gizeh, situated on a level space of the Libyan chain 
to infer, from this circumstance, that the foundation of ; at Memphis, on the west bank of the Nile. 'The largest 

three arc the most fa- 
mous. The first or 
Great Pyramid, as ap- 
pears from the exca- 
vations of Vysc, was 
the sepulchre of the 
t ’hoops of Herodotus, 
theChembcs.orChcm- 
mis. of Diodorus, and 
the Suphis of Mane- 
I ho and Eratosthenes 
( Shufu I. 1U’. 221.x- 
2 1 Ml i. 'The name of 
the founder of the 
Great 1‘vramid has 
been denoted in a 
small tomb in its im- 
nndiate vicinity. It 
is written in Greek by 
Manetho, 

which is said by Era- 
tosthenes to mean in 
Egyptian Kopan-ic, 
“one who has much 
hair.” The hiero- 
glyphic name, Shufu, 
has also the same 
meaning as in the 



General View of the Pyramids. 


PYRAMID 


823 


PYRAMID 



Coptic, “much hair.” Its height was 
480 feet 9 inches, and its base 764 feet 
square, having an area of about 13 acres. 
Its slope or angle is 51° 50'. It has, 
however, been much spoiled and stripped 
of its exterior blocks for the building of 
Cairo. The original sepulchral cham- 
ber, called the Subterranean Apartment, 
46 feet by 27 feet, and 11 feet 6 inches 
high, has been hewn in the solid rock, 
and was reached by the original passage, 
ofChc'o 1 ? ^20 feet long, which descended to it by 
an entrance at the foot of the pyramid. 
The excavations in this direction were subsequently 
abandoned on account of the vast size attained by the 
pyramid, rendering it impracticable to carry on the en- 
trance on a level with the natural rock, which had been 
cut down and faced for that purpose. Accordingly a 
second chamber, with a triangular roof, was constructed 
in the masonry of the pyramid, 17 feet by 18 feet 9 
inches, and 20 feet 3 inches high. This was reached 
by a passage rising at an inclination of 26° IS', termi- 
nating in a horizontal passage. It is called the Queen’s 
Chamber, and occupies a position nearly in the centre 
of the pyramid. The monument — probably owing to 
t-he long life attained by the monarch — still progress- 
ing, a third chamber, called the King’s, was finally con- 
structed, by prolonging the ascending passage of the 
Queen’s Chamber for 150 feet farther into the very cen- 
tre of the pyramid, and, after a short horizontal pas- 
sage, making a room 17 feet 1 inch by 34 feet 3 inches, 
and 19 feet 1 inch high. To diminish, however, the 



pressure of the superincumbent masonry on the flat roof, 
five small chambers were made vertically in succession 



Entrauce of the Great Pyramid. 



PYRAMID 


824 


PYRAMID 



above the roof, the last one pointed, varying in height been broken into by the caliph Alaziz Othman ben- 
from 1 foot 4 inches to 8 feet 7 inches, the apex of the Yussuf, A.D. I10G. Subsequently, it was opened by 
top one being rather more than GO feet above the roof Belzoni. The masonry is inferior to the tirst, but it was 
of the King’s Chamber. The end of the horizontal anciently eased below with red granite. The easing 
passage was finished in a superior style, anti cased with still remains at the summit. 

red svenitic granite; and in the King’s Chamber was The third pyramid, built by Mcnchores, or Myccri- 
the granite sarcophagus of the king, Cheops, 7 feet Gi mis (brother of Chephren, !».(’. 21G3-2J30), is much 
inches long, 3 feet 3 inches broad, and 3 feet 5 inches smaller than the other two, being only 
high, for whom the pyramid was built. As the heat 218 feet high by 354 feet G inches 
of this chamber was stifling, owing to want of ventila- square. It also has two sepulchral 
tion, two small air-channels, or chimneys, about nine chambers, both in the solid rock. The 
inches square, were made, ascending to the north and lower sepulchral chamber, which held 
south sides of the pyramid. They perfectly ventilate a sarcophagus of rectangular shape, of 
this chamber. After the mummy was deposited in the whinstone, had a pointed roof, cut like 
King’s Chamber, the entrance was closed with granite an arch inside; but the cedar coffin, in 
portcullises, and a well made at the junction of the up- shape of a mummy, had been removed 
ward-inclined and horizontal passages, by which the to the upper or large apartment, and 
workmen descended into the downward-inclined pas- its contents there rifled. Among the 
sage, after carefully closing the access to the sepulchral debris of the coffin and in the chambers 
chambers. The changes which took place in tins pyr- were found the legs and part of the 
amid gave rise to various traditions, even in the days trunk of a body with linen wrapper, 
of Herodotus, Cheops being reported to lie buried in a supposed by some to he that of the monarch, hut by 
chamber surrounded by the waters of the Nile. It took others to be that of an Arab, on account of the anchy- 
a long time for its construction — 100,000 men being loscd right knee. This body and fragments of the coffin 
employed on it for thirty years. The operations in were removed to the British Museum; but the stone 
this pyramid by general Vyse gave rise to the discov- sarcophagus w-as unfortunately lost off Carthagena, by 
cry of marks scrawled in red ochre in a kind of cursive the sinking of the vessel in which it was being trans- 
hieroglyphs on the blocks brought from the quarries of ported to England. There is a hieroglyphic inscription 
Ttirah. These contained the name and titles of Slmfu very beautifully engraved on the fragment of the coffin, 
(the hieroglyphic form of Cheops) ; numerals and di- containing a royal name, which reads Menhi-rc. The 
reclions for the position of materials: with them were i masonry of this pyramid is most excellent, and it was 
mason’s marks. 1 anciently cased half-way up with black granite. 

The second pyramid has a 
line of chambers cut in the rock, 
and on its eastern side are the 
ruins of a temple. The third has 
a similar temple and avenue; 
and. indeed, the eastern face of 
the Great Pyramid has traces, 
though more indistinct, of a 
similar structure; but the sec- 
ond temple, that of Chephren, 
is distinguished by having the 
Sphinx ranged in front of the 
centre of its eastern face, hear- 
ing all the marks of having been 
connected with it by communi- 
cations cut through the rock 
under -ground. Between the 
paws of the Sphinx a perfect 
temple was discovered, a few 
years ago, by lielzoni, on clear- 
ing away the sand by which it 
had been choked up for ages. 

There are six other pyramids 
of inferior size and interest at 
(itzeli: one at Abu Kush, live 
miles to the north-west of the 
same spot, is ruined, but of large 
dimensions; another at Zowyet 
el -Arrian, also made of lime- 
stone, is still more ruined; an- 
other at Kigali, a spot in the 
vicinity of Abnslr, also much ruined, and built for 
the monarch Uscr-en-Ka, l»v sonic supposed to be Bu- 
siris. There are live of these monuments at Abusir, 
one with a name supposed to he that of a monarch 
of the third dynasty; and another with that of the 
king Saliura. A group of eleven pyramids remains 
at Sakkara, one with a doorway inlaid with porcelain 
tiles, and having a royal name. Five other pyramids 
are at Dasliur, the northernmost, of which, built, of 
brick, is supposed to he that of the king Asychis of 
Herodotus, and has a name of a king apparently about 
the twelfth dynasty. Others are at Mcydfin and 111a- 
lifin; and two at lli ah mo, at Mcdinet el-Kayum, appar- 
ently the sepulchres of the last kings of the twelfth dv- 



A. Pyramid when cased and entire. 

II. Pyramid as at present. 
t\ Hnse of pyramid. 

1>. Natural rock. 

a. Entrance. 

b. Descending passage. 

c. Horizontal section of b. 

d. Subterranean chamber. 

e. Passage out of d. 

f. Pit dag by general It. Vyse. 

fi. Uranilo block closing upper passage. 
h. Passage forced by caliph El-Moinihu. 
». Ascending gallery. 


Section of the Great Pyramid of Gizeh. 

j. Month of well. 

k. Well. 


1. Horizontal gallery leading lo Queen’s Chamber. 

m. Queen’s Chamber. 

n. Oreut gallery. 

o. Vestibule. 

/>. King’s Chamber. 

q. Sarcophagus in the King’s Chamber. 

r. Davidson’s Chamber. 

s. Wellington’s Chamber. 

t. Nelson’s Chamber. 

u. I.ady Arbiitlinot's Chamber. 

v. Cnnipbell’s Chamber. 


r o 


The second pyramid is situated on a 
higher elevation than the lirst,and was 
built by Sliufn II, or Chephren (B.C. 
1 218G-21G3), the son of Sliufn I. His 
1 name roads Shrfre .- he is called Suphis 
1 II by Manctho, and (Vphrcncs by 11c- 
j, J rodotus. It is inscribed on a beautiful 

i tablet in the British Museum, which 

* " was brought from one of the tombs 

near Memphis, and was engraved in 
memory of a personage who acted as 
superintendent of the building of the 
Ilierosrl.vph of pyramid. This pyramid has two se- 
Chephrcn. pulchral chambers, and appears to have 


PYRKEB 


825 


PYRRHO 


nasty. Some small brick pyramids of the kings of the 
eleventh dynasty are at the Drah Abft Ncgr at Thebes. 
In Nubia, the ancient ^Ethiopia, are several pyramids, 
the tombs of the monarchs of Meroe, and of some of the 
Ethiopian conquerors of Egypt. They arc taller in pro- 
portion to their base than the Egyptian pyramids, and 
generally have a sepulchral hall, or propylon, with 
sculptures, which faces the east. The principal groups 
of these pyramids are at Bege Rauie, or Begromi, 17° 
N. lat., in one of which gold rings and other objects of 
late art, resembling that of the Ptolemaic period, w'ere 
found. See Egypt. 

In Assyria, the Birs Nimrud, or Tower of Belus, was 
a kind of step-shaped pyramid of seven different-colored 
bricks, dedicated to the planets by Nebuchadnezzar. 
See Babel. The Mujellibe, another mound, was of 
pyramidal shape. The pyramid also entered into the 
architecture of the tomb of Sardanapalus at Tanus, and 
of the mausoleum of Artemisia at Halicarnassus. A 
small pyramid, the sepulchre of C. Cestius, imitated 
from the Egyptian in the days of Augustus, still exists 
within the wall of Aurelian at Rome. Temples and oth- 
er monuments of pyramidal shape are found in India, 
China, Java, the Polynesian Islands, and elsewhere. 
The Toltecs and Aztecs erected temples in Mexico, 
called Teocalli, or abodes of gods, of pyramidal shape, 
with steps or terraces by which to ascend and reach an 
altar, generally placed on the summit, where they per- 
formed human sacrifices and other rites. These, how- 
ever, are not true pyramids, the pure and simple form 
of which is restricted to Egypt. The pyramid entered 
extensively into the architecture of the Egyptians, and 
appears on the tops of obelisks and tombs as a kind of 
roof. Small models of pyramids, with inscribed adora- 
tions to the sun, or having royal names, were also placed 
in the tombs. See Lepsius, Ueber den Bau der Pyra- 
miden (1843), p. 143, 217 ; Wilkinson, Topogr. of Thebes 
(Lond. 1835); Vyse, Operations carried on at Gizeh in 
1837 (ibid. 1840-42) ; Perring, 17c ws, etc. (ibid. 1839-42); 
Gliddon, Otia JEgyptiaca (ibid. 1849) ; Taylor, The 
Great Pyramid (ibid. 1859, 1864); Smytli,. Life and 
Work at the Great Pyramid (1S67); also, Our Inheri- 
tance in the Great Pyramid (Lond. 1864, 1866, 1877, 
a work full of fanciful theories) ; St. Day, Plates anil 
Notes (Edinb. 1869). 

PYRAMID, a sepulchral monument in imitation of a 
spire of flame. Beleth mentions one built at Tours, and 
another, called St. Peter’s Needle, at Rome. — Walcott. 
See Effigies. 

Fyrker, Johann Ladislav of Felso-Eor, a Ro- 
man Catholic prelate, and a poet of some talent, was born 
Nov. 2, 1772, at Langk, in Hungary. His father was 
the manager of an estate. John studied first at the 



State. Ilis application for admission in the chief chan- 
cery at Ofen having met with a refusal, he accepted a 
situation as private secretary in the house of a count 
at Palermo, but never performed these functions ; for, 
while on his journey, in the spring of 1792, and on the 
point of passing over to Sicily, he suddenly changed his 
mind and returned. On his journey home lie escaped 
an ambush of pirates, which circumstance gave origin 
to the tale that he was taken by pirates, sold at Al- 
giers, and escaped to Genoa. The aspect of the South 
exercised an animating influence upon Pyrker’s poetical 
talent. On his return through Venice and Vienna, he 
made the acquaintance of a former Cistercian monk, 
and applied lor admission to that order. His request 
was granted at Lilienfeld (Lower Austria), Oct. 18, 1792. 
He studied theology at St. Pollen, received holy orders 
in 1796, and subsequently exercised several monastical 
functions. In 1807 he became curate of Tirniz. In 

181 1 he was recalled to his monastery as prior, and in 

1812 he was elected abbot of Lilienfeld. In 1818 he was 
appointed bishop of Zips, where he founded a seminary 


for country teachers. In 1820 he became patriarch of 
Venice, and in the ensuing year primate of Dalmatia, 
chaplain of the Lombardo-Venetian kingdom, etc. In 
1827 he was called to the archiepiscopal see of Erlau, 
which post he held until his death, at Vienna, Dec. 2, 
1847. Pyrltcr was a man of amiable manners, a con- 
scientious and courageous priest, a Maecenas .to the arts, 
a father to the poor, an ornament to science, and en- 
joyed general esteem and affection. His heart rests in 
the cathedral at Erlau ; his body, in conformity with his 
will, in a spot of the cemetery of Lilienfeld chosen by 
himself. His epitaph, chiselled on a simple slab of mar- 
ble, is also of his own composition : Ossa I. L. P. Patr. 
A rchiep. Agriensis requiescant in pace. Of his works, we 
consider it appropriate to mention here only Perlen der 
heiligen Vorzeit (Vienna, 1821; 2d ed. 1826): — Bilder 
aus deni Leben Jesu und der A postel (Leips. 1842-43) : 
— Legenilen der Heiligen (ibid. 1842). Ilis complete 
works were published at Stuttgart (1832-34, 3 vols.; 
new cd. 1843). Severe critics miss in Pyrker’s poems 
creative freshness and the charm of an original fancy; 
but they cannot deny the power and beauty of his poet- 
ical pictures, the pronounced relief of his characters, and 
his masterly management of the language and rhythm. 
See Ignaz Hub, Deutschlands Balladen- und Romanzen- 
Dichter (Carlsrnhe, 1849, 2d ed.), p. 188 ; Winer, Ilandb. 
der theol. Literatur , ii, 351, 718; but especially Briilil, 
Gesch. der kathol. Literatur , Deutschlands (Vienna, 
1861), p. 340 sq. 

Fyrlaeixs, John Curistofiier, a Moravian itiner- 
ant and missionary among the lnifians, was born April 
25, 1713, at Pausa, in Swabia, graduated at the Univer- 
sity of Leipsic, and immigrated to America in 1740. 
After having spent a part of the year 1743 in the Mo- 
hawk country, in order to learn its language and cus- 
toms, he opened a so-called “Indian school” at Bethle- 
hem, Pa., in which he prepared young men for mission- 
ary service among the aborigines, and, in particular, 
taught them the Mohawk tongue. The illustrious Da- 
vid Zeisbcrger (q. v.) was one of his pupils. He con- 
tinued such instructions at Gnadenliiitten, a missionary 
settlement in Pennsylvania, whither he removed in 1747, 
taking part at the same time in the work of the mission. 
: Besides translating a number of hymns into the Mo* 
I hawk, he wrote three valuable treatises on this lan- 
guage, which, however, were never printed. The MSS. 
are deposited in the library of the American Philosophi- 
cal Society, Philadelphia. In 1751 he went to England, 
where he labored in the ministry for nearly twenty years. 
He died at Herrnhut, Saxony, May 28, 1785. (E. "de S.) 

Pyrrho (nnppwF), a Greek philosopher of much 
eminence, is especially noted as the founder of the Pyr- 
j rhonian or first Sceptic school of Greece, lie was the 
son of Pleistarchus, or Pleistocrates,and a native of Elis, 
a town of Peloponnesus. lie lived about the time of 
Philip and Alexander of Macedonia, and was originally 
a poor painter; but, after having learned the elements 
of science from Dryson,he followed Alexander the Great 
in his Eastern expedition, and thus became acquainted 
with the doctrines of the Indian gymnosophists and the 
Persian magi (Diog. Laert. ix, 11, 2). lie was also 
an ardent admirer of Democritus. During the greater 
part of his life he dwelt in quiet retirement, abstaining 
from pronouncing any decided opinion upon anything, 
and endeavoring to preserve the greatest calmness and 
composure in whatever circumstances he was placed. 
Notwithstanding this apparently inactive and indolent 
mode of life, he was highly honored by his country- 
men, who not only made him their high-priest, but, for 
his sake, decreed that all philosophers should be exempt 
from payment of taxes (Diog. Laert. ix, 11, 5). Pau- 
sanias (vi, 24, 4) saw his statue in a portico at Elis, and 
a monument erected in honor of him at a little distance 
from the town. The Athenians honored him with the 
franchise of their city. He died at the advanced age 
of ninety. Cicero (not so far wrongly cither) ranks him 


PYRRIIOXII 


826 


PYTHAGORAS 


among the Socratics; and, indeed, lie xvas as much op- 1 
posed to the precisions of the Sophists as Socrates him- 
self, though from a different point of view. An undis- 
turbed peace of mind (aTra-zia) appeared to Pyrrho the 
highest object of philosophy; and, thinking that this 
peace of mind was disturbed by the dogmatic systems 
and the disputes of all other philosophic schools, he was 
led to scepticism ; hut he was by no means of that class 
of thorough-going scepticism which is usually associat- 
ed with his name, and which is synonymous with abso- 
lute ami unlimited infidelity, lie simply considered a 
real scientific knowledge of things to be altogether im- 
possible. His fundamental principle was, that there is 
nothing true or false, right or wrong, honest or dishon- 
est, just or unjust; that there is no standard in any- 
thing, hut that all things depend upon law and custom, 
and that uncertainty and doubt belong to everything. 
Yet, like the eminent modern German thinker, he ap- 
pears to have tenaciously maintained the obligations of 
morality, and he declared virtue to be the only thing 
worth striving after (Cicero, De Fin. iv, 10). On all 
occasions, therefore, he answered his opponents, 4i What 
you say may be true, but 1 cannot decide.” 'Phis and 
other similar expressions drew upon him the ridicule of 
his adversaries; and most of the absurd anecdotes re- 
specting his conduct in the common occurrences of life, 
which Diogenes repeats with all the credulity of a gos- 
sip, arc probably the fabrications of his opponents, made 
for the purpose of ridiculing Pyrrho. 1 1 c had many dis- 
tinguished followers and disciples, who are called Pyr- 
rhonii, or simply Sceptics: some of them are mentioned 
and characterized by Diogenes Laertius (ix, e. 7. etc., and 
c. 12; comp. Gcllius, xi, f>; and Cicero, I)e Orut. iii. 17). 
Their doctrines ami mode of reasoning are seen clearest 
in the works of Sextus Empiricus: their object was rath- 
er to overthrow all other systems than to establish a new 
one ; hence wc can scarcely speak of a school of Pyr- 
rhonists, inasmuch as they opposed every school. The 
whole philosophy of Pyrrho and his followers is called 
Pyrrhonism a name which in subsequent times has 
been applied to any kind of scepticism, though the Pyr- 
rhouiaii philosophy in reality is, as we have seen above, 
only one particular, and an elementary, form of scepti- 
cism. Cicero, in several passages, speaks of the philos- 
ophy of Pyrrho as long exploded and extinct. Pvrrho 
himself is said hv some ancient authors to have left no 
works behind him; the tropes or epochs, or fundamen- 
tal principles of his philosophy, being justly ascribed to 
one or more of his followers. But Sextus Empiricus 
(A dr. Math, i, 2*2) says that he wrote a poem address- 
ed to Alexander the Great, for which he was richly re- 
warded; and Athcnaeus (x, p. 4 lit) quotes a passage from 
a work of Pyrrho, the character of which is entirely un- 
known. The first writer on the scepticism of Pyrrho is 
said to have been Timon, his friend and disciple, whose 
life is written by Diogenes Laertius. Sec English Cy- 
clop. s. v.; Smith, Diet, of Class, liiorj. s. v.; Kingsley, 
Alexandria and her Schools, p. 7)0 sq. ; Ceherweg, Hist, 
of Philos, (see Index in vol. ii); Mackintosh, Works, i, 
SOtj, 31)7 : Bordas-Demonlin. Milamjes Philosophiques 
(Par. IS |(»). p. 17 sq. (.ML W.) 

Pynliomi. Sec Pvnniio. 

Pyrrhonism. See Pvnuno. 

Pyr'rlnts ( 1 1 rpooc, fiery- haired, a common Greek 
name) is given in the best MSS, as the name of the 
father of Snpatc r, Paul’s companion (Acts xx, 4). See 
Soiwm:. 

Pythagoras, one of the earliest and most cele- 
brated sages of Greece, the alleged originator of the 
name and of the profession of philosopher , and the 
founder of a sect which enjoyed great and enduring 
reputation. Notwithstanding the numerous fables 
which arc interwoven with the traditionary accounts 
of his career, it is certain that none of the elder philos- 
ophers of Greece attained higher eminence in specula- 
tion, impressed himself more forcibly on the contem- 


porary world, or influenced more widely and more per- 
manently the character of subsequent investigation. 
Engaged equally and simultaneously in abstract inqui- 
ry and in scientific research, at once theorist and prac- 
tical politician, and predominant wherever his efforts 
were directed, he instituted a school, a religious fra- 
ternity, a secret society, and a political association, all 
combined in one body; and he controlled for many 
years the public movement of the community in which 
he had fixed his abode. 1 1 is political ascendency was 
a potent influence during a considerable part of his 
life, and was prolonged, in a mitigated and disguised 
form, through successive generations. His sect sur- 
vived alike the peculiar circumstances which had fa- 
vored its original establishment and the violent catas- 
trophe which crushed the primitive association, and, 
after his characteristic doctrines had been accepted, 
with modifications and additions, by other schools, de- 
voted itself with marked earnestness to the public and 
private ethics which had chiefly attracted the regards 
of the master. His discoveries, or happy conjectures, 
in mathematics, in astronomy, in music, etc., fascinated 
l’lato, and were largely incorporated into the all-em- 
bracing system of Aristotle. Even in cases in which 
they Mere questioned, rejected, or almost forgotten by 
later antiquity, they have been revived by modern phi- 
losophy, and may frequently he recognised as furnish- 
ing the corner-stones for modern sciences. To Pythag- 
oras have been ascribed the anticipation of the t’oper- 
nican system, the demonstration of the relation between 
the squares of the sides of a right-angled triangle, and 
the determination of the mathematical basis of the the- 
ory of music. To him must also he assigned the hon- 
or of introducing, however fantastically, numerical rela- 
tions for the explanation of the laws and operations of 
the material universe. A man connected so prominent- 
ly and so effectively with so many important branches 
of human research and of human action, at the very 
outset of systematic speculation and systematized ac- 
tivity, may well excite wonder and attract curiosity— a 
wonder which is converted into amazement by reputed 
miracles, and a curiosity which is baffled and bewilder- 
ed by the accumulation of myths around his name and 
around all the salient incidents of his career. 

I. Life and Labors. — The details of the life and opin- 
ions of Pythagoras, as transmitted to us by the ancients, 
are so confused and contradictory, and are so blended 
with fantastic fables, that it is impracticable to extract 
from them a plain, trustworthy, and consistent account 
( Brucker, Hist. Crit. Phil, i, Iffll ). The founder, in a re- 
mote age, of a secret society at once religions and polit- 
ical, philosophical and scientific, afforded an apt frame 
on which to hang the exaggerations of admiring disci- 
ples and the credulous fancies of his own and of other 
generations. We have no authentic remains and no 
contemporary memorials of the Samian philosopher. 
The relies attributed to his earlier followers arc not ac- 
knowledged to he genuine. The special works of Ar- 
istotle and of his pupils, Diea*arclins. Aristoxenus. and 
lleraclidcs Pontieus, on the subject of the Pythagore- 
ans, were early lost. A few scant notices survive in 
Herodotus, Heraclitus, Xenophanes. Isocrates. Plato, and 
Aristotle; hut. our chief sources of information are the 
late writers Diogenes Laertius, Porphyry, and Iambli- 
chus. Whatever materials may have been accessible 
to them, they cannot he supposed to have had credi- 
ble authorities for their compilations. The loose and 
uncritical habits of Diogenes do not invite confidence, 
while the mythical and thaumnturgic proclivities of the 
Neo-Platonists do provoke constant suspicion. These 
miracle-mongers would greedily welcome any marvel- 
lous legends, and would not he scrupulous about adding 
embellishments or fictions of their own to the tales of 
wonder which they might find already in circulation. 
We are singularly unfortunate in regard to this pioneer 
in philosophy. Antiquity has bequeathed to us much 
| in regard to him which is absurd as well as incredible; 


PYTHAGORAS 


8: 

it lias left little that can be received without hesitation, 
to form a portrait of the man, or to furnish an adequate 
scheme of his doctrines. 

The birth of Pythagoras is placed by Mnllach in the 
first year of the 43d Olympiad (B.C. 608), on the strength 
of a legend reported by Eratosthenes and cited by Di- 
ogenes Laertius. The same date is deduced, with some 
uncertainty, from a statement made by Antiochus and 
preserved by Clemens Alexandrinus. The nativity of 
Pythagoras is brought down nearly forty years later by 
accepting the declaration of Aristoxenus that he left 
Samos at the age of forty, in the reign of Polvcrates. 
The difference between these estimates is sufficient to 
destroy any confidence in either, and distrust is increased 
by the very dubious character of early Greek chronolo- 
gy ; yet each of these deductions has been espoused by 
eminent scholars. Bentley and Larcher are on the side 
of Mullach; Dodwell attaches himself to the declara- 
tion of Aristoxenus; Grote, apparently convinced of the 
inconclusiveuess of all reasoning on the subject, aims at 
the golden mean, and places the birth of Pythagoras 
about B.C. 580. The only safe conclusion is that the 
philosopher began to flourish in the second half of the 
6th century before Christ. 

The birthplace of Pythagoras, if less doubtful than 
the date of his birth, has been more variously deter- 
mined. He is usually designated the Samian. This 
rests, primarily, upon a passage in Herodotus, in which 
the curious story of Zamolxis is related. Grote con- 
siders the passage decisive. On referring to the text, 
it will be found that Herodotus says nothing positively 
of the philosopher’s place of birth. The general belief 
of antiquity, however, accredited Pythagoras to Samos, 
and it is only this belief that is attested by Isocrates 
(Busir. c. xi). Aristoxenus represented him as a Tyr- 
rhenian from Lemnos or Imbros. By some writers he 
w r as represented as the son of a Phliasian refugee v r ho 
settled in Samos. Neanthes regarded him as a Syrian 
or Tyrian ; Theopompus and Aristarchus entertained 
the opinion of Aristoxenus; Hippobotus and Hermip- 
pus endorsed the common belief. 

Contradictions continue to multiply. There is no 
agreement in regard to the paternity of Pythagoras. 
The accepted tradition presents him as the son of Mne- 
sarchus; Justin, however, names his father Demaratus. 
Those who assigned a Phliasian origin to his father 
gave him the name of Marmacus, which Voss and Fa- 
ber think that Justin blunderingly converted into Dem- 
aratus. Tzetzes, a very late author indeed, calls his 
mother Pythais. His father is variously reputed to 
have been au engraver of gems and a rich merchant; 
he may have been both or neither. Two brothers, old- 
er than himself, are given to Pythagoras — Eunomus, or, 
according to other accounts, Eunostes, and Tvrrhenns. 
These names are very suspicious. 

These confusions and perplexities are noticed, not 
with any desire of exhibiting the numerous opinions 
which prevailed in relation to the birth of Pythagoras, 
but to show how uncertain and unauthenticated, even 
in antiquity, were those points in his history which 
were least apt to provoke diversity of statement. If 
there were such differences in such matters, there is lit- 
tle reason to expect trustworthy accounts in regard to 
more important concerns, where enforced secrecy pro- 
moted fanciful conjecture, where the love of the mar- 
vellous might indulge itself without check or fear of 
detection, and where the character of the school cher- 
ished the wildest inventions and epcouraged their ac- 
ceptance. The story is. throughout, involved in fable 
and in superfetations of fable. 

Tradition has been wholly unrestrained in relating 
the education of Pythagoras. Several teachers have 
been assigned to him. He is said to have been placed 
by his uncle Zoilus under the charge of Pherecydes in 
the island of Lemnos. He is reported to have after- 
wards attached himself to Hermodamas, or Leodamas 
(both names are given), the grandson of Creophylus, 


!7 PYTHAGORAS ‘ 

the cyclic poet. He is alleged to have been tfie disci- 
ple of Thales, of the Milesian Anaximander, and of the 
Cretan Epimenides, who is even a more shadowy per- 
sonage than himself. The true significance of this 
combination of names may probably be found in the 
disposition of later times to regard Pythagoras as in- 
structed in all the learning of the Greeks. Yet the 
accumulation of Hellenic knowledge w r as not considered 
a sufficient equipment for his career. He is supposed 
to have set out, while still young, on extensive travels 
through the Oriental world, just as the mediaeval sages 
were believed to have gathered their stores of learning 
from the Saracenic schools in Spain and in the East. 

Egypt seems to have been the first foreign country 
visited by Pythagoras. He is said to have been com- 
mended to Amasis by a letter from his friend Polycra- 
tes, and to have remained in the country long enough 
to acquire all the wisdom of the Egyptians — their lan- 
guage, arithmetic, geometry, religions rites, etc. Dur- 
ing his stay, he is alleged to have been captured by the 
Persian armies of Cambyses, and to have received the 
instructions of the Magi; he is also said to have stud- 
ied astrology with the Chaldteans, and to have received 
from the Brahmins in India their peculiar doctrines. 
This last imagination is apparently a late deduction 
from the correspondence of the Pythagorean metemp- 
sychosis with Hindu tenets. Hermippus and Porphy- 
ry ascribe to him also studies among the Jews. He 
may have visited Crete, and there is no improbability 
in the supposition that anxiety to note the institutions 
of Lycurgus may have carried him to Sparta. 

After a long and uncertain absence, PythagoTas re- 
turned to Samos, and opened a school, at the request of 
his countrymen, for the dissemination of the marvels of 
learning which he had collected in his extensive trav- 
els. His pupils w’ere few and listless, and his method 
of teaching — by signs and symbols — irritated rather 
than enlightened his acolytes. To add mystery to his 
instructions and a divine sanction to his wisdom, he. vis- 
ited Delos and other oracular shrines. To these jour- 
neys may be assigned his appearance at the Olympic 
Games, and his celebrated invention of the name of 
“ Philosopher,” though this is also referred to a con- 
versation with the Tyrant of Phlius, and probably did 
not originate with him. 

Having, by these journeys, by frequent intercourse 
with the divinities, by the pretension of a divine ori- 
gin and of miraculous gifts, and also by the admiration 
excited in the congresses of men, extended and height- 
ened his reputation, Pythagoras came back to Samos, 
and reopened his school under brighter auspices than 
before. He gave public instruction in ethical and po- 
litical philosophy, and freely responded to those who 
consulted him in regard to the government of the isl- 
and. But, besides conducting this public academy, he 
provided a retreat for those who sought and were deem- 
ed worthy of more recondite education. Outside of the 
city he procured a cave, to which he retired with his 
more select disciples. Here he spent much of the night, 
as well as of the da}', in esoteric instruction, and espe- 
cially in teaching the wonders of mathematical science, 
lie added the arts of the charlatan to the learning of 
the scholar and the wisdom of the sage. 

.Samos, however, proved an uncongenial abode. 
Whether his philosophical vocation was too much in- 
terrupted by the embassies and public duties imposed 
on him by his countrymen, or the Samians displayed 
too little aptitude for philosophy; vdiether he w r as of- 
fended by the tyranny of his friend Polvcrates, or im- 
perilled by that of Syloson, the brother and successor 
of Polvcrates, it is vain to inquire. It is sufficient to 
know, from the universal testimony of antiquity, that 
Pythagoras abandoned Samos, and migrated to South- 
ern Italy, which proved singularly hospitable to philos- 
ophy. But there is as much discrepance in regard to 
the time when this migration took place as in regard 
to other circumstances in the life of the Samian teach- 


PYTIIAGOUAS 


828 


PYTHAGORAS 


er; it is placed about 11.C. 531 by Fynes Clinton, in 529 ' 
by Ucborweg. and other dates are given. 

Crotona received the emigrant. He was soon sur- 
rounded by numerous admirers, belonging to the wealth- 
ier and more influential part of the population. He is 
said to have united these, to the number of three hun- 
dred or more, in a secret organization. Among the ear- 
liest consequences of his residence in Crotona is men- 
tioned the complete reformation of the manners and 
morals of the people, produced by his persuasive ad- 
dress, by the authority of his divine pretensions, by his 
imposing demeanor, and by his judicious counsels. 1 lis 
disciples were of the rich and noble class, and, by con- 
verting them to a more sober and abstemious life, he 
would necessarily suppress luxury and sensuality; for 
these arc not the vices of poor laborers and ‘‘rude me- 
chanicals.” Moreover, as the political control was still 
in the hands of the aristocracy, though already contest- 
ed, political interest might conspire with religious en- 
thusiasm and philosophical convictions in facilitating 
a reform requisite to maintain a doubtful ascendency. 
That aristocratic rule was confirmed by the action of 
Pythagoras was the belief of later times; and that Cro- 
tona was strengthened by the reformation is shown by 
its subsequent victory over Sybaris, under Pythagorean 
leadership. IIow far the Pythagorean rule was inten- 
tionally political, how far Pythagoras directed his se- 
cret society to political aims, cannot be ascertained, and 
has been diversely determined. It has been well ob- 
served that a select body of influential men, interested 
in the maintenance of a specific policy; bound togeth- 
er by the closest ties of opinion, sentiment, and affec- 
tionate regard; united, moreover, by secret obligations, 
would necessarily employ concerted action in public af- 
fairs. It should also be observed that the (Ireek schools, 
until the close, or nearly the close, of Plato's career, had 
always a decided political inclination. 

It may well be supposed that Pythagoras, who had 
already tested, at Samos, the efficacy of supernatural 
claims, would avail himself of like arts to establish his 
predominance in a new land, lie had previously pre- 
sented himself as a son of Plnebus, and he is said to 
have been worshipped in Italy, after bis death, as the 
offspring of the Hyperborean Apollo; bis golden thigh 
bad been shown to Abaris at the Olympic dames as 
evidence of liis divine descent. The claim was conso- 
nant with the whole tenor of Oreek genealogy, and is 
illustrated by many striking parallels in tlreece and in 
other lauds. He offered, in confirmation of bis doctrine 
of the transmigration of souls, bis recognition, in the 
temple of ,Iuno at Argos, of the shield of Eupliorhus, 
slain in the Trojan War, whose body lie bad then in- 
habited. 

“Ipse ego (jam meniini) Trojani tempore belli, 

Panthoides Eupkoibns cram” (Ovid, Met. xv, 160, 161). 

To the earlier years of bis residence at Crotona may 
be assigned bis death, burial, and resurrection, and his 
report of the wonders of the nether world; to the same 
time may be referred (though there is really no chro- 
nology in these matters) his familiar intercourse with 
animals, his handling snakes with impunity, bis predic- 
tion of earthquakes, his control over tempests, his re- 
moval of pestilences, etc. To the closing years of his 
life must lie referred his remarkable apparition to his 
friends at Metapoutum and Tarentmn simultaneously, 
and his public conversation with them. It is scarcely 
surprising that the Neo-Platouists, by whom his biog- 
raphy was composed (or eonsarcinated), should have 
presented him as the counterpart anti rival of Christ. 
It is natural that these, miraculous endowments should 
he regarded as the bold inventions of late pagans; hut 
this solution is not satisfactory, as some of them are ev- 
idently of much earlier origin, and all of them appear, in 
modified forms, in other myths in widely separated re- 
gions. There are many points in the story of Pythag- 
oras which appear to he only late survivals of primitive 
superstitious and delusions. 


The high and various endowments of Pythagoras, 
real and fictitious, rendered him singularly successful 
in the institution of his school at Crotona. The most 
important, the most credulous, or the most zealous of 
his pupils were constituted as a secret society, were 
subjected to the most stringent discipline, and to the 
most absolute obedience to their inspired teacher. Ac- 
cording to some traditions, the property of all was sur- 
rendered for the common use. This is scarcely proba- 
ble, as the age of communism bad not yet arrived. The 
statement may simply indicate that the means of the 
members were freely employed for common objects, and 
that the wealthier brethren generously ministered to 
the requirements of the poorer. 

The society seems to have been divided into t>vo 
classes: the more advanced, or esoterical, and the neo- 
phytes, or exoterical. Other divisions are also mention- 
ed, as into Pytkagorici , , Pythagorei , and Pgihagorista , ac- 
cording to their progress in the studies of the sect, and 
the intimacy of their communion with their common 
superior. 

The candidates for admission were carefully scruti- 
nized, and great attention was paid to physiognomy 
and the external indications of moral and mental qual- 
ities. If accepted, they had to pass through a long pe- 
riod of probation. It was credited in after-times that 
they bad to maintain silence for five years; that, dur- 
; ing this period, they were not allowed to behold the face 
' of the master; and that they were required to undergo 
other tests of fitness for membership. {Silence, or the 
government of the tongue was prescribed as 

earnestly as by St. James ; but the length and degree of 
the silence required were not uniform in all eases. The 
fellows of the guild received instruction in all the knowl- 
edge then existent, either directly from the scholarch 
himself, or through the intervention of his more instruct- 
ed pupils. The esoteric studies have been differently 
supposed to have been the political theories and the po- 
litical projects of Pythagoras, and the mystic religious 
rites, or orgies, which rendered the society a tlieosopbic 
sect : they were probably the latter. 

The publication of the characteristic Pythagorean 
doctrines was absolutely prohibited: and when these 
were published by Plnlolaus, in a later age, the proced- 
ure was regarded as a grave infraction of Pythagorean 
proprieties. Daily self-examination, which presupposes 
habitual meditation, was a constant requirement. 

“ They siimnfd the actyonns of the daie 
Eehe nyghte before they slept.” 

Sncli reverence was paid to the declarations of the 
master that all contradiction, cavil, and doubt were 
unknown. Every difference of opinion was promptly 
settled by the autocratic dictum, Avtvq t<pa. 

In the midst of the luxury, sensuality, idleness, and 
extravagance for which Crotona, like other cities of 
Magna (Inecia, was noted, the greatest restraint was 
imposed on the elect in regard to all those vices which 
i undermine or fritter away morality. Modesty and sim- 
plicity in dress, decorum in behavior, abstemiousness in 
food, abstinence from meats, beaus, and other articles of 
food, and moderation in all things, were earnestly incul- 
cated. The institutions of Pythagoras appear to have 
been, in many respects, an anticipation of the monastic 
life of the early medi.-vval llenedictines. Healthful rec- 
reations for mind and body, music and gymnastics, each 
of which embraced a large and varied sphere, were zeal- 
ously prosecuted. 

The members of the association were segregated from 
“the vulgar herd,” not merely by their secret organiza- 
tion and higher culture, but also by ibe pride oflearn- 
I ing. of creed, of power, and by the haughty contempt for 
inferiors which usually attends such pride. The mys- 
tic secrecy ami the careful separation from the multi- 
tude were maintained by signs and enigmatic symbols, 

J which enabled Pythagoreans to recognise each other 
j with certainty and without display. 

| The best and the latest investigators of the perplex- 


PYTHAGORAS 


829 


PYTHAGORAS * 


ed subject of Pythagoreanism agree in rejecting the 
opinion that Pythagoras intended to found a distinct 
political organization for the purpose of maintaining 
aristocratic authority. Nevertheless, if any weight is 
to be given to concurrent testimony, or to the natural 
tendencies of an aristocratic organization held together 
by secret bonds, or to the existing condition of Greek 
communities, the Pythagorean fraternity did secure the 
control of Crotona, and instituted affiliated societies in 
Metapontum and other neighboring cities. The influ- 
ence exercised by the Pythagoreans may well have 
been favorable to private morals, to public virtues, and 
to general prosperity. But the power of an exclusive, 
arbitrary, and haughty section of the community, and 
the constraint imposed by it on the free action as well 
as on the accustomed passions, the sensual gratifica- 
tions, and the avidity of license, which is the first man- 
ifestation of the spirit of progressive freedom, would be 
certain to provoke reaction. It would thus be iu per- 
fect consonance with the natural order of events that 
the story should be true which related that, after Py- 
thagoras had taught at Crotona for twenty years, the 
people made a combined attack upon the cccnobitic as- 
sociation assembled in the house of Milo the athlete. 
Cylon, a noble who had been refused admission into the 
society, and Ninon were the reputed leaders. The as- 
sailants are sometimes said to have been only Crotoni- 
ates; at other times they are reputed to have consisted 
also of deputations from the other cities in which Py- 
thagorean clubs had been established. The ccenacuhun 
was burned to the ground, and most of the congregation 
lost their lives. According to some accounts, Pythago- 
ras himself perished in the flames; according to others, 
he escaped, retired to Metapontum, and soon after died, 
or was slain. This calamity is calculated to have hap- 
pened about B.C. 510, when Pythagoras was ninety- 
eight years of age, if the earliest date of his nativity be 
accepted. The same story, however, with the requisite 
modifications, is told in regard to the Pythagoreans of a 
later generation. But there are so many and such in- 
consistent narratives of the end of the philosopher, and 
of the suppression or dispersion of the Pythagorean or- | 
ganization, that no greater certainty can be expected in 
these matters than is attainable in regard to other points 
in his career. The whole story is as mythical as the 
fable of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round 
Table, though unquestionably encrusting a large sub- 
stratum of fact. “The stories told of him,” says Cox, 

“ must be classed along with the tales which related the 
exploits of the Messenian Aristomenes.” 

Pythagoras was married, and had a family consist- 
ing of two sons. Telauges and Mnesarclnis, and three 
daughters or more, Damo, Muia, and Arignote, all of 
whom became his disciples. Telauges is said to have 
succeeded him in the conduct of the school. But the 
disciples appear to have been scattered, the school bro- 
ken up, and the sect utterly dissipated as a community, 
though its chiefs continued to be named, as late, at least, 
as Arcliytas of Tarentum. His wife, and the mother of 
Jus children, is usually reported to have been Theano, 
the daughter of Brontinus of Crotona ; but she is called 
a Cretan, and the daughter of Pythonax, by Snidas. 
Confusion and discord attend every step of the inquiry. 

II. Writings and Doctrines . — All the works ascribed 
to Pythagoras are spurious beyond all doubt. The 
Golden Song is not excepted from this censure. Da- 
vid, the scholiast of Aristotle (p. 13, 1. 15-26, r. ed. Bran- 
dis), gives the reasons assigned by Pythagoras for his 
refusal to commit anything to writing, and explicitly 
assigns the Golden Song to a nameless Pythagorean. 
This shows how utterly destitute the ancients them- 
selves were of genuine Pythagorean texts, and how un- 
certain are all sources of information. The earliest 
documents are the Fi-agments of Philolans, whose au- 
thenticity is still debated, and the Golden Song , often 
ascribed to Lysis, but, in all probability, the production 
of a later age. As Philolaus was the pupil of Archytas 


and the instructor of Simmias and Cebes, he belonged 
to the Socratic a?ra ; and, as Lysis was the teacher of 
Epaminondas, he may be regarded as the contemporary 
of Plato. The interval must have been considerable 
between Pythagoras and Philolaus, as Archytas, the in- 
structor of the latter, was regarded as the eighth in the 
succession of the Pythagorean scliolarchs. Yet the dis- 
tinctive doctrines of Pythagoras must have been bruit- 
ed abroad long before the publication of Philolaus; for 
we find among the fragments of Xenophanes an epi- 
gram on the Pythagorean doctrine of metempsychosis, 
and Xenophanes was born before the death of Pythag- 
oras. But the doctrines of Pythagoras, deducihle from 
earlier and later writers, cannot be regarded as even a 
fragmentary exposition of a definite system construct- 
ed by him. They are only the mutilated expression of 
his leading principles, as interpreted and expanded by 
those who claimed to be representatives of his teachings. 
The remnants of the early Greek inquirers, whether di- 
dactic or speculative, exhibit their disposition to employ 
terse aphorisms for the utterance of their views. This 
is the tendency of all primitive speculation. While rec- 
ognising the unsystematic character of the exposition 
thence resulting, it is well also to remember the com- 
mendation and employment of the same mode of com- 
munication by Francis Bacon in a period of much am- 
pler knowledge and more diffused intelligence. 

Gathering from the unsatisfactory materials that re- 
main the distinctive doctrines of Pythagoras, they ap- 
pear to be these : The soul is, in its nature, immortal, 
and akin to divinity. It consists of two parts : the ra- 
tional, which is alone immortal ; and the sensuous, or 
irrational, which is ultimately mortal. Plants possess 
the latter. In this distinction may be found the germ 
of the Aristotelian dogma of three souls: the intelli- 
gent, the animal, and the vegetative. The rational 
soul is pure; the irrational, impure, because immersed 
in matter : both are united in man. The former attests 
his divine nature and origin ; the latter guides and gov- 
erns his material frame, with which it is united in life, 
and through which it is diffused. Death is the with- 
drawal of this complex soul from the corporeal invo- 
lucre in which it has been enclosed, and which it has 
animated. The spirit, thus released, dwells in the cir- 
cumambient air, retaining, in shadowy guise, its former 
shape, visible as a ghost, or intervening in the affairs of 
men through dreams and other influences. .Souls that 
have divested themselves in life of the taint of their ir- 
rational companion, and of their corporeal environment, 
enter into enduring bliss, and become wholly divine, ap- 
parently without loss of individual nature. 

tji< 6’ uTroXet'J.ar auifxa h ul3>p’ eAeo^epoi' e'X3>7?, 

4aaeai ajuvaror, S'eot ap/Jporor, ova ert Si/>]Tor 

(Carm. A ur. 70, 71). 

Souls not liberated from the vices and passions of the 
lower soul, or from the impurities and temptations of 
their material vesture, float for a time in the air, tor- 
mented by the Furies and the ministers of vengeance, 
till they are allowed a new trial, and are subjected to a 
new ordeal, by passing into new bodies, human or bestial. 

“animam sic semper eanclem 
Esse, sed iu varias doceo mi era re figures” 

(Ovid, Met. xv, 171, 172). 

The air is always full of souls, undergoing the penal 
consequences of their sins, and awaiting their descent 
into new bodies. 

“ penitnsqne necesse est 
Multa diu concreta modis inolescere miris” 

(Virgil, .En. vi, 737, 73S). 

This is the noted metempsychosis of Pythagoras, which 
is usually conceived to have been of Hindu origin, but 
is often referred to an Egyptian source, though having 
little correspondence with the metensomatosis or the 
anacatastasis of Egyptian mythology. It is much more 
reasonable to consider it a philosophical adaptation of 
the primitive beliefs in regard to spiritual existence af- 
ter death (see Tylor, Primitive Culture). 


PYTHAGORAS 


830 PYTIIOX 


It is an obvious deduction from the doctrine of me- ! 
tempsychosis that animal life should be scrupulously | 
regarded, and that animals should not be slaughtered 
for food. The butcher is a homicide, if not a murderer. 
It is a natural consequence from the doctrine of disem- | 
bodied spirits that l’ythagoras should have attached 
great importance to dreams and other spiritual commu- 
nications. The sanctity of all life, and the considera- 
tion of human life as a probation and as a progress to a 
higher existence, explain his strong condemnation of 
suicide. 

“The Everlastiug had fixed 
His canon ’gainst self-slaughter." 

(See Thom. Aquin.*S'w?«»ja Theoloy. 1 1, ii, qu. xxi v, art.v.) 

Not only the spirits of men are divine, according to 
Pythagoras, but those of the sun, moon, and stars, which 
move at such musical intervals from each other, and in 
such regulated concord, as to produce the music of the 
spheres— a doctrine welcome to the poetic imagination 
of Plato. 

“Such harmony is in immortal souls. 

But while this muddy vesture of decay 
Doth grossly close it in, we canuot hear it." 

The ontology of Pythagoras was intimately asso- 
ciated with liis transcendental theory of numbers. It 
can scarcely be determined which suggested the oth- 
er, or by what series of reciprocal reactions both were 
produced. The cosmogony attributed to him is much 
more manifestly an evolution from the numerical fan- 
tasy which has always been held to be the most dis- 
tinctive part of Pytliagoreanism. 

Mullach justly observes that the exposition of the 
significance and potency of numbers in the Pythagore- 
an theory would require an ample volume; hence he 
notices them very briefly. The like course must be 
adopted here, ami a summary, abridged from an abridg- 
ment by llaring-Gould, must sufiice. 

“1. The unit, or Monad, is the beginning and end of 
all. It is the symbol nf existence, identity, equality, con- 
servation, and harmony (comp. Philolai Fragm. 15). 

“2. Two, or the Dyad, is the origin of contrasts, the 
symbol of diversity, division, change, disorder. 

“3. Three, or the Triad, is the first of uncqnals. It rep- 
resents (tod and the soul of man. 

*• 4. Four, or the Tetrad, is the most perfect of num- 
bers; the root, or origin, of all things, whence the soul 
derives its eternal nature: hence it furnishes the Py- 
thagorean oath. 

[Vu /id tuv afif. T<-Vy 'I'l'Xf/ vtipaibma TCTpaurve, 

IluycW' aoaoi' epi-ocue (Conn. Anr. 47, 4s)]. 

“5. Five, or the Pentad, is everything, supplying the 
principle of everything, and repelling evil spirits. 

“G. Six, or the* llexad, is the number of good fortune. 

“7. Seven, or the lleptad, is a sacred number, gener- 
ating good and evil. 

“a. Eight, or the Octad, the first cube, is a perfect num- 
ber. 

“0. Nine, or the Euuead, being the square of three, is 
sacred. 

“ 10 . Ten, or the Decad, the sum of the first four num- 
bers, contains all numeric relations. All science proceeds 
from it and returns to it (comp. Philolai Fragm. 18).” 

Whether numbers constituted the essences of things, 
or vu'rc only similitudes, or symbols, is still in dispute, 
and was. perhaps, never clearly determined. The lan- 
guage of Aristotle (.1/e/. 1, v) is vague and indistinct. 
Thai they were generally employed in a symbolic sense 
is apparent. The monad was the first principle of all 
tilings, the origin whence all things emanated; it was 
at once the odd and the even, the limited and the unlim- 
ited. Iiod and the universe. The dyad, or first evolution 
of number, was the even, and represented the interval 
between limiting extremes. The triad generated the 
progressive scale of numbers. The tetrad was the union 
of the triad with the unit, or of the dyad with itself, and 
indicated geometrical body. The pentad was physical 
body, with its properties and accidents of sense. Num- 
bers. again, represented points; by the procession of 
points, lines are formed: by t lie movement of lines, sur- 
faces; by the progress of surfaces, solids. From these 
last arise all bodies, and the four elements of earth, air, 


water, fire, which undergo constant change and recipro- 
cal conversion. 

“Nec species sun cniqiie nianet : rcrumqne liovatrix 

Ex aliis alias separat Nat lira fignras. 

Nec perit in tanto quicquam, mild credit e, mnndo, 

Sed variat, faciemque uovat" (Ovid, Met. xv, 252-255). 

A fifth element was added by the pentad; this was the 
upper air, the surrounding ether, the Quintessence. 
These five cosmic elements were also symbolized bv 
the live mathematical bodies. The cube was the earth : 
the pyramid, fire; the octahedron, air; the dodecahe- 
dron, space, or ether; and the cicosahedron, water. All 
were contained within the enveloping sphere. Such 
are the bare outlines of the Pythagorean cosmogony. 

Much more influential than this in the intellectu- 
al development of Greece was the moral instruction, 
which long continued to form a large part of Pythag- 
orean speculation. M orals were divided into two de- 
partments : disciplinary, or ethical, for the perfection of 
the individual; ami political, for the furtherance of the 
common welfare. In hot li parts, great stress was laid 
upon the obligation and the benefit of friendship, which 
extended, also, to the metaphysical and to the material 
constitution of the universe, producing the harmony of 
the former, and the attractions, combinations, and ab- 
sorptions of the latter. The ellicacy, in actual life, of 
the Pythagorean friendship is exemplified by the well- 
known story of Damon and Pythias. The Pythagore- 
an Symbols belong mainly to practical morals, and ex- 
hibit a decided advance on the contemporaneous sen- 
timents of the Greek world. They arc unauthentic. 
Many belong to a later date, many are simply ceremo- 
nial, and others are general and traditionary precepts. 

Condensed and inadequate as is this summary of the 
alleged career and teachings of Pythagoras, it reveals 
the powerful influence exercised by him on the com- 
munities with which he was associated, and on the later 
generations which professed the adoption of his alleged 
philosophy. Admitting the utmost confusion and un- 
certainty in the chronology of both his biography and 
his doctrines, and the fabulous nature of much that was 
ascribed to him, he must yet be deemed worthy of the 
reputation lie left behind him, and is still “clarttm et 
( vencrabile nomen.” 

III. Literature. — All the historians of ancient philos- 
ophy, and all the extended histories of Greece, necessa- 
rily treat of Pythagoras with more or less fulness and 
with more or less discernment, liruckcr, as usual, pro- 
vides an ample accumulation of materials; Uebcrwegis 
brief but perspicacious; while Hitter is very copious and 
discreet. Grotc’s observations arc valuable. Of more 
special sources of information may be enumerated: Mul- 
lach, Fraymmta Philosophorum Creecorum (Paris, PS75- 
77); Ilioroelis Commentarius in Carmen Avretnn (ap. 
Mullach, Fragm. Phil. Cnee.') ; Aristutclis Metaphysi- 
| ea, lib. i, ix, xii, xiii ; Diogenes Laertius (cd. Iliibner, 

' Lips. 1828-31 , 2 vols.*) ; Porphyrii Pyihagoree Vita; 
Iamblichi Pyihagoree 1 ‘it a (ed. kiessling, Lips. 1813); 
Fabrieii Dibliolhcea Orient, i, 700-8114; Mason, ap. 
Smith, Dirt. Creek and Roman Itioy. and Myth. s. v. ; 
Schiller, Dins, de JJiscijd. Dythayonr ; Tcrpstra, De So- 
dalitii Pythuyor. Oriyine (L’trcclit, 182-1 ) ; Wendt, De Re- 
bus l'rinc. sec. Pythayoram (Lips. 1827); Hitter, Ciscb. 
der pythay. Philosophic (Hamburg. 182(5); Krische, J)e 
Send*) at is a Pythay. condi to Seopo Politico (Gottingen, 
1830); Heckman it, De Pythnyoreor. Rtliqniis (Herlin, 
1844); also Qmrstioues J’ythaynririr (Hrnunsborg. 1832- 
1808); Langcl . Pythayorc, sa Doctrine et son Jtistvire, 
in the Rente des Jietix Mamies ( Paris. 18(54 ; Zeller. Py- 
thagoras tool dii J'ythognrassoge (Leips. 18150); Halzer, 
Pythagoras der 1 1 0 ise von Samos ^Nordhausen, 18(50); 
Hathgcber, Crossyrieehiuland vml Pythagoras (Gotha, 
18150); Cliaignet, Pythayorc (Paris. 1873); Mon tec, 
(pulques Mots sur le Philosophe Pythayorc (Douai, 
1876). iG. F. 11.) 

Python occurs in the margin of Acts xvi, 16, a 
spint of Python, where the text of the A. V. reads a 


PYTHONISM 


831 


QUADPJVIUM 


spirit of divination. The word Python (IIvB’wj/ in i 
Greek mythology) is the name of a serpent or dragon j 
slain by Apollo, then transferred to Apollo himself; in 
later times used for diviners, soothsayers, held to be 
inspired of the Pythian Apollo (Plutarch, l)e Defect. ; 
Orac. c. q.). The Pytliones, like the oboth, “ familiar 
spirits,” among the idolatrous Hebrews (Lev. xix, 31 ; 1 
Sam. xxviii, 3, 7, 8, 9), were called ventriloquists because 
the god or spirit was supposed to be in them, and to 
speak from their bellies without any motion of the lips. 
See Necromancy. 

Pythonism (from Pythonissa, a prophetess in- 
spired by the Pythian god in Delphi, Apollo, who killed 
the serpent Python in the country called Pytho, near 
Mount Parnassus) is the ecstatic striving after super- 
natural enlightenment, in order to be able to foresee 
the future: it is oracular mania. This degeneracy of 
the natural instinct of curiosity is well described by 
an anonymous author in the writing Une Pgthonisse 
Contemporaine (Paris, 1835, 8vo). This book relates ■ 
the adventures of a young lady of noble extraction, who 
is inveigled by the arts of a modern Pythoness, and, by 
her superstitious regard for the insane oracles of her 
teacher, gets from aberration to aberration, and falls at 
last into all kinds of turpitudes — into crime, -vice, and 
misery. Pythonism is also called Sibyllinism. 

Pyx (tt/'I of, the box -tree; hence a box, properly 
Sotcwood), the sacred vessel used in the Roman Catholic 
Church to contain the consecrated eucharistic elements, 
which arc preserved after consecration, whether for the 
communion of the sick or for the adoration of the faith- 


ful in the churches. Already in the 4th century the host 
was kept in a special vessel, but this vessel was not 
called by its present name 
until the Councils of Tours 
and York in 1179. Its use 
was enjoined by pope Inno- 
cent III, in 1215, and bv 
Odo of Rouen, in 1266. to 
be over or near an altar. , 

The form of the Pyx has 
varied very much at differ- 
ent times. Anciently it 
was sometimes of the form 
of a dove, which was hung 
suspended over the altar. 

More commonly, however, 
it was, as its name implies, 
a simple box. Up to the Pyx, A shmolean Museum, 
13th century the material 

was ivory, but subsequently, when it became rare, it was 
generally made of the precious metals, or at least of 
metal plated with gold or silver. At present, the pyx 
is commonly cup-shaped, with a close-fitting cover of 
the same material. The interior is ordered to be of 
gold, or at least plated with gold. Like all other sacred 
utensils connected with the administration of the Eucha- 
rist, it must be blessed by a bishop, or priest delegated 
by a bishop. See Walcott, Sacred A rclue.ol. s. v. ; Siegel, 
Christliche Alterthiimer (see Index in vol. iv); Barnum, 
Romanism, p.476; Elliott, Romanism ; Chambers's En- 
cyclop. s. v. See also Cibouium. 



Q- 


Quadragesima ( fortieth day) is a name some- 
times applied to the Lenten season, or more properly to 
the first Sunday of Lent (q. v.). It is so called by anal- 
ogy with the three Sundays which precede Lent, and 
which are called respectively Septuagesima, seventieth ; 
Sexagesima, sixtieth ; and Quinqtiagesima, fiftieth. 
The whole period of Quadragesima is in the Roman 
Catholic Church accounted as tempos clausum. 

Quadrangle is an architectural term used to de- 
scribe a square or court surrounded by buildings. The 
buildings of monasteries were generally arranged in 
quadrangles. See also Quadratum. 

Quadrans. See Farthing. 

Quadratum (squared), a name which was given to 
the nave of a church because of its square form. See 
Church; Nave; Quadrangle. 

Quadratus, bishop of Athens, flourished under the 
government of Antoninus Pius. Quadratus is reputed 
to have been a disciple of the apostles and a native 
of Athens. Under emperor Adrian, while Publius was 
bishop of Athens, the Christians were persecuted and 
the congregation scattered. When Quadratus later suc- 
ceeded to the episcopate of Athens, he wrote, for the 
purpose of ending the persecution of his co-religionists, 
an Apology for the Christian Faith, and presented it to 
the emperor. This Apology, which had the desired ef- 
fect, was extant in Eusebius’s time, who tells us that 
it showed the genius of the man and the true doctrine 
of the apostles; but we have only a small fragment, pre- 
served by Eusebius in the fourth book of iris history, 
wherein the author declares that “ none could doubt 
the truth of the miracles of Jesus Christ, because the 
persons healed and raised from the dead by him had 
been seen, not only when he wrought his miracles, or 
while lie was upon earth, but even a very great while 
after his death ; so that there were many,” says he. 
‘‘who were yet living in our time.” Valerius, and oth- 
ers upon his authority, make of this Quadratus a differ- 
ent person from Quadratus the bishop of Athens; but 
this assertion is generally rejected. Jerome affirms I 


that the Quadratus of Athens and the one reputed to 
have lived at Magnesia were the same. Nothing certain 
can be collected concerning the death of Quadratus; 
but it is supposed that he was banished from Athens, 
and then put to a variety of torments, under the reign of 
Adrian. See Eusebius, Hist.Eccles. iv, 3 ; Cave, Hist. 
Lit.; Donaldson, Literature of the Early Centuries; 
Lardner, Works; Hook, Eccles. Biog. viii, 173; Smith, 
Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. 

Quadrio, Francesco Sa verio, a learned Italian 
Jesuit, was born in Valtellina, Dec. 1, 1695. He was 
of an infirm and susceptible temper, which involved 
him in sundry broils and disappointments, in conse- 
quence of which he sought and obtained leave to quit 
the Order of the Jesuits and assume the garb of a secu- 
lar priest or abbe. He died at Milan, Nov. 21, 1756. 
lie is noted principally as a secular writer. His his- 
torical and descriptive work on his own country, which 
he dedicated to pope Benedict XIV — Dissertazioni 
Critico-storielie intorno alia Rezia, di qua dalle Alpi 
oggi detta Valtellina (Milan, 1755, 3 vols.4to) — is the best 
account extant of that secluded region. But the prin- 
cipal w ork of Quadrio is his general history of poetry in 
all ages and countries; Storia e Ragionc d'ogni Poesia 
(Bologna and Milan, 1741-52, 7 vols. 4to), a laborious 
work, containing a vast deal of information not found 
collected in any other compilation; and, notwithstand- 
ing several mistakes and imperfections, is a very use- 
ful library book. Its composition occupied the author 
a considerable part of his life. Sec lloefcr, Xoav. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Quadripartite is the technical term for the di- 
visions of a vault into four triangular spaces. 

Quadrisacramentarians is a controversial name 
for some German reformers in Wittenberg and vicinity 
who maintained that there arc four sacraments neces- 
sary to salvation, viz., baptism, the Lord’s supper, ab- 
solution, and holy orders. See Melancthon, Loci Comm. 
See also Sacrajientarians. 

Quadrivium ( quatuor , four, and via, a road), the 



QUAIL 


832 


QUAIL 


name given, in the language of the schools of the West, | 
to the higher course of the mediaeval studies, from its ! 
consisting of four branches, as the lower course, for an 
analogous reason, was called Tritium , or "Three Hoads.” 
The quadrivium consisted of arithmetic, music, geome- 
try, and astronomy. It would carry us beyond our lim- 
its to detail the nature and extent of each of these branch- 
es as pursued in the mecliseval schools. The reader 
will find much curious and new matter on all questions 
of this nature in the volumes of the works of Roger 
Bacon, lately edited in the series issued under authori- 
ty of the Master of the Bolls, as also in the Introduc- 
tion prefixed to the volumes. — Chambers' s Encyclop. s. v. 1 

Quail [ Ken , ^ T ] . sel a v ; Sept. opTvyopprpa ; 

Vulg. coturnix) occurs in Exod. xiv, 13; Numb, xi, 31, 
32 ; Psa. cv, 40, where it is mentioned as food of the Is- 
raelites while they were in the desert. According to 
Sehultens {Orig. I !eb. i, 231), the Hebrew is derived 

from an Arabic root “ to be fat." The round, plump form 
of the quail is eminently suitable to this etymology ; in- 
deed, its fatness is proverbial, dosephus (Ant. iii, 1, 5), 
too, expressly names the bird referred to here ortyx , bp- 
ro£. In fact, the Hebrew word ‘PS'T is unquestionably 
identical with the Arabic sitlwd, a “quail.” Neverthe- 
less, various opinions have been held as to the nature 
of the food denoted by the Hebrew selav, which on two 
distinct occasions was supplied to the Israelites in the ; 
wilderness (see Exod. xvi, 13, on which occasion the 
people were between Sin and Sinai ; and Numb, xi, 31, 
32, when at the station named, in consequence of the 
judgment which befell them, Kibroth-hattaavah). Lu- 
dolf, for instance, an author of high repute, has endeav- 
ored to show that the selav were locusts (see his Bisser- 
tatio de Locust is, cum Diutriba , etc. .[Franc, ad Mocn. 
1694]). 11 is opinion has been fully advocated and adopt- 
ed bv Patrick (Comment. on N umh. xi, 3 1 , 32). The Jews 
in Arabia also, as we learn from Niebuhr (Bosch reib. von 
Arab. p. 172), “are convinced that the birds which the 
Israelites ate in such numbers were only clouds of lo- 
custs, and they laugh at those translators who sup- 
pose that they found quails where quails were never 
seen.” Rudbeck (Ichfhyol. Bibl. Spec, i) has argued in 
favor of the selav meaning “ flying-fish,” some species 
of the genus Kxocetus. Michaelis at one time held the 
same opinion, but afterwards properly abandoned it (see 
Kosenmitller, Xot. ad Bochart, llicroz. ii, (549). A later 
writer, Ehrenberg (Ceoyraph. Xeitschr. ix,85), from hav- 
ing observed a number of “ Hying-fisli” (gurnards, of 
the genus Triyla of Ok on, Dactylopterus of modern 
ichthyologists) lying dead on the shore near Elim, be- 
lieved that this was the food of the Israelites in the 
wilderness, and named the tish Triyla Jsruelitarum. 
Hermann von der Ilardt supposed that the locust bird 
( Pastor roseus ) was intended by seluv ; and recently 
Mr. Forster (Voice of Israel, p. 98) has advanced an 
opinion that “ red geese” of the genus Casarca are to 
be understood by the Hebrew term. A similar explana- 
tion has been suggested by Stanley (S. and /*. p. 82) 
and adopted by Tennent (Ceylon, i, -J87, note) *. this is ap- 
parently an old conceit, for Patrick (on Numb.xi,31) al- 
ludes to such an explanation. Some writers, while they 
hold that the original word denotes “quails,” are of 
opinion that a species of sand-grouse ( P/erocles alchata), 
frequent in the Bible lands, is also included under the 
term (sec Roscnmilller [.Vo/, ad llicroz. ii. 649], Faber 
[in //armor, ii, 112]. and (Joscnius [Thesaur. s. v. 
iVl*]). It is usual to refer to Hnsselquist as the author- 
ity for believing that the Kata (sand-grouse) is denot- 
ed: this traveller, however, was rather inclined to be- 
lieve, with some of the writers named above, that “ lo- 
custs,” and not birds, are to be understood (p. M3) ; and 
it is dillicult to make out what he means by Tetrao Is- 
ruelitarum. EimiiCtis supposed he intended by it the 
common “quail." In one paragraph lie states that the 
Arabians call a bird “of a grayish color and less than [ 



Sand-grouse (Pterocles Alchata). 

our partridge” by the name of Katta. lie adds “An 
SelawV” This cannot be the Pterocles alchata. The 
view taken by Ludolf may be dismissed with a very 
few words. The expression in l’sa. Ixxviii, 27, of 
“ feathered fowl” T'"), which is used in refer- 

ence to the seluv , clearly denotes some bird, and Ludolf 
quite fails to prove that it may include winged insects. 
Again, there is not a shadow of evidence to support the 
opinion that selav can ever signify any “locust,” this 
term being used in the Arabic and the cognate lan- 
guages to denote a “ quail.” As to any species of “ fly- 
ing-tidi, .’’whether belonging to the genus Dactylopterus 
or to that of Kxocetus, being intended, it will be enough 
to state that “ flying-fish” are quite unable to sustain 
their flight above a few hundred yards at the most, and 
never could have been taken in the Bed Sea in numbers 
sufficient to supply the Israelitisli host. The interpre- 
tation of selav by “ wild geese” or “ wild cranes,” or any 
“wild fowl,” is a gratuitous assumption without a par- 
ticle of evidence in its favor. The Casarca, with which 
Air. Forster identifies the selav, is the ('. rutila, a bird of 
about the size of a mallard, which can by no means an- 
swer the supposed requisite of standing three feet high 
from the ground. “ The large red-legged cranes” of 
which Prof. Stanley speaks are evidently white storks 
(Ciconiu alba), and would fulfil the condition as to 
height; but the flesh is so nauseous that no Israelite 
could ever have done more than have tasted it. With 
respect to the Pt erodes alchata , neither it, nor indeed 
any other species of the genus, agrees with the Script- 
ural account of the seluv. The sand-grouse is a bird of 
strong wing and of unwearied flight, and never could 
have been captured in any numbers by the Israelitisli 
multitudes, it is at all times a tenant of the wilder- 
ness far from water, and, strictly taken, is perhaps not 
a clean bird, all the species subsisting, for the most 
part, on larva*, beetles, and insects. We much ques- 
tion, moreover, whether the people would have eaten 
to excess — for so much the expression translated “fully 
satisfied” (Psa. Ixxviii, 29) implies — of the flesh of this 
bird, for, according to the testimony of travellers, from 
Dr. Russell (History of Aleppo [2d cd.], ii. 19-1) down 
to observers of to-day. the flesh of the sand-grouse is 
hard and tasteless. The lp~vyopi}Tpa, or “quail-moth- 
er,” of the Sept, should not be passed over without a 
brief notice. It is not easy to determine what bird is 
intended by this term as used by Aristotle and Pliny 
( ortygometra' ). According to the account given of this 
bird by the (ireck and Latin writers on natural history 
just mentioned, the ortyyometrn precedes the quail in 
its migrations, and acts as a sort of leader to the flight. 
Some ornithologists, as Belon and Fleming (Brit. .1 him. 
p. 98) have assigned this term to the “land-rail” (('rex 
pratmsis ), the Boi des failles of the French, Be di 
Quaglie of the Italians, and the Wachtelkdnig of the 
Hermans, but with what reason we are unable to say. 
Probably the Sept. uses the term as a synonym of bprvK, 
or to express I lie good condition in which the birds 
were, for llcsychius explains 6 prvyopt)rpa by bprvK 


QUAIL 


833 


QUAIL 


inrepyeye^tjg, i. e. “a quail of large size.” See PAR- 
TRIDGE. 

The objections which have been urged by Patrick 
and others against “quails” being intended are very 
easily refuted. The expression “as it were tw r o cubits 
[high] upon the face of the earth” (Numb, xi, 31) is ex- 
plained by the Sept., by the Yulg., and by Josephus 
(Ant. iii, 1, 5) to refer to the height at which the quails 
flew above the ground, in their exhausted condition 
from their long flight. As to the enormous quantities 
which the least successful Israelite is said to have taken 
(viz. “ ten homers”) in the space of a night and two days, 
there is every reason for believing that the “ homers” 
here spoken of do not denote strictly the measure of 
that name, but simply “a heap;” this is the explana- 
tion given by Onkelos and the Arabic versions of Saadi- 
as and Erpenius in Numb, xi, 31. Indeed, the inspired 
historian has himself shown that a complete covering 
of the ground with a compact mass is out of the ques- 
tion. For he has informed us that the people “ spread 
them all abroad for themselves round about the camp.” 
This was in order to dry them in the sun for keeping, 
and it would require to be performed before decomposi- 
tion had begun to set in; therefore the ground about 
the camp was free and clean for the drying process, 
which could not have been if it had been covered a 
yard deep with birds, twenty bushels to the square yard. 
As it was, however, the store they collected in thirty- 
six hours lasted them for a whole month. The bodies, 
after having been split and cleansed, may have been 
simply dried in the sun without any antiseptic; for 
desiccation having once taken place, which a few hours 
of sunshine would be sufficient to accomplish, the stock 
would be preserved in the arid climate of the desert for 
an indefinite period. Thus the flesh of animals taken 
in hunting is simply sun-dried in South Africa, and thus 
the stock-tisch of the Norwegians is prepared from the 
cod, without salt. It is possible that a portion of the 
preserved meat may have been salted. The Egyptians 
used a large quantity of salt provisions, particularly fish 
and fowl; and the processes of splitting and salting 
geese are well depicted in the paintings of the tombs. 
The Hebrews would thus be sufficiently familiar with 
the art; and we know, from the ordinances concerning 
sacrifice (Lev. ii, 13), that they carried salt with them. 
But that they had, or could on the spur of the occasion 
procure, salt enough for the curing of a hundred millions 
of bushels of quails (allowing twenty millions to have 
been consumed in the fresh state), is altogether improb- 
able. A comparatively small quantity may have been 
so preserved, but the bulk was doubtless simply sun- 
dried. The Egyptians similarly prepared these birds 
(see Herodotus [ii, 77], and Mai lie t \_Lettres sur VEgypte , 
ix, 21 ; iv, 130]). See Exode. 



Common Quail ( Coturnix Dactylisonans). 


Quails form a subdivision of the Tetraonido ? , or grouse 
family, being distinguished from partridges by their 
smaller size, finer bill, shorter tail, and the want of a 
VIII. — G G G 


red naked eyebrow and of spurs on the legs. There are 
several species, whereof the common, now distinguished 
by the name of Coturnix dactylisonans, is abundant in 
all the temperate regions of Europe and Western Asia, 
migrating to and from Africa in the proper season. 
Thus it crosses the Mediterranean and Black seas twice 
a year in vast multitudes; but being by nature a bird 
of heavy flight, the passage is partially conducted by 
way of intermediate islands or through Spain, and in 
the East, in still greater numbers, along the Syrian 
desert into Arabia, forming, especially at the spring 
season, innumerable flocks. This quail, the only species 
of the genus known to migrate, has, in fact, a very wide 
geographical range, being found in China, India, the 
Cape of Good Hope, and England, and, according to 
Temminck, in Japan (see Col. Sykes’s paper on The 
Quails and Hempodii of India [Trans, of Zool. Soc. vol. 
ii]). Enormous flights of this bird, after crossing an im- 
mense surface of sea, are annually observed at the spring 
and fall to take a brief repose in the islands of Malta, 
Sicily, Sardinia, Crete, in the kingdom of Naples, and 
about Constantinople, where on those occasions there is 
a general shooting-match, w hich lasts two or three days. 
This always occurs in the autumn. The birds, starting 
from the Crimea about seven at night, and with a north- 
erly wind, before dawn accomplish a passage of above 
sixty leagues in breadth, and alight on the sontliern 
shore to feed and repose. Iu the vernal season the di- 
rection of the flight is reversed, and they arrive in sim- 
ilar condition on the Russian coast. The same phenom- 
ena occur at Malta, etc.; and as gregarious birds of pas- 
sage are known to guide their course by given land- 
marks, which they distinguish with unerring precision, 
and which, unless they have been driven out of their 
usual direction by storms of wind, they invariably ar- 
rive at or over before they take a new flight, so also 
quails congregate in Arabia in numbers proportionate 
to the surface of Western Asia, whither they are pro- 
ceeding. The providential nature of their arrival with- 
in and around the camp of the Israelites, in order that 
they might furnish meat to a murmuring people, ap- 
pears from the fact of its taking place where it was not 
to be expected ; the localities, we presume, being out of 
the direction of the ordinary passage ; for, had this not 
been the case, the dwellers in that region, and the Isra- 
elites themselves, accustomed to tend their flocks at no 
great distance from the spot, would have regarded the 
phenomenon as a well-known periodical occurrence. 
Aristotle (A nim. viii, 14) mentions the habit ; and 
Pliny (Ilist. A 'at. x, 23) states that they sometimes 
alight on vessels in the Mediterranean and sink them ! 
Belon found quails alight in autumn on a vessel bound 
from Rhodes to Alexandria ; they w r ere passing from the 
north to the south, and had wheat in their craws. In the 
preceding spring, sailing from Zante to the Morea, 
he saw flights of quails going from south northwards. 
Buffon relates that INI. le Commandant Godelun saw 
quails constantly passing Malta during certain winds 
in May, and repassing in September ; and that they 
flew by night. Tonrnefort ( Voyage , i, 329) says 
that all the islands of the Archipelago at certain sea- 
sons of the year are covered with these birds. Col. 
Sykes states that such quantities were once caught 
in Capri, near Naples, as to have afforded the bishop 
no small share of his revenue, and that in consequence 
he has been called Bishop of Quails. The same writer 
mentions also (Trans. Zool. Soc. vol. ii) that 160,000 
quails have been netted in one season on this little 
island. M. Temminck says that in spring such pro- 
digious numbers ofquails alight on the western shores 
of the kingdom of Naples, about Nettuno, that one 
hundred thousand are taken in a day (Yarrell, Brit. 
Birds [2d ed.], ii, 404). It is interesting to note the 
time specified ; “it was at even” that they began to 
arrive ; and they, no doubt, continued to come all the 
night. Many observers have recorded that the quail 
migrates by night, though this is denied by Col. Montagu 


834 


QUAINI 


QUAM DILECTA 


(Omit hoi. Diet. s. v.). “Oil two successive years I ob- 
served enormous flights of quails on the north coast of 
Algeria, which arrived from the south in the night, and 
were at daybreak in such numbers through the plains 
that scores of sportsmen had only to shoot as fast as 
they could reload” (II. IS. Tristram). When the num- 
bers, however, are very great, and the distance to be 
achieved remote, we can well imagine that both day 
and night would be spent on the wing, as on the second 
occasion recorded in the sacred text. The expression 
“quails from the sea” (Numb, xi, 81) must not be re- 
stricted (o denote that the birds came from the sea as 
their starting-point, but it must be taken to show the 
direction from which they were coining. The quails 
were, at the time of the event narrated in the sacred 
writings, on their spring journey of migration north- 
wards, an interesting proof, as Col. Sykes has remarked, 
of the perpetuation of an instinct through some 3300 
years; the flight which fed the multitudes at Kibroth- 
hattaavah might have started from Southern Egypt and 
crossed the lied Sea near lias Mohammed, and so up the 
gulf of Akabali into Arabia l’etnea. The Israelites 
would have had little difficulty in capturing large quan- 
tities of these birds, as they arc known to arrive at 
places sometimes so completely exhausted by their 
flight as to he readily taken, not in nets only, but by 
the hand. See l)iotl. Sic. (i. 82 [ed. Dindorf]), Pros- 
per Alpinus (ficrum yEgypt. iv, 1), and Josephus (.4«(. 
iii, 5). Sykes ( l . c.) says “they arrive in spring on the [ 
shores of l’rovence so fatigued that for the first few | 
days they allow r themselves to be taken by the hand.” 
Diodorus tells ns (i, GO) that the inhabitants of liliino- 
colura, a town on the border of Palestine and Egypt, 
placed long nets made of split reeds along the shore a 
length of many furlongs, in which the quails were arrest- 
ed that had crossed the sea in lloeks; ami that they then 
preserved them for future subsistence. In t lie northern 
parts of Persia and Armenia, according to Morier, quails 
are taken in great abundance, and with great ease, with 
the simplest possible machinery. The men stick two 
poles in their girdles, on which poles they so stretch a 
coat or a pair of trousers that the sleeves or the legs 
shall project like the horns of a beast. Tims disguised, 
they prowl about the fields with a hand-net, and the 
quails, simply supposing the strange object to be a 
horned beast, and therefore harmless to them, allow 
him to approach till lie throws the net over them. 
Elide as such a contrivance seems, the Persians catch 
quails thus with astonishing rapidity (Second Journey, 
ji. 343). The flesh of the quail, though of an agreeable 
quality, is said by some writers to be beating, and it lias 
been supposed by some that the deaths that occurred 
from ealing the food in the wilderness resulted partly 
from these birds feeding on hellebore (Pliny, Hist. Mat. 
x, 23) and other poisonous plants; but this is exceed- 
ingly improbable, although the immoderate gratifica- 
tion of the appetite for the space of a whole month 
(Numb, xi, 20) on such food, in a hot. climate, and in the 
case of a people who at the time of the wanderings rare- { 
Iv tasted flesh, might have induced dangerous symptoms. ' 
“ The plague” seems to have been directly sent upon j 
the people hv tJod as a punishment for their murmur- ! 
ings. and perhaps is not even in a subordinate sense to 
he attributed to natural causes. — Kitto, Smith. Fair- 
bairn. See, in general, Bochart, I/uroz. ii. G4*s sq. ; 
Partlctt, Forty Days in the Desert, p. -10 ; Tristram, *Y at. 
Hist. <>f the Jtible, p. 220; Wood, f tilde Animals, p. 430 
sq.; Dibit Educator, i, 1 57, 250; iii. 8t>. 

Quaini, Ei n;i, an Italian painter, the son of Fran- 
cesco, was horn at Bologna in 1043. After having ac- 
quired the rudiments of the art and a knowledge of 
perspective from his father, he became a disciple first of 
(iiicrcino, and afterwards of his relation t'arlo Cignnni, 
in whose school lie w as contemporary with Marc Antonio 
Franceschiiii. II is improvement was so great that in 
a few’ years he was employed, as well as Francescliini, to 
assist Cignaui in the execution of some of his great 


works. Their method of handling and coloring was so 
similar that it was difficult to determine what part of 
any work was executed by either of them. In Cignani’s 
principal works, however, it seems that Quaini painted 
the landscape, the architecture, and other ornaments, 
and Francescliini the figures. After t ’ignani’s death 
the two artists continued to work together. They were 
employed at Bologna. Modena, Piacenza, (lenoa, and 
Home, where they painted the cartoons for a cupola in 
St. l’eter’s, which lias since been executed in mosaic. 
Quaini also painted many historical subjects from his 
own compositions, which were entirely finished by him- 
self. In the church of St. Joseph at Bologna there is a 
picture of the Visitation; in La Caritii, the dead Christ 
Supported by the Virgin; and in the church of St. Nich- 
olas the principal altar-piece is by Quaini — it represents 
St. Nicholas in Prison Visited by the Virgin and an 
Angel, and is favorably spoken of by Lanzi. Quaini 
died in 1717. — English Cyclop, s. v. Sec Spooner, Uiog. 
Hist, of the Fine A i ts, s. v. 

Quakers. Sec Friends. 

Quam despectus, quam dejectls, is Ihc begin- 
ning of a passion-hymn, written by the doctor seraphi- 
cus, St. Eoiiaventura (q. v.), of which the first stanza 
runs thus: 

“ Quam despeclus, quam dejectns, 

Bex cosloi nm est effect us, 

IT salvaret sacctiluin ; 

Esnrivil et sitivit, 

Pauper ct egemis h it 
Usque ad patibulum.” 

This beautiful hymn has been translated into English 
by 1*. S. Worsley, and from the Lyra Messiunico, p. 277, 
we subjoin the first stanza: 

“ Oli, what shame and desolation, 

Working out the world’s salvation, 

Deigned the King of Heaven to bear! 

See him bowed with sorrows endless, 

Hungry, thirsty, poor, and friendless, 

Even to the cross repair." 

For the original, see Trench. Sacred Latin I'oetry (Loud. 
BSG4), p. 143 sq. (B. P.) 

Quam dilecta taberxaiti.a is the beginning of 
a prose of Adam of St.Victor (d. about 1192) for the ded- 
ication of a church. “This hymn,” says Mr. Trench, 
“of which the theme is, the dignities anil glories of the 
Church, as prefigured in the Old Testament and fulfilled 
in the New, is the very extravagance of typical appli- 
cation, and were it only as a study in mediaeval typolo- 
gy, would ho worthy of insertion ; hut it has other and 
higher merits, even though it must he owned rather 
that the poet’s learned stuff masters him, than that he 
is able effectually to master it. Its title indicates that it 
was composed for the occasion of a church’s dedication, 
the services of which time were ever laid out for the 
carrying of men’s thoughts from the temple made with 
hands to that spiritual temple, on earth or in heaven, 
‘whose builder and maker is (iod.’” Wc subjoin the 
first verse : 

“Quam dilecta tabcrnacula 
Domini virtntnm et atria! 

(Bunn electi architect], 

Tula icditicia, 

(Bite non movent, immo fovent, 
veu ms, tinmen, pliivia !" 

There arc two English translations of this prose, one l>v 
W. 15. Flower, ill Lyra Mystica. p. 21 1 sq. " 1 low loved 
thy halls and dwelling-place"— and the oilier by Neale, 
in his Medurrul Hymns , p. 1 IG sq„ with explanatory 
notes. A third translation, hut only of the last stanzas, 
is given hv Mr. Boiiar in the Sunday at Home (Jan. 
1.S7S), which, for their beauty, we subjoin : 

“Future things in figure shadowed 
This our day of grace displays ! 

On the couch with onr beloved 
Here we rest, and sing, and praise, 

Now the bridal day has come ! 

“ Days of which the silver trumpets 
Of the ancient feasts first told ; 


f 


QUANDT 


835 


QUAKliY 


Day of days, whose promised glory 
Israel’s holy psalms unfold, 

Giving voice to solerau sound. 


“Thousand, thousaud are the praises 
To the Bridegroom which they raise; 
With one voice in triumph singing 
Through the everlasting days, 
Hallelujah, without end.” 

See Trench, Sacred Latin Poetry , p. 22' 


sq. 


Mone, 


[ highest in Judaea, called Quarantana (by the Arabs 
I Kuruntul), in allusion to the forty days’ fasting of Je- 
j sus, and which is supposed to be the mount alluded to 
in Matt, iv, 8 (see Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 450; 
Wilson, Bible Lands , ii, 1‘2) ; but by some it is identified 
with the Rock of Kimmou, where the defeated Iienja- 
mites took refuge (Judg.xx,47). “The mountain rises 
, - ■ - - precipitously, an almost perpendicular wall of rock, 

Uymni Latim, i, 316; Koch, Geschichte des deutschen twelve or fifteen hundred feet above the plain, crowned 
Kirchenliedes, i, 109. (B. 1 .) with a chapel on its highest point. The eastern front 

Quandt, Johann Jacob, a Lutheran theologian, is full of grots and caverns, -where hermits are said once 
doctor and professor of theology, was born March 27, to have dwelt in great numbers. At the present day, 
1686, at Kbnigsberg, in Prussia, where he also died Jan. some three or four Abyssiuians are said to come hither 
17, 1772, as church-counsellor and general superintend- annually to pass the time of Lent upon the mountain, 
ent. Of bis writings we mention, Judenpredigt (Ivon- living only upon herbs. There is nothing else remark- 
igsberg, 1710): — De Atramento Ilebreeorum , ex Pan- able about this naked cliff to distinguish it from the 
deeds Tabnudicis (ibid. 1713) : — De Cultris Circumciso- other similar ones along the Ghor and the Dead Sea 
riis et Secespitis Hebrceorum (ibid. 1713): — De Cornibus farther south. The tradition which regards the moun- 
Altaris Exterioris (ibid. 1713) : — De Cinere in Sacris tain as the place of our Lord’s temptation, as well as the 
Ilebreeorum (ibid. 1713) : — Dissedado de Sayan Cj55) name Quarantana, appears not to be older than the age 
she Pondficis Maximi Suffragaueo (Lips. 1708), re- of the Crusades” (Robinson, Bib. Res. ii, 303). 
printed in Ugolino, Thesaurus Audquitatum Sacrarum, Quare impedit (i. e. why lie hinders) is the title 
etc. xii, No. 16 : — De Christo Vero Ecclesicv Fimdamento of an English action whereby a person who has pur- 
in Nomine Sethi typice adumbrato Gen.ir, 25 (Konigs- chased an advowson, or right of presentation to an ec- 
berg, 1726). See F first, Bibl. Judaica, iii, 124; Winer, clesiastical benefice, sues any one who disturbs or liin- 
Handbuch der theolog. Literatur, i, 637 ; ii, 718 (Leips. ders him in the exercise of his legal right. — Chambers's 
1838). (B. P.) Encyclop. s. v. 

Quanian Version. The Quiines, a wandering Quare incumbravit (why he has cumbered or 
people, for whom this version is made, inhabit that most taken possession). During a plea between two persons 
northerly portion of Lapland which is called Finmark f or the possession of an advowson [see Quake impedit], 


or Norwegian Lapland. This dreary region, having for 
its northern boundary the Arctic or Frozen Ocean, is 
the habitation of about 6000 people, called the Quanes, 
who till within the last half century were left without 
any version of the Scriptures in their vernacular dialect. 
The Bible Society of Finland sent to them copies of the 
Finnish Testament, but this version was unintelligible 
to them, and even so the Lappish Testament, although 
they speak a dialect of Laplandish. In 1822 the Brit- 
ish and Foreign Bible Society voted £200 to promote 
a version in Quanian, and it was not till the year 1828 
that arrangements for the immediate translation of the 
New Testament were made by the Norwegian Society. 
The execution of the translation was committed to Mr. 
Stockfleth, a missionary of eminent devotedness, who 
in 1828 w r as laboring as a pastor among the uncivilized 
tribes of Laplanders under the seventy-first degree of 
north latitude, w'here, during two months of the year, 
the sun never rises. In 1840 the translation of the 
New Testament was completed, and an edition was pub- 
lished at Christiania, under the superintendence of the 
Norwegian Bible Society. See The Bible of Every 
Land, p. 324. (B. P.) 

Quauwon is, in Japanese mythology, an embodi- 
ment of the goddess Araida. She is represented with a 
multitude of hands, each holding a different object, 
probably things useful to men, whom she has under- 
taken to make happy. Her temples are splendid, of 
extraordinary dimensions, and 
filled with idols : 33,333 are said 
to be contained in the temple 
of Miako; hence its name, San 
mun San Tsin , which signifies 
the temple of the 33,333 images. 

A large number of children are 
represented around her in her 
pictures : they are the gods 
themselves looking up to her 
with love and veneration. — Yoll- 
mer, Worterb. d. My t hoi. s. v. 

Quarantana. In the moun- 
tainous wilderness between Je- 
rusalem and Jericho, in which, 
according to tradition, our Lord’s 
temptation took place, there is a 
very high mountain, one of the 


if the bishop admits the presentee of one of them within 
six months, the other can have a writ of this form 
against the bishop. — Eadie, Eccles. Did. s. v. 

Quare non admlsit (why he has not admitted). 
When one has recovered an advowson, and the bishop 
refuses to admit his presentee, such a writ may be em- 
ployed. 

Quarrel (Fr. carre , square) is a technical term em- 
ployed in architecture to describe a diamond -shaped 
pane of glass, or a square one placed diagonally. It is 
also the name of a small piercing in the tracery of a 
window. A wax taper (q.v.) used in churches is also 
called “ quarrel.” 

Quarry (3' , y2, pesil, but only in the plur. ; Sept. 
yXvwTd, Yulg. idola). In the account of the exploit 
of Ehud in Judg. iii, 19, 26, for the “quarries that were 
by Gilgal” of our version, or, as the Syriac and the Chal- 
dee read, stone-pits or quarries, the primary signification 
of images ot’talse gods may be intended, as in Dent, vii, 
25; Isa. xlii, 8; Jer. viii, 19; li, 52; Hos. xi. 12, etc., 
and it is so understood by the Sept, and the Yulg. in 
the above text. We have no knowledge of any quar- 
ries at Gilgal, in the plain of Jericho; and Booth- 
royd conjectures that idols might have been erected at 
Gilgal by Eglon, and that the sight of them there in- 
spired Ehud with new ardor to execute his purpose. 
Rosenm tiller, after Rashi, adheres to the above inter- 






Enormous Stone iu the Quarry near Baalbek. 


836 


QUARTERLY FAST 


QUAW 


pretation of quarries, and in this Ffirst and Keil agree. 
The last-named interpreter remarks that the Gilgal in- 
tended cannot be the one near the Jordan, but that in 
the hills of Ephraim. .See Gilgal. Gesen ins regards 
Pesilim as the name of a place. Gassel, in Lange’s Com - 
mentary, understands by it boundary -stones, i. e. “ter- 
mini,” of an idolatrous form. That the ancient Canaan- 
ites had extensive quarries is evinced by the cyclopean 
blocks at the foundation of the temple at Baalbek (q. v.). 

Quarterly Fast. See Fasting. 

Quarterly Meeting. See Mkkting, Qiau- 

TEKI.Y. 

Quartodecimani, a name in ecclesiastical his- 
tory for those Christians of Asia Minor who, in the first 
ages of the Church, annually commemorated the death 
of Christ at the 14th of Nisan, the time when the Jews 
celebrated the Passover [see Pasciial Controversy], 
and three days after the resurrection of Jesus, totally 
ignoring the regard for the day of the week usually 
taken as the one on which this event is believed to have 
occurred. This difference it was determined to adjust 
at the Council of Nice in A.L>. 3*25, when it was decreed 
that the practice of observing Friday as the day of cru- 
cifixion (q. v.), and the following Sunday as the day of 
ascension (q. v.), should prevail. Those who refused 
to accept this decision of the council were denominated 
Quartodecimani, because of their contending for the 
fourteenth day of the first Hebrew month as the proper 
time for observing Easter, quartadecima. Inna, on the 
fourteenth day of the moon. They are sometimes 
called Paschites. The Amkoans, Montanists, Novatians, 
and other sects were Quartodecimani. See Sehaff, Ck. 
Ilist.x ol. ii; Piddle, Christian Antiquities; Waterland, 
11'orfo, vol. vL 

Quar'tus (Gnccized Kovaprog, for the Latin quar- 
tos, fourth), a Christian resident at Corinth, and, from 
his name, apparently a Roman, whose salutations Paul 
communicated to the Church of Rome in his epistle 
thereto (Rom. xvi, 23). A.D. cir. 50. There is the 
usual tradition that he was one of the seventy disciples; 
and it is also said that be ultimately became bishop of 
Berytus (Tillemont, i, 334). 

Quas laudes tibi nos, Pater, canemts, is the 
beginning of one of the hymns written bv the “precep- 
tor Germania*,” Philip Melancthon (q. v.). It was com- 
posed in the year 1527, and is based on Psa. cxi. )t is 
found with his other poems, of which he composed al- 
together about 400, in Bret schneider’s Corpus Reforma- 
torum (Hal. Sax. 1842), vol. x. A selection of about 
fifty-one, together with a German metrical translation, 
was published by Oberhev, Melanchthon's Cedichte, aus- 
yewiihlt und iibersetzt (Halle, bei Miihlmann, 1802). See 
Koch, Ceschichte, des deutschen Kirchenliedes, i, 259. 
(B. P.) 

Quaser. The Scandinavian Jidda tells us that the 
divine families of the Ases and Vanes, having warred 
against each other for many years, felt tired at last of 
these never-ceasing disputes, and determined to create 
a being on whose wisdom they might safely rely, and 
whom they would take for their umpire. Ases and 
Vanes spat into a common vessel, and formed Quaser. 
He was so wise that no one could ask him a question 
which he was not able, to answer. Therefore, having 
pronounced his sentence in the quarrel of the gods, he 
travelled about in the world to impart his wisdom to 
men. But two gnomes, Fialar and Galar. killed him, 
mingled his blood with honey, and thus prepared a de- 
licious mead, which made poets of all those who tasted 
it. The gods having shown some anxiety as to what 
had become of the great sage, the gnomes managed to 
spread the rumor that Quaser had been choked by his 
own wisdom (a phrase which has become proverbial in 
the north), as nobody could relieve him of it by his 
questions. Shortly afterwards the same dwarfs killed 
the giant (idling and his wife by crushing them with a 


mill-stone while sleeping. The giant Suttung, Gil- 
ling’s son, avenged his father by exposing the murder- 
ers on a deserted island, to die there of starvation. In 
this extremity they offered him. to ransom their lives, 
their poetical mead. Suttung listened to their propo- 
sition, set them free, and had the precious liquid care- 
fully guarded by his beautiful daughter Gunlbda in the 
interior of a mountain. Odin, by a stratagem, pene- 
trated into the mountain, gained the favor of the young 
giantess, and drank the mead to the last drop. — Voll- 
mer, Wovterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Quasimodogeiriti is a term sometimes used to 
denote the first Sunday after Easter. It is of compara- 
tively late origin, and is derived from the Latin version 
of 1 Pet. ii, 2: Quasi modo yeniti infantes, etc. — “As 
new-born babes,” etc. See Easter. 

Quatember are fasts observed in the Church of 
Rome, and by other ecclesiastical bodies, among them 
the Church of England. According to Jewish custom, 
the four seasons of the year were observed as occasions 
for fasting. These were the four fast-weeks: one after 
Ash-Wednesdav, Pentecost, the Crucifixion (Sept. 14), 
and after Lucia (Dec. 13). The fast-davs w*ere Wednes- 
day, Friday, and Saturday. Wednesday was the day 
on which the quarterly offerings were brought, and it 
was principally called Quatember-dav. In the German 
Protestant Church these fasts were for a long time ob- 
served also. 

QuaterTiion (rerpahov, a body of four'). “A 
l quaternion of soldiers” (Acts xii, 4) was a detachment 
of four men, which was the usual number of a Roman 
! night-watch (Veget. De lie Milit. iii,8 ; Philo, In Flacc. 

1 p. 98; Polyb. vi, 33, 37). See Soldier. Peter, there- 
fore, was guarded by four soldiers, two within the prison, 
probably attached to his person, and two outside the 
doors; and, as the watch w r as usually changed every 
three hours, it was necessary that the “four quater- 
nions” mentioned in the text should be appointed for 
the purpose. See Prison. Or one set of sentinels may 
have been posted at the door of the cell (which was 
probably thought to be so secure as not to require a 
guard within), and another at the outer or street gate 
(Walcli, De 1 'inclis Petri, in his Dissert, ad loc.). See 
Peter. 

Quatremere, Etienne Marie, a celebrated French 
Orientalist, was born at Paris, July 12, 1782. He began 
his studies at a very early age, and as a youth was noted 
for his remarkable attainments. In 1807 he was em- 
ployed in the Imperial Library, and in 1809 was called 
to the professor’s chair at Rouen. In 1815 he was ap- 
pointed to the Academy of Inscriptions, and in 1819 in- 
structor of Hebrew, Chaldee, and Syriac at the College 
of France. In 1827 he became professor of Persian. lie 
was now known as one of the greatest Orientalists in the 
world, and was especially noted as an Egyptologist, and 
how* well he deserved this distinction appears from his 
publications in this line of study. In his religious pro- 
clivities he was Galliean and Jansenist. He used his 
pen freely against the innovations of the papists and 
against their assumptions. We have not room lure to 
i mention his severe satires against the Cltramontancs, 
hut refer the reader who desires to study them to Re- 
j nan’s Essays. Quatremere died Sept. 18, 1857. 

Quaw, James E., a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church. He graduated at the New* Bruns- 
wick Theological Seminary in 1828, and was engaged 
during his ministerial life chiefly in missionary work 
among feeble churches in New York and Michigan. He 
was the author of two remarkable books — The Cold 
Water Man, a powerful plea for total abstinence, and 
Itible Baptism, or the Immerse/- Instructed from Vunous 
Sources. 'Fhe latter has passed through a number of 
editions, and is a real thesaurus of information, and of 
learned, acute, and valuable discussion of the mode of 
baptism. The object is to place before its readers the 
results of learned investigation, and to prove that im- 


QUEDARA WARDON 837 QUEEN 


mersion is not the only scriptural mode of baptism; 
that sprinkling is scriptural, and that infants are proper 
subjects of that ordinance.' The individuality of the 
author’s character, life, and ministry, and his indepen- 
dence of thought and treatment of his subject, may be 
gathered from his prefatory statement: “Many of the 
materials for the following work were collected while 
the author was travelling in primitive apostolic style in 
different parts of the great American valley. In these, 
his ministerial journeyings, he usually preached six or 
eight times a week, while he often travelled on foot 
without purse or scrip or two coats, sometimes with 
scarcely one, often for days without bread and occasion- 
ally without water. But the mighty God of Jacob was 
always with him. . . . This book was written in a West- 
ern log-cabin, in a room which at one and the same 
time answered for a study, a parlor, a sitting-room, a 
dining-hall, bedroom, and kitchen. The hours which 1 
for six or eight months the author could spare from the | 
discharge of the duties of a New-Testament bishop, he 
has, in this rather romantic study, devoted to this work.” 
Mr. Quaw was lost on Lake Erie in the dreadful wreck 
of the steamer Erie in 1845. He was a godl}' and self- 
denying man, peculiar in appearance and manner, a 
faithful missionary to the needy, and an able writer. 
(W. J. R. T.) 

Quedara Wardon is a Hindi! festival in honor 
of the goddess Parwati (q. v.). ft imposes on him who 
has once celebrated it the obligation of celebrating it 
every year. The participants in this solemnity are dis- 
tinguished by a yellow string, which they carry around 
their arm. They fast the whole day of the feast. — Voll- 
mer, Worterb. d. J Iythol. s. v. 

Quedil is a Hindu feast in honor of the goddess 
Mariatale. The performances are the same as those of 
the goddess Mariyammai. Mariatale is probably iden- 
tical with the latter. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Quedlinburg, Synods of. Several ecclesiastical 
councils were held in this German city in mediaeval 
times. The first took place in 1085. The bishops who 
sided with pope Gregory VII assembled it immediately 
after Easter, and it was presided over by the papal leg- 
ate Otto di Ostia. Among those who attended were 
archbishops Gebhard of Salzburg and Hartwick of Mag- 
deburg ; the bishops Adalbere of Wiirzburg, Altmann of 
Passaii, Bernard of Merseburg, Gunther of Zeiz, St. Ben- 
lio of Meissen, Albert of Worms, Burchard of Ilalber- 
stadt, Herrmann of Metz, Reginhard of Minden, Wigold 
of Augsburg, Gebhard of Constance, Heinrich of Bam- 
berg. The council recognised, first, the primacy of the 
pope, whose decisions it was allowed to no one to alter 
or to criticise. In conformity with the decrees of for- 
mer popes, the consecration of the bishops unlawfully 
established by Henry IV, Wenzel of Mentz, Siegfried of 
Augsburg, Norbert of Chur, etc., was declared null, and 
likewise all other ordinations and consecrations of the 
same kind. The synod rejected the erroneous asser- 
tions of Wenzel of Mentz in regard to excommunication. 
Excommunications are only valuable when they are pro- 
nounced according to the forms adopted by the Church. 
The six following resolutions are of a general kind : The 
sixth canon recommends to the priests, deacons, and 
subdeacons perpetual continence; the seventh canon 
prohibits the lays from touching the altar-palls and holy 
vessels; according to the eighth canon, the lays shall 
not take hold of the dimes without having the consent 
of the legitimate owners; the ninth canon directs that 
the spring fast of Quatember shall be held in the first 
week of Lent, the summer fast in the week of Pente- 
cost; the tenth canon decrees no one shall eat eggs or 
cheese during the forty days of Lent; the eleventh can- 
on declares that the choice made by the legate Otto of 
Gebhard as bishop of Constance, and everything done 
by the legate in that city, is approved by the council. 
At the close of the council the anathema was pro- 
nounced, with burning tapers, against the anti -pope 


Wibert (pscndo-Clemcns III), the heresiarch ; against 
the apostate Hugo of Albano, who had presided at the 
Council of Worms in 1076; against Johannes (Petrus), 
archbishop of Porto, and against Petrus, late chancellor 
of the pope ; against archbishop Liemar of Bremen, Udo 
of Ilildesheim, Otto of Constance, Burchard of Basle, 
Huzmann of Spire, deposed bishops; finally, against the 
usurping bishops Wenzel, archbishop of Mentz; Sieg- 
fried, bishop of Augsburg; Norbert, bishop of Chur, and 
all their followers. See Labbe, Concil. x; Hardouiu, 
ConcU.v i; Hartzlieim, Cone. Germ,; Binterim, Deutsche 
Cone. vol. iii ; Flotho, Koniy lleinrieh IV (Stut tg. 1855). 
Two other synods were held at Quedlinburg — one in 
1105, for the reformation of manners; a third in 1121, 
about the situation of the empire and the investitures. 
See Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

Quedu was, in Hindu mythology, the son of Kas- 
siaba and Siugfriede. lie and his brother Rahu were re- 
doubtable giants and wicked dasmons. They tried to 
prevent the gods from preparing the beverage of im- 
mortality, the amrita. The gods having succeeded in 
their enterprise, by causing the Mandar Mountain to 
rotate in the middle of the milk sea, the two giants 
robbed the vessel which contained the amrita. The 
sun and moon'had been witnesses to the robbery: they 
denounced it to Vishnu, who cut off the heads of the 
giants at the very moment when they carried the im- 
mortalizing liquid to their lips. A drop of the amrita 
had already made the two heads immortal; they flew 
towards the sky, and there became planets. They are 
only visible at the time of eclipses. They are fierce en- 
emies of the sun and moon, which they pursue and try 
to swallow. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Queen. The Hebrews had no word properly an- 
swering to our term queen in the sense of a female sov- 
ereign, neither had they the dignity which that word 
denotes. Of the three Hebrew terms used as the equiv- 
alents of “queen” in the A. V. : !TT'«S), 

the first ( putlkah ) alone is applied to a queen regnant ; 
the first and second ( shegal ) equally to a queen consort ; 
without, however, implying the dignity which in Euro- 
pean nations attaches to that position; and the third 
| {gebirah) to the queen mother , to whom that dignity is 
transferred in Oriental courts. The etymological force 
of the words accords with their application. Malkah 
is the feminine of melek, “king;” it is applied in its first 
sense to the queen of Sheba (1 Kings x, 1), and in its 
second to the chief wife, as distinguished from all other 
females in a royal harem (Esth. i, 9 sq. ; vii, 1 sq. ; 
Cant, vi, 8) : the term “ princesses” is similarly used in 
1 Kings xi, 3. Shegal simply means “ wife,” i. e. of the 
first rank, as distinguished from mere concubines; it is 
applied to Solomon’s bride or perhaps mother (Psa. xlv, 
9), and to the wives of the first rank in the harems of 
the Chaldee and Persian monarchs (Dan. v, 2, 3; Neh. 
ii, 6). Gebirah , on the other hand, is expressive of au- 
thority; it means “powerful” or “mistress,” being the 
feminine of gebir, “ master,” or “ lord.” The fem- 
inine is to be understood by its relation to the mascu- 
line, which is not applied to kingly power or to kings, 
but to general authority and dominion. It is, in fact, 
the word which occurs twice with reference to Isaac’s 
blessing of Jacob : “ Be lord over thy brethren ;” and “ I 
have made him thy lord ” (Gen. xxvii, 29, 37). It 
would therefore be applied to the female who exercised 
the highest authority, and this, in an Oriental house- 
hold, is not the wife, but the mother, of the master. 
Strange as such an arrangement at first sight appears, 
it is one of the inevitable results of polygamy : the num- 
ber of the wives, their social position previous to mar- 
riage, and the precarionsness of their hold on the affec- 
tions of their lord combine to annihilate their influence, 
which is transferred to the mother, as being the only fe- 
male who occupies a fixed and dignified position. Hence 
the application of the term gebirah to the queen mother , 
the extent of whose influence is well illustrated by the 


83S 


QUEEN 


QUEEN 


narrative of the interview of Solomon and Batlisheba, ' Western Asia, the position of the king’s mother, whose 
as given in 1 Kings ii. 19 sq. The term is applied to state is much the nearest to that of a European queen 
Maachali, Asa’s mother, who was deposed from her dig- of any with which the East is acquainted, it is found- 
nitv in consequence of her idolatry (1 Kings sv, 13; 2 ed on that essential principle of Oriental manners which 
ChVon. xv, 1 ti) ; to Jezebel as contrasted with Joram (2 in all cases considers the mother of the husband as a far 
Kings x, 13. ‘“the children of the king and the children superior person to his wife, and as entitled to more rc- 
ofthe queen’’) ; and to the mother of Jchoiachin or Jcc- spect and attention. This principle should be clearly 
oniah (Jer xiii, IK; comp. 2 Kings xxiv, 12 ; Jer. xxix, understood ; for it extends throughout the Ilible, and is 
2) In 1 Kings xi, 19, the text perhaps requires emen- >' ct entire !- v llifferfcllt from our own social arrangements, 
7 ‘ . .. „ , . .. . «... under which the mother, as soon as she becomes wid- 

,laho„, the Fouling h.llowed ... the hep.., . - - the ^ abamtl)]ls p|a( .’ „ hcai] of tllc )anlilv Illc 

el.ler,” according better with the context. The limited daughter-in-law. Mr. Urquhart has admirably illus- 
nsc which is made even of the restricted term gebiruh is t ra tetl and developed this principle in his Spirit of the 
somewhat remarkable. It is only employed twice with East (ii,387 sq.); and his remarks, although primarily 
reference to the wife of a king : in one of these two cases illustrative of Turkish manners, are, with some unessen- 
it is applied to the wife of the king of Egypt, where the tial limitations, applicable to the ancient and modern 
condition of the royal consort was more queenly than in East. In p. 389 there is an anecdote of the late Ibra- 
Palestine (1 Kings xi, 19 ; comp. Wilkinson, . I nc. Egypt, him Pasha, who is represented as staying a whole 
ii, 59; iii, 04; v, 28); and in the other to Jezebel, the week in the harem of his mother, waiting to liud a fa- 
wife of Aliab, who. as the daughter of a powerful king, vorable opportunity of pressing a request upon her; and 
appears to have enjoyed peculiar privileges in her matri- when admitted, kissing her feet, refusing to be seated, 
monial state (2 Kings x, 13). In two other places it is and standing an hour and a half before her w ith his 
not clear whether the king’s wife or mother is intended arms crossed, without, after all, succeeding in the suit 
(Jer. xiii, 18; xxix, 2); and in the remaining passages which lie — t lie conqueror of Syria and the victor of 
it is pointedly referred to the king’s mother in such Konieh —preferred to an aged woman. The arrange- 
terms as clearly show that the state which she held was ment in the seraglios of the more magnificent Hebrew' 
one of positive dignity and rank (1 Kings xv, 13 ; 2 j monarchs was probably similar to that of Turkey, with 
Chron. xv, 10). See Wifi:. this difference, that the chief women in the harems of 

The result of all inquiry into the subject seems to the Jewish sovereigns entered it as wives, and not as 
show that among the Jewish kings the usages bearing j slaves. The grand signior, from an indeterminate 
on this point were not different from those which are number of female slaves, selects his favorites, who are 
still exhibited in 'Western Asiatic courts. Where worn- distinguished by the title of cadun, which, as it means 
an never becomes the head of the State, there can be “lady of the house,” seems nearly equivalent to the 
no queen regnant ; and where polygamy is allowed or Hebrew gebirah. The number of these is said to be 
practiced, there can be no queen consort. There w ill, limited to seven, and their rank seems to correspond to 
however, be a chief wife in the harem ; and this is no that of the “wives” of the Hebrew seraglio, whose num- 
doubt tlie rank indicated in the Bible by the words her was unlimited. The mother of a boy is called has- 
which we render “queen.” This rank may be various- ' seky, unless the boy die, in which case she descends to 
lv acquired. The first wife of the king, or the first her former rank. The caduns, or wives, of a deceased or 
whom he took after his accession, usually obtained it ; deposed sultan are all removed from the imperial harem 
and if she is both of high birth and becomes the mother to a separate palace, with the single exception of the 
of the first son. her position is tolerably secure; but if valule sultan, the mother of the reigning sultan, who 
she possesses neither of these advantages, she may be has her liberty, a palace, and revenues to support a suit- 
superseded in her position as head of the liarcm by a able establishment. But 
wife of higher birth and connections subsequently the hassekies, or those 
espoused, or by one who becomes the mother of the who have a son living, 
heir apparent. The king, however, will sometimes act are treated with marked 
according to his own pleasure in this matter, promote respect, as in the natural 
any favorite lady to this dignity, and also remove her course of events they 
from it at his pleasure; but more generally he finds it may become valule. ’l he 
convenient to follow the established routine. Thedaugh- title of sultan (for the 
ter of the king of Egypt was, doubtless, from her high Turkish has no distinc- 
rank, the chief wife of Solomon ; as was Jezebel, for the tion of gender), though 
same reason, the chief wife of Aliab. In like manner from courtesy it may be 
the high-born mother of Absalom was probably the chief given to the hassekies, 
wife of David, although it is possible that the mother is, strictly speaking, ap- 
of the eldest son, Amnon, at first enjoyed that distiue- propriate only to the 
tion, which, we may safely presume, eventually devolved | sovereign’s mother, and 
on Bat hslieba, after her son Solomon had been rccog- tolhe sous and daughters 
niscd as the heir. In one of Mr. Morier’s amusing of the imperial family 
books ( llajji Jiaba in England ) there is a passage ( Thornton, ii,2i(>; l rqu- 
wliich strikingly illustrates this matter. ’The court of hart, ii, 433). Thisstatc- 
l*er>ia is there represented as being perplexed how to , ment, especially the last 
answer a letter which, in ignorance of Eastern customs, point of it, strikingly il- 
had been addressed by the queen consort of England lustrates the view we 
“ to the queen of Persia." The cause of the dilemma have taken as to the 
thus created was that— “ Although the shah’s principal more queenly position of 
wile is called the banon harem, or head of the seraglio, the king’s mother than 
yet her situation in the State bears as Tittle affinity to, of his wife in the Jewish 
that of the queen of England as one may say the she and other Asiatic courts, 
buffalo kept in the enclosure for food and milk has to the It must be clearly un- 
cow fed and worshipped by the Hindu as his god. Our derstood that this posi- 
shah can kill and create banous at. pleasure, w hereas the tion is by no means pe- 
queen of England maintains her post till the hand of culiar to the modern 
fate lays her in the. grave” (comp. Chardin. Voyages East, or to the Jews 
fed. Bangles], vol. vi, eh. xii ; Thornton’s Turkey, ii, among the ancient Ori- . 

264-28G). Very di fie rent was, and is to this day, in entals. lleercn, indeed, Ancient Egyptian Queec. 



QUEEN 


thinks that the power of “ the queen mother” was even 
more considerable among the ancient Persians than 
among the modern Turks (Hist. Researches, i, 400) ; and 
the narratives of Herodotus and Ctesias respecting the 
tyrannical influence exercised by Parysatis, Amestris, 
and others bear ample testimony to this fact. The care- 
ful reader of Scripture will easily be able to trace the 
same ideas respecting the position of the king’s mother 
among the Israelites. In how marked a manner does 
the mother of Solomon come forward at the end of her 
husband’s and the beginning of her son’s reign ! She 
takes an active part in securing her son’s succession ; it 
is in the conviction of her commanding influence that 
Adonijab engages her to promote his suit, alleging “he 
will not say thee nay;” and then, when Bathsheba ap- 
pears before her son, the monarch rises from his place, 
advances to meet her, bows himself before her, and seats 
her on the right hand of his throne (I Kings i, ii). 
That the king’s mother possessed high dignity is fur- 
ther eviuced by the fact that Asa found it necessary to 
remove his mother, Maachah, “ from being queen,” on 
account of her abuse of the power which that character 
conferred (1 Kings xv, 18). Jezebel was, as already 
stated, very powerful in the lifetime of her husband; 
but it is only under her son that she is called “ the 
queen” (gebirah); and the whole history of his reign 
evinces the important part which she took in public 
affairs (2 Kings ix, 22, 30, 37 ; x, 13). Still more 
marked was the influence which her daughter Atlialiah 
exercised in Judah during the reign of her son Abaziah, 
which was, indeed, such as enabled her at his death to 
set the crown on her own head, and to present the 
anomaly in Jewish history of a regnant queen (2 Kings 
xi).— lvitto; Smith. See Woman. 

QUEEN OF HEAVEN. In Jer. vii, 18; xliv, 17, 
18, 19, 25, the Heb. “25*2, meleketh hash-sha - 

mayim, is thus rendered in theA.V. In the margin is 
given “frame or workmanship of heaven,” for in twenty 
of Kennicott’s MSS. the reading is r , 2X5'2, of which 
this is the translation, and the same is the case in four- 
teen MSS. of Jer. xliv, 18, and in thirteen of Jer. xliv, 
19. The latter reading is followed bv the Sept, and 
Peshito Syriac in Jer. vii, 18, but in all the other pas- 
sages the received text is adopted, as by the Vulg. in 
every instance. Kimchi says “ X is wanting, and it is 
as if P 2X2 "2 workmanship of heaven,’ i. e. the stars ; 

and some interpret 4 the queen of heaven,’ i. e. a great 
star which is in the heavens.” Kashi is in favor of the 
latter; and the Targum renders throughout “ the star 
of heaven.” Kircher was in favor of some constella- 
tion, the Pleiades or Ilvades. It is generally believed 
that the “ queen of heav- 
en” is the moon (comp, 
“siderum regina,” Hor- 
ace, Carm. Sec. 35, and 
“ regina cceli,” Apul. Met. 
xi, 657), worshipped as 
Aslitaroth or Astarte, to 
whom the Hebrew wom- 
en offered cakes in the 
streets of Jerusalem. Hit- 
zig (Der Proph. Jeremia, 
p. 64) says the Hebrew's 
. . gave this title to the 

Phffimcian Coin with Head of Egyptiau Neith , whose 

name in the form Ta-nith, 
with the Egyptian article, appears with that of Baal 
Hamman,on four Carthaginian inscriptions. It is little 
to the purpose to inquire by what other names this god- 
dess was known among the Phoenician colonists; the 
Hebrews, in the time of Jeremiah, appear not to have 
given her any special title. The Babylonian Venus, 
according to Harpocration (quoted by Selden, De Dis 
Xyris [ed. 1617], synt. 2, cap. 6, p. 220), was also styled 
“the queen of heaven.” Mr. Layard identities Hera, 
“the second deity mentioned by Diodorus, with Astar- 



830 QUEENSFERRY DECLARATION 


te, Mylitta, or Venus,” and with the “ ‘queen of heaven,’ 
frequently mentioned in the sacred volumes. . . . The 
planet which bore her name was sacred to her, and in 
the Assyrian sculptures a star is placed upon her head. 
She was called Beltis, because she was the female form 
of the great divinity, or Baal; the two, there is reason 
to conjecture, having been originally but one, and an- 
drogyne. Her worship penetrated from Assyria into 
Asia Minor, where its Assyrian origin was recognised. 
In the rock tablets of Pterium she is represented, as in 
those of Assyria, standing erect on a lion, and crowned 
with a tower or mural coronet, which, we learn from Lu- 
cian, was peculiar to the Sheraitic figure of the goddess. 
This may have been a modification of the high cap of 
the Assyrian bas-reliefs. A figure of Astarte found in 
, Etruria represents her as winged (Eavlinson, IJerod. ii, 
404). To the Sbemites she was known under the names 
of Astarte, Aslitaroth, Mylitta, and Alitta, according to 
the various dialects of the nations among which her 
worship prevailed” (Nineveh, ii, 454, 456, 457). It is so 
difficult to separate the worship of the moon-goddess 
from that of the planet Venus in the Assyrian mytholo- 
gy when introduced among the Western nations that 
the two are frequently confused. Movers believes that 
Aslitoreth was originally the moon-goddess, w hile ac- 
cording to Kawlinsou (Herod, i, 521) Ishtar is the Baby- 
lonian Venus, one of whose titles in the Sardanapalus 
inscriptions is “ the mistress of heaven and earth” (see 
Onias, De C" -'.ITt [Alt. 1666]). See Asiito- 

reth. 

With the cakes (- * 1 1 !2 , cavvant m ; Sept, yocab'tc) 
which were offered in her honor, with incense aud liba- 
tions, Selden compares the iriTvpa. (A. V. “ bran”) of 
Ep. of Jer. 43, which were burned by the women who 
sat by the wayside near the idolatrous temples for the 
purposes of prostitution. These Trirvpa were offered in 
sacrifice to Hecate while invoking her aid for success in 
\o\q (Theocr. ii,33). The Targum gives *"«'T m ,2,kar- 
dutin, which elsewhere appears to be the Greek yejpe&o- 
toq, a sleeved tunic. Kashi says the cakes had the im- 
age of the god stamped upon them, and Theodoret that 
they contained pine-cones and raisins. — Smith. See 
Cake. 

QUEEN OF THE SOUTH. See Siieba. 

Queen Anne’s Bounty is the name given in 
England to a fund appropriated to increase the income 
of the poorer clergy. It was created out of the first- 
fruits aud tenths which before the Keformation were ex- 
acted by the pope from the clergy. These were funded 
by a statute in queen Anne’s time; hence the name. 
See Chambers’s Encgclop. s. v. See Annates. 

Queensferry Declaration. After the defeat at 
Bothwell Bridge, the stricter and more violent portion 
of the Covenanters drew off from the main body, and ad- 
hered exclusively to the ministers Cameron and Cargill. 
An outline of their opinion had been composed, and the 
document was found in possession of Hall of Ilaughhead, 
on his apprehension at Queensferry on June 3, 1680. 
Hall was mortally wounded as he was defending him- 
self, and Cargill, his companion, escaped. This docu- 
ment, unsigned and unfinished, and named after the 
place where it was seized, after affirming adherence to 
the Scriptures and the covenanted work of reformation, 
goes on, however, to say : “ We do declare that we shall 
set up over ourselves, and over what God shall give us 
power of. government and governors according to the 
Word of God; that we shall no more commit the gov- 
ernment of ourselves, and the making of laws for us, to 
an}' one single person, this kind of government being 
most liable to inconveniences, and aptest to degenerate 
into tyranny.” This bold avowal of revolution was soon 
charged against the entire Presbyterian body, and in- 
creased persecution was the result. — Eadie, Eccles. Cy- 
clop, s.v. See Covenanters; Kctherglen Decla- 
ration; Sanquiiaii Declaration. 


840 


QUEISS 


QUERINI 


Queiss, Eberiiard von. a Gorman prolate of the 
Reformation period, flourished near the opening of the 
16th century. In 1523 he was made hishop of Pomera- 
nia, but in the following year he felt constrained to an- 
nounce his abandonment of the old faith and became 
Protestant. In 1527 he resigned his worldly power (the 
episcopates of Germany then holding secular as well as 
ecclesiastical sway) into the hands of the duke of Pome- 
rania. He also abandoned the celibate, and in every 
way he identitied himself with the Protestant cause. 
He was overshadowed by the greatness of his predeces- 
sor in the see, George von Polentz (q. v.), and little is 
known of Queiss after 1527. Probably bis decease only 
two years later was the reason for this obscured page in 
bis life's history. 

Quelen, Hyacintiie Lons de, a French Roman 
Catholic prelate of note, was born at Paris, Oct. 8, 
1778, and was educated at the seminary in St. Sulpice. 
In 1807 he w’as ordained to the priesthood, and made 
shortly after secretary of cardinal Fcsch. When this 
noted dignitary fell out with Napoleon, Quelen accom- 
panied his eminence to Lyons. Under the Restoration 
he became general vicar of Talleyrand, took an active 
part in the establishment of the concordat, and was re- 
warded for his valuable services by the bishopric in par- 
tibus of Samosata in 1819. When Talleyrand was ele- 
vated to the archbishopric of Paris, Quelen was made 
his coadjutor cum spe succedendi, and on Oct. 20, 1821, 
succeeded Talleyrand in the primacy of France. He 
made many journeys and busied himself greatly with 
reliqne controversies (Francis de .Sales, Vincent dc Paul) ; 
but his stout advocacy of Ultramontanism and the Jes- 
uits, whose expulsion from France in 1828 he vainly en- 
deavored to prevent, made him very unpopular, and he 
was subjected to repeated attacks in his palace by the 
mobs of Paris in 1830 and 1831. He lived on, however, 
until 1839. when sudden death ended the ignominious 
role of this great ecclesiastic. See Ilenrion, Vie et Tra- 
vaux Apostoliques de M. de Quelen ,* D’Exauvillez, Vie 
A bregee ; Clavel, Hist. Chret. des Dioceses de France, s. v. 

Quenstedt, .Toiiann Andreas, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Qitedlinburg in 1617, studied at llelm- 
stiidt under Calixtus and Ilornejus, and in Wittenberg 
under Lcvser. Won to the theology of the latter high- 
school. lie became in 1646 theological adjunct, in 1619 
extraordinary, and in 1660 ordinary professor of theology 
at Wittenberg, and always distinguished himself as a 
most ardent Lutheran, lie died in 1688. His most 
celebrated work, Theologia I >idadico-polemica,s. Sy sterna 
Theologicum (Wittenb. 1685), is a most elaborate treatise 
of Lutheran scholasticism, and constitutes one of the 
best polemics of its distinguishing dogmas. Other 
works of his of note are, [>e Sepultura Vetenim (ibid. 
1648, 8vo, and later): — Diulogus de Patriis Illustrium 
Doctrina et Script is Virorum (ibid. 1654, 4 to): f)is- 
putationes Exegetices in Epistolam ad Colossenses (ibid. 
1664, 4to) : — Ethica Pastoralis (ibid. 1678. 8vo, and 
later): — Antiquitates Hibliccp et Ecclesiastics (ibid. 
1688, 4to, and later). Personally Quenstedt was a 
mild, unpretentious character, and even his polemics is 
nothing less than zealotical. He appeared on the stage 
when the period of dissolution had touched Lutheran- 
ism and rejuvenated the old orthodox spirit, and gave 
it new* and attractive form. His power was not only 
with his pen, but in the university. See llagenbach, 
Hist, of Doctr. (sec Index); .1 ocher, Allgem . Gelehrten- 
Lcxikon, s. v. ; Tholuck, Wittml/erger Theologen , p. 214 
sq. ; Gass. (, eschichte dtr protest, Dogmatik, i, 357 sq. 
(J.I1.W.) 

Quental, Bartholomei* do, a Portuguese theolo- 
gian, was born of noble parentage, Aug. 22, 1626, in the 
isle of St. Michael. Azores. In 1643 be was sent to Por- 
tugal to study at Evora and other Portuguese high- 
schools. and after taking holy orders became one of the 
confessors of the king. He greatly served papal in- 
terests, and was distinguished by pope Clement XI with 


the title of “ the venerable.” Quental introduced the 
Congregation of the Oratory," and in other wavs 
strengthened Romanism, lie died at Lisbon, Dec. 20, 
1698. 11 is principal works are, Meditapoes (Lisb. 1G66- 
95, 6 vols. 8vo) : — Sermbes (ibid. 1692, 4 to). See Niceron, 
Memoires, vol. xlii. — Iloefer, A ~ouv. Hiog. Generate, xli, 
300. 

Queras, Mathurin. a French controversialist, was 
born at Sens, Aug. 1, 1614. studied theology at Paris, 
where he obtained the doctorate, and was attached to 
the Sorbonne. lie was a Jansenist in proclivity, and in 
1656 refused to abandon the Port-Rovalists even on the 
threat of being ousted from his professorship. lie was 
rewarded for his consistency bv the archbishop of Sens, 
who made Queras one of his grand vicars and placed 
him at the head t»f his theological seminary. In 1674, 
upon the death of his protector, Queras was obliged to 
retire to Troyes, and became (trior of St. Quentin. He 
spent the remainder of his life, like the Port-Royalists, 
in retirement and penitence, lie died April 9, 1695. 
His most important works is Eclaireissement de cette 
Celebre et Jmportaufe Question, referring to the decisions 
of the Council of Trent on the dogmas of justification 
and grace (Paris, 1683, 8vo), in which he takes ground 
against the council. — Iloefer, Four. Hiog. Generate, s. v. 

Quercus, Synod of. In the year 403 a council was 
held at a place in the neighborhood ofChalcedon. The 
spot is designated i - ti cpvv (to the oak), and the coun- 
cil is therefore known as the Concilium ad Quercum. It 
was presided over by Paul, bishop of 1 1 eraclea. Theoph- 
ilus of Alexandria here succeeded in effecting the dep- 
osition of his archenemy St. John Chrysostom, which 
was decreed by the thirty-six bishops present, among 
whom were Aeacius of Berea, Severianus of Gabala, in 
Syria, Antioehus of Ptolemais. and Cyprian of Chalce- 
don. St. Chrysostom was cited, but refused to appear, 
unless Theophilus, Acacius. Antioehus, and others of his 
declared foes withdrew. The emperor Arcadius, yield- 
ing to the wish of his wife Eudoxia, who had deter- 
mined the ruin of Chrysostom, confirmed the judgment 
of the council, and banished him to Bithyuia. How- 
ever, an earthquake, w hich occurred on the very day of 
his departure, terrified the empress to such a degree that 
he was instantly brought back, and re-entered Constan- 
tinople in triumph. — Landon, Man. of Councils, p. 501. 
Sec Chrysostom. 

Querini, Angelo Maria, an illustrious Italian prel- 
ate of the Church of Rome, was born at Venice, of noble 
parentage, in 1680. lie first studied under the Jesuits, 
and at the age of seventeen entered the Benedictine or- 
der. Having become well acquainted with the Greek, 
Hebrew, and Biblical learning, he was made instructor 
of the novices, for whom he w rote a dissertation, De J fo- 
saica> Historic Pro stantia. He afterwards travelled 
four years in France, England, Holland, and Germany, 
and enjoyed the society of some of the most distin- 
guished men of those countries. In his Commentarii de 
Rebus ad se Pe/iinenfibus, he gives some account of what 
he saw and the conversations he had with many learned 
men. On his return to Italy he published several works 
on liturgic antiquities: 1 'tins tfficiuni Quadragesimale 
Gracia Orthodox ce : — Diatribe? ad Privrem Partem J>- 
teris Officii: — De Ecclesiasticorum Officiary m apud 
Gracos A nfiqnitate : — De Jlymnis Qnadragesimalibus 
Gra’corum: — Ik Alius Coat iris Qnadragesimalibus. In 
1721 Querini was made archbishop of Corfu, and he 
wrote on the antiquities and history of that island. In 
1728 he was transferred to the see of Brescia, and soon 
after he was made a cardinal and librarian of tbe Vati- 
can. It was after bis promotion to tbe see of Brescia 
that be wrote his literary history of Brescia, lie also 
published the Lives of Paid II (q. v.) and Paul III (q. v.), 
in tbe former of which he endeavored to clear the mem- 
ory of that pope from the charges of Platina and other 
historians; and he edited a collection of the epistles of 
cardinal Reginald Pole, llis other works consist of dis- 


QUESNEL 


841 


QUETIF 


sertations upon literary subjects, both sacred and pro- 
fane, and of numerous epistles, chiefly in Latin. Car- 
dinal Queriui was in every respect one of the most dis- 
tinguished prelates of the Roman Church in the 18th 
century. Spotless in his morals, modest and simple in 
his habits, generous, meek, and charitable, he concil- 
iated the esteem of men of all countries and opinions. 
Frederick the Great wrote to him in the most flattering 
terms. Voltaire dedicated to him his tragedy of Semir- 
amis and other works. Querini labored particularly to 
improve the town of Brescia, of which he was bishop. 
He completed the structure of its handsome cathedral, 
founded a clerical college, a house for female instruction 
in the Yal Camonica, and, lastly, he established the pub- 
lic library of Brescia. He died in 1755. — English Cyclop. 
s. v. 

Qnesuel, Pasquier, a celebrated French priest of 
the Oratory, was born of Scottish descent, at Paris, in 
1634. He studied at the Sorbonne, and in 1657 enter- 
ed the Congregation, to which his two brothers belong- 
ed also. Those were times that tried men’s souls. All 
France was agitated by the controversy which threat- 
ened the exodus of Holland from the domain of Roman- 
ism. The heresy of Jansen had found warm advocates 
in France also, and Quesuel was himself one of the most 
ardent of these. In 1671 he brought out his Abrege de 
la Morale de VEvangile , which constitutes only the 
opening of the now celebrated work of his, Le Nouveau 
Testament en Francois, avec des Reflexions Morales 
(first complete ed. Paris, 1687, and often since). This 
work most unequivocally condemned much in the pa- 
pacy, and advocated pretty boldly many features of Jan- 
senism. Voltaire says that thirty pages of this book, 
properly qualified and softened, would have prevented 
much of the disturbance which Jansenism created in 
France. In 1675, Quesnel made the breach wider by 
liis publication of the works of Leo I and of St. Hilary 
of Arles, greatly enriched by marginal notes, in the 
interest and defence of the rights of the Gallican 
Church. Of course, the book was placed on the Index, 
and its author proscribed at Rome. The superior of 
the Oratorians, pere Abel de Sainte-Martlie, was him- 
self an enthusiastic Jansenist, and positively endorsed 
Quesnel. But when the archbishop of Paris, De Har- 
lay, exiled Sainte-Marthe, Quesnel found France a very 
undesirable home, and he determined to go beyond its 
borders. In 1681 he was not even left to make his 
choice, for he was in that year driven from Paris. At 
first he went to Orleans. His persistent refusal to aban- 
don Jansenism made him uncomfortable here also. In 
1684, finally, his order promulgated an anti-Jansenistic 
formula and demanded the signature of all its members. 
Quesnel refused to comply, and, feeling insecure, retired 
to Brussels, where he found the great Arnauld living, 
also in exile, on account of his Jansenistic proclivities. 
The two theologians became intimate companions and 
wrought much together, until the death of Arnauld, in 
1694, terminated their relations. One of the most tell- 
ing labors in defence of Jansenism brought out at Brus- 
sels by Quesnel was las Reflexions Morales. Notwith- 
standing its favorable treatment of Jansenism, the work, 
by its spirit of devotion and fervor, attracted many 
readers and warm admirers. Its beauties made even 
the moderate Ultraraontanes forget the Jansenistic pro- 
clivities of the pen that wrote it, and all bestowed high j 
encomiums on it. Several bishops were loud in its I 
praises. Even the ultra-Jesuits would read it to catch ! 
its holy influences; and Voltaire ( Siecle de Louis XIV, 
vol. ii) asserts that it was freely read at Rome. He 
tells the story that the abbe Renaudot, one of the most 
learned men in France, being at Rome the first year of 
Clement XFs pontificate, went one day to wait upon 
this pope, who loved men of letters, and was himself a 
man of learning, and found him reading Quesnel's 
book. “This,” said his holiness, “is an excellent per- 
formance; we have no one at Rome capable of writing 
in this manner. I wish I could have the author near 


J me.” Yet this very pope in 1708 published a decree 
j against it, and afterwards, in 1713, issued the famous 
! bull Unigenitus, in which were condemned a hundred 
and one propositions extracted from it. We must not, 
however, look upon this condemnation of Clement XI 
as a contradiction to the encomium he had before 
given; it proceeded entirely from reasons of state. The 
warmest advocate of the Reflexions was cardinal de 
I Xoailles (q. v.). While still bishop of Chalons he had 
j defended Quesnel’s works. Later, in the archiepiscopal 
I see of Paris, he again espoused the cause of the Port- 
Royalists, and, of course, of Quesnel. In 1696 he even 
brought out an edition of the Reflexions at Paris. But 
I the Jesuits were at work, and they finally succeeded in 
securing the pope’s disapproval of the work, and in 
blackening the character of its author. They accused 
| him of plotting against the authorities and as a danger- 
ous and seditious person. In 1703 Quesnel was arrest- 
ed by order of king Philip V, at the instigation of the 
archbishop of Malines, and put in prison, lie was res- 
cued, however, by Jansenistic friends, and made good 
his escape to Amsterdam, where he spent the remainder 
of his days building up Jansenism in Holland and 
strengthening it in France and Belgium also. He 
died in 1719. The titles of all his writings fill in Moreri 
several columns. We have room here to mention only, 
L'Idee du Sacerdoce et du Sacrifice de Jesus-Christ 
(Par. 1688, 12mo) : — Causa Arnaldina (ibid. 1697, 8vo) : 
—La Paix de Clement IX, ou Demonstration des deux 
Faussetes Capitales avancees dans THistoire de cinq Pro- 
positions contre la Foi des Disciples de Saint- A ugustin, 
etc. (ibid. 1701, 2 vols. 12mo): — Consultation sur le Fa- 
nieux Cas de Conscience (ibid. 1704, 12mo): — La Disci- 
pline de VEglise (ibid. 1698, 2 vols. 4to): — Tradition de 
VEglise Romaine sur la Predestination des Saints et sur 
, la Grace Fjficace (ibid. 1687, 4 vols. 12mo). See Guette'e, 
1 list, de VEglise de France, vols. x and xi ; Ceillier, Diet. 
' Hist, des Aut. Eccles.; Jervis, Hist, of the Church of 
\ France (see Index) ; Reuchlin, Gesch. v. Port-Royal, vol. 
ii; Neander, Christian Dogmas; Hagenbach, Hist, of 
Rationalism, p. 381 ; Princeton Review, 1856, p. 132 ; Mo- 
reri, Did. Ilistorique, s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Question, Modern, is, in Scotland, “Whether it be 
the duty of all to whom the Gospel is preached to re- 
pent and believe in Christ?” and it is called modern be- 
cause it is supposed never to have been agitated before 
the early part of the last century. It originated in 
Northamptonshire, in the churches in which Mr. Davis 
of Rothwell preached, though it does not appear that he 
took an active part in it. The question thus started 
was pursued by a variety of inferior writers down to the 
time of Andrew Fuller, who very ably supported the 
positive side of the question, namely, that faith is the 
duty of all men, although, through the depravity of hu- 
man nature, men will not believe till regenerated by the 
Holy Spirit. On the other side it was contended “that 
faith was not a duty, but a grace,” the exercise of which 
was not required till it was bestowed. On this subject 
Mr. Fuller published The Gospel Worthy of All Accep- 
| tation; or. The Duty of All Men to Believe in Jesus 
j Christ. Thereupon Fuller was attacked by 51 r. Hutton, 
a Supralapsarian, on the one hand, and by 5Ir. Daniel 
Taylor, an Arminian, on the other, to whom he replied 
! by -4 Defence of his former tract. — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop. 


Questmen are parish officers whose duty it is to 
assist church-wardens. 

Quetif, Jacques, a French Dominican, was bom in 
Paris, Aug. 6, 1618, At a very early age he entered the 
order, and in 1635 was seut to Bordeaux to study theol- 
ogy. In 1642 he was ordained to the priesthood at 
Paris. After filling several positions of trust in houses 
of his order in provincial towns, he was recalled to 
Paris, in 1652, and placed in charge of the library of the 
Jacobin convent. Thereafter, he became noted for his 
bibliographical attaiuments and his intimate knowledge 


842 


QUETZALCOATL 

of the canon law. lie died March 2, 1G98. We have 
from him: Hieronymi de M edicts Formal** Krplicutio 
Sutnmee Tbeol. I). Thomee A quinatis (Paris, 1G57, ful.) : — 
Concilii Trul. (’intones (ibid. 1GGG, 12mo): — J ita flier. 
Savonarola: (ibid. 1G74, 3 vols. 12mo): — Petri J forint 
Opuscula it F pistol ie (ibid. 1675, 12mo) : — Scriptures 
Ordinis Pnedkatoruin Recensiti (i bid. 1719 sq. 2 vols. fol.), 
left incomplete and continned by Ecliard. 8ec Scrip- 
tores Ordinis Pnedicatorum, ii, 74G; Niceron, Me moires, 
xxiv ; Morcri, Did. f fist . s. v. — lloefer, Xoitv, liiotj. Ge- 
nt rale, s. v. 

Quetzalcoatl, a Mexican divinity, represented by 
the green-feathered serpent, is the god of the air. lie 
was, while on earth, a high-priest in the city of Tnta, 
and was so immensely rich that his houses were built 
with nothing hut gold and precious stones, lie was, at 
the same time, a legislator of incredible wisdom ; his 
commands were pnblished from the top of a mountain 
l>y a herald whose voice could be heard at a distance of 
three hundred miles, it was to him that useful inven- 
tions were due ; he was, besides, a favorite of the gods, 
who, for his sake, loaded the laud with blessings of all 
kinds. In that time an ear of corn was of such a size 
that it was no light burden for a strong man. Hut as 
the country, through him, grew happy to excess, and 
as the gods were well aware that such unmixed felici- 
ty was not to the advantage of the people, they advised 
him to emigrate, lie did so, went to Cholula. where 
the people chose him for their ruler, llis reign was as 
prosperous as could be expected. After his death he 
was worshipped as god of the air. Almost all peoples, 
even those hostile to Cholula, recognised his divinitv 
and built temples in his honor. — Volhner, Wurterb. d. 
Mythol. s. v. 

Quevedo y Villegas, Fn.vxcisto Gomkz i>e, a 
Spanish author of note, was born in Madrid, Sept. 2G, 
1580; was educated at the university at Alcala, and 
when only fifteen years of age took his degree in theolo- 
gy. He would probably have risen to great distinction 
in the Church had not liis hot temper involved him in 
strife and controversy, which ended in a duel and exile. 
He removed to Italy and there also led a restless and 
eventful life, lie died at Villanueva de los Infantes in 
1645. Many of his writings were confiscated by the 
government, but among those that reached the public 
we are interested in the treatises On the Providence of 
God: — God's J'o/itirs and Christ's Government, in which 
he attempts a complete body of political philosophy 
based upon the example of the Saviour: — On a Holy 
Life : — The Militant Life of a Christian, etc. There is 
a complete edition of his works by Sancho (Madrid, 
1790-94, 1 1 vols. 8vo). and a more recent one by Guerra 
y Orbe (ibid. 1852). 

Quiatli is, in the mythology of the Hindfls, the 
conceiving force resting (therefore sterile, ineffectual) 
in Ilrahma. It is called his wife, and as such is op- 
posed to the prolific goddess, Saraswati. The latter is 
the feminine element of llrahma in its exterior appear- 
ance; Quiatri is the same resting in himself. Yollmer. 
Wurterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Quiches, Kiches, or Utlatecas, a semi-civil- 
izcil nation of Guatemala, occupying, at the time of the 
conquest, the greater part of what is now ealled Los 
Altos, or the highlands, of Guatemala, including the 
districts of Quiche, Totonicapam, and Qnesaltenango. 
Their traditions indicate that they sprang from the 
Toltee stock. Their records, as written out by mem- 
bers of the royal house immediately after the conquest, 
give a long array of kings, and imply a high antiquity. 
It seems that the Kachiquels and Zutugils were once em- 
braced in the Quiche kingdom, and that their separation 
was the act of the king Acxopil, who divided his power 
with his two sons, retaining to himself the capital ami 
surrounding regions, which preserved the name of Qui- 
che. These three divisions, subsequently becoming 
hostile, were easily conquered by the Spaniards. Al- 


QUICHUAS 

varado encountered his most vigorous resistance in 
Quiche, where the king, Tecum -L'mam, went out to 
meet him, according to the chroniclers, with 232,000 
men. They fought with great bravery; but musketry 
and cannon, and, above all, the terror inspired by the 
Spanish horse, proved too powerful for the rude means 
of resistance at their command. The battle lasted six 
days, the Indians fighting desperately as they fell back. 
The king at last was slain by Alvarado, and the subju- 
gation of the Quiches was completed. The ruins of the 
city of Quiche, described by Al r. .Stephens, attest the 
grandeur and power of this people, and give a fair sup- 
port to the early accounts of their numbers. The dis- 
trict which they occupied is the best-populated portion 
of Guatemala, and is almost purely Indian, the ancient 
language being still in general use. The people are 
described by Arthur Morelet as “an active, courageous 
race, whose heads never grow gray, persevering in their 
industry, skilful in almost every department of art, good 
workers in iron and the precious metals. generally well- 
dressed, neat in person, with a firm step and indepen- 
dent bearing, and altogether constituting a class of cit- 
izens who only require to be better educated to rise 
equal to the best.” Their language is regarded as a 
purer dialect than either the Kachiquel or Zutngil, 
with which it is compared by Fray lldefonso Flores, 
in his Arte de la Lcngua Kachiquel (Guatemala, 1753). 
Much has recently been done for a better knowledge of 
this people by llrasseur de Ilourbourg, especially in his 
Grammuire de la Lanyue Quichee wise en Parall'ele 
area ses Deux Dialectes Cahchiquel et Tzutuhil, (tree v n 
Yocabulaire, servant d' Introduction an Rabinal A chi, 
Drume Indigene (Paris, 1862); and Popul Yoh. le Lit re 
Sucre et les Mythes de r Antiquit e Americaine, arte Its 
Litres fferoiques et ffistoriques de Quiche (1861). — The 
I mer. ( 'yclop. s. v. 

Qtlicliuas, the dominant people in the empire of 
Peru under the incas, who made their language the 
general one of their territory. The Quiehuas extend- 
ed from Lake Titicaca to Quito, and towards the coast 
to the territory of the Chinchas and Yuncas. The Ay- 
maras, extending from Lake Titicaca to what is now 
the southern limit of Holivia, were first reduced by the 
Quiehuas under the incas. The Quiehuas are gav, 
cheerful, energetic, and, under the wise sway of the in- 
cas, seem to have risen rapidly in many arts. They 
were assiduous cultivators of the soil: maize and other 
grains raised in Titicaca were sent to all parts of the 
empire as sacred presents, and the inca himself gave an 
example of the honor of agriculture. They wove and 
spun the wool of the llama, vicuna, and alpaca; they 
worked mines of gold, silver, and copper; built suspen- 
sion-bridges; erected adobe houses with gables, niches, 
and arches, and temples of the same material or stone, 
cutting and fitting the blocks with an accuracy and 
finish that cannot be excelled; made sterile tracts pro- 
ductive by a wise and extended system of azeqmas and 
aqueducts, and also by excavating till moisture was 
reached. In astronomy they had not reached as high 
a degree as the Mexicans; and in literature, though 
preserving records mainly by quipus, or knotted cords, 
they cultivated poetry, and had dramas, as well as 
touching songs, that won the admiration of the Span- 
iards. The incas claimed to descend from the sun, and 
introduced the worship of that luminary. They re- 
duced the (’hancas and Hunncas. apparently intrusive 
eastern tribes, and then attacked the Yuncas. the people 
of the coast, whose capital was at Ciiinui, near Trujillo, 
and who worshipped I'nehncamne. creator of the world 
(of whom there were a famous idol and temple at the 
place that still bears the name), the god Kimae(who had 
a famous oracle near Lima!, and other deities. After a 
long and bloody war, the inca t 'apae Yupanqui over- 
threw Cliuqiii Manen. king id t'himn, and reduced the 
Yuncas. They were compelled to accept the sun-wor- 
ship: hut the inca allowed the temple of rachaeamac 
to stand, as its fame w as spread through most of South 


843 


QUICUNQUE VULT 


QUICK 

America. There are remnants of the Yuncas still re- 
taining their language at Moche, Eten, etc. ; it is en- 
tirely different from the Quiehua. The priests of the 
sun dressed in white, and practiced celibacy and fasts. 
Near each temple was also a convent of virgins of the 
sun. The men wore woollen tunics and leggins, the 
women long skirts and short cloaks, joined by gold, sil- 
ver, or copper clasps. The incas were distinguished by 
the llautn, a fillet with a ball descending between the 
eyes. After the Spanish conquest, the Indians lost much 
of the arts they had gained, and retrograded generally. 
A desperate effort was made by the Quichuas in the last 
century to recover their freedom ; but their leader, Tu- 
pac Amaru, a descendant of the incas, was taken and 
torn in pieces by horses in the plaza of Cuzco in 1780. 
There is a series of grammars of the Quiehua, begin- 
ning with that of Fra}' Domingo de San Tomas (Valla- 
dolid, 1560), and coming down to Markham, Contribu- 
tions toicctrds a Grammar and Dictionary of Quiehua 
(London, 1864). Ollantay, a Quiehua drama, and sever- 
al songs of the haravees, or bards, have been published. 
— The A mer. Cyclop, s. v. 

Quick, John, an English Presbyterian divine, was 
born at Plymouth in 1636. Having determined to en- 
ter the ministry, he was ordained in 1658. When the 
Nonconformity bill of 1662 was passed, he joined the 
conforming party, and was subjected to imprisonment. 
After his release, he went to London, and became the 
pastor of a Presbyterian congregation. lie also inter- 
ested himself in the French Protestants, and cared for 
those of the Huguenots who touched London on their 
way to a refuge from the intolerant measures of their 
own countrymen. He even wrote in their defence Sy- 
nod icon in Gallia Reformata (Loml. 1692, 2 vols. ful.), 
being a history of the Reformed Church in France ; 
and leones Sacra Gallicana, a biography of fifty Re- 
formed French preachers, interrupted, however, by the 
death of Quick, which occurred in 1706. He left in 
manuscript several sermons and treatises, which all 
evince a superior mind. See Allibone, Diet. Brit, and 
A mer. A uth. s. v. ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. viii, 183. 

Quicksands, The (t) Svpng, Vnlg. Syrtis), more 
properly, The Syrtis (Acts xxvii, 17), the broad and 
deep bight on the North African coast between Car- 
thage and Cyrene. In the above passage it is stated 
that when the ship in which Paul was embarked was 
driven past the isle of Clauda on the south, the mari- 
ners, as would now be said, struck the sails, and scudded 
under bare poles, lest they “should fall into the quick- 
sands.” The original word syrtis denotes a sand-bank, 
or shoal, dangerous to navigation, drawn, or supposed to 
be drawn (from <717x0, “ to draw”), together by the cur- 
rents of the sea. According to others, the name is de- 
rived from serf, an Arabic word for “ desert.” For two 
reasons this region w r as an object of peculiar dread to 
the ancient navigators of the Mediterranean — partly 
because of the drifting sands and the heat along the 
shore itself, but chiefly because of the shallows and the 
uncertain currents of water in the bay. Josephus, who 
was himself once wrecked in this part of the Mediter- 
ranean, makes Agrippa say ( War. ii, 16, 4), (pafitpai uai 
role dicovovm Si'prsig. »So notorious were these dan- 
gers that they became a commonplace with the poets 
(see Horace, Odes, i, 22, 5; Ovid, Fast, iv, 499; Virgil, 
yEn. i, 111 ; Tibul. iii, 4, 91 ; Lucan, Phars. ix, 431). It is 
most to our purpose here, however, to refer to Apollonius 
Rhodius, who was familiar with all the notions of the 
Alexandrian sailors. In the fourth book of his Argo- 
naut. 1232-1237, he supplies illustrations of the passage 
before us in more respects than one— in the sudden vio- 
lence (avapTraydijv) of the terrible north wind ( o\ot / 
Ropiao SutWa), in its long duration (hnda irdoag 
N i'KTag opuig uai roaaa ipip' i)para), and in the terror 
which the sailors felt of being driven into the Syrtis 
(npo7rpb pd\’ tvCoSi IvpTin, 63-’, ovrim vuoto g biria- 
<ruj N/p<n 7ri\«). See Clauija; Ecroclydon. There 


1 were properly two Syrtes — the eastern, or larger, now 
' called the Gulf of Sidra, and the western, or smaller, 

I now the Gulf of Cubes. It is the former to which our 
attention is directed in this passage of the Acts. The 
ship was caught by a north-easterly gale on the south 
coast of Crete, near Mount Ida, and was driven to the 
island of Clauda. This line of drift, continued, would 
strike the greater Syrtis, whence the natural appre- 
hension of the sailors. See Ship. The danger was not 
so imaginary in this case, we apprehend, as I)r. Falconer 
( Dissert . on St. Paid's Voyage, p. 13) conceives; for the 
apprehension does not appear to have been entertained 
till the ship had been driven past the isle of Clauda, 
which, as we take it, is mentioned merely as the last 
point of land which had been seen till the ship was 
wrecked on the isle of Melita. The position of that 
island must be regarded as indicating the course in 
which they were driven; and if that were Malta, it is 
clear that, had that course not been arrested by the in- 
termediate shipwreck, they would, in all probability, 
have been driven upon the Syrtis Minor, which we 
may therefore conclude to have been the subject of 
their apprehension. That apprehension only becomes 
“imaginary” when Meleda in the Adriatic is taken, as 
Dr. Falconer himself takes it, for the Melita of Script- 
ure. It may, therefore, be added to the arguments in 
favor of Malta that its identification with Melita gives 
reality to the fear entertained by the mariners, which, 
under the other alternative, must be supposed to have 
been imaginary. See Malta. The best modern ac- 
count of this part of the African coast is that which is 
given by Admiral Smyth (in his Memoir on the Medi- 
terranean, p. 87-91, 186-190), who was himself the first 
to survey this bay thoroughly, and to divest it of many 
of its terrors.— Ivitto; Smith. See Shipwreck. 

Quicunque vult. These are the initial words of 
the symbol known as the Athanasian Creed. The 
real composer of this ancient formulary being unknown, 
its origin is a mere matter of conjecture. A cursory 
notice of its history in ancient and modern times is all 
that can be here attempted. It probably had its origin 
in the Gallican Church. It was first used in that 
Church. Gallican councils and bishops have always 
treated it with especial deference. Churches which re- 
ceived the Gallican Psalter received with it this “ ex- 
positio fidei.” The oldest known translation into the 
vernacular was Gallican, as prescribed by Ilincmar of 
Rheims to his priests. The first writers who cite its 
words were A vitus of Vienne and Ccesarius of Arles ; the 
oldest commentator upon its text was Venantius Fortu- 
natus, bishop of Poitiers; and MSS. were nowhere so 
abundant or so ancient as in Gaul (Waterland). 

This “ Creed,” to use its scholastic title, first appeared 
in Latin, the Greek copies that exist being independent 
versions from that language. The age also of the old- 
est Latin MSS. exceeds that of the Greek exemplars by 
several centuries. The oldest Latin copy is referred by 
archbishop Usher to the beginning of the 7th century, 
and was in the Cottonian collection {De Symb. Prcef. ii, 
3). The Treves MS., acephalous, is of nearly equal 
antiquity. Five MSS. of the 8th century are known : 
the Ambrosian of Milan; the Cottonian in king Athel- 
s tan’s Psalter, referable with certainty to A.D. 703, and 
professing to be “ Fides St. Athanasii Alexandrini the 
Colbertine, copied in Saxon character from the Treves 
MS. shortly after the middle of the century, and, like 
the original, imperfect at the beginning; the Paris MS. 
of equal date, also in Saxon character; and the copy 
written in letters of gold which was presented by Char- 
lemagne, while only king of France, to Adrian I on his 
accession to the pontificate, A.D. 772. It is still pre- 
served at Vienna. The Greek copies are of much later 
date, and Montfaucon had never seen one that was more 
than three hundred years old ( Diatribe , p. 727). 

The earliest form in which this “expositio fidei” is 
found is the commentary of Venantius Fortunatus in 
the middle of the 6th century, showing that it was then 


844 


QUICUXQUE VULT 


QUICUXQUE VULT 


of popular use. The fourth Council of Toledo also 
(A.L). 633) adopted many of its more striking expres- 
sions. Home, distrustful of novelties, only admitted it 
after long delay, as Waterland says, about A.l>. 930. 
Thus it was accepted by the churches of the West “as 
soon as, or sooner than, the Nicenc Creed.” 

This dogmatic composition has a direct bearing on 
the Apollinarian error, which was condemned by pope 
Pamasus, A.1). 375. This heresy had much in common 
with the Eutyehian error of the middle of the 5th cen- 
tury; but the latter had certain distinguishing features 
of which no notice is taken in the Creed, and for this 
reason the clauses that contravene both errors may be 
safely applied to Apollinarian notions: we need not 
look for its origin therefore so low as the Eutyehian 
period (Ilarvev, Hist, and Tkeol. of Creeds , p. 549-557), 
in which the dying embers of Apollinarianism kindled 
up again. Neither can its production range later than 
the Nestorian controversy, which commenced with the 
first year of the patriarchate of Nestorius (A.l). 428), 
and led to the Council of Ephesus (A.D. 431); other- 
wise the crucial term Seorotcoc must as certainly have 
found its way into it as that the term upoovmoc was 
made the “lapis Lvdius” of orthodoxy by the Nicene 
fathers; hence this “expositio fidei” must have been 
written before the year A.D. 428 (Waterland, Harvey). 
Hut by how many years did it anticipate the council? 
There are undeniable points of resemblance between 
many of its expressions and the terms used by Augus- 
tine in his work l)e Trinitate (A.D. 416; Harvey, p. 
562-564); which furnished the copy, the father or the 
Creed ? Waterland affirms the former, but reasons quite 
as cogent point to the latter conclusion. Augustine 
says that the phrases used by him in defining the three 
Persons of the Godhead were adopted also by catholic 
writers his predecessors; and, in fact, the writer of the 
Creed may have borrowed the corresponding terms, in 
some few cases, from Tertullian, but abundantly from 
Ambrose. The Creed, then, so far as its phraseology is 
concerned, is quite as likely to have been written be- 
tween A.D. 381, when Ambrose completed his work l)e 
Spiritu Sancto, and A.D. 416, when Augustine put forth 
his work JJe Trinitate, as after this latter date. 

Further, the rttdimental statements of the Creed are 
more fully developed in the work of Augustine. The 
Creed simply says, “The Holy Ghost is of the Father 
and the Son; neither made, nor created, nor begotten, 
but proceeding.” The most unbending Greek theolo- 
gian would have allowed the statement to pass unchal- 
lenged. E. g. Cyril of Alexandria says of the lloly 
Spirit, “ For he is termed the Spirit of Truth, and Christ 
is truth; and he proceeds (Trpoxii-ai) from him, as in 
fact be does from God and the Father” (A/). Synod. ; 
comp. Harvey, 1 'index Cuthol. i, 188). Thus also I Ia- 
si 1 says “ the Spirit proceeds from Gcd, not by genera- 
tion as the Son, but as the Spirit of his month;” where 
it is manifestly intended that as the Spirit proceeds 
from God the Father, so also he proceeds from God the 
Word. Ambrose makes the matter more plain: “Dei 
Spiritus ct Spiritus Christi et in l’atre est et in Filio, 
quia oris est Spiritus” (Ambrose, De Spir. Sonet, i, 11, 
37, 114; iii, 6). There is an Augustinian definiteness 
also in those other words of Ambrose: “Ft si Spiritum 
dicas, et Deum Patrem, a quo procedit Spiritus, et Fili- 
um, (piia Filii quoqne est Spiritus, nuncupasti” (ibid.). 
The third Person was universally acknowledged to be 
of the Father and of the Son, and his origination was 
allowed to be by procession; that which was denied 
was his procession from the Son as well as the Father, 
instead of from (he Father by the Son. Hut the work 
De Trinitate originated all the discussion that followed, 
and in fact led to that schism between the churches of 
the East and of the West which has never again been 
healed. Augustine expresses himself with his usual 
roundness and perspicuity upon a point that was a re- 
sult of scriptural reasonings collected into one focus of 
light (De Trin. iv, 29; xv, 47). The concluding chap- 


ters of his work are filled with statements of the pro- 
cession of the Holy Spirit, and a comparison of these 
with the more shadowy lines of the Creed satisfies the 
judgment that Augustine was indebted to the Creed, 
and not the Creed to Augustine. Then again the Creed 
instances by way of illustration the union of a spiritual 
and a material nature in the individual man: “As the 
reasonable soul and flesh is one man, so God and Man 
is one Christ.” The illustration is exactly to the point; 
but Augustine follows out the idea in a strain of subtle 
argumentation that runs through six books of his work; 
finding points of analogy between the doctrine of a 
Trinity in Unity and the unity of the mind existing 
in different states; and falling into modes of expression 
that are exactly square with others in the Creed : “ Hire 
igitur tria, memoria intolligentia voluntas, quoniam 
non sunt tres vita* sed una vita; nec tres mentes sed 
una mens; conseqnenter utique nec tres substantia* sunt 
sed una substantia” (De Trin. x, 18). Hoth the Creed 
and Augustine argue from man’s bodily and mental con- 
stitution, but the convincing simplicity of the former 
and the strained scholastic reasoning of the latter con- 
vince the mind that here again the Creed was the ar- 
chetype. Diverging, therefore, at this point from Wa- 
terland, who dates the Creed A.D. 420, four years after 
the publication of the work De Trinitate, we may now 
see whether we can assign a prior date for its composi- 
tion. 

It should be borne in mind once more that the Apolli- 
narian heresy is the latest form of error of which the 
Creed takes cognizance. Hut that heresy never took 
, root in the churches of (he West; therefore no newly 
appointed Gallican bishop would have gone out of his 
way to condemn it, as Waterland supposes Hilary to 
have done on his appointment to the see of Arles. “ It 
is hardly in keeping with the mild ‘credo’ of a newly 
installed prelate. Hut in the year A.D. 401 wo can 
point to a most popular and zealous bishop of Western 
Gaul, apostolical in his labors among the benighted 
population of the Nervii and Morin i (Pas de Calais) as 
well as in his self-inflicted poverty (Paulin. Nol. A)>. .18 
ad Vietrir.), who was accused publicly of teaching her- 
esy, and that evidently of Apollinaris: who also gave 
account of his faith in a confession that, without any 
great degree of improbability, may be identified with 
this exposition of the catholic faith. This eminent son 
of the Church was Yictricius, confessor and bishop of 
Konen, who at the close of the 4th century was consid- 
erably advanced in years” (Harvey. Hist, and Theol. of 
Creeds, p. 578). The terms of this confession arc 
sketched out by Paulinus of Nol a (Dp. 37 ad )'ietrie. 3, 
I 4), and they harmonize remarkably with those of the 
Creed (ibid. p. 5, 6). There are historical reasons for 
believing that this confession was presented at Home 
between A.D. 399 and 402 when Anastasius was pope 
(Harvey, Hist, and Theol. of Creeds). Hut the name 
of Yictricius was in time expunged, and it then stood 
as the production of Anastasius. Hence, since one com- 
mentator terms it “Fides Anastasii,” and a codex as- 
cribes it to AnasMasius, it is highly probable that this 
name was connected with the Creed at an earlier date 
than that of Athanasius, into which it easily passed. 
The name of Athanasius is first placed at the head in a 
copy of the 8th century, which leaves a wide margin of 
three hundred years for the change of title. The earliest 
MS. (Cottonian, now lost) assigned no name to the Creed, 
but simply styled it “ Fides Catholica,” as does also Yc- 
nan tius Fortunntus in his commentary. The reasons for 
assigning it to Yictricius have been thus summed up: 

“(1.) Its careful, well-considered terms are more 
consistent with the mature age of Yictricius, who had 
attained the honor of confessor forty years before the 
date now assigned to the Creed, in 401, than with the 
youth of Hilary, who was only cight-and-twcnty years 
of age when he is supposed by Waterland to have com- 
posed the hymn on his advancement to the episcopate. 
(2.) Its style, though not that of an apology in vindica- 


QUIDDITY 845 QUIETISM 


tion of the writer’s faith, agrees well with the supposi- 
tion that he was accused of the errors that he anathe- 
matizes. (3.) Its matter is exactly parallel with the 
subjects upon which Victricius, if we may judge from 
the expressions of Paulinus, was called to defend him- 
self. With respect to both of these particulars, the sup- 
position that Hilary should have been the author is sin- 
gularly unsatisfactory to the judgment. His exposition 
of faith on entering upon his episcopal office would 
scarcely have been pointed with anathemas which the 
history of his time persuades us were not required. In- 
deed, the Creed can only be assigned to Hilary upon 
the supposition that Apollinarianism infested the Galli- 
can Church at the date of his appointment to the see 
of Arles — a supposition wholly contrary to fact. But 
since we know that Pelagian tenets had then taken a 
firm root in the south of France, we know also the di- 
rection that any inaugural exposition by Hilary must 
have taken. (4.) Again, if Hilary had been the author 
of the Creed, his name must have commanded respect, 
and he would scarcely have met with such hard words 
from pope Leo I as may be found in his epistle to the 
French bishops, A.D. 445 : e. g. ‘Non est hoc . . . sa- 
lubritatem impendere diligentue pastoralis, sed vim in- 
ferre latronis et furis. . . . Potest forsitan ad depravan- , 
dos vestras sanctitatis animos Hilarins pro suo more 
mentiri” (Leo, Ep. 10). On the other hand, the highly 
probable communication between Victricius and Anas- 
tasius, and the preparation of a confession of faith by 
the Gallican confessor, indicate the process whereby the 
name of Athanasius may have been placed at length, 
by assimilation, at the head of the Creed. For these 
reasons, therefore, it is considered that the authorship 
of the Creed may be referred to the confessor Victricius, 
bishop of Rouen ; and that the date of the production 
may be assigned to the year 401” (Harvey, On the Three 
Creeds, p. 583). See Waterland, On the A thanasiun Creed ; 
Harvey, Hist, and Theol. of the Three Creeds; Blunt, 
Annotated Prayer-book, which latter work should be 
consulted with reference to its liturgical use. — Blunt, 
Diet, of Theol. s. v. See Cheep. 

Quiddity, or Quidity ( quidditas , from quid, what), 
a term employed in scholastic philosophy as equivalent 
to the ro ri i)v tivai of Aristotle, and denotes what was 
subsequently called the substantial form. It is the an- 
swer to the question, What is it?— quid est ? It is that 
which distinguishes a thing from other things, and makes 
it what it is, and not another. It is synonymous with 
essence, and comprehends both the substance and qual- 
ities; for qualities belong to substance, and by qualities 
substance manifests itself. It is the known essence of 
a thing, or the complement of all that makes us con- 
ceive of anything as we conceive of it as different from 
any or every other thing. — Krauth’s Fleming, Vocab. of 
Philosophy, s. v. 

Quien, Le. See Le Quien. 

Quiercy, Council of ( Concilium Carisiacense ). 
An ecclesiastical council was there held in 849 by 
Hincmar and thirteen other bishops, who condemned 
Gottschalk, a Predestinarian, and sentenced him to be 
flogged and imprisoned at Hautvilliers, where he wrote 
a profession of faith similar to that which he had pre- 
sented at the Council of Mayence in 848. See Labbe', 
Condi, viii, 55. 

Another council was held at the same place in 858. 
From this body the bishops of the provinces of Rheims 
and Rouen wrote a long letter, full of reproaches, to Louis, 
king of Germany, blaming him for invading France upon 
the invitation of the disaffected nobles of Charles, and 
declaring that it had come to their ears that, in the 
course of his march through the various dioceses, cruel- 
ties and abominations had been committed surpassing 
those of the heathen themselves. See Labbe, Condi. 
viii, G54. 

Quietism is the doctrine that the highest character 
of virtue consists in the perpetual contemplation and 


love of supreme excellence. It recognises this excel- 
lence only in God, and maintains that perfect union 
with God must be effected, and that it is best attainable 
by a state of passive rest or quiet, more or less absolute. 
The quietude aimed at, beginning with an act of so-called 
resignation of self, is a state of mental inactivity, without 
thought, reflection, hope, or wish. In this state it is 
supposed that the soul is brought so immediately into 
the divine presence as to be merged in it by an essential 
union. Quietism, accordingly, is not peculiar, for it re- 
quires no basis of Christology. It results from every 
philosophical system by an excess or perversion of con- 
templation, when the ethical tendency of the mind is too 
w eak to preserve a just balance with the contemplative. 
Vaughan ( Hours with the Mystics, vol. i, cli. ii, p. 43) 
observes that “ the same round of notions, occurring to 
minds of similar make under similar circumstances, is 
common to mystics in ancient India and in modern 
Christendom.” He gives a summary of Hindu mysti- 
cism, that it (1) lays claim to disinterested love, as op- 
posed to a mercenary religion; (2) reacts against the 
ceremonial, prescriptive, and pedantic literalism of the 
Vedas; (3) identifies in its pantheism subject and ob- 
ject, worshipper and worshipped; (4) aims at ultimate 
absorption into the Infinite; (5) inculcates, as the way 
to this dissolution, absolute passivity, withdrawal into 
the inmost self, cessation of all the powers — giving 
recipes for procuring this beatific torpor or trance; (G) 

I believes that eternity may thus be realized in time; (7) 
has its mythical, miraculous pretensions, i. e. its theur- 
gic department; (8) and, finally, advises the learner in 
this kind of religion to submit himself implicitly to a 
spiritual guide — his yaru. Of these articles, the third, 

[ fourth, fifth, and sixth give quietism, properly so called ; 

I and it is a question whether the manifestation of this 
doctrine in Christianity adds anything essential to the 
definition of article five, so as to save Christian quietism 
from the pantheistic conclusions of articles three and 
four. 

In the Christian Church this mystical theology is 
defined by its professors to be that doctrine which re- 
veals to man the hidden essence of God’s Being. The 
w r ay to this wisdom is in three stages, the purgative, 
the illuminative, the unitive; the first purging the will 
from low affections, the second communicating to the 
intellect the knowledge of God, and the third leading 
the soul thus prepared to union and deification. 

The table at head of page 84G, and taken from Ar- 
nold’s Historia Theologice My stiver, gives this theology 
in outline. Some parts of it need au initiated inter- 
preter. 

It is evident that this scheme, if at all carried out to 
its legitimate consequences, leads directly to the error 
of those enthusiasts who supposed the kingdom of Christ 
to be an earlier and inferior dispensation, the reign of 
the Spirit the later and perfect dispensation. Men are 
taught by it, not the superiority of love to knowledge 
in St. Paul’s sense, but that they may become more 
perfect by disregarding the knowledge of an earlier 
state, by becoming again children in understanding. 
To that earlier state are referred the powder of Christ’s 
resurrection and the sacrament of the holy eucharist. 
What the higher sacrament of unction is does not ap- 
pear. In working out this scheme, Molinos taught as 
follows: 1. The perfection of men, even in this life, 
consists in an uninterrupted act of contemplation and 
love, which contains virtually all righteousness; that 
this act once effected lasts always, even during sleep, 
provided that it be not expressly recalled; whence it 
follows that the perfect have no need to repeat it. 2. 
In this state of perfection the soul ought not to reflect 
either on God or on itself, but its pow r ers ought to be 
annihilated, in order to abandon itself wholly and pas- 
sively to God. 3. Perfect prayer is this state of quie- 
tude, in which there should be absolutely no thought 
or wish or hope. Vocal prayer, confession, all external 
things, are but hindrances. 4. In prayer the first act of 


QUIETISM 


84G 


QUIETISM 


Via ad Sapiextiam kst Via 


Vmversaus. 

riBCATlVA. 

Illuminati va. 

Lmtiva. 

Qua; iutciulil Summum 

Hon mn 

Vernm 

Unum 

tioiniuis 

Xutorulis 

Spirit ualis 

Peifoimis 

quoad 

Corpus 

Aoimuin 

Spiritual 

ClljllS 

Sanitas 

Scientia 

Sanctitas 

cst |>ei fectio 

Sensns 

Rnlionis 

Mentis 

ex Lei 

Iiouitate 

Sapientia 

Potestate 

secundum until ram 

Ilnmanam 

Angelica in 

Di vinam : 

(pi:e t prreparatur 

Jcjimio 

Vigiliis 

Oratione 

viveuilo 

sobrie 

juste 

pie 

ergft 

seipsum 

pmximum 

Demn. 

Lt 2° comparator 

Moriitieatione 

Coniemplat ione 

Adhresioue 

membronim 

(•arnis 

Veriintis 

Virt utis 

per Christ! 

Passionem 

Iteniri ectionem 

Ascensionem; 

Qui solus est 

Via 

Veriius 

Vila 

In lumiue 

Nature; 

G rat ire 

Glorire 

C'ujns gratia 

Abtuimur 

justiticninur 

sanctiticiimnr 

In sacramento 

Buptismaiis 

C cense 

Unctionis 

per tidem in 

Patrem 

Filin m 

Spirit urn S. 

attestantilms 

Aqua 

Sanguine 

Spiritn 

atquc 3° conservator 

Fide 

Spe 

C'haritate 

in sclmla 

Poenitentire 

Scientire 

Concordia: 

diseipnlorum 

incipientium 

proticicntiiiin 

perfect ornm 

relate 

pnerili 

juveiiili 

virili 

libi classis 

inferior 

media 

superior 

et gradus 

imaginatiouis 

cognitiouis 

amoris 

per osculmn 

pedum 

maims 

oris 

ministcrio 

Angelico 

Cherubico 

Serapbico : 

4° reparaturque 

sepanitione 

sublimationc 

conjunct ione 

corporis 

puri ab impuro 

lucidi ab opneo 

solidi cum solnlo 

cum temperamento 

aqueo 

aiTeo 

igneo 

et sic ascend i mas 

e terra 

per paradisnm 

in ccelnm 

ct ingrediinur in vitam 

Corporis 

Aniline 

Spiritns reteniam 


faith, tlie first intention of resignation, prevails to con- 
stitute the whole an act of worship. ‘“One may perse- 
vere in prayer though the imagination be carried about 
with various and involuntary thoughts.” These are 
not to be actively resisted, but merely neglected. 5. 
The violent and painful suggestions of impatience, pride, 
gluttony, luxury, rage, blasphemy, cursing, despair, and 
an infinite number of others, are Clod’s means for puri- 
fying those whom he calls. The soul ought not to be 
disquieted on account of them. 

An example of pure quietism may be quoted in illus- 
tration of these principles: “Gregory Lopez having for 
the space of three years continued that ejaculation, 
Thy will be done in time and in eternity, repeating it 
as often as lie breathed, tlod Almighty discovered to 
him that infinite treasure of the pure and continued act 
of faith and love, with silence and resignation; so that 
lie came to say that, during the thirty-six years he lived 
afterwards, he always continued in his inward man that 
pure act of love, without ever uttering the least petition, 
ejaculation, or anything that was sensible or sprung 
from nature” {Spiritual (inide ftransl. 1(51)9], p. 75). 

Idolinos is charged by Romanist writers with teach- j 
ing aulinomianism. The charge does not appear to 
be well founded, but that his teaching regarding evil 
thoughts is most dangerous there can be no doubt. At 
the same time, the truth of which it is a perversion is 
very discernible. 

Molinos proceeds to his doctrine of self- annihilal ion 
through what he calls infused contemplation. The 
means whereby the soul ascends to infused contempla- 
tion are two— the pleasure and the desire of it. The 
steps of it are three— satiety when the soul is filled with 
God; intoxication, an excess of mind and elevation of 
soul arising from satiety of divine love: security, when 
the soul is so drenched with love that it loses all fear, 
and would willingly go to hell if it knew such to be the 
will of hod. Six other stops there arc — lire, union, el- 
evation, illumination, pleasure, anil repose. 1 Sut there 
are many other steps besides, as ecstasies, raptures, 
meltings, deliquiums, glee, kisses, embraces, exalta- 
tion, union, transformation, espousing, and matrimony; 
“which,” M. linos says. “ I omit to explain, to give no 
occasion to speculation.” Madame Guyon, however, does 
explain : ““The essential union is the spiritual marriage, 
where there is a communication of substance, when < iod 
takes the soul for his spouse, unites it to himself, not 
personally, nor by any act or means, but immediately 


reducing all to a unity. The soul ought not, nor can, 
any more make any distinction between Cod and itself. 
God is the soul, and the soul is God” (A'xj'licut. du Cant, 
des Cant.). 

Molinos passes through annihilation to the same re- 
sult of deification. The soul that would he perfect 
passes, with the divine aid, into the state of nothing- 
ness: from the spiritual death the true and perfect an- 
nihilation derives its original ; insomuch that when the 
soul is once dead to its will and understanding, it is 
properly said to have arrived at the perfect and happy 
state of annihilation, which is the last disposition for 
transformation and union. The soul no longer lives in 
itself, bee a use God lives in it. The sold being in that 
manner the nothing, the Lord will he the whole in the 
soul. 

Quietism aims at an entire abstraction from all ex- 
ternals, and seeks to put the spirit of man into direct 
and immediate union with the very nature of the God- 
head. From this there inevitably results, instead of the 
Christian doctrine of the communion of saints, the doc- 
trine of a panthe istic identification of the creature with 
the Creator, and an ultimate absorption of the soul into 
the substance of God. The Quictists call it indeed a 
vulgar error to say that in the prayer of rest the facul- 
ties operate not , and the soul is idle and inactive; hut 
they assert at the same time that the soul operates nei- 
ther by means of the memory nor by the intellect, nor 
bv ratiocination, but by simple apprehension (Molinos, 
Spiritual Cuide. i, 12). What an active apprehension 
is when none of the powers of the mind are exerted is 
not explained. The Quiet ists think to attain that re- 
pose of the mind which is the result of exertion, and 
that quiet rest in (iod which follows from the earnest- 
ness of meditative prayer, by altogether surceasing from 
the exertion and .superseding the earnestness. Conse- 
quently, the mind being reduced to inactivity, the body 
has sway; and the state of perfect quietude, supposed 
to be a waiting for the divine access, becomes that state 
(which may he produced by “mesmeric” process) in 
which the body Mifiers or simulates catalepsy, and the 
mind apes a divine tianco. Quietism becomes mental 
sleep. 

There is a remarkable similarity between the mysti- 
cism of the Quietists and of ti e IMotinian school of phi- 
losophy. The aim of Flotillas was to enter into the 
immediate vision of Deity. *• Cuconditioned Being, or 
the Godhead, cannot be grasped by thinking or science, 


QUIETISM 847 QUINQUAGESIMA 


only by intuition. In this pure intuition, the good, or I 
the absolute being, gazes upon itself through the me- ' 
ilium of our own spirits. To close the eye against all j 
things transient and variable, to raise ourselves to this : 
simple essence, to take refuge in the absolute, this must 
be regarded as the highest aim of all our spiritual ef- 
forts” (Prof. C. A. Brandis, in Smith’s Bioy. Diet. art. j 
Plotinus, p. 427). Plotinian contemplation may find a 
place in the system of John Smith and Henry More, i 
but it may also pass as readily into the reveries of Mo- i 
linos. It is to be considered whether the tendency of 
such contemplation is not to reduce the Father mani- 
fested in the Son to the cold abstraction of the Plotinian 
Deity. 

In the Church there have been two kinds of mysti- 
cism, one a churchly mysticism, which allies itself with 
the ordinances and rites of the Gospel; the other sub- 
jective or inward, which gradually rejects more and 
more all that is external, and even at last passes beyond 
the contemplation of the humanity of our Lord, and the 
sacraments which make men partakers of his body, to 
“seek a resting-place beyond all that is created in the 
Logos as he existed prior to the incarnation and crea- 
tion” (Dorner, On the Person of Christ , II, i, 233). This | 
unchristianizing of Christianity, this presentation of the 
great drama without its central figure, this removal of 
God Incarnate from the mystery of godliness, as the re- 
sult of a perverted or depraved mysticism, is exhibited 
more than once in the history of the Church. The 
words quoted from Dorner on the subject were used re- 
garding Maximus Confessor. We may resume and con- 
tinue them. “True love and knowledge unite to seek 
a resting-point beyond all that is created, beyond even 
the humanity of Christ: their final goal is the pure and 
bare (yvpvbo) Logos, as he existed prior to the incar- 
nation and the creation. It is clear that in the last in- 
stance Christ is hereby reduced to the position of a 
mere theophany, and that the historical significance of 
his person is destroyed. The same thing appears also 
from his application to the professedly highest stage of 
the words. Even though we have known Christ after 
the flesh, yet now know we him no longer. So far was 
Maximus Confessor from attributing eternal significance 
to the God-man that he regarded the humanity of Christ 
rather in the light of a hindrance to the full knowledge 
and love of the pure God — a hindrance which must be 
surmounted by those who aim to reach the highest stage” 
(Dorner, /. c., and see note 48 there referred to). So in 
Italy, Marsilius Ficinus and John Pico of Mirandola 
turned Christianity in many respects into a Neo-Pla- 
tonic theosophy. 

In the article Mysticism (q. v.) this subject is more 
opened, and the schools of mysticism of the Greek and 
Latin churches classified. In the article Ilesychasts 
(q. v.) is related the quietism of the Greek Church. The 
directions of the abbot Simon for producing the visions 
of quietism (supposed to have been written in the 11th 
century) are still in existence: “Alone in thy cell, shut 
thy door, and seat thyself in a corner; raise thy mind 
above all things vain and transitory; recline thy beard 
and chin on thy breast; turn thy eyes and thy thoughts 
towards the middle of thy belly, the region of the navel ; 
and search the place of the heart, the seat of the soul. 
At first all will be dark and comfortless; but if you per- 
severe day and night, you will feel an ineffable joy ; and 
no sooner has the soul discovered the place of the heart 
than it is involved in a mystic and ethereal light.” At 
present it is only necessary to point out that these Ile- 
sychasts had the same rule as the Hindu Quietists, viz. 
that to produce the state of abstraction the eyes must 
be steadily fixed on some particular object. The Hin- 
dus presented the tip of the nose, the Ilesychasts the 
navel. 

In German medieval mysticism a qnietistic element 
is met with. It, however, borders on pantheism, very 
much as the pantheism of Dionysius the Areopagite , 
borders on quietism. 


The real founder of quietism in the Church is thus re- 
puted to be Molinos (q. v.), a Spanish priest, whose opin- 
ions, published at Rome towards the end of the 17th cen- 
tury, called forth violent opposition from the authorities 
of the Church, but met with many supporters in I tali’, 
Spain, France, and the Netherlands. He seems to have 
held “ that religion consists in the perfect tranquillity of 
a mind removed from all external and finite things, and 
centred in God, and in such a pure love of the Supreme 
Being as is independent of all prospect of interest or re- 
ward.” In more modern times Fenelon and Madame 
Guy on have taught quietism. They are, however, usu- 
ally called Semi-Quietists. The two following propo- 
sitions from Fenelon’s Maxims of the Saints were con- 
demned by Innocent XII in 1609: 1. There is attaina- 
ble in this life a state of perfection in which the expec- 
tation of reward and the fear of punishment have no 
place. 2. Souls may be so inflamed with love to God, 
and so resigned to his will, that if they believed that 
God had condemned them to eternal pain, they would 
absolutely sacrifice their salvation. Madame Guyon 
thought she had learned a method by which souls might 
be carried to such a state of perfection that a continual 
act of contemplation and love might be substituted for 
all other acts of religion. She came forward as one of 
the chief promoters of quietism in France, and hence 
arose a celebrated controversy between Bossuet anil 
Fenelon — the former of whom attacked and the latter 
defended several of that pious lady’s opinions. See the 
dissertation by M, Bonnel, De la Controversy de Bossuet 
et Fenelon sur le. Quietisme (Nevers, 1850, 8vo) ; Dr. 
Burnet, Tracts (1689, 12mo), vol. i; Recueil des Direrses 
Pieces concernant le Quietisme et les Quiet istes (1688); 
Weisman, Ilist. Eccles. § xvii. 

Quinisextum, Concilium (Sovocoq Trevcacri], as 
a complement of the fifth and sixth, so-called, oecumen- 
ical councils, A.D. 555 and 680), was held at Constan- 
tinople in 602, and intended to complete the disciplinary 
measures proposed, but not completed, at the previous 
councils. The meetings of this council were held in a 
hall in the imperial palace called Trullns, and hence it 
received, also, the name of the Trullan Council . It was 
composed chiefly of Oriental bishops, and its canons 
were publicly received in all the churches within the 
territories of the Greek emperors. Although the Ro- 
man legates subscribed to the acts of this council, it 
was never recognised hy the Romish Church nor by its 
then ruling pope, Sergius I. This is due to the deci- 
sions of the council regarding the number of the apos- 
tolical canons, against enforced clerical celibacy, the 
rank of patriarchs, the fasting on Sabbath eves, the 
partaking of blood, etc. See Schaff, Ch. History ; Mil- 
man, Ilist . of Christianity ; Butler, Ch. History , i, 359; 
Riddle, Hist, of the Papacy; Mosheim, Eccles. Ilist. vol. 
i ; Lea, Celibacy. 

Quinn, William, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born June 20, 1700. He was con- 
verted in his sixteenth year, and about four years after 
began to preach. In 1817 he joined the Philadelphia 
Conference. His various fields of labor, as indicated in 
the Conference Minutes, were: Talbot Circuit, 1817; 
Caroline, 1818; Dauphin, 1819 ; Lewiston, 1820 ; Dor- 
chester. 1821-22 ; Accomac, 1 823-24 ; and Annamesscx, 
1825. He then took a supernumerary relation until 
1838, when, entering again the active work, he served 
the Church on Salisbury Circuit, 1839-40; Kent, 1 84 J — 
42; Milford, 1843-44; and Berlin. 1845. Declining 
health then obliged him to take rest, and lie settled at 
Newtown, Pa., where he died Dec. 13, 1867. lie was a 
ivell-cultured man and did honor to his Church and gen- 
eration as a student and a Christian. See Minutes of 
.1 nnual Conferences, 1868. 

Quinquagesima is the name by which the Sun- 
day before Lent (q. v.) is designated. The first Sun- 
day in Lent being called Quadragesima, this being 
further from Easter was called Quinquagesima (or 


848 


QUIN QUA 1 i 1 jOK EUS 


QUISQUEJA 


fiftieth Sunday), reckoning the distance from Easter in ' 
round numbers. It was sometimes called Quinquagesi- 
mtt paniientue, in order to distinguish it from the other 
Quinquagesima. or interval between Easter and Whit- 
suntide. called Quinquagesima pusehalis, or Uvtitue. It 
is also called Shrore-Sunday (q. v.). In ordinary years 
Quinquagesima is the forty-ninth day before Easter; in 
leap-year it is the fiftieth. 

Quinquarboreus, Joannes (or Jkan Cinqarbije), 
a learned Frenchman, was a native of Aurillac, in Au- 
vergne. In lf>54 he was made regius professor of the 
Hebrew language at Paris; in 1575 he was made dean 
of the faculty, and occupied this position until the 
year 1587, when he died. He wrote, Institutio Lingua; 
Ebraicee,cuni Mods, etc. (Paris, 1 G 10) : — l)e Re Gramma- 
tica Hebraica Opus (ibid. 1540, 155(5, 1582; Accessit ct- 
iam Liber de A otis. i. e. A bbreviaturis / Zebra arum [Ven- 
ice, 1 588, and Paris, 1609, cum A of is P. 1 7 qnolii]) : — Xotte 
in Clenardi Grummatica Jlebraica (Paris, 1540, 1564). 
lie also translated into Latin the Chaldee of Jonathan 
on I/usea, Joel, Amos (ibid. 1556 and 1563). See Fitrst, 
Bibliotheca Judaicu , ii, 106; iii, 124; Sleinschncider, 
Bibliographisches Ilandbuch, p. 113; Wolf, Bibliotheca 
I/ebr. iv, 250,298; Jdcher, Allgem. Gclchrten- Lexikon, 
s. v. (II. P.) 

Quinquarticular Controversy is a dispute 
which arose at Cambridge in 1594 between the Armin- 
ians and Calvinists respecting the following five points: 
predestination, free will, effectual grace, perseverance, 
and the extent of redemption. In 1G26 two fruitless 
conferences were held on these same points ; and in 
1630 bishop Davenant preached at court on these dis- 
puted matters, and thereby gave great, offence to Charles 
I. The next year the controversy was revived at Ox- 
ford, and in Ireland, of which archbishop Usher was then 
primate. The king issued certain injunctions concern- 
ing the bounds within which these points might be dis- 
cussed ; but these limits having been exceeded by Thom- 
as Cooke, a fellow of Brazenose College, Oxford, in a 
Latin sermon preached before the university in 1634, 
he was compelled to make a public recantation.— Farrar, 
Becks. Bid. s. v. See Collier, /■’cries. Hist. ; Mosheim, 
Bedes. Hist. vol. iii. See, also, Dour, Synod of; Five 
Points. i 

Quinquatria, an ancient Roman festival celebrat- 
ed in honor of Minerva on March 19. Some writers 
allege that its observance was limited to one day; oth- 
ers, however, say that it lasted for five days. This last 
is the opinion of Ovid, who considers it to have been a 
festival held in commemoration of the birthday of Mi- 
nerva ; and hence it was customary for women on that 
day to consult diviners and fortune-tellers. — Gardner, 
Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Quinquennalia, games celebrated among the an- 
cient Romans in imitation of the Greek festivals at the 
end of every four years. On these occasions keen com- 
petitions wore carried on in music, gymnastics, and 
horse-racing. Quinquennalia were observed in honor 
of Julius Caesar, and also of Augustus; but they seem to 
have been celebrated with peculiar splendor under Nero, 
from whose time they were discontinued, until at length 
they were revived by Domitian in honor of Jupiter Ca- 
pitolinas. — < Jardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Quilltillani were a sect of Montanists who ap- 
peared in Phrygia about 189. They were so called from 
their prophetess, Quint ilia of Carthage. One of the pe- 
culiar tenets of this strange sect was that women are by 
the Scriptures entitled to perforin episcopal and other 
ministerial duties. They attributed extraordinary gifts 
to Eve, in consequence of her having eaten of the for- 
bidden tree, and (putted the history of Miriam, and the 
four daughters of Philip, who were prophetesses, in vin- 
dication of their proceedings. In their assemblies vir- , 
gins appeared in white robes, personating prophetesses. 
The errors of this sect were condemned in the Council i 
of Laodicca in 320. Tertullian charges the Quint illani I 


with having opposed baptism, and wrote a work on that 
subject. 

Quintillians. See Quintillani. 

Quintin Matsys, sometimes called the Farrier of 
Antwerp, was, famous lor having been transformed from 
a blacksmith to a painter by the force of love. He had 
followed the trade of a blacksmith and farrier near twen- 
ty years, when, falling in love with a painter’s daughter, 
who was very handsome, and disliked nothing in him 
but his profession, lie quitted his trade and betook. him- 
self to painting, in which art, assisted by a good natural 
taste, a master, and the power of love into the bargain, 
he made a very uncommon and surprising progress. He 
was a painstaking, diligent imitator of ordinary life, and 
much better at representing the defects than the beau- 
ties of nature. One of his best pieces is a Descent from 
the Cross, in the chapel at the Cathedral of Antwerp, for 
which, and a multitude of other histories and portraits, 
he gained many admirers, especially for his laborious 
neatness, which, in truth, was the principal part of his 
character. He died in 1529. II is works are dispersed 
throughout Europe. 

Quin'tus Memroius (2 Mace. xi, 34). See Mem- 
mi us. 

Qui procedis ab Utroque ( who proceedest from 
both, i.e. from the Father and the Son) is the beginning 
of a sequence of Adam of St. Victor to the Holy Spirit, 
omitted entirely by the compilers of Bongs of the Sjnrit. 
The first verse runs thus in the original : 

“Qui procedis ah utroque, 

Genitore, Genitoque, 

Pa l iter, Paraclite, 

Redde lingnns eloquentes, 

Fae ferventes in te meutes 
Flamma tua divite.” 

There is an English translation, by P. S. Worslev, in the 
Lyra Mystica, p. 170 sq., and by Caswall, in Hymns and 
Poems, Original and Translated, p. 136 sq. German 
translations are given, together with the original, in 
Konigsfeld, Lateinische Hgninen, ii, 181 sq. ; Simrock, 
Lauda Sion, p. 209 sq. ; Biisslcr, A usieahl ultchristkeher 
Lieder, p. Ill, 221. See Trench. Sucred Latin Poetry, 
p. 187 ; Daniel, Thesaurus Ilymnol. ii, 73 ; Gautier, Adam 
de S. 1 let or, i, 115; Rnmbacli, .4 nfhologie christlieher Ge- 
siinyc, p. 293; Fortlage, Gesdnye christlieher Yorzeit, p. 
401. (15. P.) 

Quirenus. See Cvkf.xius. 

Quilinalia, a festival celebrated among the ancient 
Romans in honor of Quirimis. It was kept on Fell. 17, 
being the day on which Romulus, who was called Qui- 
rinus, was said to have been carried up to heaven. 

Quirini. See Qukrini. 

Quirk is an architectural term for a small acute 
channel or recess much used in mouldings. 

Quiroga, Joseph, a Spanish Jesuit, was born at 
Lugo, in Galicia, and distinguished himself as a mis- 
sionary in America. During his residence here he col- 
lected much information respecting the territories he 
visited, and on his return to Europe published his trav- 
els. lie died in 1781. 

Quisqueja. This island.one of the Great Antilles, 
now called St. Domingo or Hayti, was, at the time of the 
discovery of this part of the world, inhabited by a peace- 
able and harmless population, who were soon annihi- 
lated by Spanish cruelty. They adored the sun (Tona- 
tiks) and the moon (Tuna)- Both luminaries resided at 
first on the earth, in the island of Quisqueja, of course, 
where a splendid cave was their mansion. Finally, they 
went to Turii (the heavens), thence to difiuse their light 
over the world. The cave is still shown ; it has a diam- 
eter of 200 feet, and is 130 feet high. The purity of its 
form betokens the interference of human art. The fig- 
ures of gods, genii, guardian spirits, are engraved in the 
walls. In a large mimlur of places idols must have 
stood in ancient times. This supposition is in accordance 


QUISSHION 849 QUITMAN 


with the scanty traditions that have readied us. More 
than a thousand idols were distributed at intervals in 
the interior (says the tradition), and the two largest, rep- 
resenting the sun and moon, stood at the entrance. This 
seems to have been the only temple of (Juisqueja, for 
multitudes of worshippers flocked to it every day from 
all parts of the island. They believed that their coun- 
try was the cradle of the human race. The first men 
were shut up in two caves of the Kauta mountain, and 
there watched by a giant. The jailer, having once vent- 
ured out of this recess, was changed into stone by the 
sun, whose rays were too powerful for him. The cap- 
tive men, thus liberated, came forth in their turn. Many 
were those who shared the giant’s fate, being trans- 
formed into animals, stones, or plants. Little by little 
those denizens of darkness became used to the light of 
day. The souls of men repair to the mountains which 
cover the middle part of the island, and there, in a cool 
country, rich in springs, they feed on the savory fruit 
of the memmey-tree, called by the Spaniards apricots 
of St. Domingo. The living men piously abstain from 
touching those fruits, so as not to deprive the souls of 
their subsistence. 

Their country was, primitively, mnch larger, and 
was not an island; but a terrible Hood inundated the 
land, leaving only discovered the tops of the mountains. 
This happened under the following circumstances: A 
rich man, called Toja, lost by a sudden death his young- 
est son, whose mother had died in giving him birth. Not 
to part from the dear remains, he put them into a large 
pumpkin. After some time he took off the lid, and saw, 
to his dismaj', that the pumpkin was filled with green- 
ish water, in which a multitude of fishes and aquatic 
monsters were swimming about. In his terror he had 
recourse to his friends, and deliberated with them what 
was to be done. Meanwhile his other children took the 
pumpkin in their midst to have a look at the sea which, 
they had heard, was hidden in it. When they saw 
their father returning from his call, conscious of punish- 
able inquisitiveness, they put the pumpkin roughly on 
the ground and ran away. The funereal vessel, thus 
carelessly handled, got a rent, and hence the waters of 
the sea flowed, without intermission, night and day, until 
all lower parts of the earth ■were covered, and the moun- 
tain -tops alone protruded from the universal ocean. 
Those tops became islands and the abode of the surviv- 
ing few. The sun and moon sent to Quisqneja as their 
representatives two other gods, Tokahtma and Temno, 
the supreme rulers. Other superior beings followed, and 
were all, more or less, solemnly worshipped. Images of 
stone aud of clay were made of them, and decorated the 
great temple and the interior of the huts. These gods 
were thankful for the worship they received, and in re- 
turn granted the pious people successful fishing and 
hunting, victory in battle (their images were fastened 
in battle with a string to the forehead of the combat- 
ants), plentiful crops, rain or sunshine, as circumstances 
required. The women were blessed with happy child- 
beds and the girls with pleasant husbands, A great 
festival was solemnized every year in honor of all these 
gods. The cacique on that occasion appeared with a 
drum made of the trunk of a hollow tree, which he beat 
unremittingly. The whole township followed him to 
the temple, where the priests received every coming 
crowd with tremendous shouts, and took possession of 
the offerings. The latter consisted of thin flour cakes, 
which were broken in the presence of the god, and small 
portions of them given back to the heads of the fami- 
lies. Those little slices were carefully preserved through 
the whole year. A general dance followed. It was at 
this solemn occasion that most of the matrimonial offers 
and arrangements took place. All traces of this ancient 
pagan worship were destroyed by the fanatical Span- 
iards, and the small Indian people was exterminated. — 
Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Quisshion ( pulvinar , .cussinus, culcitrum), a cush- 
ion, usually of velvet, and stuffed with wool or horse- 
VII I.— H H H 


hair, for the service-book on the south side of the altar, 
appears in Henry Vi’s Book of the Hours, and was used 
by bishop Andrewes. I n the former it is on the south 
side, in the latter on the north. Albertis mentions the 
wooden desk, plated (legik), as a modern substitute. 
The book was first set on the right side and afterwards 
moved to the left side of the altar at mass. — Walcott, 
Sacred A rchceol. s. v. 

Quistorp, a family of Christian theologians, of 
whom we mention the following: 

1. Bernhard Fr., was born at Kostock, April 11,1718. 
In 1753 he was made superintendent, in 1766 doctor and 
professor of theology, in 1779 general superintendent, 
and afterwards chancellor and curator of the University 
of Greifswalde, where he died, Jan. 4, 1788. He wrote, 
Dissertatio Epist. de Atheismo Benedicti de Spinoza (Ros- 
tock, 1743) : — Diss.Epist.de Collatione Librorum Scrip- 
ture Sucre in Interpretation S. S. baud Injusta (ibid. 
173G) : — Disp. Exegetico - dogmatica eaque Inaug. de 
Judmis Corde Compunctis (ibid. 1749): — Ob die Altvater 
vor und nach der Siindjiuth huben schreiben konnen? 
Disp. de Xotione Filiorum et Filiarum Dei (ibid. 1751) : 
— Disp. de Adoption Ecclesiastica V. T. (ibid. 1755) : — 
Ob, ehe die sogenannte griechische Uebersetzung der sieb- 
zig Dolmetscher von der Bibel des A. T. zu Stamle ge- 
kommen, schon eine griechische Uebersetzung der funf 
Bucher Moses v orhanden gewesen seif (ibid. 175G) : — 
X, uni Michcelis A rchangeli cum Diuboli de Uorpore Mosis 
Disceptatio Fabula sit? (Greifswalde, 1770) : — De An - 
gelis Dei in Legislatione Sinaitica Ministris, Gal. Hi, 19 
(ibid. 1771) : — Disp. de *n m23 irri2 "PS min O 
abs. imp’"!"!; reperto 2 Chron. xxxiv, 14, 15, et 2 Kings 
xii, 8 (ibid. 1771): — De Triplici Christi Officio (ibid. 
1784). See F first, Bill. Judaica, iii, 124 sq. ; Winer, 
Theol. Ilandbuch, p. 436, 719. 

2. Johann (1), was born at Rostock, Aug. 18, 1584. 
Having completed his studies at his native place and 
at Frankfort-on-the-Oder, he travelled through Hol- 
land, Brabant, and Flanders, and after his return, in 
1615, he became professor in his native city. In 
1G16 he was made doctor of theology, in 1645 he was 
called as pastor and superintendent of tit. Jacobi, and 
died at Dobran, May 2, 1648. He wrote, Annotations 
in 0 nines Libros Biblicos (Frankfort, 1698): — Comment, 
in Omnes Epp. Pauli: — Castigatio Hebrceorum, etc. 
See Fiirst, Bill. Judaica, iii, 125; Jocher, Allgem. Ge- 
lehrten-Lexikon , s. v. 

3. Johann (2), son of the preceding, was born at Ros- 
tock, Feb. 5, 1024. He studied at Greifswalde, Kbnigs- 
berg, Copenhagen, and Leyden, was made doctor of the- 
ology, and died as rector magnijicus Dec. 24, 1689. He 
wrote, Catechesis Antipapistica : — Pia Desideria, etc. 
See Jocher, Allgem. Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. 

4. Johann Nikolaus, son of the foregoing, was born 

at Rostock, Jan. 6, 1651, studied at his native place aud 
Konigsberg, travelled through Germany, Holland, and 
Denmark, and after his return, in 1676, he was made 
deacon of St. Nicolai, afterwards pastor and superintend- 
ent, and finally professor of theology. He died Aug. 
9, 1715. His writings, which are very numerous, touch 
upon almost every department of theology, and are enu- 
merated by Jocher in his Allgem. Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. 
See, also, Diestel, Geschichte des Alten Testaments in der 
christi. Kirche (Jena, 1S69), p. 372. (B. F.) 

Quitaztli is, according to Mexican mythology, the 
serpent woman who, at the beginning of the fourth age 
of the world, populated the earth by the successive birth 
of a number of twins. The latter are represented on 
monuments holding in their hands the shells of the eggs 
from which they have crept. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. My- 
thol. s. v. 

Quitman, Frederick Henry, D.D., an eminent 
American divine of the Lutheran Church, was born in 
1760, and after studying theology at home and abroad 
became pastor at Rhinebeck, on the Hudson, and 


QUIVER 


850 


QUIVER 



greatly distinguished himself in the pulpit and the 
press. lie died in 1*32. Among his noteworthy pub- 
lications are a Treatise on Moyle (1*10 ): — Evangelical 
Catechism (1*14) : — Hymn-book of the Synod of Xew 
York (1*17). Sec Kvauyel. Her. Oct. 1*5*, p. 1*0; 
Sprague, Annuls of the American Pulpit , ix, 115 sq. 

Quiver is the rendering in the A. V. of two very 
different Hebrew words. The English word “quiver” 
is a variation of “ cover” (from the French couvrir), 
and therefore answers to the second of the two Hebrew 
words. See Armor. 

1. “br \teli. This occurs only in Gen. xxvii, 3— “take 
thy weapons (literally “ thy things”), thy quiver and thy 
bow.” It is derived (by Gesc- 
nius, Thesaur . p. 1504, and Fi'irst, 
Jlandworterb. ii, 52*) from a root 
which has the force of hanging. 
The passage itself affords no clue 
to its meaning. It may there- 
fore signify either a quiver or a 
suspended weapon— for instance, 
such a sword as in our own lan- 
guage was formerly called a 
hanger.” Hot ween these two 
significations the interpreters are 
divided. The Sept., Ynlg., and 
TargumPscudo-Jon. adhere to the 
former; Onkclos, the l’eshito and 
Arabic versions, to the latter. 

2. nE'rN, ashpdh. The root 
of this word is uncertain (Gcscni- 
us, Thesaur. p. IG1). From two 
of its occurrences, its force would 
. seem to be that of containing or 

p”- c ** vii ’ V’ 'I- 

xhx, 2). It is connected with 
arrows only in Lam. iii. 13. Its other occurrences are 
Job xxxix, 23; Isa. xxii, 6; and Jer. v, 16. In each of 
these the Sept, translates it by “quiver” (tyapiTpa), with 
two exceptions, Job xxxix, 23, and Psa. cxxvii, 5, in 
the former of which they render it by “ bow,” in the 
latter by tiriSvpia. 

The quiver is a case or box for arrow’s, which was 
slung over the shoulder in such a position that a soldier 
could with ease draw out the arrows when he wanted 
them (Isa. xlix, 2 ; Jer. v, 1(1). There is nothing in the 
Bible to indicate cither its form or material, or in what 
way it was carried. The quivers of the Assyrians are 



Assyriau Chariot with Quiver. 

rarely shown in the sculptures. When they do appear, 
they arc sometimes richly decorated with groups of fig- 




ures and fanciful designs. They were worn at the back, 
with the top between the shoulders of the wearer, or 
hung at the side of the chariot. The Egyptian war- 



QUOBDAS 81 

riors, on the other hand, wore them slung nearly hori- 
zontal, drawing out the arrows from beneath the arm 
(Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, abridgm. i. 354). The quiver 
was about four inches in diameter, supported by a belt 
passing over the shoulder and across the breast to the 
opposite side. When not in actual use, it was shifted 
behind, or hung at the side of the chariot, like that of 
the Assyrians. See Cuauiot. Among the ancient 
Greeks, 'the quiver was principally made of hide or 
leather, and was adorned with gold, painting, and 
braiding. It had a lid ( 7 rw/ta), and was suspended from 
the right shoulder by a belt passing over the breast and 
behind the back. Its most common position was on the 
left hip, and is so seen in the annexed figures, the right- 
hand one representing an Amazon, and the left-hand an 
Asiatic archer. 

“ Quiver” is also used figuratively for house, and ar- 
rows for children (Psa. cxxvii, 5). See Archer. 

Quobdas is the magic drum used by physicians 
and sorcerers among the Laplanders to chase the evil 
spirits which are supposed to be the cause of the dis- 
eases. It is covered with figures of animals and mys- 
terious characters, and embellished with divers orna- 
mental appendages. 

Quod permittat is, in the Church of England, a 
writ granted to the successor of a minister for the recov- 
ery of pasture by the statute of Edward I, c. 24. 

Quoin, the outer angle of a wall. 

Quotations, Biblical. The verbal citations con- 
tained in Scripture are of three classes : (a) Those which 
the later writers of the Oltl Test, make from the earlier. 
(b) The quotations made by Paul from heathen authors 
— viz. Acts xvii, 28 from Aratus, Pheenom. 5, or Cle- 
anthes. Hymn, ad .Tor. 5; 1 Cor. xv, 33 from Menan- 
der’s Thais; and Tit. i, 12 from Callimachus, Hymn, ad 
Jor. 8, according to Theodoret, or Epimenides accord- 
ing to Jerome, Chrysostom, Epiphanius, and others. To 
these may be added Gal. v, 23, where the words Kara 
ru> v Toiovriov ovk ton i'd pog are identical with the 
words of Aristotle, Pol. iii, 8 (Gill, Notes and Queries , 
v, 175). Perhaps also Acts xiv, 17 and James i, 17, 
from their rhythmical form, may be quotations, (c) 
Those which the New Test, contains from the Old Test. 
The first and third of these classes are the most impor- 
tant, and the only ones demanding special notice here. 
The following treatment as to the former is based upon 
that in Fairbairn’s Dictionary, and as to the latter upon 
the article in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia, with additions from 
other sources. 

I. Parallel Passages of the Old -Testament Script- 
ures. — The principal of these are the following: Many 
sections of the books of Chronicles seem to be quoted 
from the earlier Scriptures. The historical chapters of 
the book of Isaiah (xxxvi-xxxix) are repeated in 2 
Kings xviii-xx. The last chapter of Jeremiah reap- 
pears ia 2 Kings xxiv, xxv. Of Psa. xviii we have two 
copies, one in 2 Sam. xxii. Compare also Gen. xlvi 
with Numb, xxvi, and Ezra ii with Neh. vii. Other 
instances are cited: II ab. ii, 14 from Isa. xi, 9; Jon. ii, 
3 from Psa. xlii, 8; ii, 5 from Psa. lxix, 2; Obad. i, 8 
from Jer. xlix ; and several passages in the later Psalms, 
which are found also in the earlier. The reader will find 
a list of the variations discovered by a comparison of 
most of the foregoing passages in the notes to Cappelli, 
Crit. Sac. (i, 30-44 [ed. 1775]).. See also Kennicott, 
Biblia Ilebraica (ii, 727, etc.), and State of Printed He- 
brew Text (pt. i). 

The question to he determined is, Are we to regard 
each of the textual variations thus brought to light as 
a blunder to be corrected in one or other of the parallel 
Scriptures, or as a deviation (intentional or otherwise) 
on tlie part of the later writer from the language of the 
earlier? In considering this question a distinction must 
be made between two classes of parallel passages — the 
one class consisting of those in which the same story is 
told, or the same sentiments expressed, by two different 


,1 QUOTATIONS 

writers, and the later writer avails himself of the lan- 
guage of the earlier, though it may be without any very 
exact or servile adherence in every word and clause; 
the other consisting of those in which a public or other 
document is inserted in two separate records. It would 
seem that such variations as are met with in passages 
of the former description are more likely to he designed 
and original, being probably traceable to the free use 
which the later writer made of the materials furnished 
by the earlier; and that variations met with in passages 
of the latter description are more likely to be blunders 
arising from the negligence of transcribers and similar 
causes. But this anticipation is only partially realized, 
inasmuch as errors of transcription are found in the for- 
mer class of passages, and alterations obviously designed 
are found in the latter. Let us illustrate this by four 
examples, two of each class. 

1. The very remarkable prophecy contained in Isa. 
ii, 1-4 is found also in Mie. iv, 1-3. The variations are 
few and of no great importance. But, such as they are, 
there is no reason to suppose that the text of either of 
these passages ever differed from what it is now. It is 
of no consequence in the present inquiry whether Mieali 
borrowed from Isaiah or Isaiah from Micah, or both 
from an older prophet. There is no evidence whatever 
that the later writer made it a matter of conscience to 
reproduce in every minute particular the language of 
his predecessor. Ilis heart was too full of the great 
thought embodied in the language to permit him to be 
minutely attentive to every fold of the dress in which it 
had been presented. Possibly, also, the quotation was 
made from memory ; and, if so, the wonder is not that 
any varieties of expression are found in it, but that they 
are so few and so trivial. In such a case as this, there- 
fore, it would be quite unwarrantable to correct the one 
passage from the other. The text in both passages is 
accurate and genuine, and any attempted emendations 
with the view of bringing the two passages into rigid 
harmony would certainly be alterations for the worse, 
not for the better. 

2. The prophecy of Nathan in 2 Sam. vii occupies 

a very conspicuous position in the Old Test., and, as we 
might expect, the whole narrative is repeated in 1 Chron. . 
(xvii), not, however, without a very considerable num- 
ber of alterations. In this case, also, it is quite evident 
that most of the alterations are to be traced to the au- 
thor of Chronicles, and cannot be regarded as various 
readings. As is usual, the later writer makes a free use 
of the earlier narrative, adapting it and the language in 
which it is conveyed to the circumstances of his own 
time. Thus he writes ‘TH for *VH, prefers to 

mrPor “'3”X, sometimes substitutes for 

kingdom, and alters or omits words or clauses which ap- 
pear to him obscure or unessential. The most remark- 
able omission is in ver. 13 as compared with ver. 14 of 
the narrative in Samuel. Compare also ver. 17 with 
ver. 19 of Samuel. Still, though it is evident that 
most of the variations between the two narratives are 
to be traced to the design of the later author, and 
cannot be regarded as errors of transcription, we do 
not think that all of them can be accounted for in this 
way. Two instances may be given, in the one of which 
the text in Chronicles may fittingly be corrected by that 
in Samuel; in the other the text in Samuel may be cor- 
rected by that in Chronicles. (1.) Ini Chron. xvii, 18, 
19 we read, “ What can David speak more to thee for 
the honor of thy servant, *1*223. . . . For 

thy servant's sake, and according to thine own heart 
hast thou done all this greatness.” Not to mention the 
difficulty in the construction of the Hebrew in ver. 18, 
it is evident that the spirit of the whole passage is quite 
out of harmony with the context. Accordingly, on turn- 
ing to the corresponding verses in Samuel, we are not 
surprised to find the sentiment expressed very different 
indeed, the words being “ And w'hat can David say more 
unto thee ... for thy word's sake, and according to 


QUOTATIONS 852 QUOTATIONS 


thine own heart,’’ etc. (ver. 20, 21). It is not improb- | 
able that what we cannot but regard as the erroneous 
readings in Chronicles are to be traced to the similarity 
between “Z"13 and in the former of the two verses, 

and and “pz? in the latter. It may be added 

that in the Neptuagiut translation of Chronicles the ob- 
jectionable words are omitted. (2.) The other instance 
is in 2 Sam. vii, 23, compared with 1 Chron. xvii, 21. 
In the former we read, according to the authorized 
translation, “ What one nation in the earth is like thy 
people, even like Israel, whom Hod went to redeem for 
a people to himself, and to make him a name, and to do 
for you great things and terrible, for thy land, before 
thy people ("liZZ. from before), which thou redeemedst to 
thee from Egypt, [from] the nations and their gods?’’ 
The text of this verse is obviously very confused ; and 
in order to extract from it some tolerable sense, our 
translators have rendered “SZ as if it were and 
have inserted from, without any authority, towards the 
close. Now, without venturing to atlirm that the text 
in Chronicles is to be received as in every particular the 
true and genuine one, we have no hesitation in borrow- 
ing from it what we believe to be an important emen- 
dation of the text in Samuel— viz. the substitution of 
(L'-lJib, to drive out, for (the words are very sim- 

ilar),^/* thy land. This will allow us to give *12“ its 
proper force, and render unnecessary the insertion of the 
unauthorized from ; the meaning of the latter half of 
the verse when thus corrected being as follows: “To 
drive out from before thy people, whom thou redeemedst 
to thee from Egypt, nations and their gods.” 

3. The two remaining examples are of a different 
description, consisting not of historical or prophetical 
passages freely made use of by a later writer, but of 
documents of which we have, so to speak, two editions. 
The first is David’s nobio song of thanksgiving, of which 
two copies have come down to us— the one incorporated 
with the history in 2 Sam. xxii, the other with the 
psalm-book as Psa. xviii. Now, on comparing these 
two copies of the same song, we find scarcely a single 
line of the one exactly identical with the corresponding 
line of the other; some of the variations being of ex- 
tremely little importance, others of greater moment. The 
question here again arises: IIow arc these variations to 
be accounted for? How comes it that two copies of 
the same song, handed down to us in the same volume, 
should, though identical in the general sentiments ex- 
pressed, in the train of thought, and in the order of the 
verses, present so many minute differences in the details 
of the composition? On first thought, wo arc disposed 
to conclude, somewhat rashly, that all the variations 
must be regarded as errors of transcription, and that in 
this case there is no room for the hypothesis of design 
on the part of the author or editor, inasmuch as we have 
here the case not of an independent author adapting to 
his own purpose the materials furnished by previous 
writers, but of a collector giving insertion to a document 
which, one would suppose, it is his duty to present as 
nearly as possible in the words of the original author. 
Dn comparing, however, the psalm with the history, it 
is evident that all the variations cannot be accounted 
for in this way. For example, the very first words of 
the psalm, “I will love thee, O Lord, my strength,” do 
not appear in the other copy; and of this the only ad- 
missible explanation plainly is that the words in ques- 
tion constitute an authorized addition to the sung in its 
original form, the addition being made probably for the 
purpose of adapting it more perfectly to liturgical use. 
If this explanation he admitted, it follows that of this 
song there have been transmitted to us two authorized 
editions — the one, which is inserted in the history, pre- 
senting the song in its original form; the other present- 
ing it in the slightly altered form which was given to it 
when incorporated with the authorized hymn-book of 
the Hebrew nation. In this way a considerable num- 


ber of the variations may be accounted for, but not, by 
any means, all of them ; for, with regard to many of 
them, it is impossible to discover any useful purpose 
which could be served by their introduction ; and sev- 
eral of them are just the sort of alterations which most 
usually arise from the mistake of transcribers — as, for 
example, the interchange of letters of similar form, the 
transposition of letters, etc. (thus for X““\ and he teas 
seen, in 2 Sam. xxii, 11, we find in Psa. xviii, 11 [10] 
and he did fly ; and for in 2 Sam. xxii, 

46 we find liT."* in Psa. xviii, 4G , 15]). The text in 
Samuel is the more antique in form — as, for example, in 
the more sparing insertion of vowel letters; but that of 
the Psalm appears to have been more carefully pre- 
served. Thus, there is little doubt that for te *Z5, in 2 
Sam. xxii, 26, we ought to read “Z5, as in the Psalm; 
and in ver. 23, TJO of Samuel ought to be read PIT XI 
or nrx T, as in the Psalm; and in the second clause 
also the reading in the Psalm is much to be preferred. 
So in vers. 33, 4 1, 47, 49. ( )n the other hand, in vers. 5, 

43, the reading in Samuel may be preferred to that of 
the Psalm. 

4. Our last example is the Decalogue, of which we 
have two editions, in Exod. xx and Dout. v, between 
which there arc not a few differences, some of consider- 
able importance, lint it is very doubtful whether any 
of these differences can be laid to the charge of the 
copyist ; certainly the more important of them must 
be traced to the author. They arc principally to be 
found in the fourth and tenth commandments: in the 
latter, the two first clauses are transposed in Deuteron- 
omy, and a slight addition and alteration made; and in 
the former, the rememlter of Exodus is exchanged for 
observe in Deuteronomy; thy cattle is expanded into 
thine ox and thine ass and all thy cattle ; and the rea- 
son annexed” in Exodus — “For in six days,” etc. — is 
entirely omitted in Deuteronomy, and another state- 
ment substituted for it — “That thy man-servant and 
maid-servant may rest as well as thou ; and remember 
that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt,” etc. 
The other alterations are of less importance. In each 
of the fourth and fifth commandments, the clause “As 
the Lord thy (lod hath commanded thee" is inserted in 
Deuteronomy, the promise in the latter being also ex- 
panded by the addition of the clause “that it may be 
well with thee;” and in the ninth. X“'Z‘ ~V ( false wit- 
ness') is substituted for ~Z. Now, there is not 

one of these variations which can be certainly traced 
to the oversight of a transcriber. It is, indeed, on first 
thought, surprising that any writer, however conscious 
of the guidance of the Divine Spirit, should have vent- 
ured to depart, even in the minutest particular, from. the 
ipsissima verba of a document which had been stamped 
in so special a manner with the impress of Heaven. It 
is, perhaps, the most remarkable example of that com- 
plete mastery of the essential over the accidental, of the 
spirit over the letter, which distinguishes the entire rev- 
elation at once of the Old Testament and of the New. 
Hut to explain this phenomenon does not fall within 
our present purpose. It is sufficient to remark that 
most of the variations are evidently to be traced to the 
first composition of the book of Deuteronomy, and that 
none of them can with any degree of certainty be placed 
in the category of various readings. See Di:i Ai.ocrK. 

From the four examples of parallel passages which 
have been under review, the following conclusions have 
been elicited: (rr.) That most of the variations are to be 
traced to the author or editor, and not to the copyist; 
and, in all such cases, both forms of the passage must be 
preserved as belonging equally to the sacred text. (5.) 
That, notwithstanding, a considerable number of varia- 
tions still remain which cannot be accounted lor in this 
way, but probably arose through oversight in transcrip- 
tion. In such cases it is allowable to correct the more 
faulty text by the more accurate; but, in the absence 


QUOTATIONS 853 QUOTATIONS 


of any external testimony to the accuracy of the read- 
ing which we prefer, such corrections must be intro- 
duced with caution, and might, perhaps, with greater 
propriety be placed in the margin (as was the practice 
with the ancient Jewish critics) than incorporated with 
the text. The variations of this class would have ap- 
peared still more numerous had we selected our exam- 
ples of parallel passages from those which are occupied 
with lists of names or numbers. See Kennicott, Disser- 
tation on the State of the Printed llebreio Text , pt. i. 

II. Quotations from the Old Testament in the Aew . — 
These form one of the outward bonds of connection be- 
tween the two parts of the Bible. They are manifold 
in kind ; but all that we need here to say respecting 
them may be summed up under the following heads: 

1. Sources whence the Quotations are made. — These 
are two — the Hebrew original and the Septuagint trans- 
lation. On comparing the passages, in order to appor- 
tion the quotations between these two sources, we find 
that by far the larger number are taken, either wholly 
or chiefly, from the Sept., while a very few materially 
differ from both the Sept, and the Hebrew. The latter 
were probably quoted from memory, the occasion not 
requiring punctilious accuracy in the citation. For the 
most part, the deviations from the text of the Hebrew 
or the Sept, are not material. They may be classed as 
follows : 

(1.) Changes of person, number, or tense in particular 
words. Thus, in Matt, xxvi, 31, w 7 e read, 7rard£w tov 

7 roipiva, Kai dia<JKop7ri<T$t)(TtTat to. 7rpo/3ara rpg tto'l- 
fivr]Q ; while the Sept, gives it, 7 rara^ov tov 7roi piva, Kai 
?ia(TKOp7n<j$t)<Toi’Tai, k. t. A. (Zecli. xiii, 7) (this is the 
reading of the Alexandrine Codex ; that of the Vatican 
differs considerably: 7 rard^are rovg rroipivag Kai Ik- 
OTraoaTe ra 7rp6/3ara); John xix, 36, ’Ogtovv ov ovv- 
TpifipotTai aurou , for ’Ootovv ou awrjonpere «7r’ av- 
Toi ', Exod. xii, 46; 1 Pet. ii, 24, Ou ptoXtom avrov 
ia3i)re, for /£iO\w7Tt aurou tdSijpfv, Isa. liii, 5, etc. 
Comp, also Matt, xi, 10 with Mai. iii, 1 ; and John xix, 
37 with Zech. xii, 4. 

(2.) Substitution of synonymous words or phrases for 
those used in the Sept, or Hebrew : e. g. John xiii, 18, 
f O Tpwyuiv per ipov tov aprov, ii njpev iir’ ipk rrjv 
TTTipvav aurou, for 'O iaStinv dprovg pov ipeyaXvvev 
Itt ipk 7rrtpvt<Tp6v, Psa. xl (xii), 9. Comp. Heb. viii, 
8 sq. Matt, xii, 20, where MB-] 13 ri35$b (Isa. 

xiii, 3) is rendered by tiog dv hcfiaXy etc v~ikoq t>)v 
K piaiv. Sometimes the words thus substituted are sy- 
nonymous with those for which they are used only his- 
torically ; as when Paul (Gal. iv, 30) calls Isaac d vtbg 
ri)g iXevdipag. in a passage quoted from Gen. xxi, 10, 
where, in the words of Abraham, he is mentioned by 
name as 6 uiog pov ’loactic. Occasionally, also, this 
kind of substitution is effected by the use of a word 
describing a species for one designating the genus to 
which it belongs; as when Paul, in 1 Cor. iii, 20, substi- 
tutes the words twv aotpwv for the more general ex- 
pression, twv avSputTTujv, used in the passage (Psa. xix, 
11) which he quotes; or as in Matt. xxii, 37, where dia- 
voia is put for “IX "2, the special kind of strength intend- 
ed being that of the mind. 

(3.) Words and phrases transposed : e. g. Rom. x, 20, 
EvpiSi/v ro7g tpt pi) ZpTovaiv, ipfavt)g iytvoprjv to 7g 
ipk pt) imptvTutoiv, for ’Ep<pavt)g iyevffttjv rotg ipk 
pi) fc7repwrui(T(i', tuptSqr ro7g ipk pt) tyroimv, Isa. 
lxv, 1, etc. The Codex Alex, gives this passage ex- 
actly as cited by Paul. 

(4.) Words and clauses interpolated or added: e. g. 
John vi, 31, dprov in tov ovpavov tdtoKev avroig $a- 
yetVy where the words Ik tov and (ftayeiv are an ad- 
dition (comp. Psa. lxxviii, 24); 1 Cor. xv, 45, ’Eymro 
o 7rpu>rog dvSrpunrog ' Addp tig ^uy^u Zunrav, where 
the words 7rpu>rog and 'Aodp are added by the apos- 
tle (comp. Gen. ii, 7). These additions are made some- 
times from parallel passages, and sometimes of the writ- 
er’s own ’device, for the purpose of rendering the mean- 


ing of the passage clearer, or connecting it more readily 
with the preceding or subsequent context. 

(5.) Words omitted and passages abridged : e. g. 
Matt, iv, 0, roig dyyeAocg aurou ivTtXeirai tts pi 00 u, 
Kai i 7ti xetputv dpoinri ce, pijTroTE 7rpo<TKoi//j/g 7rpog At- 
3ou tov 7roda 00 ? , for ro7g ayytAotg avrov ivreXeirai 
7 repi o ou, rou dia^vXd^ai iv tt doaig raig bdoig trov ' 
iiri yftpiov dpovoi ae, pt) ttote TrpooKtnpijg- Trpog Aurou 
r. tt. <r., Psa. xc, 11, 12. Comp, also Matt, xxii, 24 with 
Deut. xxv, 5; Rom. ix, 27, 28 with Isa. x, 22, 23 ; Heb. 
iv, 4 with Gen. ii, 3, etc. 

(6.) Passages paraphrastically rendered, or the gen- 
eral sense only given : e. g. Rom. ix, 25, where we have 
a paraphrastic rendering of Ilos. ii, 23; Rom. x, 6 sq., a 
free rendering of Dent, xxx, 12 sq.; 1 Cor. i, 31, where 
the general sense of Jer. ix, 24 is given ; comp, also 1 
Pet. ii, 22 with Isa. lix, 9. 

(7.) Several passages quoted together, so as to form 
one connected sense : c. g. in 2 Cor. vi, 16-18 we have a 
passage made up of no less than three different pas- 
sages — Lev. xxvi, 1 1 ; Isa. Iii, 1 1 ; Jer. xxxi, 1. Comp, 
also Mark i, 2, 3, where Alai, iii, 1 and Isa. xl, 3 are com- 
bined; also Rom. xi, 8, where Isa. xxix, 10 and Deut. 
xxix, 4 are strangely mixed together. 

(8.) Several of these species of deviations combined 
together: e. g. Rom. ii, 24, to yap ovopa tov Bfou tY 
vpdg fiXactpiipt-ATat iv roig tSveat, for ci vpdg Cid 
iravTog to ovopa pov fiXacrtpijpPtTat iv ro7g tavern . 
Here we have the substitution of rou 0eou for pov, and 
the omission of did 7ravTog. Comp, also Rom. xi, 3 
with 1 Kings xix, 14, for an instance of the combina- 
tion of omission, substitution, and transposition. 

(9.) Passages rather indicated, or hinted at, than 
formally quoted: e. g. Eph. v, 14, "Eysipai 6 KaSevdiov, 
Kai avdora Ik twv vtKptov, Kai imtpavaa 001 d Xpiorog. 
The difficulty of assigning this quotation to any pas- 
sage in the Old Test, has been felt by all interpreters, 
and various theories have been proposed for the sake of 
removing it. The most probable, however, seems that 
which regards these words as formed upon Isa. lx, 1-3, 
and the passage as rather hinted at than quoted. 
Comp, also Heb. xiii, 15 with Ilos. xiv, 2. To this head 
may be also referred John vii, 38, where no particular 
passage is quoted, but such passages as Isa. xliv, 3 ; lv, 
1 ; lviii, 1 1 ; Zech. xiv, 8 ; xiii, 1, are alluded to. 

In the quotations of all kinds from the Old Test, in 
the New we find a continual variation from the letter 
of the older Scriptures. To this variation four causes 
may be specified as having contributed: 

First. All the New- Test, writers quoted from the 
Sept. — correcting it, indeed, more or less, by the Hebrew, 
especially when it was needful for their purpose ; occa- 
sionally deserting it altogether; still abiding by it to so 
large an extent as to show that it was the primary 
source whence their quotations were drawn. Their use 
of it may be best illustrated by the corresponding use 
of our liturgical version of the Psalms — a use founded 
on love as well as on habit, but which, nevertheless, we 
forego when it becomes important that we should fol- 
low the more accurate rendering. Consequently, when 
the errors involved in the Sept, version do not interfere 
with the purpose which the New-Test, writer had in 
view, they are frequently allowed to remain in his quo- 
tation (see Matt, xv, 9 [a record of our Lord’s words] ; 
Luke iv, 18 ; Acts xiii, 41 : xv, 17 ; Rom. xv, 10 ; 2 Cor. 
iv, 13; Heb. viii, 9; x, 5; xi, 21). The current of 
apostolic thought, too, is frequently dictated by words 
of the Sept., which differ much from the Hebrew (see 
Rom. ii, 24; 1 Cor. xv, 55 ; 2 Cor. ix, 7 ; Heb. xiii, 15). 
Or even an absolute interpolation of the Sept, is quoted 
(Heb. i, 6 [Deut. xxxii, 43]). On the other hand, in 
Matt, xxi, 5 ; I Cor. iii, 19, the Sept, is corrected by the 
Hebrew 7 ; so, too, in Matt, ix, 13 ; Luke xxii, 37, there is 
an etfort to preserve an expressiveness of the Hebrew 
which the Sept, had lost: and in Matt. iv, 15, 16 ; John 
xix, 37 ; 1 Cor. xv, 54, the Sept, disappears altogether. 
In Rom. ix,33 w 7 e have a quotation from the Sept.com- 


QUOTATIONS 854 QUOTATIONS 


billed with another from the Hebrew. In Mark xii, 
30 ; Luke x, ‘27 ; I»om. xii, If, the Sept, and Hebrew are 
superadded the one upon the other. In the Epistle to 
the Hebrews, which in this respect stands alone, the 
Sept, is uniformly followed; except in the one remark- 
able quotation (lleb. x, 30), which, according neither 

ith the Hebrew nor the Sept., was probably derived 
from the last-named passage (Kom. xii, If), wherewith 
it exactly coincides. The quotation in 1 Cor. ii, 9 
seems to have been derived, not directly from the Old 
Tost., but rather from a Christian liturgy or other docu- 
ment into which the language of Isa. Ixiv, 4 had been 
transferred. 

Secondly. The New-Test, writers must have frequent- 
ly quoted from memory. The < )ld Test, had been deep- 
ly instilled into their minds, ready for service whenever 
needed; and the fultilmcnt of its predictions, which they 
witnessed, made its utterances rise up in life before them 
(comp. John ii, 17,22). It was of the very essence of 
such a living use of Old-Test. Scripture that their quo- 
tations of it should not of necessity be verbally exact. 

Thirdly. Combined with this there was an alteration 
of conscious or unconscious design. .Sometimes the ob- 
ject of this was to obtain increased force; lienee the 
variation from the original in the form of the divine 
oath (Horn, xiv, 11) ; or the result “ I quake” substi- 
tuted for the cause (Ileb. xii, 21); or the insertion of 
rhetorical words to bring out the emphasis (lleb. xii, 
20) ; or the change of person to show that what men 
perpetrated had its root in God’s determinate counsel 
(Matt, xxvi, 31). Sometimes an Old-Test, passage is 
abridged, and in the abridgment so adjusted, bv a little 
alteration, as to present an aspect of completeness and 
yet omit what is foreign to the immediate purpose (Acts 
i, 20; 1 Cor. i, 31). At other times a passage is en- 
larged by the incorporation of a passage from another 
source. Thus in Luke iv, IS, 19, although the contents 
are professedly those read by our 1 xml from Isa. lxi, w’e 
have the words “to set at liberty them that are bruised,” 
introduced from Isa. lviii, G (Kept.); similarly in Horn, 
xi, 8, Deut. xxix, 4 is combined with Isa. xxix, 10. In 
some cases still greater liberty of alteration is assumed. 
In Horn, x, 11 the word 7 rdr is introduced into Isa. 
xxviii, 1G, to show that that is uttered of Jew and Gen- 
tilc alike. In Lorn, xi, 2G, 27, the “to Zion” of Isa. lix, 
20 (Sept. ivtKtv 2iwj') is replaced by “out of Sion” 
(suggested by Isa. ii,3); to Zion the licdeemer had .al- 
ready come ; from Zion, the Christian Church, his law 
was to go forth; or even from the literal Jerusalem 
(comp. Luke xxiv,47 ; Ilom. xv, 19), for till she was de- 
stroyed the type was still in a measure kept up. In 
Matt, viii, 17 the words of Isa. liii, 4 are adapted to the 
divine removal of disease, the outward token and w it- 
ness of that sin which Christ was eventually to remove 
by his death, thereby fulfilling the prophecy more com- 
pletely. For other, though less striking, instances of 
variation see 1 Cor. xiv, 21 ; 1 Pet. iii, 15. In some 
places, again, the actual words of the original are taken 
up, but employed with a new meaning; thus the tpyu- 
fttvor. which in llab. ii, 3 merely qualified the verb, is 
in lleb. x, 37 made the subject, to it. 

Fourthly. Still more remarkable than any alteration 
in the quotation itself is the circumstance that in Matt, 
xxvii, 9 Jeremiah should be named as the author of a 
prophecy really delivered by Zeehariah ; the reason be- 
ing, as lias been well shown by Ileugstenberg in his 
(' Itristnloyy , that the prophecy is based upon that in 
Jer. xviii, xix, and that without a reference to this 
original source the most essential features of the fulfil- 
ment of Zcchariah’s prophecy would be misunderstood. 
The ease is. indeed, not entirely unique; for in the 
Greek of Mark i, 2, 3, where Mai. iii, 1 is combined with 
Isa. xl, 3, the name of Isaiah alone is mentioned; it was 
on his prophecy that that of Malaelii partly depended. 
On the other hand, in Matt. ii,23 ; John vi, do, the com- 
prehensive mention of the prophets indicates a refer- 
ence not only to the passages more particularly con- 


templated, Isa. xi, 1; liv, 13, but also to the general 
tenor of what had been elsewhere prophetically uttered. 
See Nazakkne. On John vii, 38 it may sutlice here to 
remark that perhaps the best solution of the difficulty 
is to regard our Lord as not making any direct quota- 
tion from any part of the Old Test., but as only referring 
in metaphorical language, suited to the strain of his 
previous address (comp. vcr. 37), to a fact which in 
plainer style is unquestionably announced in the ancient 
prophecies, viz. the abundant possession of divine 
knowledge by those who should live under the Mes- 
siah’s reign. The passage James iv, 5 is beset with dif- 
ficulty. Not only is there doubt as to what “Scripture” 
is cited, but much obscurity hangs over the meaning of 
the words themselves so adduced. We cannot enter 
into the details of the investigation, deferring for 
these to lluther’s note on the passage in Meyer’s Com - 
mentar, pt. 15, the substance of which is given by dean 
Alford in his notes, we content ourselves here with say- 
ing that some interpreters understand tt rtvpa of the 
human spirit, and translate, “ the spirit [temper, feeling 
of mind] which dwells in 11 s lusts to envy [covetous- 
ness];” while others understand it of the Iloly Spirit, 
or the Spirit implanted in the soul by God, and trans- 
late, either, “The Spirit which dwelleth in ns lusts [de- 
sires, inch ues] against envy;” or, “The Spirit which lie 
[God] hath placed in us jealously desircth [us for him- 
self].” In neither case can the statement be referred to 
any single passage in the Old Test.; but if the last ren- 
dering be adopted, the writer may be supposed to refer 
generally to those parts of the < >Id Test, in which God 
is represented as dwelling in his people (Numb, xxxv, 
34 ; Ezek. xxxvi, 27), and as desiring them with a jeal- 
ous affection (Peut. xxxii, 10 sq.). This is far from sat- 
isfactory, but it seems the best solution that has been 
offered. 

2. Mode in which Quotations from the Old Test, in the 
New Test, are introduced . — For this purpose certain for- 
mula? are employed, of which the following is a list: 
Kajwf or OiVu> ytypawrcu, nio£ ysypawrat, “Eon ye- 
ypapptvor, '<) Xdyor o ytypappkvog, Karri 70 yeypap- 
fifvvv, ’EpptSi], Ka3wc vpijnu. Karri ro tipi) fit nor, Tl 
ypa<f>t) tl 7Tt or Xtyt r, or simply Atytt (sup. Otdf vel. 
7 rpo<piiT>]c), lhp«\fi iv ry ypaefn), 'O vcjtoQ tXtyfi’, 
Eipj/cf H ng, B\i Trrrt ro tipijptror, Ocr i Trorr dvi- 
yvio-t, Ka3wf i\d\i)ot, Tort t7rX jjpw.ry 7 ) ypa<pj \ , 
"Ira (owiog') 7rXypw£y (rsXfiwcy) ro pifiiv (>) ypafpp). 
Surenhusius is of opinion, and labors to prove, that by 
attending to the force of these different formulae we 
may ascertain with what intent the words they respec- 
tively introduce are quoted, as each formula, he asserts, 
involves a different meaning {Prof, in Bib. Cafnll.). A 
fatal objection, however, to this opinion is that we find 
the very same quotations, expressed in the same words 
and brought to prove the very same points, introduced 
by different formula? in different Gospels (Horne, Introd. 
ii, 339). At the same time, there are obviously two 
classes of these formula 1 , the difference between which 
is distinctly marked by the circumstance that, while 
some of them merely express the fact that what follows 
is a quotation, others of them intimate the existence of 
a material relation between the passage quoted and the 
I subject of which the writer quoting it is treating. Thus, 
when it is simply said, “The Scripture saith.” nothing 
more is necessarily implied than that what follows is 
lakcn from the Old 'lest.; but when it is said. “Then 
was the Scripture fulfilled which saith.” or “This was 
done that the Scriptures might be fulfilled,” we immedi- 
ately perceive that the writer would intimate a real 
connection of some sort between the event he is record- 
ing and the statement with which he compares it in 
the passage quoted. We may therefore so far adopt 
the hypothesis of Surenhusius as to admit a distinction 
between these two classes, and expect to find in the pas- 
sages introduced by the latter of them something more 
: than a mere verbal" quotation. Sec Fci.ml. 

I Besides the quotations introduced by these formula?, 


QUOTATIONS 855 QUOTATIONS 


there are a considerable number scattered through the 
writings of the apostles which are inserted in the train 
of their own remarks without any announcement what- 
ever of their being cited from others. To the cursory 
reader the passages thus quoted appear to form a part 
of the apostle’s own words, and it is only by intimate 
acquaintance with the Old-Test. Scriptures, and a care- 
ful comparison of these with those of the New Test., 
that the fact of their being quotations can be detected. 
In the common version every trace of quotation is in 
many of these passages lost, from the circumstance that 
the writer has closely followed the Sept., while our ver- 
sion of the Old Test, is made from the Hebrew. Thus, 
for instance, in 2 Cor. viii, 21, Paul says, Trpovoovpevoi 
icaXd ov povov IvtuTriov Kvpiov, dXAd icai tviomov 
di’Srpio7TOJv, which, with a change in the mood of the 
verb, is a verbatim citation of the Sept, version of Prov. 
iii, 4. Hardly any trace of this, however, appears in 
the common version, where the one passage reads, 
“Providing for honest things not only in the sight of 
the Lord, but also in the sight of men and the other, 
“So shalt thou find favor and good understanding in 
the sight of God anil man.” So, also, in 1 Pet. iv, 18, 
the apostle quotes word for word from the Sept, ver- 
sion of Prov. xi, 31 the clause d 6 diicaiog pdXig oio%e- 
rat, 6 dmjSpg Kai dpaprioXog ttov (pavdrai ; a quo- 
tation which we should in vain endeavor to trace in 
the common version of the Proverbs, where the pas- 
sage in question is rendered, “ Behold, the righteous 
shall be recompensed in the earth ; much more the 
wicked and the sinner.” Such quotations evidently 
show how much the minds of the New-Test, writers 
were imbued with the sentiments and expressions of 
the Old Test, as exhibited in the Alexandrine ver- 
sion. 

3. Purposes for which these Quotations are introduced. 
— These, as appears from an examination of the pas- 
sages, are as follows : 

(1.) For the explanation or proof of some doctrinal 
jyosition. Thus Paul, for the sake of explaining and 
confirming his doctrine of the efficacy of faith, quotes 
repeatedly from Hab. ii, 4 the sentence “ The just shall 
live by faith.” So, also, in order to prove that mere 
natural descent from Abraham did not of itself entitle 
any one to the divine favor, the same apostle quotes 
the terms of God’s promise to Abraham, in which he 
expressly declares that in Isaac alone, of all Abraham’s 
family, was the seed of Abraham — i. e. the spiritual Is- 
rael — to be called or chosen. Comp, also Rom. iv, 7, 8 ; 
ix, 12, 13, 15, 17, 20, 21 ; xii, 19, 20 ; xiv, 10, 11, etc. It 
is to be observed that the passages thus adduced are al- 
most always found in writings addressed to Jews, and 
are therefore to be regarded as containing argumenta e 
concessis. They are always applied, if not in the words, 
at least iu the sense, of the original from which they are 
taken. 

(2.) For the purpose of pointing out the application of 
the passage quoted to some statement or description in the 
context into which it is introduced. From the circum- 
stance that several of the passages thus adduced are, in 
the phraseology of the New Test., as well as in that of 
the Rabbinical writings, said to be “ fulfilled,” it has 
been hastily inferred by some that they are all to be re- 
garded as designed prophecies of the events to which 
they are applied. For this opinion, however, no ade- 
quate support seems to be afforded by the phrase in 
question. The general idea attached to the verb irXg- 
poio is that of filling up to its full capacity anything of 
which it is predicated. Thus the Jews are said by 
Christ to have filled up the measure (7 tA gpwaare to 
perpov) of their fathers (Matt, xxiii, 32). The phrase 
in question consequently is susceptible of application to 
whatever is thought of as supplying the complement of 
any given capacity, and that whether it is used in a lit- 
eral or tropical sense. Hence it is appropriately used 
in the New Test, with respect to passages quoted from 
the Old Test, in the following cases : 


First. XYhen it announces the accomplishment of a 
prophecy contained in the words quoted. As the predic- 
tion is a mere empty declaration, as it were, until the fact 
predicted has occurred ; so that fact, by giving mean- 
ing and force to the prediction, is viewed as its comple- 
ment or filling up. Thus, the New-Test, writers, in re- 
cording the facts of our Lord’s history, when they come 
to any which formed the subject of ancient prophecy, 
whether explicit or typical, direct the attention of their 
readers to the circumstance by adducing the prediction 
and intimating its fulfilment in the fact they have re- 
corded. 

Secondly. When it introduces some description or 
statement which affords a parallel to what the writer 
has been saying. Such a description being regarded as 
involving a fact of general applicability to the human 
race, or to certain portions of it, is thought of as being, 
so to speak, in a state of deficiency until the measure of 
its applicability has been filled up. Each new case, 
therefore, which affords a parallel to that to which the 
description was originally applied goes so far to supply 
this deficiency by affording another instance in which 
the description holds; and hence the New-Test. writers 
are in the habit of quoting such descriptions as having 
been fulfilled in the eases to which they are applied by 
them. Thus a passage from the prophecies of Jeremiah, 
in which a description is given of the desolation caused 
by the divine judgments upon the Jews, under the 
beautiful personification of Rachel rising from the dead 
looking in vain for her children, and refusing to be com- 
forted because they are not, is adduced by Matthew (ii, 
17, 18) as fulfilled in the sorrow which was produced by 
the massacre of the babes in Bethlehem by order of 
Herod. No person who studies the context of the pas- 
sage as it occurs in the Old Test, can suppose for a mo- 
ment that it contains a prediction of the cruelties which 
were perpetrated on the occasion related by the evan- 
gelist. The sole purport of the quotation seems to be 
to intimate, as bishop Kidder remarks, that “ such an- 
other scene of sorrow appeared then (upon the murder 
of the innocents) as w r as that which Jeremy mentions 
upon another sad occasion” ( Demonstration of the Mes- 
sias , pt. ii, p. 215). See, also, Sykes, Essay on the Truth 
of the Christian Religion , etc., p. 217, 218 ; Blaney, ad loc. ; 
Henderson, ad loc., and On Hos.ii, 1 ; De Wette, On Matt, 
it, 17, 18 ; and Marsh’s Notes to Micha lis, i, 473. Corap. 
Matt, xv, 7, 8, with Isa. xxix, 13; Matt, xiii, 14 with 
Acts xxviii, 25 and Isa. vi, 9, etc. 

It appears, then, that even when a quotation is intro- 
duced by a part of the verb 7rX i/poto, it does not neces- 
sarily follow that it is to be regarded as containing a 
prophecy. This is true as well of the conditional for- 
mula iva (oTTWf) 7rXr)pw$?j, as of the more direct rore 
iTrXtiputSi], for these particles, as used in the New Test., 
I frequently express nothing more than that occasion is 
given for a particular action or remark. 

Besides the passages introduced as fulfilled, there are 
others referable to the same general head, which are in- 
troduced by others of the formula; above mentioned. 
Of these, some belong to both the classes just described 
— prophecies of which the New Test, announces the ful- 
filment, and general descriptions to which something 
parallel is brought forward. Another class consists of 
moral and religions maxims, which are adduced as ap- 
plicable to the state of things of which the writer or 
speaker is discoursing, and which, though not said to be 
fulfilled thereby, are quoted under essentially the same 
idea. Such sentences embody, as it were, certain laws 
of human nature and conduct, certain general facts in 
the human economy, of which we are to expect the 
verification wherever the necessary conditions are ex- 
emplified. Like the laws of physical science, therefore, 
the} 7 are dependent for their verification upon the ex- 
amination of the phenomena appropriate to that region 
to which they belong; and as no law of science can be 
said to lie absolutely beyond the possibility’- of refuta- 
tion until every one of the phenomena which it em- 


QUOTATIONS 856 QUOTATIONS 


braces lias been examined and been found to support it, 
every experiment or occurrence that favors it may be 
said to till up what is wanting to its perfect and unde- 
niable certainty. Hence the New- lost, writers, in re- 
cording events or describing characters which accord 
with and so exemplify the truth of the moral maxims 
of the < >ld Test., speak of these as if they had contained 
actual pre-intimations of the occurrence to which they 
are applied. They contain, in fact, the norm , or rule, ac- 
cording to which the matter in question has occurred. 

The usage of the New-Test, writers in the cases we 
have been considering is illustrated by that of the Kab- 
binical writers in their quotations from the Old Test., 
as Surenhusius has largely shown in his work upon this 
subject (Ui/3\o£ KnrnWayijr, etc., lib. i; see, also, 
Wiihner, A ntiquitates lhbnrorum , i, 527 sq.). Instances 
have also been adduced of a similar usage by the clas- 
sical and ecclesiastical writers. Thus, .Elian introduces 
Diogenes Siuopcnsis as saying that “ he fulfilled and 
endured the curses out of the tragedy” (bn avrbg 
iKTr\>ipoi Kai unopt vh rug tic r^g rpayioSiag (ipdg). 
Olympiodorus says of Plato that “ a swarm of bees 
made honey on his lips, that it might become true con- 
cerning him, ‘And from his tongue flowed a strain 
sweeter than honey,’” which is what llomer says of 
Nestor, Epiphauius says of Ebion, “ llut in him is ful- 
filled that which is written; I had nearly been in all 
mischief, between the Church and the Synagogue” (dXX’ 
iv avTip wXijpobrai to ytypapptvov, K. r. X. [ l he rests 
Ebion. c. i]). So, also, the Latin implere is used by 
Jerome: “ Cieterum Socraticura illud impletur in nobis, 
Hoc tantalum seio, quod nescio” (Ep. 103 ad Paulin.'). 
Comp. Clem. Korn. Ep. 1 ad Cor. sec. 3. 

Thirdly. The New-Test, writers make quotations from 
the Old, for the purpose of clothing their ou‘ti ideas in 
language already familiar to their readers, or attractive 
from its beauty, force, or dignity. The writings of the 
Old Test, were the great classics of the Jewish nation, 
venerable at once for their literary value and their di- 
vine authority. In these the youth of Jiuhea were 
carefully instructed from their earliest years, and with 
their words all their religious thoughts and feelings 
were identitied. Hence it was natural, and nearly un- 
avoidable, that in discoursing of religious subjects they 
should express their thoughts in language borrowed 
from the books which had formed the almost exclusive 
objects of their study. Such quotations are made for 
merely literary purposes— for ornament of style, for vig- 
or of expression, for felicity of allusion, or for impres- 
siveness of statement. The passages thus incorporated 
with the writer's own thoughts and words are not ap- 
pealed to as proving what he says or as applying to 
any circumstance to which he refers; their sole use ap- 
pears to be to express in appropriate language his own 
thoughts. Thus when Paul, after dissuading the Ko- 
maii Christians from the indulgence of vindictiveness, 
adds, in the words of Solomon (Prov. xxv, 21, 22), 
“ Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he 
thirst, give him drink, for in so doing thou shall heap 
coals of lire upon his head,” the quotation evidently 
serves no other purpose than to express, in language of 
an appropriate and impressive kind, the duty which the 
apostle would enjoin, and which would have been equal- 
ly intelligible and equally binding if expressed in his 
own words as when uttered in those of the inspired 
author of the Proverbs. On what other principle, 
moreover, are we to account for the quotation made by 
Paul, in Koni. x, 1.x, from the 19th Psalm, where, in 
speaking of the diffusion of the Gospel among the Jews, 
he says, “ llut I say, have they not heard ? Yes. verily, 
their sound went, into all the earth, and their words into 
the end of the world”— a passage originally applied by 
the Psalmist to the heavenly bodies? To insist upon 
regarding this as a prediction of the diffusion of the 
Gospel, or as furnishing even a parallel to it, is surely to 
sacritice reason and common-sense to prejudice or some 
favorite theory. 


It has appeared to some that the hypothesis of an nc- 
eommodation of words originally used of one thing to 
designate another is inconsistent with due reverence to 
the divine Word. Hut wherein does the alleged irrev- 
erence of such a practice lie? To employ the words of 
Scripture to express low and unworthy ideas, or for the 
sake of giving point to mere worldly reasonings, is to 
use them irreverently; but to use them to convey ideas 
as elevated as those originally attached to them, if not 
more so (which is the case, e.g., in Horn, x, lix), has but 
little appearance of treating them with irreverence. 
The only ground on which such a charge could be 
maintained is, that words once employed by an inspired 
writer in a peculiar combination become thenceforward 
sacred to the expression in that combination of the one 
idea they were first used to designate, whatever others 
they may be susceptible of expressing. Hut who is 
there that could seriously attempt to defend such a po- 
sition as this? If this were the case, every quotation 
not made expressly as authority would be liable to cen- 
sure; and, as the number of such in the New Test, is 
indisputably considerable, hardly any of its writers 
would stand clear of blame. .See Accommodation. 

The truth is, the practice of making use, in this way, 
of previous and popular writers is one which was com- 
mon not only in the days of the apostles, but which 
can hardly fail to be common wherever an established 
national literature exists. In proof of this we have 
only to examine the writings of the later classics of 
Greece and Rome, which abound in quotations direct 
and accommodated from their earlier authors. We see 
the same course pursued by the Rabbinical writers to- 
wards the Old Test, and by the Christian fathers towards 
both the Old Test, and the New Test., as well as towards 
the profane classics. Indeed, such quotations form so 
apt and natural an ornament of style that writers of all 
ages and countries, where the means of doing so exist, 
have availed themselves of it. Why, then, should we 
wonder that such a practice should have been followed 
by the sacred writers, who, in other respects, appear to 
have obeyed in the preparation of their works the or- 
dinary rules and usages, both grammatical and rhetori- 
cal, of literary composition ? 

Literature. — Surenhusius, Ih’/3Xo£ K n-aXXayijg, in 
quo secundum Yet. Theol. lhbnrorum Formulas ullegan- 
di et Modos interpretandi concilianlur Loca ex I', in X, 
T, allegata (Amst. 1713, 4to) ; Drusius, Parallela Sacra: 
h. e.Locorum U. T.cum iis qua: in X.citantur conjuncta 
Commemorutio, Ebraice et Greece, cum Xotis (161(5, l to; 
published also in vol. viii of the Critici Sacri) ; Hoff- 
mann, Demonstrate Ecungelica per ipsum Scriptura- 
rum Consensum ex Oraculis I'. T. in X. allegatis decla- 
rata, edidit T. G. llegelmaier (1773-79-81, 3 vols. 4to); 
Michaelis, Einleitung in die gbttlichen Schnften des X. 
Ji.Erster Theil, p. 223-265 (Eng. transl. by Marsh, i, 200- 
2-16) ; Owen, Modes of Quotation used by the Evangelical 
U'nVers Explained and Vindicated (1789, -Ito); Ran- 
dolph. Prophecies and other ’J'exts cited in the Xew Test, 
compared with the Hebrew Original and with (he Sept. 
Version (1782, lto); Koppe, Excursus / in Ep. ad llo- 
manos, X. T. Koppianum (180(5), iv, 346; Home. Intro- 
duction, ii, 281 (8th ed.) ; Davidson, Ik rmeneutics, eh. 
xi; Gough, Xew Test. Quotations Collattd with the Uhl 
Test. (Loud. 1853) ; Alexander, Connection and Harmony 
of the Old and Xew Test. (ibid. 1853, 2d ed.); Stier, 
lllm/s of the Lord Jesus (Amer. ed.). i, 132 sq. 

QUOTATIONS of tiik Oi.d Testamknt in tiik 
Tai.mid. In order to understand many quotations 
which are cited in the. Talmud from the Scriptures, we 
must remember that the ancient rabbins, in their collo- 
quies and disputatious, did not use a MS., but cited 
from memory — a mode of citation often found in the 
New Test. Dr. XI. Steinschneider, ill his essay Jcirish 
Literature, in Erscli and Gruber's Allycm. Encycl. § 2, 
vol. xxvii, p. 375, makes the following statement : “The 
inthienee of the Hihle on guomonics in particular is 
shown in the following steps— (1.) Hiblical precepts were 


QUOTATIONS 857 QUOTATIONS 


used unchanged in meaning and expression, as senti- 
ments or favorite sayings of particular persons * (2.) Bib- 
lical sentences, unchanged in form, were made by ex- 
tending or contracting their contents into new expres- 
sions of various truths, which had elsewhere been clothed 
in known proverbs, so that these last were in some sense 
deduced from the Bible. A wide field was thus opened 
for the Midrash ; and, finally, the words of the Bible 
were made into proverbs with an entirely different sense.f 
(3.) Lastly, Biblical phrases and ideas were used more or 
less intentionally in newly formed scntentue,J and passed 
into proverbial forms, as the)’’ are to be found in the old 
Halachah (e. g. Peak , ii, 2). 

1. As the ancient rabbins made the Bible their study 
for years, we must not wonder when, in their colloquies, 
they were able to quote a correct Biblical text. And 
yet we must bear three things in mind, in order not to 
have a misconception of the matter. To make this in- 
telligible, we will quote the following examples: 

(a.) The Talmudists sometimes erroneously attribute a 
Biblical verse to another context. Thus we read in the 
Talmud ( Pesachim , fol. 109, col. 1), “It is every man’s 
duty to rejoice with his household on the feast, for it js 
written, ‘And thou shalt rejoice in thy feast,’ ” PiHDD) 
(Deut. xvi, 14, where reference is made to the 
Feast of Tabernacles). The Tosaphotli on this passage, 
however, reads, “And thou shalt rejoice, thou and thine 
household” PtFX “riDDY). Now the original 

reading was that as in the Tosaphoth, which is found 
in Deut. xiv, 2G, where the second tithe is spoken of. 
The rabbins, however, thought that the reading alluded 
to in the Tosaphoth is found in the section which treats 
of the Feast of Tabernacles; hence, when the editors 
of the Talmud found out the mistake, they substituted 
for the reading "jlV'Tl PIPH PlPIDDI that of PriDDl 

-pnu. 

(5.) Sometimes sentences are quoted in the Talmud as 
Biblical which are not found in the Bible. In Berakoth, 
fol. 61, col. 1, in fine, we read: Bab Nachman said 
Manoah was an ignorant man (j^PXPl DP), for it is 
written, “He went after his wife” (Judg. xiii, 11). E. 
Nachman, the son of Isaac, asked, should this not also 
apply to Elkanah, for it is written, “And Elkanali went 
after his wife;” and to Elisha, of whom the Scripture 
says, “And he arose and followed her” (2 Kings iv, 
30) ? lie followed her, indeed ! Yes, but he followed 
her words and advice, and so here likewise he (Mano- 
ah) went after her words and counsel. The Tosaphoth 
correctly remarks on what the Talmud says concerning 
Elkanah: SnpDPl SCD Pit plCS ’pxtt? JOPI D'lDD; 
i. e. “ It is an error, for this verse is not found in the 
whole Scripture.” 


* To illustrate Sleinscbneider’s statement, we give the 
following example. In the Talmud (Sidda, fol. 51, col. 2) 
it was said in the school of It. Ishmael, “ He will maguify 
the law and make it honorable” (Isa. xlii, 41). 

t In the Talmud ( Sabbath , fol. 10, col. 1) the question 
was raised, how long the judges were obliged to sit at 
court. It. Sheshel answered, “ Until mid-day.” To which 
R. Chama said, “Where do you find this in the Script- 
ure?” The answer was, “It is said, ‘Woe to thee, O 
land, when thy kiug is a child, and thy princes eat in the 
morning’ (Eccles. x, 10).” It. Jeremiah once engaged 
himself with R. Sera in the law. When the time for the 
evening prayer had already advanced, R. Jeremiah be- 
took himself qnickly to read it. To this R. Sera applied 
the passage (Prov. xxviii, 9), “ He that turneth away his 
ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abom- 
ination” ( Sabbath , fol. 19, col. 1). Of It. Tarphon it is said 
that wheu some one told him something intellectual, he 
used to say mEI “lIPED, “A knop and a flower in one 
branch” (Exod. xxv, 33) ; but when the tale was not ac- 
cording to his taste, be used the words (Gen. xlii, 39), 
“My son shall not go down with you” ( Bereshith liabba, 
ch. xci). 

t E. g. ‘pDinsn DID -pbs hPD PCD, i. e. “He al- 
ready drauk for thee the cup of consolation” ( Bereshith 
liabba , fol. 20, etc.) ; i. e. to be comforted over something. 
The phrase “enp of consolation” is found in Jer. xvi, 7. 


Ibid. fol. 55, col. 2, in fine, we read : “ It is said in the 
name of E. Banah, once I had a dream, and I went to 
all [interpreters of dreams — the passage having refer- 
ence to the twenty-four interpreters of dreams said to 
have been at Jerusalem], anil the interpretation of the 
one was different from that of the other, but all were 
fulfilled, to fulfil what is said : All dreams go after the 
interpretation. But is this a verse of the Scripture? 
Yes, and according to E. Eliezer, who said, Whence do 
we know that all dreams go after the interpretation ? 
For it is said, ‘And it came to pass as he interpreted’ 
(Gen. xli, 13).” 

In the Talmud ( Pesachim , fol. 56, col. 1) it is said 
that Jacob, before his death, cited the words CD "p“Q 
cbl“b iPlDbd ‘TIDE; i. e. “blessed be the glori- 
ous name of his kingdom for ever and ever.” But such 
a quotation is nowhere found in the Scriptures. 

In Toma, fol. 85, col. 2, and Berakoth, fol. 62, col. 2, 
we read that the Scripture says, “ If any one wants 
to kill you, kill him first” (linn? EDDPI X2), 

but such a passage is nowhere found. Oftentimes quo- 
tations are made from Ecclesiasticus, and are introduced 
by the phrases generally applied to scriptural passages, 
as in Niddah, fol. 16, col. 2 pTni) ; Berakoth, fol. 48, 
col. 1 ; Erubin, fol. 65, col. 1 (1DJ<2D) ; Baba 


Kama, fol. 92, col. 2 (C^JODJa *05D, Judg. xi, 3; 
miro C’lPD m 131, Gen. xxviii, 9; D^DDl 
Ecclus. xiii, 20). As these passages are al- 
ready enumerated in this Cyclopaedia, we can only refer 
to the art. Ecclesiasticus (vol. iii, p. 44, a). 

(c.) Biblical phrases are here and there changed for 
the sake of brevity. In Erubin, fol. 31, col. 2 ( Berakoth , 
fol. 27, col. 2; Kiddushin, fol. 54, col. 1), those things 
are mentioned which may be used for the Erub (i. e. 
the ceremony of extending the Sabbath boundary). 
But to prove those things which may not be used, the 
phrase is lb Dpi pOEPt jP3\ But these four words 
are nowhere found in this connection together. 

Sometimes some verses are contracted into one, as 
Deut. xi, 5 and 6, in Posh lia-Shuna, fol. 4, col. 2 ; Prov. 
xix, 17 and 14, 31, in Berakoth, fol. 18, col. 1: Ezek. 
xv, 4, and Jer. xxxvi, 22, in Sabbath, fol. 20, col. 1; 
Lev. xiv, 39 and 44, in Muccoth, fol. 13, col. 2 ; Lev. xix, 
13, and v, 23; ibid. fol. 16, col. 1. The same is often 
the case in the New Test., e. g. Matt, xxi, 5, where Isa. 
Ixii, 2 and Zech. ix, 9 are connected; Isa. vi, 9 and 10 
in Mark i, 11 ; Isa. xl, 6, 7, and lii, 10, in Luke iii, 4, 5, 
6; Exod. xvi, 14, 15; Numb, xi, 7; Psa. lxxviii, 24 in 
John vi, 31, 49, etc. 

2. Having thus shown the mode of quotations, we 
will now give a list of passages which are read other- 
wise in the Talmud than in our Bible : 

A. Passages quoted in the Mishna. 


1. Lev. xxv, 36, 1PXD npP“?X ; Baba Metsia, ch. v, 
§ 11, 13DD. 

2. Numb, xxviii, 2, CPlbx ““ID JO ; Taanith, ch. iv, § 2, 

ci-rbx. 


3. Numb, xxxii, 22, C^pj DP.”<Y1 ; Shekalim, ch. iii, 
§ 2, D^pJ [thus likewise in two MSS.]. 

4. Dent, xxiv, 19, DlLTTXb ; Peah, ch. vi, § 4, 5T3PV“ba 
[three times]. 

5. Josh, viii, 33, the words bj<“iD“ 1 ”bE , l to j’l’IJtb are 


quoted Sotah, ch. vii, § 5, but iustead of C^PClD! the 
reading is V'“'D1D1 [probably on account of the ante- 


cedent TSptl and following TDEVDl ; the reading in 
the Mishna is also marked by Michaelis, Bibl. Hebr. 1720, 
ad loc., and so likewise in the Syriac, Chaldee, and Arabic 
versions]. 

6. Isa. x, 13, “’PiDTD; Yadaim, ch. iv, 5 4, “'PDVD [in 


the Bible (with the exception of our passage) Pi CD is 
always read with the Samech). 

7. Ezek. xivi, 21, ■'SlSpB P231X ; Middoth, ch. ii, § 5, 
iTlDXpd E'SHSt [probably on account of the following 


QUOTATIONS 858 QUOTATIONS 


rZSEE in v, 22; Z*E“X is the reading also of one 
MS.]. 

8. Amos ix, 14, bx~.'2P ‘'EE Y'Z'V r.X '.“El" ; Yada- 
im , ch. iv, 5 4, rends after ITV""* hX"-". 

9. Mai. iii, 1C, ~ZZ : Aboth, ch. iii, 5 3, “EEZ [which 
is supported by seven MSS. and the Syr.]. 

10. Mai. iii, 23, X^Z:rt fvbx = = 5 P.5*JJ ‘Z7X Pl7n ; 

Eduiioth, ch. viii, 57, x-ejp -,rrbx rx zzb -::n 

11. Psa. lxviii, 27, ■’SIX E-HEX; Berakoth, ch. vii, 5 3, 
ivm EVtbx [ITm is the reading of eleven MSS.]. 

12. Job i, i, x— i "-“-l zr xinn \i*‘xn mn* 
a^nsx; Sot ah, ch. v, { 5, z-nbx x“" “•"* zrr-x. 

13. Prov. xxii, 2S, zb'.E ; /Vaft, ch. v, 5 6, E*Z*E [but 
ch. vii, § 3, the reading is, as in the Bible, cblE]. 

14. 2 Chron. xxviii, 15, ’ v iL*"ZZn ; Sotah, ch. viii, 5 1, 

evirabn. 

B. Passages quoted in the Gemara. 

15. Gen. vii, S, mh’J "i2"X ; Pesachim , fol. 3, col. 1, 

rr.-n:: h:px. 

16. Gen. vii, 23, HZHE— TE 2“X2 ; Berakoth, fol. Cl, 
coi. i, “tei. 

17. Gen. xv, 2, in Berakoth, fol. 7, col. 2, we read : “II. 
Jochannn said, in the name of R. Simeon ben-Yochai, from 
the day when God created the world, no one called him 
Lord (*|*1X) until Abraham came and called him Lord, for 
it is written (Gen. xv, S), ‘And he said, Lord God ("3 “IX 
riVT), whereby shall 1 know that 1 shall inherit it?’” 
[But in xv, 2, we already read iTPP *E”IX -~-X EEX"',.] 


have seen that in the ancient Book of the Crowns, even 
"Elf -b in Deut.xi.lS is written with a *1 after the first 73.” 
The latter statement proves that onr present reading is 
correct.] 

23. Exod. xxxi, 1, ; in Berakoth , fol. 55, col. 1, 

“.EXP. 

24. Lev. iv, 25, 30, 34, ri“ JT, defective; in Sanhedrin, fol. 
4, col.l, we read that the school of Shammai read "EZp 
r-:zp r*:-p, while that of iiiiiei, r:-p r:-p r*:-p 
[i. e. ouce plene written ; the same is also said in Zeba- 
chim , fol. 37, col. 2; comp, also the note in Michaelis, Biblia 
Ilebr. ad loc.]. 

25. Lev. x, 12, : Berakoth , fol. 61, col. 1, ",EXP. 

2G. Lev. xv, 10, xir*in.' ; Xidda, fol. 33, col. 1, X’l'im 

27. Lev. xviii, IS, HJEP X? nrnX'bx JTZXl ; Kid- 
dushin, fol. so, coi. 2, xb r.r-nx bx rrrx xzp iExn 

2S. Numb, v, 19, EE'L’ xb EX : Gittin, fol. CO, Yoma, 
fol. 37, coi. 2, m' xb ex E:r -x 

29. Numb, xviii, 16, PHST Zirn—jEE ; in the 

Talmud seems once to have stood ilbZE* after "i‘"n, at 
least this is intimated in the Tosaphoth, or additional com- 
mentary to the Talmud ; Erakin, fol. 18. col. 2, where it 
is stated iitexse xb* X“pE znx “-Err i.e. 
“IVe sought for this reading, but could not find it.” 

30. Dent, vi, 7, TjEElL'E* ; Berakoth, fol. 2, col.l, "EZ’L'E 
[thus likewise the Samar, and Yulg.]. 

31. Deut. vi, 9, P'TTE ; Menachoth, fol. 34, col. 1, R.Meir 


18. Gen. xxv, 6, EPTEXE TSX C^ZEE-Ei"! PEP; in 
the Bereshitli Ilabba, sect, lxi, fol. 67, col. 4 (where the ques- 
tion is whether Abraham had one or more concubines), it 
is stated that the reading is EE'pb^E [one concubine. 
This reading of the Midrash is followed by ltashi, who, in 
his commentary on Gen. xxv, 6, remarks, “The textual 
reading is EE“b*S, defective, because Abraham bad only 
one concubine, namely, Hagar, who was identical with 
Keturah.” But this reading is contrary to the Masorah, 
which distinctly remarks that the word E^E”b"E occurs 
twice entirely plene, that is, with the two Yods after the 
two Chireks. The one instance is in Geu. xxvi, 6, and the 
other in Esth. ii, 14]. 

19. Geu. xxxv, IS, ■|'E"'3E jtlene; in Sotah, fol. 36, col. 2, 
where the passage in ch. xlix, 27, CpE*' EXT -pEPE, is 
treated, we read that, with the exception of xlix, 27, the 
word “pEPE is written *|EP2. defective. [From this 
statement, it seems that at that time Gen. xxxv, IS; xlii, 
4; xliii, 14, 16, 29; xlv, 12 was written ’jE’EZ.] 

20. Exod. xii, 3, bx^ZP PH 2 ; in Pesachim, fol. 6, 
col. 2, bx~ZP “IE m? [so Sam.’ Sept., Syr., Yulg., Tar- 
gum; comp, our Horae Samaritance on Exodus, in Bibli- 
otheca Sacra, July, 1876, loc. cit. ; in the Talmud editions of 
Prague, Vienna, and Warsaw, the word “EE is omitted]. 

21. Exod. xii, 6, STTH E*“rnb ; Erakin, fol. 13, col. 2, 

■jvrx-n znnb. 

22. Exod. xiii, 16, PEE“E ; Deut. vi, 8, PEEE ; xi, 18, 
PEE*E ; in Menaclioth, fol. 34, col. 2, we read, “The 
sages propound, Rabbi lshmncl said iu PEEE? PEEE5 
TEE'Iib, the four compartments [in the phylactery] are 
indicated.” [To understand this, we will remark that the 
word PEEE occurs only three times, as indicated above : 
in two instances it has no 1 (Dent, vi, S; xi, 18), and in 
the third (Exod. xiii, 16) there is a ", after the first 72, i. e. 
TEE'E; hence R. Islunael regards it as a dual, and 
makes of the three w’ords four, to obtain the four com- 
partments in the phylacteries. Br.t Chayim, in his Intro- 
duction to the Rabbinic Bible, tells, us that “in the correct 
codices, as well as in the Book of Crowns,* the reading is 
PEEE” (Deut. vi, 8 ; xi, IS) and PSE'Ebl (Exod. xiii, 16), 
but there is no * between the 2 and the 71 ; yet I myself 

* The Book of Crowns (-pan PEO) is an ancient trea- 
tise, containing Masoretical rules on the ornamental let- 
ters. It has lately been published, for the first time, by 
Burges (Paris, 1866). 


seems to have read "PTE. 

32. Deut. vi, 20, PIE to EZPX ; Jerusalem Talmud, Pesa- 
ehim, ch. x, $ 4, 12P1X. 

33. Dent, xxiii, 1, 1“2X 5*23 ; Berakoth, fol. 21, col. 2, 

::: rx. 

34. Deut. xxv, 7, “’EE" HEX xb ; Yebamoth, fol. 106, 
col. 2, R. Ashai found it. Kahaua, who, being perplexed 
about it, read “EE* 1 f“J2X xbl (with 1 conjunctive). In 
correct codices, ns is also evident from the Masorah, it is 
read HEX xb [some Ilebr. MSS., 1 Sam., the Syr., Ar., 
and Vulg. have xbl]. 

35. Josh, iii, 17 is quoted in Berakoth, fol. 54, col. 1, 
but instead of PI1PP r*“E *,*“X.“I it reads IT TP *,'“X, 
and for P2P bz 12" “ -X IV the reading is ZIP “12 
zrn bz. 

36. Josh, x, 11, bx^ZP PEE ; Berakoth, fol. 54, col. 2, 

37. Josh, xiv, 7, 10. These two verses for the sake of 
brevity are thus contracted (see No. 1, c, above), Erakin, 
fol. is, coi. i, n:z: e“ee~x -p Ebz PExp i (?) ',b- - 
rx b:*b e;-e rnpE n pee pee -r-x nb’EE 
c“21eci -En *|E E-^n -e:x nrri yxn, i.e. “it is 
said of Caleb, forty years old was I when Moses the ser- 
vant of the Lord sent me from Kadesli-bnrnea to espy out 
the laud, and now I am this day fourscore and five years 
oid.” 

38. Josh, xvi, 6, nb’E r!X" ; Zebacliim, fol. 118, col. 2. 
Rabbi Abdini bar-Chnsa said, the Scripture says, 'El 
nb*T r:xr, to which the commentary remarks, 
X""EE ‘TXEE xb- '-r'ZS'n, i.e. “I have sought 
but not found it in the Scripture, but I found in Joshua 
xvi, nb-r r:xr --rx-jE bEX.” 

39. Judg. xv, 20; xvi, 31, where Samson is said to have 
judged Israel twenty years (xvi, 31). The Talin. Ilieros. 
Sotah, fol. 17, “One passage reads, and he judged Israel 
forty years, and another that he judged Israel twenty 
years. R. Aelia answered, From this we see that the 
Philistines feared him twenty years after his death, just 
ns they did twenty years before it.” [On t his passage 
R. Chayim, in his preface to the Rabbinic Bible, makes 
the following interpretation: “To me it appears, how- 
ever, that there is no difficulty in it; for what the Talmud 
speaks about Samson refers to the Midrnshic interpreta- 
tion, viz. * Why is the verse, that he judged Israel twenty 


QUOTATIONS 859 QUOTATIONS 


years, repeated twice? R. Acha answered, From this we 
see that the Philistines feared him (viz. Samson) twenty 
years after his death, just as they did twenty years before 
it, and this makes forty years.* lienee the Talmud does 
not say, Why is it written iu the text, ‘he judged Israel 
forty years?’ but simply, ‘he judged forty years,’ that is, 
according to the Midrash. And now everything comes 
out right when thou lookest into it.” We may well sub- 
scribe what Claudius Capellauus, in his Mare Rabbinieum 
lnfidum , p. 350, note, says, “Tam insigne mendacium quod 
decepit doctissimum Buxtorfium facile corruet vel sola 
addnctione loci Talmudici.” This mnch is certain, that iu 
the time of the Talmnd, one codex at least had the read- 
ing, jndg. xv, P3*2 n^rnnx.j 

40. 1 Sam. ii, 24, 311322 ; in Sabbath , fol. 55, col. 2, 
“is not the reading 311322 * Whereupon R. Hunnab 
ben R. Joshua said the reading is 31322.” [Rashi re- 
marks that the reading of the most trustworthy codices 
is 311322 plene, i.e. with a Yod after the Resh.] 

41. 2 Sam. iii, 35, P113Pb ; Sanhedrin , fol. 20, col. 1, it is 
written PllZpb, but is read P112Pb [a number of MSS. 
read PllZpb ; comp, also the Diets, of Kimchi, Lib. Rad. 
s.v. P13, and Menacheu ben-Sarug, Lex. Rad. “13 and “13 
(ed. Filipow’ski, Lond. 1854, p. 4S, 109)]. 

42. 2 Sam. xxiv, 15, 1p3P2 bxi : 2i3 131 PI pi “jpll 
1212 p?"i?i ; Yoma, foi. 22 , coi. 2 , 323 131 n *jpii 
“1313 nr 331 1p3P ‘,3. 

43. 2 Kings xvii, 3|, TP33 ; Sanhedrin, fol. G3, col. 2, 
“,n33 [D. Kimchi also asserts to have seen the Nun (“]) 
final, iustead of the *j majuscular , as written now]. 

44. 2 Kings xxiii, 17 ; in Erakin , fol. 33, col. 1, the whole 
verse is quoted with the exception of P"'22 1*2X PbXP. 

45. Isa. xxxviii, 16, i3iiPP1 1 Berakoth, fol. 55, col. 1, 
ij-’ippi. 

46. Isa. xlii, 5, 3P12131 ; Bereshith Rabba, sect, xii, 
fol. 15, 3, Bpi31 fc 31 [i.e. leaders]. 

47. Isa. lviii, 7, BbPPP xb ; Jerusalem Talmud, Kethu- 
both, ch. xi, § 3, BPrPP bx. 

4S. Ezek.xl,4S; xlvii.l; Erubin, fol. 2, col. 1, bx 31P31 
pi3P cbix nr,3 ; but such a passage is not to be found 
iu the Scriptures. [Tosaphoth remarks on this passage, 
“Such a passage is nowhere to be found, but we find 
written (xl,4S) P?3 P dblX and P 13 P PP3 (xlvii, 1).”] 

49. Ezelc. xliv, 9, is quoted Moed Katon, fol. 5, col. 1, but 
with the addition i3P113b after i*21p2. 

50. Hos. iv, 11, 1211P1 plene; Yoma, fol. 76, col. 2, it is 
written 121M and read 12mP. 

51. Amos iv, 6, ‘’PITS n 3X Z31 ; Xidda , fol. 65, col. 1, 

•'Pina "cax bx ' _T ' " ! 

52. Amos viii, 11, PIP? 1131 PX ; Sabbath , fol. 13S, 
col. 2, mm “131 PX [H31 is fonnd in the ed. priuceps, 
but later editions, Kimchi, Aben-Ezra, Sept., Syriac, Vulg., 
Targum, read 131]. 

53. Amos ix, 11, P1312 PX “P3121 ; Berakoth, fol. 2S, 
col. 1 (ed. priuceps), pi32 PX 31*22 ■'3371. [Later ed. 
reads as iu our text of the Bible.] 

54. Micah iv, 2, CPS ; * Berakoth , fol. 55, col. 2, 3122. 

55. Zech. xii, 10, ibx ; Sakha, fol. 52, col. 1, Tbx [forty 
codices have Y’bx, and so many Jewish commentators], 

56. Mai. i, 2, 3p2?i ib»PX2 ; many editions of the 
Talmud have ipPX2 for ibPX2, but this is of no im- 
portance, since the ed. princeps, Sanhedrin, fol. S2, col. 1, 
only quotes the first part of the verse till P3121 13. 

57. Fsa. v, 5, ?p3P X? PPX 2121 ”Sn _ bx xb ip 
31 ; Chagiga, fol. 12, col. 2, X3, PPX 3331 pEP“bx xb 
31 TjliaBS 173i. But this does not stand in the Bible 
as Tosaphoth already remarked, X1p2 Pt “pX. 

5S. Psa. xvi, 10, TiipipP; Erubin, fol. 19, col. 1; Yoma , 
fol. 87, col. 1 (in five eds. of the Talmud) read “pi3P [so 
likewise Sept., Syriac, Vulg., Jerome]. 

59. Psa. lvi, 11, bb.PX PIP 13 131 bbPX Dip'?X3 


131; Berakoth, fol. 60, col. 1, 131 bbPX pipi3 
dipbx3. 

60. Psa. Ixviii, 21, PlX^ip P12lb; Berakot h, fol. S, col. 

1 , Pl2bi. 

61. Psa. xcv, 5, *1121 1111 P 13 3 11 ; Kethuboth, fol. 5, 
col. 1, 1121 31P3P1 31PD 111. 

62. Psa.xcvii,7, 11PP12P; Jerusalem Talmud, Eduyoth, 
fol. 44, col.l, 11PP3J1 [comp. Epistle to the Hebrews, i,6, 

1TpO<TKVV1)<TUT(0OaV, K.T. \.]. 

63. Psa. cxxvii, 5, 1PE33X“PX; Kiddushin, fol. 30, col. 

2, without PX. 

64. Psa. cxxxix, 5, PZE2 ; Chagiga, fol. 12, col.l, “S3. 

65. Prov. viii, 13, 31 PX333 ; Pesachim, fol. 113, col. 2, 
31 1X3113. 

66. Prov. xi, 17, IBP 11'iX ; Taanith, fol. 11, col. 2, 13 IX 
liOP. 

67. Prov. xv, 1, 31131 ; Berakoth, fol. 17, col. 2, 3113d. 
CS. Job ii, S, ll^Pilb ; Midrash Bereshith Rabba, sect. 

lxiv (towards the end), 1*3PPb. 

69. Job xiii, 4, bbx ; Chullin, fol. 121, col. 1, bibx. 

70. Job xiv, 6, PP3“i3 ; Jerusalem Talmud, Berakoth, 
ch. v, § 1, PPX 13. 

71. Job xxxvi, 5, OX3i xb^ 1123 bX“*jP; Berakoth, 
fol. S, col. 2, DP DX31 Xb 1i“3 bx *)P, without the Vav 
before xb. [It may be that the Talmud confounds this 
passage with Job viii, 20, BPTDX21 xb bx^jP.] 

72. Job xxxvi, 11, ibzi ; Sanhedrin, fol. 10S, col. 1, lb3i. 

73. Ruth iii, 15, 13P ; Midrash Rath, ad loc. P3P 

74. Eccles. ix, 14, Qiblia 311123 ; Nedarim , fol. 32, 
col. 2, 3131P1 311123. 

75. Eccles. ix, 15, 3ZP ; Nedarim, fol. 32, col. 2, 32P1. 

76. Eccles. x, 5, X3i’2 ; Kethuboth, fol. 62, col. 2; Moed 
Katon , fol. IS, col. 1 ; ^Baba Mezia, fol. 6S, col. 1, X21 

77. Dan. ii, 29, Berakoth, fol. 55, col. 2, where for PP3X, 
-131131, Ipbo is written “31ipi, Ipibo, P3X. 

7S. Dan. iv, 14, ‘pzjilp 12X21 ; Pesachim, fol. 33, col. 
1 : Sanhedrin, fol. 3S, col. 2, "ji^jilp 12X231 [some cod- 
ices have also 13X331]. 

79. Dan. vi, IS, pipipl ; Xidda, fol. 69, col. 2, 
piXP“P1. 

80. Dan. x, 13, B1112P IPX ; Berakoth, fol. 4, col. 2, 
Q1113P “,2 IPX. 

SI. Ezra iv, 3, 13“P‘bxb pi 3 P133b ; Erakin, fol. 5, 
col. 2, 13ipbx pi3 PX P133b. 

82. Neb.iv,16, Pzxbp Blip! 12132 P^P; Megil- 
lah, fol. 20, col. 2, P 2Xb2b 31"P1 12123b pbibp; but 
iu Berakoth, fol. 2, col. 2, P2xb2 and 12123 are extant. 

53. Neh. viii, 8, QipbxP P11B3 1E&3; Nedarim, fol. 
37, col. 2, BipbXP P11P 1EB3 [P11P, so likewise the 
Sept., Vulg., Syr.]. 

54. Neh. viii, S, 3ipbxP, ibid. 3ipbx ; bnt iu Megillah , 
fol. 3, col. 1, BipbXP. 

85. Neh. viii, 15, P12“b ; Sukka, fol. 37, col. 1, 1231, 

86. Neh. viii, 17, bppP“bz *112311 ; Erakin, fol. 32, col. 
2, PblXP 133 1122*11 ; for ZTJi read 2121P1, ibid. 

57. 1 Chron. iii, 17, 133 bxipbx'2 13X pi3Zi 13 2-1 ; 
Sanhedrin, fol. 37, col. 2, bxipbl2 133 HCX pi33l 133 
133. 

58. 1 Chron. iv, 10, P212 pi : 221 122 7j1i PP1P1 ; 
Temnrah, fol. 16, col. 1, ip.212 P'2“1 1122 “IX 

89. 1 Chron. v, 24, IPBTI 1E21 ; Baba Bathra, fol. 123, 

col. 2, 121211 IBP. ’ " ! 

90. 1 Chron. xvi, 5, 212*22 ; Erakin, fol. 13, col. 2, 

r 1212 pb. 


QUOTATIONS 860 

''hzb ; Ecrakoth, fol. 7, col. 2, 


KAAMAII 


9L l^Chron. xvii, 9, 

92. 1 Chron. xxvi, S, 2 "IX 125 * ' '322 n|X“?3 : ibid. 
fol. 64, col. i, nr “in “2*? -3X 33. 

93. 1 Chron. xxvi, 24, rTL;“ _ ",2 ; Eaba Eathra , fol. 110, 
col. 1, !Ti” - 

94. 1 Chrou. xxvii, 34, *77":2“j3 ; Ecrakoth , 

fol. 3, col. 2, "T , *rp '|- ".rr:a. 

95. 2 Chron. xxxi, 13, * 3 “ ” 3 ; Sanhedrin, fol. 103, 

coi. i, ib vbx rasn :t:i ^X2. 

96. In fine, we will quote the following interesting pas- 

sage. In the Jerusalem Talmud, Taanith, fol. G3, col. 1, 
we read the following: “ Three codices [of the Pentateuch] 
were found in the court of the Temple, one of which had 
the reading *p3“3, the other “2733T, and the third dif- 
fered in the number of passages wherein X"H is read 
with a Yod; thus iu the one codex it was written *p?2, 
dwelling [Deut xxxiii, 27], while the other two codices 
had n;‘ , ”'2 ; the reading of the two was therefore de- 
clared valid, whereas that of the one was invalid. In the 
second codex, again, *'I3 ! I333 : '1 was found [in Exod. xxiv, 
11], while the other two codices had the read- 

ing in which the two codices agreed was declared valid, 
and that of the one invalid. In the third codex, again, 
there were only nine passages which had XTI written 
with a Yod [as it is generally written X771, with a Vav], 
whereas the other two had eleven passages ; the readings 
of the two were declared valid, and those of the one in- 
valid.” 

3. The different passages which we have presented 
here, and which might be yet increased to a great ex- 
tent, do not justify ns in presuming that the readings 
found in the Talmud were those of the Old-Testament 
codices of that time, and much less in the presumption 
that the readings of the Talmud arc to be preferred to 
those of our text, for the following reasons : 1. We have 
not as yet a critical edition of the Talmud ; 2. The 
formulas “3 X3X ”3 X”pT 3X, i. e. “read not so, but 
so,” and r-'O'ib CX *i"H Xip^b 2X i. e. “ there 
is a solid root for the reading of the text, and there is a 
solid root for the traditional pronunciation,” already in- 
dicate that these variations arose partly for the sake of 
allegory, partly for exegetical purposes. Thus Richard 
Simon, iJisquisit. Crit.dc Variis Hibl. Edit. cap. iii, p. 17, 
remarks on the formula ”3 X3X ”3 X“pr bx,“Cavcn- 
dnm est, ncistaloquendi formula quam frequenter in Tal- 
mud e usnrpant ne legos sicsedsic ail lection uni varietatein 
trahatur. Lusus cnim est allcgoricus illis doctoribns 
admodura familiaris qui servata dictionum ut ita loquar 
substantia diversos unius 


\ayijc, p. 59 sq. [Amst. 1713].) As to the second 
formula, *3 3X 3," 1 , Buxtorf ( De Punct. Antiq. p. 96, 
103-110) makes the following correct remark: “Usus 
vero hujus axiomatis Talmudiei hie est. Cum de re 
seu quaestione aliqua disputant ac in diversas sententias 
abeunt, sivpe accidit ut uterqne dissentientium fumla- 
mentum suum in uno eodenique Scriptural loco, imo et 
in eadem voce ponat : units sc. in communi et recepta 
lectione, alter in lectione mystica et allegoriea. eadem 
ilia voce sed nliis vocalibus animata vcl aliter explicata. 
Prior elicit : est mater lectiemis, q. d.: mea sententia in- 
nititur communi et recepta? lectioni, cum punctis et 
vocalibus propriis, sensui literali. Alter dieit : est mater 
lectionis, h. e. ego meain sententiam elicio et educo ex 
sensu mystico et lectione vcl expositinne aliqua per tra- 
ditioncm accepta, qua didici, banc vocem pro intinita 
fecunditate legis sic quoipie posse legi et explicari.” 
To illustrate this, the following may suffice: Iu Exod. 
xii, 46 we read concerning the Passover, “in one house 
shall it be eaten,” blX". But in the Talmud, Pesachim , 
fol. 86, col. 2, two inferences are deduced from this pas- 
sage. II. Jehudah maintains that the man who par- 
takes of the Passover, lie must eat it (33X“) in one 
place (priX r^22),but that the Passover itself may be 
divided, and a part of it may be eaten by another com- 
pany in another place; basing bis argument upon the 
nnS'I, viz. 33X”, he must eat it at one place. Where- 
as R. Simeon maintains that the Passover itself must 
be eaten (biX“ ) in one place (“inx T“33), and cannot 
be divided between two different companies in different 
places, though the man himself, after having eaten his 
Passover at home, may go to another place and partake 
of another company’s Passover; basing his argument 
upon the X“p2, viz. 33X", it must be eaten in one place. 
To the same category belongs the rule that 3" 3 3 '3 
(Lev. xii, 5) is to be read L"32'2, two weeks, and not 
3"33'J, seventy days; and that 33713 (Lev. xxiii. 19) 
is to be pronounced -3713, in the milk, and not 33T.3, in 
the fat. 

4 .Literature. — Compare Pesaro, Aaron di, r‘ , "l3'P 
"priX; ■p.7ixr"3 (Frankf. ad Viadr. fol.), which also 
gives all the passages found in the Midrashim and So- 
har; Surcnhusius KiiraWay ije (Anisterd. 1713); 

Weisse, in Hechinath ha-Olam (ed. Stern, Vienna, 184<), 
praef. p. xix adn.; Fromman, Opuscula Philologist, i, 1- 
46; Schorr, in f/e-chalttz (Lemberg), i. 97-116; ii, 56; 
Geiger, in Jiidische Zeitschrift , iv (1866), p. 43, 99 sq., 
I 165-171 ; S. llosenfeld, n“T71 PpTl “S3 (Vi line, 


> ata iiic-Liuiiii in ut lid KXiiicir _ ■** , o /• *• | .• . , . • ^ 

cjusdcmquc vocis lc K cndae 3 * ' ? ». ! ’ Artier , p . cap ^ P- 

moilos pucriliter conimiuiscuutur.” To illustrate this, 808 i rack, Cutica (Lips. ]• ,.,t, p. . 

the following mav suffice. Isa. liv, 13, we read, “ thv s< ^‘ ( ’ * 

sons," T::, but in lkrakoth, f„l. 64, wo read, “ Do not Quotidian (sc cla chori), payment for duties ,icr- 
r . formed in choir and personal attendance at divine ser- 

reail Tp23 ‘thy sons, hut q?23 ‘thy builders, thy wise,’ v j c{!i The pnesentiarius pai<l it in foreign cathedrals, 
whereby it should be proved that ‘the wise build the Quotidiana Oratio ( daily prayer ) is the name 
peace in the world. Sanhedrin, fol. 3<, col. 1, the word sometimes applied to the Lord's Prayer on account of 
1^33, “ his raiment,” in Gen. xxvii, 27, is read "“732. its daily use by Christians. See Loitn's Pit.\vi:n. 

“his perfidious,” to prove thereby the perfidy of Jose Qwanti, the god of war among the Chinese. Mag- 
ben-Joi ; scr’s nephew. (For more such examples the nificent processions are held in honor of this deity.— 
reader is referred to G. Surenhusius UtjiXog xnraX- ' Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 


R. 


Raa, one of the principal deities of the Polynesians, 
or Sontli-Sea Islanders. The third order of divinities 
appears to have consisted of the descendants of Raa. 
These were numerous and varied in their character, 
some being gods of war and others of medicine. — Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Raah. See Gi.kdk. 

Ra'amah [some/faa'/wa/i] (Ileb. Ramah', TV237; 


once Pama', X23“ [1 Chron. i, 9], a shuddering, hence 
a horse's mane, as in Job xxxix, 19; Sept. Pty/id, hut 
’Vappa [ v. r . ' Vaypei ] in Ezek. xxvii, 22; Vulg. Regma 
and ReemaX the fourth son of Cush, and the. father of 
Sheba and Redan (Gen. x, 7 ; 1 Chron. i. 9), B.C. post 
2513. It appears that the descendants of ( ,’iish colonized 
a large part of the interior of Africa, entering that great 
continent probably by the strait of Bab-el-Mandeb. A 


RAAMIAH 


861 


RABAD 


section of the family, however, under their immediate 1 
progenitor, Raamah, settled along the eastern shores of 
the Arabian peninsula. There they founded nations 
which afterwards became celebrated, taking their names 
from Raamah’s two sons, Sheba and Dcdan. See Cusn. 
Though Sheba and Dedan became nations of greater 
importance and notoriety, yet the name Raamah did 
not wholly disappear from ancient history. Ezekiel, in 
enumerating the distinguished traders in the marts of 
Tyre, says, “The merchants of Sheba and Raamah , they 
were thy merchants: they occupied in thy fairs with 
chief of all spices, and with all precious stones, and gold” 
(xxvii, 22). The eastern provinces of Arabia were famed 
in all ages for their spices. The position of Sheba (q. v.) 
is well known, and Raamah must have been near it. 

There can be little doubt that in the classical name 
Regma ('Pey/zd of Ptolemy, vi, 7, and 'Pzjy/za of Steph. 
Byzantium), which is identical with the Sept, equiva- 
lent for Raamah, we have a memorial of the Old-Test, 
patriarch and of the country he colonized. The town 
of Regma was situated on the Arabian shore of the Per- 
sian Gulf, on the northern side of the long promontory 
which separates it from the ocean. It is interesting to 
note that on the southern side of the promontory, a few 
miles distant, was the town called Badena, evidently 
identical with Dedan (q. v.). Around Regma Ptolemy 
locates an Arab tribe of the Anariti ( Geog . vi, 7). Pliny 
appears to call them Epiraaranita* (vi, 2G), which, ac- 
cording to Forster (Geog. of Arabia, i, 64), is just an 
anagrammatic form of Ramanita ?, the descendants of 
Raamah — an opinion not improbable. Forster traces 
the migrations of the nation from Regma along the 
eastern shores of Arabia to the mountains of Yemen, 
where he finds them in conjunction with the family of 
Sheba (ibid. p. GG-71). There the mention of the Rha- 
manitce tribe bj r Strabo, in connection with the expedi- 
tion of Gallus (xvi, p. 781), seems to corroborate the 
view of Forster. Of Sheba, the other son of Raamah, 
there has been found a trace in a ruined city' so named 
(Sheba) on the island of Awal (Marasid, s. v.), belong- I 
ing to the province of Arabia called El-Bahreyn, on the ! 
shores of the gulf. See Sheba. Be this as it may, 
however, there can be no doubt that the original settle- j 
ments of the descendants of Raamah were upon the 
south -western shores of the Persian gulf. Probably, 
like most of their brethren, while retaining a permanent 
nucleus, they wandered with their flocks, herds, and 
merchandise far and wide over Arabia. For the differ- 
ent views entertained regarding Raamah, see Bochart 
(Phdleq, iv, 5) and Xlichaelis (Spicileg. i, 193). — Ivitto. ! 
The town mentioned by Niebuhr called Reymeh (Descr, 
de V Arable) cannot, on etymological grounds, be con- 
nected with Raamah, as it wants an equivalent for the 
V ; nor can we suppose that it is to he probably traced 
three days’ journey from San’ii, the capital of Yemen. 
— Smith. 

Raami'ah (Heb. Raamyah ', i'P'21"], thunder of 
Jehovah; Sept. 'PttXpd [v. r. Naapta]), one of the 
chief Israelites who returned from exile with Zerub- 
babel (Nch. vii, 7), B.C. 445. In the parallel list (Ezra 
ii, 2) he is called Reelaiah, and the Greek equivalent i 
of the name in the Sept, of Nchcmiah appears to have j 
arisen from a confusion of the two readings, unless, as 
Burrington ( Geneal . ii, G8) suggests, 'PeeX/ud is an error 
of the copyist for 'PetXaza, the uncial letters ai having 
been mistaken for m. In 1 Esdr. v, 2 the name ap- 
pears as Reesaias.— Smith. 

Raam'ses (Exod. i, 10). See Rajieses. 

Rab. See Rabbi; Rabbinism. 

Rab, properly Abba Arikha, a noted Jewish teacher, 
was born at Kapliri, a small place between Sura and 
Nehardca, in Babylon, about A.D. 170. In early life 
he went in quest of knowledge into Palestine, and be- 
came one of the most favorite scholars of Jehudah the 
Holy (q. v.). On his return to the East he labored, 


some say for thirty years (between A.D. 188 and 219), 
at Nehardca as meturgeman , or amora , under Shila anil 
Samuel ; and at the close of that relationship, he entered 
upon the higher sphere of school rector and judge at 
Sura (or Sora), where he exercised those offices till the 
end of his life. “In this college, which was called Be- 
Rab (S“3), being an abbreviation of Beth-Rab (E^r^E), 
the school of Rab, the disciples assembled two months in 
the year — viz. Adar and Elul — in autumn and spring, 
for which they were denominated Yarche Kallak (‘’TTV’ 
nbr), the months of assembly; and into it all the people 
were admitted a whole week before each principal fes- 
tival, when this distinguished luminary delivered ex- 
pository lectures for the benefit of the nation at large. 
So eager were the people to hear him, and so great were 
the crowds, that many could find no house accommoda- 
tion, and were obliged to take up their abode in the open 
air on the banks of the Sora River ( Succa , 2G a). These 
festival discourses were denominated rigle C 1 ^*), and 
during the time in which they were delivered all courts 
of justice were closed (Baba Kama, 113 a).” After hold- 
ing the presidency for about twenty-eight years, Rab 
died in A.D. 247, lamented by the whole nation. The 
esteem in which he was held during his lifetime is best 
expressed in the title “Rab,”i. c. teacher, by which they 
called him, just as Jehudah the Holy was called “ Rabbi” 
or “Rabbenu” in Palestine. One of Rab’s main works 
was the systematic exposition of the Mislina (q. v.), a 
copy of which, as revised and somewhat amended by 
Rab himself, in his later years, he had brought from 
Palestine. This second recension of the Mishna be- 
came the authorized or canonical form of that work, 
and, under the Aramaic name of Matnita de Be-Rab, 
“ the Mishna of the School of Rab,” constituted the text 
of the Babylonian Talmud. But, besides his labors as 
an oral expositor on the Mishna, Rab was the author of 
two important works which greatly contributed to the 
advancement of Biblical exegesis. These were, Siphra 
or Siphra de Be-Rab, “ the Book of the School of Rab” 
pl'-l 5>"120), a Midrasli on Leviticus; and Siphre 
or Siphre de Be-Rab (E'VE'I * 1 1E0), a similar com- 
mentary on Numbers and Deuteronomy. These works 
have, indeed, been sometimes attributed to other au- 
thors, but the greatest weight of authority assigns them 
to the doctor of Sura. An analysis of these works is 
given in the article XI i Dir ash, where also some of the 
editions are mentioned. The best edition of the Siphra 
is that of M. L. Malbim, with the commentary IJatora 
vehamitzra. (Bucharest, I860), and that of Weiss (Vienna, 
18G2) ; the Siphre has been best edited by XI. Friedmann 
(ibid. 18G4). Rab also enriched the present Seder Tephi- 
loth, or Order of Common Prayers, and some of the finest 
prayers and thanksgivings are the production of his pen. 
See Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, iv, 214, 232, 279, 289, 293 ; 
Ftirst, K iiltur- u. Literaturgeschichie der Juden in Asien, 
p. 33 sq.; id. Bibliotheca Judaica, iii, 125 sq. ; Etheridge, 
Introduction to Hebrew Literature, p. 157 sq.; Ginsburg, 
in Ivitto, art. “Rab;” De Rossi, Dizionario degli Autori 
Ebrei (Germ, transl. by Hamberger), p. 272 sq. ; Joel, 
Etwas iiber die Bucher Sifra und Sifre (Breslau, 1873); 
but above all, the excellent monograph by Xliihlfclder, 
Rab: ein Lebensbild zur Geschichte des Talmud (Leips. 
1871). (B.P.) 

Rabad phstl), or Abraiiam Ibn-Daud, for which 
the acrostic stands, a noted rabbi, was born at Toledo 
about 1110, and died as a martyr 1180. He was one of 
the most renowned Talmudists of his time, highly es- 
teemed for his historical knowledge. He is the author 
of the 0 (The Successions of Tradition), written 

in the form of annals, giving the history of the world 
from Adam to his own time (1161), and showing the 
uninterrupted chain of tradition to his day, against the 
opinion of the Karaites, who denied all tradition. As a 
supplement to this chronicle, Ibn-Dand wrote a succinct 


RABAXUS MAURUS 


862 


R ABB All 


history of the Koman empire, from its foundation by 
Romulus till the West Gothic king Heccared, entitled 
Memoirs of the Events of Home '*“—1 

and the History of the Jewish Kings during the Second 
Temple (":r r"- These his- 

tories were first published, together with the Seder 
Oleim, in .Mantua (1513), then in Venice (1545), and 
Basle (15*0); the Sepher Hu-kabbalah by itself, with 
the Seder Oleim Rabba and Sutta (Cracow, 1*20), and 
with a Latin translation by (iilbert Genebrard (Paris, 
1572). He also wrote a work in Arabic, Akida Rufina ; 
in Hebrew, Emuiutli Hamah (ed. Weil, Frankfort-on-the- 
Main, 1*57), on the elements of nature and their capa- 
bility of leading to elements of religious faith ; on these 
elements of faith, and on the medicine for the soul in its 
infirmities. lie also wrote Astronomical Notices and 
Replies to Abn-Alpharag on the section of the law named 
the “ Journeyings,” i. c. Numb, xxxiii, etc. See Fiirst, 
liibl. Jud. i, 7 sq. ; Griitz, Gesch. tier Judea, x i, 170- 
183, 212; Jost, Gesch. des Judenth. u. s. Sekten, ii, 425; 
Dessauer, Gesch . der Juden, p. 295; Brannschweiger, 
Gesch. der Juden in den romauischen Stouten, p. 70 sq. ; 
Lindo, History of the Jews in Spain, p. GO; Finn, Se- 
phardim, p. 193; Etheridge, Jntrod. to Hebrew Litera- 
ture, p. 251 ; LTebcrweg, History of Philosophy, i, 420, 
427 ; Guggenheimer, Die Religionsphilosophie des H. 
Abr. ben-Darid ha- Leri (Augsburg, 1*00) ; Levita, Mas- 
soreth ha-Massoreth (ed. Ginsburg, Loud. 1*07), p. 10*. 

(15. P.) 

Rabanus Maurus. See Riiabaxus. 

Rabardeau, Michel, a French Jesuit, was born at 
Orleans in 1572, and became a member of the order in 
1595. 1 Ie had enjoyed the very best educational facil- 

ities, and was therefore employed by the Society in its 
schools. He taught philosophy and moral theology, 
and became successively rector of Bourges and of 
Amiens. lie died at Paris in 1049. lie is celebrated 
especially for his mastery of casuistry and his intimate 
knowledge of the canon law. In the domain of the 
latter he displayed his power in 1040, when Hersaut 
the Oratorian sought a schism in the Church of France 
by his work Optuti Galli de Cavendo Schismate, after 
cardinal Richelieu had attempted the assumption of the 
patriarchate. Rabardeau, in his Optutus Gallus Benigno 
Manu Sectus (Paris, 1041, 4to), defended the cardinal, 
and tried to prove that such an assumption bore in it 
no trace of a schism, as the patriarchates of Jerusalem 
and Constantinople in nowise interfered with the power 
of the Roman papacy and its supreme authority. Of 
course, at Rome the book was displeasing, and was put 
into the Index. See Sotwell, liibl. Scrijitor, Soc. Jesu. 
— Iloefer, Xour. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rabat is a linen neek-collar worn by ecclesiastics. 

Rabaudy, Bkunakd de, a French theologian, was 
born in 10*1, at Toulouse, of an ancient noble family. 
At an early age he took the monastic vow with the Do- 
minicans, and, after having completed his education, be 
taught at Limoges and in the University of Toulouse. 
In 1700 he was nominated superintendent of the order 
'in France, and in 1710 was made successor to the gener- 
al of the order in a professorship at Toulouse. He died 
there Nov. 3, 1731. He wrote, Exercitut iones Theologicte 
(Toni. 1714, 2 vols. *vo), and Qneestioues de Deo Uno 
(ibid. 171*, *vo). See Eehard, Bill. Script. Ord. Pne- 
dicut. vol. ii. — Iloefer, Xour. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rabaut, Paul, a French Protestant divine, who was 
a martyr to the cause of true Christianity in France, was 
born at Bcdarieux, near Montpelier, in 171*. He was 
educated at the seminary in Lausanne for the holy office 
of the ministry, and became one of the “ Preachers of 
the Desert,” among whom he soon ranked as first in 
many respects. In 1743 lie was made pastor of the Re- 
formed Church at Nismes, and there became the leader 
of French Protestantism. This was a time of persecu- 
tion indeed. The government of Louis XV had taken 


up anew the task of rooting out the heretical doctrines 
which had flourished their banner in the face of the very 
man who had given authority to his government by 
saying ll L'etat e'est moi." In spite of all opposition, and 
in the face of a host of plotting enemies, Rabaut main- 
tained his position, and in 17*5 he was even emerited. 
But in 1793, when the great Revolution succeeded, he 
was arrested as a traitor, and only gained his freedom in 
1794 bv the reversal of the 9th Thermidor. He died 
shortly after (Sept. 25, 1794). Rabaut took part in the 
Reform National Synod of 1744, and was presiding offi- 
cer of that iu 1703; and although his heterodox views 
on many important points made him a pronounced 
Chiliast in doctrine and an Episcopalian in government, 
he was yet so greatly revered for his fortitude, consist- 
ency, frankness, and devotion to Protestantism that his 
leadership was never rejected, but always gladly ac- 
cepted by the Huguenot successors. He was not a great 
man. His education was moderate, his power in the 
pulpit ordinary. It was his sterling qualities of charac- 
ter that made him a leader in the Israel of France. His 
eldest son, Paul, also called St. Etienne, who was born in 

1743, and was both preacher and lawyer, distinguished 
himself as a leader of the Revolution, to which both 
he and his wife fell martyrs. It was his influence 
that carried through the National Council religious 
equality for all France. His novel Trioinphe de £ Into- 
lerance (Loud. 1779; republished at Paris in 1*20 and 
1*20 under the title Le Yieux Cevenol) is important for 
the history of French Protestantism. Another son (the 
second), Antoine R.-Pommier, who was born Oct. 24, 

1744, was also a preacher, and likewise distinguished 

himself in the Revolution. lie finally entered the civil 
service, but in 1*15 he was obliged to quit France on 
account of his having voted for the execution of Louis 
XVI, and was only allowed to return in 181*. lie died 
at Paris in 1820. lie published A unuaire Ecclesiastique, 
it l' Usage des trois Seances sur P. H. et les Prot. Frau- 
gais au XVI He Siecle (Lausanne. 1*59). See Xew York 
Nation, xviii, 207; London Academy, Aug. 1, 1*74, p. 
119; De Felice, Hist, of the French Protestants, p. 416, 
451,402; Register, Stndien u. Kritiken, 1*38-47; Smith, 
Hist, of the Huguenots; Bridel, Sketches of Paul Rabaut 
and the French Protestants of the 1 * th Century (transl. 
from the French, with an Appendix containing portions 
of Paul Rabaut’s writings now first published [Loml. 
1801, 12mo]). (J.II.W.) 

Rab'bali (Ilcb. Rabbah', H2 j), the name of sever- 
al ancient places both east and west of the Jordan, al- 
though it appears in this form in connection with only 
two in the A. V. The root is rub, meaning much, and 
hence great, whether in size or importance (Gcscnins, 
Thesaur. p. 1254; Fiirst, Hamlwbrterb. ii, 347). The 
word survives in Arabic as a common appellative, and 
is also in use as the name of places — e. g. Rabba, on the 
east of the Dead Sea; Rabhah. a temple in the tribe of 
Medshidj (Frev tag, ii, 107 a); and perhaps also Rabat, 
in Morocco. (In the following account we chiefly fol- 
low that found in Smith, Diet, of the Bible, with addi- 
tions from other sources.) See Rabui. 

1. A very strong place on the east of Jordan, which, 
when its name is first introduced in the sacred records, 
was the chief city of the Ammonites. In five passages 
(Dent, iii, 11 ; 2 Sam. xii, 20; xvii, 27; Jer. xlix. 2; 
Ezra xxi, 20) it is styled at length "12 rz~. 

Rubbuth-henv-A mmon, A. V. “ Rabbath of the Ammon- 
ites,” or “of the children of Ammon;” but elsewhere 
■ (Josh, xiii, 25; 2 Sam. xi, 1 ; xii, 27, 29 : 1 Chron. xx. 
1; Jer. xlix, 3; Ezra xxv, 5; Amos i, 14) simply “Rab- 
hah.” The Sept, generally has 'lVi/I/IdS, but in some 
MSS. occasionally 'Pn/Iri-X or >/ 'Po/fyld. In Dent, 
iii, 5 it is rp iiKpef tmv vuov ’Appiuv iu both MSS. 
In Josh, xiii, 25 the Vat. has "Apafia >) torn’ Kara 
irpooimrov ' Apd<>, where the first and last words of the 
sentence seem to have changed places. Other various 
readings likewise occur. 


KABBAH 


863 


KABBAH 


Rabbah appears iu the sacred records as the single 
city of the Ammonites; at least no other bears any dis- 
tinctive name, a fact which contrasts strongly with the 
abundant details of the city life of the Moabites. 
Whether it was originally, as some conjecture, the Ham 
of which the Zuzim were dispossessed by Chedorlaomer 
(Gen.xiv, 5), will probably remain forever a conjecture. 
The statement of Eusebius ( Onomast . s. v. ’Agpdv) that 
it was originally a city of the Rephaim implies that it 
was the Asliteroth Karnaim of Gen. xiv. In agree- 
ment with this is the fact that it was in later times 
known as Astarte (Steph. Byz. quoted by Ritter, p. 
1155). In this case, the dual ending of Karna£?» may 
point, as some have conjectured in Jernshalu 2 »i, to the 
double nature of the city — a lower town and a citadel. 
When first named it is in the hands of the Ammonites, 
and is mentioned as containing the bedstead of the gi- 
ant Og (Dent, iii, 11), possibly the trophy of some suc- 
cessful war against the more ancient Rephaim. With 
the people of Lot, their kinsmen the Israelites had no 
quarrel, and Rabbath-of-the-cliildren-of-Ammon re- 
mained to all appearance unmolested during the first 
period of the Israelitish occupation. It was not in- 
cluded in the territory of the tribes east of Jordan ; the 
border of Gad stops at “Aroer, which faces Rabbah” 
(Josh, xiii, 25). The attacks of the Bene-Ammon on 
Israel, however, brought these peaceful relations to 
an end. Saul must have had occupation enough on 
the west of Jordan in attacking and repelling the Phi- 
listines and in pursuing David through the woods 
and ravines of Judah to prevent his crossing the riv- 
er, unless on such special occasions as the relief of 
Jabesli. At any rate, we never hear of his having 
penetrated so far in that direction as Rabbah. But 
David’s armies were often engaged against both Moab 
and Ammon. His first Ammonitish campaign appears 
to have occurred early in his reign. A part of the 
army, under Abishai, was sent as far as Rabbah to keep 
the Ammonites in check (2 Sam. x, 10, 14), but the 
main force under Joab remained at Medeba (l Chron. 
xix, 7). The following year was occupied in the great 
expedition by David in person against the Syrians at 
Helara, wherever that may have been (2 Sam. x, 15- 
19). After their defeat the Ammonitish war was re- 
sumed, and this time Rabbah was made the main point 
of attack (xi, 1). Joab took the command, and was 
followed by the whole of the army. The expedition 
included Ephraim and Benjamin, as well as the king’s 
own tribe (ver. 11), the “king’s slaves” (ver. 1, 17, 24), 
probably David’s immediate body-guard, and the thirty- 
seven chief captains. Uriah was certainly there, and, 
if a not improbable Jewish tradition may be adopted, 
Ittai the Gittite w r as there also. See Ittai. The ark 
accompanied the camp (ver. 11), the only time that we 
hear of its doing so, except that memorable battle with 
the Philistines, when its capture caused the death of 
the high-priest. On a former occasion (Numb, xxxi, 
6) the “ holy things” only are specified — an expression 
which hardly seems to include the ark. David alone, 
to his cost, remained in Jerusalem. The country was 
wasted, and the roving Ammonites were driven with all 
their property (xii, 30) into their single stronghold, as 
the Bedouin Kenites were driven from their tents in- 
side the walls of Jerusalem when Judah was overrun 
by the Chakkeans. See Rechabite. The siege must 
have lasted nearly, if not quite, two years ; since during 
its progress David formed his connection with Bathslie- 
ba, and the two children, that which died and Solomon, 
were successively born. The sallies of the Ammonites 
appear to have formed a main feature of the siege (2 
Sam. xi, 17, etc.). At the end of that time Joab suc- 
ceeded in capturing a portion of the place — the “ city of 
waters,” that is, the lower town, so called from its con- 
taining the perennial stream which rises iu and still 
flows through it. The fact (which seems undoubted) 
that the source of the stream was within the lower city, 
explains its having held out for so long. It was also 


called the “royal city” "l* 1 ^), perhaps from 

its connection with Molech or Milcom — “the king” — 
more probably from its containing the palace of Hanun 
and Naliash. But the citadel, which rises abruptly on 
the north side of the lower town, a place of very great 
strength, still remained to be taken, and the honor of 
this capture, Joab (with that devotion to David which 
runs like a bright thread through the dark web of his 
character) insists on reserving for the king. “I have 
fought,” writes he to his uncle, then living at ease in 
the harem at Jerusalem, in all the satisfaction of the 
birth of Solomon — “ I have fought against Rabbah, and 
have taken the city of waters ; but the citadel still re- 
mains: now, therefore, gather the rest of the people to- 
gether and come; put yourself at the head of the whole 
army, renew the assault against the citadel, take it, and 
thus finish the siege which I have carried so far,” and 
then he ends with a rough banter (comp. 2 Sam. xix, 6) 
— half jest, half earnest — “lest I take the city and in 
future it go under my name.” The waters of the lower 
city once in the hands of the besiegers, the fate of the 
citadel ivas certain, for that fortress possessed in itself 
(as we learn from the invaluable notice of Josephus, 
Ant.x ii, 7, 5) but one w r ell of limited supply, quite in- 
adequate to the throng which crowded its walls. The 
provisions also were at last exhausted, and shortly after 
David’s arrival the fortress was taken, and its inmates, 
with a very great booty, and the idol of Molech, with 
all its costly adornments, fell into the hands of David. 
We are not told whether the city was demolished or 
whether David was satisfied with the slaughter of its 
inmates. In the time of Amos, two centuries and a 
half later, it had again a “ wall” and “ palaces,” and was 
still the sanctuary of Molech— “ the king” (Amos i, 14). 
So it was also at the date of the invasion of Nebuchad- 
nezzar (Jer. xlix, 2, 3), when its dependent towns 
(“daughters”) are mentioned, and when it is named in 
! such terms as imply that it was of equal importance 
with Jerusalem (Ezra xxi, 20). At Rabbah, no doubt 
Baalis, king of the Bene-Ammon (Jer. xl, 14), held such 
court as he could muster, and within its walls was plot- 
ted the attack of Ishmael which cost Gedaliah his life 
and drove Jeremiah into Egypt. The denunciations of 
the prophets just named may have been fulfilled either 
at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem, or five years 
afterwards, when the Assyrian armies overran the coun- 
try east of Jordan on their road to Egypt (Josephus, 
Ant. x, 9, 7). See Jerome, on A mos i, 41. 

In the period between the Old and New Testaments, 
Rabbath-Ammon appears to have been a place of much 
importance and the scene of many contests. The nat- 
ural advantages of position and water supply, which had 
always distinguished it, still made it an important cita- 
del by turns to each side during the contentions which 
raged so long over the whole of the district. It lay 
on the road between Heshbon and Bosra, and was the 
last place at which a stock of water could be obtained 
for the journey across the desert ; while', as it stood on 
the confines of the richer and more civilized country, 
it formed an important garrison station for repelling 
the incursions of the wild tribes of the desert. From 
Ptolemy Philadelphus (B.C. 285-247) it received the 
name of Philadelphia (Jerome, on Ezra xxi\ 1), and 
under this name it is often mentioned by Greek and 
Roman writers (Pliny, Hist. Nat. v, 16 ; Ptolemy, (Jeog. 
v, 15), by Josephus (War, i, 6, 3 ; i, 19, 5; ii, 18, 1), and 
upon Roman coins (Eckhel, iii, 351 ; Minnnet,v,335),as 
a city of Arabia, Ccele-Syria, or Decapolis. The district 
either then or subsequently was called Pliiladelphene 
(Josephus, War, iii, 3, 3), or Arabia Philadelpliensis 
(Epiphanins, in Ritter, Sgrien, p. 1155). In B.C. 218 it 
was taken from the then Ptolemy (Philopator) by An- 
tiochus the Great, after a long and obstinate resistance 
from the besieged in the citadel. A communication 
with the spring in the lower town had been made since 
(possibly in consequence of) David’s siege, by a long 


KABBAII 


8G4 


KABBAH 


say). Among the ruins of an “immense tem- 
ple” on the citadel hill, Mr. Tipping saw some 
prostrate columns five feet in diameter. Its 
coins are extant, some bearing the figure of 
Astarte, some the word Ilerakleion, imply- 
ing a worship of Hercules, probably the con- 
tinuation of that of Molech or Milcom. From 
Stephanos of Byzantium wc learn that it was 
also called Astarfc, doubtless from its contain- 
ing a temple of that goddess. Justin Martyr, 
a native of Shechem, writing about A.1). 140, 
speaks of the city as containing a multitude 
Coin of Philadelphia, showing the Tent or Shrine of Herakles, the Ammonites (Dial, with Trypho), though it 
Greek equivalent of Molech. would probably not be safe to interpret this 

{Obv. : AVPK AirM AVP ANTajNiNv. Bust of M. Aurelius, r. — Ktv . : ♦iakoctphpak- ton «triptl\' 

" P K<lhl Sihrina in otiadrofu r Ui i t Af iA<nv I'm 4 uo i<vm tn » 4 

Philadelphia became the seat of a Chris- 



KAICMJ 

acion PM.\ [A.V.C. ttyuj. Shrine in quadriga, r 
H pa K Af ion].) 


[+1AAA£A4>£CN K01AHC CTPXAC 


secret subterranean passage, and had not this been dis- 
covered to Antiochus by a prisoner, the citadel might 
have been enabled to bold out (Polybius, v, 17). Dur- 
ing the struggle between Antiochus the Pious (Sidetes) 
and Ptolemy, the son-in-law of Simon Maccabtvus (B.C. 
cir. 13 1), it is mentioned as being governed by a tyrant 
named Cotylas (.-Inf. xiii, 8, 1), Its ancient name, 
though under a cloud, was still used ; it is mentioned 
by Polybius (v, 71) under the hardly altered form of 
llabbatamana ( Pa/3y3«ro;<«iY/). About B.C. Go we 
bear of it as in the hands of Aretas (one of the Arab 
chiefs of that name), who retired thither from Judiea 
when menaced by Scaurus, Pompev’s general (Josephus, 
Il’</r. i, G, 3). The Arabs probably held it till the year 
B.C. 30, when they were attacked there by Herod tbe 
Great. But the account of Josephus ( II «r, i, 19. 5, G) 
seems to imply that tbe city was not then inhabited, 
and that although the citadel formed the main point of 
the combat, yet that it was only occupied on the in- 
stant. The water communication above alluded to also 
appears not to have been then in existence, for the 
people who occupied the citadel quickly surrendered 
from thirst, and the whole affair was over in six days. 

At the Christian sera Philadelphia formed the eastern 


tian bishop, and was one of the nineteen sees 
of “PaUestina tenia” >\hich were subordinate to Bostra 
(Boland, Pahest. p. 22-S). The church still remains “in 
excellent preservation” with its lofty steeple (lord Lind- 
say). Some of the bishops appear to have signed un- 
der the title of Ifakatha ; which Bakatha is by Epi- 
phanius (himself a native of Palestine) mentioned in 
such a manner as to imply that it was but another name 
for Philadelphia, derived from an Arab tribe in whose 
possession it was at that time (A.D. cir. 400). But this 
is doubtful (see Belaud, Paleest. p. GI2; Bitter, p. 1157). 

When the Moslems conquered Syria, they found the 
city in ruins (Abulfcda in Bitter, p. 1158; and in note 
to lord Lindsay); and in ruins remarkable for their ex- 
tent and desolation even for Syria, the “land of ruins.” 
it still remains. The ancient name has been preserved 
among the natives of the country. Abulfcda calls it 
Amman (Tab. Syr. p. 19), and by that name it is still 
known. The prophet Ezekiel foretold that liabbah 
should become “a stable for camels,” and the country 
“ a conching-place for docks” (Ezek. xxv, 5). This has 
been literally fulfilled, and Bnrckbardt actually found 
that a party of Arabs had stabled their camels among 
tbe ruins of Kabbah. 'Poo much stress has, however, 
been laid upon this minute point by Dr. Keith and 


limit of the region of Pera*a (Josephus, ll«?-,iii, 3, 3). It others (Evidence from Prophecy, p. 150). What the 
was one of the cities of the Decapolis, ami as far down as prophet meant to say was that Ammon and its chief 
the 4th century was esteemed one of the most remark- city should be desolate; and he expressed it by refer- 
able and strongest cities of the whole of Crele- Syria 1 ence to facts which would certainly occur in any for- 
(Eusebius, Onomast.; Ammianus Marc, in Bitter, p. j saken site in the borders of Arabia ; and which arc now 
1157). Its magnificent theatre (said to be tbe largest 1 constantly occurring not in Kabbah only, but in many 
in Syria), temples, odeon, mausoleum, and other public , other places. Kabbah lies about twenty -two miles 
buildings wore probably erected during the 2d and 3d ' from tbe Jordan at the eastern apex of a triangle, of 
centuries, like those of Jerash, which they resemble in j which Ileshbon and es- Salt form respectively tbe south- 
style, though their scale and design are grander (Lind- | ern and northern points. It is about fourteen miles 

from tbe former and twelve 
from the latter. Jerash is 
due north, more than twen- 
ty miles distant in a straight 
line, and thirty-live by the 
usual road (Lindsay, p.278). 
It lies in a valley which is a 
branch, or perhaps the main 
course, of the Wady Zerka, 
usually identified with the 
Jabbok. The Moiet - Am- 
man, or water of Amman, a 
mere streamlet, rises within 
the basin which contains tbe 
ruins of the town. The 
main valley is a winter tor- 
rent, hut appears to be per- 
ennial. and contains a quan- 
tity of fish, by one observer 
said to be trout (see Burek- 
liardt. p. 358; G. Bobinson, 
ii, 1 71 ; “a perfect fish-pond,” 
Tipping). The stream runs 
from west to east, and north 
of it is the citadel 011 its iso- 
lated hill. The public build- 



KABBAII 


865 


RABBENU GERSHOM 



Amman, as seen in approaching it from the South. 


ings are said to be Roman, in general character like 
those at Jerash, except the citadel, which is described 
as of large square stones put together without cement, 
and which is probably more ancient than the rest. 
Among the ruins are chiefly noticeable a spacious 
church, built with large stones, and having a steeple; 
a temple, with part of the side walls and a niche in 
the back wall remaining; a curved wall along the 
water- side, with many niches, and in front of it a 
row of large columns, four of which remain, though 
without capitals; a high-arched bridge over the river, 
still perfect, apparently the only one that had existed. 
The citadel on the hill, a structure of immense strength, 
and the theatre have been referred to above. The re- 
mains of private houses scattered on both sides of the 
stream are very extensive. They have been visited, 
and described in more or less detail, by Burckhardt 
(Syria, p. 357-3G0), Seetzen (7 Risen, i, 39G; iv, 212- 
21-1), Irby (June 14), Buckingham (E. Syria, p. 68-82), 
lord Lindsay (5th ed. p. 278-284), G. Robinson (ii, 172- 
178), lord Claud Hamilton (in Keith, Evid. of Proph. 
ch.vi), De Sauley {Dead Sea, i, 387 sq.), Tristram {Land 
of Israel, p. 544 sq.), Porter ( Ilandb.for Palest, p. 302), 
Biideker ( Paliistina , p. 319), and the Rev. A. E. North- 
ern, in the Qnar. Statement of the “ Pal. Explor. Fund,” 
April, 1872, p. 57 sq., where a plan is given. 

2. (ns“n, with the definite article; Sept. £o>3 r][3d 
v. r. ’Apefifia ; Yulg. Arebba) a city of Judah, named, 
with. Kirjath-jearim, in Josh, xv, GO only. It lay 
among the group of towns situated to the w r est of 
Jerusalem, on the northern border of the tribe of Judah 
(Keil, Comment, ad loc.). It is probably only an epithet 
for Jerusalem itself, which otherwise would not appear 
in the list. See Judaii {Tribe of). 

3. In one passage (Josh, xi, 8) Zidon is mentioned 
with the affix Kabbah — Zidov-rabbah. This is pre- 
served in the margin of the A. V., though in the text it 
is translated “great Zidon.” 

4. Although there is no trace of the fact in the Bible, 
there can be little doubt that the name of Kabbah lvas 
also attached in Biblical times to the chief city of 
Moab. Its Biblical name is “ Ar,” but we have the tes- 
timony of Eusebius ( Ononiast . s. v. Moab) that in the 
4th century it possessed the special title of Kabbatli- 
j\Ioab, or, as it appears in the corrupted orthography of 
Stephanus of Byzantium, the coins, and the Ecclesias- 
tical Lists, Rabathmoba . Rabbathmoma , and Ratba or 

VIII.— 1 1 1 


Robba Moabitis (Reland, Pal<vst. p. 22G, 957 ; Seetzen, 
Reisen, iv, 227 ; Ritter, p. 1220). This name was for a 
time displaced by Areopolis, in the same manner iliat 
Rabbath-Ammon had been by Philadelphia : these, how- 
ever, were but the names imposed by the temporary 
masters of the country, and employed by them in their 
official documents ; and when they passed away, the 
original names, which had never lost their place in the 
mouths of the common people, reappeared, and Ilabba, 
like Amman, still remains to testify to the ancient ap- 
pellation. Rabba lies on the highlands at the south- 
east quarter of the Dead Sea, between Iverak and Jibel 
Shihan. Its ruins, which are unimportant, are de- 
scribed by Burckhardt (July 15), Seetzen {Reisen, i, 
411), De Sauley (Jan. 18), and Torter {Ilandb.for Pal- 
estine, p. 297 sq.). See An. 

Rab'bath of the Children of Amjion, and of 
the Ammonites. (The former is the more accurate, 
the Hebrew being in both cases ■ji’Sl* *\22 *2"; Sept. 
i) atepa tmv vtwv ’Appwv, 'Pafijid-? v'twv ’Appujp ; 
Yulg. Rabbath Jiliorum Amnion .) This is the full ap- 
pellation of the place commonly given as Kabbah (q. v.). 
It occurs only in Deut. iii, 11 and Ezek. xxi, 20. The 
th is merely the Hebrew “construct state,” or mode of 
connecting a word ending in ah with one following it. 
Comp. Gibeatit; Kirjatii; Ramatii, etc. 

Rabbenu Gershom, or, more properly, Rabbi 
Gersiiom ben-Jeiiuda, the reputed founder of the 
Franco-German Rabbinical school, in which the studies 
of that of Babylonia were earnestly revived, was born 
about 960, and died in 1028. He was called “ The An- 
cient,” “ The Light of the Exile,” and was the founder 
of monogamy and other “institutions” among the Jews, 
which were for a long time disputed and rejected, and 
himself w r as placed under ban for attempting to abro- 
gate the Mosaic precept respecting the marriage of a 
man with the childless wife of his deceased brother. 
Gershom also wrote a commentary on the Talmud, and 
some hymns and penitential prayers, which are extant 
in the Machzor. For reasons unknown he went to 
Mayence, where he founded a college, which soon at- 
tracted ihe youth of Germany and Italy. See Fiirst, 
Bill. Jud. i, 328 ; De Rossi, Dizionario Storico (Germ, 
transl.), p. 114; Griitz, Geseh. der Juden (Leips. 1871), 
v, 3G4 sq. ; Braunscliweiger, Gesck. der Juden in den 
romanischen Staaten, p. 32 sq.; Jost, Gesck. d, Judenth. 


RABBEXU 


8CG 


RABBI 


ii. s. Eekten, ii, 388; Dcssauer, Gesch. d. Tsraeliten , p. 
310; Etheridge, Jntrod. to Jltb. Literature, p. 283 sip ; 
Steinschneider, Jewish Literature, p. 09; Zunz, Litcra- 
turgesch. d. synagogalen J’oesie, p. 238; id. Sgnagogule 
Poesie, p. 171 174; Delitzscli, Zur Gesch. der jiid. Poe- 
sir, p. 51, 150; Adams, Hist, of the Jews, i, 220; Eran- 
kcl, Mount ssehri ft, 1851, p. 230 sq. (B. I’.) 

Rabbemt Tam. See Tam. 

Rab'bi ('l\r/3/3i, a title of honor given by the 
Jews to their learned men, authorized teachers of the 
law, and spiritual heads of the community, and which 
in the New. Test, is frequently given to Christ. (In 
the following article we mainly adopt that given by 
(iinsbnrg in Kitto’s Cydopcedia, with additions from 
other sources.) 

I. Different Forms, and the Signification of the Title. 
—The terra "'22, Ilabhi, is a form of the noun 2". llah 
(from 22”*, to multiply, to become great, distinguished), 
which in the Biblical Hebrew denotes a great man; one 
distinguished either for age, position, office, or shill (Job 
xxxii, 9; Dan. i, 3; Prov. xxvi, 10); but in the canon- 
ical books it does not occur with this suffix. It is in 
post -Biblical Hebrew that this term is used as a title, 
indicating sundry degrees by its several terminations for 
those who are distinguished for learning, who are the 
authoritative teachers of the law, and who are the ap- 
pointed spiritual heads of the Jewish community. Thus, 
for instance, the simple term 2?. Hob. without any ter- 1 
initiation, and with or without the name of the person 
following it, corresponds to our expression teacher, mas- 
ter, CtSd(TKa\og, and is the lowest degree; with the pro- 
nominal suffix first person singular — viz. h 22, Rabbi, 
P a/3/3i, my Rabbi (Matt, xxiii, 7, 8 ; xxvi, 25, 49 ; Mark 
ix, 5; xi, 21 ; xiv, 45; John i, 38, 49; iii, 2, 2G; iv, 31 ; 
vi, 25; ix, 2; xi, 8)— it is a higher degree; and with 
the pronominal sullix first person plural— viz. “,22, Rab- 
bdn, T>«/3/3oi', our teacher, our master, in the Chaldee 
form — it is the highest degree, and was given to the pa- 
triarchs (2 "N'T 3) or the presidents of the Sanhedrim. 
Gamaliel I, who was patriarch in Palestine A. I). 30-50, 
was the first that obtained this extraordinary title, and 
not Simon bcn-Hillel, as is erroneously affirmed by Light- 
foot ( Harmony of the Four Evangelists, John i, 38). 
This is evident from the following statement in the 
A ruck of 11. Nathan (s. v. >1 "2S) : ‘-We do not find that 
the title Rabbon began before the patriarchs rabbon 
(lamalicl I, rabbon Simon his son (who perished in the 
destruction of the second Temple), and rabbon Jochanan 
bcn-Zakkai, all of whom were presidents.” high (foot's 
mistake is all the more strange since he himself quotes 
this passage elsewhere (comp. Hebrew and Talmudical 
Exer citations, Matt, xxiii, 7). 122, however, which, as 
we have said, is the noun 22, with the Chaldee pro- 
nominal suffix first person plural, is also used in Aramaic 
as a noun absolute, the plural of which is *p322 and 
C"32" (comp. Chaldee paraphrase on Psa. lxxx, 11; 
llutli i, 2); pronominal suffix second person singular 
q":2“ (Song of Songs vi, 4); pronominal suffix third 
person plural “|*rr:22 (Psa. Ixxxiii, 12). Accordingly 
'Prr^/Srm in Mark x, 51, which in John xx, 1G is spelled 
'Prt/3/3ooi’i, is the equivalent of , ':22, Rabbani, my mas- 
ter, giving the Syriac pronunciation to the Kamets un- 
der the Reth. As such it is interpreted by the evangel- 
ists (CiidnKa\oc, John i, 39; xx, 1G; .Matt, xxiii, 8). 

II. Origin ami Date of these Titles. — Nathan hen-Jc- 
chiel (q. v.) tells us, in his celebrated lexicon denomi- 
nated . I ntch (s. v, --2X), which was finished A. D. 1101, 
that Mar Bah Jacob asked Shcrira (hum, and his son 
llai, the co-tiaon (A. I). 999), for an explanation of the 
origin and import of these different titles, and that those 
spiritual heads of the Jewish community in Babylon rc- 


1 plied as follows: “‘The title Rab (2*“) is Babylonian, 
and the title Rabbi (“22) is Palestinian.’ This is evi- 
dent from the fact that some of the Tanaim and Amo- 
raim are simply called by their names without any title 
— e. g. Simon the Just, Antigonus of Soho, Jose ben- 
Jochanan, Bah, Samuel, Abaje, and Bahba; some of them 
bear the title Rabbi (“2"') — e. g. rabbi Akiba, rabbi Jose, 
rabbi Simon, etc.; some of them have the title Mar 
02) — e. g. mar I’kba, mar Jannka, etc.; some the title 
of Rab (22)— o. g. rab liana, rab Jehndali, etc.; while 
some of them have the title Rabbon C,22) — e.g. rabbon 
Gamaliel, rabbon Jochanan hen-Zakkai, etc. The title 
Rabbi ("22) is that of the Palestinian sages, who re- 
ceived there of the Sanhedrim the laying-on of the 
hands, in accordance with the laying-on of the hands 
as transmitted in unbroken succession by the elders 
(2":pi), and were denominated Rabbi, and received 
authority to judge penal cases; while Rab (2") is the 
title of the Babylonian sages, who received the laving- 
on of hands in their colleges. The more ancient gen- 
erations, however, who were far superior, had no such 
titles as Rabbon (*|22), Rabbi ("2"), or Rab (2“), either 
for the Babylonian or Palestinian sages, as is evident 
from the fact that Jlillel I, who came from Babylon, had 
not the title Rabbon (*|2“ ) attached to his name; and 
that of the prophets, who were very eminent, it is simply 
said ‘llaggai the prophet,’ etc. ; ‘Ezra did not come up 
from Babylon,’ etc,, without the title Rabbon being af- 
fixed to their names. Indeed, we do not find that this 
title is of an earlier date than the patriarchate. It be- 
gan with rabbon (lamalicl the elder (A.D. 30), rabbon 
Simon, his son (who perished in the destruction of the 
second Temple), and rabbon Jochanan hen-Zakkai, all 
of whom were patriarchs or presidents of the Sanhedrim 
(2“X“2.*3). The title Rabbi ("22), too, comes into 
vogue among those who received the laying-on of hands 
at this period — as, fur instance, rabbi Zaddok, rabbi 
Eliezer ben-Jacob, etc., and dates from the disciples of 
rabbon Jochanan hen-Zakkai downwards. Now the or- 
der of these titles is as follows: Rabbi is greater than 
Rab; Rabbon, again, is greater than Rabbi; while the 
simple name is greater than Rabbon. No one is called 
Rabbon except the presidents.” From this declaration 
of Shcrira (laon and llai, that the title. Rabbi obtained 
among the disciples of Jochanan hen-Zakkai. the eru- 
dite (Iriitz concludes that <- wc must regard the title 
Babbi, which in the (lospols, with the exception of that 
by Luke, is given to John the Baptist and to Jesus, as 
an anachronism. AVc must also regard as an anachro- 
nism the disapprobation put into the mouth of Jesus 
against the ambition of the Jewish doctors, who love to 
be called by this title, and (he admonition to his dis- 
ciples not to suffer themselves to be styled Rabbi — 
Kai <pi \oi>(Tt (oi y pajiftaTthj) . . . KaXCnrSat vtto nor 
dv^pioTTinv (><*/3/3i pufifii. 'Yytic t* fu) K\)]^i}re 
p«/3/3<, Matt, xxiii, 7, 8). This, moreover, shows that 
when the Gospels were written down the title Rabbi 
stood in so high a repute that the fathers could 
not but transfer it to Christ” ( Gischichte der Judin 
[ Berl. 1853 ]. iv, 500). But even supposing that the 
title Rabbi came into vogue in the days of Jochanan 
hen-Zakkai. this would by no means warrant Griitz's 
conclusion, inasmuch as Jochanan lived upwards of 
a hundred Years, and survived four presidents — viz. 
mile] 1 (B.C. 30-10). Simon I (A.D. 10-3(1), < lamalicl I 
(A.D. 30-50), and Simon It (A.D. 50 70), and it might 
therefore obtain in the early days of this luminary, 
which would be shortly after the birth of Christ. The 
Tosaphoth at the end of Edugnth , however, quoted in 
the . 1 ruch in the same article, gives a different account 
of the origin of this title, which is as follows: “ lie who 
has disciples, and whose disciples again have disciples, 
is called Rabbi; when his disciples are forgotten (i. e, if 


RABBINIC BIBLES 


RABBIM 867 



Modem Jewish Rabbi, attired for Prayer. 


he is so old that his ira medicate disciples already belong 
to the past age), he is called Rabbon ; and when the dis- 
ciples of his disciples are also forgotten, he is simply 
called by liis own name.” This makes the titles coeval 
with the origin of the different schools, and at the same 
time accounts for the absence of them among the earliest 
doctors of the law. 

Some account of the rabbins and the Mishnical and 
Talmudical writings maybe found in Prkleaux (Connec- 
tion, pt. i, bk. 5, under the year B.C. 446; pt. ii, bk. 8, 
under the year B.C. 37) ; and a sketch of the history of 
the school of Rabbinical learning at Tiberias, founded 
by rabbi Judah Hak-kodesli, the compiler of the Mishna, 
in the 2d century after Christ, is given by Robinson 
( Biblical Researches , ii, 391). See also Note 14 to Bur- 
ton, Hampton Lectures, and the authorities there quoted 
— for instance, Briiker (ii, 820) and Basnage ( Hist.des 
Juifs, iii, 6, p. 138). Compare Hill, De Rabbinis (Jen. 
1741); Bohn, ibid. (Erf. 1750) ; Mil Her, De Dodoribus 
(Vitemb. 1740). See Master. 

Rabbim. See Batii-raubim. 

Rabbinic Bibles, also called Miknwth Gedoloth 
(rfiblTl rCX" 1 *^), or Great Bibles, is the name given 
to the following Hebrew Bibles, which, besides the orig- 
inal text, also contain the commentaries of sundry Jew- 
ish rabbins. 

i. Dibpix sinn m ir-^n d*vTm nrsist 
^-r bv yprn m 

N*:j fc l'’*l3X'3 *’3T’2 , 2 , a fol. This 

is the first Rabbinic Bible published by Bom berg, and 
carried through the press by Felix Pratensis (q. v.) 
(Venice, 1516-17) (HS<“1 =278). It consists of four 
parts, with a separate title-page to each, and with the 
following contents: 

a. The Pentateuch, with the Chaldee paraphrase of On- 
kelos (q. v.) and the commentaries of Rashi (q. v.). 

b. The Prophets, with the Chaldee of Jonathan ben- 
Uziel (q. v.) and the commentaries of Kimchi (q.v.). 

c. The Hagiographa, viz. the Psalms, with the Targum 
of Joseph bar-Chija (q. v.) and I). Kimchi’s (q. v.) com- 
mentary; Proverbs, with Joseph’s Targum and David Ibn- 
Jachja’s (q. v.) commentary; Job, with Joseph’s Targum 
and the commentaries of Nachmauides (q. v.) and Farris- 


sol (q. v.); the Five Megilloth (i. e. Canticles, Ruth, Lam- 
entations, Ecclesiastes, and Esther), with Joseph’s Targum 
andRashi’s commentary; Daniel, with Railing's (q. v ) com- 
mentary; Ezra, Kehemiah, and Chronicles, with Rasiii’s 
and Simon Darshan’s, or Cara’s (q.v.), commentary. Ap- 
pended to the volume are the Targum Jerusalem on the 
Pentateuch, the second Targum on Esther, the variations 
between Beu-Asher (q. v.) and Ben-Naphtali, the differ- 
ences between the Eastern and Western codd., Aaron 
ben-Asher’s (q.v.) Dissertation on the Accents, Maimon- 
ides’s (q. v.) thirteen articles of faith, the G13 precepts 
(q.v.), a table of the Parashioth and Haplitaroth (q.v.), 
according to the Spanish and German rituals. 

This edition, however, did not prove acceptable to the 
Jew r s, since it did not come up to all the requirements 
of Masoretic rules, as can be seen from the remark Le- 
vita makes in his Masoreth ha-Masoreth : “ Let me 
therefore warn and caution every one who reads the 
folio or quarto editions of the four-and-twenty books 
published here in Venice in the year 1517 to pay no at- 
tention to the false remarks printed in the margin, in 
the form of Keri and Ketliib, plene and defective , Milel 
and Milra, and variations in the vowels and accents, or 
to any of those things which ought not to have been 
done, as I have stated above. The author of them did 
not know bow to distinguish between his right hand 
and his left. Not being a Jew, he knew nothing about 
the nature of the Masorali, and what he did put down 
simply arose from the fact that he sometimes found va- 
riations in the copies which he had before him, and, as 
he did not know which reading was the correct one, he 
put down one in the margin and another in the text. 
Sometimes it so happened that he put the correct read- 
ing into the text and the incorrect one into the margin, 

I and sometimes the reverse is the case; thus he was 
groping in darkness like a blind man. lienee they are 
not to be heeded, for they are confusion worse confound- 
ed.” When Lcvita states that the editor was no Jew, 
lie is wrong: he was born a Jew, in 1513 embraced 
Christianity at Rome, and died in 1539. The defec- 
tiveness of this first edition induced Bomberg to under- 
take another edition, for which he employed as editor 
the celebrated Jacob ben-CUajim (q.v.), and which lie 
published under the title 

2. . . . TTipn mm *1212, i. e. Porta Dei Sancta 
(Venice, 1524-25, 4 vols. fol.). This edition is an im- 
provement upon the former, and its contents are as fol- 
lows : 

a. The first volume, embracing the Pentateuch (mr), 
begins, 1, with the elaborate introduction of the editor, 
in which he discusses the Jfasorah, the Keri, and Kethib, 
the variations between the Talmud and the Masorah, the 
Tikune Sopherim rB’nB'.D “Oipr), and the order of the 
larger Masorah ; 2, an index of the sections of the whole 
Old Test, according to the Masorah ; and, 3, Abeu-Ezra’s 
preface to the Pentateuch. Then follow the live books 
of Moses in Hebrew, with the Chaldee paraphrases of On- 
kelos and Jonathan ben-Uziel, and the commentaries of 
Rashi and Aben-Ezra, the margins being filled up with as 
much of the Masorah as they would admit. 

b. The second volume, comprising the earlier prophets 
(C'3Vl*S<“i C‘ 1 X“ ! 23), i. e. Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and 
the Kings, has the Hebrew text, the Chaldee paraphrase 

I of Jonathan ben-Uziel, and the commentaries of Rashi, 

I Kimchi, and Levi beu-Gershon, and the Masorah in the 
margin. 

c. The third volume, comprising the later prophets 
1 cE“3‘ 1 “inX miO-S), i. e. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and 

the twelve minor prophets, contains the Hebrew text, the 
Chaldee paraphrase of Jonathan ben-Uziel, the commen- 
taries of Rashi, which extend over all the books in this 
volume, of Aben-Ezra on Isaiah and the minor prophets, 
and of Kimchi on Jeremiah, and the Masorah in the 
margin. 

d. The fourth volume, comprising the Hagiograplia 
;!2"Cri), gives the Hebrew text, the Chaldee para- 
phrase of Joseph the Blind, the commentaries of Rashi 
on the Psalms, Ezra, Nehemiah, the Five Megilloth, and 
Chronicles; of Aben-Ezra on the Psalms, Proverbs, Job, 
Daniel, the Five Megilloth, Ezra, and Nehemiah ; of Levi 
ben-Gershou on Proverbs and Daniel; of Saadias on 
Daniel and the second Targum of Esther. 

But the most valuable part of his labors are the appen- 
dices to this volume, which are, “ 1, the Masorah which 


KABBIXIC BIBLES 


8CS 


KABBIXIC BIBLES 


conld not be got into the margin of the text in alphabetical 
order, with Jacob beu-Chajim's directions ; 2, the various 
readings of Iien-Asber aud Ben-Napbtali, and the East- 
ern and Western codd. ; and, 3, a treatise upon the points 
and accents, containing the work “"Til H* “!*pjn "2“H, 
or rp*:n by Moses Nakdau. Jacob beu-Cliajim 

bestowed the utmost labor in amassing the Masorah and 
in purifying and arranging those materials which Felix 
Pratensis published very incorrectly in the first edition 
of Bum berg’s Rabbinic* Bible, lie was, moreover, the 
first who, in his elaborate introduction, furnished the 
Biblical student with a treatise on the Masorah ; and his 
edition of the Bible is of great importance to the criticism 
of the text, inasmuch as from it most of the Hebrew Bi- 
bles are printed. Kennicott published a Latin translation 
of Jacob ben-C'hajim's valuable introduction from an 
anonymous MS. in the Bodleian Library in an abridged 
form"(comp. Dissertation the Second [Oxford, 1759], p. 229- 
244), and Ginsburg has published an English translation 
of the whole with explanatory notes in the Journal of 
Sacred Literature , 1S63. In after-life Jacob ben-Chajim 
embraced Christianity, a circumstance which will account 
for Elias Levita’s vituperations against him " i nn 

"p2 i, e. ‘ Let his soul be bouud up in 

a bag with holes 

3. A revised ami improved edition of the second 
Bombergiail Bible was published at Venice in 1516-4*, 
under the supervision of Cornelius Adelkind. The 
changes made in this edition consist in omitting Abon- 
Ezra’s commentary on Isaiah and the Minor Prophets, 
while Jacob ben-Asher’s (q. v.) commentary on the 
Pentateuch and Isaiah di Trani’s (q. v.) commentary on 
Judges and Samuel are inserted. 

4. Bomberg’s fourth Rabbinic Bible, by Joan, de 
Gara, carried through the press and corrected by Isaac 
ben-Joseph and Isaac ben-Gershon Treves (Ven- 
ice, 15GS, 4 vols. fob). The correctors remark at the 
end that they have reinserted in this edition the por- 
tion of the Masorah which was omitted in the edition 
of 1540-4*. Appended is the so-called Jerusalem Jar- 
gum on the Pentateuch. Wolf (Bibliotheca J/cbr. ii, 
372) says: “In catalogo quodam MSS. codicum Hebr. 
Bibl. Bodlej. observatum vidi, quod hmc editio opera 
Genebrardi passim sit castrata in iis qua; contra rem 
Christianam ct praecipiic contra Romanos dicuntur;’’ 
but Stcinscbneider (in Cataloyus JAhr. llebr.') states, 
‘‘sed exemplar talc in Budl. non exstat." 

• • • “‘IT'I TU, published at Venice 

in 1017-19 (4 vols. fol.) by Pietro and Lorenzo Braga- 
din, and edited by the celebrated Leon di Modena (q. v.) 
and Abraham Cbaber-Tob ben-Solomon Cliajim Sopher. 
It contains the whole matter of the foregoing edition, 
and is preceded by a preface written by Leon di Modena. 
This edition, however, is of less value to the critical stu- 
dent, being castrated by the Inquisition, under whose 
censorship it was published, as may be seen from the 
remark of the censor at the end : *• Visto per me, Er. Ke- 
nato da Mod. a. 1020.” 

. . . [i. e. God, thy salvation is in thy word, and thv 
kingdom is from generation to generation], printed at 
Basle ip 161 *-19 (2 vols. fol.), and edited by John Iinx- 
torf. This Bible is divided into four parts, the latter 
of which, consisting of the later prophets and Ilagiog- 
rnpha, is dated 1019. The title-page is followed by a 
Latin preface by Buxtorf, a table of the number of chap- 
ters in the Bible, and a poem of Aboil- Ezra on the He- 
brew language. Besides the Hebrew text and the 
Chaldee paraphrases, it contains as follows: 1, Kashi on 
the whole Old Test.; 2, Ahen-Ezra on the Pentateuch, 
Isaiah, the Minor Prophets, Psalms, Job, the Five Me- 
gilloth, and Daniel; 3, Moses Kimehi on the Proverbs, 
Ezra, and Nehcmiah; 4, D. Kimehi on Chronicles; 5, 
Ilalbag on the earlier prophets and Proverbs; 0, Saadi as 
on Daniel: 7, Jacob ben-Ashor on the Pentateuch; H, 
Jachja on Samuel ; 9, the Masorah Einalis and Buxtorf s 
Tiberias, etc.; 10, the various readings of Ben-Asher 
and Beu-Xaphtali ; 11, the variations between the East- 


ern and Western codices; 12, a treatise on the accents. 
The whole is formed after Jacob ben-Chajim’s second 
edition (1546-4S), with some corrections and alterations 
by Buxtorf. Buxtorf, in editing this Bible, has erected 
to himself a lasting monument. < >f course, like every 
human work, it is imperfect; but, in spite of its defi- 
ciencies. the student must still thank the editor for this 
work, ami Kiehard Simon, in his f/istoire Critique du 
V. T. p. 513, certainly does great injustice when he 
says: Bien qu’il pretemle que son edition est plus 

exacte que les autres, les Juifs eepcmlaut ne I’cstiment 
pas beaucoup, ii cause des l'autes qui s*v rencontrent, 
surtout dans les eommentaires des rabbins, oil il a 
laisse les errenrs des copistes, qui etoient dans les edi- 
tions preceded tes, et il y en a ajoute de nouvelles. II 
seroit necessaire d'avoir de bons exemplaires mannscrits 
de ces eommentaires dcs rabbins, pour les corriger en 
une infinite d’endroits; et e’est a quoi Buxtorfe devoit 
plutot s'appliqner, qu’ii reformer la punctuation du texte 
Caldaique.” 

7. rri'“ r~-np or the Amsterdam Kabbinic 

Bible, edited bv Closes Frankfurter (Amsterdam, 1724- 
27, 4 vols. royal fol.). This is unquestionably the most 
valuable of all the Kabbinic Bibles. It is founded upon 
the Bomberg editions, and gives not only their contents, 
but al&o those of Buxtorf’s, with much additional matter. 
This is the last Kabbinic Bible which is described in 
bibliographical works, and for this reason we give bore 
the literature pertaining to the above Bibles: Wolf, 
I Bibliotheca Hebr. ii, 365 sq. ; Le Long-Mash, Bibliotheca 
I Sacra, i, 95 sip ; Koscnmiiller, Uandbuch dcr bibl . /Ateru- 
tur, i, 249 sq. ; Stcinscbneider, Cataloyus IAbr. Hebr. in 
Bibliotheca Bodleiana , col. 0 sq. ; Ginsburg, in Kit to, s. v. 
“Rabbinic Bibles;” Carpzov, Critica Sacra (Lipsho, 
174*), p. 409 sq. ; K. Simon, flisloire Critique du Yitux 
Test. p. 512 sq. See FitANKi-Tirmt. 

a. The first volume , including the Pentatencli, contains: 
1, an index of the things explained by It. Ahdias Seforno, 
according to the Carashai/otk; 2, a treatise by the same 
author on the Law : 3, approbations of the synagogues of 
Amsterdam, Frankfort, and others; 4, au explication by 
Moses (the author) of the signs used to designate the au- 
thors referred to; 5, ancient prefaces at the head of for- 
mer editions; 6, an index of the chapters of the books of 
the Old Test. ; 7, the prefaces of R. Chiskuni ; s, the pref- 
ace of Levi ben-Gershon (Railing), with a revision of the 
Talmud ; 9, the preface of R. Ahdias Seforno ; 10, the pref- 
ace of Ahen-Ezra. 

To the sacred text are added the Taryums (that of On- 
kelos in the Pentateuch; in the other volumes, such as 
exist), the commentaries of Kashi, Ahen-Ezra, Baal-Tu- 
riin, the Greater and the Lesser Masorah, the notes (in this 
veil.) of Levi ben - Gershou, chiskuni, Jacob de Letkias, 
the Imre-.Xoach (“ Precepts of Noah"), and the commenta- 
ry of R. Ahdias Seforno. The Koniets Minchah (a collection 
from various commentaries) is added by the editor. The 
columns are so disposed that the Hebrew text aud the 
Targuin are in the centre of the page, printed in square 
type; the Lesser Masorah in the intermediate space, and 
the Greater Masorah (likewise in square type) at the bot- 
tom. At the sides, iu large round (Rabbinic) letters, in 
the iuner margin, is the commentary of Kashi; in the 
outer margin, that of Ahen-Kzra and sometimes that of 
Chiskuni. In the lesser column, in small round type, are 
placed Baal-Tttrim, the Imre-yoavh, and the Soviet* Min- 
chah ; in the lower part of the page, the commentaries of 
i Ralhag ami Seforno, iu small round type. 

b. The second volume contains the earlier prophets (ac- 
1 compauied by the Targum and Masorah as above), with 
I the commentaries of Kashi, Ralhag, and Esaias. also ex- 
tracts from the book Keli Jaker by R. Samuel Lailado, and 
the Minchah Ketanah (extracts from the commentaries of 
Moses Alsheich and R. Aaron hen-t hajim; also a com- 
mentary called Leb Aharon on the book of Josh mi and 

| Judges) of the editor in the margin. The prefaces of 
Kimehi, Levi ben-Gershon, nnd R. Samuel Laftado iu the 
Keli Jaker, follow the title of this volume. 

e. The third volume contains the later prophets (the 
text, etc., arranged as before), with the commentaries of 
Kashi, Radak (Ii. David Kimehi), Ahen-Ezra on Isaiah 
, and Jeremiah, R. Samuel Lnflado, R. Jacob l>en-Rab, Ii. 
Ahdias Seforno, Samuel Almesniies.aml Ii. Isaac Gerslion, 
and the Minchah (iedolah (a series of extracts similar to 
the above) by the editor. 

d. The fourth volume, containing the Kethnhim (in like 
style), has the prefaces of A hen- Ezra, Aben-Esaias, and 
Simeon hen-Zemach iu the Ohel Meshnat and the Mishpat 
Xedek. There are also various commentaries on the 11a- 
giograplm, by Kashi, Ahen-Ezra, Isaac Jabcz, Aheu-Je- 


869 


RABBINICAL DIALECT 


RABBINICAL DIALECT 

chaja; Abdias Seforno ou the Psalms, and extracts from the 
Miozma Lcittura of Samuel Arepol ; on the Proverbs, by 
Kashi, Abeu-Ezra, Ralbag, Aben-Jechaja, Meuahem Ilam- 
meiri, with the commentary Kab Venctki of Solomon ben- 
Abraham ; on Job, by Rashi, Abeu-Ezra, Aben-Jechaja, 
Isaac Jabez, Rambau, Abo, Perizol, Abdias Seforuo, and 
Simeon ben-Zemach ; on the Canticles, by Rashi, Abeu- 
Ezra, Ralbag, Aben-Jechaja, Isaac Jabez, Meri Arama, 
and Abdias Seforno; on Ruth, by Rashi, Aben-Ezra, Ral- 
bag, Aben-Jechaja, and Isaac Jabez; on Ecclesiastes, by 
the same commentators, with the addition of Abdias 
Seforno ; on Esther, by Rashi, Aben-Ezra, Ralbag, Aben- 
Jechaja; on Daniel, by Rashi, Aben-Ezra, Saadias, Aben- 
Jechaja, Isaac Jabez, and Ralbag; on Ezra and Nehe- 
miah, by Rashi, Aben-Ezra, Aben-Jechaja, and Isaac Ja- 
bez; ou Chronicles, by Rashi, Radak, aud Aben-Jechaja. 
The editor has also added his own commentary tnrougli- 
out this volume of the work, under the title Minchali 
Ereb. At the end of the work are placed the Greater Ma- 
sorah, the variations of the Eastern aud Western Recen- 
sions (so called), aud the treatise ou the accents. Each 
of the assistants in the work is celebrated in Hebrew 

According to Wolff, this edition of the Rabbinic Bible 
is the most copious and the best. Some interpolations 
from MSS. have been introduced, in some instances en- 
tire, in others by extracts. Verses 36 and 37 of Josh, xxi 
have been rejected, and this is marked in the margin, 
which states that they exist in some MSS., but not iu the 
most correct and aucieut ones. In some copies designed 
for the use of Christians, Tyscheudorf has remarked that 
the treatise of R. Abdias Seforno, Be Scopa Legis, is want- 
ing. 

8. The latest Rabbinic Bible, with thirty-two com- 
mentaries, is the 3 ? 32 r“X“ip3, 

published at Warsaw by Lebenson (1860-C8, 12 vols. 
small fob). It contains, besides the original Hebrew, 
the Chaldee of Oukelos and Jerushalmi on the Penta- 
teuch, the Chaldee on the prophets and llagiographa, 
and the second Targum on Esther. Of commentaries, 
it contains that of Rashi on the whole Bible; Aaron 
Pesaro’s (q. v.) Toldot Aaron ; Asheri’s and Norzi’s 
(q. v.) commentary on the Bible ; Aben-Ezra on the 
Pentateuch, the Five Megilloth, the Minor Prophets, 
the Psalms, Job, and Daniel; Moses Kimchi on Prov- 
erbs; Nachmanides on the Pentateuch; Obadiah de 
Seforno (q. v.) on the Pentateuch, Song of Songs, and 
Ecclesiastes; El. Wilna (q. v.) on the Pentateuch, Josh- 
ua, Isaiah, and Hezckiah ; S. E. Lenczyz and S. Edels 
on the Pentateuch; J. II. Altschuler on the prophets 
and Hagiographa; I). Kimchi on the later prophets; 
Ralbag on Joshua, Kings, Proverbs, and Job; Is. di 
Trani on Judges and Samuel; S. Oceda (q. v.) on Ruth 
and Lamentations; Eliezer ben-Elia Harofe on Esther; 
Saadias on Daniel. It also contains the Masorah Magna 
and Parva, a treatise on the vowel-points and accents, 
the various readings between Asher and Naphtali, and 
the introduction of Jacob bcn-Chajim. This edition is 
recommended by the greatest Jewish authorities iu Po- 
land, as Meisels, of Warsaw; Muscat, of Prague; Heil- 
prin, of Bialystock, etc. (B. P.) 

Rabbinical Dialect. By this term we under- 
stand that form of the Hebrew language in which the 
principal Scripture commentators among the rabbins 
wrote, as Kimchi, Aben-Ezra, Abrabanel, Rashi, together 
with the Mishna, the Jewish Prayer-books, etc. Books 
in this dialect are generall} - printed in a round char- 
acter, more resembling writing than the ordinary 
square Hebrew letters; but the power, value, aud pro- 
nunciation of the letters are precisely the same as iu 
Biblical Hebrew. The Rabbinical characters are given 
below. Although substantially Hebrew, yet this dialect 
has so many peculiarities as to require a separate stndy. 
The scholar who is well versed in the pure or classic 
Hebrew of the Holy Scriptures would be unable to read 
the first two lines in the Talmud without an especial in- 
doctrination in its grammatical forms, aside from the 
difficulty of explaining words derived from the Greek, 
Latin, French, Arabic, and the like. The orthography, 
too, of this dialect has, to the reader of pure Hebrew, 
often an uncouth, and at first sight unintelligible, ap- 
pearance. This is caused by the habit of inserting the 
letters X, 1, * 1 , instead of using the corresponding vowel- 


c r> 

3 

P 

3? 

D 

t> 

P 

•5 

c 

p 


I 


points, and thus X stands for T 
or ., as i;Xi: for ".'2, ^X3 for iu Hebrew 

ift ; “1 stands for or T , as ^ 

for nVr. ■nmsb for ; *1 J 

for •• or as for iU^S, 7 

T32*X for also for : or P 

dagesh,as riji^ib for ^ 

nCO for Pip::. Sometimes a ' 
radical in verbs is dropped either P 
at the beginning, middle, or end ^ 
of a word. It drops the first, as y 

in forinx, r: for is:x, x: for 

X:X. *j2 for *,:x, for '“~X, 
b'Z for V-X. It drops the sec- 
ond, as ■'X for “VX, np for E“lp, 
na for nrr. c^n for t-bnr, i 
nr for n nr ; or it drops the 
third, as "X for *fX, "3 for *pn, 

13 for m, "*2 for *p2. -1' for ‘l 
rrr, = r for mvr for 3-r. I 
Parts of words are often pro- 
longed, as by doubling letters, 
or inserting double Yod ; and to 
this and many other peculiar- 
ities must be added the use 
of numerous abbreviations, re- 
quiring a study in itself— thus e. g. X X may be "iX 

-nx,-nx “:ix, “rr:x l ~:x,nnx r -x, nnx *,s'x, 
-rsx “’X, i^x “i-x, c-x rex, r-3X ^x, -px 
n:*xx stands for ‘2‘zx :mx 

riben. 


I 


We give a list of such works as will help the stu- 
dent iu this branch of literature. (I.) Grammars. — J. 
H. Mai, Graminatica Rabbinica (Giessen, 1712); Mer- 
cer, PIX3PX "X nxr-“3 ip'.ipi in Tabulae in 
Gr.L. Chald. quae et Syr.dicitur : mu It a interim de Rah- 
binico et Talmudico Stilo traduntur (Paris, 15G0); Re- 
land, Analecta Rabbinica (Ultraj. 1723); Mi Hi us, Cata- 
lecta Rabbinica (ibid. 1728) ; Alting, Synopsis Institutio- 
num Rabbinorum (Fraukfort-on-the-Main, 1701) ; Danz, 
xrb:o . sire Rabbinismus Enucleatus (Jena, 7th 
ed. 1735) ; Cellarius, Rabbinismus sire Inst. Gram. Rab- 
binorum Scriptis , Legendis , et Intellig. accommodata 
(Zeiz, 1G84) ; Gencbrard, Isagoge ad Legenda et Intelli- 
genda Rabbinorum Comment. (Paris, 15G3); Tycbsen, 
Elem. Dialect. Rabb. (Blitzow, 1753) , Dukes, Die Sprache 
der Mischna, lexicogr. und grammat. betracktet (Essling- 
en, 184G); Geiger, Lehr- u. Lesebuch zur Sprache der 
Mischna (Breslau, 1845); Landau, Geist und Sprache 
der Hebrder nach demztreifen Temptlbau (Prague, 1822); 
Luzzatto, Elementi Grammaticali del Caldeo Biblico edel 
Dialetto Talmudico Babifonese (transl. into German by 
Kruger [Breslau, 1873]); Faber, .4 nmerkungen zur Er- 
lernung des Talmudischen und Rabbinischen (Gottingen, 
1770); Weiss, Studien iiber die Sprache der Mischna 
(IIeb. [Vienna, 1XG7]) , Nolan, Am Introduction to Chal- 
dee Grammar, etc. (Lond. 1821). 

(II.) Rabbinical Lexicons aiul Word-books. — Buxtorf, 
Lexicon Chaldaicum, Talmudicum, et Rabbinicum (Basle, 
1040, fol. [new ed. by Fischer, Leips. 18G6 sq.]); id. 
Lexicon Breve Rabbinico-Philosaphicum (ibid. 1G07, and 
often since) ; Hartmann, Supplementa ad J. Buxtorfii et 
IF. Gesenii Lexicon (Rostock, 1813); id. Thesaurus 
Linguae Hebraicae e Mishna augend, (ibid. 1825-26); 
Lowy, 2"32” “|* '!'?, Worterbuch enthaltend hebr. 
Worter u. Redensarten , die sich im Talmud bejinden 
(Prague, 1845-47, 2 pts.); Nathan ben-Jechiel, Ha- 
Aruch (Rome, 1515) , Dessauer, Leshon Rabbanan (Er- 
langen, 1849); Stern, Ozar ha-Millin (Vienna, 18G4); 


RABBIN ISM 


870 


RABBIXISM 


Levy, Xeuhehrdisckes und chalddisches Wortcrbuch 
(Leips. 1875 sq. ) ; llabinei, Rubbinisch - urumuisches 
W'orkrbuch (Lemberg, 1857); Young, Rabbinical Vo- 
cabulary, etc. (Ldinb. s. a. - ). 

(111.) Miscellaneous.— Vor the abbreviations, comp. 
Wolf ( Bill. llebr. vols. ii, iv), and also Buxtorf (ed. 
Fischer), where at the end of each letter the abbrevia- 
tions of the respective letter are given. (11. 1’.) 

Rabbinism is that development of Judaism which, 
after the return from llabylon, but more especially after 
the ruin of the Temple and the extinction of the public 
worship, became a new bond of national union, and the 
great distinctive feature in the character of modern Ju- 
daism. After the return from the Babylonian captivi- 
ty, the Mosaic constitution could be but partially re-es- 
tablished. The whole structure was too much shatter- 
ed, and its fragments too widely dispersed, to reunite in 
their ancient and regular form. The Levites who had 
returned from the captivity, it is true, were the officiat- 
ing priesthood, and no more. They were bound to be 
acquainted with the forms and usages of the sacrificial 
ritual; but the instruction of the people and the inter- 
pretation of the law by no means fell necessarily within 
their province. From the captivity the Jews brought 
with them a reverential, or, rather, a passionate, attach- 
ment to the Mosaic law ; and this it seems to have been 
the prudent policy of their leaders, Ezra and Nehemiah, 
to encourage by all possible means as the great bond of 
social union, and the unfailing principle of separation 
from the rest of mankind. By degrees, attachment to 
the law sank deeper and deeper into the national char- 
acter: it was not merely at once their Bible and their 
statute-book; it entered into the most minute detail of 
common life. “ Hut no written law can provide for all 
possible exigencies. Whether general and comprehen- 
sive, or minute and multifarious, it equally requires the 
expositor to adapt it to the immediate case which may 
occur, either before the public tribunal or that of the 
private conscience. lienee the law became a deep and 
intricate study. Certain men rose to acknowledged em- 
inence for their ingenuity in explaining, their readiness 
in applying, their facility in quoting, and their clearness 
in ottering solutions of, the difficult passages of the writ- 
ten statutes. Learning of the law became the great 
distinction to which all alike paid reverential homage. 
Public and private affairs depended on the sanction of this 
self-formed spiritual aristocracy,” or rabbinical oligarchy, 
which, itself held together by a strong corporate spirit, 
by community of interest, by identity of principle, has 
contributed, more than any oilier external cause, to knit 
together in one body the widely dispersed members of the 
Jewish family, and to keep them the distinct and sep- 
arate people which they appear in all ages of the world. 

The first stage of development appears in the work 
of the so-called Sopher -im, the last of whom was Simon 
the Just (q. v.) ; and their work will be more fully de- 
scribed in the art. SrtmtKS. The Sopheriin were fol- 
lowed by another class of men, known as the Tanuim , 
or teachers of the law' (the vopociCdoKaXoi in the N.T.), 
comprising a period from B.C. 200 to A.l >. 220. While wc 
reserve a description of their work for the art. Scntnt'.s, 
we will only mention that from this school proceeded the 
oldest Midrashim, as Mechilta, Siphru, and Siphri [see 
Mmujasu |, and the Minima (q. v.). The most distin- 
guished rabbins of theTanaim (who are in part given al- 
ready, or will be given, in this Cyclopa-dia) were : I. An- 
tigonns of Soho(B.C. 200-170), whose famous maxim — 
“He not like servants who serve their master for the 
sake of receiving wages, but be like servants who serve 
their master without expecting to receive wages; and 
let the fear of the Lord be upon yon” (.1 both, i, 3) 
a maxim pronounced by Prossensti (in his Jesus Christ: 
hts Times, etc.) as 4i [ a noble and almost evangelical 
one],* truly a most beautiful maxim, and one denoting 


* The clause in brackets is found in the Amer. erl. of 
1S6S, but is omitted iu the 4th Engl. ed. (Loudon, ls7t). 


a legitimate reaction from the legal formalism which 
was in process of development” — is said to have given 
rise to Sadducceism; 2. Jose ben-Joeser, ofZercda, and 
his companion, Jose bcn-Jochanan. of Jerusalem ; 3. Jo- 
clianan, the liigh-priest (commonly called John llyr- 
canus, q. v.); 4. Jchoshua ben -Pcraclija, the reputed 
teacher of Christ, and his colleague, Nithai of Arbela 
(q. v.) ; 5. Simon ben-Shetach (q. v.) and Jehudali ben- 
Tabai; li. Shemaja (q. v.) and Abtalion; 7. Hillel I (q. 
v.); 8. Simon ben-Ilillel I (q. v.) ; 9. Gamaliel I (q. v.); 
10. Simon II ben-< lamaliel (q. v.), who fell at the de- 
fence of Jerusalem; 11. Jochanan ben-Zacliai (q. v); 
12. (lamaliel II, of Jabnc (q. v.); 13. Simon II ben-Ga- 
maliel II (q. v.) and 1L Nathan lia-Babli (q. v.); 14. 
Jchudah 1 the Holy (q.v.); and. 15. Gamaliel 111. 

The Tana'im were follow ed by the . I moral m, or later 
doctors of the law-; and the fruits of their work are laid 
down in the Talmud (q. v.), the completion of which 
(about A.l). 500) terminated the period of the Amoraim, 
to be opened by that of the Habaruim, or the teachers 
of the law after the conclusion of the Talmud. To this 
period (A.l). 500-G57), perhaps, belongs the collection, 
or final redaction, of some of the lesser Talmudic trea- 
tises and the Masorah (q. v.). After the Amoraim 
came the so-called Gaonim , or the last doctors of the 
law in the chain of Babbinic succession, comprising a 
period from A. I). G57 to 1040. The work of these dif- 
ferent schools, together with the biographies of the most 
distinguished men, will be treated more fully in the art. 
ScniBKS. 

On the dissolution of the Babylonian schools. Spain, 
Portugal, and Southern France became the centre of 
Babbinism. As early as about A.l). 1000 the Talmud is 
said to have been translated into Arabic. In Spain, 
the most flourishing school was that of Cordova, found- 
ed by Moses ben-Chanoch (q.v.). Besides Cordova, 
Babbinism flourished in Granada, then in Lucena, the 
most famous representative of which was Isaac ben- 
Jacob Alfasi (q.v.). To the 1 1th and Pith centuries 
belong especially Jehndah ha-Levi ben-Samuel (q. v.), 
Aben-Ezra (q. v.), the Kimchis (q. v.), and Solomon 
Parchon (q. v.). In France flourished Gershom ben- 
Jchudah, or Uabbenu Gershom (q.v.), and Iiashi (q.v.). 
But the most distinguished of all was Moses Maimon- 
ides (q. v.), of Cordova, whose philosophical treatment 
of tradition divided Judaism, after his death, into two 
hostile parties; and the Spanish and French schools 
were divided for some time. When, in 1305, Asher 
ben-Jechiel, of Germany, came into Spain, he succeeded 
in bringing the French school, which was hostile to 
philosophy, to supremacy, and thus philosophy was 
proscribed. But there was another kind of philosophy 

if it deserve that name at all— which was especially 
cultivated in these times — the so-called Cabala, as it 
especially appears in the Sohar (q. v.). As the fore- 
most representatives of this branch of literature, we 
may mention Meir ibn-Gabbai (q. v.), Joseph Karo (q. 
v.), Salomo al Kabez, Moses Cordovero (q. v.), Isaac 
Loria (q. v.), Moses Galantc (q. v.), Samuel Laniado (q. 
v.), Jacob Zemach, and llajim Vidal. The invention 
of the art of printing produced a new activity in the 
Church as well as in the Synagogue; and the lirst 
printed edition of the Talmud, in 1520, at Venice; the 
edition of the second Bomberg Babbinic Bible, by Ja- 
cob ben-Chajim, in 152(>; and the writings of Elias 
Levita (q. v.), are the lirst Jewish fruits of the art. 
Babbinism was again revived and represented iu the 
schools of Brody, Lemberg, Lublin, Cracow, Prague, 
Filrth, Frankfort, Venice, and Amsterdam. The party 
I spirit which, in former ages, was represented in the 
Spanish and French schools was revived in the Portu- 
, gueso - Italian and Germano - Polish schools. Moses 
Mendelssohn (q.v.), and his friends — as Ilartwig Wes- 
sely, David Friedliinder, and others opened a new cp- 
I och, and endeavored to enlighten their coreligionists; 
but the chasm was not healed. On the contrary, a 
, final division was produced; and Beformed and Ortho- 


RABBITII 


871 


liAB-SARIS 


dox Judaism are the two antipodes of the present day. 
As a religious system, “ Kabbinism,” says the late Dr. 
M'Caul, “ has fared like all other religious systems : it 
has had prejudiced assailants to attack, and over-zeal- 
ous admirers to defend it. The former have produced 
whatever they could find objectionable ; the latter have 
carefully kept out of view whatever seemed to its dis- 
advantage. The truth is, that it is a mixed system of 
good and bad. Founded on the inspired writings of 
Moses and the prophets, it necessarily contains much 
truth and wisdom ; but, expounded and enlarged by 
prejudiced men, it presents a strange incongruity of 
materials.’’ See the art. “ Kabbinism,” in Herzog’s 
Ileal- Encykl. ; the same art. in Tkeol. Universal- Lex- 
icon; ]Vesen das Rabbinismus, in Jost, Gesch. d.Juilenth. 
u. s. Secten, i, 227 sq. ; M*‘Caul, Sketches of Judaism and 
the Jews (London, 1838), eh. iv— “ Kabbinism Considered 
as a Religious System,” p. 69 sq. (B. P.) 

Rab'bith (Heb. RabUth ' [always with the 

art.], multitude; Sept. 'P v. r. Saj3ipiov), a city 
in the tribe of Issaeliar (Josh, xix, 20). Schwarz 
(Palest, p. 166) found a village, Arubuni, three English 
miles west of Beth-shcan, which he is disposed to iden- 
tify with the Rebbo of Jerome, and the Rabbith of 
Joshua. But this is beyond the bounds of Issaeliar. 
Probably the locality in question is in the north-east part 
of the tribe, possibly at the ruins Sumurieh (? Samaria). 

Rabbling, a term employed to denote the sum- 
mary ejectment, on Christmas-day, 168S, of Episcopal 
clergymen and their families by the Scottish populace, 
after the Revolution. The incumbents were turned out 
of their houses, and often into the snow; the church 
doors were locked, and the key was taken away. These 
measures were certainly harsh and uncalled for; but the 
people had been exasperated, especially in the west 
country, by twenty-five years of bloodshed and persecu- 
tion. Though thej r were “ rude, even to brutality,” 
yet, as lord Macaulay says, “they do not appear to 
have been guilty of any intentional injury to life or 
limb.” The better part of the people put a stop to the 
riotous proceedings on the part principally of the Cam- 
eronians; but a form of notice, or a threatening letter, 
was scut to every curate in the Western Lowlands. — 
Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

RABBLING ACT, a law passed by the Scottish Par- 
liament, in 1698, to prevent disturbance and riots at the 
settlement of ministers. The Episcopalians in the North 
rabbled the Presbyterians, especially on the day of an 
ordination ; for they did not like to see their incumbents 
supplanted. So violent were their measures that the 
legislature had thus to interfere against them.— Eadie, 
Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. See Revolution Settlement. 
RabboTii (Paj3(3ovvi, or 'Paj3j3om', for Chaldaic 
my master), the title of highest honor applied by 
the Jews to the teachers of the law. See Rabbi. In 
Mark x, 51 (where it is translated “Lord”), and John 
xx, 16, it is applied to Christ; but, as it seems to us, 
rather in its literal acceptation than with reference to 
the conventional distinction which it implied (if such 
distinction then existed) in the Jewish schools. There 
were but seven great professors, all of the school of 
Hillel, to whom the title was publicly given. There is 
some difference as to their names, and even the Tal- 
mud varies in its statements. But the only one there 
whose name occurs in Scripture is Gamaliel, unless, in- 
deed, as some suppose, the aged Simeon, who blessed 
the infant Saviour (Luke ii, 25), was the same as the 
llabban Simeon of the Talmud. — Kitto. See Simeon. 

Rabe. See Rosenbach. 

Rabh. See Rab. 

Rab'-mag (lleb. Rub-mag, chief magician; 

Sept. Pafi-fiay or ‘P a[3apa\), a word found only in 
Jer. xxxix, 3 and 13, as a title borne bv a certain Nergal- 
sharezer who is mentioned among the “ princes” that 


accompanied Nebuchadnezzar to the last siege of Jeru- 
salem. Nergal-sliarezer is probably identical with the 
king, called by the Greeks Neriglissar, who ascended 
the throne of Babylon two years after the death of Neb- 
uchadnezzar. See Nergal-siiarezer. This king, 
as well as certain other important personages, is found 
to bear the title in the Babylonian inscriptions. It is 
written, indeed, with a somewhat different vocalization, 
being read as Rabu-Emga by Sir II. Rawlinson. The 
signification is somewhat doubtful. Rubu is most cer- 
tainly “great,” or “chief,” an exact equivalent of the 
Hebrew 3^, whence Rabbi, “a great one, a doctor;” 
but May. or Emga, is an obscure term. It has been 
commonly identified with the word “Magus” (Gesenius, 
ad voc. ; Calmet, Commentate Litter ul, vi, 203, etc.) ; 
but this identification is somewhat uncertain, since an 
entirely different word — one which is read as Magusu 
— is used in that sense throughout the Behistun in- 
scription (Oppert, Expedition Scientifique en Mesopota- 
mie, ii, 209). Sir II. Rawlinson inclines to translate 
emga by “priest,” but does not connect it with the 
Magi, who in the time of Neriglissar had no footing in 
Babylon. He regards this rendering, however, as pure- 
ly conjectural, and thinks we can only say at present 
that tiie office was one of great power and dignity at 
the Babylonian court, and probably gave its possessor 
special facilities for obtaining the throne. — Smith. See 


Magi. 


Rab'saces (Paif/aio/c). a Graecized form (Ecclus. 
xlviii, 18) of the name Rab-shakeii (q. v.). 

Rab'-saris (Heb. Rub-Saris), a name 

applied to two foreigners, but probably rather the des- 
ignation of an office than of an individual, the word sig- 
nifying chief eunuch; in Dan. i, 3, Ashpenaz is entitled 
the master of the eunuchs (Kab-sarisim). Lutlier trans- 
lates the word, in the three places where it occurs, as a 
name of office, the arch-chamberlain (der Erzkiimmer- 
er, der oberste Kdmmerer). Josephus (.1 nt. x, 8, 2) takes 
them as the A. Y. does, as proper names. The chief 
officers of the court were present attending on the king; 
and the instance of the eunuch Narses would show that 
it was not impossible for the Rab-saris to possess some 
of the qualities fitting him for a military command. 
In 2 Kings xxv, 19, a eunuch Saris, in the 

text of the A. Y. “officer," in the margin “ eunuch”) is 
spoken of as set over the men of war ; and in the sculpt- 
ures at Nineveh “eunuchs are represented as command- 
ing in war; fighting both on chariots and on horseback, 
and receiving the prisoners and the heads of the slain 
after battle” (Layard, Ninereh, ii, 325). — Smith. But 
whether his office was really that which the title im- 
ports, or some other great court office, has been ques- 
tioned. The chief of the eunuchs is an officer of high 
rank and dignity in the Oriental courts; and his cares 
are not confined to the harem, but many high public 
functions devolve upon him. In the Ottoman Porte 
the Kislar Aga, or chief of the black eunuchs, is oue of 
the principal personages in the empire, and in an of- 
ficial paper of great solemnity is styled by the sultan 
the most illustrious of the officers who approach his 
august person, and worthy of the confidence of monarchs 
and of sovereigns (D’Ohsson, Tab. Gen. iii, 308). It is, 
therefore, by no means improbable that such an office 
should be associated wfith a military commission; per- 
haps not for directly military duties, but to take charge 
of the treasure, and to select from the female captives 
such as might seem worthy of the royal harem. — Kitto. 
See Eunucii. 

1. (Sept. 'Paficapeig v. r. ’PaQig.) An officer of the 
king of Assyria sent up with Tartan and Rab-shakeh 
against Jerusalem in the time of Ilezekiah (2 Kings 
xviii, 17). B.C. 713. 

2. (Sept. Siaj3ov(rapeig v. r. 'Sa(3ov'Capic.) One of 
the princes of Nebuchadnezzar, who was present at the 
capture of Jerusalem, B.C. 588, when Zedekiali, after en- 


RAB-SIIAKEII 


872 


BA CCA 


dcavoring to escape, was taken and blinded and sent in ' 
chains to Babylon (.Ter. xxxix, 3). 1 lab-saris is men- 

tioned afterwards (ver. 13) among the other princes who 
at the command of the king were sent to deliver Jere- 
miah out of the prison. It is not improbable that we 
have not only the title of this Kab-saris given, but his 
name also, either S arsechim (ver. 3) or (ver. 13) Xebu- 
shasban (worshipper of Xebo, Isa. xlvi, 1), in the same 
wav as Xergal-sharezer is given in the same passages as 
the name of the Ilab-mag. — Smith. 

Rab-slia'keh (Ileb. Rabshakeh', ; Sept. 

'rcixf/dnjg v. r. 'P afiotucijc), an Aramaic name, signi- 
fying chief cup-bearer , but applied to an Assyrian gen- 
eral (2 Kings xviii, 17, 19, 2(5, 2*, 37; xix, 4. 8; Isa. 
xxxvi, 2, 4, 12, 13, 22; xxxvii. 4,8). B.C. 713. Not- 
withstanding its seemingly ollicial signilicance, it ap- 
pears to have been used as a proper name, as Butler 
with us; for the person who bore it was a military 
chief in high command under Sennacherib, king of As- 
syria. Yet it is not impossible, according to Oriental 
usages, that a royal cup-bearer should hold a military 
command ; and the office itself was one of high distinc- 
tion. in the same way as Rab-saris denotes the chief 
eunuch, and Hub-may, possibly, the chief priest. .See 
Kawlinson, Ancient Monarchies, ii, 440. Luther, in his 
version, is not quite consistent, sometimes (2 Kings 
xviii, 17 ; Isa. xxxvi, 2) giving Kab-shakeh as a proper 
name, but ordinarily translating it as a title of office — 
arch-cupbearer ((hr Erzschcnke). The word Hub may 
be found translated in many places of the English ver- 
sion; for instance, 2 Kings xxv, 8, 20; Jer. xxxix, 1 1 : 
Dan. ii, 14 (-“HZipip), Rub-tabbacldm, “captain of 
the guard’* — in the margin, “chief marshal,” “chief of 
the executioners ;” Dan. i, 3, Ruh-sarisim, “ master of the 
eunuchs;” ii, 48 (j“Py”2“), Rab-signin, “chief of the 
governors;” iv, 9; v, 11 Cj"S72“r ,_ Z“ ), Rab-chartum- 
tnin, “ master of the magicians ;” Jonah i, 6 (^HH IP), 
Rab-hachobef. “ship-master.” It enters into the titles 
Rabbi, Rahboni, and the name Kabbah. — Smith; Kitto. 
See Kauri. 

Kab-shakeh is the last named of three Assyrian gen- 
erals sent against Jerusalem in the reign of llezckiah. 
Sennacherib, having taken other cities of Judah, was 
now besieging Lachish ; and llezekiah, terrilied at his 
progress, and losing, for a time, his firm faith in Cod, 
sends to Lachish with an oiler of submission and trib- 
ute. This he strains himself to the utmost to pay, 
giving for the purpose not only all the treasures of the 
Temple and palace, but stripping off the gold plates 
with which he himself, in the beginning of his reign, 
had overlaid the doors and pillars of the house of the 
Lord (2 Kings xviii, 10; 2 t'hron. xxix. 3: see Raw- 
linson, Hampton Lectures, iv, 141 ; Layard, Xineveh ami 
Babylon, p. 145). lint Sennacherib, not content with 
this — his cupidity being excited rather than appeased 
— sends a great host against Jerusalem under Tartan, 
Kali-saris, and Kab-shakeh; not so much, apparently, 
with the object of at present engaging in the siege of 
the city as with the idea that, in its present disheart- 
ened state, the sight of an army, combined with the 
threats and specious promises of Kab-shakeh, might in- 
duce a surrender at once. In Isa. xxxvi, xxxvii, Kab- 
shakeh alone is mentioned, the reason of which would 
seem to be that he acted as ambassador and spokesman, 
and came so much more prominently before the people 
than the others. Keil thinks that Tartan had the su- 
preme command, inasmuch as in 2 Kings he is men- 
tioned lirst. and, according to Isa. xx, 1, conducted the 
siege of Aslnlod. In 2 t'hron. xxxii, where, with the 
addition of some not unimportant circumstances, there 
is given an abstract of these events, it is simply said 
that (ver. 9) “Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his 
servants to Jerusalem.” Kab-shakeh seems to have dis- 
charged his mission with much zeal, addressing him- 
self, not only to the officers of llezekiah, but to the peo- 


ple on the wall of the city, setting forth the hopeless- 
ness of trusting to any power, human or divine, to de- 
liver them out of the hand of “ the great king, the king 
of Assyria," and dwelling on the many advantages to 
be gained by submission. Many have imagined, from 
the familiarity of Kab-shakeh with Hebrew, that he ei- 
ther was a Jewish deserter or an apostate captive of 
Israel. Whether this be so or not, it is not impossible 
that the assertion which he makes on the part of his 
master, that Sennacherib had even the sanction and 
command of the Lord Jehovah for his expedition against 
Jerusalem (“Am I now come up without the Lord to 
destroy it V The Lord said to me, Co up against this 
land to destroy it”), may have reference to the prophe- 
cies of Isaiah (viii, 7, 8; x, 5, fi) concerning the desola- 
tion of Judah and Israel by the Assyrians, of which, in 
some form, more or less correct, he had received infor- 
mation. licing unable to obtain any promise of sub- 
mission from llezekiah, who, in the extremity of his 
peril returning to trust in the help of the Lord, is en- 
couraged by the words and predictions of Isaiah, Kab- 
shakeh goes back to the king of Assyria, who had now 
departed from Lachish. — Smith. Sec IIkzkki.hi. 

Rabulas OF Eiucssa, an Eastern prelate who flour- 
ished near the opening of the 5th century, was a stu- 
dent of Theodoras of Mopsuestia, and, in 431, was prom- 
inently identified with the Antiochites at the council 
in Ephesus. In the following year, however, Cyril of 
Alexandria succeeded in gaining Kabulas to his side; 
and after this we hear of him as a devout orthodox, 
lie energetically opposed Nestorins, and greatly weak- 
ened the Ncstorians. He condemned the bishop of 
Edcssa, the writings of Diodorus of Tarsus and of The- 
odorus of Mopsuestia, banished and drove off the teach- 
ers from the school at Edessa who were reputed favor- 
able to their doctrines, and thus became an unwilling 
instrument in the founding of the school at Xisibis bv 
Barsumas and in the spread of Xcstorianism in the East. 
He died in 436. 1 1 is successor at Edessa was Ibas (q.v.). 
Under the name of Kabulas there is extant an old ca- 
nonical collection of the Syrian Church, pieces of which 
are contained in the edition of the Xomoncanon of Bar- 
11 ebneus by Alai (Script. Vet. Xov. Coll. vol. x). 

Rabusson, Pai r, a French monastic, was born 
Sept. 5, 1G34, at Cannat. After having entered monas- 
tic life among the Clugniaes, he taught theology in the 
abbeys of St. Martial at Avignon, and St. Martin des 
Champs at. Paris, lie was also made twice the general 
of his order (1G93-1705, 170*-] 4). He died at Paris, 
Oct. 23, 1717. lie wrote works of interest only to the 
student of his order. See Xieeron, Memoires, vol. i. — 
lloefer, A our. Blog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Ra'ca (’Poky}), a term of reproach used by the Jews 
of our Saviour’s age (Matt, v, 22). Critics are agreed 
that it is but the Creek form of the Chaldee term 
Np"“. reyka' (the terminal N being the definite arti- 
cle, used in a vocutire sense), with the sense of “worth- 
less;” but they differ as to whether this term should be 
connected with the root p?"i, conveying the notion of 
emptiness (Cesen. Thesaur. p. 1279). or with one of the 
cognate roots p JT*" (Thohick) or ~p" (Ewald). con- 
veying the notion of thinness (Olshausen, De Wet to. On 
Matt, v, 22). The first of these views is probably cor- 
rect. We may compare the use of p"*. “vain,” in 
Judg. ix,4 ; xi. 3, al., and of Ktri in James ii. 20. Jesus, 
contrasting the law of Moses, which could only take 
notice of overt acts, with his own. which remkrs man 
amenable fi>r his motives and feelings, says in < fleet : 
“Whosoever is rashly angry with his brother is liable 
to the judgment of Cod; whosoever calls his brother 
raca is liable to the judgment of the Sanhedrim ; but 
whosoever calls him fool {pwpt) becomes liable to the 
judgment of Cehenna.” To apprehend the higher 
criminality here attached to the term fool, which may 
not at first seem very obvious, it is necessary to observe 


RACCHEI 


873 


RACE 


that while “raca” denotes a certain looseness of life and 
manners, “fool” denotes a wicked and reprobate person : 
foolishness being in Scripture opposed to spiritual wis- 
dom (Lightfoot, llor. Heir. ad loc.). See Fool. 

Racchei is the name sometimes given by mistake 
to the Zacchei (q. v.). 

Racci, Matteo, a noted Jesuit missionary of the 
ICth century, is closely identified with the Romanizing 
work of that a?ra in the Chinese empire. The very 
year which marks the death of Xavier (1552), marks 
the occurrence of an event which opened China to the 
Europeans. A party of Jesuit missionaries, at whose 
head was Racci, in that year landed stealthily at Ma- 
cao. These missionaries of Rome had determined to 
win over the Chinese to Christianity by stratagem. 
They had studied mathematics and natural science, with 
a view to astonish the natives by their exhibitions. 
Some objects, common enough in Europe, but unheard 
of in China, were prepared as presents for the manda- 
rins and others. A clock that showed the rising and 
setting of the sun and moon; a prism that by the emis- 
sion of its rainbow-rays was mistaken for a fragment of 
the celestial hemisphere, and maps which exhibited the 
world of barbarians, with China filling the east and 
Europe in the remote west, produced sensations of won- 
der such as had never before stirred the placid spirit of 
the viceroy of Canton. Instead of driving them away 
from the country, as they feared, he actually detained 
the Jesuits to exhibit and explain their wonders; for 
only they had the secret of keeping that curious ma- 
chine in action, and only they could manage the spec- 
trum, and expound the new system of geography. Lit- 
erary men crowded the palace to see the Jesuits and to 
hear their wisdom, and the missionaries thus gained an 
influence which they knew well how to utilize. The 
popularity thus acquired by Racci, Ruggiero, and others 
was truly astonishing; and by virtue of an imperial 
edict, Racci took up his residence near the royal palace, 
and enjoyed the highest reputation for learning, lie 
courted the literati ; withheld from their knowledge 
such parts of the sacred history and doctrine as were 
likely to offend their prejudices or wound their pride; 
by his influence at court secured the protection of his 
brethren in the provinces; and by extreme sagacity 
surrounded himself with a considerable number of per- I 
sons who might be variously described as pupils, parti- I 
sans, converts, or novices. In a secret chapel he dis- 
closed to the more favored symbols of his worship, yet 
so shaped as not to be repugnant to their heathen no- 
tions, and intermingled with other symbols from the 
religion of Confucius. Racci died in 1010, and was 
honored with a solemn funeral. The remains of a for- 
eigner never before had such a distinction. It is said 
that both mandarins and the people saluted with a 
mournful admiration the corpse of the Jesuit as it was 
taken to the grave by a company of Christians, with a 
splendid cross going before it; and that it was interred, 
by the order of the emperor, in a temple dedicated to 
the true God. 

Rac(c)ovian Catechism was a Polish Protes- 
tant compilation stating the different articles of the 
Slavic Reformers. It was published in 1(505 at Racova, 
a city in the Polish palatinate Sandomir, which owed 
its origin to the Reformer John Siem insky, and by his 
son’s (Jacob) acceptance of the Socinian doctrines be- 
came the headquarters of this branch of the Polish Re- 
formed Church. Racova became the seat of a theologi- 
cal school. The general synods were held there, of which 
those of 1580 and 1603 are of historic importance; and, 
the printing of the Socinians being done there, the 
catechism came to be known as the Raccovian. It was 
prepared by Schmalz, Morkorzowsky, and Volkel, and 
was based on the theological writings of F. Socintis. A 
Latin edition was published in 1609, dedicated to King 
James I. of England; a German edition in 1608, dedi- 
cated to the Wittenberg University. In 1818 Rees 


made an English version of the Raccovian Catechism. 
An abridgment was published in Polish and German in 
1605, 1623; and in 1629 in Latin. See lvrasinski, Hist, 
of the Ref. in Poland, ii, 370 ; Gieseler, Eceles. llist. vol. 
iv; Moslieim, Eccles. IJist. vol. iii ; Liddon, Divinity of 
Christ (see Index) ; Farrar, Critical Hist, of Free 
Thought, p. 391 ; Waterland, IForfct, vol. vi; Hallam, 
Intr. to Hist, of Lit. i, 554 ; ii, 335. (J. H. W.) 

Race (prop, y "P'S, Eceles. ix, 11; dpopog, “course;” 
but in the A. V. the rendering, likewise, of J"HX, a path, 
and in the New Test, only of dywy and arudtog). 
Races were evidently known to the Hebrews (Eceles. 
ix, 11). In the New Test, there are allusions to the 
various gymnastic sports and games celebrated by the 
Greeks. So the term “race” is often used in compari- 
sons drawn from the public races and applied to Chris- 
tians, as expressing strenuous effort in the Christian 
life and cause; and we are exhorted to strive after the 
rewards of the Gospel as strenuously as the athletes did 
in the public games (1 Cor. ix, 24-27 ; Gal. ii, 2; v, 7 ; 
Phil, ii, 16; iii, 14; 2 Tim. ii, 5; iv, 6-8; Heb. xii, 1). 
Among the principal public games noticed by the his- 
torians are the Olympic, which were celebrated every 
fifth year, the Pythian, Nemean, and the Isthmian. 
These exercises principally consisted in trials of strength 
and skill — in running on foot, wrestling, leaping, throw- 
ing the dart and discus, also in the horse-race and char- 
iot-race. See Game. 

The stadium in which they took place was an oblong 
area terminated at one end by a straight line, at the 
other by a semicircle having the breadth of the stadium 
for its base. Around this area were ranges of seats rising 
above one another in steps. After the Roman conquest 
of Greece, the form 
of the stadium was 
often modified, so as 
to resemble the am- 
phitheatre, by mak- 
ing both its ends 
semicircular, and by 
surrounding it with 
seats supported by 
vaulted masonry, as 
in the Roman am- 
phitheatre. The 
Ephesian stadium 
still has such seats 
around a portion of 
it. 

The most strict 
and laborious prepa- 
ration was made for 
these agonistic con- 
tests. and the whole 
course of prepara- 
tion, as well as the 
contest, was gov- 
erned by strict and 
established rules. 

The athletes who 
contended for the 
prize were divested 
of clothing ; every 
impediment was re- 
moved ; the prize 
was placed on a tri- 
pod in the middle of 
the stadium, in the 
full view of the com- 
petitors; and the 
crown was placed 
upon the conquer- 
or's head the mo- 
ment the issue was 
nroclaimed bv the The Stadium at Ephesus, as restored 



judges. Those per- 


by Krause. 


RACE 


874 


RACE 




Ancient Greek Chariot-race. 


sons who designed to contend in these games were 
obliged to repair to the public gymnasium at Elis ten 
months before the solemnity, where they prepared them- 
selves by continual exercises. No man who had omitted 
to present himself in this manner was allowed to con- 
tend for any of the prizes; nor were the accustomed re- 
wards of victory given to such persons, if by any means 
they introduced themselves and overcame their antago- 
nists. No person who was himself a notorious criminal, 
or nearly related to any such, was permitted to contend ; 
and, further, if any person were convicted of bribing his 
adversary, a severe tine was laid upon him. Nor were 
these precautions alone thought a sufficient guard against 
evil and dishonorable contracts and unjust practices, but 
the contenders were obliged to swear that they hail 
spent ten whole months in preparatory exercises; and 
both they and their fathers, or brethren, took a solemn 
oath that they would not, by any sinister or unlawful 
means, endeavor to stop the fair and just proceedings 
of the games (Potter, Creek Antiq.). 

The raees themselves were (1) the foot-race , (2) the 
horse-race, (3) the chariot - race, (4) the torch- race, 
either ( a ) on foot or (6) on horseback. Of all these 
the first was the simplest and the best test of personal 
capacity. Hence the exercise of running was in great 
esteem among the ancient Grecians, insomuch that those 
who prepared themselves for it thought it worth their 
while to use means to burn or parch their spleen, be- 
cause it was believed to be a hindrance to them and to 
retard them in their course. Homer tolls us that swift- 
ness is one of the most excellent endowments a man can 
be blessed withal : 

“No greater honor e’er has been attain’d 

Thau what strong bauds or nimble feet have gain’d." 

Indeed, all those exercises that conduced to fit men for 
war were more especially valued. Swiftness was looked 
upon as an excellent qualification in a warrior, both be- 
cause it serves for a sudden assault and onset, and like- 



wise for a nimble retreat; and therefore it is not to he 
wondered at that the constant character which Homer 
gives of Achilles is, that he was swift of foot; and in 
the Holy Scripture, David, in his poetical lamentation 
over those two great captains Saul and Jonathan, takes 
particular notice of this warlike quality of theirs: “They 
were swifter than eagles, stronger than lions’’ (2 Sam. i, 
23). See Aiiim.n \z. 



Ancient Greek Torch-race ou Foot. 


Such as obtained victories in any of these games, es- 
pecially the Olympic, were universally honored — nay, 
almost adored. At their return home they rode in a 
I triumphal chariot into the city, the walls being broken 
down to give them entrance: which was done (as Plu- 
| tarch is of opinion) to signify that walls are of small use 
to a city that is inhabited by men of courage and abil- 
ity to defend it. At Sparta they had an honorable post 
in the army, being stationed near the king’s person. At 
some towns they had presents made to them by their 
native city, were honored with the first place at shows 
and games, and ever after maintained at the public 
charge. Cicero reports that a victory in the Olympic 
games was not much less honorable than a triumph at 
lJomc. Happy was that man esteemed who could but 
obtain a single victory; if any person merited repeated 
rewards, lie was thought to have attained the utmost 
IVJicity of which human nature is capable; hut if he 
came off conqueror in all the exercises, lie was elevated 
above the condition of men, and his actions styled won- 
derful victories. Nor did their honors terminate in 
themselves, but were extended to all about them; the 
city that gave them birth and education was esteemed 
more honorable anil august ; happy were their relations, 
and thrice happy their parents. It is a remarkable story 
which Plutarch relates of a Spartan who, meeting Di- 
ngoras, that had himself been crowned in the Olympic 
games, and seen his sons and grandchildren victors, 
embraced him and said, “Now die, Diagoras; for thou 



EACIIAB 


875 


RACHEL 



canst not be a god I” By the laws of Solon, a hundred 
drachms were allowed from 
the public treasury to every 
Athenian who obtained a prize 
in the Isthmian games, and ! 
five hundred drachms to such 
as were victors in the Olym- j 
pian. Afterwards, the latter 
of these had their mainte- 
nance in the Prytaneum, or 
public hall of Athens. The 
Medal Commemorating rewards given in these games 
Isthm,a “ v,ctorJ '- have been thus rendered into 
English by Addison, from the Greek: 

“Greece, in four games thy martial youth were train'd, 

For heroes two, and two for gods ordain’d: 

Jove bade the olive round his victor wave ; 

Phoebus to his an apple-garland gave; 

The pine Paluemon ; nor with less renown, 

Arckemorus couferr’d the parsley crown.” 

(A nc. Med. Dial. 2.) 

Compare with these fading vegetable crowns that im- 
mortal life which the Gospel offers as a prize to the 
victor, in order to understand the apostle’s comparison 
(1 Cor. ix, 25; 1 Pet. v, 4). See Crown. 

Ra'chab (Matt, i, 5). See Eaiiab. 

Ra'chal (Heb. Rakal', ^2*1, trade; Sept. 'PoyaX 
v. r. 'Pay/jX), a town in the tribe of Judah, and appar- 
ently in the southern part; being one of those to which 
David sent presents out of the spoil of the Junalekites 
(1 Sam. xxx, 29). “The Vatican edition of the Sept, 
omits this name, but inserts live names in this passage 
between ‘ Eshtemoa’ and * the Jerahmeelites.’ The only 
one of these which has any similarity to Rachal is Car- 
mel, which would suit very well as far as position goes; 
but it is impossible to consider the two as identical with- 
out further evidence” (Smith). See David. 

Racham, Rachamali. See Gier-eagle. 

Rachel. See Sheep. 

Ra'chel (Heb. Rachel', bill, a “ ewe” or “sheep,” 
as in Gen. xxxi, 38; xxxii, 14; Cant, vi, 6; Isa. liii, 7 ; 
Sept, and New Test. 'Pay/jX, Josephus 'Pay/jXag), the 
younger daughter of the Aramaean grazier Laban (Gen. 
xxix, 1(5), whom Jacob, her near blood-relation, earned 
for his wife, as wages for a second seven-years’ service 
(ver. 18 sq.). B.C. 1920. See Leaii. After a long pe- 
riod of unfruitfulness, she bore him a son (xxix, 31), 
Joseph (xxx, 22 sq.). She went with him to Canaan, 
on which occasion she stole the household gods of her 
father and hid them artfully (xxxi, 19, 34), and finally 
died on the journey, after the birth of Benjamin, not far 
from Ephrath (xxxv, 16 sq.). See Rachel’s Tojib. 

“ The story of Jacob and Rachel has always had a 
peculiar interest: there is that in it which appeals to 
some of the deepest feelings of the human heart. The 
beauty of Rachel, the deep love with which she was 
loved by Jacob from their first meeting by the well of 
llaran, when he showed to her the simple courtesies of 
the desert life, and kissed her and told her he was Re- 
bckali’s son ; the long servitude with which he patiently 
served for her, in which the seven years ‘seemed to him 
but a few days, for the love he had to her;’ their mar- 


riage at last, after the cruel disappoint- 
ment through the fraud which substi- 
tuted the elder sister in the place of the 
younger; and the death of Rachel at the 
very time when, in giving birth to an- 
other son, her own long-delayed hopes 
were accomplished, and she had become 
still more endeared to her husband ; his 
deep grief and ever-living regrets for 
her loss (Gen. xlviii, 7) — these things 
make up a touching tale of personal and 
domestic history which has kept alive 
the memory of Rachel — the beautiful, 
the beloved, the untimelv-taken-away 
— and has preserved to this day a reverence for her 
tomb; the very infidel invaders of the Holy Land hav- 
ing respected the traditions of the site, and erected 
over the spot a small, rude shrine, which conceals what- 
ever remains may have once been found of the pillar 
first set up by her mourning husband over her grave. 
Yet, from what is related to us concerning Rachel’s 
character, there does not seem much to claim any high 
degree of admiration and esteem. The discontent and 
fretful impatience shown in her grief at being for a time 
childless, moved even her fond husband to anger (xxx, 
1, 2). She appears, moreover, to have shared all the 
duplicity and falsehood of her family, of which we have 
such painful instances in Bebekah, in Laban, and, not 
least, in her sister Leah, who consented to bear her part 
in the deception practiced upon Jacob. See, for in- 
stance, Rachel’s stealing her father’s images, and the 
ready dexterity and presence of mind with which she 
concealed her theft (ch. xxxi) : we seem to detect here 
an apt scholar in her father's school of untruth. From 
this incident w r e may also infer (though this is rather 
the misfortune of her position and circumstances) that 
she was not altogether free from the superstitions and 
idolatry which prevailed in the land whence Abraham 
had been called (Josh, xxiv, 2, 14), and which still to 
some degree infected even those families among whom 
the true God was known. The events which preceded 
the death of Rachel are of much interest and worthy of 
a brief consideration. The presence in his household 
of these idolatrous images, which Rachel, and probably 
others also, had brought from the East, seems to have 
been either unknown to or connived at bv Jacob for 
some years after his return from Haran ; till, on being 
reminded by the Lord of the vow which he had made 
at Bethel when he tied from the face of Esau, and being 
bidden by him to erect an altar to the God who ap- 
peared to him there, Jacob felt the glaring impiety of 
thus solemnly appearing before God with the taint of 
impiety cleaving to him or his, and ‘said to his house- 
hold and all that were with him, Put away the strange 
gods from among you’ (Gen. xxxv, 2). After thus cast- 
ing out the polluting thing from his house, Jacob jour- 
neyed to Bethel, where, amid the associations of a spot 
consecrated by the memories of the past, he received 
from God an emphatic promise and blessing, and, the 
name of the Supplanter being laid aside, he had given 
to him instead the holy name of Israel. Then it was, 
after his spirit had been there purified and strengthened 
by communion with God, by the assurance of the divine 
love and favor, by the consciousness of evil put away 
and duties performed— then it was, as he journeyed away 
from Bethel, that the chastening blow fell and Rachel 
died. These circumstances are alluded to here not so 
much for their bearing upon the spiritual discipline of 
Jacob, but rather with reference to Rachel herself, a3 
suggesting the hope that they may have had their ef- 
fect in bringing her to a higher sense of her relations to 
that Great Jehovah in whom her husband, with all his 
faults of character, so firmly believed” (Smith). The 
character of Rachel cannot certainly be drawn from the 
few features given in the history; yet Niemeyer ( Cha - 
rah ii, 315) thinks that sufficient ground exists for pre- 
ferring the disposition of Leah to that of her sister. 



RACHEL'S TOMB 


876 


Those who take an interest in such interpretations may 
find the whole story of Rachel and Leah allegorized 
by St. Augustine ( Contra Faustian M anichecum, xxii, 
li-lviii, voi. viii. 43 2, etc., ed. Migne) and Justin Martyr 
( Dialogue with Tn/pko , e. 13-1. ]>. 3t!0; see also Archer. 
Hue fid a Type of the Church [Lond. 1843]). See Ja- 
coi;. 

In Jcr. xxxi, 15, 1G, the prophet refers to the histor- 
ical event of the exile of the ten tribes (represented by 
“Kphraim”) under Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, and 
the sorrow occasioned by their dispersion (2 Kings xvii, 
20), under the symbol of Rahcl (q. v.), i. e. Rachel, the 
maternal ancestor of the tribes of Kphraim and Manas- 
seh, bewailing tbc fate of her children. This lamenta- 
tion was a type or symbol of another connected with the 
early history of our Lord, which met with its fulfilment 
in the mournful scene at Bethlehem and its vicinity, 
when so many infants were slaughtered under the bar- 
barous edict of Ilerod (Matt, ii, 1G— IS). See Ram ah. 

RACHEL’S TOMB (““““.““LJT. Kihrdth Rachel; 
Sept, in tlen. for the former half of the title pvqptiov, 
but in Jer. xlviii, 7, and 2 Kings v, lf>, XafipaSd. This 
seems to have been accepted as the name of the spot 
[Demetrius in Eus. Pr. Er. ix, 21], and to have been 
actually encountered there by a traveller in the 12th 
century [Burchardde Strasburg, by Saint-Hcnois,p.35], 
who gives the Arabic name of Rachel’s tomb as Cabrata, 
or Carbata. The present name is Kubbd Rahil . i. e. 
“Rachel’s grave”). “Rachel died and was buried in 
the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem. And .Jacob 
set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of Ra- 
chel’s grave unto this day” ((Jen. xxxv, 19, 20). As 
Rachel is the first related instance of death in child- 
bearing, so this pillar over her grave is the first recorded 
example of the setting-up of a sepulchral monument; 
caves having been up to this time spoken of as the 
usual places of burial. The spot was well known in the 
time of Samuel and Saul (1 Sam. x,2); and the prophet 
Jeremiah, by a poet ic figure of great force and beauty, 
represents the buried Rachel weeping for the loss and 
captivity of her children, as the bands of the exiles, led 
away on their road to Babylon, passed near her tomb 
(Jer. xxxi, 15 17). Matthew (ii, 17, IS) applies this 
to the slaughter by Ilerod of the infants at Bethlehem. 
See Rachel. 

The position of the Ramab here spoken of is one of 
the disputed questions in the topography of Palestine 
[see Ramaii ] ; but the site of Rachel’s tomb, “on the 
way to Bethlehem,” “a little way to come to Ephrath,” 
“ in the border of Benjamin,” has never been questioned. 
It is about five miles south of Jerusalem, and half a 
mile north of Bethlehem. “It is one of the shrines 
which Moslems. Jews, and Christians agree in honor- 
ing, and concerning which their traditions are identi- 
cal.” It was visited by Manndrell in 1097. The de- 
scription given by Dr. Robinson (i, 218) may serve as 
the representative of the many accounts, all agreeing 
with each other, which may be reail in almost every 
book of Eastern travel. It is “merely an ordinary 
Moslem wily, or tomb of a holy person — a small square 
building of stone with a dome, and within it a tomb in 
the ordinary Mohammedan form, the whole plastered 
over with mortar. Of course the building is not an- 
cient: in the 7th century there was here only a pyra- 
mid of stones. It is now neglected and falling to decay, 
though pilgrimages are still made to it by the Jews. 
The naked walls are covered with names in several lan- 
guages, many of them in Hebrew. The general cor- 
rectness of the tradition which has fixed upon this spot 
for the tomb of Rachel cannot well bo drawn in ques- 
tion, since it is fully supported by the circumstances of 
the Scriptural narrative. It is also mentioned by the 
Itin. llieros., A.D. 333, and by Jerome (Ep. lxxxvi, ad 
Eustoch. Epitaph. Paula) in the same century.” Since 
Robinson’s visit, it has been enlarged by the addition 
of a square court on the cast side, with high walls and 


RADEGUXDA 

arches ( Later Researches, p. 273). Schwarz ( Palest . 
p. 109 sq.) strongly supports the identity of the true 
grave of Rachel with the monument which now bears 
that name (see also Bibliotheca Bacra, 1830, p. GU2; 
Journ. of Sac. Lit, April, 1804). This monument is 
particularly described by llackett ( lllust . of Script. 
p. 101 sq.). See Bethlehem. 



Rachel’s Tomb. 


Racine, Bonavkxtekk. a French priest and his- 
torian, was born at Chaunv, Nov. 25, 1708, and was the 
son of the most illustrious of French poets. He was 
educated at Paris, in the College Mazarin, and made re- 
markable progress in the languages and in theology. 
In 1729 he was placed at the head of the College de 
Rabasteins; but in 1731, becoming satisfied of the in- 
justice done the Jansenists in the bull Unigcnitus [see 
Jansenism], he took ground against it, and thereby so 
displeased the powers that were at Rome and at Paris 
that he was displaced. The bishop of Montpellier, how- 
ever, took his part, and gave him the presidency of the 
college at Lund. But. the Jesuits set the flames of op- 
position going, and Racine was obliged to quit Lunel 
in much haste. He went to Paris, and there supported 
himself by teaching as a private tutor after having 
been ousted, by order of tbc cardinal I’leury, from a 
minor position he had secured at a Paris college. Final- 
ly the bishop of Auxcrre, 51. de Caylus, took an interest 
in Racine, called him into his diocese, and gave him a 
eanonicate in bis cathedral. He died May 15, 1755* 
He wrote much. 11 is principal work is an Abrege de 
Vllistoire Ecdesiastique (Paris, 1718-5G, 13 vols. 4to), 
which clearly reveals the position of its author on the 
important ecclesiastical questions of his time, and is a 
valuable index to the Jansenistic proclivities of France 
in the 18th century. 11 is Reflexions sur Vllistoire Ec- 
clesiastique (2 vols. 12mo) are not less valuable. See 
Feller, Diet. Historique, s. v. — Iloefer, A ouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Radbertus. See Paschasiis. 

Radbod, St., a Dutch prelate of the Church of 
Rome, flourished in the second half of the 9th century, 
lie was educated at Cologne, and, being of noble birth, 
was much at the court of Charles the Bald. In 899 he 
was placed over the church at Utrecht, and he ruled 
this episcopal charge with great devotion and honor, 
lie died, according to Mabillon, in 918. For his writ- 
ings, see Jlistoire Litteruire de la France, vi, 158. 

Rad'dai (II cb .Radday', "“7? trampling; Scpt.’PaC* 
Cat v. r. Y, a ft Cal), the fifth of the seven sons of Jesse, 
and an elder brother of king David (1 Chron. ii, 14). 
B.C. 10G8. He does not. appear in the Bible elsewhere 
than in this list, unless he be, as Ewald conjectures 
( Gcschichte , iii, 2GG, note), identical with Rei (q. v.). 

Radegunda, St., daughter of Bcrthar, a prince of 
Thuringia, flourished in the earlier part of the Gth cen- 
tury. Having been carried as a prisoner to France in 
the twelfth year of her age by Clothairc V, at that time 


RADEE 


877 


RAFIX 


king of the district whose capital is now called Soissons, 
she was educated in the Christian religion, and when 
she reached a maturer age was induced, very reluctant- 
ly, to become his wife, Iler own wish having been to 
become a nun, her married life was in great measure 
given up to works of charity and religion, and Clothaire 
complained that he “ had married a nun rather than a 
queen.” Romanists delight in extolling her virtues, and 
many curious feats are reported to have been performed 
by her. Thus they tell that one day, as she walked 
in her garden, she heard the prisoners, who were only 
separated from her by a wall, weeping and imploring 
pity. She thought only of her own sorrows in the past, 
and she prayed earnestly for them, not knowing how 
else to aid them; and as she prayed, their fetters burst 
asunder, and they were freed from captivity. Event- 
ually, about the year 553, Radegunda obtained the 
king’s leave to retire to a monastery at Noyon, where 
she was consecrated a deaconess by the bishop Medard. 
Soon afterwards she founded a monastery at Poitiers, 
in which she lived as a simple sister, but which she 
endowed richly, not only with money and lands, but also 
with relics and other sacred objects obtained from the 
Holy Land and all the more eminent churches of the 
East and West. It was on the occasion of the transla- 
tion to her church at Poitiers of a relic of the holy cross 
that the Christian poet Venantius Fortunatus composed 
the celebrated and truly magnificent Latin hymn, Vexilla 
Regis Proderent. Radegunda outlived him by more than 
a quarter of a century, during which she was regarded 
as a model of Christian virtue; and her life has formed 
the subject of many beautiful legends, still popular in 
Germany and France. Iler monastery, before her death, 
which took place in 587, numbered no fewer than 200 
nuns. Her feast is held on August 13, the anniversary 
of her death. In ecclesiastical paintings she is repre- 
sented with the royal crown, and beneath it a long veil. 
See Butler, Lives of the Saints , Aug. 13 ; Montalembert, 
Monks of the West, vol. ii, bk. vi; Chambers's Encyclop. 
s. v. ; Rettberg, Kirchengesch. Deutschlantls , vol. ii. 

Racier, Mattieeus, a learned German Jesuit, was 
born at Jeichingen, in the Tyrol, in 1561. He flourished 
for a while as a teacher of rhetoric at Augsburg, then 
joined the order, and was engaged in various important 
missions for the Jesuits. lie died at Munich in 1634. 
He published several editions of classical and ecclesias- 
tical writers, and wrote, among others, Vita Canisii 
(1614) : — Bavaria Sancta (1615): — Bavaria Pia (1628) : 
— Viridiarium Sanctorum (1604-12). 

Radewin, Florentines, a Roman Catholic of 
note, was born at Le3'erdam, in Holland, about 1350, 
studied at Prague, and was for some time canon at 
Utrecht. He became associated with Gerard de Groot, 
and was one of the founders of the Brethren of the 
Common Life, and after De Groot’s death (1384) was 
placed at the head of the brotherhood. He died about 
1400. He was also the founder of the convent of the 
regular canons at Windesheim, near Zwolle, and of the 
frater-house at Deventer; he thus became, so to speak, 
the second founder of the Brethren of the Common 
Life. His Life was written by Thomas a Kempis. See 
Ullmann, Reformers before the Reformation , ii, 81 sq. ; 
Gieseler, Kirchengesch. ii, 3, 226 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Radha Vallabhis, a Hindu sect which worships 
Krishna as Radha Vallabha, the lord or lover of Radha. 
This favorite mistress of Krishna is the object of adora- 
tion to all the sects who worship that deity, but the 
adoration of Radha is of very recent origin. The 
founder of this sect is alleged to have been a teacher 
named Hari Tans, who settled at Vrindavan, and es- 
tablished a math there, which, in 1822, comprised be- 
tween forty and fifty resident ascetics. lie also erect- 
ed a temple there which still exists. — Gardner, Faiths 
of the World, s. v. 

Raey, John pe, a Dutch theologian and philoso- 
pher, flourished in the second half of the 17th century, 


at Leyden. He was a devoted Cartesianist., and dis- 
tinguished himself greatly as such in 1665 at public 
disputation. He was in favor of complete alienation 
of philosophy from religion, and had a dangerous tend- 
ency to scepticism of the very worst character. See 
Spanheim, Epistola, in Opp. i, 959. 

Raffaelle. See Raphael. 

Rafflenghen, Franz, a Dutch theologian of note, 
was born at Lancv, near Ryssel, in 1539. He was edu- 
cated at Leyden University, and greatly distinguished 
himself in the Greek and Oriental languages. lie was 
first made professor of the former at Cambridge, and 
later of the latter languages at his alma mater. lie 
died in 1597. Rafflenghen corrected the Antwerp Polj r - 
glot, and wrote, Lexicon Arab. (Leyden, 1599): — Diet. 
Chald.: — Gramm, llebr., and other works. 

Raffles, Thomas Stamford, Sir, an English 
philanthropist, w r as British governor of the island of 
Java from 1811 to 1816, and, after a visit home, re- 
turned to the East as resident at Bencoolen, in Sumatra, 
and was instrumental in founding a college for the pro- 
motion of Anglo-Chinese literature. lie died in Eng- 
land, 1826. He published a Hist, of Java. 

Raffles, Thomas, D.D.. LL.D., an English Inde- 
pendent divine of great celebrity as a pulpit orator and 
theologian, was born in London. May 17, 1788, of good 
parentage, and was connected with Sir Thomas S. Raf- 
fles. He pursued his theological studies at Ilomerton 
College, and in 1809 was settled as a Congregational 
minister at Hammersmith. In 1812 he accepted a call 
from the Great George Street Chapel in Liverpool, and 
remained sole pastor until 1858, when he was furnished 
a colleague as an assistant. In 1S60 he resigned his 
charge, and withdrew from the responsibilities of the 
stated ministry altogether, his health having become 
inadequate to any considerable labor, yet he preached 
frequently after that at the opening of chapels and on 
other similar public occasions. He died in August, 
1863. Probably no minister in the Congregational body 
in England has been more widely or more favorably 
known during the last half century than Dr. Raffles. 
Besides being one of the most popular preachers in 
Great Britain, and being called abroad on occasions of’ 
public interest oftener, perhaps, than any other one, he 
has done good service to the cause both of literature 
and religion by his pen. In 1817 he published a high- 
ly interesting volume of Letters during a Tour through 
Some Parts of France, Savoy, Switzerland, Germany , 
and the Netherlands. Shortly after the commencement 
of his ministry he preached a sermon before the London 
Missionary Society, which attracted great attention and 
was very widely circulated; and several other of his 
discourses have been given to the public and received 
with great favor. He was accustomed to celebrate the 
return of the new year by an appropriate piece of po- 
etry, which was printed and sent forth among his friends 
as a most welcome remembrancer. He has, in addition 
to these pieces, written many beautiful hymns, some of 
which have found their way into some of the collec- 
tions of sacred song. lie is also the author of a Memoir 
of the life and ministry of his predecessor, the Rev. 
Thomas Spencer, a work which passed through many 
editions, and in America it has been several times re- 
printed. His Lectures on Christian Faith and Practice, 
though widely circulated, deserve to be better known 
than they are, being a clear and conclusive exposition 
and vindication of the Gospel and the rule and motives 
of moralit} r . He published several separate sermons 
preached on various public occasions, and contributed 
frequently to periodicals. See The Patriot (Liverpool), 
Aug. 20, 1863 ; N. 1'. Observer, Sept. 19, 1863 ; Prince- 
ton Rev. April, 1870, art. iii. 

Rafin, Gasparp, a French Protestant minister, was 
born at Realmont (Tarn), in the first half of the 16th 
century. lie was a devoted Huguenot, and his home 


UAGAU 


STS 


RAGGED SCHOOLS 


was tlie rally ing-pl ace of French Protestants during the [ 
days of oppression and persecution. 

Ra'gau ('Pnyav; Yulg. Jiagaxi), the (Ireek form of 
the name of a place and of a person. 

1. A place named only in the Apocrypha (Judith i, 
5, 15). In the latter verse the "mountains of Ragau" 
are mentioned. It is probably identical with Ragks j 
(q. v.). 

2. One of the ancestors of onr Lord, son of Phalec 
(Luke iii, 35). lie is the same person with liter (q.v.), 
soti of 1'elcg; and the difference in the name arises 
from our translators having followed the t Ireek form, in 
which the Hebrew V was frequently expressed by y, as 
is the case in Hague! (which once occurs for llcuel), ( 
(lomorrha, tiotholiah (for Atlioliah ), Phogor (for I’cor), . 
etc. Smith. 

Ra'ges (’Priyij, ' Payot ; Yulg. Tinges, Hagan ) was 
an important city in north-eastern Media, where that 
country bordered upon Parthia. It is not mentioned in 
the Hebrew Scriptures, but. occurs frequently in the , 
book of Tobit (i, 11 ; v, 5; vi, 9, 12, etc.), and twice in 
Judith ("Hagan” [i,5, 15]). According to Tobit, it was 
a place to which some of the Israclitish captives taken 
bv Shalmaneser (Knomessar) had been transported, and 
thither the angel Raphael conducted the young Tobiah. 
In the book of Judith it is made the scene of the great 
battle between Xcbuchodonosor and Arphaxad, wherein 
the latter is said to have been defeated and taken pris- 
oner. Neither of these accounts can be regarded as 
historic, but the latter may conceal a fact of some im- 
portance in the history of the city. 

Rages is a place mentioned by a great number of 
profane writers. The name is said to have been de- 
rived from the chasms (pay etc) made in the vicinity by 
earthquakes (Strabo, i, 13). It appears as Jiagha in the 
Zcndavosta, in Isidore, and in Stephen; as liuga in the 
inscriptions of Darius; Hhager in Doris of Samos (Fr. 
25), Strabo (xi. It, § 1), and Arrian ( Kxp. Alex, iii, 20); 
and Iihagcea in Ptolemy (vi. 5). Properly speaking, ' 
Rages is a town, but the town gave name to a province, 
which is sometimes called Rages or Rhaga?, sometimes 
Rhagiana. It appears from the Zendavcsta that here 
was one of the earliest settlements of the Arians. who 
were mingled, in Rhagiana. with two other races, and 
were thus brought into eontact with heretics (Bunsen, 
Philosophy of Universal History , iii, 485). Isidore calls 
Rages “the greatest city in Media 1 ' (p. 0), which may 
have been true in his day; but other writers commonly 
regard it as much inferior to Kcbatana. It was the place 
to which Frawartish (Phrnortcs), the Median rebel, Hed 
when defeated by Darius Ilystaspis, and at which he was 
made prisoner by one of Darius’s generals (Jieh. laser. 
col. it, par. 13). See Mkiua. 'I bis is probably the fact 
which the apocryphal writer of Judith had in his mind 
when lie spoke of Arphaxad as having been captured at 
Ragan. When Darius ( ’odomannus lied from Alexander, 
intending to make a final stand in Bactria, he must have 
passed through Rages on his way to the Caspian dates; 
and so we find that Alexander arrived there, in pursuit 
of his enemy, on the eleventh day after he quitted Ecba- 
tana ( Arrian, Kxp, A lex, iii, 20). In the troubles which 
followed the death of Alexander. Rages appears to have 
gone to decay, but it was soon after rebuilt by Seleneus 
1 (Nieator), who gave it the name of Rumpus (Strab, 
xi, 13, £ (5, Stoph. Bvz. ad voc.). When the Partitions 
took it, they called it Arsacia, after the Arsaees of the 
day; but it soon afterwards recovered its ancient ap- 
pellation. as we see by Strabo and Isidore. That appel- 
lation it has ever since retained, with only a slight cor- 
ruption, the ruins being still known by the name of 
lihry. These ruins lie about live miles south-east of 
Teheran, and cover a space 1500 yards long by 3500 
yards broad. The walls are well marked, and are of 
prodigious thickness; they appear to have been Hanked 
by strong towers, and are connected with a lofty citadel 
at their north-eastern angle. The importance of the 


place consisted in its vicinity to the Caspian Cates, 
which, in a certain sense, it guarded. Owing to the 
barren and desolate character of the great salt desert 
of Iran, every army which seeks to pass from Hactria, 
India, and Afghanistan to Media and Mesopotamia, or 
vice versa, must skirt the range of mountains which 
runs along the southern shore of the Caspian. These 
mountains send out a rugged and precipitous spur in 
about long, 52° 25' K. from (Greenwich, which runs far 
into the desert, and can only he rounded with the cx- 
tremest difficulty. Across this spur is a single pass — the 
l’ylse Casphe of the ancients— and of this pass the pos- 
sessors of Hhages must have at all times held the keys. 
The modern Teheran, built out of its ruins, has now 
superseded Rliey; and it is perhaps mainly from the 
importanee of its position that it has beeome the Per- 
sian capital. For an account of the ruins of Rhey, sec 
Kcr Porter, Travels , i, 357-304; and compare Fraser, 
Khorassan, p. 2*0.- — Smith. 

Ragged Schools is the popular name for a volun- 
tary agency providing education for destitute children, 
and so preventing them from falling into vagrancy and 
crime. Vagrant children, and those guilty of slight 
offences, are, provided for in the English Certified 
Industrial School ; but the two institutions are in 
Croat Britain frequently combined. Sec Ixdi’Striai. 
Schools. The movement which established ragged 
schools was almost simultaneous with that which insti- 
tuted reformatories. John Borgia, an unlettered labor- 
ing mason, established a ‘“ragged school” towards the 
close of the last century, composed of thievish and va- 
grant children gathered from the streets and by-ways 
of Rome. A few years later, John Pounds, an unedu- 
cated cobbler, for twenty years, till his death in 1*39, 
gathered into his shop the most destitute and degraded 
children of Portsmouth, and thus instituted the first 
ragged school in England. Both wrought miracles 
among the juvenile gamins of the street. The mental, 
industrial, moral, and religious training which they im- 
parted to the juvenile generation of their time was a 
work most appropriately honored as “the beginning of 
the greatest of all social problems.” It saved thousands 
of children from beggary and vice, and raised multitudes 
from the verge of infamy to the rank of a useful and 
honored life. The first school in which education was 
accompanied by offer of food was opened by Mieriff 
Watson in Aberdeen in 1*11, and from thence ragged 
feeding-schools spread over all the country. London 
had a ragged Sunday-school in 1*3*. which eventually 
became a free day-school. Field Lane followed in 1*43. 
'flic Ragged School Union of London in 1*04 numbered 
201 day-schools, with 17,9*3 scholars (of these, 2*19 were 
industrial); 1*0 Sunday-schools, with 23,300 scholars; 
and 205 night-schools, with *325 scholars. The number 
of schools throughout the count rj“ cannot be ascertained, 
as they are not officially known. A Privy-council min- 
ute of 1850 allowed a capitation grant of £- 10s. to every 
child fed in the schools. 'I bis was withdrawn in 1*59, 
as was also the grant of one third the cost of material 
used in industrial training. Many of the existing 
schools certified under the Act of 1*57, as in Scotland 
under 51 r. Dunlop’s Act of 1*51 ; but these acts operated 
very slightly in changing the character of the schools, 
though introducing t lie principle of compulsory deten- 
tion, more fully worked out under recent acts. In the 
present code of government education, ragged schools 
are left out. They can obtain grants on the same con- 
ditions as other schools— conditions to them often diffi- 
cult and unnecessary. For industrial teaching, they 
receive nothing. The ragged school joined to the cer- 
tified industrial is precluded from aid from any quarter. 
There are still, it is estimated, 25,000 ragged children in 
the streets of London. Schools for the instruction of 
poor colored children were established by the Friends 
of Philadelphia as early as 1770, and their benevolent 
care has not relaxed in this respect for an entire century. 
— Chambers' s Kncyclop. s. v. 


RAGSTATT 


S‘ 

Ragstatt, Frederic, of Weile, a minister of the 
Reformed Church, was born, of Jewish parents, at Metz 
in 1648. In the year 1671 he was baptized at C’leves in 
the faith of the Reformed Church ; and his conversion 
and public confession of the divine truths of Christianity 
were not less remarkable. Shortly after his baptism, 
when scarcely twenty-three years of age, he published 
a Latin apology: Theatrum Lucidtm, exhibens Verutn 
Messiam, Dominion nostrum Jesum Christum , ejusque 
Ilonorem Defendens contra Accusationes Judceorum seu 
Rahbinorum in Genere, speciatim R. Lipmanni Xizzachon 
(Amst. 1671), in which the name of the Messiah, our 
Lord Jesus Christ, was gloriously maintained against 
the abominable Nizzachon of the famous Rabbi Lip- 
mann (q. v.). Having studied at Groningen and Ley- 
den, in 16S0 he was called to the pastorate at Spvk, near 
Gorcum, in South Holland, where he labored with great 
blessing, bringing many of his former coreligionists to 
the foot of the cross. Resides his Theatrum , he pub- 
lished some other writings. See Fiirst, Bihl. Judaica, 
iii, 128 sq. ; Jbclier, Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. “ Von Weile ;” 
Wolf, Biblioth. llebr. I, iii, 4 (Nuremb. 1850); Bayle, 
Dictionnaire, s. v. ; Kalkar, Israel u. die Kirche , p. 63 sq. ; 
Dolitzsch, \Y issenschaft , Knnst u. Judenthum, p. 138 ; Da 
Costa, Israel and the Gentiles, p. 561 sq. (B. 1\) 

Ragu'el (Heb. ReueT, ; Sept. 'Payovij\), a 

less correct Anglicism of the name Rkuel (q. v.). 

1. A prince-priest of Midian, the father of Zipporah, 
according to Exod. ii, 21, and of Ilobab according to 
Numb, x, 29. As the father-in-law of Moses is named 
Jethro in Exod. iii, 1, and Ilobab in Judg. iv, 11, and 
perhaps in Numb, x, 29 (though the latter passage ad- 
mits of another sense), the prima-facie view would be 
that Ilaguel, Jethro, and Ilobab were different names 
for the same individual. Such is probably the case 
with regard to the two first, at all events, if not with 
the third. See IIobab. One of the names may repre- 
sent an official title, but whether Jethro or Raguel is 
uncertain, both being appropriately significant (Jethro = 
“pre-eminent," from "ir" 1 , “to excel,” and Raguel — 
“friend of God,” from ^X •IS'I). Josephus was in 
favor of the former ( tovto , i. e. ’U^tyXmoc, i)v ii tik\i]- 
pa rip 'P ayovifXip, Ant. ii, 12, 1), and this is not un- 
likely, as the name Retiel was not an uncommon one. 
The identity of Jethro and Reuel is supported by the 
indiscriminate use of the names in the Sept. (Exod. ii, 
16, 18) ; and the application of more than one name to 
the same individual was a usage familiar to the He- 
brews, as instanced in Jacob and Israel, Solomon and 
Jedidiah, and other similar cases. Another solution of 
the difficulty has been sought in the loose use of terms 
of relationship among the Hebrews; as that chothui 
Qnn) in Exod. iii, 1 ; xviii, 1 ; Numb, x, 29. may sig- 
nify any relation by marriage, and consequently that 
Jethro and Ilobab were brothers -in -law of Moses; or 
that the terms db ("X) and bath (!H3) in Exod. ii, 16, 
21, mean grandfather and granddaughter. Neither of 
these assumptions is satisfactory, the former in the ab- 
sence of any corroborative evidence, the latter because 
the omission of Jethro, the father’s name, in so circum- 
stantial a narrative as in Exod. ii, is inexplicable; nor 
can we conceive the indiscriminate use of the terms 
father and grandfather without good cause. Never- 
theless, this view has a strong weight of authority in 
its favor, being supported by the Targum Jonathan, 
Aben-Ezra, Michaelis, Winer, and others. — Smith. See 
Jetiiuo. 

2. Another transcription of the name Reuel, occur- 
ring in Tobit, where Raguel, a pious Jew of “ Eebatane, 
a city of Media," is father of Sara, the wife of Tobias 
(lob. iii, 7, 17, etc.). The name was not uncommon, 
and in the book of Enoch it is applied to one of the 
great guardian angels of the universe, who was charged 
with the execution of the divine judgments on the 


9 RAHAB 

(material) world and the stars (xx,4; xxiii, 4, ed. Dill- 
mann). 

Ragueneau, Frederic de. a French prelate who 
flourished in the second half of the 16th century. He 
was of noble birth, and after taking holy orders, his 
uncle vacated the bishopric of Marseilles in order to 
make room for him. He became a zealous and devoted 
ecclesiastic, and in many instances displayed more than 
ordinary manliness. As he was suspected of a strong 
leaning towards Protestantism, the leaguists greatly an- 
noyed him, and he finally quitted the country, as his 
life was threatened. He took refuge with Christina 
of Lorraine in Italy, until after the abjuration of Henry 
IV, when Ragueneau returned to France; but he paid 
for his trust in the change of the times by his life’s 
blood. He was assassinated Sept. 26, 1603, in his castle. 
See Hoefer, Xouv. Blog. Generate, xli,473,474 ; A n et du 
Parlement de Province centre les Auteurs de VAssassinat 
commis sur la Personae de F. de Ragueneau (new ed. 
Marseilles, 1854, 8vo). 

Ra'hab, the form, in the A. V.. of two names quite 
different in the Hebrew. 

1. (Heb. Rachab', wide ; Sept. 'P«ya/3 [and so 
in Matt, i, 5, “Racliab”), 'Pad/3; Josephus, 'Payd/Si/c, 
Ant. v, 1, 2.) A woman of Jericho at the time of the 
Eisode, whose name has become famons in that con- 
nection (Josh, ii) and in Jewish lineage (B.C. 1618). 
In the following account of her, we chiefly follow that 
found in Smith, Did. of the Bible, with additions from 
other sources. See Exode. 

1. Her Ilistorg. — At the time of the arrival of the 
Israelites in Canaan she was a young unmarried wom- 
an, dwelling in a house of her own alone, though she 
had a father and mother, and brothers and sisters, liv- 
ing in Jericho. She was a “harlot," and probably com- 
bined the trade of lodging-keeper for wayfaring men. 
She seems also to have been engaged in the manufact- 
ure of linen, and the art of dyeing, for which the Phoe- 
nicians were early famous; since we find the flat roof of 
her house covered with stalks of flax put there to dr} r , 
and a stock of scarlet or crimson ( n 2G, s7utni') thread 
in her house — a circumstance which, coupled with the 
mention of Babylonish garments at vii, 21 as among 
the spoils of Jericho, indicates the existence of a trade 
in such articles between Phoenicia and Mesopotamia. 
Her house was situated on the wall, probably near the 
town gate, so as to be convenient for persons coming in 
and going out of the city. Traders coming from Mes- 
opotamia or Egypt to Phoenicia would frequently pass 
through Jericho, situated as it was near the fords of the 
Jordan ; and of these many would resort to the house 
of Rahab. Rahab, therefore, had been well informed 
with regard to the events of the Exodus. She had 
heard of the passage through the Red Sea, of the ut- 
ter destruction of Sihon and Og, and of the irresistible 
progress of the Israelitish host. The effect upon her 
mind had been what one would not have expected in a 
person of her way of life: it led her to a firm faith in 
Jehovah as the true God, and to the conviction that he 
purposed to give the land of Canaan to the Israelites. 
When, therefore, the two spies sent by Joshua came to 
her house, they found themselves under the roof of one 
who, alone, probably, of the whole population, was friend- 
ly to their nation. Their coming, however, was quickly 
known ; and the king of Jericho, having received infor- 
mation of it — while at supper, according to Josephus — 
sent, that very evening, to require her to deliver them 
up. It is very likely that, her house being a public 
one, some one who resorted there may have seen and 
recognised the spies, and gone off at once to report the 
matter to the authorities. But not without awakening 
Rahab’s suspicions; for she immediately hid the men 
among the flax -stalks which were piled on the flat 
roof of her house, and, on the arrival of the officers sent 
to search her house, was ready with the story that two 


IvAIIAB 


8S0 


RAIIAB 


men — of what country she knew not — had, it was true, 
been to her house, hut had left it just belore the gates 
were shut for the night. If they pursued them at once, 
site added, they would be sure to overtake them. Mis- 
led by the false information, the men started in pursuit 
to the fords of the Jordan, the gates having been opened 
to let them out, and immediately closed again. When | 
all was quiet, and the people were gone to bed, Rahab i 
stole up to the house-top, told the spies what had hap- I 
pened. and assured them of her faith in the Cod of Is- 
rael. and her confident expectation of the capture of the 
whole land by them — an expectation, she added, which 
was shared by her country men, and had produced a great 
panic among them. She then told them her plan for 
their escape: it was to let them down by a cord from 
the window of her house, which looked over the city 
wall, and that they should ilee into the mountains which 
bounded the plains of Jericho, and lie hidden there for 
three days, by which time the pursuers would have re- 
turned, and the fords of the Jordan be open to them 
again. She asked, in return for her kindness to them, 
that they should swear by Jehovah that, when their 
countrymen had taken the city, they would spare her 
life, and the lives of her father and mother, brothers 
and sisters, and all that belonged to them. The men 
readily consented; and it was agreed between them that 
she should hang out her scarlet line at the window from 
which they had escaped, and bring all her family under 
her roof. If any of her kindred went out-of-doors into 
the street, his blood would be upon his own head: and 
the Israelites, in that case, would be guiltless. The 
event proved the wisdom of her precautions. The pur- 
suers returned to Jericho after a fruitless search, and the 
spies got safe hack to the Israclitisli camp. The news 
they brought of the terror of the Canaanites doubtless 
inspired Israel with fresh courage, and within three days 
of their return the passage of the Jordan was effected. 
In the utter destruction of Jericho which ensued, Joshua 
gave the strictest orders for the preservation of lialiab 
and her family; and, accordingly, before the city was 
burned, the two spies were sent to her house, and they 
brought out her, her father, and mother, and brothers, 
and kindred, and all that she had, and placed them in 
safety in t he Israclitisli camp. The narrator adds, “and 
she dwellcth in Israel unto this day;” not necessarily 
implying that, she was alive at the time lie wrote, but 
that the family of strangers of which she was reckoned 
the head continued to dwell among the children of Is- 
rael. May not the three hundred and forty-tivc “chil- 
dren of Jericho” mentioned in Ezra ii, 34: Xeh. vii, 30, 
and “the men of Jericho” who assisted Xehcmiah in 
reUiildingthe walls of Jerusalem (Xeh. iii,2) have been 
their posterity? Their continued sojourn among the 
Israelites as a distinct family would be exactly analo- 
gous to the cases of the Kcnitcs, the house of Ileehab, 
the (Jibconitos, the house of Caleb, and perhaps others. 
See Jkkicuo. 

As regards Rahab herself, we learn from Matt, i, 5 
that she became the wife of Salmon, the son of Xali- 
shon, and the ancestress of Boaz, Jesse’s grandfather. 
The suspicion naturally arises that Salmon may have 
been one of the spies whose life she saved, and that 
gratitude for so groat a honelit led, in his ease, to a more 
tender passion, and obliterated the memory of any past 
disgrace attaching to her name. Wo arc expressly told 
that the spies were “young men” (Josh, vi, 23) Sept, 
wii'iffirouc, ii, 1 ; and the example of the former spies 
who were sent from Kadesh - llarnca, who were all 
“heads of Israel” (Xiimb. xiii, 3), as well as the im- 
portance of the service to be performed, would lead one 
to expect that they would he persons of high station. 
J5ut. however this may he, it is certain, on the authori- 
ty of Matthew, that Rahab became the mother of the 
line from which sprang David, and, eventually, < ’lirist ; 
and there can be little doubt that it was so stated in 
the public archives from which the evangelist extract- 
ed our Lord’s genealogy, in which only four women are 


named — viz. Thamar, Rachab, Iluth, and Bathsheba — 
w ho were all, apparently, foreigners, and named for that 
reason; for that the Rachab mentioned by Matthew is 
Uahah the harlot is as certain as that David in the gen- 
ealogy is the same person as David in the books of 
Samuel. The attempts that have been made to prove 
Rachab different from Rulial) (chiefly by Outliov, a 
Dutch professor, in the Jiiblioth. JJremeus. iii, 43<S: the 
earliest expression of any doubt is by Theophvlact, in 
the 1 1 tli century) in order to get out of the chronolog- 
ical difficulty, are singularly absurd, and all the more so 
because, even if successful, they would not diminish the 
difficulty as long as Salmon remains as the son of Xali- 
slion and the ancestor of Boaz. However, as there are 
still found those who follow Outliov in his opinion, or at 
least speak doubtfully (Valpy. Greek Test, with Eng- 
lish notes, on J/<i//.i,5; Biirrington. On the Gnu-aloe/Us, 
i, 1 ( J2~I‘J4, etc. : Kuinnl. on Mutt, i, 5; ( flshausen, ibid.), 
it may be as well to call attention, with I>r. Mill (p. 131), 
to the exact coincidence in the age of Salmon, as the 
son of Xahshon, who was prince of the children of Ju- 
dah in the wilderness, and that of Rahab the harlot, and 
to observe that the only conceivable reason for the men- 
tion of Raehab in Matthew’* genealogy is that she was 
a remarkable ami well-known person, as Tamar, Ruth, 
and Bathsheba were. The mention of an utterly un- 
known Rahab in the line would be absurd. The allu- 
sions to “ Rahab the harlot” in 1 leb. xi, 31 ; James ii. 25, 
by classing her among those illustrious for their faith, 
make it still more impossible to suppose that Matthew 
was speaking of any one else. The four generations, 
Xahshon. Salmon, Boaz, Obed, are, nevertheless, not 
necessarily all consecutive. See David. There docs 
not seem, however, to be any force in Bengal's remark, 
adopted by Olshausen, that the article (i#c r/Jc TV/^a/3) 
proves that Rahab of Jericho is meant, seeing that all 
the proper names in the genealogy which are in the 
oblique case have the article, though many of them oc- 
cur nowhere else, and that it is omitted before M apiag 
in ver. 16. See Gknk.yi.ouy ok Jksks Cmust. 

The Jewish w riters abound in praises of Rahab, on 
account of the great service she rendered their ances- 
tors. Even those who do not deny that she was a 
harlot admit that she eventually became the wife of a 
prince of Israel, and that many great persons of their 
nation sprang from this union. The general statement 
is, that she was ten years of age at the time the Ile- 
lirews quitted Egypt; that she played the harlot dur- 
ing all the forty years they were in the wilderness: that 
she became a proselyte when the spies were received 
by her; and that, after the fall of Jericho, no less a per- 
sonage than Joshua himself made her his wife. She 
is also counted as an ancestress of Jeremiah, Mansciah, 
Hanameel, Shallum, Baruch, Ezekiel, Xeriali, Serial), 
and lluldah the prophetess. See Talm. Baby]. Megilla, 
fob 14, col. 2: Yuchasin , x, 1 ; Shalshalet Uukabala, vii, 
2; Abarbanel, Kimchi, etc., on Josh, vi, 25; Mitzvoih 
Torch , p. 1 12 ; Light Tout. llor. Ileb. ad 31 at t. i, 4 ; Meu- 
schen, X. T. Talmud, p. 4l>. See Josntw. 

2. Ilahab's Character. — This lias been a subject of 
deep interest and no little controversy. In the narra- 
tive of these transactions, Rahab is called HI'T, zonuh, 
which our own, after the ancient versions, renders “ har- 
lot.” The Jewish w riters, however, being unwilling to 
entertain the idea of their ancestors being involved in 
a disreputable association at the commencement oftlicir 
great undertaking, chose to interpret the word “ host- 
ess,” one who keeps a public-house, as if from “to 
nourish” (Josephus, .1 nt. v, 1 ; ii and vii ; comp, the Tar- 
gum, and Kimchi and Jarehi on the text). Christian 
translators, also, arc inclined to adopt this interpreta- 
tion for the sake of the character of a woman of whom 
the apostle speaks well, and who would appear, from 
Matt, i, I, to have become, by a subsequent marriage 
with .Salmon, prince of Judah, an ancestress of Jesus. 
But we must be coutent to take facts as they stand, 


RAHAB 


881 


RAIIAB 


and not strain them to meet difficulties; and it is now ' 
universally admitted by every sound Hebrew scholar 
that n:iT means “harlot,” and not “hostess.” It sig- 
nifies “ harlot” in every other text where it occurs, the 
idea of “ hostess” not being represented by this or any 
other word in Hebrew, as the function represented by it 
did not exist. (See Frisch, De Muliere Peregrina ap. 
Heb. [Lips. 1744].) There were no inns; and when 
certain substitutes for inns eventually came into use, 
they were never, in any Eastern country, kept by wom- 
en. On the other hand, strangers from beyond the riv- 
er might have repaired to the house of a harlot with- 
out suspicion or remark: the Bedawiu from the desert 
constantly do so at this day in their visits to Cairo and 
Bagdad. The house of such a woman w r as also the only 
one to which they, as perfect strangers, could have had 
access, and certainly the only one in which they could 
calculate on obtaining the information they required 
without danger from male inmates. This concurrence 
of analogies in the word, in the thing, and in the prob- 
ability of circumstances ought to settle the question. 
If we are concerned for the morality of Itahab, the best 
proof of her reformation is found in the fact of her sub- 
sequent marriage to Salmon : this implies her previous 
conversion to Judaism, for ■which, indeed, her discourse 
with the spies evinces that she was prepared. Dis- 
missing, therefore, as inconsistent with truth and with 
the meaning of it and Tropvt], the attempt to clear 
her character of stain by saying that she was only an 
innkeeper, and not a harlot (7cai>CoKtvrpla, Chrysostom 
and Chald. Vers.), we may yet notice that it is very pos- 
sible that to a woman of her country and religion such 
a calling may have implied a far less deviation from 
the standard of morality than it does with us (“vita; 
genus vile magis quam flagitiosum Grotius), and, 
moreover, that with a purer faith she seems to have 
entered upon a pure life. See Harlot. 

As a case of casuistry, her conduct in deceiving the 
king of Jericho’s messengers with a false tale, and, 
above all, in taking part against her own countrymen, 
has been much discussed. With regard to the first, 
strict truth, either in Jew or heathen, was a virtue so 
utterly unknown before the promulgation of the Gospel 
that, so far as Itahab is concerned, the discussion is 
quite superfluous. The question, as regards ourselves, 
whether in any case a falsehood is allowable — say to 
save our own life or that of another — is different, but 
need not be argued here. The question, in reference 
both to Itahab and to Christians, is well discussed by 
Augustine, Confr. Mendacium (Opp. vi, 33, 34 ; comp. 
Bullinger, 3d Dec. Serm. iv). With regard to her tak- 
ing part against her own countrymen, it can only be 
justified — but is fully justified — by the circumstance 
that fidelity to her country would, in her case, have 
been infidelity to God, and that the higher duty to her 
Maker eclipsed the loiver duty to her native land. Her 
anxious provision for the safety of her father’s house 
shows how alive she was to natural affections, and seems 
to prove that she was not influenced by a selfish insen- 
sibility, but by an enlightened preference for the service 
of the true God over the abominable pollutions of Ca- 
naanitish idolatry. If her own life of shame was in 
any way connected with that idolatry, one can readily 
understand what a further stimulus this would give, 
now that her heart was purified by faith, to her desire 
for the overthrow of the nation to which she belonged 
by birth, and the establishment of that to which she 
wished to belong by a community of faith and hope. 
Anyhow, allowing for the difference of circumstances, 
her feelings and conduct were analogous to those of a 
Christian Jew in Paul’s time, who should have prefer- 
red the triumph of the Gospel to the triumph of the 
old Judaism, or to those of a converted Hindu in our 
own days, who should side with Christian Englishmen 
against the attempts of his own conntn'men to estab- 
lish the supremacy either of Brahma or Mohammed. 
VIII.— K K K 


This view of Rahab’s conduct is fully borne out by 
the references to her in the N. T. The author of the 
Epistle to the Hebrews tells us that “ by faith the har- 
lot Itahab perished not with them that believed not, 
when she had received the spies with peace” (Heb. xi, 
31) ; and James fortifies his doctrine of justification by 
works by asking, “Was not Itahab the harlot justified 
by works, when she had received the messengers, and 
had sent them out another way?” (James ii, 25). In 
like manner Clement of Rome says, “Itahab the harlot 
was saved for her faith and hospitality” (ad Corinth, xii)\ 

The fathers generally (“miro consensu:” Jacobson) 
consider the deliverance of Itahab as typical of salva- 
tion, and the scarlet line hung out at her window as 
typical of the blood of Jesus, in the same way as the 
ark of Noah and the blood of the paschal lamb were — a 
view which is borne out by the analogy of the deliver- 
ances, and by the language of lleb. xi, 31 (role enrs imp- 
act mu, “the disobedient”), compared with l Pet. iii, 20 
(am&poaoiv iron). Clement (ad Corinth, xii) is the 
first to do so. He says that by the symbol of the scar- 
let line it was “ made manifest that there shall be re- 
demption through the blood of the Lord to all who be- 
lieve and trust in God,” and adds that Rahab in this 
was a prophetess as well as a believer — a sentiment in 
which he is followed by Origen (in lib.Jes., Horn. iii). 
Justin Martyr, in like manner, calls the scarlet line “ the 
symbol of the blood of Christ, by which those of all na- 
tions who once were harlots and unrighteous are saved;” 
and in a like spirit Iremeus draws from the story of Ra- 
hab the conversion of the Gentiles, and the admission 
of publicans and harlots into the kingdom of heaven 
through the symbol of the scarlet line, which he com- 
pares with the Passover and the Exodus. Ambrose, 
Jerome, Augustine (who, like Jerome and Cyril, takes 
Psa. Ixxxvii, 4 to refer to Rahab the harlot), and The- 
odoret, all follow in the same track; but Origen, as usu- 
al, carries the allegory still further. Irenseus makes the 
singular mistake of calling the spies three, and makes 
them symbolical of the Trinity! The comparison of 
the scarlet line with the scarlet thread which was bound 
round the hand of Zarah is a favorite one with them. 
See lrenieus, Confr. Her. iv, xx; Just. Mart. Contr. Tryph. 
p. 11 ; Jerome, A dv, Jorin. lib. i ; Epist. xxxiv ad Nepot. ; 
Breviar. in Psa. Ixxxvi ; Origen, Comm, in Matt, xxvii; 
Chrvsost. Horn. 3 in Matt., also 3 in Ep. ad Rom. ; Eplir. 
Syr. Rhythm 1 and 7 on Nath'.; Rhythm 7 on the Faith; 
Cyril of Jerusalem, Cutechet. Led. ii, 9; x, 11. Bullin- 
ger (5/A Dec. Serm. vi) views the line as a sign and seal 
of the covenant between the Israelites and Rahab. 

The Jews, as above observed, are embarrassed as to 
what to say concerning Rahab. They praise her high- 
ly for her conduct; but some rabbins give out that she 
was not a Canaanite, but of some other Gentile race, 
and was only a sojourner in Jericho. The Gemara of 
Babylon mentions the above -noted tradition that she 
became the wife of Joshua — a tradition unknown to 
Jerome (Adv. Jovin.). Josephus (Ant. v, 1) describes 
her as an innkeeper, and her house as an inn (icarayib- 
ytoi*)) and never applies to her the epithet iropvi], which 
is the term used by the Sept. 

See the Critici Sacri, Thesaur. Nov. i, 487 ; Simeon, 
JFisrAs, ii, 544; Gordon, Christ as Made Known, etc. ii, 
208; Ewald, Gesch. Tsr. ii, 240; Niemeyer, Ckarak. iii, 
423 sq. ; Abicht, De Rachub Meretrice (Lips. 1714) ; 
Caunter, Hist, and Char, of Rahab [insists that she 
could not have been a harlot] (Lond. 1850) ; Hoffmann, 
Rahab's Erettung (Berl. 1801). See Joshua. 

2. (Heb. Ra'hab, -!j^, strength; Sept. 'P ad/3, Psa. 
Ixxxvii, 4; ro Kijroc, Job xvi, 12; virtpi)<pavoc, Psa. 
Ixxxix, 10 ; omits Isa. Ii, 9). A poetical name signify- 
ing “sea monster,” which is applied as an appellation 
to Egypt in Psa. lxxiv, 13, 14; Ixxxvii, 4; Ixxxix, 10; 
Isa. Ii, 9 (and sometimes to its king, Ezek. xxix, 3; 
xxxiii, 3; comp. Psa. Ixviii, 31) — which metaphorical 
designation probably involves an allusion to the croco- 


RAIIAM 


882 


RAISES 


diles, hippopotami, and otlier aquatic creatures of the I 
Nile (q. v.). As the word, if Hebrew, radically denotes 
“fierceness, insolence, pride,” when applied to K^ypt, it 
would indicate the national character of the inhabitants, 
(resell ius thinks it was probably of Egyptian origin, but 
accommodated to Hebrew, although no likely equiva- 
lent has been found in Coptic, or, we may add, in an- 
cient Egyptian (Thesuur. s. v.). That the Hebrew 
meaning is alluded to in connection with the proper 
name does not seem to prove that the latter is Hebrew', 
but this is rendered very probable by its apposite char- 
acter and its sole use in poetical books. See Behemoth. 

The same word occurs in a passage in .Job, where it 
is usually translated, as in the A. V., instead of being 
treated as a proper name. Vet many interpreters, com- 
paring this passage with parallel ones, insist that it 
refers to the Exodus: “He divideth the sea with his 
power, and by his understanding he smiteth through 
the proud” [ or “Baliab”] (xxvi, 12). The prophet 
Isaiah calls on the arm of the l^ord, “[Art] not thou it 
that hath cut Ilahab, [and] wounded the dragon? 
[Art] not thou it which hath dried the sea, the waters 
of the great deep; that hath made the depths of the sea 
a way for the ransomed to pass over?”(li, 9, 10; comp. 
15). In Psa. lxxiv the division of the sea is mentioned 
in connection with breaking the heads of the dragons 
and the heads of Leviathan (ver. 13, 14). So, too, in Psa. 
lxxxix Cod’s power to subdue the sea is spoken of im- 
mediately before a mention of his having “ broken Ila- 
hab in pieces” (ver. 9, 10). Ilahab, as a name of Egypt, 
occurs once only without reference to the Exodus: this is 
in Psa. lxxxvii, where Ilahab, Babylon, l’hilistia, Tyre, 
and Cush are compared with Zion (ver. 4, 5). In one 
other passage the name is alluded to with reference to 
its Hebrew signitication, where it is prophesied that the 
aid of the Egyptians should not avail those who sought 
it, and this sentence follows: T- l' SH "PI 1 !, “ Insolence 
(i. e. ‘ the insolent’), they sit still” (Isa. xxx, 7), as Ge- 
senius reads, considering it to be undoubtedly a prover- 
bial expression. See Citoeomuc. 

Ra'harn ( Heb. liach'um , - “ ~ , billy ; Sept. 'P«f/t), 
the son of Shema and father of.Jorkoam, in the geneal- 
ogy of the descendants of Caleb the son of Ilezron, of 
the tribe of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 44). B.C. post 1000. 
Ilashi and the author of the Qiurst. in Parol., attributed 
to Jerome, regard Jorkoam as a place, of which liaham 
was founder and prince. 

Rahauser, Fukdeiuck A., a German lleformed 
minister, was born in York Co., Pa., in 1782, of humble 
but excellent parentage. He was brought up as a 
weaver, the profession of his father. His early edu- 
cational advantages were very limited. At the age of 
twenty-one he went to Hanover, Pa., there studied 
with a Lutheran minister, and then determined to pre- 
pare for the work of the ministry. 11 is brother Jona- 
than greatly aided him, and Frederick llahauscr pleased 
as a preacher as soon as he entered upon the ministe- 
rial task, lie was ordained in 1 SOS, and preached for 
nearly half a century. He served during this period 
several large and laborious charges, which are now 
among the most prosperous and prominent places in the 
Reformed Church. In those early days all ministers 
did hard work, for then the fields were large and the 
laborers were yet fewer than now. His first settlement 
was at Eminettsburg, Md., in the summer of 1808. This 
charge, which he served with great acceptance for about 
eight years, then included Gettysburg, Tancytown, Ap- 
ples, and other distant points. Some of the congrega- 
tions were seven, ten. twelve, and even twenty miles 
apart. Put during all his hard service his general 
health was good, so that he rarely failed to meet an ap- 
pointment. In 1 x H» he accepted a call to the church at 
Harrisburg, Pa., to which he ministered till IS 19, when 
he removed to t'hambershurg. Pa. To this charge he 
gave his matured and most vigorous labors, and there 
faithfulness also was attended with success for a period 


of seventeen years. In 1830 he removed to Tiffin, O., 
and for four years was pastor of the German Peformed 
Church in that city. In 1840 he took charge of some 
country churches in Sandusky and Seneca counties, in 
a region called the Black Swamp. Here he continued 
the work of his ministry, till declining years and failing 
energies disabled him from the active duties of his holy 
office. lie lived with his children until his death, July 
15, 18G5. 

Ra'hel, a form originally adopted everywhere in 
the A, V. (in the edition of ltd 1) for the present famil- 
iar name Bachel (q. v.), but retained in our present 
Bible only in Jer. xxxi. 15, apparently' by a mere over- 
sight of the later editors. 

R&hu is, in Indian mythology', the d:emon who is 
imagined to be the cause of the eclipses of sun and 
moon. When, in consequence of the churning of the 
milk sea, the gods had obtained the amrita, or bever- 
age of immortality', they endeavored to appropriate it 
to their exclusive use: and in this attempt they had 
also succeeded, after a long struggle with their rivals, 
the Daityas, or cla-mons, when Palin, one of the latter, 
i insinuating himself among the gods, obtained a portion 
! of the amrita. Being detected by the snn and moon, 
j bis bead was cut off by Vishnu; but, the amrita having 
reached his throat, his head had already become immor- 
tal; and out of revenge against snn and moon, it now 
pursues them with implacable hatred, seizing them at 
intervals, and thus causing their eclipses. Such is the 
substance of the legend as told in the Mahabharata 
(q. v.). In the Puranas (q. v.), it is amplified by al- 
| lowing both head and tail of the daemon to ascend 
I heaven, and produce the eclipses of sun and moon, 

| when the head of the daemon is called Ruhu and his 
tail Ketn, both, moreover, being represented in some 
! Puranas as the sons of the chemon Yiprachitti and 
his wife Sinhika. In the Vitthnu-Pu 7-duo. Palm is also 
spoken of as the king of the meteors. — Chambers's 
Eneyelnp. s. v. 

Rai Dasis, a Hindu sect founded by Uni Ibis, a 
disciple of Raiminand. It is said to he confined to the 
chamars , or workers in hides and in leather, and among 
the very lowest of the Hindu mixed tribes. This cir- 
cumstance, as Prof. II. II. Wilson thinks, renders it clif- 
ticult, if not impossible, to ascertain whether the sect 
still exists. — Gardner, Faith* of the II ’odd, s. v. 

Raiford, Matthew, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, .South, was born in Jefferson Co., 
Ga., July' 12, 1789. lie enjoyed the aim fort able as- 
surance of grace at or before the tenth year of his age, 
and joined the Church in his eleventh year. He was 
licensed to exhort March 28. 1818. and was licensed to 
preach Dec. (5. He entered the Georgia Conference at 
the ensuing session, and lilled various appointments 
until 1842, when he ceased to bo an effective preacher, 
lie was sorely atliicted for several years before bis 
death, hut often spoke of it with calmness and Christian 
confidence. He died in Monroe Co., Ga.. April 10, 1849. 
— Minutes of Annual Conf.of the M.F, Ch., South, 1850, 
p. 25. 

Raikes, Henry, an Anglican divine of considera- 
ble note, was born Sept. 24. 1782. and was the second 
son of Thomas Paikes, a gonl Ionian distinguished in 
English civic life, lie was educated at Eton and Cam- 
bridge University, where he graduated at St. John’s 
College, in 1804, with second-class honors. 'The next 
three years were spent on the Continent in extensive 
travels, lie enjoyed the society of the most cultured, 
and returned, in 1808, to enter the service of the Church 
with more than usual intellectual and social qualifica- 
tions. He became curate of llelchworth. in Surrey, and 
later of Burnham, in Buckshi re. w hence he removed to 
Bognor, in Sussex; and finally enjoyed the distinction 
of holding the chancellorship of Chester for eighteen 
j years. He refused, about 1829, the bishopric of Calcut- 
ta and a valuable preferment in the North of Ireland 


ItAIIvES 


883 


RAIKES 


and in Lincolnshire. He was attached to his home, 
and loved the quiet and retirement of his parish, lie 
died in February, 1854. Chancellor Raikes’s varied and 
great learning was scarcely known by his most intimate 
friends. His was so unpretentious a nature that few 
were aware of his acquirements in Oriental learning 
and patristic subjects. His printed productions are his 
least valuable efforts. Yet among these lesser works 
and contributions to the religious periodicals of the day, 
he published a volume of Sermons of a very original 
type, on the “Divine Attributes;” but this volume in- 
curred the fate of most works adopted by a party as its 
manifesto in great temporary popularity and early ob- 
livion. A far more important work, and one of vast in- 
fluence on the Church, was his Essay on Clerical Educa- 
tion. It materially influenced the universities to the 
recognition of a higher truth, of a more precious learn- 
ing than hail, at that time, scarcely found a place in the 
extensive range of university studies and examinations. 
It is to be regretted that, besides the repeated publica- 
tion of series of sermons, the productions of Chancellor 
Raikes are left in MS. form. He was so well qualified 
for original work, and did so much of it in certain un- 
explored fields, that it is to be hoped his writings will, 
some day, find their way to print in a complete edition. 
See Gentleman's Mag. (Loud.) 1 855, i, 198 sq. (J. H. W.) 

Raikes, Richard, uncle of Henry, was a clergy- 
man of the Church of England, and flourished near the 
middle of the 18th century. II o was educated at St. 
John's College, Cambridge, and held a fellowship from 
that university. After taking holy orders, he was made 
prebendary of St. David’s. lie was a man of exact 
learning and of refinement of taste. He was the early 
teacher of Henry. The founder of Sunday-schools also 
received much help and encouragement from this divine, 
who himself published Essays on Sunday-schools. See 
Gentleman's Magazine (Loud.), 1855, p. 190. 

Raikes, Robert, the noted English philanthro- 
pist who founded the modern Sunday-school (q. v.), 
was a native of Gloucester, England, where he was born 
in 1735, His ancestors were people of good rank, and 
some of them are distinguished as clergy and politi- 
cians. His father was a printer and an editor. He 
published the Gloucester Journal, a county Tory news- 
paper, and the first journal that attempted to give a re- 
port of parliamentary proceedings, which was consider- 
ed, at the time, so great a breach of privilege that he 
was reprimanded at the bar of the House of Lords in 
the dark days of George I and under the partisanship 
of lord-chancellor King. Robert was brought up with 
a view of succeeding his father in business, and en- 
joyed, therefore, a liberal education. Having finally 
become proprietor of the Journal, he managed to give 
his paper a wide influence and respectful reading. He 
was a truly devout man, and carried his Christianity 
into every-day life. He was not only scrupulous about 
his church attendance on the Sabbath, but made it the 
rule to frequent early morning prayers on week-days at 
the Gloucester cathedral. A man who could thus de- 
vote the hours of a working-day to the glory of his 
God was likely to cherish an interest in his fellows 
also. Raikes was particularly interested in the lowly 
and the degraded. He visited prisons and went about 
the streets seeking to do good wherever there was need 
of aid or counsel. The improvements in prison disci- 
pline at the close of the last century in England are 
largely due to Robert Raikes. His newspaper was an 
important agency which he used freely, and thus pow- 
erfully affected public opinion in favor of the suffering 
and degraded classes of society. In 1781 his attention 
was directed to the children of the poor. He had, by 
frequent intercourse with the common people, learned 
of their low intellectual state and the absolute neglect 
suffered by the rising generations. He was struck, as 
he himself tells ns in one of his letters written in 1784, 
with the number of wretched children whom he found 


in the suburbs of Gloucester, chiefly in the neighbor- 
hood of a pin manufactory, where their parents were 
employed, wholly abandoned to themselves, half elotheil, 
half fed, and growing up in the most degrading vices. 
The state of the streets was worse on Sunday, when 
the older children, who were employed in the factory 
on week-days, were joined to their younger associates; 
and all manner of excesses became the theme of com- 
plaint on the part of the shopmen and the property- 
owners generally. Even the farmers near there com- 
plained of the depredations frequently committed by 
juvenile offenders. Raikes determined to provide a 
remedy for this growing evil, lie saw very clearly 
the surest result in education, and therefore sought the 
help of four excellent teachers and devoted Christian 
women, whom he paid a small allowance for their ser- 
vices, and, gathering the children on the Sabbath-day, 
attempted the kind of work which has given shape to 
the modern Sabbath-sehool. lie procured the help of 
the clergy, and the enterprise begun in such an unpre- 
tending manner grew into proportions of which Raikes 
himself had not had the faintest idea. The instruction 
was at first confined to reading and writing. Instead 
of secular text-books, the Bible was the principal read- 
ing-book used, and so the children were made familiar 
with the Gospel’s great benefits to man. How he got 
the children we will let him tell in his own language: 
“I went around,” he says, “to remonstrate with num- 
bers of the poor on the melancholy consequences that 
must ensue from a fatal neglect of their children’s mor- 
als. I prevailed with some, and others soon followed; 
and the school began to prosper in numbers. The chil- 
dren were to come soon after ten in the morning and 
stay till twelve; they were then to go home and re- 
turn at one, and, after reading a lesson, they were to be 
conducted to church. After church they were to be 
employed in repeating the catechism till halt-past five, 
and then to be dismissed with an injunction to go home 
without making a noise, and by no means to play in 
the street. With regard to the rules adopted, I only re- 
quired that they come to the school on Sunday as clean 
as possible. - Many were at first deterred because they 
wanted decent clothing, but I could not undertake to 
supply this defect. Although without shoes and in a 
ragged coat, I rejected none on that account; all that I 
required were clean bands, a clean face, and the hair 
combed. If they bad no clean shirt, they were to come 
in that which they had on. The want of deeent ap- 
parel at first kept great numbers at a distance, but they 
gradually became wiser, and all pressed to learn. I had 
the good luck to procure places for some that were de- 
serving, which was of great use. The children attend- 
ing the school varied from six years old to twelve or 
fourteen. Little rewards were distributed among the 
most diligent : this excited an emulation.” The mode 
of procedure is thus described by himself: “ l T pon the 
Sunday afternoon the mistresses take their scholars to 
church, a place which neither they nor their ancestors 
ever entered with a view to the glory of God. They 
assemble at the house of one of the mistresses, and walk 
before her to church, two and two, in as much order as 
a company of soldiers. I am generally at church, and 
after service they all come round me to make their 
bow, and, if any animosities have arisen, to make their 
complaint. The great principle I inculcate is to be 
kind and good-natured to each other; not to provoke 
one another; to be dutiful to their parents; not to of- 
fend God by cursing and swearing, and such plain pre- 
cepts as all may comprehend.” Although other schemes 
may have been formed on a larger scale and exeiteil a 
more romantic interest, none were ever so productive 
of more extensively beneficial results. The necessity, 
and the advantages to be derived from the establishment, 
of such schools seem to have occurred about the same 
time to several individuals in various parts of the coun- 
try ; and although Mr. Stoke, in particular, the rector of 
St. John’s, Gloucester, cordially co-operated in the erec- 


liAIKES 


884 


RAIMOXDI 


tion and superintendence of the Sunday-schools in that 
city, yet, for the energetic development of the principle, 
for the carrying-out into practical details and bringing 
it in the most advantageous form before the country so 
as to render it a prolific source of public benefit, to Rob- 
ert llaikes, beyond all dispute, lieiongs the honorable title 
of the Founder of Sunday-schools. Three years after 
the inauguration of the tiloneester institution, the in- 
habitants of an obscure district where he had fixed a 
school remarked that “the place had become quite a 
heaven upon Sundays compared to what it used to be.” 
Schools of the same kind were, ere long, opened in most 
of the large towns in England. A Sunday-school So- 
ciety was opened in London under the auspices of such 
men as llenry Thornton, bishops Harrington, Hortens, 
and other well-known ('hristians of the period; and, at 
a general meeting of that association, held on July 11, 
1787, it was resolved unanimously that, in consideration 
of the zeal and merits of Robert Raikes, lie be admitted 
an honorary member of the society. Within the sphere 
of his own immediate experience, Raikes had the satis- 
faction of seeing the happiest fruits spring from the 
institutions in tiloneester; for, out of all the thousands 
of poor children who were educated at those Sunday- 
schools, it was found, after a long series of years, that 
not one had ever been either in the city or county 
prisons. Itaikes died in 1811. See Gentleman's Maga- 
zine (Ixmd.), 178-1-1831, pt. ii, 132, 21)4; Sketch of the. 
Life of Jtobt. Itaikes, and the History of Sunday-schools 
(N. Y. 1 Smo) ; Cornell, Life of Robert Itaikes (X. Y. 
1864); Jamieson, Christian Biography, s. v. 

Kaikes, Timothy, the grandfather of Robert 
Itaikes, was a clergyman of the Church of England, 
and of some note. lie was born near the middle of the 
17th century, and was educated at St. John’s College, 
Cambridge. After taking holy orders, he was vicar of 
Tickhill. lie held the vicarate of llessle, near llnll, at 
the time of his death, in 1722. 

Raillon, Jacques, a French prelate, born at Bonr- 
goin, July 17, 1762, was educated for the priesthood at 
the seminary in Lukoil, in which he had been plaeed by | 
bishop Mercy of that place. After graduation he was 
made a curate of Montaigu, but was obliged in the Rev- i 
olutionary period to quit his parish, and lived for some 
time at Haris, where he took the defence of the priests 
in his Appel an I’euple Cafholiqne (1792, Svo). Hut he 
became only notorious, and, by the gravity of the situa- 
tion, was forced from the country, lie lived for a while 
at Soleur, in Switzerland, then at Venice, in Italy, and 
only returned to France in 1804. He at once became 
teacher in the house of Hortalis, then minister of coi- 
tus, and by his influence Raillon was in 1809 made 
professor of pulpit oratory in the theological faculty at 
Haris, and titulary canon of Xotre Dame. In the latter 
capacity he pronounced the funeral orations upon mar- 
shal Lannes and other distinguished countrymen of his, 
and so markedly acquitted himself in this task that he 
was given the episcopacy of Orleans in 1810. The un- 
pleasant relations then existing between the govern- 
ment of France and the papacy, however, prevented his 
confirmation, and in 181(5 he went into retirement at 
Haris. The government, however, was unwilling to 
suffer the loss of such a faithful and efficient ecclesias- 
tic, and in 1829 he was nominated bishop of Dijon and 
promptly confirmed as such. In 1830 he was made arch- 
bishop of Aix, and there he resided until his death, in 
1833. On his departure from Dijon a medal was struck 
in his honor by his diocese, so greatly was he beloved. 
The recently expired Dupanluup (1878), who figured as 
bishop, and more recently as archbishop, of Orleans, at 
one time involved Raillon in controversy and took offen- 
sive ground; but Raillon was universally supported by 
the French press and a majority of the French clergy, 
and for a while bishop Dupanloup lost much of his pop- 
ularity on account of his conduct in this affair. 11 is 
works are of a secular character, excepting the Uistoire 


de Saint- Ambrose (which was to form four or five vols. 
in 8vo, but of which the MS. was lost). See lloefer. 
A our. Biog. Generate, s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Rails of the Altai* date from the time of bishop 
Andrewes, who calls them “wainscot banisters,” and 
Laud, who intended to preserve the altar from profana- 
tion by their use. They are, in fact, the ranee Hi moved 
eastward, resembling the mediieval “ reclinatorium.”and 
answer to the primitive altar-veils and (ireek “iconos- 
tasis.” At Leamington Rriors, St. Herman’s, and Wim- 
borne they are covered with a white linen cloth at the 
time of holy communion, a relic of the custom for com- 
municants to hold the houselling-eloth (duniimcede, for 
the Lord’s body) below their chin for the purpose (if re- 
taining upon it any portion of the sacrament which 
might fall during the administration. The custom was 
disused at the coronation of "William IV. St. Augustine 
and Civsarins of Arles mention a linen cloth ( linhamen ) 
used by women for the same purpose. — Walcott, Sacred 
A rchatol. s. v. 

Raiment. See (’lothtng*. Dmcss; (4 ailment. 

Raimondi, Giovanni Battista, a celebrated 
Italian Orientalist, was born at Cremona in 1540, re- 
moved in his youth to Naples, where he studied at the 
university theology, philosophy, and mathematics, and 
then spent some time in Asia studying Eastern civiliza- 
tion and languages. Returning to Italy, he became en- 
gaged in various literary enterprises, and enjoyed the 
society of the great and the learned. He brought out 
an edition of the (iospels in Arabic with a Latin inter- 
linear translation (1591), and wrote grammars of Syriac 
and Arabic. He was also engaged on a polyglot Bible 
more complete than that of Alcala or of Antwerp, and 
only ceased labor when the death of pope Uregorv XIII 
(1585) and the departure of cardinal Ferdinand de’ 
Medici (1587) deprived him of the necessary funds for 
such an enterprise, lie died about 1610. He was en- 
gaged after 1587 in the compilation of Oriental MSS. 
and other like labors. See Tiraboschi, Della Letteratura 
I ta liana. — lloefer, Xouv. Biog . Generate, s. v. 

Raimondi, Marc Antonio, an Italian engraver 
who devoted himself to classical and sacred art, was 
born at Bologna in 1487. He was a student first of 
Francesco Francia,but perfected himself under Raphael, 
who favored him so greatly that Raimondi may be 
placed by the side of his great master. The two artists 
together exerted such a great influence upon this par- 
ticular branch of art that the works of that time have 
never been excelled in drawing and clearness of outline, 
though much surpassed in gradation of tone and deli- 
cacy of modelling. It should be remembered that it was 
from the drawings, and not the finished pictures, of 
Raphael that Marc Antonio worked. He was especial- 
ly remarkable for the exactness with which he copied; 
he seems to have been willing to lose himself entirely 
in the master he reproduced. His life may be said to 
have been devoted to multiplying the works of Ra- 
phael. lie also executed a few plates after Michael 
Angelo, Mantegna, Bandinelli, and tiiulio Romano. lie 
was imprisoned on account of some plates after the de- 
signs of the latter, which were so indecent as to enrage 
Clement VII, and it was with difficulty that his release 
1 was obtained by some of the cardinals and Randinclli. 

In 1527 Raimondi was in full favor in Rome, when he 
' was driven away by the sacking of the Spaniards, lie 
was plundered, and fled to Bologna. His last work was 
done in 1539, in which year he is said to have been killed 
bv a nobleman of Rome, because he had engraved a sec- 
ond plate of the Murder of the Innocents, contrary to his 
agreement. 11 is works are numerous, and in selecting 
them great attention should be paid to the different im- 
pressions, for some of the plates have been retouched 
by those who have had them, until they are greatly 
changed. The best impressions have no publisher’s 
name. Ileineken gives a complete catalogue ol his 
prints. Very fine collections are in the Louvre and iu 


RAIN 


885 


RAIN 


the British Museum. At Venice Raimondi engraved, 
after Diirer, two sets of prints — viz. those illustrating 
the life of the Virgin and the life and Passion of Christ. 
See Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rain, Heb.*lEE,9wt#<w', and also 'CK2»,geshem, which, 
however, rather signifies a shower of more violent rain; 
it is also used as a generic term, including the early and 
latter rain (Jer. v, 24; Joel ii, 23). Another word, of a 
more poetical character, is rebihim (a plural 

form, connected with rab, “ many,” from the multitude 
of the drops), translated in our version “showers” (Deut. 
xxxii, 2; Jer. iii, 3; xiv, 22; Mic. v, 7 [Heb. 6]; Psa. 
lxv, 10 [Heb. 11 ] ; lxxii, 6). The Hebrews have also 
the word C jt, zerem, expressing violent rain, storm, 
tempest, accompanied with hail — in Job xxiv, 8, the 
heavy rain which conies down on mountains; ’and the 
word sagrir, which occurs only in Prov. xxvii, 

15, continuous and heavy rain (Sept, iv gpipa 
pivg). 

Early Rain means the rains of the autumn, FPT, 
yoreh, part, subst. from {TV 1 , “ he scattered” (Deut. xi, 
14; Jer. v, 24); also the Hiphil part, PH""^ moreh (Joel 
ii, 23) ; Sept, verog irpwipog. 

Latter Rain is the rain of spring, malkosh, 

(Prov. xvi, 15; Job xxix, 23; Jer. iii, 3; IIos. vi, 3; 
Joel ii, 23 ; Zech. x, 1) ; Sept, vtrbg otptpog. The early 
and latter rains are mentioned together (Dent, xi, 14; 
Jer. v, 24; Joel ii, 23; Hos. vi, 3; James v, 7). 

In a country comprising so many varieties of eleva- 
tion as Palestine, there must of necessity occur corre- 
sponding varieties of climate. An aceouut that might 
correctly describe the peculiarities of the district of Leb- 
anon would be in many respects inaccurate when ap- 
plied to the deep depression and almost tropical climate 
of Jericho. In any general statement, therefore, allow- 
ance must be made for not inconsiderable local varia- 
tions. Contrasted with the districts most familiar to 
the children of Israel before their settlement in the land 
of promise — Egypt and the Desert — rain might be 
spoken of as one of its distinguishing characteristics 
(Deut. xi, 10, 11; Herodotus, iii, 10). For six months 
in the year no rain falls, and the harvests are gathered 
in without any of the anxiety with which we are so 
familiar lest the work be interrupted by unseasonable 
storms. In this respect, at least, the climate has re- 
mained unchanged since the time when Boaz slept by 
his heap of corn ; and the sending of thunder and rain in 
wheat harvest was a miracle which filled the people with 
fear and wonder (1 Sam. xii, 16-18); so that Solomon 
could speak of “rain in harvest” as the most forcible ex- 
pression for conveying the idea of something utterly out 
of place and unnatural (Prov. xxvi, l). There are, how- 
ever, very considerable, and perhaps more than compen- 
sating, disadvantages occasioned by this long absence 
of rain: the whole land becomes dry, parched, and 
brown; the cisterns are empty; the springs and fountains 
fail; and the autumnal rains are eagerly looked for, to 
prepare the earth for the reception of the seed. These, 
the early rains, commence about the end of October or 
beginning of November, in Lebanon a month earlier — 
not suddenly, but by degrees : the husbandman has thus 
the opportunity of sowing his fields of wheat and barley. 
The rains come mostly from the west or south-west 
(Luke xii, 54), continuing for two or three days at a 
time, and falling chiefly during the night. The wind 
then shifts round to the north or east, and several days 
of fine weather succeed (Prov. xxv, 23). During the 
mouths of November and December the rains continue 
to fall heavily, but at intervals; afterwards they return, 
only at longer intervals, and are less heavy ; but at no 
period during the winter do they entirely cease. Jan- 
uary and February are the coldest months, and snow 
falls, sometimes to the depth of a foot or more, at Jeru- 
salem, but it does not lie long : it is very seldom seen 


along the coast and in the low plains. Thin ice occa- 
sionally covers the pools for a few days, and while Por- 
ter was writing his JIandbook,the snow was eight inches 
deep at Damascus, and the ice a quarter of an inch thick. 
Rain continues to fall more or less during the month of 
March ; it is very rare in April, and even in Lebanon 
the showers that occur are generally light. In the val- 
ley of the Jordan the barley harvest begins as early as 
the middle of April, and the wheat a fortnight later; in 
Lebanon the grain is seldom ripe before the middle of 
June. See Robinson ( Biblical Researches, i, 429) and- 
Porter ( Handbook , ch. xlviii). See Palestine. 

With respect to the distinction between the early 
and the latter rains, Robinson observes that there are 
not at the present day “any particular periods of rain 
or succession of showers which might be regarded as 
distinct rainy seasons. The whole period from October 
to March now constitutes only one continued season of 
rain, without any regularly intervening term of pro- 
longed line weather. Unless, therefore, there have been 
some change in the climate, the early and the latter 
rains for which the husbandman waited with longing 
seem rather to have implied the first showers of autumn 
which revived the parched and thirsty soil and pre- 
pared it for the seed ; and the later showers of spring, 
which continued to refresh and forward both the ripen- 
ing crops and the vernal products of the fields (James v, 
7 ; Prov. xvi, 15). In April and May the sky is usual- 
ly serene ; showers occur occasionally, but they are mild 
and refreshing. On May 1 Robinson experienced show- 
ers at Jerusalem, and “at evening there were thunder 
and lightning (which are frequent in winter), with 
pleasant and reviving rain. May 6 was also remark- 
able for thunder and for several showers, some of which 
were quite heavy. The rains of both these days ex- 
tended far to the north, . . . but the occurrence of rain 
so late in the season was regarded as a very unusual cir- 
cumstance” ( Biblical Researches, i, 430 [he is speaking 
of the year 1838]). In 1856, however, “ there was very 
heavy rain accompanied with thunder all over the re- 
gion of Lebanon, extending to Beirut and Damascus, 
on May 28 and 29 ; but the oldest inhabitant had never 
seen the like before, and it created,” says Porter ( Huml - 
book, ch. xlviii), “almost as much astonishment as the 
thunder and rain which Samuel brought upon the Is- 
raelites during the time of wheat harvest.” During Dr. 
Robinson’s stay at Beirut on his second visit to Pales- 
tine, in 1852, there ivere heavy rains in March, once for 
five days continuously, and the weather continued varia- 
ble, with occasional heavy rain, till the close of the first 
week in April. The “latter rains” thus continued this 
season for nearly a month later than usual, and the re- 
sult was afterwards seen in the very abundant crops of 
winter grain (Robinson, Biblical Researches, iii, 9). 
These details will, it is thought, better than any gen- 
eralized statement, enable the reader to form his judg- 
ment on the “former” and “latter” rains of Scripture, 
and may serve to introduce a remark or tivo on the 
question, about which some interest has been felt, 
whether there have been any change in the frequency 
and abundance of the rain in Palestine, or in the periods 
of its supply. It is asked whether “ these stony hills, 
these deserted valleys,” can be the land flowing with 
milk and honey; the land which God cared for; the 
land upon which were always the eyes of the Lord, 
from the beginning of the year to the end of the year 
(Deut. xi, 12). So far as relates to the other considera- 
tions which may account for diminished fertility, such 
as the decrease of population and industry, the neglect 
of terrace -culture and irrigation, and husbanding the 
supply of water, it may suffice to refer to the article on 
Agriculture, and to Stanley ( Sinai and Palestine, 
p. 120-123). With respect to our more immediate sub- 
ject, it is urged that the very expression “flowing with 
milk and honey” implies abundant rains to keep alive 
the grass for the pasture of the numerous herds supply- 
ing the milk, and to nourish the flowers clothing the 


RAIN 


SSG 


RAINBOW 


now bare hill-sides, from whence the bees might gather 
their stores of honey. It is urged that the supply of 
rain in its due season seems to be promised as contin- 
gent upon the fidelity of the people (Dent. xi, 13-lb; 
Lev. xxvi, 3-5;, and that as from time to time, to pun- 
ish the people for their transgressions, “ the showers 
have been withholden, and there hath been no latter 
rain" (.Icr. iii, 3; 1 Kings xvii, xviii), so now, in the 
great and long-continued apostasy of the children of Is- 
rael. there has come upon even the land of their for- 
feited inheritance a like long-continued withdrawal of 
the favor of God, who claims the sending of rain as one 
of his special prerogatives (Jcr. xiv, 22). bee Calen- 
]>,\k. Jewish. 

The early rains, it is urged, are hv comparison scanty 
and interrupted, the latter rains have altogether ceased, 
and hence, it is maintained, the curse has been fulfilled, 
‘‘ Thy heaven that is over thy head shall he brass, and 
the earth that is under thee shall he iron. The Lord 
shall make the rain of thy land powder and dust” (Dent, 
xxviii, 23, 24; Lev. xxvi, ID). Without entering here 
into the consideration of the justness of the interpreta- 
tion which would assume these predictions of the with- 
holding of rain to be altogether different in the manner 
of their inlliction from the other calamities denounced 
in these chapters of threatening, it would appear that, 
so far as the question of fact is concerned, there is scarce- 
ly sufficient reason to imagine that any great and marked 
changeswith respect to the rains have taken place in Pal- 
estine. In early days, as now, rain was unknown for half 
the year; and if we may judge from the allusions in 
1’rov. xvi, 15; Job xxix, 23, the latter rain was even 
then, while greatly desired and longed for, that which 
was somewhat precarious, by no means to be absolutely 
counted on as a matter of course. If we are to take as 
correct our translation of Joel ii, 23, “The latter rain in 
the first (month),” i. e. Nisan orAbib, answering to the 
latter part of March and t lie early part of April, the 
times of the latter rain in the days of the prophets 
would coincide with those in which it falls now. The 
same conclusion would he arrived at from Amos iv, 7, 
“I have withholden the rain from you when there were 
yet three months to the harvest." The rain here spoken 
of is the latter rain, and an interval of three months be- 
tween the ending of the rain and the beginning of har- 
vest would seem to he in an average year as exceptional 
now as it was when Amos noted it as a judgment of 
God. We may infer also from the Song of Solomon, ii, 

1 1-13, where is given a poetical description of the burst- 
ing -forth of vegetation in the spring, that when the 
“winter" was past, the rain also was over and gone. We 
can hardly, by any extension of the term “ winter,” 
bring it down to a later period than that during which 
the rains still fall. 

It may he added that travellers have, perhaps uncon- 
sciously, exaggerated the barrenness of the land, from 
conliuing themselves too closely to the southern portion 
of Palestine; the northern portion, Galilee, of such pe- 
culiar interest to the readers of the Gospels, is fertile 
and beautiful (see Stanley, Sinai and Palestine, ch. x, 
and Van de Velde, there quoted), and in his description 
of the valley of Nablus, the ancient Sliechem, Bobinson 
( liiblical Researches, ii, 275) becomes almost enthusias- 
tic : “ 1 lore a scene iff luxuriant and almost unparalleled 
verdure bursts upon our view. The whole valley was 
tilled with gardens of vegetables and orchards of all 
kinds of fruits, watered by several fountains, which 
burst forth in various parts and flow westward in re- i 
freshing streams. It came upon us suddenly, like a 
scene of fairy enchantment. We saw nothing like it in 
all Palestine.” The account given by a recent lady j 
traveller (/ Egyptian Sepulchres and Syrian Shrines , by 
Miss Lean fort) of the luxuriant fruit-trees and vegeta- 
bles which she saw at Moshnllam’s farm in the valley of 
Urtas, a little south of Bethlehem (possibly the site of Sol- 
omon’s gardens, Kcclcs. ii, 4— <»), may serve to prove how 
much now, as ever, may be effected by irrigation (q.v.). 


Bain frequently furnishes the writers of the Old Test, 
with forcible and appropriate metaphors, varying in their 
character according as they regard it as the beneficent 
and fertilizing shower, or the destructive storm pouring 
down the mountain-side and sweeping away the labor 
of years. Thus Prow xxviii, 3. of t lie poor man that op- 
pressed the poor; Kzek. xxxviii, 22, of the just punish- 
ments and righteous vengeance of God (comp. l’sa. xi, 
C ; Job xx, 23). < >n the other hand, we have it used of 
speech wise and lining, refreshing the souls of men ; ot 
words earnestly waited for and hecdfully listened to 
(Dent, xxxii, 2; Job xxix, 23; ; of the cheering favor 
of the Lord coming down mce more upon the penitent 
soul ; of the gracious presence and influence for good of 
the righteous king among his people: of the blessings, 
gifts, and graces of the reign of the Messiah (IIos. vi, 3; 
2 Sam. xxiii, 4; I’sa. lxxii, C).— Smith. 

Rain Dragon, Tiik, a Chinese deity, from whose 
capacious mouth it is believed the waters arc spouted 
forth which descend upon the earth in the form of rain. 
This god is worshipped by those who cultivate the soil, 
only, however, when his power is felt either by the al>- 
sence of rain or by too abundant a supply. Sometimes 
the farmers earnestly implore him to give them more 
rain and sometimes less. In cases of drought each fam- 
ily keeps erected at the front door of the house a tab- 
let on which is inscribed, “To the Dragon King of the 
Five Lakes and the Four Seas." Before this tablet, on 
an altar of incense, they lay out their sacrificial offerings 
to propitiate the gods. Processions arc also got up, 
among the farmers particularly, to attract the favor of 
the gods. On these occasions there may sometimes be 
seen a huge figure of a dragon made of paper or of 
cloth, which is carried through the streets with sound of 
gongs and trumpets. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Rainald or Citeaux. a mediaeval ecclesiastic, 
flourished in the first half of the 12th century, lie was 
son of Milon, and had St. Bernard for teacher. In 1113, 
on the death of St. Stephen, he became abbot of Citeaux, 
and here he gave shelter to Abelard, and became the 
mediator for the restoration of that great niedheval phi- 
losopher and theologian to papal favor. In 1148 Bai- 
nald was president of a general chapter of his order, 
lie died Dec. 13, 1151. lie published a Ilecudl (in 
ciglity-seven chapters) on divers chapters of the < )r<ler 
of Citeaux, etc. See Gallia Christiana, vol. iv, col. 985; 
llistoire Litteraire de la France, xii, 418; Bemusat, 17c 
de A belard, i, 251. — lloefer, Xour. Jiiog. Generate, s. v. 

Rainaldi, Francesco, an Italian Jesuit, was born 
at Matclica, in the Ancona marshes, in 1000. At twen- 
ty-two he entered the Order of the Jesuits, and passed 
his life at Borne in the house of the Society of Jesus. 
He died in 1077. We mention of his writings, Lumen 
Ilominis Devoti (Borne, 1033, 24mo): — Cibo dell' .Duma 
(ibid. 1037, 12mo): — 177a J. Lainez (ibid. 1072, 8vo). 
See Southwell, Jiibl. Soc . Jesu, p. 240. — lloefer, Xouv. 
liiorj. Generate, s. v. 

Rainaldi, Tlieophilus. See Raynaud. 

Rainbow t Deb. kesheth, i.e. a bow with which 

to shoot arrows, Gen. ix, 13-10; Kzek. i, 28 ; Sept, rotor, 
so Kcclus. xliii, 1 1 ; Vulg. arcus. 1 ii the New Test. [ Bcv. 
iv, 3; x, 1 ], lf)tc\ the token of the covenant which God 
made with Noah when he came forth from the ark that 
the waters should no more become a flood to destroy all 
flesh. With respect to the covenant itself, as a charter 
of natural blessings and mercies (•* the world's covenant, 
not the. Church's”), re-establishing the peace and order 
of physical nature, which in the flood had undergone so 
great a convulsion, see Davidson, On Prophecy, lect. iii, 
p. 70-81). With respect to the token of the covenant, 
the right interpretation of Gen. ix, 13 seems to be that 
God took the rainbow, which had hitherto been but a 
beautiful object shining in the heavens when the sun's 
rays fell on falling rain, and consecrated it as t lie sign 
of his love and the witness of his promise. The bow in 
the cloud, seen by every nation under heaven, is an uu- 


RAINBOW 


887 


RAINES 


failing witness to the truth of God. Was the rainbow, 
then, we ask, never seen before the flood? Was tliis 
“sign in the heavens” beheld for the first time by the 
eight dwellers in the ark when, after their long impris- 
onment, the} r stood again upon the green earth, and saw 
the dark, humid clouds spanned by its glorious arch? 
Such seems to be the meaning of the narrator. Yet 
this implies that there was no rain before the flood, and 
that the laws of nature were changed, at least in that 
part of the globe, by that event. There is no reason to 
suppose that in the world at large there has been such 
a change in meteorological phenomena as here implied. 
That a certain portion of the earth should never have 
been visited by rain is quite conceivable. Egypt, 
though not absolutely without rain, very rarely sees it. 
But the country of Noah and the ark was a mountain- 
ous country; and the ordinary atmospherical conditions 
must have been suspended, or a new law must have 
come into operation after the flood, if the rain then first 
fell, and if the rainbow had consequently never before 
been painted on the clouds. lienee, many writers have 
supposed that the meaning of the passage is, not that 
the rainbow now appeared for the first time, but that it 
was now for the first time invested with the sanctity of 
a sign ; that not a new phenomenon was visible, but 
that a new meaning was given to a phenomenon al- 
ready existing. The following passages, Numb, xiv, 4 ; 
1 Sam. xii, 13; 1 Kings ii, 35, are instances in which 
■jro, nathdn, literally “give” — the word used in Gen. 
ix, 13, “ I do set my bow in the cloud” — is employed in 
the sense of “ constitute,” “ appoint.” Accordingly there 
is no reason for concluding that ignorance of the natural 
cause of the rainbow occasioned the account given of 
its institution in the book of Genesis. — Smith. See 
Noah. 

The rainbow is frequently seen in Palestine in the 
rainy season, and thus it furnishes a common image to 
the sacred writers. There is a reference to the rain- 
bow, though not named, in Isa. liv, 9, 10; and it is men- 
tioned in other passages. “As the appearance of the 
bow which is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the 
appearance of the brightness round about” (Ezek. i, 28). 
“And there was a rainbow round about the throne in 
sight like unto an emerald” (Rev. iv, 3). “And I saw 
another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed 
with a cloud, and a rainbow was upon his head” (x, 1). 
These three passages correspond with and reflect light 
upon each other. The rainbow in all of them is the 
designed token of God’s covenant and mercy, and of his 
faithful remembrance of his promise. “Look upon the 
rainbow,” says the son of Sirach (Ecclus. xliii, 1 1, 12), 
“and praise him that made it: very beautiful it is in 
the brightness thereof; it compasseth the heaven about 
with a glorious circle, and the hands of the Most High 
have bended it.” Among the Greeks and Bomans, the 
personified rainbow, Iris, became the messenger of the 
gods, and the natural rainbow seems to have been con- 
ceived as the passage-way on which Iris came down to 
men (Serv. on Virgil’s sEn. v, G10). The Indian my- 
thology made a yet nearer approach to the Biblical 
view (Von Bolden, India, i, 237) ; but the Edda repre- 
sents the rainbow as a bridge connecting heaven and 
earth (see, in general, Menzel, Mi/tkol. Forsch. p. 235 
sq.). On the physical views of the ancients with re- 
gard to the rainbow, see Forbiger, Ilandb. d. alt. Geog. 
i, 596 sq. See Schlichter, De Iride ejtisque Emblem. 
(Hal. 1739); Ausfeld, De Iride Diluvii non redituri 
Signo (Giess. 1756). See Bow. 

Scientifically considered, the rainbow is a natural 
phenomenon which is formed by rays of light from the 
sun (occasionally the moon) striking drops of falling 
rain, being refracted in entering them, reflected back, 
in part, from the opposite side of the drops, and refracted 
again on leaving them, so as to produce prismatic col- 
ors, some of which meet the eye. In the inner or pri- 
mary bow, the light is refracted downwards, and under- 


goes but one reflection: while in the outer or secondary 
bow the light, striking the lower side of the drop, is first 
refracted upwards, and reflected twice within the drop 
before leaving it; hence its light is fainter. Both pre- 
sent the colors of the prismatic spectrum; but in the 
primary bow the tints gradually ascend from the violet 
to the red, while in the outer the violet is more elevated. 
The colors of the rainbow are the result of the decom- 
position of white light in its passage through the glob- 
ular drops of water forming a shower of rain. 

Rainbow, EmvAtin, D.D., an English prelate, was 
born at Bliton, Lincolnshire, in 1608. was educated at 
Corpus Christi College, Oxford, and Magdalen College, 
Cambridge, and, after taking holy orders and tilling 
minor appointments, was made master of Magdalen Col- 
lege in 1642. In L650 he was deprived on account of 
nonconformity, but in 1660 was restored. In 1661 he 
was appointed to the deanery of Peterborough, and in 
the following year became vice-chancellor of the L T ni- 
versity of Cambridge. In 1664 he was elevated to the 
episcopacy by being made bishop of Carlisle. He died 
in 1684. He published three separate Sermons (1634, 
1649, 1677). .See A thence Oxon. ; Life, by Jonathan 
Banks (Lond. 1688, 8vo); Funerul Sermon, by the Rev. 
Thomas Tully (1688, 12mo). 

Raine, James, an English divine, was born at 
Lovington in 1791, and, after receiving full educational 
advantages at the University of Cambridge, took holy 
orders, and finally became rector of Meldon, and libra- 
rian to the dean and chapter of Durham. He died in 
1858. Dr. Paine devoted himself largely to antiqua- 
rian studies, and published several valuable works on 
English ecclesiology and Church antiquities. We have 
room here to mention only Saint Cuthbert (Durham, 
1828, 4to). See, for further details, the excellent article, 
in Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, ii, 1725. 

Raine, Matthew, another English divine, brother 
of the preceding, was born in 1760, and was educated at 
the University of Cambridge, in Trinity College, of 
which he became a fellow in 1783. In 1791 he was 
made schoolmaster of the Charter House, in 1809 
preacher of Gray’s Inn, and in 1810 rector of Little 
Ilallingbury, Essex, but died shortly after. He pub- 
lished Sermons (1786, 1789). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
xxv, 491. 

Rainerio, Sacchont, an Italian ecclesiastic, flour- 
ished in the first half of the 13th century. lie was a 
native of Piacenza. He was originally a Catharist, but 
abandoned his brethren, entered the Church of Rome, 
became a Dominican monk, and when made inquisitor 
became one of the worst persecutors of his former co- 
religionists. In 1252 a conspiracy against him was dis- 
covered in time to prevent his murder, but he was 
never restful after that time, and when I’allavicino 
gained the upper-hand at Milan, Rainerio was driven 
from the city. ITe died in 1259. lie wrote much, and 
wielded a powerful pen, for he was a man of much learn- 
ing. His Summa de Catharis et Leonistis, written for 
the information of the Inquisition, is the principal source 
of information regarding the Catliarists. The best edi- 
tion of this work is by Gretser (lugolstadt, 1(513). See 
Gieseler, Kirchengeseh. i, 598; and his De Ruinerii Sum- 
mit (Gott, 1834); Milman, Hist, of Latin Christianity, 
v, 61-66; Piper, Monumental Theol. § 140. (J. II. W.) 

Raines, John, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born in Hull, England, Jan. 14, 1818. 
He came to the United States while yet a child, and at 
the age of nineteen years professed conversion, and 
united with the Church. Four years later he became a 
local preacher, and in 1845 was received on trial in the 
Genesee Conference. He gave to the Church twenty- 
six years of uninterrupted labor, when he was seized 
with blindness. He died in Canandaigua, N. Y., Sept. 
4, 1877. He was a man of strong convictions, earnest 
and uncompromising piety, and devoted to his work.- 1 - 


RAISINS 


RAIN-MAKERS 888 


Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, J 
1877, p. 149. 

Rain-makers are, in KafTreland, a class of crafty 
and designing men who profess to have supernatural 
influence and powers. When no rain has fallen upon 
the land for several months, and the ground is parched 
and dry, and both grass and water are becoming ex- 
ceedingly scarce, the people apply to the rain-maker, 
who immediately exerts himself on their behalf, if they 
bring him satisfactory presents. A large gathering of 
the people now takes place, an ox is slaughtered, and a 
large quantity of Kafl’re beer is imbibed ; and when the 
rain-maker has become sufficiently animated by the 
part he takes in the feast, he commences his incanta- 
tions. lie dances round the camp-fire, and exerts him- 
self with such violent gesticulations that the perspira- 
tion streams down his naked body. lie then commands 
the people to go and look towards the western horizon 
for the appearance of the rain-clouds. If no indication 
of coming showers is seen, the wily rain-maker tells the 
deluded natives that the presents which they have 
brought him are not sufficient. They then go to bring 
more, the feast is renewed, and the heathen ceremonies 
are repeated to gain time ; and if the foolish exercises 
are continued till a shower actually falls, the rain-mak- 
ers triumph in their success. The presence of Christian 
missionaries in KafTreland has of late years greatly im- 
paired the power and influence of the rain-makers, and 
bids fair to annihilate the gross deception altogether. 
See Gardner, Faiths of All Motions, s. v. 

Rainold(e)s (also written llaynolds, Reynolds, and 
occasionally in the Latin Reginaldus), John, was a cel- 
ebrated English divine of the second half of the 16th 
century. lie was born at Pinhoe, Devonshire, in 
1549-, was educated at Merton College, Oxford, and 
Corpus Christi College, of the same university; and 
was chosen probationer fellow in 1566. lie finally took 
holy orders, and in 1593 was promoted to the dean- 
ery of Lincoln. In 1598 he was offered a bishopric, and 
at the same time was called to the presidency of Cor- 
pus Christi College. lie cared less for distinctions than 
for scholarly tasks, and therefore gave the preference 
to the offer of his alma mater. In this new position he 
became famous beyond seas, as well as in England. 
II is learning and readiness of application gave him a 
reputation second to none in England ; and the king, 
who prided himself on his own reputation lor scholar- 
ship, and desired above all things to maintain this rep- 
utation, leaned greatly on this distinguished divine, 
and always favored his projects. It is thus that we 
owe to llainolds the King James Version of the Script- 
ures, for it is well known that Kainolds urged the king 
to the undertaking, and demonstrated its necessity. He 
was a great Hebraist, and made translations of small 
portions at first, and, reading these to the king in his 
private chamber, convinced his royal master of the 
want, and the good likely to be accomplished as well 
as the renown to be gained. See English Versions. 
llainolds died in 1607. Bishop Hall speaks of llainolds 
as being near to a miracle in bis prodigious treasury of 
knowledge; John Milton refers to him always as “our 
famous Dr. llaynolds;” and Wood, in his A theme Q.ron. 
(ii, 13), calls him “the very treasury of erudition.” 
Dallam, in his Constitutional Hist, of England, calls him 
“nearly, if not altogether, the most learned man in 
England’’ (i, 297), and in his Literary Jlist. of Europe 
(i, 560 ), “ the most eminently learned man of the queen's 
reign.” lie published a number of separate sermons, 
treatises against the Church of Home, and some other 
theological productions, of which there is a complete list 
in Wood (Athena: Or on. ii, 11-19). We have room here 
to mention only, Sex Theses de S. Srriptura et Eerie sia 
(Loud. 1580 ; lliippola*. 1586; Loud. 1602, 8vo; in Eng- 
lish, 1598, 1 2mo ; 1 609, 4to) : The tin mine of the Confer- 
ence between .John Rninoldes and John Hart, touching the 
Head and Faith of the Church, etc. (1581, 1588, i 598, 


1609, 4to; Latin, Oxon. 1619, fol.) Orationes duce in 
Coll. Corp. Christi (Oxon. 1587, 8vo) : — he Romance Ec- 
j clesiee Idolo/utria in Cultu Sanctorum Reliquiarum, Jma- 
ginum, A qua 1 , Salts, Olei, etc. (1596, 1 to) : — The Overthrow 
of Stage Rlayes, by the Way of Controversie betwixt D. 
Gager and 1). Iluinoldes, etc. (1599, 4 to; Middleburgh, 
1600, 4to; Oxf. 1629, 4 to); see Collier, 1 list, of Dra- 
matic Poetry, iii, 201, and his JSibl. Account of Early 
English Literature (1865), s. v. ” Hainoldes ;” Archveol. 
Nov. 1841, p. 114: — Defence of the Judgment of the 
Reformed Churches that a Man may luufullie not only 
put awaie his Wife for her Adultirie, but also marrie 
Another , etc. (1609-10, Ito) : — Censure i Librorum Apo- 
cryphorum Veteris Test amend (< Jppenheim, 1611, 2 vols. 
4 to ; very rare); not only in this work, hut in the 
Hampton Court Conference also (where, by the way, 
he sided with the Puritans), llainolds protested against 
the reading of apocryphal lessons in the public service 
of the Church: — The Rrophesie of Obadiuh, sermons 
(Oxon. 1613, 4to) : — Orationes dnodecim [including The 
Summe of the Conference, etc.] in Coll. Corp. Christi 
(161 1, 1628, 8vo) ; the first oration was published in an 
English traiisl. hv J. Leicester (Loud. 1638, 12mo): — The 
I Original of Bishops and Metropolitans (1641, 4 to) : — 
[ Judgment concerning Episcopacy, whether it be God's Or- 
j dinance (Lond. 1641, 4to): — Rrophesie of JJaggai, fifteen 
sermons (1649, 4to). See the literature quoted in Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Middle- 
ton, Evangel. Diog. vol. ii; Sonnies, llist. of the Church 
of England in the Elizabethan Rtign (see Index); I'roude, 
Jlist. of England (see Index in vol. xii). 

Rainor, Menziks, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church near the opening of our century, was 
admitted to the work of the itinerancy in 1790. and 
travelled in Dutchess (N. Y.) Circuit with Peter Mori- 
arty, under the superintendence of Freeborn Garrettson 
(q.v.). In 1791 he was colleague of Lemuel Smith at 
Hartford, Conn. In 1792 he labored at Lynn. Sub- 
sequently he travelled the Elizabethtown (N. J.) and 
Middletown (Conn.) circuits. In 1795 he withdrew 
from the conference, and afterwards from the Church. 
He was a young man of promise, and acceptable among 
the people as a preacher. After his withdrawal from 
the Methodist Church, he joined the Protestant Episco- 
pal Church, ami afterwards became a Cniversalist. See 
Stevens, Memorials of New England Methodism, p. 127. 

Raiiissant, Jean Firmin', a noted French Bene- 
dietine monk, was horn at Suippes, near Chalons-sur- 
Marne, in 1596, and took the monastic vow in 1613 at 
Verdun. In 1627 lie became prior of Preuil, in the 
diocese of Bheims, and so distinguished himself by 
austerity and purity that lie was by cardinal Piehelieu 
selected in 1630 as one of the thirty who were to reform 
the Clugny Congregation. In 1633 he became prior 
of Ferrieres, in Gatinais; lmt after the union of the 
Chigniacs and Manrists ceased in 1644, he gave the 
preference to the last congregation. In 1645 he was 
elected prior of the abbey of St.-Germain-dcs-Prrs, at 
Paris. In 1651 he was elected visitor of the province 
of Bretagne. On his very first journey in the country 
he fell from his saddle and broke a leg; from the in- 
juries thus sustained he sickened and died, Nov. 8. 1651, 
in the convent of Lehon, near Pimm, lie contributed 
largely to the literature on monasticism in later mediae- 
val times; and whatever lie wrote is valuable to the 
student of tliis subject, because Hainssant freely con- 
fessed the failings of the ascetics of the < 'liureli of Pome, 
and earnestly sought their reform. We have not room 
here to insert a list of his writings, hut refer to Hoofer, 
None. Diog. Generate, xli, 497, and Le t’erf, Diblioth. dcs 
A uteurs de la Congregation de 87. Maur, 

Raisins ( tsimmukim, 1 Sam. xxv. 18; 
xxx, 20; 2 Sam. xvi, 1 ; 1 Chron. xii, 20) signifies dried 
grapes, or rather cakes made of them, such as the 1 talians 
still call sitnmahi. Grapes are often thus preserved for 
food (Numb, vi, 3). See Gr.u*k; Vine. 


RAISSE 


889 


RALBAG 


Raisse, Arnold, a French theologian, was bom at 
Douai near the opening of the 17th century. He was 
canon of the Church of St. Peter, and as such had am- 
ple opportunity to explore the vast treasures of this 
church and neighboring churches and monasteries for 
the ecclesiastical history of the Low Countries. He 
died in 1644, leaving a large material for the history 
of the saints in the Netherlands, and its stores have 
not yet been fully exhausted. His other writings are 
of no special interest now. — Hoefer, None. Biog. Gene- 
rale. , s. v. 

Ra'kem (I Chron. vii, 16). See Eekeji. 

Rak'katk (Heb. Rakkath ', P.JTH, shore; Sept. 
'PerfCKoS’ v. r. AcidS), a fortified city in the tribe of 
Naphtali, mentioned only in Josh, xix, 35, where it is 
grouped between Hammath and Chinnereth. We may 
hence infer that it lay on the western shore of the lake 
of Galilee, not far distant from the wami baths of Tibe- 
rias, which are on the site of the ancient Hammath (q.v.). 
According to the rabbins ( Megilla , 6 a), Rakkath stood 
upon the spot where the city of Tiberias was afterwards 
built (see Lightfoot, Opp. ii, 223). See Cinnereth. 
Rakkath appears to have fallen to ruin at an early pe- 
riod, or at least it was not a place of sufficient note to 
be mentioned in history, and the name passed away al- 
together when Tiberias was founded. The statement 
of Josephus that ancient tombs had to be removed to 
make room for the buildings of Tiberias does not, as 
Dr. Robinson supposes, make it impossible that the city 
stood on the site of Rakkath (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 2, 3 ; 
Robinson, Bib. Res. ii, 389). Rakkath may have stood 
close on the shore where there were no tombs; while 
Tiberias, being much larger, extended some distance up 
the adjoining rocky hill-sides, in which the tombs may 
still be seen. Thomson ( Land and Book, ii, 66) iden- 
tifies Hammath with the Emmaus of Josephus 
xviii, 2, 3), and supposes Rakkath to be the same name 
with the Arab Kerak, at the month of the Jordan ; but 
this latter rather represents the ancient Taricluea (q.v.). 
The enumeration of the towns in the connection re- 
quires us to understand this to be the same with the 
name preceding, i, e. Hammath-Rakkath. See Naph- 
tali, Tribe of. 

Rak'kon (Heb. ha-Rakkon' , with the arti- 

cle; the temple [of the head], Gesen. ; a well -watered 
place, Fiirst; Sept. 'lepaicojv, Yulg. A recon), one of the 
towns in the inheritance of Dan (Josh, xix, 46), ap- 
parently not far distant from Joppa. As it is men- 
tioned between Me-jarkon and Japho, the site is pos- 
sibly that of the village Kheibeh or Kubeibeh, marked 
on the maps as lying north of the Nahr Rubin, west of 
Akir (Ekrou). 

Rakslias, or Rakshasa, is, in Hindu mythology, 
the name of a class of evil spirits or demons, who are 
sometimes imagined as attendants on Kuvera, the god 
of riches, and guardians of his treasures, but more fre- 
quently as mischievous, cruel, and hideous monsters, 
haunting cemeteries, devouring human beings, and ever 
ready to oppose the gods and to disturb pious people. 
They have the power of assuming any shape at will, 
and their strength increases towards the evening twi- 
light. Several of them are described as having many 
heads and arms [see, for instance, Havana], large teeth, 
red hair, and, in general, as being of repnlsive appear- 
ance; others, however, especially the females of this 
class, could also take beautiful forms in order to allure 
their victims. In the legends of the Mahabharata, 
Ramayana, and the Puranas, they play an important 
part, embodying, as it were, at the period of these com- 
positions, the evil principle on earth, as opposed to all 
that is physically or morally good. In the Puranas, 
they are sometimes mentioned as the offspring of the 
patriarch Pulastya, at other times as the sons of the 
patriarch Kasyapa. Another account of their origin, 
given in the Vishnu- Purana, where, treating of the ; 


creation of the world (bk. i, ch. v), is the following: 
‘•Next, from Brahma, in a form composed of the quality 
of foulness, was produced hunger, of whom anger was 
born; and the god put forth in darkness beings emaciate 
with hunger, of hideous aspects, and with long beards. 
Those beings hastened to the deity. 8uch of them as 
exclaimed, ‘Not so; oh ! let him be saved,’ were named 
Rakshasa (from raksh, save); others who cried out, 
‘Let us eat,’ were denominated, from that expression, 
Yaksha (from yaksh, for jaksh, eat).” This popular 
etymology of the name, however, would be at variance 
with the cruel nature of these beings, and it seems, 
therefore, to have been improved upon in the Bhaga- 
vata-Purana, where it is related that Brahma trans- 
formed himself into night, invested with a body; this 
the Yakshas and Eakshasas seized upon, exclaiming, 
“ Do not spare it — devour it !” when Brahma cried out, 
‘‘Don’t devour me ( ma mam jakshata) — spare me! 
( rakshata ).” (See F. E. Hall’s note to Wilson’s Vishnu - 
Purana, i, 82.) The more probable origin of the word 
Rakshas — kindred with the German Recke or Riese — is 
that from a radical risk, “hurt,” or “destroy,” with an 
affix sas; hence, literally, the destructive being. — Cham- 
bers's Encgclop. s. v. 

Rakusians is the name of a Christian sect whom 
Mohammedan writers speak of as having existed among 
them in Arabia. Nothing is definitely known about 
them. Their tenets appear to have been those of the 
Mendceans (q. v.) or Sabians (q. v.), still further cor- 
rupted by Ebionite influences. See Sprenger, Moham- 
med, i, 41; ii, 155; iii, 387, 395; Weil, Mohammed, p. 249, 
386; Ueberweg, Hist, of Philosophy, i, 409. 

Ralbag, so called by Jews from the initial letters 
of his name, j- "*? “i =R. Levi ben-Gerskon, and 

known by Christian writers by the name M agister Leo 
de Bannolis or Gersonides, was born in 1288 at Banolas, 
not far from Gerona, and died about 1345. Little is 
known about the personal history of this remarkable 
Hebrew beyond the fact that, by virtue of bis residence 
in Orange and Avignon, he was providentially exempt- 
ed from the fearful sufferings inflicted upon his brethren 
in 1306, by the cruel government of Philip the Fair and 
his successors, and that he was thus enabled quietly to 
consecrate his extraordinary powers to the elucidation 
of the Scriptures, as well as to the advancement of 
science. His principal work, and perhaps the greatest 
on religious philosophy, is his SCTI r*“nb'2 O, The 
Wars of God (Riva di Trento, 1560; Leipsic, 1866). In 
this work Gersonides had the audacity to confess the 
eternity of matter, so that it was ironically called “The 
Wars with (against) God.” But, as free as God’s sun, 
he uttered his convictions, careless of consequences, and 
without fear of offending this or that man, sect, or es- 
tablished opinions. He believed in the progressive nat- 
ure of thoughts, and added his to those of his predeces- 
sors, leaving the consequence in the hand of God, and 
believing that “time develops truth.” “Truth,” he 
says, “must be brought to light even if it contradicts 
the revealed law most emphatically ; as the Bible is 
no tyrannical law which intends to impose untruth for 
truth, but its design is to lead us to true knowledge” 
(introd. p. 2 b , sect, vi, p. 69 a). This great philosoph- 
ical work treats: 1. Of the immortality of the soul (on 
which there are fourteen chapters); 2. On dreams and 
prophecy (eight chapters) ; 3. On the omniscience of 
God and the conflict between philosophy and religion 
(six chapters) ; 4. Ou Providence, viewed from the phil- 
osophical and religious standpoints (seven chapters). 
The remaining portion of the work is a cosmogony de- 
signed to show the harmony between the statements of 
the Bible and the phenomena of the universe. That 
part of his work which treats on astronomy, and which 
describes an astronomical instrument invented by Ger- 
sonides to facilitate observations, was so much appre- 
ciated that pope Clement VI, in 1342, had it translated 
into Latin ; and Kepler, as he says in a letter to John 


RALE 


890 


RALEIGH 


Remus, took much trouble to get the book of rabbi 
Levi, as he calls him ( ntinam apud Rabbinos invenire 
posses tructatum It. Leri quintum defensionum J)ei). 
The same was done by Pico de Mirandola and the great 
Reuchlin, who quotes largely from Gersonides. Though 
he began his authorship with philosophical and scientific 
productions when about thirty (1318), yet he published 
no exegetical work till he was thirty-seven years of age, 
from which time lie unremittingly devoted himself to 
the exposition of the Bible. 11 is first commentary is 
on the book of Job, and was finished in 1325. Twelve 
months later (132b) he published a commentary on the 
Song of Songs, and in 1328 a commentary on Coheleth, 
or Ecclesiastes. About the same time Ealbag finished 
his -commentary on the first chapters of Genesis, treat- 
ing on the hexahemeron, and shortly after issued an 
exposition of Esther (132!)). The Pentateuch now en- 
gaged his attention, and after laboring on it eight 
years (1323-1337), he completed, the interpretation of 
this difficult part of the Old Test. In 1338 he finished 
a commentary on the earlier prophets — i. e. Joshua, 
Judges, Samuel, and Kings — together with his com- 
ments on Proverbs, Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Chron- 
icles. The following are the editions of his exegetical 
works: ""rn Commentary on the Penta- 

teuch (first printed at Mantua before 14. SO, then by Corn. 
Adel kind, Venice, 1547, and then again in Frankfurter’s 
Rabbinic Bible, Amst. 1724-1727):- 55" 

Commentary on the Earlier Prophets (Leira, 
and in all the Rabbinic Bibles-, latest edition, Kbnigs- 
berg, 1800: — excerpts of the commentaries on the Penta- 
teuch and the earlier prophets, entitled JYrWT., Util- 
ity, were published in 1550, and a Jewish-German ver- 
sion of them is given in Jckutiel’s German translation 
of the Bible [Amst. 1076-78]) : — bv Z 

Commentary on Proverbs (Leira, 1492, and in all the 
Rabbinic Bibles); a Latin translation was published by 
Ghiggheo (Milan, 1020) -‘"X bv Commen- 

tary on Job (Ferrara, 1477, and in all the Rabbinic 
Bibles) : a Latin translation of eh. i-v was published 
by L. II. d’Aquine (Paris. 1023), and of ch. iv-viii 
by Clir. Ludovicus (Lcipsic, 1700) : “"I" bl' 
r — ■ r~np TEX E"T v ,rn, Commentary on Sony of 
dongs, Esther, Ecclesiastes, and Ruth, with an introduc- 
tion by Jacob Morkaria (Kiva, 1500): — d“"2 

Commentary on Daniel, published in Italy before 
1180, in Pratonsis’s Rabbinic Bible, and in Frankfurter’s. 
The commentaries on Ezra, Nehemiah, and Chronicles, 
which lie finished in 1338, are still in MS., Cod. MSS. 
Opp. 288 0. and Mich. 023. “ As to his mode of inter- 

pretation, Ratbag first gives an explanation of the words 
(r'P'iri "*X"B) in each section, then propounds the 
meaning according to the context (w*~Tn “ N X"-), 
and finally gives the utility or application of the passage 
(I ” See Fiirst, Bibliotheca Judaica, i, 82-84 ; 

Steinschneider, Cntalogus Libr - / lehr, in liibl. Bodl. eol. 
1007-1015; Wolf , Bibliotheca llebr. i, 720, etc. ; iv, 892; 
Ginsburg, in Kitto, s. v. ; Joel. in Frankcl’s Monats- 
schrift . ix, 223, etc. (Leips. 1800), x, 41 —GO, 93-111, 
137 145, 297 312, 333-341, xi, 20-31, 05-75, 101-111; 
Gratz. t Itsehichte d. Jnden, vii, 315-352 ( Leips. 1873) ; 
Jost, Cesch, d. Judenth. n. s. Sec ten, lii, 83; Etheridge, 
Introduction to Hebrew Literature , p. 201 sq. ; De Rossi, 
Dizionario Storico degli A utori Ebrei, p. 1 14 sq. (t »erm. 
trails].) ; Basnagc, I/istoire des Jnifs (Taylor’s transl.), 
p. 073: 1 Vbcnveg, History of Philosophy, i, 421 ; Brand, 
Cesch. d. Logil\ ii, 394-390; Margoliouth, Modern Ju- 
daism Investigated, p. 253 ( Londoi., 1813); Levy, Die 
Exee/ese ltd dm franzos. Jsraeliten, etc., p. 31 sq. (Leips. 
1873). (B. 1’.) 

Hale (Rasle, or Rasies), Skuastian, a French 
Roman Catholic missionary, was horn in 1057 or 1058. 
in the province of Franche-Comte. Having entered 


the Order of the Jesuits, he was despatched to the for- 
eign work in 1089. He arrived at Quebec in the fall of 
that year, and labored faithfully among the Indians for 
their conversion, and for a time wirli much show of suc- 
cess. But hi» venturesome spirit led him into dangerous 
paths: he frequently went far beyond the territory of 
those savages friendly to him, and he finally paid for 
his daring with his life. He was killed in 1724, while 
out on an expedition with Indians; but not by tlie sav- 
ages— he fell pierced with English bullets, lie had 
been guilty of great cruelty to Englishmen who had 
fallen into the hands of Indians, and this was only a re- 
venge for his treachery to the whites. 11 is death was 
a loss not only to Roman Catholics, hut to the world 
of learning. Rale was a superior linguist, and had made 
himself master of the aboriginal languages and compiled 
a dictionary of the Ahnaki language — of which the MS. 
is in the Harvard Library — which was published at the 
express wish of great savants. A monument was erect- 
ed to his memory by bishop Fenwick, Aug. 29, 1 833. 
See Memoir, by ( ’. Francis, D.D., in Sparks, A mer. Biog. 
2d series, vol. vii. (J. II. \V.) 

Raleigh, Walter, Sir, the distinguished English 
soldier, navigator, and writer of the Elizabethan age, 
deserves a place here on account of his contributions 
to sacred song. He was born at Hayes, near the coast 
of Devonshire, in 1552, and was educated at Oriel Col- 
lege, Oxford. In 1509 — about a year after graduation 
— he entered the volunteer corps which, under Cham* 
pernon, went to France to fight for the Huguenots. 
Subsequently he fought, under the prince of Orange, 
in the Netherlands, against the Spanish. In 1579 he 
made his lirst venture in navigation, which through 
life continued, at intervals, to attract him. He then 
sailed, in conjunction with his half-brother, Sir Hum- 
phrey Gilbert, with the purpose of founding a colony in 
North America. But the expedition proved unsuccess- 
ful; and during the year following he held a captain’s 
commission in Ireland, where, in operations against the 
rebels, lie distinguished himself by bis courage and con- 
duct. He attracted the notice of queen Elizabeth; and, 
for some years afterwards, he was constant in his attend- 
ance upon the queen, who distinguished him by em- 
ploying him, from time to time, in various delicate of- 
fices of trust, and by substantial marks of her favor. 
The spirit of enterprise was, however, restless in the 
man, and in 1584, a patent having been granted him 
to take possession of lands to be discovered by him on 
the continent of North America, lie fitted out (wo ships 
at his own expense, and shortly achieved the discovery 
and occupation of t lie territory known as Virginia — a 
name chosen as containing an allusion to the “virgin 
queen” herself. Elizabeth also conferred on Raleigh 
the honor of knighthood. If we except the questiona- 
ble benefit — with which his name remains connected — 
of the introduction of tobacco into Europe, no imme- 
diate good came of the colony; and, after some years 
of struggle, during which he sent out several auxiliary 
expeditions, lie was forced to relinquish his connection 
with it. In 1587-88, the country being menaced by a 
Spanish invasion, Raleigh was actively ami responsibly 
occupied in organizing a resistance, and held command 
of the queen’s forces in Cornwall. In the latter year 
lie shared, with new access of honor, in the series of 
actions which ended in the defeat and dispersion of the 
great Armada, and was thanked and rewarded for his 
services. 1 1 is private marriage with Elizabeth Throck- 
morton, one of the queen's maids of honor, incurred her 
Majesty’s severe displeasure, and he was banished from 
court, lie now recurred to those schemes of conquest 
and adventure in the New World which formed one 
main dream of his life, and in 1595 headed an expe- 
dition to Guiana, having for its object the discover)' 
of the fabled El Dorado, a city of gold and gems, the 
existence of which in these regions was then generally 
believed in. t )f this brilliant but fruitless adventure, 
on returning, he published an account. Having re- 


RALEIGH 


891 


RAM 


gained the royal favor, lie was made, in 1596, admiral 
in the expedition against Cadiz, commanded by How- 
ard and the earl of Essex, and was admittedly the main 
instrument of its success. Also, in the year following, 
he took part in the attack on the Azores made by the 
same commanders. In the court intrigues which ended 
in the downfall of the earl of Essex, he, after this, be- 
came deeply involved; and certain points of his con- 
duct — as, notably, the sale of his good offices with the 
queen in behalf of such of the earl’s adherents as would 
buy them — though easily regarded by the current mo- 
rality of the time, have fixed somewhat of a stain on a 
fame otherwise so splendid. With the death of Eliza- 
beth, in 1603, ends his brilliant and successful career. 
Her successor, James, from the first regarded him with 
suspicion and dislike. He had, besides, made powerful 
enemies; and, when accused of complicity in a plot 
against the king, though no jot of evidence of his be- 
ing any way concerned in it was produced at his trial, 
a verdict was readily procured finding him guilty of 
liigh-treason. The language of the prosecutor, attor- 
ney-general Coke, was outrageously abusive, lie call- 
ed Raleigh “a damnable atheist,” “a spider of hell,” a 
“viperous traitor,” etc. Sentence of death was passed, 
but James did not venture to execute him ; and he was 
sent to the Tower, where, for thirteen years, he remain- 
ed a prisoner, his estates being confiscated, and made 
over to the king’s favorite, Carr, subsequently earl of 
Somerset. During his imprisonment, Raleigh devoted 
himself to literary and scientific pursuits, his chief mon- 
ument in this kind being his History of the World , a 
noble fragment, still notable to the student as one of 
the finest models of quaint and stately old English style. 
Certain of his poetical pieces, giving hint of a genius 
at once elegant and sententious, also continue to be 
esteemed. In 1615 he procured his release, and once 
more sailed for Guiana. The expedition, from which 
great results were expected, failed miserably. He him- 
self, in consequence of severe illness, was unable to ac- 
company it inland ; and nothing but disaster ensued. 
To add to his grief and disappointment, his eldest and 
favorite son was killed in the storming of the Spanish 
town of St. Thomas. He returned to England, broken 
in spirit and in fortunes, only to die. On the morning 
of Oct. 29, 1618, he was infamously executed, nominally 
on the sentence passed on him sixteen years before, 
but really, there is reason to suppose, in base com- 
pliance, on James’s part, with the urgencies of the 
king of Spain, who resented his persistent hostility. 
Raleigh was a man of noble presence, of versatile and 
commanding genius, unquestionably one of the most 
splendid figures in a time unusually prolific of all splen- 
did developments of humanity. In the art and finesse 
of the courtier, the politic wisdom of the statesman, and 
the skilful daring of the warrior, he was almost alike 
pre-eminent. The moral elevation of the man shone 
out eminently in the darkness which beset his later 
fortunes; and the calm and manly dignity with which 
he fronted adverse fate conciliated even those whom 
his haughtiness in prosperity had offended. Raleigh's 
Life has been written by Oldys, Cayley (Lond. 1806, 2 
vols.), and P. F. Tytler (Edin. 1833). His poems were 
collected and published by Sir E. Brj'dges (Lond. 1814); 
his Miscellaneous Writings, by Dr. Birch (1751, 2 vols.) ; 
and his Complete Works, at Oxford (1829,8 vols.). 

Rale(i)gh, Walter, D.D., nephew of the forego- 
ing, was born in 1586, and was educated at Magdalen 
College, Oxford, lie took holy orders, and finally be- 
came, in 1620, rector of Chedzov, Somersetshire. In 
1630 he was made chaplain to the king, and won much 
favor from Charles I. In 1634 he was made prebend 
of Wells, in 1641 was promoted to the deanery of Wells, 
and later became rector of Streat, with the chapel of 
Walton, Wiltshire. During the rebellion, he fell under 
suspicion, and was imprisoned in his house. While 
thus confined, he was stabbed, one day (1646), in an en- 
counter with the guard, from whose impertinent curi- 


osity he was determined to hide a private letter. Eng- 
land lost in this divine an eloquent preacher and a 
scholarly man. Chillingworth said of him that he was 
the best disputant he ever met with. His works are — 
Reliquice Raleghance ; being discourses and sermons on 
several subjects, with an account of the author by bish- 
op Patrick (Lond. 1679, 4to; 1689. 4to) : — Certain Que- 
ries Proposed by Roman Catholics , and Answered by Dr. 
Walter Raleigh (pub. by Howell, 1719, 8vo). See Wood, 
A thence Oxon. ; Centlenian's Magazine (Lond.), 1857, ii, 
643; 1858, i, 82. 

Ralston, Samuel, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in the county of Donegal, Ireland, in 1756; 
studied at the University of Glasgow; and, after en- 
tering the ministry, emigrated to this country in the 
spring of 1794. After itinerating about two years in 
Eastern Pennsylvania, he went West, and in 1796 be- 
came pastor of the united congregations of Mingo Creek 
and Williamsport (now Monongaliela City), where he 
remained for the rest of his life, being pastor of the 
latter branch thirty-five years, and of the former forty 
years. In 1822 he was made D.D. by Washington Col- 
lege, Pa., and died in Washington County, Pa., Sept. 25, 
1851. As a preacher, he was eminently didactic and 
distinctive, clear, copious, and profound in the exposi- 
tion and defence of truth. His published works are 
mostly of a controversial character; among them we 
find — The Curry-comb (1805): — a work on baptism, 
comprising a review of Campbell’s debate with Walker, 
and letters in reply to his attack upon this review : — A 
Brief Examination of the Principal Prophecies of Dan- 
iel and John: — .1 Defence of Evangelical Psalmody.— 
Sprague, A nnals, iv, 146. 

Ram (Ileb. id. fi“i, high), the name of three men in 
Scripture. 

1. (Sept. ’Apdp,v. x.'Appdv and ’O pay, Yulg. .1 ran.) 
The son of Hezron and father of Amminadab, B.C. cir. 
1780. He was born in Egypt after Jacob’s migration 
there, as his name is not mentioned in Gen. xlvi, 4. 
lie first appears in Ruth iv, 19. The genealogy in 1 
Cliron. ii, 9, 10 adds no further information concerning 
him, except that he was the second son of Hezron, Jer- 
ahmeel being the first-born (ver. 25). He appears in 
the New Test, only in the two lists of the ancestry of 
Christ (Matt, i, 8, 4; Luke iii, 33), where he is called 
Aram. 

2. (Sept. 'Pop, v, r. 'Pen', ’Apcip ; Yulg. Ram.) The 
first-born of Jerahmeel, and therefore nephew of the 
preceding (1 Cliron. ii, 25, 27). B.C. post 1780. He 
had three sons — Maaz, Jamin, and Ekcr. 

3. (Sept. Pap, v. r. ’A pap ; Yulg. Ram.) Elihu, the 
son of Barachel the Buzite, is described as “of the kin- 
dred of Ram” (Job xxxii, 2). Iiashi’s note on the pas- 
sage is curious: “‘of the family of Ram,’ Abraham ; for 
it is said, ‘the greatest man among the Anakim’ (Josh, 
xiv); this [is] Abraham.” Ewald identifies Ram with 
Aram, mentioned in Gen. xxii, 21 in connection with 
lluz and Buz ( Gesck . i, 414). Elihu would thus be a 
collateral descendant of Abraham, and this may have 
suggested the extraordinary explanation given by Rashi. 
— Smith. See Akaji. 

Ram (P^X, dgil ; Kpiog). As this animal, fat- 
tened, was a favorite article of food (Gen. xxxi, 38; 
Ezek. xxxix, 18), it was considered, when offered as 
sacrifice, of higher value than sheep and lambs (Gen. 
xv, 9 , Numb, xv, 5, 6 ; xxiii, 1 sq. ; xxviii, 1 1 sq., 28 
sq. ; Mic. vi, 7), and the legal ritual gave exact direc- 
tions on the sacrifice of them. The rams were some- 
times burnt-offerings (Lev. viii. 18, 21; ix, 2; xvi, 3; 
xxix, 18 ; Numb, vii, 15 ; Psa. lxvi, 15 ; Isa. i, 11 ; Ezek. 
xlv, 23, etc.), sometimes thank-offerings (Lev. ix, 4, 18; 
Numb, vi, 14, 17; vii, 17; xxviii, 11, etc.), sometimes 
trespass- offerings (Lev. v, 15, 18, 25; vi, 6; comp. 
Lev. xix, 21 ; Numb, v, 8; Ezra x, 19, etc.). The ram, 
too, appears not only in public and private offerings in 
general, but especially in the purifying sacrifices of the 


RAM 


892 


RAMA 


Nazarite (Numb, vi, 14) and the sacrifices of Priestly 
Consecration. It was not used as a sin-offering. In 
2 Chron. xxix, 21 only the seven he-goats belong to the 
sin-offering, as vcr. 23 shows; the rams, with the other 
animals, forming the burnt-offering. The use of the 
ram as thank- and trespass-offering is pointed out in 
Exod. xxix. 22 (comp. Lev. viii, 16; ix, 19; Isa. xxxiv, 
G). The Greeks and Homans used rams for sacrifice 
only exceptionally; yet comp. Pliny, II. X. xxxiv, 10, 
10. In Egypt this was more frequent {Wilkinson, v, 
191 sq. ; only in the Thebais it was prohibited, save at 
the great annual festival of Amnion (Herod, ii, 42). 
On the symbolic Use of the ram in Daniel to signify the 
Persian empire, see Cattle, No. II; and on the Bat- 
tering-ram, see s. v. The use of ram’s skins for cover- 
ing is alluded to in Exod. xxv, 5; xxvi, 14; xxxvi, 19; 
xxxix, 34, and is still common in Palestine, where they 
are also “ dyed red ” (Exod. xxv, 5) for the use of the 
shoemakers (Thomson, Land and Book, i, 139). — Winer. 
See Sheer. 

Ram, Pattering (12j Sept. /3t\6trra<Tic, x«po£; 
Vulg. aries). This instrument of ancient siege opera- 
tions is twice mentioned in the Old 'Pest. (Ezek. iv, 2 ; 
xxi, 22 [27]) ; and as both references are to the batter- 
ing-rams in use among the Assyrians and Babylonians, 
it will only be necessary to describe those which are 
known from the monuments to have been employed in 
their sieges. With regard to the meaning of the He- 
brew word there is but little doubt. It denotes an en- 
gine of war which was called a rani, either because it 
had an iron head shaped like that of a ram, or because, 
when used for battering down a wall, the movement 
was like the butting action of a ram. 

In attacking the walls of a fort or city, the first step 
appears to have been to form an inclined plane or bank 
of earth (comp. Ezek. iv, 2 — “cast a mount against it”), 
by which the besiegers could bring their battering-rams 
and other engines to the foot of the walls. “The bat- 
tering-rams,” says ]Mr. Layard, “were of several kinds. 
Some were joined to movable towers which held war- 
riors and armed men. The whole then formed one 
great temporary building, the top of which is represent- 
ed in sculptures as on a level with the walls, and even 
turrets, of the besieged city. In some bas-reliefs the 
battering-ram is without wheels ; it was then, perhaps, 
constructed upon the spot, and was not intended to be 
moved. The movable tower was probably sometimes 
unprovided with the ram, but I have not met with it 
so represented in the sculptures. . . . When the machine 
containing the battering-ram was a simple framework 
and did not form an artificial tower, a cloth or some 
kind of drapery, edged with fringes and otherwise or- 
namented, appears to have been occasionally thrown 
over it. .Sometimes it may have been covered with 
hides. It moved either on four or on six wheels, and 
was provided with one ram or with two. The mode 
of working the rams cannot be determined from the 
Assyrian sculptures. It may be presumed, from the 
representations in the bas-reliefs, that they were partly 
.suspended by a rope fastened to the outside of the ma- 
chine, and t bat men directed and impelled them from 
within. Such was the plan adopted by the Egyptians, 
in whose paintings the warriors working the ram may 
be seen through the frame. Sometimes this engine 
was ornamented bv a carved or painted figure of the 
presiding divinity kneeling on one knee and drawing 
a bow. The artificial tower was usually occupied by 
two warriors: one discharged his arrows against the 
besieged, w hom he was able, from his lofty position, to 
harass more effectually than if he had been below; the 
other held up a shield for his companion’s defence. 
Warriors arc not unfrequently represented as stepping 
from the machine to the battlements. . . . Archers on 
the walls hurled stones from slings and discharged their 
arrows against the warriors in the artificial towers; 
while the rest of the besieged were no less active in en- 


I deavoring to frustrate the attempts of the assailants to 
■ make breaches in their walls. By dropping a double 
chain or rope from the battlements they caught the 
ram, and could either destroy its ctlieaev altogether, or 
break the force of its blows. Those below, however, 
by placing hooks over the engine and throwing their 
whole weight upon them, struggled to retain it in its 
place. The besieged, if unable to displace tbe batter- 
ing-ram, sought to destroy it by fire, and threw lighted 
torches or firebrands upon it; but water was poured 
upon the flames through pipes attached to the artificial 
tower” (A "tneveh and its Remains, ii, 367-370). — Smith. 
See Battering-Ham. 

Ram, Pierre Francois Xavier de, a Belgian his- 
torian and theologian, was born at Louvain, Sept. 2, 
1804, studied at M alines, and in 1823 was made profess- 
or in a seminary of the same place, and taught there un- 
til its suppression, in 1825. lie was then made archi- 
vist to the archbishop of the diocese of Malines. In 
1827 he look holy orders, and two years after was ap- 
pointed professor of ecclesiastical history and philoso- 
phy in the theological seminary at Malines, of which, 
when (in 1834) enlarged to a university, he was made 
rector. In 1835 he was transferred to Louvain, and 
there taught until his death, in 1862. He was a learn- 
ed man and greatly revered by his countrymen. Ilis 
writings were very numerous. Besides his biography 
of the principal saints and celebrated persons of the 
Low Countries — a work in which he freely used the 
w ritings of Bailie — Ham published the following works 
of interest to us: Synodicuui Btfgicum, sire Acta om- 
nium Fcclesiaruni Belgii a Concilio Tridentino usque 
ad 1801 ( Alai. 1828-58); Jlistoria Philosophic e (Louv. 
1832-34, 8vo) ; Vie ties Saints de Godescard (Louv. 1828- 
35, 22 vols. 8vo, and often); Documents relati/s avx 
Troubles du Pays de Liege, sons les Princes - eveques 
Louis de Bourbon et Jean de Born, 1455- 1585 (Brux. 
1844, 4to), a most important chapter from a Homanist on 
a noteworthy period of the ante-reformation movement 
in the Low r Countries, etc. See Querard, La France 
Litteraire, vol. xi, for full bibliography. 

Ra'ma (Vapd), the Greek form of Ramah, found 
in Matt. ii. 18, referring to Jer. xxxi. 15. The original 
( passage alludes to a massacre of Benjamites or Eph- 
raimites (comp. vers. 9, 18) at the Hamah in Benjamin 
or in Mount Ephraim. This is seized by the evan- 
gelist and turned into a touching reference to the 
slaughter of the innocents at llcthlchem, near to which 
was (and is) the sepulchre of Kacliel. The name of 
Hama is alleged to have been lately discovered attached 
to a spot close to the sepulchre. If it existed there in 
Matthew’s day, it may have prompted his allusion, 
though it is not necessary to suppose this, since the 
point of the quotation does not lie in the name Hamah, 
but in the lamentation of Uaeliel for the children, as is 
shown by the change of the tiiot£ of the original to 
rite vet. The allusion is doubtless to Hamah, one of the 
leading cities of Benjamin, and not, as many have sup- 
posed, to some place of that name near Bethlehem. 
The passage is a difficult one, but tbe difficulty may be 
solved by a careful examination of tbe topography of 
the district. The difficulties arc these: 1. Why is 
Haeliel, the mother of Benjamin, represented as weep- 
ing for lier children, seeing that Bethlehem was in 
Judah and not in Benjamin? The reply is, Hachel 
died and was buried near Bethlehem (Gen. xxxv, 19); 
tbe border of tbe tribe of Benjamin reached to her sep- 
ulchre (1 Sam. x, 2); not only were the children of 
Bethlehem slain, but also those “in all t lie coast there- 
of,” thus including part of Benjamin. The spirit of the 
departed Hachel is then represented as rising from the 
tomb and mourning her slaughtered children. 2. But 
why was the voice of lamentation heard in Hamah, 
nearly ten miles distant? The answer is now easy. 
So deep was the impression made hy the cruel mas- 
sacre, that the cry of distress went through the whole 


RAMA 893 RAMAH 


land of Beniamin, reaching to the capital of the tribe. 
— Kitto. 

Rama is, in Hindu mythology, the name common 
to three incarnations of Vishnu, of Parasurama, Rama- 
chandra, and Balarama. See Vishnu. 

Ramadan, the ninth month in the Mohammedan 
year. In it Mohammed received his first revelation, 
and every believer is therefore enjoined to keep a strict 
fast throughout its entire course, from the dawn — when 
awhile thread can be distinguished from a black thread 
— to sunset. Eating, drinking, smoking, bathing, smell- 
ing perfumes, and other bodily enjoyments, even swal- 
lowing one’s spittle, are strictly prohibited during that 
period. Even when obliged to take medicine, the Mos- 
lem must make some kind of amends for it, such as 
spending a certain sum of money upon the poor. Dur- 
ing the night, however, the most necessary wants may 
be satisfied — a permission which, practically, is inter- 
preted by a profuse indulgence in all sorts of enjoy- 
ments. The fast of Ramadan, now much less observed 
than in former times, is sometimes a very severe afflic- 
tion upon the orthodox, particularly when the month — 
the year being lunar — happens to fall in the long and 
hot days of midsummer. The sick, travellers, and sol- 
diers in time of war, are temporarily released from this 
duty, but they have to fast an equal number of days at 
a subsequent period, when this impediment is removed. ' 
Nurses, pregnant women, and those to whom it might 
prove really injurious, are expressly exempt from fast- 
ing. We may add that according to some traditions i 
(Al-Beidiiwi), not only Mohammed, but also Abraham, 1 
Moses, and Jesus received their respective revelations 
during this month. The principal passages treating 
of the fast of Ramadan are found in the second Surah 
of the Koran, called “ The Cow.” — Chambers's Encyclop. 
s. v. See Wellsted, City of the Caliphs, ii, 245. 

Ramah (Heb. Hamah', PT5"i) signifies a height, or 
a high place, from the root Wl, to be high ; and thus it 
is used in Ezek. xvi, 24. Very many of the ancient 
cities and villages of Palestine wore built on the tops 
of hills, so as to be more secure, and hence, as was nat- 
ural, such of them as were especially conspicuous were 
called by way of distinction n*2“in (with the article), 
the Height ; and this in the course of time came to be 
used as a proper name. We find no less than five 
Ramahs mentioned in Scripture by this simple name, 
besides several compounds, and in modern Palestine 
the equivalent Arabic name is of very frequent occur- 
rence. With regard to most of them the traveller can 
still see how appropriate the appellation was. In the 
A. V. we have various forms of the word — Ravuith 
(r^), the status constructs (Josh, xiii, 26), Ramdth 
(rii’Cn and r’CT), the plural (Josh, xxi, 86; 1 Sam. 
xxx, 27); and Ramathdim (C'r’C^), a dual form (I 
Sam. i, 1). Remeth appears to be only another 

form of the same ’word. In later Hebrew, ramtha is a 
recognised word for a hill, and as such is employed in 
the Jewish version^of the Pentateuch for the rendering 
of Pisgah. See also Arimatii.ua. (In the following 
account we largely follow that in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia, 
with important additions from other sources.) 

1. Ramah of Benjamin (Sept/Pcr^n and ’Apapd, 
v. r. ’lagd, 'Vaypd, 'Vagpdv, Bapd , Vulg. Rama), fre- 
quently mentioned in Scripture. Joshua, in enumer- 
ating the towns of Benjamin, groups Ramah between 
Gibeon and Beeroth (xviii, 25). 'Phis position suits the 
present Ram-Allah , but the considerations named in 
the text make it very difficult to identify any other site 
with it than er-Ram. It is probably this place which 
is mentioned in the story of Deborah, ‘‘She dwelt under 
the palm-tree of Deborah, between Ramah and Bethel 
in Mount Ephraim” (Judg. iv, 5). The Targum on this 
passage substitutes for the Palm of Deborah, Ataroth- 
Deborah, no doubt referring to the town of Ataroth. 


This has everything in its favor, since ’Atara is still 
found on the left hand of the north road, very nearly 
midway between er-Ram and Beitin. Its position is 
clearly indicated in the distressing narrative of the 
Levite recorded in Judges xix. lie left Bethlehem for 
his home in Mount Ephraim in the afternoon. Passing 
Jerusalem, he journeyed northward, and, crossing the 
ridge, came in sight of Gibeah and Ramah, each stand- 
ing on the top of its hill ; and he said to his servant, 
“Come and let us draw near to one of these places to 
lodge all night, in Gibeah or in Ramah” (ver. 13). The 
towns were near the road on the right, and about two 
miles apart. The position of these two ancient towns 
explains another statement of Scripture. It is said of 
Saul (1 Sam. xxii, 6) that “he abode in Gibeah under 
a tree in Ramah.” The meaning appears to be that 
the site of his standing camp was in some command- 
ing spot on the borders of the two territories of Gibeah 
and Ramah. When Israel was divided, Ramah lay be- 
tween the rival kingdoms, and appears to have been 
destroyed at the outbreak of the revolt; for we read 
that “Baasha, king of Israel, went up against Judah, 
and built Ramah” (1 Kings xv, 17). It was a strong 
position, and commanded the great road from the north 
to Jerusalem.* The king of Judah was alarmed at the 
erection of a fortress in such close proximity to his cap- 
ital, and he stopped the work by bribing the Syrians to 
invade northern Palestine (vers. 18-21), and then carried 
olf all the building materials (ver. 22). There is a precise 
specification of its position in the catalogue of the places 
north of Jerusalem which are enumerated by Isaiah as 
disturbed by the gradual approach of the king of As- 
syria (Isa. x, 28-32). At Michmash he crosses the 
ravine; and then successively dislodges or alarms Geba, 
Ramah, and Gibeah of Saul. Each of these may be 
recognised with almost absolute certainty at the present 
day. Geba is Jeba, on the south brink of the great 
valley; and a mile and a half beyond it, directly be- 
tween it and the main road to the city, is cr-Ram, on 
the elevation which its ancient name implies. Ramah 
was intimately connected with one of the saddest epochs 
of Jewish history. The full story is not told, but the 
outline is sketched in the words of Jeremiah. In the 
final invasion of Judaea by the Babylonians, Nebuchad- 
nezzar established his headquarters on the plain of 
Hamath, at Riblah (Jer. xxxix, 5). Thence he sent 
his generals, who captured Jerusalem. The principal 
inhabitants who escaped the sword were seized, bound, 
and placed under a guard at Ramah, while the con- 
querors were employed in pillaging and burning the 
temple and palace, and levelling the ramparts. Among 
the captives was Jeremiah himself (xl, 1,5, with xxxix, 
8-12). Perhaps there was also a slaughter of such of 
the captives as, from age, weakness, or poverty, were 
not worth the long transport across the desert to Baby- 
lon. There, in that heart-rending scene of captives in 
chains wailing over slaughtered kindred and desolated 
sanctuaries, was fulfilled the first phase of the prophecy 
uttered only a few years before : “A voice was heard in 
Ramah, lamentation and bitter weeping : Rachel weep- 
ing for her children, refused to be comforted for her 
children because they were not” (Jer. xxxi, 15). That 
mourning was typical of another which took place six 
centuries later, when the infants of Bethlehem were 
murdered, and the second phase of the prophecy was 
fulfilled (Matt, ii, 17). As Ramah was in Benjamin, 
the prophet introduces Rachel, the mother of that tribe, 
bewailing the captivity of her descendants. See Rama. 

Ramah was rebuilt and reoccupied by the descend- 
ants of its old inhabitants after the captivity (Ezra ii, 
26; Neh.viijoO). The Ramah in Neh. xi, 38 is thought 
by some to occupy a different position in the list, and 
may be a distinct place situated farther west, nearer the 
plain. (This, and Jer. xxxi, 15, are the only passages 
in which the name appears without the article.) The 
Sept, finds an allusion to Ramah in Zech. xiv, 10, where 
it renders the words which are translated in the A. V. 


IIAMAII 


894 


RAMA II 


“and shall be lifted up (“*2X“), and inhabited in her 
place,” by “ Kamah shall remain upon her place.” Ac- 
cording to Josephus (who calls it ’Pa/iaSw), it was 
forty stadia distant from Jerusalem (Ant. viii, 12, 3); 
and Eusebius and Jerome place it in the sixth mile 
north of the holy city ( 0 nomast . s. v. “Kama;” but in 
his commentary on Hos. v, 8, Jerome says in septimo 
lupide ); and the latter states that in his day it was a 
small village (ad Soplioniam, i, 15). 

Modern travellers arc right in identifying Kamah of 
Benjamin with the village of er-Rum (Brocardus, vii; 
Kobinson, Bill. Res , i, 57<i); though Maundrell and a 
few others have located it at Xoby Samwil. Er-Kam 
is tive miles north of Jerusalem and four south of 
Bethel. The site of Ciibeah of Saul lies two miles 
southward, and (leba about the same, distance eastward. 
Ksim is a small, miserable village; but in the walls and 
foundations of the houses are many large hewn stones, 
and in the lanes and lields broken columns and other 
remains of the ancient capital. The situation is com- 
manding, on the top of a conical hill, half a mile east 
of the great northern road, and overlooking the broad 
summit of the ridge; the eastern view is intercepted 
by bare ridges and hill-tops. The whole country round 
Kamah has an aspect of stern and even painful desola- 
tion ; but this is almost forgotten in the great events 
which the surrounding heights and ruins recall to 
memory. On the identity of this Kamah with that of 
Samuel, sec Kamatuaiji-zopiiiji. 

2. Kamah or Asimn (Sept. ' !’«/<«; Vulg. Hormei), 
a town mentioned only in Josh, xix, 29, in the descrip- 
tion of the boundaries of Asher. It would appear to 
have been situated near the sea-coast, and not far from 
Tyre, towards the north or north-east. Eusebius and 
Jerome mention this place, but in such a way as shows 
they knew nothing of it further than what is stated by 
Joshua. In the Vulgate Jerome calls it Jlorma, making 
the Hebrew article »1 a part of the word; this, however, 
is plainly an error {Onomust. s. v. “ Kama and note 
by Bonfrero). Kobinson visited a village called Ramch, 
situated on the western declivity of the mountain-range, 
about seventeen miles south-east of Tyre. It “stands 
upon an isolated hill in the midst of a basin with green 
lields, surrounded by higher hills.” In the rocks are 
numerous ancient sarcophagi, and the village itself has 
some remains of antiquity. He says “there is no room 
for question hut that this village represents the ancient 
Kamah of Asher” ( Bibl . Res. iii, (54). Its position, how- 
ever, notwithstanding the assertion of so high an au- 
thority’, does not at all correspond with the notice in 
Scripture, and the name Kamah was too common to 
indicate identity with any degree of certainty. Another 
Kameh has been discovered on a little tell, two miles 
south-east of modern Tyre, and about one mile north- 
east of Kas-el-Ain, the site of ancient Tyre (Van de 
Velde. M<ip and Memoir, p. 312). In position this vil- 
lage answers in all respects to the Kamah of Asher. 

3. Kamah ok Hii.kad (2 Kings viii. 29; 2 Chron. 
xxii, (1), identical with Kamoth-Cilead (q. v.). 

4. Kamah ok Xaimitau (Sept. Apni/X v. r.TV/io; 

Vulg. A ramu), one of the strong cities of the tribe, 
mentioned only in Josh, xix, 3(5. and situated apparently’ 
to the south of Ilazor. between that city and the Sea 
of (ialilee. Kelaud seems inclined to identify it with 
tin- Kamah of Asher; but they are evidently distinct 
cities, as indicated both by ancient geographers and the 
sacred writer (Pukvst. p. 9(53). Eusebius anti Jerome 
record the name, though they’ appear to have known 
nothing of the place (Onomast. s. v. “ Kama”), Beth- 
Jliniah i, a place in (Jalilee on a mountain, 

and famous for its wine, according to the Talmud 
( Memiclioth , viii. ti), is thought by Schwarz ( Palest . 
p. 178) to lie tin* Kamah of Xaphtali. About six miles 
west by south of Safed, on the leading road to Akka, is 
a large modern village called Rumeh. It stands on the 
declivity of the mountain, surrounded by olive-groves. 


and overlooking a fertile plain. It contains no visible 
traces of antiquity; but the name and the situation 
render it highly probable that it occupies the site of 
Kamah of Xaphtali. It was visited bv .Schultz in 1847 
(Kittcr, Pal. und Syr, iii, 772), and by’ Kobinson in 1852 
(Bib, Res. iii, 79). See also llackett, Illlustr. of Script. 
p. 240; Thomson, Land und Book, i. 515. .See Hama- 
th ite. 

5. Kamah ok Samuel, the birthplace and home 
of that prophet (1 Sain, i, 19; ii, 11, etc.), and the city 
elsewhere called Kamatiiaim-zouhim. 

6. Kamah ok the South. See Kamatii-xf.oeb. 

7. A place mentioned in the catalogue of towns re- 
inhabited by the Bonjamites after their return from the 
captivitv (Xeh. xi,33). It may be the Kamah of Benja- 
min (above, Xo. 1), or the Kamah of Samuel, but its po- 
sition in the list (remote from (Jeha. Michmash. Bethel, 
ver. 31 ; comp. Ezra ii, 2t>, 28) seems to remove it farther 
west, to the neighborhood of Lod, Undid. and Ono. There 
is no further notice in the Bible of a Kamah in this di- 
rection; but Eusebius and Jerome allude to one, though 
they may be at fault in identifying it with Knmnthaim 
and Arimatha>a ( Onomust . s. v. “ Armatha Sophim and 
the remarks of Kobinson, Bibl. Res. ii, 239). The situa- 
tion of the modern Rumleh agrees very’ well with this, 
a town too important and too well placed not to have 
existed in the ancient times. The consideration that 
Kamleli signities “sand,” and Kamah “a height.” is not 
a valid argument against the one being the legitimate 
successor of the other, if so, half the identifications of 
modern travellers must be reversed. Beit-ur can no 

i longer be the representative of Beth-horon, because ur 
means “eye.” while lioron means “caves;” nor Beit- 
lahm, of Bethlehem, because lahm is “flesh,” and lehan 
“bread;” nor el-Aal. of Elealeh, because el is in Arabic 
the article, and in Hebrew the name of (lod. In these 
eases the tendency’ of language is to retain the sound 
at the expense of the meaning. — Smith. 

8. Kamah near Hebron. called Kr-Rameh, or Ra- 
met el-Khalil— Kamah of Hebron, or Kamah of the 
Friend, i. e. Kamah of Abraham, or the Iligh-placc of 
Abraham the Friend of (lod. It lies about two miles 
north of Hebron, a little to the right or east of the 
road from Hebron to Jerusalem, on an eminence, the 
top and southern slope of which are covered with an- 
cient foundations, the principal of which are those of a 
large building, apparently’ a Christian church. The 
ruins are described by Wolcott ( Biblioth . Sue. i, 45), 
and by Dr. Wilson ( Lands of the Bible, l. 382). The 
top commands a line view of the Mediterranean through 
a gap in the mountains towards the north-west. This 
Kamah the Jews call the “ House of Abraham,” where, 
they say, Abraham lived when he dwelt at Mamre. 
But the “ plain of Mature, " with the great Sindian, or 
evergreen oak in the middle of it (if not the same, the 
oll'spring, most probably, of the tree), under which Abra- 
ham entertained the angels, would seem to have an- 
ciently lain to the west of Hebron, as Machpelah. which 
is at Hebron, is said to be before, i. e. to the east of, 
Mamre. It is very possible, however, that Abraham 
may have had his habitation or tent at Kamah for a 
part of the time he was at Mamre or near Hebron, or, 
which is still more probable, the altar which he erect- 
ed i(len. xiii, 18), his high-place, or place of worship, 
may have been at er- Kameh, or Kami t el-Khalll, “the 
high-plaee of the Friend." i. e. of Abraham the friend 
of (lod, while he dwelt or had his tent in the plain of 
Mamre. 

Some suppose that this Kamah may be the Kamah 
of Samuel and the place where Saul was anointed. 
Wolcott and Van de Velde contend for this. But this 
place is far too distant from KaeluTs tomb to admit of 
the supposition, not to speak of other insuperable diffi- 
culties. The place where Samuel was when he anoint- 
ed Saul was evidently near or not far from KaeluTs 
tomb (1 Sam. x. 1-11). It is much more probable that 
Bethlehem, or the high-plaee at or near Bethlehem, 


RAMANANDIS 


895 


RAM ATH AIM-ZOPIIIM 


was the place where Samuel anointed Saul. The name 
of Kamet el-Klialil implies that that plaee had to do 
with Abraham the friend of God, and not with Sam- 
uel. — Fairbairn. 

Ramanandis, a Hindu seet which addressed its 
devotions particularly to Ramachandra, and the divine 
manifestations connected with Vishnu in that incarna- 
tion. The originator of this sect was Ramanand, who 
is calculated by Prof. H. II. Wilson to have flourish- 
ed in the end of the I4th or beginning of the 15th 
century. lie resided at Benares, where a mat'll, or 
monastery, of his followers is said to have formerly ex- 
isted, but to have been destroyed by some of the Mus- 
sulman princes. The Ramanandis reverence all the 
incarnations of Vishnu, but they maintain the superi- 
ority of llama in the present age or Kali-Yog, though 
they vary considerably as to the exclusive or collective 
worship of the male and female members of this incar- 
nation. The ascetic and mendicant followers of Rama- 
nand are by far the most numerous sectaries in Gan- 
getic India. In Bengal they are comparatively few; 
beyond this province, as far as to Allahabad, they are 
probably the most numerous, though they yield in in- 
fluence and wealth to the Saiva branches. From this 
point they are so abundant as almost to engross the 
whole of the country along the Ganges and Jumna. 
In the district of Agra they constitute seven tenths of 
the ascetic population. The numerous votaries of the 
Ramanandis belong chiefly to the poorer classes, with 
the exception of the Rajputs and military Brahmins. — 
Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Ra'mathite (Heb. Rainatki', an inhabitant 

of Hamah ; Sept, b PapaSaioc), an epithet of the 
Sliimei («p v.) who was over the vineyards of king Da- 
vid (I Chron. xxvii, 27). The name implies that he 
was native of a place called Ilarnah, but of the various 
Ramahs mentioned none is said to have been remarka- 
ble for vines; nor is there any tradition or other clue by 
which the particular Ramah to which this worthy be- 
longed can be identified. See Ramaii. 

Ra'math-le'hi (Heb. Hamath' LechV, ‘’rA 
craggy height [see below]; Sept. ’A vaipeaig aiayovoQ ; 
Vulg. Hamathlechi, quod interpretatur elevatio maxillce). 
The origin of this name, which occurs only in Judg. 
xv, 17, forms one of the most romantic episodes in 
Scripture history. Samson, having been bound with 
two new cords, was given up to the Philistines at a 
place called Lelii, a name which signifies “jawbone.” 
When the enemy attacked him, he burst his bonds, 
seized the jawbone (lehi) of an ass that lay upon the 
ground, and with this odd weapon slew a thousand of 
them. Then he threw away the jawbone, and, as a 
memorial of the event, and by a characteristic play 
upon the old name, he called the place Hamatli-lehi — 
that is, the lifting (or wielding?) of the jawbone; and 
so it is interpreted in the Vulgate and in the Sept. 
See Samson. But Gesenins has pointed out ( Thesauv . 
p. 752 a) that to be consistent with this the vowel- 
points should be altered, and the words become *V 3“l 
“’Jib; and that as they at present stand they are ex- 
actly parallel to Ramath-mizpeh and Ramath-negeb, 
and mean the “height of Lechi.” If we met with a 
similar account in ordinary history, we should say that 
the name had already been Ramath-lehi, and that the 
writer of the narrative, with that fondness for parono- 
masia which distinguishes these ancient records, had 
indulged himself in connecting the name witli a possi- 
ble exclamation of his hero. But the fact of the posi- 
tive statement in this ease may make us hesitate in 
coming to such a conclusion in less authoritative rec- 
ords. For the topography of the place, see Lehi. 

Ra'math-miz'peh (Heb. Hamath' ham-3Hts- 
peh', nSti'SH P’?”", high-place of the watch-tower ; 
Sept. ’Apa/SwS’ Hard rt)v MaocrjQa, v.r. 'P apilt$ Kara 


tijv M aa^ci ; Vulg. Hamath Masphe’). In defining 
the boundaries of the tribe of Gad, Joshua states that 
Moses gave them inheritance . . . : “from Ileshbon 
unto Ramath-mizpeh, and Betonira” (Josh, xiii, 26). 
This place is nowhere else mentioned ; and it appears 
to have constituted one of the landmarks on the north- 
ern border of the tribe, which ran from the banks of the 
Jabbok, in the parallel of Jerash, to the southern end of 
the Sea of Galilee. It was in this region Jacob and 
Laban had their remarkable interview and entered into 
the covenant. The plaee where they vowed to each 
other was marked by a heap of stones, and called both 
Galeed and Jlizpah (Gen. xxxi, 48, 49). This would 
seem to suggest the identity of the Mizpah of Jaeob 
and Ramath-Mizpeh. See Gad; Jegaii-Saiiadi tha. 
There was a Mizpeh in Gilead, on the north-east border 
of Gad, and close to the territory of the Ammonites. 
In later times the latter became the great gathering- 
place of Israel east of the Jordan. See Ramoth- 
gileap. It apparently was the same as Ramath-miz- 
peh. In the books of Maccabees it probably appears 
in the garb of J fasj)ha (1 Macc. v, 35), but no informa- 
tion is afforded us in either Old Test, or Apocrypha 
as to its position. The lists of places in the districts 
north of es-Salt, collected by Dr. Eli Smith, and given 
by Dr. Robinson {Bill. Hes. 1st ed. App. to vol. iii), eon- 
tain several names which may retain a trace of Ramatli, 
viz. Rumeimin ( 1 67 b), Reimun (166 a), Rumruma ( 1 65 a) ; 
but the situation of these plaees is not accurately 
known. 

Ra'math-ne'geb, or Ramath of the South 
(Ileb. Hamath' Ne'geb, 232 P^P ; Sept. Bap& /card 
\if3a, v. r. ’lapiS Kara Xi'/3a ; Vulg. Hamath contra 
uustredem plagavi), a place apparently on the extreme 
southern border of Simeon. In this form it is only 
mentioned in Josh.xix, 8; and, from the peculiarity of 
the construction, there being no copulative, it would 
seem to be only another name for Baalath-beer, as 
suggested by Reland ( Palcest . p. 964), and interpreted by 
Keil (ad loc.); yet the Sept, makes the places distinct. 
Be this as it may, Negeb is manifestly the name of a 
district, and not a general term, signifying “south.” 
See Negeii. Ramah is not mentioned in the list of 
Judah (comp. Josh, xv, 21-32), nor in that of Simeon 
in I Chron. iv, 28-33; nor is it mentioned by Eusebius 
and Jerome. Van de Velde (J femoir, p. 342) takes it 
as identical with Ramath-lehi, which he finds at Tell 
el-Lekiyeh ; but this appears to be so far south as to be 
out of the eirele of Samson’s adventures, and, at any 
rate, must wait for further evidence. 

In I Sara, xxx, 27, South Ramotii (IJJT'":*, in 
the plural; Sept. 'Pa/xd j >6rov, v. r. 'PapdS rurov ; 
Vulg. Ramoth ad meridiem) is mentioned as one of 
the cities to which David sent portions of the spoils 
of the Amalekites. Donbtless, it is the same place 
ealled by Joshua Ramath-negeb. The name should 
be written Itamoth-negeb. The site is unknown, and 
the region where it stood is, in a great measure, unex- 
plored. 

Ramatha'im - zo'phim ( Ileb. with the art. 
ha-Ramatha'yim Tsophim', 2*5121 C*P2“ , n, the two 
heights, watchers; Sept. ’AppaSaip v. r. ’Appa- 

Saip Sioipip, making the art. P part of the word; 
Vulg. Ramathaim Sophim ), the birthplace of the proph- 
et Samuel (I Sam. i, 19), his own permanent and offi- 
cial residence (vii, 17 ; viii, 4), and the place of his sep- 
ulture (xxv, 1). It was in Mount Ephraim (i, I). It 
had apparently attached to it a place called Naioth, at 
which the “company” (or “school,” as it is called in 
modern times) of the sons of the prophets was main- 
tained (xix, 18, etc.; xx, 1); and it had also in its 
neighborhood (probably between it and Gibeah of Saul) 
a great well, known as the well of Has-Sechu (xix, 22). 
See Sechu. This is all we know of it with any degree 
of certainty. 


RAMATIIADI-ZOPIIIM 


89 G 


RAMATIIADI-ZOPIIIM 


Hamathaim, if interpreted as a Hebrew word, is dual 
— “ the double eminence.” This may point to a pecu- 
liarity in the shape or nature of the place, or may be 
an instance of the tendency, familiar to all students, 
which exists in language to force an archaic or foreign 
name into an intelligible form. It is given in its com- 
plete shape in the Hebrew text and A. V. but once (I 
Sam.i, 1). Elsewhere (i, 19; ii, 11; vii, 17 ; viii,4; xv, 
34; xvi, 13; xix, IS, 19, 22, 23; xx, 1 ; xxv, 1 ; xxviii, 
3) it occurs in the shorter form of llamah (q. v.). The 
Sept., however (in both MSS.), gives it throughout as 
Armathaim, and inserts it in i, 3 after the words “his 
city,” where it is wanting in the Hebrew and A. V. 
Gesenius questions the identity of Hamathaim-zophim 
and liamah ( Thesaurus , p. 1275); but a comparison of 
1 Sam. i, 1 with vcr. 19 shows without doubt that the 
same place is referred to. It is implied by Josephus, 
and allirmed by Eusebius ami Jerome in the Ononius - 
ticon (“Armathem Seipha”); nor would it ever have 
been questioned had there not been other l’amahs men- 
tioned in the sacred history. Of the force of “Zophim" 
no feasible explanation has been given. It was an an- 
cient name on the east of Jordan (Numb.xxiii, 14), and 
there, as here, was attached to an eminence. In the 
Targum of Jonathan, Hamathaim -zophim is rendered 
“Hamatha of the scholars of the prophets;” but this is 
evidently a late interpretation, arrived at by regarding 
the. prophets as watchmen (the root of zophim , also that 
of mizpeh, having the force of looking out afar), coupled 
with the fact that at Xaioth in Hamah there was a 
school of prophets. The most natural explanation ap- 
pears to be that Zuph, one of Samuel’s ancestors, had 
migrated from his home in Ephratah (1 Sam. i, 1 ; 1 
Chron. vi,35),and settled in a district to which he gave 
his own name, and which was afterwards called the kind 
of Zuph (1 Sam. ix, 5). Hamah, or Hamathaim, was 
the chief town of this district, and was lienee called 
Kamathaim-Zop/i/w, that is, “Hamah of the Zuphitcs” 
(see Hobinson, Rib. Res. ii, 7). See Zotumi. 

The position of Hamathaim-zophim is regarded by 
many scholars as one of the puzzles of Biblical geogra- 
phy. As the city is one of great interest, it may be 
well to give the principal theories as to its site, and 
then to state the data on which alone the site can be 
determined. 

(1.) Eusebius and Jerome locate it near Diospolis or 
Lydda ( Onomast . s. v. “ Armatha Sopliim”), and identify 
it with the Arimatluea of the X. T. (Matt, xxvii, 57). 
Jerome’s words arc: “Armathem Seipha: the city of 
llelkana and Samuel. It lies near (7r Xijtriov) Diospo- 
lis: thence came Joseph, in the Gospels said to be from 
Arimathaa.” Diospolis is Lydda, the modern Ludd ; 
and the reference is, no doubt, to Hamlch, the well- 
known modern town, two miles from Lmld. Jerome 
agrees with Eusebius in his translation of this passage; 
but in the Epitaphinm Paula; (Epist. cviii) he connects 
Hamlch with A rim a tinea only, and places it hand pro- 
cul a Lydda. This last identification may be correct; 
for the Sept. 'A ppaxaip seems to be the same name as 
the New-Test. ‘Apr fiaSaia, and represents the Hebrew 
-“ri-iri, with the article. There is no doubt there 
was a city called Armatha or Hamathem on the plain 
near Lydda at an early period ; and its modern repre- 
sentative may be Hamlch, as suggested by Belaud and 
others (Belaud, Pala-st. p. 580, 959; sec, however, Hob- 
inson, Pih. Res. ii, 238). But Hamah of Samuel could 
not have been so far distant from Gibeah of Saul; and 
there is a fatal obstacle to this identilication in the fact 
that Hamlch (“the sandy”) lies on the open face of the 
maritime plain, and cannot in any sense be said to 
he in Mount Ephraim or any other mountain district. 
Eusebius possibly refers to another Hamah named in 
Nch. xi, 33. 

(2.) Some would identify this city with Hamah of 
Benjamin (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1275; Winer, Real- 
Wort erh. s. v. “ Hama”) ; but this Hamah seems too close 


to Saul’s residence at Gibeah to suit the requirements of 
the sacred narrative in 1 Sam. xix, 18. (Vet see below.) 

(3.) Hobinson has suggested that the site of Hamah 
may be that now occupied by the village of SOba, which 
stands on a lofty and conspicuous hill -top, about six 
miles west of Jerusalem. Soba, he thinks, may be a 
corruption of the old name Zuph. Its elevation wotild 
answer well to the designation Ramuh. It might be 
regarded as included in the mountains of Ephraim, or, 
at least, as a natural extension of them ; and a not very 
wide detour would lake the traveller from Soba to Gib- 
eah by the tomb of Hachel (Rib. Res. ii, 7-9). The ar- 
guments are plausible, but not convincing; and it must 
be admitted that even Hohinson’s remarkable geograph- 
ical knowledge has failed to throw light on the site of 
Hamathaim-zophim. 

(4.) Wolcott, seeing on the spot the difficulties at- 
i tending Hobinson’s theory, and finding a remarkable 
ruin, called Ramet el-Khulil , near Hebron, concluded 
that this was the site of Samuel’s city. A summary 
of his reasons is given by Hobinson in the Biblical Cab- 
inet (xliii, 51 ; see also Rib. Res. iii. 279). They are not 
more convincing than those advanced in favor of Soba, 
yet they have been adopted and expanded by Van de 
Velde (Xarrat. ii, 48-54 ; Memoir , p. 341). This is also 
supported by Stewart (Tent and Khan , p. 247). 

(5.) Gesenius thinks that Jebel Fureidis, or, as it is 
usually called, Frank Mountain , the conspicuous conical 
hill three miles south-east of Bethlehem, is the true 
site of Hamah ( Thesaurus , p. 127G). This, however, is 
pure conjecture, without any evidence to support it. 

(6.) Ewald is in favor of the little village of Ram- 
Allah , a mile west of Beeroth (Gesehiehte, ii, 550, note). 
It is doubtless situated in Mount Ephraim, retains the 
old name, and the name .1 llah , “ God,” might be an 
indication of some old, peculiar sanctity; but it is open 
to the same objections as all others north of Hachel’s 
tomb. Lieut. Conder inclines to this position (Tent 
lPori in Palestine, ii, 1IG), remarking that near it is a 
ruined village called Sueikeh, perhaps the Scchu of 1 
Sam. xix, 22. 

(7.) One of the most ancient, and certainly one of the 
most plausible, theories is that which locates Hamath- 
aim-zophim at Xeby Samwil. It is most probably to 
this place Procopius alludes in the statement that Jus- 
j tinian caused a well and a wall to be erected for the 
convent of St. Samuel (De Midi fie. Just, v, 9; comp. 
Hobinson, Rib. Res. i, 459). From the 7th century, 
when Adanmanus described Palestine, and spoke of 
“the city of Samuel, which is called Hamatha” (Early 
Travels [Bohn], p. 5), down through the Middle Ages to 
the present day, the name of the prophet has been con- 
nected with tli is spot; and the uniform tradition of 
Jews, Christians, and Mohammedans has made it the 
place of his birth and burial (see authorities cited in 
Hobinson, l. c.). The Crusaders built a church over 
the alleged tomb, which, after the fall of the Latin 
kingdom, was converted into a mosque; and its walls 
and tall minaret are still visible from afar (Quaresmius, 
ii, 727 ; Pococke, ii, 48). Ncby Samwil is unquestion- 
ably the site of a very ancient city; its position on the 
summit of a high conical hill would give it a just title 
to the name Hamah ; it probably lay within the region 
termed the “Mountains of Ephraim;” and it would 
form an appropriate residence for the great judge of 
Israel. It is near this place that the great well of 
Secliu, to which Saul came on his way to Hamah, now 
called Samuel’s fountain, near Beit Iska, or Beit lsku, is 
thought by some to be found; and near Xeby Samwil 
is Beit Ilaninah, supposed to he Xaioth. the College of 
Prophets, or “the House of Instruction” of the Jewish 
Targum, which was connected with Hamah of Samuel 
(1 Sam. xix, 18-24). Sec X aioth. Yet there are very 
formidable objections to its identification with Hamath- 
aim-zophim. It appears to be too near Gibeah, the 
capital of Saul’s kingdom, to form a safe refuge for 
I David when he lied from that monarch : it is not an 


RAMATHAIM-ZOPHIM 


897 


RAMATHAIM-ZOPHIM 


hour’s ride distant, and it is in full view. It has been 
shown, besides, that Neby Samwil is most probably the 
site of Mizpah (q. v.). 

(8.) Bonar ( Land of Promise , p. 178, 554) adopts er- 
Ram , which he places a short distance north of Beth- 
lehem, east of Rachel’s sepulchre. Eusebius ( Onomast . 
s. v. 'Poj&fo') says that “ Rama of Benjamin” is near 
(irepi) Bethlehem, where the ‘‘voice in Rama was 
heard;” and in our times the name is mentioned, be- 
sides Bonar, by Prokesch and Salzbacher (cited in Rob- 
inson, Bib. Res. ii, 8, note ) ; but this cannot be regarded 
as certain, and Stewart has pointed out that it is too 
close to Rachel's monument to suit the ease. 

(9.) Schwarz (Palest, p. 152-158), starting from Gib- 
eah of Saul as the home of Kish, fixes upon Rameh, 
north of Samaria and west of Samir, which he supposes 
also to be Ramoth, or Jarmuth, the Levitical city of Is- 
sachar. All that is directly said as to its situation is 
that it was in Mount Ephraim (1 Sam. i, 1) ; and this 
would naturally lead us to seek it in the neighborhood 
of Shecliem. But the whole tenor of the narrative of 
the public life of Samuel (in connection with which 
alone this Ramah is mentioned) is so restricted to the 
region of the tribe of Benjamin, and to the neighbor- 
hood of Gibeali, the residence of Saul, that it seems im- 
possible not to look for Samuel’s city in the same local- 
ity. It appears, from 1 Sara, vii, 17, that his annual 
functions as prophet and judge were confined to the 
narrow round of Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpeh — the first 
on the north boundary of Benjamin; the second near 
Jericho at its eastern end; and the third on the ridge 
in more modern times known as Scopus, overlooking 
Jerusalem, and therefore near the southern confines of 
Benjamin. In the centre of these was Gibeali of Saul, 
the royal residence during the reign of the first king, 
and the centre of his operations. It would be doing a 
violence to the whole of this part of the history to look 
for Samuel’s residence outside these narrow limits. 

Those Scriptural allusions which tend to indicate the 
position of Ramatliaira-zophim are the following, and 
they are our only trustworthy guides. The statements 
of Eusebius and later writers can have little weight; 
and, indeed, it appears that all knowledge of the city 1 - 
was lost before their time. 

(a.) In 1 Sam. i, 1 we read, “There was a certain 
man of Ramathaim-zophim, of Mount Ephraim.” From 
this it would appear, at first sight, that Ramathaim was 
situated in the district called Mount Ephraim. The 
construction of the Hebrew, however, does not make 
this quite certain. The phrase ST“^rT|« 

^!T3 might possibly mean, not that Ramath- 
aim was in Mount Ephraim (which would be expressed 
rather by “irQ), but that Elkanah was in some way of 
Mount Ephraim (the Hebrew is “liTS), though resid- 
ing in Ramathaim. The statement of the sacred writ- 
er, therefore, does not form an insuperable objection to 
a theory that would locate Ramathaim beyond the 
bounds of Mount Ephraim. Besides, the extent of the 
region called Mount Ephraim is nowhere defined. It 
may. mean that section of mountain allotted to the 
tribe of Ephraim, or it may have extended so as to in- 
clude part, or even the whole, of Benjamin. In the 
mouth of an ancient Hebrew, the expression would 
mean that portion of the mountainous district which 
was, at the time of speaking, in the possession of the 
tribe of Ephraim. “Little Benjamin” was for so long 
in close alliance with, and dependence on, its more pow- 
ful kinsman, that nothing is more probable than that 
the name of Ephraim may have been extended over 
the mountainous region which was allotted to the 
younger son of Rachel. Of this there are not want- 
ing indications. The palm-tree of Deborah was “in 
Mount Ephraim,” between Bethel and Ramah, and is 
identified with great plausibility by the author of the 
Targum on Judg. iv, 5 with Ataroth, one of the land- 
marks on the south boundary of Ephraim, which still 
VIIL — L l l 


survives in ’Atara, two and a half miles north of Ramah 
of Benjamin (er-Ram). Bethel itself, though in the 
catalogue of the cities of Benjamin (Josh, xviii, 22), 
was appropriated by Jeroboam as one of his idol sanct- 
uaries, and is one of the “cities of Mount Ephraim” 
which were taken from him by Baaslia and restored 
by Asa (2 Chron. xiii, 19 ; xv, 8). Jeremiah (ch. xxxi) 
connects Ramah of Benjamin with Mount Ephraim 
(ver. 6, 9, 15, 18). It could scarcely have embraced any 
portion of Judah, since the two tribes were rivals. for 
sovereignty. The allusions to Mount Ephraim in 1 
Sam. ix, 4; Josh, xvii, 15; Judg. xvii, 1, appear to con- 
fine the name to the territory of the tribe. 

(6.) Ramah would appear to have been at some con- 
siderable distance from the residence of Saul at Gibe- 
ah. Such, at least, is the conclusion one would naturally 
draw from the following passages: 1 Sam. xv, 34, 35; 
xix, 18-23. But in neither of these passages is it clear- 
ly asserted nor certainly implied. In another passage 
the immediate proximity of Gibeah and Ramah seems 
to be directly stated (1 Sam. xxii, 6). This passage, it 
is true, may either be translated (with Junius, Michae- 
lis, De Wette, and Bunsen), “ Saul abode in Gibeah un- 
der the tamarisk on the height ” (in which case it will 
add one to the scanty number of instances in which the 
word is used otherwise than as a proper name); or it 
may imply that Ramah was included within the pre- 
cincts of the king’s city. The Sept, reads Bama for 
Ramah, and renders the words “on the hill under the 
field in Bama.” Eusebius, in the Onomasticon (s. v. 
’Papa), characterizes Ramah as the “city of Saul.” In 
any ease, there seems to be no insuperable objection 
against the identity of Ramah of Saul with Ramah of 
Benjamin. 

( c .) It is usually assumed that the city' in which Saul 
was anointed by Samuel (1 Sam. ix, x) was Samuel’s 
own city r , Ramah. Josephus certainly (Ant. vi, 4, 1) 
does give the name of the city as Armathem, and, in his 
version of the occurrence, implies that the prophet was at 
the time in his own house; but neither the Hebrew nor 
the Sept, contains any statement which confirms this, 
if we except the slender fact that the “land of Zuph” 
(1 Sam. ix, 5) may' be connected with the Zophim of 
Ramathaim-zophim. Robinson adjnits that “the answer 
of the maidens (ix, 1 1, 12) would, perhaps, rather imply 
that Samuel had just arrived, possibly on one of his 
yearly circuits in which he judged Israel in various 
cities” (Bib. Res. ii, 10). It cannot be questioned, in- 
deed, that, apart from all theories, the whole course of the 
narrative leaves the impression that Samuel was in his 
own house in Ramah when Saul visited him. He was 
there when the Lord informed him, apparently' on the 
preceding day (comp. 1 Sam. viii, 4, 22; ix, 15, 16), of 
his intention to appoint a king. The words of Saul’s 
servant, too, conveys the same impression : “ When they 
were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said. Let us re- 
turn ;” but the servant said, “ Behold now, there is in 
this city a man of God ... let ns go thither” (ix, 5, 6). 
This would scarcely' apply to a place in which Samuel 
was but a casual visitor. But, on the other hand, the 
place of the interview could not have been within the 
tribe of Benjamin, because [1] the Lord, in foretelling 
to Samuel the coming of Saul, said, “To-morrow, about 
this time, I will send thee a man out of the land of Ben- 
jamin” (1 Sam. ix. 16) ; and [2] Saul, when in search of 
the asses, “ passed through Mount Ephraim, and passed 
through the laud of Shalisha; then through the land 
of Shalim ; and he passed through the land of the Ben- 
jamites” (ver. 6). Then they' came “ to the land of 
Zuph.” The land of Zuph was consequently south of 
Benjamin. So, in returning home (apparently' to Gibe- 
ah) from the place of the interview, Saul’s way led past 
Rachel’s tomb, the site of which is well known, near 
Bethlehem. It follows, from the minute specification 
of Saul’s route in 1 Sam. x, 2, that the city in which 
the interview took place was near the sepulchre of Ra- 
chel, which, by Gen. xxxv, 16, 19, and other reasons, ap- 


TSAMATIIEM 


SOS 


15AMBACII 


pears to be fixed with certainty as close to Bethlehem. 
This sii]>plies a strong argument against its being Ba- 
mathaim-zophim, since, while Mount Ephraim, as we 
have endeavored already to show, extended to within a 
lew miles north of Jerusalem, there is nothing to war- 
rant the supposition that it ever reached so far south as 
the neighborhood of Bethlehem. .Said's route will be 
most conveniently discussed under the head of Sai i. ; 
but the question of both his outward and his homeward 
journey, minutely as they are detailed, is beset with dif- 
tieulties, which have been increased by the assumptions 
of the commentators, l'or instance, it is usually taken for 
granted that his father’s house — and therefore the start- 
ing-point of his wanderings — was Gibeah. True, Saul 
himself, after he was king, lived at tiibeah; but the 
residence of Kish would appear to have been at Zela, 
where his family sepulchre was (2 .Sam. xxi, 14); and 
of Zela no trace has yet been found. The A. V. has 
added to the difficulty by introducing the word “meet" 
in x, 3 as the translation of the term which is more 
accurately rendered “find” in the preceding verse. 
Again, where was the “hill of God,” the gibath-Rlohim , 
with the net sib of the Bhilistines? A net sib of the Phi- 
listines is mentioned later in Said’s history (1 Sam.xiii, 
3) as at Geba, opposite Miehmash; but this is three 
miles north of tiibeah of Saul, and does not at all agree 
with a situation near Bethlehem for the anointing of 
Saul. The Targum interprets the “ hill of God” as “ the 
place where the ark of God was,” meaning Kirjalli-jea- 
Tim. There is no necessity whatever for supposing that 
Samuel was at Bamah when he anointed Saul. The 
name of the place where Samuel was at the time is not 
given in the sacred narrative, the language of which 
rather implies that it was not his regular abode: for it 
says that he had come that day into the city to attend 
a sacrilice or a feast of the people (1 Sam. ix, 11, 12). 
The city was most probably Bethlehem, with the in- 
habitants of which Samuel was connected, being a de- 
scendant of Zuph, an Ephrathite, and was likely to have 
been invited to their feast; and the land of Zupli, into 
which Saul had come, must have been the region of 
Bethlehem. That Samuel was in the habit of visiting 
Bethlehem for the purpose of sacrificing is certain from 
1 Sam. xvi, 1-5 (ctynp. xx, 29). We may therefore 
conclude that he had come at this time thither from 
Bamah of Benjamin. 

On the whole, Bamathaim-zophim is as likely to have 
been the Bamah of Benjamin as any other. 

Ha'mathem (Pa/utSi/i v. r. ‘VaSaptiv ; Jose- 
phus, *P a/in-jd [Ant.xiii, 4, 9J ; Vulg. Ramathan), one 
of the three “governments” (ro/titu and ro7rafi\iai) 
which were added to Judaea by king Demetrius Nica- 
tor out of the country of Samaria (1 Macc. xi, 34); the 
others were Apluerema and Lvdda. It no doubt de- 
rived its name from a town of t lie name of Bamathaim, 
probably that renowned as the birthplace of Samuel the 
prophet. — Smith. 

Ramayana is the name of one of the two great 
epic poems of ancient India (for the other, see JI.uia- 
iuiahata). Its subject-matter is the history of Hama, 
one of the incarnations of Vishnu (q. v., and see Ba.ma ), 
and its reputed author is Valmtki, who is said to have 
taught his poem to the two sous of BTima, the hero of 
the history; and, according to this legend, would have 
been a contemporary of Bama himself. But though 
tliis latter account is open to much doubt, it seems cer- 
tain that Valmiki — unlike Yvtisa (q. v.), the supposed 
compiler of the Mahubhuruta — was a real personage; 
and, moreover, that the Ramayana was the work of one 
single poet not like the Mahubhuruta, the creation of 
various epochs and different minds. As a poetical com- 
position, the Ramayana is therefore far superior to the 
Mahablidruta ; and it may he called the best great 
poem of ancient India, fairly claiming a rank in the lit- 
erature of the world equal to that of the epic poetry of 
Homer. Whereas the character of the Mahubhuruta 


is cycloptedical. its main subject-matter overgrown by 
episodes of the most diversified nature, its diction dif- 
fering in merit, both from a poetical and grammatical 
point of view, according to the ages that worked at its 
completion — the Itamayuna has but one object in view, 
the history of Bama. Its episodes are rare, and re- 
stricted to the early portion of the work, and its poeti- 
cal diction betrays throughout the same finish and the 
same poetical genius. Xor can there he any reasonable 
doubt as to the relative ages of both poems, provided 
that we look upon the Mahubhuruta in the form in 
which it is preserved as a whole. Whether we apply 
as a test the aspect of the religions life, or the geo- 
graphical and other knowledge displayed in the one 
and the other work, the Ramayana appears as the older 
of the two. Since it is the chief source wheuee our in- 
formation of the llama incarnation of Vishnu is derived, 
its contents may be gathered from that portion of the 
article Vishnu which relates to Ramachandra. The 
Ramayana contains (professedly) 24,000 epic verses, or 
slokas, in seven books, or kandas, called the Bula-Ay-o- 
dhyd-, Aranya-, Kishkimlha-, Sundar a-, Yiuldhu- (or 
Lanka-), and Uttara-kanda. The text which has come 
down to us exhibits, in different sets of manuscripts, 
such considerable discrepancies that it becomes neces- 
sary to speak of two recensions in which it now exists. 
This remarkable fact was first made known by A. W. 
von Scldegel, who, in Europe, was the first to attempt 
a critical edition of this poem; it is now fully corrob- 
orated by a comparison that may he made between 
the printed editions of both texts. The one is more 
concise in its diction, and has less tendency than the 
other to that kind of descriptive enlargement of facts 
and sentiments which characterizes the later poetry of 
India; it often also exhibits grammatical forms ami pe- 
culiarities of an archaic stamp, where the other studi- 
ously avoids that which must have appeared to its edi- 
tors in the light of a grammatical difficulty. In short, 
there can be little doubt that the former is the older 
and more genuine, and the latter the more recent, and 
in some respects more spurious, text. A complete edi- 
tion of the older text, with two commentaries, was pub- 
lished at Madras in 185G (in the Telugii characters, vol. 
i-iii); another edition of the same text, with a short 
commentary, appeared at Calcutta in two volumes 
(I8G0), and a more careful and elegant one at Bombay 
(18G1). Of the later edition, Gaspare Gorresio has 
edited the first six books (vol. i-v, Paris, 1843-50) 
without a commentary, but with an Italian, somewhat 
free, translation in poetical prose (vol. i-x, Baris, 1847- 
58). Former attempts at an edition and translation 
of the Ramayana remained unfortunately incomplete. 
The earliest was that made by William Carey and 
Joshua Marshman. who edited t lie first two books, and 
added to the. text a prose translation in English and ex- 
planatory notes (vol. i-iii, Serampore, 180G-10; and 
vol. i, containing the first book, Dunstable. 1808). An- 
other edition, of an eclectic nature, is that by A. W. von 
Schlegel ; it contains the first two books of the text, 
and an excellent Latin translation of the first book and 
twenty chapters of the second (vol. i, pts. i and ii. and 
I vol. ii. pt. i. Bonn. 1840). Various episodes from t lie 
I Ramayana, it. may also be added, have at various times 
occupied sundry editors and translators.- Chambers's 
Kncyclop. s. v. 

Rambacli, August Jakob, was born May 28, 
1777. at Quedlinburg. Having completed bis studies 
at llalle. be was appointed on May 2. 18i>2, deacon of 
St. l'cter’s at Hamburg. On Dec. 20. 1818, he sue- 
i ceeded his father as pastor of St. Michael's. In t lie 
year 1827 the Marburg Cniversity honored him with 
the degree of doctor of divinity, and in 1834 he was 
made senior of the ministry at Hamburg. In 18 IG 
bodily infirmities obliged him to resign the pastorate, 
and be retired to bis country-seat, in Otteusen, where 
be died Sept. 7, 1851. His main study was that of 
hymnologv, and his library contained 2200 volumes on 


RAMBACII 


899 


II AMESES 


that subject. He wrote, Supplemente zn Richter's hiogr. I 
Lexicon yeistl. Lie.derdichter (Hamburg, 1804) -.—Luther's | 
Verdienst um den Kirchengesang (ibid. 1813). But his 
greatest work is Authologie christlicher Gesanye aus der 
alten und mittleren Zeit (Altona, 1816-33. 6 vols.); a' 
very valuable collection of Greek, Latin, and German 
hymns. Comp. Koch, Geschichte des Kirchenliedes, vii, 
36,70; Zucliold, Bibliotheca Theologica, ii, 1026 ; Peter- 
sen, In Memoriam A. J. Rambachii , etc. (Hamburg, 
1856). (B. P.) 

Rambach, Johann Jakob, was born at Halle 
Feb. 24, 1693, and died April 19, 1735, at Giessen, where 
he was professor of theology and first superintendent. 
During his comparatively short life he devoted himself 
to sacred studies, and produced some valuable works. 
Besides assisting Miehaelis in the preparation of his 
Hebrew Bible, and of his Adnotationes Uberiores in Ila- 
giographa, he was the author of Institutiones Ilerme- 
neuticce Sacree, of which the eighth edition appeared in 
1764:— Exercitationes Ilermen ., sice p.ii Institut. Ilerm. 
(Jena, 1728; 2d ed. 1741): — Comment. Ilerm. de Seusus 
J lystici Criteriis (ibid. 1728, 1731). Jlis other works 
are dogmatical ami polemical. — Kit to. 

Rambam. See Maimonides. 

Ramban. See Xaciimaniijes. 

Ramboitr, Abraham, a French Protestant theolo- 
gian, was born at Sedan, the seat of French evangelical 
Christianity, about 1590, studied at the academy in 
that place, and closed his career there by his thesis De 
Potestate Ecclesim (1608, 8vo). After ordination, he be- 
came pastor of the parish of Franeheval. In 1616 he 
was called to Sedan, and preached there until 1620, 
when he was made a professor in his alma mater. He 
held the chair of theology and Hebrew, and so greatly 
distinguished himself that he was four times honored : 
with the rectorate of that excellent Protestant seminary I 
of divinity, lie died in 1651, and left his colleagues to 
mourn the loss of a great and good man. All his writ- 
ings give proof of profound scholarship, and a more 
than usual mastery of ancient Bible lore. He was an 
excellent polemic, and what he wrote as such the Ro- | 
manists always found unanswerable. We note here, of 
his writings of this character, De Christo Redemptore 
(Sedan, 1620, 4to), and Trade de l Adoration des Images 
(ibid. 1635, 8vo). Ilis sixty-one theses on different 
Biblical subjects have been inserted in the Thesaurus 
Theologies Sedanensis, vol. ii. See Haag, La France 
Protestante, s. v. — Hoefer, Four. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Rameau, Jeax-Piiilitpe, a very celebrated French 
musician who cultivated sacred music and was a noted 
organist, was a native of Dijon, lie was born in 1683. 
Ilis father was also a musician, and was, at the time of 
Jean-Philippe’s birth, organist in the Saintc-Chapelle 
of Dijon. He was an enthusiast in his love for music, 
and taught his children the classical works long before 
they knew their letters. After travelling for some time, 
creating everywhere great sensation by his wonderful 
musical genius, Jean-Philippe settled as organist of the 
cathedral at Clermont, in Auvergne. In middle life he 
removed to Paris, and became organist of Sainte-Croix 
de la Bretonnerie. In 1722 he published his Traite de 
V Ilarmonie, which laid the basis of his future renown. 
He died in 1764. Ilis compositions were mostly of a 
secular character. One of his operas, Samson, was 
never permitted to be put on the stage, because, as it 
was argued, it prostituted sacred music. Voltaire and 
D’Alembert were personal friends and warm admirers 
of Rameau. See Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Ramenghi, Bartolomeo, an Italian artist of note, 
usually called 11 Bagnacavallo, from the place of his 
birth (Bagnacavallo, on the road from Ravenna to Lugo), 
which took place in 1484, was a pupil of Raphael, and 
one of his principal assistants in the Vatican, and, after 
the death of his great master, carried the principles of 
his style to Bologna, and assisted to enlarge the char- 


acter of that school. Raphael was his model and test 
of excellence, and he did not attempt to look beyond 
him. Though possessing less vigor than Giulio Ro- 
mano or Perino del Vaga, Bagnacavallo acquired more 
of the peculiar grace of Raphael’s style, especially in his 
infants, and his works were much studied by the great 
scholars of the Caracci. There are, or rather were, works 
by Bagnacavallo in the churches of San Michele in Bos- 
co, San Martino, Santa Maria Maggiore, and Sant' Agos- 
tino agli Scopettini in Bologna. He died at Bologna jn 
1542. See Lanzi, Lives of Painters ; English Cyclop, 
s. v.; Spooner, Biog, Diet, of the Fine Arts, s. v. 

Ram'eses (Ileb. Rameses', ; Sept. 'Pa- 

juteuri/ v. r. 'Taptooiit;'), or Raam'ses (Ileb. Raum- 
ses', only in Exod. i, 11 ; Sept. 'Prquecrcrj}), the 

name of a city (Exod. i, 11 ; xii, 37 ; Numb, xxxiii, 3, 
5) and district (Gen. xlvii, 11) in Lower Egypt. There 
can be no reasonable doubt that the same city is desig- 
nated by the Rameses and Raamses of the Hebrew text, 
and that this was the chief place of the land of Rameses, 
all the passages referring to the same region. The 
name is Egyptian, the same as that of several kings of 
the empire, of the eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth 
dynasties. In Egyptian it is written Ra-meses or Ra- 
mses, it being doubtful whether the short vowel under- 
stood occurs twice or once : the first vowel is represented 
by a sign ■which usually corresponds to the Hebrew 2 
in Egyptian transcriptions of Hebrew names, and He- 
brew of Egyptian. The name means Son of the Sun , 
such titles being common with the ancient kings of 
Egypt, one of whom was probably the founder of the 
city. See Egypt. 

The first mention of Rameses is in the narrative of 
the settling by Joseph of his father and brethren in 
Egypt, where it is related that a possession was given 
them “in the land of Rameses” (Gen. xlvii, 11). This 
land of Rameses (C22" 1 ! , j*’iX) either corresponds to 
the land of Goshen, or was a district of it, more proba- 
bly the former, as appears from a comparison of a par- 
allel passage (ver. 6). The name next occurs as that 
of one of the two cities built for the Pharaoh who lirst 
oppressed the children of Israel. “And they built for 
Pharaoh treasure cities (rilSS'S ^2'), Pithom and 
Raamses” (Exod. i, 11). So in the A. V. The Sept., 
however, reads -iroXtig b\vpdg, and the Vulg. urbes ta- 
bernaculorum, as if the root had been "jS’l 1 . The sig- 
nification of the word SVOBS'O is decided by its use for 
storehouses of corn, wine, and. oil, which Ilezekiah had 
(2 Chron. xxxii, 28). We should therefore here read 
store-cities, which may have been the meaning of our 
translators. The name of Pithom indicates the region 
near Heliopolis, and therefore the neighborhood of Go- 
shen, or that tract itself; and there can therefore be no 
doubt that Raamses is “Rameses in the land of Goshen.” 
In the narrative of the Exode we read of Rameses as 
the starting-point of the journey (Exod. xii, 37; see 
also Numb, xxxiii, 3, 5). See Goshen. 

If, then, we suppose Rameses or Raamses to have 
been the chief town of the land of Rameses, either Go- 
shen itself or a district of it, we have to endeavor to 
determine its situation. Lepsius supposes that Abu- 
Kesheid is on the site of Rameses. Ilis reasons are that 
in the Sept. Herobpolis is placed in the land of Rameses 
(raS’’ Hpiinou 7ro\u', tv yj; 'Paptocnj, or tig y ijv 'P a- 
peaai'i), in a passage where the Hebrew only mentions 
“the land of Goshen” (Gen. xlvi, 28), and that there is 
a monolithic group at Abu-Kesheid representing Turn 
and Ra, and between them Rameses II, who was proba- 
bly there worshipped. There would seem, therefore, to 
be an indication of the situation of the district and city 
from this mention of Herobpolis, and the statue of Ram- 
eses might mark a place named after that king. It 
must, however, be remembered (o) that the situation 
of Herobpolis is a matter of great doubt, and that there- 


R AMESES 


900 


RACISTS 


fore we can scarcely take any proposed situation as an 
indication of that of Rameses; (6) that the land of Ram- 
eses may be that of Goshen, as already remarked, in 
which case the passage would not afford any more pre- 
cise indication of the position of the city Raineses than 
that it was in Goshen, as is evident from the account 
of the Exodus; and (c) that the mention of llerobpolis 
in the Sept, would seem to be a gloss. It is also neces- 
sary to consider the evidence in the Biblical narrative 
of the position of Rameses, which seems to point to 
the western part of the land of Goshen, since two full 
marches, and part at least of a third, brought the Isra- 
elites from this town to the Red ftca; and the narra- 
tive appears to indicate a route for the chief part di- 
rectly towards the sea. After the second day’s journey 
they “encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilder- 
ness” (Exod. xiii, 20), and on the third day they appear 
to have turned. If, however, Rameses was where Lep- 
sius places it, the route would have been almost wholly 
through the wilderness, and mainly along the tract bor- 
dering the lied Sea in a southerly direction, so that 
they would have turned almost at once. Even could 
it be proved that it was anciently called Rameses, the 
case would not be made out, for there is good reason to 
suppose that many cities in Egypt bore this name. 
Apart from the ancient evidence, we may mention that 
there is now a place called “ Rcinsees” or “ Ramsecs” in 
the Boheirch (the great province on the west of the 
Koselta branch of the Nile), mentioned in the list of 
towns and villages of Egypt in Dc Sacy’s A bd-aUatif 
p. GG4. It gave to its district the name of “Ilof-Rem- 
sccs” or “Ramsecs.” This “ Hof” must not be con- 
founded with the “Ilof” commonly known, which was 
in the district of Belbeis. — Smith. Of the old transla- 
tors, only Saadias and Pseudo-Jonathan point out a 
place for Rameses; the rest all preserve the name from 
the Hebrew (comp. Arab, of Erpcn, On Exod. i, 11). 
Saadias gives Heliopolis; Jonathan, Pelusium. The 
latter is certainly wrong; the former is supported by 
Jablonski ( Opusc . ii, 13(5), on the ground of a Coptic 
etymology. But Heliopolis, which Tisehendorf also 
(Jleis. i, 175, and Dissert, de Isr. per J fare Hub. Trans. 
p. 15 sq.) makes to be Raamscs, is elsewhere always 
called On (q. v.), and is expressly distinguished from 
Eamcses by the .Sept. (Exod. i, 11 ; here the Cod. Mcdi- 
olan. reads indeed if icai "ilv, but this amounts to nothing 
against the Hebrew text). Others (as Ilengstenberg, 
Moses, p. 48 sq. ; Ewald, Isr. ( leseh . ii, 52 sq. ; Forbigor, 
Haudb. ii, 7*1) understand llerobpolis (comp. Sept, at 
Gen. xlvi, 28; where, however, the region of Baamses 
is spoken of, as above, and it is only asserted that 11c- 
rodpolis lay in this district). To the same purpose is 
the view of Clericus, Eakemaeher ( Obsere . Philol. vi, 
321 sq.), and Midler {Sutur. Obsere. Philol. p. 189) that 
Bameses is .4 rum ((Jr. Avapiq," Afiapu;'). in the Saitic 
(or, according to Bernard’s plausible emendation, the 
Seth rot ic) district (Ptolemy, iv, 5, 53), a place fortified 
bv Salatis, the king of the Hyksos (Josephus, A pion, i, 
14, 2(5; comp. Michael is, Svppl. p. 22(51). For Avaris 
(according to Manctho, in Josephus, A pion, i, 26) is the 
city of Typlion, and this is probably llerobpolis itself 
(comp. Bosenrnidler, Altcrth, iii, 2(51 ; Ewald. ii. 53) — 
M iner. The location of Bameses is doubtless indicated 
by the present Tell Hams is, a quadrangular mound near 
Belbeis. See Ri*;i> Ska, Passage of. 

An argument for determining under what dynasty 
the Exotic happened has been founded on the name 
Bameses, which has been supposed to indicate a royal 
builder. See Piiakaoii. We need only say that the 
highest date to which Bameses I can he reasonably as- 
signed (B.C. 1302) is inconsistent with the true date of 
the Exodo (B.C. 1058), although we 1'uut a prince of 
the same name two centuries earlier, so that the place 
might have taken its name either from this prince, 
or a yet earlier king or prince Bameses. That the 
last supposition is the true one seems to be established 
by the occurrence of the name in Gen. xlvii, 11, as 


early as the time of Joseph (B.C. 1874). Sec Cnno- 

XOLOGY. 

Rames'se (Vaptaaij), the Greek form (Judith i, 
9) of the name of the land of Bameses (q. v.). 

Rami'ah (Ileb. Ilamgah ', T'i~'Z~,Jixed of Jehovah ; 
Sept. *P apui), an Israelite of the sons of Parosh, who 
divorced his Gentile wife under the influence of Ezra 
(Ezra x, 25). B.C. 458. 

Ramirez, Francisco, a Homan Catholic prelate of 
Mexico, was born in the city of Mexico in 1823. He 
early decided upon the priesthood, and was educated at 
home and in Europe, where he became a great favorite 
with many distinguished ecclesiastics, ami therefore en- 
joyed rapid promotion in office. After holding various 
positions of responsibility, be became identified with the 
opposition against Juarez in polities, and prepared the 
way for the imperial rule under Maximilian, lie was 
then bishop of Caradro. When the empire had been 
established, Ramirez became the emperor’s almoner, and 
subsequently cabinet councillor, lie was also made vic- 
ar apostolic of Tamaulipas, Mexico. With the downfall 
of Maximilian, Ramirez’s stay in Mexico became an im- 
possibility. lie escaped to Texas, and lived in obscurity 
and want at Brazos Santiago until July 18, I8G9. 

Ramists, the followers of Peter Ramus, a French 
logician in the lGth century, who distinguished himself 
by his opposition to the philosophy of Aristotle. From 
the high estimation in which the Stagy rite was at that 
time held, it was accounted a heinous crime to contro- 
vert his opinions; and Ramus, accordingly, was tried and 
condemned as being guilty of subverting sound morali- 
ty and religion. The sole ground of his offence was 
that be had framed a system of logic at variance with 
that of Aristotle. “The attack which Ramus made,” 
says the elder M’Crie, in his Life of Melville, “ on the 
Peripatetic philosophy was direct, avowed, powerful, 
persevering, and irresistible. He possessed an acute 
mind, acquaintance with ancient learning, an ardent love 
of truth, and invincible courage in maintaining it. lie 
had applied himself with avidity to the study of the 
logic of Aristotle; and the result was a conviction that 
it was an instrument utterly unlit for discovering truth 
in any of the sciences, and answering no other purpose 
than that of scholastic wrangling and digladiation. llis 
conviction he communicated to the public; and, in spite 
of all the resistance made by ignorance and prejudice, 

; he succeeded in bringing over a great part of the learn- 
ed w’orld to his views. What Luther was in the 
, Church, Ramus was in the schools. He overthrew the 
infallibility of the Stagyritc, and proclaimed the right 
of mankind to think for themselves in matters of phi- 
losophy — a right which he maintained with the most 
! undaunted fortitude, and which he sealed with his 
blood. If Ramus had not shaken the authority of the 
long-venerated Organon of Aristotle, the world might 
not have seen the Norum Organum of Bacon. The 
faults of the Rameau system of dialectics have long been 
acknowledged. It proceeded upon the radical princi- 
ples of the logic of Aristotle; its distinctions often turn- 
ed more upon words than things; and the artificial 
method and uniform partitions which it prescribed in 
treating every subject were unnatural, and calculated to 
fetter, instead of forwarding, the mind in the discovery 
of truth. But it. discarded many of the useless specula- 
tions and much of the unmeaning jargon respecting 
predicables, predicaments, and topics which made so 
great a figure in the ancient logic. It inculcated upon 
its disciples the necessity of accuracy and order in ar- 
ranging their own ideas and in analyzing those of others. 
And as it advanced no claim to infallibility, submitted 
all its rules to the test of practical usefulness, and set 
the only legitimate end of the whole logical apparatus 
constantly before the eye of the student, its faults were 
soon discovered, and yielded readily to a more improved 
method of reasoning and investigation.” 

After the death of Ramus his logic found very ex- 


RAMMOHUN ROY 


901 


RAMOTH 


tensive favor and acceptance in various countries of Eu- 
rope. He defined logic to be “ars bene disserendi,” and 
like Cicero considered rhetoric an essential branch of it. 
It was introduced by Melancthou into Germany; it had 
supporters also in Italy; and even in France itself, where 
the logic of the Stagyrite was held in veneration, the 
Rameau system was largely favored. Andrew Melville 
taught the doctrines of Ramus at Glasgow, and his work 
on logic passed through various editions in England be- 
fore 1G00. The same system was also known at this time 
in Switzerland, Holland, and Denmark. The most note- 
worthy Ramists were, among others, Andomar Talteus 
(Talon) and his two disciples, Thomasins Frigius, of Fri- 
bourg, and Franciscus Fabricius; Fr. Benchus, Willi. Ad. 
Scribonius, and Caspar Pfaffrad. There was also a class 
of eclectics who tried to unite the method of Ramus with 
the Aristotelian logic of Melancthon. Among these, most 
noteworthy is Rudolph Goclenins, who was of service to 
psychology, and whose pupil, Otto Cassman, prosecut- 
ed his researches into psychological anthropology. To 
these may be added the poet John Milton. See Wad- 
dington, Ramus (Paris, 1855, 8vo), where a catalogue of 
Ramist works is given ; Desmaze, Ramus (1864) ; and 
Cantor, in Gelzer’s Protest. Monatsblutter , Aug. 2, 1867. 

Rammohun Roy, a celebrated Hindu convert to 
Western civilization and a liberal Christianity, is noted 
especially as the founder of a theistic school of thought 
among the Hindus, and in a certain sense may be pro- 
nounced the forerunner of Sen. Rammohun Roy was 
born about 1774 at Bordnan, in the province of Bengal, 
of Brahminic parentage of high caste. Reared like oth- 
er jmuths of India, he enjoyed his elementary training 
at home, and was then placed under the care of the 
great masters of the Vedas and the Shastras, and, both 
at Patna and afterwards at Benares, acquired great pro- 
ficiency in the sacred writings of Hinduism. His famil- 
iarity with the Arabic, Persian, and Sanscrit languages 
led him to an examination of the religious doctrines of 
the various sects of India, and finally to those of the 
West. lie had evinced a sceptical turn of mind while 
yet a youth ; and, once led away into these inquiries, he 
was soon forced to abandon the ground of his ancestry. 
But instead of accepting the inspired religion of the 
Christians, he sought the engrafting of its ethics upon 
the old faith of India, and the restoration of Hinduism 
in its ancient purity, as the first step to this accom- 
plishment. llis parents unyieldingly opposed his pur- 
pose. His father sent him away and disinherited him. 
His mother conceded the superstitious basis of her 
faith, but pleaded for its observance on the ground of 
duty towards her people and race. “You are right,” 
she said to him, when she was about to set out on a 
pilgrimage to Juggernaut ; “ but I am a woman, and 
cannot give up observances which are a comfort to 
me.” A wanderer from home, he spent two or three 
years in Thibet, where he excited general anger by de- 
nying that the Lama (q. v.) was the creator and pre- 
server of the world. He was finally recalled by his 
father and restored to paternal favor. But in a short 
time, as he tells us himself, “ my continued controver- 
sies with the Brahmins on the subject of their idolatry 
and superstition, and my interference with their custom 
of burning widows, and other pernicious practices, re- 
vived and increased their animosity against me; and, 
through their influence with my family, my father was 
again obliged to withdraw his countenance openly, 
though his limited pecuniary support was still contin- 
ued to me.” llis father died in 1803, and he then pub- 
lished various books and pamphlets against the errors of 
the Brahmins, in the native and foreign languages. He 
says: “The ground which I took in all my controversies 
was, not that of opposition to Brahniinism, but to a per- i 
version of it ; and 1 endeavored to show that the idola- | 
try of the Brahmins was contrary to the practice of i 
their ancestors and to the principles of the ancient 
books and authorities which they professed to revere 
and obey.” In order to deprive him of caste, the Brah- 


mins commenced a suit against him, which, after many 
years of litigation, was decided in his favor. Of the 
body of Hindu theology comprised in the Vedas there 
is an ancient extract called the Yedant, or the Reso- 
lution of all the Veds, written in Sanscrit. Rammo- 
hun Rov translated it into Bengalee and llindostanee, 
and afterwards published an abridgment of it for gratu- 
itous circulation ; of this abridgment he published an 
English translation in 1816. He afterwards published 
some of the principal chapters of the Vedas in Benga- 
lee and English. lie was at different times the pro- 
prietor or publisher of newspapers in the native lan- 
guages, in which he expressed his opinion freely against 
abuses, political as well as religious, especially the 
burning of widows. He was also, in conjunction with 
other liberal Hindus, proprietor of the Bengal Her- 
ald, an English newspaper. His intimate association 
with the English, and the constant interchange with 
European thought and familiarity with the West gen- 
erally, led him at last to abandon the old ground en- 
tirely, and he brought before his countrymen the ex- 
cellence of the moral theories of Christianity in 1820 in 
a work which he entitled The Precepts of Jesus, the 
Guide to Peace and Happiness. It was written in Eng- 
lish, Sanscrit, and Bengalee, and consists, besides se- 
lections from the New Test., of such commentaries as a 
Hindu apostate who abandoned heathenism for bald 
theism would be likely to produce. The divinity of 
Christ is ignored, the miracles are rejected, and many 
other portions of the Gospel held to be fundamental in 
orthodox Christianity; and the simple morality of Jesus 
is held up as “a guide to happiness and peace.” The 
position taken in this work not only encountered the 
opposition of his abandoned friends; his new associates 
also felt grieved and disappointed, and, in the first hour 
of disappointment, severely rebuked his false theology, 
lie was replied to, and a controversy opened on the 
great question of the Trinity. llis Appeal, published 
not under his own name, but as coming from a “ friend 
of truth,” and, later, his treatise on the unity of God, 
entitled One Supreme Being , greatly modified his first 
position, and showed that he took, at least, the ad- 
vanced ground of a Unitarian of the Old School, and 
recognised in Jesus Christ the “ Son of God, by whom 
God made the world and all things.” In April, 1831, 

; Rammohun Roy visited England, and he associated 
| generally with the Unitarians, whose chapels he visit- 
ed as a worshipper. lie also took great interest in the 
political questions of the day. The great question of 
! parliamentary reform was then agitating the country. 
Of the Reform Bill he wrote that it “would, in its con- 
sequences, promote the welfare of England and her de- 
pendencies — nay, of the whole world.” His society was 
universally courted in England. He was oppressed with 
i invitations to attend social parties and political and ec- 
clesiastical meetings. His anxiety to see everything 
and to please all led him to overtask himself to such 
an extent that his health, long failing, at last broke 
down. He died at Bristol, Sept. 27, 1833. The ad- 
verse circumstances of his birth were such as might 
easily have enslaved even his powerful understanding, 
or, still more easily, might have perverted it to selfish 
I ends; but he won his high position by an inflexible 
honesty of purpose and energy of will, and had he lived 
he might have become an important factor in the prop- 
agation of Christianity in the East. See sketch of 
his life, written b}’ himself, in the Aihenceum , No. 310, 
Oct. 5, 1833; Chambers's Edinburgh Journal , Aug. 2, 
1834; Carpenter, Review of Labors, Opinions, and Chai~- 
acter of Rajah Rammohun Roy ; I*authier, in the Revue 
Encyclopedique, 1833; Asiatic Journal, vol. xii; Theol. 
Eclectic, June, 1869; English Cyclop, s. v. 

Rammok. See Dromedary. 

Ramoth. See Coral. 

Ra'moth (Heb. Ramoth', [but iri -N'l in 

Deut. iv, 43; Josh, xx, 8; 1 Chron. vi, 73, 80], heights, 


KAMOTH-GILEAD 


902 


liAMOTII-GILEAD 


pliir. of Pamah [q. v.]; Sopt. usually 'P apib5, but Vp- 
fuoj in Ezra x, 25*. 'Vappioj in 2 Chron. xviii, 2. 3, 5, 
etc.), the name of tliree towns in Palestine, and also of 
one man. 

1. (Sept, t) 'P (tf.iwj.) One of the four Levitical cities 
of Issacliar according t<» the catalogue in 1 t.’hrou. (vi. 
73). In the parallel list in Josh, (xxi, 28, 21*), among 
other variations, Jak.mitii (q. v.) appears in place of 
Pamoth. It seems impossible to decide which is the cor- 
rect reading ; or whether, again, Pkmktii (q. v.), a town 
of Issachar, is distinct from them, or one and the same. 

2 A city in the tribe of ( lad ( Dent. iv. 43 ; Josh, xx, 
8; xxi, 38; 1 Chron. vi, 80), elsewhere called Pamotii- 

OII.KAIJ (q. V.). 

3. (Sept. ’Po/ia.) A city in the tribe of Simeon 
(“South Pamoth,'’ 1 Sam. xxx, 27). See Pamatii- 

NlitiliB. 

4. (lleb. text Yirmoth', niarg. ve- Hamath’, 

T’ -7", and Ramoth ; Sept. v. r. M i/pr.) An 

Israelitisli layman of the sons of Paui, who renounced his 
strange wife at Ezra’s instigation (Ezra x, 23). Il.C. 45*. 

Ramotli-gilead ( lleb. Ramoth’ Gilad’, ni'bs r -7 ; 
Sept.'Pf////d3,'Pt/</iw^, and 'Pn/iw-j VaXauc ; ’EpfpaS- 
yaXadc V. r. ’YapptoS’, Josephus. ’ApapaSci ; Vulg. Ra- 
moth Galaad), the “heights oft lilead;” or PAMOTH IX 
(ULEAD (*li*552 “MN7 : Sept.// Pn/iwj iv 1 'aXaui, 
’Aptlfiu&j'VtppuS VaXud?, v. r.'Po/i pujS, 'PapihS; Vulg. 
Ramoth in Galaad, Dent, iv, 43; Josh. xx. 8; xxi, 38, 
1 Kings xxii, 3 [in the A. V. only] , also written plene, 
PI-7, in 2 Chron. xxii. 5; and simply Pamah, H-*’, 
in 2 Kings viii, 20, and 2 Chron. xxii, 6), one of the 
chief cities of the tribe of Gad, on the east side of the 
Jordan. It was allotted to the Ecvites, and appointed 
a city of refuge (Dent, iv, 43 ; Josh, xx, 8). The latter 
fact would seem to indicate that it occupied a central 
position in the tribe, and also probably in the country 
assigned to the Israelites east of the Jordan. Pamoth 
played for a time an important part in Israelitisli his- 
tory, and was the scene of many a hard struggle. It 
was apparently a strong fortress, and considered the key 
of the country. Hence, when taken by the Syrians, the 
kings of Israel and Judah regarded it as a national loss, 
affecting both kingdoms, and they combined to drive 
out the common enemy (1 Kings xxii, 4 sq.). The 
united attack was unsuccessful, and the king of Israel 
was mortally wounded in the battle (xxii, 34-37). At 
a later period, apparently in the reign of Joram (2 Kings 


ix. 14, 15; comp. Josephus, Ant. ix, fi, 1), Pamoth was 
taken from the Syrians and held, notwithstanding all 
the efforts of Hazael to regain it. Joram, having been 
wounded in the struggle, left his army under the com- 
mand of Jehu, and returned to Jezreel to be healed (2 
Kings viii, 25 ) ). During his absence Jehu was anointed 
by order of Elisha (ix, 1, 2), and commissioned to exe- 
cute vengeance on the wicked house ol’Ahab (vcr. 7-10). 
Leaving Pamoth, Jehu drove direct to Jezreel. The 
king, expecting news from the scat of war, had watch- 
men set on the towers, who saw his chariot approach- 
ing (ver. lti, 17). The rest of the story is well known. 
See Aiiab; Jkih*. After this incident Pamoth-gilead 
appears no more in Jewish history. 

The exact position of Pamoth is nowhere defined in 
Scripture. The name ( Ramoth , “ heights”) would seem 
to indicate that it occupied a commanding position on 
the summit of the range of Gilead. In 1 Kings iv, 13, 
we read that when the districts of Solomon’s purveyors 
were arranged, the son of Geber was stationed in Pa- 
motli, and had charge of all the cities of Jair the son of 
Manasseh, both in Gilead and Paslian ; and these cities 
extended over the whole north-eastern section of Pales- 
tine beyond Jordan. Various opinions have been enter- 
tained regarding the site of this ancient city. Some 
would identify it with , /trash, the old Poman Gerasa, 
whose ruins are the most magnificent and extensive 
east of the Jordan (see Jienjnmin ofTudela. by Asher); 
but this is too far north, and Jerasli, besides, lies in a 
valley. Kwald would locate it at the village of Reiman 
among the mountains, five miles west of Jerasli (Gesch. 
Isr. iii, 500). For this there is no evidence whatever. 
( fibers locate it on a site bearing the name of JtVtid, ex- 
actly identical with the ancient Hebrew t Ulead, which is 
mentioned by JSeetzen ( Reisen , March 11, 1800), and 
marked on his map (ibid, iv) and that of Van de Velde 
(1858) as four or five miles north of cs-Salf. Schwarz 
(Palest, p. 232 sq.) identifies this Pamoth with Kullat 
el-Rabat, which is situated on one of the highest points 
of the mountain of Gilead, not far from the Wady Pajib, 
and west of Ajlun. It. is even now strongly fortified, 
and is visible at a great distance, especially to the north- 
east. The most probable opinion regarding the site of 
Pamoth is that which places it at the village of es-Snlt. 
This is indicated (a) by its position on the summit, of a 
steep hill; (b) by its old ecclesiastical name Saltus 
I/ieratirus, which appears to point to its original “sac- 
erdotal” and “holy” character, Pamoth having been 
both a Levitical city and a “city of refuge" (see Poland, 



Es-Salt (Ramotli-gilead. From a photograph by the Editor.) 


RAMOTII-NEGEB 


903 


EAMSAUEIt 


Pdlast. p. 213) ; (c) by the fact that about two miles to 
the north-west of es-Salt is the highest peak of the 
mountain -range still bearing the name Jebel Jilad, 
“Mount Gilead;” and {d) by the statement of Eusebius 
that Ramoth-gilead lay in the fifteenth mile from Phil- 
adelphia towards the west, and this is the exact distance 
of es-Salt from Uabbath-Ammon ( Onomast . s. v. “Ram- 
moth”). The situation of es-Salt is strong and pictur- 
esque. The hill on which it stands is separated by deep 
ravines from the loftier mountains that encompass it, 
and its lower slopes are covered with terraced vineyards, 
while the neighboring hill -sides and valleys abound 
with olive-groves. On the summit stands the castle, a 
rectangular building with towers at the corners, and de- 
fended by a deep moat hewn in the rock. '1 he founda- 
tions appear to be Homan, if not earlier, but the upper 
walls are Saracenic. In the town itself, which contains 
some three thousand inhabitants, there are few remains 
of antiquit)'. In the cliffs and ravines beneath it are 
great numbers of tombs and grottos {Handbook for 
Sinai and Palestine , p. 308). Es-Salt is famous for its 
vineyards, and its raisins are esteemed the best in Pal- 
estine. They are carried in large quantities to Jerusa- 
lem (Burckhardt, Syria, p. 349; Irby and Mangles, 
Travels, p. 321 ; Ritter, Pul. und Syr. p. 1121-38; Abul- 
feda, Tab. Syr. p. 92; Buckingham, Travels, p. 20). — 
Kitto. It is now the only inhabited place in the prov- 
ince of Belka. It is still a place of comparative strength, 
and overawes the Bedawin by a garrison under the 
pasha of Damascus. Tristram says of it, “ Ramoth- 
gilead must always have been the key of Gilead — at 
the head of the only easy road from the Jordan, opening 
immediately on the rich plateau of the interior, and with 
this isolated cone (the Osha) rising close above it, forti- 
fied from very early times, by art as well as by nature. 
Of the fortress only a tall fragment of wall remains, and 
a pointed archway, with a sort of large dial-plate, carved 
deeply in stone, surrounded by a rose-work decoration. It 
appears to be all modern Turkish work” {Land of Israel, 
p. 555). There is a plateau, he further tells us, on the 
road towards Jordan, ami there probably the battle was 
fought where Ahab received his mortal wound — that be- 
ing the only place where chariots could come into play. 

Winer and others identify Ramoth-gilead, Ramath- 
mizpah, and Mizpah of Gilead. On this, see Mizpah; 
Ram ah. 

Raraoth-negeb. See Ramatji-negeb. 

Rampalle, Jeanne, a French female ascetic of 
note, was born Jan. 3, 1583, at Saint-Remy; displayed 
at an early age a tendency to a contemplative life; and 
when old enough to be admitted to a monastery, joined 
the Ursulines of Avignon, until, in 1602, she determined 
to found a home of her own, and established it on the 
rule of St. Augustine. She then took the name Jeanne 
de Jesus, provided the constitution and such religious 
books as she believed her companions to be in need of, 
e. g. Ret mite Spirituelle ; Pratique de Devotion, etc., also 
hymns and songs. She died July 6, 1636. See Vie de la 
Mere Jeanne de Jesus (Avignon, 1751, 12mo). — lloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Rampart ('5"n, cheyl, Lam. ii, 8; Nah. iii, 8 ; else- 
where “ trench,” “ bulwark,” etc.), a fortification or low 
wall surrounding and protecting a military trench (2 
Sam. xx, 15; Isa. xxvi, 1, etc.; comp. 1 Kings xxi, 23; 
Psa. xlviii, 14). See Army; Siege. In the Talmud 
the Hebrew' word is applied to the interior space sur- 
rounding the wall of the Temple (Lightfoot, Opp. ii, 
193). See Temple. 

Rampelogo (or Ranipeloco), Antonio, an Ital- 
ian theologian, w'as born at Genoa and flourished in the 
second half of the 15th century. He was an Augustin- 
ian monk, and passed for a learned controversialist in 
his times. According to some modern ecclesiastical 
writers of Rome, Rampelogo was such an eloquent and 
persuasive disputant that he was called to the Council of 


Constance in order to convert the Hussites. lie is the 
author of Repertorium Biblicum, which was put in the 
Index by pope Clement VIII, but which, nevertheless, 
has often been printed (Ulm, 1476, fol.; Nuremb. 1481 ; 
Milan, 1494, etc.). Sec Gudin, De Script. Eccles. iii, 
2310. — lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rampen, Henri, a Belgian divine, was born at 
llui, Nov. 18, 1572. Studied successively at Cologne, 
Mayence, and Louvain, and taught Greek and philoso- 
phy at the college in Lys. From 1620 to 1637 he taught 
exegesis of the Scriptures at the university, of which 
he was several times rector. He finally entered the 
practical work of the ministry, and secured a canonicate 
at Breda, but did not like this work, and returned to ped- 
agogy as rector at St. Anne College. He died March 4, 
1641. He published Comnicntarius in Quatuor Evangelia 
(Lond. 1631-34, 3 vols. 4to). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rate, S. V. 

Ramrayas, a sect of the Sikhs, deriving their appel- 
lation from Rama Raya, who flourished about A.D. 1660. 
They are by no means numerous in Hindostan. — Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Ram's Horn yobel' , Josh, vi, 4, 13; else- 

where “jubilee,” “ trumpet”). The Hebrew word kcren, 
i. e. horn, is also used for the crooked trumpet, a very 
ancient instrument. Sometimes it was made of the horns 
of oxen, and sometimes ram’s horns were employed. It 
is probable that in later times they were made of metal. 
They were employed in war, and on solemn occasions 
(Exod. xix, 13). The latter word is also rendered cornet 
(Dan. iii, 5,7, 10-15). See Jubilee; Musical Instru- 
ments. 

Rams’ Skins Dyed Red 
[Exod. xxv, 5 ; xxxv, 7], 'oroth elim ineoddamim ; Sept. 
Sippara Kpiuiv ijpvSrpocarejpeva; Yulg. pelles nrietum 
rubricates) formed part of the materials that the Israel- 
ites were ordered to present as offerings for the making 
of the tabernacle (Exod. xxv, 5), of which they served 
as the outer covering, there being under the rams’ skins 
another covering of badgers' skins. See Tabernacle. 
The words may be rendered “red rams’ skins,” and then 
may be understood as the produce of the African audad. 
the Ovis tragelaphus of naturalists, whereof the bearded 
sheep are a domesticated race. The tragelaphus is a 
distinct species of sheep, having a shorter form than the 
common species, and incipient tear -pits. Its normal 
color is red, from bright chestnut to rufous chocolate, 
which last is the cause of the epithet purple being given 
to it by the poets. Dr. Harris thinks that the skins in 
question were tanned and colored crimson ; for it is well 
known that what is now termed red morocco was man- 
ufactured in the remotest ages in Libya, especially 
about the Tritonian Lake, where the original a\gis, or 
goat-skin breastplate of Jupiter and Minerva, was dyed 
bright red; and the Egyptians had most certainly red 
leather in use, for their antique paintings show harness- 
makers cutting it into slips for the collars of horses and 
furniture of chariots. — Kitto. It is much more prob- 
able, however, that the skins were those of the domestic 
breed of rams, which, as Rashi says, “were dyed red 
after they were prepared.” See Ram. 

Ramsauer, Otto Heinricii David, a hymnist of 
the Reformed Church, was born Nov. 19, 1829, at Ol- 
denburg. Having made his preparatory studies at the 
gymnasium of his native place, he went, in 1848, to Zu- 
rich, in Switzerland, where the well-known Dr. J. P. 
Lange especially attracted him. While yet a student 
he wrote a collection of hymns, entitled Der Friede und 
die Fr cude der Kir die, which were edited by his teacher 
in 1851. In 1852 he was appointed vicar to dean Frei 
in Trogen, in Switzerland, whom he also succeeded in 
the pastorate. Three years afterwards, May 27, 1856, 
he died in the vigor of life. Some of his hymns are 
very fine, but have not yet found a place in any of our 
i modern German hymn-books. See Koch, Geschichte des 


RAMSAY 


904 


RAMUS 


deutschen Kirchetdiedes , vii, 384 ; Zuchold, Bibliotheca 
The<doyica, ii, 1027. (B. 1*.) 

Ramsay, James I’., a Presbyterian minister, was 
burn near Canonsburg, Pa., Aug. 20, 1809. He gradu- 
ated from Jefferson College, Canonsburg, Pa., in 1827 ; 
prosecuted the study of theology under his venerated 
father, then sole professor in the Theological .Seminary 
of the Associate Church; was licensed to preach Aug. 
27, 1833, bv the Presbytery of Chartiers, and was or- 
dained and installed pastor of the congregation of Deer 
t 'reek, New Bedford, Lawrence Co., l’a., July 1, 1835, by 
the Associate Presbytery of Ohio. Tor about twenty- 
two years he continued faithfully testifying the Oospel 
of the grace of (lod among this people. But, his health 
failing, he subsequently located himself in New Wil- 
mington, and for a time. exercised his ministry there. 
He died Jan.3U, 18(12. See Wilson, Presb . Hist. Alma- 
nac, 18G3, p. 3G2. (J. L. 8.) 

Ramsdell, IIkzekiaji 8., a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church, was born at Chatham, Conn., 
Dec. 4, 1804. When ten years old, the death of his 
father left him to support himself. At sixteen he was 
converted, and commenced preaching at nineteen. He 
joined the New England Conference in 1825, and his 
successive appointments were, Needham, Chelsea, Vt. ; 
Craftsbury, Vt. ; lrisburg, Vt. ; Tolland, Conn. ; Wind- 
sor, Conn.; Tolland and Stafford, Manchester, Conn.; 
East Putnam, Conn.; Colchester, Conn. ; East Putnam, 
Vernon, Conn.; Vernon and Windsorville, East Putnam, 
Coventry. Erom 1833 to 18GI, and again from 18G8, 
impaired health prevented him from active work. He 
frequently spoke on temperance, of which he. was an 
earnest, able advocate, lie also served with marked 
ability in the Senate of the State of Connecticut, 
and tilled various offices of responsibility and trust. 
Those conversant with his comparatively brief, active 
ministry speak of him as an able, eloquent preacher, 
and as equally an indefatigable pastor. In one locality 
his earnest advocacy of truth raised the anger of some, 
and they resolved at his next visit to tar and feather 
him. It was no idle threat; the preparations were 
made ; his brethren urged him not to go, but he was 
fearless, and went. The leader of the mob was awaken- 
ed, converted, and became his fast friend. INI r. Bamsdcll 
lived to see his views prevail among his fellows. He died 
Oct. 23, 1877. 8ee Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1878. 

Ramsey, William B., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Rutherford Co., 
Teun., March 12, 1831. He embraced religion in 184G, 
was licensed to preach in 1853, and was admitted on trial 
in the Memphis Conference in the fall of that year. His 
health failing him in 1854, he entered Andrew College, 
from which he graduated in 1858. He was readmitted 
into the Conference in the same year, granted a super- 
numerary relation in 18G2,and in 18G3 served in the Con- 
federate army as chaplain for four months, lie died of 
consumption, July, 18G5. Mr. Bamsey was sweet-spirit- 
ed, modest, and unassuming. — Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences of the Meth. Episc. Church, South, 18G5, p. 594. 

Ramus, Pktkls, also known by his original name 
Pierre de la liamee, was the. French philosopher of the 
1 Gtli century who broke the fetters of barbarous scholas- 
tic thought and led men into the clear light of Platon- 
ic philosophy. He is usually called one of the found- 
ers of modern metaphysics, and this is certainly true in 
so far as Ramus prepared the wav for Descartes (q. v.) 
in philosophy, and for Pascal in theology, as we shall see 
presently. Ramus was born of very humble parentage 
at Cut h, a village in Vermandois, in 1515. He was 
obliged, when old enough to be of any service, to per- 
form duties as a shepherd. He loved the broad, open 
fields, but he loved books more. He studied as much 
as his humble associations could afford him the means 
of knowledge, and finally, satisfied that he could only 
get more away from home, left for the city. He went 
straight to the capital, though yet a youth of a little 


over eight. Homesickness compelled him to return to 
the paternal roof, and he walked home as he had walked 
to Paris, but only to return soon again to the city where 
he had found so much to learn, and before he was twelve 
he was once more at Paris. lie could not enter school, 
as his pockets were empty and his stomach unsatisfied, 
lie hired out as a servant to a rich student at the College 
de Navarre, and, by devoting the day to his duties, ob- 
tained the night for study, and, under his master's guid- 
ance and help, made rapid progress. At the age of 
twenty-one he was ready to pass examination as if he 
had been within the walls of a college. The indomita- 
ble spirit of the boy had made a resolute man; and, un- 
like most students, he had not only learned the dicta of 
the savans, but had formed an opinion which was his 
only own. In presenting himself for the degree of 
master, he eame forward as the champion of reform in 
the schools of thought. 11c undertook to prove the 
then almost impious task that Aristotle was not infalli- 
ble. He had gradually withdrawn from Aristotelian- 
ism as an authority, and pleaded now for the exercise 
of individual reason as against the “ authority,” which 
scholasticism imposed on all students of philosophy. 
Enthusiast as he was. he was led to make the extrav- 
agant statement in his thesis that “all that Aristotle 
had said was false” ( qnacunque ah A ristotele dicta essent, 
commentitia esse). It speaks, however, a great deal for 
the ability he showed on this occasion that his judges, 
although themselves Aristotelians, were compelled to 
applaud him. Ramus was immediately made a teach- 
er in the College du Mans, and along with two learned 
friends opened a special class for reading the Creek 
and Latin authors, designed to combine the study of 
eloquence with that of philosophy. 11 is audience was 
large, and his success as a teacher remarkable, lie 
now turned his attention more particularly to the sci- 
ence of logic, which, in his usual adventurous spirit, he 
undertook to “reform;” and no one acquainted with his 
system will deny that many of his innovations were 
both rational and beneficial. II is attempts excited 
much hostility among the Aristotelians; and when his 
treatise on the subject ( Diulectiae Partitioues ) appear- 
ed in 1543, it was fiercely assailed by the doctors of the 
Sorbonne. the Academy of Ccncva, the majority of the 
high-schools of the Continent, which had ail, in alliance 
with the Church, given Aristotelianism the supreme 
rule. The University of Paris linked itself with ju- 
rists, councillors, the king’s ministers, the king himself, 
to crush this hold innovator. He was charged with 
impiety and sedition, and with a desire to overthrow 
all science and religion through the medium of an at- 
tack on Aristotle. On the report of an irregular tribu- 
nal appointed to consider the charges made against 
him, the king ordered his works to be suppressed, and 
forbade his teaching or writing against Aristotle on 
pain of corporal punishment. Ramus now devoted 
himself exclusively to the study of mathematics, and 
to prepare an edition of Euclid. Cardinals Charles de 
Bourbon and Charles de Lorraine befriended him. and 
through their influence he was permitted to begin a 
course of lectures on rhetoric at the College de Presles, 
the plague having driven away numbers of students 
from Paris. He was finally, in 1545. named principal 
of this college, and the 8orbonne ineffectually endeav- 
ored to eject him on the ground of the royal prohibito- 
ry decree. 'J he decree was cancelled in 1545, through 
the influence ol the cardinal de Lorraine. Ramus raised 
the College de Presles from a condition of decay to the 
height of prosperity, and his reputation went over all 
the land as an educator as well as philosopher. In 
1551 cardinal Lorraine succeeded in instituting lor him 
a chair of eloquence and philosophy at the College 
Royal, and his inaugural address ( Pro J'hilosophica Jtis- 
cipliua [Paris, 1551 ]) is reckoned a masterpiece of the 
kind, lie devoted the first eight years of his teaching 
to the first three of the “liberal arts” (grammar, rheto- 
ric, and logic), which lie called elementary or exoteric, 


RANCE 


905 


RANDALL 


and published three grammars successively — Greek, 
Latin, and French. He also mingled largely in the lit- 
erary and scholastic disputes of the time, and on ac- 
count of his bustling activity came under the satire of 
Rabelais. But though Ramus had innumerable adver- 
saries, he might have defied them all, so great was his 
influence at court, had his love of “ reformation” not 
displa 3 r ed itself in religion as well as in logic. In an 
evil hour (for his own comfort.) he embraced Protes- 
tantism. lie had long been suspected of a leaning that 
way, and, as we have seen, his intellect was by nature 
scornfully rebellious towards the ipse dixit of "author- 
ity;” but he had for years decently conformed to the 
practices of the Catholic cult, and it was only after car- 
dinal Lorraine, in reply to the Conference of Poissy 
(15G1), frankly admitted the abuses of the Church and 
the vices of the clergy that he ventured formally to ab- 
jure the older faith. The outbreak of the religious wars 
in France plunged him into the dangers of the time, 
and he finally perished in the fatal massacre of St. Bar- 
tholomew, August, 1572. It is believed that he was 
assassinated at the instigation of one of his most violent 
and persistent enemies, Charpentier, rector of the College 
de Presles. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. See Ramists. 

Ranee, Ariiand Jean le Bouthillier de, the 
well-known founder of the reformed order of La Trappe, 
was born Jan. 9, 1G2G, at Paris, where he was educated. 
Having taken his degree in the Sorbonne with great 
applause, and embraced the -ecclesiastical profession, he 
soon became distinguished as a preacher, and through 
the favor of cardinal Richelieu obtained more than one 
valuable benefice. lie possessed as a young man a large 
fortune, and, notwithstanding his clerical character, was 
carried away by the gaj r ety and dissipation of Parisian 
life. After a time, however, having embraced the cause 
of cardinal Retz, he displeased and finally forfeited the 
favor of cardinal Mazarin ; and being deeply moved by 
the death of a lady, the duchess de Montbazon, to whom 
he was much attached, he withdrew altogether from 
Paris, resolved to distribute all his property among the 
poor, and to devote himself exclusively to the practice 
of piety and penitential works. Finally, he resigned all 
his preferments (of which, by the abusive practice of 
the period, he held several simultaneously) with the ex- 
ception of the abbacy of La Trappe, to which convent he 
retired in 1GG2, with the intention of restoring the strict 
discipline of the order. The history of the reforms 
which he effected will be found under the head Trap- 
pisxs. He lived in this seclusion for thirty-three years, 
during which he published a large number of works, 
chiefly ascetical. He died Oct. 27, 1700. The only re- 
markable events of his literary life are his controversy 
with Mabillon, in reply to his Etudes Monastiqiies, on 
the subject of the studies proper for the monastic life, 
which is entitled Traite de la Saintete des Devoirs de 
VEtat Monastique, and his controversy with Arnauld, 
which drew upon Ranee the hatred of the Jansenists. 
Ranee’s works are numerous. In his youth he edited 
Anacreon in one volume, octavo (Paris, 1639), with a 
dedication to cardinal Richelieu. His most notewor- 
thy publications of his religious life, aside from those 
referred to, are, Explication sur la Regie de St. -Benoit 
(Paris, 1689, 2 vols. 4to) : — Abrege des Obligations des 
Chretiens: — Reflexions Morales sur les Quatres Evange- 
listes (Paris, 1G99, 12mo) : — Conferences (on the same; 
1G99): — Relation de la Vie et de la Mort de Quelques 
Religieux de la Trappe (1G9G, 4 vols. 12mo), and other 
works on monastic life and its reforms, etc. See Tille- 
mont, Vie de Ranee (1719, 2 vols. 12mo) ; Marsollier, 
Vie (1703); Chateaubriand, Vie ; Moreri, Diet. Hist. s.v. 
— Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. ; Chambers’s Ency- 
clop. s. v. 

Ranconnier, Jacques, a French Jesuit missiona- 
ry, was born in 1G00 in the county of Bourgogne, en- 
tered the novitiate of the Jesuits at the age of nineteen 
in Malines, and in 1625 went into the missionary work 


in Paraguay. He labored very successfully for seveu 
years among the Itatines, whom he converted to Chris- 
tianity, such as he had to offer, and died among this new 
people of the Gospel about 1G40. He wrote frequent 
reports of the progress of his work in Paraguay, which 
arc valuable contributions to the history of that South 
American country. See Sothwell, Bibl. Script. Soc. 
Jesu, p. 209; Charlevoix, Hist, de Paraguay , liv. viii. — 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. See also Paraguay. 

Rand, Asa, an American Congregational divine, 
born at Rindge, N. H., Aug. 6, 1783, was educated at 
Dickinson College, where he took his degree in 1806, 
studied for the ministry, and was ordained at Gorham, 
Me., Jan. 18, 1809, as pastor of a Congregational Church. 
In 1822 he undertook the editorial care of the Christian 
Mirror at Portland, Me., and held this until 1825, when 
he took the principalship of a female semi nan- at Brook- 
field. In July, 1826, he accepted the editorship of the 
Boston Recorder, the Youth's Companion, and the Vol- 
unteer, the last a religious monthly. His health, which 
had for some time been failing, and had originally forced 
him from the ministry, finally compelled him also to 
leave the editorial chair, and he connected himself with 
a book-store and printing-office at Lowell, Mass. He 
finally went back to editorial work, and started the 
Lowell Observer, a weekly paper. In 1835 he again be- 
gan to preach and address public audiences. He took 
up the slavery question and spoke in behalf of abolition 
in Maine and Massachusetts. From 1837 to 1842 he 
preached in Pompev. N. Y., then became pastor of the 
Presbyterian church in Peterborough, N. Y., the home 
of the celebrated abolitionist Gerritt Smith. His last 
years Mr. Rand spent at Ashburnham, 31 ass., where he 
died Aug. 24, 1871. He was, while at Gorham, a fre- 
quent writer for the religious quarterly published at 
Portland for 1814-18, and, besides occasional sermons, 
put in print a volume of Familiar Sermons: — a Review 
of Finney's Sermons: — New Divinity Theology, a vindi- 
cation of the same: — and a Letter to Dr. Lyman Beecher. 
See Sprague, Annals of the A met'. Pulpit, vol. i. 

Rand, William, an American divine of colonial 
times, flourished in the first half of the 18tli century. 
He was a student at Harvard University, class of 1721, 
then took holy orders, and became pastor at Sunder- 
land, Mass., of a Congregational Church. In 1746 he 
removed, in the same capacity, to Kingston, N. Y., and 
died there in 1779. He published five separate ser- 
mons (1739-1757). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. 
Pulpit, i, 386. 

Randall, John, an English divine of note, was bom 
about the middle ofthe 16th century. He was educated 
at Oxford University, in St. Mary’s Hall, and Trinity 
College, and, after taking holy orders, became rector of 
St. Andrew Hubbard, London, in 1599. He died in 1622. 
His published works are : Sermons on Matt, r, 20, and 
on 1 Pei. ii , 11, 12 (1620, 4to): — Sermons on Rom. riii , 
38, 39 (1G23, 4to): — Nature of God and Christ (1624, 
4to) : — Great Mystery of Godliness (1624, 4to; 3d cd. 
1G40) \—The Sacraments (1630, 4to) : — Lectures on the 
Lord’s Supper (1630, 4to) : — Twenty-nine Lectures of the 
Church (1631, 4 to). 

Randall, Matthew, a distinguished layman of 
the Baptist denomination, was born in London, llis 
mercantile tastes led him into business vocations, where 
he met with success as a merchant. Soon after the 
peace of 1783, he came to the United States, and took 
up his residence in Philadelphia, where he remained 
nearly all his life. For two or three years he lived in 
Burlington, N. J. While in this place he was baptized 
by Rev. Dr. Staughtou, and continued a member of the 
Burlington Church until his death, which took place in 
Philadelphia, Sept. 14, 1833. Dr. Baron Stow says of 
him that “he was highly esteemed in Christian circles, 
and his early familiarity with Robert Hall and Drs. 
Ityland and Stennett was of importance to him in mat- 
ters of theology, as well as of taste and piety." He 


RAXDALLITES 


900 


liANGIEli(US) 

adds: “Having the confidence of the authorities of ' Girpus Christi College, and later was given a professor- 


Pennsylvania, lie was appointed to several imporfant 
offices, the duties of which he creditably performed.” 
Sec The Missionary Jubilee . p. 118. (.1. S.) 

Randallites. See Fkek-will Baptists. 

Randle, Richmond, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was originally a member of 
the Tennessee Conference, where he travelled five years, 
lie was transferred in 1830 to the Arkansas Conference, 
which then included Louisiana west of the Mississippi 
River. Here he labored efficiently in stations and as 
presiding elder until the Conference of 1811, when he 
took a superannuated relation. In 1845 he became 
again effective, and so continued until 1801, serving as 
presiding elder for nine of these years. 1 1 is sons having 
volunteered, he accompanied them to the war. soon to 
die. lie was a man of deep and fervent piety, a true 
friend, a noble and useful preacher. — Minutes of Annual 
Con/'. J/. A’. Church, South, 1801, p, 323. 

Randle, Thomas Ware, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Stewart 
County, Tonn., April 13, 1815. He was admitted on 
trial in the Tennessee Conference in 1832, and con- 
tinued to be an active and very efficient preacher until 
within a few months of his death, which took place Aug. 
20, 1859. He was several times a delegate to the Con- 
eral Conference. Air. Handle was a Christian gentle- 
man, modest and kind. 1 1 is talents as a preacher were 
excellent, and his zeal knew no abatement. — Minutes of 
A nit tail Conf. M. E. Church, South , 1859, p. 110. 

Randle, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in September, 1807. 
He was converted when about thirty years of age, and 
was received on trial in the Tennessee Conference in 
1811. He labored successfully until 1802, when he be- 
came supernumerary. In 1800 lie resumed active work 
aspresiding elder on Cross Plains (now Fountain Head) 
district, where he closed his life, May 2, 1809. He was 
a man of artless simplicity, true sincerity, and ardent 
zeal. — Minutes of Annual Conf M. E. Church, South, 
1809, p. 349. 

Randolph, Francis, I>.D.,an English divine, was 
born in 1755. lie was made prebend of Bristol in 1791, 
and died in 1831. lie published, Letter to William Pitt 
on the Slave Trade (Loud. 1788, 8vo) -.—Scriptural lie- 
vision of Soeiniun Arguments in Answer to />. Itobhouse 
(1792, 8vo) : — Correspondence with the Earl and Countess 
of Jersey (179G,8vo): — Sermons on A dreut (1800, 8vo) : — 
Sermons (Bath, 1803, Svo) -.—State of the Xation (1808, 
8vo) : —Hook of Job (from the lleb. by Elizabeth Smith, 
with Preface and A nnotations by F. R. [ Bath, 1810]). 

Randolph, John, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was horn in Trigg County. 
Ky., May 9, 1829. lie was converted in 1847 (or 
1818), licensed to preach Nov. 23. 1850, and admitted 
on trial in the Louisville Conference in 1851. lie filled 
twelve important fields of labor, continuing his work 
until the lirst Sunday in June, 1803. The staple of his 
preaching, as of all "he did, was strong practical sense, 
sanctified and rendered efficient by deep piety.— J//«- 
utes of Annual Conf. M. E. Church, Smith, 1804, p. 48], 

Randolph, Samuel E , a minister in the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was horn in Tennessee, 
lie entered the Tennessee Conference, from which he 
was transierred in 1800 to the Florida Conference. lie 
eidisted in 1801 with the Lowndes Volunteers, and in 
three months fell a victim to disease at Camp Alio- > 
ghanv, A a., Aug. 29, 1801. — Minutes oj'A initial Conf. M. 
E. Church, South, 1801, p. 345. 

Randolph, Thomas, an English divine of note, 
was born Aug. 30, 1,01, at Canterbury, studied at Ox- 
ford l niver.'iity, where lie was bursar, and alter complet- 
ing his theological course was in 1725 admitted to or- 
ders, then taught for a while, and finally accepted two 
benefices in Kent. In 1748 h c was elected president of 


ship in theology (1708). Ho died at Oxford March 24. 
1783. Or. Thomas Randolph published a work on the 
Prophecies cited in the Mew Testament compared with the 
llebrev' Original and the Septuagint I ’ersion, which is ex- 
ceedingly valuable and scarce. “ It presents,” says ( trme, 
‘•at one view the lleb. text, the Sept, version of it, and the 
quotation in the Creek New Test.’’ The substance of the 
work is incorporated in Horne’s Chapter on (Quotations. 

1 1 is son John, who was born July G, 1749, and was 
educated at < txford, became under his father’s adminis- 
tration professor of Creek and theology, in 1799 was 
made bishop of Oxford, was transferred to the see of 
Bangor in 1807, and in 1809 to that of Loudon, where 
he died July 28, 1813. lie was a member of the Royal 
Society of London, and published several sermons. See 
Gentleman's Magazine, l.xxxiii.lxxxiv.and the biograph- 
ical sketch prefaced to the collected writings of Thomas 
Randolph; Saunders, Evenings with Sacred Poets, p. 231; 
Hook, Eccles. I Hog. viii, 191. (J. II. W.) 

Ranew, Nathaniel, an English divine of the 17th 
century, noted as a Nonconformist who was ejected at 
the Restoration, was minister of Little Eastchcap. Lon- 
don, and afterwards vicar of Tilstcd, Essex. lie died 
in 1072, aged about seventy-two. He published, Soli- 
tude Improved bg Divine Meditation, etc. (Loud. 1070, 
8vo; last cd. 1847, 18mo), a very excellent work in the 
domain of practical theology : — Account concerning the 
Saint's Glory, etc., equally devout in spirit and excel- 
lent in composition anil purpose. 

Ranfaing, Mai:iio Elisauktii dk. a French lady, 
celebrated as the foundress of a religious order, and 
known under the name of Elizabeth of the Cross of 
Jesus, was born, Nov. 30, 1592, at Hemireniont, of a 
noble Lorraine family, and was noted for her beauty. 
She was affianced to a man for whom she had not the 
shadow of affection, and therefore objected to wedlock; 
and when her parents persisted, she sought the retire- 
ment of the monastery. She was, however, brought hack 
to society, and married M. Dubois, by whom she had 
three children. Her husband’s death and other mishaps 
led her to determine the founding of a religious com- 
munity made lip wholly of women reclaimed from a life 
of debauchery. The number of these women having 
increased, the prince bishop of Toul thought proper to 
form them into a religious order, under the name of 
“ Hur Lady of Refuge.” Mrs. Dubois and her three 
daughters took the dress belonging to the monastery 
Jan. 1, 1031. In 1034 1’rban VIII gave bis approval to 
this order. It extended over several of the cities of 
the realm, especially Avignon, 'Toulouse, Montpellier, 
and Rouen; and it survived the storms of the Revolu- 
tion. 'The mother of Ranfaing died the death of a saint. 
Jan. 14, 1049. Sec Hoofer, A ouv. I Hoy. Generate, s. v. 

Range is the rendering of two Heb. words of mark- 
ed import, besides one or two in an ordinary sense. 

1. Z.kir (only in the dual, -"““I, kira'yim, Lev. 
xi,35, “ranges for pots”), apparently a cooking-furnace, 
perhaps of pottery (as it could he broken), and double 
(as having places for two pots or more, or. perhaps, con- 
sisting of two stoves set together). See Ovkn; For. 

2. st derail', a rank, or row. of soldiers, drawn 
up in cordon (“range,” 2 Kings xi. 8, 15; 2 Cliron. 
xxiii, 14); also timbers or chambers in the stories of a 
building (“board,” 1 Kings vi, 9). See Athaliaii, 
Temple. 

Rangier(us), a French cardinal of medieval times, 
was born, about 1035, in the diocese of Rbeims. St. Bruno 
of that place was his tutor. One of his pupils was Elides 
of ( ’hatillon, pope under the name of ITban II. Rangier 
went, to take the habit of Benedictine, to Marmon tiers, 
where he would probably have died in obscurity, had it 
not been for contention which arose among the monks, 
and Raoul of Sangeais. archbishop of Tours. Rangier’s 
abbot, Bernard of Saint-Venant, charged him with a 


RANIERI 


907 


RANKIN 


mission to Rome, to maintain the rights of the abbey. 
The two ecclesiastics obtained a bull conformed to their 
wishes; but Rangier was kept at Rome by Urban II, 
who soon made him cardinal, and, in 1090, archbishop 
of Reggio. In 1095 he went with the pope to France, 
ami took part, in the Council of Clermont, where the first 
crusade was decided upon. After the Council, Rangier 
followed Urban 11 to Limoges and to Poitiers, and found 
himself, March 10, 1096, at the consecration of the abbey 
of Marmontiers. lie soon after returned to his own dio- 
cese, and left it no more, excepting to assist Pascal 11 
at the Council of Guastalla (1106). Ughelli speaks of 
him as a man of great power (“ vir magiue auctoritatis”). 
— Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Ranieri, St., an Italian aseetie of mediaeval times, 
was born, in or about the year 1100, of a noble family 
of Pisa. In his youth, the Romish legends say, he had 
a vision : an eagle appeared to him, bearing in his beak 
a blazing light, and said, “I eomc from Jerusalem to 
enlighten the nations.” But Ranieri refused to heed 
this call to a religious life, and gave himself up to 
pleasure. But, in the midst of his debaucheries, he 
was one day surprised by the visit of a holy man, who 
persuaded him to desert his sinful life. Soon he em- 
barked for Jerusalem, where he took off his own gar- 
ments, and wore the schiavina, or slave-shirt, ever after 
in token of humility. For twenty years he was a her- 
mit in the deserts of Palestine, and during this time is 
reputed to have had numberless visions. On one oc- 
casion, he felt his vows of abstinence to be almost more 
titan he could keep. He then had a vision of a gold- 
en vase, set with precious stones, and full of oil, pitch, 
and sulphur. These were set on fire, and none could 
quench the flames. Then there was put into his hands 
a small ewer of water; and when he turned on but a 
few drops, the fire was extinguished. This vision he 
believed to signify human passions by the pitch and 
sulphur, but the water was the emblem of temperance. 
He then determined to live on bread anil water alone. 
Ilis reverence for water was very great, and most of his 
miracles were performed through the use of it; so that 
he was called Sun Ranieri dell' Acqua. But when he 
tarried with a host who cheated his guests by putting 
water in his wine, the saint did not hesitate to expose 
the fraud ; for he revealed to all present the figure of 
Satan, sitting on one of the wine-casks, in the form of a 
huge cat with the wings of a bat. He did many mira- 
cles after his return to Pisa, and made converts by the 
sanctity of his life and example. When he died (July 
17, 1161), many miraculous manifestations bore witness 
to his eminent holiness. All the bells in Pisa w r ere 
spontaneously tolled; and the archbishop Villani, who 
had been sick in bed for two years, was cured to attend 
his funeral. At the moment in the funeral service 
when it was the custom to omit the Gloria in Excel- 
sis, it w'as sung by a choir of angels above the altar; 
while the organ accompanied them without being play- 
ed by any perceptible hands. The harmony of this 
chant was so exquisite that those who heard it thought 
the very heavens were opened. He was buried in a 
tomb in the Duomo. After the plague in Pisa in 1356, 
the life of this saint was painted in the Campo Santo 
by Simone Memmi and Antonio Veneziano. These 
frescos are most important in the history of art, and con- 
sist of eight scenes from the life of St. Ranieri : 1. 11 is 
conversion; 2. He embarks for Palestine; 3. He assumes 
the hermit’s dress: 4. He has many temptations and 
visions in the desert; 5. He returns to Pisa; 6. He ex- 
poses the fraud of the innkeeper; 7. Ilis death and funeral 
obsequies; 8. Ilis miracles after death. — Mrs. Clement, 
Hand-book of Legendary and Mythological Art , s. v. 

Ranke, Carl Ferdinand, doctor of theology and 
philosophy, and brother of the famous historian. Leopold 
Ranke, was born at Wiehe, in Thuringia, in 1802. Hav- 
ing finished his preparatory studies at the gymnasium 
in Pforta, he betook himself to the study of philology 


! and theology. He soon beeame the head of the Qued- 
| linburg Gymnasium. In 1837 he was ealled to Gottin- 
gen, and in 1842 to Berlin, where he not only superin- 
tended the Frederie-William Gymnasium, but also the 
Royal Real-school, the Royal Elizabeth School, etc. lie 
died March 29, 1876. Ranke was not only an able 
philologist and pedagogue, but also an excellent Chris- 
tian, and took an active part in the inner mission and 
Bible Society. He wrote, Plan vnd Ban des Johan- 
neischen Erangeliums (Berlin, 1854) : — De. IAbris Ilis- 
toricis Xori Testamenti (ibid. 1855): — Clemens von Al- 
exandrien n. Origenes als lnterpreten der heiligen Schrift 
(ibid. 1861): — Das Klagelied der llebra'er (ibid. 1863), 
etc. As a contributor to Piper’s Evangelical Year-book, 
he wrote on the apostles Andrew (vii, 94), James the 
Elder (viii, 139), Timothy (i, 70), Titus (i,08); on Svm- 
phorianus (xix. 60), Perpetua and Felicitas (ix, 56), Sat- 
urninus (xx, 63), Arethas (xiii, 129), Eustasius (xviii, 

! 96), Olaf Petersen (xix, 170), and contributed the Ger- 
; man translation of Clement of Alexandria’s hymn, Sro- 
fitov Trib\(tn> adaun’, to Piper’s monograph on that hymn 
j (xix, 29, 31). See Schneider, Then!,. Jahrbuch (1877), p. 
j 227 ; Literariscker Ilandiceiser (1876), p. 235. (B. P.) 

Ranke, Friedrich Heinrich, doctor of theology 
and Ober-Consistorial rath, brother of Carl Ferdinand, was 
born at Wiehe in 1797. Having completed his stud- 
ies, he labored as a pastor at Ruekersdorf, not far from 
Nuremberg, and then as dean at Thurnan. In 1840 he 
was appointed ordinary professor of dogmatics at the 
Erlangen University. In 1841 he was made counsellor 
of consistory at Bayreuth, and shortly afterwards he 
was appointed Ober-Consistorialrath. Some years ago 
he retired from his different offices, and died Sept. 2, 
I 1876. Of his writings we mention, Untersuchungen 
iiber den Pentateuch (Erlangen, 1834-40,2 vols.): — Pre- 
\ dig ten : — Gebete iiber Worte der heil. Schrift (Frankfort- 
on - the - Main, 1867):— The Institution of the Lord's 
Supqier (ibid, xi, 81): — David, in Piper’s Evangelical 
Year-book (viii, 106). Sec F first, Eibl. Jud. iii, 129; 
Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theologica.W, 1028; Winer, lland- 
buch der theol. Literatur, i, 78; ii, 108, 327, 330, 732; 
1 Schneider, Theol. Jahrbuch (1877), p. 227 ; Literariscker 
Ilandiceiser ( 1876), p. 235, 550 ; Ilauck, Theolog. Jahres- 
bericht (1867), p. 382. (B. P.) 

Ranken, David, a Scotch divine, was a member 
of the Episcopal Church of Scotland at Edinburgh in 
| the first half of the 18th century, and was an author of 
j some repute. He published, Three Discourses, 1 Pet. 

\ iii, 13, 14 (Edin. 1716, 8vo) : — Three Discourses, 1 Pet. 
j iii, 1L 16 (1716, 8vo) : — Serm., 1 Pet. iii, 13-16 (1717, 

; 8vo) : — Semis. (1720, 8vo): — Three Discourses, Phil, i, 

\ 27 (1722, 8 vo). 

Rankin, Thomas, a somewhat noted minister of 
the early Methodist Episcopal Church — one of Wes- 
ley’s general assistants— was born in Dunbar, Scotland, 
1738. lie was religiously trained by his parents, and, 
at an early age, expressed the desire to become a min- 
ister of the Gospel. After the death of his father, 
he formed bad acquaintances, and gave himself up to 
worldly amusements. When he was seventeen years 
of age, Dunbar was visited by troops of dragoons, among 
whom were a number of devout Christians, who held 
meetings morning and evening. Young Rankin at- 
tended, and was deeply impressed. He afterwards re- 
moved to Edinburgh, where he came under the personal 
infiuenee of Mr. Whiteficld, and was decided to devote 
himself to Christian work. With this purpose in view, 
he prepared to enter the College at Edinburgh. Cir- 
cumstances, however, occurred which prevented his 
taking a eollegiate course ; and, by the advice of a 
friend, he sailed for America, to engage in a commercial 
enterprise. Wearying of this life, he was glad to find 
himself once more in Scotland, breathing a more con- 
genial religious atmosphere. Shortly after his return, 
he met a Methodist minister, who saw the unsettled 
condition of his mind, and invited Rankin to visit, with 


HANSOM 


90S 


KAOUL 


him, the different Methodist societies of the North. lie 
was even prevailed upon to preach, though he consent- 
ed with great reluctance, and was so dissatisfied with 
himself that he was often well-nigh resolved to attempt 
it no more. While in this state of mind, he listened to 
the preaching of Wesley, and from that time had the 
nio>t intense admiration for him. After a great spirit- 
ual conflict, he sought Wesley, and related to him his 
experience of the two preceding years. Wesley ad- 
vised him to persevere in his religious work, and so re- 
moved his doubts that he expressed himself willing to 
be known everywhere “as a poor, despised Methodist 
preacher.” lie was regularly appointed in 1 7li 1 to the 
Sussex Circuit, and in the following year to the Shef- 
field Circuit. At the next Conference, he was appointed 
to the Devonshire Circuit. In 17li4 he became assistant- 
preacher in the Cornwall Circuit, la 170.) lie was ap- 
pointed to spend a part of the year in the Newcastle 
and a part in the Dales Circuit. In 1700 lie was sta- 
tioned upon the Epworth Circuit, and, upon request 
of the people, was returned the second year. In 1708 
he was appointed to labor again in the west of Corn- 
wall. In 1709 lie was sent to the London and Sussex 
Circuit, and also travelled with John Wesley on his 
preaching tour through the kingdom. In 1770 he ac- 
companied Wesley to the west of England, and every- 
where their labors met with great success. In 1771 he 
was once more stationed with his friends ill Cornwall. 
While at the conference held at Leeds, lie met captain 
Webb, lately arrived from America. Wesley had be- 
come greatly dissatisfied with the management of the 
American mission, and, when the question came up be- 
fore the conference, intimated liis desire to send Han- 
kin as general superintendent. The appointment was 
made; and he, together with George Shad ford, sailed 
for America in 1773. Soon after his arrival, Rankin 
called a conference, the first ever held in America, July 
4, 1773, at Philadelphia. Asbury had been previously 
appointed and sent over as the general assistant of the 
societies in America; but as Rankin had travelled sev- 
eral years longer, he took precedence over Asbury when 
he reached here. Besides, the displeasure of Wesley 
against the American work had probably led him to 
s deet for the place a man who could claim superiority 
over Asliurv. Rankin, therefore, held the place of 
“general assistant” while here, and presided at the 
conferences which convened while lie was in America. 
He was stationed at New York and Philadelphia alter- 
nately, and remained in this country until 1778, when 
he again appears at work in England. He visited, 
while here, many of the churches t lieu within the terri- 
tory known as the Philadelphia Conference, and would 
probably have remained, had not the Revolutionary 
struggle made his stay ill-advised. Immediately after 
his return to England, he was stationed at London, 
where he lived two years. In 1783 lie asked to be made 
a .supernumerary; and after this date he lived quietly 
in the English metropolis until his death, May 17, 1810. 
lie was buried in City Road, near Wesley, lie was a 
truly pious man, hut too stern and uncompromising to 
succeed as a leader: and he failed in this country to be 
of any especial service to Asbury, whom lie was intended 
to assist. lie never wavered in difficulties and trials, 
and showed a truly heroic spirit in the hour of need. His 
irregular education had probably as much to do with 
his inconsistencies of conduct as his natural propensity 
to the severe aspects of life. .See Stevens, Hist.ofj/ethod- 
ism, i, 239 ; and his Hist, of the .1/. K. ('It. (see Index) ; 
Bangs, Hist. of the M. A', fit. (N. Y. 1838,2 vols. 12mo), i, 
77 121 ; Wakelev, Lost Chapters (see Index); Sprague, 
A mu t Is of the A w>r. Pulpit, vii, 28-3-1. (J. 1 1. W.) 

Ransom (y m 12, pidyon', Exod. xxi, 30; “redemp- 
tion,” I’sa. xlix, 8; or CP'IS, pidyom', “redemption,” 
Numb, iii, 19, 51 ; elsewhere “E2, kdpher, foryireness, or 
bxj, to act the part of Goel [q. v. ] ; N. T. \i<?pov, or uv- 
TiXvTpov), a price paid to recover a person or thing 


from one who detains that person or thing in captivity. 
Hence prisoners of war or slaves are said to be ran- 
somed when they are liberated in exchange for a valu- 
able consideration (1 Cor. vi, 19, 20 ). Whatever is sub- 
stituted or exchanged in compensation for the party is 
his ransom ; but the word ransom is more extensively 
taken in Scripture. A man is said to ransom bis life 
(Exod. xxi, 30) ; that is, to substitute a sum of money 
instead of his life as the penalty of certain offences 
(Exod. xxx. 12; Job xxxvi, 18). The poll-tax of half 
a shekel for every Hebrew was deemed the ransom, or 
atonement money, and was declaretl to be a heave-of- 
fering to Jehovah, to propitiate for their lives (Exod. 
xxx, 12-1G). Some of the sacrifices (as the sin- and 
trespass-offerings) might be regarded as commutations 
or ransoms (Lev. iv, 1-35; v, 1-19). In like manner, 
our Blessed Lord is said to give himself a ransom for all 
(1 Tim. ii, 0; Matt, xx, 23: Mark x, 43) — a substitute 
for them, bearing sufferings in their stead, undergoing 
that penalty which would otherwise attach to them 
(Rom. iii. 34; vii, 23; 1 Cor. i, 30; Epb. i, 7 ; iv, 30; 
lleb. ix, 13). See Redemption. 

Ranters is (1) one of the many names by which 
the Presbyterians designated the most advanced of the 
mystical radicals of the Cromwellian period. They 
were Antinoinian heretics, and were probably related 
to the Familists (q. v.), to whom Fuller (Ch. Hist, iii, 
211 sq.) traces them. In Ross's I lavoffitta, the Rant- 
ers are described as making an open profession of lewd- 
ness and irreligion; as holding that God, angels, devils, 
heaven, hell, etc., are fictions and fables; that Moses, 
John the Baptist, and our Lord were impostors; that 
praying and preaching are useless; that all ministry 
has come to an end; and that sin is a mere imagina- 
tion. lie says that in their letters the Ranters en- 
deavored to be strangely profane and blasphemous, ut- 
tering atheistical imprecations; and he gives a speci- 
men which quite bears out his words. He also alleges 
that they sanctioned and practiced community of wom- 
en (ed. 1655, p. 287). Much the same account, also, is 
given a few' years later by Pagitt ( Heresiography [ed. 
1662], p. 259, 294). Baxter also writes respecting them : 
“1 have myself letters written from Abingdon, where, 
among both soldiers and people, this contagion did 
then prevail, full of horrid oaths and curses, and blas- 
phemy not fit to be repeated by the tongue and jien of 
man; and this all uttered as the effect of knowledge 
and a part of their religion, in a fanatic strain, and 
fathered on the Spirit of God” (thru Life and Times , 
p. 77). The following passage is found in a Life of 
Hum/an, added to an imitation of liis work which is call- 
ed The Third Part of the Pilgrims Progress: "About 
this time” (in Bunyan’s early life), “a very large liber- 
ty being given as to conscience, there started up a sect 
of loose, profane w retches, afterwards called Ranters and 
Sweet Singers, pretending themselves safe from, or be- 
ing incapable of, sinning; though, indeed, they were the 
debauchest and prolligatc wretches living in their ban- 
dy meetings and revels. For, fancying themselves in 
Adam’s state, as lie was in Paradise before the fall, they 
would strip themselves, both men and women, and so 
catch as catch could ; and to it they went, to satiate 
their lust under pretence of increasing and multiply- 
ing” (. I n Account of the Life and Actions of Mr. John 
Hunyan, etc. [London, 1692]. p. 22). (See Weiugarteu, 
Ilevolut ions- Ki rchen Englands [Leips. 186k], p. 107 sq.; 
Blunt, Piet, of Sects, s. v.). (2.) In recent times — since 

1828— the name of " Ranters" has been given to those 
Primitive Methodists who separated from the main body 
of Methodists, and were distinguished by their unusual 
physical demonstrations. — Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Raoul de Flaix, a French monastic, flourished 
near the middle of the 12th century. It is difficult 
to enumerate definitely his works. He is undoubtedly 
the author of Comment a ire sur le Levilique (Cologne, 
1536, fol.). The authors of the Literary History of 


RAOUL 


909 


RAPHAEL 


France claim for him a discourse abridged from the 
Work of Six Days , which is found in a manuscript in 
the King’s Library, No. G47 ; also a Commentary on the 
Proverbs , of which they mention a copy at Cambridge 
in the library of Pembroke College; and a Commentary 
on the Epistles of St. Paul. They add that Raoul de 
Fiaix commented on Nahum and the Apocalypse. 
These glossaries on Nalnim and the Apocalypse exist, 
in fact, under the name of Master Raoul (Magistri Ra- 
dulfi), in a volume of Clairvaux, which is numbered 
at present 227 in the library of Troyes. But this is a 
mistake into which Lelong led the authors of the Lit- 
erary History. A commentary on the Song of Songs, 
published in some ancient editions of Gregory the Great, 
had been attributed to Raoul de Fiaix. Lelong and 
Mabillon having proved that this work is by Robert de 
Torabelaine, abbey of St. Yign de Bayeux, the authors of 
the Literary History have thought it necessary, in con- 
sequence. to strike the Canticle of Canticles from the 
list of sacred books annotated by our Raoul. But in 
that they appear to be mistaken. In fact, the volume 
of Clairvaux which is to-day preserved in the library 
of Troyes offers 11 s, besides the glossaries on the Apoca- 
lypse and Nahum, glossaries on the Canticles entirely 
different from those which have been published under 
the name of Gregory and restored to the abbot Robert. 
Sanders mentions also, among the works of Raoul de 
Fiaix, a theological summary — Sumnui Radnlfi Flaria- 
censis — and a treatise, De Amove Carnis et Odio Carnis 
— works of which we have no other account. — Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Raoul de St. Trond, a Belgian monastic, was 
born at Moutier-sur-Sambre, in the diocese of Liege, 
studied at Liege, and then entered the Benedictine or- 
der at Aix-la-Chapelle. He w r as there made sacristan, 
master of a school, and grand provost. He was a very 
devout man ; and, dissatisfied with the lax condition of 
the monastery at Aix, he left for St. Trond, where, af- 
ter two years, he was made prior, and introduced the 
reforms of the Clugniacs. In 1108 he was elected ab- 
bot, and took part in the quarrel for the pope which 
agitated the Liege diocese and resulted in its division. 
He went twice to Rome, where he w r as warmly received 
and had much influence. He died March 6, 1 138. He 
wrote : Casta A bbatum Trudonensium Ord. Sancti Bene- 
dicti, in D’Achery’s Spicilegium, vii, 344 sq. : — De Sus- 
ceptione Puerorum in Monaster Us, in Mabillon’s Analec- 
ta: — Contra Simoniacos, Lib. VI I, which is still in MS. 
See Gallia Christiana, iii, 958-960; Ceillier, Hist, des 
A ut. Eccles. xxii, 68. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Raoul de Vaucelle, a French monastic, was born 
probably at Merston, in England, and flourished in the 
first half of the 12th century, first a monk at Clairvaux, 
and later as abbot of the new monastery founded at 
Vaucelle, in the diocese of Cambray, by St. Bernard. 
Raoul is renowned both for his magnificence and for 
liis charity. In the time of want, he supported for 
months as many as five thousand paupers. Charles de 
Viseh, in his Biblioth'eque Cistercienne, counts him among 
the learned writers of his time, and attributes to him 
many works; but, according to Pastoret, these works 
are lost. He died in 1152. — Hoefer, Nour. Biog. Gene- 
rate, s. v. 

Rapaport, Salomo Jeiu'pa Low, a noted Jewish 
scholar, was born at Lemberg, in Austrian Galicia, in 
1790. He first attracted attention among his corelig- 
ionists by notes to a Talmudical work of his father-in- 
law, and subsequently rose to the highest rank among 
the Hebrew writers of the age by critico-biographieal 
sketches of Saadia Gaon, Rabbi Nathan, Hai Gaon, the 
poet Eleazar Kalir, etc., in the Bikkure ha-Ittim (Vien- 
na, 1828-31); by contributions to the Kerem Chemed 
(Vienna and Prague, 1833-43); and by numerous other 
dissertations in Hebrew and German, inserted in vari- 
ous other publications. He translated into Hebrew 
verse Racine’s Esther, entitled rmpp 7”’“ XT (Vien- 


na, 1827). He also published, under the title of 6 
"PS'S, a linguistic and archaeological lexicon, of which 
only one part has as yet appeared (Prague, 1852). His 
poetical contributions in the Bikkure may be identified 
by the cipher TT. Having officiated for some time 
as rabbi at Tarnopol, he w'as elected, in 1840, to fill a 
similar office at Prague, where he died, Oct. 16, 1867. 
Besides his numerous essays, which are to be found in 
the different reviews and periodicals, he published, in. 
1861, a criticism on Frankel’s Darke ha-Mishna, enti- 
tled Dibre Shalom ve-Emeth. See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 
131 sq.; Etheridge. Introduction to Hebrew Literature, p. 
482; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden , xi, 485 sq. ; .Tost, Gesch. d. 
Judenth. it. s. Secten, iii, 343 sq. ; Stern, Gesch. d. Juden- 
thums, p. 218 sq. ; Dessauer, Gesch. d. Israeliten, p. 533 sq. ; 
Geiger, Jiid. Zeitschrift (1867), p. 241 sq. ; id. Nachge- 
lassene Schriften (Berlin, 1875), ii, 262; Zunz, Die Mo- 
natstage des Kulenderjahres (Eng. transl. by the Rev. B. 
Pick, in the Jewish Messenger, N. Y., 1874-75) ; Cassel, 
Leitfaden zur jiid. Gesch. v. Literatur (1872), p. 114; 
Delitzsch, Zur Gesch. d. jit disc hen Poesie, p. 102, 118, 
155 ; Kurliimler, S. I, Rapaport : eine biographische 
Skizze (Pestli, 1868). (B. P.) 

Raper, William H., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Western Pennsylvania, 
Sept. 24, 1793. lie was first brought to notice by the 
service he rendered his country in the second war with 
England. In 1819 he was received on trial in the Ohio 
Conference, and remained in the effective ranks for about 
thirty years. He served the Church in various posi- 
tions, and always acceptably. He was honored by be- 
ing sent to several general conferences, and had many 
admirers and friends. lie died while travelling with 
bishop Morris to Aurora, Ind., Feb. 11, 1852. Mr. Raper 
was a profound theologian, of amiable social qualities, 
fearless and earnest. — Minutes of Annual Coif of M.E. 
Ch. 1852, p. 123. 

Ra'pha (Ileb. Rapha', XS^i, as in 1 Chron. viii, 2), 
or Ra'phah (Ileb. Raphah', “2^, as in 2 Sam. xxi, 
16, meaning giant [q. v.], as translated in 1 Chron. xx, 
4, 6, 8; 2 Sam. xxi, 16, 18, 20, 22; Sept. 'P atpfa, v. r. 
Pa0d and 'P atpaia), the name of two men. See also 
Betii-Rafiia. 

1. The last of the five sons of Benjamin, son of Ja- 
cob (1 Chron. viii, 2, “ Rapha”). B.C. post 1927. The 
name does not occur in the original register of the 
family (Gen. xlvi, 21) ; but at Numb, xiii, 9, Raphu was 
the name of the father of the person chosen from Ben- 
jamin to spy out the land of Canaan — showing the 
name, or something similar, to have belonged to the 
tribe. Raphah is apparently but a variation of the 
name of Rosh (q. v.). See Jacob. 

2. The son of Binea, and father of Eleasah ; eighth 
in lineal descent from David’s friend Jonathan (1 Chron. 
viii, 37, “Raphah”). B.C. post 1000. He is called 
Repiiaiaii in 1 Chron. ix, 43. 

Ra'pliael ('Pa^a»j\=bx2", “the divine healer”), 
“one of the seven holy angels which ... go in and out 
before the glory of the Holy One” (Tob. xii, 15). Ac- 
cording to another Jewish tradition, Raphael was one 
of the four angels that stood round the throne of God 
— Michael, L T riel, Gabriel, Raphael. His place is said 
to have been behind the throne, by the standard of 
Ephraim (comp. Numb, ii, 18); and his name was in- 
terpreted as foreshadowing the healing of the schism 
of Jeroboam, who arose from that tribe (1 Kings xi, 26 , 
see Buxtorf, Lex. Rabb. p. 47). In Tobit he appears as 
the guide and counsellor of Tobias. By his help,- Sara 
was delivered from her plague (Tob. vi, 16, 17), and To- 
bit from his blindness (xi, 7, 8). In the book of Enoch 
he appears as “ the angel of the spirits of men” (xx, 3; 
comp. Dillmann. ad loc.). His symbolic character in 
the apocryphal narrative is clearly indicated when he 
describes himself as “Azarias the son of Ananias” (Tob. 


RAPHAEL 


910 


RAPHAEL 


v, 12), the messenger of the Lord’s help, springing from 
the Lord’s mercy. See Tomr. The name, in its llcb. 
form, occurs in 1 Chron. xxvi, 7 as that of a man. — 
Smith. See Reimiaei- 

Raphael, St. (Lat. Sanctus Raphael; Ital. San Raf- 
faello ; Yr. St. Raphael ; Germ .lhr Jhilige Rafael) , the 
same with the above, is considered the guardian angel 
of humanity, lie was sent to warn Adam of the danger 
of sin, and its unhappy consequences. 

“ Be strong, live happy, and love! but first of all 
Him whom to love is to obey, and keep 
His great command. Take heed le-t passion sway 
Thy judgment to do aught which else free-will 
Would not admit. Thine and of all thy sons 
The weal or woe in thee is placed. Beware !” (Milton). 

lie was the herald who bore to the shepherds the 
“good tidings of great joy which shall be for all peo- 
ple.” lie is especially the protector of the voting, the 
pilgrim, and the traveller. In the apocryphal romance, 
his watchful care of the young Tobias during bis event- 
ful journey is typical of iiis benignity and loving con- 
descension towards those whom he protects. II is coun- 
tenance is represented as full of benignity. Devotional 
pictures portray him dressed as a pilgrim, with sandals; 
his hair bound with a diadem or a fillet; the staff in his 
hand, and a wallet, or panetiere, hung to his belt. As 
a guardian spirit, he bears the sword and a small cas- 
ket, or vase, containing the “fishy charm” (Tub. vi, 6) 
against evil spirits. As guardian angel, he usually leads 
Tobias. Murillo's painting, in the Leuclitcnberg Gal- 
lerv, represents him as the guardian angel of a bishop 
who appears as a votary below. St. Raphael is com- 
memorated in the Church of Rome on Sept. 1*2. 

Raphael, or Raffaello Santi or Saxzio, called 
by his countrymen “7/ Dicino ,” i. e. “the Divine,” is 
ranked by almost universal opinion as the greatest of 
painters, lie was certainly the Sophocles of the glori- 
ous art of form and color. lie was born at U rhino 
April G, 1483. In 1497, on the death of his father, 
Giovanni Santi, who was his first instructor, he was 
placed under Rietro Perugino (q. v.), the most distin- 
guished painter of the period, who was then engaged 
on important work9 in the city of Perugia. The pro- 
found feeling, the mystic ecstasy, which characterized 
the Umbrian school while yet under the leadership of , 
its founder, the Perugian, and before it degenerated into 
the mannerism and facile manufacture at which Mi- 
cliacl Angelo sneered, took possession of the sold of 
Raphael. lie soon acquired a wonderful facility of ex- 
ecution. lie showed such great talent that Perugino 
employed him on his own works; and so well did lie 
perform his task that it is difficult now to separate the 
work of the master from that of the pupil. In 1504 
Raphael visited Florence, and improved his style by 
studying composition and expression in the works of 
Masaccio, the sweet and perfect modelling of Leonardo 
da Vinci, and color and c fleet in those of Fra Bartolo- 
meo. lie seems to have lived in Florence till 1508, 
when lie went to Rome, on the invitation of pope Julius 
II. 1 1 is celebrated frescos in the Vatican, and numer- 
ous important, works, were then commenced. Julius 
died in 1513. hut his successor, Leo X, continued Ra- 
phael’s services, and kept his great powers constantly in 
exercise. Raphael ami Rome arc synonymous terms in 
the history of Italian art of the IGtli century. Though 
Michael Angelo labored at Rome, and the impress of 
his genius is everywhere in the avenues of Roman art, 
yet by common consent the Roman school of art owes 
its origin and life to Raphael. It became the grandest 
of all the Italian schools of painting, and gave concrete 
reality to the aspirations and longings of his predeces- 
sors by carrying art to a height all lint ultimate. The 
Roman school combined the virility and boldness of 
Florence with the simplicity and the devotional sweet- 
ness of Umbria and Siena- in short, all Italian excel- 
lences Raphael gathered in his Roman creation; hut 
with the artist who gave it hirtli the school alone can 


j he identified, and, illustrious as were many of his pupils, 
j his own death marks the fading hour of the Roman 
school. Of all t lie Roman painters, it was Raphael 
alone who made his works not less the expression and 
measure of all the knowledge, philosophy, and poetry 
of his time than witnesses to his genius and vouchers 
for what we call the immortality of his fame, lie 
achieved the labors of a demigod ; his successors wrought 
like mere men. Raphael had scarcely reached his 
prime when a sudden attack of fever carried him off, on 
the anniversary of his birth, in 15*20. “The works of 
Raphael are generally divided into three classes: his 
| first style, when under the influence of I’erugino’s man- 
ner; his second, when he painted in Florence from 1504 
to 1508; and his third style, which is distinguishable 
in the works executed by him after he settled in Rome. 
Each of these styles has its devoted admirers. Those 
who incline to art employed in the service of religion 
prefer the first manner, as embodying purity and relig- 
ious feeling, llis last manner, perfected when the taste 
for classical learning and art was strongly excited hv 
i the discovery of numerous valuable works of the classic 
period, is held by many connoisseurs as correctly em- 
bodying the highest art : while his middle, or Floren- 
tine, style is admired by some as exemplifying his pow- 
ers freed from what they deem the rigid manner of l’e- 
rugino, and untainted by the conventionalism of classic 
art. In all these different styles he lias left works of 
great excellence. The Coronation of the Virgin , in the 
i gallery of the Vatican, ami the Sposalizio , or Marriage 
of the Virgin, in the Hrcra Gallery at Milan, which is 
an improved version of Pcriigino’s Sposalizio, painted 
in 1495 for the cathedral of Perugia, belong to the first 
period. The St. Catharine, in the National Gallery, 

! London ; the Entombment , in the Borghcse Gallery, 
Rome; La Belle Jardiniere, in the Louvre, belong to 
j his second period. The St. Cecilia, at Bologna; the 
i Madonna di San Sisto, at Dresden; the Cartoons, at 
Hampton Court; the Transfiguration, and all the Vat- 
ican frescos, except Theology, or the JJispvte on the 
I Sacrament, the first he executed on his arrival from 
Florence, are in his third manner, or that which pecul- 
iarly marks the Roman school in its highest develop- 
ment” (Chambers). The two great Madonnas of Ra- 
phael are the Madonna della Sedia and the Madonna di 
San Sisto. The former, which is at the Pitti Palace, 
Florence, is, according to critical standards, not so per- 
fect as others of the same painter which have failed to 
obtain universal popularity. But as a representation 
of the Roman view of the Holy Family, nothing could 
he more beautifully expressed. Wc see only a happy 
mother bending over the lovely child in the intensify 
of her affection and content, while the babe looks forth 
from the picture with a strange glance of conscious su- 
periority. 'flic Madonna di San Sisto cannot he de- 
scribed, and no copies of it, photographs or engravings, 
can convey a correct idea. In this work Raphael 
reached the perfection of his type, humanity raised to 
divinity. The grace and beauty of the Virgin seem 
apart from and above earthly associations. In the sol- 
emn, thoughtful, vet childlike expression of the infant 
Christ there is the foreshadowing of the sufferer, the 
Saviour, and the Judge. It is singular that not until 
18*27, when the picture was cleaned, were the innumer- 
able heads of angels surrounding the Virgin discovered. 
The Transfiguration, which was Raphael’s last and also 
his greatest work, he left unfinished. It seems as if lie 
had labored while already on the way to heaven, and 
we do not wonder that Vasari, in his ecstasy of joy over 
this work by human hands, with so much of heavenly 
skill in it, is led to exclaim, “Whosoever shall desire to 
sec in what manner Christ transformed into the God- 
head should he represented, let him come and behold it 
in this picture.” “Raphael," says Lanzi, “is by com- 
mon consent placed at the head of his art, not because 
he excelled all others in every department of painting, 
hut because no other artist has ever possessed the vari- 


RAPIIAII 


911 


RAPPISTS 


ous parts of tlie art united in so high a degree.” See, 
besides Vasari and Lanzi, Robertson, The Great Painters 
of Christendom (published by Cassell, Loud, and N. Y., and 
handsomely illustrated), p. 79-95 ; Radcliffe, Schools and 
Masters of Painting (N. Y. 1877, 12rao), cli.viii et al.; 
Mrs. Clement, Painters, etc. (ibid. 1877, 12mo), p.473-485; 
Duppa, Life of Raphael (in Engl., Lond. 1815); Wolzo- 
gen , Raphael (tr.by Burnett, ibid. 1866); Quatreraere de 
Quincy, Vie de Raphael (tr. into Engl, by llazlitt, 1846;; 
Perkins, Raphael and Michael Angelo (Lond. and Bust. 
1878) ; Lond. Quar. Rev. April, 1870. (J. H. W.) 

Ra'phah (I Chron. viii, 2). See Eapiia. 

Raph'aim ('P atpaiv, but some MSS. omit), a name 
given (Judith viii, 1) as that of the son of Gideon and 
lather of Acitho in the ancestry of Judith. It is evi- 
dently=t*'St£*1, Rephaim (q. v.). 

Raphall, Morris Jacob, a Jewish rabbi, was born 
at Stockholm, Sweden, in September, 1798. He was 
educated at the Jewish college of Copenhagen, and was 
so precocious that in his thirteenth year he received 
the Hebrew degree of Chabir Socins (analogous to the 
• fellowship” of the English universities), which enti- 
tled him to the honorable designation of Rabbi. In 
1812 he went to England, where he remained for six 
years, devoting himself to the study of the English lan- 
guage. The next six years he spent in travelling and 
studying in Europe. On his return to England in 1825 
he married, and took up his residence in London. In 
1832 he gave some lectures on the Biblical poetry of 
the Hebrews, and in 1834 commenced the publication 
of the Hebrew Review , the first Jewish publication ever 
issued in England. When this had reached its seven- 
ty-eighth number, ill-health compelled him to relin- 
quish it. In 1840 he acted as secretary of Ur. Solomon 
Herschel, the chief rabbi of London, and in 1841 he was 
appointed rabbi preacher of the synagogue at Birming- 
ham, England, lie was also the chief instrument in 
founding the first national school in England for the 
Jews, of which he acted as head master. In 1849, hav- 
ing previously received the degree of rh.D. from the 
University of Giessen, he was called to New York as 
rabbi preacher to the Anglo-German congregation B'nai 
Jeskurnn, where he died, June 23, 1868. His main work 
is his Post-Biblical History of the Jews (N. Y. 1866, 2 
vols.), and the translation of Eighteen Treatises of the 
Mishna, in connection with I). A. de Sola (2d ed. Lond. 
1845). Besides, he translated into English from the 
works of Maiuionides, Alho, and Wesselv, which trans- 
lations are found in the Hebrew Review. (B. P.) 

Raphel, Georg, a German Lutheran divine of 
some note, was born in 1673, and was last superintend- 
ent of Liineburg. He died in 1740. lie was one of 
the best commentators of that class of exegetists who 
have attempted to illustrate the Bible from classic au- 
thors. His Annotationes in Sacram Scripturam con- 
tains historical illustrations of some passages in the Old 
Test., and philological explanations of many in the 
New, chiefly taken from Xenophon, Polybius, Arrian, 
and Herodotus. He also edited the Greek homilies of 
Chrysostom, with a Latin translation and notes, an- 
nexed to the edition of the Annotations published at 
Leyden (1747, 2 vols. 8vo). See Orme, Biblioth. Bibl. 
s. v.; llorne, Introd. to the Scriptures. 

Ra'phon (Pa<petwv, Alex, and Josephus. 'Pa0wj/; 
Peshito, Raphon), a city of Gilead, under the walls of 
which Judas Maecaba?us defeated Timotheus (1 Macc. 
v, 37 only). It appears to have stood on the eastern 
side of an important wady, and at no great distance 
from Carnaim — probably Ashteroth-Carnaim. It may 
have been identical with Raphana, which is mentioned 
by Pliny (Nat. Hist, v, 16) as one of the cities of the 
Decapolis, but with no specification of its position. Nor 
is there anything in the narrative of 1 Macc,, of 2 Macc. 
(ch. xii), or of Josephus (Ant. xii, 8, 3) to enable us to 
decide whether the torrent in question is the Ilieromax, 


I the Zcrka, or any other. In Kiepert’s map, accompa- 
nying Wettstein’s Hauran, etc. (1860), a place named 
[ Er-Rafe is marked, on the east of Wady Hrer, one of 
: the branches of the Wady Mandhur, and close to the 
great road leading to Sanamein, which last has some 
claims to be identified with Ashteroth-Carnaim. But 
in our present ignorance of the district this can only be 
taken as mere conjecture. If Er-Rafe be Raphana, we 
should expect to find large ruins. — Smith. 

Ra'phu (Ileb. Raphu', healed ; Sept.'P a(j>ov), 

father of Palti, which latter was sent with Caleb and 
Joshua as a spy into the promised land; representing 
the tribe of Benjamin (Numb, xiii, 9). B.C. ante 1658. 

Rappists, also known as Harmonists, are a 
Christian people living in community of goods, and in 
celibate state, at Economy, Pa., in the vicinity of Pitts- 
burgh, and hence also not infrequently called EcoilO- 
mites. They owe their origin to George Rapp, a 
German, who was born at Iptingen, in Wiirtemberg, in 
October, 1757, of humble parentage, and had enjoyed 
only a moderate education. Having always been a de- 
vout Christian and a close reader of the Bible, he be- 
came convinced that the lifeless condition of the churches 
was ill in accord with the vital character of apostolic 
Christianity, and in 1787 began to preach among those 
of like mind with himself in the little village where he 
was then living. The clergy resented this interference 
with their office, and both Rapp and his adherents were 
visited with all manner of persecution, and denounced 
as “ Separatists,” a name w 7 hich they bore ever after 
while in Germany, and which they themselves accepted 
gladly. In the course of six years the Rappists num- 
bered not less than 300 families, scattered over a dis- 
tance of twenty miles from the home of George Rapp. 
The consistent manner in which the Separatists bore 
themselves gave little opportunity for positive accusa- 
tion, yet they were constantly annoyed by government 
and clergy, and in 1803 finally determined to end all 
strife by emigration to a land of freedom. Rapp, accom- 
panied by his son and two other followers, came to this 
country in advance to select a home for all like-minded 
with himself. In the course of one year 600 persons 
came over, and were settled by Rapp in different parts 
of Pennsylvania and Maryland, while he himself, with 
several skilful mechanics and ingenious persons, prepared 
for a family home for the Separatists the land he had 
purchased in Butler County, Pa., along the Coneque- 
nessing Creek. On Eeb. 15, 1805, those who had come 
with Rapp, and such others as had followed thither, or- 
ganized themselves formally and solemnly into the 
“ Harmony Society,” agreeing then to throw all their 
possessions into a common fund, to adopt a uniform and 
simple dress and style of house, to keep thenceforth all 
things in common, and to labor for the common good 
of the whole body. Later in the spring they were 
joined by fifty additional families; and thus they finally 
began with what must have made up all together less 
than 750 men, women, and children. But these were 
all accustomed to labor, and with such a leader as Rapp 
then was — in the prime of life, only forty-eight years 
old, of robust frame and sound health, with great perse- 
verance, enterprise, and executive ability, and remark- 
able common-sense — the society got on very success- 
fully. In the first year they erected between fort} 7 and 
fifty log-houses, a church and school-house, a grist-mill, 
a barn, and some workshops, and cleared 150 acres of 
land. In the following year they cleared 400 acres 
more, and built a saw-mill and a tannery, and planted a 
small vineyard. A distillery was also a part of this 
year’s building — a thing not so very strange in those 
davs of general tendency towards strong drink among 
the laboring classes— though they themselves indulged 
only very moderately in any intoxicating liquors. Rapp 
was the general in all departments. He planned for 
all. He was their preacher, teacher, guide, and keeper. 

Until 1807 community of goods and the hope of the 


KAPPISTS 


912 


KAPPISTS 


approach of the millennial reign alone distinguished the j 
Kappists from other Christians; but in that year an un- 
usual religious awakening led them to determine upon 
a still closer life with Cod, and, having become per- 
suaded that it was the duty of the followers of desus to 
conform in all things to the life of Christ and his apos- 
tles, the Kappists, in the spirit of the apostle Paul, that 
“ lie that is unmarried careth for the things that belong 
to the Lord, how he may please the Lord; but he that 
is married careth for the things of the world, how he may 
please his wife,” forsook marriage, and since that time 
celibacy is one of the distinguishing tenets of the Har- 
monists, and they that have wives do truly live “as 
though they had none.” A member writing on the con- 
stancy of the Kappists to the decision of 1*07, in 1802, 
says, “ Convinced of the truth ami holiness of onr pur- 
pose, we voluntarily and unanimously adopted celibacy, 
altogether from religious motives, in order to withdraw 
our love entirely from the lusts of the flesh, which, with 
the help of Cod and much prayer and spiritual warfare, 
we have succeeded well in doing now for fifty years.” 

In 1*14 the Kappists determined to remove to Indi- 
ana, and the unanimity of feeling which prevailed when 
the council so ordered proves how well organized and 
how sincere the}' all were. They settled in the Wa- 
bash valley, on a tract of 27,000 acres, and called the 
place “New Harmony” — a property which, in 1*24, 
they sold to Kobert Owen (q. v.), who settled upon it 
his New Lanark colony — and bought and removed to 
the property they still hold at Economy. For some 
years the society was in a most flourishing condition, 
and, by frequent accessions from Cermany, maintained 
their ground remarkably until 1831, when an adven- 
turer— Bernhard M idler by right name, who had as- 
sumed the title Graf, or count, Maximilian de Leon, 
and had gathered a following of visionary Germans — 
joined the Economists, and sowed the seed of discord. 
In 1*32 Kapp determined upon a dissolution, and 250 
members — about one third — left Economy for I’hilips- 
burg, where they settled, to break up in a short time, 
and finally to furnish a small quota to the Bethel Com- 
munity in Missouri. Thereafter the Economists no 
more sought for accession. But they have steadily in- 
creased in wealth in spite of all their removals and nu- 
merical decadence; anti now own, besides their village and 
estate at Economy, much property in other places, hav- 
ing a large interest in coal-mines and oil-wells, and rail- 
roads and manufactories, and controlling at Beaver Falls 
the largest cutlery establishment in the United .States. 

At present the town of Economy counts about 120 
houses, very regularly built, and it is well drained and 
paved. It has water led from a reservoir in the hills, 
abundant shade-1 rees, a church, an assembly hall, a store, 
and different factories. The house which the society 
built fur their founder is a sort of museum, and serves 
also as a pleasure resort to all that remain of the Kappists, 
who, according to Nordhoff, number about 110 persons, 
most of whom are aged, and none under forty, with some 
35 adopted children, and an equal number living there 
with parents who are hired laborers, these numbering 
about 100. The whole population is German, and Ger- 
man is the medium of communication on the street and 
in the church, as well as in the houses. Most of the men 
wear for week-day dress blue “roundabouts,” like boys’ 
spencers, and pantaloons of the same color, and broad- 
brimmed hats; and are full of quiet dignity and genuine 
politeness. ( )n Sunday the men wear long coats. The 
women are dressed quite as oddly as the men, with their 
short loose gowns, kerchiefs across the shoulders, and 
caps that run up to the top of a high back-comb. The 
present dress nl the Harmonists was worn by Kapp ami 
his associates when they came to this country, and con- 
tinued Ironi choice hv them and their successors. 

1 he agreement, or articles of association, under which 
the “ Harmony Society" was formed in 1*05, and which 
has been signed by all members thenceforward, reads as 
follows : 


“ Whereas, by the favor of Divine Providence, an associ- 
ation or community has been formed by George Kapp 
and many others upon the basis of Christian fellowship, 
the principles of which, being faithfully derived from the 
Sacied Scriptures, include the government of the patriarchal 
age, united to the community of property adopted in t lie 
days of the apostles, and wherein t lie simple object sought 
is to approximate, so far as litinmu imperfections may al- 
low. to the fulfilment of the will of God, by the exercise 
of those affections and the practice of those virtues which 
are essential to the hnppincss of man in time and through- 
out eternity: 

11 And whereas it is necessary to the good order and 
well-being of the said association that the conditions of 
membership should be clearly understood, and that the 
rights, privileges, and duties of every individual therein 
should be so defined as to prevent mistake or disappoint- 
ment, on the one baud, aud contention or disagreement, 
on the other; 

“ Therefore, be it known to all whom it may concern 
that we, the undersigned, citizens of the county of Bea- 
ver, in the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, do severally 
and distinctly, each for himself, covenant, grant, and 
agree, to aud with the said George Kapp and his associ- 
ates as follows, viz. : 

“Article 1. We, the undersigned, for ourselves, onr 
heirs, executors, and administrators, do hereby give, 
grant, aud forever convey to the said George Kapp and 
his associates, and to their heirs aud assigns, all our prop- 
erty, real, personal, and mixed, whether it he lands and 
tenements, goods and chattels, money or debts due to us, 
jointly or severally, in possession, in' remainder, or in re- 
version or expectancy, whatsoever and wheresoever, with- 
out evasion, qualification, or reserve, as a free gift or do- 
nation, for the benefit and use of the said association or 
community; and we do hereby bind ourselves, onr heirs, 
executors, and administrators, to do all such other acts as 
may be necessary to vest a perfect title to the same in the 
said association, aud to place the said property at the fall 
disposal of the superintendent of the said community 
without delay. 

“Article 2. We do further covenant and agree to and 
with the said George Kapp and his associates that we 
will severally submit faithfully to the laws and regula- 
tions of said community, and will at all times manifest a 
ready and cheerful obedience towards those who are or 
may be appointed as superintendents thereof, holding 
ourselves bound to promote the interest aud welfare of 
the said community, not only by the labor of our own 
hands, but also by that of our children, onr families, and 
all others who now are or hereafter may be uuder our 
coutrol. 

“Article 3. If, contrary to onr expectation, it should so 
happen that we could not render the faithful obedience 
aforesaid, and should be induced from that or any other 
cause to withdraw from the said association, then aud in 
such case we do expressly covenant and agree to aud 
with the said George Kapp and his associates that we 
never will claim or demand, either for ourselves, onr chil- 
dren, or for any one belonging to ns, directly or indirect- 
ly, any compensation, wages, or reward whatever for our 
or their labor or services rendered to the said community, 
or to any member thereof; bnt whatever we or onr fami- 
lies jointly or severally shall or may do, all shall be held 
and considered as a voluntary service for our brethren. 

“Article 4. In consideration of the premises, the said 
George Kapp and his associates do, by these presents, 
adopt the undersigned jointly and severally as members 
of the said community, whereby each of them obtains the 
privilege of being present at every religious meeting, and 
of receiving not only for themselves, bnt also for their 
children and families, all such instructions in church and 
school as may be reasonably required, both for their tem- 
poral good and for their eternal felicity. 

“Article 5. The said George Rapp and his associates 
further agree to supply the undersigned severally with all 
the necessaries of life, as clothing, meat, drink, lodging, 
etc., for themselves and their families. And this provi- 
sion is not limited to their days of health aud strength; 
bnt when any of them shall become sick, infirm, or other- 
wise unfit for labor, the same support and maintenance 
shall be allowed as before, together with such medicine, 
care, attendance, and consolation as their situation may 
reasonably demand. And if at any time after they have 
become members of the association, the father or mother 
of a family should die or be otherwise separated from the 
community, and should leave their family behind, such 
family shall not be left orphans or destitute, bnt shall 
partake of the same rights and maintenance as before, so 
long ns they remain in the association, as well in sickness 
as in health, aud to such extent as their circumstances 
may require. 

“ Article 6. And if it should so happen, as above men- 
tioned, that any of the undersigned should violate his or 
their agreement, and would or could not submit to the 
laws and regulations of the Church or the community, 
and for that or any other cause should withdraw front the 
association, then the said George Kapp and his associates 
agree to refund to him or them the value of all such prop- 
erty as he or they may have brought into the community. 


RAPPISTS 


913 


RASIIBA 


in compliance with the first article of this agreement, the 
said value to he refunded without interest, in one, two, or 
three annual instalments, as the said George Rapp and 
his associates shall determine. And if the person or per- 
sons so withdrawing themselves were poor, and brought 
nothing into the commnuitv, notwithstanding they de- 
part openly and regularly, they shall receive a donation 
iu money, according to the length of their stay and to their 
conduct, and to such amouut as their necessities may re- 
quire, iu the judgmeut of the superintendents of the asso- 
ciation.” 

In 1818 a book in which was recorded the amount of 
property contributed by each member to the general 
fund was destroyed. In 1836 a change was made in 
the formal constitution or agreement above quoted, in 
the following words : 

“ 1. The sixth article [in regard to refunding] is entirely 
annulled and made void, as if it had never existed; all 
others to remain in full force as heretofore. 2. All the 
property of the society, real, personal, and mixed, in law 
or equity, and howsoever contributed or acquired, shall 
he deemed, now and forever, joint and indivisible stock. 
Each individual is to be considered to have finally and ir- 
revocably parted with all his former contributions, wheth- 
er in lands, goods, money, or labor; and the same rule 
shall apply to all future contributions, whatever they may 
be. 3. Should any individual withdraw from the society 
or depart this life, neither he, in the one case, nor his rep- 
resentatives, in the other, shall be entitled to demand an 
accouut of said contributions, or to claim anything from 
the society as a matter of right. But it shall be left alto- 
gether to the discretion of the superintendent to decide 
whether any, and, if any, what allowance shall he made 
to such member or his representatives as a donation.” 

On the death of “Father” Rapp, Aug. 7, 1847, the 
articles were re-signed by the whole society, and two 
trustees and seven elders were put in office to perform 
all the duties and assume all the authority which their 
founder had relinquished with his life. 

Under this simple constitution the Harmony Society 
has flburished for sixty-nine years; nor has its life been 
threatened by disagreements, except in the case of the 
count de Leon’s intrigue. It has suffered three or four 
lawsuits from members who had left it, hut in every 
case the courts have decided for the society, after elab- 
orate, and in some cases long-continued trials. It has 
always lived in peace and friendship with its neighbors. 

Its real estate and other property was, from the foun- 
dation until his death in 1834, held in the name of 
Frederick (Reichert) Rapp, who was an excellent busi- 
ness man, and conducted all its dealings with the out- 
side world, and had charge of its temporalities gener- 
ally, the elder Rapp himself avoiding all general business. 
Upon Frederick’s death the society formally and unani- 
mously imposed upon father Rapp the care of the tem- 
poral as well as the spiritual affairs of the little common- 
wealth, placing in his name the title to all their property. 
But, as he did not wish to let temporal concerns interfere 
with his spiritual functions, and as, besides, he was then 
growing old, being in 1834 seventy-seven years of age, 
he appointed as his helpers and subagents two members, 
R. L. Bilker and J. Henrici, the latter of whom is still, 
with Mr. Jonathan Lenz, the head of the society, Mr. 
Bilker having died several years ago. 

The theological belief of the Harmony Society natu- 
rally crystallized under the preaching and during the 
life of father Rapp. It has some features of German 
mysticism, grafted upon a practical application of the 
Christian doctrine and theory. At the foundation of 
all lies a strong determination to make the preparation 
of their souls or spirits for the future life the pre-emi- 
nent business of life, and to obey in the strictest and 
most literal manner what they believe to be the will of 
God as revealed and declared by Jesus Christ. In the 
following paragraphs is given a brief summary of what 
may be called their creed : 

1. They hold that Adam was created “in the likeness 
of God that he was a dual being, containing within his 
own person both the sexual elements, reading literally, 
in confirmation of this, the text (Gen. i, 2(5, 27), “And God 
said, Let ns make man iu our image, after our likeness, 
and let them have dominion and, “So God created man 
in his own image, iu the image of God created he him ; | 
male aud female created he them which they hold to 
VIII.— M 31 31 


denote that both the Creator and the first created were 
of this dual nature. They believe that had Adam been 
content to remain in his original state, he would have in- 
creased without the help of a female, bringing forth new 
beings like himself to replenish the earth. 

2. But Adam fell into discontent, and God separated 
from his body the female part, and gave it him according 
to his desire, aud thereiu they believe consisted the fall 
of man. 

3. From this they deduce that the celibate state Is more 
pleasing to God: that in the renewed world man will he 
restored to the dual Godlike and Adamic condition ; and, 

4. They hold that the coming of Christ and the renova- 
tion of the world are near at hand. This nearness of the 
millennium is a cardinal point of doctrine with them; 
aud father Rapp firmly believed that he would live to see 
the wished-for reappearance of Christ in the heavens, and 
that he would be permitted to present his company of 
believers to the Saviour whom they endeavored to please 
with their lives. So vivid was this belief in him that it 
led some of his followers to fondly fancy that father Rapp 
would not die before Christ's coming ; aud there is a 
touching story of the old man that wheu he felt death 
upon him, at the age of ninety, he said, “If I did not 
know that the dear Lord meant I should present you all 
to him, I should think my last moments come.” These 
were indeed his last words. To be in constant readiness 
for the reappearance of Christ is ODe of the aims of the 
society; nor have its members ever faltered iu the faith 
that this great event is near at hand. 

5. Jesus they hold to have been born “in the likeness 
of the Father;” that is to say, a dual being, as Adam be- 
fore the fall. 

6. They hold that Jesns taught and commanded a com- 
munity of goods, and refer to the example of the early 
Christians as proof. 

7. They believe in the ultimate redemption and salva- 
tion of all mankind ; but hold that only those who follow 
the celibate life, aud otherwise conform to what they un- 
derstand to be the commandmeuts of Jesus, will come at 
once into the bright and glorious company of Christ and 
his companions; that offenders will undergo a probation 
for purification. 

8. They reject and detest what is commonly called 
“ Spiritualism.” 

— Nordhoff, Communistic Societies, p. 81-86. (J. H. W.) 

Raratongan Version. Raratonga, the largest 
and most important of the Harvey Islands, between 500 
and 600 miles west of Tahiti, and discovered hv the Rev. 
John Williams, of the London Missionary Society, in 
1823, is inhabited by about 3500 inhabitants. The lan- 
guage of Raratonga is spoken throughout the other six 
islands of the Harvey group ; and although it has a close 
affinity to the Tahitian and Marquesan idioms, yet a 
distinct version of the Scriptures was found necessary. 
The Raratongan version mainly devolved on the Rev. 
John Williams, and in 1830 the Gospel of St. John and 
the Epistle to the Galatians were printed. In 1836 an 
edition of 5000 copies of the New Testament was pub- 
lished in London by the British and Foreign Bible So- 
ciety. In 1842 a second edition of 5000 copies was 
printed, and in 1851 the entire Scriptures were pub- 
lished by the same society, having availed itself of the 
Raratongan version prepared by Mr. Buzacott, a mis- 
sionary at Raratonga. Of the first edition 5000 copies 
were printed, but in 1854 a subsequent edition of 5000 
copies was rendered necessary, which is still in course 
of circulation. The good effects of reading this version, 
and the change thereby produced in the state and char- 
acter of the natives of Raratonga, have been thus de- 
scribed by the martyred Williams: “In 1823 I found 
them all heathens; in 1834 they were all professing 
Christians. At the former period I found them with 
idols and maraes; those, in 1834, were destroyed. I 
found them without a written language, and left them 
reading in their own tongue the wonderful works of 
God.” See The Bible of Every Land, p. 378 sq. (B. P.) 

Rashba (X S— “), the initials of Rabbi Soumox 
bex-AbeahA3I Ibn-Adrat, a native of Barcelona, who 
was born about 1285, and died in 1310. He studied 
under Naclimanides (q. v.), and in 1280 he was ac- 
knowledged president of the school of Barcelona, and 
a kind of oracle with the East and the West, with which 
he maintained an extensive correspondence. He was 
an acute thinker, an enemy to all equivocation, and an 
advocate of the open truth. He wrote a large collec- 


RASH BAM 


914 


KASHI 


tion of E“ -“"in, or Novellas, discussive and expository 
of Talmudic law, published in successive portions and 
times: — r*Z’E.T' Questions and Answers on 

law and ritual subjects (Lemberg, 18 12) Let- 
ters (ibid. 1809;:— w'lpn T~'ZV, On Sabbath and 
Festival Observances (Buda, 1820): — r“Zn r ”T, The 
Law of the House, domestic regulations from the Tal- 
mud (Prague, 1*11):— I — ISX TTiS, Explanations 
of the Ayadut/t (Fiirth, 17GG). lie also prohibited the 
study of Grecian philosophy until after twenty -five 
years of age. Sec Fiirst, liibl. Jud. i, 1* sq. ; L)e Kossi, 
Dizionario Storico deyii Autori Ebrei (Germ, transl.), 
p. 26; < iriitz, G'esck. d. Juden, vii, 157 sq.; Lindo, Hist, 
of the Jews in Spain, p. 112; Finn, Sephardim, p. 301 
sq. ; Etheridge, Introd. to Hebrew Literature, p. *252 ; 
Dessauer, (leseh. d. Israelite it, p. 295; but especially the 
monograph by I)r. Perles, Salomo ben - Abraham ben- 
A deret, sein Leben u. s. Schriften, nebst handsel) rift lichen 
lleilayen zum ersten Male herausyeyeben (Breslau, 1*63), 
and the reviews of that monograph in Frankcl’s Momits- 
schrift, 1*63, p. 1*3 sq.; Geiger, Jud. Zcitsckrift, 1*63, 
p. 59 sq. (B. P.) 

Rashbam (Z E'E"), the initials of Rabbi Sam eel 
bex-Meir, Kashi’s daughter’s son, who was born at Ka- 
moro about 10G5, and died in 1154. lie was a sober exe- 
gete, appealing to the “intelligentes.” lie completed 
the commentaries on certain Talmudic treatises left un- 
finished by his grandfather IJashi (q.v.), and also the 
commentary on Job. Kashbam’s literal, grammatical, 
and exegetical principles in the interpretation of the 
Word of God convinced his grandfather to such a de- 
gree that he declared that if he had to rewrite his ex- 
positions he would adopt those principles. In this 
manner Kashbam wrote his commentary on the Penta- 
teuch, under the title of EE EJtil E, The Exposition 
of Ilashbnm, which was published for the first time in 
the edition of the Hebrew Pentateuch, with several 
commentaries (Berlin, 1705). It was republished in 
the imperfect condition from Opponheimer’s MS., be- 
ginning with Gen. xviii, and ending with Dent, xxxiii, 
3, in the excellent edition of the Hebrew Pentateuch, 
with sundry commentaries (Amsterdam, 1727-29). Dr. 
A. Geiger published from a Munich MS. a portion of 
the missing commentary, extending from Gen. i, 1-31, 
in the Herein Chewed (Berlin, 1*51), viii, -11-51, which, 
however, has not been inserted in the excellent edition 
of the Pentateuch, with sundry rabbinic commentaries, 
published at Vienna in 1*59, in which Kashbam’s com- 
mentary is given. A supercommentarv, entitled 'j”ip 
The Horn of Samuel, on Kashbam’s exposi- 
tion, by S. S. llessel, was published in Frank fort-ou-thc- 
Oder in 1727. Kashbam also wrote a Commentary on 
(he Fire Megilloth, of which that on the Song of Songs 
ami Ecclesiastes was published by A. Jclliuek (Lcipsic, 
1*55), while excerpts from the other three Megilloth 
were also edited bv the same author (ibid. 1*55). Kash- 
bam is also said to have written a commentary on the 
Psalms, which was edited by Isaac Satanow, Berlin, 
and reprinted in Vienna in 1*10; but it is very doubtful 
whether he is really the author. See Fiirst, liibl. Jud. 
iii, 239 sq. ; De Kossi, Dizionario Storico deyii Autori 
Ebrei (Germ, transl.), p. 2*5; Ginsburg, in Kitto’s Cy- 
clop. s. v. ; (iriitz, Gesch. d. Juden, vi, 15* sq. ; Just, 
( leseh. d. Judenth. it. s. Secten, ii, 391 ; iii, 34 ; Levy, Ex- 
eyesr. hi dm franzus. Juden (Lcips. 1*73), p. 17 sq. ; 
Giiisburg. Commentary on Ecclesiastes, p. 12 sq., where 
the first chapter of t lie commentary on Ecclesiastes is 
given in English (Loud. 1*61); id. Sony of Songs (ibid. 
1*57), p. 43 sq. ; Zuuz, Zur Geschichte it. Liferutur 
(Berl. 1*15), p. 70 sq. ; Geiger, in E^EEJ ■'EEJ (ibid. 
5*47), p. 29-39; id. Farshandatha (Leips. 1*55), p. 20- 
24; Jclliuek, in bis edition of the Song of Songs and 
Ecclesiastes (ibid. 1*55), p. vii sq. (B. 1\) 


Rashbaz (j* 2 - i), the initials of Karri Simon 
hen-Zemacii Huran, who belonged to a family which, 
originally of Provence, was then settled in Spain, and ul- 
timately emigrated to Algiers. In the persecution that 
took place in 1391, Simon Duran, with a number of bis 
coreligionists, emigrated to Algiers, where, from his 
profound learning, he obtained the title of the Great, 
llerc be succeeded Kiba»h (q. v.), who bad also fled 
from Spain, as the bead of all the Jewish congregations, 
which position lie occupied until bis death, in 1444. He 
wrote various works, some so violent against Cliristian- 
ity and Moslemisin that they have very properly been 
suppressed by bis coreligionists. Of bis works we 
mention 2S~ 2 ErPN, The Lover of the Just, a com- 
mentary on Job, with an introduction on the princi- 
ples upon which it should be expounded; edited by 
Jos. Malcho (Venice, 1590). and reprinted in Frankfur- 
ter’s Kabbiuic Bible:— r*ZX *|V2, Shield of the Fa- 
thers, a great theological work, in three parts, treating 
of different subjects, especially of the fundamental arti- 
cles of religion; to be found in the Bodleian and in Op- 
penheimeriana ; one part is a commentary on the trea- 
tise Aboth (Livorno, 17G2: Lcipsic, 1*55), while the sec- 
ond part, which is very severe against Christians and 
Turks, lias been published by his son under the title of 
j52" Dl'p, How and Shield. He was also famed for 
his medical abilities, and practiced with great reputa- 
tion in Aragon. His profound erudition in Kabbinical 
lore, philosophy, and medicine procured for him the es- 
teem of the learned Israelites of his time. His learned 
solutions of upwards of 700 points of law are consulted 
at the present day. See Fiirst, liibl. Jud. i, 216 sq. ; 
Dc Kossi, Dizionario Storico deyii Autori Ebrei (Germ, 
transl.), p. 92; id. Bibliotheca Antichristiuna, p. 109, 
111; Lindo, Hist, of the Jews in Spain, p. 194; Finn, 
Sephardim, p. 3*7 ; Basnage, llist. des Juifs (Taylor's 
transl.), p. 657 ; Steinschneider, Jewish Literature, p. 
12*; Etheridge, Introd. to Hebrew Literature, p. 2*9; 
Griitz, (leseh. d. Juden (1875), viii, 101, 154, 170 sq. ; 
.lost, Gesch. d. Judenth. u. s. Secten, iii, *7 ; Zunz, Litera- 
turyesch. d. synayoy. Poesie (Berl. 1*65), p. 251 ; Cassel, 
Leitfaden dec jud. Gesch. tt. Literatur, p. 13; but espe- 
cially Jaulus, II. Simeon ben-Zetnaeh Duran, in Fran- 
kcl’s Monatsschrift, 1*74, p. 241 sq. (B. P.) 

Raslii ( n -"i), formed of the initials of Kabbi Sol- 
omon Ijsciiaki, or Isaaki— ben-Isaac, the great Tal- 
mudic scholar and commentator, founder of the Germa- 
no-Frcneh school of Biblical exegesis, and erroneously 
called Jarchi, was born in 1040 at Troves, in Cham- 
pagne, and not at Luuel, in Perpignan. He was the 
son of a thorough Talmudist, and thus from bis youth 
imbibed an insatiable desire to become master of Kab- 
binic lore. Ho was a pupil of K. Isaac ben-Jakar, the 
greatest pupil of Kabbi Gershom (q. v.). As to the 
extent of bis scholarship, it is a matter of dispute. 
Basnage terms liim one of the most learned of the rab- 
bins, while Jost takes but a low estimate of bis scientific 
and literary attainments. However this may be, be 
was certainly a master in Israel m the ordinary learn- 
ing of bis people, the Holy Scriptures, and the whole 
cycle of Talmudic lore. He spent much of his life m 
wandering from place to place, visiting the dill'crent 
seats of learning in Italy, Greece, Palestine, Egypt, 
Persia, and Germany, giving lectures and maintaining 
disputations in the Jewish schools. At Worms they 
may still show, us they could a few years ago, the 
chamber where lie taught a class of students, and the 
stone seat hewn in the wall from which he dispensed 
his instructions, His famous lectures secured for him 
the distinguished and witty title of Purshandatha 
(srT-*S), i. e. Interpreter of the Law , which is the 
name of one of llamau’s sous (Esther ix, 7). Lender 
the title "“EE "i'zbr E, l.c wrote a commentary on 
thirty treatises of the Talmud, printed in the editions 


KASHI 


915 


KASKOLNIIvS 


• of that work, and the several books separately in many j 
different editions; they are also published with super- j 
commentaries and glossaries:— r" 1 EX "p"E S, A Com- 
mentary on A both (Cracow, 1021, a. o.) : — "V'l'.T'cn E, 
A Commentary on the Mishna, condensed from that on 
the Talmud (Berlin, 1710): — J Commentary on the 
100 Chapters of the Bereshith Rabba, rci C 

r. T iX'ab (Venice, 1508): — a collection of Ilalachoth, 
entitled CTSH D (Constant. 1802): — penitential 
hymns, or Selichoth. Besides these, and other works 
too many to be enumerated, he also wrote on the Old 
Test., under the general title of Perush al Esrim va- 
arba, “E^X 1 ! which, for the most 

part, is found in the Rabbinic Bibles. They have also 
been published in different portions in numerous edi- 
tions, with and without the text, especially that on the 
Pentateuch, a good and critical edition of which has 
been edited bj r Dr. A. Berliner (Berlin, 18GG). Various 
parts have also been translated into Latin by different 
authors, but more extensively by B. J. F. Breithaupt, 
1710-14 (viz. Pentateuch, 1710; historical books, 1714; 
Prophets, Job, and Psalms, 1713), who also accompanied 
the translation with very learned and extensive anno- 
tations, besides giving the supercommentaries entitled 
n — iX Tia by Lowe (Prague, 1578), and TE’E 

by Sabbatai Bass. Rashi, having been long engaged 
in writing annotations on the Talmud, formed the habit 
of composing after the manner of that work, in an ex- 
tremely concise and obscure style, and with the fre- 
quent use of its terms and idioms. He condensed as 
much as possible, and endeavored to give the precise 
original thought by a natural method of interpretation, 
by explaining the grammar of the passage, by para- 
phrasing its meaning, by supplying the wanting mem- 
bers of elliptical forms, and by sometimes rendering a 
word or expression into the French of that day. At 
the same time, he did not fail to bring forward the re- 
ceived interpretations of the Talmud and Midrashim, 
and to point out the support which the Rabbinical Ila- 
lachoth receive from such passages as he thought avail- 
able. The rigid brevity of his style, which often leaves 
the reader in perplexity as to his meaning, has served 
to call forth a number of supercommentaries on his 
works by several Jewish authors, w hich are enumerated 
in Fiirst. In his commentaries on the Bible be com- 
bines the traditional exposition contained in the Tal- 
mud and Midrashim with a simple and liberal explana- 
tion of the text, and does not see any inconsistency in 
putting side by side with the Halachic and llagadic 
interpretation his own verbal interpretations, which are 
sometimes at variance with tradition. Though unac- 
quainted with the labors of the Spanish grammarians 
and expositors, he incorporates in his commentaries 
all the lore contained in the cyclopaedias of Jewish tra- 
dition, as well as the learning of the French expositors, 
and all are made tributary to the elucidation and illus- 
tration of the Scriptures. Raslii’s piety and learning 
were so great, and his influence upon the Jewish nation 
by means of bis expositions was so extraordinary, that 
his comments are almost looked upon as part of the 
Bible, and his interpretations in the present day are re- 
garded by the most orthodox Jews as the authoritative 
import of IIolv Writ. Rashi died July 13, 1105. See 
Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. ii, 78-90; De Rossi, Dizionario Sto- 
rico degli A u tori Ebrei (Germ, trails!.), p. 125 sq. ; Kit- 
to, Cyclop, s. v.; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s.v. ; Theolog. 
U nicer sal- Lexikon, s. v.; Steinschneider, Cataloyus Li- 
brorum flebr. in Bibl. Bodleian, col. 2340-2357 ; Turner, 
Jewish Rabbis, p. 17 sq., 69 sq., 110 sq.; Basnage, Hist, 
des Juifs (Taylor’s trails!.), p. 630; Geiger, Jud. Zeit- 
schnft, 1867, p. 150 sq. ; id. Pars/uindatha (Leips. 1855), 
p. 12, etc. ; Zunz, in Zeitschrift fur die Wissenschaf des 
Judenthums (Berl. 1822), p. 277, etc.; id. fleisst Rashi 
Junhi i in Jost’s Annalen, i, 328 and 385, etc.; Zunz, 


Zur Geschichte u. Literatur (ibid. 1845), p. G2, etc. ; id. 
Literaturgesch. zur synugogalen Poesie (ibid. 1865), p. 
252 sq. ; Synagogale Poesie (ibid. 1855), p. 181-183; 
Kimchi, Liber Radicnm , p. xliii sq. (Berol. 1847, cd. 
Biesenthal and Lebrecbt) ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden (Leips. 
1871), vi, 70 sq. ; Braunschweiger, Gesch. d. Juden in 
den roman. Staalen (Wiirzb. 1865), p. 53 sq. ; Jost, 
Gesch. d.Judenth. u. s. Secten, ii, 230 sq. ; Dessaner, Gesch. 
d. Israeliten (Bresl. 1870), p. 311; Adams, Hist, of the 
Jews (Bost. 1812), i, 25G ; Etheridge, Introd. to Ileb. Lit- 
erature, p. 282 sq., 40G sq. ; Ginsburg, Levita's Masoreth 
ha-Masoreth (Loud. 1867), p. 105; id. Ecclesiastes (ibid. 
1861), p. 38 sq. ; and Sony of Songs (ibid. 1857), p. 40 
sq. ; lveil, Introd. to the Old Testament (Edinb. 1870), ii, 
383 sq.; Bleek, Einleitung in das Alte Testament (Berl. 
1865), p. 100, 103, 105; Diestel, Gesch. d. Alien Testa- 
ments (Jena, 1869), p. 196, 199, 339, 522; Levy, Die Ex- 
egese bei den franzosischen Israeliten com 10 ten bis Wten 
Jahrhundt. (Leips. 1873), p. 10 sq. ; and the interesting 
essay in Merx’s Archiv fur wissenschafliche Erfor- 
schung des Alton Testaments, i, 428 sq. ; Siegfried, Rashi' s 
Einfluss avf Nicolaus von Lyra und Luther in der Aus- 
legung der Genesis (Halle, 1870). (B. I*.) 

Raskolniks (that is, Schismatics), the general 
name used to denote the various sects which have dis- 
sented from the Russo-Greek Church. The first body 
that left the Established Church was the sect of the 
Strigolniks, which arose in the 14th century. Another 
more remarkable sect appeared in the latter part of 
the 15th century in the republic of Novgorod, teaching 
that Judaism was the only true religion, and that Chris- 
tianity was a fiction because the Messiah was not yet 
born. The chief promoters of this sect w T ere two priests 
called Dionysius and Alexius, the protopapas of the cathe- 
dral of Novgorod, together with one named Gabriel, and 
a layman of high rank. These secret J ews conformed 
outwardly to the Greek Church with so great strictness 
that they were reputed to be eminent saints, and one 
of them, Zosimus by name, was raised, in 1490, to 
the dignity of archbishop of Moscow, and thus became 
head of the Russian Church. By the open profession 
of adherence to the Established Church of the country, 
the members of this Jewish, or rather Judaizing, sect 
managed to conceal their principles from public notice; 
but they were at length dragged to light by Gennadi- 
us, bishop of Novgorod, who accused them of having 
called the images of the saints logs; of having placed 
these images in unclean places, and gnawed them with 
their teeth ; of having spit upon the cross, blasphemed 
Christ and the Virgin, and denied a future life. The 
grand -duke ordered a synod to be convened at Mos- 
cow on Oct. 17, 1490, to consider these charges; and al- 
though several of the members wished to examine the 
accused by torture, they were obliged to content them- 
selves with anathematizing and imprisoning them. 
Those, however, who were sent back to Novgorod were 
more harshly treated. “Attired,” says count Krasin- 
ski, “in fantastic dresses intended to represent demons, 
and having their heads covered with high caps of bark, 
bearing the inscription, ‘ This is Satan’s militia,’ they 
were placed backwards on horses, by order of the bish- 
op, and paraded through the streets of the town, ex- 
posed to the insults of the populace. They bad after- 
wards their caps burned upon their heads, and were 
confined in a prison — a barbarous treatment, undoubted- 
ly, but still humane considering the age, and compared 
to that which the heretics received during that as well 
as the following century in Western Europe.” 

The metropolitan Zosimus, finding that the sect to 
which he secretly belonged was persecuted as heretical, 
resigned his dignity in 1494, and retired into a convent. 
About the beginning of the 16th century, a number of 
these Judaizing sectarians fled to Germany and Lithua- 
nia, and several others who remained in Russia were 
burned alive. The sect seems to have disappeared 
about this time; but there is still found, even at the 
present day, a sect of the Raskolniks which observes sev- 


IIASPOXI 


910 


PASSES 


oral of the Mosaic rites, and are called Subotniki, or Sat- 
nrdav-meii, because they observe the Jewish instead of 
the Christian Sabbath. 

Soon after the Reformation, though Protestant doc- 
trines were for a long time unknown in Russia, a sect 
of heretical Raskolniks arose who began to teach that 
there were no sacraments, and that the belief in the 
divinity of Christ, the ordinances of the councils, and 
the holiness of the saints was erroneous. A council of 
bishops convened to try the heretics condemned them 
to be imprisoned for life. Towards the middle of the 
17th century various sects arose in consequence of the 
emendations introduced into the text of the Scriptures 
and the Liturgical books by the patriarch X'icon. This 
reform gave rise to the utmost commotion in the coun- 
try, and a large body both of priests and laymen vio- 
lently opposed what they called the Niconian heresy, 
alleging that the changes in question did not correct, 
but corrupt, the sacred books and the true doctrine. 
The opponents of the amended books were numerous 
and violent, particularly in the north of Russia, on the 
shores of the White Sea. Ry the Established Church 
they were now called Raskolniks. They propagated 
their opinions throughout Siberia and other distant 
provinces. A great number of them emigrated to Po- 
land and even to Turkey, where they formed numerous 
settlements. Animated by the wildest fanaticism, many 
of them committed voluntary suicide, through means 
of what they called a baptism of fire; and it is be- 
lieved that instances of this superstition occur even 
now r in Siberia and the northern parts of Russia. 

'Fhe Raskolniks are divided into two great branches, 
the Popovschins and the Bezpopovschins , the former 
having priests, and the latter none. These again are 
subdivided into a great number of sects, all of which, 
however, are included under the general name of Ras- 
kolniks. The Popovschins are split into several parties 
in consequence of a difference of opinion among them 
on various points, but particularly on outward ceremo- 
nies. They consider themselves as the true Church, | 
and regard it as an imperative duty to retain the un- 
corrected text of the sacred books. They consider it 
to be very sinful to shave the beard, to eat hares, or to 
drive a carriage with one pole. The separation be- 
tween the Raskolniks and the Established Church was 
rendered complete by Peter the Great, who insisted I 
upon all his subjects adopting the civilized customs of 
the West, among which was included the shaving of 
the beard. Peter's memory is in consequence detested 
by the Raskolniks; and some of them maintain that he 
was the real Antichrist, having shown himself to be so 
by changing the times, transferring the beginning of 
the year from the 1st of September to the 1st of Jan- 
uary, abolishing the reckoning of the time from the 
beginning of the world, and adopting the chronology 
of the Latin heretics who reckon from the birth of 
Christ. 

The most numerous class of the Raskolniks arc ad- 
herents of the old text, who call themselves Starovertzi 
(those of the old faith), and are officially called Staroo- 
hradtzi (those of the old rites). There are very numer- 
ous sects also included under the general denomination 
of Bezpopovschins , or those who have no priests. The 
most remarkable are the /Skn ptzi, or Eunuchs; the 
KMi-slorsr/iiki , or Flagellants; the Malakanes, and the 
Jhicliobortzi. Rut the purest of all the sects of Rus- 
sian dissenters are the Martinists , who arose in the be- 
ginning of the present century, and have signalized 
themselves l»v their benevolence and pure morality. — 

( .ardnor, Faiths of the Work!, s. v. See Rissian Skits ; 
Rlsso-Gui kk Cm neti. 

Rasponi, Cesare, an Italian cardinal, was born 
at Ravenna, July 15, 1(515, of noble family, and lived at 
Rome in his youth. He studied under the Jesuits with 
such success that they made him speak in public at 
fourteen years of age. Urban VII l gave him, among i 
other presents, an abbey with a rental of 30U crowns. 


A poem entitled Prineeps Biero-politicus, dedicated to 
the pope, testified to the gratitude of the young bene- 
ticiary. lie studied Greek; wrote some poetry, both 
serious and comic, in Italian ; and, by the advice of car- 
dinal Rarberini, he abandoned his studies of antiquity 
for canonical law. Admitted to the degree of Doctor, 
he took possession, in 1036. of a prebendaryship of the 
Collegiate Church of St. John Lateral!. The office of 
keeper of the records of that chapter gave him the op- 
portunity to collect materials for the history of that 
church, which he published in 105t5. He showed so 
much zeal and prudence in fulfilling the important du- 
ties with which he was intrusted that Innocent X, ene- 
my of the Rarherinis, loaded him with additional favors. 
During a voyage which lie made to France, lie recon- 
ciled cardinal Rarberini with the pope, and was so hap- 
py as to put an end to the division which had existed 
so long between these two families, arresting the mar- 
riage of the niece of Innocent X with Maffeo Rarberini. 
There is a curious manuscript of this voyage in existence, 
commencing X'ov. 5, 164*. and ending March If), 1(550. 
Reing appointed health officer by Alexander VII, lie 
saved the pontifical domain from the pestilence and 
famine which ravaged the neighboring countries. In 
the great quarrel which happened between the Corsi- 
can guards and the duke de Crcqiii. ambassador of the 
king of France, armed with full power by the pope, 
he showed such a spirit of conciliation that, after the 
treaty of Pisa, concluded in 1004. the pope accorded to 
him the cardinal’s hat (16(5(5), and called him to the 
government of the duchv of Urbino, which lie kept in 
spite of great bodily suffering. He died at Rome. X'ov. 
21, 1(575. His tomb is in the Church of St. John Late- 
ral!. lie left a large part of his wealth to the hospital 
of the catechumens. We have of his works IJistoria 
Basilica B.Joannis Later ani ; he also left, in manuscript, 
M emoires sur sa 1 ~ie : — Recueil des Statuts, etc. — 1 1 oefer, 
Xouv. Biop. Generate, s. v. 

Rasponi, Felice, an Italian nun, was born at Ra- 
venna in 1523 of an illustrious house, which, since the 
12th century, had given prelates, captains, senators, and 
magistrates to several little Italian states. She was hut 
three years old when the death of her father, senator 
Zeseo, left her to the care of a mother, who brought her 
up with great rigor. In order to divert her mind from 
the severe treatment she had to endure, she learned the 
Latin language; studied, in the translations, Aristotle 
and Plato; and made the works of the holy fathers the 
object of her constant meditations. She was compelled 
to enter the convent of Sant’ Andrea di Ravenna. 
Her learning and beauty were celebrated by many 
poets of the time. She was chosen superior of the con- 
vent in 1507. She died July 3, 1573. She left a Traits 
de la Connoissance de Dim, and a Dialogue sur V Excel- 
lence de VEtat Monacal. Sec II oefer, Xouv. Biop. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Ras'ses, Ciiii.drkn ok (iuoi T XwXg.filii 
Thar sis), one of the nations whose country was rav- 
aged by llolofcrnes in his approach to Judsva (Judith 
ii, 23 only). They are named next to Lud (Lydia \ and 
apparently south thereof. The old Latin version reads 
Thiras <t Basis, with which the Peshito was probably 
in agreement before the present corruption of its text. 
Wolff (Das Buch Judith [ISlil ]. p. 05, 0(5) restores the 
original Chaldee text of the passage as Thars and Ro- 
sos, and compares the latter name with Rhosus, a place 
on the Gulf of I ssus, between the lias el-Khanzir (Rhos- 
sicus Scopulus) and Iskenderftn, or Alexandretta. If 
the above restoration of the original text is correct, the 
interchange of Mcshccli and Rosos, as connected with 
Thar, or Thiras (see Gen. x, 2), is very remarkable ; 
since if Mcshccli he the original of Muscovy, Rosos can 
hardly be other than that of Russia. See Rosii.— 
Smith. The Vulg. reads Thursis, which lias led some 
to suppose that the original was and that Tar- 

sus is meant. Fritzsche proposes to find the place in 


RASTALL 


917 


RATES 


'P wffog, 'Pujffffoc, a mountain-range and town south 
from Amanos (Exeg. Uandb. p. 143).— Ivitto. 

Rastall, John, a learned London printer of the first 
half of the 16th century, deserves a place here for his 
controversy with John Frith, which resulted in his be- 
coming a Protestant, lie was educated at Oxford, and 
he died in 1536. Though he printed, edited, and trans- 
lated as w'ell as compiled many books, he is principally 
known in connection with his Three Dialogues, of which 
the New Boke of Purgatorye (1530, fob) was answered 
by Frith; his Apology against John Frith; and The 
Church of John Rastall. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and Amer. Auth. ii, 1743 ; Wood, A thence, Oxon. i, 100. 

Rastenburg, Conversation at. This was a re- 
ligious conference, held in 1531, to consider the rights 
of the Anabaptists in Prussia. On the Lutheran side, 
the debate was conducted by Poliander (q. v.), Spera- 
tns (q. v.), and Brismann; on the part of the Anabap- 
tists, Peter Zenker (q, v.), preacher at Dantzic, replied. 
Duke Albert was present, and finally decided against 
the Anabaptists, who were banished peremptorily from 
the country. The Conversation at Rastenburg had 
been preceded by a synod, held there in 1530, on which 
occasion Zenker had presented his confession of faith. 

Rastignac, Armand Anne Auguste Anto- 
nin Sicaire, de Chapt i»e, a French prelate, nephew 
of Louis Jacques (q. v.), was born in 1726. lie had 
scarcely received the degree of D.D. when he was made 
vicar-general by the archbishop of Arles. In the con- 
ference of the clergy in 1755 and 1760, he voted for the 
refusal of sacraments to the opponents of the bull Uni- 
genitus. Three times he refused the bishopric; and 
when, in 1773, his uncle, marshal Biron, obtained for 
him, without his knowledge, the Abbey of Saint-Mes- 
main, in the diocese of Orleans, he hastened to resign 
a priory which he held in commendam. lie was de- 
puted by the clergy to the States-general in 1789; but 
in August, 1792, he was imprisoned, and on the 3d of 
September following he was massacred. Among his 
works are — Questions sur la Propriete des Biens-fonds 
Ecclesiastiques eu France (Paris, 1789, 8 vo) : — Accord 
de la Revelation et de la Raison contre le Deisme (ibid. 
179 1, 8vo). See Iloefer, Nouv. Blog. Generale , s. v. 

Rastignac, Aymeric, de Chapt de, a French 
prelate, was born about 1315. lie was a descendant 
of an ancient family, originally from Limousin. After 
filling various ecclesiastical preferments, he became, in 
1359, bishop of Yolterra, Tuscany. In 1361 he was 
transferred by Innocent YI to the bishopric of Bou- 
logne, and at the same time was made governor of that 
city. In 1364 the emperor Charles IV conferred on 
him a diploma which gave him the title “prince of 
the empire.” While chancellor of the University at 
Boulogne, he made for it a name which it preserved 
for a long time. In 1371 George XI transferred him 
to the bishopric of Limoges, and in 1372 the duke of 
Anjou made him governor-general of Limousin. He 
died at Limoges, Nov. 10, 1390. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generale, s. v. 

Rastignac, Louis Jacques, de Chapt de, a 
French prelate, was born at Rastignac in 1684. lie 
was the third son of Francois de Chapt, marquis of 
Rastignac. In 1714, after having been made prior of the 
Sarbonne, and also grand vicar of Lu^on, he received 
the degree of D.D. In 1720 he was made bishop of 
Tulle; and in 1723 the king gave him the abbey La 
Couronne, in the diocese of Angouleme, and, two days 
afterwards, transferred him to the archbishopric of 
Tours. Pope Benedict XIII eulogized him in a short 
speech in 1725, on account of the zeal which he showed 
in opposing the Jansenists; but the many dissensions 
which he afterwards had with the Jesuits caused him 
to favor the Gallican body, and even the Jansenists. 
lie had displayed so much talent in the meetings of 
the clergy in 1726, 1734, and 1743 that he was chosen 


to preside over those of 1745, 1747, and 1748; and the 
speeches which he delivered during the different ses- 
sions are monuments of his knowledge and eloquence. 
In 1746 he established the foundling hospital, Madeleine, 
at Tours. By a mandamus, in 1747, he condemned the 
book of pere Pichon, L' Esprit de I'Eglise ; and, in order to 
counteract the pernicious principles of this Jesuit, in 
1748 and 1749 he wrote three works — one upon repent- 
ance, one upon communion, and the third upon Chris- 
tian justice in relation to the sacraments of penance and 
the eucharist. So many complaints were made that 
cardinal Rohan, by order of the king, instructed four 
bishops to examine the work. They wrote to INI. de 
Rastignac, asking for explanations; but he refused to 
make any. He used the greater part of his income in 
assisting the poor. He died Aug. 2, 1750. — Iloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Rat. See Mole. 

Ratcliffe, William P., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Williamsburg, 
Va., Feb. 18, 1810. He was admitted to the ministry 
in the fall of 1834, and was transferred to the Arkansas 
Conference at its first session, 1836. He labored faith- 
fully for more than thirty years, not only filling cir- 
cuits, stations, and districts, but also serving as Bible 
agent. He died in the village of Mount Ida, Mont- 
gomerv Co., Ark., May 1, 1868. — Min. of Annual Coif. 
M. E. ' Ch ., South, 1868, p. 274. 

Ratel, Louis Jean Baptiste Justin, a French 
priest, was born at St. Omer, Dec. 14, 1758. He was 
the son of a hatter, and was placed by his uncle, a dig- 
nitar}' in one of the abbeys of Artois, in the Seminary 
of the Thirty -three at Paris, where lie studied theol- 
ogy. Having taken license, he was, while yet very 
young, appointed to the living of Dunkirk. But, 
although French, this parish was dependent on the 
Dutch diocese of Ypres; and each nomination of a cu- 
rate became the occasion of litigation. The abbot Iia- 
tel defended this benefice when the Revolution broke 
out. Having taken up arms in 1792, he did not wait 
to be exempted from the service on account of the 
weakness of his sight; and, during the terrors of the 
period, he took refuge with his family in the village of 
La Roche-Guyon. He afterwards returned to Paris, and 
organized anti directed the correspondence with the Yen- 
deans and the Norman Federation. He aided, also, the 
famous English admiral Sir William Sidney Smith to 
escape from the Temple, and published many pamphlets 
which attracted attention, particularly that one which 
related to the coup d'etat of 18th Brumaire. Concealed 
in Boulogne, he there secretly fulfilled the duties of 
agent of count d’Artois, then succeeded, amid a thou- 
sand dangers, in escaping to England, where he was 
long known under the names of Dubois and Lemoine. 
His relations with lord Castlereagh and the principal 
members of the English cabinet enabled him to be of 
great service to French emigrants. It was also by his 
mediation that Piehegru and Moreau were reconciled. 
Although absent, he was accused of various conspira- 
cies; and he was condemned to death, and a price set 
on his head. He was long searched for by the imperial 
police. He did not return to his native city till April, 
1814. During the Hundred Days he retired to Ypres, 
where he fell sick; and, after the return of the Bour- 
bons, he went to live on his place at Maigiral, where he 
died, Jan. 26, 1816.— Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Rates, Church, money raised annually in the par- 
ishes of England for the maintenance or repair of the 
parish church, etc. Rates are agreed on by the parish 
in vestry assembled; and they are charged, not on the 
land, but on the occupier. The parish meetings are 
summoned by the clnirch-wardens, who, if they neglect 
to do so, may be proceeded against criminally in the 
ecclesiastical courts. See Church - wardens. Not 
fewer than eighteen bills have been before Parliament 
these last twenty years for the modification or settle- 


RATII BUN 


918 


RATICir 


ment of church-rates. I n Ireland, these rates have been 
altogether abolished by the Church Temporality Act 
of 1833. — Eadic, JCccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Rathbun, Valfxtixk, an American divine of colo- 
nial days, flourished near the opening of the 18th cen- 
tury as pastor of a Baptist Church at Pittsfield, Conn., 
and later at Stonington, Conn., where he died in 1723. 
lie was at one time a member of the Shaker communi- 
ty, but three months sufficed to satisfy him that bis 
place was in other folds. lie published a tract against 
the Shakers, entitled Some Jirief Hints of a Religious 
Scheme, etc. (Hartford, 1781, 12mo, and often). 

Rathel, Wot.Fii.vxa Ciikistoimikk, a Herman edu- 
cator, of note also as a writer on patristics, was born at 
Sclbit/., April 12, 1GG3; was educated at Jena; and, after 
teaching privately, was, in 1G89. made professor of He- 
brew at the gymnasium at. Bayreuth, in 1G97 eccle- 
siastical superintendent of Xeustadt, and in this posi- 
tion savagely opposed all inroads of the Pietists. He 
died June 28, 1721). Among his works of interest to us 
is l)e Ribliotheca Pat runt (Neust. 172G, fob). — lloefer, 
Xour. JJiog. Gene rale, xli, 459, 4G0. 

Ratherius ( R.vtiitkk) of Liegk, a monastic of me- 
diaeval times, was born of a noble family, probably in 890. 
lie was reared in the convent at Lobach, in the dio- 
cese of Liege, and was afterwards one of its monks. In 
92G, when his friend Hilduin, also a monk, went to Ita- 
ly to visit bis nephew, king Hugo, Batherius accompa- 
nied him. Hilduin was made first bishop of Verona 
(931), and shortly after archbishop of Milan ; and upon 
this promotion, his friend Ratherius was placed in the 
vacated sec of Verona. In 934, when Arnold of Bava- 
ria invaded Italy, Ratherius sided with the invader; 
and when Arnold was successfully disposed of, Ratlie- 
rins was promptly deposed and imprisoned at Pavia. 
During his incarceration lie wrote bis Pnvloquia (in 
six books). By the intercession of powerful friends he 
was put into the custody of the bishop of Arno, and 
thence escaped, in 939, to Southern Prance. He was 
private tutor for a time, and in 944 returned to Lobach. 
lie was full of ambition, and pined for the opportunity 
to return to Italy. Finally, made bold by hope of re- 
gaining the king’s favor in open confession, he hast- 
ened to Hugo’s presence, and really secured the for- 
feited place. But though restored to the sec, he could 
not recover the favor of his parishioners; and, after 
various vicissitudes, lie returned to the dwelling-place 
of his youth once more. In 952 Otho the tlreat call- 
ed him into the vicinity of his brother Bruno ; and 
when he was elevated to the archbishopric of Cologne, 
Ratherius was made bishop of Liege, lie proved, how- 
ever, very soon that the disappointments of life had 
told too greatly upon his whole character to tit him 
any longer for great responsibilities. He failed in all 
his undertakings, politically and ecclesiastically; ami 
the discontent in the see was so great and widespread 
that the emperor felt compelled to dispossess him, and 
retire him to the little abbey of Aina, a dependence of 
Lobach. Even here lie made himself extremely un- 
popular by his overzealous defence of the sacramental 
views of 1‘asehasius Radbertus. In 9(51, for the third time, 
the see of Verona was given to him, but the clergy of the 
diocese succeeded again in effecting his removal, lie 
was once more after this a monk at Lobach and abbot at 
Aina. He died before he had secured the Abbey of 
Lobach, for which lie strove finally as if an honor to be 
coveted, lie died at the bouse of the count of Namur, 
April 25, 974, His writings, which are numerous and 
valuable, arc collected in one edition by I*, and II. Bal- 
Ierini (Verona, 17G5). Sec Vogel, Ratherius von Vero- 
na (Jena, 1854, 2 vols. 8vo), Lea, Hist, of Celibacy; 
Moshcim, Kccles. /list. vol. ii , Hiesoler, Kecks. Jlist.; 
Pfoulkes, /tirisions of Christendom, i. 7 ; Milman, Hist. 
Lat. Christianity, iii, 171, 172. (.1. II. W.) 

Rathmann, IIkki:maxn, a Herman theologian of 
the Pietistic tendency, was born at Lubcck in 1585; 


’ studied at Leipsic, Rostock, and last at Cologne, where 
he became magister of the philosophical faculty, and 
delivered philosophical lectures at Frankfort -on - the- 
Main and Leipsic until 1G12, when he became dean 
of St. John's Church at Dantzic. In 1G17 he took a 
like position at St. Mary's, in the same place, and in 
1G2G was made pastor of St. Catharine’s, lie died 
June 30, 1G28. lie got into a controversy with his 
zealous Lutheran colleague, John Corvinus (q. v.), re- 
garding Mysticism and Osiandrinnism. Rathmann was 
a von* devout man, and rejected the mere profession 
of faith as sufficient to entitle a person to Christian 
fellowship, lie also distinguished between the mere 
letter of the IIolv Word and its inner meaning, regard- 
ing the former as a dead, fruitless instrument ("instru- 
mentum passivum, lumen instrumentalc historicum”), 
which could only take life by the inspiring influence 
of the Holy Spirit. The Konigsberg theologians (Osi- 
ander school ) accused him of Schwenkfeldianism ; those 
of Jena, of Calvinism : only Rostock accepted his the- 
ology as orthodox. See Dorner, Gesch. der deutschen 
Rheologic , p. 551 sq.; Frank. Gesch. d. prof. Theol. i, 3G5 
sq.; Niedner, Zeitsehr. f. hist. Theol. 1854, p. 43-181. 
(J. II. W.) 

Ratll'uniUS (Pdco'/ioc v. r. Pd-ruoc; Vnlg. Ruthi- 
mus), “the story-writer’ (l Esdr. ii, 1G, 17. 25, 30), the 
same as “ Reborn the chancellor" (Ezra iv, 8, 9, 17, 23). 

Ratich, Wolfgang, a distinguished Herman edu- 
cator, was born in 1571, at Wilsten, in Holstein. A 
difficulty in speech compelled him to give up the min- 
istry, for which he had intended fitting himself ; and he 
applied himself to the study of the Hebrew and Arabic 
languages and mathematics. lie claimed to be the in- 
ventor of a new system of instruction, vastly superior 
to the prevailing ones, and in 1G12 addressed a memo- 
rial to the Diet of Frankfort, in which he asserted that 
not only could old and voting in a short time easily 
learn Hebrew, Hreek, Latin, Herman, philosophy, thc- 
ologv, and the arts and sciences, but that uniformity 
of language and religion could be introduced into the 
whole empire. Several princes were led to interest 
themselves in bis scheme. Professors llelwig and Jung, 
of Giessen, and (hanger, Bren del, Walter, and Wolf, of 
Jena, were invited to investigate it. They judged it 
excellent in theory, and made a favorable report upon 
it. Ratich agreed with prince Ludwig of Anhalt-Kd- 
t hen and duke John Ernest of Weimar to instruct 
children by his new system, and also by it to qualify 
teachers to give instruction in any language, in less 
time and with less labor than by any other method 
used in Hermany. A printing-office was furnished 
him in Kbthcn, ami his books were printed in six lan- 
guages. A school was established for him, with one 
hundred and thirty-live scholars. But Ratich proved 
incompetent to give practical effect to his theories. 
He became unpopular, and, being an earnest Lutheran, 
fell under the ban of the religious prejudices of a com- 
munity attached to the Reformed faith, His school 
failed in a short time. Prince Ludwig quarrelled with 
him. and, in 1019, imprisoned him, but he was released 
in 1020, after having signed the declaration that “he 
had claimed and promised more than lie knew or could 
bring to pass.’’ Ilis system was now attacked by sonic 
who had been his friends. The countess Sophia von 
Sehwarzburg- Rudolstadt, however, recommended him 
to the Swedish chancellor, Oxensticrna. At the re- 
quest of that statesman, Drs. Brilekner, Meyfart, and 
Ziegler examined his method ; and they again made 
a favorable report upon it in 1G3I. Ratich, without 
doubt, had a practical conception of the objects of ed- 
ucation. lie preferred to give instruction in those 
branches which could be made useful in life rather than 
to pay so much attention to the dead languages. In 
his memorial to the Diet at Frankfort, he held that a 
child should lirst learn to read and speak the mother- 
tongue correctly, so as to be able to use the German 


KATIE R 


919 


RATIONALISM 


Bible. Hebrew and Greek should then be learned as 
the tongues of the original text of the Bible, after 
which Latin might be studied. II is views were em- 
bodied in a number of rules, or principles, the chief of 
which are: 1. Everything should be presented in its 
order, a due regard being always had to the course of 
nature. 2. Only one thing should be presented at a 
time. 3. Each thing should be often repeated. 4. 
Everything should be taught at first in the mother- 
tongue ; afterwards other languages may be taught. 
5. Everything should be done without compulsion. G. 
Nothing should be learned by rote. 7. There should 
be mutual conformity in all things. 8. First the thing 
by itself, and afterwards the explanation of it; that is 
to say, a basis of material must be laid in the mind be- 
fore any rules ean be applied to it. Thus, in teaching 
grammar, he gave no rules, but began with the reading 
of the text, and required that the rules should be de- 
duced from it. 9. Everything by expression, and the 
investigation by parts. In his Methodus he has left 
minute directions to teachers concerning the details of 
the course, and the proper methods of instruction ; but 
they are very prolix, and impose an immense amount 
of labor on the teacher, without seeming to call for a 
corresponding degree of exertion on the part of the pu- 
pil. Comenius, after reading his book, remarked that 
he “had not ill displayed the faults of the school, but 
that his remedies w’ere not distinctly shown.” Batich’s 
works were written in Latin, and are diffuse, tedious, 
and somewhat pedantic. lie died in IG35. See Bio- 
graphic Universelle , s. v. 

Ratier, Vincent, a French preacher of note, was 
born in 1G34. At sixteen years of age lie entered the 
Order of the Dominicans, and in 1G94 was made superior- 
general of the order in France. He resigned this posi- 
tion ill 1G98, and died near the opening of the 18th cen- 
tury, greatly respected on account of his indefatigable 
zeal. He had preached with great success in the prin- 
cipal eities of France. He wrote, Octave Angelique de 
Saint- Franqois de Sales (Orleans, 1GG7, 8vo) : — Oration 
Funebre de Jeanne-Gabrielle Bouvet des Mo rets, A hbesse 
du Mont-Xotre-Dame, pres Provins (Orleans, IG90, 4to). 
— Hoefer, Xouc. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Ratification is, in the Book of Common Prayer, used 
to indicate the act of confirming and sanctioning some- 
thing previously done by another, as in assuming the ob- 
ligations of baptism at the reception of confirmation. 

Rationale. (1.) The chairs of theology and phi- 
losophy (during the scholastic ages) were the oracular 
seats from which the doctrines of Aristotle were ex- 
pounded as the rationale of theological and moral truth. 
“ There cannot be a body of rules without a rationale , 
and this rationale constitutes the seienee. There were 
poets before there were rules of poetical composition; 
but before Aristotle, or Horace, or Boileau, or Pope could 
write their arts of poetry and criticism, they had con- 
sidered the reasons on which their precepts rested, they 
had conceived in their own minds a theory of the art. 
In like manner, there were navigators before there was 
an art of navigation ; but before the art of navigation 
eould teach the methods of finding the ship’s place by 
observations of the heavenly bodies, the science of as- 
tronomy must have explained the system of the world.” 
Anthony Sparrow, bishop of Exeter, is the author of a 
work entitled A Rationale upon the Book of Common 
Prayer . 

(2.) A peculiar form of the bishop’s pallium ( pecto - 
rale, Xoy uov), appropriated by the bishops of Koine to 
themselves from the time in which they began to as- 
sume the title of pontifices maximi and the dignity of 
the high-priests of the Old Testament. It was some- 
times sent by the Roman pontiffs to other bishops as a 
mark of distinction and favor. It ivas in the form of 
a trefoil, quatrefoil, or oblong square, like the piece of 
stuff worn by the Aaronic high-priest. It appears in 
England on bishop Gifford’s monument at Worcester in 


1301. It was worn, perhaps for the last time on record, 
at Rheims. The pope has a formal, and cardinals and 
1 talian bishops wear superb brooches to elasp their eopes. 
The Greek Tripiart^ior, worn by patriarchs and metro- 
politans over the chasuble, is an oblong plate of gold or 
silver, jewelled. 

(3.) The word rationale is also the name of a treatise 
explaining the meaning, and justifying the continuance, 
of that ceremonial which it was thought fit to retain in 
the Church of England in the year 1541. The mem- 
bers of the committee to whom this subject was in- 
trusted were warmly attached to the splendor of the 
Roman ritual, and, of course, made few alterations. The 
collects in which prayers w ere offered for the pope, and 
the offices for Thomas a Becket and some other saints, 
w’ere omitted; but so slight were the changes intro- 
duced that in many ehurches the missal and breviary 
already in use were retained. The Rationale Uivino- 
rum Officiorum of Durand, bishop of Mcnde, written in 
the latter part of the 13th century, gives the “reasons” 
of the forms and ceremonies of Romish worship. See 
Collier, Eccles. IJist. v, 106; Burnet, 7 list, of the Ref i, 
63; Riddle, Christian Antiq. (see Index). 

Rationalism, a term applied to a specific move- 
ment in theology which assumed definite shape about 
the middle of the 18th century, and culminated in the 
first decades of the 19th. Its chief seat was in Prot- 
estant Germany. Its distinguishing trait consisted in 
ereeting the human understanding into a supreme judge 
over the Word of God, and thus, bv implication, denying 
the importance, and even necessity, of any miraculous 
revelation wdiatever. But a tendency to rationalism 
has existed to some degree wherever human thought 
has made the least advances. Especially are its out- 
breaks distinctly recognisable at several points along the 
course of the history of theology ; and in several coun- 
tries it had existed as a clearly defined movement even 
before its full development in Germany. (In the chief 
features of this article, we shall follow the paper of Dr. 
Tholuck in Herzog’s Real-Fncyklop. xii, 537-554.) 

I. English Rationalism. — Sporadic tendencies towards 
rationalism existed among the Averrhoists in the Mid- 
dle Ages, and among the anti-Trinitarians of the 16th 
century; but these were largely of a philosophical or a 
mvstieal type. But in English deism the tendency 
became definitely theological and anti- Biblical. In 
reaction against the confessional persecutions and in- 
tolerance of the 17th century, not a few gifted minds 
were led to look for a really tenable position only in 
the elementary traits that are common to all confes- 
sions, and even to all religions whatsoever. This led 
gradually to a denial of the necessity of revelation, and 
to an exclusive relianee upon the light of nature ( lumen 
natura >). This lumen became thus both the source and 
the judge of all religious truth. This movement was 
variously styled naturalism, deism, and occasionally also 
rationalism. English deism differs, however, in this 
respect from German — that it proceeded mainly from 
non-theologians, and was openly hostile to the Bible ; 
whereas German rationalism sprang from theologians 
eminent in the Church, and it professedly honored the 
Scriptures as a valuable summary of the highest relig- 
ious truths. The former, according to Nitzsch ( System , 

§ 28), was largely a denier of revelation ; the latter was 
a philosophical exegete. But as the former relied, in the 
last instance, on the lumen naturae, and the latter on the 
so-called “sound human understanding,” the ultimate 
result w T as identical. 

II. Rationalism in the Netherlands. — This arose si- 
multaneously with English deism. Here, also, the tol- 
eration of different confessions led to latitudinarianism. 
The tendency was further promoted by a revival of 
classical humanism. Forerunners of rationalism ap- 
peared before the middle of the 17th century. Voetius 
( Disput . Theol. i, I) mentions a work (of 1G33) which 
did not hesitate to hold thus: Xaturalis ratio judex 
et norma fidei. The tendency was systematically pre- * 


RATIONALISM 


920 


RATIONALISM 


pared for by the Cartesian philosophy. Without di- 
rectly touching the foundations of faith, it yet silently 
undermined them by the fundamental maxim, l)e om- 
nibus dubitandum. This maxim, though reverently in- 
tended, yet resulted, in practice, in a thoroughly anti- 
Hiblical drift. I Inker and lioell held that human rea- 
son is as infallible as Coil, its author ; and that if it ever 
errs, this results from mere lack of attention to its inner 
light. The influence of Spinoza ivas in the same direc- 
tion. In his T rcid at us Thwdogico-politieus, he had sub- 
jected the religion of the Bible to a philosophical inter- 
pretation which was fatal to its positive validity. 11 is 
disciple, L. Mevcr, taught unhesitatingly (1666), Quid- 
quid rationi contrarium, illud non est credendum. Also 
from the time of Spinoza forward there appears, even 
among devout theologians, a tendency to break loose 
from orthodox traditions. This is further promoted by 
the works of gifted French refugees — Bayle, Lc Clerc, 
and others. 

111. German Rationalism. — This subject falls natu- 
rally into the following live subdivisions: the period 
of preparatory discussion (1GG0-1750); the period of 
historical criticism (1750-1780); the period of philo- 
sophical criticism (1780-1800); the period of the so- 
called rationalismus vulgaris (1800-1811); the period 
of philosophical rationalism (from Kant to Feuerbach). 

1. Preparatory. — It was only incidentally that for- 
eign rationalism attracted the attention of German the- 
ologians before the close of the 17th century. The ear- 
liest assailant of Herbert of Chcrbury and of Spinoza 
was Musoeus, in 1667 and 1G74. But a German basis 
for rationalism had already been laid. In the midst 
of the violence of orthodox polemics, Oalixtus had laid 
the foundations for a less rigid tendency. The Thirty 
Years’ War (1618 -1648) had spread immorality among 
the masses and indifference among the nobility. The 
succeeding years of material prosperity and of French 
luxury still further undermined the power of the old 
orthodoxy. But the Lutheran Church still firmly held 
its old position till towards the close of the century. 
The lleformed Church was the first to be affected. 
Duisburg became the ral lying-point of suspected Car- 
tesians from all quarters. Here II. llulsius (1688) de- 
fended the principle of lioell, that reason is the ulti- 
mate judge in matters of faith, and substituted syllo- 
gistic argumentation for the testimonium internum, lie 
also declared that theology was the handmaid of phi- 
losophy, instead of the converse. The same views were 
found elsewhere in lleformed circles. Bashuysen held, 
in a dissertation (Zerbst, 1727), that reason is the test 
of faith, and that none but fanatics appealed to a testi- 
monium spiritus. Similar sentiments soon found place 
in Lutheran schools, though not in the thcoligieal fac- 
ulties. Thomasius, first at Leipsic, then at 1 1 alio, was 
the first to give to them much prominence. His main 
endeavor of life was the “ dissipation of prejudices’’ from 
every field of thought or inquiry, and the criterion of his 
efforts was a prudential regard for the ‘‘useful;” and as 
the only judge of the “useful” was the so-called com- 
mon-sense of the educated classes, it is plain that the 
rationalistic foundation was already fully laid. But the 
name rationalism was as yet almost wholly unknown, 
and in outward form the authority of the Scriptures 
was still almost universally admitted. 

Inside of the German Church of the 17th century, 
and down to the middle of the 18th, there prevailed 
two parallel streams of life— the subjective devotion of 
pietism, and a subjective proclivity to individual crit- 
icism both of them having this in common, that they 
opposed the objective validity of formal orthodoxy. < >n 
the part of pietism, this opposition was not consciously 
intended ; but in laying such exclusive emphasis on the 
Bible as opposed to creeds, and on the witness of the 
Spirit as opposed to priestly guidanoe.it actually did so 
in fact. Tims the venerable Michael Lang, of Altdorf, 
allowed himself, in his zeal for vital piety, to stigmatize 
the orthodox symbols as apc-Biblcs and sectarian doc- 


uments. Spener found the yoke of these symbols in- 
supportable in some points; Joachim Lange and others 
actually disregarded them on occasion, llaferung se- 
riously objects to the formula that good works spring from 
faith. The pious liambach virtually undermines the 
orthodox theory of inspiration. The form of dogmat- 
ics began to undergo a change. Breithaupt (1700) and 
Freylinghausen (1703) purposely avoided the tradition- 
al phraseology in their systems of theology. And this 
tendency from within the Church was promoted by in- 
fluences which came now from England and Holland. 
The force of this influence may be judged of by the 
opposition it at first met with. Lilicnthal mentions, 
between 1680 and 1720, no less than forty-six works 
against atheism, twenty-seven against rationalism, and 
fifteen against indifferentism. The forms of the oppo- 
sition varied all the way from a natural desire for a 
clear understanding of the grounds of faith to an ab- 
solute indifference, or even a frivolous atheism. The 
eminent Leipsic pastor Zeidler (1735) thought to hon- 
or the Bible by the utmost contempt of systems of doc- 
trine. Out of pietism there sprang a number of warm- 
hearted mystics, who laid exclusive stress on the “in- 
ner spark, the inner word,” thus opening the path to 
every sort of vagary. L’nder the guidance of this “ in- 
ner word,” Dippel presented, in 1697, a very free criti- 
cism of the dogmas of inspiration and atonement. Lb- 
schcr complained, in 1725, that even good theologians 
were falling into the danger of insisting simply on Chris- 
tian love and morals, and forgetting the danger from as- 
saults of false teachers. In the same year, an eminent 
publicist called for a consolidation of the Lutheran and 
lleformed confessions, asserting that, after all, piety and 
love were the only things essential. Edelmann began, 
in 1735, with slight variations from strict orthodoxy, 
and ended, with Spinoza, in denying the personality of 
God and the immortality of the soul. The aged Lb- 
schcr sorrowfully laments, in 1746, that, after his forty- 
seven years of faithful ministry, the condition of theol- 
ogy and of the Church was only growing worse and 
worse; and sadder still is the lament of Koch, in 1754, 
that the Bible had almost lost all respect on the part 
of the cultured classes, and that it was abandoned to the 
ignorant as a collection of childish fables. 

All the preceding inroads upon orthodox tradition 
had been carried out under the demands of the so-called 
sound human understanding. It was mostly the work 
of non -theologians. But from the beginning of the 
18th century, a definite philosophical system was made 
to serve the interests of rationalism. Leibnitz and 
Wolff threw out thoughts that powerfully contributed to 
ends which their authors were very far from intending. 
Leibnitz’s distinction of doctrines into those which can 
be rationally proved and those which arc above reason 
was used to cast positive suspicion upon the whole of 
the latter class. Wolff’s distinction of theology into 
the two parts, natural and revealed, was turned to the 
same service. As natural theology coidd give a reason 
for its dicta, and revealed theology could not, it came to 
pass that almost the whole stress was laid upon the 
former. But this incipient undermining process was as 
yet hardly felt outside of the professional circles. The 
pulpit remained almost unaffected. The most eminent 
example of the union of the old with the new tenden- 
cies was in the ease of Matthew Bfaff, professor in Tu- 
bingen (1716), then in Giessen (1756), who died in 1760. 
Holding fast to the chief old landmarks, be yet relaxed 
much from confessional rigidity, and earnestly labored 
for the. union of the two German churches. The men- 
tion of l’faff brings us to the close of this first phase of 
German rationalism. 

2. The Period of Historical Criticism. — The condition 
of theology, and, indeed, of science and art also, alwmt 
the middle of the 18ih century, was that of a munimv- 
like stiffness and a shallow systematization. The vital 
contest which had broken out in Sponcr’s time between 
pietism and orthodoxy had lost its vigor and died away. 


RATIONALISM 


921 


RATIONALISM 


The second generation of Ilalle pietists had left the I 
stage, J. H. Michaelis in 1738, J. Lange in 1744; G. 
Francke outlived his age — until 1770. So, also, had 
departed the last champions of the old orthodoxy — 
Wemsdorf in 1729, Cyprian in 1745, Loscher in 1749 ; 
Wolif, having outlived the vitality of his own system, 
departed in sadness in 1754. The superficial and pe- 
dantic Gottsched still held his mastery in the fine arts. 
An unproductive, compiling spirit prevailed in science 
and theology. “Most of our preachers,” says Erenius, 
“give now large attention to the making of collections 
of curiosities, stamps, and old coins.” There was want- 
ing a fresh wind to fill the weary sails of life. But just 
now the lacking stimulus was abundantly supplied ; it 
was furnished by the furor of criticism which broke out 
first on the field of history , then on that of philosophy. 

Although Thomasius and others had already done 
something in the field of historical criticism, this was 
only from a superficial, empirical standpoint. It was 
only when historical criticism assumed a thorough and 
systematic form that it wrought its full clarifying and 
revolutionizing effects on the whole field of theology. 
New investigations were now instituted ; every nook 
and corner of antiquity, linguistics, and science of every 
form was subjected to a searching and sifting such as 
had never before been paralleled; and the results at- 
tained were such as clearly required a re-examination 
and reconstruction of the whole circle of the religious 
sciences. It is true the main motive which inspired 
the critical movement was devoid of deep religious 
character, and hence many of its boasted results have 
proved to be untenable; but many others are admitted, 
and accepted by all parties as absolutely unassailable. 

Also, on this critical field, English deism had been in 
the advance, and had contributed no insignificant re- 
sults. Toland, Collins, Tindal, and Bolingbroke had un- 
settled the popular faith in the authenticity of the can- 
on, insisting that the multiplicity of apocryphal books, 
some of them accepted by the fathers, threw doubt upon 
all the others ; that many passages in the Gospels were 
manifestly spurious; that the time of the settlement of 
the canon was absolutely unknown ; that the genuine 
sacred books of the Jews had perished in the time of 
the Exile, etc. Hobbes gave lengthy reasons for dis- 
believing the Pentateuch; Collins threw discredit upon 
Daniel ; Morgan gave to the views of Toland and Bol- 
ingbroke an attractive rhetorical expression, thus dis- 
seminating them among the uneducated. Collins as- 
sailed the very foundations of the historical argument — 
to wit, the prophecies — insisting that the predictions of 
the Old Testament relate, when properly interpreted, to 
very different things from those to which the New-Tes- 
tament writers apply them. Only in one of the Proph- 
ets — Daniel — are there real predictions ; but these relate, 
not to Christ, but to political events. Moreover, these 
prophecies of Daniel “ were written after the events.” 

In Germany the full tide of revolutionary criticism 
takes systematic form in Semlcr of Halle. By Sender 
almost the whole circle of orthodox landmarks was 
thrown into confusion : the Bible-text was assailed; the 
pertinency of standard proof-texts was denied ; the gen- 
uineness of Biblical books was contested ; the foundation 
was dashed away from numerous usages and dogmas 
which had hitherto passed as absolutely unassailable. 
Although many of the points which Sender made M erc 
subsequently further developed and accepted as sound, 
yet the immediate effect in his day was to throw doubt 
into the whole arsenal of orthodoxy. 

The general effect was to set in motion an unpar- 
alleled vigor of critical investigation. It spread like 
wildfire among all the universities and all ranks of the 
clergy. Biblical criticism and exegesis, the history of 
tbe Church and of doctrine, were speedily enriched and 
enlarged. In Halle, Semler found an able and like-spir- 
ited pupil in Gruner, at Leipsic labored the cautions but 
progressive Ernesti (since 1759); Michaelis represented 
the movement at Gottingen (since 1750); Griesbach, 


| Doderlein, Eichhorn, at Jena; Henke at Ilelmstedt; 
Tollmer, Steinhart, at Frankfort-on-the-Oder. Under 
the labors of these and kindred critics there was scarce- 
ly a single dogma that remained unscathed. But the 
general inspiration, the purpose, of the w hole is not the 
overturning, but only the clarification, the correct con* 
struction, of the Biblical teachings. Even the authority 
of the Church is held fast to by Semler, though in a pe- 
culiar manner. The symbols and forms of the Church 
are useful in preserving external unity and uniformity. 
Criticism is simply the right of the private judgment 
of the individual. His position seemed practically to 
involve a doubt of the possibility of attaining to objec- 
tive truth; his radical mistake was the assumption that 
religion can exist without a doctrinal basis. Starting 
out from the warm atmosphere of pietism, he gradually 
descended until he had little more reverence for the ora- 
cles of God than for the fables of Ovid. Holding that 
the inner conviction of our own truth-loving heart is 
the sole test as to the inspiration of a book, he decided 
against the claim of Ruth, Ezra, Nehemiali, Esther, and 
the Canticles; he doubted the genuineness of Joshua, 
Judges, Samuel, Kings, and Daniel; he held that the 
Pentateuch is but a collection of legendary fragments. 
The New Testament is better than the Old, though some 
of its parts are positively pernicious; the Apocalypse is 
the fabrication of a fanatic; the Gospel of John is the 
only one which is useful for the modern Church. There 
are two elements in the Bible, the transitory and the 
eternal. It is the prerogative of criticism to sift among 
the chaff and select out the scattered grains of pure 
truth. Much of the Bible was written simply for local 
or party purposes : it was never intended for general 
use. A principle of 'which Semler made large use was 
the celebrated “accommodation theory.” He insisted, 
namely, that Christ and the apostles taught many things 
byway of mere accommodation to the whims and preju- 
dices of the age. They did not abruptly contradict many 
false views that prevailed, but they partially accepted 
them, though planting within them a substratum of ab- 
solute truth. To sift out this truth from the encasement 
of rubbish is the privilege of the clear-sighted modern 
critic. In the field of dogmatics Semler was almost 
ferocious in his iconoclasm. For the Protestant or even 
the apostolical fathers he showed the most thorough 
disrespect. One after another of the central dogmas of 
orthodoxy fell under the hammer of his criticism, and 
seemed to be dissipated forever. And what Semler did 
at Halle, a bold choir of like-minded men did in other 
parts of Germany. 

Of very considerable influence in this second half of 
the 18th century were translations of the works of Eng- 
lish and Dutch rationalists and deists. Semler him- 
self acknowledges his great indebtedness to Wettstein 
and Le Clerc. The biographies of the day are full of 
references to the wide influence of Toland and Tindal. 
The same fact is evinced by the scores and scores of 
clerical attempts at refuting these sceptics. 

From the lawless subjectivism of Semler the descent 
was easy to the most absurd and degrading consequen- 
ces. Two theological writers especially carried out the 
logical consequences in both their writings and their 
lives. Edelmann took up the tradition of Thomasius, 
and constructed his whole system of theology from a 
superficial utilitarian standpoint. Not what is true , but 
what is of use to the subject, was his whole inquiry. 
The result was that he simply reduced Christianity to 
a feeble and insipid deism. But the climax was reached 
in Balirdt. This man used his eminent popular talents 
to ridicule the Bible, to blaspheme Christ, and to de- 
grade to the very lowest infamy the name of theologian. 
His popular treatises were read by the ten thousand, and 
produced great evil. But his career as a whole marked 
a turning-point in the tide of rationalism. Criticism, 
when left unguided by any fixed principle of objective 
truth, was found to be fruitless and to lead only to de- 
struction. It became necessary to look about for some 


NATIONALISM 


922 


RATIONALISM 


corner-stone of truth upon which to stay the tottering 
edifice of theology anti religion. The various attempts 
to discover this constitute— 

.3. The Period of Philosophical Criticism (1780-1800). 
—After the decline of the popularity of Wolff, the vital- 
ity of philosophy in Germany stood at the zero point. So 
long as philosophy was represented by the feeble eclec- 
ticism of Mendelssohn, Garve, Sulzer, Mciners, Plainer, 
Heinhard, and Platt, the criticism of the Sender school 
could Hatter itself with standing upon philosophical 
ground; for both tendencies were built upon the one 
principle of the so-called ‘‘sound human understanding.” 
1 in t when Kant came, both systems were overturned at 
a blow. Kant showed that our transcendental knowl- 
edge reaches no further than our experience, and that 
our knowledge of supernatural objects is defensible only 
as postulates of the practical reason. Philosophy and 
theology must concede that the proofs for the existence 
of God avail no further than simply to establish a prob- 
ability. The subjective morality of utility was over- 
thrown by the principle that no morality is possible save 
where it is grounded upon a purely objective “ought.” 
It was shown that the whole duty of theology was, by 
the help of religions ideas, to contribute to the suprem- 
acy of the “ought” in human society. Hut also the 
philosophy of Kant took on somewhat of the coloring 
of the age, and many of the old rationalists interpreted 
it as favorable to them. Thus the three Kantian postu- 
lates of the practical reason were metamorphosed into 
mere hypotheses of the theoretical reason. The objective 
categorical imperative was identified with the subjective 
voice of conscience; and that “ morality is the chief thing 
in religion” was said to be the very essence of the old 
subjectivism. Hut there were two phases to the matter: 
while one current of rationalistic theology welcomed 
Kant and vainly hoped to force the new wine into the 
old bottles, another current mocked at it as mere mys- 
ticism and scholastic jargon. Only a few deeper-sight- 
ed men, such as Schmidt, Vogel, and Tieftrunk, saw the 
folly of both of these positions — saw that the new was 
utterly subversive of the old. 

I. The Period of the So-called Rational is mas Vulgaris 
(1800-1X3.3).— The attitude of the theology dominant 
at the dawn of the 19th century was thus: The lloly 
Scriptures rationally interpreted were still revered as t lie 
codex of a rational religion and morality. Hut with 
every advance step in what was called historical exe- 
gesis, the discrepancy between the traditional sense of 
the Bible and the new construction which reason en- 
deavored to put upon it became more strikingly ap- 
parent. Sender’s accommodation theory was made to 
apply to every narrative and every doctrinal statement 
of the whole Bible. Every passage in the Scriptures 
was thought to be so enveloped in a Judaistic haze as 
to render necessary a great deal of clarification before 
the true sense could be reached. The Xew Testament 
citations from the Old were thought to be totally mis- 
applied. Jesus was thought by some to have been a 
veritable fanatic. John the Baptist regarded him as sin- 
less; but did Jesus think so himself? The myth theory 
began now to play its role. L. Hauer published in 1X00 
a Hebrew mythology of the Old and Xew Testaments; 
the miracles were explained away as mere natural 
events. 

As early as 1791 the aspect of matters was thus 
summed up by liiem: “3'he champions of the religion 
of pure reason have already advanced so far that all the 
host theologians are going over to them, and all candi- 
dates Or position hold them in great honor. It has 
already coin' 1 to be a settled matter that reason is the 
court of highest appeal; and that this court will not 
decide against itself is easy to sec.” A writer in 1792 
had said: “The truth of a doctrine rests upon rational 
grounds. If it can stand the test of reason; if it does i 
not contradict any of the results of science and expe- j 
rience; if it commends itself to all rational men, then it I 
is true, and no fanatic can prove the contrary.” Krug I 


| went so far in 1795 as to deny to Christian truth any 
| more permanent worth than that of the teachings of any 
other transitory system of philosophy. “Let no one say 
that God could make none other than a perfect revela- 
tion. There is no perfect revelation. The utterances 
of holy men spring up from their souls just as the utter- 
ances of other men; hence they necessarily hear the 
coloring of the environment from which they sprang.” 
Such sentiments were legislatively condemned in some 
parts of Germany; but not so in Prussia. Here the 
chief Church councillor, Teller, on being asked whether 
any positive confession was any longer to be exacted of 
candidates for Church membership, replied that, apart 
from baptism and the cncharist, no other yoke was to 
be imposed; on the contrary, every applicant was to be 
unhesitatingly received with the simple formula: “I 
baptize thee upon thy confession of Christ, the lounder 
of a more spiritual and more joyous religion than that 
of the society [the world] to which thou hast hitherto 
belonged.” 

With the changed phase of things at the close of the 
18th century, the term “rationalism” came into more 
frequent use. At first it was chiefly used bv opponents. 
Men like Gabler contrasted rationalism with ibe funda- 
mental principle of Protestantism, to wit, the normative 
authority of the Bible, showing the utter inconsistency 
of the two. Henceforth it is used mainly as a term of 
reproach ; it was never cordially accepted by those to 
whom it was applied. 

As soon as rationalism became clearly conscious of its 
attitude towards revelation, it felt more fully than ever 
the necessity of defining its own fundamental principles. 
Also an external stimulus urged it to this step. Hith- 
erto it had peaceably reclined its bead on the bosom of 
each successively rising system of philosophy; hut since 
the rise of the speculative systems of Fichte and Schel- 
ling, such an alliance was impossible. The haughty 
speculative systems disdained to fraternize with the 
superficial reasonings of the “sound Imman understand- 
ing.” Also, even rationalism stood aghast at the bot- 
tomless abyss of the pantheistic mysticism of Xchclling; 
and numerous works of rationalistic source assailed the 
new “ atheism.” But the empirical platitudes of ration- 
alism met with only ridicule and sneers from the new 
lords of the intellectual world. Fichte, Schelling, and 
Gbthc agreed in stigmatizing the best principles ami 
the whole system of the rationalists as commonplace 
! and vulgar. 

At last, however, there appeared a system of philoso- 
phy under the wings of which the rationalists felt that 
they could tlee for refuge; this was the faith-philosophy 
of Jacobi. The radical weakness of the old rationalism 
was that it gave no scope to the spontaneities of senti- 
1 ment and the heart, but rather measured everything by 
| the cold, dry processes of argumentation. It was utterly 
ungenial, unpoetic; a mere probability was the highest 
word it could say in behalf of the most central truths. 
The system of Jacobi remedied this. It supplemented 
the coldness of mere intellectual probability by the 
“immediate certainty of feeling;” it restored to faith 
its colegitimacv with knowledge. Accordingly, all the 
better representatives of honest rationalism hailed the 
faith -philosophy of Jacobi, and used it to rescue the 
sinking bark of the current theology. Xotably was this 
flic ease with Gabler, who now urged as the deepest 
proof of the truth of religion a “ Xiithignngsgcftlhl mit 
1 'ranssprUchen dcr allgemoincn Vernimft” — that is, he 
held that religious truth commends itself directly to our 
inner consciousness with all the compelling force of in- 
tuition. From this time forward it became common to 
lay great stress upon what, with Kant, was the impera- 
tive of the practical reason, and to style it the faith of 
reason ( Vemunffylanben' ). This procedure was partial- 
ly justified by Kant himself, who claimed to have set 
limits to reason only in order to give greater play to 
faith. It was still more justified hv the Half-Kantians, 
such as Bouterweck, who derives all the ideas of reason • 


RATIONALISM 


923 


RATIONALISM 


from a so-called truth-feeling and truth-faith. This is 
the philosophic ground upon which are based the defini- 
tions of reason and the understanding as given in the 
theology of Bretschneider and Wegscheider; to wit, that 
reason is the faculty for generating ideas directly out 
of consciousness without the intervention of the discur- 
sive activity, while understanding is the faculty for con- 
firming and elucidating these ideas. 

Thus rationalism has, since the beginning of the 19th 
century, made considerable advances beyond its previous 
dry and shallow common-senseism. It was helped to 
this by the philosophy of Fries, who, by his doctrine of 
faith and insight, placed reason in antagonism to the 
understanding; and still more so when this philosophy 
was adopted by the gifted and noble-minded De Wette. 
For a long while yet— into the third decade — the tone 
and foibles of rationalism remained largely the same as 
those given to it by the abstract, shallow prosiness of 
Nicolai and of Teller, of Semler,aiul in some respects of 
Gabler. Ruhr and Fanlus follow in the steps of Teller ; 
Bretschneider and Wegscheider reproduce much of the 
loose syncretism of a Sender. The chief scientific weak- 
ness of Wegscheider’s celebrated Instilutiones lies in its 
dearth of definitely fixed ideas and in its avoidance of 
decided utterances. lie asserts: “ In rebus gravissirais 
ad religionem pertinentibus convenire omnes gentes.” 
Hase raises the question whether any real student of the 
history of philosophy could agree to this. Wegscheider’s 
only defence is to timidly insert a fere omnes. lie re- 
iterates the old demonstrations of the existence of God; 
and when Kant’s antinomies stare him in the face, he 
concedes that, taken singly, these demonstrations are 
not conclusive, but thinks that they are so when token 
all together. Hahn declares that deism and naturalistic 
rationalism are identical. Wegscheider indignantly pro- 
tests, inasmuch as rationalism accepts revelation thus far: 
“ that God endowed the founder of Christianity with 
extraordinary inner gifts, and gave him many outward 
tokens of special guidance.” 

At this point there rises the so-called supernaturalist 
school. It includes those who protested against the 
absolute autonomy of reason in matters of religion ; and 
though many of its adherents still clung to views irrec- 
oncilable with due reverence for the Bible, still it formed 
the platform upon which a higher and more Biblical 
standpoint was subsequently reached. Among these 
supernaturalists were men like Storr ami Flatt in Wiir- 
temberg, and Reinhard in Dresden. But by the begin- 
ning of the second decade of the century even these 
feeble supernaturalist voices were silent, and rationalism 
seemed to remain solitary and victorious upon the field 
of battle. Yet the dry crumbs of rationalism could not 
satisfy the deep wants of the German nation ; the stim- 
ulus to a deeper insight and a richer faith came from 
without. It was from the thunder-strokes of the Leip- 
sic anil the Waterloo victories that the rejuvenation of 
German life went forth. This rejuvenation brought, in 
its train a restoration of life, first in the German Church 
and then in German theology. Inside of theology the 
rationalistic movement continued until 1825. Among its 
ablest assailants at this time arc Tittmann and Sartorius; 
but outside of the schools many signs indicated that its 
reign was over. The new policy of the Prussian gov- 
ernment discountenanced it; the religions and patriotic 
enthusiasm occasioned by the tercentenary of the Refor- 
mation (1817) was uncongenial to it, the theses of 
Harms and the disputation of Eeipsic (which had the 
courage to summon the rationalistic clergy to resign 
their clerical positions) were of the same purport. In 
1830 the new Kirehenzeitung of Ilengstenberg went so 
far even as to call for the expulsion of rationalistic pro- 
fessors from the universities. As yet, however, it was 
but a small band who opposed rationalism. But they 
had the courage of faith and the vitality of truth on 
their side, and their influence was very deeply felt. 

Just at this time the decisive influence of Schleie/- 
macher came to the help of the opponents of rational- 


ism. With all its rationalistic methods, the system of 
this great theologian was hostile to rationalism as a 
whole. It promoted a positive faith in a positive Chris- 
tianity; it was powerfully influential in implanting a 
reverence for positive religion in the higher and learned 
circles of German life ; it regarded religion as one of the 
essential necessities of human nature, and it saw in the 
Church an organization essential to the nurture of re- 
ligion. The period was now past when faith and culture 
were regarded as uncongenial to each other. In effecting 
this change in public sentiment, Fichte and Schelling 
contributed no inconsiderable increments to the potent 
influence of Schleiermacher. The very last scientific ef- 
fort of rationalism was made on the appearance of Hake’s 
Ilutterus Redivivus. In this book Ilase transports him- 
self into the sphere of ancient Protestant orthodoxy, and 
attempts such a presentation of it as shall harmonize 
with the rich fruits of modern culture. The school of 
Rohr assailed (1830) this book with desperate earnest- 
ness; but the very choice of its weapons betrayed the 
forlorn hope of the cause. The replies which Hase made 
to these assaults may be regarded as having given the 
death-blow to scientific rationalism. As a result of the 
contest, rationalism was forced to confess that the “rea- 
son" upon which it leans for support is simply the com- 
mon-sense of man in general. Henceforth the system 
is branded with the title rationalismus vulgaris , against 
which Rohr himself has no other objection to make 
save that the adjective communis would be a little more 
polite. 

5. Philosophical Rationalism. — During the whole pe- 
riod of theological rationalism there had existed a cur- 
rent of philosophical rationalism. The climax of this 
current was reached when Hegel persuaded himself that 
he had imposed upon Christianity such an interpreta- 
tion as presented it as the adequate expression of the 
very highest philosophical truth. But this climax-pe- 
riod was but of momentary' duration. When the vapors 
of enthusiasm were dissipated, it was seen that this 
transfiguration of Christianity' was but a delusion. The 
downward flow of speculative rationalism begins with 
Strauss's Dogma tik (1840). In this work it is shown 
that the connection between speculative thought and 
Christian doctrine is only' of the very slightest kind. 
The next downward step was taken by' the Young He- 
gelians, when they- taught, with Feuerbach, that phi- 
losophy alone can give any' real satisfaction to thought, 
and that religion can serve at best only' a practical need. 
This changed opinion in regard to the nature of relig- 
ion sprang front a changed position in philosophy. The 
proud monism of Hegel had given place to a feeble du- 
alism. Feuerbach denies that speculative thought is 
the only' instrument for philosophizing, and insists that 
the telescope of the astronomer and the hammer of the 
geologist are also entitled to respect. Thus induction 
is substituted for deduction, and the entering wedge for 
the whole stream of modern materialism is starteil in 
its course. The climax of speculative degradation was 
reached when, in the hands of the more advanced Young 
Hegelians, philosophy' completely' discrowned itself, and 
confessed that the sum total of attainable useful truth 
is to be found in the path of material experiment and 
practical observation. 

We have now reached the close of rationalism as a 
vitalmoveraent. It sprang out of a reaction against the 
stiff, formal orthodoxy' of the opening 18th century. It 
expired in 1833, under the critical strokes of Base and 
the religious inspiration that went out from Schleier- 
macher. Taking up the inspiration of Schleiermacher, 
and rising to a much higher theological position than 
he, a noble company of the most gifted theologians of 
any' age have completely' rescued German scientific the- 
ology' from t he dishonor and obscuration which had be- 
fallen it during the rationalistic period. Pre-eminent 
among these rehabilitators of orthodoxy are such men 
as Neander, Nitzsch, Ewald, Julius Midler, Dorner, 
Twesten, Olshausen, Sack, Ebrard, Ullraann, Hundcs- 


RATISBOX 


924 


RATRAMNUS 


hagcn. Liickc, Umbreit, Stier, Ilagenbacb, Gicseler, 
Bleek, Tholnck, liot be, and their disciples. In the hands 
of these men Christian theology lias been raised to the 
dignity of the noblest of sciences; and supreme rever- 
ence for Christ and the Bible have been shown to con- 
sist well with the profoundest learning and the greatest 
speculative ability. 

But the scattered echoes of German rationalism were 
long in entirely dying away. Faint imitations of the 
movement went out over all the other Protestant na- 
tions. It invaded modern Holland and England and 
France and America. But in these countries it was 
but a foreign importation, and it has shown no vital 
power of original production. And even in Germany 
there are individual representatives of the dead system. 
But these are without popular power or scientific sig- 
nificance. They are simply echoes from a buried past. 

IV. Literature. — On t.hc general subject of rational- 
ism, consult Stiiudlin, Gesch. des Ratiomdismus und Sn- 
pranatnralismns (1820); Saint.es, Hist. da Rationalisms 
(1811); Ilagenbacb, Gench. des 18/m und 19/m Jahr- 
hunderts (18,10); Iliindcshagen, I ter dentsche Protes- 
tant hums (18.lt)) ; Auberlcn, Die gottliche Ojenbarung 
(B.isle, 1801-01); Beyschlag, Ueber das “ Leben Jesu" 
ron Renan (Halle, 1801); Bockshammcr, Ojenbarung 
und Theologie (Stuttg. 1822); Bretschneider, Ueber die 
G ruwlprincipien der evang. Theologie (18132); La Saus- 
saye, La Crise Religieuse en I/ollanrle (Leyd. I860); 
Cornil, Feuerbach und seine Stellung zur Religion und 
Philos, tier Gegenwart (Frankfort-on-the-Main, 1811) ; 
Engelhardt, Sckenkel und Strauss (Erlangen, 1801); 
Eeldmann, Der Wuhre Christas und sein rechtes Symbol 
(Altona, 1805); Van Prinsterer, />e Parti Anti-revolution 
noire et Confessionnal dans VEglise Reformee <Rs P tys- 
Bas (Amsterdam, 1800); llaffner, Die deutsche Auf- 
kliirnng (Mainz, 1801); Held, Jesus der Christ (Zurich, 
1805); Hcnhofer, Der Kampf des Unglanbcns (Heidel- 
berg, 1801); Henke, Ratiomdismus mi l Truditionalis- 
inus ini 19/m Jahrhundert (1804); D.: Grout, Die Grb- 
ninger Theologen (Gotha, 1803); llurter, Ueber die Rechte 
der Vernnn/t und des Gluubens (Innspruck, 1803); Kah- 
ilis, D r innere Gang des deutschen Protestantismus seit 
der Mitte des vorigen Jahrhunderts (Leipsic, 1851); Ni- 
colas, Die Gottheit Jesu (Regensburg, 1801); Noack, Die 
Freidmker in der Religion (Berne, 1851); Riggenbach, 
Der heutigp It itionalismns (Basle, 1802); Riickcrt, Der 
Rat ionalis intis (Leipsic, 1859); Schott, Brieje iibr Re- 
ligion (Jena, 1820); Schwartz, Zur Gesch. der neuesten 
Theologie (Leipsic, 1801); Tholuck, Die Gesch. des Ra- 
tionalisnius (Berlin, 1805); Astie, Les Dur Theologies 
Nouvelles (Paris, 1802 ) ; C tlani, Ma Position (ibid. 1800) ; 
Fazet, Lettres it un Rationaliste (ibid. 1801); I’ranchi, 
Le R it ionalis me (Brussels, 1858); Lups, Le Truditiona- 
lisnie et le Rntionalisme (Liege, 1859); Kiimusnt, Phi- 
losophic Religieuse (Paris, 1801); Farrar, Critical /list, 
of Free Thought (Lond. 1803); Draper, Intellectual De- 
velopment of Europe (N T . Y. 1803); Hedge, Reason in Re- 
ligion (Bast. 1805); Jelf, Supremacy of Scripture (Lond. 
1801); Manse], Limits of Religious Thought (ibid. 1859); 
Puscy, Historical Inquiry (ibid. 1820); Kigg, Modern 
Anglican Theology (ibid. 1859); Scbaif, Germany, its 
Theology (Pbiladtd. 1857); Hurst, Hist, of Rationalism 
(N. V. 1805) ; W'uttke, Christian Ethics (N. Y. 1873), 
vol. i : Lccky, Rationalism in Europe, (ibid. 1800) ; 
Schaff, C reeds of Christendom (ibid. 1877). vol. i. (J. P. L.) 

Ratisboil, a city of Germany, is noted in ecclesias- 
tical history as the seat of several important Church 
councils (Concilia Rafisponenses). 'Flic first of these was 
held in 792. In this council the errors of Felix, bishop 
of l rgel, who maintained that Christ is only the adop- 
tive Son of God, were condemned, and he himself sent 
to Rome to pope Adrian, before whom he confessed and 
abjured bis heresy in the church of St. Peter; he main- 
tained, with Klipaudus, that Christ, as to his human 
nature, was the Son of God by adoption only. See 
Labbe, Concil. vii, 1010. See also Felu-ians. 

A second council wa9 held in 79(5. Grievous com- 


plaints having been made both by the priests and laity 
of the ministrations of the chorcpiscopi, it was decided 
in this council that the latter had no power to perform 
episcopal functions, being only priests, and that, conse- 
quently, all the previous acts were null and void; it 
was also forbidden to make any new chorepiscopi. This 
rank, however, among the clergy did not entirely cease 
until the middle of the 10th century. See Labbe, Con- 
cil. vii, 1 152. 

A third council was the conference held in 1541, and 
generally called the Diet of Ratisbon. Though it had 
in view the settlement of all religions differences be- 
tween the Protestants and the adherents to papal au- 
thority, it only resulted in effecting a mutual agreement 
to refer the settlement of their differences to a general 
council. See Riddle, Hist, of the Pa juicy ; Mushcim, /Ce- 
des. Hist. ; Meth. Quar. Rev. Jan. 1872. p. 143 ; Marsdcn, 
Hist, of the Sects of Christendom ; Buchanan, Treatise on 
Justification ; Farrar, Crit. I/ist. of Free Thought. See 
also Reformation. 

Ratramnus of Corbky, an Aquitanian monk of 
the first half of the 9th century, is noted in ecclesiasti- 
cal history as the controversialist of Paschasius Rad- 
bertns on the subject of the holy eucharist (q. v.). Ra- 
tramnus’s personal history is scarcely known, except 
that he was the personal friend of Godcschalcus, and 
was regarded in his day as one of the ablest defenders 
of Augustinianism. He is sometimes called Bertram 
the Monk, or Bertram the Priest, but it is thought that 
this is a corruption of B. Ratramnus, “Beat us” luing 
sometimes prefixed to the names of venerated writers, 
even when there had been no act of beatification. His 
literary activity falls between 830 ami 8(18. One of the 
works in defence of Augustinianism which proves its au- 
thor to have been more llinn ordinarily versed in patris- 
tic literature is by Lalramnus, and is entitled l>e Pre- 
destinatione I)ei. It was written at the request of king 
Charles the Bald in 850. He lays down the following 
August i nian dogmatics: “The elect are destined to mer- 
cy and salvation ; the godless (o eternal punishment; the 
latter are given over to sin only in so far as, on account 
of their foreseen hard-heartedness and wickedness, the 
divine help towards goodness is denied them.” More 
important is his controversy with Paschasius on the eu- 
charist, which led to the composition of his work Liber 
de Corpore et Sanguine Domini, also written at the ex- 
press wish of the king in 844, and being a defence of 
pure symbolical sacramental doctrine. To the question 
of Charles the Bald, “<)uod in ecelesia ore lidclinm sn- 
mitur, corpus et sanguis Christi utrum in mysterio liat 
an in veritate?” he answered with the distinction of 
what occurred really, pcretivaldy, “in veritate,” and 
what “in mysterio” comes to pass. A change, he held, 
occurred in the eucharist, but not a real, perceivable 
one; it is the mere act of faith which makes bread ami 
wine the spiritual food and drink of the body and blood 
of Christ, 'flic book was lost sight of after a time, ami 
it was even ascribed, when met with, to Scot us F.rige- 
na, and as such it was burned in 1050 by the Synod of 
Yercelli in the Bercngarian Controversy. During the 
English Reformation the work was suddenly resurrected 
from its obscurity, and bad much inllucncc. It was 
published at Cologne in 1532, after having been brought 
into notice bv bishop Fisher, of Rochester, as early as 
1520, that prelate referring to it as maintaining the Cath- 
olic doctrine of the eucharist. It largely influenced the 
minds of archbishop Cranmer and bishop Ridley; and, 
as it proved of more service to the Protestants than to 
the Romanists, it was put into the Index in 1559 by 
the censors of the Tridentine Council. In England an 
edition was brought out in English by William Hugh, 
under the name of The Book of Bertram, in 1548. In 
the Bibliotheca Maxima, containing Ratramnus’s writ- 
ings, this work is omitted, on the ground that it is a 
forgery of the Reformers, or is, at least, so hopelessly 
interpolated by supposititious heretics that it is not 
worth while to attempt its restoration. Yet there are 


RATTE 


925 


RAU 


theologians even in the Church of Rome who main- 
tain the position assumed by Ratramnus as defensible. 
Against Ilincmar of Rheims Ratramnus defended Gode- 
schalcus in the dispute over the trina deitas; but this 
apology is lost. Another w r ork is his Liber de Eo, quod 
Christas ex Yirgine notus est, in which it is not ques- j 
tioned that Mary, utero clauso , conceived, but rather 
the opinion which sprang up at about that time, that 
the conception had been incerto tramite. Ratramnus 
gained most renowm among his contemporaries by his 
work Contra Grcecorum Opposita, with which, by re- ' 
quest of Hincmar of Rheims, he opposed the encvclica ! 
of Photius in S67, and defended the Oriental Church 
and her dogmas. In the Migne edition, these works 
are in the Patrologie , exxi, 1-346 and 1153-1156. See 
Mabillon, Benediktiner Annalen , vol. ii and iii; / list. 
Litteraire de la France , v, 332-351 ; Hilgenfeld, Zeit- 
schrifl f hist. Tkeol. 1858, p. 546 sq.; Banr, Dogmen - 
gesch. vol. ii ; Giescler, Eceles. Ilist. ; Soarncs, 1 list, of '■ 
the Reformation , iii, 118 sq. (J. H. W.) 

Hatte, Guitard de, a French prelate, was born at 
Montpellier in 1552. He was advisory clerk in the 
Parliament of Toulouse. When imprisoned with the 
president, Duranti, he showed so much opposition to the 
government that his house and library were pillaged, 
and he was condemned by Parliament to be executed. 
Henry IV indemnified Ratte by giving him the abbey 
of Saint-Sauveur of Lodeve, and a life-pension of 12,000 
francs. For his fidelity to the king, he afterwards re- 
ceived the abbey of Val-Richer, in the diocese of Ba- 
veux, and that of Saint-Chinian, in the diocese of Saint- 
Volis. lie was made vicar-general at Montpellier and 
archdeacon of Valence, and in 1596 bishop of Montpel- 
lier. On his way to Toulouse he was attacked by three 
large dogs, and mortally wounded. He died July 7, 
1602. See Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rattles (Fr. crecelle, tarturelle, rattelle ; Lat. cro- 
talum). Prior to the introduction of hells (q. v.), rat- 
tles of wood or of iron were struck or shaken by the 
hand to summon the people to worship. The Celtic 
cloe, which preceded the use of bells, was a board w r ith 
knockers. The Greeks used the aywaidgpov (sacred 
iron), a mallet and plate of iron, and the dyta %v\a 
(sacred ivood), two clappers, as a summons to prayer. 
The latter are mentioned by John Climacus as used for 
rapping at the cell-doors in the monasteries of Pales- 
tine, in the 6th century, as a night signal and waking- 
hammer. At University and New colleges, Oxford, fel- 
lows are summoned to a meeting in common room by 
the blow of a hammer at the stair-foot. By the rule 
of Pachomius a trumpet was used. At Burgos the 
clappers are called matraca; in Italy, serandola ; and in 
some parts of France, symandres, which sound for ser- 
vice between the 31 ass on Maundy-Tlmrsday and the 
Gloria in Excelsis, sung on Easter eve in the mass after 
Nones, when the bells are disused, in memory of the 
Lord’s silence in the tomb, and the speechless timidity 
of the apostles— a custom dating from the 8th century. 
At Caen the ceremonial gives the signal for censing j 
with tablets. Neogorgus says that boys carried rattles j 
in the procession of Good-Friday. — Walcott, Sacred 
Archaeology , s. v. 

Rattray, Thomas, D.D., an English prelate, flour- 
ished in the first half of the 18th century. He was ed- 
ucated at Oxford University, took holy orders shortly 
after graduation, and, after filling various ecclesiastical 
preferments, became in 1727 bishop of Dunkcld, and in 
1739 primus. He died in 1743. His publications are, 
Essay on the Nature of the Church, etc. (Edinb. 1728) : 
— The Ancient Liturgy of the Church of Jerusalem 
(Lond. 1744, 4to) : — Some Particular Instructions con- 
cerning the Christian Covenants (ibid. 1748). 

Ratze(n)berger, Mattujeus, a physician at the 
court of the elector Joachim in the Reformation period. 
He took such an important part in the Protestant move- 
ment that he deserves a place here. He was born at 


Wangen, in Wiirtemberg, in 1501, and was educated at 
the University of Wittenberg, where he was the con- 
stant companion of Luther; and when, by the decided 
part he had taken at the court of the elector Joachim, 
where he was court physician, he was obliged to aban- 
don a most lucrative position and practice, he Avas, by 
the intercession of his clear school friend, made body 
physician of the count of Mansfield, and held this posi- 
tion until, in 1538, the elector John Frederic of Saxony 
made him his court doctor. He was also the house 
physician of the great Reformer himself, and frequent-” 
ly together the tw r o friends discussed the exciting 
questions of the day, the physician being daily drawn 
closer and closer towards the earnest evangelical preach- 
er. Ere he was aware of it, Ratzenbcrger was as much 
a student of theology as of medicine, and finally he 
wrote theological treatises, many of which have re- 
tained their value, and attest the unconscious influ- 
ence of Martin Luther upon him. All his writings 
betray a desire of approval for the Lutheran position, 
and they are therefore valuable as an index of much 
that Luther thought, but never wrote himself. Hence, 
also, Ratzenbergcr’s Historia Lutheri , newly edited by 
Nendecker (Jena, 1850), is one of the most valuable con- 
tributions to the materia] for Luther’s memoirs. The 
Ilistorica Relatio de Johanne Friderico, etc., first men- 
tioned in Arnold’s Kircken v. Ketzergesch., later as I lis- 
teria A rcana, and finally published under the title D. M. 
Ratzenberger's geheime Geschichte, etc. (Altorf, 1775), is 
now generally regarded as a forgery of the anti-Me- 
lancthonians, and W. von Reiffenstein, of Stolbcrg, is 
supposed to have been its author (1570). After the 
death of Luther, Ratzenberger was one of his executors, 
and an editor of the German edition of the Reformer’s 
writings published at Jena. See the Life of Luther 
by Seckendorf; Biographie von Andreas Poach (Jena, 
1559). (J.H.W.). 

Rau, a name common to many literati, of whom we 
mention the following: 

1. Christian, was born Jan. 25, 1613, at Berlin, stud- 
ied at Wittenberg, and was made magister in 1636. He 
then went to Kbnigsberg, Leipsic, Rostock, Hamburg, 
and Upsala, where he w r as offered a pastorate, which he 
declined. In 1638 he visited England, and in 1639 set 
out for the Orient, and resided a short time at Smyrna, 
where he learned Turkish, Persian, Italian, Spanish, 
and Modern Greek. In Constantinople he made a val- 
uable collection of old books, and in 1642 was made 
professor of Oriental languages at Oxford; in 1644 he 
was called to Utrecht; in 1645 he lectured at Amster- 
dam, in 1650 at Upsala, in 1669 at Kiel, and finally set- 
tled at Frankfort-on-thc-Oder in 1671, where he died, 
June 21, 1677. His best work is Concordandarum 
Ilebr. et Chald. J. Buxtorfo Epitome (Bcrl. and Frankf. 
1677). A number of other works are enumerated in 
Jocher’s Gelehrten-Lexilcon , iii, 1926. See Fiirst, Bibl. 
Jud. iii, 134; Winer, Jfandbuch der theolog. IJteratur, 
p. 121, 721 ; Steinschneider, Bibliogvaphisches Handbuch , 
p. 114. 

2. Hertbert, a rationalist and preacher of the so- 
callcd German - Catholic Congregation, was born at 
Frankfort-on-the-Main in 1813, where he also died, Sept. 
26, 1876. He wrote, AUgemeine Geschichte der christl. 
Kirche von ilirem Entstehen bis avf die Gegemcart 
(Frankfort-on-the-Main, 1846) : — Neue St unden der An- 
dachl (4th ed. Leips. 1863, 3 vols.) : — Sermons, etc., pub- 
lished at different times. See Literarischer llandweiser, 
1876, p. 551 ; Zuchold, Bibl. Theolog. ii, 1032. 

3. Joachim Justus, doctor and professor of theology, 
was born April 11, 1713, at Berlin, studied at Jena, and 
in 1736 was called to Kbnigsberg as professor of theol- 
ogy and Oriental languages, where he died, Aug. 19, 
1749. He wrote, Diatribe IJist.-philos. de Philosophia 
Lactantii Firm. (Jena, 1733): — Kurzgefasste Anfangs- 
grtinde der hebr. Grammatik nach den Lehrseitzen des D. 
Danz (Ivbnigsb. 1739; published by G. D. Kypke, ibid. 
1749, etc.). See Jbcher, Gelehrten-Lexihon, s. v ; Fiirst, 


92G 


RAUCOURT 


RAUCH 


BibLJud. iii. 134; Steinsehneider, Bibliogr. IJandbuch, 
p. 114; Winer, Uundbuch der theol. Literutur, i, 40, 909; 
ii, 721. 

4. Johann Eiii:kiiaiu>, professor of theology, was 
born at Altenbaeli, in the principality of Siegen, ami 
died in 1770 at llcrborn. lie wrote, Dissertatio de Pre- 
cibus Uebrworum (Marburg. 1717 )i— Diatribe de Syna- 
yoya Magna (Utrecht, 1725) : — Dissert. Philologico- 
theologica de Libamine Facto in Sacra Mensa Kxod. 
xxi', 29, vent data (llcrborn. 1732) : — Xotw et Animad- 
rersiones in J/udr. Itelandi Antiqnitates Yeterum llebr. 
(ibid. 1743 ) \-Fxercitatio A cademica de Xube super A r- 
vam Foederis (ibid. 1757-58; reprinted, Utrecht, 17G0): 
— Dike Dissert at tones Sacra, Antiquariue (ibid. 17(50). 
See l'lirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 131; Winer, Jlandbuch der 
theol . Literutur, i, 137 139; ii, 722. 

5. Johann Wiuiki.m, doctor and professor of theol- 
ogy, was born at Rentweinsdorf, in Franconia, March 9, 
1745. In 1770 he was repetent at (Ibttingcn; in 1773, 
rector at l’eine, in 1 lanover ; in 1775 lie was made rector 
and professor of theology at Dortmund, and in 1779 or- 
dinary professor of theology at Erlangen, where he died, 
July 1, 1*07. lie wrote, Xonnulla ad Question, an 
Oratio Montana A postolor. Jniuandor. Causa dicta sit 
(Erlangen, 1802-3) Cuter such ungen die icuhre Ansicht 
der Bergpredigt betreffend (ibid. 1805): — FreiinUthige 
Untersuchungen Uber die Typologie (ibid. 1784) : — DeJo. 
Bapt. in rent Christ. Studiis (ibid. 1785-8(5): — Mater ia- 
lien zu Kanzelvortrdgm (ibid. 1797-1800). See Fiirst, 
Bibliotheca Judaica, iii, 134 ; Winer, Uundbuch der theo- 
logischen Literutur, i, 240, 247, 390, 550, 557, 559; ii, 
122,722. (Ii. P.) 

Rauch, Christian Daniel, one of the most dis- 
tinguished Herman sculptors, and noted for his work in 
the latter years of his life in sacred art, was bom at Arol- 
sen, the capital of the principality of Waldeck, in 1777. 
lie began the study of sculpture as a boy, but the death 
of his father in 1797 obliged him to accept the humble 
but profitable position of valet to Frederick William 
II, king of Prussia. Under Frederick William 1 II, who 
conceived a great liking for young Rauch, facilities for 
designing and modelling statues were afforded him, and 
he was even recommended as a pupil in the Academy 
of the Fine Arts. A statue of Endymion and a bust of 
queen Louisa of Prussia, executed at this time, convinced 
the king of Rauch's abilities; and although his request 
for dismissal had been repeatedly refused, he was now 
granted his request, and given a small pension in order 
to be enabled to proceed to Rome for further improve- 
ment. lie spent six years in that city, working at his 
profession, and enjoyed the friendship of Thorwaldsen, 
Canova, and .also oi' William Humboldt, at that time 
Prussian minister there. Among his works at this time 
were bass- reliefs of Uippolytus and Phcedra, a Mars 
and Venus wounded by Diomedes, a colossal bust of the 
king of Prussia, a bust of the painter Raphael Mengs, 
etc. In 1811 he was called by the king of Prussia to 
Berlin, to execute a monumental statue of queen Louisa. 
This great work obtained for Rauch a European repu- 
tation. It is in the mausoleum oft he queen in the gar- 
den of Charlottenburg. Not quite satislied with this 
triumph, he commenced a new statue of the queen, 
which he linished eleven years afterwards, and which is 
allowed to be a masterpiece of sculpture. 1 1 is placed 
in the palace of Sans-Sonei, near Potsdam. Rauch, af- 
ter this, lived principally at Berlin, but occasionally 
visited Rome, Carrara, and Munich, lie labored inde- 
fatigablv in his profession, and by 1824 had executed 
seventy busts in marble, of which twenty were of colos- 
sal size, lie died at Dresden, while on a visit there, 
Dec. 3, 1857. 11 is greatest secular work is the magnif- 

icent monument of Frederick the (Ireat, which adorns 
Berlin. 11 is greatest work in sacred art is his Moses 
Group, in the entry of the Friedenskirehe (Church of 
Peace) at Potsdam. It. was begun in 185-1 and linished | 
in 1855, and is really his last great work. Noteworthy 
are also his group of the lirst two Polish kings in the I 


1 cathedral at Posen, his statues of Schleicrmacher and 
Kant, and his representations of Faith, Hope, and Love 
I in the church at Arolsen. 

Rauch, Christian Henry, distinguished as that 
missionary of the Moravian Church who began its work 
among the North American Indians, was born at Bom- 
bing, Herinanv, July 5, 1715. He arrived in this coun- 
try July 10, 1740, and soon after visited Shekomeko, 
Dutchess County, N. V., a village inhabited by .Mold- 
cans and Wampanoags, notorious for their evil ways, 
and especially for their love of strong drink. Various 
other missionaries bad attempted to convert them with- 
out success. Rauch, on his arrival, went into the hut 
of the worst savage of the whole clan, Wasamapah by 
name, commonly known as Tschoop, seated himself at 
his side, told him of the Saviour, and then, saying that 
be was very tired in consequence of his long journey, 
lay down by the fire and went to sleep. This simple 
act of trust made a deep impression upon the In- 
dians. lie won their confidence. Tschoop was con- 
verted and baptized, and became an eloquent and en- 
thusiastic preacher of the (lospcl; other converts were 
gathered in, and a flourishing mission was established 
at Shekomeko, which subsequently spread to New Eng- 
land. In 1757, Rauch went to Jamaica as missionary 
to the negroes. He died on the island of Jamaica, Nov. 
11, 1703. See Spangenberg, Account of the Manner in 
which the United Brethren carry on their Missions (Lond. 
1788), p. 02, 03; Anicr. S. S. Union, Tschoop, the Con- 
verted Indian Chief; Schweinitz, Life and Times of Z cit- 
her ger, ch. v. (E. de S.) 

Rauch, Frederick Augustus, Pli.D., D.I)., 
first president of Marshall College, Mereersburg, Pa., 
was born at Kirchbraeht, in llesse-Barmstadt, Herma- 
nv, July 27, 1800. At the age of eighteen he entered 
the University of Marburg, and took bis diploma in 
1827. He then became a teacher in Frankfort, and af- 
terwards spent a year at the University of Heidelberg. 
In bis twenty-fourth year he became extraordinary pro- 
fessor in the University of Giessen. After one year he 
was called as ordinary professor to Heidelberg, but this 
appointment lie never realized. Having uttered bis 
mind too freely on the subject of government in some 
public exercises at Hies sen, be arrayed the civil powers 
against himself, and was compelled to provide for bis 
safety in voluntary self-expatriation, lie arrived in 
this country in the fall of 1831. He spent one year at 
Easton, as professor of Herman, in Lafayette College, 
and in the study of the English language. In June, 
1832, he was appointed to take charge of the classical 
school connected with the seminary of the Herman Re- 
formed Church at York, Pa. The same year lie was 
ordained to the holy ministry. In 1835 he removed to 
Mereersburg, and became the first president of Marshall 
College, which position be ably filled till bis death, 
March 2. 1811. Shortly before his death he published 
his Psychology, which has passed through a number of 
editions, and is used as a text-book in its department 
of philosophy in several of our colleges. The Diner 
Life is a posthumous work, being a se’e tion of sermons 
by Dr. Rauch, edited by the Rev. Dr. Horhart. Thor- 
oughly learned, deeply pious, ardent, generous, and no- 
ble, Dr. Rauch's brief life lias left behind it a lasting 
inlluence. In March, 18,59, his remains were removed 
to Lancaster, l’a., under the auspices of the alumni of 
Marshall College and the board of trustees of Franklin 
and Marshall College, on which occasion a eulogy on 
his life and character was delivered by his distinguished 
colleague, Prof. JAW Kevin, D.I). 

Raucourt, Loris 51 aiui:, a French prelate, was 
born in 1743. lie entered the Benedictine Order, and 
studied theology in many of its monasteries. In 17(58 
be was made procurer of the abbey of Clairvnux. in 
1773 prior, anil in 1783 abbot. He did much in embel- 
lishing this abbey, and greatly increased the library. 
Being expelled during the Revolution, be tied to Ju- 


RAUIIE HAUS 


927 


RAUIIE HAUS 


vancourt, where he lived in retirement till 1804, when ' repairs as were absolutely necessary were made, he en- 
he settled in Bnr-sur-Aube, where he died in 1824. tering the premises himself as an inmate. The day of 
Rauhe Haus (Germ, for Rough House), the, a opening was marked by the admission of three boys; 
great juvenile reform institution at the little hamlet of in a short time the number increased to twelve, and 
Horn, three miles from the German port of Hamburg, thus humbly began beneath that roof of straw, on the 
owes its origin to John Henry Wicbern, the founder Seiveking estate, a movement for the neglected youth! 
also of the German Home Mission Work. See Inner of Germany w T hose influence is seen and felt not only in! 
Mission. The peculiar name which it bears ( Rough that country, but all over the Continent and far beyond 
House) is not due to any peculiar feature of the institn- it, and whose results can never be estimated by mortal 
tion, as one might suppose, but rather to an awkward man. A careful examination shows that, so far as the. 
translation of the German jmtois into the classical lan- children of the Eauhe Haus alone are concerned, a very 
guage. The house in which the institution was first moderate estimate gives eighty per cent, of them as 
located was built some hundred and fifty years ago by saved from what would inevitably have been a life of 

vice or crime. Describing this most Christian charity, 
Eliliu Burritt savs : 


a certain Mr. Euge, a gentleman of wealth and culture, 
and in every sense quite contrary in character to the 
name given him in classical German. People of Ham- 
burg’s suburbs always knew the place by the name of 
the “Euge House,” and so the institution was called 
Rauhe Haus when it was first opened on Nov. 1, 1833, 


“These boys had been treated or regarded as a species 
of human vermin, baffling the power of the authorities to 
suppress. They bad slept under carts, in doorways, herd- 

Hnuhe Haus when it was lirst onenefl on i\nv l ®'Gne and cattle by night, wheu begging or 

, „ T f when it w as lirst opened on ,\o\ . 1 1833, ttneving hours were past. Such were the boys that found 

by At ichern, with the assistance of his mother, he being themselves looking at each other in wonder and surprise 
then but a young man of twenty-five, and as vet not the hrst evening they gathered around the hearth-stone 

even in social relations with the onnosite spy For of that cottage-home. There was no illusion about this 
e\en in social relations vitn tne opposite sex. tor eudtleu transformation in their experience. Iu their 

years previous to this event AA ichern had conceived a midst was that bland, benevolent man, with his kind eyes 
plan for the amelioration of the condition of the lower aud voice, looking and speaking to them as a father to 
classes. AA T hile at the university his mvstical tenden- 9^'^ reu *. there was his mother, with the law of 
. , tt <■ kindness on her lips, in her looks, in every act and word : 

cies were noted. He frequently gave himself up to and he called her motherland they call her mother; and 
practices of great personal self-denial, and he formed an the first evening of their common life she became the 
association of vouug men for self-improvement and re- {J 10t ' ier ot their love aud veneration; and they, ragged, 
i- • ,p, torsaken, hopeless castaways, conceived m sm and shanen 

ligious edification. There was a constant longing for iniquity, became the childreu of her affection. This 
entire and unconditional consecration to God’s service cottage, away from the city aud its haunts, with its bright 

ill this band — ^ ~ - 11 : J . l. - Ii... fil - e l»v lliwht nmt thf» little lierlu linrlav thu vn/if „.;tv> its 

Christianity 

An acquaintance with Dr. Julius, then well known as a and ail the little trees, " a n d The ' ditches’, hillocks, '"and 
philanthropist, who had visited England and America hushes of that acre, u-ere their own . . . . The feeling of 

. ... hnmp rnmp wnrmiiir - : - 1 


id, who all recognised the great fact that fh' e by night and the little beds under the roof— with its 

r is 0 „iv a truth to those who exnerienee if &'' eat Blh ‘ e and lltt]e P6alm-bcK»kB, was to be their home. 
> IS onn a triitn to those who experience it. xh e great chestnut-tree that threw out its arms over it. 


in the interests of prison reform, only quickened AA’ich- 


horae came warming into their hearts like the emotions 
of a new existence, as the father spoke to them of our 


. . , , „ , H CAU-ICULC, aa iuc iuuici suiiue llieill Ol OUT 

ern in his purposes, and when, on his return from the house, our trees, our cabbages, turnips, potatoes, pigs, 
university to Hamburg, he was placed in charge of a and peesc and ducks, ‘which we will grow for our com- 
Sabbath-school in the religiously neglected suburbs of 

St. George, AA'ichern conceived a plan that should enable The boys at once set to work. At the end of the first 
him to begin the task for which he felt himself called week they had made a year's progress in this new life 
of God. Though poor himself, his father having died and its hopes and expectations. The faith that they 
while he was yet scarcely out of the years of infancy, could do something, be something, and own something 
and his mother having depended upon him for years, | grew' daily within them. “So eager did they become,” 
he yet set about to realize his purpose. All the diffi- says the first report of the institution, “to accomplish 
culties that arose in his way only acted as fresh incen- the undertaking that they frequently worked by lan- 
tives to exertion. IJis enthusiasm knew no restraints tern-light in the evening, rooting up bushes and trees, 
nor barriers. Finally be succeeded in interesting the in spite of snow or rain.” 

syndic Seiveking, a man of warm heart and full pocket- As the number of pupils increased, and there seemed 
book. A house upon his estate which w r as occupied bv danger that the size of the family w'ould seriously affect 
a gardener w r as vacated for AA’ichern as a place in which its domestic character, Mr. AA’ichern divided the com- 
to try his schemes by actual experiment. It was a pany into households, containing from twelve to fifteen 
small space for so vast an undertaking, but AA’ichern each— the children themselves, as each new house was 
was quite content to let his enterprise have a small be- required, performing a large part of the work. The 
ginning. Full of faith, and encouraged by what was first colony, “under the care,” as the report says, “of 
already gained, he made immediate arrangements for an earnest young disciple of the law of love, who had 
the occupancy of the Rauhe Haus (see illustration), come from a distance to discipline his heart and life to 
small and poor as it was, and however uninviting its the regime of kindness, aud who had lived in their 
little windows, and thatched roof, and low ceilings ap- midst as an elder brother,” commenced their separate 
peared. AA’ith the help of a few interested friends, such family life with affecting ceremonies. On a bright 

__ Sabbath morning, and in the presence of sev- 


eral hundred friends, the new cottage w r as 
dedicated “to the Good Shepherd, through 
whose love and help twenty-seven hoys had 
already been gathered into a sheltering fold.” 
AA’ith numbers and resources increased, new' 
cottages of the same unpretending character 
were built in a semicircle around the Eough 
House. Girls were admitted, and separate 
cottages were constructed for them ; and a 
new building was erected which afforded a 
• more commodions residence for the superin- 
tendent, a chapel, kitchen, and other apart- 
ments for the general use of the little com- 
munity, w hich grew to be quite a village. In 
1851 Mr. Burritt found a considerable cottage- 
village, with workshops, dwelling-houses, a 
little chapel, a wash- and drying -house, a 



The original Rauhe Haus. 



KAUIIE HAUS 


928 


KAUMEH 


printing-office, bake-house, and other buildings. There 
were in all about seventy boys and twenty-live girls, 
constituting four families of boys and two of girls. Each 
family-house was under the charge of a superintendent 
(male or female), assisted by one or more brothers, as 
they are called the superintendent being ordinarily a 
candidate for the ministry. The brothers are young 
men of the best character, who undergo a training of 
three or four years, after which they devote themselves 
to the care of similar institutions now rising all over 
Germany, quickened into life by this blessed experi- 
ment ; or they become city missionaries, carrying the 
Gospel personally to the neglected and wretched. From 
thirty to forty brothers are inmates of this institution 
at one time, receiving no remuneration but their living, 
superintending the industry and aiding in conducting 
the moral discipline of the establishment. In its daily 
life this singular village is separated into three impor- 
tant divisions: domestic, educational, and industrial. 
Each family is to some extent an independent commu- 
nity. The members eat and sleep in their own dwell- 
ing, and the children belonging to each look up to their 
own particular father or mother as home-bred children 
to a parent. Each household has thus its individual 
character, its peculiar interest and history, and each 
bears some name of its own, such as the Beehive, the 
Dove’s-nest, and the like. The bond of union is the 
loving father at the head of the whole institution; 
closely drawn by the morning and evening gatherings 
for prayer in the chapel or mothcr-honsc, and the cele- 
bration in common of the many festivals of the Church. 
The superintendents of the several houses meet the 
chief weekly to render their reports, and to discuss all 
questions of discipline. In their turn, each separate 
family visits him once a week in his study; and the 
record of each member, whether good or bad, is fully 
considered and passed upon — any child being admitted, 
at the close of the interview, to private conference with 
him, a privilege that is often improved. The children 
were told at the beginning that labor is the price of 
living, and that they must earn their own bread if they 
would enjoy it. Mr. Wicliern did not point them to 
ease and atlhience, but to an honorable poverty, which 
they were taught was not in itself an evil. In illustra- 
tion of this, the dress, food, and furniture of the cottages 
are of the simplest character. The secular education 
given is of the most rudimental description, reaching 
about the average of the German primary schools — 
three quarters of the weekly recitations being devoted 
to the study of the Bible Catechism, Church history, j 
and to music. The principal labor, farming, is carefully ' 
taught in all its branches; in addition, instruction is 
given by the brothers in printing and other trades. The 
boys remain at the Bough House about four years, and 
the girls live. They are then apprenticed to service, 
chiotlv in the city of Hamburg, whenever the work of 
redemption is sufficiently continued to admit of their 
exposure again to temptation. But it must not be in- 
ferred from the duration of their term of reform that 
the Bough House bolds its inmates by force. As they 
come voluntarily, so they stay until dismissed by their 
own choice. The simple means relied upon for the ac- 
complishment of this great reform work are prayer, the 
Bible, singing, affectionate conversation, severe punish- 
ment when unavoidable, and constant, steady employ- 
ment in useful labor. “In a peculiar manner,” says Dr. 
Peirce, “ Wicliern relied upon the Word of God. He 
made the whole Bible the familiar companion and food ^ 
of the pupil. The whole Scripture was made to open ! 
to their minds, in an impressive series of readings, like 
a mine of priceless metal — reaching a climax in the 
Evangel of the New Testament. The thought that, 
miserable, wicked, despised as they were, Christ, the 
Son of God, loved them— loved them enough to suffer 
and die for them, and still loved them — melted their 
hearts, and gave them both hope and a strong incentive 
to reformation.” 


As the Banbe Haus is now constituted, it is partly 
a refuge for morally neglected children, partly a board- 
ing-school for the moral and intellectual education of 
those children of the higher classes whose vicious or un- 
manageable character makes them fit subjects for train- 
ing by such competent hands as the Bauhe Haus super- 
intendents; lastly, a training-school for those who wish 
to become teachers or officials in houses of correction, 
hospitals, etc., in promotion of the objects of the Home 
Mission. 'I bis is an especially important enterprise. 
Its trained men are employed in positions of trust, such 
as prison directors, stewards of estates, and superintend- 
ents of charitable houses. It was founded in 1845, and 
is a kind of conventual house. Entrance into this in- 
stitution is limited to the age of twenty to thirty. Be- 
sides religious belief and good character, freedom from 
military duties, bodily and mental health, some scho- 
lastic acquirements, and a knowledge of some craft or 
of agriculture are required. The hoarding-school was 
established in 1851, and at the same time a seminary 
was founded, in which twelve brethren of the Bauhe 
Haus are especially prepared for school-work. A print- 
ing-office, a bookbinder’s shop, and bookselling, form 
part of the institution also. The last named has its 
principal depot at Hamburg, and from it trade with 
all Germany lias been opened. The Bauhe Haus has 
brought out numerous publications, and all those enjoy 
a very large sale. A monthly periodical called File- 
yende Blatter, devoted to the Inner Mission, is printed, 
edited, and circulated by the Bauhe Haus. It may he 
added also that during the recent German wars the in- 
mates furnished the principal organizers of what was 
like our “Sanitary Commission” in the war with the 
South. Dr. Wicliern is still living as we write (1878), 
hut he has retired from all active connection with the 
Bauhe Haus. See A mer. Education. Monthly, .Ian. 1808, 
art. i; ( Luth .) Ev. Qnar. Rev. Jan. 1874, p. 121); Na- 
tional Repository, Dee. 1878, art. iii; Hurst’s llagen- 
baeh, Church I/ist. of the 18 th and lbth Centuries (see 
Index). (J.II.W.) 

Raulin, Hippolyte, a devoted Minim, was born 
about 1500, at Bethel. For many years he preached 
with great success, and was considered one of the most 
eloquent men of his day. In the capacity of a provin- 
cial of his order he governed the province of Lyons; 
afterwards that of Lorraine. He wrote, Paneyyre Or- 
thodoxe, Mysterieux, et Prophet iqne sur VAntiquite. Di- 
gvite, Noblesse, et Splendeur des Fleurs de Lys (Paris, 
1G2G). See Hoofer, Nour. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Raulin, Jean, a French preacher, was born at 
Toul in 1443. After finishing his studies, he received 
the degree of D.D. Before this time he bad composed 
a commentary upon the Logic of Aristotle. In 1-181 lie 
was made president of the college at Navarre, and so 
acquitted himself that lie was greatly esteemed. De- 
siring to live a more secluded life, he entered the Abbey 
of Clugny in 1497, and by his exemplary life led many 
others to follow his example. Under the direction of 
cardinal Amboisc, lie greatly aided in reforming the 
Order of St. Benedict. Baulin enjoyed the same reputa- 
tion as Barlctte, Millaid, and Menot. 1 1 is sermons were 
plain, methodical, and replete with citations made from 
sacred writings and scholars. He wrote, Epistohe (Paris, 
1520): — Doctrinale de TripUd Morte, Natural i, Cul~ 
per, et Gehenna, (ibid. 1520). Ills Sermons in Latin 
were published in Paris in 1042. He died Feb. 0, 1514. 
See Ilocfer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Raumer, Frederic von, the accomplished Ger- 
man historian, was horn at Worlitz, in Anlialt-Dcssau, 
in 1781. In 181 1 lie was appointed professor of history 
at Breslau, and in 1819 he was called to Berlin. In 
1859 lie was released from the duty of lecturing, hut lie 
still continued till near his death, June 13, 1873. lie 
was the Nestor of all German historians, and senior of 
all the living German professors. He is the author of the 
well-known History of the l lohenstav fen Dynasty (1823- 


RAUMER 


929 


27, and often, 6 vols.), a work deserving praise for its 
interesting narrative of the events of a romantic period. 
He also published Lectures on Ancient History (3d ed. 
1861, 2 vols.) : — History of Europe from the Close of the 
15 th Century (1832-50, 8 vols.), a work marked by the 
conciliatory style in which it describes the contentions 
of various religious and political parties. Besides, he 
wrote a number of other works, as Ilandbuch zur Gesch. 
d. Literatur (1864-66), etc., which we pass over. See Lit- 
er arischer Handiceiser, 1873, p. 300 ; Gostwick and Har- 
rison, Outlines of German Literature , p. 551 sq. (B. I*.) 

Raumer, Karl Georg von, doctor of philosophy 
and theology, brother of the well-known historian Fred- 
eric (q. v.), was born April 7, 1783, at YVorlitz, in An- 
halt-Dessau. Having graduated at the Joachimsthal 
Gymnasium in Berlin, he went to Gottingen for the 
study of languages, history, and poetry. From Gottin- 
gen he went to Halle in 1803, where he attended the 
lectures of Wolf and Becker, and where he also made 
the acquaintance of Steffens, who introduced him in 
1805 to the famous geologist Werner at Freiberg. In 
1808 we see Ilaumer at Paris, in 1810 at Berlin ; in 1811 
he is professor and member of council for mining at 
Breslau. The Franco-Prussian war, in which he acted 
as adjutant to general Gneisenau, being over, he was 
called in 1819 as professor to Halle, where he remained 
till 1823, being obliged to leave the place in consequence 
of distrust aroused against him. He then acted as tu- 
tor in the Dittmar Educational Institution at Niirnberg, 
when, in 1827, he was called as professor to Erlangen, 
where he died, June 2, 1865. Raumer took a very lively 
and active interest in all matters promoting the king- 
dom of God. He is best known as the author of, Pald- 
stina (Leipsic, 1835, and often since) : — Der Zug der Isra- 
eliten aus A egypten nach Canaan (ibid. 1837) : — Beitrage 
zur biblischen Geographie (ibid. 1843) : — Geschichte der 
Padagogik (3d ed. Stuttgart, 1857, 1861, 4 vols.): — and 
as the editor of Augustine's Confessiones, with notes 
(ibid. 1856, and often). See Fiirst, Bibl. Judaica, iii, 134 ; 
Zuchold, Biblioth. Theolog. ii, 1033 ; Literarischer Hand- 
weiser , 1873, p. 300; Winer, Theolog. Ilandbuch, ii, 722; 
Tliomasius, Rede am Grabe des IJerrn Karl v. Raumer 
(Erlangen, 1865); Raumer, Lcben von ihm selbst (Stutt- 
gart, 1866) ; Hanck, Theolog. Jahresbericht , 1865, p. 
734 sq. ; 1866, p. 361 sq. (B. P.) 

Raumer, Rudolph von, professor of languages 
and son of Karl Georg von Raumer, was born April 14, 
1815, at Breslau. He prepared himself at the gymnasia 
in Erlangen and Niirnberg, and in 1832 entered the 
University of Erlangen, continuing, however, his stud- 
ies at Gottingen and Munich. In 1840 he commenced 
lecturing at Erlangen, in 1852 was made professor in 
ordinary, and died there Aug. 30, 1876. He wrote Die 
Einwirkutig dcs Christenthums auf die althochdeutsche 
Bprache (Stuttgart, 1845), which he concludes with the 
remarkable words that “the destiny of our (the Ger- 
man) pet pie will always be connected with Christian- 
ity:” — Lin Wort der Verst andigung iiber die Schrift: 
die Eimcirkung des Christenthums , etc. (ibid. 1852): — 
Geschichte der germanischen Philologie, vorzugsweise in 
Deutschland (ibid. 1870). See Zuchold, Bibl. Theolog. 
ii, 1033; Literarischer Handiceiser, 1873, p. 300; 1876, 
p. 352; Schneider, Theolog. Jahrbuch. 1878, p. 226 sq. 
(B. I>.) 

Raus(s), Lucas, one of the earlier Lutheran minis- 
ters in this country, w r as born in 1723 in the city of Iler- 
manstadt, in Transylvania. He was the son of Lucas 
Raus, an eminent German divine, under whose careful 
training he enjoyed the best opportunities for mental 
and moral culture. Designed for the Christian ministry, 
his studies were prosecuted at the universities of Leip- 
sic and Jena. He immigrated to the United States in 
1750, and at once identitied himself with its interests. 
He commenced his labors in Philadelphia, and, as there 
were few organized Lutheran churches at the time and 
the members were scattered, his work was very much 

VIII.— N n it 


RAUTENSTRAUC1I 

of an itinerant character. In 1754 he removed to York, 
Pa., where he continued to reside until his death, which 
occurred July 11, 1788. Mr. Raus enjoyed the reputa- 
tion of being an accomplished scholar, particularly in 
the department of the Latin, Greek, and Oriental lan- 
guages. He conversed with great fluency in several 
modern languages. His descendants are still numbered 
among the citizens of the place in which he so long la- 
bored. See Luth. Observer , April 19, 1878. 

Rauscher, Joskpii Othjiar, one of the most prom- 
inent ecclesiastical princes of Austria and of the 19th 
cen tun*, was born Oct. 6, 1797, at Vienna, being the 
son of an imperial officer. He first intended to study 
law', which he did for three years, but aftenvards betook 
himself to the study of theology, and, almost twenty- 
six years of age, he was ordained priest Aug. 27, 1823. 
For two years he labored as vicar at Hiitteldorf, not far 
from Vienna, but he was soon called to Salzburg as pro- 
fessor of canon law and Church history. Here he com- 
menced the elaboration of a comprehensive Church his- 
tory, of which the first two volumes, reaching down to 
J ustinian (Sulzbach, 1824-29), promised so well for the 
young author that he undoubtedly would have become 
one of the brightest stars among the Roman Catholic 
historians were he left in his position; but in 1832 he 
was appointed director of the Oriental Academy at Vi- 
enna, and from that time on he was invested with dif- 
ferent offices, to which also belonged the instruction of 
the present Austrian emperor and his brothers. In 
1849 the metropolitan archbishop of Salzburg, prince 
Friedrich von Schwarzenberg, his former pupil and now 
his friend, appointed Rauscher to the bishopric of Seck- 
au. For four years he discharged his episcopal duties, 
amid great difficulties, in the most zealous and happy 
manner, when, in 1853, the emperor appointed him to 
the archiepiscopal see. In his new position the em- 
peror intrusted to him a mission which forever con- 
nected his name with the Church history of Austria, 
viz. the negotiation of a concordat between Austria and 
the Apostolic See, which, unhappily for Austria, was 
signed Aug. 18, 1855. For this deed Rauscher was made 
cardinal, Dec. 17 of the same year. For twenty years 
Rauscher moulded the ecclesiastical as well as political 
affairs of Austria; for his position made him not only 
the intimate counsellor of the emperor, but also a prom- 
inent member of the House of Peers. It would be too 
long to enumerate his numerous speeches and pastoral 
letters, which are all distinguished both by the depth 
of thought as well as by their rhetoric and noble lan- 
guage. He also took a prominent part in the last Vat- 
ican Council, and died Nov. 24, 1875. See Liter aiischer 
Handiceiser, 1875, p. 470; Kurtz, Lehrbuch der Kirchen- 
geschichte (9th ed. Mitau, 1874), ii, 344, 363 sq. (B. P.) 

Rautenberg, Johann Wilitelm, father of the 
Inner Mission at Hamburg, was born at Moorflath, near 
Hamburg, March 1, 1791. He studied at Kiel under 
Twesten, and at Berlin under Neander, who both influ- 
enced him, and brought him nearer to Him whom he 
afterwards proclaimed with such fervor and blessing. 
In 1820 he was appointed pastor of St. George, a suburb 
of Hamburg, where, amid many difficulties and obsta- 
cles, he labored for forty-five years. He promoted ev- 
ery Christian enterprise which furthered the kingdom 
of God, and the many societies which he assisted with 
his word and counsel are his lasting monument. He 
died March 1, 1865. Rautenberg is well known as a 
liymn-writer and preacher. After his death Sengel- 
mann published Festliche Xachkldnge, a collection of 169 
hymnological pieces (Hamburg, 1865); he also pub- 
lished Predigtcn (ibid. 1866). See Koch, Geschichte des 
deutschen Kirchenliedes, vii, 292 sq. ; Zuchold. Biblioth . 
Theolog. ii, 1034; Lowe, Den kic ii rdigke ite n aus dem Le- 
ben u. Wirken Rautenbergs (Hamb. 1866); Hanck. The- 
ologischer Jahresbencht (1866), ii, 198 sq., 701 sq. (B. P.) 

Rautenstrauch, Franz Stephan, a German the- 
ologian of the Romish Church, was born at Flatten, Bo- 


II A VAX A 


930 


RAVEN 


hernia, in 1734, became a Benedictine monk at Brau- 
nan, and was there teacher of philosophy, theology, and 
canon law. In 1773 lie was made prelatus of the con- ( 
vent ami director of the theological faculty at Prague, 
and in the following year was called to Vienna to assist 
in the Ministry of Education. lie died at Erlau. Hun- 
gary. in 17*5. He was a more than ordinary man, and 
as a Humanist enjoyed the confidence of all liberal- 
minded men. lie was a favorite at the court of the 
scholarly emperor, and was the intimate friend of llont- 
heim (q. v.), whose liberal ideas he favored; but on 
these very accounts he had much to suffer from the en- 
mity of the Jesuits. lie prepared the scheme for the 
course of instruction for the theological faculty in the 
Austrian universities. and published several minor works. 
On the occasion of the visit of pope Pius VI in Vienna, 
he wrote Patriot. 1 ietrachtunyen , c-tc.; but he is best 
known by his Synopsis Juris Ecclesiastici (Vienna, 
177G). See Sabriiekh, Kirchenyesck. s*it der Reforma- 
tion, vii, M l sq. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Havana (from the causal of the Sanscrit ru, cry, 
alarm ; hence literally lie who causes alarm) is the 
name of the Rdkshasha (q. v.) who. at the time of 
Pam a, ruled over Lanka or Ceylon, and, having carried 
off Sita, the wife of Patna, to his residence, was ulti- 
mately conquered and slain by the latter. Havana is 
described as having been a giant with ten faces, and, in 
consequence of austerities and devotion, as having ob- 
tained from Siva a promise which bestowed upon him 
unlimited power, even over the gods. As the promise 
of Siva could not be revoked, Vishnu evaded its efficacy 
in becoming incarnate as Puma, and hence killed the 
daemon-giant. — Chambers's Eucyclop. s. v. See Vishnu. 

Ravanel, FiKmtic, a French Protestant theologian, 
was horn about 1GN0. lie was a descendant of the cel- 
ebrated Jean Mereier. Ho was pastor of a church at 
Souzet. llis works arc, Bibliotheca Sacra, sire The- 
saurus Scriptures Canonicac Amplissimns (tleneva, 1G50, 
16G0. 2 vols.) : — Additamenta Nova ad Bibliothecam Sa- 
crum (ibid. 1G83), 

Raven Web'; Sept, and New Test. tcupa%, 

Vulg. corpus), the well-known bird of that name which 
is mentioned in various passages in the Bible. There 
is no doubt that the II cb. 'oreb is correctly translated, 
the old versions agreeing on the point, and the etymol- 
ogy, from a root (-““) signifying “ to be black,” favor- 
ing this rendering. A raven was sent out by Noah 
from the ark to sec whether the waters were abated 
(Gen. viii, 7). This bird was not allowed as food by 
the Mosaic law (Lev. xi. 15); the word ’ oreb is doubt- 
less used in a generic sense, and includes other species 
of the genus forms, such as the crow ( <\ corone), and 
the hooded crow (C. comix). Ravens were the means, 
under the divine command, of supporting the prophet 
Elijah at the brook Chcrith (1 Kings xvii, 4, 6). They 
are expressly mentioned as instances of God's protecting 
love and goodness (Job xxxviii, 41 ; Luke xii, 24; I’sa. 
cxlvii, 0). They are enumerated with the owl, the hit- j 
tern, etc., as marking the desolation of Edom (Isa.xxxiv, 

11) . “The locks of the beloved” arc compared to the 
glossy blackness of the raven’s plumage (Cant, v, 11). 
The raven’s carnivorous habits, and especially his read- I 
iness to attack the eye, are alluded to in Prov. xxx, 17. 
See < Mthit. The Sept, and Vulg. differ materially from I 
the Hebrew and our A. V. in Gen. viii, 7 ; for whereas 
in the Hebrew we read “that the raven went forth to 
and fro [from the ark] until the waters wore dried up,” 
in the two old versions named above, together with the 
Syriac, the raven is represented as “not returning until 
the water was dried from oil' the earth.” On this sub- 
ject the reader may refer to Houhigant (Xof. Crit. i, 

12) , Bocliart (//ieroz. ii, 801), Posenmilller ( Schol . in 
I'. T.), Kalisch (Genesis), and Patrick ( Commentary \ 
who shows the manifest incorrectness of the Sept, in 
representing the raven as keeping away from the ark 


while the waters lasted, but as returning to it when 
they were dried up. The expression “ to and fro” clearly 
proves that the raven must have returned to the ark at 
intervals. The bird would doubtless have found food in 
the floating carcasses of the deluge, but would require 
a more solid resting-ground than they could afford. See 
DiituijE. The subject of Elijah’s sustenance at Chcrith 
by means of ravens has given occasion to much fanciful 
speculation. It has been attempted to show that the 
'orebim (“ ravens”) were the people of Orbo, a small 
town near Chcrith; this theory has been well answered 
bv Poland ( Palaest . ii, 913). Others have found in the 
ravens merely merchants; while Michaelis has attempt- 
ed to show that Elijah merely plundered the ravens’ 
nests of hares and other game! Keil (Comment, on 1 
Kings xvii) makes the following just observation: “The 
text knows nothing of bird-catching and nest-robbing, 
but acknowledges the Lord and Creator of the creatures, 
who commanded the ravens to provide his servant with 
bread and llesh.” It has also been well replied that an 
animal unfit for food or sacrifice did not necessarily defile 
what it touched. “An ass was as unclean as a raven; 
yet no one was polluted by riding on an ass, or by eat- 
ing that which an ass had carried.” An objection more 
to the point would he that the flesh which ravens would 
bring would leave the prophet no opportunity of being 
satisfied that it was such as he could legally receive; 
either that it was the tlesh of a clean beast, or, if so, 
that it had not died with the blood undrained. But to 
this, too, the answer is obvious: if Jehovah could so 
restrain and overrule the instincts of these voracious 
birds as to make them minister to his servant, he could 
also take care that they should select nothing but what 
was fit, and he could give Elijah confidence that it was 
so. Some, however, understand A rabs to be there meant. 
See Elijah. 

The raven belongs to the order Tnsessores, family 
Corrida. The raven is so generally confounded with 
the carrion crow that even in the works of naturalists 
the figure of the latter has sometimes been substituted 
for that of the former, and the manners of both have 
been mixed up together. They arc, it is true, very 
similar, belonging to the same Lin mean genus, Coitus , 
and having the same intensely black color; but the 
raven is the larger, weighing about three pounds; has 
proportionally a smaller head, and a bill fuller and 
stouter at the point. Its black color is more iridescent 
(hence the comparison to the bridegroom’s locks, Cant, 
v, 11), with gleams of purple passing into green, while 
that of the crow is more steel-blue; the raven is also 
gifted with greater sagacity ; may be taught to articu- 
late words; is naturally observant and solitary; lives 
in pairs ; has a most acute scent ; and Hies to a great 
height. Unlike the crow, which is gregarious in its 
habits, the raven will not even suffer its young, from 
the moment they can shift for themselves, to remain 
within its haunt: and, therefore, though a bird found 
in nearly all countries, it is nowhere abundant (Bo- 



Raven (Corpus corax). 


RAVEN 


931 


RAVENNA 


Chart, Ilieroz. ii, 796 sq. ; Kimchi on Psa. xiv, 7). 
Whether the raven of Palestine is the common species, 
or the Corpus montanus of Temminck, is not quite de- 
termined; for there is of the ravens, or greater form of 
crows, a smaller group including two or three others, all 
similar in manners, and unlike the carrion crows (Cor- 
pus corone, Linn.), which are gregarious, and seeming- 
ly identical in both hemispheres. Sometimes a pair of 
ravens will descend without fear among a flight of 
crows, take possession of the carrion that may have at- 
tracted them, and keep the crows at a distance till they 
themselves are gorged. (Comp. Horace, Ep. i, 16, 48 ; 
Aristoph. Thesmoph. 942). The habits of the whole 
genus typified by the name 'oreb render it unclean in 
the Hebrew law; and the malignant, ominous expres- 
sion of the raven, together with the color of its plumage, 
powers of voice, and solitary habits, are the causes of 
that universal and often superstitious attention with 
which mankind have ever regarded it. 

In the mythological history of the Gentiles, we find 
the appellation of Ravens bestowed upon an oracular 
order of priesthood. In Egypt, it seems, the temples of 
Ammon were served by such— perhaps those priests 
that occur in the catacombs playing on harps, and 
clothed in black. More than one temple in Greece had 
similar raven priests. It was the usual symbol of 
slaughter among the Scandinavians; and a raven ban- 
ner belonged to the Danes, and also to the Saxons; one 
occurs among the ensigns of the Normans in the I3ayeu x 
tapestry; and it was formerly a custom in the Benedic- 
tine abbeys on the Continent to maintain in a very 
large cage a couple of ravens, where several are record- 
ed to have lived above fifty years. The Raven of the 
Sea, that ominous bird in Northern mythology, is prop- 
erly the cormorant— the morvran of the Celtic. Jew- 
ish and Arabian writers tell strange stories of this bird 
and its cruelty to its young; lienee, say some, the 
Lord’s express care for the young ravens after they 
had been driven out of the nests by the parent birds ; 
but this belief in the raven’s want of affection to its 
young is entirely without foundation. To the fact of 
the raven being a common bird in Palestine, and to its 
habit of flying restlessly about in constant search for 
food to satisfy its voracious appetite, may, perhaps, be 
traced the reason for its being selected by our Lord and 
the inspired writers as the especial object of God’s pro- 
viding care. There is something weird and shrewd in 
the expression of the raven’s countenance; a union of 
cunning and malignity, which may have contributed 
to give it among widely severed nations, and in re- 
mole ages, a character for preternatural knowledge. 
Its black bue — the hue of night and of mourning — its 
recluse, solitary suspicion, and its harsh croak have 
no doubt increased its uncanny reputation. Certain 
it is that the “ infausta cornix” has long been feared 
and hated as the messenger of evil and the prog- 
nosticator of death, while the Romans dedicated it 
to Apollo as the god of divination. An anonymous 
writer familiar with the habits of the bird has ingen- 
iously suggested an explanation of its divining power. 
“The smell of death is so grateful to them that they 
utter a loud croak of satisfaction instantly on perceiv- 
ing it. In passing over sheep, if a tainted smell is per- 
ceptible, they cry vehemently. From this propensity 
in the raven to announce his satisfaction in the smell 
of death has probably arisen the common notion that 
he is aware of its approach among the human race, and 
foretells it by his croakings. I have no doubt the idea 
is founded in truth, although I think the coming event 
is not communicated to the raven by any immediate 
or supernatural impulse, but that in passing over a hu- 
man habitation from which a sickly or cadaverous 
smell may escape, it is perfectly natural for him to an- 
nounce his perception of it by his cries” ( Zoologist , p. 
217). The shepherd has a better reason for calling 
the raven a bird of ill omen. A more vigilant, or more 
cruel enemy to the flock can hardly exist, and it fre- 


quently makes its ferocious assaults on the yet living 
victim. — Kitto; Smith; Fairbairn. See Wood, Bible 
Animals , p. 439 sq. ; Tristram, Nat. Hist, of the Bible , 
p. 198 sq. 

Ravenna, an important city of Central Italy, forty- 
three miles east-southeast from Bologna, and four and 
a half miles from the Adriatic, with a population of 
nearly 60,000 people, was once the capital of the em- 
pire (from A.D. 401), and is not only a very ancient 
city, whose history is of great interest to Christianity 
on account of its early relation to the Church, but more 
particularly on account of the different ecclesiastical 
councils which have been held there, and the disputes 
which the metropolitanate of Ravenna maintained in 
early mediaeval days with the bishopric of Rome, espe- 
cially in the 7th century, under Constans (666), in the 
8th against pope Hadrian, and in the 9th, when in 861 
the strife w r as finally put at rest at a synod in Rome. 
Aside from the council of bishops in 419, called by Ho- 
norius to decide upon the choice of popes between Boni- 
face and Eulalius, the following councils of Ravenna 
( Concilia Iiavennata ) are noteworthy : 
j (I.) Held July 22, 877, by pope John VIII, at the 
head of forty-nine bishops (Holstenius and Labbe say 
) the number of bishops was 130). The object of this 
council was to remedy the disorders of the Church. 
Nineteen chapters remain to us, relating to the disci- 
pline and privileges of the Church ; also a letter con- 
firming the possession of a monastery to the bishop of 
Autun. 

Chap. 1. Enjoins the metropolitan to send to Rome for 
j the pallium within three months after his consecration, 

1 and forbids him to exercise any of the functions of his of- 
fice until that be done. 

2. Enjoins that all bishops elect shall be consecrated by 
their metropolitans within three mouths after election, 
under pain of excommunication. 

3. Forbids metropolitans to make use of the pallium ex- 
cept on great festivals and during mass. 

5, C, 7, and 8. Excommunicate and anathematize those 
who rob the Church, injure ecclesiastics, aud commit va- 
rious other crimes. 

9. Declares those persons to be themselves excommuni- 
cated who voluntarily communicate with the excommu- 
nicated. 

12. Excommunicates those who absent themselves from 
their parish church on three Sundays successively. 

19. Forbids judges and royal commissioners to hold 
courts and to lodge in churches. 

— Labbe, Concil. ix, 299. 

(II.) Held in 898 (or 904, according to Labbe) by 
John IX, in the matter of Formosus and Stephen ; the 
emperor Lambert being present and seventy-four bish- 
ops. Ten regulations were approved. 

1. Enacts the observation of the canons of the fathers, 
and all that is contained in the capitularies of Charle- 
magne, Louis le Dehonnaire, Lothaire, and Louis II. 

37 Confirms the privileges granted to the Church of 
Rome by the emperors. 

4. Approves all that had been done in the Council of 
Rome, A.D. 898, in the matter of Formosus. 

5. 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. Relate to the political circumstan- 
ces of the Roman see. 

— Labbe, Concil. ix, 507. 

(III.) Held in April, 967. In this council the em- 
peror, Otbo I, yielded to the pope, John XIII, the city 
and territory of Ravenna. Ileroldus, archbishop of 
i Salzburg, was deposed and excommunicated; the act 
! of deposition being subscribed on April 25 by the em- 
I peror and fifty-seven bishops, including the pope. Last- 
ly, Magdeburg was erected into an archbishopric: this, 
however, was not completed until the following year. — 
Labbe, Concil. ix, 674. 

(IV.) Held May 1, 997, by Gerbcrt, archbishop of 
Ravenna, and eight suffragans. Three canons remain, 
of which 

1. Condemns an infamous custom which existed in the 
cathedral of Ravenna of selling the holy eucharist aud 
chrism. 

—Labbe, Concil. ix, 766. 

(V.) Held April 30, 1014, by the new archbishop, Ar- 
nold, to remedy the abuses caused by the long vacancy 
of eleven years, and the intrusion of Adalbert, who had 


UAYEXXA 


932 


R A V EX SCI* OFT 


unlawfully conferred holy orders and dedicated certain 
churches. It was determined that those upon whom 
orders had been thus conferred should remain suspended 
until the matter could be minutely considered; and that 
the consecrations of churches and oratories made by 
Adalbert were null and void. — Labbe, Convil. ix, 833. 

(VI.) Held by I’eter, cardinal of St. Anastasia, in 
1128. Here the patriarchs of Aquileia and Venice, or 
tirade, were deposed, having been convicted of favoring 
schismatics.— Pagi; Labbe, Convil. x, 930. 

(VII.) Held in 1286, July 8, by Bonifacius the arch- 
bishop, who presided, assisted by eight bishops, his suf- 
fragans. Nine canons were published. 

2. Exhorts the clergy to almsgiving, and grants indul- 
gences to those who feed and clothe the poor. 

3. Relates to the dress of the clergy; and forbids them 
to carry arms without the bishop’s permission. 

5. Orders that the usual daily distributions shall be 
made only to those canons who attend the holy office. 

— Labbe, Concil. xi. 1238. 

(VIII.) Held in 1310 by Rainaldus the archbishop, 
in the matter of the Templars. Present, eight bishops 
of the province, three inquisitors, two preaching friars, 
and one Minorite : seven Templars were brought before 
them, who constantly affirmed their innocence. On the 
following day it was determined that they who had 
confessed from a fear of torture only should be consid- 
ered innocent; nevertheless, there were live who went 
through the canonical ordeal. — Labbe, Convil. xi, 1533. 

(IX.) Held in 1311 by Rainaldus the archbishop, five 
bishops and six proctors attending. Thirty-two canons 
were published. 

2. Orders mass to be said daily for a month by the other 
bishops in behalf ol a bishop deceased. 

3. Orders that yearly, on July 20, a solemn service shall 
be said for the deceased bishops ; and that on that day 
twelve poor persons shall be fed. 

4. Enjoins the same thing on behalf of patrons and ben- 
efactors of churches. 

6. Orders that the sacraments he administered fasting. 

10. Enjoins curates to warn the people every Sunday, 
after the gospel and offertory, of the festivals and fast- 
days in the coining week. 

11. Orders that the form of baptism shall be pnbliclv 
said in church three times a year. 

15. Orders that the canon “omuisntrinsqne sexus” shall 
be published at Adveut and Lent. That medical men 
shall not visit a patient a second time if he have not called 
in the priest. 

16. Forbids to give a benefice to any one who cauuot 
read or chant. 

18. Orders annual synods. 

23. Orders that Jews shall wear a distinguishing badge. 

26. Renews the canonical penalties for striking, nutl- 
trentiug, aud driving the clergy from their churches. 

— Labbe, Concil. xi, 1569. 

(X.) Held in 131 l by the same archbishop, assisted 
by six bishops and four deputies. Twenty canons were 
published. 

2. Forbids to ordain to the priesthood persons under 
twenty-five years of age; also to ordain a deacon under 
twenty, and a sub-deacon tinder sixteen years. 

6. Orders that the church bells shall be rung when a 
bishop passes, that the people may come out to receive 
his blessing upon their knees; also regulates the form to 
be observed by the chapter of a cathedral upon the bish- 
op’s visit. 

8. Declares, under pain of excommunication, that no 
monks, or other persons, can elaiin exemption from epis- 
copal visitation upon plea of prescriptive right, or any 
other plea. 

10. Enacts that the clergy shall be soberly dressed ; that 
they shall not. carry arms, nor dress in colored clothes; 
that they shall wear n close cassock, observe the tonsure, 
and keep their hair cut short, etc. 

11. Forbids men to enter the monastic houses of fe- 
males. 

14. Orders curates to teach their people the form of bap- 
tism at least once a year. 

16. Orders fasting 'and almsgiving on the three days be- 
fore the meeting of provincial councils. 

2'.). Revokes the permission given to monks to preach 
indulgences. 

— Labbe, Convil. xi, 1603. See also Milman, Hist. of 
Latin Christianity ; llefele, t 'onciliengesch. vo\. v, et al. ; 
Landon, M annul of Councils, s. v. For the Council of 
Ravenna held in 1317, see Bologna. 


Ravenscroft, John Stark, D.D., an Episcopal 
minister in America, afterwards bishop of North Caro- 
lina, was born near Blandford, Prince Ceorge County, 
Va., in 1772. lie entered William and Mary College in 
1789, but with little profit, and, on his return from Scot- 
land soon after, settled in Lunenburg County. In 1810 
his mind changed, and be joined the “ Republican Meth- 
odists,” and became a lay elder in their Church. He 
was subsequently ordained in the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, became assistant minister at Richmond, and 
was elected bishop the same year. In 1828 he retired 
to Williamsburgh from ill-health, and, on his return to 
North Carolina, died March 5, 1830. lie published 
several Sermons and Char yes: — also, The Doctrine of 
the Church Vindicated, etc.: — Revealed Religion Defend- 
ed against the No-Comment Principle. Sixty-one Ser- 
mons and a Memoir (2 vols. Svo) were also published 
after his death. See Sprague, A nnuls of the Amer. Pul- 
pit, v, 617. 

Ravenscroft, Stephens, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born of pious and respecta- 
ble parentage in Staffordshire, England, March 6, 1803, 
was converted very young, and licensed to preach in 
his eighteenth year by the Wesleyans. In 1838 lie 
emigrated to the United States. lie was a great ad- 
mirer of republican institutions, and as loyal a citizen 
as ever breathed the free air of America. In 1839 lie 
was admitted into the Indiana Conference, and appoint- 
ed to Booneville. Ilis subsequent appointments were 
Mount Vernon, New Lebanon, ( 'arlislc, Silencer, Bloom- 
field, and Bowling (ireen. While on the last-named 
charge his health failed, and he was located at his own 
request, lie moved with his family to Point Com- 
merce, and supplied Linton and New Albany circuits. 
He afterwards travelled as a Bible agent in (’lark and 
Floyd counties until his health became so poor that lie 
had to give up the work entirely. He then moved to 
Rockport, Inil., where, as a supply, he ended his nine 
years’ service as a local preacher. In 1859 he was re- 
admitted into conference ami placed on the superannu- 
ated list, which relation he sustained until his death. 
In 1869 he moved to Worthington, I ml., and in 1870 to 
Petersbiirgli, I nd., where he was appointed postmaster, 

! and where lie died, Oct. 20, 1871. See Minutes of Conf. 
1872, p. 79. 

Ravenscroft, Thomas, an eminent English mu- 
sical composer, deserves a place here for his devotion to 
I sacred subjects. He was born in 1592, received his 
musical education in St. Paul’s choir, and had the de- 
| gree of bachelor of music conferred on him when ofily 
fifteen years of age. In 1611 appeared his Melismata, 
Musical Phans tes, a collection of twenty -three part- 
songs, some of them of great beauty; and three years 
later he brought out another collection of part-songs 
under the title of Brie f Discourses, with an essay on the 
old musical modes. Turning his attention to psalmody, 
he published in 1621 a collection of psalm-tunes for four 
voices, entitled The Whole Boole of Psalms, composed 
into Jour Parts bg Sundry Authors to such Tunes as 
hare been and are usually sung in England. Scotland, 

1 Vales, Germany, Italy, France, and the Netherlands. 
This was the first publication of its kind, and all similar 
works of later date have been largely indebted to it. 
Among the contributors to this collection were Tallis, 
Morlcy, Dowland, and all tbe great masters of the day; 
the name of John Milton, the father of the poet, appears 
as the composer of York and Norwich tunes; while St. 
David’s, Canterbury, Bangor, and many others which 
have since become popular, are hv Ravenscroft himself. 
Each of the 1 50 Psalms has a distinct melody assigned 
to it. Two collections of secular songs similar to the 
Melismata , and entitled Pummel ia and Deuteromelia, 
have been assigned to Ravenscroft ; but it is probable 
that only a few of these songs were composed by him, 
while he may have revised and edited the whole. A 
selection from the Melismata , Brief Discourses, J am - 


11AVESTEYN 


933 


IiAWLINSOX 


media, and Deuteromelia was printed by the Roxburghe 
Club in 1823. He died about 1640 — Chambers. See 
also Engl. Ch. Register , vol. i; Amer. Quar. Ch. Rev. 
Jan. 1871, p. 526. 

Ravesteyn, Josse (in Latin Tiletanus ), a Belgian 
theologian, was born about 1506 at Tielt, Flanders. He 
was educated at Louvain, and taught theology there. 
He was sent by Charles Y to the Council of Trent 
(1551), then to the Colloquy of Worms (1557), and dis- 1 
tinguished himself at these ecclesiastical councils bj T his 
knowledge and moderation. In 1559 he replaced Kuard 
Tapper in the charge of the nuns who had the eare of 
the hospital of Louvain. He had twice been elected 
rector of the university of that city, and held divers 
benefices of imperial munificence. “He was,” said Pa- 
quot, “ a wise doctor, quick at controversy, a zealous 
defender of the Cliureh, and much opposed to the errors 
of Baiiis, whom he regarded as his most ardent adver- 
sary.” He died at Louvain Feb. 7, 1571. Ilis princi- 
pal writings are, Confessionis editm a Ministris A ntwer- I 
piensibus Confntatio (Louvain, 1567, 8vo); the Confes- 
sion of the pastors had already been refuted by William 
of Linda: — Apologia Catholicce Confutationis , etc. (ibid. 
1568, 8vo); directed against the Centuries de Magde- 
bourg , of which Matthew Flaeh Francowitz was the 
principal author: — Apologies Deeretorum Conciln Tri- 
dentini de Saeramentis (ibid. 1568-70, 2 vols. 12mo). He 
left several works in manuscript. — lloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Gene rale, s. v. 

Ravignan, Gustavus Francis Xavier Dela- 
croix de, one of the most celebrated of Roman Catholic 
preachers of our times, and also a distinguished member 
of the Jesuit Order, was born at Bayonne Dee. 2, 1795. 
He studied in the Lycee Bonaparte at Paris, and was 
by his parents intended for the legal profession, which 
he also entered by obtaining his degree and being 
named auditor of the Cour Boyale at Paris. In 1821 
lie received an appointment in the Tribunal of the 
Seine. The prospect thus opened for him, however, 
lost its attraction after a ehange of views in religion 
had made him serious about the future, and in 1822 he 
formed the resolution of relinquishing his career at the 
bar, and entering the Church. Having spent some 
time in the College of St. Sulpice, he soon passed into 
the novitiate of the Jesuits at Montrouge, and thenee 
to Dole and St. Acheul for his theological studies, at 
the termination of whieh he was himself appointed a 
professor. The religious fervor of his soul found ex- 
pression in many of the material forms which prevail so 
generally among the Romanists of his order. Thus, for 
example, he wore for a long time, as a mark of penance, 
a leather girdle stuck full of needles, around his waist, 
on the bare body. On the expulsion of the Jesuits from 
France in 1830, father Ravignan withdrew to Freiburg, 
in Switzerland, where he continued to teach in the 
schools of his own order; but after some time, when he 
was supposed to have gained sufficient notoriety by the 
afflictive discipline of his body, he was transferred to 
the more congenial duty of preaching, first in several 
of the Swiss towns, and afterwards in Savoy, at Cham- 
bery, at St. Maurice, and other places. At length, in 
1835, he appeared in the pulpit of the cathedral of 
Amiens. In the following year he was chosen to preach 
the Lenten sermons at the church of St. Thomas d’Aquin 
in Paris; and finally, in 1837, was selected to replace 
Lacordaire (q. v.) at Notre Dame in the duty of con- 
ducting the special “conferences” for men -which had 
been opened in that cliureh. For ten years father Ra- 
vignan occupied this pulpit with a success which has 
rarely been equalled, and his Conferences are regarded 
as models of ecclesiastical eloquence. In 1842 he un- 
dertook, in addition, to preach each evening during the 
entire Lent; and it is to the excessive fatigue thus in- 
duced, as well as to the many trials imposed, that the 
premature break-down of his strength is ascribed. To 
the labors of the pulpit he added those also of the press. 


lie published an Apology of his order in 1844; and in 
1854 a more extended work with the same view, Cle- 
ment XIII et Clement XIV (2 vols. 8vo), which was in- 
tended as a reply to the Life of Clement XIV by the 
I Oratorian father Theiner. These, with some occasional 
I Sermons and Conferences, constitute the sum of the pub- 
lications issued during his life. In 1855 he was invited 
by the emperor Napoleon III to preach the Lent at the 
Tuilcries. He died Feb. 26, 1858, in the convent of his 
order at Paris. None of the Jesuit preachers of our 
times have so zealously labored among the Protestants 
as father Ravignan, but, alas! too frequently he em- 
ployed measures in no way adding honor to the already 
overcast name of the Jesuitical order. Ilis Memoirs 
have been published by his brethren, and a collected 
edition of his works and remains has been for some time 
in progress. The Memoir has been translated into Eng- 
lish, under the title of The Life of Father Ravignan, by 
father De Ponlevoy (Dublin, 1869; N. Y. 1869). 

Ravle is, ill ecclesiastical language, the name of a 
cloak worn b) r women mourners. See Mourning. 

Rawlett, John, an English theologian, was born 
about 1642, and was a lecturer in divinity at Neweastle- 
upou-T 3 'ne at the time of his death, in 1686. He pub- 
lished, Explication of the Creed, the Ten Commandments, 
and the Lord's Prayer (Lond. 1672, 8vo; 1769, 8vo) : — 
Dialogue between Two Protestants (1686, 8vo): — Chris- 
tian Monitor, in Welsh (Oxon. 1689, 8vo) :— Treatise of 
Sacramental Covenanting (5th ed. Lond. 1692, 8vo). 

Rawley, William, an Anglican divine of some 
note, w r as born about 1588, and was educated at Bene’t 
College, Cambridge, of which he was made fellow in 
1609. He finally took holy orders, and in 1612 beeame 
rector of Bowthorpe, Norfolk; in 1616, viear of Land- 
beach, Cambridge. He was chaplain and amanuensis 
to lord Bacon, and subsequently chaplain to Charles I 
and Charles II. He wrote prefaces and dedications to 
some of Bacon’s works, and translated several of them 
into Latin. In 1638, after Bacon’s death, he published 
them in folio form ; and in 1657 he published, under the 
title of Rrsuscitutio, several other of Bacon’s tracts, with 
a memoir of the author prefixed. In 1661 he repub- 
lished the Resuscitatio, with additions. lie died in 1667. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Rawlin, Richard, an English Independent divine, 
was born in 1687, and flourished as pastor of an Inde- 
pendent congregation in Fetter Lane, London. He 
died in 1757. lie published, Christ the Righteousness of 
his People, seven Discourses on Justification by Faith in 
Him (1741, 8vo; 1722, 1797, 12mo). 

Rawlings, Charles, a Wesleyan preaeher of some 
note, was born May 24, 1813, at Cheltenham. He was 
destined for mercantile life, but finally, brought under 
the influence of the Wesleyans, he was converted and 
taken into the Church. In 1836 he entered the minis- 
try, and for twenty-nine years filled some of the best 
circuits in the connection. He last held the appoint- 
ment of superintendent of the Swansea (English) Cir- 
cuit. He died July 14, 1865. See Cambria Daily 
Leader (of that. date). 

Rawlinson, George, an English divine, noted 
also as a scientist, was born in 1828, and was educated at 
King’s College and Emmanuel College, Cambridge. In 
1854 he was made eurate of St. Mary’s, Vincent Square, 
London. In 1856 he was appointed professor of applied 
sciences at Elphinstone College, Bombay, where he re- 
mained until his death in September following. He 
published in 1857, at Bombay, a work on dynamics. 
Ilis Elementary Statics, edited by Edw. Sturgis, was 
published at Cambridge and London (1861, 8vo). See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. 

Rawlinson, John, D.D., an English divine, noted 
also as an educator, flourished in the first half of the 17th 
century. He was at one time principal of St. Edmund's 
llall. He published, Three Sermons (Lond. 1609-11; 


RAWSON 


934 


RAYMOND 


Oxon. 1G12, 4to) : — Sermon on 1 Sam . x, 24 (ibid. 
1 GIG, 4to) : — Sermons on Luke xxii, 4* (Lond. 1G1G, 4to) : 

Four Lent Sermons (1G25, 4to). See Allibone, Diet, 
of Hr it. and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Rawson, Grindal, an early American preacher, 
was born in III 3*. and was educated at Harvard College, 
where he graduated in 1G78. He entered the ministry, 
and was pastor of a Presbyterian congregation at Men- 
tion, Mass., from 1G80 until his death, in 1715. He pub- 
lished Fleet ion Sermons (Host. 1700, lGmo). Sec Ma- 
ther, Deaths of Vood Men. 

Rawson, Joseph, D.D., an English divine, flour- 
ished near the opening of last century as canon of Lich- 
field. He published nine single Sermons (1703-10, and 
a Xarrative of his case (Lond. 1737, 8vo). See Watt, 
Dib. Brit. s. v. 

Ray, Benjamin, an English clergyman, flourished 
in the lirst half of the last century. He was perpetual 
curate of Surllcct and curate of Cowbitt, and died in 
17G0. He contributed to the Trans, of the Spalding 
Society, to the Gentleman's Magazine, 1744 (on an an- 
cient coin, etc.), and to the Philosophical Transactions, 
1751 (on a water-spout), and left some works in manu- 
script. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authors, 
s. v. 

Ray, John, a celebrated English naturalist, of hum- 
ble origin, but indomitable perseverance, was the author 
of two works showing the relation of science to religion 
( The Wisdom of God in the Works of Creation [Lond. 
1G91, and often since]; and Three Physico-Theological 
Discourses [ibid. 1G93, and later]). He was born in 1G28 
at lilack N'otlev, in Essex; was educated at Braintree 
School, and at Catharine Hall and Trinity College, Cam- 
bridge; lost his fellowship in the latter college by refus- 
ing to comply with the Act of Cniformitv ; travelled on 
the Continent for three years with Mr. Willoughby and 
other friends; became a fellow of the Koval Society, 
and died in 1705. Ills works are numerous and valua- 
ble, chiefly on seientific and literary subjects. See Al- 
libone, Diet, of Brit, and .1 mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Ray, Thomas, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Pennsylvania, Oct. 18, 1794, 
became a Christian in early life, and, after preaching 
for several years, in 1833 joined the Indiana Conference, 
within whose limits be travelled until his death, Jan. 31, 
1871, at Inwood, Ind. — Minutes of Ann.Coif. 1871, p. 184. 

Raybold, George A., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Philadelphia, Pa., Oct. 
18, 1802. He was converted in April, 1822. and began 
to preach in 1825. In April, 1829, he withdrew from 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, and joined the Meth- 
odist Protestant Church, hut reunited with the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church in September, 1831. In 1833 
ho was admitted on trial in the Philadelphia Confer- 
ence, ordained deacon in 1835, and elder in 1837. When 
the New Jersey Conference was formed, he was set off 
with it, and continued to till the several appointments 
to which he was assigned until 1847, when he was 
granted a supernumerary relation. For over thirty 
years he was a great sufferer from disease, and yet 
maintained a devout, patient spirit until his death, at 
lladdonflcld. X. J., Dec. 4, 187G. — Minutes of Annual 
Conferences of the M. E. Church, 1877, p. 159. 

Rayland, John, I ).!)., a. learned minister of the 
Baptist de nomination in England, was horn at War- 
wick Jan. 29, 1753. In his childhood he developed re- 
markable talents as a scholar. Having been thoroughly 
trained under the tuition of his father, lie became his 
assistant in the school under his charge, and his suc- 
cessor when he retired from his official duties. He be- 
gan to preach in 1771 at Northampton and its vicinity. 
In 1781 he became colleague with his father in t lie pas- 
torate of the Northampton church, and sole pastor on 
the removal of his father to Entield. lie occupied this 
position for ten years, and then became pastor of the 


Ilroadmead Chapel in Bristol, and at the same time 
president of the Baptist Institute in that place. Here 
he continued until his death, May 25, 1825. Brown Uni- 
versity conferred the degree of I).D. on Dr. Kavland in 
1772. His Sermons, etc., were collected after his death, 
and published in two octavo volumes. The funeral ser- 
mon of Dr. Kayland by Hubert Hall presents a most 
charming portraiture of this excellent man. (J. C. S.) 

Raymond, Sr. (Spanish, San Pamoii), a Koman 
Catholic prelate who flourished in Spain in the tirst 
half of the 13th century, is frequently called by his sur- 
name Xonnatus, which he owes to the fact that he was 
taken out of the body of his mother after her death by 
the Cesarean operation, lie was thus born at I’ortel, in 
Catalonia, in 1204, and was of a gentleman’s family of 
small fortune. Ilis early life was spent in the moun- 
tain fastnesses of his native country ; but when he had 
attained to the years of a rnaturcr youth, he set out for 
the court, and there attracted attention. The dissipa- 
tion of his royal associates disgusted him, and he sought 
the retirement of the cloister. He joined the Order of 
Mercy, which aimed at the redemption of captives from 
the Moors, and was admitted by the founder himself, 
St. Peter Xolaseo (q. v.). While in Algiers he was 
taken up by the authorities, and punished with excruci- 
ating tortures of the body; but he bore all meekly, and 
even continued his work after his release. The story 
goes that the governor, when informed of the incurabil- 
ity of Raymond's zeal of propagandism, had him seized 
anew, and his lips were, bored through with a red-hot 
iron and fastened with a padlock. He was re-leased 
after eight months’ imprisonment, and taken hack to 
Spain by friends of his, and under direction of the pope 
of Kome, who shortly after made him a cardinal. He 
was also made the general of his order, and as such was 
invited to visit Kome. On his way thither he fell sick 
at Cardona, only six miles from Barcelona, and died 
Aug. 31, 1240. Both pope Gregory IX and king James 
of Aragon assisted at his funeral. Tope Alexander VII 
inserted Raymond's name in the M artyrology in 1G57. 
Sec Butler, Lives of the Saints, viii, 5G7 sq. 

Raymond of Magnei.onne. a French mediaeval 
prelate, flourished near the opening of the 12th century. 
It is supposed that he was of the family of the nobles of 
Montpellier, lie was bishop from 1129, but not with- 
out opposition. Bernard, count of Substantion, finding 
the choice of Raymond contrary to his views, for re- 
venge, tried to destroy the church of Magnelonne; but 
the constancy of Raymond triumphed over this opposi- 
tion, and forced the same Bernard to make public con- 
fession of his fault. The name of this bishop is cited in 
many of the acts mentioned or published by the Gallia 
Christiana and L'Uistoire de Languedoc of 31. Vaissettc. 
lie died in November, 1159. — Iloefer, A ’one. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Raymond of Pen a fort (Saint), a Spanish Do- 
minican, was born in 1175 at the chateau of Penafort, 
in Catalonia, and belonged to cue of the noble families 
of Spain allied to the royal house of Aragon. lie was 
educated at Barcelona, and made such progress that at 
the age of twenty he taught the liberal arts at that 
place. He went to perfect himself at the University 
of Bologna, where he received the title of doctor in civil 
and canonical law. Attracted by his reputation, which 
was still rising, Berangcr, bishop of Barcelona, on his 
returning to his church from Koine, went to see him at 
Bologna, and succeeded in persuading him to return 
with him to Spain. lie did not, however, content him- 
self with the mere discharge of the duties of his canou- 
ieatc and his archdeaconry in the Barcelona cathedral, 
but was very much occupied with all manner of good 
works. He finally felt persuaded to take the Dominican 
habit, April 1, 1222. His example was followed by 
several persons distinguished for their knowledge and 
birth. Pope Gregory IX called him to Kome, and em- 
ployed him in 1228 in the collection of the Decretals: 


RAYMOND 


935 


lie wished even to raise him to the metropolitan see of 
Tarragona, but Raymond preferred the solitude of Bar- 
celona to all the advantages which his friends had hoped 
for him. Nominated general of his order in 1238, he 
gave up his charge two years later, and contributed 
much by his zeal and counsel to the establishment of 
the Order of Mercy. Peter Nolascus was one of his 
converts, and so were many other distinguished charac- 
ters of that period. Indeed, his influence is said to have 
been so great that the expulsion of the Moors from 
Spain is principally attributed to him. Raymond was 
also made the spiritual director of the king of Aragon, 
and he persuaded his royal master James to favor the 
establishment of the Inquisition in his kingdom and in 
Languedoc, and the popes permitted him to provide for 
the offices of this tribunal. Pope Clement VIII canon- 
ized him in 1G01. We have of his works a collection 
of Decretals, which forms the fifth volume of the canon 
law. This collection is in five books, and the author 
has joined several decrees of the councils to the consti- 
tutions of the popes: — a Summa on penitence and mar- 
riage, which he had printed many times: — an abridg- 
ment of this work, and divers other works which have 
not been printed, and which do not merit it. Raymond 
de Penafort died at Barcelona Jan. 6, 1275. He is com- 
memorated Jan. 23. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 
See Butler, Lives of the Saints, i, 200 sq. ; Mrs. Jame- 
son, Legendary and Mythological A rt (see Index). 

Raymond of Sabuxde (or Sf.bunde), a French 
ecclesiastic, who was a native of Spain, but. flourished 
in the first half of the 15th century at Toulouse, is noted 
as a philosopher and theologian. About 143G he taught 
medicine at Toulouse, and perhaps also theology, lie 
is especially noteworthy as the author of Liber Natures 
s. Creaturam , etc., which has had several emendations 
and translations. Raymond sought in a rational, yet 
in some respects rather mystical, manner to demonstrate 
the harmony between the book of nature and the Bible, 
lie asserts that man has received from the Almighty 
two books, wherein he may discover the important facts 
which concern his relation to his Creator, viz. the book 
of Revelation and that of Nature; affirming the latter 
to be the most universal in its contents, and the roost 
perspicuous. He endeavored by specious rather than 
solid arguments to deduce the theology of his age, even 
in its more peculiar doctrines, from the contemplation 
of nature and of man. “ Setting out with the consider- 
ation of the four stages designated as mere being, life, 
sensation, and reason, Raymond (who agrees with the 
Nominalists in regarding self-knowledge as the most 
certain kind of knowledge) proves by ontological, phys- 
ieo-teleological, and moral arguments (the latter based 
on the principle of retribution) the existence and trin-* 
itv of God, and the duty of grateful love to God, who 
first loved us. His work culminates in the mystical 
conception of a kind of love to God by which the lover 
is enabled to grow into the essence of the loved” (Ueber- 
weg). This attempt of Raymond of Sabunde to prove 
the doctrines of Christianity from the revelation of God 
in nature has no imitators. It certainly deserved, from 
its just observations on many subjects, especially on 
morals, greater success than it met with. Montaigne 
directed to it the attention of his contemporaries by a 
translation he made of it. (See Montaigne’s observa- 
tions in his Essays , lib. ii, ch. xii.) The best Latin 
editions of the Liber Natures are those of Frankfort, 
1635, and Amsterdam, 1761. See Matzke, Die natiirl. 
Theol. des /?. v. Sab. (Breslau, 1846); Nitzsch, Qua’st. 
Raimundanee, in Zeitsch. fur hist. Theol. 1853, No. 3; 
Zockler, Theol. Natur. (Frankf. 1860), vol. i ; Hagen- 
bach, Hist, of Doctrines (see Index) ; Ritter, Christl. 
Philos, ii, 747-754; Ueberweg, Hist . of Philos, i, 465- 
467. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Raymond, Lully. See Lully. 

Raymond, Martin, a Spanish Dominican who 
flourished in the I3th century, near its middle, was in 


RAYNAUD 

1250 presiding officer of the eight colleges which the 
kings of Castile and Aragon had erected in the Domin- 
ican convents for the study of the Oriental tongues. 
The principal object of these schools was to lit out mis- 
sionaries, and to aid the work of missions in all possible 
ways. Our Raymond was one of the greatest promoters 
of that work in his time, and his name deserves to be 
; commemorated in the annals of Christian missions. lie 
( died after 1286. He is especially known by his Pugio 
Fidei contra Mauros et Judceos, ed. by De Voisin (Paris, 
1651), and by Carpzov (Leipsic, 1687). See IlagenbacK, 
Hist, of Doctrines , i, 383; ii, 17. 

Raynaud ( Rainaldi ), Theopiulus, a celebrated 
Italian Jesuit, was born Nov. 15, 1583, at Sospello, near 
Nice. He studied at Avignon, and became quite ae- 
\ complished as a student of philosophy. In 1602 he en- 
tered the Society of Jesus, and was made one of their 
teachers at Lyons. At first he taught elementary 
branches, but soon found advancement, and was finally 
given a professorship of philosophy and theology. In 
1631 he was chosen confessor to prince Maurice of Sa- 
voy, and repaired to Paris. Here he was made uncom- 
fortable by unpleasant relations to Richelieu, who, hav- 
ing been attacked by a Spanish theologian for the 
alliance of the French government with the German 
Protestants, had asked Raynaud for a reply and been 
j refused. Raynaud was, at his request to the order, 
j transferred to Cbamberv, and this bishopric soon becom- 
ing vacant, he was solicited to fill it. But he was far 
from being pleased, and even prepared to return to Lyons. 
' He did not again revisit Savoy until 1G39, and then 
only to his unhappiness. He had, during his sojourn 
at Chambery, contracted a close friendship with father 
Pierre Monod, his companion ; and when he heard of 
his detention in the fortress of Montmelian, he tried in 
every way to have it brought to an end. Richelieu 
took offence at this ardent affection, which was natural 
j between friends, and, not being willing to permit rela- 
tions between Raynaud and a prisoner of the state, be 
solicited and obtained from the court of Savoy the ar- 
rest of the unfortunate Jesuit. At the end of three 
months he was released, and sought refuge at Carpen- 
tras, which then belonged to the Papal States. But 
the aversion of his enemies would not leave him long 
undisturbed. By order of the cardinal-legate Antonio 
Barberini, he was conducted to Avignon, and locked in 
a chamber of the pontifical palace. With difficulty re- 
leased, he left for Rome, with the manuscript of Tletero- 
clita Spiritualia, of which the impression had been sus- 
pended, submitted it for examination to father Ale- 
gam be, and obtained the authority to publish. In 1645 
he returned to Rome in company with eardidal Fede- 
rigo Sforza, and was presented to the pope and the Sa- 
cred College as one of the most ardent champions of 
the papal rights. He aftenvards made two journeys 
to the Eternal City, the first time in 1647, and there 
occupied for some time a theological chair; the second 
time in 1651, when he assisted at the general assembly 
of his order. He afterwards obtained permission to es- 
tablish himself at Lyons, and there passed the rest of 
his life in teaching and composing his works. He died 
Oct. 31, 1663. Father Raynaud had all the qualities of 
a good friar: he was sober, pious, and very charitable; 
but by his pen he did not spare his adversaries, and 
showed himself severe and irascible. lie wrote a great 
many works, which, though extravagant in style, tedi- 
ous, and trivial, were nearly all received with favor. 
Tiraboschi was unable to forbear comparing them “ to 
one of those vast magazines full of merchandise of all 
kinds, good and bad, ancient and modern, useful and 
useless, in which even' one could find, with taste and 
patience, everything which suited him.” The writings 
of pere Raynaud worth mentioning here are, Theologia 
Naturalis (Lyons, 1622, 1637, 4to): — Splendor Veritatis 
M oralis (ibid. 1627, 8vo; under the name of Stephanus 
Emonecus) : — -Moral is Disciplina (ibid. 1629, fol.) : — In- 
dieulus Sanctorum Lvgdunensium (ibid. 1629, 12mo): — 


RAZIS 


93 G 


REA 


Cidvinismus , Vestiarum Reliyio (Paris. 1G30, 12mo ; un- 
der the name of Riviere i : — De Comnmniom pro Mur- 
tuis (Lyons, 1630, 8vo); he pretends that the sacraments 
have no virtue except, for those who receive them un- 
censured by the Church of Rome: De Martyrio per 
restem (ibid. 1(530, Kvo); in the index of this book lie 
tried to show that those who exposed themselves vol- 
untarily to t lie plague in assisting those who had it were 
the real martyrs : — Xoca Libertatis Fxplicatio (Paris, 
103-2, 4to); against father Gibieuf, an Orator .—Meta- 
morphosis Latronis in Apostolum Apostolique in Latro- 
nem (Lyons, 1634, 2 vols. 8vo); followed bv several 
other treatises : — De Ortu Infant ium contra Xaturam , 
per Sectionem L'o’sareum (ibid. 1637, 8vo); a singular 
and curious book : — Hipparchus de lteliyioso Xegotiatore 
(Francopolis [ChamberyJ, 1G42, 8vo); a satirical work, 
translated into French (Chamberv, 1G45, 8vo) by Tri- 
pier, teacher of the natural children of the duke of Sa- 
voy ; and Amsterdam (1761, 12mo ): — Dypticha Mariana 
(Grenoble, 1643, 4to) : — Mala Jionoru.ni Ecclesiastico- 
runi (Lyons, 1044, 4to ): — De Incorrupt ione Cadaverum 
(Avignon, 1643, 8vo) ; a dissertation written upon the 
dead body of a w oman which was found in 1642 at Car- 
pentras without any signs of decomposition, although 
it had been buried for a long time; Raynaud pretended 
that the incorruption of the body was not due to natural 
causes, nor to the artifices of the devil, but to God him- 
self; but, adds he, as this last supposition is far from 
being demonstrated, it will be well to find what God 
himself has decreed on this subject : — Ileteroelita Spiri- 
tualia (Grenoble, 164G, 8vo; Lyons, 1G54, 4to); a col- 
lection of the extraordinary practices which superstition 
and ignorance have introduced into religion: — Vitas ac 
Mortis Humancs Terminalia (Orange, 1646, 8vo); he 
had not then reason to doubt, following the author, that 
God has fixed the term of life for the good and the 
wicked; but ordinarily the length of the life of men 
and their death depend upon natural causes : — Trinitas 
Patriarcharum (Lyons, 10 17, 8vo) ; notices upon Sime- 
on Stvlites, Francis de Paulo, and Ignatius do Loyola: 
— Erotemata de Mails ac Bonis Libris , deque Justa ant 
Injnsta eorumdem Conjixione (ibid. 1650, 4to) ; this work, 
full of research, is an answer to an attack on his I)e 
Martyrio per Pestem: — Theoloyia Putrum (Antwerp, 
1G52, fol.) : — I)e Mobriu A Iter ins Mexus Freqnentatione 
per Macros et Ileliyiosos Homines (Lyons, 1653, 8vo) : — 
Mai pula re Marianum (Paris, 1G53, 8vo ): — De Pileo Ex- 
terinsque Capitis Teyminibus, tarn Maoris quant Profanis 
(Lyons, 1G55, 4 to): — Eunuch i, Xati, Fact t, Mystici , ex 
Macru et Humana Literatura Illustrati ; Pueromm 
Fmasculatores ob Musicam quo Loco Habendi (Dijon, 
1G55, 4 to); under the name of Jean 1 Ieribert, he treated, 
in a very diffuse manner, the subject of eunuchs; but 
he had forgotten the most essential point, whether they 
were able to marry; this question was very fully treated 
in his work Traits des Eunuqnes (1707, I to ): — Hercules 
Commodianus (Aix, 1565, 8vo); under the name Houo- 
rat Leotard ; it is a virulent satire against Jean de Lau- 
noi : — Trias Fortium Dadd (Lyons, 1(557, 4to); re- 
marks upon Robert d’Arbrisscl. St. Bernard, and Cesar 
of Bus : — Missi Fvanyelici ad Mimas, Japionuni et Gras 
Confines (Antw. [Lyons] 1659, 8vo); under the name 
of Legcr Quintin : — G Parascevasticum (Lyons, 16(51, 
4te) : Hayioloyium Lugdnnense (ibid. 1662, 8 vo ): — De 
Immunitate A utorum Cyriaeornm a Censura (ibid. 1GG2, 
8vo). See Dupin, Biblioth. des Auteurs Cedes. ; Nied- 
ron, Me moires, vol. xxvi. II is Life , written by him- 
self, is preserved in the Jesuit Library at Lyons. See 
also Sotwei, Script . Soc. Jesn, — Iloefer, A owe. Bioy. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Ra'zis (’Po^fi'c, Vulg. Razias ), “one of the elders 
of Jerusalem,” who killed himself under peculiarly ter- 
rible circumstances, that he might not fall “into the 
hands of the wicked” (2 Mace, xiv, 37 46). In dying 
he is reported to have expressed his faith in a resurrec- 
tion (ver. 46) — a belief elsewhere characteristic of the 
Maccabtean conllict. This act of suicide, which was 


wholly alien to the spirit of the Jewish law and people 
(John viii, 22; comp. Ewald, Alterth. p. 108; Grotius, 
De Jure Belli, II, xix, 5), has been the subject of con- 
siderable discussion. It was quoted by the Donatists 
as the single fact in Scripture which supported their fa- 
natical contempt of life (Augustine, Kp. 104,6). Au- 
gustine denies the fitness of the model, and condemns 
the deed as that of a man “non eligendie mortis sapiens, 
sed ferendio humilitatis impatiens” (Augustine, I. c.; 
comp. c. Gaud, i, 36-39). At a later time the favor 
with which the writer of 2 Mace, views the conduct of 
Razis — a fact which Augustine vainly denies — was 
urged rightly by Protestant writers as an argument 
against the inspiration of the book, indeed the whole 
narrative breathes the spirit of pagan heroism, or of the 
later zealots (comp. Josephus, War, iii, 7; iv, 1, 10), 
and the deaths of Samson and Saul oiler no satisfactory 
parallel (comp. Grimm, ad loci). — Smith. 

Razor is the rendering in the A. Y. of the following 
words: 1. rt"*-, month' (Sept, aic/jpog, %vpou ; Vulg. 
novacula, ferrum: from PH*2, “scrape,” or “sweep.” 
Gcsenius connects it with the root “ to fear” [ The- 
saur. p. 819]). This word occurs in Judg. xiii, 5; xvi, 
17 ; 1 Sam. i, 11. 2. “I‘P. ta'ar (Sept, poptyaia ; Vulg. 
yladius: from to lay bare), a more general term 

(Numb, vi, 5; Psa. Iii. 2; Isa. vii, 20; Ezek. v, 1) for a 
sharp knife (as rendered in Jcr. xxvi, 23) or su-ord 
(“sheath,” 1 Sam. xvii, 51, etc.; although many regard 
this as a different word of the same form). The barber 
is designated by yallab ' (Sept. Kovptvtj ; Vulg. 
tonsor, 2 Sam. xx, 8). “ Besides other usages, the prac- 
tice of shaving the head after the completion of a vow- 
must have created among the Jews a necessity for the 
special trade of a barber (Numb, vi, 9, 18; viii, 7 ; Lev. 
xiv, 8; Judg. xiii, 5; Isa. vii, 20; Ezek. v, 1; Acts 
xviii, 18). The instruments of his work were probably, 
as in modern times, the razor, the basin, the mirror, and 
perhaps, also, the scissors, such as are described by Lu- 
cian (A dr. Induct, ii, 395, ed. Amst. ; see 2 8am. xiv, 
2G). Tbe process of Oriental shaving, and especially 
of the head, is minutely described by Chardin (Voy. 
iv, 144). It may be remarked that, like the Levites, 
the Egyptian priests were accustomed to shave their 
whole bodies (Herod, ii, 36. 37)” (Smith). The Psalm- 
ist compares the tongue of l)oeg to a sharp razor (Psa. 
Iii, 2) starting aside from what should he its true oper- 
ation to a cruel purpose and effect. In the denuncia- 
tion of the woes that were to be brought upon Judah in 
the time of Ahaz by the instrumentality of the Assyr- 
ians, we have the remarkable expression, “In the same 
/lay shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired, 
namely, by them beyond tlic river, by the king of As- 
syria, the head, and the hair of the feet; and it shall 
also consume the beard” (Isa. vii, 20). It seems likely 
that there is here an implication of contempt as well as 
suffering, as the office of a barber ambulant has seldom 
been esteemed of any dignity either in the East or West. 
To shave with the hired razor the head, the feet, and 
the beard is an expression highly parabolical, to denote 
the utter devastation of the country from one end to 
the other, and the plundering of the people from the 
highest to the lowest hv the Assyrians, whom God em- 
ployed as his instrument to punish the rebellious Jews. 
See Bauukk. 

Rea, John, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, was born 
in the village of Tully, Ireland, in 1772. He emigrated 
to the United States in 1799. and, after remaining at 
Philadelphia a short time. “ 1 left on foot," he says, 
“travelled mostly alone through the wilderness, sad, 
gloomy, and dispirited, until, after many days, I arrived 
west of the Alleghany Mountains, stopping at the house 
of Mr. Porter, a Presbyterian minister.” He now la- 
bored and struggled amid many adverse circumstances 
to secure a literary course of education, teaching school 
and studying alternately, until he graduated with honor 


READ 


937 


IlEADEIi 


at Jefferson College, when it was only a small school 
kept in a log-cabin near Canonsburg, Pa. He studied 
theology under the direction of Dr. John M'Millan, was 
licensed by the Ohio Presbytery in June, 1803, and, af- 
ter itinerating awhile in the wilderness of Eastern Ohio 
among some Indian camps, he was appointed to supply 
the newly organized churches of Beechsprings and 
Crabapple, over which he was ordained and installed 
pastor in 1805. The country tvas settled rapidly, and 
his charges grew as fast, so that it soon became neces- 
sary to have the relation between these two churches 
dissolved, that he might labor all his time at the Beech- 
springs. “ So untiring and devoted was this servant 
of Christ that, besides constantly ministering to his own 
large congregation, he found time to be instrumental 
in raising up some six or seven separate societies that 
went out as colonies from the mother Church, and are 
now self-sustaining and prominent congregations.” He 
died, after a ministry of fifty-two years, Feb. 12, 1855. 
Dr. Pea was pastor of the Church at Beechsprings forty- 
five years, and the history of the Presbyterian Church 
in Eastern Ohio is closely connected with his biography. 
He was a close, persevering student, clear in the ar- 
rangement of his subject, original in his thinking, and 
independent in thought and expression. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac , 1867, p. 193. (J. L. S.) 

Read, Francis H., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Harrison Count)', Va., 
Nov. 25, 1812, was converted in his youth, joined the 
Church promptly in 1829, and in 1834, feeling called of 
God to the holy ministry, entered the travelling con- 
nection within the bounds of the Pittsburgh Conference, 
Pa. When the West Virginia Conference was formed, 
he became united with it, and there labored until 1855, 
when he was located. He removed to Illinois, and 
shortly after entered the Rock River Conference, and 
was appointed to the Newark Circuit. After two years 
he again took a location, and removed to Iowa. In 
1858 he was admitted into the Iowa Conference, and 
afterwards, by the formation and division of territory, 
he fell first into the Western Iowa, and then into the 
Des Moines Conference. His appointments in these 
conferences were Hopeville Circuit, Osceola, Chariton, 
Ottawa Circuit, Corning, and the Atlantic District. In 
this field truly “he died at his post.” His death oc- 
curred July 13, 1871, at Panora, Guthrie County, Iowa. 
See Minutes of the Annual Conferences , 1871, p. 218, 219. 

Read, Henry Clay, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Stanford, Lincoln County, Kv., Jan. 30, 1826. 
He graduated at Centre College, Danville, Kv., in 1849, 
and at the theological seminary at Princeton, N. J., in 
1850; was licensed by Transylvania Presbytery June 
27, 1850, and began his labors at Westport, Lagrange, 
and Ballardsville, Kv. In 1851 he moved to Glasgow 7 , 
Ivy., and w 7 as ordained over that Church April 9, 1852. 
In 1858 he moved to Columbia, Ivy., and engaged as 
joint principal of the liigh-school in that place, during 
which period he preached half of his time to the Church 
there, and the churches of Edmonton and Munfords- 
ville. In 1859 he took full charge of the Church and 
school, but discontinued the school in 1862. He was a 
commissioner to the General Assembly of the Presbyte- 
rian Church which met in Peoria, 111., in 1863. He 
died Oct. 23, 1863. Air. Read was a most exemplary 
Christian, a man of sound judgment, and a good preacher. 
See Wilson, Presb. II ist. A Imanac, 1 864, p. 1 9 1 . (J. L. S.) 

Read, Thomas Buchanan, an American artist 
of some renown, deserves a place here for his distinc- 
tion in works on sacred subjects. lie was born in 
Chester County. Pa., in 1822. When but seventeen 
years old he entered the studio of a sculptor in Cincin- 
nati, intending to devote himself to sculpture for life; 
but painting soon proved the more attractive to him, 
and he practiced sculpture only as an amateur. In 1841 
he went to New York, then to Boston, and settled in 
Philadelphia in 1846. He visited Europe first in 1850, 


since tvhich time he has lived in Florence and Rome, 
passing some interval in Cincinnati. His pictures and 
liis poems have the same characteristics, as might be 
expected. They are full of aerial grace and delicacy; 
an exquisite refinement and an ideal charm mingle in all 
he did. And yet he sometimes wrote with the spirit 
we find in Sheridan's Ride , and painted with such force 
as is seen in Sheridan and his Horse. Among his most 
charming pictures is his Star of Bethlehem. He died in 
Europe, where he had resided for over five years, while 
on his v r ay home in 1872. 

Reader, one of the five inferior orders of the Church 
of Rome. The office of reader is of great antiquity in 
the Church, dating as far back as the 3d century. It 
is, however, abundantly evident that it was not a dis- 
tinct order, the reader (in the Latin Church at least) 
never having been admitted to his office by imposition 
of hands. According to the Council of Carthage, the 
Bible was put into the hands of the appointee, in pres- 
ence of the people, with these words: “Take this book, 
and be thou a reader of the Word of God, which office 
thou shalt faithfully and profitably perform. Thou 
slialt have part with those who minister in the Word 
of God.” At the time of the Reformation, readers were 
admitted in churches and chapels for which no clergy- 
man could be procured, to the end that divine service 
in such places might not be altogether neglected. The 
office, or rather the name, is still continued in the Church 
of England. The following is the pledge to which, at 
the time of the Reformation, the readers were obliged 
to subscribe : 

11 Imprimis, I shall not preach or interpret, but only 
read that which is appointed by public authority. I shall 
not minister the sacraments or other public rites of the 
Church, bnt bury the dead, and purify women after their 
childbirth. I shall keep the register-book according to 
the injunctions. I shall use sobriety in apparel, and es- 
pecially in the church at common prayer. I shall move 
men to quiet and concord, and not give them cause of of- 
fence. I shall bring in to my ordinary testimony of my 
behavior from the honest of the parish w'here I dwell, 
w’ithiu one half year next following. I shall give place, 
upon convenient warning, so thought by the ordinary, if 
any learned minister shall be placed there at the suit of 
the patron of the parish. I shall claim no more of the 
fruits sequestered of such cure where I shall serve but as 
it shall be thought meet to the wisdom of the ordinary. 
I shall daily, at the least, read one chapter of the Old Tes- 
tament, and one other of the New, with good advisement, 
to the increase of my knowledge. I shall not appoint in 
my room, by reason of my absence or sickness, any other 
man, but shall leave it to the suit of the parish to the or- 
dinary for assigning some other able man. I shall not 
read bnt in poorer parishes, destitute of incumbents, ex- 
cept in the time of sickness, or for other good considera- 
tions to be allowed by the ordinary. I shall not openly 
intermeddle with any artificer’s occupations, as covetously 
to seek a gain thereby, having in ecclesiastical living the 
snm of twenty nobles, or above, by the year.” 

In Scotland also, at the Reformation, readers were ap- 
pointed to read the Scriptures and the common prayers 
— that is, the forms of the Church of Geneva. They 
w 7 ere not allowed to preach or administer the sacraments. 
The readers were tempted now and then to overstep 
these limits, and were as often forbidden by the General 
Assembly, till, in 1581, the office was formally abolished. 
The First Book of Discipline says : 

“To the churches where no ministers can be bad pres- 
entlie must lie appointed the most apt men that distinct- 
lie can read the common praiers and the Scriptures, to 
exercise both themselves and the Church, till they grow 
to greater perfection: and in process of time he that is 
bnt a reader may attain to a farther degree, and, by con- 
sent of the Church and discreet ministers, may be permit- 
ted to minister the sacraments; but not before that he be 
able somewhat to perswade by wholesome doctrine, be- 
side bis reading, and be admitted to the ministerie, as be- 
fore is said. . . . Nothing have w r e spoken of the stipend 
of readers, because, if they can do nothing but reade, they 
neither can be called nor judged true ministers, and yet 
regard must be had to their labors; but so that they may 
be spurred forward to vertne, and not by any stipend ap- 
pointed for their reading to be retained in that estate. 
To a reader, therefore, that is newly entered, fourty inerkes, 
or more or lesse, as parishioners and readers can agree, is 
sufficient: provided that he teach the children of the par- 
ish, w r hich he must doe, besides the reading of the com- 


READING 


938 


READING -IN 


mnn prayer?, and bookes of tbe Old and New Testament. 
If from reading he begin to exhort and explain the Script- 
ures, then ought his stipend to he augmented, till finally 
he come to the honour of a minister, lint if he be found 
unable after two veares, then must he be removed from 
that office, and discharged of all stipend, that another 
may be proved as long ; for this ahvaies is to be avoided, 
that none who is judged unable to come at any time to 
some reasonable knowledge, whereby he may editie the 
Kirk, shall be perpetually susteined upon the charge of 
the Kirk. Farther, it must be avoided that no child, nor 
person within age— that is, within twentie-oue yea res of 
nge— he admitted to the office of a reader.” 

The name occurs, however, in Church records long after 
that period, for in many places the office was tacitly 
permitted. The precentor sometimes bore it; and ex- 
porters— persons who read the Scriptures and added a 
lew words of remark — were found in various towns. — 
Eadie, J Cedes. Cyclop, s. v. See Precentor. 

Reading, Oriental Mode of (llcb. to call 
aloud; dvayivojOKoj'). Mr. Jowett remarks, in his 
Christian Researches in Syria, etc., that “ when persons 
are reading privately in a book, they usually go on 
reading aloud with a kind of singing voice, moving 
their heads and bodies in time, and making a monoto- 
nous cadence at regular intervals, thus giving empha- 
sis, although not such an emphasis as would please an 
English ear. Very often they seem to read without 
perceiving the sense, and to be pleased with themselves 
merely because they can go through the mechanical art 
of reading in any way.” This practice may enable us 
to “understand how it was that Philip should hear at 
what passage in Isaiah the Ethiopian eunuch was read- 
ing before he was invited to come up and sit with him 
in the chariot (Acts viii, 30, 31). The eunuch, though 
probably reading to himself, and not particularly de- 
signing to be heard by his attendants, would read loud 
enough to be understood by a person at some distance.” 
See Book. 

Reading, Councils of ( Concilia Iieelinyensia '). 
The first of these was held in duly, 1270, by archbishop 
Peckham of Canterbury, assisted by his suffragans. The 
twelve following constitutions were published : 

1. Renews the twenty-ninth constitution of Othobon 
against pluralities, and directs bishops to cause a register 
to be kept of all inenmbeuts in their dioceses, with all 
particulars relating to them and their livings. 

2. Relates to coinmendaries, and declares such as are 
held otherwise than the constitution of Gregory, made in 
the Council of Lyons, 1273, permits, to be vacant. 

3. Orders all priests, on the Sunday after every rural 
chapter, to explain to the people the sentences of excom- 
munication decreed by the Council of Oxford in 1222; and 
to publish four times in each year the constitutions of 
Othobon concerning baptism at Easter and Pentecost, 
and that concerning coneubinaries at the four principal 
rural chapters, the laity being first dismissed. 

4. Orders that children born within eight days of Pen- 
tecost and Easter shall be reserved to be baptized at these 
times; hut that children born at other times shall be bap- 
tized at mice, for fear of sudden death. 

5. Orders the eighth constitution of Othobon (126S) 
against concubinary priests to he read openly in the four 
principal rural chapters, and declares that such reading 
shall he taken as a monition. If the dean or his deputy 
neglect this, he is directed to fast every Friday on bread 
and water until the next chapter. 

6. Relates to the chrism : orders that what remains of 
the old chrism shall he burned when the new is conse- 
crated ; directs that priests shall be hound to fetch the 
chrism for their churches every year from their bishops 
before Easter; forbids to use’ any other thau the new 
chrism, under the heaviest penalties. 

7. Orders that the consecrated host he kept in a fair 
pyx, within a tabernacle ; that a fresh host he consecrated 
every Lord’s day ; that it he carried to the sick by a priest 
in surplice and stole, a lament being carried before mid a 
bell sounded, that the people may “make humble adora- 
tion wheresoever the King of Glory is carried under the 
cover of bread.” 

S. Declares the custom of praying for the dead to be 
“holy and wholesome;" and ordains that upon the death 
of any bishop of t tie province of Canterbury his surviving 
brethren shall perform a solemn office for the dead, both 
singly in their chapel*, and together, when called to as- 
semble iu council or otherwise, nfter the death of the said 
bishop ; orders, further, every priest to say one mass for 
the soul of his deceased diocesan, and entreats all exempt 
religious priests and seculars to do likewise. 


9. Relates to the preaching of indulgences, and orders 
caution in so doing, “lest the keys of the Church be de- 
spised.” 

10. Forbids to set free, or admit to purgation, on slight 
grounds, clerks who, having been put iu prison for their 
crimes, are delivered to the Church as convicts. 

11. Enjoins that care be taken to preserve the chastity 
of friars and nuns ; forbids them to sojourn long iu the 
houses of their parents and friends. 

12. Forbids parishioners to dispose of the grass, trees, 
or roots growing iu consecrated ground; leaves such 
produce at the disposal of the rectors; forbids the latter, 
without sufficient cause, to spoil or grub up such trees as 
are an ornament to the churchyards aud places there- 
abouts. 

Then follows (in some copies) an injunction that the 
clergy of each diocese should send at least two deputies 
to the next congregation, to treat with the bishops for 
the common interests of the Church of England. This 
injunction, however, is bv some persons said to be not 
genuine. In this same council a deed protecting the 
liberties of the scholars at Oxford was drawn up, in 
which the archbishop declared that, “moved by their 
devout prayers, he received under his protection their 
persons and property, and confirmed to them and their 
successors the liberties and immunities granted to them 
by bishops, kings, and others of the faithful;’’ it is also 
provided that sentences of suspension and excommuni- 
cation passed by tbe chancellor, or his deputies, etc., 
upon men on account of offences committed by them in 
the university shall be put into execution throughout 
the province of Canterbury; further, it is ordered that 
the benefices of clerks found in arms by day or night, to 
the disturbance of the peace of the university, shall he 
sequestered for three years; and if the clerks so offend- 
ing he unbeneficed, they shall he incapable of holding 
an)' benefice for five years, unless they shall make com- 
petent satisfaction in the interim. 

Thirteen prelates attended this council, viz. the arch- 
bishop, and the bishops of Lincoln, Salisbury, "Winches- 
ter, Exeter, Chichester, Worcester, Bath, Elandaff, Here- 
ford, Norwich, Bangor, and Rochester. — Johnson, Kccles . 
Canons; Labbe, Concil. xi, 10G2; Wilkins, Concil. ii, 33. 

Reading-desk, the desk or pew from which the 
minister reads the morning and evening prayer. In 
the early part of the reign of Edward VI it was the cus- 
tom of the minister to perform divine service at the 
upper end of the choir, near the communion-table; to- 
wards which, whether standing or kneeling, he always 
turned his face in the prayers. This being objected to, 
a new rubric was introduced (in the fifth year of king 
Edward), directing the minister to turn so that the peo- 
ple might best hear. In some churches, however, the 
too great distance of the chancel from the body of the 
church hindered the minister from being distinctly 
heard by the people ; therefore the bishops, at the so- 
licitation of the clergy, allowed them in several places 
to supersede their former practice, and to have desks or 
reading-pews in the body of the church ; which dispen- 
I sation, begun at first by some few ordinaries, grew by 
degrees to he more general, till at last it came to he a 
universal practice; insomuch that the Convocation, in 
the beginning of the reign of James I, ordered that in 
every church there should he a “convenient seat made 
for the minister to read service in.” It is remarkable 
that the reading-desk is only once recognised in the 
iTayer-book, viz. in the rubric prefixed to the Com im- 
itation; and also that the rubric prefixed to the Com- 
munion office supposes the continuance of the old prac- 
tice of reading the service in the choir or chancel. Sec 
Amiio; Lectern. 

Reading-in, a form required of each incumbent on 
taking possession of his cure in the Church of England. 
The minute of the procedure is as follows: 

“J/c7Jiorancfi/ni t Thnt on Sunday, the -day of , 

in the year of our Lord ,’the reverend A B, clerk, 

rector, or vicar of , in the c-mnty of and dio- 
cese of , did read in this church of aforesaid 

the articles of religion commonly called the Thirty-nine 
Articles, agreed upon in Convocation in the year of our 
Lord 1562, aud did declare his uufeigued assent and con- 


READING 


939 


REAL PRESENCE 


sent thereto ; also, that he did publicly and openly, on the 
day and year aforesaid, in the time of divine service, read j 
a declaration in the following words, viz. ‘ I, A B, declare 
that I will conform to the liturgy of the United Church 
of England and Ireland as it is now by law established.’ i 
Together with a certificate under the right hand of the 

reverend- , by divine permission lord bishop of , 

of his having made and subscribed the same before him ; | 
and also that the said A B did read in his parish church 
aforesaid, publicly and solemnly, the morning and even- 
ing prayer, according to the form prescribed in and by the 
book iutitnled the Book of Common Prayer and Adminis- 
tration of the Sacraments, and other Rites and Ceremonies 
of the Church, according to the Use of the Church of Eng- 
land ; together with the Psalter or Psalms of David, printed 
as they are to be sung or said in Churches; and the Form 
and Danner of Making, Ordaining, and Consecrating Bish- 
ops, Priests, and Deacons; and that immediately after 
leading the evening service, the said A B did openly and 
publicly, before the congregation there assembled, declare 
his unfeigned assent and consent to all things therein 
contained and prescribed, in these words, viz. ‘ I, A B, do 
declare my unfeigned assent and consent to all and ev- 
erything contained and prescribed in and by the book in- 
tituled the Book of Common Prayer and Administration 
of the Sacraments, and other Rites and Ceremonies of the 
Church ; according to the Use of the Church of England, to- 
gether with the Psatter or Psalms of David, printed as they 
are to be sung or said in Churehes, and the Form and Man- 
ner of Making, Ordaining, and Consecrating Bishops, Priests, 
ami Deacons .’ And these things we promise to testify 
upon our corporal oaths, if at any time we should be duly 
called upon so to do. In witness whereof we have here- 
unto set our hands, the day and year first above written.” 
— Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Reading, John, an English theologian, was born 
in 1588, in the county of Buckingham. lie was curate 
at Dover, and afterwards chaplain of Charles I, but he 
manifested so much zeal in defending the cause of the 
king that in 1G42 he was cast into prison, where he re- 
mained seventeen months. Archbishop Laud having 
conferred upon him, during his detention at the Tower, 
the parish of Chatham and a prebend at Canterbury, the 
king would not allow him to take possession of either of 
these benefices; and be even bad a new imprisonment 
to undergo. When in 1GG0 Charles II landed at Dover, 
it was Beading who was first congratulated, upon his 
return, on the renown of the city. We have several 
religious works written by Beading, among others, A 
Guide to the Holy City (Oxford, IG51, 4to): — An Anti- 
dote to Anabaptism (1G54, 4to); also several sermons. 
Beading died Oct. 26, 1GG7, at Chatham, Kent. See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, ami Amer. A uthors, s. v. 

Reading, William, an Anglican divine, flour- 
ished in the early opening of last century as keeper of 
the Library of Sion College, London. lie prepared an 
edition of the early ecclesiastical historians (Eusebius, 
etc.) in Greek and Latin, with notes (Cantab. 1720, 3 
vols.). He also wrote, Sermons (1714, 8vo): — Hist, of 
Jesus Christ (Lond. 1716, 12mo; 1851, 32mo; 1852, 
32mo): — Sermons — Mortification, Holiness, etc. (1724, 
8vo): — Bibliothecae Cleri Londinensis in Collegio Sio- 
nesi Catalogus Duplici Forma concinnatus (1724, fob) : 
— Sermons Preached out of the First Lessons of Every 
Sunday in the Year, with an Appendix of Six Sermons 
(4 vols. 8vo — i, ii, 1728 ; iii, iv, 1730 ; 1755. 4 vols. 8vo) ; 
very rare; commended by D’Oyle and Maret in their 
Commentary on the Bible: — Sermons (1731, 8vo) : — 
Tracts on Government (1739, 8vo). 

Readings, Various. See Various Headings. 

Reai'a (1 Chron. v, 5). See Bkaiaii. 

Reai'ah (Heb. Reayah', PPX', seen of Jehovah), 
the name of three Hebrews. 

1. (Sept. 'Pada v. r. 'Pa«.) A “ son” of Shohal son 
of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 2). B.C. post 1658. He is ap- 
parently designated by the epithet Haroeh (rtN*qI, 
ha-Roeh, the seer ; Sept. ’Apart, Vulg. gni videbat; evi- 
dently a mere corruption of Reaia/i). See Siiobal. 

2. (Sept. 'Pjjx« 0 The son of Micah and father of 
Baal, apparently phvlarchs of the tribe of Beuben not 
long. before the invasion of Tiglatli-Pilescr (1 Chron. v, 
5, A. V. “ Beaia”). B.C. ante 720. 

3. (Sept. 'PaVa v. r. 'P adici, etc.) One of the Nethi- 


nim whose posterity returned from Babylon with Zerub- 
babel (Ezra ii, 47 ; Neh. vii, 50). B.C. ante 53G. 

Real Presence, in the eucharist, is a doctrine 
forming an article in the belief of the Boman, the Greek, 
and other Eastern churches, and of some bodies or indi- 
viduals in other Christian communions. Those who es- 
pouse the real presence in the eucharist hold that, under 
the appearance of the eucharistic bread and wine, after 
consecration by the minister, Christ himself is really and 
substantially present, body and blood, soul and divinity. 
The word really is used in opposition to “figuratively;” 
and the decree of the Council of Trent, which is the au- 
thoritative expositor of the Boman Catholic belief, con- 
joins with that word the terms “truly” and “substan- 
tially,” the former being used in order to exclude the 
notion of a barely typiccd representation, such as is rec- 
ognisable in the Paschal Lamb and the other Messianic 
types of the old law ; and the latter for the purpose of 
meeting the view ascribed to Calvin, that Christ, as ap- 
prehended hv the faith of the believer, was, for such be- 
liever, rendered virtually present in the eucharist, and 
that his body and blood were received in virtue and effi- 
cacy, although not in corporal substance. See Lord’s 
Supper. 

In the Protestant churches of the Eeformation, this 
question became a matter of serious conflict between 
Lutherans and Zwinglians. The belief of the Boman 
and Eastern churches as to the reality of the presence 
was shared by Luther, who, however, differed from Cath- 
olics as to the mode. One school of divines in the An- 
glican Church, whose doctrine became very prominent 
in the time of Laud, and has been revived in the late 
Tractarian movement, also hold to transubstantiation in 
such a forbidding form to the Protestants as to stand 
entirely alone within the fold of Protestantism. Yet it 
must be remarked that between Boman Catholics and 
all other theological schools, of whatever class, one mark- 
ed difference exists. According to the former, the pres- 
ence of Christ in the consecrated eucharist is perma- 
nent; so that he is believed to be present not alone for 
the communicant who receives the eucharist during 
the time of his communion, hut also remains present in 
the consecrated hosts reserved after communion. On 
the contrary, all the Lutherans, and almost all Angli- 
cans, confine their belief of the presence to the time of 
communion, and all, with hardly an exception, repudiate 
the worship of the reserved elements, as it is practiced 
by Catholics. See Coxsubstantiation ; Lutheran- 
ism. 

In the Protestant Episcopal Church, while the “ real 
presence” is undoubtedly held, yet it is considered as 
of a spiritual and heavenly character. The homily on 
the sacrament expressly asserts, “Thus much we must 
be sure to hold, that in the supper of the Lord there is 
no vain ceremony, no bare sign, no untrue figure of a 
thing absent ; hut the communion of the body and blood 
of the Lord in a marvellous incorporation, which by the 
operation of the Holy Ghost is through faith wrought 
in the souls of the faithful,” etc. In the Office of the 
! Communion, the elements are repeatedly designated as 
the body and blood of Christ; ami after their reception 
we give thanks that God “doth vouchsafe to feed us, 
who have duly received these holy mysteries, with the 
spiritual food of the most precious body and blood of 
[his] Son our Saviour Jesus Christ.” The Catechism, 
in agreement with this, defines the “ inward part” of 
this sacrament to he “ the hnfiy and blood of Christ, 
which are spiritually taken and received by the faithful 
in the Lord's supper.” The 28th Article asserts, re- 
specting the eucharist, that “to such as rightty, wor- 
thily, and with faith receive the same, the bread which 
we break is a partaking of the body of Christ; and, like- 
wise, the cup of blessing is a partaking of the blood of 
Christ.” “By maintaining this view,” says Stoughton, 
“the Church supports the dignity of this holy sacra- 
ment without involving the dogma of transubstantia- 
tion, which she everywhere repudiates, asserting that it 


REALIXO 


940 


REALISM 


cannot be proved by lloly Writ, but it is repugnant 
to the plain words of Scripture, overthroweth the nat- 
ure of a sacrament, and bath given occasion to mail}'’ 
superstitions.'’ Instead of this — i.e. a corporal presence 
by the change of the elements into the natural body 
and blood of Christ— she goes on to assert that “the 
body of Christ is given, taken, and eaten in the supper 
only after a heavenly and spiritual manner. Ami the 
mean whereby the body of Christ is received and eaten 
in the supper is faith” (Article XXVIII). See Water- 
land, H'oi'Aff, vol. vi ; Willet, Syn. Pup. ; Wheatley, Com- 
mon Prayer; Hooker, t’h. Polity ; North Brit. Per. Jan. 
1870, p. 272. See Tuansuhstantiatiox. 

Realino, Bkkxakwxo, an Italian Jesuit scholar, 
was born Dec. 1, 1 560, at Carpi. Son of a gentleman 
in the service of Luigi di Gonzaga, he received an ex- 
cellent education at Modena, and graduated at Bologna, 
lie studied jurisprudence, and made himself known by 
a commentary upon the Nuptials of Thetis and Peleus 
of Catullus (Bologna, 1551, 4to), when one of his parents 
began an unjust lawsuit to take away part of his for- 
tune. The affair lasted a long time, and was finally 
left to the verdict of an arbitrator, who hastened to de- 
cide against Bealino without even hearing him. About 
the time of the encounter at Carpi, this arbitrator ad- 
dressed him in very strong terms, and, in great wrath, 
Bealino gave him a sword-cut in the face. Condemned 
for this bold action, the young man fled to Bologna. 
Made doctor of law in 1556, he obtained in the same 
year the office of magistrate of Felizzano, a borough of 
Milan; after this he became attorney of Alessandria; 
then the marquis of Peschiera gave him control of the 
vast domains which he possessed in the kingdom of 
Naples. At the age of thirty-four he grew weary of the 
world, arranged his affairs, and entered, at Naples, the 
Society of Jesus (1564). lie there distinguished himself 
by a zeal, a patience, and a charity for the poor in which 
he was always consistent. Having received, in 1574, 
the order to lay the foundation of a college at Lecce, he 
did it just before his death. An inquiry was started to 
establish his rights to canonization, but the court of 
Borne refused the application. Bealino composed quite 
a number of small books, mentioned by Sotwel ; his 
notes upon ancient authors have been inserted in vol. ii 
of the Thesaurus Criticus of Grutcr. — Iloefcr, None. 
Biog. Getter ale, s. v. 

Realism is a distinct and readily apprehended doc- 
trine in the higher ranges of metaphysics, character- 
izing the whole scheme of speculation with which it 
may be associated. A Bealist is one who maintains 
this doctrine. Beatism asserts that General Terms, or 
Ideas, as they are called by Plato, such as Man, Horse, 
Plant, have a substantive, or real, existence independent 
of their actual and individual manifestations. This 
dogma early encountered opposition, which became so I 
violent in the 12th and ensuing centuries as to distract 
philosophy, and to excite controversies that disturbed 
creeds and kingdoms, and that still survive, though in 
disguised forms and with greatly diminished virufence. i 
The war of words frequently proceeded to blows and 
slaughter. Excommunication often attended the less 
popular side. Tracts, pamphlets, and formidable vol- 
umes were sustained or resisted with carnal and san- 
guinary weapons. Communities were divided by the 
bitter logomachy into hostile factious. The Church 
swarmed with discords. Universities were arrayed 
against each other, or were torn by intestine dissen- 
sions. Cities were opposed to cities; states to states; 
one religious order to another; and the conllict between 
the temporal and spiritual sovereignty was exacerbated 
and widened by the metaphysical strife. Brucker, and 
multitudes less cognizant than he of the influence of 
metaphysical conclusions on the condition and conduct 
of governments and societies, have superciliously sneered 
at these envenomed and long-enduring contentions, as 
merely the blind sophistries of men bewildered by vain 


abstractions or futile fantasies. But a philosophical 
problem which has remained unsolved for thousands of 
years, which engrossed and embattled the most acute 
intellects for centuries, and which has not j*et ceased to 
produce perplexity and division ; which enlisted the 
zeal alike of the scholar and the people, the priest and 
the prince, can be regarded as frivolous only by those 
who fail to discern the intellectual forces and associa- 
tions by which the progress of the world is moulded. 
Sir William Hamilton, indeed, doubts the continued ex- 
istence of any Bealist doctrine, and regards it “as curi- 
ous only in a historical point of view;” but this opin- 
ion apparently results from inattention to the trans- 
formations which speculative tenets undergo, and to the 
vitality of old doctrines through the instrumentality of 
new disguises. There is a true metempsychosis of met- 
aphysical questions: 

“Nec manet nt fuernt, nec formas servat easdem, 

Sed tamen ipsa eudem est : nuimam sic semper eaudem 
Esse, sed in varias doceo migrate figuras.” 

Sir William Hamilton’s scant notices of Bealism and 
Nominalism are ingenious, subtle, delicate, but they 
want compass, completeness, and depth. 

Twin-born with Bealism was Nominalism (q. v.), its 
direct opposite, which strenuously denies the reality of 
General Terms, and maintains that they are names only, 
logical entities, convenient artifices of expression ( nomi - 
na merit, voces nudee, flatus vocis, articulated air, “ vox 
et preeterea nihil"). Springing, as these antagonist 
views do, from the weakness of the human mind, which 
is unable to comprehend the primordial origin of being, 
and which is inevitably inclined to consider its imperfect 
knowledge complete and conclusive, the opposition be- 
gan with the beginning of systematic speculation, ac- 
companied its development, and acquired predominance 
in the ages characterized by dialectical earnestness and 
verbal precision. The contradictory tenets were upheld 
by rival sects of Hindi! philosophers; they produced a 
wide severance of opinion in the brightest aira of Greek 
philosophy ; they remained irreconcilable, though at 
times indistinct, in the schools of Alexandria; they 
bnrst out into clamorous fury in the Middle Ages, when 
the loftiest intellects were employed in laying the foun- 
dations of systematic theology and of orthodox expres- 
sion. 

Between the extreme and contradictory schemes of 
Bealism and Nominalism was interposed, chiefly by the 
keen perspicacity of Abelard, but in accordance with the 
probable views of Aristotle, a doctrine of compromise 
which has been designated Conceptualism. The Con- 
ceptualist theory holds that General Notions, or Uui- 
versals, have a real existence in individuals, hut no real 
or substantial being without them. It recognises their 
positive existence in the mind, which derives them by 
abstraction and generalization from particulars, and em- 
ploys them as the signs or names of the classes of con- 
crete realities to which they are applicable. The Bealist 
doctrine is that, before Socrates, Plato, and I'ha'do, or 
any other individual men existed, Man, as an abstract 
idea, had an essential and immutable reality, and that 
Socrates, Plato, and Pluedo were men solely in conse- 
quence of possessing this ideal manhood— card 
The Nominalist, on the. other hand, alleged that human- 
ity existed only in Socrates, Plato, Pliado, and other 
individuals; that the term was only an intellectual de- 
vice for indicating the common properties character- 
istic of Socrates, Plato, and I'ha'do by giving them the 
general name Man, and thus embracing them in one 
class. The Conceptualist agreed with the Nominalist in 
refusing an absolute existence to the general term Man, 
and in assigning to it a real existence only in conjunc- 
tion with Socrates, Plato, Pluedo, etc., but lie endeav- 
ored to satisfy the demands of the Bealist by admitting 
that the conception Man, attained by abstraction and 
generalization from individuals, had an actual existence, 
and was an intelligible reality in the mind apprehend- 
ing it. Thus Abelard was antagonist at once to Will- 


REALISM 


941 


REALISM 


iam of Champeaux and to Roscellinus. Employing the 
quaint but precise language of the schoolmen, the Real- 
ists held universalia esse ante rein; the Nominalists, 
universalia esse post rein ; the Conceptualists of various 
types, universalia esse in re. To the last should be 
added et etiam in intelledu. These distinctions may 
appear shadowy and impalpable, but metaphysics dwells 
amid such “airy shapes,” and these have had a marked 
influence and serious consequences in politics, law, mor- 
als, philosophy, and religion : “ iuclusas anirnas, supe- 
rumque ad lumen ituras.” 

Nominalism has already met with due consideration. 
See Nominalism. The present notice will consequent- 
ly be confined to Realism, except so far as Nominalism 
and Conceptualism may be inextricably entwined with 
it. 

1. Origin of Realism. — It would be misplaced indus- 
try, and inconsistent with the brevity required here, to 
investigate the Realist doctrines which were entertained 
and developed in the philosophy of the Hindus. But 
the mediaeval dogma is so intimately connected with 
the tenor of Greek speculation that a reference to its 
remote source in the schools of Athens cannot be avoid- 
ed. The controversy between Realism and Nominalism 
did not become predominant in speculation till the close 
of the 11th century, but the antagonism was distinctly 
declared from the times of Tlato and Aristotle. The 
wide differences which separated the schemes of the 
great teacher and his greater pupil in their explana- 
tion of the intelligible universe ( mundus intelligibilis') 
were plainly manifest to the successors of those great 
lieresiarchg. The doctrine of Plato and the earnest op- 
position of Aristotle may be best appreciated by the 
careful consideration of the multitudinous passages in 
the text of Aristotle referred to in the index of Bonitz 
(Aristotelis Opera [ed. Acad. Berolin.], vol. iv) under 
the head of “ Plato, 2.” Evidences not merely of the 
continued antagonism of the Academic and Peripatetic 
schools, but also of the recognition of the gravity and 
the consequences of this antagonism, are abundant in 
the subsequent ages. It may suffice to refer to Ploti- 
nus ( Ennead , III, ix, 1 ; Y, v, 1 ; IX, iii, 10), to a passage 
in Porphyry, which will soon require to be cited, and to 
Hesvehius Milesius (Er. 7, ii, 53, Fragm. JJistor. Grcec. 
iv, 173), who has stated clearly and precisely the Pla- 
tonic thesis (“Eoti el tmv eiduiv iv traerrov atewv re 
tcai vbijpa Kai rrpbg rovroig airaSlc. Aw k ai (ppmv 
iv tij (pixrei rue ictdg iardvat KaSdnrep irapaceiypara, 
rd o’ d\\a ravraig ioaclvat, rovriov upoiwpara Ka$E- 
oruira). But the divergence of the schools in regard 
to Universals , or genera generalissima, and to abstract 
notions generally, remained an indetermiuate disputa- 
tion in the Hellenic world, and was not raised to su- 
preme importance till it passed, in the mediaeval period, 
from transcendental ontology to dialectics and theolo- 
gy. The germ of the grand debate is found in one of 
the associates of the Neo-Platonic schools, but it scarce- 
ly vegetated till the scholastic period. Porphyry had 
said, in his introduction to the Categories of Aristotle 
(Schol. Aristot. ap. Aristot. Opera [ed. Acad. Berolin.], 
iii, 1), that he would abstain from the more recondite 
inquiries, and aim only at a concise presentation of the 
simpler topics. “For,” he proceeds, “I will decline to 
speak of the essential character of genera and species, 
or to inquire whether they are substantially corporeal 
or incorporeal, and whether they are separable or exist- 
ent only in perception, since this is a most profound in- 
vestigation, and requires other and deeper examination.” 
The Greek of Porphyry was almost entirely unknown 
to mediaeval speculators, but the Latin paraphrase of 
Boethius was familiar to them, and constituted, as it 
were, a text-book of elementary logic. Thus the ques- 
tion of the nature of Universals was distinctly raised, 
and the opposite views which were entertained on the 
subject divided reasoners into hostile camps, and led to 
those passionate controversies which have been already 
alluded to. It was only gradually, however, that the op- 


position became clear and well marked, and connected it- 
self closely with the gravest interests that have occupied 
the minds of men. In the first half of the 9th century, 
Rabanus Maurus, commenting on the text of Porphyry 
just quoted, but using the version of Boethius, recognises 
the conflictof opinion (Cousin, Introd. aux Oeuvres Inedits 
d' Abelard, p.77), and is supposed to have inclined to the 
Nominalistic side (Caraman, Uist.des Rev.de la Pfiiloso- 
pkie, i, 249). It would probably be more correct to con- 
clude that he sought a ground of conciliation between 
the two extremes. The difficult problem was, however, 
brought forward into distinct contemplation. If there 
was any tendency in Rabanus Maurus to what was al- 
ternants known as Nominalism, the reaction showed it- 
self promptly. In the next generation, the philosophy 
of Johannes Scotus Erigena, which was founded on an 
imperfect acquaintance with the Neo- Platonic teachings, 
ran into decided Pantheism, in accordance with the re- 
sults of those teachings, as developed by Plotinus. Re- 
garding God as the source whence all things proceed, 
by which all things are sustained, and to which all 
things return — representing creation as the self-evolu- 
tion of the Creator, and destruction as the self-reabsorp- 
tion, he rendered God all things and all things God. 
The basis of his whole scheme was involved in the Pla- 
tonic theory of ideas [see Platonic Philosophy], and 
in the Realist tenet universalia ante rem. Not merely 
were the body and spirit of Scotus’s philosophy hete- 
rodox, but it contained several particular conclusions 
which were deemed heretical, and which provoked the 
ecclesiastical censure which they received. The Pan- 
theistic doctrines of Scotus Erigena naturally excited 
opposition when the results to which they led became 
apparent. If God w r ere all things, then necessarily all 
things would be essentially God — being the external 
and phenomenal manifestations of the divine activity, 
and constituting, at the same time, the divine essence, 
inasmuch as their whole support w T as a real existence 
in the divine substance. It is the inevitable tendency 
of a metaphysical dogma to be unfolded by its acolytes 
into its ultimate logical consequences, which reveal the 
extravagances and the hazards of the position. It is 
the inevitable tendency of such revelation to arouse an- 
tagonism, and to suggest security in the opposite ex- 
treme. By such oscillation between contradictory ten- 
ets, the human intellect is kept from stagnation, and 
research and meditation are constantly stimulated. The 
Pantheism of Scotus Erigena annihilated independent 
individual existence and individual responsibility ; and 
it obliterated the distinction between the Creator and 
the creation. The refutation of his errors was sought 
in the examination and denial of his premises, as well 
as in the repudiation of his conclusions. His views had 
been founded on the supposititious writings of Diony- 
sius the Areopagite, which were steeped in Neo-Pla- 
tonism (q. v.). Their antidote was expected from the 
school of Aristotle, whose logical opinions were gradu- 
ally disseminated throughout Western Europe, through 
Saracenic and Jewish channels, and which had been 
partially known through Boethius during nearly all 
medueval times. 

But the latter part of the 9th, the whole of the 10th, 
and mostof the 11th century were eminently unfavorable 
to diligent study and tranquil speculation. It was the 
period of Arab ravage and encroachment in the Eastern 
Empire; the period of the ruthless desceuts of Danes and 
Northmen in the Western; the period when the reign- 
ing dynasties of France and England were changed; 
when Italy was distracted by invasions and by wars 
between contending emperors; and when the fierce 
strife between the secular and spiritual authority be- 
came peculiarly acrimonious. As the result of these 
wide-spread disturbances, discord and anarchy, lawless- 
ness and rapine, general wretchedness and insecurity 
prevailed. Two centuries thus elapsed before the great 
question of Universals distinctly emerged out of the 
earlier discordances of opinion. Towards their conclu- 


REALISM 


942 


REALISM 


sion, a purely theological question hail arisen, which 
recalled eager inquiry into the nature of Universal. 
This was the denial of transubstantiation by Berenga- 
rius on grounds which implied Nominalism. 

About the same time, the doctrine of Nominalism 
was explicitly asserted by Koscellinus, a canon of Com- 
piegne. lie has been usually regarded as the founder 
of the sect, but may have been preceded by his master, 
Johannes Surdtis (John the Deaf), of whom very little is 
known. Koscellinus held that “ genera and species are 
not realities, but only words denoting abstractions;”! 
that, consequently, “ there are no such things as uni- 
versal*, but only individuals.” llealism is thus directly 
contradicted. These speculations pointed towards dan- 
gerous heresies in theology. Koscellinus, denying all 
but individual existences, assailed the unity of persons 
in the Trinity, and thus maintained Tritheism. The 
Church was at once aroused. Numerous confutations 
were propounded, the most celebrated of which was the 
tractate of Anselm, archbishop of Canterbury, I)e Fide 
Trinifutis. Anselm holds the Kealist doctrine of Uni- 
versa/s , and is occasionally betrayed into extravagance. 
His polemics is, however, theological rather than dia- 
lectical or metaphysical, lie attacks perilous errors in 
religious belief, and assails speculative opinions only in- 
cidentally. Kemusat, while considering him a decided 
Kealist, deems that his prominence in the controversy 
between Kealism and Nominalism has been exagger- 
ated (Kemusat, fit. Anselme, pt. ii, ch. iii, p. 104). ef- 
forts were made to reconcile the conflict between the 
discordant doctrines, but they only rendered the issue 
and the antagonism more pronounced. William do 
Champeaux (l)e Campbellis) held that “the Universal 
or genus is something real; the individuals composing 
the genus have no diversity of essence, but only of acci- 
dental elements.” This is the first precise asseveration 
of Kealism in mediaeval philosophy. With William de 
Champeaux “the essence of things is ascribed to the 
genera, the individual is reduced to a simple accident. 
With Koscellinus, the individuals alone exist, and they 
constitute the essence of things. With Champeaux, 
the essence of things is in the genera to which they be- 
long, for so far as they are individuals they are only 
accidents” (Caraman, Hist, des Her. de la Phil. vol. ii, 
ch. ii, p. 4S). 

Thenceforward the groat, controversy proceeds with 
increasing ardor, and furnishes the battle-field for the 
rival schools ami rival schoolmen of the Middle Ages, 
The further consideration of these dissensions belongs, 
however, more appropriately to the discussion of the 
development of scholasticism. See Scholasticism. 

II. Nature of llealism. — The general character of 
Realism has been exhibited sufficiently to render its or- 
igin and evolution intelligible. A fuller explanation is 
needed to enable us to understand the importance which 
it assumed in mediaeval speculation. Cicero has said 
that “ there is nothing so absurd as not to have been 
maintained by some of the philosophers.” It is easier 
to ridicule than to appreciate the reveries of philosophy. | 
The aberrations of metaphysics and the paradoxes of j 
dialectics are only the zealous and inadequate expres- i 
sion of far-reaching truths imperfectly apprehended, i 
We certainly should not complain of cither the excesses j 
or the blindness of the schoolmen, in an age. which is 
inclined to accept protoplasm as a sufficient explanation 
of all life, and evolution as a complete exposition of 
creation, or a substitute for it. Vet, even in these cases, 
much is charged upon the hierophants which they do 
not accept as part of their doctrines. Kealism was the 
modiieval and dialectical reproduction of the Platonic 
ideas. It assorted that general terms, such as Man, 
Horse, Tree, Flower, etc., were not merely logical de- 
vices, creatures of abstraction, ingenuities of language, 
but were realities, separable (yuf/arra) from the being 
of individual men, horses, trees, /lowers, etc. In Plato 
and the Platonic school these ideas were supposed to 
have a real, primordial, changeless, and eternal exist- 


ence in the Divine Mind, as the archetypes of all things 
that are made. It demands no extraordinary range of 
intellect to point out the presumption of attempting to 
determine the contents of the Divine Mind and the 
modes of its procedure in ordering the creation. It 
needs no great intellectual effort to dilate upon the 
practical incongruities of representing Socrates as a 
transitory accident; having no real existence except so 
far as he partakes of the one, universal, ideal Man, who 
is immortal, incorporeal, immaterial, and unchangeable; 
communicated and communicable to all men, past, pres- 
ent, and future; completely contained in each, yet abun- 
dant for all, and independent of each and of all. These 
objections blink or evade the subtleties of the problem. 
These sneers do not reach the difficulty with which the 
greatest philosophers have struggled, and struggled in 
vain. No doubt our knowledge of generals and specials 
is attained (so far as the human mind is capable of as- 
certaining the process of attaining knowledge) by ab- 
straction from individual things observed, and by re- 
combination of their accordant characteristics. No 
doubt the abstract terms, so arrived at, are the instru- 
ments of linguistic and logical classification, which we 
employ unsuspiciously in reasoning and conversation. 
But is this all ? Is this a complete solution of the enig- 
ma? Is it not a mere screen which conceals the real 
enigma from us? There is a general, not an individual, 
resemblance between all men— homo simillimus homini 
— nihil similius homini quam homo. They arc alike in 
consequence of their participation in a common human- 
ity. Our knowledge of this humanity may be — must 
be — derived by generalization from the common char- 
acteristics of all men. But, again, it should be asked, 
Is this all? Does our knowledge precede or follow this 
possession of a common humanity? Does it do any- 
thing more than recognise its presence? I low does 
the common humanity come into existence? IIow does 
it continue in existence? IIow is it to be interpreted? 
Is there no plan or order in creation? No eternal de- 
sign in the purposes of the Creator? Is everything 
spasmodical, momentary creation, with observance of 
antecedent forms? Whence, then, such observance, 
and the maintenance of uniformity, and all the charac- 
teristics of preordination? IIow does it occur that the 
earth proceeds ever to “bring forth the living creature 
after his kind, cattle and creeping thing, and beast of 
the earth after his kind." if the several kinds and genera 
and species are mere abstractions, pure figments of the 
generalizing faculty? Did this unvarying observance 
of the type arise, without any reality of the type, bv 
the accidental collision of atoms in all the infinite vari- 
ety of their hypothetical contacts, and by survival of 
the fittest, through self-adaptation to their shifting sur- 
roundings? No permanent forms, transmitted from 
generation to generation, from age to age, could thus 
be maintained. The unmitigated repudiation of Keal- 
ism leads straight to the acceptance of the creed of Lu- 
cretius and Darwin and Herbert Spencer. 

“ Nam cei to neqne consilio Primordia rernm 
Ordini ee quaxpie, ntque sagaci meuie locarnnt: 

Nec quos qu.eque darent motns pepigere pro foe to ; 

Sod quia mnltimodis, uiultis, mutatn, per (Jrnue 
Ex inrinifo vexantur percita plagis, 

Ornne genus motns, et coetns cxperiiindo, 

Tandem devenient in tnleis dispositions, 

Quulihiis luec rebus consistit sunima crcata; 

Et inultos etiam magnos servatn per amios, 

I't sem el in motns conjecta *st couvenienteis.” 

The answer of the Epicurean herd will not solve the 
riddles proposed. Kealism offered a very different so- 
lution, which, however inadequate and unsatisfactory it 
may be doomed, did not affect to treat t lie questions as 
shallow or unimportant. But may there not be some 
genuine truth, obscured, disguised, mutilated, lame — 
yet, nevertheless, struggling into meaning, in the the- 
ory of Kealism? Is there not a plan, a divine order, 
throughout all creation? Are there not types intelli- 
gible, potential, not. actual types — to be accounted for? 
lias a conception of the reason — never varying, but per- 


REALISM 


943 


REAPING 


sisting as long as the reason and the objects of reason 
endure — has such a conception a less real existence 
than the concrete and material, or individual forms 
which correspond to the conception, but which are 
changing at all times during their existence, and are 
born to perish ? The existence is of very different char- 
acter, but is it less truly existence? The ambiguity 
and vagueness of their terms may not have been recog- 
nised by the mediaeval Idealists and Realists. Are they 
alwa} r s clearly apprehended by their critics? Have 
the censors of Realism fully appreciated the incompre- 
hensibility and variability of the Realist doctrine with- 
out loss of its distinctive character and without sacri- 
fice of its essential tenet? Doubtless the theory of 
Realism was indistinct, not rigorously determined, and 
scarcely palpable. Doubtless the modes of its state- 
ment were obnoxious to grave exceptions, and led to 
misapprehensions and misconceptions on the part even 
of its advocates. The subjects with which the theory 
dealt may very well lie beyond any determinate grasp 
of the human faculties. But an earnest effort was made 
to interpret the great, mysteries of existence — the per- 
manence of type, with the variability and fragility of 
all embodiments of the type. This world may be “all 
a fleeting show, for man’s illusion given ;” but is there 
nothing unseen behind it which is true, and which fur- 
nishes its unalterable patterns? There is some justifi- 
cation, or at least some elucidation, of the thesis of the 
Realists to be deduced from the conclusions of compara- 
tive anatomy. Aristotle taught that the skeletons of 
the beast, the bird, and the fish revealed a common type, 
with characteristic deviations (I )e Part. Animal.). Six 
centuries later, Lactantius, or the Pseudo-Lactantius, re- 
produced the same tenet in a remarkable passage : “ Una 
dispositio, et unus habitus, innumcrabiles imaginis pne- 
ferat varietates” (De Opifc. Dei, c. vii). In our own 
day, the distinguished comparative anatomist Owen has 
demonstrated the validity of the conjecture of Aristotle 
by his work On the Archetypal Skeleton of Vertebrate 
Animals; and Dr. M‘Cosli has given, perhaps without 
full recognition of its import, a most instructive appli- 
cation of the principle in his Typical Fomns and Special • 
Ends in Creation. Is there no truth, no validity, no I 
reality in the types? 

Is Realism, then, to be regarded as true? By no 
means. It only contains an element, an unsegregated | 
element, of truth. It is a very important element, but 
it is dimly entertained and extravagantly expressed. 
Is its opposite, Nominalism, true? Again the answer 
must be, By no means. It contemplates only one side 
of the truth ; runs into equal extravagance, and ex- 
cludes utterly the indispensable particle of truth con- 
tained in the adverse doctrine. Is the truth attained 
by combining the antagonistic views? Not so. The 
two schemes cannot be united, and can scarcely be rec- 
onciled, except by regarding them as imperfect exposi- 
tions from opposite points of view. Moreover, two par- i 
tial and fragmentary truths can never make the whole 1 
truth. Truth is a consistent, harmonious, organic 
whole. It can never be attained by dovetailing patches 
of truth, or by forming a mosaic. 

Philosophy, in its development, is a series of errone- 
ous and conflicting positions. One extreme provokes 
another extreme; but the conception of first principles, 
and the range of deductions from them, become en- 
larged and cleared with the progress and succession of 
errors, although the full and precise truth mav never be 
reached. 

The truth which seems to be involved in Realism is 
this: Universals, genera, species, represent the perma- 
nent forms of the intelligible creation. They attest a 
settled and regular order in the sensible universe. They 
reveal a preordained, or predetermined, plan in the sev- 
eral classes of existence ; an enduring truth ; an abiding 
uniformity in the midst of individual deviations and 
transitory manifestations; a design habitually fulfilled; 
types which subsist, though actualities vanish. A part, 


at least, of the error of Realism — for neither its whole 
truth nor its whole error can be distinctly grasped and 
perspicuously expressed— consisted in presenting these 
important conclusions in an exaggerated form, so that 
they contradicted the partial truth equally involved in 
Nominalism : that individuals have a real as well as an 
actual existence, and that the generic and specific terms 
which are habitually employed, and are indispensable in 
language, are modes of classifying our perceptions and 
conceptions, and are used altogether independently of 
any ulterior suggestions which may be implicated in 
them. 

The Nominalist denied a metaphysical truth because 
it was not embraced within the sphere of his logieal re- 
quirements. The Realist assailed the logical truth be- 
cause it failed to embrace an ontological explanation, 
and appeared to be at variance with it. 

Bitter contradictions and acrimonious hostilities nec- 
essarily resulted from the antagonism, in consequence 
of the inevitable association of the conflicting doctrines 
with adverse parties and interests in theology, in Church 
and in State. 

III. Literature. — The historians of philosophy, who 
embrace the philosophy of the Middle Ages, necessarily 
pay much attention to Realism and Nominalism. More 
special sources of information are, Caraman, Hist, des 
Revolutions de la Philosophic en France; Baumgartcn 
Crusius, De Vero Scholast. Real, et Nominal. Discrimine 
(Jena, 1821); Cousin, F?'agmens Philosophiques (Paris, 
1840); id. Jut rod. aux Giuvres Inedits d' Abelard; Exner, 
Xominalismus und Realismus (Prague, 1842); Kohler, 
Realismus und Xominalismus in ihrem Finjluss anf die 
doepnat. Syst. des Mittelalt. (Gotha, 1857); Ilaure'au, 
Philosophic Scolastique (Paris, 1858) ; Cupelv, Esprit de 
la Philosophic Scolastique (ibid. 1808). Much valuable 
suggestion may also be obtained from Remnsat, Abe- 
lard (ibid. 1845, 2 vols.); id. St. Anselme (ibid. 1853). 
To these may be added, Emerson, Realism and Nomi- 
nalism. (G. F. II.) 

Reanointers is the name of a Russian sect, which 
dates from about the year 1770. They do not rebaptizc 
those who join them from the Greek Church, but they 
insist upon their having the chrism again administered 
to them. They are said to be especially numerous in 
Moscow. See Russian Sects. 

Reaping katsaP , to cut off; Srepi^io). Reap- 

ing in Palestine was usually done by the sickle, to which 
reference is occasionally made in Scripture. See Sickle. 
But there can be little doubt that the modern practice 
of pulling up by the roots, instead of cutting the corn, 
also prevailed to a considerable extent in ancient times. 
The corn seldom yields so much straw as in this coun- 
try, and pulling is resorted to in order to obtain a larger 
supply of fodder. Maundrell thus describes the practice 
as lie noticed it in 1697 : “All that occurred to us new 
in these days’ travel was a particular way used by the 
country people in gathering their corn, it being now 
harvest-time. They plucked it up by handfuls from 
the roots, leaving the most fruitful fields as naked as if 
nothing had ever grown on them. This was their prac- 
tice in all the places of the East that I have seen ; and 



REASON 


944 


IvEASOX 


the reason is that they may lose none of their straw, 
which is generally very short, and necessary for the 
sustenance of their cattle, no hay being here made. 1 
mention this,” he adds, because it seems to give light 
to that expression of the Psalms (cxxix, l>), ‘which 
withereth before it he plucked up,' where there seems 
to be a manifest allusion to the custom.” This un- 
doubtedly is t lie correct meaning of the expression ; and 
the real allusion is lost sight of by the rendering in the 
A. V., “before it groweth up.” It grows, but withers 
before the plueking-time comes — an emblem of the 
premature decay and fruitlessucss of the wicked. See 
AoiliriLTCKlC. 

Reason denotes that function of our intelligence 
which has reference to the attainment of a particular 
class of truths. We know a great man}* things by im- 
mediate or actual experience. Our senses tell us that 
we are thirsty, that we hear a sound, that we are af- 
fected by light. These facts arc truths of sense or of 
immediate knowledge, and do not involve the reason. 
Reason comes into play when we know a thing not 
immediately, but by some indirect process; as when, 
from seeing a river unusually swollen, we believe that 
there have been heavy rains at its sources. Here the 
mere sense tells us only that the river is high. It is 
by certain transitions of thought, or by the employ- 
ment of our thinking powers, that we come to know the 
other circumstance— -that in a remote part of the coun- 
try there have been heavy rains. 

In ascertaining these truths of reason or of inference, 
as they are called, there are various steps or operations, 
described under different names. Thus we have (1) 
Deduction, or Syllogism; (2) Induction; and (3) Gen- 
eralization of notions, of which Abstraction and Defini- 
tion are various phases. These are well represented by 
their several designations. The nature of the function 
or faculty denominated Reason, or the Reasoning Facul- 
ty, can he explained by showing how it results from the 
fundamental powers of the intelligence. 

There is another and peculiar signification attached 
to the word reason, growing out of the philosophy of 
Kant (q.v.), which maintains a distinction between rea- 
son and understanding, the latter being that faculty 
called by the Creeks j ojV, and by Hamilton called the 
“ Regulative Faculty.” — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. .^ee 
Fleming and Krauth, Yocob. of Philosophy, s. v. 

REASON, T t sk ok, in Remo ion. The sublime, 
incomprehensible nature of some of the Christian doc- 
trines has so completely subdued the understanding of 
many pious men as to make them think it presumptu- 
ous to apply reason in any way to the revelations of 
Cod ; and the many instances in which the simplicity 
of truth has been corrupted by an alliance with philoso- 
phy confirm them in t lie belief that it is safer, as well 
as more respectable, to resign their minds to devout im- 
pressions than to exercise their understandings in any 
speculations upon sacred subjects. Enthusiasts and fa- 
natics of all different names and sects agree in decrying 
the use of reason, because it is the very essence of fanat- 
icism to substitute, in place of the sober deductions of 
reason, the extravagant fancies of a disordered imagina- 
tion, and to consider these fancies as the immediate illu- 
mination of the Spirit of Cod. Insidious writers in the 
deistical controversy have pretended to adopt those sen- 
timents of humility and reverence which arc insepara- 
ble from true Christians, and even that total subjection 
of reason to faitli which characterizes enthusiasts. A 
pamphlet was published about the middle of the last 
century that made a noise in its day, although it is now 
forgotten, entitled Christianity not Founded on Argu- 
ment , which, while to a careless reader it may seem to 
magnify the Cospel, does in reality tend to undermine 
our faith by separating it from a rational assent; and 
Mr. Hume, in the spirit of this pamphlet, concludes his 
Essay on Miracles with calling those dangerous friends 
or disguised enemies to the Christian religion who have 


undertaken to defend it by the principles of human rea- 
son. “Our most holy religion,” he says, with a disin- 
genuity very unbecoming his respectable talents, “is 
founded on faith, not on reason;” and “mere reason is 
insufficient to convince us of its veracity.” The Church 
of Rome, in order to subject the minds of her votaries 
to her authority, has reprobated the use of reason in 
matters of religion. She has revived an ancient posi- 
tion, that things may be true in theology which are 
false in philosophy; and she has, in stone instances, 
made the merit of faith to consist in the absurdity of 
that which was believed. 

The extravagance of these positions has produced, 
since the Reformation, an opposite extreme. While 
those who deny the truth of revelation consider reason 
as in all respects a sufficient guide, the Socinians, who 
admit that a revelation has been made, employ reason 
as the supreme judge of its doctrines, and boldly strike 
out of their creed every article that is not altogether 
conformable to those notions which may be derived 
from the exercise of reason. These controversies con- 
cerning the use of reason in matters of religion are dis- 
putes. not about words, hut about the essence of Chris- 
tianity. Hut a few plain observations are sufficient to 
ascertain where the truth lies in this subject. 

The first use of reason in matters of religion is to ex- 
amine the evidences of revelation; for, the more entire 
the submission which we consider as due to everything 
that is revealed, we have the more need to be satisfied 
that any system which professes to be a divine revelation 
does really come from Cod. .See Faith and Rkason. 

After the exercise of reason has established in our 
minds a firm belief that Christianity is of divine ori- 
gin, the second use of reason is to learn what are the 
truths revealed. As these truths are not in our days 
communicated to any by immediate inspiration, the 
knowledge of them is to be acquired only from hooks 
transmitted to us with satisfying evidence that they 
were written above seventeen hundred years ago, in a 
remote country and foreign language, under the direc- 
tion of the Spirit of (lod. In order to attain the mean- 
ing of these books, we must study the language in which 
they were written; and we must study, also, the man- 
ners of the times and the state of the countries in which 
the writers lived, because these are circumstances to 
which an original author is often alluding, and by which 
his phraseology is generally affected ; we must lay to- 
gether different passages in which the same word or 
phrase occurs, because without this lnlxir we cannot ob- 
tain its precise signification ; and we must mark the dif- 
ference of style and manner which characterizes differ- 
ent writers, because a right apprehension of their mean- 
ing often depends upon attention to this difference. All 
this supposes the application of grammar, history, geog- 
raphy, chronology, and criticism in matters of religion — 
that is, it supposes that the reason of man had been pre- 
viously exercised in pursuing these different branches 
of knowledge, and that our success in attaining the true 
sense of Scripture depends upon the diligence with 
which we avail ourselves of the progress that has been 
made in them. It is obvious that every Christian is 
not capable of making this application. I tut this is no 
argument against the use of reason, of which we are now 
speaking; for they who use translations and commen- 
taries rely only upon the reason of others instead of ex- 
ercising their own. The several branches of knowledge 
have been applied in every age by some persons for the 
benefit of others; and the progress in sacred criticism 
which distinguishes the present times is nothing else 
than the continued application, in elucidating the Script- 
ure, of reason enlightened by every kind of subsidiary 
knowledge, and very much improved in this kind of 
exercise by the employment which the ancient classics 
have given it since the revival of letters. 

After the two uses of reason that have been illus- 
trated, a third conies to be mentioned, which may be 
considered as compounded of both. Reason is of emi- 


REASSOX 


945 


IJEBAPTISM 


nent use in repelling the attacks of the adversaries of 
Christianity. When men of erudition, of philosophical 
acuteness, and of accomplished taste, direct their talents 
against our religion, the cause is very much hurt by an 
unskilful defender. He cannot unravel their sophistry ; 
lie does not see the amount and the effect of the con- 
cessions which he makes to them ; he is bewildered by 
their quotations; and he is often led, by their artifice, 
upon dangerous ground. In all ages of the Church 
there have been weak defenders of Christianity; and 
the only triumphs of the enemies of our religion have 
arisen from their being able to expose the defects of 
those methods of defending the truth which some of 
its advocates had unwarily chosen. A mind trained to 
accurate and philosophical views of the nature and the 
amount of evidence, enriched with historical knowledge, 
accustomed to throw out of a subject all that is minute 
and irrelative, to collect what is of importance within 
a short compass, and to form the comprehension of a 
whole, is the mind qualified to contend with the learn- 
ing, the wit., and the sophistry of infidelity. Many such 
minds have appeared in this honorable controversy dur- 
ing the course of this and the last century ; and the suc- 
cess has corresponded to the completeness of the furni- 
ture with which they engaged in the combat. The 
Christian doctrine has been vindicated by their mas- 
terly exposition from various misrepresentations; the 
arguments for its divine original have been placed in 
their true light; and the attempts to confound the mir- 
acles and prophecies upon which Christianity rests its 
claim with the delusions of imposture have been effect- 
ually repelled. Christianity has in this way received 
the most important advantages from the attacks of its 
enemies; and it is not improbable that its doctrines 
would never have been so thoroughly cleared from all 
the corruptions and subtleties which had attached to 
them in the progress of ages, nor the evidences of its 
truths have been so accurately understood, nor its pe- 
culiar character been so perfectly discriminated, had not 
the zeal and abilities which have been employed against 
it called forth in its defence some of the most distin- 
guished masters of reason. They brought into the ser- 
vice of Christianity the same weapons which had been 
drawn for her destruction, and, wielding them with con- 
fidence and skill in a good cause, became the successful 
champions of the truth. See Rationalism. 

The fourth use of reason consists in judging of the 
truths of religion. Everything which is revealed by 
God comes to his creatures from so high an authority 
that it may be rested in with perfect assurance as true. 
Nothing can be received by us as true which is contrary 
to the dictates of reason, because it is impossible for us 
to receive at the same time the truth and the falsehood 
of a proposition. But many things are true which we 
do not fully comprehend; and many propositions, which 
appear incredible when they are first enunciated, are 
found, upon examination, such as our understandings 
can readily admit. These principles embrace the whole 
of the subject, and they mark out the steps by which 
reason is to proceed in judging of the truths of religion. 
We first examine the evidences of revelation. If these 
satisfy our understandings, we are certain that there can 
be no contradiction between the doctrines of this true 
religion and the dictates of right reason. If any such 
contradiction appear, there must be some mistake. By 
not making a proper use of our reason in the interpreta- 
tion of the Gospel, we suppose that it contains doctrines 
which it does not teach: or we give the name of right 
reason to some narrow prejudices which deeper reflec- 
tion and more enlarged knowledge will dissipate; or 
we consider a proposition as implying a contradiction, 
when, in truth, it is only' imperfectly' understood. Here, 
as in every other case, mistakes are to be corrected by' 
measuring back our steps. We must examine closely 
and impartially the meaning of those passages which 
appear to contain the doctrine; we must compare them 
with one another; we must endeavor to derive light 
VIII.— O o o 


from the general phraseology' of Scripture and the anal- 
ogy of faith ; and we shall generally be able, in this way', 
to separate the doctrine from all those adventitious cir- 
cumstances which give it the appearance of absurdity'. 
If a doctrine which, upon the closest examination, ap- 
pears unquestionably' to be taught in Scripture, still 
does not approve itself to our understanding, we must 
consider carefully what it is that prevents us from re- 
ceiving it. There may be preconceived notions hastily 
taken up which that doctrine opposes; there may' be 
pride of understanding that docs not readily submit to 
the views which it communicates; or reason mav need 
to be reminded that we must expect to find in religion 
many things which w’e are not able to comprehend. 
One of the most important offices of reason is to recog- 
nise. her own limits. She never can be. moved, by any 
authority, to receive as true what she perceives to be 
absurd. But if she has formed a just estimate of hu- 
man knowledge, she will not shelter her presumption in 
rejecting the truths of revelation under the pretence of 
contradictions that do not really' exist ; she will readily 
admit that there may be in a subject some points which 
she knows, and others of which she is ignorant; she 
will not allow her ignorance of the latter to shake the 
evidence of the former, but will yield a firm assent to 
that which she does understand without presuming to 
deny' what is beyond her comprehension. Thus, avail- 
ing herself of all the light which she now has, she will 
wait in humble hope for the time when a larger meas- 
ure shall be imparted. — Watson, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Re ay, Stephen, an Anglican divine, was born at 
Montrose, New Brunswick, in 1782, was educated at St. 
Alban’s Hall, Oxford, and was Landian professor of Ara- 
bic from 1840 till his death, lie published, Observations 
on the Defence of the Church Missionary Society ayainst 
the Objections of the Archdeacon of Bath , by r Pileus 
Quadratus (1818, 8vo) : — Kar ratio de Joseplio e Sacra 
Codice (1822): — Textus Ilebraicus (Loud. 1822, 1840, 
12mo). 

Reay, William, an English divine of the Estab- 
lishment, flourished near the middle of the 18th century, 
lie was curate and lecturer of Wordsworth in 1755. He 
died in 1756. He published Sermons , with Preface by 
T. Church, D.D., prebend of St. Paul’s (Lond. 1755, 8vo). 

Re'ba (Ileb. id. V'Z' m \.four; Sept. 'PofioK in Numb., 
'Po/3f in Josh. ; Vulg. Hebe'), one of the five kings of 
the Midianites slain by T the children of Israel in their 
avenging expedition when Balaam fell (Numb, xxxi, 
8; Josh.xiii, 21). B.C. 1858. 

Rebaptism. The ancient Church, if it did not 
openly declare against the repetition of baptism, cer- 
tainly' refused to rebaptize, and supported its position 
by assigning, net one, but many reasons. It espe- 
cially' maintained that there is no example of rebap- 
tization in Scripture; and as baptism succeeds to cir- 
cumcision, which was the entrance and seal of the old 
covenant, and could not be repeated, so baptism, being 
the sign and seal of admission to the new covenant, the 
breaches of this covenant are not to be repaired by' re- 
peated baptisms. There were in the early Church some 
heretics who rebaptized, such as the Marcionites; but 
the Catholic Church disapproved of the practice. In 
one of Cyprian’s epistles there is a question referred to 
Stephen, bishop of Rome, whether it was necessary' to 
rebaptize heretics ivho sought admission to the Catholic 
Church ; or whether it should be deemed sufficient, pro- 
ceeding upon the acknowledged validity of their bap- 
tism, to receive them with the simple ceremony of im- 
position of hands and ecclesiastical benediction. The 
Roman bishop acceded to the latter opinion. The Afri- 
can bishops, on the other hand, declared the baptism of 
heretics to be null and void, and would not recognise 
their confirmation at the hands of a Catholic bishop as 
sufficient for their reception into the Church. They 
demanded another baptism, to be followed by the usual 


REBECCA 


946 


KECEXSIOXS 

confirmation, notwithstanding the Church of Rome per- ' It has been conjectured that she died during his sojourn 
severed in maintaining that the baptism of heretics, in Padan-aram; for her nurse appears to have left Isaac’s 
provided only that it had been administered in due form, dwelling and gone back to Padan-aram before that pe- 

was valid and sutlicient and ought not to be repeated riod (comp, xxiv, 59, and xxv, 8), and Rebekah is not 

Farrar, Theul. Diet . s. v. In the modern Church rebap- mentioned when Jacob returns to his father, nor do we 
tism is practiced by the Romanists and the Anglicans, hear of her burial till it is incidentallv mentioned bv 
The latter deny the validity of other Protestant bodies Jacob on his death-bed (xlix, 31). 1’aiil (Rom. ix, 10) 
if Mich oppose the divine right of apostolical succession, refers to her as being made acquainted with the pur- 
The Baptists, of course, recognise as valid only immer- pose of Cod regarding her children before they M ere 
sion. and not infrequently repeat this ordinance if it born. For comments on the whole history of Rebekah, 
has been performed by persons known as Perdobaptists see Origen, Horn, in Genes in x and xii :* Chrvsostom 


(<|. v.). Sec llagenbach, liist. of Doctrines, ii, obi sq. ; 
I lbHing. Lehre von iler Tauft (Erlang. 18-10). See also 
Anabaptists ; Baptism. 

Rebec'ca ('P efieKica), the Cnccized form (Rom. ix, 
10) of the name Rebekah (q. v.). 

Rebek'ah (lleb. Ribkuh', Pip” a noose , i. e. en- 
snare r ; Sept., New Test., and Josephus, ' PtfSiicKa), the 
daughter of Bethuel (Gen. xxii, 23) and sister of Laban, 
married to Isaac, who stood in the relation of a first 
cousin to her father and to Lot. She is first presented 
to us in the account of the mission of Eliezcr to Padan- 
aram (ch. xxiv), in which his interview with Rebekah, 
her consent and marriage, are related. B.C. 2023. The 
eider branch of the family remained at llama when 
Abraham removed to the land of Canaan, and it is there 
that we first meet with Laban, as taking the leading 
part in the betrothal of his sister Rebekah to her cousin 
Isaac (xxiv, 10, 29-GO; xxvii, -13; xxix, 4). Bethn- 
el, his father, plays so insignificant a part in the whole 
transaction, being in fact only mentioned once, and that 
after his son (xxiv, 50), that various conjectures have 
been formed to explain it. Josephus asserts that Bethu- 
el M’as dead, and that Laban was the head of the house 
and his sister’s natural guardian (Ant. i, 1G, 2), in which 
case “ Bethuel” must have crept into the text inadver- 
tently, or be supposed, with some (Adam Clarke, ad 
l> c.), to be the name of another brother of Rebekah. Le 
Clcrc (in Pent.) mentions the conjecture that Bethuel 
was absent at first, but returned in time to give his con- 
sent to the marriage. The mode adopted by Prof. Blunt 
(Undesigned Coincidences , p.35) to explain what lie terms 
‘•the consistent insignificance of Bethuel,” viz. that lie 
was incapacitated from taking the management of his 
family by age or imbecility, is most ingenious; but the 
prominence of Laban may be sufficiently explained by 
the custom of the country, which then, as now (see Nie- 
buhr, quoted by Rosen m idler, ad loc.), gave the brothers 
the main share in the arrangement of their sister’s mar- 
riage and the defence of her honor (comp. (Jen. xxxiv, 
13; Jndg. xxi, 22; 2 Sam. xiii, 20-29). See Betii pel. 
The whole chapter has been pointed out as uniting most 
of the circumstances of a pattern marriage — the sanc- 
tion of parents, the guidance of God, the domestic occu- 
pation of Rebekah, her beauty, courteous kindness, will- 
ing consent and modesty, and success in retaining her 
husband’s love. For nineteen years she u'as childless; 
then, after the prayers of Isaac and her journey to in- 
quire of the Lord, Esau and .Jacob were born ; and, while 
the younger was more particularly the companion and 
favorite of his mother (Gen. xxv, 19-28), the elder be- 
came a grief of mind to her (xxvi, 35). When Isaac 
was driven by a famine into the lauless country of the 
Philistines, Rebekah ’s beauty became, as was appre- 
hended, a source of danger to her husband. But Abiin- 
elecli was restrained by a sense of justice such as the 
conduct of his predecessor (ch. xx) in the case of Sarah 
would not lead Isaac to expect, ll was probably a con- 
siderable time alterward.s when Rebekah suggested the 
deceit that was practiced by Jacob on his blind father. 
She directed and aided him in carrying it out, foresaw 
the probable consequence of Esau’s anger, and prevented 
it by moving Isaac to send Jacob away to Padan-aram 
(eli. xxvii) to her own kindred (xxix, 12). B.C. 1927. 
The Targum Pseudo-Jon. states (Gen. xxxv. 8) that the 
news of her death was brought to J acob at Allon-baelmth. 


Horn, in Genesin, p. 48-54. Rebekah’s inquiry of God, 
and the answer given to her, are discussed by Deyling, 
Obser. Hue. i, 12, p. 53 sq., and in an essay by J. A. 
Schmid in Nov. Thes. Thcol.-philolog. i, 188; also by 
Ebersbach (llelmst. 1712). — Smith. The agreement of 
the description of Rebekah in Gen. xxii witli modern 
Eastern customs and scenes is well noticed by Thom- 
son, Lund and Book, ii, 103. See Isaac; Jacob. 

Reber, Joei. L., a minister of the German Reformed 
Church, was born in Berks County, Pa., Nov. 8, 1816. 
lie spent his youth on a farm, and afterwards learned 
the printing business, lie pursued liis studies in the 
college and seminary at Mercersburg, Pa., from 1837 to 
1812, and was ordained in Slav, 1843. He was pas- 
tor successively in Brush Valley, Centre County, Pa.; 
Jonestown, Lebanon County. Pa.; Millersville, Lancas- 
ter County, I’a.; Codorus, York County, Pa. lie died 
Aug. 15, 185G. In 1850 Mr. Reber published a small 
work in German entitled An Puniest Word on the Sect- 
Spirit and Sect-Work, which passed through two edi- 
tions. lie also wrote much for the periodicals of the 
day in German and English, in both of which languages 
he was able to write with equal vigor and correctness, 
lie was possessed of a strong, original mind, Mas an 
earnest and powerful preacher, and manifested a labo- 
rious, self-sacrificing spirit. 

Recanati, Mkxaiiem ih, a Jewish writer, u-as born 
in Recanati (the ancient Recinetum) about 1290, and is 
the author of a commentary on the Pentateuch 
iTVrn 22*), which is little else than a commentary 
on the Sohur. This commentary, which was first pub- 
lished by Jacob ben-Chajiin in Romberg’s celebrated 
printing establishment (Venice, 1523; then again ibid. 
1545; and in Lublin, 1595), lias been translated into 
Latin by the famous Pico della Mirandola. lie also 
wrote C^-.H C. a treatise forensic, moral, and cere- 
monial (Bononia, 1538): — an exposition 
of the precepts of the law (Constantinople, 1544). Be- 
sides these M-orks, he wrote a number of others, which 
are still unpublished. See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 135 sq. ; 
He Rossi, Dizionario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 275; 
Steinschnoider. Catalogus Libr. Hebr. in Bibl. Bodlci. 
col. 1733-37 ; Etheridge, hit rod. to Hebr. Literature, p. 
280; Ginsbnrg, Kabbaluh, p. 118 sq. ; Jost, Gesch. d. 
Jndenth. it. s. Secten , iii, 77. (B. P.) 

Receipt of Custom. See Custom. 

Recensions of the Old Testament. Under this 
head we present an outline of the history of the print- 
ed IlebreM' text, not in the manner of Bartolocci. Wolf, 
and Le- Long-Mash, who give a long fist of editions, but 
according to the different recensions uhieh the Hebrew 
text underwent from time to time. The history of the 
imprinted text in its different periods lias already been 
treated in the article Old Testament (q. v.). From 
the article Manusikiits (q. v.) it will be seen that 
some of the most important MSS. are lost, and that 
they are. only known to us from quotations. Vet a 
great many MSS. of t he Old Test, existed in the differ- 
ent countries uhere Jews resided; and. as certain rules 
and regulations wore laid doun l>v the scribes accord- 
ing to uhieh MSS. were to be written, it is but nat- 
ural to infer that the M SS. of the different countries 
would, in the main, correspond wit h each other. After 
the invention of printing, many u-ere desirous of pub- 


RECENSIONS 


947 


RECENSIONS 


lishing corrected editions of the Holy Scriptures, though 
they seldom gave an account of the materials they used. 
The history of the printed text is important as showing 
the manner in which our present copies of the Hebrew 
Bible were edited, and the sources available for obtain- 
ing the exact words of the original. In order to do this 
we must examine the different editions according to 
the text which they contain ; we must know the differ- 
ent degrees of relationship in which the editions stand 
to each other; in a word, we must have the genealogy 
of the present editions. 

Before entering upon the history of the printed text, 
wc must mention, first, the editions of different parts of 
the Old Test, which formed the basis of later editions. 
The first part of the Hebrew Scriptures which was pub- 
lished is— 

(I.) E^pnr, i. e. Psalterium Uebraicum cum Commenta- 
rio Kimchii (237 [i. e. A.D. 1477], 4to, or sm. fol., sine loco). 
This very rare edition is printed on 149 folios, each page 
containing forty lines, hut without division of verses, in 
majuscnlar and minnscular letters. Only the first four 
psalms have the vowel-points, and these hut clumsily ex- 
pressed. Each verse is accompanied by Kimchi’s com- 
mentary, The pages and psalms are not numbered. The 
Soph Pasuk (i.e. :) is often omitted, especially when two 
verses stand by each other. For TPiT, often an empty 
space is left, sometimes omitted ; in the space we often 
find an inverted he, j_»> or an inverted vav, i,, in the word 
1777P ; often the word is expressed by a sign of abbrevi- 
ation, ", which generally occurs in the commentary. In 
Fsa, cxix, 1 we find PP7P, i. e. a yod for a vav. The let- 


ters 3 and 3, ” and “7, 3 and “7, *j and 7, 3 and 3 ; 
and 13 can hardly be distinguished from each other. The 
text is far from being correct, as a few examples will 
show. Thus, in 

Psa. i, 3 we read TP 72, in Van der Hooght, *P“*E 


i,5 « 

ii, 1 “ p^7 

ii, 2 “ 73*’th33 

iv, 1 “ 7*^0) DIET'S 


C"p*<7:£ 

“1*1*73 77373 


It is divided into five hooks, as cau be seen from super- 
scriptions to Psa. xli, lxxii, Ixxxix, and cvi. As to the 
commentary, it is very valuable, because it contains all 
the anti-Christian passages of Kimchl, which are not 
found in later editions. At the end two epigraphs are 
printed, one in rhyme, the other in prose. See on this 
edition, Eichhorn, Repertorinm , vi, 134 sq. ; De Rossi, A n- 
nales Hebreeo-tgpographici, p. 14; and De Ilebraicce Typo- 
graphies Origins ac Primitiis, etc., p. 13 ; Ivennicott, bias. 
Gen. inl\ T. p. 91. 

(II.) Vttn 0)17^27 O'bpi'X 07577 33 *33 in 
3 3“i X^SlViO, i. e. Pcntateuchus Hebraicus cum T'unctis 
et cum Paraphrasi Clialdaica et Commentario Rabbi Salo- 
mons Jarchi (Bononise, 242 [i. e. A.D. 14S2J, fob). This 
copy is printed on 21S parchment leaves. Above and be- 
low the Hebrew Rnshi’s commentary is given, while the 
Chaldee is printed on the side of the Hebrew. The text 
is very correct, and when compared with Van der Hooght’s, 
the latter seems to be a reprint of this Pentateuch.' The 
harmony of this Pentateuch with that found in Van der 
Ilooght's edition is of the utmost importance for the 
printed text. In the first place, it corroborates the fact 
that, prior to the year 1520, the beginning had already 
been made to print the Hebrew text according to recent 
MSS. and the Masorah ; in the second place, we must ad- 
mit that all variations which are found in the Pentateuch 
printed at Soncino in 14SS, and which is a reprint of our 
edition, are nothing hut negligences of the printer and cor- 
rector, in so far as these variations are not supported by 
the Masorah, and heuce cannot be regarded as a testimo- 
ny against the Masoretic text. In the third place, we see 
that all MSS. and editions which were prepared by Jews 
are of the utmost correctness, and that the variations are 
nothing but an oversight of either the copyist or printer. 
At the end is a very lengthy epigraph in Hebrew, to give 
which in an English translation space forbids. See Eich- 
horn, Repertorinm, v, 92 sq., where the variations of this 
Pentateuch from Van der Hooght’s text are given. 

(III.) Ruth, Ecclesiastes, Cahticuui Canticorum, Threni 
cum Comm. Jarchi, et Esther cum Comm. A bcn-Ezrce (sine 
anno et loco [hut probably Bononim, 1482], fob). See De 
Rossi, De Ignotis Xonnullis Antiquissimis Ilebr. Textus Edi- 
tiovibus (Erlangen, 17S2). 

(IV.) Prophetce Priores ae Posteriores cum Comm. Kim- 


chii (Soncino, 14S5-SG, 2 vols. fob). On this, see Eichhorn, 
Repertorium, viii, 51 sq. 

(V.) Qninque Megilloth ct Psalterium (Soucini et Casali, 
14SG). 

(VI.) Quatuor Sacra Volumina, sen Ruth, Cantieum , 
Threni et Ecclesiastes (ibid. I486), with vowel-points, but 
with no accents. 

(VII.) Hagiographa, with different commentaries (Nea- 
poli, 1487). 

(VI II.) Biblia llebraica Integra cum runctis et Accentibus 
(Soncini,24S [i.e. A.D. 1488], fob). This is the first complete 
Hebrew Bible, with vowel-points and accents. It is very 
rare; only nine copies are known to he extant, viz. one 
at Exeter College, Oxford ; two at Rome, two at Florence, 
two at Parma, one at Vieuna, and one in the Baden-Dur- 
lach Library. According to Bruns (Dissertat. General, in 
V. Test. ]>. 442 sq.), the text is printed neither from an- 
cient nor good MSS., but is full of blunders ; mid Kenui- 
cott asserts that it contains more than 12,000 variations 
(“qnie nua editio ab exemplaribus hodieruis discrepat in 
locis plus qnam 12 , 000 ”). IIow carelessly the printing was 
executed may be seen from the fact that ver. 16 of Psa. 
lxxiv was interpolated after ver. 12 of Psa. Ixxxix. 

(IX.) Pcntateuchus Hebraicus absque Punch's, etc. (1490). 

(X.) Pentateuchus cum Haphtarotli et Megilloth Ucbraiee 
(sine loco et anno, 4to [1490-95?]). For a long time only 
two copies were known to he extant ; one in the Library 
of St. Mark at Florence, and one in the library of the car- 
dinal Zelada. De Rossi, however, procured some copies. 

Between 1490 ami 1494 twelve other editions of differ- 
ent books were published, which we will not enumerate 
for want of space. In 1494 the Liblia Hebraica cum Punc- 
h's (4to) was published at Brescia ; remarkable as being 
the one from which Luther’s German translation was 
made. The Royal Library at Berlin preserves that copy in 
a case. This edition has many various readings. As it 
cannot historically he proved that in the edition of this 
Bible MSS. have been used — on the contrary, in its lectio- 
nibus singularibus it agrees with the edition of Soncino 
(14SS) — it is very probable that it was reprinted from the 
Soucinian text. A full description of this Bible is given 
by Schulze, Vollstundigere Kritik (Berlin, 1766). A collec- 
tion of various readings is given by I.e- Long-Mash in the 
Bibliotheca Sacra. Between 1494 and 1497 four other edi- 
tions of different parts of the Hebrew Old Test, were pub- 
lished, which wonld make the number either of entire 
editions of the Old Test, or of single parts thereof about 
twenty-eight, and which all belong to the 15th century. 

I. The first main recension was the Complmensian text 
of 1514-17. The editions which were published in the 
following centuries are mainly taken from one of the three 
main sources : the Comphttcnsian IJible, the Soncinian Text 
of 148S, and Romberg's (1525); yet there is a fourth class, 
which contains a mixed text, composed of many old edi- 
tions. The Complutensiau text was entitled Biblia Sacra 
Polyglotta, etc. (in Complutensi Univer.-itate, 1514-17). 
See Polyglot Biui.rs. This was followed by the Heidel- 
berg or Bertram's Polyglot { Sacra Biblia llebraice, etc.) (ex 
oflicina Sanctaudreana, 1586, 3 vols. fol.; republished in 
1599, 3 vols. fol. ex oflicina Comineliuiana, and in 1616, 3 
vols. fol. ibid.). 

II. The second main recension, or the Soncinian text 
of 14SS, was the basis of: 

1. Biblia Iiabbinica Rombcrgiana I, curavit F. Prateusis 
(Venice, 1517-18). See Rahuimc Buslks. 

2. Romberg's Editions (4to): a. the first published in 
151S ; (3. the second in 1521 ; 7 . the third in 1525-28; 6. the 
fourth in 1533 ; e. the fifth in 1544. 

3. Munster's Editions of 1534, 1536, and 1546. The first 
contains the Hebrew text only, and was published by 
Froben at Basle. This edition is very rare and valuable 
ou account ofa collection of various readings, partly taken 
from MSS., which must have been collected by a Jewish 
editor. The other two editions have, besides the He- 
brew, a Latin translation. 

4. Robert Stephens's first edition (Paris, 1539-44, 4 vols.). 
This was not published as a whole, but in parts, each hav- 
ing a title. The first part that was published was 720 
!"T3'3*\ or Prophctia Isaice (ibid. 1539). Of variations, 
we subjoin the following: i, 25, ”"2PO ; ver. 29, 0*^X0 ; 
iii, 16, 777p3jo7 ; vi, 5, "73*73 ; viii, 6 , 7133*71 (dagesh 
in ^5) ; ver. 13, C 33733 ; x, 15, 7X1 ; ver. 16, 7*7133 ; ver. 
IS, 37033 ; ver. 33, 77£ , l** 1 , etc. The secoud part con- 
tained the twelve minor prophets (1539) ; the third, the 
Psalms (1540); the fourth, the Proverbs (1540); in the 
same year also Jeremiah, Daniel, the five Megilloth; iu 
1541, Job, Ezra, Ezekiel ; in 1543, Chronicles, the former 
prophets, and the Pentatench. Richard Simon, in his 
llistoire Critique du V. T. p. 513, makes this remark ou 
that edition : “Si Ton a egaul ii la beaute des caracteres, 
ii u’y a guercs de Bibles qui approcheut de celle de Robert 
Estienne in quarto; an moins d’une pnrtie de cette Bible; 
mais elle 11 ’est pas fort correcte.” The same is confirmed 
by Carpzov, Critica Sacra, p. 421: “Plnrimis autem sca- 
tere vitiis, non in ptinctis modo vocalibus et accentuum, 
sed etiam in literis, into in integris uonnunqnani vocibus 


IiECEXSIOXS 


943 


liECEXSIOXS 


deprehenditnr,” etc.; and Samuel Ockley, in his Tntroduct. 
a<l Lingua* Orient, cap. ii, p. 34, says: “ JIaiC Ruberti Ste- 
phani editio pttlchris qnidem characteribus est impressa 
. . . sed phiribns meiul is scatet, quae libri pulcherrimi ni- 
torem tnrpiter feed am nt.” 

III. The third main recension was the Bombergian text 
of 1525. A new recension of the text, which has had more 
influence than any on the text of later times, was Bom- 
berg’s second edition of the Rabbinic Bible, edited by Ja- 
cob bcn-Chajim (Venice, 1525-20, 4 vols. fob). See Rab- 
binic Bibles. This edition was followed by— 

1. II. Stephens'* second edition, published in parts, like 
the first (Baris, 1544-46, lGmo). 

2. Romberg's third Rabbinical Bible (1547-49). See Rab- 
binic Bibles. 

3. .)/. A. Justiniani's Editions , published at Venice in 
1551, 1552, 1563, and 1573. 

4. J. de Cara's Editions, published at Venice, viz. : a. an 
edition in 4to, 1506; b. an edition in Svo, 150S; c. a Rab- 
binic Bible (150S, 4 vols. fob) [see Rabbinic Bibi.es] ; d. an 
edition in Svo, 1570; c. an edition in 4 to, 1582; /. an edi- 
tion with Kashi’s commentary (1595, 4to); (/.the same 
editiou, published in 1007. 

5. Plantin'* Manual Editions, published at Antwerp, 
viz . : a. an edition in 4to, Svo, and lOmo, in 1506; 5. a 4to 
editiou in 1580 ; c. an Svo editiou in 1590. 

6 . Crato's Editions, published at Wittenberg in 1586 and 
1587. 

7. Hartmann's Editions, published at Frankfort-on-the- 
Oder in 1595-9S. 

S. Bragadin's Editions, published at Venice, viz. : a. an 
edition iu 4to and 12mo (1014-15); b. a Rabbinic Bible 
[see Rabbinic Bibi.es] (1017-1S, 4 vols. fob); r. a 4t,o edi- 
tion (1019); </. a4to edition (162S); e. a 4to edition, with 
Italian notes (1673) : f. Biblia Hvbreea ad usinn Judcro- 
rum (I7u7, 4to); g. Biblia Uebraiea, with a Spanish com- 
mentary in Rabbinic letters, “con licenza de’ euperiori” 
(1730, 4to). 

9. 7. de la Iiouvicre's, or Cephas Eton's Editions, pub- 
lished at Geneva iu 1013, in 4to, Svo, and ISino, are but a 
reprint of No. 3. 

IV. The fourth main recension, or mixed text, was 
formed from N'os. II and 111 above, and was the Antwerp 
Polyglot, or Biblia Sacra Ilebraice (Antwerp, 1507) [see 
Boi.voi.ot Bibles], which was followed by— 

1. The Paris Polyglot. See Polyglot Bibles. 

2 . The London, dr Walton's Polgglot. See Polyglot Bi- 
bles. 

3. Plantin' s Hebrew- Latin Editions (Antwerp, 1571, 1583). 
In the first edition, in Gen. iii, 15, where the Vulg. has 
“ipsa conteret caput,” with reference to the Virgin Alary, 
we read r*n, instead of XI n, with a little circle above to 
indicate a different reading in the passage (XT1). But 
this corruption was not made by Arias Moutauns, the 
Latin translator. 

4. The Burgos Edition, a very rare reprint of Plantin’s 
first edition, published at Burgos, in Spain, in 158] (lob). 

5. The Genera Editions, in Hebrew and Latin, published 
iu 160!) and 1013 (fob). 

6. The Leyden Edition, published in 1013 (large Svo). 

7. The Vienna Edition, published in 1743 (large Svo). 

S. Reineeeius's Polgglot and Manual Editions. See Rtu- 

NKCOirS. 

V. Butter's Text. Several older editions contributed to 
Ilutter's Bibles: 

a. Biblia Sacra, etc. (Hamburg, 1587, fob). The outward 
appearance of this edition is splendid. In the margin the 
number of chapters is marked, ami every fifth verse. 
From the preface we see that lfntter perused the editions 
of Bombcrg, Munster, Stephens, etc. This edition was 
only printed once, but was published in 158S, 1590, and 
10u3 with new title-pages. 

b. Biblia Sacra Pulyglotta (incomplete ; only the Penta- 
teuch, Joshua, Judges, and Ruth) (Nuremberg, 1599). 
Ilutter’s Hebrew Bible was reprinted in Missel's edition 
(bmrdnni Batavortim, 1062, large Svo), with the title Sacra 
Biblia llcbnra ex Optintis Edit iambus , etc. 

VI. Buxtorf's Editions. A text revised accural ely after 
the Masorah, and therefore deviating here and there from 
the earlier editions, is furnished by Buxtorf's editions, 
viz. : 

a. The Manual Edition (Basle, 1611, Svo), which was fol- 
lowed by— 

1. Jansson's Edition (Amst. 1639), or 

2. Mrnassch ben- Israel'* Edition (ibid. 1635, 4to). It 
would have been well if the editor had stated which font- 
editions lie perused, and to which the mistakes, which are 
not a few in this edition, are to be ascribed. Each page 
has two columns. The order of the books is rather un- 
common ; the Ilagiographa and five Megillotli come be- 
fore the earlier and later prophets. As to the edition it- 
self, R. Simon, in his Uistoirv. Critique, p. 5t4, remarks: 
“ LVdition en quarto de Mennss,- hen-lsrael, a Amsterdam 
tm 1635, a ectte commoditc, qn’clle est non settlement cor- 
rccte, ntais anssi A denx coiotmes; an lien quo les editions 
de Robert Eslienne et de Plantin sont ii longues ligues et 
par consequent incommodes pour la lecture.” 


b. Buxtorf's Rabbinic Bible [see Rabbinic. Bibles], which 
was followed by— 

1. Frankfurter's Rabbinic Bible. See Rabbinic Bibles. 

2. l.ebenson’s, or It 'arsaw Rabbinic Bible. See Rabbinio 
Bibt.es. 

VII. Joscjih Athias's Text. Neither the text of nntler 
nor that of Buxtorf was without its permanent influence; 
but the Hebrew Bible which became the standard to sub- 
sequent generations was that of Joseph Athias, a learned 
rabbi and printer at Amsterdam, llis text was based on 
a comparison of the previous editions with two AlSS. ; one 
benriug the date 1209, the other a Spanish MS., boasting 
an antiquity of lion years. The first edition of this new 
text was published at Amsterdam (1001,2 vols. Svo), with 
the title, Biblia llebruica correeta et cottata cum Antiquis - 
simis et Accuratissimi* Exemplaribus Manuscriptis et hae- 
tenus impresses. This is the first edition iu which each 
, verse is numbered. A second edition, with a preface by 
Lensden, was published in 1007. These editions were 
, much prized for their beauty and correelnos, and a gold 
j medal and chain were conferred on Athias in tokeu of 
their appreciation by the Statcs-General of Holland. 

I VIII. Ciodius's Editions were based npou the text of 
I Athias. 

j a. Biblia Testament} Veteris, ale. Opera et studio Clodii 
(Fraukfort-on-the-Maiu, 1077). 

b. Biblia llcbraica, etc. ; recoguita a J. II. Majo (ibid. 
1692). 

e. Biblia Uebraiea, etc. ; cd. G. Chr. Burcklin (ibid. 1716, 
4 to). In spite of ail the care which Burcklin bestowed 
j upon this edition, some mistakes were left, as: Isa. i, 16, 
ipr-n for ism: xii, 22 , r*:r-n for r-rrx-.n; jer. 
j iv, IS, 7“ for II*; xxiii, 21, Smb? for EmbX: Ezek. 

! xl, 25, for Z-IZ; IIos. vii, 16, EARS for 

Amos vii, 10, C'Z for r*Z; Lam. v, 22, m Z fur Z N •'Z; 
Psa. Ixxv, 1, ZZX for TCX, etc. 

IX. Jablonski's Editions, or — 

a. Biblia Uebraiea cum X otis Hebraicis, etc. (Berolini, 
1699, large Svo or 4to). For this edition Jablonski col- 
lated all the cardinal editions, together with several MSS., 
and bestowed particular care on the vowel-points and ac- 
cents, as lie expresses himself more fully in his preface, 
5 6, 7. 

b. Biblia Uebraiea in Gratiam, etc. (ibid. 1712, 12mo). 
This is the last of Jablonski’s editions, but less correct; 

1 and the same may be said of the one published iu 1711 
(24mo) without the vowel-points. 

X. II. Michaelis's Bible was based on Jablonski’s first 
edition of 1699, and was entitled " l “SC - Z “ N ‘ Z " “ Z .‘ V 
— “pH (Halle, 1720, 3vo and 4to). For this edition Mi- 
chaelis compared five Erfurt MSS. and nineleen printed 
editions, which are all enumerated in the preface. This 
edition is much esteemed, partly for its correctness and 
partly for its notes, which, on account of the very small 
type, are a task to the eyes. 

* Michaelis’s text is said to have been the basis of the so- 
called Mantuan Bible, edited, with a critical commentary', 
by Norzi (q. v.) (Mantua, 1742-44). 

XI. Pan tier llooghVs Text, or Biblia Uebraiea, secundum 
ultimavi Editionem Jus. Athia, etc. (Amst. 1705, 2 vols. 
svo). This edition— of good reputation for its accuracy, 
but above all for the beauty and distinctness of its type — 
deserves special attention as constituting our present tex- 
tu* receptus. The text was chiefly formed on that of 
Athias ; no MSS. were used for it, but it lias a collection 
of various readings from printed editions at the end. The 
Masoretic readings ate given in the margin. In spite of 
ail the excellences which this edition hits above others, 
there are still a great many mistakes to be found therein, 
as Bruns ha« shown in Hichhorn’s Ilepertorium, xii, 225 
sq. The following editions are either printed from or 
based on Van tier llooglit’s text: 

1 . Proop's Editions, published at Amsterdam (1724, 1 762). 

2. The Leipsie Edition, with Seb. Schmid’s Latin trans- 
lation (1740, 4to). 

3. Porstei's Biblia llcbraica sine Punctis (Oxford, 1750, 

2 vols. 4 to). 

4. Simoni's Editions (Ilalle, 1752, 1767, 1*22, 1323; the 
latter two with a preface by Roscnmiiller). 

5. lloubigant's (q. v.) Edition (Paris, 1753,4 vols. fob). 

6. Baglg's Old Testament, iu Hebrew and English (Loud. 
1774, large Svo). 

7. Kennicott's (q.v.) Befits Testamentnm (Oxford, 1776- 
Sli, 2 vols. fob). 

8. Jahn's Biblia Uebraiea, etc. (Vienna, 1806, 4 vols. Svo), 
with readings from De Rossi, Keunicott, etc. With inju- 
dicious peculiarity, however, the books are arranged in a 
new order; the Chronicles are split up into fragments for 
the purpose of comparison with the parallel books. 

9. Boothroud's Biblia llcbraica, with various tendings 
(Pontefract, 1810-16. 2 vols. 4to). 

10. Prey's Biblia Uebraiea (Loud. 1S12, 2 vols. Svo), which 
was entirely superseded by 

11. D'Allemand’s Biblia llcbraica (ibid. 1S22, and often). 


RECENSIONS 


949 


RECENSIONS 


Van der Hooght’s text is found in all English editions 
of the Hebrew Bible published by Duncan or Bagster, 
and is also made the basis of— 

12 . The Hexaglot Bible [see Polyglot Bibles] (Loud. 
1876, 6 vols. royal 4to). 

13. The Basle Edition of 1S27. 

14. Hahn's Editions, published at Leipsic in 1S31, 1S32, 
1S33, 1839, and 1S67 ; the last is superior to the former, as 
can be seen from the preface. Hahn’s text has also been 
reprinted in the polyglot of Stier and Theile (Elberleld, 
1S47, and often). There is also a small edition of Hahn’s 
Bible (in 12uio), with a preface by Roseumuller, in small 
but clear type. The last of this edition was published in 
1S6S. 

15. Theile's Editions (ibid. 1S40; 4th ed. 1S73). This edi- 
tion may be regarded as one of the best Hebrew Bibles 
according to Van der nought’s recension. Wright, in his 
The Book of Genesis in Hebrew (Loud. 1859), has followed 
Theile’s text. 

XII. Ojntz's Text , or Bibliea Hebraica cum Optimis Im- 
pressis, etc. Stndio et Opera D. H. Opitii (Kiloni, 1709, 
4 to). Opitz compared for this edition three codices and 
fourteen printed editions, which are enumerated in the 
preface. This text was reprinted in— 

1. Zullichow Biblia cum Pnvfatione Michaelis (1741, 4to). 

2. Evangelische deutsche Original- Bibel, containing the 
Hebrew and Luther’s German translation (Kiloni, 1741). 

XIII. Editions with a Revised Text. With Van der 
Hooght’s edition a textus receptus was given, which was 
corrected and improved from time to time. Bnt the more 
the Masorah and ancient Jewish grammarians were stud- 
ied, the more it was found that the present text, while on 
the whole correct, did not come up to the requirements 
and rules laid down by ancient grammarians, for, as De- 
litzsch observes, in the. edition of the Old Test., the mi- 
nutest points must be observed, trifling and pettifogging 
as they may appear to the superficial reader; “yet «7.ra 
eV b juta Kepaia inaximi apnd nos pouderis esse debet.” 
Thus it came to pass that from time to time new editions 
of the Hebrew text were published 71*10*271 “2 bl‘, i. e. 
in accordance with the Masorah. Of such editions we 
mention, passing over the editions of single parts of the 
Old Test., 

1. The edition published at Carlsrnhe (1S3G-37) and ed- 
ited by Epstein, ltosenfeld, and others. 

2. Philippsohn'slsraelitische Bibel (Leipsic, 1S44-54). But 
this edition, says Delitzsch, “quamquam textum n 2 bx 
7110*271 conformatum se exhibere pnedicat, Masorethicae 
diligentiie vix ullum vestigium ostendit et vitiis plurimis 
scatet.” 

3. Letteris's Edition, or 71*171 X1711 ‘2.’ “I *71 *20 

D n 2irG1 (Vienna, 1852, 2 vols. Svo). This edi- 

tion was reprinted by the British and Foreign Bible Soci- 
ety at Berlin, with the corrections of Theophilus Abram- 
sohn (1866, and often ; latest edition, 1S74). With an Eng- 
lish title-page, “ The Hebrew Bible, revised and carefully 
examined by Myer Levi Letteris,” the society’s edition 
was published (?) by Wiley and Son (N. Y. 1875). 

4. A new edition, which, as we hope, will become the 
standard text for the future, is that commenced by Baer and 
Delitzsch. As early as 1S61,S. Baer, in connection with Prof. 
Delitzsch, published the 0‘Onn *20, or Liber Psalmorum 
Hebraicus. Textum Masorethicum accuratius quam adhuc 
factum est expressit . . . Xotas criticas adjecit S. Baer. 
Priefatus est F. Delitzsch (Lipsite, 1S61). Mr. Baer, who 
for about twenty years has made Masoretic lore his spe- 
cialty, the results of which he partly gave to the public in 
his n*2X r.1171 (Rodelheim, 1S52), was best adapted for 
such a task, and his connection with Prof. Delitzsch, one 
of the greatest living Hebrew scholars, is the best guar- 
antee that the work is in able hands. An improved edi- 
tion of the Psalms was published in 1S74, under the title 
nib 7i Pi 120, Liber Psalmorum Hebraicus atque Latinus 
ab Hieronymo ex Hebrceo eonversus. Consociata opera 
edidernnt C. de Tischendorf, S. Baer, et Fr. Delitzsch. In 
the preface, which is prepared by Delitzsch, we get a great 
deal of instructive matter as to the sources used for this 
edition. The Hebrew and Latin text is followed by Ap- 
pendices Critical et Masorethicce of great value to the stu- 
dent. Both these editions are published in 12mo. Be- 
sides the Psalms, which in their present size are proba- 
bly not intended for a complete edition of the Old Test., 
they published— 

(i.) 7rr*2nb ■prxn 120 x*7i rrrxio 120 

71*1171, Liber Genesis, Textum Masorethicum aecuratissime 
expressit, e Fontibus Masorce varie illustravit, Xotis Criti- 
eis confirmavit, S. Baer. Prcefatus est edendi operis adjn- 
tor Fr. Delitzsch (Lipsias, I860, gr. Svo). The title fully 
indicates the contents of the work, which, however, we 
will specify. The Hebrew text is followed by— 

a. Specimen Lectionum in hac Editione Genesis recepta- 
rum . , 


b. Loci Genesis Vocalem non productam in Medio Extre- 
move Versu retinentes. 

c. Scriptural Genesis inter Scholas Orientates et Occiden- 
tales e out r oversee. 

d. Loci Genesis a Ben- Asher et Ben-Xaphtali diverse 
Punctis signati. 

e. Loci Genesis Consimiles qui facile confundanlur. 

f. Loci Genesis Lincoln Pasek notati. 

g. Sectiones Libri Genesis Masorcthiece. 

h. Conspectus Xotarum Masoreticarum : a.Varietas scrip- 
tionis et lectionis; /?. Aduotationes Masoreticse; 7. Clau- 
sula libri. 

(2.) Liber Jesaiee . . . (Lipsiie, 1S72), containing the same , 
critical matter as Genesis. 

(3.) Liber Jobi . . . (ibid. 1S75). Opposite the title-page 
stands a fac-sintile of the Codex Tshufutkale No. 8 a, 
which gives a good specimen of the Babylonian system 
of punctuation. 

(4.) Liber Duodeeim Prophetarum . . . (ibid. 1S7S). 

The prefaces which precede the Hebrew text in all these 
volumes give an accouut of the various MSS., editions, 
etc., which have been perused for each book, and are full 
of instruction to the student of the sacred text. When 
completed, this edition of the Old Test, will form not a 
recensiou, bnt the recension of the best Hebrew text with 
which the student can be furnished. 

Literature. — For the different editions of the Old 
Test., see Le-Long-Mash, Wolf, Bartolocci, Rosenmul- 
ler, and introductions to the Old Test., together with 
Davidson, Biblical Criticism, i, 137 sq., and De Rossi, 
De Hebraicce Typographic? Origine, etc. (Parma, 177G) ; 
id. De Typographia flebrceo - Ferraiiensi, etc. (ibid. 
1780) ; id. De Ignotis Xonnullis A ntiquissimis Hebr. 
Textus Editt. etc. (Erlangen, 1782) ; id. A unities He- 
brceo - typographic, etc. (Parma, 1795). For various 
readings, see the editions of Kennicott, Michaelis, Jalin, 
Reineccius-Meissner-Dbdcrlein ; the Yurice Lectiones of 
De Rossi (ibid. 1784, 4 vols.); Davidson, The Hebrew 
Text of the Old Testament, etc. (Lond. 1855) — following, 
as Davidson does, De Rossi and Jalm, his work, besides 
being deficient, cannot always be relied upon ; Pick, 
Horai Samaritance, or a Collection of Various Readings 
of the Samaritan Pentateuch compared with the He- 
brew and other Ancient Versions, in Bibl. Sacra (Ando- 
ver, 1876-78); Strack, Katalog der hebr. Bibelhand- 
schriflen in St. Petersburg (St. Petersburg, 1875), For 
critical purposes, see, besides the articles Qfotations 
of the Old Testament in the Talmud and Maso- 
kah in this Cyclopaedia, together with the literature 
given in those articles, Strack, Prolegomena Critica in 
| r . T. (Lipsiie, 1873); id. Zur Texthitik des Jesaias, in 
Lutherische Zeitschrift (Leipsic, 1877), p. 17 sq., and his 
preface to the edition of the Prophetarum Codex Baby- 
lonicus Pet ropolit anus (Petrop. 1876); Moir lla-Levi 
Abulafia (q. v.), THir^J JiiD n “H0 13 “20 (Florence, 
1750; Berlin, 1761), Lonzano, 71*1171 * 1 IX (Venice, 1618; 
Berlin, 1745) ; Norzi (q. v.), ‘ v 2? m!*2 (Vienna, 1813); 
also in the Warsaw Rabbinic Bible ; Ileidenheim, 12 12 in 
11X0 (Rodelheim. 1818-21); Kimchi, Liber 
Radicum edd. Lebrecbt et Biesenthal (Berlin, 1847); 
Frensdorff, Die Massora Magna (Hanover and Leipsic, 
1876); Geiger, Urschrift itnd Uebersetzungen der Bibel 
(Breslau, 1857), p. 231 sq.; the critical notes appended 
by Baer and Delitzsch to the different books edited by 
them ; the Masechet Soferim (q. v.), best ed. by J. Mul- 
ler (Leipsic, 1878); the forthcoming work of Ginsbnrg 
on the Masorah, which will be published in 4 vols.— viz. 
vol. i, the Masorah Magna, lexically arranged; vol. ii, 
the Masorah Parva ; vol. iii, an English translation, 
with explanatory notes; vol. iv, the original Hebrew 
text of the Bible according to the Masorah; and De- 
litzsch, Com pin tens isclt e Varianten zu dem A Ittestament- 
lichen Texte (ibid. 1878). (B. P.) 

RECENSIONS of the New Testament. After 
the critical materials at the basis of the New-Test, text 
had accumulated in the hands of Mill and Bentley, they 
began to be examined with care. Important readings 
in different documents were seen to possess resemblances 
more or less striking. Passages were found to present 
the same form, though the MSS. from which they were 
derived belonged to various times and countries. The 


KECEXSIOXS 


950 


IiECEXSIOXS 


thought suggested itself to Bengcl th.it the mass of ma- 
terials might be definitely classitied in conformity with 
such peculiarities. The same idea afterwards occurred 
to Semler. llcngel classitied all the documents from 
which various readings arc collected into two nations or 
families — the Asiatic and the African. To the former 
belonged the Codex Alexandriims as the chief; to the 
latter the Grscco-Latin codices. At first that eminent 
critic does not seem to have had a very distinct appre- 
hension of the. subject; and therefore he speaks in gen- 
eral terms of it in his edition of the Creek Testament 
published in 1734; but in the posthumous edition of the 
Apparatus Critieus (17G3, edited by Bnrkius) he is 
metre explicit. Semler was the first that used the term 
recension of a particular class of MSS., in his I/ermeneu - 
fisc fie Yorbereituiif) (1705). This critic, however, though 
acquainted with Wctstcin’s labors on the text of the 
New Test., had nothing more than a dim notion of the 
subject, lie followed llcngel without clearly under- 
standing or enlarging his views. Griesbach was the 
first scholar who treated the topic with consummate 
learning and skill, elaborating it so highly that it be- 
came a prominent subject in the criticism of the New 
Test. Hut he had the benefit of Wctstein’s abundant 
treasures. The term recension applied to MS. quota- 
tions by ancient writers, and versions of the Greek 
Testament bearing an affinity to one another in charac- 
teristic readings, became a classical word in his hands, 
and has continued so. The appellation is not happily 
chosen. Family, nation, class, or order would have been 
more appropriate; because recension suggests the idea 
of revision, which is inapplicable. If it be remembered, 
however, that the word denotes nothing more than a 
certain class of critical documents characterized by dis- 
tinctive peculiarities in common, it matters little what 
designation be employed. 

The sentiments of Griesbach, like those of Bcngel, 
developed and enlarged with time. Ilcnce we must not 
look for exactly the same theory in liis different publi- 
cations. In his Dissert at io Critica de Codicibus (luatuor 
Fcanr/eliorum Oriyenianis (pars prima, published in 
1771), lie says that there arc, perhaps, three or four re- 
censions into which all the codices of the New Test, 
might be divided ( Opuscula Academica, edited by Gab- 
ler, i, 239). In the preface to his first edition of the 
Greek Testament (1777), he states that at the begin- 
ning of the 3d century there were two recensions of 
the gospels, the Alexandrian and the Western. In the 
prolegomena to the lirst volume of his second edition of 
the Greek Testament, the matured sentiments of this 
able critic are best set forth. There lie illustrates the 
Alexandrian recension, the Western, and the Coustanti- 
nopolitan. The lirst two are the more ancient, belong- 
ing to the time in which the two collections of the 
New-Test, writings, the toayyiXtov and 6 (ittoittoXoc, 
were made. The Alexandrian was an actual recension 
arising at the time when the two portions in question 
were put together; the Western was simply the acci- 
dental result of carelessness and arbitrary procedure on 
the part of transcribers and others in the MSS. current 
before the (nrooToXoc, or epistles, were collected. The 
t'onslantiiiopolitan arose from the intermingling of the 
other two, and, like the Western, is no proper recension, 
but was rather the result of a condition of the docu- 
ments brought about bv the negligence and caprice of 
copyists or meddling critics. The Alexandrian is pre- 
sented by the MSS.C. I,, 33, 102, 100, and by B in the 
last chapters of the four gospels: by the Mempliitic, 
Ethiopie, Armenian, and Philoxenian versions; and the 
quotations of Clemens Alexandriims, Origen, Eusebius, 
Athanasius, Cyril of Alexandria, and Isidore of l’elu- 
sinm. The Western accords with the Grjeeo-Latin cod- 
ices, with the Antc-llierouyinian Latin version, and 
with 15 in the gospel of Matthew; also with 1, 13, (59, 
113,124,131,157; with the Thebaic and .lerusalem- 
Svriac versions, and the quotations of Irenanis in Latin, 
Cyprian, Tertullian, Ambrose, and Augustine. The third 


or Constantinopolitan is shown in A, E, F, G. II, S, of the 
gospels, the Moscow codices of the Pauline epistles, the 
Gothic and Slavonic versions; and in the quotations of 
such fathers as lived during the 4th, 5th, and 0th cen- 
turies in Greece, Asia Minor, and the neighboring prov- 
inces. The text in Chrysostom is described by Grics- 
bacli as a mixed one; and of P, (J. and T he says that 
they accord sometimes with the Alexandrian, sometimes 
with the Western. The Alexandrian recension sought 
to avoid and change whatever might be offensive to • 
Greek ears; but the Western preserved the harsher gen- 
uine readings when opposed to the genius of the Greek 
language; Hebraizing ones; readings involving solc- 
j cism or unpleasant to the ear. The Alexandrian sought 
to illustrate words and phrases rather than the sense; 
the Western endeavored to render the sense clearer and 
less involved by means of explanations, circumlocutions, 
additions gathered from every side, as well as by trans- 
positions of words aiul sentences. It also preferred the 
readings which are more full and verbose, as well as 
supplements taken from parallel passages, sometimes 
omitting what might render the sense obscure or seem 
repugnant to the context or parallel passages, in all 
which respects the Alexandrian is purer. The Alexan- 
drian critic acted the part of a grammarian, the West- 
ern that of an interpreter. In all these points Gries- 
bach asserts that the Constantinopolitan commonly 
agrees with the Alexandrian; hut with this difference, 
that it is still more studious of Greek propriety, admits 
more glosses into the text, and intermingles either 
Western readings, which differ from the Alexandrian, 
or else readings compounded of Alexandrian and West- 
ern. No recension is exhibited by any codex in its 
original purity ( Prolegomena in Novum Testamentum 
[3d ed. by Schulz], vol. i, p. Lxx sq.). 

Miehaelis thinks that there have existed four princi- 
pal editions: I. The Western, used in countries where 
the Latin language was spoken. 2. The Alexandrian or 
Egyptian, with which the quotations of Origen coin- 
cide and the Coptic version. 3. The Edessene edition, 
embracing the MSS. from which the old Syriac was 
made. 4. The Byzantine, in general use at Constanti- 
nople after that city became the capital of the Eastern 
empire. This last is subdivided into the ancient and 
the modern ( Introduction to the New Test., translated 
by Marsh, ii, 175 sq., 2d cd.). 

Assuredly this classification is no improvement upon 
Griosbach’s. 

Somewhat different from Griesbach’s system is that 
of Hug, which was first proposed in his Kiuleitung in 
das neue Testament (1303). 1. The no no) mWic, i. e. 

the most ancient text, unrevised, which came into ex- 
istence in the 2d century, found in 1), 1, 13, G9. 124, of 
the gospels; in I), E, F, G,of Paul’s epistles; in I>, E, of 
the Acts; and in the old Latin and Thebaic versions. 
The Pesliito also belongs to this class of text, though 
it differs in some respects from I). 2. About the mid- 
dle of the 3d century, llesycbius, an Egyptian bishop, 
made a recension of the koivi) !k$ooi c. To this belong 
B, C. L, of the gospels; A, B, C, 40, 30, 3G7, m the Acts; 

A, B. C, 40, 3G7, in the Catholic epistles; A. B, C, 4G, 
3G7, 17, of the Pauline epistles; and A. C, of the Apoca- 
lypse. It appears in the citations of Athanasius, Mar- 
cus and Macarius the monks, Cyril of Alexandria, and 
Cosmas Indicoplenstcs. This recension had ecclesias- 
tical authority in Egypt and Alexandria. 3. About the 
same time, Lucian, a presbyter of Antioch, in Syria, re- 
vised the nonn) tuSoatg as it then existed m the Peshi- 
to, comparing different MSS. current in Syria. In this 
way he produced a text which did not wholly harmo- 
nize with the llesychiau because lie was less studious 
of elegant Latinity. It appears in E. F, G. II, S, V, of 
the gospels, and b, h,of the Moscow Fraugelistaria col- 
lated by Mattbiii. with most of the cursive MSS.; in f, 
a,, b. d. c, in, k (Mattbiii), of the Acts; in g (Mattbiii), 
f, k, 1, m, c, d, of the Pauline and Catholic epistles ; in r, 
k, p, 1, o, Moscow MSS., of the Apocalypse; in the Goth- 


RECENSIONS 


951 


RECENSIONS 


ic and Slavonic versions, and the quotations of Theo- 
phylact, though his text is no longer pure. 4. A fourth 
recension Hug attributes to Origen during his residence 
at Tyre. To it belong A, K, M, 42, 106, 114, 116, and 
10 of Mattluii in the gospels, the Philoxenian Syriac, 
the quotations of Theodoret and Chrysostom. From 
this summary it appears that Hug’s koivi) ticdooig 
agrees substantially with the Western recension of 
Griesbach. It is more comprehensive, as including the 
Peshito, with the quotations of Clement and Origen. 
The Flesycliian recension of Hug coincides with the 
Alexandrian of Griesbach. 

Eichliorn’s system is substantially that of Hug, with 
one important exception. lie assumed an tinrevised 
form of the text in Asia, and, with some differences, in 
Africa also. This unrevised text may be traced in its 
two forms as early as the 2d century. Lucian revised 
the first, Hesychius the second. Hence, from the close 
of the third century, there was a threefold phase of the 
text — the African or Alexandrian, the Asiatic or Con- 
stantinopolitan, and a mixture of both. Eichhorn de- 
nied that Origen made a new recension ( Einleitung in 
das nene Testament , vol. iv, § 35 sq.). 

In 1815 Nolan published an Inquiry into the Integrity 
of the Greek Vulgate, in which he propounded a pecul- 
iar theory of recensions. 11c divided all the documents 
into three classes — the Palestinian, equivalent to Gries- 
bach’s Alexandrian ; the Egyptian, identical with Gries- 
bach’s Western ; and the Byzantine. The three forms 
of the text are represented, as he assumed, by the Co- 
dex Vaticanus and Jerome’s Vulgate, with the Codices 
Vercellensis and Brixianus of the Latin version. The 
last two contained a more ancient text than that rep- 
resented by the version of Jerome. The Palestinian 
recension, which he attributes to Eusebius of Cmsarea, 
is greatly censured as having been executed by this 
father with arbitrariness and dishonest}', since he tam- 
pered with passages because of their opposition to his 
Arian opinions. At the end of the 5th century this 
recension was introduced into Alexandria by Euthalius, 
and was circulated there. 

Sclmlz made two classes or families— the Alexan- 
drian or Occidental, and Constantinopolitan or Oriental. 
Griesbach’s Western class is contained in the former. 
He referred to the Alexandrian several of the ancient 
MSS., and a few later ones — the Mcmpliitic, Thebaic, 
Ethiopic, and Latin versions, and the ecclesiastical writ- 
ers belonging to Western Europe, with those of Africa. 
To the Constantinopolitan he referred the MSS. belong- 
ing to Asia Minor, Palestine, Syria, Eastern Europe, es- 
pecially Constantinople, with the Philoxenian, Syriac, 
Gothic, Georgian, and Slavonic versions, besides the fa- 
thers of these regions. To the latter he gave a decided 
preference, because of their alleged mutual agreement, 
and also because they were supposed to be written with 
great care after the most ancient exemplars; whereas 
the Alexandrian documents were arbitrarily altered by 
officious grammarians. Indeed, he traces the Constan- 
tinopolitan to the autography of the original writers. 

Iiinek agrees with Scholz in classifying all docu- 
ments under two heads — the Occidental and the Ori- 
ental; the former exhibited in A, B, C, I>, IC, F, G, in 
the epistles, the latter containing the cursive MSS. 
The former he subdivides into two families — the Afri- 
can (A, B, C) and the Latin codices (D, E, F, G). He 
finds in it the result of arbitrary correction, ignorance, 
and carelessness. 

Tischendorfs view, given in the prolegomena to the 
seventh edition of his Greek Testament, is that there 
are two pairs of classes— the Alexandrian and Latin, 
the Asiatic and Byzantine. The oldest form of the 
text, and that which most bears an Alexandrian com- 
plexion, is presented in A, B, C, I), 1, L, P, Q. T, X, Z, 
A, perhaps also R, in the gospels. A later form, bear- 
ing more of an Asiatic complexion, is in E, F, G, H, K, 
M, O, S, U, V, T, A. For the Acts and Catholic epistles 
the oldest text is given in A, B,C; for Acts probably 


D and I also. For the Pauline epistles the oldest text 
is represented by A, B, C, II, 1, 1>, F, G, the first five be- 
ing Alexandrian, the last two Latin; D standing be- 
tween the two classes. A and C in the Apocalypse 
have a more ancient text than B. 

Lachmann disregarded all systems of recensions, and 
proceeded to give a text from ancient documents of a 
certain definite time — the text which commonly pre- 
vailed in the 3d and 4th centuries, drawn from Orient- 
al MSS. — with the aid of Occidental ones in cases where 
the former disagree among themselves. In his large 
edition he follows the united evidence of Eastern and 
Western MSS. His merits are very great in the de- 
partment of New-Test, criticism; but this is not the 
place to show them. He does not, however, profess to 
give a text as near as possible to that which he judges 
to proceed from the sacred writers themselves, as Gries- 
bach and Tischendorf have done. On the contrary, he 
has simply undertaken to present that form of the text 
which is found in documents belonging to a certain 
period as a basis contributing to the discovery of the 
authentic text itself. His text is an important aid to 
the work of finding out the original words; not the 
original itself, as he would have given it. For this 
reason his edition contains readings which, in his own 
opinion, could not have been original. His object was 
therefore somewhat different from that of most editors. 
But he set an example of rigid adherence to the task 
proposed, and of critical sagacity in eliminating the 
true text from ancient documents of the time, evincing 
the talents and skill of a master. Since his time it has 
been the fashion among inferior critics and imitators to 
attach undue weight to antiquity. Uncial MSS. and 
their readings have been too implicitly followed by 
some. 

Tischendorf more recently adopted the same views 
as those of Lachmann, holding that the most ancient 
text alone should be edited, though it may not always 
be what the sacred authors wrote. This principle be- 
ing laid at the basis of his eighth edition, lately com- 
pleted, made a considerable difference between it and 
the seventh. The internal goodness of readings, the 
context, and sound judgment are thus excluded, and 
this at the expense of something more valuable; for 
mere outward and ancient testimony can never elicit 
what ought to be an editor’s chief object — the presenta- 
tion of a text as near the original one as can be pro- 
cured. The oldest text of the best MSS. and versions 
is valuable only so far as it assists in attaining that 
object. It is owing to the undue elevation of antiquity 
that such a reading as o yovoytinjg Otdg in John i, 18 
has been given in the text of a recent edition. The 
same excessive veneration for antiquity has led to the 
separation of o ykyovtv from ohSs si- (John i, 3) in mod- 
ern times. Lachmann is exceeded by smaller followers, 
not in his own exact line. 

To Griesbach all must allow distinguished merit, 
lie was a consummate critic, ingenious, acute, candid, 
tolerant, and learned. 11 is system was elaborated with 
great ability. It exhibits the marks of a sagacious 
mind. But it was assailed by many writers, whose 
combined attacks weakened its basis. In Germany, 
Eichhorn, Bertholdt, Hug, Schulz, Gabler, and Schott 
made various objections to it. In consequence of Hug’s 
acute remarks, the venerable scholar himself modified 
his views, lie did not, however, give up the three re- 
censions, but still maintained that the Alexandrian and 
Western were distinct. He admitted that the Syriac, 
which Ilug had put with the cotr/j, was nearer to that 
than to the Alexandrian class; but he hesitated to put 
it with the Western because it differed so much. He 
denied that Origen useif the jeotnij, maintaining that 
the Alexandrian, which existed before his time, was 
that which he employed. Fie conceded, however, that 
Origen had a Western copy of Mark besides an Alex- 
andrian one; that in his commentary on Matthew, 
though the readings are chiefly Alexandrian, there is 


RECENSIONS 


952 


RECENSIONS 


a great number of such as are Western, and which 
therefore appear in I),. 13, 2*. <>!), 124, 131, 157, the old 
Italic, Vulgate, and Syriac. Thus Origen had various 
copies at hand, as he himself repeatedly asserts. Gries- 
bacli also conceded that Clemens Alexandrians had va- 
rious copies, differing in the forms of their texts, lienee 
his citations often agree with the not ta) income ; and I). 
Thus Origen ami Clement cease, in some measure, to be 
standard representatives of the Alexandrian recension. 
The concessions of Griesbach, resultingfrom many acute 
observations made by Hug and others, amounted to 
this, that the nearness of MSS. and recensions to one 
another was greater than he had before assumed; that 
his two ancient recensions had more points of contact 
with one another in existing documents than he had 
clearly perceived. The line between his Alexandrian 
and Western classes became less perceptible. This, in- 
deed, was the weak point of the system, as no proper 
division can be drawn between the two. In the appli- 
cation of his system he professed to follow the consent 
of the Alexandrian and Western recensions, unless the 
internal marks of truth in a reading were so strong as 
to outweigh this argument. But he departed from his 
principle in several instances, as in 1 Cor. iii, 4 ; Gal. iv, 
14: l’hil.iii.3; 1 Thess. ii, 7 ; IIeb.iv,2. 

In tiie year 1*14 Dr. Laurence published objections 
to Griesbach’s system, many of which are unfounded. 
Some of his observations are pertinent and fair; more 
arc irrelevant. He does not show much appreciation 
of the comparative value of MSS. and texts, and reasons 
in a sort of mechanical method against Griesbach. It 
is evident that he was somewhat prejudiced against the 
Alexandrian recension. ( Jbscrvatious like the following 
show an animus against the German critic: “ Too much 
dazzled, perhaps, by the splendor of intricate anil per- ( 
plexing research, he overlooked what lay immediately 
before him. When he threw his critical bowl among 
the established theories of his predecessors, he too hastily 
attempted to set up his own without having first totally 
demolished theirs, forgetting that the very nerve of his 
criticism was a principle of hostility to every standard 
text” (Remarks upon the Systematic Classification of 
MSS. adopted by Griesbach, p. 57). The pamphlet of 
the Oxford scholar is now almost forgotten, yet it pro- 
duced considerable effect at the time of its appearance, 
when the reprinting of Griesbach’s Greek Testament in 
England was associated with the active dissemination 
of Cnitarian tenets, and the accomplished German him- 
self was unjustly charged with leaning to similar views. 

In America, Mr. Norton subsequently animadverted 
upon tbe same system with considerable acuteness and 
plausibility. It is evident, however, that he did not 
fully understand all Griesbach’s sentiments; he had not 
studied the peculiar readings of MSS., the quotations 
of the fathers, and the characteristics of ancient ver- 
sions, yet he has urged some objections forcibly and 
conclusively against the adoption of the system. 

Hug’s theory of recensions, so far as it differs from 
Griesbach’s, is without foundation. It makes Origen 
use the tcona) income, whereas his usual text agrees 
with the Alexandrian. The llesychian recension was 
employed at least a hundred years previously by t ’leni- 
ent of Alexandria, and that 1 lesvehius was really the 
author of a recension is historically baseless; lie may 
have corrected, in some places, a few copies which he 
used. The recension attributed to Lucian is also desti- 
tute of historical proof. The basis of this is supposed 
to have been the nona) income as it existed in Syria. 
Again, it is very improbable that Origen undertook to 
revise the nona) income. It is true that Jerome ap- 
peals to the exemplars of Origen, but this does not im- 
ply that the latter made a revision of existing copies. 
The Alexandrian father used copies of the New Test, i 
selected with care, ami probably corrected them in va- i 
rious places, but lie did not undertake in his old age the 1 
laborious task of making a peculiar revision. The si- 
lence of ancient writers, especially of Eusebius, who is 


I most copious in his praises of Origen, speaks strongly 
against the critical studies of the Alexandrian father in 
tiie New-Test. text. We believe, therefore, that the re- 
cension system of Hug is unsustaiiied by historical data. 
Succeeding critics have refused to adopt it. Griesbach 
himself made several pertinent objections to it. It was 
also assailed by Schott, Bilick, Gabler, and others. Mr. 
Norton, too, opposed it. 

Nolan’s system is fundamentally wrong. There is no 
evidence that tbe Codex Brixianns contains the Latin 
version in its oldest form, and therefore the assumed 
connection of it with tbe Byzantine text fails to show 
that tbe latter is the most ancient anil best representa- 
tive of tbe original Greek. The Codex Brixianns, on 
tbe contrary, is itself a revision of tbe old Latin text. 
Nolan thinks t hat tbe Codex Vercellensis has a text 
corrected by Eusebius of Vercelli after that which he 
brought from Egypt on his return from exile. But this 
form of the text circulated in the West before Eusebius, 
and the Palestinian recension, which be supposes to have 
been introduced into Alexandria by Euthallus. was there 
before; thus the system so ingeniously elaborated by 
the critic is historically erroneous. It introduces arbi- 
trary and baseless conjectures into the department of 
criticism, ignores facts, and deals in unjust accusations 
against ancient writers, such as Eusebius of Caesarea, 
who were as honest as the zealous upholder himself of 
the Byzantine text. All attempts to maintain the most 
recent in opposition to the most ancient text must nec- 
essarily fail. Thoroughly erroneous as Nolan’s theory 
is, it was eagerly welcomed by some advocates of the 
received text in England. Mr. llorne could say of it, 
even in the ninth edition of bis Introduction to the Crit- 
ical Study and Knowledge of the Scriptures, “The integ- 
rity of the Greek Vulgate lie has confessedly established 
by a series of proofs anil connected arguments the most 
decisive that can be reasonably desired or expected.” 

With regard to Scholz’s system, which is identical 
with Bengel’s, it may be preferable to Griesbach’s so far 
as it allows but two classes of documents; it is certainly 
simpler. Ilis estimate, however, of the value of families 
is erroneous. He failed to prove that tbe particular 
form of tbe text current in Asia Minor and Greece dur- 
ing tbe first three centuries was the same as that pre- 
sented by tbe Constnutinopolitan MSS. of a much later 
date. He did not show that the Byzantine family was 
derived from the autographs of the original writers in a 
very pure state; and he was obliged to admit that the 
text which obtained at Constantinople in tbe reigns of 
j Constantine and Constance was collated with the Alex- 
andrian, a circumstance which would naturally give rise 
to a mingling of readings belonging to both. Eusebius 
states that be made out fifty copies of the New Test, for 
tbe use of the churches at Constantinople at the request 
of Constantine; and as we know that he gave a decided 
preference to Alexandrian copies, it cannot be doubted 
that he followed those sanctioned by < Jrigou’s authority. 
Coustantinopolitan codices differ in their characteristic 
readings from tbe Alexandrian, but the preference be- 
longs to the latter, not to the former. Why should jun- 
ior be placed above older documents? Antiquity may 
be overbalanced bv other considerations, and certainly 
the Alexandrian MSS. are neither faultless nor pure. 
But the -Byzantine anil later MSS. are more corrupt. 
X umbers must not be considered decisive of right read- 
ings in opposition to antiquity, yet numbers bad an un- 
due influence on Scholz’s mind. Biuck has refuted his 
supposed proofs of the superiority of Coustantinopolitan 
MSS., and Tischemlorf lias more elaborately done the 
same in t lie preface to his tirst edition of the Greek 
Testament (1N41). In fact, Scholz’s historical proofs are 
no better than fictions which true history rejects. 

No definite system of recensions such as those of 
Griesbach, Hug, and Schulz can be made out. because 
lines of division cannot lie drawn with accuracy. Our 
knowledge of the ways in which the early text was de- 
teriorated — of the influences to which it was exposed, the 


RECENSIONS 


953 


RECEPTION 


corrections it underwent in different places at different 
times, the methods in which it was copied, the princi- 
ples, if such there were, on which transcribers proceed- 
ed — is too meagre to build up a secure structure. The 
subject must therefore remain in obscurity. Its nature 
is such as to give rise to endless speculation without 
affording much real knowledge; it is vague, indefinite, 
shadowy, awakening curiosity without satisfying it. 
Yet we are not disposed to reject the entire system of 
classification as visionary. It is highly useful to arrange 
the materials. The existence of certain characteristic 
readings may be clearly traced in various monuments 
of the text, however much we may speculate on their 
causes. It is true that in several cases it is very diffi- 
cult to distinguish the family to which a particular 
reading belongs, because its characteristics may be di- 
vided between two classes, or they may be so mixed 
that it is almost impossible to detect the family with 
which it should be united; the evidences of its rela- 
tionship may be so obscure as to render the determina- 
tion of its appropriate recension a subtle problem. It is 
also unquestionable that no one MS. version or father 
exhibits a recension in a pure state, but that each form 
of the text appears more or less corrupted. The specu- 
lations of the critics to which we have referred have 
had one advantage, viz. that they have made the char- 
acteristic readings of MSS. better understood, and ena- 
bled us to group together certain documents presenting 
the same form of text. Thus in the gospels, X, A, B, 
C, D, I, L, P. Q, T, X, Z present an older form of the 
text than E, F, G, II, K, M, S, U, V, T. Among the 
former, X, B, Z have a text more ancient and correct 
than that of the others. 

Matthiii repudiated the whole system of recensions 
as useless and absurd. We question whether he was 
warranted by learning, penetration, or judgment to use 
the contemptuous language which he applied. His in- 
dustry in collating MSS. and editing their text was 
praiseworthy, but he had not the genius to construct a 
good text out of the materials within his reach. lie 
overestimated his Moscow codices, and looked on Gries- 
bach’s merits with envious eye; hence his diatribe 
on recensions shows more ardent zeal than discretion. 
What sentence can show the spirit of the man better 
than this? — “Griesbach has been hammering, filing, and 
polishing for thirty years at this masterpiece of uncriti- 
cism, unbelief, and irreligiousness in Sender's recension- 
manufactory” ( Ueber die sogenannten Recensionen, welelie 
der Herr Abt Bengel , der Herr Doctor Semler, nnd der 
IJerr Geheim-Kirchenrath Griesbach, in dem yriechischen 
Texte des X. T. wollen entdeckt haben, p. 28). Prof. Lee 
employed language equally strong with Matthai’s, but 
not so scurrilous, though of the same tendency: “Inge- 
niosa: ilke familiarum fabrica?, tit mihi videtur, in unum 
tantummodo finem feliciter exstructse sunt; ut rem in 
seipsa baud valde obscuram, tenebris HSgyptiacis obscu- 
riorem reddant; Editoresque eos qui se omnia rem acu 
tetigisse putent, supra mortalium labondi statum, neseio 
quantum, eveliere” ( Prolegomena in Biblia Polyglotta 
Londinensia Minora, p. G9). Neither is sufficiently em- 
inent to be justified in the employment of phraseology 
from which masters in criticism like Griesbach would 
refrain. Hear the veteran scholar, in his last publica- 
tion, speaking of Hug : T ‘ Dubitationis igitur causas cx- 
ponere mihi liceat, sed paucis et modeste, nec eo animo, 
ut cum viro doctissimo quern permagni me facere inge- 
nue profiteor, decertem, sed ut turn alios viros harum re- 
rum peritos, turn in primis ipsnm excitem et luimanissi- 
me invitem ad novum instituenduin causa?, qua? in uni- 
versa re critica Novi Testarneuti maximi momenti est, 
examen, quo ea, si ullo modo fieri id possit, ad liquidum 
tandem perducatur” (Meletemata de Vetnstis Text us Xovi 
Testamenti Recensionibns, particula ii, p. 42). The pre- 
ceding observations will help to account for the varying 
schemes of different critics. Some may look for greater 
exactness aud nicety than others, hence they will make 


more families of documents; others, with less acuteness 
or ingenuity, will rest satisfied with classes more strong- 
ly marked by the number of materials they embrace or 
the breadth of territory over which they were supposed 
to circulate. There is no possibility of arriving at pre- 
cision. The commingling of readings has obliterated 
many peculiarities in the progress of time, though 
enough has been left to form the basis of a rough classi- 
fication. 

It is more difficult to classify the ancient versions,, 
such as the Peshito- Syriac, because their texts have 
suffered frequent interpolations and changes. In the 
quotations of the fathers we must make allowance for 
memoriter citation, without expecting great care or at- 
tachment to the letter. Griesbach, however, denies that 
Origen quoted from memory — and none has investigat- 
ed the citations of the Alexandrian father with equal 
labor — but the state of his commentaries is far from 
being what we could wish, and the original is often lost 
or corrupted. 

The term recension is sometimes applied to the Old 
Test, as well as the New Test. There the materials 
hitherto collated all belong to one recension, viz. the 
Masoretic. home, indeed, have divided them into Ma- 
soretic and Ante-Masoretic, but the latter cannot be 
traced. At present we are acquainted with only one 
great family, though it is probable that particular re- 
visions of parts of the Old Test, preceded the labors of 
the Masoretes. Whether the Karaite Hebrew MSS. — 
of which many have been recently brought to St. Peters- 
burg — present a different form of the text from the Ma- 
soretic will be seen after they have been collated; it is 
certain that their vowel-system is different from the 
present one. We expect, therefore, that important read- 
ings may be furnished by these very ancient codices. 

See Bengel, Introductio in Crisin X. T., prefixed to 
his edition of the Greek Testament (Tubingen, 1734, 
4to); Sentler, Vorbere it ungen zur Hermeneutik (Halle, 
1760-69, 8vo j ; Michaelis, Introduction to the X. T., by 
Marsh, ii, 173 sq.; Griesbach, Opuscida (edited by Gab- 
ler, with the Preface of the latter [den a, 1824-25, 2 vols. 
8vo]); id. Commentarius Criticus in Textum Gr tecum, 
particula? i and ii (ibid. 1798, 1811, 8vo) ; id. Prole- 
gomena to the second edition of his Greek Testament 
(1796, 8vo) ; Eichhorn, Einlcitung (Gott. 1827, 8vo), vol. 
iv; Bertholdt, Einleitung (Erlangen, 1812, 8vo), vol. i; 
Schulz, Prolegomena to the third edition of Griesbach 
(Berl. 1827, 8vo) ; Ilug, Einleit. (4th ed. Stuttgart, 1847, 
8vo), vol. i; De Wette, Einleit. in das neue Testament 
(6th ed. Berl. 1860, 8vo); Schott, Isagoge IJistorico- 
critica (Jena, 1830, 8vo); Matthiii, Ueber die sogenann- 
ten Recensionen, etc. (Leips. 1804, 8vo) ; Seholz, Biblisch- 
kritische Reise, etc. (ibid. 1823, 8vo); id. Prolegomena 
to the X. T. (1830), vol. i ; Laurence, remarks on Gries- 
bach’s Systematic Classification of MSS. (Oxford, 1814, 
8vo): Kinck, Lucubratio Critica in Acta A post., Epp. 
Cathol. et Paulin, etc. (Basil. 1830, 8vo) ; Tischendorf, 
Prolegomena to his edition of the Greek Testament 
(Leips. 1841, 8vo), with the Prolegomena to his seventh 
edition (ibid. 1859), and his article Bibeltext in Herzog’s 
Encyklopadie ; Iieuss, Die Geschichte der heiligtn Schrif- 
ten neuen Testaments (4th ed. Brunswick, 1864); Nor- 
ton, Genuineness of the Gospels (Boston, 1837, 8vo), vol. 
i ; Davidson, Treatise on Biblical Criticism (Edinburgh, 
1852), vol. ii. — Kitto. See Criticism; Manuscripts; 
Various Headings. 

Reception of the Holy Ghost. In the act 

of conferring the orders of the ministry simple, or of its 
higher functions, such as the eldership or bishopric, the 
solemn words are used, “Receive the Ilolv Ghost.” 
Having been originally used by Jesus when he com- 
missioned his apostles, the expression has been retained 
by the Church as the most proper and authoritative 
form in which the powers of the Christian priesthood 
can be conveyed. “ That the Church is vindicated,” 
says Stoughton, “in employing them at the consecra- 
tion of bishops is manifest from the fact that the min- 


RECEPTION 


054 


IIECHABITE 


isterial powers of office are identically the same with 
those held by the apostles, and if given at all must pro- 
ceed from the same source — i.e. the Iloly Ghost.” In 
the ordination of priests the same principle will apply. 
“Those under t lie designation of presbyters or elders 
also received their authority from this divine source, 
notwithstanding that there might be one or more inter- 
mediate links in the chain of transmission.” “Take 
heed,” said Paul to the elders of Ephesus, "unto your- 
selves and to all the Hock over the which the Holy 
Ghost hath made you overseers.” If, therefore, it be 
granted that the bishop has the power of ordaining, it 
follows that he stands as an agent between the heavenly 
source of authority and the candidate to whom that 
authority is to be given, and is qualified to pronounce, 
“Receive the Holy Ghost for the office anil work of a 
priest [or bishop] in the Church of God,” etc. 

We have quoted Stoughton because he fully exhibits 
the High-Church notion of ordination (q. v.), hut we do 
not wish to be understood as its endorsers. Even the 
Low-Church clergy of the Anglican communion and the 
Protestant Episcopal Church refuse to give it approval. 
See Episcopacy. In the Methodist Episcopal Church 
bishops are not regarded as the successors of the apos- 
tles, and the apostolical succession of its ministry is not 
maintained. See art. Episcopacy, § iv. The form of 
ordination is very like in the different churches, and its 
variability of opinion depends upon the interpretation 
of the language employed. 

RECEPTION, Religious, of monks, nuns, and other 
religious persons, is the ceremonial whereby they are 
admitted to the probationary state called the novitiate 
(q. v.). Before the ceremony of reception a short pre- 
paratory stage must bo passed through by the candidate 
(called at this stage a “postulant”), the duration of 
which usually ranges from two to six months. The 
ceremony of the reception, called also “ clothing,” is per- 
formed by a bishop, or u priest delegated by a bishop, and 
consists in blessing the religions dress or habit and in- 
vesting the postulant therein with appropriate prayers, 
the hair being at the same time cut off and the secular 
dress laid aside, in token of the renunciation of the world 
and its pomps and pleasures. The reception, however, is 
understood to be only a provisional step, and the novice 
remains free to return to secular life at auv time during 
the novitiate. — Chambers's Fneyclop. s. v 

Receptorium was the name of an ecclesiastical 
outer building, a kind of speaking-room, a parlor con- 
tiguous to the ancient churches; it is sometimes called 
salutatorium (q. v.). Mention of it occurs in Sidonius 
Apollinaris (1. v, cpist. 17), Sulpitius Severus (Dial, ii, 
1), the first Council of Macon (can. ii), Theodoretns, 
and many other authors. Theodoretus relates that 
Theodosius, when he came to request absolution from 
St. Ambrose, found the saint sitting in salntatoria. 
Scaliger is wrong in supposing this to be a room in 
the bishop’s mansion, it adjoined the church, and was 
a part of the church building. In r lie receptorium 
the sacred utensils, the ornaments, and robes of the 
(mediiuval) clergy were deposited for sale -keeping, 
llcrc the clergy were accustomed to retire for private 
devotions, preparatory to their engaging in public ex- 
ercises. It was also a general audience-room, where 
friends and acquaintances met to exchange their affec- 
tionate salutations and inquiries, and where the bishop 
or the priests received the people who came to ask their 
blessing or recommend themselves to their prayers, or 
to take their advice in matters of importance. Sulpitius 
Severus (Dial, ii, 1) shows us St. Martin sitting in a 
kind of sacristy, and bis priests in another, receiving 
visitors and transacting business. 

Receveur, Francois Joseph Xavier, a French 
priest and historian, was born at Longcville (Doubs) 
April 30, 1 MOO. Hardly bad be received bis orders when 
he was called to Paris (Oct., 1821) to till a subordinate 
position in the cabinet of the minister of ecclesiastical 


affairs and of public instruction. From June, 1828, to 
June, 18*29, he was head of the bureau of secretaryship 
to the same minister. Afterwards appointed a teach- 
er in the theological faculty of Paris (May 1, 1831), 
he became titular professor of moral philosophy March 
1, 1841, and dean of the faculty Dec. G, 1850. He had 
not long been relieved from these last duties when he 
died in his native country, May 7. 1854. The various 
positions which he filled permitted him to devote his 
labors to several important works. We have : Fe- 
cherches Philosophiques sur le Fondement de la Certi- 
tude (Paris, 1821, 12mo): — .1 ccordde la Foi arec la Fai- 
son, ou Exposition ties Principes sur lesqnels repose la Foi 
Catholique (ibid. 1830 1 -33, 12mo): — Fssai sur la Xuture 
de VA me, sur I'Origine des hlees et le Fondement de la 
Certitude (ibid. 1834, 8vo) : — Trartatus Theologicus de 
Justitia et Contractibns (ibid. 1835, 12mo): — Introduc- 
tion a la Theologie (Resaneon, 1839, 8vo): — IJistoire de 
F Erjlise tlepuis son Ktablissement jusqn'au Fontijicut de 
Gregoire XVI (Paris, 1840-47, 8 vols. 8vo). As an 
editor, abbe Receveur has given a new edition of the 
Theologie Dogmatique et Morale of Bailly (1830), and 
another of the Theologie Morale of Liguori, to which 
I he has added some notes (1833). Collector lor the 
Xourelle Biographic Generate, he died a short time after 
having contributed the articles Saint-Cyprien and Baint- 
Cyrille. — lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Re'cliab (lleb. Fechab’, -I", a rider; Sept. 'P>j- 
\d(i), the name of three men. 

1. The first named of the two “sons of Rimmon the 
Beerothite,” “captains of hands,” who murdered Ish- 
bosheth in his bed in ordi r to gain favor with David, 
but were put to death by him, with expressions of ab- 
horrence for their crime (2 Sam. iv, 5-12). B.C. 104G. 
Josephus calls him T!tannus (Daui'oC; e\nt. vii, 2, 1). 
The other’s name was Baanah (q. v.). 

2. The “ father” of Jehonadah (or Jonadab, Jer. xxxv, 
G), who was Jehu’s companion in destroying the wor- 
shippers of Baal (2 Kings x, 15,23). Sec Jehonadah. 
B.C. ante 882. He was the ancestor of the Rechabites 
(q. v.). 

3. The father of Malchiah, which latter was ruler of 
part of Bcth-haccerem, and is named as repairing the 
dung-gate in the fortifications of Jerusalem under Nehe- 
rniah (Nth. iii, 14). B.C. ante 44G. 

Rech'abite [properly Fe’chabite'] (Ilcb. always in 
the plnr. and with the art., ha-Fekabim' , a 

patrial from Fechab; Sept. 'Apxafieiv. 'Vaxafitiv, etc.), 
a tribe who appear only in one memorable scene of 
Scripture (Jer. xxxv, 2-18). Their history before and 
after it lies in some obscurity. We are left to search 
out and combine some scattered notices, and to get from 
them what light we can. 

1. In 1 Chron. ii, 55 the house of Rechab is identi- 
fied with a section of the Kenites who came into Canaan 
with the Israelites and retained their nomadic habits, 
and the name of llemath is mentioned as the patri- 
arch of the whole tribe. See IIematii; Kenite. It 
has been inferred from this passage that the descendants 
of Rechab belonged to a branch of the Kenites settled 
from the first at Jabcz, in Judah. See Jehonahar. The 
fact, however, that Jehonadah took an active part in the 
revolution which placed Jehu on the throne scorns to 
indicate that lie and his tribe belonged to Israel rather 
than to Judah, and the late date of 1 Chron., taken to- 
gether with other facts (infra), makes it more probable 
that this passage refers to the locality occupied by the 
Rechabites after their return from the captivity. In 
confirmation of this view, it. may he noticed that the 
“shearing-house” of 2 Kings x, 14 was probably the 
known rendezvous of the nomad tribe of the Kenites 
with their flocks of sheep. See Shearing-house. 

Of Rechab himself nothing is known, lie may have 
been the father, he may have been the remote ancestor, 
of Jehonadah. The meaning of the word makes it prob- 
able enough that it was an epithet passing into a proper 


RECIIABITE 


955 


RECIIxVBITE 


name. It may have pointed, as in the robber-chief of 
2 Sam. iv, 2, to a conspicuous form of the wild Bedouin 
life; and Jehonadab, the son of the Rider, may have 
been, in part at least, for that reason, the companion 
and friend of the fierce captain of Israel who drives as 
with the fury of madness (2 Kings ix, 20). Another 
conjecture as to the meaning of the name is ingenious 
enough to merit a disinterment from the forgotten learn- 
ing of the 16th century. Boulduc ( De Eccles. ante Leg. 
iii, 10) infers from 2 Kings ii, 12 ; xiii, 14, that the two 
great prophets Elijah and Elisha were known, each of 
them in his time, as the chariot (' 22 "), Re'keb) of Israel, 
i. e. its strength and protection. He infers from this 
that the special disciples of the prophets, who followed 
them in all their austerity, were known as the “sons of 
the chariot,” Bene-Rekeb ; and that afterwards, when the 
original meaning had been lost sight of, this was taken 
as a patronymic, and referred to an unknown Rcchab. 
At present, of course, the different vowel-points of the 
two words are sufficiently distinctive; but the strange 
reading of the Sept, in Judg. i, 19 (bn 'lhjya/3 &«xrri- 
Xaro avraic, where the A. V. has “hecause they had 
chariots of iron”) shows that one word might easily 
enough be taken for the other. Apart from the evi- 
dence of the name and the obvious probability of the 
fact, we have the statement ( quantum valeat) of John 
of Jerusalem that Jehonadab was a disciple of Elisha 
(Re Instit. Monach. c. 25). 

II. The personal history of Jehonadab has been dealt 
with under that name. Here we have to notice the 
new character which he impressed on the tribe of 
which he was the head. As his name, his descent, and 
the part which he played indicate, he and his people 
had all along been worshippers of Jehovah, circumcised, 
and so within the covenant of Abraham, though not 
reckoned as belonging to Israel, and probably therefore 
not considering themselves bound by the Mosaic law 
and ritual. The worship of Baal introduced by Jezebel 
and Ahab was accordingly not less offensive to them 
than to the Israelites. The luxury and license of 
Phoenician cities threatened the destruction of the sim- 
plicity of their nomadic life (Amos ii, 7, 8; vi, 3-6). A 
protest was needed against both evils, and, as in the case 
of Elijah, and of the Nazarites of Amos ii, 11, it took the 
form of asceticism. There was to be a more rigid ad- 
herence than ever to the old Arab life. What had been 
a traditional habit was enforced by a solemn command 
from the sheikh and prophet of the tribe, the destroyer 
of idolatry, which no one dared to transgress. They 
were to drink no wine, nor build house, nor sow seed, 
nor plant vineyard, nor have any. All their days they 
were to dwell in tents, as remembering that they were 
strangers in the land (Jer. xxxv, 6, 7). This was to be 
the condition of their retaining a distinct tribal exist- 
ence. For two centuries and a half they adhered faith- 
fully to this rule; but we have no record of any part 
taken by them in the history of the period. We may 
think of them as presenting the same picture which 
other tribes, uniting the nomad life with religious au- 
sterity, have presented in later periods. 

The Nabatliaeans, of whom Diodorus Siculus speaks 
(xix, 94) as neither sowing seed, nor planting fruit-tree, 
nor nsing nor building house, and enforcing these trans- 
mitted customs under pain of death, give us one strik- 
ing instance. The fact that the Nabatha?ans habitually 
drank “wild honey” (fxe\i dypiov) mixed with water 
(Diod. Sic. xix, 94), and that the Bedouin as habitually 
still make locusts an article of food (Burckhardt, Bed- 
ouins, p. 270), shows very strongly that the Baptist’s 
life was fashioned after the Reehabitish as well as the 
Nazaritish type. Another is found in the prohibition 
of wine by Mohammed (Sale, Koran, Prelim. Diss. § 5). 
A yet more interesting parallel is found in the rapid 
growth of the sect of the Wahabis during the last and 
present century. Abd-ul-Wahab, from whom the sect 
takes its name, reproduces the old type of character in 


all its completeness. Anxious to protect his country- 
men from the revolting vices of the Turks, as Jehona- 
dab had been to protect the Kenites from the like vices 
of the Phoenicians, the Bedouin reformer felt the neces- 
sity of returning to the old austerity of Arab life. What 
wine had been to the earlier preacher of righteousness, 
the outward sign and incentive of a fatal corruption, 
opium and tobacco were to the later prophet, and, as 
such, were rigidly proscribed. The rapidity with which 
the Wahabis became a formidable party, the Puritans 
of Islam, presents a striking analogy to the strong po- 
litical inffuence of Jehonadab in 2 Kings x, 15, 23 (comp. 
Burckhardt, Bedouins and Wahabis, p. 283, etc,). 

III. The invasion of Judah by Nebuchadnezzar in 
B.C. 607 drove the Rechabites from their tents. Pos- 
sibly some of the previous periods of danger may have 
led to their settling within the limits of the territory 
of Judah. Some inferences may be safely drawn from 
the facts of Jer. xxxv. The names of the Rechabites 
show that they continued to be worshippers of Jeho- 
vah. They are already known to the prophet. One 
of them (ver. 3) bears the same name. Their rigid 
Nazaritish life gained for them admission into the house 
of the Lord, into one of the chambers assigned to priests 
and Levites, within its precincts. They were received 
by the sons or followers of a “ man of God,” a prophet 
or devotee, of special sanctity (ver. 4). Here they are 
tempted, and are proof against the temptation, and their 
steadfastness is turned into a reproof for the unfaithful- 
ness of Judah and Jerusalem. See Jeremiah. The 
history of this trial ends with a special blessing, the full 
import of which has, for the most part, not been ade- 
quately apprehended: “Jonadab, the son of Rechab, 
shall not want a man to stand before me forever” (ver. 
19). Whether we look on this as the utterance of a 
true prophet, or as a vaticinium ex event u, we should 
hardly expect at this precise point to lose sight alto- 
gether of those of whom it was spoken, even if the 
words pointed only to the perpetuation of the name and 
tribe. They have, however, a higher meaning. The 
words “to stand before me” (^S^ T£2) are essential- 
ly liturgical. The tribe of Levi is chosen to “stand 
before” the Lord (Deut. x, 8 ; xviii, 5, 7). In Gen. xviii, 
22; Judg. xx, 28; Psa. cxxxiv. 1 ; Jer. xv, 19, the litur- 
gical meaning is equally prominent and unmistakable 
(comp. Gesenius, Thesaur. s. v. ; Grotius, ad loc .). The 
fact that this meaning is given (“ministering before 
me”) in the Targum of Jonathan is evidence (1) as to 
the received meaning of the phrase; (2) that this ren- 
dering did not shock the feelings of studious and de- 
vout rabbins in our Lord’s time ; (3) that it was at least 
probable that there existed representatives of the Recha- 
bites connected with the Temple services in the time 
of Jonathan. This, then, may possibly have been the 
extent of the new blessing. The Rechabites were sol- 
emnly adopted into the families of Israel, and were rec- 
ognised as incorporated into the tribe of Levi. Their 
purity, their faithfulness, their consecrated life, gained 
for them, as it gained for other Nazarites, that honor. 
See Priest, Hebrew. In Lam. iv, 7 we may perhaps 
trace a reference to the Rechabites, who had been the 
most conspicuous examples of the Nazaritish life in the 
prophet’s time, and most the object of his admiration. 

It may be worth while to refer to a few authorities 
agreeing in the general interpretation here given, though 
differing as to details. Vatablus (Crit. Sac. ad loc.) men- 
tions a Jewish tradition (R. Judah, as cited by Kimchi ; 
comp. Scaliger, Elench. Trihceres. Serrar. p. 26) that the 
daughters of the Rechabites married Levites, and that 
thus their children came to minister in the Temple. 
Clarius (ibid.) conjectures that the Rechabites them- 
selves were chosen to sit in the great council. Sanctius 
and Calmet suppose them to have ministered in the 
same way as the Nethinim (Calmet, Riss. sur les Re- 
chab. 1726). Serrarius (Trihceres.) identifies them with 
the Essenes; Scaliger (loc. cit.) with the Chasidim, in 


KECIIABITE 


956 


KEGIIAC 


whose name the priests offered special daily sacrifices, 
and who, in this way, were “standing before the Lord” 
continually. 

1 V. J t remai ns for us to see whether there are any traces 
of their after-history in the liiblical or later writers. It 
is believed that there are such traces, and that they con- 
firm the statements made in the previous paragraph. 

1. We have the singular heading of Psa. lxxi in the 
Sept, version (r<p Amui), i nutv Twmcd/3, tcai tmv 7rp<o- 
twv a i’xp aXujTtvSivrojv), which, however, is evidence 
merely of a tradition in the 3d century B.C. indicating 
that the “sons of Jonadab” shared the captivity of Is- 
rael, and took their place among the Levitical psalm- 
ists who gave expression to the sorrows of the people. 
The psalm itself belongs to David’s time. See Psalms. 

2. There is the significant mention of a son of Rechab 
in Nell, iii, 14 as co-operating with the priests, Levites, 
and princes in the restoration of the wall of Jerusalem. 

3. The mention of the house of Rechab in 1 Chron. 
ii, 55, though not without difficulty, points, there can be 
little doubt, to the same conclusion. The Rechabites 
have become scribes (E - '“2 , 'D, sopherim ). They give 
themselves to a calling which, at the time of the return ! 
from Babylon, was chiefly, if not exclusively, in the hands 
of Levites. The other names (Tirathites, Shimeath- 
ites, and Suchathitcs in the A. V.) seem to add nothing 
to our knowledge. The Yulg. rendering, however (evi- 
dence of a traditional Jewish interpretation in the time 
of Jerome), gives a translation based on etymologies, 
more or less accurate, of the proper names, which striking- 
ly confirms the view now taken : “ Cognat ion cs quoque 
.Scribarum habi tantium in Jabes, canentes atque resonan- 
tes, et in tabernaculis commorantcs.” Thus interpreted, 
the passage points to a resumption of the outward form 
of their old life and its union with their new functions. 
The etymologies on which this version rests are, it must 
be confessed, very doubtful. Scaliger ( Blench . Trihcer. 
Serrar. e. 23) rejects them with scorn. Pcllican and 
Calmot, on the other hand, defend the Yulg. rendering, 
and Gill (ad loc.) does not dispute it. Most modern in- 
terpreters follow the A. V. in taking the words as prop- 
er names. It deserves notice also that while in 1 Chron. 
ii, 54, 55 the Rechabites and Nctophathites are men- 
tioned in close connection, the “sons of the singers” in 
Nell, xii, 28 appear as coming in large numbers from 
the villages of the same Nctophathites. The close 
juxtaposition of the Rechabites with the descendants 
of David in 1 Chron. iii, 1 shows also in how honorable 
an esteem they were held at the time when that book 
was compiled. 

4. The account of the martyrdom of James the 
Just given by llegesippus (Euseb. II. E. ii, 23; brings 
the name of the llcehabites once more before us, and 
in a very strange connection. While the scribes and 
Pharisees were stoning him, “one of the priests of the 
sons of Rechab, the son of Bechabitn, who are mentioned 
by Jeremiah the prophet,” cried out, protesting against ' 
the crime. Stanley (Sermons and Assays on the Apos- 
tolic Aye, p. 333), struck with the seeming anomaly of a 
priest, “not only not of Levitical, but not even of Jew- 
ish descent "supposes the name to have been used loose- 
ly as indicating the abstemious life of James and other 
Nazarites, and points to the fact that Epiphanies (/her. 
lxxviii, 14) ascribes to Simeon, the brother of James, 
the words which llegesippus puts into the month of 
the Bechabite, as a proof that it denoted merely the Naz- 
aritish form of life. Calmet (loc.cit.) supposes the man 
to have been one of the llechabite Ncthinim, whom the 
informant of llegesippus took, in his ignorance, for a 
priest. The view which has been here taken presents, 
it is believed, a more satisfactory solution. It. was hard- 
ly possible that a writer like llegesippus, living at a 
time when the details of the Temple services were fresh 
in the memories of men, should have thus spoken of the 
Kcchabim unless there had been a body of men to whom 
the name was commonly applied, lie uses it as a man 


would do to whom it was familiar, without being struck 
by any apparent or real anomaly. The Targum of Jon- 
athan on Jer. xxxv, 19 indicates, as has been noticed, 
the same fact. We may accept llegesippus therefore 
as an additional witness to the existence of the Recha- 
bites as a recognised body up to the destruction of Jeru- 
salem, sharing in the ritual of the Temple, partly de- 
scended from the old “sons of Jonadab,” partly recruited 
by the incorporation into their ranks of men devoting 
themselves, as did James and Simeon, to the same con- 
secrated life. The form of austere holiness presented 
in the life of Jonadab, and the blessing pronounced on 
his descendants, found their highest representatives in 
the two brothers of the Lord. 

5. Some later notices arc not without interest. 
Benjamin of Tudcla, in the 12th century (ed. Asher, 
1840, i, 112-114), mentions that near El Jubar ( = Pum- 
beditha) lie found Jews who were named Rechabitcs. 
They tilled the ground, kept flocks and herds, abstained 
from wine and flesh, and gave tithes to teachers who 
devoted themselves to studying the law and weeping 
for Jerusalem. They were 100,000 in number, and were 
governed by a prince, Salomon han-Nasi, who traced 
his genealogy up to the house of David, and ruled over 
the city of Thcma and Telmas. A later traveller, Dr. 
Wolff, gives a yet stranger and more detailed report. 
The Jews of Jerusalem and Yemen told him that he 
would find the Rechabites of Jer. xxxv living near 
Mecca ( Journal , 1829, ii, 334'. When he came near 
Senaa he came in contact with a tribe, the Beni-Ivhaibr, 
who identified themselves with the sons of Jonadab. 
With one of them, Mftsa, Wolff conversed, and he reports 
the dialogue as follows: “I asked him, ‘ Whose descend- 
ants are you?’ Mfisa answered, ‘Come, and I will show 
you,’ and read from an Arabic Bible the words of Jer. 
xxxv, 5-11. lie then went on. ‘ Come, and you will 
find ns GO, 000 in number. You see the words of the 
prophet have been fulfilled : Jonadab the son of Bochab 
shall not want a man to stand before me forever”’ (ibid. 
p.335). In a later journal (ibid. 1839, p.389) he men- 
tions a second interview with Musa, describes them 
as keeping strictly to the old rule, calls them now' by 
the name of the Bcni-Arhad, and says that Beni-Israel 
of the tribe of Dan live with them. A paper On Re- 
cent Notices of the Rechabites , by Signor l’ierotti, was 
read at the Cambridge meeting of the British Associa- 
tion (October, 1802). lie met with a tribe calling them- 
selves by that name near the Dead Sea, about two miles 
south-east from it. They had a Hebrew Bible, and said 
their prayers at the tomb of a Jewish rabbi. They 
told him precisely the same stories as had been told to 
Wolff thirty years before. — Smith. The details, how- 
cver, whether correct or not, apply to Talmudieal Jews 
more than to Rechabites. They arc described as living 
in caverns and low houses, not in tents— and this in 
Arabia, where Bedouin habits would cease to be singu- 
lar; nor are any of the Rechabitc rules observable in 
them except that of refraining from wine — an absti- 
nence which ceases to be remarkable in Arabia, where 
no one drinks wine, and where, among the strongholds 
of Islam, it could probably not be obtained without dan- 
ger and difficulty. There were large numbers of Tal- 
mudical Jews in Arabia in the time of Mohammed, and 
these supposed Rechabites are probably descended from 
a body of them. See Witsius, Dissert, de Rechabitis, in 
Aliscell. Sacra , ii, 170 sq. ; Carpzov, Apparat. p. 148; 
Calmet, Dissert, sur les Rechabites, in Commentaire Lit- 
ter al, vi, 18-21.— Kitto. For the modern temperance 
organization by this name, see Temthuance. 

Rechac, Jean Gikkkic de (whose religions name 
was Jean de Sainte-Marie), a French Dominican, was 
born at Quillebtruf Aug. 25, 100 1. lie took the habit 
of a monk, and taught Greek and Hebrew at l’aris, then 
at Bordeaux. lie travelled in the Orient as an apos- 
tolic missionary, and visited the isle of !$eio and Con- 
stantinople. Returning to Paris about the end of 1631, 
he became iu 1G37 prior of the convent of the Dornin- 


RECIIAH 


957 


RECOLLET 


icans at Rouen, and devoted himself with success to 
preaching. Being sent to Bordeaux in 1640, he col- 
lected numerous materials for writing the history of his 
order; and when, in 1656, the monks of St. Domi- 
nic founded several houses in France, he was charged 
with the erection of divers novitiates. He died April 9, 
1660. We have of his works, Les Vrais Exercices Solides et 
Pratiques de la Vie Spirituelle et Religieuse (Rouen, 1638- 
40, 4 vols. 12mo) : — Vie de Saint- 11 yacinthe (Paris, 1643. 
12 mo) : — Les Vies de Trois Bienlieureux de Bretagne, Yves 
Mahreuc, Ev'eque de Rennes, A lain de la Roche, Pierre 
Quintal (ibid. 1645, 12ino) : — Vie de Renaud de Saint- 
Gilles, Doyen de Saint- Agnau d' Orleans (w ho died in 
1220) (ibid. 1646, 12mo) : — Vie de Saint-Dominique, ave c 
la Fondation de tons les Convents des Freres Precheurs de 
run et de V autre Sexe en France et dans les Pays-Bas (ibid. 
1647, 4to) : — Les Vies et Actions Memorables des Saintes 
et Bienheurenses de VOrdre des Freres Precheurs (1635, 

2 vols. 4to) : — and a great number of other works printed 
or in MS., among them Propheties de Nostradamus ex- 
])liquees (Paris, 1656, 12mo), published without the name 
of the author. — Hoefer, Xoav. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Re'chall (Heb. Rckali', fTCn, hindermost; Sept. 
T v.r. ’Pi]<pa). In 1 Chron. iv, 12, Beth-rapha, 
Paseah, and Tehinnah the father, or founder, of Ir-na- 
hash, are said to have been “ the men of Rechah.” In 
the Targum of R. Joseph they are called “ the men of 
the Great Sanhedrin,” the Targnmist apparently reading 
n:n.. Schwarz regards it as the name of a place in- 
habited by the posterity of Judah, and identifies it with 
a village Rashiah, three English miles to the south of 
Hebron” {Palest, p. 116). 

Reche, Joiiann Wilhelm, the main representative 
of the Kantian rationalism in the Lutheran Church of J 
the Rhine countries, was born Nov. 3, 1764, at Lennep. 
In 1786 he became pastor of the newly organized Lu- 
theran church at Hiickeswageu, and in 1796 pastor at 
Miihlheim-on-the-Rhine, where, during the Revolution, 
he published a translation of Marcus Aurelius’s philo- 
sophical treatise T<1 tig tavrov (1797), in order to show 
how a man should become a stoic. After the taking of 
the Rhine countries by Prussia, he became a member of 
the consistory of Cologne, which in 1826 w T as dissolved. 
In 1830 he retired from the ministry to his country-seat 
at Wesseling, between Cologne and Bonn, being dissatis- 
fied with the new religious movement of his time, and 
died as an angry philosopher Jan. 9, 1835. He published 
some hymns, which, though of little value, are, however, 
found in some of the modernized German hymn-books. 
He also published a collection of sermons in two vol- 
umes, which are enumerated in Zueliold, Bibliotheca 
Theologica, ii, 1035 ( comp, also Koch, Geschichte des 
deutschen Kirchenliedes, vi, 259). (B. P.) 

Rechenberg, Karl Friedrich Wilhelm, a Lu- 
theran minister, was born Feb. 10, 1817, at Barnickow, 
near Konigsberg, in Prussia. From 1835 to 1840 he stud- 
ied in the seminary of the Berlin Missionary Society, 
and in 1841 he came to this country to work among his 
countrymen. His first pastorate w’as at Syracuse, N. Y., 
where he labored for about fifteen years. In the year 
1855 he was called to Albany, at w'hich place he re- 
mained three years. He then went to Canada, where he 
labored for about thirteen years in Toronto and for five 
years at Montreal. Among his coreligionists he w’as a 
prominent member, and was the first president of the 
Canadian synod. He also edited for a long time the 
paper of his denomination, and as president of the Mis- 
sionary Board he cared for his countrymen with word 
and sacrament. His bodily infirmities obliged him to 
retire from his large field of labor, and he accepted the 
call of a small congregation at Port Chester, N. Y., in 
1875, where he died Dec. 13, 1877. (B. P.) 

Recluse (Lat. reclusus, also inclusus, “shut up”), a 
class of monks or nuns who, from a motive of special 
penance, or with a view to the more strict observance 


of Christian perfection, remained shut up from all con- 
verse, even with members of their own order, in a small 
cell of a hermitage or other place of strict retirement. 
This practice, ivhich was a kind of voluntary imprison- 
ment, either from motives of devotion or penance, was 
not allowed except to persons of tried virtue and by spe- 
cial permission of the abbot ; and the recluse, who took 
an oath never to stir out of his retreat, was with due 
solemnity locked up in the presence of the abbot or the 
bishop, who placed his seal upon the door, not to be 
removed w ithout the authority of the bishop himself. 
Everything necessary for support was conveyed through 
a window. If the recluse were a priest, he was allowed 
a small oratory with a window which looked into the 
church, through which he might make his offerings at 
mass, hear the singing, and answer those who spoke to 
him ; but this window had curtains before it, so that he 
could not be seen. In later medkeval times the recluse 
was allowed a small garden near his cell for the plant- 
ing of a few herbs and for recreation in fresh air. If he 
fell sick, his door was opened by the authorities for the 
sake of affording assistance. The celebrated mediaeval 
theologian Rabanus Maurus was a recluse w’hen elected 
[ archbishop of Mentz. Nuns also were found to practice 
! the same voluntary seclusion, especially in the Benedic- 
tine, Franciscan, and Cistercian orders. A rule special- 
ly designed for female recluses was composed by iElred 
of Reresby, and is preserved by Ilolstenius in his Codex 
Regularum Monasticarum, i, 418 sq. In a wider sense, 
the name recluse is popularly applied to all cloistered 
persons, w’liether men or women — even those who live 
in community with their brethren. The inmates of 
the celebrated French retreat for Jansenists — Tort- 
Royal — were also called recluses. — Chambers's Ency- 
clop. s. v. ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirch en-Lexikon (art. “ In- 
clusi”) ; Cults, Scenes, and Characters of the Middle A ges 
(Lond. 1873). 

Recognitions. See Clementines. 

Recollet (Lat. recollectus, “gathered together”) is 
the name given to the members of certain reformed 
bodies of monastic orders, whether of men or women, in 



A Recollet. 


RECOXCILIATIO PCEXITEXTIUM 958 IiECOXCILIATIOX 


tlic Roman Catholic Church. Among orders of men, an I 
offshoot of the Augustinian hermits, which, under Louis 
dc Mont ay a, in 1530, obtained considerable popularity j 
in Spain, was called by this name, and the order still 
exists at Medina Sidonia, Leon, and Ramplona; but out- 
side of Spain, tliis order is better known under the title 
of the Reformed Franciscans, who originated about 1592, 
and were established in France under Ilenry IV and 
Louis XIV, and spread t hence into Belgium, their houses 
in these countries and (Germany becoming so numerous 
that they reckoned no less than ten provinces. In the 
French army of Louis XIV the Bcformed Franciscans 
used to administer the sacrament. A reform of the Cis- 
tercian order of turns in Spain was also called by the 
same name (Chambers). See I/isloire du Clereje Seculier 
et Ree/ulier. , ii. 307 sip; Wetzcr u.Welte, Kirchen- Lex. 
ix, 7i. 

Reconciliatio Pcenitentium is the act by 
which offenders of the Church arc restored to ecclesi- 
astical rights and privileges. See Pknitknts. 

Reconciliation (usually some form of "E2, to 
cover sin, icaraWayt)) is making those friends again 
who were at variance, or restoring to favor those hav- 
ing fallen under displeasure. Thus the Scriptures de- 
scribe the disobedient world as having been at enmity 
with God, but “ reconciled” to him by the death of his 
Son. The expressions “reconciliation” and “making 
peace” necessarily suppose a previous state of hostility 
between God and man, which is reciprocal. This is 
sometimes called enmity, a term, as it respects God, 
rather unfortunate, since enmity is almost fixed in our 
language to signify a malignant and revengeful feeling. 

( )f this, the oppugners of the doctrine of the atonement 
have availed themselves to argue that as there can be 
no such affection in the divine nature, therefore recon- 
ciliation in Scripture does not mean the reconciliation 
of God to man, but of man to God, whose enmity the 
example and teaching of Christ, they tell us, are very 
effectual to subdue. It is, indeed, a sad and humbling 
truth, and one which the Socinians, in their discussions 
on the natural innocence of man, arc not willing to ad- 
mit, that by the infection of sin “ the carnal mind is en- 
mity to God that human nature is malignantly hostile 
to Ciod and to the control of his law. But this is far 
from expressing the whole of that relation of man in 
which, in Scripture, he is said to be at enmity with God, 
and so to need a reconciliation — the making of peace 
between God and him. That relation is a legal one, as 
that of a sovereign, in his judicial capacity, and a crim- 
inal who has violated his laws and risen up against his 
authority, and who is therefore treated as an enemy. 
The word k\^pug is used in this passive sense, both in 
the Greek writers and in the New Test. So, in Rom. 
xi, 2X, the Jews, rejected and punished for refusing the 
Gospel, are said by the apostle, “as concerning the Gos- 
pel,” to be “enemies for your sakes” — treated and ac- 
counted such; “but, as touching the election, they are 
beloved for the fathers’ sakes.” In the same epistle 
(v, 10) the tern) is used precisely in the same sense, 
and that with reference to the reconciliation by Christ: 
“For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to 
God by the death of his Soil,” i. c. when we were ob- 
jects of the divine judicial displeasure, accounted as en- 
emies, and liable to be capitally treated as such. En- 
mity, in the sense of malignity and the sentiment of 
hatred, is added to this relation in the case of man ; but 
it is no part of the relation itself, it is rather a case of 
it, as it is one of the actings of a corrupt nature which 
render man obnoxious to the displeasure of God and the 
penalty ol his law, and place him in the condition of an 
enemy. It is this judicial variance and opposition be- 
tween God and man which is referred to in the term 
reconciliation, and in the phrase “making peace,” in 
the New Test. ; and the hostility is therefore, in its 
own nature, mutual. 

But that there is no truth iu the notion that recon- 


ciliation means no more than our laying aside our en- 
mity to God may also be shown from several express 
passages. The first is the passage we have above cited: 
“ For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to 
God” (Rom. v, 10). Ilcre the act of reconciling is as- 
cribed to God, and not to us; but if this reconciliation 
consisted iu the laying-aside of our own enmity, the act 
would be ours alone. And, further, that it could not be 
the laving-aside of our enmity is dear from the text, 
which speaks of reconciliation while we were yet ene- 
mies. The reconciliation spoken of here is not, as Soei- 
nns and his followers have said, our conversion. For 
that the apostle is speaking of a benefit obtained for us 
previous to oitr conversion appears evident from the 
opposite members of the two sentences — “much more, 
being justified, we shall be saved from wrath through 
him “ much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved 
by his life.” The apostle argues from the greater to 
the less. If God were so benign to us before our con- 
version, what may we not expect from him now we are 
converted? To reconcile here cannot mean to convert, 
for the apostle evidently speaks of something greatly 
remarkable in the act of Christ. But to convert sin- 
ners is nothing remarkable, since none but sinners can 
be ever converted; whereas it was a rare and singular 
thing for Christ to die for sinners, and to reconcile sin- 
ners to God by his death, when there have been but 
very few good men who have died for their friends. In 
the next place, conversion is referred more properly to 
his glorious life than to his shameful death; but this 
reconciliation is attributed to his death as contradistin- 
guished from his glorious life, as is evident from the an- 
tithesis contained iu the two verses. Besides, it is from 
the latter benefit that we learn the nature of the former. 
The latter, which belongs only to the converted, consists 
of the peace of God and salvation from wrath (Rom. v, 
9, 10). This the apostle afterwards calls receiving the 
reconciliation. And what is it to receive the reconcili- 
ation but to receive the remission of sins? (Acts x,43). 
To receive conversion is a mode of speaking entirely 
unknown. If, then, to receive the reconciliation is to 
receive the remission of sins, and in effect to be deliv- 
ered from wrath or punishment, to be reconciled must 
have a corresponding signification. 

“God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, 
not imputing their trespasses unto them” (2 Cor. v, 19). 
Here the manner of this reconciliation is expressly said 
to be not our laying aside our enmity, but the non-im- 
putation of our trespasses to ns by God; in other words, 
the pardoning of our offences and restoring us to favor. 
The promise on God’s part to do this is expressive of 
his previous reconciliation to the world by the death of 
Christ ; for onr actual reconciliation is distinguished 
from this bv what follows, “and hath committed to us 
the ministry of reconciliation,” by virtue of which all 
men were, by the apostles, entreated and besought to be 
reconciled to God. The reason, too, of this reconcilia- 
tion of God to the world, by virtue of which he prom- 
ises not to impute sin, is grounded by the apostle, in the 
last verse of the chapter, not upon the laying-aside of 
enmity by men, but upon the sacrifice of Christ: “For 
he hath made him to be sin” (a sin-offering) “ for us, who 
knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness 
of God in him." “And that he might reconcile both 
unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the en- 
mity thereby" (Eph. ii, 1(3). Here the act of reconciling 
is attributed to Christ. Sian is not spoken of as recon- 
ciling himself to God; but Christ is said to reconcile 
Jews and Gentiles together, and both to God, “by his 
cross.” Thus, says the apostle, “he is our peace;” but 
in what manner is the peace effected? Not, iu the first 
instance, by subduing the enmity of man’s heart, but by 
removing the enmity of " the law.” “ Having abolish- 
ed in,” or by, “his flesh the enmity, even the law of 
commandments.” The ceremonial law only is here 
probably meant; for by its abolition, through its fulfil- 
ment in Christ, the enmity between Jews and Gentiles 


RECONCILIATION 


959 


RECORDER 


was taken away. But still it was not only necessary 
to rceoneile Jew and Gentile together, but to “reconcile 
both unto God.” This he did by the same aet; abol- 
ishing the ceremonial law by becoming the antitype of 
all its sacrifices, and thus, by the sacrifice of himself, ef- 
fecting the reconciliation of all to God, “slaying the en- 
mity by his eross,” taking away whatever hindered the 
reconciliation of the guilty to God, which, as we have 
seen, was not enmity and hatred to God in the hu- 
man mind only, but that judicial hostility and variance 
which separated God and man as Judge and criminal. 
The feeble criticism of Socinus on this passage, in wliieh 
he has been followed by his adherents to this day, is 
thus answered by Grotius: “ In this passage the dative 
to God, can only be governed by the verb 07 tok a- 
raXXd^y, that he might reconcile ; for the interpretation 
of Soeinus, wliieh makes to God stand by itself, or that 
to reconcile to God is to rceoneile them among them- 
selves that they might serve God, is distorted and with- 
out example. Nor is the argument valid which is 
drawn from thenee, that in this plaee Paul properly 
treats of the peace made between Jews and Gentiles; 
for neither does it follow from this argument that it was 
beside his purpose to mention the peace made for each 
with God. For the two opposites which are joined are 
so joined among themselves that they should be pri- 
marily and chiefly joined by that bond; for they are 
not united among themselves, exeept by and for that 
bond. Gentiles and Jews, therefore, are made friends 
among themselves by friendship with God.” 

Here, also, a critical remark will be appropriate. The 
above passages will show how falsely it has been assert- 
ed that God is nowhere in Scripture said to be recon- 
ciled to us, and that they only declare, that we are rec- 
onciled to God ; but the fact is, that the very phrase of 
our being reconciled to God imports the turning-away 
of his wrath from 11 s. Whitby observes, on the words 
KaraWaTTUv and KaraWayi], “that they naturally 
import the reconciliation of one that is angry or dis- 
pleased with us, both in profane and Jewish writers.” 
When the Philistines suspeeted that David would ap- 
pease the anger of Saul by becoming their adversary, 
they said, “Wherewith should he reconcile himself to 
his master? Should it not be with the heads of these 
men ?” Not, surely, how shall he remove his own anger 
against his master? but how shall he remove his mas- 
ter’s anger against him? — how shall he restore himself 
to his master’s favor? “ If thou bring thy gift to the 
altar and there remembercst that thy brother hath 
aught against thee,” not that thou hast aught against 
thy brother, “first be reconciled to thy brother,” i. e. 
appease and conciliate him; so that the words, in faet, 
import “See that thy brother be reconciled to thee,” 
since that which goes before is, not that he hath done 
thee an injury, but thou him. Thus, then, for us to be 
reconciled to God is to avail ourselves of the means by 
which the anger of God towards us is to be appeased, 
which the New Test, expressly declares to be meritori- 
ously “the sin-offering” of him “who knew no sin,” 
and instrumentally, as to eaeh individual personally, 
“faith in his blood.”— Watson, Theol. Diet. s. v. See 
Propitiation. 

“ We know,” says Farrar, “ that God cannot literally 
feel anger, or any other passion ; nor can he be literally 
grieved and pained at anything man ean do, sinee (as 
the 1st article of our [Anglican] Church expresses it) 
be is without body, parts, or passions ; though in Script- 
ure hands and eyes and other bodily members are figu- 
ratively attributed to him, as well as anger, repentance, 
and other passions. But all these are easily understood 
as spoken in reference to their effects on us, which are 
the same as if the things themselves were literally what 
they are called. It is well known to astronomers that 
the sun keeps its plaee, and yet they, as well as the 
vulgar, speak familiarly of the sun’s rising and setting 
without any mistake or perplexity thence arising, be- 
cause the effects on this earth — the succession of light 


and darkness — are exactly the same as if the sun did 
literally move round it daily. In like manner, when 
the Scriptures speak of God’s wrath, fierce anger, etc., 
against sinners, it is meant not that he literally feels 
angry passions, but that the effect on men will be the 
same as if he did. And, similarly, when ‘reconcilia- 
tion’ with God is spoken of, it is to be understood as 
meaning that the effects of the death of Christ are such 
as to cause men to be regarded by God with that favor 
with which he would regard them if literally returned 
from a state of enmity to a state of reconciliation.” 

See Nitzsch, Practische Theologie; Fletelier, Works (see 
Index); Presbyterian Confessions ; Pearson, on the Creed; 
Goodwin, IForZ-s ; Knapp , Christian Theology; Reynolds 
[John], On Reconciliation ; Ritsehl, Critical History of 
the Christian Doctrine of Justification and Reconciliation 
(Edinb. 1872) ; Pope, Compendium of Christian Theology 
(Loud. 1875, 12mo), p. 196-200. 

Recordare Sanctis Crucis is the beginning of a 
passion-hvmn composed by the “ Seraphic Doctor,” St. 
Bonaventura (q. v.). This is his best poem, and con- 
sists of fifteen stanzas, the last bearing a strong resem- 
blance to the next to the last of the Stabat Mater Dolo- 
rosa. There are two English translations of this hymn — 
one by Dr. H.llarbaugh in the Mercersburg Review, 1858, 
p. 481 (“ Make the Cross your Meditation”) ; another by 
Dr. J. W. Alexander, of which the first stanza runs thus : 

“Jesus’ holy eross and dying, 

Oh, remember ! ever eying 

Endless pleasure’s pathway here; 

At the eross thy mindful station 
Keep, and still iu meditatiou 
All tmsated persevere.” 

It has also been translated into German by Simroek, in 
liis Lauda Zion Salvatorem, p. 269 ; by Rambaeh, in his 
Anthology, i, 815, “An des Herrn Ivrcuz zu denken,” 
which is now generally found in German hymn-books ; 
by Stadelmann, in Biissler’s A uswahl altchristlicher 
Hymnen, p. 118, “Woll ties beiligen Kreuzes denken;” 
by lvbnigsfeld, in his collection of Latin llymns, i, 151, 
“An des Herrn Krenzesleiden.” The English of Alex- 
ander is given in 8e half’s Christ in Song, p. 165. (B. P.) 

Recorder p h 2T'!2, mazkir',a remembrancer; Sept. 
dvapipi’ijoKioi’, o7rojui'jj/inroypd0oe), an officer of high 
rank in the Jewish state, exercising the functions, not 
simply of an annalist, but of chancellor or president of 
the privy eouneil (Isa. xxxvi, 3. 22). The title itself 
may, perhaps, have reference to his office as adviser of 
the king; at all events, the notiees prove that he was 
more than an annalist, though the superintendence of 
the records was without doubt intrusted to him. In 
David’s court the recorder appears among the high of- 
ficers of his household (2 Sam. viii, 16; xx, 24; 1 Chron. 
xviii, 15). I 11 Solomon’s he is eoupled with the three 

secretaries, and is mentioned last, probably as being 
their president (1 Kings iv, 3). Under llezekiah, the 
recorder, in conjunction with the prefect of the palace 
and the secretary, represented the king (2 Kings xviii, 
18, 87). The patronymic of the recorder at this time, 
Joah the son of Asaph, makes it probable that he was a 
Levite. Under Josiah, the recorder, the secretary, and 
the governor of the city were intrusted with the super- 
intendence of the repairs of the Temple (2 Chron. xxxiv, 
8). These notiees are sufficient to prove the high po- 
sition held by him. — Smith. The same offiee is men- 
tioned as existing in the Persian court, both aneient and 
modern, where it is called waka nuu-ish ; and also in the 
time of the Roman emperors Areadius and Honorius, 
under the name of magister memorial. In Ezra iv, 15, 
mention is made of “ the book of the records,” and in 
Esth. vi, 1 ; x, 2, of “the book of records of the chron- 
icles,” written by officers of this nature. Many of the 
royal annals of Egypt and Assyria were sculptured on 
the obelisks, slabs, and monuments, and are still in fine 
preservation ; and already they have contributed to the 
illustration of the inspired records. See Scribe. 


RECORDS 


960 


RECUSANT 


Records, a frequent name for the books and papers 
of a Church, which contain a record or account of the 
history and temporal business of the parish. In these 
books are written, from time to time, all such transac- 
tions as relate to the election of ollieers, the purchase or 
sale, etc., of Church property, the erection of buildings, 
the engaging of ministers, the support of public wor- 
ship, and other matters connected with the temporal af- 
fairs of the Church. Under the name of “parish rec- 
ords,” or “Church records,” may also be included the 
j -eyister, containing the minister’s account of baptisms, 
marriages, etc. — Stoughton, Kccles. Diet. s. v. See Ki-:g- 
ISTtilt. 

Rectitude (or Ui'KIGiitness) is the choice and 
pursuit of those tilings which the mind, after due in- 
quiry and attention, clearly perceives to be lit and good, 
and the eschewing of those that are evil. “Rectitude 
of conduct,” says Whatcly, “is intended to express the 
term /onropSoiffic, which Cicero translates recta effect in ; 
tcaropSiopa he translates rectum factum. Now the defi- 
nition of KaropSiofici was vopov 7 rpooraypa, ‘a tiling 
commanded by law’ (i.e. by the law of nature, the uni- 
versal law). Antoninus, speaking of the reasoning fac- 
ulty, how, without looking further, it rests contented in 
its own energies, adds, ‘for which reason arc all actions 
of this species called rectitudes (narophoaac, Kara bp- 
&6c, right onwards), as denoting the directness of their 
progression right onwards’” (Harris, Dialogue on Hap- 
piness, p. 73, note). “ Goodness in actions,” says Hooker 
( Kccles . Pol. bk. i, § 8), “ is like unto straightness ; where- 
fore that which is done well we term right, for, as the 
straight way is most acceptable to him that travclleth, 
because by it he comcth soonest to his journey’s end, 
so, in action, that which doth lye the evenest between 
us and the end we desire must needs be the fittest for 
our use.” If a term is to be selected to denote that in 
action and in disposition of which the moral faculty ap- 
proves, perhaps the most precise and appropriate is rec- 
titude, or rightness. “ There are other phrases,” says Dr. 
l’eid (Act ice Poicers, Essay v, ch. vii), “which have been 
used, which I see no reason for adopting, such as, acting 
contrary to the relations of things — contrary to the reason 
of things — to theftness of things — to the (ruth of things — 
to absolute Jituess. These phrases have not the author- 
ity of common use, which, in matters of language, is 
great. They seem to have been invented by some au- 
thors with a view to explain the nature of vice; but I 
do not think they answer that end. If intended as defi- 
nitions of vice, they are improper; because in the most 
favorable sense they can bear, they extend to every kind 
of foolish and absurd conduct as well as to that which 
is vicious.” Hut what is rectitude, or rightness, as the 
characteristic of an action? According to Price and 
others, this term denotes a simple and primitive idea, 
and cannot be explained. “It might ns well be asked 
what is truth, as the characteristic of a proposition? If 
is a capacity of our rational nature to see and acknowl- 
edge truth; but we cannot define what truth is. We 
call it the conformity of our thoughts with the reality 
of things.” “ It may be doubted how far this explana- 
tion makes the nature of truth more intelligible. In 
like manner some explain rectitude by saying that it 
consists in a congruitv between an action and the rela- 
tions of the agent. It is the idea we form of an action, 
when it is in every way conformable to the relations of 
the agent and the circumstances in which he is placed. 
On contemplating such an action we approve of it. and 
feel that if we were placed in such circumstances and in 
such relations, wc should be under an obligation to per- 
form it. Now the circumstances and relations in which 
man is placed arise from his nature and from the nature 
of things in general; and hence it has been said that 
rectitude is founded in the nature and Jituess of things, 
i. e. an action is right when it is lit or suitable to all the 
relations and circumstances of the agent, and of this fit- 
ness conscience or reason is the judge. Conscience or 
reason does not constitute the relations; these must arise 


from the nature of man and the nature of things. Hut 
conscience or reason judges and determines as to the 
conformity of actions to these relations; and these rela- 
tions arising necessarily from the very nature of things, 
the conformity with tiicm, which constitutes rectitude, 
is said to be eternal and immutable" (Krautli’s Fleming, 
Yocab. of J'hilos. a. v.). 

Rector (Lat. rector, a ruler), the title of several 
classes of clerical and collegiate otiicials, some of which 
are referred to under their respective heads. 

1. As regards clerical rectors, the title, in its most or- 
dinary English use, is applied to the clergyman who 
holds complete and independent charge of a parish. 
This nsc, however, is a departure from the canonical 
signification of the title, which meant rather a clergy- 
man who was appointed to govern a parish where the 
chief parochial jurisdiction was vested in a religious 
corporation or in some non-resident dignitary. The 
office of vicar is an outgrowth of the rcctorate, on the 
appropriation of benefices to monasteries and other re- 
ligious houses of old; and the distinction between rec- 
tor and vicar, which is therefore to be noticed here, is 
as follows: The rector has the right to all the ecclesi- 
astical dues in his parish, whereas the vicar has gener- 
ally an appropriator or impropriator over him, who is 
entitled to part of the profits, and to whom he is, in 
effect, only perpetual curate, with an appointment of 
glebe and generally one third of the tithes. See Yjcak. 

2. In certain of the monastic orders, the name rector 
is given to the heads of convents, as it is 

3. Also given to the heads of universities, colleges, 
seminaries,- and similar educational corporate institu- 
tions. — Chambers's Kncyclop. s. v.; Eden, Theol. Diet. 
s. v. 

Rectory. “A rectory or parsonage,” says Spcl- 
man, “is a spiritual living, composed of land, tithe, and 
j other oblations of the people, separate or dedicate to 
God in any congregation, for the service of his Church 
there, and for the maintenance of the governor or min- 
| ister thereof, to whose charge the same is committed.”— 
j Eadie, Kccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Recusant is, in English law, a person, whether Pa- 
pist or Protestant, who refuses or neglects to attend at 
the worship of the Established Church on Sundays and 
other days appointed for the purpose. The offence may 
be dated back in its origin to 1534, when king Ilenrv 
became head of the Church ; but. as a legal one, may be 
held to date from 1 Elizabeth, c. 2. “There were four 
! classes punishable under the statutes against recusan- 
cy : simple ‘recusants;’ ‘recusants convict,’ who absent- 
ed themselves after conviction ; ‘ popish recusants,’ who 
| absented themselves because of their being Homan 
Catholics; and ‘popish recusants convict,’ who absent- 
| oil themselves after conviction. It was against the last 
' two classes that the statutes were mainly directed. In 
addition to the general penalties of recusancy, the pop- 
ish recusants, for wilfully hearing mass, forfeited 100 
marks (466 13s. 4r/.) ; and for saying mass, 200 marks, 
or 4M33 6s. 8 d., in addition (in both eases) to a year’s 
imprisonment. They were disabled, unless they re- 
nounced popery, from inheriting, purchasing, or other- 
wise acquiring lands; and they could not keep or teach 
schools under pain of perpetual imprisonment. Pop- 
ish recusants convict could not hold any public office; 
could not keep arms in their bouses; could not appear 
within ten miles of London under penalty of 4‘luO; 
could not travel above five miles from borne without 
license; could not bring any action at law or equity ; 
could not have baptism, marriage, or burial performed 
except by an Anglican minister — all under penalties of 
forfeiture and imprisonment. Protestant dissenting rec- 
usants were relieved from the penalties of recusation 
by the Toleration Act of 1 Will. and Mary, c. 18. Cath- 
olics were partially relieved in the year 1791, and com- 
pletely by the Emancipation Act of 1829.” — Chamberses 
Kncyclop. s. v. 


RED 


961 


RED SEA 


Red. See Color; Ruddy. 

Red Heifer. See Purification, Water of; Sin- 
offering. 

Red Sea, the usual designation of the large body 
of water separating Egypt from Arabia. (The follow- 
ing account of it is chiefly based upon that contained in 
Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible.) See Sea. 

I. Names.— The sea known to us as the lied Sea was 
by the Israelites called the sea (D*n, Exod. xiv, 2, 9, 16, 
21, 28; xv, 1, 4, 8, 10, 19; Josh, xxiv, 6, 7; and many 
other passages); and specially “the sea of Suph" 
(qsiO-D?, Exod. x, 19; xiii, 18; xv, 4, 22; xxiii, 31; 
Numb, xiv, 25; xxi, 4; xxxiii, 10, 11 ; Dent, i, 40; xi, 
4; Josh, ii, 10; iv, 23; xxiv, 6; Judg. xi, 16; 1 Kings 
ix, 26; Neb. ix, 9; Psa. cvi, 7, 9, 22; cxxxvi, 13, 15; 
Jer. xlix, 21). It is also perhaps written Suphah ', 
(Sept. Zttio/3), in Numb, xxi, 14, rendered “lied 
Sea” in the A. Y. ; and in like manner, in Dent, i, 1, 
5]*)0, without M. The Sept, always renders it y) tpvSpd 
BdXaffffa (except in Judg. xi, 16, where w]SlO, is 
preserved). So, too, in the New Test. (Acts vii, 36; 
Ileb. xi, 29) ; and this name is found in the Apocrj'pha 
(1 Macc. iv, 9 ; Wisd. x, 18 ; xix, 7) and Josephus (A nt. 
viii, 6, 4). By the classical geographers this appella- 
tion, like its Latin equivalent Mare Rubrum or M. 
Erythrceum , was extended to all the seas washing the 
shores of the Arabian peninsula, and even the Indian 
Ocean : the Red Sea itself, or Arabian Gulf, was 6 ’Apd- 
fiiog kuXttqc, or ‘Apafiuzbg k., or Sinus Arabians, and 
its eastern branch, or the Gulf of the ’Akabah, Ai\a- 
virtjg , 'E Xavirtjg, ’ EXancrucbg KoXnog, Sinus FElanites, 
or S. sElaniticus. The Gulf of Suez was specially the 
Heroopolitic Gulf, 'Hjowo7roXiY//c koXttoc, Sinus llerod- 
polites, or S. Ilei'ovjioliticus. Dr. Beke ( Sinai in A rubia 
[Loud. 1878], p. 361 sq.) contends (in keeping with his 
wild notion that the Mizraim of the Bible was not Egypt, 
but the peninsula of Arabia) that the Gulf of ’Akabah, 
and not that of Suez, was the Yam-Suph of the He- 
brews, chiefly on the rash assumption that the former 
only was known to the Israelites, whereas the itinerary 
of Moses clearly distinguishes Eziongeber on the one 
from the crossing at the other (Numb, xxxiii, 8. 10, 35, 
36). Among the peoples of the East, the Red Sea has 
for many centuries lost its old names: it is now called 
generally by the Arabs, as it was in mediaeval times, 
Bahr-el-Kulzum , “ the Sea of El-Kulzum,” after the an- 
cient Clysma, “ the sea-beach,” the site of which is near, 
or at, t the modern Suez. In the Koran, part of its old 
name is preserved, the rare Arabic word yamm being 
used in the account of the passage of the Red Sea (see 
also El-Beydawi, Comment, on the Kuran, vii, 132, p. 
341; xx, 81, p. 602). These Biblical names require a 
more detailed consideration. 

1. Yam , M 1 (Coptic, torn; Arabic, yamm ), signifies 
“ the sea,” or any sea. It is also applied to the Nile (ex- 
actly as the Arabic bahr is so applied) in Nell, iii, 8, 
“Art thou better than populous No, that was situate 
among the rivers ( yeorim ), [that had] the waters round 
about it, whose rampart [was] the sea ( yam ), and her 
wall was from the sea (yam) ?” See also Isa. xix, 5. 

2. Yam-Suph , r*E“E"; in the Coptic version, phiom 
nshapi ; A. V. “Red Sea.” The meaning of suph, and 
the reason of its being applied to this sea, have given 
rise to much learned controversy. Gesenius renders it 
rush, reed , sea-weed. It is mentioned in the Old Test, 
almost always in connection with the sea of the Exodus. 
It also occurs in the narrative of the exposure of Moses 
in the “iJO ( year ) ; for he was laid in suph, on the brink 
of the year (Exod. ii, 3), where (in the suph) he was 
found by Pharaoh’s daughter (ver. 5); and in the “ bur- 
den of Egypt” (Isa. xix), with the drying-up of the 
waters of Egypt, “ And the waters shall fail from the sea 
(yam), and the river (nahdr) shall be wasted and dried 
up. And they shall turn the rivers (nahdr, constr. pi.) 

Y1I1.-P p p 


far away; [and] the brooks ( yedr ) of defence (or of 
Egypt?) shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds and 
flags (suph) shall wither. The paper reeds b}’ the 
brooks (yedr), by the mouth of the brooks (yedr), and 
everything sown by the brooks (year) shall wither, be 
driven away, and be no [more]. The fishers also shall 
mourn, and all they that cast angle into the brooks 
(yedr) shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the 
waters shall languish. Moreover, they that work in 
fine flax, and they that weave net works (white linen?) 
shall be confounded. And they shall be broken in the 
purposes thereof, all that make sluices [and] ponds for 
fish” (ver. 5-10). Suph only occurs in one place besides 
those already referred to. In Jon. ii, 5 it is written, 
“The waters compassed me about, [even] to the soul: 
the depth closed me round about, the weeds (suph) were 
wrapped about my head.” With this single exception, 
which shows that this product was also found in the 
Mediterranean, suph is Egyptian, either in the Red Sea 
or in tiie yedr, and this yedr in Exod. ii was in the land 
of Goshen. 

The signification of suph, must be gathered from 
the foregoing passages. In Arabic, the word with this 
signification (which commonly is “wool”) is found only 
in one passage in a rare lexicon (the Mohkam MS.). 
The author says, “ Suf-cl-bahr (the sir/ of the sea) is 
like the wool of sheep. And the Arabs have a proverb, 
‘I will come to thee when the sea ceases to wet the 
suf,' ” i. e. never. The MG of the M, it seems quite 
certain, is a sea-weed resembling wool. Such sea-weed 
is thrown up abundantly on the shores of the Red Sea. 
Fiirst says, s. v. MO, “Ab yEthiopibus lierba qiuedam 
suplio appellabatur, quse in profundo Maris Rubri crescit, 
quie rubra est, rubrumque colorem continet, pannis tiu- 
gendis inservientem, teste Hieronvmo de qualitate Maris 
Rubri” (p. 47, etc.). Diodorus (iii, c. 19), Artemidorus 
(ap. Strabo, p. 770), and Agatharchides (ed. Midler, 
p. 136, 137) speak of the weed of the Arabian Gulf. 
Ehrenberg enumerates Fuats lalifolius on the shores of 
this sea, and at Suez Fucus crispus, F. trinodis, F. tur- 
binatus, F. papillosus, F. diaphanus, etc., and the spe- 
cially red weed Trichodesmium erythrceum. The Coptic 
version renders suph by shari (see above), supposed to 
be the hieroglyphic slier (sea?). If this be the same as 
the sari of Pliny (see next paragraph), we must con- 
clude that shari, like suph, was both marine and fluvial. 
The passage in Jonah proves it to be a marine product, 
and that it was found in the Red Sea the numerous pas- 
sages in -which that sea is called the sea of sdph leave 
no doubt. 

3. The “ Red Sea,” 7) IpvSpd SdXaoGa. The origin 
of this appellation has been the source of more specula- 
tion even than the obscure suph, for it lies more within 
the range of general scholarship. The theories advanced 
to account for it have been often puerile and generally 
unworthy of acceptance. Their authors may be divided 
into two schools. The first have ascribed it to some 
natural phenomenon, such as the singularly red appear- 
ance of the mountains of the western coast, looking as 
if they were sprinkled with Havana or Brazil snuff, or 
brick-dust (Bruce), or of which the redness was reflected 
in the waters of the sea (Gosseliu, ii, 78-84); the red 
color of the w ater sometimes caused by the presence of 
zoophytes (Salt; Ehrenberg) ; the red coral of the sea; 
the red sea-weed; and the red storks that have been 
seen in great numbers, etc. Roland (De Mare Ilubro, 
Diss. Miscell. i, 59-1 17) argues that the epithet red was 
applied to this and the neighboring seas on account of 
their tropical heat; as, indeed, was said by Artemidorus 
(ap. Strabo, xvi, 4, 20), that the sea was called red be- 
cause of tbe reflection of the sun. The second have en- 
deavored to find an etymological derivation. Of these 
the earliest (European) writers proposed a derivation 
from Edom, “red,” by the Greeks translated literally. 
Among them were Fuller (Miscell. Sacr. iv, c. 20); be- 


RED SEA 


9G2 


RED SEA 



The Red Sea and Jebel Atiikah, near Suez. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


fore him Sealiger, in his notes to Festus, s. v. “.Egypt i nos” 
(ed. 1574); and still earlier Genebrard ( Comment . ad Ps. 
10(1). Ruchart ( Phaleg , iv. c.34) adopted this theory (see 
Roland, Piss. Miscell. [ed. 1706] i, 85). The Greeks 
and Romans tell us that the sea received its name from 
a great king, Erythras, who reigned in the adjacent 
country (Strabo, xvi, 4, § 20; Pliny, II. X. vi, c. 23, 
§ 28; Agatharch. i. § 5; Philostr. iii, 15; and others). 
The stories that have come down to us appear to be dis- 
tortions of the tradition that Ilimyer was the name of 
apparently the chief family of Arabia Felix, the great 
South Arabian kingdom, whence the Ilimyerites and 
Ilomeritje. Ilimyer appears to be derived from the 
Arabic "alimar,” red (Ilimyer was so called because of 
the red color of his clothing [ En-Xuweyri in Caussin, 
i, 54]); “aafar” also signifies “red,” ami is the root of 
the names of several places in the peninsula so called on 
account of their redness (see Marusid, p. 263, etc.) ; this 
may point to Opliir: 0o«Vi£ is red, and the Phoenicians 
came from the Erythraean Sea (Herod, vii, 89). 

II. Physical Description. — In extreme length, the 
Red Sea stretches from the Strait of Rub el -Mandeb 
(or rather lifts Rub el-Mandeb), in lat. 12° 40' X., to the 
modern head of the Gulf of Suez, lat. 30 3 X. Its great- 
est width may be stated roughly at about 200 geograph- 
ical miles; this is about lat. 16° 30', but the navigable 
channel is here really narrower than in some other por- 
tions, groups of islands and rocks stretching out into the 
sea between thirty and forty miles from the Arabian 
coast and fifty miles from the African coast. From 
shore to shore, its narrowest part is at Rus Renas, lat. 
24°, on the African coast, to Rus Reridi opposite, a little 
north of Vembo’, the port of El-Medineh; and thence 
northwards to Rus Mohammad (i. e. exclusive of the 
gulfs of Suez ami the 'Altabah) the sea maintains about 
the same average width of 100 geographical miles. 
Southwards from lias Renas it opens out in a broad 
reach ; contracts again to nearly the above narrowness 
at Jiddah (correctly Juddah), lat. 21° 30', the port of 
Mekkeh, and opens to its extreme width south of the 
last-named port. 

At lifts Mohammad the Red Sea is split by the gra- 
nitic peninsula of Sinai into two gulfs — the westernmost, 
or Gulf of Suez, is now about 130 geographical miles in 
length, with an average width of about eighteen, though 
it contracts to less than ten miles; the easternmost, or 
Gulf of el -’Altabah, is only about ninety miles long 
from the Strait of Tirfin to 'Altabah, and of proportion- 
ate narrowness. The navigation of the Red Sea and 
Gull of Suez near the shores is very difficult from the 
abundance of shoals, coral-reefs, rocks, ami small islands, 
which render the channel intricate, and cause strong 
currents oltcn of unknown force ami direction; but in 
mid-channel, exclusive of the Gulf of Suez, there is 
generally a width of 100 miles clear, except the Ikedalus ■ 
reef (\\ ellsted, ii, 300). The bottom in deep soundings i 


is in most places sand and stones from Suez as far as 
Jiddah, and thence to the strait it is commonly mud. 
The deepest sounding in the excellent Admiralty chart 
is 1054 fathoms, in lat. 22° 30'. 

Journeying southwards from Suez, on our left is the 
peninsula of Sinai ; on the right is the desert coast of 
Egypt, of limestone formation, like the greater part of 
the Nile valley in Egypt, the cliffs on the sea-margin 
stretching landwards in a great rocky plateau, while 
more inland a chain of volcanic mountains (beginning 
about lat. 28 D 4' and running south) rear their lofty peaks 
at intervals above the limestone, generally about fifteen 
miles distant. < )f the most importance is Jebel Gharib, 
6000 feet high; and as the Strait of Jnbal is passed, 
the peaks of the primitive range attain a height of about 
4500 to 6900 feet, until the “Elba” group rises in a huge 
mass about lat. 22 A Farther inland is the Jebel ed- 
Dukhkhan, the “porphyry mountain” of l’tolemy (iv, 
5, § 27; M. Claudianus, see Midler, Geogr. Min. Atlas vii), 
6000 feet high, about twenty-seven miles from the coast, 
where the porphyry quarries formerly supplied Rome, 
and where are some remains of the time of Trajan (Wil- 
kinson, Modern Egypt and Thebes, ii, 383); and besides 
these, along this desert southwards are “quarries of vari- 
ous granites, serpentines, breccia verde, slates, and mica- 
ceous, talcose, and other schists'’ (ibid. p. 382). Jebel 
ez-Zeit, “ the mountain of oil,” close to the sea, abounds 
in petroleum (ibid, p.385). This coast is especially in- 
teresting in a Riblical point of view, for here were some 
of the earliest monasteries of the Eastern Church, and 
in those secluded and barren mountains lived very early 
Christian hermits. The convent of St. Anthony (of the 
Thebai's), “ Heir Mar Antuniyus,” and that of St. Paul, 
“I)eir Mar Rdlus,” are of great renown, and were once 
important. They arc now, like all Eastern monasteries, 
decayed; but. that of St. Anthony gives, front its monks, 
the patriarch of the Coptic Church, formerly chosen 
from the Xitrian monasteries (ibid. p. 881). South of 
the “ Elba” chain, the country gradually sinks to a plain, 
until it rises to the highland of Jidan, lat. 15°, and thence 
to the strait extends a chain of low mountains. The 
greater part of the African coast of the Red Sea is sterile, 
sandy, and thinly peopled — first beyond Suez bv Redon- 
in chiefly of the Ma’Azi tribe; south of the Kuseir road 
are the ’Abab’deh ; and beyond, the RisliAris, the south- 
ern branch of whom are called by Arab writers RejA, 
whose customs, language, and ethnology demand a care- 
ful investigation, which would undoubtedly be repaid by 
curious results (see El-Makrizi's K hit at. Ikscr. of the 
Dejd, and Descr.of the Desert of Fydhub; Qnatrcmere’s 
Essays on these subjects, in his Me moires Hist, et Geogr. 
sur V Ef/yptc, ii, 1.34, 162; and The Genesis of the Earth 
and of Man, 2d ed. p. 109) ; and then, coast-tribes of 
Abyssinia. 

The Gulf of el-’Akabah (i.e. “of the mountain-road") 
is the termination of the long valley of the Ghor or 


RED SEA 


963 


RED SEA 


’ Arabah that runs northwards to the Dead Sea. It 
is itself a narrow valley ; the sides are lofty and pre- 
cipitous mountains of entire barrenness; the bottom is 
a river-like sea, running nearly straight for its whole 
length of about ninety miles. The northerly winds rush 
down this gorge with uncommon fury, and render its 
navigation extremely perilous, causing at the same time 
strong counter-currents; while most of the few anchor- 
ages are open to the southerly gales. It “has the ap- 
pearance of a narrow deep ravine, extending nearly a 
hundred miles in a straight direction, and the circumja- 
cent hills rise in some places two thousand feet perpen- 
dicularly from the shore” (Wellsted, ii, 108). The 
western shore is the peninsula of .Sinai. The Arabian 
chain of mountains, the continuation of the southern 
spurs of the Lebanon, skirt the eastern coast, and rise to 
about 3500 feet; while Jebel Teibct-’Ali, near the strait, 
is 0000 feet. There is no pasturage and little fertility, 
except near the ’Akabah, where are date-groves and 
other plantations, etc. In earlier days this last-named 
place was, it is said, famous for its fertility. The island 
of Grain, Jeziret Fara’nn, once fortified and held by the 
Crusaders, is near its northern extremity on the Sinaitic 
side. The sea, from its dangers and sterile shores, is en- 
tirely destitute of boats. 

The Arabian coast outside the Gulf of the ’Akabah 
is skirted by the range of Arabian mountains, which in 
some few places approach the sea, but general]}’- leave a 
belt of coast country, called Tihameh, or the Ghor, like 
the Shephelah of Palestine. This tract is generally a 
sandy parched plain, thinly inhabited, these character- 
istics being especially strong in the north (Niebuhr, 
Descr. p. 305). The mountains of the Ilejuz consist of 
ridges running parallel towards the interior, and increas- 
ing in height as they recede (Wellsted, ii, 242). Burck- 
hardt remarks that the descent on the eastern side of 
these mountains, like the Lebanon and the whole Syrian 
range east of the Dead Sea, is much less than that on 
the western; and that the peaks seen from the cast or 
land side appear mere hills (Arabia, p. 321 sq.). In 
clear weather they are visible at a distance of forty to 
seventy miles (Wellsted, ii, 242). The distant ranges 
have a rugged pointed outline, and are granitic; at 
Wejh, with horizontal veins of quartz; nearer the sea 
many of the hills are fossiliferous limestone, while the 
beach hills “consist of light-colored sandstone, fronted 
by and containing large quantities of shells and masses 
of coral” (p. 243). Coral also “ enters largely into the 
composition of some of the most elevated hills.” The 
more remarkable mountains are Jebel ’Ein-Unna (or 
’Eynuwnnna, Marasid, s. v. “ ’Ein,” "Onaj of Ptol.), 
G090 feet high near the strait; a little farther south, 
and close to Mo’cileh, are mountains rising from G330 to 
7700 feet, of which Wellsted says : “ The coast ... is 
low, gradually ascending with a moderate elevation to 
the distance of six or seven miles, when it rises abruptly 
to hills of great height, those near Mowilah terminating 
in sharp and singularly shaped peaks. . . . Air. Irwin 
[1777] . . . has styled them Bullock’s Ilorns. To me 
the whole group seemed to bear a great resemblance to 
representations which I have seen of enormous icebergs” 
(ii, I7G ; see also the Admiralty chart, and Muller’s Geogr. 
Alin.). A little north of Ycrnbo’ is a remarkable group, 
the pyramidal mountains of Agatliarchides; and beyond, 
about twenty-five miles distant, rises Jebel Badwa. Far- 
ther south Jebel Subh is remarkable for its magnitude 
and elevation, which is greater than any other between 
Yembo’ and Jiddah ; and still farther, but about eighty 
miles distant from the coast, Jebel Has el-Kura rises be- 
hind the holy city Mekkeh. It is of this mountain that 
Burckhardt writes so enthusiastically (how rarely is he 
enthusiastic!), contrasting its verdure and cool breezes 
with the sandy waste of Tihameh (Arabia, p. G5 sq.). 
The chain continues the whole length of the sea, termi- 
nating in the highlands of the Yemen. The Arabian 
mountains are generally fertile, agreeably different from 
the parched plains below and their own bare granite 


peaks above. The highlands and mountain summits of 
the Yemen, “Arabia the Happy,” the Jebel as distin- 
guished from the plain, are precipitous, lofty, and fertile 
(Niebuhr, Descr. p. 161), with many towns and villages 
in their valleys and on their sides. The coast-line itself, 
or Tihameh, “ north of Yembo’, is of moderate elevation, 
varying from fifty to one hundred feet, with no beach. 
To the southward [to Jiddah] it is more sandy and less 
elevated ; the inlets and harbors of the former tract 
may be styled coves, in the latter they are lagoons” 
(Wellsted, ii, 244). The coral of the Bed Sea is remark- 
ably abundant, and beautifully colored and variegated. 
It is often red, but the more common kind is white; and 
of hewn blocks of this many of the Arabian towns are 
built. 

The earliest navigation of the Bed Sea (passing by 
the prehistorical Phoenicians) is mentioned by Herod-r 
otus. “ Scsostris (Bameses II) was the first who, passing 
the Arabian Gulf in a fleet of long vessels, reduced under 
his authority the inhabitants of the coast bordering the 
Erythraean Sea. Proceeding still farther, he came to a 
sea which, from the great number of its shoals, was not 
navigable;” and after another war against Ethiopia he 
set up a stela on the promontory of Dira, near the strait 
of the Arabian Gulf. Three centuries later, Solomon’s 
navy was built “ in Eziongeber, which is beside Eloth, 
on the shore of the Bed Sea, in the land of Edom” (I 
Kings ix, 26). In the description of the Gulf of el- 
’Akabah, it will be seen that this narrow sea is almost 
without any safe anchorage, except at the island of Graia 
ncarthe ’Akabah, and about fifty miles southward the har- 
bor of ed-Dhahab. 1 1 is supposed by some that the sea has 
retired here as at Suez, and that Eziongeber is now dry 
land. See Elatii; Eziongeber. Solomon’s navy was 
evidently constructed by Phoenician workmen of Iliram, 
for he “sent in the navy his servants, shipmen that had 
knowledge of the sea, with the servants of Solomon.” 
This was the navy that sailed to Ophir. We may con- 
clude that it was necessary to transport wood as well as 
men to build and man these ships on the shores of the 
Gulf of the ’Akabah, which from their natural formation 
cannot be supposed to have much altered, and which 
were, besides, part of the Wilderness of the Wandering; 
and the Edomites were pastoral Arabs, unlike the sea- 
faring Himverites. Jehoshaphat also “made ships of 
Tars'hish to go to Ophir for gold; but they went not, 
for the ships were broken at Eziongeber” (1 Kings xxii, 
48). The scene of this wreck has been supposed to be 
ed-Dhahab, where is a reef of rocks like a “giant’s back- 
bone” ( = Eziongeber) (Wellsted, ii, 153), and this may 
strengthen an identification with that place. These 
ships of Jehoshaphat were manned by “his servants,” 
who, from their ignorance of the sea, may have caused 
the wreck. Pharaoh -necho constructed a number of 
ships in the Arabian Gulf, and the remains of his works 
existed in the time of Herodotus (p. 159), who also tells 
us that these ships were manned by Phoenician sailors. 

The fashion of the ancient ships of the Bed Sea, or 
of the Phoenician ships of Solomon, is unknown. From 
Pliny we learn that the ships were of papyrus and like 
the boats of the Nile; and this statement was no doubt 
in some measure correct. But the coasting craft must 
have been very different from those employed in the 
Indian trade. More precise and curious is El-Makrizi’s 
description, written in the first half of the 15th century, 
of the ships that sailed from Eidbab on the Egyptian 
coast to Jiddah : “Their ‘jelebehs’ (P. Lobo, ap. Quatre- 
merc, Memoir es, ii. 164, calls them ‘gclves’), which carry 
the pilgrims on the coast, have not a nail used in them, 
but their planks are sewed together with fibre which is 
taken from the cocoanut-tree, and they calk them with 
the fibres of the wood of the date-palm ; then they ‘pay’ 
them with butter or the oil of the Palma Christi, or with 
the fat of the kirsh ( Squalus carcharias; Forskal, Descr. 
Animalium, p. viii, No. 19). . . . The sails of these jele- 
behs arc of mats made of the dom palm” (the Khitat, 
“Desert of Eidhab”). The crews of the latter, when 


RED SEA 


964 


RED SEA 


not exceptionally Phoenicians, as were Solomon’s and 1 
Pharaoh -nccho’s, were without doubt generally Ara- 
bians rather than Egyptians those Iliinyeritc Arabs 
whose ships carried all the wealth of the East either to 
the Bed Sea or the Persian Gulf. The people of ’Oman, 
the south-east province of Arabia, were among the fore- 
most of these navigators (El-Mes’ftdi’s Golden Meadows, 
MS., and The Accounts of Two Mohammedan Travellers 
of the Vth Century ). It was customary, probably to 

avoid the dangers and delays of the narrow seas, for the 
ships engaged in the Indian trade to transship their car- 
goes at the Strait of Bab el-Mandcb to Egyptian and 
other vessels of the Kcd Sea (Agatli. § 103, p. 100; anon. 
Peripl. § 20, p. 277, ed. M idler). The fleets appear to 
have sailed about the autumnal equinox, and returned 
in December or the middle of January (Pliny, //. A r . vi, 
c. xxiii, § 20; comp. Peripl. passim). Jerome says that 
the navigation was extremely tedious. At the present j 
day t lie voyages are periodical and guided by the sea- 
sons; but the old skill of the seamen has nearly depart- 
ed, and they are extremely timid, rarely venturing far 
from the coast. 

The lied Sea, as it possessed for many centuries the 
most important sea-trade of the East, contained ports 
of celebrity. Of these, Elath and Eziongebcr alone ap- 
pear to be mentioned in the Bible. The lleroopolitic 
Gulf is of the chief interest — it was near to Goshen; it 
was the scene of the passage of the lied Sea; it was 
also the seat of the Egyptian trade in this sea and to 
the Indian Ocean, lleroiipolis is doubtless the same as 
Hero, and its site has been probably identified with the 
modern Abn-Ivcshcid, at the head of the old gulf. By 
the consent of the classics, it stood on or near the head 
of the gulf, and was sixty-eight miles (according to the 
Itinerary of Antoninus) from ( ’lysma, by the Arabs called 
el-Kulznm, near the modern Suez, which is close to the 
present head. Suez is a poor town, and has only an 
unsafe anchorage with very shoal water. On the shore 
of the Uerobpolitic Gulf was also Arsinoe, founded by 
Ptolemy Philadelphia ; its site has not been settled. 
Berenice, founded by the same, on the southern frontier 
of Egypt, rose to importance under the Ptolemies and 
the Homans; it is now of no note. On the western 
coast was also the anchorage of My os llormos, a little 
north of the modern town el-Kuseir, which now forms 
the point of communication with the old route to ( 'optos. 
On the Arabian coast the principal ports are Mu’eileh, 
Yembo’ (the port of el-Mcdinch), Jiddah (the port of 
Mckkeh), and Mukha, by us commonly written Mocha. 
The lied Sea in most parts affords anchorage for country 
vessels well acquainted with its intricacies, and able to 
creep along the coast among the reefs and islands that 
girt the shore. Numerous creeks on the Arabian shore 
(called “shnrrtm,” sing, “sbarm”) indent the land. Of 
these the anchorage called cs-Sharm, at the southern 
extremity of the peninsula of Sinai, is much frequented. 

The commerce of the lied Sea was, in very ancient 
times, unquestionably great. The earliest records tell 
of the ships of the Egyptians, the Pluenicians, and the 
Arabs. Although the ports of the Persian Gulf received 
a part of the Indian traffic, and the llimyeritic maritime 
cities in the south of Arabia supplied the kingdom of 
Sheba, the trade with Egypt was, we must believe, the 
most important of the ancient world. That nil this 
traffic found its way to the head of the Uerobpolitic 
Gulf seems proved by the absence of any important 
Pharaonic remains farther south on the Egyptian coast. 
But the shoaling of the head of the gulf rendered the 
navigation, always dangerous, more difficult : it destroyed 
the former anchorages, and made it necessary to carry 
merchandise across the desert to the Nile. This change 
appears to have been one of the main causes of the de- 
cay of the commerce of Egypt. Wc have seen that the 
long-voyaging ships shifted their cargoes to lled-Sca 
craft at the strait; and Ptolemy Philadelphus, after 
founding Arsinoe and endeavoring to reopen the old 
canal of the Bed Sea, abandoned the upper route and 


established the southern road from his new city Berenice, 
on the frontier of Egypt and Nubia, to Coptos, on the 
Nile. Strabo tells us that this was done to avoid the 
dangers encountered in navigating the sea (xvii, 1, § 45). 
Though the stream of commerce was diverted, sufficient 
seems to have remained to keep in existence the former 
ports, though they have long since utterly disappeared. 
Under the Ptolemies and the Homans the commerce of 
the lied Sea varied greatly, influenced by the decaying 
state of Egypt and the route to Palmyra (until the fall 
of the latter). But even its best state at this time can- 
not have been such as to make us believe that the Pit) 
ships sailing from Mvos llormos, mentioned by Strabo 
(ii, v, § 12), were other than an annual convoy. The 
wars of Ileraclius and Chosroes affected the trade of 
Egypt as they influenced that of the Persian Gulf. 
Egypt had fallen low at the time of the Arab occupa- 
tion, and yet it is curious to note that Alexandria even 
then retained the shadow of its former glory. Since 
the time of Mohammed the lied Sea trade has been in- 
significant. But the opening of the Suez (’anal has late- 
ly rendered it the great thoroughfare to India. 

BED SEA, Passage ok. The departure of the Is- 
raelites out of Egypt was their independence-day and 
the date of the nation’s birth. As such it is always re- 
ferred to in Scripture in terms of lofty jubilee and de- 
vout acknowledgment of the power of .Jehovah, which 
was so strikingly displayed at almost every step. Two 
hundred and sixteen years before this event, their patri- 
arch, Jacob, had left the land of his childhood and old 
age, and emigrated with all his family to Egypt, then 
the most highly cultivated land on earth. Settled in 
the most fertile part of the country, they had grown to 
a population of some two millions of souls. Divine 
Providence had specially fostered them. But now, for 
about eighty years, the Egyptian government, under a 
new and jealous dynasty, had adopted a severe policy 
towards them, and they were gradually reduced to a 
condition of servitude. Nevertheless, Jehovah had not 
forsaken them. Moses had been in process of training 
all these later years as an instrument for their deliver- 
ance, and the time had at length arrived for their eman- 
cipation. We need not here review the mighty acts 
of divine interference by which the Egyptian court were 
finally compelled to grant the release of the Hebrews. 
Wc will come at once to the scenes of their exit from 
the country. The region where it occurred is not only 
memorable from the inspired narrative of that event, 
but is likewise remarkable for its natural features, and 
interesting on account of the modern associations of the 
vicinity. 

Goshen, the territory occupied by the Israelites in 
Egypt, was an extension eastward of the “Delta," or 
triangular alluvial plain around the mouths of the Nile. 
It seems to have corresponded substantially to the pres- 
ent valley of Tumeilat, which is a fertile, tongue-shaped 
tract about eighteen miles long, and averaging about 
two and a half miles broad, extending along the present 
railway which branches off to Ismailia from the direct 
line between Alexandria and Cairo. Westward Goshen 
probably included, likewise, a considerable tract of the 
adjoining Delta. The ruins scattered along the con- 
tinuation of the valley, still farther cast, are thought to 
indicate a populous region there likewise, and hence the 
name of Goshen is usually extended considerably far- 
ther in that direction ; but the neglect of irrigation has 
allowed the sands of the desert on either side to en- 
croach upon this narrow' tract, so that it is now almost 
uninhabitable. The portion named above, however, is 
still so rich that it was sold in 1*03 for two million dol- 
lars, and is now r w’orth much more. See Goshen. 

The government works upon which the Israelites 
were compelled to serve were public edifices in the two 
cities l’ithom and Baamses, or Bameses, doubtless situ- 
ated in or near the land of Goshen. The first of these 
places is generally identified with the present Tell el- 
Kehir, a village in the centre of the valley of Tumeilat 


RED SEA 


965 


RED SEA 


with remains of antiquity in its vicinity. The other 
is probably represented by Tell Ramsis, a quadrangular 
mound on an arm of the Nile opposite the modern vil- 
lage of Belbeis, located on the Damietta branch of the 
railway, about seventeen miles south-west of the former 
place. The canal which conveys the sweet water of 
the Nile from Cairo to Suez passes through both these 
villages, parallel with the railway, by way of Ismailia, 
pursuing very nearly the same line as the ancient one 
constructed for the same purpose, but choked up and 
obliterated for many centuries. By this route small 
craft, during the Roman period and the Middle Ages, 
used to furnish a communication with the market at 
Memphis for the citizens of Clvsma, which was situ- 
ated in the immediate vicinity of Suez, as traces of the 
name still attest. The Suez Canal, which was opened 
in 1869 for navigation between the Mediterranean and 
the Red Sea, has made this neighborhood public to 
thousands of persons travelling across the isthmus to 
India and China, as large steamers sail directly through 
it from European ports to these distant lands. Those 
who wish to see more of Egypt can disembark at Alex- 
andria, take the cars for Cairo, and thence back by way 
of Ismailia, intercepting their vessel again at Suez. 
Thus most of the spots rendered memorable by the ex- 
odus of the Israelites have been rapidly seen, at least 
from a distance, by multitudes of passengers on their 
way to and from the more distant East. The abrupt 
contact of modern improvements with these ancient 
scenes is calculated, perhaps, to dissipate some of the 
romantic haze which the imagination of Bible-readers 
usually throws around them, but deepens rather than 
lessens their interest by the familiarity of approach. 

After these preliminaries, we are prepared to follow 
the Hebrews in their exit from the land of their bond- 
age. On the eve of the Passover, corresponding to our 
Easter, they had rendezvoused, by divine appointment, 
at Raineses. Memphis, the capital, was forty miles dis- 
tant, and hence Moses’s final interview with Pharaoh, 


when the Israelitish leader uttered the ominous words, 
“ Thou hast spoken well, I will see thy face again no 
more,” must have taken place at some nearer point. 
The sacred meal was eaten in haste, the destroying an- 
gel at midnight smote all the first-born, and by the 
morning light the Israelitish host were on their march. 
As it is expressly stated that “ God led them not bv 
the way of the land of the Philistines, . . . but by the 
way of the wilderness of the Red Sea” (not the desert 
between Cairo and Suez, as Palmer thinks [Sinai from 
the Monuments , p. 144], but the great desert of et-Tih if- 
self), we are sure that they took the direct south-easterly 
route towards the head of the Gulf of Suez, doubtless 
corresponding substantially with the modern pilgrim 
road. This way would lead them out of the fertile val- 
ley of Goshen across a rolling gravelly plain between 
low hills of shifting sand the whole distance. There 
was no obstruction to their journey, and they would 
make rapid progress. They had but little household 
stuff, for Orientals, especially those of nomadic habits 
such as the Israelites inherited from their tent-dwell- 
ing forefathers, are not apt to encumber themselves 
much with furniture. Rain-water would be abundant 
in the pits and rocks along their path at that time of 
the year, and they carried with them provisions enough 
to last several days. Their first day was a long one, 
and they, no doubt, were anxious to fall as soon as pos- 
sible into the main llaj road. Their first camp is call- 
ed Succoth, or “booths” (Exod. xii, 37; xiii, 20; Numb, 
xxxiii, 56), probably a rough khan, like those estab- 
lished in all ages along this thoroughfare. The pres- 
ent Herb el-Ban.a northern branch of the great pilgrim 
route, leads direct from Belbeis, south-west down the 
valley by wav of Rubeihy and Aweibet, and falls into 
the main Haj road at the castle of Ajrful, sixty miles 
from Belbeis. Ajrud has been thought by many to 
correspond to the next station of the Israelites, “Etliam, 
in the edge of the wilderness” (Exod. xiii, 20; Numb, 
xxxiii, 6). It is a long-established Egyptian outpost 



Map of the Region between the Nile and the Red Sea. 


It ED SEA 


960 


RED SEA 


on the frontier of the desert. The whole air of the sa- 
cred narrative gives us the impression that this was a 
great landmark for travellers, and that it formed the 
first or immediate point of destination for the Hebrews 
on their journey. If this be Etham, it will be necessa- 
ry to allow thirty miles lor each day’s journey, which, 
under the pressing circumstances, is not extravagant, 
although an ordinary day’s march in caravan is only 
about twenty miles. See Etham. 

At Etham the Israelites received this divine com- 
mand: ‘'Turn ami encamp before l’i-hahiroth, between 
jVIigddl and the sea, over against Bnnl-zephon : before 
it shall ye encamp by the sea” (Exod. xiv, 2). This 
direction must be carefully examined, as it is the only 
precise description wo have of the actual crossing-place 
of the lied Sea by the Israelites. It is substantially re- 
peated in ver. 9, where the Egyptians are said to have 
overtaken the Hebrews “encamping by the sea, be- 
side Pi-hahiroth, before Haal-zephon.” Of the names 
of these localities no trace at present exists; their iden- 
tification, therefore, must depend upon a comparison of 
the circumstances of the narrative, with some slight 
corroboration from the etymology and historical appli- 
cation of the names. Three or four places have been 
selected by different writers as rivals for the honor of 
this remarkable crossing, and their claims have been 
somewhat hotly contested at times. We propose calm- 
ly and carefully to discuss their respective merits, and 
to be guided by the explicit terms of the Biblical ac- 
count, irrespective of any theological considerations as 
to whether the miracle involved may thus be enhanced 
or lessened. We take them up in their geographical 
order. 

I. On the Mediterranean Shore. — 31. Brugsch has re- 
cently discovered a new crossing-place for the Israelites 
on their passage out of Egypt, which, on account both 
of the fame of the author and his confident announce- 
ment, has attracted no little attention (L'Exode et les 
Monuments Egypt iens : Discours prononce a 1’occasion 
du Congres International d’Orientalistes it Londres, 
par Henri Brugsch-Bcy, delegue de son Altcssc Ismael 
Premier, le Khedive d’Egypte ; accompagne d’une carte 
[Leipsic, J.C. Jlinrichs, 1872, Svo], p.3G). He conceives 
that they did not cross the lied Sea at all, but a noted 
morass — the Sirbonian Bog of antiquity, the modern 
Sahdket Bardawal — a shallow lake along the Mediter- 
ranean, on the confines of Egypt towards Palestine. He 
thinks he has found all the names of the Biblical ac- 
count in the Egyptian papyri, and that he has succeed- 
ed in identifying them with modern localities. Thus 
(,)n he sets down as equivalent to Ann, a city, according 
to him, in the lleroijpolitic nome. Pi-beseth or Bnbas- 
tis is, of course, Tell- Bast. Goshen he traces, tli rough 
the hieroglyphical Phacoussa, to the modern KAs or 
Facus; and in the Sethroitic nome on the north of this 
he finds mention of Pilhan and Sukkoth, with Pi-ram- 
ses, or Bamescs. in the same neighborhood. Etham he 
conjectures to he Klictam, noticed as another of three 
ancient stations in this latter region of Tanis-Bameses; 
the remaining one adjoining being Migdol, which, of 
course, must he the Magdolmn of classical writers, and 
the present Tell es-Semiit. Bnnl-Zephon becomes Mount 
Casius, and Pi-hahiroth is the entrance upon the nar- 
row sand-heach separating the Mediterranean from the 
Sirbonian Lake just east of Pcliisium. Many of these 
identifications, which M. Brugsch gives with great brev- 
ity, ami without the detailed authority, the reader might 
reasonably question, both on the ground of strained ety- 
mological resemblance and inadequate historical data 
for position. But we prefer to call attention to a few 
palpable discrepancies with the scriptural narrative, 
whiclt seem to put this locality utterly out of the ques- 
tion, notwithstanding the author’s claim of their perfect 
accord. To be sure, the Hebrews, on this theory, sim- 
ply threaded their way along a narrow beach till they 
came to a bar which allowed them an easy crossing- 
place over the marsh, and M. Brugsch candidly admits 


1 (p. 32), “ The miracle, it is true, then ceases to be a 
miracle; but let us acknowledge, with all sincerity, 
that Divine Providence always maintains its place and 
authority.” What childlike faith ! 

In the first place, it certainly was the Bed Sea that 
the Israelites crossed on this occasion. True, the his- 
tory in Exodus does not explicitly name the body of 
water, but the immediate context and other passages 
of Scripture do so most definitely and unequivocally 
( Exod. xv, 4-22; Deut. xi, 4; Josh, iv, 23; xxiv, G; 
Psa. evi, 9; cxxxvi, 13, 15, etc.). Josephus distinctly 
understands it so (.4?d. ii, 15, 1), and t lie New-Test, 
writers are equally clear (Acts xii, 3G; Ileb. xi, 29). 
Even 31. Brugseli has felt himself obliged on bis map 
to call the Sirbonian Sea Yam Suf, \ the Hebrew name 
exclusively applied to the Arabian Gulf, thus commit- 
ting a twofold blunder. 

In tlie next place, the route which this theory selects 
for the Israelites on setting out is exactly the one which 
they avoided. “And it came to pass, when Pharaoh 
had let the people go. that God led them not through 
the way of the land of the Philistines, although that 
was near, . . . hut God led the people about, through the 
way of the wilderness of the Bed Sea” (Exod. xiii, 17, 
18). Moreover, it makes no proper account of the ab- 
rupt turn, or rather retrogression, on their way in order 
to reach the sea (Exod. xiv, 2). 

Finally, this view is wholly unsupported by anv lo- 
cal tradition, and requires a displacement of the well- 
settled positions of Marah, Elim, etc. This latter 31. 
Brugsch locates at “ the place which the Egyptian 
monuments designate by the name of Aalim or Tent- 
lim ; that is to say, ‘the city of fishes,’ situated near the 
, Gulf of Suez, in a northerly direction.” 31oses, how- 
ever, speaks of no “city” there, much less so large a one 
as llerodpolis, which 31. Brugsch sets down there on 
his map; but only of some wells and palms. 

This view of the Bed-Sea crossing 31. Brugsch reiter- 
ates in his latest work ( Gesch . .1 egyptens, Leips. 1877), 
but “ he has not won a single Egyptologist of note to a 
theory which demands so many conjectures in geogra- 
phy and such fanciful analogies in philology” (Dr. J. P. 
Thompson, in the Bibliotheca Sacra , July, 1877, p. 544). 

2. A t the “ Bitter Lakes." — These are a scries of shal- 
low ponds of brackish water, some of them of very con- 
siderable extent, stretching at intervals from the head 
of the Gulf of Suez to the 3Iediterranean. They are 
supposed to have formerly constituted a continuous wa- 
ter connection between those two great seas, which has 
since been broken by a change of level, leaving these 
isolated basins partly salt from the remnant of sea- 
water. A few geological evidences in support of this 
theory have been adduced, the most palpable of which 
is the fact that sea-shells, of the same character with 
those now thrown up by the Bed Sea, maj’ be seen 
along tlie shore of these lakes (see Dr. Harman, Egypt 
and the lloly Lund, p. BIG). This would seem to indicate 
a continuity of these bodies of water in earlier times. 
(See further in Lahorde, Commentaire Geographique sur 
I'Exode [Paris, 18-11, fol.], p.79 a.) 

Tlie great bed of the Bitter Lakes extends in a north- 
erly and southerly direction, and is separated from the 
Bed Sea by a sand-bank 4000 to 5000 meters long, which 
is seldom more than one meter higher than the sea. It 
is forty to fifty lower than the water-level of the sea 
basin, and from plain indications was once covered with 
the sea (Du Buis Aitnec, in the J)escr. de l' Egypt. Mod. i, 
188 sq., 1st ed.). Before it had a connection with tlie 
Nile bv means of the well-known canal, and thus re- 
ceived fresh water, its waters were bitter (Strabo, xvii, 
801). It is a favorite theory that it was originally 
embraced in the lleroiipolitan Gulf (Stiekcl, in the 
Stud. u. Kritiken , 1850, p. 328 sq.). Yet this is no proof 
that the ancient llerodpolis was situated in the inner 
corner of the Arabian Sea (Strabo, xvi, 7G7; xvii, 83G; 
Pliny, vi, 33), and that vessels sailed thence (Strabo, 
xvi,7G8); but more probably this city was located far 


RED SEA 


967 


RED SEA 


north of Clvsma, the modern Kolsum, near the present 
Suez (Ptolemy, iv, 5, 14, and 54 ; Itinerar Anton, p. 107, 
ed. Wess.), namely, somewhere about the modern Abu- 
Keished, or Mukfar (Ivnobel, Commentar zu Exodus, 
p. 140 sq.). Its ruins are still visible there (Champol- 
lion, Egypte, ii, 88). Its importance gave name to the 
entire adjacent nome and to the contiguous gulf. Both 
were likewise more properly designated from Arsinoe, 
which was situated near the present head of the bay 
(see Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Geography, s. v. 
“Arsinoe’’). This latter seems to have been the official 
designation of the place which was popularly termed 
Clysma (namely, the beach , to tcXvapa [Reland, Fausti- 
na, p. 472, 55G]j. 

A rise of the intermediate land has been inferred 
from the stoppage of the ancient canal along this line ; 
but this can readily be accounted for by the drifting-in 
of sand and the neglect of the banks. On the other 
hand, that no material change of level has taken place 
in this region in modern times seems to be proved by 
the fact that the fresh-water canal now actually con- 
veys water from the Nile to Suez, just as it formerly 
did, without any considerable cutting for that purpose. 
The brackishness of these lakes merely argues a con- 
nection at some period with the Mediterranean, and not 
necessarily with the Red Sea likewise, and the shells 
and other marine indications are probably traces of this 
connection only. In fact, the immense lagoon of Lake 
Menzaleh still reaches almost to Lake Timsali, the prin- 
cipal or deepest of the Bitter Lakes, and there is noth- 
ing but flats and marshes in this direction ; whereas 
southerly the Suez Canal required extensive excava- 
tions for its continuance to the Gulf of Suez, cutting in 
some places, not through sand and silted debris merely, 
but through firm strata of clay and crystalline alabaster. 

This theory rests upon so problematical a foundation 
that it has not been much resorted to in this discussion 
except for the purpose of strengthening the location of 
the Israelites’ crossing at Suez, by way of showing that 
the water at the latter point was deeper anciently than 
now, and so preserving the greater appearance of a mir- 
acle In the case. It is thus incidentally alluded to by 
Calmet and Robinson, and by several later writers. 
But for this purpose, if it proves anything, it proves too 
much; for if at the time of the Exodus the Red Sea 
extended thus far north, there is no occasion to seek 
for any other place of crossing, so far as a sufficiency of 
water is concerned. 

Aside from these geological and theological specula- 
tions, there is in favor of this crossing-place only the 
shorter distance from Belbeis, rendering it an easy three 
days’ journey of only fifteen miles per day to any point 
that might be selected in the vicinity of Ismailia. The 
attempt of Fiirst ( Hebrew Lexicon, p. 7G6) to identify 
Baal-zephon with Heroopolis is mere conjecture; and 
his remark that Migdol is the Magdolnm of Herodotus 
(ii, 159) is founded on a mistake (repeated in Smith’s 
Diet, of Greek and Roman Geography, ii, 24 G), for Mc- 
giddo in Palestine is doubtless there intended. (See 
Rawlinson, Herod, ii, 207.) The Magdolum of Egypt 
was twelve miles west of l’elusinm {Antonine Itinerary, 
p. 14), entirely too remote for the precise indication of 
locality in the Mosaic narrative. 

Against the location of the miracle at the Bitter 
Lakes are the following facts in the Biblical text: (1.) 
In order to go round the head of the sea (if thus far 
north) the Israelites would be obliged to start, not by 
“ the way of the wilderness,” as the text states, but. pre- 
cisely by that direct “way of the land of the Philistines” 
which the text expressly says they did not take (Exod. 
xiii, 17, 18). (2.) There would be no change of their 
course requisite or possible in order to reach this point, 
as the word “turn” (xiv, 2) demands; they were al- 
ready going on the direct and only route they could 
well have taken. Indeed, if the region of Lake Timsali 
were then so low as to be filled from the Red Sea, it is 
difficult to see how the water from the Mediterranean 


on the other side could have been kept out, and then 
there would be a continuous lake from sea to sea, and a 
miracle would have been necessary, at all hazards, in or- 
der to effect the passage anywhere. The Hebrews had 
no occasion to “turn” at all, ibr that matter. (3.) In that 
case Pharaoh's observation (ver. 3, 4), “The children 
of Israel are entangled in the land, the wilderness hath 
shut them in,” would have been very inapt; at least, its 
force is not at all clear; for, go which way they might, 
the material obstacle woidd be the same, viz. the water 
merely. (4.) There is no local or historical tradition 
confirmatory of this spot; in short, circumstances on 
this theory are all so uncertain and ill-defined that we 
may safely dismiss it as altogether hypothetical. If we 
are to determine anything definite concerning the place 
of the transaction, it must be based upon the known re- 
lations of the localities as they now exist. 

Kalisch thinks ( Comment . on Exod. ad loc.) that the 
Israelites turned northwards ; but in that ease likewise, 
as Shaw long since observed ( Travels , p. 311), they 
could not in any proper sense have become “entangled 
in the land” nor “shut in by the wilderness,” for all 
would have been free before them to escape; in fact, they 
would have been only pursuing a more direct route to 
Canaan. 

3. At Suez. — This location of the event in question 
has a far greater array of names in its support, among 
the most notable of whom is Dr. E. Robinson (in the 
Biblical Repository, 1832, p.753 sq., repeated in his Bibl. 
Res. i, 80), who followed in the wake of Niebuhr {Trav- 
els in Arabia, translated by Heron [Edinb. 1792], i, 198, 
451), and whose views have been substantially repro- 
duced by the latest writers. Other important authori- 
ties on the same side are Laborde ( Comment aire Geo- 
graphique, p.77), who cites, as having adopted it with 
some modification, the earlier writers, Le Clerc. G. Baer, 
Du Bois Aimee, Salvator, etc., to whom we add the au- 
thor of Murray's Hand-book for Egypt (ed. 1873), p.279; 
Keil, Comment, on the Pentateuch (Clarke’s translation, 
Edinb. 18GG, 3 vols. 8vo), ii, 46 sq. The obvious purport 
of the arguments adduced in favor of this as the place 
of the Israelites’ passage is, notwithstanding the dis- 
claimer of most of its advocates, to reduce the miracle 
to its minimum terms, and to find a spot where it is 
practicable by merely natural forces. This has created 
a prejudice against it in the minds of most readers, and 
induced a controversy not always temperate or logical. 
Let us look at the arguments on both sides from scriptu- 
ral sources purely. 

In favor of this view we may say that — (1.) The dis- 
tance from Belbeis (assuming that to correspond sub- 
stantially with the site y>f Bameses) sufficiently agrees 
with the requirements of a three days’ march, being 
abont fifty miles in a straight line. (2.) The general 
direction is about the required one for the Israelites at 
the outset. (3.) The adjoining localities are thought 
to correspond with those of the .Scripture account; thus 
it is generally agreed that Migdol (the tower) answers 
to some fortress on Jebel Atfikah. (4.) There are shoals 
reaching nearly or quite across the channel at this point, 
so that an east wind might readily lay it bare ; and it 
is, moreover, so narrow that the Israelites could easily 
cross in the few hours presumed to have been occupied 
in the passage. 

Other features of this locality do not well tally Avith 
the requirements of the case, and some appear abso- 
lutely to contradict the Biblical statements. Even the 
above coincidences— especially the last — when more 
closely examined, do not prove satisfactory. (1.) The 
direction to “turn” from the regular course hitherto 
pursued by the fugitives does not admit of an adequate 
explanation on this view. The word is an emphatic 
one, not the ordinary “*10, or n^3, to turn aside or 
away, but -Td, to return, turn back, viz. actually retro- 
grade. (Ew’ald, who treats the record in his usually ar- 
bitrary and irreverent manner, is yet too good a scholar 


RED SEA 


9G8 


RED SEA 


not to feel the force of this expression, which he con- 
strues by saying that Moses ‘‘lecl the host half-way 
back” [Hist. of Israel (translated by Martineau, London, 
I860, 5 vols. 8vo), ii, t>9 i ). At least a marked digression 
or detour is required to meet the significance of this 
term. But Suez is directly on the beaten track of all 
ages, and precisely in the line which the Israelites had 
already been pursuing. It is true the immemorial Ilaj 
route does not actually come down to the village of Suez 
itself, as, of course, it does not cross the head of the gulf 
there; it passes a mile or two above, so as to avoid the 
water. But this small divergence would be quite incon- 
siderable in the direction of a whole day’s march; for 
the order to “turn,” be it observed, was given at Etham 
before setting out the third day, not near its close, or in 
the vicinity of the sea, where the difference in direction 
might have been more perceptible. This last consid- 
eration is, therefore, altogether too insignificant to justi- 
fy the Hebrew term. (2.) None of the places given in 
the Biblical account as fixing the spot determine it at 
Suez. Even Jebel Atakah, if Migdol, is too far away 
to be naturally selected for such a minute specification 
of the immediate scene. Any point from Has Atakah 
to the south end of the Bitter Lakes would be “east” 


of (or “before”) that mountain in this general sense. 
As for I’i-haliiroth (whether Hebrew for mouth of the 
rarities , or, as is more likely, (’optic for the sedge-plat ), 
it finds no special adaptation to any place in that neigh- 
borhood. 'I'lie attempt to identify it with Ajrud fails 
utterly, for the Hebrew and Arabic names have but one 
radical letter in common. Equally unsatisfactory is 
every effort to discover Baal-zephou in any prominent 
landmark north of Jebel Atakah. (Some writers refer 
Migdol to Muktdla, but this seems to be an error for 
the 'pass Mantulah, ami therefore fails of verbal corre- 
spondence.) There is in that direction nothing but a 
fiat, monotonous tract of sand, with no striking name or 
object to lix upon. (3.) At .Suez the Israelites, so far 
from being hemmed in by barriers on either side and 
an impassable sea in front, as the Biblical situation evi- 
dently was, had nothing to do if they wished to escape 
but to act just as every caravan at Suez now does, sim- 
ply keep on across the open plain around the head of 
the bay' — an easy, free, and direct passage of some three 
or four miles at farthest. At Suez it was impossible 
for them to be either “entangled in the land” or “shut 
in by the wilderness.” The way was clear, so far as nat- 
ural obstacles or intricacy was concerned, and no troop 
of six hundred cavalry even 
could effectually cut them 
oft’ from it; certainly no en- 
emy in the rear could hinder 
them. (4.) “A strong east 
wind blowing all night” 
across the head of the gulf 
(Exod. xiv,21) woidd leave 
bv morning no “wall of wa- 
ters” either “on the right 
band or on the left” of pas- 
sengers at Suez. As will 
be seen by inspecting the 
soundings on the accompa- 
nying sketch from the Brit- 
ish sailing-chart, the chan- 
nel opposite Suez is (except, 
of course, the artificial bed 
of the Suez Canal) nowhere 
over four feet deep at low- 
water, and not more than 
one twelfth of a mile wide. 
It could be waded across 
without any miracle or ex- 
tra wind at all; in fact, this 
has actually been done. One 
traveller hired a man to walk 
through the water at ebb- 
tide at Suez, which he ef- 
fected, holding his hands 
over his head ( Madden, 
Travels , ii, 143, 150). So all 
the way down to the bar at 
the mouth of the creek 
which puts up into Suez the 
water is at the most only 
five or six feet deep (in one 
or two spots), and generally 
three or four at ordinary low 
tide, with a tolerably uni- 
form width of about one 
tenth of a mile. But a 
powerful and prolonged east 
wind, acting upon the mass 
of water in the outer or 
broad part of the bay itself, 
would so greatly lower the 
tide on the eastern shore, 
where the channel of Suez 
lies, as to drain the latter al- 
most, if not absolutely, dry 
throughout its whole ex- 
tent. It is true there would 



RED SEA 


969 


RED SEA 


be water enough left in the bay itself to prevent an 
enemy from surrounding the passing host on that side, 
but on the north there would be no such protection. 
Thus, even on the supposition that the term “wall” is 
used in ver. 22 in the sense of defence, the explanation 
clearly fails to meet the language of the text : “ The wa- 
ters were a wall unto them on the right hand and on the 
left.” We desire to insist on this fact, and to us it ap- 
pears decisive of the whole issue. But the phraseology 
seems to us to be stronger even than this interpreta- 
tion. The term “wall” (STan) is rarely, if ever, used in 
this metaphorical sense of protection, but invariably 
(1 Sam. xxv, 16 is, we believe, the only doubtful in- 
stance) signifies some physical barrier, whether of stone 
or other material, placed more or less vertically for the 
purpose of protection. Its meaning is by no means ful- 
filled in the supposition of a vague water-line, shelving 
away at a distance on one side. Surely nothing but a 
desire to minify the preternatural element in the dis- 
cussion could lead to the adoption of so inadequate an 
interpretation ; for the language, it must be remem- 
bered, occurs not in a poetical or figurative connection, 
but in a plain, prosaic history. The poetical version 


of the transaction (Exod. xv, 8) uses much stronger 
language : “The floods stood upriyht as a heap, and the 
depths were congealed in the heart of the sea.” The 
phraseology here, although figurative, no doubt correct- 
ly represents the facts as seen by an eye-witness. Psa. 
lxxviii, 13, “He made the waters to stand as a heap" 
shows the same traditional interpretation, and Heb. x, 
2 confirms it, “Baptized unto Moses in the cloud and 
in the sea” — that is, wet with the spray. 

For these reasons, even if we could find no better 
crossing-place for the Israelites, we should be disposed" 
to reject the one at Suez as not fairly meeting the 
scriptural requirements in the case. 

4. At Has Atakah. — This place has been preferred as 
that of the crossing by the great majority of writers 
and travellers, including Pococke, Jolv, Moncony s, Shaw, 
Ovington, Sicard, Bruce, Arundale, Kaumer, Kitto, Olin, 
Wilson, Durbin, Bartlett, Porter, Bonar, Murphy, etc. It 
seems to us to meet the demands of the Biblical ac- 
count more perfectly than any other. This cape is sit- 
uated about six miles, in a direct line, south of Suez, 
opposite the southern end of Jebel Atakah. It is a 
tongue running out more than a mile into the water 
beyond the average shore-line, and continued nearly a 
mile farther by a 
shoal, over which 
the water at ordi- 
nary low tide is not 
more than fourteen 
feet deep. Beyond 
this again stretch- 
es, for nearly a 
mile and a half in 
the same direction, 
a lower shoal, cov- 
ered nowhere by 
more than twenty- 
nine feet of water 
at low tide. Oppo- 
site this point there 
reaches out, for about 
two miles from the 
eastern shore, a sim- 
ilar shoal, only thir- 
ty feet under water 
at its deepest place. 
The entire width of 
the sea at this point 
is about five miles, 
while the space 
where it is not over 
fifteen feet deep is 
but three ami a half 
miles, and the chan- 
nel, itself not over 
fifty feet deep, is less 
than three quarters 
of a mile wide. The 
sea immediately 
above and below this 
spot, in the channel, 
is about seventy feet 
deep. Here, then, 
is a place where a 
strong and contin- 
ued east wind, of the 
preternatural char- 
acter implied in the 
sacred narrative, 
might open a pas- 
sage suitable for the 
occasion, and leave 
a mass of water fit- 
ly comparable to a 
“wall on either 
hand.” Moreover, 
the Israelites would, 




RED SEA 


970 


RED SEA 



in that case, emerge on the shore near Ayun Mftsa 
(Wells of Moses), the very name of which, in addi- 
tion to other local traditions, represents the scene of 
the event. 

A close examination of the text itself confirms this 
view of the transaction. It says (Exod. xiv, 21), “ Je- 
hovah caused the sea to go made it walk ) by a 

strong east wind all night, . . . and the waters were 
divided (*3»’|EE**, were split)." Similar is the language 
in ver. 16: “Divide it (the sea), and the children of 
Israel shall go . . . through the midst of the sea.” The 
statement that the wind blew “all night” gives no just 
countenance to the inference that the Israelites did not 
begin the passage till near morning, and therefore could 
have gone but a very short distance in all, or, at least, 
when the wind lulled and the miracle ceased. For 
aught that appears, they may have alrcad}’ walked 
many miles, or even have continued their march some 
time the next forenoon if necessary in order to cross. 
True, the text says (ver. 27), “The sea returned at the 
turning of the morning (“l£2 r*3E3, at daybreak; 
comp. Judg. xix, 25, 26) to its usual bed (*:r“XP, to 
its perennial Jloip)," but it does not necessarily follow' 
from this that the Israelitish host had at that time all 
reached the opposite shore. Indeed, rather the contra- 
ry is intimated by the statement, yiren subsequently to 
this, that “the children of Israel walked upon dry land 
in the midst of the sea” (Exod. xiv, 29), as if they con- 
tinued their march some time after the overthrow' of 
the Egyptians in their rear. Nor is it certain from 
ver. 20 that both camps remained quiet all the night, 
although such might be the inference at first sight. 
The true state of the case appears to have been about 
this: the Egyptians overtook the Israelites about night- 
fall, just as they were about to encamp (S* , ;n, in the 
act of pitching their tents , or preparing to do so) near the 
shore of the sea (ver. 9), and marched down directly 
upon them (ver. 10). In their dismay at the prospect 
of instant destruction, Moses ordered them to press for- 
ward immediately (ver. 15, and they shall pull 

vp stakes, that is, break up their preparations for camp). 
While they were doing this the wind sprang up, which 
did not lull till daylight. As they were marching to 
the beach the guardian pillar took its position in their 
rear (ver. 19), and so followed them all night as a light 
to their steps (ver. 20). When they had reached the 
middle of the sea (ver. 21), ami the Egyptians were 
not far behind them (ver. 22), the morning began to 
dawn (ver. 21 ), and to prevent the enemy from overtak- 
ing the fugitives the march of the Egyptians was mi- 
raculously retarded, so that they, in their panic, were 
about to retreat (ver. 25). This they would hardly 
have thought of doing had they been nearly across, or 
had it been but a little way to the opposite shore: in- 
deed, every reference to their destruction shows that 
they were yet in the middle of the sea. So, too, was 
Moses apparently at this juncture, when, at his extend- i 


ed rod, the water behind the host — who had gained 
somew’hat by the delay of the enemy — began to fall, 
and the Egyptians actually turned to flee, but were 
overtaken in the heart of the sea (ver. 27), while the 
Israelites continued their march through the channel, 
still open in front of them (ver. 29), till they reached 
the shore, which the following waves soon strewed with 
the corpses of the foe (ver. 30). From this recital of in- 
cidents in the exact order of the text, it appears that 
the march really lasted some part of the night, and we 
consequently require a considerable width of water for 
its occurrence. 

Eas Atakah, too, seems to correspond to the geo- 
graphical features of the case. The point where the 
Israelites struck the western coast-line of the Red Sea 
is (as we have seen above) explicitly defined in three 
passages of the sacred itinerary, which we translate lit- 
erally: “Speak to the sons of Israel, and they shall re- 
turn (•IE'1*^) and encamp before (“3sb) Pi-ha-Chirotb, 
between Migdol and the sea; before (“3>:b) Ba’al-Tse- 
plion, opposite it (“,"23) shall ye encamp upon (b?) the 
sea” (Exod. xiv, 2). “And they [the Egyptians] over- 
took (^"Ui'l) them [the Israelites] encamping upon 
the sea; upon (55*) Pi-ha- Chiroth, which is before 
lJii’al-Tscphon” (ver. 9). “And they [the Israelites] 
removed from Etham, and he [Israel] returned (E-’*) 
upon (b?) Pi-ha-Chiroth, which is before IkVal-Tse- 
phou; and they encamped before Migdol” (Numb, 
xxxiii, 7). The meaning of Pi-hahiroth, if it be He- 
brew, can only be mouth of the gorges (root to 
bore); or, if Egyptian (as Gesenins and Filrst prefer), 
it is doubtless sedgy spot ( Coptic, pi-achi-roth, “ the 
place of meadows,” according to Jablonski). In either 
etymology it would most probably designate a grassy 
shore, as at the opening of a valley with a brook into 
the sea. Such a spot is found in the reedy plain (some- 
times called TUideah) at the mouth of a wide valley just 
south of Jebel Atakah. The writer’s Egyptian drago- 
man, who was thoroughly familiar with these localities, 
called it Wady (lliubbeh (“cane-vallev”); Robinson calls 
it Wady Tawdrik, others Wady Musa, and still other 
names are assigned to it. Baal-zephon is doubtless a 
Hebrew rendering of the name of a place “sacred to 
Tvphon,” the Greek form of the Egyptian malignant 
deity, of whose haunt in this vicinity there are traces 
in ancient writers (see the Hebrew lexicographers). In 
that case it was probably a mountain, or at least an 
eminence, in accordance with the heathen preference 
for hills as sites of shrines. Migdol is the common 
Hebrew word for a tower, and was, therefore, most like- 
ly also a commanding position. It occurs, however, as 
the name of a town in this quarter of Egypt (Jer. xliv, 
1 ; xlvi, 14), and may be nothing more than a Hebra- 
ized form of the Coptic megtol, “ many hills” (see the 
authorities in Geseuius). In Ezck. xxix, 10; xxx, 6, 
it recurs in the phrase H3*3 which may most 


RED SEA 


971 


RED SEA 


naturally be rendered from Migdol of Seveneh ; in the I 
English Bible, “from the tower of Syene,” after the 
Vulg. a turre Syene; but the rendering of the Sept., d7ro 
MaycwXov fats [once Kai] Sv/jvt jc, suggests that the 
latter name should be pointed FI31D, to Seven, thus 
marking out the natural limits of Egypt, from Migdol 
on the north to Assuan on the south, precisely as to- 
day; and this conclusion is generally adopted by mod- 
ern scholars. Fiirst, in his Hebrew Lexicon, gives a cu- 
rious interpretation of this whole geographical question : 
“From Migdol a road led to Baal-zephon, the later He- 
rodpolis on the Bed Sea, and therefore the Bed Sea 
is mentioned with it, Exod. xiv, 2 ; Numb, xxxiii, 7.” 
Most readers, however, will prefer to see in these texts, 
so carefully worded in almost exact agreement with 
each other, a precise indication of the very spot where 
the Israelites crossed ; and if the above reasons be cor- 
rect, we ought to find on each side of the crossing-place 
a conspicuous landmark, probably a mountain. This we 
exactly have at the valley in question, with Jebel Ata- 
kah (“hill of liberty”) on the north, and Jebel Abu- 
Daraj (“ hill of the father of steps,” that is, long march) 
on the south, and a fine well -watered plain between 
suitable for an encampment. In this position the Is- 
raelites would be effectually hemmed in by the sea in 
front, the mountains on either hand, and the Egyptians 
in their rear. The enemy, of course, came directly 
down from Memphis along Wady et-Tih (“the valley 
of wandering”), which terminates in the wady in ques- 
tion, thus intercepting the Israelites, who could not es- 
cape along the narrow, rocky margin of the shore around 
the point called Ras Atakah. The writer tried to trav- 
el that rough coast and found it impracticable enough. 
Small companies, as was the case with Dr. Durbin, may, 
indeed, pass slowly along it, but not so great and encum- 
bered a multitude as the Israelites. Besides, it is about 
a day’s march by this route from Ras Atakah to Suez, 
and the Egyptians might readily have intercepted the 
fugitives by sending a detachment around the other 
side of the mountain. 

The particular path by which the Israelites reached 
Ras Atakah from Ajrud has not been agreed upon by 
the advocates of this point of crossing. Sicard thought 
they came down Wady et-Tih from Memphis; but this, 
as we have seen, is not at all likely. Most others sup- 
pose that they came first to Suez, and then along the 
shore. But if they came that way, why might they not 
escape by the same ? As we have just seen, they could 
do neither. There remains, therefore, the supposition 
that they passed around partly behind and across Jebel 
Atakah. This exactly tallies with the command to 
“ turn” back from Etham. From Ajrud the route would 
thus be not merely a deflection, but in part an actual ret- 
rogression, as the accompanying map shows. A path is 
laid down on several of the maps of this region between 
the highest and westernmost summits of Jebel Atakah, 
which the fugitives would most naturally take. Bv this 
route the distance for the third day’s march from Ajrud j 
to the spring on the shore at the mouth of Wady Ta- < 
warik would be a little less than thirty miles, the aver- 
age allowed above for each of the previous days’ travel. 
Thence to the extremity of Ras Atakah is not quite ten 
miles, and thence to Ayun Musa is scarcely seven miles 
more. The journey does not seem to us to be an im- 
practicable one under the urgency of the circumstances. 
It might be materially shortened for each of the suc- 
ceeding days, especially the last, by locating Etham on 
the Haj route, somewhat to the west of Ajrud — a sup- 
position not at all forbidden by any known fact. 

Kurtz ( History of the Old Covenant [Clarke’s transl. 
Edinb. 1859, 4 vols. 8vo], i, 357 sq.) has an extended 
observation on the time that elapsed upon the route 
from Rameses to the Red Sea, which he argues must 
have been more than the three days that appear in the 
narrative (by implication only, however, for there is no 
express statement to that effect). We condense his 


| statements into the following points : (I.) Jewish tra- 
dition assigns seven days, and this seems to have been 
the origin of the Passover week. (2.) The term i'S’S, 
“journey,” denotes only an encampment, while the suc- 
cessive days of travel are expressed by or “ day’s 

journey.” (3.) In Numb, x, 33, we find stations three 
days apart, with no locality named between (the 
same, we may add, is the case in xxxiii, 8, 16). (4.) 

It would have been impossible for the Israelites all to 
rendezvous at one place and start together, especially 
as they all kept the Passover in their own homes the 
preceding night, and were not allowed to leave till 
morning (Exod. xii, 22). (5.) The distance, under any 

calculation, was too great for a three days’ continuous 
march. (6.) The message to Pharaoh of their move- 
ments at Etham (xiv, 5) requires at least four days 
from that point to the Red Sea — two lor him to get the 
information, and two more for his army to be got ready 
and overtake the Israelites. To these arguments we may 
add the fact that a whole month was consumed (Numb, 
xxiii, 3; Exod.xvi, 1) in making the first eight stations 
(Numb, xxxiii, 5-11), containing— so far as the narra- 
tive directly states — but ten days of marching. As the 
remainder of the time could hardly have been all spent 
in camp — of which, moreover, there is no mention in the 
account — there arises a suspicion that the most promi- 
nent stations only are named, or those where more than 
one night’s halt was made, or some noteworthy incident 
occurred. Of course the fugitives would travel faster, 
longer, and more continuously, till they were escaped 
from Egypt, and more leisurely after the event at the 
Red Sea had relieved them from danger. Be all this as 
it may, it is in any case clear that they could as easily 
journey from Ajrftd to the mouth of Wady Tawarik in 
one day as they' could from Tell Ramsts to Ajrud in two. 

5. Capt. Moresby ( in Aiton’s Land of the Messiah, 

I p. 118 sq.) is of the opinion that the Israelites crossed at 

Ras Tarafineh, south of Mount Abu-Dcraj, some sixty 
miles below Suez, where the sea is twenty miles wide 
and two hundred and fifty feet deep. This accords with 
certain traditions of the Arabs of the Desert, who name 
the warm springs in the rocks opposite after Pharaoh. 
The inducement, however, to this view seems chiefly to 
be a desire to exaggerate the miracle. 

6. The last and most preposterous theory broached is 
that of Dr. Beke ( Sinai in Arabia [Loud. 1878]), who 
contends that the eastern arm of the Red Sea, i. e. the 
Gulf of ’Akabah, and not the Gulf of Suez, is that which 
the Israelites crossed. He is driven to this conclusion 
by his chimerical idea that Mount Sinai is not the tra- 
ditional mountain in the peninsula, but Jebel Bagliir, 
east of ’Akabah. See Sinai. 

Among the localities named, the choice really lies be- 
tween Suez and Ras Atakah, and of these we decidedly 
prefer the latter. 

Besides the works cited above, and the commentaries 
on Exodus, the question has been discussed by the fol- 
lowing among the more modern writers : Kitto, Pictorial 
History of the Jeivs (Lond. 1843, 2 vols. small 4to), i, 
187 sq. ; Latrobe, Scripture Illustrations (ibid. 1838, 
8vo), p. 29 sq. ; Raumer, Beitrdge zur biblisclien Geo- 
graphic ( Leips. 1843, 8vo), p. 1 sq. ; Sharpe, in Bart- 
lett’s Forty Days in the Desert (Lond. 2d ed. large 8vo), 
p. 23 sq. ; Wilson, The Lands of the Bible (Edinb. 1847, 
2 vols. 8vo), i, 149 sq. ; Olin, Travels in Egypt, etc. 
(N. Y. 1843, 2 vols. 12mo), i, 342 sq.; Durbin, Observa- 
tions in the East (ibid. 1845, 2 vols. 12mo), i, 120 sq. ; 
Porter, in Murray’s II and -booh for Syria (Lond. ed. 
1868, 12mo). i, 9 sq. ; Palmer, Desert of the Exodus 
(N. Y. reprint, 1872, 8vo), p. 42 sq. ; Bonar, The Desert 
of Sinai (ibid, reprint, 1857, 12mo), p. 82 sq.: Morris, 
Tour through Turkey, etc. (Phila. 1842, 2 vols. 12mo), 
ii, 219 sq. ; Strauss, Sinai und Golgotha (Berl. 1850, 
12mo), p. 147 sq. One of the most recent monographs 
on the subject — that of Unruh, Der Zug der 1 sraeliten 
aus A egypten tiach Canaan (Langensalza, 1860, 8vo) — 


REDDITIO SYMROU 


0*72 


REDEMPTION 


after extending the Gulf of Suez so far north as nearly 
to join a deep bay of the Mediterranean, locates Succoth 
at the narrow isthmus, Ci-hahiroth at Suez, and the oth- 
er scriptural localities ( Etham, Migdfd. and Ilaal-zephon) 
east of the gulf, which on this view was not actually 
crossed at all. This is the rationalistic theory fully 
carried out. The lively writer (Kinglake) of Eotlien 
(Lond. 1841; N. V. 1845, 12mo), p. 188, thus brieHv puts 
the main points of the controversy: “There are two 
opinions as to the point at which the Israelites passed 
the lied Sea. < hie is that they traversed only the very 
small creek at the northern extremity of the inlet, and 
that they entered the bed of the water at the spot on 
which Suez now stands ; the other that they crossed the 
sea from a point many miles down the coast. The Ox- 
ford theologians, who, with Milman, their professor, be- 
lieve that Jehovah conducted his chosen people without 
disturbing the order of nature, adopt the first view, and 
suppose that the Israelites passed during the ebb-tide, 
aided by a violent wind. One among many objections 
to this supposition is that the time of a single ebb would 
not have been suflicient for the passage of that vast 
multitude of men and beasts, or even for a small fraction 
of it. Moreover, the creek to the north of this point 
can be compassed in an hour, and in two hours you can 
make the circuit of the salt marsh over which the sea 
may have extended in former times. If, therefore, the 
Israelites crossed so high up as Suez, the Egyptians, un- 
less infatuated by divine interference, might easily have 
recovered their stolen goods from the encumbered fugi- 
tives by making a slight detour.” See Exodk. 

Redditio Symboli ( rehearsal of the creed}. In 
early times the candidates for baptism were accustomed, ■ 
on Maun dy-T h u rsd ay , to recite publicly the creed in the I 
presence of the bishop or presbyters, and this act was 
designated redditio symboli. 

Redeemer, a frequent rendering of the lleb3xh, 
goel, which strictly means the nearest kinsman. It is 
thus applied to Christ, as he is the avenger of man 
upon his spiritual enemy, and delivers man from death 
and the power of the grave, which the human avenger 
could not do. The right of the institution of goel was 
only in a relative — one of the same blood — and hence 
our Saviour’s assumption of our nature is alluded to and 
implied under this term. There was also the right of 
buying back the family inheritance when alienated; 
and this also applies to Christ, our goel, who has pur- 
chased back the heavenly inheritance into the human 
family. Under these views Job joyfully exclaims, “I 
know that my Redeemer (my goel) liveth,” etc.— Wat- 
son, Theol. l)ict. s. v. .See (Ioei.; Jests Ciikist; Me- 
uiatoh. 

Redemption, in theology, denotes our recovery 
from sin and death by the obedience and sacrifice of 
Christ, who on this account is called the “ Redeemer” 
(Isa. lix, 20; Job xix, 25). “ being justified freely by 
his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ 
Jesus” (Rom. iii, 24). “Christ hath redeemed us from 
the curse of the law, being made a curse for us” (Cal. 
iii, 13). “In whom we have redemption through his 
blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of 
his grace” (Kph. i, 7). “Forasmuch as ye know that 
ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver 
and gold, from your vain conversation received by tra- 
dition from your fathers; but with the precious blood 
of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without 
spot” ( 1 Ret. i, 18, IP), “And ye are not your own, for 
ye are bought with a price” (1 Cor. vi. 19,20). 

by redemption those who deny the atonement made 
by Christ wish to understand deliverance merely, re- 
garding only the ofFecr, and studiously putting out of 
sight the cause from which it Hows. Hut the very 
terms used in the above-cited passages, “ to redeem” and 
“to be bought with a price,” will each be found to re- 
fute this notion of a gratuitous deliverance, whether 
from sin or punishment, or both. “Our English word 


redemption ," says Dr. Gill, “ is from the Latin, and signi- 
fies buying again ; and several words in the Greek lan- 
guage of the New Test, are used in the affair of our re- 
demption which signify the obtaining of something by 
paying a proper price for it ; sometimes the simple verb 
ayopd^m, to buy , is used; so the redeemed are said to 
be bought unto God by the blood of Christ, and to be 
bought from the earth, and to be bought from among 
men, and to be bought with a price — that is, with the 
price of Christ’s blood (1 Cor. vi, 20) ; hence the Church 
of God is said to be purchased with it (Acts xx, 28). 
Sometimes the compound word i£ayopd£w is used, 
which signifies to buy again , or out of the hands of an- 
other, as the redeemed are bought out of the hands of 
justice, as in Gal. iii, 13; iv, 5. To redeem literally 
means ‘to buy back;’ ami Xvrpoto, to redeem , and a7ro- 
Xvrpojaic, redemption , are, both in Greek writers and in 
the New Test., used for the act of setting free a captive 
bv paying Xvrpov, a ransom or redemption price.” Yet, 
as Grotius has fully shown by reference to the use of 
the words both in sacred and profane writers, redemp- 
tion signifies not merely “ the liberation of captives,” but 
deliverance from exile, death, and every other evil from 
which we may be freed ; and Xvrpov signifies every- 
thing which satisfies another so as to effect this deliv- 
erance. The nature of this redemption or purchased 
deliverance (for it is not gratuitous liberation, as will 
presently appear) is therefore to be ascertained by the 
circumstances of those who are the subjects of it. The 
subjects in the case before us are sinful men; they are 
under guilt, under “the curse of the law,” the servants 
of sin, under the power and dominion of the devil, and 
“taken captive by him at his will,” liable to the death 
of the body and to eternal punishment. To the whole 
of this case the redemption — the purchased deliverance 
of man as proclaimed in the Gospel — applies itself. 
Hence in the above-cited and other passages it is said, 
“We have redemption through his blood, the forgive- 
ness of sins,” in opposition to guilt; redemption from 
“the curse of the law;” deliverance front sin, that “we 
should be set free from sin ;” deliverance from the power 
of Satan ; from death, by a resurrection; and from future 
“wrath” by the gift of eternal life. Throughout the 
whole of this glorious doctrine of our redemption from 
these tremendous evils there is, however, in the New 
Test., a constant reference to the Xvrpov, the redemption 
price, which Xvrpor is as constantly declared to be the 
death of Christ, which he endured in our stead. “The 
Son of man came to give his life a ransom for many” 
(Matt, xx, 28). “ Who gave himself a ransom for all” 
(1 Tim. ii, (5). “ In whom we have redemption through 
his blood” (Eph. i, 7). “ Ye were not redeemed with cor- 
ruptible things, as silver and gold, but with the precious 
blood of Christ” (1 Ret. i. 18, 19). That deliverance of 
man from sin, misery, and all other penal evils of his 
transgression, which constitutes our redemption by 
Christ, is not, therefore, a gratuitous deliverance, grant- 
ed without a consideration, as an act of mere preroga- 
tive; the ransom — the redemption price — was exacted 
and paid ; one thing was given for another— the precious 
blood of Christ for captive and condemned men. ( )f the 
same import are those passages which represent ns as 
having been “ bought” or “ purchased" by Christ. Reter 
speaks of those “who denied the Lord rbv uyopaoavra 
avrovg, that bought them;” and Raul, in the passage 
above cited, says, “Ye are bought with a price” (gyo- 
puaSiire), which price is expressly said by John to be the 
blood of Christ: “Thou wast slain, and hast redeemed 
us to God ( gyopaaac , hast purchased us) by thy blood” 
(Rev. v, !)). The ends of redemption are, that the jus- 
tice of God might be satisfied; his people reconciled, 
adopted, sanctified, and brought to glory. The proper- 
ties of it arc these : (1) it is agreeable to all the perfec- 
tions of God; (2) wiiat a creature never could merit, 
and therefore entirely of free grace; (3) it is special 
and particular; (4) full and complete; (5) it is eter- 
nal as to its blessings. See Edwards, Hist, of Iiedemp- 


REDEMPTORISTS 


973 


REDEMPTORISTS 


lion ; Cole, On the Sovereignty of God; Lime-street Led. 
lcct. 5; Watts, Ruin and Recovery; Owen, On the Death 
and Satisfaction of Christ; Gill, Body of Divinity; 
Presscnse, Religion; Goodwin, Works; Knapp, Theolo- 
gy, p. 331 ; Bullet. Theol. Avril, 1868; Calvin, Institutes; 
Evangel. Quar. Rev. April, 1870, p. 290; Presbyt. Con- 
fess.; Werner ,Gesch.der deutscken Theol.; Metk.Quar. 
Rev. Oct. 1868; July, 1874, p. 500; Jan. 1876, art. ii ; 
Presbyt. Quar. Rev. July, 1875, art. ii ; Fletcher, 1 Fonts; 
New- Englander, July, 1870, p. 531 ; Barnes [Albert], 
The A tonement in its Relations to Law and Moral Gov- 
ernment (Phila. 1858, 12mo) ; Princeton Rev. July, 1859 ; 
Oct. 1859; Bill. Sacra, Jan. 1858; Delitzsch, Bibl. Psy- 
chol. p. 482; AT tiller. On Sin; Pearson, On the Creed; 
Liddon, Divinity of Christ; Pin, Jesus-Christ dans le 
Plan Divin de la Redemption (1X73). See Propitia- 
tion ; Reconciliation ; Satisfaction. 

Redemptorists, Order of, or “the Congregation 
of the Most Iloly Redeemer," was established by Alfonso 
Maria di Liguori (q. v.) in the city of Scala in 1732, 
and spread first, in the kingdom of Naples and in the 
Papal States. The end of this institute was the asso- 
ciation of missionary priests who should minister by 
special services to the spiritual wants of the abandoned 
in towns and villages, without undertaking regular or- 
dinary parochial duties. After St. Alfonso had found- 
ed several houses of his community, pope Benedict XIV 
solemnly approved of his rule and institute, under the 
above title, Feb. 25, 1749. The order rapidly found fa- 
vor, and was introduced into other countries, chiefly 
through the instrumentality of Clement Maria lloff- 
bauer. This man, the first German Redemptorist, was 
born in Moravia Dee. 26, 1751. He became a baker, 
and exercised his profession for some years in the Pre- 
monstrant convent of Bruck. Here he obtained the fa- 
vor of the abbot, who made him commence liis studies. 
After studying four years very actively, he left the con- 
vent in 1776 with a view to turn hermit, and spent two 
years at the renowned shrine of Miihlfrauen. When 
the hermitages were abolished, he went to Vienna, where 
he supported himself by working at his former trade. 
In company with his friend Peter Emanuel Kunzman, 
who eventually joined the Liguorians as a lay-broth- 
er, he made several pilgrimages to Rome, and subse- 
quently completed his studies at Vienna. Here he 
became acquainted with John Thadda?us Ilibel, ivho 
was afterwards his most zealous follower and firm friend. 
The two friends visited Rome, and together entered the 
convent of the Priests of the Most Holy Redeemer. The 
rector of the convent designated them some time after to 
go to Germany to establish the order there, and thus to 
supply the place of the Jesuits, who had been expelled. 
After they had finished the necessary studies, they were 
ordained. They went in 1785 to Vienna; but as there 
was no prospect of Joseph II allowing their order to be 
established in Austria, they turned their attention to 
Poland. Through the mediation of the papal nuncio 
Saluzzo, they obtained the church of St. Benno at War- 
saw and a dwelling-house, and from this their followers 
subsequently received in Warsaw the name of Bennon- 
ites. The priests of the new order, during the first 
years of their establishment, were in the habit of preach- 
ing every Sunday and feast-day in the open air; but 
as this was subsequently forbidden by the civil author- 
ities, they commenced preaching every Sunday in their 
church of St. Benno two sermons in Polish, two in Ger- 
man, and one in French. Their activity was rewarded 
by great success, for in 1796, shortly after they had 
commenced, the number of their communicants had 
reached, it is said, 19,000. Natives of Poland, in large 
numbers, entered the order; and Hoffbauer, during his 
sojourn in Poland, even opened a seminary for the 
clergy. In 1794, the order was invited to Mitau, in 
Courland. and Hoffbauer sent three priests to establish 
it there. In Warsaw they obtained a second church — 
that of the Holy Cross. In 1799 the order numbered 
twenty-five members in that city. As they were at a 


great distance from Rome, Francis dc Paulo had, in 
1785, given Hoffbauer full power to establish colleges, 
receive members, etc.; and in 1792 he appointed him 
his vicar-general. In 1801 or 1802 they were invited 
to Switzerland, and in 1803 some of them were sent 
there. They settled at first, on the estate of the duke 
of Schwarzenberg at the frontier of Switzerland, and 
afterwards in the village of Jestetten, on Mount Ta- 
bor. In August, 1803, Hoffbauer went to Rome, after- 
wards to Poland, and thence to Mount Tabor. While 
at the latter place he received a request to send a mem- 
ber of his order to the church at Try berg, in the Black 
Forest, a place of pilgrimage. Still the two establish- 
ments at Mount Tabor and at Tryberg proved unsuc- 
cessful, and were subsequently abandoned. In 1806 
Hoffbauer returned to Warsaw ; but the very next year 
proceedings were instituted against the society, their 
papers searched, and finally the community was sup- 
pressed by the military authorities. The fathers were 
imprisoned in the fort of Kustrin, where they were re- 
tained one month, and then sent back two by two to 
their native country. Hoffbauer retired to Vienna, 
where he sought to reunite his order. In 1813 he was 
appointed confessor and ecclesiastical director of the 
Ursuline convent of that city, an office which he re- 
tained until his death. The church of the convent was 
soon transformed into a mission church, Hoffbauer’s 
reputation as a confessor became considerable, and he 
preached, besides, every Sunday in the church of St. Ur- 
sula. As he died March 15, 1820, he did not witness the 
establishing of his order in Austria; although, one month 
afLcr his death, the Redemptorists were permitted to es- 
tablish a college, and before the close of the year the 
emperor granted them a church at Vienna. In the fall 
of 1826 they formed a branch establishment at Frohn- 
leiten. The Liguorians now continued in Vienna un- 
til driven out of it in March, 1848. In Bavaria the 
king authorized, March 11, 1841, fifteen to twenty mem- 
bers of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer to 
establish themselves at Alt-Oetting. On the other hand, 
the government became satisfied in 1848 that the Re- 
demptorists and their doctrines would prove dangerous 
to Bavaria. They were therefore replaced by the Ben- 
edictines. The authorities gave as their reasons for 
this change that the fathers were instilling fanatical 
views among the people by means of the confessional, 
and that their preaching excited the lower classes to 
disorder. A part of the members of the society re- 
moved to America after its dissolution, others went to 
Austria, and some became secular priests. In France 
the Redemptorists established themselves first at Visch- 
enberg, in the diocese of Strasburg: they were sup- 
pressed by the revolution of July, 1830, but succeeded in 
obtaining their re-establishment, and have at present 
several establishments in France. The Redemptorists 
still adhere to the rule of their original constitution. 
We find in the Catholic Itirectory for England for this 
year, after mention of their church at Bishop Eton, 
Liverpool, a memorandum to the effect that “ this is not 
a parochial church — hence the fathers do not baptize 
children, or assist at. marriages and funerals, except in 
cases of necessity; but they are always ready to hear 
confessions, visit the sick, administer the sacraments, 
preach, and instruct.” The Redemptorists have also a 
house at Clapham, Surrey. Of late years they have 
been busily pursuing their mission in various parts of 
Ireland. In America they have founded establishments 
at New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Roch- 
ester, Albany, Buffalo, and Mouzon. According to the 
Catholic Directory, they number over 100 members in 
this country, about 90 of them priests, who have charge 
of 20 or morQ churches, mostly at important centres, 
viz. New York (2), Rochester, Buffalo, and Elmira, 
N. Y. ; Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, Pa. ; Baltimore (4), 
Annapolis, Ilchester, etc., Md. ; New Orleans (3), La.; 
Chatawa, Pike County, Miss. ; Detroit, Mich. ; Chicago, 
111.; St. Louis, Mo. They are building a church in 


REDEX IjACIIER 


974 


REED 


Boston; and tlie large cathedral on Fifth Avenue, New 
York, which has cost over c' 1 ,000,000, is under their 
supervision. They have 5 convents in Maryland, with 
a novitiate and a house of studies, 27 or 28 clerical 
members (including the provincial, the “Very Rev. Jo- 
seph 1 lelrnprbeht, C.SS.E.”), 5 novices, 36 lay brothers, 
and 51) students connected with them ; 2 houses in New 
York city, with 14 priests and 2 lay brothers; and 
houses in other cities, etc., usually with from 4 to 8 
priests, besides lay brothers, connected with each. The 
headquarters is at present at Nocera dei Pagani, in the 
kingdom of Naples. Their present number, according 
to the *S7 atistical Year-book of the Roman Catholic 
Church, is about 2000. 

There is also a congregation of female Redemptorists, 
which Liguori instituted in 1732. They had two es- 
tablishments in Austria — at Vienna and Stein — but 
these were also abolished in 1848. They have still a 
house at Bruges, in Belgium, l’osl stated in 1844 their 
possessions as consisting of their colleges in the king- 
dom of Naples, Sicily, and the Papal States; in Austria, 
the colleges of Vienna, Eggenberg, Mautern, Frohnlei- 
ten, Marburg, Innspruek, and the hospitals of Leoben 
and Donauberg; in Bavaria, the college of Alt-Oetting; 
in Belgium, that of Liege, St. Trond, Tournav, and the 
hospital of Brussels ; in 1 Tolland, the college of Wittem ; 
in America, the colleges of Baltimore and Pittsburgh, 
and the missionary stations of Albany, Buffalo,' Phila- 
delphia, Detroit, Rochester, and New York; in Switzer- 
land, the college of Freiburg; in France, the establish- 
ments of Vischenberg, Landser, and one near Nancy; 
in England, a station at Falmouth. See Pbsl, Clemens 
Maria Iloffbauer (Regensb. 1844) ; llenrion, Gesch. <1. 
Mbnchsorden ; Herzog, Real-Enryklop. viii, 440; Bar- 
num, Romanism as it Is, p. 318, 319. 



Redemptorist. 


Redenbacher, Wilhelm, an evangelical Herman 
minister and senior of the chapter of Gunzenhauscn, 
was born in 1800, and died July 14, 1876, at Dornhan- 
sen. lie was a popular Christian writer, and published, 
Christliches Allerlei (Nuremb. 1855, 3 vols.) : — E inf ache 
Jietrachtnnyen, das Came der Ueilslehre tunfassend (2d 
ed. ibid. 1851) : — Ceschichtliche Zeugnisse fur den Glau- 
ben (1 )resden, 1850, 1858, 2 vols.) : — Kitrze Refornuitions- 
Geschichte (Stuttgart. 1856). See Zuchold, Hibl. Theol. 
ii, 1039; Schneider, Theol. Jahrb. 1877, p. 227. (B. P.) 


Redford, Gkorge, D.D., an English Congrega- 
tional minister, was born in London Sept. 27, 1785, and 
was educated at lloxton College and the University of 
Glasgow. Ilis tirst settlement as a minister was at Ux- 
bridge, where he remained fourteen years. In 1825 he 
became pastor of the Congregational church at Worces- 
ter. In 1855 he was thrown from bis carriage, and suf- 
fered a nervous shock from which he never recovered, 
lie retired to Edgebaston, near Birmingham, and his 
congregation at Worcester allowed him £100 per an- 
num. He died May 20, 1860. lie was a man of great 
industry and talent. Faithful in his pastoral work to a 
remarkable degree, lie gave himself largely to litera- 
ture. lie was for some years editor of the Congrega- 
tional Magazine, and was a frequent contributor to the 
Rcleetic and to the British Quarterly Recie/r. lie 
published, besides a number of minor writings, the 
Pastor's Sketch-book (12mo): — Holy Scripture I 'eri- 
Jied, the Congregational lecture for 1837 (8vo): — Faith 
Triumphant (1841, 12mo): The Great Change, a trea- 
tise on conversion (1813, 18mo): — Body ami Soul Con- 
sidered (1817, 8vo): — Life of the Rer. IF. Jay: — Life 
of the Rev. J. A. James (1860. 12mo). lie was made 
D.l). by Amherst College, and LL.D. by the Univer- 
sity of Glasgow in 1834. — English Congregational Year- 
book, 1861. 

Redman (Redmayne4, John, D.D., an English 
divine, flourished in the lirst half of the 16th century. 
He was a native of Yorkshire, and was born probably 
in 1499. lie was educated at Corpus Christi College, 
Oxford, and at Paris. He became public orator of the 
university, master of King’s Hall, lirst master of Trinity 
College, archdeacon of Taunton, prebend of Wells and 
of Westminster, and died in 1551. He was one of the 
most learned men of his age, according to bishop Bur- 
net. Dodd says that “he divided himself between 
both religions;” but on his death-bed he certainly pro- 
fessed to embrace the cardinal doctrines of the Reform- 
ers. He published nothing; but after his death ap- 
peared, Opus de Justification, (Antw. 1555, 4 to) : — 
Ilymnus in quo Peccator Justificationem queerens Rudi 
Imagine describitur : — The Complaint of Grace (1556, 
8vo) : — Resolutions concerning the Sacrament, etc. 

Reece, Richard, a preacher of Methodism in Eng- 
land, who travelled without interruption for a longer 
period than any other Methodist preacher — no less than 
fifty-nine years — and thus figured at one time as the 
oldest effective Methodist preacher in the world, was 
born about the year 1765. In 1823 he visited this coun- 
try with John Hannah as a delegate of the Weslevans 
to the Methodist Episcopal Church ; and he spent some 
time here visiting the societies, from Lynn, Mass., to 
Winchester, Va., and by his and Hannah’s profound 
interest attested the general unity of all Methodists. 
In 1846 he was obliged to take a supernumerary rela- 
tion, and he died in 1850. “He was a good, if not a 
great, preacher,” says Stevens, “and a most amiable 
man. lie is still generally remembered, by both Eng- 
lish and American Methodists, for his perfect courtesy 
and his venerable appearance. 1 1 is person was tall, his 
complexion ruddy, his head silvered with age. his voice 
commanding, his language flowing anil pertinent, his 
piety tranquil, and his wisdom in counsel always relia- 
ble. lie lived to share in the centenary celebration of 
Methodism, and by proposing that it should be signal- 
ized in England by the contribution of a million dol- 
lars for its public charities, excited the suspicion that 
his usual good judgment had sutfered from the effect of 
age; but the people justified his calculation by giving 
seventy-five thousand dollars more, lie was honored 
with an election to the presidency of the Conference.” 
See Stevens, Hist, of Methodism, ii, 315, 316; iii, 236, 
308 ; West, Sketches of 1 1 r esl< yan Preachers ( N. Y. 1 8 IS) ; 
Wesleyan Mayazinc, 1850, p. 652. (.1. II. W.) 

Reed. I. This is the rendering in the A. V. of the 
following words in the original. (In the following ac- 


HEED 


975 


REED 


count we make use, in part, of the articles on the subject 
in the dictionaries of Smith and Winer.) 

1. Usually kaneh (fi3p ; Sept. KaXapog, KaXapiaicog, 
mXdpivog. wi/yog, dyKhtv, Zvyog, irvSrpijv, Yulg. culmns, 
calamus, arumlo,Jlstula, stateru), the generic name of a 
reed of any kind. 1 1 occurs in numerous passages of the 
Old Test., and sometimes denotes the “stalk” of wheat 
(Gen. xli, 5, 22). or the “branches” of the candlestick 
(Exod. xxv and xxxvii) ; in Job xxxi, 22, kaneh de- 
notes the bone of the arm between the elbow and the 
shoulder (os humeri ) ; it was also the name of a measure 
of length equal to six cubits (Ezek. xli, 8 ; xl, 5). The 
word is variously rendered in the A. V. by “ stalk,” 
“branch,” “bone,” “calamus,” “reed.” 

In the New Test, the corresponding Greek word, ku- 
Xapog, may signify the “ stalk” of plants (Mark xv, 36 ; 
Matt, xxvii, 48, that of the hyssop, but this is doubtful), 
or “a reed” (Matt, xi, 7; xii, 20; Luke vii, 24; Mark 
xv, 19), or a “measuring-rod” (Rev. xi, 1 ; xxi, 15, 16), 
or a “ pen” (3 John 13). 

Strand ( Flor . Palms! . p. 28-30) gives the following 
names of the reed plants of Palestine : Saccharum offi- 
cinale, Cyperus papyrus (Papyrus antiquorum'), C. ro- 
tundus, and C. esculent us, and A rundo scriptoria ; but no 
doubt the species are numerous. See Hove (Voyage en 
Palest., A nnal. des Scienc. Nat. 1834, p. 165) : “ Dans les 
deserts qui environnent ces montagnes j’ai trouve plu- 
sieurs Saccharum, Milium arundinaceum et plusieurs 
Cyperace's.” The A rundo dotuix, the A . xEgyptiaca (?) 
of Bove (ibid. p. 72), is common on the banks of the 
Nile, and may perhaps be “ the staff of the bruised 
reed” to which Sennacherib compared the power of 
Egypt (2 Kings xviii, 21 ; Ezek. xxix, 6, 7). See also 
Isa. xlii, 3. The thick stem of this reed may have beeu 
used as walking-staves by the ancient Orientals; per- 
haps the measuring-reed was this plant. At present the 
dry culms of this huge grass are in much demand for 
fishing-rods, etc. See Metrology. 

Some kind of fragrant reed is occasionally denoted 
by the word kaneh (Isa. xliii, 24 ; Ezek. xxvii, 19; Cant, 
iv, 14), or more fully by kench bosem (E',1*- flip) (see 
Exod. xxx, 23), or by kaneh hat-tub (Lllin hip) (Jer. 
vi, 20), which the A. Y. renders “ sweet cane,” and “ cal- 
amus.” Whatever may be the substance denoted, it is 
certain that it was one of foreign importation, “ from a 
far country” (Jer. vi, 20). Some writers (see Sprengel, 
Com. in Dioscor. i, xvii) have sought to identify the 
kaneh bosem with the A corns calamus, the “sweet 
sedge,” to which they refer the KuXapog dptopantcog 
of Dioscorides (i, 17), the KaXapog tvwCtjg of Theo- 
phrastus (Hist. Plant, iv, 8, § 4), which, according to 
this last-named writer and Pliny (//. A r . xii, 22), for- 
merly grew about a lake “ between Libanus and anoth- 
er mountain of no note;” Strabo identifies this with the 
Lake of Gennesaret (Geog. xvi, p. 755, ed. Kramer). 
Burckhardt was unable to discover an} r sweet-scented 
reed or rush near the lake, though he saw many tall 
reeds there. “ High reeds grow along the shore, but I 
found none of the aromatic reeds and rushes mentioned 
by Strabo” (Syria, p. 319); but whatever may be the 
“fragrant reed” intended, it is certain that it did not 
grow in Syria, otherwise we cannot suppose it should 
be spoken of as a valuable product from a far country. 
l)r. Boyle refers the KaXapog dpiopauicug of Dioscor- 
ides to a species of Andropogon, which he calls A. ca- 
lamus aromaticus, a plant of remarkable fragrance, and 
a native of Central India, where it is used to mix with 
ointments on account of the delicacy of its odor (see 
Koyle, Illustrations of Himalayan Botany, p. 425, t. 97). 
It is possible this may be the “reed of fragrance;” but 
it is hardly likely that Dioscorides, who, under the term 
GX°'wog, gives a description of the Andropogon schce- 
nanthus, should speak of a closely allied species under a 
totally different name. See Cane. 

“The beasts of the reeds,” in Psa. lxviii, 30, margin, 
literally from the Hebrew, but rendered in the text 



A ndropogon schoenanthus. 


of the A. V. “the company of spearmen,” probably means 
the crocodiles. Yet for other interpretations see Eosen- 
miiller ad loc. Gesenius, on Isa. xxvii, 1 , understands 
Babel. See Crocodile. 

2. ’ Ardth (n'pjJ ; Sept, ro d\i to \Xwpov rrav) is 
translated “ paper-reed” in Isa. xix, 7, the only passage 
where the plural noun occurs. There is not the slightest 
authority for this rendering of the A. V., nor is it at all 
probable, as Celsius (Ilierob. ii, 230) has remarked, that 
the prophet, who speaks of the paper-reed under the 
name gome in the preceding chapter (xviii, 2), should 
in this one mention the same plant under a totally dif- 
ferent name. “’ Aroth ,” says Kimchi, “is the name to 
designate pot-herbs and green plants.” The Sept, (as 
above) translates it by “all the green herbage.” The 
word is derived from \irah, “ to be bare,” or “destitute 
of trees;” it probably denotes the open grassy land on 
the banks of the Nile; and seems to be allied to the 
Arabic 'ara (locus apertus,spatiosus). Michaelis (Snppl. 
No. 1973), Eosenmiiller (Schol. in Jes. xix, 7), Gesenius 
(Thesaur. s. v.), Maurer (Comment, s. v.), and Simon 
(Lex. Heb. s. v.) are all in favor of this or a similar 
explanation. Vitringa (Comment, in Isaiam) was of 
opinion that the Hebrew term denoted the papyrus, 
and he has been followed by J. G. Unger, who has 
published a dissertation on this subject (I)e m”, hoc 
est de Papyro Frutice [Lips. 1731, 4to]). See Paper- 
reed. 

3. In one passage (Jer. li, 32) ogam (S3X; Sept, cv- 
oTypa, Yulg. palus) is rendered “reed” (but elsewhere 
“pond” or “pool”), and is there thought to designate a 
stockade or fort enclosed by palisades. 

II. Other Hebrew words representing, more or less 
accuratel)”, various kinds of reedy plants are the fol- 
lowing: 

1. It has been made a question whether the Hebrew 

agmon', which is mentioned in opposition to the 

palm -branch (Isa. ix, 13; xix, 15), and is translated 
“rush” in the A. V., does not rather mean reed. Both 
were, and are, used for making ropes (Sonnini, Trav. ii, 
416; Pliny, xix, 9; comp. Job xl, 26). See Gesenius, 
Ewald, Knobel, and others; also Celsius, Ilierobot. i, 465 
sq. See Rush. 

2. The Hebrew achu', *IPIX, originally an Egyptian 
word (see Jerome, ad Isa. xix, 7; comp. Jablonski, 


liEED 


976 


REED 


Opusc. i, 45; ii, ICO; Gesen. Thesaur. i, 67), occurs in 
Gen. xli, 2; Job viii, 11; in the first place the A. V. 
lias meadow, in the second rush. It seems to mean, not 
reed, but “reed-grass,” Curex (comp. Celsius, Hierobul. 

i, 340 sq.). On the other hand, supk, T*D, Exod. ii, 3, 
5, growing on the Nile, but distinct from haneh , may be 
the sari (Pliny, xiii, 15). See Flag. 

3. The word yo'me, Or. fivjlXoc, the pappus, 
paper-reed (so rendered, among the old interpreters, by 
the Sept.; Job loe. cit.; Isa. xviii, 2; Yulg. Isa. xviii, 

2 ; Syr. Isa. xviii, xxxv ; Arab. Exod. ii, 3. In the Tal- 
mud this word means rush; comp. Mishna, Erubin, x, 
14. The leaves were used for binding wounds), does 
not belong to the genus A rundo, and is not a proper 
reed (called by Pliny, xxiv, 81 akin to the reed). It is 
the Cyperus papyrus of Linnaeus, Class, iii, Monogynia. 
This plant, anciently so important, grew abundantly in 
the Egyptian swamps (even perhaps in those of the 
Nile, Pliny, xiii. 22; comp, v, 8. Hence Ovid, Metaph. 
xv, 753; Trust, iii, x, 27, calls this river papyrifer; comp. 
Mart, x, 1,3), and is mentioned Isa. xxxv, 7 ; Job viii, 
11; Exod. ii, 3; Isa. xviii, 2. The A. V. has rush in the 
first two places, bulrush in the others. It is now rarely 
met with in Egypt (according to Minutoli, Abhandl. 
verm. Inhalts [Perl. 1831], vol. ii, No. 7, only at Dami- 
etta; while Pluvcr, Eyypt. A ’uturgesch. p. 55, says it does 
not now r grow in Egypt), but in Palestine it is occa- 
sionally found at the Jordan (Von Schubert, iii, 253). 
It has a three-edged stalk, which below bears hollow, 
sword-formed leaves, covering each other; it grows to 
a height of ten feet or more, and has above a fiower 
cup of reddish leaves, out of which a thick body of 
hair-like shoots spring up (comp. Thcophr. Plant, iv, 
9). The root is as thick as a man’s arm, and is used as 
fuel (Dioscor. i, 115); vessels were framed of the stalks 
(Exod. ii, 3; Isa. xviii, 2; Pliny, vi, 24; vii, 57, p. 417 ; 
Hard. Plutarch, hid. c. 18; Lucan, Iv, 136; Roscllini, 
Monument. Civ. II, iii. 121; Wilkinson, iii, 185 sq.), which 
sailed very fast (llclidor. xEthiop. x, 4). Sails, shoes, 
ropes, sieves, mattresses, wicks, etc., were made of the 
green rind (Pliny, xiii, 22 ; xviii, 28; xxviii,47 ; Herod. 

ii, 37 ; Yeget. Yeterin. ii, 57 ; Philo. Op. ii, 482; comp. 
Wilkinson, iii, 62, 146), but especially paper, on the 
mode of preparing which comp. Pliny, xiii, 23 si j. (see 
Roscllini, Monument. Civ. II, ii, 208 sq. ; Becker, Chari- 
cles, ii, 219 sq.). See Whiting. The plant is now called 
berde or berdi by the Arabs (so Job viii, 11, in the Ara- 
bic). See Papy ill's. 

III. It will thus be seen that the reeds named in the 
Bible may be popularly distinguished as three. 

1. The water-reed in pools, marshes, and on the shores 
of rivers, as of the Nile (Exod. ii, 3, 5) and of the Jordan 
(1 Kings xiv, 15; Job viii, II; Isa. xix, 6; xxxv, 7). j 
The most common species are .4 rundo phraymites and 
A rundo calamayrostis (comp. Oken, Botany, i. 805). 
See Bruicsti. 

2. fhe stronger reed, adapted for staves and canes, 
and as measuring-rods ( Ezek. xl, 3 sip; Apoc. xi, 1; 
xxi, 15 sq. ; 2 Kings xviii, 21; Isa. xxxvi, 6; Ezek. 
xxix, 6; Mutt, xxvii, 29; Mislma, Shab. xvii, 3 ; Diog. 
Laert. Prooem. (>), the A rundo denax, whose hard, woody 
stem reaches a height of eight feet, and is thicker than 
a man's thumb. This, too, is very frequent on the banks 
of the Nile (Forskal, Flora, p. 24; comp. Descript, dv 
V Eyypt v, xix, 71). 

3. The writing-reed (.1 rundo scriptoria) (3 John 13; 
see Mishna, Shah, viii, 5). It grows in the marshes be- 
tween the Euphrates and Tigris; at ilellah, in the Per- 
sian Gulf, etc. The stalks are first soaked, then dried, 
and when properly cut and split make tolerable pens. 
Formerly the writing- reed grew in Egypt, in Asia 
Minor, and even in Italy (Pliny, xvi, 64; Martial, xiv, 
36; comp. Beckmann, Ceseh. der Erfindunyini, iii, 48 sip; 
see on the Hebrew name, Celsius, Jlierobnt. ii, 312 sq.). 
See Pkn. 

See, in general, Prosp. Alpin {Plant. .Eyypt. c. 36, 


p. 53) and Yesling (p. 197) upon it; Rottboll, Descr. 
Xovar. Plant. (Ilafn. 1773) i, 32 sq. ; Celsius, Ilierobot. 
ii, 137 sq. ; Boikei a Stapel, Comm. 428 sq. ; Bruce, 
Travels, v, 13 sq., 279, with plate i; Montfaucon, in the 
Memoires de I’A c ad.des Inscript, vi, 592 sq. ; Oken, Bot- 
any, i, 819 sq. 

Heed, Alauson, a Baptist missionary, was bom in 
Chesterfield, Mass., in 1807. lie pursued his studies at 
the Hamilton Literary and Theological Institution (now 
Madison University), N. Y., and was appointed Aug. 3, 
1835, as a missionary by the American Baptist Mission- 
ary Union to labor among the Chinese living in Bang- 
kok, Siam. Having acquired a knowledge of the lan- 
guage, he took a floating- house on the Meinam, two 
miles above Bangkok, and began his evangelical la- 
bors among the Chinese. While thus occupied, he was 
stricken down by disease, and died Aug. 29, 1837. 
(J.C..S.) 

Reed, Alexander, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Washington, Pa., Sept. 28, 1832. lie was 
the son of the lion. Robert R. Reed, a child of the cov- 
enant dedicated to Cod in baptism, and early instructed 
both by precept and example in the ways of religion. 
Ilis preparatory education was received in the English 
department of Washington College, and he graduated 
at that institute in 1851. After his graduation he went 
to Georgia and engaged in teaching, and while there 
joined the Church on a profession of religion under the 
ministry of the Rev. Dr. Baker, an eminent evangelist. 
In 1853 he entered the Western Theological Seminary 
at Pittsburgh, Pa., and was graduated in 1856. The fol- 
lowing year he w as ordained and installed pastor of the 
Presbyterian Church of Octorara, Pa. Here his labors 
were greatly blessed, anil the bonds of affection between 
him and his people greatly strengthened, until the 
year 1864, when they were dissolved to enable him to 
accept the pastorate of the Central Church, Philadel- 
phia. This call removed him to a wider sphere, and 
brought him to a more responsible position in a great 
city at one of the most critical periods of our national 
history. Ilis sympathetic nature, ready and effective 
oratory, very soon attracted attention, and other duties 
than those merely of the pastorate were soon laid upon 
him. He was active and influential in the organization 
of the “Christian Commission,” the spirit and object 
of which appealed to his sympathies and patriotic im- 
pulses, and some of his most stirring and powerful ad- 
dresses were made in behalf of this great interest, lie 
was not only alive to all the duties connected with his 
pastorate, but to all the general social and moral inter- 
ests of the community. He gave to all the boards of 
the Church his zealous and faithful support, and at one 
time his personal attention as president of the Board of 
Ministerial Relief and also the Board of Publication. 
In the year 1873 Dr. Reed was called to the Westmin- 
ster Presbyterian Church, Brooklyn, N. V., and in ac- 
cepting this call he threw himself with all his accus- 
tomed ardor into the labors of his new field. At the 
end of two years he was obliged, from declining health, 
to resign his charge. With the hope of regaining his 
health, he spent a year and a half in Europe, but he re- 
turned without any perceptible change for the better. 
Thinking that the dry and bracing air of Colorado might 
prove beneficial, he accepted the pastorate of the church 
in Denver City. Though in feeble health, he labored 
among that people, and greatly endeared himself to 
them by his affectionate nature and eminent pulpit 
ability. But his work was evidently done, and he was 
obliged to relinquish the active duties of the pastoral 
office, lie was one of the most genial and compan- 
ionable of men; a smile of heavenly sunshine played 
around his features and kindled in his eye, and no 
amount of sickness could cloud the sunshine or stop the 
exuberant flow of his feelings. He seemed to have 
caught the light and lived in the glory of the better 
world. Dr. Reed was a godly man, a man of faith and 


REED 


977 


REED 


prayer. He devoted himself wholly to the work of the 
ministry because he loved it. All his faculties were 
alive and active in the great cause in which he was en- 
gaged. By his strong power of will he seemed to hold 
the forces which were moving upon life’s citadel in 
check until his brother, Dr. T. B. Heed, who was on his 
way to visit him in his distant home, might reach him. 
When he arrived, and he had committed to him the 
charge of his beloved wife and children, in perfect peace 
he laid himself down to die. He died at Denver, Col., 
Nov. 18, 1878. (W. B. S.) 

Heed, Andrew, D.D., an English Independent 
divine, noted as one of the greatest philanthropists of 
our age, was born in 1788 at London, where his father, 
a pious man, was a watchmaker in Butcher Row, St. 
Clement’s Danes. Many a time, it is said, Andrew’s 
mother would keep the shop while his father w r as off on 
a preaching tour; for he was much given to itinerating 
in the suburban towns, proclaiming among the benight- 
ed “the truth as it is in Jesus,” and so interested became 
he in this glorious work that Mrs. Reed found it needful 
to provide for the family herself by opening a china- 
shop, which she kept for twenty years in Chiswell 
Street. Young Andrew was brought up in the trade of 
his father, and no one supposed that he would ever leave 
watchmaking to go on the same errand as his father. 
Sent to a school in Islington to get such an education 
as was needful for an ordinary artisan, Andrew evinced 
a predilection not only for all study, but especially for 
the dead languages. He begged to be allowed to study 
Greek and Hebrew. The careful mother, anxious to 
prevent her son’s defection — for she hoped from him 
support in the business his father had so much neglected 
— took him finally from school and apprenticed him to 
a master. But the temptation of books was a very 
harmless one compared with the temptations of another 
kind that awaited Andrew in his new situation. His 
master’s son was a wild youth, and the young appren- 
tice entered on his diary the following: “By the wicked 
behavior of my master’s son I was made still worse. I 
went twice or thrice to the accursed play-houses.” On 
this account he got his indentures cancelled and re- 
turned to the parental roof. Working the usual hours 
at watchmaking, in his leisure he kept his mother’s 
books, instructed his sister, and taught a little orphan 
girl, their servant, to read and write — thus early begin- 
ning his orphan work. Books, books, evermore books, 
were the choice friends of his leisure hours; and though 
he worked well at his trade, his good mother in her 
diary might well write down, “ These are things which, 
if the lad be for business, show too much taste for study.” 
She was so far right that God was leading him through 
secular to sacred pursuits. Andrew Reed’s Hebrew and 
Greek studies led him to theology, and his joy knew no 
bounds when it was decided in the family counsels that 
he might go to college. He dismantled his little work- 
shop, sold his tools, and laid out the money in books. 
He entered Hacknej T Seminary, a collegiate and theo- 
logical school of the Independents. Jt is needless to say 
that when he was ready to graduate his record was al- 
ready begun as a preacher. lie had many invitations 
to settle. Among other calls was that of colleague to 
the celebrated preacher Matthew Wilks (q. v.) at the 
Tabernacle. But Reed gave the preference to the 
church in the New Road, East London, where he re- 
mained the pastor for half a century. He resigned the 
place on Nov. ‘27, 1861, the anniversary of his birth and 
of his ordination. He died Feb. 25, 1862, happy to the 
last and conscious of his Master’s love. Rarely, if ever, 
was such a record closed as this event ended. More 
than most men — even Christian ministers — Dr. Reed 
seems to have lived in the presence of some great pub- 
lic purpose, and to have consecrated, or rather sacrificed, 
all things to its accomplishment. Thus we read in 
the Memoir published by his sons (Loud. 1863) that at 
times he was so engrossed that he would not dine with 
his family lbr a week. “ In the last four vears,” he 
VIII.— Q Q Q 


writes in his diary, “I have been four hundred times to 
Earlswood [asylum for idiots] ; each time has consumed 
the best part of a day, so that I may fairly say that it 
has cost me a -whole year.” Indeed, nothing less than 
a consecration like this could have accomplished Dr. 
Reed’s work. He must, moreover, have combined the 
physical strength of a giant with the powerful will of 
the Christian philanthropist. He was one of the most 
successful and popular preachers of his day— the labori- 
ous pastor of one of the largest churches in the metrop- 
olis; and yet he found time to originate not only the 
Hackney Grammar-school, but five great national be- 
nevolent institutions — viz. the London Orphan Asylum, 
the Infant Orphan Asylum at Wanstead, the Asylum 
for Fatherless Children at Reedham, the Idiot Asylum 
at Earlswood, with its branch establishment at Colches- 
ter, and the Hospital for Incurables. The aggregate 
cost of their erection was £129,320; they accommodate 
2110 objects of charity; and their total receipts under 
his administration amounted to the respectable sum 
of £1,043,566 13s. Id. Emphatically was his “a life, 
with deeds to crown it.” Andrew Reed began his 
work among the seafaring population of London. He 
befriended the parents, established schools for the chil- 
dren, and founded the first penny bank for savings. 
Besides these stupendous works of faith and labors of 
love, he founded a Home for Incurables ; and, not forget- 
ting the interests of education while employed in help- 
ing the helpless, he was the friend of the Hackney 
Grammar-school, and always the active promoter of 
Sabbath and day schools for the children of the indus- 
trial classes. He not only refused all remuneration for 
his great services, but contributed, besides, a large part 
of his yearly income in charity. The five asylums that 
he founded alone received from his hand £45*40. When 
he opened a chapel he was ever ready with his £10, £20, 
and even £50, to encourage its friends to discharge a 
debt incurred in its erection. He lived in the most 
simple way, that he might have the more to give to 
him that needed. His remarkable success in his vast 
and varied enterprises he owed to his extraordinary 
business powers, his great sagacity, and his determined 
will. Few men saw more clearly what was to be done, 
or knew better how to do it. One record strikingly ex- 
hibits the stern kind of discipline that he was wont to 
exercise upon himself, and the resolute determination 
with which he concentrated his energies upon his object: 

“The measure of mercy is the measure of obligation. 
Of the course I should take at present I see nothing. All 
is dark, very dark. Work which I had thought to do is 
now abandoned. This one thing is left me, and I will do 
it. For discipline I will do it. I have naturally a love for 
the beautiful, and a shrinking, almost a loathing, of in- 
firmity and deformity. The thing I would not do is the 
very thing I am now resolved to do. Alas! poor idiot! 
while he is the greater sufferer, I am the greater sinner." 

His benevolence was both a natural enthusiasm and a 
sacred religious duty, and whatever his warm heart 
prompted, his clear head conceived and his strong hand 
executed. A keen discriminator of character, he knew 
how to bend the wills of others to liis purpose. As a 
speaker, he was endowed with very great power of elo- 
quence. After the fashion of his generation, he was 
somewhat rhetorical and magniloquent, but there was 
a mighty power of passion in him. His Sermons mid 
Charges, recently published, contain specimens of a very 
high order of pulpit eloquence ; and few sermons of 
modern times have produced a greater effect than his 
missionary sermon at Surrey Chapel. II is power in the 
pulpit was attested by his own crowded chapel, and by 
the large numbers whom he admitted to his Church 
fellowship. He was a polemic of no mean power — “a 
sharp threshing-instrument having teeth ;” and perhaps 
earl Russell never listened to a more powerful or skilful 
storm of rhetoric than at the British and Foreign School 
meeting in Exeter Hall, when Dr. Reed claimed him as 
a leader in opposition to Sir J. Graham’s Factories Bill. 
Dr. Reed’s power of work was immense; his recreation 


UEEI) 


978 


1JEED 


was change of benevolent employment, either the en- 
ergetic prosecution of some philanthropic scheme or a 
campaign of provincial preaching. Amid all his lit- 
erary and other labors, he did not think of writing his 
life/ One of his sons, perceiving that his venerable 
father was fast failing, asked him if he had ever ar- 
ranged any memoir. Dr. Deed replied by writing the 
following note: 

“ To my saucy boy who said he would write my life , and 
asked for mates ials : 

AAR. 

I WAS HORN YKSTKRHAY; 

1 61IAI.L DIE TO-MORROW: 

AND I MUST NOT SPEND TO PAY 
IN TF.I.I.INO W11AT I I1AVK DON K, 

Ul'T IN DOING WHAT I MAY FOR 

HIM 

WHO HAS HONK A 1.1. FOR MR. 

I SPRANG FROM TIIE PF.OPLF. ; 1 HAVE LIVF.D FOR THE 

IMCOri.F. — 

THE MOST FOR THF. MOST UNHAPPY; 

AND T1IK PEOPLE, WHEN THEY KNOW IT, 

WILL NOT ALLOW .ME TO DIE OUT OF LOVING REMEMBRANCE.” 

What can be added to such a summary? “It is not 
surprising that the sons of Dr. Andrew Reed should wish 
to publish the history of his life of goodness and active 
benevolence— though, in fact, the permanent records of 
his character and works exist in the many institutions 
which owe their existence to his activity and devotion.” 
These are the words of the queen of England in refer- 
ence to a man who was the honored instrument of doing 
such a vast amount of good that his name undoubtedly 
ranks among the iirst philanthropists of the age. Dr. 
lleed wrote many works in practical theology, princi- 
pally on practical religion — all of which have had a 
most extensive circulation, and of which a list is given 
in Allibone. Dr. Reed is the author of many hymns, 
among which is the one beginning “There is an hour 
when l must part.” In 1835 he visited this country as 
a representative of the Congregational Union of Rritain, 
and made many friends here. On Iiis return home, he 
wrote on his Visit to the American Churches, and the 
work was republished here (N. Y. 1835, and often). 
See, besides, the Memoir (Lond. 1803, small 8vo; 3d ed. 
1867); London Reader , 18G3, ii, 724; London Patriot, 
Dec. 17, 18G3; Eclectic and Congregational Rev. Jan. 
18G4; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Auth. s. v. ; 
(■rant. Metropolitan Pulpit, 1839, ii, 265-278; Men of 
the Times (18G2), p. G48. 

Reed, Caleb, an American divine, who belonged 
to the New Jerusalem Church, was bom in 1797. lie 
entered the ministry, but was finally made editor of the 
Xeic Jerusalem Magazine , and continued its manage- 
ment for twenty years, lie died in 1854. II is publi- 
cations were of a secular character. 

Reed, Fitch, D.D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, whose memory is precious in all the 
communities where he has resided, was born March 28, 
1795. 1 1 is early Christian training was under Calviu- 

istie inlltienccs, but, in his nineteenth year, while study- 
ing medicine, he was converted under the labors of tiie 
Rev. Marvin Richardson, and accepted Arminiau doc- 
trines as prelerable. In 1815 lie was licensed to preach, 
and was employed upon a circuit by Dr. Nathan Hangs, 
then presiding elder. In 1817 be was admitted into the 
New 5 ork Conference, and was sent to the extreme 
eastern point of Long Island. 1 1 is second appointment 
was Dunham Circuit, in Canada East, which offered him 
all the hardships which the severity of a northern win- 
ter, a new country, unimproved and sometimes almost 
impassable roads, a poor people, and ill-constructed log- 
huts could afford. Of this he himself told, as follows, 
in a semi-centennial sermon : “ I did at first wonder that 
my lot had fallen just here, and thought that possibly, 
after all, the bishop had made a mistake; yet the harsh 
climate, the hard work, and plenty of it. and harder fare 
were just what Infinite Wisdom saw I needed. I praise 
the Lord to this day for Dunham Circuit; it saved me 
from an early grave. ’ 11 is next field of labor was in the 


wilderness lying north of Lake Ontario. To this region 
he was sent as the first minister of the Oospel, within 
about twelve months after the first settlement had been 
made. He established bis appointments, organized his 
circuit, which he travelled on foot, making his way 
through the trackless forest by the aid of a compass, 
and carrying with him “an Indian hatchet, as a defence 
J against wild beasts and as a means of constructing 
bridges over streams of water too deep to ford.” From 
1820 to 1828 Mr. Reed was a member of (iencsce Con- 
! ference. He tilled some of its most important stations, 
and, when twenty-eight years of age, was appointed 
presiding elder of Susquehanna District. After eight 
years he was again transferred to New York Conference 
I and stationed at Rhinebcck, and subsequently in New' 
York city, Brooklyn, Poughkeepsie, and other important 
I fields of labor, including New Haven District. In 1848 
he was transferred to Oneida Conference, to which he 
gave fourteen years of effective service, including seven 
years in the office of presiding elder. In the year 1862 
he w r as compelled by increasing bodily infirmities to 
retire to the superannuated relation, and thereafter, 
though his love for the work never abated, be preached 
only as health and opportunity would permit. He died 
Oct. 10, 1871, leaving behind the record of a life well 
spent in the service of his heavenly M aster. Sec Chris- 
tian Advocate, Dec. 9, 1871. 

Reed, John (1), D.I)., an American Unitarian di- 
vine, was born in Framingham, Mass., in 1751, and was 
educated at Yale College, class of 1772. lie studied for 
the ministry, and became pastor at Bridgewater, Mass., 
in 1780. He finally took interest in political affairs, and 
w’as a member of Congress from 1794 to 1800. lie died 
in 1831. He published various sermons and theological 
treatises of passing value. See Sprague, .1 nnals of the 
Amer. Pulpit, viii, 143. 

Reed, John (2), D.D., a clergyman of the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church, was born atWickford, R. I., about 
1777. He bad his thoughts early turned towards the 
ministry, and went to Union College with a view to 
greater efficiency in the sacred work. On May 27, 1806, 
he was made a deacon, and on June 17, 1808. priest. 
His first pastorate was at St. Luke’s Church, Catskill, 
X. Y. In 1810 he became rector at Christ Church, 
Poughkeepsie, and there preached for thirty-five years, 
in his latter years having the aid of an assistant, lie 
died July 6, 1845. A tablet, erected in the church bv 
the vestry, records the high respect and veneration in 
which he was held by his parish. Ho was a careful ob- 
server, a diligent student, a man of (Sod, and an accept- 
able preacher. “His whole demeanor,” said the Rev. 
Dr. John Brown, of Newburgh, X. Y., at the funeral 
service, “showed that his [Reed’s] best treasure was in 
heaven.” lie published a small work in defence of 
episcopacy, and two or three separate Bermans. See 
Sprague, A nnals of the .1 mer. Pulpit, v, 506-509 : Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. (J. 1 1. \Y.) 

Reed, Joseph, a Roman Catholic priest, was born 
at Waterburv, Conn., about 1845. In 1869 he was or- 
dained at Troy, X. Y.. and, after supplying a mission at 
Birmingham, Conn., and serving as a curate at the 
cathedral in Providence, R. 1., was appointed secretary 
and chancellor of the diocese of Hartford. Conn. lie 
died in 1877. 

Reed, Nelson, a pioneer minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Ann Arundel County, 
Md., Nov. 27, 1751. Nothing positive is known of bis 
early history. In 1779 his name appears on the min- 
utes as a travelling preacher, and he is believed to have 
thus preached for four years. His appointments were, 
in 1779 to Fluvanna; in 1780, Amelia; in 1781, Calvert; 
in 1782. Little York; in 1783, Caroline ; in 1784, Dover. 
From 1785 to 1795 he had the charge of districts in 
Maryland and Virginia. In 1796 he was stationed at 
Fell’s Point; in 1797, at Baltimore city; in 1798, at 
Fell’s Point again; in 1799, on Baltimore Circuit. In 


REED 


979 


REESE 


1800 his name is found among those “who are under a 
location through illness of body or family concerns,” and 
it disappears now from the minutes until 1805, when we 
find him again on the Baltimore Circuit. The nest year 
he was placed in charge of the Federal and Annapolis 
Circuit. In 1807, 1808, 1809, and 1810 he presided over 
the Baltimore District, on which were stationed at that 
time some of the strong men of the itinerancy. In 
1811, 1812, 1818, and 1814 he presided over the George- 
town District. In 1815 we find him on the Baltimore 
District again, where he presided four years. In 1819 
he stands connected with the Baltimore Circuit as a 
supernumerary. In 1820 his name appears on the super- 
annuated list; in this relation he continued till the close 
of his life. At the time of his death, which occurred in 
October, 1840, he was the oldest Methodist preacher in 
Europe or America. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1840; Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, vii, 
68-70. 

Heed, Sampson, a Swedenborgian of note as a 
writer especially, was born at West Bridgewater, Mass., 
in 1800, and was educated at Harvard College, class of 
1818. He became editor of the New Church Magazine 
and co-editor of the New Jerusalem Magazine , and died 
in 1875. He published Observations. 

Reed, Samuel, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Union County, O., Nov. 18, 
1816. He entered the ministry in 1838, and was sent 
to the Peru Circuit as a supply. He was admitted into 
the Conference, and travelled Auburn Mission in 1839-40, 
Frankfort in 1841-42, Vincennes in 1843, Evansville in 
1844, Bedford in 1845, North Indiana Conference, Cov- 
ington, in 1846-47. This fall he went to St. Louis and 
remained one year, returned with impaired health, and 
was superannuated for five years following. He was 
again made effective and appointed to New Harmony in 
1853, to Petersburgli in 1854, to New Albany in 1855, 
and to Bedford in 1856, where he remained to the close 
of that conference year, when he superannuated a second 
time. He declined in health, but lingered on until Feb. 
6, 1869. — Minutes of Animal Conferences , 1869, p. 187. 
188. 

Reelai'ah (Heb. Reelayak PI*?^ fearer of Je- 
hovah; Sept. 'PteX/af), one of “the children of the 
province” who returned from Babylon with Zerubbabel 
(Ezra ii, 2); called in the parallel passage (Neh. vii, 7) 
by the synonym Raamiah (q. v.). 

Reel'ius (PeeXlag v. r. BopoXurc), one of the Is- 
raelites who returned with Zerubbabel from Babylon 
(1 Esdr. v, 8); inserted in place of the Bigvai of the 
Hebrew lists (Ezra ii, 2; Neh. vii, 7) by confusion for 
the Reelaiah of Ezra’s list. 

Rees, Abraiiam, D.D., a dissenting minister who 
held a distinguished rank in the literary and scientific 
world, was the son of a Welsh Nonconformist minister, 
and was born at Montgomery in 1743. Intended for the 
ministry, he was first placed under Dr. Jenkins, of Car- 
marthen, whence he was removed to the Hoxton Acad- 
emy, founded by Mr. Coward, where his progress in his 
studies was so rapid that in his nineteenth year he was 
appointed mathematical tutor to the institution, and 
soon after resident tutor, in w r hieh capacity he continued 
upwards of twenty-two years. In 1768 he succeeded 
Mr. Read as pastor to the Presbyterian congregation of 
St. Thomas’s, Southwark. On the death of Mr. White, 
in 1783. Rees accepted an invitation to become minister 
of a congregation in Jewin Street, Cripplegate, where 
he continued to officiate till the time of his death, June 
9, 1825. On the establishment of the dissenting semi- 
nary at Hackney in 1786, Dr. Rees, who had, in con- 
junction with Drs. Savage and Kippis, seceded from 
that at Hoxton two years before, was elected to the 
situation of resident tutor in the natural sciences. This 
position he held till the dissolution of the academy, 
which took place on the death of Dr. Kippis (q.v.). It 


is, however, in a literary capacity that Dr. Rees is prin- 
cipally and most advantageously known. In 1776 he 
was applied to by the proprietors of Chambers's Encyclo- 
peediei to superintend a new and enlarged edition of that 
valuable compilation, which, after nine years’ incessant 
labor, he brought to a conclusion in four folio volumes. 
The success of this work stimulated the proprietors to 
still further exertions. A new T undertaking, similar in 
its nature, but much more comprehensive in its plan, 
and printed in quarto size, was projected and carried on 
by him ; and he had at length the satisfaction to see 
the new Cyclopedia, now generally known by his name, 
advance from the publication of the first volume in 
1802 to its completion in forty-five volumes with lindi- 
minished reputation. Ilis other works, besides those 
of a secular character, are, Practical Sermons (1809-12, 
2 vols .) : — The Principles of the Protestant Dissenters 
Stated and Vindicated : — besides a variety of occasional 
discourses. See Jones, Christian Biography , p. 357 ; 
Annual Biography, 1825: London Gentleman's Maga- 
zine, 1825. 

Reesai'as (Pyeraiaz), given (1 Esdr. v, 8) in place 
of the above Reelaiaii (Ezra ii, 2) or Raamiaii (Neh. 
vii, 7). 

Reese, E. Yates, D.D., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Protestant Church, but especially noted as a 
writer, was born about the year 1820. lie early en- 
tered the ministry, and, after filling many positions of 
prominence in the pastorate, became editor of the Meth- 
odist Protestant newspaper at Baltimore, and was in 
this position until, in 1860, in a fit of mental derange- 
ment, he committed suicide. The Lutheran of Phila- 
delphia thus commented at the time: “Dr. Reese was 
one of the noblest and most genial of men. His paper 
was among the very best of the denominational organs 
in our country; but it was much more than a denomi- 
national organ, immeasurably more than a sectarian 
one. He drew around him many admirable writers, 
not only of his own Church, but of other churches, but 
no pen among them all was so versatile, so happy, as his 
own. He was a poet and an orator, who consecrated 
every gift to the service of the Saviour of men. His 
consecration had a wonderful charm. His delicacy of 
feeling, his fine tact, his generosity and large catholic- 
ity of feeling, made him very dear to all that knew 
him.” Such testimony from another denomination is 
surely rare; but it was reprinted also by the Reformed 
ftfessenger of the German Reformed Church, and thus 
given still further approval than the bounds of one out- 
side denomination. 

Reese, Levi R., a minister of the Methodist Prot- 
estant Church, was born in Harford County, Md., Feb. 8, 
1806, enjoyed a good preparaton' training, and taught 
school for a while after he was seventeen. When about 
twenty years of age he joined the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, but shortly after the agitation opened which 
resulted in the formation of the Methodist Protestant 
Church, he was, it is said, the first preacher appointed 
by the new body. The first three years of his ministe- 
rial life were spent at Philadelphia and New York. In 
1833 he was appointed by the Maryland Annual Con- 
ference to labor in Alexandria. Ya., and there succeeded 
so well that he was successively given “every impor- 
tant position and every official position within the gift 
of the body with which he was connected.” He was 
for two years president of the Church, and repeatedly a 
representative in their General Conference. In 1837 and 
1838 he was chaplain to the United States Congress. 
He died in Philadelphia Sept. 21, 1851. He was highly 
esteemed as a preacher, and the seals of his ministry are 
all through Maryland. See Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer. Pulpit, vii, 751-754. 

Reese, Thomas, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in 1742, was educated at the College of New 
Jersey, class of 1768, and became the pastor of the 
Presbyterian Church at Salem, S. C., and subsequently 


REEVE 


980 


REFINE 


of two churches in Pendleton District, S. C. lie died 
in 1796. lie published. Essay on the Influence of Re- 
ligion on Civil Society ( 17*8) : — Farewell Sermon:— 
Two Sermons (in the American Preacher, v ol. i and ii). 
See Sprague, .1 nnals of the .'Inter. Pulpit , iii, 331. 

Reeve, Thomas, D.D., an Anglican divine of the 
17th century, flourished as preacher of Waltham Abbey, 
Essex. He published, Sermons (Lond. 1632, 4to):— 
Sermons (1617, 4to) ’.—Public Devotions (1651, 12mo):— 
God's Ph a for Xinereh, or London's Precedent for Mer- 
cy, delivered in certain sermons, etc. (1657, fol.); “An 
extraordinary work, very severe in lashing and expos- 
ing the vices of the age; the sermons arc a very lively 
picture of London manners now unknown; . . . this is 
„ one of the scarcest books in English theology” (Bcloc, 
A nec. iii, 80-84): — an abridgment, entitled London's Re- 
membrancer, wan published soon afterwards: — Sermons 
(1660, 4 to): — England's Backicardness, etc., a sermon 
(1661, «vo): — Discourses (1661, 4to) : — Sermon (1661, 
4to) : — England’s Restitution, etc. : — Sermons (1661, Ito). 
Sec Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A nth. s. v. 

Reeves, William, an Anglican divine, was born in 
1668, and was educated at King’s College, Cambridge, 
of which he was made a fellow. He took holy orders, 
and in 1691 became rector of Cranford, [Middlesex, and 
in 1711 vicar of St. Mary, Heading. He died in 1726. 
lie published, Sermotis (1704, 4to) : — So-mon (1706, 
lto): — The Apologies of Justin Martyr, Tertullian, and 
Minucius Felix in Defence of the Christian Religion, with 
the Commonitory of l ’invent ius Lirinensis concerning the 
Primitive Rule of Faith (transl., with notes and a pre- 
liminary discourse upon each author, Lond. 1709-16, 2 
vols. 8vo). “ The translation is generally perspicuous 

and faithful. The notes contain a good deal of learn- 
ing, and frequently illustrate the meaning where it is 
obscure. The preliminary dissertation may be consid- 
ered an answer to the valuable work of Daille on the 
same subject” (Ormc). Sec Allibone, Diet, of Biflt. and 
Amer. Auth. s. v. 

Refectory, the dining-hall of a monastery, col- 
lege, etc. The internal arrangements and fittings were 
very similar to those of the ordinary domestic halls, 
except that it was usually provided with a raised desk 
or pulpit, from which on some occasions one of the in- 
mates of the establishment read to the others during 
meal -time. There are remains of old English refec- 
tories at Chester and Worcester now used as a school- 
house, at Carlisle and Durham as a library, and at Beau- 
lieu as a church. Portions of the beautiful arcaded 
walls of one remain at Peterborough. It was usually, as 
at Lancrcost and Itiovalle, raised upon cellarage, which 
at Clugny contained the bath-rooms; and in Bcncilic- 
tinc friars’ and regular canons’ houses it lay parallel to 
the minster, in order that the noise and fumes of dinner 
might not reach the sanctuary; but in most Cistercian 
houses, as Beaulieu, Byland, l ord, Netlev, Tintcrn, Ilic- 
vallc, Furness, and Kirkham, Maulbronn, Clairvaux, 
Braisne, Savigny, and Bonport, it stood at righf^angles 
to the cloister, as it did in the Dominican convents of 
Toulouse and Paris. A few foreign monastic refectories 
wore of two alleys, as Tours, Alcobaea, the Benedic- 
tines’, and St. Martin des Champs at Paris. At St. Al- 
ban’s an abbot, on bis resignation, went to reside in a 
chamber which lie had fitted up under the refectory. 
The usual dinner-hour was three P. M. The small bell 
rang and the monks came out from the parlor and washed 
at the lavatory, and then entered the hall, two and two, 
taking their appointed places at the side-tables. At t lie 
high-table on the dais the superior sat, in the centre of 
the east wall, under a cross, a picture of the Doom, or 
the Last Supper, having the squilla-bell on his right 
hand, which lie rang at the beginning and end of din- 
ner. 1 sually the number of each mess varied between 
three and ten persons. Each monk drew down his cowl 
and ate in silence. While the hebdomadaries or servers 
of the week laid the dishes, the reader of the week be- 


gan the lection from Holy Writ or the lives of saints 
in the wall pulpit. During dinner all the gates were 
closed, and no visitors were admitted. After dinner the 
broken fragments were sent down to the almonry for 
the poor and sick, and the brethren either took the me- 
ridian sleep, talked in the calefactory, read, or walked, 
but in some houses went in procession to the cemetery 
and prayed a while bareheaded among the graves of the 
brotherhood. At Durham the frater-bouse was used 
only on great occasions. It was fitted with benches 
and mats. The ordinary fare was pulse, fruit, vegeta- 
bles, bread, fish, eggs, cheese, wine, or ale; and the 
evening meal, the bibcrcs, collation, mistum, or caritas, 
consisted of bread and wine, and was followed by prayer 
in church before bedtime. The dinner-hour at length 
became put back to noon, and the supper was continued 
at the old time, about five P. M. At the entrance of the 
hall there was a large ambrv for the mazers, cups, and 
plate. The Clugiiiaos distributed the uneonsecratcd 
hosts in hall. The Last Supper of Leonardo da Vinci, 
painted for the Dominicans of Milan, represents the 
high - table of a refectory of the order. French or 
Latin only was allowed to be spoken in hall or cloister, 
and in 1337 meat was not eaten on Wednesdays ami 
Saturdays during Advent, or from Septuagosima to 
Enster-day. The hall of a guest-house was lined with 
beds at Clugny and Farfa, for men on one side and for 
women on the other, while movable tables down the 
centre were laid out at meal-time. — Walcott, Sacred 
A rcliccology, s. v. 

Refine. The art of refining, as referred to in Script- 
ure, was of two different kinds, according as it was ap- 
plied to liquids or to metals ; and the processes, in them- 
selves quite diverse, are expressed by different words. 
In respect to liquids the primary idea was that of strain- 
ing or filtering — the word for which was p~T, zukah 
(Isa. xxv, 6); but in respect to metals it was that of 
melting, and thereby separating the ore from the dross — 
ami for this the word was r~I£. tsaraph. But the first 
word also in the course of time came to be used of gold 
or other metals, to denote their refined or pure state 
(1 Chron. xxviii, 18; xxix, 4 ; Job xxviii, 1 ; Psa. xii, 
6; Mai. iii, 3). In figurative allusions, however, to the 
idea of refining, while both words might have been em- 
ployed, we find almost exclusive use made of that which 
points to the more searching process of purification by 
lire (Isa. i, 25; xl, 19; xlviii, It); Zeck.xiii,9; Mai. iii, 
2, 3). Hence the term “refiner” or smelter (r^U, Iso- 
rrph; metsareph, Mai. iii, 2, 3) denotes a worker 

in metals, specially of gold and silver (l’rov. xxv, 4), a 
founder (Jmlg.xvii, 4), a goldsmith (lsa.xli,7). That the 
ancients acquired, in comparatively remote times, some 
knowledgcand skill in thisart, as in the working of metals 
generally, admits of no doubt. Sec M ltal. The Egyp- 
tians carried the working of metals to an extraordinary 
degree of perfection, as their various articles of jewelry 
preserved in museums evince; and there is no doubt 
that the Hebrews derived their knowledge of these arts 
from this source — though there is evidence that the art 
of working in copper and iron was known before the 
tlood (ticn. iv, 22). The Egyptian monuments also 
give various representations on the subject, and in par- 
ticular exhibit persons blowing at the tire, with a pot of 
metal on it, in order to raise it to a melting heat. See 
Bkllows. The creation of a heat siilliciently intense 
for the purpose was the chief element in the process of 
refining, although, probably, borax and other substances 
were applied to expedite and perfect the result. The 
refiner’s art was especially essential to the working of 
the precious metals. It consisted in the separation of 
the dross from the pure ore, which was effected by re- 
ducing the metal to a fluid state by the application of 
heat, and by the aid of solvents, such as alkali (“2; 
A. V. “purely," Isa. i, 25) or lead (Jer. vi, 29), which, 
amalgamating with the dross, permitted the extraction 


REFORMATIO 


981 


REFORMATION 


of the unadulterated metal. The Hebrews evidently 
understood the process of melting- the metals, not only 
to make them fluid for the purpose of casting, but also 
for separating from the precious metals the mixed com- 
mon minerals, such as silver from the lead ore with 
which it was combined (Ezek. xxii, 18-22; xxiv, 11). 
The instruments required by the refiner were a crucible 
or furnace (“J13) and a bellows or blowpipe (HE'S). The 
workman sat at his work (Mai. iii, 3, “He shall sit as a 
refiner”) ; he was thus better enabled to watch the proc- 
ess, and let the metal run off at the proper moment. 
See Mink. The notices of refining are chiefly of a fig- 
urative character, and describe moral purification as the 
result of chastisement (Isa. i, 25; Zecli. xiii, 9 ; Mai. iii, 
2, 3). The failure of the means to effect the result is 
graphically depicted in Jer. vi, 29: “The bellows glow 
with the fire (become quite hot from exposure to the 
heat); the lead (used as a solvent) is expended (uSj 
D!0 [keri 1); the refiner melts in vain, for the refuse will 
not be separated.” The refiner appears, from the pas- 
sage whence this is quoted, to have combined with his 
proper business that of assaying metals: “I have set 
thee for an assayer” ('pn2; A. V. “a tower,” ver. 27). 
See Fining-pot. 

Reformatio Leguji Ecclesiastic arum, a code 
of Church laic, first projected by Cranmer at the com- 
mencement of his primacy, and accomplished, after va- 
rious impediments (1551), by a sub-committee of bish- 
ops, divines, canonists, and secular doctors of the law. 
It was ready to be submitted to king Edward, but his 
sudden decease prevented the royal confirmation, and 
so the project came to an end. The work, consequent- 
ly, is not, and never was, of any authority; but it is a 
valuable record, as throwing a clear light on the views 
of the Reformers. It not only reveals their plans with 
respect to canonical jurisprudence, but their opinions on 
Christian doctrine. 

Reformation, Tiie, is the name commonly given 
to the religious and ecclesiastical movement of the l’Gth 
century which resulted in the overthrow of the then all- 
powerful authority of the Roman popes in a large por- 
tion of the Christian world, and in the construction of a 
number of new religious organizations. The name it- 
self is highly significant, and points to the importance of 
the new departure in the history of Christianity which 
then began. It has come into quite general use even 
among Roman Catholic writers, although the theolo- 
gians of that Church have attempted to substitute for it 
other terms, like the “so-called Reformation,” and the 
“separation of the Church.” We have already had oc- 
casion in numerous articles of this Cyclopaedia to refer 
to detached portions of the Reformation. The Church 
history of no important country of Europe could be com- 
plete without a mention of its reformatory movements, 
whether they were successful or unsuccessful, and the 
biographies of the great fathers of the Reformation con- 
sist chiefly of an account of their labors in behalf of the 
reconstruction of the Church upon a new basis. The 
present article treats of the great turning-point in the 
history of Christianity as a whole. 

I. Forerunners of the Reformation . — Like most of the 
great events in the history of mankind, the Reformation 
has had its preparatory history, in which attempts of a 
similar nature were made for the same purpose, meeting 
with no or but partial success, but yet smoothing the 
way for the marvellous changes which were achieved 
by the victorious reformation of the IGth century. 

I. All the Reformed churches which have sprung from 
the movements of the 1 Gth century are agreed in regard- 
ing the undue power which the bishops of Rome at an 
early time began to arrogate to themselves, and the cen- 
tralized constitution which consequently was forced upon 
the Christian Church, as one of the most fatal deviations 
from the doctrines of the Bible and the practice and the 
life of the apostolic age. In a wider sense of the word, 


I all the efforts, therefore, which have been made to re- 
! press and abolish the arrogant and encroaching power 
, of the Roman popes, and to bring back the Church to its 
! purity in the time of her founder and his first disciples, 

I might be called preparatory and forerunning movements 
of the great Reformation. These movements have been 
manifold and widely different in their origin, progress, 
and ramifications, and each of them has to be individu- 
ally judged by its own character and history. Indeed, 
throughout the Middle Ages, even when the power of 
the papacy was most despotic and absolute, a reformato- 
ry tendency was pervading the Church, often confining 
itself to secrecy and occult labors, but frequently burst- 
ing the bonds of the Church, proclaiming its reformato- 
ry principles in public, and defying the ire of an enraged 
hierarchy. Some of these outbursts ran smoothly on 
in the channels of a purely evangelical belief; others 
became impregnated with fanatical, sometimes even 
anti-Christian, elements, and threatened with a common 
overthrow both the State and the Church of the times. 
Among the more prominent reformatory movements in 
the earlier part of the Middle Ages were those of the 
Albigenses, the Cathari, and the Waldenses, to all of 
which (and many others) this Cyclopcedia devotes spe- 
cial articles. 

In the latter part of the Middle Ages, the deviation of 
the ruling Church from Scripture and primitive Chris- 
tianity became more and more glaring, and the corrup- 
tion among all classes of the clergy, from the highest to 
the lowest, more and more general. The call for a “ ref- 
ormation in the head and members” spread rapidly, and 
even great nations began to look upon the reformation 
of the Church as a national cause. It has been justly 
remarked that the meaning given to the term “ refor- 
mation in the head and members” was by no means 
uniform, and that “everyone understood it to mean pri- 
marily that which he most desired — the removal of what 
seemed to him most oppressive and unchristian.” All 
malcontents, however, appeared to agree in regarding 
the administration of the Christian Church by the pa- 
pa] court as utterly depraved, and as subversive of true 
Christianity. 

The efforts made for putting an end to papal mis- 
rule and achieving a reformation of the Church were 
chiefly of two kinds. The one class found the scat of 
the degeneration not so much in a departure from the 
doctrine of the Bible as in the usurpation by the popes 
of greater power than belonged to them by divine and 
Church right. These men strongly believed in the con- 
tinuity of the visible Church ; they rejected the right of 
separation and secession, and looked upon the oecumen- 
ical councils of the Church as the only medium through 
which the needed reformation of the Church should be 
effected. This school had for a long time a centre in 
the most famous literary institution of the Church — the 
University of Baris. Its chief representatives were Peter 
d’Ailly, the chancellor, his pupil Gerson, and Nicolas de 
Clemanges, rector of that university. The hearty sup- 
port of many of the foremost princes of the age, includ- 
ing several emperors, was secured, and at the three great 
councils of Pisa, Constance, and Basle the majority of the 
assembled bishops and theologians expressed their con- 
currence in these views, and earnestly endeavored to ef- 
fect a radical reformation on this basis. The joyous hopes 
which had been raised in the Church by these reforma- 
tory efforts were, however, sorely disappointed when the 
pope succeeded in dissolving the Council of Basle. 

Much more thorough than this class of reformers were 
a second, who not only turned against papal usurpations 
in the government of the Church, but also by a study 
of the Scriptures were led to look upon the entire doc- 
trinal system of the Church, as it had gradually devel- 
oped under the misguidance of the popes, as an apostasy 
from the Christianity of the Bible, and who therefore 
believed that, more than a reformation in its head and 
memhers, the Church needed a reformation in its spir- 
it and doctrines. The foremost representatives of this 


1 { EF <J KM ATI OX 


982 


KKFOKMATIOX 


school were Wycliffe in England, and lluss in Bohemia. I 
To Wycliffe the papacy appeared as anti-Christianity, 
and the papal power, in his opinion, was not derived 
from God, but from the emperor. lie rejected altogeth- 
er the existing hierarchical constitution of the Church, 
and advocated the substitution for it of the presbyterial 
constitution as he believed it to have existed in the 
apostolical age. To the traditions of the Church he ab- 
solutely denied an authoritative character, and declared 
the whole Scripture to be the only source ami ride of re- 
ligions knowledge, lluss derived his views of Church 
reform largely from Wycliffe, and in 1410 was excom- 
municated from the Church as a Wycliffite. One of the 
central doctrines of the reformation of the lGth century 
rose, however, in his system to greater prominence, and 
he also resembled his great followers more than Wyc- 
litfe by arousing the masses of the people in behalf of 
reform. Neither Wycliffe nor lluss succeeded in carry- 
ing through a reformation. When the English govern- 
ment, which had protected Wycliffe during his life- 
time from personal injury, began a bloody persecution 
against his followers, most of whom were found in the 
higher classes and among the men of learning, the re- 
formatory movement in England came to a sudden stand- 
still. The reformatory ideas of lluss appeared for a time 
to gain complete control of an entire country, and thus 
to establish a stronghold of evangelical Christianity in 
the centre of Europe. But internal dissensions and the 
superior power of the German emperor annihilated in 
1434 the prospects of the llussite movement, which 
dwindled down into a small sect called the Bohemian 
and Moravian Brethren. Numerically too weak to 
exercise a missionary intluencc upon the remainder of 
Christian Europe, this religions denomination will yet 
always be counted among the ripest and most delicious 
fruits of the reformatory tendencies of the Middle Ages. 

Nothing shows better the vast difference between the 
two classes of reformers who have been characterized in 
the above lines than the fact that Gerson, the most gift- 
ed representative of the lirst named, was the leading 
spirit at the Council of Constance which sentenced lluss 
to be burned at the stake. Besides these two broad cur- 
rents of reformatory movements which are visible in the 
Church history of the latter part of the Middle Ages, 
there were a large number of theological writers who 
bravely contended for bringing the corrupt Church of 
their times back to the purity of Bible Christianity, and 
who more or less discussed all the great reformatory 
questions which agitated the world in the Jfitli century. 
Among the most celebrated of these reformers were John 
(Clipper) of Goch, rector of a convent of nuns at Mechlin, 
John Wessel (Gausfort), called hv his friends Lux M un- 
til, and John (Huenrath) of Wesel. Though many of 
these writers made undisguised assaults upon the re- 
ceived doctrines of the Church, their views, if not di- 
rectly addressed to the people, were frequently tolerated 
as learned opinions of the school. 

One of the most gifted reformatory preachers of the 
Middle Ages appeared towards the close of the 15th cen- 
tury in Italy. With a rare eloquence and boldness he 
attacked the immoral life prevailing in both Church and 
State, and demanded a radical reform of both. Though 
few reformatory preachers have ever succeeded better 
than Savonarola in swaying the emotions of large mass- 
es of the people, he did not lay the foundation of any 
reformatory organization; and when he was burned at 
the gibbet, there was no one to continue the work of his 
life. 

-. At the close of the loth century, the Church had 
succeeded in repressing all the reformatory movements 
of the Middle Ages, at least so far as to prevent, mostly 
by the sword of the secular arm. the consolidation of 
any of these movements into a powerful ecclesiastical 
organization, like that of the Eastern Church. But her 
triumph, after all, was more apparent than real. Her au- 
thority had been thoroughly undermined, and remained 
shaken in every country of Europe. The threats of the 


Church might extort reluctant recantations from a num- 
ber of intimidated reformers; but her very successes of 
this kind had the effect of spreading the latent discon- 
tent with a religious organization which so palpably 
eared more for power than for the purity of Christian 
doctrine and Christian life. Other powerful agencies 
aided in shaking the belief of the educated classes in 
the Church. The most influential among tlum was the 
school of the Humanists, who used the revival of clas- 
sical studies for promoting a general literary culture, 
which not only fully emancipated itself from the guar- 
dianship of the Church, but frequently assumed an in- 
different and antagonistic position even with regard to 
Christianity. Especially in Italy, humanism became an 
enthusiastic worshipper of pagan antiquity, and it be- 
came quite common that high dignitaries of the Church 
were in the circles of their friends and acquaintances 
known as avowed atheists. Even pope Leo X was cred- 
ited with the remark— and, whether true or not true, it 
was regarded as credible by his contemporaries — “It is 
generally known how much we and ours have profited by 
the fable of Christ.” "While in Italy many of the leading 
humanists became opponents of Christian belief, though 
they had no objection to retaining their positions, which 
often were of the highest rank, in the Church, the chief 
patrons of the classical studies in the Teutonic countries 
were mostly men of earnest Christian convictions, who 
cultivated them with a view to strengthening the cause 
of Christianity, and of reforming the Church. It was 
especially the community of the Brothers of the Com- 
mon Life who founded a number of excellent schools, 
in which the highest attainments in the revived classi- 
cal studies, and an education in the principles of earnest, 
purified Christianity, were aimed at. Though the com- 
munity as a whole never entered into -an oppositional 
attitude with regard to the Church, but rather, like its 
greatest member, Thomas ii Kempis, limited itself to 
teaching, preaching, and practicing that which in the 
system of the ruling Church appeared to be unobjec- 
tionable to earnest and pious Christians, its teachers and 
pupils generally favored the idea of a Church reforma- 
tion, and in the lffth century many of them became en- 
thusinstical co-workers in the reformatory labors of Lu- 
ther, Zwingli, and Calvin. 

The labors of such men could not fail to kindle in 
Germany still more the desire for a reformation, and 
to strengthen the expectation that in resuming the 
work of reformation on a grand scale the German na- 
tion would take the lead. As early as 1457, chancellor 
Mayer of Mentz wrote to yEneas Sylvius, subsequently 
pope 1’ius II : “The German nation, once the queen of 
the world, but now a tributary handmaid of the Homan 
Church, begins to arouse herself as out of a dream, and 
is resolved to throw' off the yoke.” This spirit of pre- 
paring for the overthrow of the papal yoke and the pu- 
rification of Christianity at the proper time was fondly 
nurtured by hundreds of learned and pious men in the 
latter part of the loth and the beginning of the lfith 
century; and when at length the right leader appeared 
at the fulness of time, he found hundreds of thousands 
ready to fall at once into line as combatants in the grand 
army of reform. 

II. Luther's llcformalltm in Germany . — "While the fore- 
runners of the Heformation diffused in the Church the 
yearning for a radical purification of Christianity, and 
while the humanists were educating a race much better 
fitted for being the standard-bearers of a thorough reform 
than were the reformers of preceding centuries, a num- 
ber of other great events co-operated for bringing the 
mediicval history of mankind to a close, and for usher- 
ing in a new ivra. Maritime discoveries of unparalleled 
magnitude widened the horizon of the European nations 
and led to a rapid growth of commerce, to an increase 
of manufactures, and a greater and more general diffu- 
sion of wealth. The invention of the art of printing 
diffused knowledge among the masses of the people to 
an extent which former generations would have regard- 


REFORMATION 


9S3 


REFORMATION 


eil as impossible. Feudalism and mediaeval chivalry 
collapsed before the rise of the wealthier and more in- 
telligent burgherdom of the cities and towns, on the one 
hand, and the consolidation of powerful states under 
centralized governments, on the other. The new forces 
which obtained a controlling influence upon modern so- 
ciety were not always, and not by necessity, hostile to 
the ruling Church ; but it is at once apparent that when 
in alliance with reformatory Church movements they 
were a considerable aid in raising up more formidable 
oppositions to the popes and their Church than those 
which had been put down in the Middle Ages. Soon 
after the beginning of the lGth century, Germany, then 
the soil most favorable to religious reform, produced the 
man who succeeded in carrying through the reforms 
which the preceding centuries had so often in vain at- 
tempted, who dealt to the papacy a heavier blow than it 
had received since the separation of the Eastern Church, 
and whose name, forever associated with “The Refor- 
mation,” stands at the portal of modern history as one 
of its greatest pillars. No one disputes the eminent po- 
sition which Martin Luther occupies in history, nor the 
extraordinary qualities which elevated him to it. The 
Manual of Church History , by Dr. Alzog, wdiich has 
been translated into nearly all the languages of Europe, 
and is very extensively used in the theological schools 
of the Roman Catholic Church, says of Luther : “ If we 
look upon his agitated, eventful life, we must count him 
among the most remarkable men of all centuries, al- 
though he has not grasped his mission as a reformer 
of the Church. We must also recognise his courage, 
though it frequently degenerated into defiance — his un- 
tiring activity, his popular, irresistible eloquence, spark- 
ling wit, and disinterestedness. He did not lack a pro- 
found religious sentiment, which yearned for satisfaction, 
and which constitutes the fundamental character and 
the most brilliant feature of his system.” A Protestant 
Church historian (Kurtz) justly calls Luther a religions 
genius, who was called to his great work by the rarest 
union of the necessary qualifications and gifts of the in- 
tellect, sentiment, character, and will ; who was trained 
and educated by a providential guidance of his life; 
who, in his own life, had passed through the entire es- 
sential course of reformation, had tested in himself its 
divine power, and then could not but make the holiest 
and dearest experience of his life serviceable to all the 
world. 

1. The origin of the German Reformation was quite 
humble and indefinite. Pope Leo X, of whom even 
Roman Catholic writers must say that ■* he does not ap- 
pear to have experienced the blessing and power of the 
Christian faith,” and that “religion was not to him the 
highest affair of life,” had arranged for a very extensive 
sale of indulgences. It w'as not deemed worth while 
to assign for such an outrage upon the religious senti- 
ment of pious Christians a more specious pretext than 
that the proceeds of the sale were intended for a war 
against the Turks and the erection of St. Peter’s church. 
The real destination of the money, it was quite common- 
ly believed, was to defray the exorbitant expenditures 
of the pope’s court and to serve as a marriage dowry of 
his sister. Archbishop Albert of Mentz, of whose Chris- 
tian belief as little was known as of that of the pope, 
authorized the sale in Germany on condition that fifty 
per cent, of the gross income should flow into his own 
pocket. A Dominican friar (Tetzel) carried on the trade 
with an effrontery which outraged the sentiments of 
thousands of earnest Christians. Among those who 
were urged by their conscience to rise against this 
profanation of Christianity was Luther, then a young 
monk in an Augustinian convent. When a young stu- 
dent, he had been driven by his anxiety for the salva- 
tion of his soul into the retirement of a convent. After 
long doubts and mental troubles, he had derived from a 
profound study of the Scriptures, and of the writings of 
Augustine and Tauler, the consolatory belief that man 
•is to be saved, not by his own works, but by faith in the 


[ mercy of God in Christ. When he became a doctor of 
| the Sacred Scriptures, he was deeply impressed with the 
j duty imposed upon him by the oath he had to take on 
the occasion of teaching and making known to the world 
the truths of Christianity. Both as an earnest Christian, 
who sincerely believed in the Christianity of the Script- 
ures, and as a conscientious teacher of theology, Luther 
felt himself impelled to enter an energetic protest against 
the doings of Tetzel. In accordance with the principles 
of the Church of Rome, he wrote to several neighboring 
bishops to stop the sale of indulgences, and oidy wheii 
this appeal remained unheeded be determined to act 
himself. On the eve of All-Saints’ Day, Oct. 31, 1517, 
he affixed to the castle church of Wittenberg the cel- 
ebrated ninety -five propositions, which are generally 
looked upon as the beginning of Luther’s reformation. 
Both Protestant and Roman Catholic writers are agreed 
that these theses involved by no means on Luther’s part 
a conscious renunciation of the Roman Catholic faith. 
Luther himself showed this clearly by his subsequent 
appeal to the pope; but Dr. llase justly remarks that 
Luther certainly must have been aware that he had 
thrown out a challenge to the most powerful prelates 
and monks. On the other hand, the opposition to 
Rome was so widespread that Luther’s words worked 
upon public opinion as the kindling spark in a powder- 
magazine. Even the pope, who had at first looked upon 
the matter as another monkish quarrel, became startled 
at the electric shock which it produced throughout the 
Christian world. Serious measures for arresting the 
progress of the movement were resolved upon. At first 
the pope cited Luther to Rome, but at the request of 
the University of Wittenberg and the elector of Saxony 
the concession was made that the papal legate, Thomas 
de Vio,ofGaeta (better known in history under the name 
Cajetanus), should examine Luther in a paternal man- 
ner. The characteristic feature in Luther’s line of de- 
fence was the rejection of the arguments taken from the 
fathers and the scholastics, and the demand to be re- 
futed by arguments taken from the Bible. It was also 
remarkable that soon after appealing from the cardinal’s 
treatment to the pope when better informed, he was 
urged on, by a fresh papal bull in behalf of indulgences, 
to change his appeal and to direct it to an oecumenical 
| council. Soon after, the Roman court found it expedient 
to change its policy with Luther, and to endeavor to 
bring him back by means of compromise and kindliness. 
The papal chamberlain, Karl von Miltiz, a native of 
Saxony, was so far successful that Luther promised to 
write letters in which he would admonish all persons to 
be obedient and respectful to the Roman Church, and 
to write to the pope to assure him that he had never 
thought of infringing upon the privileges of the Roman 
Church. The promised letter was actually indited ; its 
language is full of expressions of humility, and exalts 
the Roman Church above everything but Christ him- 
self. lie also promised to discontinue the controversy 
if his opponents would do the same. But soon he was 
drawn into the Disputation of Leipsic (June 27 to July 
15, 1519), which the vainglorious Dr. Eck (even Roman 
I Catholic writers thus characterize him) had originally 
arranged with Carlstadt. History awards to Dr. Eck 
the glory of having been the more clever disputant, but 
Luther’s cause was nevertheless greatly benefited by it. 
The arguments of his opponents drove Luther onward 
to a more explicit rejection of Romish innovations. He 
was led to assert that the pope was not by divine right 
the universal bishop of the Church, to admit a doubt of 
the infallibility of councils, and to be convinced that not 
all Hussite doctrines were heretical. At the same time, 
the reformatory movement was greatly strengthened by 
the universal sympathy that began to be expressed with 
Luther, by the alliance with the liberal humanists and 
knights of Germany, and especially by the open acces- 
sion to his cause of one of the greatest scholars of the 
age, Dr. Melancthon. The conflict between Rome and 
Luther now became one fur life and death. Dr. Eck re- 


KEFOIIMATIOX 


9S4 


IIEFOKMATIOX 


turned from a journey to Rome with a bull which de- 
clared Luther a heretic and ordered the burning of his 
writings. Luther, on the other hand, systematized his 
views in three works, all of which appeared in 1520: To 
his Imperial Majesty and the Christian Nobility of the 
German Nation; On the Babylonian Captivity of the 
Church ; and Sermon on the Freedom of a Christian Man. 
Finally he broke away the last bridge of retreat by 
publicly burning (Dec. 10, 1520) the papal bull with the 
papal canon law. The pope succeeded in prevailing 
upon the Dorman emperor and the Herman Diet of 
Worms (1521) to proceed against Luther; and when the 
latter firmly refused to recant, and avowed that he could 
yield nothing but to the Holy Scriptures and reasonable 
argument, he was placed under the ban of the empire; 
but so great was the discontent in Hermany with Rome 
that the same assembly that condemned Luther for 
opposing the faith of their ancestors presented 101 ar- 
ticles of complaint against the Roman see. The ban of 
the empire involved serious dangers for Luther, for it 
gave permission to any one to assault his person and 
seize upon his property; but he was saved from these 
dangers by his secluded life at the Castle of Wart burg, 
to which disguised horsemen, according to a previous 
understanding with the elector, but against his own 
desire, had conducted him. Far from the turmoil of 
political agitation, he found time not only to issue sev- 
eral powerful polemical essays (against auricular con- 
fession, against monastic vows, against masses for the 
dead, and against the new idol of the archbishop of 
Mentz), which refuted the rumor that he was dead, but 
to conceive and partially execute the plan of translating 
the Bible into the native tongue. During the absence 
of Luther from Wittenberg, the Reformation under the 
leadership of men who were more impetuous and prac- 
tical, but less circumspect and theological, assumed a 
more aggressive turn against Rome. Several priests re- 
nounced celibacy and were married; Carlstadt adminis- 
tered the Lord’s supper in both kinds, and in the Herman 
language. To these changes Luther made no objection; 
but when Carlstadt began to commit open acts of vio- 
lence in disturbing the public worship of the Roman 
Church — when enthusiastic prophets appeared from 
Zwickau, who boasted of immediate divine revelations, 
rejected infant baptism, and denounced Church, State, 
and science — he emerged once more from his seclusion, 
silenced by powerful sermons his adversaries at Witten- 
berg, and once more placed himself at the helm of the 
movement. In intimate union with jMelancthon, he 
now labored for completing the theological system of 
the Church which began to rear itself on the basis of 
his reformatory movement. Luther himself gave his 
chief attention to continuing the translation of the Bible 
in Herman, which was completed in 1534, and consti- 
tutes in ever}’- respect one of the master-productions of 
the reformatory age; while IMelancthon, in his cele- 
brated work on theological science ( Loci Communes 
Rerum Theoloyicarum ), gave to the theological leaders 
of the new Church a hand-book of doctrine which, as a 
literary production, ranked with the best works that the 
Church of Rome had produced up to that time. 

In Rome, Leo X had meanwhile (1521) been suc- 
ceeded by Adrian VI, the son of a mechanic of Ftrecht, 
who, while strongly attached to the continuity of the 
external Church and opposed to the separation already 
produced by Luther, was at the same time, sincerely and 
honestly devoted to the cause of a religious reform. 
The energy displayed by him and the success obtained 
were, however, by no means commensurate with the 
honesty of his convictions. During his short adminis- 
tration (1521-23 ) he was neither able to arrest the anti- 
Church reformation of Luther nor to smooth the way 
for the introduction of any reforms within the Church. 
The latter were hated in Rome no less than the former, 
and when Adrian died he was succeeded by a human- 
ist, Clement VII. who, like. Leo X, was anxious to pre- 
serve the splendor and the power of the papal court, 


and showed not the least interest in the purity of re- 
ligion. 

In Hcrmany, during this interval, the protracted ab- 
sence of the emperor had prevented the adoption of 
any stringent measures for the suppression of the Ref- 
ormation, and allowed the latter to strike deeper roots 
in the nation. The majority of the princes, it is true, 
were not yet willing to part with the religion of 
their fathers, and to identify themselves with the 
movement which they thought represented their be- 
loved ancestors as heretics. They mistrusted Rome, 
however; persisted in demanding reforms; contented 
themselves with resolving at several successive diets 
that the Edict of Worms should be carried out as much 
as possible, and thus enabled the princes and free cities 
which were friendly to the Reformation to consolidate 
it within the boundaries of their states. When the papal 
legate Campeggio succeeded at the Diet of Ratisbon. in 
1524, in bringing about an alliance between Ferdinand 
of Austria, the dukes of Bavaria, and most of the bish- 
ops of Southern Hermany for the preservation of the old 
faith and for carrying oiiL the Edict of Worms, landgrave 
Rhilip of Hesse and elector John of Saxony, at a meet- 
ing held at Hotha.took the initiatory step for a counter- 
alliance of the friends of the Reformation. Luther and 
Melancthon were at lirst opposed to the conclusion of 
any offensive and defensive alliance, on the ground that 
Hod's cause should not be defended by carnal weapons. 
When, however, the danger appeared to increase, a de- 
fensive alliance between the landgrave and the elector 
was concluded in 152G at Torgan, and was soon joined 
by a number of other princes. As the emperor became 
involved in a new foreign war in which the pope was on 
the side of his enemies, the Diet of Spire unanimously 
agreed upon the decree that until the meeting of a free 
general council every state should act with regard to the 
Juliet of Worms as it mighL venture to answer to Hod 
and his imperial majesty. This decree gave to the states 
which were friendly to the Reformation time to reorgan- 
ize the churches of their territories on the basis of the 
Reformation. The lead was taken by the elector John 
the Constant of Saxony. iMelancthon drew up the ar- 
ticles of visitation, in accordance with which, in 1520, a 
general Church visitation of ecclesiastical and lay coun- 
cillors took place. Among the results of this visitation 
were the compilation of two catechisms by Luther lbr 
more efficient instruction of the children in the elements 
of religion, the appointment of superintendents to exer- 
cise spiritual supervision, and the introduction of an ec- 
clesiastical constitution, which became the common mod- 
el for the churches in the other Herman states. Luther, 
in the meantime (1525), had followed the example of 
many’ of his clerical friends and married. As the con- 
tinuing centre of the entire movement, Luther exerted 
a powerful influence in many’ directions as professor and 
author by an extensive correspondence far beyond the 
borders of Hermany, and by supplying the churches 
with a great number of excellent t'lmrch hymns in the 
native tongue. By these Church hymns, as well as by’ 
his translation of the Bible. Luther at the same time oc- 
cupied so prominent a position in the history of Herman 
literature that Hermany as a nation appeared to be. un- 
der the greatest indebtedness to him, ami its further 
progress to be closely linked to the success of the Bif- 
ormation. A number of theological controversies into 
which Luther was drawn, and of which those with king 
Henry VIII of England, with Erasmus, with Carlstadt. 
and Zwingli were the most important, belong more to 
the personal history of Luther than to that of the Ref- 
ormation. 

2. A new crisis for the Herman Reformation began in 
1529 with the Diet of Spire. The emperor having vic- 
toriously’ finished his wars, was nmv free from foreign 
entanglements, and showed himself determined to main- 
tain t lie religious unity of the empire. A very numer- 
ous attendance of bishops and prelates secured a Cath- 
olic majority’, which, in accordance with the imperial 


REFORMATION 


9S5 


REFORMATION 


demand, decreed that the Edict of Worms should be car- 
ried through in the states which had hitherto acknowl- 
edged its authority, but that no innovations should be 
required in the remaining provinces; that none should 
be obstructed in celebrating the mass; and that the 
privileges of every spiritual estate should be respected. 
Against this recess, which if carried out would have 
made a further progress of the Reformation impossible, 
Electoral Saxony, Hesse, Ltineburg, Anhalt, the mar- 
grave of Brandenburg, and fourteen imperial cities en- 
tered a protestation, from which they were henceforth 
called Protestants. They appealed from it to the em- 
peror — to a free council and a German national assem- 
bly. Philip of Hesse urged the evangelical princes to 
assume a defiant attitude for the defence of the Refor- 
mation, and, in order to strengthen their alliance, ad- 
vised a union with the imperial cities that favored the 
Reformation of Zwingli. In accordance with his wishes, 
a theological colloquy was arranged at Marburg (Oct. 1 
to 3, 1529), in which Zwingli, Luther, (Ecolampadius, 
and Melancthon took part. They failed to effect an 
agreement in the doctrine of the Lord’s supper, but 
parted with the mutual promise to end the public con- 
troversy. Soon after the evangelical princes assembled 
at the Convention of Schwabach, Luther had drawn up, 
on the basis of the articles of Marburg, the so-called sev- 
enteen Schwabach articles, which the Zwinglian cities 
were requested to sign as conditional of their admission 
to the alliance. The request was, however, declined, and 
the convention remained without result. At the next 
Diet of Augsburg (1530) the emperor intended to put an 
end to the religious strife. The elector of Saxony there- 
fore requested his theologians to draw up a brief summa- 
ry of the evangelical faith, and they accordingly present- 
ed to him a revision of the Schwabach articles at Torgau 
(the Torgau articles). The elector was accompanied to 
Augsburg by Spalatin. Melancthon, and Jonas. Luther, 
who was still under the ban of the empire, remained be- 
hind at Coburg. The emperor’s arrival was delayed, 
and Melancthon used the time up to the opening, of the 
diet (June 20) for composing, on the basis of the Torgau 
articles, the famous Confession of Augsburg (q. v.), the 
first of the symbolical books of the Lutheran Church, 
which, after being approved by Luther, was signed by 
the states. It had been drawn up both in Latin and in 
German; and although the emperor desired the Latin 
text to be read, it was at the request of the elector pub- 
licly read to the diet in German (June 25). Some of 
the princes admitted that they had derived from this 
document a clearer conception of the Reformation than 
the} 1- had possessed heretofore of its character and de- 
sign; but the emperor commissioned the Catholic theo- 
logians Faber, Eck, Cochljens, and Wimpina to prepare 
a “confutation” of the Confession, which was read on 
Aug. 3. The emperor declared that he was determined 
to stand by the doctrines laid down in the confuta- 
tion; that he expected the same from the princes; 
that he was the patron of the Church, and not willing 
to tolerate a schism in Germany. He refused to receive 
the “Apology of the Augsburg Confession,” which had 
been composed by Melancthon in reply to the “confuta- 
tion.” The recess of the. empire of Sept. 22 announced 
that the confession of the Protestants had been refuted, 
but that time for consideration would be given to them 
until April 15 of the next year; until then all should re- 
frain from diffusing their heresy by writing or preach- 
ing; and within six months a general council would be 
called for the ultimate settlement of the matter. The 
Edict of Worms was to be carried out, and the imperial 
court was to proceed against the disobedient. As, soon 
after the close of the diet, a legal process was actually be- 
gun against the Protestant states for having confiscated 
the property of the Church, the Protestant powers met 
at Smalkald, and concluded (1531) a defensive alliance 
for six years, at the head of which the elector of Saxony 
and the landgrave of Hesse were placed. Fortunately 
for the new alliance, the emperor was soon again in- 


volved in a war with the Turks, who threatened an in- 
vasion of Austria and Germany, and his desire to obtain 
the aid of the Protestant churches once more disposed 
him favorably towards toleration. New negotiations 
resulted in the conclusion of the religious peace of Nu- 
remberg (July 23, 1532), which enjoined upon both par- 
ties mutual friendship and Christian love until the ap- 
proaching council. Pope Clement VII so far yielded to 
the demands of the emperor that he promised in 1533 to 
convoke a council within the space of a year at Mantua, 
Bologna, or Piacenza : but he demanded, at the same 
time, from the Protestants a previous unconditional sub- 
mission to the decrees of the council. This promise the 
Protestants naturally refused to give, though they were 
ready to attend the council and plead their cause. The 
power of the Protestants in the meanwhile was greatly 
strengthened by the accession of the dukes of Pomerania 
and Wiirtemberg, and by a union with the cities which 
favored the Zwinglian Reformation; and which, after a 
religious colloquy, held at Cassel in 1535, between Me- 
lancthon and Buecr, agreed in May, 1536, upon the Wit- 
tenberg Concord, by which the cities unequivocally ac- 
cepted the Augsburg Confession. When in July, 1536, 
the pope actually convoked the council at Mantua, the 
Protestant states met again for consultation at Smal- 
kald. They accepted and signed the “ Articles of Smal- 
kald” which had been composed by Luther, and which 
presented the doctrines of the Reformation in much 
stronger terms than the Confession of Augsburg, and 
they remained unanimous in the resolve not to attend 
an Italian council, at which the pope would appear both 
as a party and as a judge. The council did not meet, 
but in 1538 a “holy league” for the suppression of 
Protestantism was formed at Nuremberg by the arch- 
bishops of Mentz and Salzburg, the dukes of Bavaria, 
George of Saxony, and Henry of Brunswick. But the 
next year George died, and was succeeded by his Prot- 
estant brother Henry, who found it easy to carry through 
the Reformation; and a few years later (1542), Henry 
of Brunswick was driven from his dominions, into which 
his conquerors likewise introduced the Reformation. 
The elector of Brandenburg, Joachim I, a decided enemy 
of Luther, was likewise (1535) succeeded by a Protes- 
tant son. Thus gradually the Reformation gained over 
to its side nearly all the secular princes of Germany, with 
the exception of the dukes of Bavaria and the house of 
Hapsburg, which found it necessary to adhere to the 
old faith on account of its connection with Spain, Bel- 
gium, and Italy. Several new attempts were made to 
effect a reconciliation of the contending parties. The 
Colloquy of Worms (1540) remained without any result. 
At the Diet of Ratisbon (1541), where Rome was repre- 
sented by the pious legate Contarini, who himself fa- 
vored the fundamental doctrines of Protestantism as they 
were then maintained, an agreement was effected be- 
tween the theologians concerning the doctrine of justifi- 
cation and other points, hut it was found impossible to 
harmonize views on transubstantiation. The Protes- 
tants, but not the Catholics, had to pledge themselves 
to abide by the agreed articles (the Ratisbon Interim) 
until the meeting of the council. The pope was finally 
prevailed upon by the emperor to open (Dec. 13, 1545) 
the long-promised council at Trent, a city of the Ger- 
man empire. The emperor still adhered to the plan to 
force the pope into a Catholic reformation of the Church, 
and the Protestants into submission to the Church. An- 
other colloquy at Ratisbon was arranged in 1546 to draw 
up a basis of union to be submitted to the council, but it 
remained without result. At the same time, the em- 
1 peror was determined to break the political power of 
Protestantism by annihilating the Smalkald alliance, 
and in this he was quite successful. The elector and 
the landgrave were declared guilty of high-treason, and 
in the ensuing Smalkaldic war, in which duke Maurice, 
though himself a Protestant, fought from political mo- 
tives on the side of the emperor, both princes were de- 
i feated and made prisoners. The other members of the 


INFORMATION 


986 


REFORMATION 


league, with the exception of a few cities, submitted. 
The emperor was anxious not to give to his expedition 
the name of a religious war. but the pope accorded a 
plenary indulgence to all who would aid in the extermi- 
nation of the heretics. Shortly before the beginning of 
the war (Feb. IN, 15-Hi), Luther had died at Lisleben, 
where he had been invited to act as umpire between the 
counts of Mausfold. In order to prevent the participa- 
tion of the l’rotestants in the council, the pope caused 
the immediate condemnation of some important Protes- 
tant doctrines in the lirst session of that body ; and to 
escape the reformatory pressure of the emperor, he trans- 
ferred the council (.March, 1547), on the pretext that in 
Trent it was threatened bv the pestilence, to Bologna, 
where it soon dissolved. The emperor was great I v dis- 
satisfied, and determined to go on with his own re- 
formatory policy for preserving the religions unity of 
Christendom. At his request, the. conciliatory and no- 
ble-minded bishop of Naurnburg, Julius von 1’flugk, 
and the court preacher of the elector of Brandenburg, 
John Agricola, drew up the Augsburg Interim (1518), 
which was adopted by t lie diet, and was to serve as the 
standard according to which all matters relating to re- 
ligion should be arranged until the decision of the coun- 
cil. At first the Interim was intended to be valid for 
both Protestants and Catholics, but it really remained 
in force only among the former, to whom it conceded 
the marriage of the clergy, the use of the cup in the 
sacrament, and some indefinite constructions of particu- 
lar doctrines of the Catholic Church. The Protestants 
submitted to the Interim with great reluctance; and 
even the emperors ally. Maurice of Saxony, did not risk 
its unconditional introduction, and at his advice the 
Leipsic Interim (154S) was drawn up by Mclancthon, in 
which the greater part of the Catholic ritual was de- 
clared to be indifferent (adiaphoron), and therefore fit to 
be retained. It also declared that the power of the pope 
and of the bishops might be acknowledged so long as 
they used it for the edification, and not for the destruc- 
tion, of the Church. But even this more Protestant In- 
terim gave no satisfaction, and the fermentation contin- 
ued until the new pope, Julius 111, reconvoked the Coun- 
cil ofTrent for May 1,1351. The emperor demanded that 
Protestants should attend the council, but Maurice made 
the attendance dependent upon the condition that Prot- 
estants should receive the right of voting, that the for- 
mer resolutions against the Protestants should be annul- 
led, and that the pope himself should be subject to a 
general council. Mclancthon elaborated as the basis of 
t lie doctrinal negotiations the Confessio Saxonica , or 
Jicpetifio Covjessionis Aiif/n$t<iiia>. Protestant deputies 
from Wiirtemberg, Brandenburg, Saxony, and Stras- 
burg appeared at Trent, and Mclancthon, accompanied 
by several theologians of Wittenberg, set out to join 
them. The situation of the Reformation was radically 
changed when Maurice concluded a secret alliance against 
the emperor with a number of Protestant princes and the 
Catholic king of France, to whom, for his assistance, the 
three German bishoprics of Metz, Toni, and Verdun were 
treacherously surrendered by the allies. Maurice, in a 
short and decisive war (15524, completely defeated the 
emperor, who was sick at Inuspruck, and compelled him 
to agree to the Treaty of Passau (July JO, 1552), which 
set the landgrave of 1*1 esse at liberty (the elector of Sax- 
ony bad been liberated previously), opened the impe- 
rial council to the adherents of the Reformation, prom- 
ised a diet for the settlement of the religious differences, 
and provided a permanent peace for at least all those 
who sympathized with the Augsburg Confession. 'Flic 
continuance of the war between Germany and France 
delayed the convocation of the Diet of Augsburg until 
Feb., 1555. Both parties in Germany had arrived at 
the conviction that, the hope of terminating the relig- 
ious controversy by means of religious colloquies or by 
a general council must be abandoned for the present, 
and that peace and order in the empire could only be 
maintained by mutual forbearance. After long nego- i 


tiations, the “Religious Peace of Augsburg” was con- 
cluded. It guaranteed the free exercise of religion to 
the Catholics and t lie adherents of the Confession of 
Augsburg. According to the “ territorial system,” which 
now came into use, the prince of every German state had 
a right to reform the Church within his dominion. The 
subjects of both Protestant and Catholic governments 
who were unwilling to conform to the ruling religion 
retained only the right to leave their country without 
obstruction. The Protestants remained in possession of 
the ecclesiastical benefices which they held in 1555. But 
with regard to the future, it was provided that all spirit- 
ual states of the empire which should subsequently go 
over to the Augsburg Confession should hv that act for- 
feit their offices and possessions. The Catholics remem- 
bered with fear the losses which they had sustained bv 
the secession of the grand master of the German order, 
Albert of Brandenburg, and with which they were 
threatened by the sympathy with the Reformation of 
the archbishop Hermann of Cologne; and they therefore 
believed that on the adoption of the articles securing to 
them the possession of bishoprics and other ecclesiastical 
states, even if their actual incumbents should become 
Protestants, the very existence of their Church would 
depend. The article called “ Ecclesiastical Reservation” 
( Rese mutant Kcclesiasticum) was proclaimed by the 
Roman king Ferdinand as an actual ordinance of the 
diet, though the Protestants loudly protested against it, 
and their protest bad to be recorded in the peace. 

111. Zwinyli's and Calvin's Information in Switzer- 
land. — Next to Germany, Switzerland became the prin- 
cipal source of the Reformation. But it sent forth two 
currents which have never fully united, though many 
connecting canals have been built between them, and 
both are now usually acknowledged as belonging to 
one comprehensive system, which is commonly desig- 
nated as the Reformed Church. One of the movements 
originated in German, the other in French, Switzerland. 
At the head of the one was Ulric Zwingli, at the head 
of the.other John Calvin. The thirteen cantons which 
constituted Switzerland at the beginning of the 16th 
century were still in nominal connection with the Ger- 
man empire; and the same causes, therefore, which have 
been referred to in our account of Germany favored the 
growth of the Reformation in Switzerland. Dissatis- 
faction with and contempt of Rome were, moreover, pro- 
moted in Switzerland by the large number of merce- 
naries who were employed in the military service of the 
popes, and who, after returning home, not only diffused 
a knowledge of the utter corruption prevailing in Rome, 
but by their own unworthy lives helped to bring Rome 
into disrepute. 

]. I'lric Zwingli, who gave the first impulse to the 
Reformation in German Switzerland [see Zwixw.i], 
had received his education at the universities of Vienna 
and Basle, and in the latter place had joined himself to 
a circle of enthusiastic admirers of ancient learning 
and of enlightened religions views who gathered around 
Erasmus. It was more classical education and scien- 
tific study of the Holy Scriptures than, as in the case 
of Luther, religious experience which made Zwingli an 
earnest advocate of religious reform, although, like his 
teacher Erasmus, he continued to hope for a refoyna- 
tion within the Church by the ecclesiastical authorities 
themselves. Such views were entertained quite gen- 
erally in Switzerland; and thus, though Zwingli in 
1518 raised his voice against the effrontery of a trader 
in indulgences, the Franciscan monk Bcrnardin Samson, 
he was appointed papal chaplain by the papal legate. 
His preaching against the corruptions prevailing in the 
Church became more earnest after he had been ap- 
pointed, in 151!>, “Lent priest” in Zurich. The influ- 
ences proceeding from Luther did not remain without ef- 
fect upon him, and he began to be looked upon in Zurich 
as a Lutheran at heart. When he designated the rule of 
fasting as an ordinance of man, the Council of Zurich, 
in 1522, took his part against the bishop of Constance. 


REFORMATION 


9S7 


REFORMATION 


Zwingli's first reforming work, Von Erkiesen und Frcy- 
heit der Spysen, which was published at this time, gave 
a new impulse to the movement. In the same year, 
Zwingli, in the name of the reformatory party among 
the clergy, addressed the Diet of Lucerne and the bish- 
op of Constance in behalf of a free preaching of the 
Gospel; he also demanded the abolition of priestly celi- 
bacy. In accordance with Zwingli’s wish, the Council 
of Zurich arranged on Jan. 29, 1523, a religious confer- 
ence, at which Zwingli presented the reformatory doc- 
trines he had preached in sixty-seven articles, and de- 
fended them sq successfully that the Council of Zurich 
charged all the preachers to preach the pure Gospel in 
the same manner. Soon after, Zwingli received an ef- 
ficient eolaborer in his reformatory efforts by the ap- 
pointment of Leo Judas as Lent priest at Zurich. Sev- 
eral events signalized at this time the steady advance 
of the cause. The council allowed nuns to leave their 
convents, several of the clergy married without hin- 
drance, a German baptismal service was introduced, and 
the cathedral chapter, at its own request, received new 
and suitable ordinances. In other cantons, especially 
in Lucerne, Fribourg, and Zug, a violent opposition was 
manifested against the Reformation, but in Zurich its 
success was fully secured. The council convoked a new 
conference for October 26, upon images and the mass, to 
which all Swiss bishops and cantons were invited, but 
only Schaffhausen and St. Gall sent delegates. No 
champion for images and mass was found at the con- 
ference, and the Council of Zurich concluded to promote 
the reformation of the canton by diffusing the proper 
instruction in the country districts, for which purpose 
Zwingli, the abbot Von Cappel, and Conrad Schmidt, 
commander of the knights of St. John at Kussnacht, 
were appointed. With the assent of the council, Zwin- 
gli published his Christian Introduction, which was to 
explain to the people more fully the meaning of the 
religious Reformation. Soon new reformatory meas- 
ures were adopted by the council. The shrined pictures 
in the churches were shut up, and every priest was left 
free to celebrate mass or not as he chose (Dec., 1523). 
On Whit-Sunday, 1524, the work of removing the im- 
ages from the churches was begun, and it was com- 
pleted in thirteen days. The abolition of many other 
usages followed in rapid succession ; and the transfor- 
mation in religious service was completed by the cele- 
bration on April 13, 14, and 16, 1525, of the Lord’s sup- 
per again in its original simplicity in the great min- 
ster. The publication of Zwingli’s J)e Vera et Falsa 
Reiirjione and the first part of the Zurich translation 
of the Bible likewise gave a favorable impulse. Be- 
yond Zurich, the Reformation was carried through in 
nearly the whole canton of Appenzell, and in the town 
of Mtihlhausen; a broad foundation was laid in Berne 
by the preaching of the prudent Berchtold Mailer; in 
Basle, Wolfgang Fabrieius Capito and Caspar Medio 
were the first preachers, and in 1524 the authorities 
conceded to John CEeolampadius those conditions in 
regard to reform under which he accepted an appoint- 
ment as minister. The Reformation also gained a firm 
ground in Schaffhausen and St. Gall. The majority of 
the cantons were, however, still opposed to the Refor- 
mation, and the Diet of Lucerne (Jan., 1525) endeav- 
ored to satisfy the longing for a reformation without 
rending the Church. Its decrees, however, did not go 
into effect; and the Catholic cantons, in accordance with 
the advice of Dr. Eck, arranged a new religious dispu- 
tation at Baden (May 19, 1526), where CEeolampadius 
acted as the spokesman of the Reformed theologians. 
Though both parties claimed the victory, the Refor- 
mation continued to make progress. In the summer 
of 1526, the Grisons granted religious freedom ; in April, 
1527, the Reformed party obtained a majority in the 
Council of Berne, which, after a new disputation at 
Berne (Jan. 6, 1523), officially introduced the Reforma- 
tion. Decisive measures for securing the preponder- 
ance of the Reformation were taken in 152S by St. Gall, 


and in 1529 by Basle and Glarus. As the most zeal- 
ous of the Catholic cantons, especially Seliwyz, Uri, 
Unterwalden, Lucerne, Valais, and Fribourg, resorted to 
forcible measures for the suppression of the Reforma- 
tion, Zurich and Constance, on Dec. 25, 1527, formed a 
defensive alliance under the name of Burgher Rights, 
It was joined in 1528 by Berne and St. Gall; in 1529 by 
Biel, Muhlhausen, Basle, and Schaffhausen; in 1530 by 
Strasburg, which had been repelled by the German 
Protestants. The landgrave of Hesse also was received 
into it in 1530, at least by Zurich and Basle. In the 
meanwhile fiveCatholic cantons — Lucerne, Zug, Schwvz, 
Uri, and Unterwalden — had concluded (April, 1529) a 
league with king Ferdinand for the maintenance of the 
old faith. A war declared by Zurich in 1529 against 
the five cantons was of short duration, and the peace was 
favorable to the former. In 1531 the war was renewed, 
and the forces of Zurich were totally defeated at Cap- 
pel, Zwingli himself finding his death. The peace 
which Zurich and Berne were forced to conclude was, 
on the whole, humiliating; it recognised, however, and 
secured both confessions of faith. Soon after the bat- 
tle of Cappel, CEeolampadius died (Nov. 23, 1531) of 
grief for the losses of the Reformed Church. Henry 
Bnllinger in Zurich, and Oswald Mvconius in Basle, 
now became the leading spirits among the Reformed, 
whose strength was greatly impaired by internal dis- 
sensions anil by the progress of the Anabaptists. The 
Catholic cantons succeeded in arresting the further 
spread of the Reformation in German Switzerland, and 
in repressing it by force in some free districts and in 
parts of the cantons Soleure and Glarus; but in the 
remainder of the Reformed cantons, especially in Zurich 
and Berne, the population steadfastly continued to ad- 
here to the cause of religious reform. 

2. In French Switzerland, the reformatory movement 
began in 1526 in the French parts of the cantons Berne 
and Biel, where the Gospel was preached by William 
Farel, a native of France. In 1530 he established the 
Reformation in Neufchatel. In Geneva a beginning 
was made as early as 1528; in 1534, after a religions 
conference held at the suggestion of the Bernese, in 
which Farel defended the Reformation, public worship 
was allowed to the Reformed; rapid progress was then 
made through the zeal of Farel, Froment, and Vi ret ; 
and in 1535, after another disputation, the papacy was 
abolished by the council and the Reformation adopted. 
In 1536 John Calvin [see Calvin] arrived in Geneva, 
and was induced by Farel to remain in the city and to 
aid him in his struggle against a party of freethinkers 
who called themselves Spirifuels. In October of the 
same year he took part with Farel and Viret in a re- 
ligious disputation held at Lausanne, which resulted in 
the adhesion of the Fays-de-Vaud to the cause of the 
Reformation. In 1538 both Calvin and Farel were ban- 
ished by the council, which had taken offence at the 
strict Church discipline introduced by the Reformers. 
Soon, however, the friends of the Reformation regained 
the ascendency, and Calvin was recalled in 1541, while 
Farel remained in Neufchatel. For several years Cal- 
vin had to sustain a desperate struggle against his op- 
ponents, but in 1555 they were finally subdued in an 
insurrection set on foot by Ami Perrin. From that 
time the reformatory ideas of Calvin were carried 
through in both Church and State with iron consist- 
ency, and Geneva became a centre whence reformatory 
influences spread to the remotest parts of Europe. By 
an extensive correspondence and numerous religious 
writings, he exerted a strong personal influence far be- 
yond the boundaries of Switzerland. The theological 
academy of Geneva, founded in 1588, supplied the 
churches of many foreign countries, especially France, 
with preachers trained in the spirit of Calvin. When 
Calvin died, in 1564, the continuation of his work de- 
volved upon the learned Theodore Beza. Calvin dis- 
agreed in many points with Zwingli, whose views grad- 
ually lost ground as those of Calvin advanced. The 


REFORMATION 


988 


REFORMATION 


Second Helvetic Confession, the most important among 
the symbolical books of the Reformed Church, which 
was compiled by Bollinger in Zurich, published in 1566, 
and recognised in all Reformed countries, completed the 
superiority of Calvin’s principles over those of Zwiugli. 

3. Although the majority of the German Protestant 
churches remained in connection with the Lutheran 
Reformation, a Gorman Reformed Church which wore 
a moderately Cnlviuistic aspect sprang up in several 
parts of Germany. In 1560 the elector Frederick 111 
of the Palatinate embraced the Reformed creed, and 
organized the Church of his dominions according to 
Reformed principles. Ily his authority, I'rsinns and 
Olevianus composed the Heidelberg Catechism, which 
soon came to be regarded not only as the standard 
symbolical hook of the German Reformed Church, but 
was highly esteemed throughout the Reformed world. 
Maurice, the learned landgrave of I Icsse-Cassel, after 
several fruitless attempts to reconcile the Lutheran 
and Reformed churches, joined the latter in I5G4, and 
compelled the Lutheran Church of his dominion to 
enter into communion with Calvinism. In Anhalt, 
Calvinism was introduced chiefly from attachment to 
Molanethon, and Nassau introduced the Heidelberg 
Catechism in consequence of its relation to the house 
of Orange. The most important accession to the Re- 
formed Church of Germany was that of John Sigis- 
nniud, elector of Brandenburg, who on Christmas day, 
1613, received the Lord’s supper in the court church of 
Berlin according to the Calvinistic ritual. Although 
he tried, as all princes of these times did, to induce the 
people to follow his example, the overwhelming ma- 
jority of the. country continued to remain Lutheran. 
Among the free imperial cities, it was especially Bremen 
which adopted the Reformed creed. 

IV, The English Reformation . — In England the writ- 
ings of Luther were warmly welcomed by many, espe- 
cially by those who secretly adhered to the doctrines of 
Wy clift'e. King Henry VI II, who was a great admirer 
of St. Thomas ii Becket, wrote against Luther (15:21) the 
work A riser (io 17/ Racramentorum, for which he re- 
ceived from the pope the title Defensor J’klei. lie also 
wrote the emperor of Germany a letter in which lie 
called for the extirpation of the heretics. But Luther- 
anism found zealous adherents even at the English 
universities, and an English translation of the Bible 
(1520) by Frith and Tyndale. members of the universi- 
ty of Cambridge, had a decisive effect. Soon the king 
fell out with the pope, because the latter refused to annul 
Henry’s marriage with Catharine of Aragon, the niece 
of the emperor Charles V. The king, who represented 
that his marriage with Catharine, his brother's widow, 
was open to objections, laid the matter, by advice of 
Thomas Cranmer, before the Christian universities; and 
when replies were received declaring the marriage with 
a brother’s wife as null and void, the king separated 
from Catharine, married Anne Boleyn, and fell under 
the papal ban. The English l’arliament sundered the 
connection between England and Rome, and recognised 
the king as the head of the Church. Henry was de- 
sirous of destroying the influence of the pope over the 
Church of England, to whieh, in other respects, he wished 
to preserve the continuity of its Catholic character. The 
cloisters were subjected to a visitation in 1535, and to- 
tally abolished in 1536; and the Bible was diffused in 
the mother tongue (1538) as the only source of doctrine; 
but. the statute of 1539 imposed distinct limits upon the 
Reformation, and, in particular, confirmed trausubstan- 
tiation, priestly celibacy, masses for the dead, and au- 
ricular confession. A considerable number of those who 
refused to comply with the religions changes introduced 
into England were executed. A powerful party, headed 
by Thomas Cranmer, after 1533 archbishop of Canter- 
bury, and Thomas Cromwell, after 1534 royal vicar- 
general for ecclesiastic affairs, exerted a silent influence 
in behalf of a nearer approach towards the Reformed 
churches of continental Europe. They met with little 


success during the reign of Henry, but obtained a ma- 
jority in the regency which ruled England during the 
minority of Edward VI. Peter 51 arty r, Oechino, lhicer, 
and Eagius wore called to England to aid Cranmer in 
carrying through the Reformation. The basis was laid 
in the Book of Homilies (1547), the new English liturgy 
(the Book of Common Prayer, 1548), and the Forty-two 
Articles (1552); but the labors of Cranmer were inter- 
rupted by the death of Edward VI (1553), 1 1 is suc- 

cessor, queen Mary, the daughter of Henry and Catha- 
rine of Aragon, was a devoted partisan of the Church 
of Rome, during whose reign Cranmer /md from three 
hundred to four hundred other persons were executed 
on account of their religion. A papal nuncio appeared 
in England, and an obsequious parliament sanctioned 
the reunion with Rome; but the affections of the peo- 
ple were not regained, and the early death of Mary 
(1558) put an end to tlie official restoration of tlic Pa- 
pal Church. Queen Elizabeth, the daughter of Henry 
and Anne Boleyn, whose birth, in consequence of the 
papal decision, was regarded by the Roman Catholics 
as illegitimate, resumed the work of her father, and 
completed the English Reformation, as distinct both 
from the Church of Rome and the Reformations of 
Germany and Switzerland. The Book of Common 
Prayer which had been adopted under Edward was 
so changed as to be less offensive to Catholics, and by 
the Act of 1'niformity, June, 1559, it was made bind- 
ing on all the churches of the kingdom. Most of the 
Catholics conformed ; of 9400 clergy, their benelices were 
only lost by fourteen bishops, fifteen heads of ecclesias- 
tical corporations, fifty canons, and about eighty priests, 
Matthew Parker, the former teacher of the queen, was 
appointed archbishop of Canterbury. The validity of 
his ordination, which was not sanctioned by the pope, 
nor made according to the Roman rite, was at once dis- 
puted in numerous Catholic writings, but has also found 
some Catholic defenders, as Le Conrayer. The ( ’onfes- 
sion of Faith which had been drawn up under Edward 
in forty-two articles was reduced to thirty-nine articles, 
and in this form it was adopted by a convocation of the 
clergy at London in 1562, and by Parliament made, in 
1571, the rule of faith for all the clergy. According to 
the Thirty-nine Articles, the Scriptures contain every- 
thing necessary to salvation ; justification is through 
faith alone, but works acceptable to God are the neces- 
sary fruit of this faith; in the Lord’s supper there is a 
communion of the body of Christ, which is spiritually 
received by faith; and predestination is apprehended 
only as it is a source of consolation. Supreme power 
over the Church is vested in the English crown, hut it 
is limited by the statutes. Bishops continued to lie 
the highest ecclesiastical officers and the first barons 
of the realm. Subscription to the articles was made 
binding only on the clergy; to the laity freedom of 
conscience was allowed. The adoption of the Thirty- 
nine Articles completed, in the main, the constitution 
of the Episcopal Church of England. Some parts of 
the Church government and the liturgy, especially the 
retaining of sacerdotal vestments, gave great offence to 
a number of zealous friends of a radical religious refor- 
mation who had suffered persecution during the reign 
of Mary, and, while exiles, had become strongly attached 
to the principles of strict Calvinism. They demanded 
a greater purity of the Church (hence their name Puri- 
tans), a simple, spiritual form of worship, a strict Church 
discipline, and a Presbyterian form of government. The 
Act of 1'niformity (1559) threatened all Nonconform- 
ists with fines and imprisonment, and their ministers 
with deposition and banishment. When the provisions 
of the act began to he enforced, a number of the Non- 
i conformist, clergy formed separate congregations in con- 
| ncct ion with presbyteries (since 1572). and a consider- 
able portion of the clergy and laity of the Established 
Church sympathized with them. The rupture between 
( the parties was widened in 1592 by an act of Parliament 
that all who obstinately refused to attend public wor- 


REFORMATION 


939 


REFORMATION 


ship, or led others to do so, should be imprisoned and 
submit, or after three months be banished; and again in 
1595, when the Tresbyterians applied the Mosaic Sab- 
bath laws to the Christian Sunday, and when Calvin’s 
doctrines respecting predestination excited animated 
disputes. 

A nmeh more uncompromising opposition than that 
by the Puritans was made to the Established Church 
by Itobcrt Brown, who embraced (from 1580) Calvinism 
in its strictest form, denounced the English Church as 
a false Church, and demanded that, in accordance with 
the apostolic example, every congregation should be an 
independent Church. Mis adherents, who were vari- 
ously designated as llrownists, Independents, and Con- 
grcgationalists, renounced all fellowship with the Church 
of England, and met with great success, though Brown 
himself returned to the Church of England. In 1593 
there were about 20,000 Independents in England : those 
who fled to Holland founded a number of churches there, 
and from Holland the Pilgrim fathers brought this branch 
of the English Keformation over to the New World. 

The Stuarts entertained immoderate opinions as to 
the royal authority in Church and State. James I, the 
son of Mary Queen of Scots, remained, in spite of the 
Gunpowder Plot (1G05), mild towards the Catholics, but 
bitterly opposed to Puritanism. The Catholic element 
in the Established Church was greatly strengthened, 
and an attempt was even made to restore episcopacy 
in Scotland. A bond of union was, however, given to 
all parties by an excellent new translation of the Bible 
into English, with which king James’s name is honor- 
ably connected. Charles I followed in the footsteps of 
his father; and as the bishops sided with him in his 
conflicts with Parliament and his endeavors to enforce 
the divine right of kings, the king’s overthrow, which 
ended in his execution (1G49), involved the overthrow 
of the supremacy of the Episcopal Church. The Par- 
liament summoned an assembly of divines at West- 
minster— the Westminster Assembly (1043-49) — and, 
in accordance with the proposition ol' this assembly, 
introduced a Presbyterian form of government and a 
Puritanic form of worship. Soon after the death of 
Cromwell, however, the Stuarts were recalled (1000) and 
the Episcopal Church re-established. The Test Act 
(1073) prohibited every one from holding any public 
office unless he had acknowledged the king’s ecclesi- 
astical supremacy and had received the sacrament of 
the Lord’s supper in an Episcopal church. In conse- 
quence of the adherence of James II to the Church of 
Borne, there arose one more conflict between the Eng- 
lish king and the Episcopal Established Church; but 
when William III of Orange became king the consti- 
tution of the Church was definitely settled (1089). The 
Church of England retained the Episcopal form of gov- 
ernment, and Ireland was placed under the jurisdiction 
of the Church of England. This connection between 
the Established Church of England and the Established 
Church of Ireland remained until 1870, when the latter 
was disestablished and its official connection with the 
Church of England severed. The “ Church of Ireland” 
since then forms an independent, self-governing body; 
while the Scotch Episcopal Church and the Protestant 
Episcopal Church of the United States agree with the 
religious creed of the Church of England, but frame 
their Church laws with entire independence. 

Y. The Presbyterians of Scotland . — The first knowl- 
edge of the Keformation begun in continental Europe 
was brought to Scotland by several Scotch students of 
Wittenberg. They tried to circulate Luther’s writings, 
but found the ground not favorable to a reformation, be- 
cause king James Y had intimately allied himself with 
tlie clergy for the purpose of curbing the power of the 
nobility. Stringent measures were adopted against the 
favorers of the Reformation. The first victim was Pat- 
rick Hamilton (March 1, 1528), a youth of royal blood, 
who, while studying in Germany, had imbibed a love 
of the Keformation. Two more Reformers were burned 


j in 1534; in 1539, five in Edinburgh and two in Glasgow. 
Nevertheless, the adherents of the Keformation stead- 
ily increased in number, especially among the nobles. 
When James Y died, the leader of the reformatory par- 
ty, James Hamilton, earl of Arran, succeeded in seizing 
| the regenc 3 r . When the latter saw his political in- 
j fluence endangered by the Reformed earl of Lennox, 
J he was gained over by the widowed queen and by 
1 David Beautoun (Beton), cardinal-archbishop of St. 
Andrew’s, to the Catholic side, and persecution began 
afresh. The Catholic party derived some advantages 
from the national war against Henry YIII of England, 
as the latter was looked upon as a patron of reformatory 
movements; hut the burning of George Wishart, one 
of the theological leaders of the Reformation, rallied the 
reformatory party anew. Under the guidance of John 
Knox they began to advance more firmly, and to de- 
velop their ecclesiastical affairs more definitely. As 
both Knox and Wishart had been educated at Geneva, 
and were firmly addicted to the Reformed Confession, 
the reformed type of the Reformation now obtained in 
Scotland a decided and lasting ascendency over the Lu- 
theran. The Reformed party allied itself with the Eng- 
lish government, the Catholics with that of France. 
The latter sent the young daughter of James Y, Mary 
Stuart, to France for education, where she was subse- 
quently married to king Francis II of France, and im- 
bibed an enthusiastic attachment to the Church of Rome. 
In 1554 the fanatical dukes of Guise, the brothers of 
the widowed queen, became regents of Scotland. The 
French influence was strongly used for the repression 
of the reformatory party, which, on the other hand, 
was benefited by the accession to the English throne 
of Mary, daughter of llenrv YIII. Protection was af- 
forded to the English Protestants who had fled on account 
of their religion, and freedom of worship was again se- 
cured by the native friends of the Reformation. John 
Knox, who in 1540 had had to flee from Scotland, re- 
turned in 1555 to strengthen the Reformed faith and to 
urge on the nobility and the people to an unceasing 
contest against the idolatries of Rome. Dissatisfied, 

| however, with the feeble support which he found, Knox 
returned in 1550 to Geneva, in which city he received 
from the Scotch bishops the sentence to the stake which 
had been passed against him. The stirring letters which 
Knox wrote to Scotland from Geneva led (1557) to the 
formation of a defensive league of the Protestant nobil- 
ity — the “Congregation of Christ.” The accession of 
Elizabeth to the English throne was followed in Scot- 
land by the adoption of new measures against the Ref- 
ormation, which French troops were to earn' into effect. 
This led to a furious outbreak of the Reformed party. 
John Knox once more returned, the Covenant of May 
31 was signed, a new alliance with England was con- 
cluded, and the widowed queen deposed as regent. The 
iconoclastic devastation of Catholic churches and clois- 
ters began at Perth and rapidly spread over the king- 
dom. A civil war which ensued w r as concluded b 3 ' the 
treat 3 r of Edinburgh (1500), which recognised the rights 
of the Reformed. The Scotch Parliament, which met 
soon after, immediate!}' abolished the papal jurisdiction 
over Scotland, forbade the mass, and approved an en- 
tirch' Calvinistic Confession ( Confessio Scottica). In 
the next. \'ear (1501) the Presbyterian Church govern- 
ment was set in order in the Book of Discipline. These 
acts of the Parliament w'ere, however, not sanctioned b} r 
the government until 1507. after the overthrow' of Alary 
Stuart, who, notwithstanding her fanatical zeal in be- 
half of Rome, had been unable since her return from 
France (1501) to arrest the complete victory of the Re- 
formed part 3 T . While the theolog}' of the Scotch Con- 
fession was stricth' Calvinistic, the episcopal benefices 
were allowed to continue, as the regents during the mi- 
nority of James YI, and still more James himself, had 
a strong personal interest in their preservation. Mel- 
ville, the successor of Knox, induced the Assembly of 
1578 to adopt a stricth' Presb 3 ’terian Church constitu- 


REFORMATION 


990 


REFORMATION 


tinn, which admits no Church oflice except the four rec- 
ognised by Calvin of pastor, doctor, elder, and deacon. 
The sanction of this Church constitution (the Second 
Hook of Discipline) by Parliament and the youthful 
king was not obtained until 1502. James was, however, 
personally averse to Presbyterianism and a strong ad- 
herent of an episcopal form of government. lie left no 
means untried, especially after he had united the crown 
of England with that of Scotland, to force an episcopal 
form of government upon the Church of Scotland. 
Charles I went still further than his father, and gave to 
the Scotch a liturgy which the Presbyterians denounced 
as a service to Baal. The union of Scotch Presbyterians 
with the Puritans and Independents of England led to 
the overthrow of Charles I. In 1043 a new league and 
covenant was adopted, and in 1045 Scotland received 
the Westminster standards. After the execution of 
Charles I, the Scotch, from opposition to Cromwell, pro- 
claimed Charles II, who had signed the covenant, as 
king. This led, however, to a serious and lasting di- 
vision among Scotch Presbyterians. Other divisions, 
from various causes, followed in the course of time, and 
even at the present time (1K79) Scotch Presbyterianism 
is split up into a large number ol'divisions. The Presby- 
terian character of the people has. however, remained 
unimpaired. Cromwell, who several times defeated the 
Scotch, did not allow the assembly to meet, but in no 
other way interfered with the freedom of the Scotch 
Church. Charles II relapsed into the Stuart tendency 
to introduce Episcopalianism ; but on the expulsion of 
the Stuarts in 1 6*9, the Church constitution of 1592, 
and the Westminster Confession were definitely restored. 
To the adherents of an Episcopalian Church an act of 
1712 granted freedom of worship, and in 1792 they re- 
ceived the full enjoyment of civil rights. 

VI. The Reformed Church of Holland . — Nowhere did 
the Beformation find a more favorable soil than in the 
Netherlands, which were closely united with Germany, 
being regarded as a tief of the empire. The people were 
noted for their industry and love of freedom, and were 
therefore inclined to an earnest opposition to every 
form of ecclesiastical and civil despotism. Besides, the 
Brethren of the Common Life, the Beghards, and other 
religious communities had awakened and fostered an 
interest in a purer, more scriptural form of Christianity, 
which, at the beginning of the 10th century, was far 
from being extinct. Therefore Luther’s writings, al- 
though they were condemned by the University of Lou- 
vain, were enthusiastically received in the flourishing 
cities of Handers, Brabant, and Holland. As the Neth- 
erlands were the hereditary land of the emperor Charles 
V, he made the utmost efforts to suppress the reforma- 
tory movement : and the penal law' which was issued at 
Worms in 1521- was carried out with greater earnestness 
in the Netherlands than in < Jermany, In 1523 two Au- 
gust inian monks, Henry Vos and John Eseh, were exe- 
cuted at Brussels — the first martyrs of the Beformation. 
Other edicts against the Protestants followed, and with 
them new executions. The progress of the Beformation 
was, however, not checked; but, in consequence of the 
closer connection of the people with France and Switzer- 
land. it took a Reformed rather than a Lutheran type. 
The vigor of the persecution during the reign of Charles 
was somewhat mitigated by the mild disposition of the 
two st adl holders, Margaret ofSavoy, and Mary, widowed 
queen of Hungary, the latter of whom, a sister of the 
emperor, was even suspected of a secret sympathy with 
the Beformation; and in many places the execution of 
the obnoxious decrees was even prevented by the out- 
spoken personal inclinations of municipal and provincial 
authorities. An effort made by Charles V (1550) to es- 
tablish a regular inquisition, after the pattern of the 
Spanish, was not successful. Philip 11 did not shrink 
from measures of the utmost cruelly to enforce submis- 
sion to the laws and to the Council of Trent; but. in- 
stead of submitting, the people rallied for the defence 
of their religious and civil liberty. A Calvinistic con- 


fession of faith ( Confessio Relgica ) was in 1562 drawn 
up by Guido de Bros, and in 1506 it was recognised by 
a synod of Antwerp as a symbolical book of the Be- 
formed churches of the Netherlands. In the latter year 
a defensive league, the Compromiss , was also concluded 
by the nobles, which spread with great rapidity. The 
name of (Jueux (Beggars), by which the court at first had 
ridiculed the confederates, was received by the people 
as a title of honor, and served as a rallying-point for a 
great national movement towards freedom. When the 
stadtholdcr Margaret of Parma felt unable to curb any 
longer the rising opposition, the duke of Alba undertook 
to extinguish the Beformation with fire and sword. In 
the southern provinces he was successful; but seven of 
the northern provinces formed, in 1579, the Union of 
Utrecht, and renounced allegiance to the king of Spain. 
A long and bloody war of independence followed, w hich 
terminated in the establishment of the independent 
Dutch Bepublic. In the southern provinces, which re- 
mained under the crown of Spain, the Beformation 
was almost wholly extinguished. The Dutch Bepublic, 
though only one of the smaller Protestant states of Eu- 
rope, soon added to the reputation of the Beformation 
by the conspicuous position it occupied in regard to lit- 
erature and art, to civilization and to maritime con- 
quest. In the inner history of the Reformed churches, 
the Arminian controversy [see Ak.minianism] and the 
Synod of Dort (q. v.) — which was attended by dele- 
gates of the English Episcopal Church and the churches 
of Scotland, the Palatinate, Hesse, Switzerland, Wet te- 
ran. Geneva, Bremen, and Emdcn — were of considerable 
importance. The decision of the Synod of Dort led for 
a time, both in Holland and in the Beformed churches 
of several other countries, to a complete victory of strict 
Calvinism over a party which demanded more Biblical 
simplicity and less rigid conformity with the system of 
any theologian, even if it lie Calvin; but soon strict Cal- 
vinism lost more ground in Holland than in any other 
Beformed Church, and rationalism obtained an ascen- 
dency so decisive and of so long duration that in the 19th 
century a numerous party of orthodox members of the 
National Church separated from the latter and consti- 
tuted a Free Beformed Church. The Dutch Beformed 
Church has planted large and flourishing offshoots in 
North America and several countries of South Africa, 
and thus contributed an important share to the ascen- 
dency which Protestantism enjoys in these regions. In 
Belgium, under the cruel rule of the Spaniards, but very 
few and small Beformed congregations were able to con- 
tinue their always endangered existence, until, in the 
19th century, the reunion of the country with Holland 
began an a*ra of greater freedom and of progress, which 
continued after the erection of Belgium into an inde- 
pendent kingdom. Now Belgium has again a National 
Beformed Church, which is still one of the smallest Be- 
formed national churches of Europe, but is recognised 
by the State, enjoys a steady progress, and the out- 
spoken sympathy of many of the foremost statesmen of 
the country. 

VII. The Lutheran Reformation in the Scandinavian 
Kingdoms. At the time when Luther began his ref- 
ormation, Christian II ruled over all the Scandinavian 
countries — 1 )enmark. Norway, Iceland, and Sweden, lie 
was an unprincipled tyrant, who favored the Beforma- 
tion in Denmark in order to strip the bishops of their 
political power, while in Sweden he executed the noblest 
men under the plea that they were under the papal ban. 
As early as 1519 be called Martin Beinhard from Wit- 
tenberg to Copenhagen into the theological faculty, and 
in 1521 he issued a decree encouraging the marriage of 
the priests. When, in 1522. a papal delegate appeared 
in Denmark, Christian took back his decree on the mar- 
riage of the priests. He was, nevertheless, deposed in 
1523, and among the grounds of the deposition which 
the. estates brought forward was. that he had infected 
his wife with the Lutheran heresy, and introduced pro- 
moters of this same heresy into the Catholic kingdom 


REFORMATION 


991 


REFORMATION 


of Denmark. Christian was succeeded by Iris uncle, 
Frederick I, duke of Holstein, who strongly inclined to- 
wards the Reformation, but who had, nevertheless, to 
promise to the estates of Denmark to put down, with 
persecution, the heresy that was pressing in. In the 
hereditary duchies of Schleswig and Holstein all violent 
interference with the great religious struggle was in 
1524 forbidden, and the king’s well-known sympathy 
with the Reformation greatly promoted the more rapid 
diffusion of Luther’s doctrines and writings. The pro- 
vincial of the Carmelite order, Paulus Elbe, translated 
part of the Psalms; the New Test., translated by John 
Michelsen, a companion of the expelled king, Christian 

II, and printed in Leipsic in 1524, found a large circula- 
tion, and in 1525 the reading of the Bible was declared 
free. The nobility at an assembly at Viborg showed 
itself favorable; the king declared himself openly for it 
in 1526 ; the Diet of Odense, in 1527, deprived the bish- 
ops of their ecclesiastical jurisdiction, and granted re- 
ligious liberty to all, and the right of marriage to the 
clergy until the meeting of a general council. Viborg, 
in Jutland, Mahno, in Scania, and Copenhagen became 
important centres of the movement, which now spread 
with great rapidity over the whole kingdom. At the 
Diet of Copenhagen in 1530, which was to attempt a 
reunion of the parties, the Lutheran preachers, with John 
Jansen (preacher at Copenhagen) at their head, pre- 
sented a confession of faith in forty- three articles. 
Though the object for which the diet had been con- 
voked was not attained, the predominance of the Lu- 
therans was now fully deeided, and the king openly 
ranged himself on their side. On the death of Frederick 
I the bishops used the political power which had been 
left to them for a last attempt to put down the Reforma- 
tion, but it was of no avail. The new king, Christian 

III, by energetic and violent measures, soon destroyed 
the last remnant of the old Church and completed the 
victory of the Reformation. Immediately after Iris ac- 
cession to the throne, he confirmed the freedom of re- 
ligion. On Aug. 20, 1536, all the bishops were impris- 
oned. A diet held at Copenhagen decreed that the 
bishops should thereafter be deprived of all secular 
power, and that the Church property should be con- 
fiscated, and divided among the king, the nobility, and 
ecclesiastical and charitable institutions. When the im- 
prisoned bishops declared their willingness to renounce 
their dignities, they were restored to liberty ; only Rbn- 
nov, bishop of Roeskilde, refused, and died in prison. At 
the invitation of the king, John Bugenhagen came to 
Denmark, crowned (1537) the king and the queen, con- 
secrated two evangelical bishops or superintendents, and 
took a leading part in the framing of a new Church 
constitution, which was published on Sept. 2, 1537, and 
sanctioned by the Diet of Odense in 1539. From that 
time all Denmark has firmly adhered to the Lutheran 
Church. F or many years no other worship was allowed ; 
and, even after the establishment of complete religious 
liberty in 1848, more than ninety-nine per cent, of the 
entire population continue to be classed as Lutherans. 

On the progress of the Reformation in Norway we 
are but imperfectly informed. A monk Anthony is men- 
tioned who preached the Gospel in Bergen. The ma- 
jority of the bishops and the clergy appear to have been 
opposed to the Reformation, which was almost unknown 
until the reign of Christian III; then the Danish gov- 
ernment began to introduce the Reformation. Olaf 
Engelbrechtsen, archbishop of Drontheim, soon aban- 
doned his opposition to the Danish king and tied (1537) 
with his treasures to the Netherlands, and resistance to 
the new Church constitution soon ceased. Many of 
the bishops and clergy, however, left their positions; 
there was a scarcity of preachers, and the people for a 
long time showed a marked preference for Catholicism. 
But when the people had become settled in their new 
belief they became strongly attached to the. Lutheran 
Church, with which now fully ninety-nine per cent, of 
the population are connected. 


Iceland had become a part of the Danish kingdom by 
the Calmar Union of 1397, and the decree of the Danish 
Diet of 1536, which declared the Evangelical Church as 
the State religion of Denmark, became also valid for Ice- 
land. For several years the two bishops of the country 
successfully neutralized the efforts of the Danish gov- 
ernment. In 1540 Gifur Einarsson, who had studied in 
Wittenberg, became bishop of Skalholt, and began the 
introduction of the Reformation. His successor, Martin 
Einarsson, worked in the sarpe direction, but was vio- 
lently opposed by the other bishop, John Aresen, of 
Ilolar, who even took him prisoner, and had Gifur’s 
bones dug up and interred in an unconsecrated place. 
But finally bishop Aresen was overpowered, and in 1550 
executed as a rebel. This ended all opposition to the 
Reformation in Iceland. The entire population, as in 
Denmark and Norway, has ever since belonged to the 
Lutheran Church. 

In Sweden the Reformation was hailed as a useful 
ally in the struggle for shaking off the yoke of Den- 
mark and re-establishing the national independence. 
The bishops and higher clergy were the strongest 
supporters of Danish rule, and when Gustavus Vasa 
achieved the freedom of Sweden and was elected king 
(1523) by the Diet of Strengniis he was looked upon 
bv the bishops as a dangerous enemy. The king, who 
needed part of the immense wealth of the clergy to re- 
lieve the people of their taxes, at first endeavored to 
gain pope Adrian Vi’s eo-operation for a reformation 
of the Church. When this was found to he useless, he 
commissioned the brothers Olaf and Lawrence Petersen, 
who had studied at Wittenberg, to introduce the Lu- 
theran Reformation. The two brothers had returned to 
Sweden in 1519, gained a number of adherents, the most 
prominent of whom was the archdeacon Lawrence An- 
dersen, and Olaf’s sermons had made a great sensation 
at the Diet of Strengniis. The king appointed Olaf 
preacher in Stockholm, Lawrence Petersen professor of 
theology in Upsala, and Lawrence Andersen his chan- 
cellor. In 1526 a public discussion took place under the 
king’s protection at Upsala, and a translation of the New 
Test, into Swedish was made by chancellor Andersen. 
The bishops, however, whose prominent champion was 
bishop Brask, of Linkoping, made a successful resistance 
to the progress of the Reformation; and the people, 
though irritated against the power and wealth of the 
clergy, manifested at the same time a superstitions at- 
tachment to the old Church. To bring matters to a 
crisis, the king offered (1527) at the Diet of Westerns to 
resign; but the Estates, placed before the alternative of 
either accepting the king’s resignation or of surrender- 
ing the Church to his discretion, chose the latter. On 
account of the very outspoken aversion of the lower 
classes of the people to a change of religion, the king 
proceeded, however, with great caution. According to 
the so-called Westerns Ordinance the bishops were to 
give efficient preachers to the congregations, otherwise 
the king was t<f see to it. The bishops were to hand 
in to the king a schedule of their revenues, that he 
might determine how much should remain to the church- 
es and what was to fall to the crown. The priests, in 
secular matters, were to be under the jurisdiction of the 
king; the Gospel was to be read in all the schools; ex- 
communication was to be pronounced only after an in- 
vestigation before a royal court. An assembly of clergy 
at Orebro in 1529 declared in favor of the Church Ref- 
ormation, but retained mail}' usages of the old Church, 
as the Latin language at divine service, the elevation 
of the host at the eucharist, the prayer for the dead, 
and the episcopal constitution. In 1531 Lawrence Peter- 
sen became archbishop of Upsala, and in 1537 another 
assembly of the clergy at Orebro provided for a more 
thorough evangelical purification of divine worship. 
The continuing aversion of the people to the new order 
of things was ascribed by the king to a want of energy 
on the part of the bishops, and he therefore appointed 
George Normann, a Pomeranian nobleman, superin- 


REFORMATION 


992 


REFORMATION 


tendent of all tlic clergy of the kingdom, with a number 
of custodians and religions councillors as overseers of 
particular provinces. This arrangement was received 
with general disfavor, and led to a number of conspira- 
cies. At the death of the king (15(50) t lie ecclesiastical 
condition of the kingdom was quite undecided. The 
ohlest son and successor of (Justavus, Eric XIV, re- 
moved some more Catholic elements from the new con- 
stitution of the Swedish Church, and gave a hospitable 
asylum to persecuted Protestants of every creed; the 
orthodox Lutherans suspected him of an inclination 
towards Calvinism, which, however, did not gain any 
ground in Sweden. Eric’s brother and successor, John 
III, was prevailed upon by his Catholic wife, who was a 
Polish princess, atid by the hope of succeeding to the 
Polish throne, to attempt the re-establishment of a 
closer connection with the Church of Pome. The king 
was willing to recognise the supremacy of the pope, but 
demanded a number of concessions for the Swedish 
Church. The archbishop of Cpsala was gained for the 
plan, a strongly Romanizing liturgy was introduced, but 
the boldness of the Jesuits incensed clergy and people 
against the counter-reformation, and the king finally 
took offence at the refusal of the pope to accept bis 
proposition. The death of the Catholic queen and the 
king’s second marriage with a Lutheran princess put an 
end to the negotiations with Pome, though the king 
stubbornly dung to the new liturgy. While John was 
wavering between Catholicism and Protestantism, his 
younger brother Charles, who was regent of South Lr- 
melaiul, was an unflinching protector of the Bcforma- 
tion, and did not hesitate to incur the anger of his royal 
brother by affording a place of resort to the Lutheran 
clergy who had heen expelled from the royal dominions 
for their unyielding character. King John was succeed- 
ed (1592) by bis son Sigismuml, who was already king of 
Poland and bad been brought up a Catholic. Popular 
opinion by this time had undergone a great change, 
and demanded, prior to the recognition of Sigismuml, a 
guarantee of the Lutheran State Church. An ecclesi- 
astical council at Lpsala (1593), which was convened by 
duke Charles as regent, decreed, even before the arrival 
of Sigismuml, the exclusion of ( 'atholicism from Sweden, 
and the ollicial authority of the Confession of Augsburg. 
In 1595 the Diet of Sduderkoping declared the Lutheran 
Church as the only tolerated State Church. In 1599 
duke Charles was appointed administrator, and in 160-1 
he was elected king. The new king was somewhat in- 
clined to Calvinism, hut he confirmed the resolutions 
of the diets in favor of the exclusive rights of the Lu- 
theran State Church, which since then has retained full 
control of the kingdom. 

VIII. Protest nnt km in the Austrian States. — In the 
various states governed by the house of llapsburg 
both the Lutheran and the Peformed Pcformation 
spread with great rapidity. Croat enthusiasm was 
awakened by Luther’s Pcformation in Bohemia, where 
deep-rooted opposition to Pome still pervaded the masses 
of the people. Both the Bohemian Brethren and the 
Calixtincs entered into communication with the Ger- 
man Bcformor. Though a full union between Luther 
and the Brethren, who bad never returned to the 
communion with Pome, was not effected, there was a 
mutual recognition as evangelical Christians; and the 
Brethren, whose number now increased again rapidly, 
and who in 1533 handed in their confession of faith to 
Ferdinand, helped to strengthen the reformatory host 
in Europe. Among the Calixtincs, so large a number 
adopted the doctrines of Luther that an assembly of the 
Estates in 1521 declared in favor of a continuation of 
the reformation begun by I hiss in the way set forth by 
Luther. At I lie time of the Smalkald war, a majority 
of the Bohemians were attached to the Pcformation ; 
the Estates denied to king Ferdinand the aid of their 
troops, and united with the elector. When they had 
finally to submit, the king gave orders that in future 
only Catholics and Utraquists should he tolerated in 


the royal domains, and a large number of the Breth- 
ren deemed it best to emigrate to Poland and Pussia. 
In tlic last years n| bis life Ferdinand showed a greater 
moderation towards Protestants, and bis son Maximil- 
ian J! was even, by Protestants as well as Catholics, 
regarded as a secret friend of the Pcformation; but he 
was unable to protect the Protestants of his states against 
the persecutions instigated by the Jesuits. In 1575 the 
Calixtincs and Brethren united and presented a common 
confession of faith, and received from Maximilian an oral 
pledge of recognition. In 1G09 the king was forced 
to give to the adherents of the Confession of 1575 
equal rights with the Catholics; hut practically the 
persecutions continued. When the Estates of Bohemia 
refused to recognise Ferdinand as their king, and elected 
the Protestant elector of the Palatinate, Frederick V, 
the Thirty Years' War broke out, in the course of 
which appeared the fatal decree of 1627, that left to 
the people only the alternative of becoming Catholics 
or leaving the country. Notwithstanding the rigorous 
persecution, which lasted for more than a hundred years, 
several thousand Protestants maintained themselves se- 
cretly both in Bohemia and Moravia; but to-day nine- 
ty-six per cent, of the Bohemians and ninety-five per 
cent, of the Moravians are connected with the Church 
of Pome. 

In the southern provinces of Austria the Beforma- 
tion likewise spread at an early period. Luther’s writ- 
ings were eagerly read in Vienna as early as 1520. In 
1528 more than one half the nobility of the archduchy 
of Austria were evangelical. The Estates demanded 
freedom of religion in 1542 at lunspruek, in 1.548 at 
Augsburg, and in 1556 at Vienna, and bishop Xaunea, 
of Vienna, intended to resign because the government 
tolerated the appointment of Lutheran professors at the 
University of Vienna. Under Maximilian the Estates 
called the Lutheran theologian David Chvtrivus to Vi- 
enna to compile a Book of Religion and a Church Agen- 
da and their use was sanctioned by Maximilian after 
long reluctance. Lower Austria was at once almost 
wholly won over to Protestantism; but the numerous 
and bitter doctrinal controversies of the Protestants 
made it easy for the Jesuits to enforce a counter-refor- 
mation. Gradually stringent laws demanded here, as 
in Bohemia, either a return to the Catholic religion or 
emigration; but how generally the people continued to 
be secretly attached to Protestantism became apparent 
when the victorious Hungarians and Transylvanians 
compelled the government, in 1606, to promise religious 
toleration. Whole towns at once returned to Protes- 
tantism, and in 1610 the emperor Matthias had to rec- 
ognise the equal rights of the churches. The reviving 
hopes of Protestantism were, however, cruelly destroyed 
by the Thirty Years’ War, which led to the utter ex- 
tirpation of the Protestant congregations. In Austria, 
as in all other countries, the Beformers paid a special 
attention to the promotion of education ; and for the 
ignorant South Slavic tribes in particular, where Pri- 
mus Trubtr displayed a remarkable literary and re- 
formatory activity, the Pcformation promised to be tlie 
beginning of a national literature and of an sera of civ- 
ilization. With the suppression of the Pcformation, 
the Slavs relapsed into the utmost ignorance, from 
which only now an efficient system of State education is 
gradually extricating them. How thoroughly Protes- 
tantism lias been eradicated in these provinces, in most 
of which it constituted at one time a majority of the 
population, may be seen from the fact that at present 
there are hardly any Protestants in Uarinthia and the 
Tyrol, and that they arc only one per cent, of the pop- 
ulation in Styria, two in Upper and Lower Austria, live 
in t’arinthia, and fifteen in Silesia. 

The number of Hungarian students at Wittenberg at. 
the time when Luther began bis reformation was so 
great that his reformatory views became at once widely 
known in Hungary, and found many friends. As early 
as 1518 several adherents of the Pcformation were 


REFORMATION 


993 


REFORMATION 


burned. The diet of 15*23 passed a deeree that all Lu- 
therans and their patrons should be seized and burned. 
But the number of Protestants was already considera- 
ble: in Hermannstadt they had in 1523 the upper-hand ; 
a new bloody law passed in 1524 remained ineffective, 
and in 1525 the five royal cities declared in favor of the 
Reformation. The civil war which followed the death 
of king Louis If, who fell in the battle of Mohacs in 
1520, was favorable to the progress of Protestantism. 
Although both rivals for the throne — archduke Ferdi- 
nand of Austria and John of Zapolya, voyvode of Tran- 
sylvania — issued laws of persecution, they were unable 
to carry them out. The number of influential preach- 
ers rapidly increased. As the first preacher, Thomas 
Preussner, of Kiismark (about 1520), is mentioned; 
among the most distinguished were Matthias Devay 
(called Lutherus Ungaricus), Leonhard Stoekel, who 
drew up the Confessio Pentapolitana, which the free 
cities of Upper Hungary in 1549 presented to the king, 
and John Ilonter, who had studied in Basle and worked 
in his native city, Kronstadt, as a preacher and at a print- 
ing-press. In 1529 Hermannstadt expelled all priests 
and monks, and Kronstadt soon followed this example. 
The episcopal sees which became vacant after the bat- 
tle of Mohacs were partly not filled, ami partly came 
into the hands of friends of the Reformation. Several 
bishops, as Kechery of Veszprim, Thurczo of Neutra, 
and Andrew Dudith, who had attended the Council of 
Trent, openly became Protestants; and even the pri- 
mate of (Iran, Nicholas Olah, approved Stockel’s Con- 
fession of Faith. The widow of king Louis II, to whom 
Luther wrote a letter and dedicated his translation of 
the Psalms, appointed an evangelical court preacher. 
Neither Ferdinand, who by the peace of 1538 was con- 
firmed in the possession of the throne, nor John of Za- 
polya, who was to retain during his lifetime the royal 
title, Transylvania, and a portion of Upper Hungary, 
regarded it as safe to adopt stringent measures against 
the Protestants. The widow of John, Isabella, who, after 
John’s death, endeavored to retain her husband’s pos- 
sessions, with the aid of the Turks, for her son John 
Sigismund, favored the Protestants; and in that part 
of the country which was subject to the Turks the Ref- 
ormation advanced without any obstruction. Thus the 
Reformation obtained a decided ascendency in all Hun- 
gary and Transylvania. At one time only three fami- 
lies of magnates were Catholic; the archiepiscopal see 
of Gran remained vacant for twenty years; the whole 
Saxon population of Transylvania, at the Synod of 
Medves (1544), adopted the Confession of Augsburg, 
which for a long time remained a bond of union for all 
the Protestants of Hungary and Transylvania. Among 
the Magyars, however, Calvinism finally obtained the 
ascendency, and in 1566 all the Hungarian Reformed 
churches signed the Helvetic Confession. In Transyl- 
vania, in 1564, a Lutheran superintendent was appointed 
for the Saxons, and a Reformed for Magyars and Szek- 
lers. In 1571 religious freedom was also extended to 
the Unitarians; and from this time Transylvania has 
always had four religions recognised by the State (reli- 
yiones recepUe). In Hungary the Jesuits succeeded in 
arresting the further progress of Protestantism, and in 
instigating new and bloody persecutions. Repeatedly 
the Protestant princes of Transylvania, aided by the 
Hungarian Protestants, compelled the kings by force of 
arms to confirm anew the religious freedom of Protes- 
tantism; but each time these promises were immedi- 
ately broken. In 1634 the majority of the Hungarian 
Diet had again become Catholic, and from that time 
persecutions naturally became all the more oppressive. 
Though, in spite of all these persecutions, the Protes- 
tants maintained themselves, they constitute at present 
only a minority of the population — about twenty-three 
per cent, in Hungary proper, and twenty-four per cent, 
in Transylvania. 

IX. Protestantism in Poland , Prussia, and Livonia . — 
Towards the close of the Middle Ages the kings of Po- 
VIII. — R it r 


land showed a firmer attachment to the Papal See than 
any other government of Europe. As, however, the 
powerful nobles were almost independent of the king, 
those of them who favored a religious reformation were 
able to give an asylum to many persecuted heretics dur- 
ing this period. The Hussite movement met with a 
great deal of sympathy, and a Polish translation of the 
Bible came into wide circulation. Luther’s doctrines 
were favorably received by a large portion of the Polish 
nobility, which at that time was distinguished for its 
scholarship, and especially by the large German com-* 
mercial cities of Polish Prussia. In the neighboring 
grand-mastership of Prussia, the domain of the Teutonic 
Order, the grand master Albert of Brandenburg ealled 
himself in 1523 two Lutheran preachers to Konigsberg. 
The two bishops, and soon the grand master himself, 
confessed the Reformation, and in 1525 Albert took the 
duchy of Prussia in fief from Poland. The Reformation 
was soon generally accepted. 

The success of the Reformation in Livonia was equally 
rapid, notwithstanding the determined opposition of 
the archbishop of Riga. The city of Riga took the 
lead, and in 153S joined the League of Smalkald. 
Nearly all the population soon followed. The grand 
master Conrad Ivettler followed the example of Albert 
of Brandenburg, and in 156 L assumed the title of duke 
of Courland and Scmigallia. This duchy also was a 
Polish fief : that part of Livonia which was situated on 
the other side of the Dwina was united by a special 
treaty with Poland on condition that it should be per- 
mitted to profess the Confession of Augsburg. 

The success of the Reformation in these two fiefs en- 
couraged its friends in Poland proper. King Sigis- 
mund, who died in 1548, was opposed to Protestantism, 
but unable to arrest its progress. His son, Sigismund 
Augustus, favored the Reformation, entered into negoti- 
ations with Calvin, and granted religious liberty to the 
cities of Dantzic, Thorn, and Elbing. Notwithstand- 
ing the utmost efforts made by the national Catholic 
party, with bishop llosius at its head, the Diet of Pe- 
trikow, in 1565, demanded a national council for the 
express purpose of introducing priestly marriage, the 
Lord’s supper under both kinds, and other reforms. In 
1583 an edict of religions toleration was passed, but in 
the next year Hosius caused the adoption of the decrees 
of the Council of Trent by the diet, and in 1565 the 
Jesuits who w*ere called by him established their first 
college. The progress of the counter-reformation which 
now set in was greatly aided by the divisions existing 
among the Protestants. The Reformed effected a na- 
tional organization in 1547; the Lutherans in 1565. 
The Bohemians retained their separate Church consti- 
tution, and the Unitarians, who had able leaders in 
Ladius Socinus, Blandrata, and Oechino, became likewise 
numerous. In 1570 the Reformed, Lutherans, and Bo- 
hemians agreed at the Synod of Sandomir upon a gen- 
eral confession to which all three could subscribe, but 
which left room for the retention by each Church of its 
doctrinal peculiarities. This Protestant union proved 
sufficiently strong to secure in 1573 the adoption of a 
general religious treaty, which guaranteed equal rights 
to Catholics and Protestants. A strong reaction against 
Protestantism began under king Stephen Bathori (1586 
to 1587). His successor, Sigismund III, by conferring 
offices and dignities exclusively upon Catholics, induced 
many nobles to renounce Protestantism. In 1717 the 
erection of new Protestant churches was forbidden, and 
in 1733 the Protestants were excluded from all public 
offices. The increasing persecution of all non-Catholies 
led finally to the interference of Prussia and Russia, and 
to the partition of Poland. 

X. Protestantism in Italy, Spain, and France. — 1. In 
Italy the revival of the classical studies and the obser- 
vation of the corrupt condition of the ruling Church 
had diffused among the educated and literary classes a 
widespread contempt not only of the Catholic Church, 
but of Christianity in general. The friends of a refor- 


REFORMATION 


994 


REFORMATION 


mation of the Church had. however, organized societies 
in Home, Venice, and other cities, and the writings of 
the German and Swiss Reformers met therefore with a 
great deal of sympathy in all parts of Italy. One party 
of Italian reformer/?, which counted among its members 
several cardinals, as t’ontarini and Pole, was averse to a 
separation from the Church, and hoped for an evangel- 
ical regeneration of the old Church. Another party 
came out in favor of a thorough reformation, first in 
Ferrara (under the protection of the duchess Renata, a 
French princess), then in Modena and many other cities. 
A prominent centre of reformatory movements was sub- 
sequently in the city of Naples, where the Spanish no- 
bleman Juan Valdez displayed a remarkable activity, 
and where two of the greatest preachers of Italy — Ber- 
nardino Occhino, the general of the Capuchins, and the 
learned Augustinian Peter Martyr Vermigli — were 
gained for the Reformation. Translations of the princi- 
pal writings of German and Swiss Reformers, mostly 
under assumed names, found a wide circulation, and the 
Italian reformers themselves published a large number 
of writings, the most celebrated of which is the work 
entitled On the Benejit of Christ. Under Paul III the 
evangelical Catholics, like Contarini and his friends, had 
for a time a leading influence upon the government of 
the Church ; but in 15-12 a decided reaction began when 
the pope, b>' the advice of cardinal Carafl'a, who had for- 
merly been a friend of Contarini, appointed an inquisi- 
tion for the suppression of Protestantism. Many of the 
leading friends of the Reformation fled to foreign coun- 
tries; among them Occhino, Vermigli, Vergerio (bishop 
of Capo d’ lstria), and Caraccioli, a nephew of cardinal 
CarafFa. When Carafl’a became pope, under the name 
of Paul IV, the persecution extended also to the Cath- 
olics of evangelical sentiments, including a number of 
cardinals and bishops. Under Paul V an Index Libro- 
rutn Prohibitorum led to the suppression of all literature 
friendly to Protestantism. Protestantism in Italy, as 
in other countries, had been divided into Lutheranism 
and Calvinism, with a prevailing inclination to the lat- 
ter; and Anti -Trinitarian followers of Servctus had 
likewise become numerous, although they had to keep 
their opinions secret. The division of the Protestants 
weakened their power of resistance, and before the end 
of the century the Inquisition had destroyed all ves- 
tiges of Protestant communities. Among the distin- 
guished martyrs of the Reformation were Carnesecchi 
and Palcarius; two Waldensian congregations in Cala- 
bria were rooted out in a terrible massacre. 

2. The union of Spain under one ruler with Germany 
and the Netherlands facilitated the introduction of the 
writings of the German Reformers. Resides, from 
Ream, which was wholly Protestant, the doctrines of 
the Swiss Reformation spread into Aragon. Seville 
and Valladolid became the chief seats of the Refor- 
mation. Diego do. Valera, John Fgidius, Ponce de la 
Fuentc (all of Seville), Alfonso and Juan Valdez, and 
Augustine Castalla were among its prominent friends. 
Francis Fnzonas and Juan Perez translated the Rible. 
From fear of the Inquisition, the Spanish Protestants 
never ventured to constitute congregations; the Inqui- 
sition, nevertheless, discovered them, and exterminated 
them with merciless cruelty. In 1570 Protestantism 
was regarded as fully extinct. 

3. France, during the Middle Ages, had often taken a 
leading part in opposing the claims of the papacy, and 
in asserting the superiority of general councils over the 
pope; but it had shown no sympathy with a thorough 
reform of doctrine. When Luther’s views became known 
in France, they were condemned (1521) by thcSorbonne. 
One of the French bishops, Guillaume Rri^onnet, took, 
however, an active interest in the reformation of the 
Church. He called to his aid men like Lcfevre, Karel 
(who was at that time regent of the college of cardinal 
Le Moinc at Paris), Roussel, and others; hut when the 
charge of heresy was raised against him, he cut loose 
from his Reformed friends, and in 1523 pronounced 


1 against Luther. When Parliament was appealed to for 
the suppression of Protestantism, it lent at once its arm 
[ to the clergy for bloody persecution. In 1524 Jean le 
Clerc, of*Meaux, the first martyr of the Reformation, 
was executed in Metz. In 1529 a great sensation was 
aroused by the hanging and burning of Louis de Rcr- 
quin, a royal councillor and zealous adherent of the 
Reformation, whose writings and translations had pre- 
viously (1523) been condemned by the Sorbonne. Fran- 
cis I was an admirer of Erasmus, and by nature averse 
, to any decisive attitude in religious affairs; he was, 

I moreover, quick in detecting the advantages which an 
j alliance between the Protestant princes of Germany and 
the ruler of France against the Catholic emperor of Ger- 
many might have for him and for France. On the 
other hand, he was afraid of disturbing the religious 
unity of France, and desirous of securing the pope’s aid 
in his war against the German emperor. Thus his 
course jn the progress of the religious controversies was 
w avering and undecided. At his court, and even in his 
family, both parties were represented, the chief patron 
of the Reformation being his sister Margaret, queen of 
Navarre. While the persecution of the Lutherans went 
forward, and, in January, 1535, several of the Reformed 
were executed in Paris in a barbarous way, Francis as- 
sured the Protestant princes of Germany that he was 
really in favor of a religions reformation, and that only- 
some fanatics were punished in France. Of considera- 
ble interest are the negotiations which took place be- 
tween Francis and Melancthon. The king became ac- 
quainted with Melancthon in consequence of a memorial 
which the latter addressed in 1531 to Guillaume Bellay, 
and in which he explained the essential points of the 
Reformation, and how they might be reconciled with 
the Catholic doctrine. Melancthon’s Loci Communes 
pleased the king much. In 1535 John Sturm, then pro- 
fessor in Paris, invited Melancthon to France. Melanc- 
thon answered cordially, and was then formally invited 
by the king himself, bv cardinal Bellay, Sturm, and 
Guillaume Bellay. Luther was in favor of accepting 
the invitation, but the elector sharply refused to give 
him permission. Melancthon therefore did not go, but 
in August of the same year his Consilium, with many 
alterations, was presented to the Sorbonne for their de- 
cision, in the form of a confession of faith, and it was 
declared by them to be thoroughly objectionable. The 
king, nevertheless, announced in December to the Prot- 
estant princes assembled at Smalkald that he had formed 
a favorable opinion of the articles of Melancthon. Soon, 
however, the king, chiefly through the influence of 
cardinal Tournon, ceased to manifest any sympathy 
with the cause of the Reformation. With it the con- 
nection of Frenchmen with the Lutheran Reformation 
seems to have come to an end, until, at a later period, 
the conquest of German territories gave to France a 
considerable number of Lutheran congregations. 

The friends whom bishop Bri<;onnet had called to 
Meaux to assist him in his reformatory work remained 
mostly, like himself, within the old Church, contenting 
themselves with diffusing spiritual aiul evangelical feel- 
ings among Catholics. Lefevrc (Faber Stapnlensis), 
after having fled to Strasburg on account of the charges 
of heresy brought against him. was recalled by Francis I, 
appointed librarian at Blois, where he translated the Old 
Testament, and spent the end of his life at the court of 
Margaret of Navarre. Gerald Roussel, who fled with 
Lcfevre to Strasburg, became subsequently bishop of 
Oleron, where he introduced important reforms, but 
never ceased to be suspected of heresy. Even Marga- 
ret of Navarre, the zealous patron of all friends of the 
Reformation, who reformed all t lie churches of her little 
state according to evangelical principles, never regarded 
it necessary to separate externally from the Catholic 
Church. Her course was disapproved by Calvin, but 
her work was continued by her daughter Jeanne d’Al- 
brot, the wife of Antoine of Bourbon, and in 15G9 the 
Reformation was fully carried through in Bearn. 


REFORMATION 


995 


REFORMATION 


The main reformatory movement of France, which 
has played a conspicuous part in its ecclesiastical as well 
as political history, attaches itself to the name of John 
Calvin. He was a native of France, and became thor- 
oughly imbued with reformatory ideas w’hile studying 
at Bourges and Faris. He had to flee in 1533, spent a 
short time at the court of the queen of Navarre, re- 
turned to Paris, but had to flee again to Switzerland in 
1534, when he wrote his Institutes, in the preface of 
which he exposes the injustice of the king. From 
Basle he went to Geneva, where, with the exception of a 
few years which he spent in Strasburg, which was then 
a German city, he remained until the end of his life, 
as the author and recognised leader of one of the two 
great divisions of the Reformation of the 16th century. 
Though he was not allowed to return to France, Geneva 
became the hearth and home from which the Reforma- 
tion in France itself was constantly receiving new food. 
In the latter years of the reign of Francis the perse- 
cution of the Reformed increased in severity; and es- 
pecially the Waldenses in Merindol and Cabrieres, in 
Provence, suffered from a most horrible persecution, 
which in 1545 ended in a general massacre. Notwith- 
standing the persecution, the number of the Reformed 
grew steadily ; it was very large even at the death of 
Francis I, in 1547, and rapidly increased during the reign 
of Henry II. Regular congregations began to be formed 
in the large cities in 1555, and in 1559 a general syn- 
od held at Paris agreed upon a confession of faith and 
a Church order. (For the further history of the Re- 
formed Church, see France.) The subsequent histo- 
ry of the Reformed, to whom soon the name of Hugue- 
nots was generally applied, is closely connected with 
the political history of France. They were forced in 
self-defence to act no less as a political than an ecclesi- 
astical party. While the Catholics adhered to the fa- 
natical Guises, the Protestants looked for protection to 
the Bourbons. In 1570 they received in the Peace of 
St. Germain equal rights, and several fortresses as a 
guarantee of the peace; but two years later (1572), St. 
Bartholomew’s Eve was the beginning of the most ter- 
rible ordeal through which they passed in their entire 
history, more than 30,000 of them being massacred 
during one month. King Henry III was driven by the 
arrogance of the Guises into the ranks of the Hugue- 
nots, and was soon after assassinated by the Dominican 
Clement. Then the first Protestant, Henry of Navarre, 
ascended the French throne. To save the Protestant 
cause, he submitted externally to the Catholic Church ; 
but to his former coreligionists he preserved his sym- 
pathy and secured equal rights in the Edict of Nantes. 
During the reigns of the following kings the Huguenots 
again passed through a series of severe persecutions : 
under Louis XIV the Edict of Nantes was revoked, and 
a large number of families compelled to emigrate, and 
to settle in foreign countries. The French Revolution 
at last began for them the aera of religious freedom. 

XI. Main and Minor Divisions. — The Reformation 
swept with irresistible power over all Europe. In some 
countries it was totally extinguished by fire and blood; 
in others it maintained itself as the religion of the mi- 
nority; in others still it became the predominant or the 
exclusive religion of the people. Fifty years after its 
beginning it numbered many millions of adherents. All 
these millions agreed in protesting against the claim 
of Rome to be the only true Christian Church, and in 
the desire to restore a purer form of Christianity. The 
immense majority rallied around three centres — the Lu- 
theran, the Reformed, the Anglican Reformation. These 
three main divisions, and even the principal subdivis- 
ions, of the 16th century have retained their identity 
to the present day. To the old subdivisions new ones 
have been added. Thus, in the 18th century, the Wes- 
leyan Methodists sprang from the Church of England, 
and, with an unparalleled rapidity of growth, soon took 
a front rank among the most numerous subdivisions of 
the Reformed churches. The subdivisions have again 


been subdivided into a number of minor sects, and in 
many of them, at times, the old doctrinal platforms of 
the founders of the Reformers appeared to have been 
abandoned, leaving nothing but the name of the Church 
as a bond of connection with the Reformation of the 16th 
century. The very name, however, and the remaining 
consciousness of a live connection with the great move- 
ment of the 16th centur\ T have proved elements of great 
conservative force, and have been largely instrumental 
in keeping the territory which the three great branches 
of the Reformation conquered in the 16th century un- 
diminished up to the present day. While it has been 
the prevailing tendency in the history of the subdivis- 
ions to develop independent life-organisms illustrating 
the vitality of the principles and theories which led to 
their separate existence, attempts have never been want- 
ing to strengthen the bonds of union connecting them. 
Many subdivisions which had been formed in conse- 
quence of disagreeing views on particular points of be- 
lief or Church government have been reunited on the 
basis of the points common to all, allowing the right to 
disagree on points of minor importance. In modern 
times, attempts have even been made to find a perma- 
nent bond of union for all the subdivisions of the large 
groups of the Protestant churches. Thus, all the bish- 
ops of the churches in doctrinal conformity with the 
Church of England have twice been called to meet in 
Pan-Anglican councils. All the Reformed and Presby- 
terian churches met in 1877 for the first time in a Pan- 
Presbyterian Council in Edinburgh. The General Con- 
ference of the Methodist Episcopal Church took, in 1876, 
the first step towards the convocation of an (Ecumenical 
Council of Methodism. 

While the large majority of the millions which in 
the 16th century rose up against and separated from 
the Church of Rome rallied around three large centres, 
it was but natural that many, in the search of a pure 
Christianity, arrived at different results. Some of these 
dissenters never succeeded in forming sects ; others be- 
came numerous, and have, in the course of time, assumed 
large dimensions. To the latter class belong the Bap- 
tists, the Anti-Trinitarians, the Friends, and many oth- 
ers. All of these have long had to struggle for toler- 
ation, because Protestant governments united with the 
Catholic in persecuting and suppressing them. More 
recently, however, the principle of religious liberty has 
gradually come to be recognised in nearly all Christian 
countries, and enabled individuals as well as sects to 
carry out the great principles which lay at the bottom 
of the Reformation of the 16th century to the best of 
their understanding, and to worship God according to 
the dictates of their own conscience. About the middle 
of the present century (1845), an attempt w r as made to 
unite in one association, called the Evangelical Alliance, 
Christians belonging to all denominations collectively 
called evangelical, and to represent, on a larger scale 
than had ever been attempted before, the unity of all 
these churches in the more important articles of faith, 
notwithstanding their separation by external organiza- 
tion. A list of nine articles was' drawn up, to which, it 
was thought, all Christians wishing to be regarded as 
evangelical might be expected to assent. In the list of 
these articles are included the inspiration of the Bible, 
the Trinity, the utter depravity of human nature, jus- 
tification by faith alone, the eternal blessedness of the 
righteous and the eternal punishment of the wicked, the 
divine institution of the Christian ministry. According 
to this programme, it could and did become a rallv- 
ing-point for Lutherans, Reformed, and Presbyterians, 
Congregationalists, Methodists, Baptists, Moravians, the 
evangelical or Low - Church party of the Anglican 
churches, and a number of minor denominations. It 
was objected to by the so-called high and strict Church 
parties among Anglicans and Lutherans, by Unitarians 
and Universalists, by the Friends, by the Annihilation- 
ists, and by all Anti-Trinitarians and Rationalists. 

XII. Central and Fundamental Principles of the Ref- 


REFORMATION 


99G 


REFORMATION 


ormation. — The parties which withdrew from the Church 
of Home in the lGth century and tried to restore a purer 
form of Christianity took different roads and arrived at 
different results; yet there was one principle in which 
they all agreed, and which may be declared to be pre- 
eminently the central principle of the Reformat ion this 
was the absolute authority of the Holy Scriptures. Ev- 
ery 1 le formed Church charged the Church of Home with 
bolding doctrines and usages which the former deemed 
anti-scriptural, and which on that ground it rejected, 
'flic three large divisions of the Reformation were all 
more intent upon eliminating from the creed of Chris- 
tendom what could be proved to be anti-scriptural than 
to undertake the revision of every article of the creed 
by a scriptural test exclusively. Thus they alj retained 
what the early councils had defined on the essence of 
the Godhead and the person of Christ. Gradually other 
parties arose which demanded a greater prominence for 
the necessity of the scriptural affirmative proof, and that 
not too great a stress should be laid upon the testimony 
of the early Church. Hence many doctrines which the 
great Reformed churches of the lGtli century agreed in 
continuing in their creeds were by other Christian in- 
cpiirers declared to lack the foundation of a clear script- 
ural proof, and on that ground either rejected or held as 
indifferent on which Bible Christians had a right to dis- 
agree. All these parties, however, held fast to the fun- 
damental principle that the Bible was the supreme 
authority for the believer in Christ. Other sects and 
parties have made a distinction between the written 
Scripture and the Word or Spirit of Christ, and placed 
the latter above the former; others, again, have found 
a hidden sense in the Bible besides the literal; yet all 
these parties concur in recognising the central principle 
of the Beforraation. A total change of the basis of the 
Reformation was attempted by the Rationalists of the 
18th and 19th centuries, who wanted to have the Bible 
regarded and interpreted as any other book, recognising 
what appeared to agree with sound reason, and claiming 
the right to reject all the remainder. The divergence 
between this view and the central principle of the Ref- 
ormation is so apparent and so radical that the long- 
continued coexistence of both views in many of the Eu- 
ropean State churches can only be explained from the 
fact that the churches were enslaved by the State, and 
treated not as forms of religion, but as a division of the 
State administration. The introduction of self-govern- 
ment into these churches rapidly develops a tendency 
towards the complete separation between the Rational- 
istic and the Biblical conception of Christianity. 

Theologians have sometimes called this principle the 
formal principle of the Reformation, or the pritictpium 
cognoscemli. They have distinguished from it the ma- 
terial principle, or principium essendi , which proclaims 
the justification of the sinner by faith alone. Both are 
intimately connected. When the Church is no longer 
viewed as the infallible teacher of the true Christian 
doctrine, but the inquirer after Christian truth is point- 
ed to.tlie Bible and to Christ himself, the soul’s salvation 
can only be found in a direct relation between Christ and 
the Christian soul. The doctrine occupies, however, a 
somewhat different position in the doctrinal systems of 
different Protestant churches. See .Justification. 

XIII. The Information's Place in the History of the 
Christian Church and in the History of the World. — It 
is agreed on all sides, and not even denied by the Cath- 
olics, that, the Reformation is fine of the great turning- 
points in the Christian Church, and that with it begins 
an entirely new aira. The compulsory uniformity of 
the Church was forever at an end. Church history, 
henceforth, has not to deal only with one predominant 
and all-powerful Church, but with a number of rival 
churches, the number of which has steadily increased. 
Kora time, the leading reformatory churches in close al- 
liance with the governments of the countries in which 
they prevailed endeavored likewise to enforce conform- 
ity with their doctrines and laws; hut this course was 


gradually recognised to be untenable, and religious toU 
oration, and subsequently the freedom of religious con- 
fession, has become one of the characteristic features of 
the Reformed countries. The Catholic Church continues 
up to the present day to brand the principle of religious 
liberty as a heresy of modem times; but it is a notable 
fact that nearly all the Catholic countries which nomi- 
nally continue to adhere to the doctrine of the Church 
entirely disregard what their Church declares to be the 
Catholic principle, and have introduced the Protestant 
principles of religious freedom into their legislation. 

In universal history, the Reformation is bv all histo- 
rians designated as one of the great movements which 
mark the transition from the Middle Ages to modern 
times. A characteristic feature of the countries which 
adopted the Reformation is the progress towards polit- 
ical freedom, and the separation between Church and 
State. The Catholic Church in the Middle Ages claimed 
a far-reaching influence upon civil legislation. It 
claimed the sole right of legislating on marriage affairs, 
exempted priests and monks from civil jurisdiction, and 
accumulated within its hand a very large proportion of 
t he nation’s wealth. Though the Reformed State church- 
es pursued different courses in reforming the civil codes, 
the tendency to make all citizens equal before the law 
can be directly traced to the Reformation. 

Although the Catholic Church still has a larger mem- 
bership than all the Reformed churches combined, the 
power and the commanding influence upon the destinies 
of mankind are more and more passing into the hands 
of states the governments of which are separated from 
Rome. In the New World, the ascendency of the United 
States and British America, in both of which Protestant- 
ism prevails, over the states of Spanish and Portuguese 
America is not disputed even by Catholics. In Europe, 
England has become the greatest world-power, and in 
its wide dominions new great Protestant countries are 
springing into existence, especially in Australia and 
South Africa. In Germany, the supreme power has 
passed from the declining Catholic house of Hapsburg 
to the Protestant house of llohenzollcrn, ami the now 
Protestant German Empire marks an addition of the 
greatest importance to the aggregate power of the Prot- 
estant world. The combined influence of the three great 
Teutonic peoples— the United States, Great Britain, and 
Germany — continues to be cast in a steadily increasing 
ratio for the defence of that freedom from the dictation 
of Rome which was first won hv the Reformation. That 
freedom is now not only fully secured against any pos- 
sible combination of Catholic states, but the parliaments 
of most of the latter, as France. Italy, Austria, Portugal, 
are as eager in the defence of this freedom as the Prot- 
estant states. Thus it may be said that, after an exist- 
ence of about 350 years, the Reformation has totally an- 
nihilated the influence of Rome upon the laws and the 
government of the civilized world. 

XIV. Literature. — A great many works which are 
sources for the history of the Reformation have been 
mentioned in the articles on the Reformers and on partic- 
ular churches. The following list contains works which 
more specially treat of the history of the Reformation : 
Sleidani l)e Statu Jleliyionis et Ileipublicer, Curolo U Cir- 
sare, Conmentarii (Strasburg, 1555 ; Engl, transl. by Bo- 
liuu, Bond. 1G89); Sculteti Annul at m Krangelii passim 
per Kuropam Decimo Sexto Salutis Purtce Siren lo Reno- 
vati Deeas let 11 [ embracing the time from 1510 to 1 53G] 
(Ileidelb. 1G1N) ; Burnet, Hist, of the information ( Bond. 
1G79 sq.); Gerdes, Jntrodnctio in Hist. Krangelii Sire. 
A IV passim per Kuropam flenorati (Groning. 1744-52, 
tom. iv) ; llagenbach, 1 'orlesungrn iiber das 11 'esen und (•<- 
schiehte der Reformation in Ik utsehland und der Schweiz 
(Ecips. 1*31 43, G vols. ; Engl, transl. by Evelina Moore, 
Edinb. 1878 sq.); Clausen, Populdre l ’art rage iiber die 
Reformation (Eeips. 1*37) ; IVAubigne, Histoire de la Re- 
formation uu XVlTeme Sieele (Paris, 1*35-53, 5 vols.; 
Engl, transl. X. V. 1*43 sq.) ; and tlie supplementary 1/is- 
toire de la Reformation au temps de Calvin (Paris, 1*G2 


REFORMATION 


997 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


sq. 8 vols.; Engl, transl. N. Y. 1862-79) ; Rcausobre, Hist, 
de la Reform. (1785); Neudecker, Gesch. der Reform. 
(Leips. 1843), and Gesch. des Protest, (ibid. 1844, 2 vols.) ; 
Dollinger, Die Reform. (1846-48, 3 vols.); Gaillard, Hist, 
of the Reform. (N. Y. 1847) ; Guericke, Gesch. der Reform. 
(Berlin, 1855); Stebbing, Hist, of the Reform. (Loud. 
1850); Waddington, Hist, of the Reform, (ibid. 1841).; 
Hardwick, Hist, of the Ch. during the Reform. (Camb. 
1856) ; Soatnes, Hist, of the Reform. (Lond. 1826) ; Fish- 
er, Ilist. of the Reform. (N. Y. 1873). On the doctrinal 
history of the Reformed churches, see Dorner, Gesch. der 
Prot. Theologie (1867, Engl, transl. 1871); and Schaff, 
Creeds of Christendom (N. Y. 1877, 3 vols.). (A. J. S.) 

REFORMATION, Festival of the. This is an an- 
nual commemoration in Germany of the great event of 
the 16th century. It is held on Oct.31, to remind of the 
opening of the Reformation by the nailing of the ninety- 
five theses on the church doors at Wittenberg (Oct.31, 
1517). It is first celebrated as a secular feast, and on the 
following Sabbath as an ecclesiastical commemoration. 

REFORMATION RIGHTS (jus reformandi ) are 
the privileges granted to the different princes of the 
Reformation compact at the Augsburg Interim m 1555 
to introduce into their states either the Catholic or Prot- 
estant faith, and to maintain it as the faith of the peo- 
ple. The peace of Westphalia, in 1648, brought in 
modifications, but modern events have made so many 
changes that the rights of the Reformation exist only 
in name. At present it is religious liberty'" which each 
state concedes to its subjects, and the only question re- 
maining is whether Church and State shall have any 
interdependence. See State. 

Reformed Baptists. See Campbellites. 

Reformed Churches, the name usually given to 
all the churches of the Reformation. In a conventional 
sense, it is used to designate those Protestant churches 
in which the Calvinistic doctrines, and still more the 
Calvinistic polity, prevail, in contradistinction to the 
Lutheran (q. v.). The influence of Calvin proved more 
powerful than that of Zwingli, which, however, no doubt 
considerably modified the views prevalent in many of 
these churches. The Reformed churches are very gen- 
erally known on the continent of Europe as the Calvin- 
istic churches, while the name Protestant Church is in 
some countries almost equivalent to that of Lutheran. 
One chief distinction of all the Reformed churches is 
their doctrine of the sacrament of the Lord’s supper, 
characterized by the utter rejection not only of transub- 
stantiation, but of consubstantiation ; and it was on this 
point mainly that the controversy between the Luther- 
ans and the Reformed was long carried on. See Loro’s 
Supper. They are also unanimous in their rejection 
of the use of images and of many ceremonies which the 
Lutherans have thought it proper to retain. Among 
the Reformed churches are those both of England and 
Scotland (notwithstanding the Episcopalian government 
of the former and the Presbyterianism of the latter), the 
Protestant Church of France, that of Holland and the 
Netherlands, many German churches, the once flourish- 
ing Protestant Church of Poland, etc., with those in 
America and elsew'here which have sprung from them 
(Chambers). See Protestantism; Reformation. 

Reformed (DUTCH) Church in America, one 
of the oldest and most influential bodies of Christians 
in this country. 

I. Name. — The former title of this denomination in- 
dicated its historical relations, “ the Reformed Protes- 
tant Dutch Church in North America.” It is “Re- 
formed,” as distinct from Lutheranism ; “ Protestant,” 
as protesting against Rome ; “Dutch,” as expressing its 
origin in Holland. In 1867, by an almost unanimous 
vote of its General Synod, with the concurrence of the 
great majority of the classes, the name of the Church 
was restored to its simple and original form — the Re- 
formed Church. The history and reasons of this change 
are fully presented in an elaborate report, which is ap- 


pended to the minutes of the General Synod of 1867. 
The word “ Dutch” was originally introduced to distin- 
guish the Church from the “ English” Church, by which 
the Episcopalian denomination was generally known, in 
the State of New York, after the Dutch colonial govern- 
ment had surrendered to the British in 1664. The 
Hollanders who settled New York and Albany, and in- 
termediate places, came over as members of the “Re- 
formed Church of the Netherlands” and representatives 
of “the Reformed Religion.” It was not until thirty 
years after the cession of the province to the British 
that the word “Dutch” was incorporated in the style 
and title of a single Church when William III of Eng- 
land gave a charter to the Netlierland Reformed Con- 
gregation in the city of New York as the “Reformed 
Protestant Dutch Church.” In resuming its original 
name the Church has lost none of its historical associa- 
tions, and has only dropped what had long been regard- 
ed by many as a hindrance to her advancement. 

II. Reformed Church in Holland. — The Reformed 
Church of the Netherlands was a legitimate outgrowth 
from the great Reformation of the 16th century. The 
conflict for civil and religious liberty in the Low Coun- 
tries was preceded by the labors of those “Reformers 
before the Reformation,” Wessel Gausevoort and Ru- 
dolph Agricola. Both of these illustrious scholars and 
I teachers were natives of Groningen. They were stu- 
dents of the Bible, who, fifty years before Martin Lu- 
ther, came to a clear knowledge of the great doctrines 
of the faith with which he shook the world. But it 
was not until many years after he had taken his posi- 
tion that he saw" the writings of Gausevoort, and then 
he felt constrained to make the fact public, lest his ene- 
mies should use their agreement of views to his own 
disadvantage. Gausevoort was an eminent teacher at 
Heidelberg, Louvain, Paris, Rome, and at last, as head 
of a celebrated school, in his native Groningen, where 
he died in 1489. Agricola w r as professor in the L T ni- 
versity of Heidelberg, and was noted for his classical 
and scientific attainments, and especially for his skill in 
the use of the Greek New Test. The labors of these 
great and good men mightily prepared the Way for the 
civil and religious conflict which followed under Charles 
Y and his son Philip II of Spain. Evangelical truth 
struck its roots deep down into the hearts of the people. 
Confessors and martyrs for Christ were never wanting 
for the persecutions of the government and the Inqui- 
sition. The poor people called their churches “the 
Churches of the Netherlands under the Cross." They 
worshipped privately for many years, in scattered little 
assemblies, until they crystallized into a regular eccle- 
siastical organization. The ban of the empire and the 
curse of the Romish Church could not keep down the 
rising spirit of the heroic believers in Christ aiid liberty. 
Every new act of tyranny fanned the sacred flame. 
Popular field-preacliers, like Herman Strijker and Jan 
Arentsen, gathered thousands of people beneath the 
open sky to listen to their powerful eloquence. The 
whole country was stirred to its depths. The hymns of 
Beza and Clement Marot, translated from the French, 
rang out the pious enthusiasm of the multitudes. Babes 
were brought for baptism, and alms were collected for 
the poor. At length three pastors were set apart to 
the ministry of the Church in Amsterdam, deacons and 
deaconesses were appointed to distribute alms to the 
needy saints, and churches were organized. In 1563 
the Synod of Antwerp was held, which adopted the 
Belgic Confession, and laid the foundations of that no- 
ble Church to which subsequent synods only gave more 
permanent shape. Her scholars and theologians, her 
schools and universities, her pure faith and holy living, 
her active zeal and martyr spirit, gave the Reformed 
Church of Holland the leading position among the sis- 
ter churches of the Continent. Her catholic feeling 
and religious liberty made her a refuge for the perse- 
cuted of other lands. The Waldenses and the Hugue- 
nots, the Scotch Covenanters and the English Puritans, 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 998 REFORMED (DUTCH) CIIURCII 


found a welcome at her altars: and John Bobinson and 
the voyagers of the Mayflower learned in Holland some 
of the best lessons which they brought with them to 
Plymouth Hock. 

111. History of the Reformed Church in America . — 1. 
Oriyin. — The Ileformed Church in America was founded 
by emigrants from Holland, who formed the colony of 
the New Netherlands, under the authority of the Statcs- 
(leneral and under the auspices of the Dutch East In- 
dia Company. Hendrick Hudson arrived in New York 
harbor Sept. 11, 1009, in the Half Moon, and proceeded 
as far as Fort Orange (now Albany). Trading-posts 
were established there and on Manhattan Island (New 
York) in 1614. The emigrants came for trade, but they 
did not neglect religion and the public worship of Cod. 
They had no ordained minister and no organized Church 
for several years ; but two “ krank - besoeckers,” or 
“zieken-troosters” — literally “comforters of the sick,” 
pious persons who were often commissioned as aids to 
the ministers of the Gospel in the mother-country — 
came over with governor Minuit in 1026. These were 
Jansen Krol and Jan Iliiyck. “They met the people 
on Sundays in an upper room above a horse-mill, and 
read the Scriptures and the creeds to them. This was 
the beyinning of public worship in Sew Amsterdam .” 
There is evidence, however, that “a considerable Church 
was organized in that city as early as 1019,” and that 
“a list of members in full communion of the Church of 
New York is still extant, dated 1622” ( Life of Dr. John 
II. Livingston, p. 79, note). 

The first minister of the Gospel who came to this 
country from Holland was the Dev. Jonas Micliaelius, 
a graduate of the University of Leyden, and afterwards 
a missionary in San Salvador and Guinea, lie preached 
in New Amsterdam from 1628 to 1033, and then re- 
turned to Holland. See Miuiiaelius. In the spring 
of the same year his successor, the Dev. Everardus Bo- 
gardus, arrived, bringing with him the first schoolmas- 
ter, Adam Koelandsen, who organized the parochial 
school of the Collegiate Deformed Dutch Church. This 
school is still in existence, without a break in its suc- 
cession of nearly two hundred and fifty years. It is 
sustained by the Collegiate Church, and has always 
been “an instrument of much good to the Church and 
to the community.” A history of it has been published 
in a small volume by its present principal, Mr. Dun- 
slice. This intimate connection of the Church and the 
school was characteristic of the early Deformed church- 
es, and it antedates the claim of priority made for the 
New England Puritans by several years. The upper 
room in. Francis Molemaker’s horse-mill was relin- 
quished as a place of worship upon the arrival of domi- 
nie Bogardus in 1033, and a plain, frail wooden church- 
building and a parsonage were erected near what is now 
Old Slip, on the East Diver. In 1042, at the suggestion 
of the famous navigator David Petersen de Vries, funds 
were raised for the erection of a stone edifice within the 
fort (now the Battery), where the people worshipped 
until the church was finished in Garden Street in 1093. 
A church was planted in the colony of Rensellaerswyck 
(Albany) under the patronage of Kilian van Densellaer, 
a pearl-merchant from Amsterdam, who founded a col- 
ony upon the large tract of land of which he was the 
first patron. In 1042 he secured the services of the 
Dev. Johannes Megapolensis, whose call states that “ By 
the state of navigation in the East and West Indies a 
door is opened through the special providence of God, 
also in the New Netherlands, for the preaching of the 
Gospel of Jesus Christ for the salvation of men, as good 
fruits have been already witnessed there through God's 
mercy.” He was also the first Protestant missionary to 
the Indians in this country, preceding the labors of 
John Eliot near Boston bv three or four years. See 
M KCAUoi.KNsis. 1 1 is successors Dellius and Lydius did 
the same good work. 

2. First Period. — “The Dutch rule in Manhattan last- 
ed fifty years from the establishment of the first trading- 


station. The Church had been organized about thirty 
years. The city of New Amsterdam, at the date of the 
surrender, contained only 1500 inhabitants; and there 
were but five Deformed churches in the whole province 
— New York, Albany, Flatbush and Flatlands, Esopus 
(or Kingston), and Breuckelen (Brooklyn). There 
were six ministers— the two Mega pole uses, Drisins, 
Schaats, Polhemiis. and Blom.” They were men of 
thorough education, and, as far as we can learn, diligent 
in the ministry. There were also a church at Bergen, 
which was the first of any denomination in New Jersey, 
organized in 1000, and one at New Amstel, Del., which 
subsequently dropped out of the connection. The Hol- 
landers numbered, at the time of the surrender, about 
10,000 souls. This lirst period of the Church was nec- 
essarily one of very small beginnings. The churches 
were planted in the wilderness. They encountered all 
the difficulties of now colonies — surrounded by savage 
tribes, separated by long distances from each other, and 
dependent entirely upon Holland for their clergy and 
school-teachers. Civil affairs were sometimes unhap- 
pily mixed up with religious interests, and the growth 
was slow indeed. 

3. The second period covers nearly three quarters of 
a century (1004 to 1737), during which about fifty 
churches were added to the denomination. Of these 
fourteen were in New Jersey, about twenty on the banks 
of the Hudson Diver, about hall as many in the valleys 
of Schoharie, Orange, and Ulster, and a half-dozen on 
Long Island and Staten Island. Forty-two ministers 
began their labors, some of them only remaining a short 
time, among these churches; and at the close of the 
period there were sixty churches, and seventeen minis- 
ters of Ilollandish extraction in America. When the 
English rule began in New York, emigration from Hol- 
land almost ceased. Frequent collisions occurred with 
the British governors of the province. Governor An- 
dros sent a minister of the Church of England [see 
Van Danslaer, Nicholas] to Albany to take posses- 
sion of the Dutch church there; and governor Fletcher, 
failing to impose the use of the English language by 
law upon the Hollanders, procured the passage of a bill 
by the Assembly settling a maintenance for ministers, 
which was so worded that, while it might apply to dis- 
senters, it practically subserved the Church of England, 
and made it substantially the Established Church in 
the counties of New York, Kings, Queens, Eichmond, 
and Westchester. Church-rates were exacted by the 
government for the support of these Episcopalian min- 
isters. The line of separation between the Dutch and 
English gradually became more distinct. Many of the 
Hollanders, to escape English oppression, removed to 
New Jersey, and settled principally in Middlesex, Som- 
erset, Monmouth, and Bergen counties, where they laid 
the foundations of churches that have long been great 
and powerful. Some French Huguenots, who tied from 
religions persecutions in the Old World, also settled in 
New York, Westchester, and Ulster counties, and on 
Staten Island. For their benefit, the Collegiate Church 
of New York called Samuel Drisius, who could preach 
in French as well as in Dutch and English; and Daillc, 
Bonrcpos, and Ferret ministered to the pious exiles. 
They fraternized heartily with the Dutch churches, 
and ultimately were absorbed in the one organization. 
Their descendants in the same localities still form a 
strong constituent element of the Deformed Church in 
America. 

In 1709 a large body of Germans from the Palatinate, 
fleeing from religious persecution, settled upon Livings- 
ton Manor, in Schoharie County. N. Y„ and in the valley 
of the Mohawk. Among them were many Swiss, who 
sought the same shelter in the New World. Unable to 
obtain help from the Church in their fatherland, and 
living beside their Dutch neighbors, they naturally 
sought and received assistance from them. The Chassis 
of Amsterdam, at the request of the Church of the Pa- 
latinate, agreed to aid the Germans upon condition that 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 009 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


they would adhere to the Heidelberg Catechism, the 
Palatinate Confession of Faith, the Canons of the Synod 
of Dort, and the Kules of Church Government of Dort. 
Ministers were sent over. A coetus or American Classis 
was formed by the direction and under the jurisdiction 
of the Synod of Holland, which charged the Classis of 
Amsterdam with the supervision of the affairs of the 
German Church in America, which then extended among 
the German settlements in Pennsylvania, Maryland, 
Virginia, the Carolinas, New Jersey, and New York. 
This relation subsisted forty-six years, until 1793, when 
the coetus asserted its independence of the Church in 
Holland. See German Reformed Ciiurch in Amer- 
ica. In Schoharie and Columbia counties, and in the 
valley of the Mohawk, the German and Ilollandish ele- 
ments have, to a great degree, united in the Reformed 
churches. 

4. The third period in this history dates from the 
first effort of the Dutch churches to secure an indepen- 
dent organization — 1737 to 1792. Their entire depend- 
ence upon the Church in Holland for ministers, their 
growth in numbers and their distance from the mother 
country, the necessities of a new country, and the lack 
of facilities for educating their clergy, the delays, ex- 
pense, and anxieties occasioned by the necessit}” of 
sending young men to Holland for training and ordina- 
tion, and other good reasons growing out of their posi- 
tion and the ecclesiastical restrictions of the Classis of 
Amsterdam, led to the organization of a coetus, or ec- 
clesiastical association, in New York in 1737. A plan 
was carefully framed, submitted to the churches, and 
sent to Holland for approval by the classis. This plan 
embraced a yearly meeting of clerical and lay delegates 
for the transaction of ecclesiastical business only, to pro- 
mote the welfare of the churches, and in entire subordi- 
nation to the Classis of Amsterdam. But nine years 
passed away before that body gave its sanction. The 
first meeting of the coetus was held in September, 1747, 
and the first German coetus in the same month. 

The powers of this body were too limited to make it 
really effective. It had no authority to ordain any 
man to the ministry without special permission, nor to 
decide finally upon an} r question. But these restric- 
tions only roused the spirit of independence in the 
younger ministry, and generated the powerful opposi- 
tion of the adherents of the policy of the mother 
Church. In 1753 measures were taken for forming an 
American Classis, which was organized in 1755. This 
event caused the withdrawal of the conservatives, who 
were thereafter known as the “ Conferentie ,” the Dutch 
word for the Latin coetus. From this time until 1771 
the conflict between these parties rent the Church asun- 
der. Ministers, churches, and people entered into the 
strife with the most bitter animosities. The coetus 
were noted for their practical zeal, their pious and pro- 
gressive earnestness, and their high sense of the rights 
and duties of the Church in this country. The confe- 
rentie possessed more learning, and some of its members 
occupied the highest places in the Chnrch. In num- 
bers they were nearly equal. In spirit, while both were 
often extremely culpable, the Conferentie are generally 
credited with being the most intemperate. Yet they 
should be regarded as impelled b} 1 - their zeal for a thor- 
oughly educated ministry, and for the order and wor- 
ship of the Church. But the quarrel grew apace. 
Preachers were sometimes disturbed in their pulpits; 
public worship was often interrupted, or actually stopped, 
by violence. Church doors were locked against one or 
the other party by their opponents. Tumults were ex- 
cited on the Lord’s day at the doors of the sanctuaries. 
Personal, domestic, and public divisions were made be- 
tween those who had always before been friends. Re- 
ligion suffered sadly, and the Church seemed almost on 
the brink of ruin, when at length the hour of deliver- 
ance and the deliverer came. 

In 1766 John II, Livingston, then a young man, ar- 
rived in Holland to study for the ministry at the Uni- I 


versitj r of Utrecht. His heart was filled with anxiety 
for the churches at home, whose dissensions he had wit- 
nessed and deplored. With great wisdom he embraced 
every opportunity to spread information and take coun- 
sel with leading men in Holland respecting the state 
of things in America. He prepared a plan of union, 
secured the assent of the ecclesiastical authorities, and 
returned to New York as pastor of the Church in that 
city, in 1770, with his olive-branch. In October, 1771, 
a convention was held in New York, at which there, 
were present twenty-two ministers and twenty-five el- 
ders, from thirty- four churches. The plan of union was 
presented hy Dr. Livingston, discussed in a friendly 
manner, with a sincere desire for peace, ratified by that 
body, and transmitted to Holland for final approval by 
the Classis of Amsterdam. In 1772 their favorable an- 
swer was received, dated Jan. 14 in that year. (A trans- 
lation is printed in full in Corwin’s Manual of the Re- 
formed Church , p. 11, 12.) This practically ended the 
long strife. A general synod was organized, with five 
classes. The power of licensing and ordaining minis- 
ters was granted to the new and independent body, and 
the way was thus peacefully prepared for the formal 
and final organization. The articles of union were only 
intended as a temporary scaffolding for the erection of 
a more permanent ecclesiastical structure. In 1788 the 
doctrinal symbols of the Church, and the articles of 
Church government used in Holland, were translated 
by a committee of the synod. In 1792 the 'whole work 
was reviewed by the S 3 r nod, adapted to the wants of the 
Church in this land, and adopted as the constitution of 
the Reformed Dutch Church. At this time there were 
one hundred and thirty churches and fifty ministers. 
During the whole period of strife ninety new churches 
were organized, and eighty-eight ministers began their 
labors among them. Before the first attempts at inde- 
pendent organization, for forty years prior to 1730, the 
average growth in ministers and churches was only 
seven of each per decade. During the next sixty years, 
the average per decade arose to seventeen. These facts 
tell the story of the differing policies of the coetus and 
conferentie. 

The separate organization which was thus secured 
has remained to this day, a monument of providential 
interposition, and of the wisdom and piety of its chief 
human agent, Dr. Livingston, who is justly revered as 
the father of the Reformed Church in America. The 
constitution adopted in 1792 continued in force for the 
space of forty years. In 1832 it was revised, and again 
in 1874. 

5. Causes of Slow Growth. — It has often been a mat- 
ter of surprise to persons unacquainted with these and 
other facts that this oldest Presbyterian Church organi- 
zation in this country has been of such slow growth. 
The reasons are self-evident. The Dutch nde in New 
Amsterdam lasted only about thirty years; and when it 
ceased, the population of the city was but 1500. The 
English Episcopal Church rose almost to the power of 
a state establishment. “The Presbyterians of Ireland 
and Scotland, for a hundred and twenty-five years, were 
practically excluded by the continued use of the Dutch 
language from the Chnrch assemblies of the Reformed, 
and they established their own churches nearly half a 
century before an English word was heard in a Dutch 
church.” The introduction of English preaching by 
the Rev. Dr. Laidlie, who was called by the Church of 
New York for this purpose, was the result of a long 
strife, and the commencement of a longer struggle 
against the use of this restrictive tongue. The damage 
to the Church from this cause alone was almost incalcu- 
lable, keeping multitudes away from its sanctuaries, and 
driving many of the younger families into the Episcopal 
and Presbyterian churches. The first English sermon 
was preached in the church in New York in 1764 by 
Dr. Laidlie. The dependence of the American churches 
upon the mother Church in Holland for more than a- 
hundred and fifty years also produced its natural results 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 1000 REFORMED (DUTCH) CIIURCII 


in dwarfing their growth and diminishing their strength. 
They were mere attachments to a foreign body, without 
ecclesiastical organization on the spot, save by a consis- 
tory, with no powers of legislation, licensure, or ordina- 
tion, with no college or theological seminary to supply 
a new ministry, distracted by internal troubles, and 
bound hand and foot by Old-World alliances, prejudices, 
and powers. The only wonder is that the Reformed 
Church maintained its separate existence, and that it 
achieved its independence at last. After the articles of 
union were adopted in 177*2, the Revolutionary War 
added greatly to the embarrassments of the Church. 
Many ministers were obliged to leave their flocks for 
years. Church edifices were sometimes used for British 
eavalry stables and riding-schools, and military prisons; 
and the fairest portions of the goodly heritage were oc- j 
cupied by the opposing armies. After peace was de- 
clared, the Church grew slowly but surely, and laid the 
foundations of her educational and benevolent institu- 
tions upon a broad and enduring basis. The tenacity 
of the Dutch character is abundantly illustrated in the j 
extreme difficulty with which this Church has been in- 
duced to break off its old traditional relationships and 
attachments to its foreign origin. It never has yielded 
one of them until it was compelled to do so by long con- 
flicts. 

IV. Theolorjical Standards. — The doctrinal symbols 
of the Reformed Church in America, which are still the 
same with those of the Reformed Church in Holland, 
are, (1) the Belgic Confession; (2) the Heidelberg Cat- 
echism, and the Compendium of the Christian Religion, 
which is an abridgment of the Heidelberg Catechism, 
designed for the young and to prepare for the Lord’s 
supper ; (3) the Canons of the Synod of Dordrecht. 
The use of the Westminster Shorter Catechism in Sun- 
day-schools has been also sanctioned by the General 
Synod. The Hcllcnbroek Catechism was formerly much 
employed by pastors and in Sabbath-schools, but it is 
now out of use. 

These standards harmonize with each other, and in 
all essential points with the Thirty-nine Articles of the 
Church of England, with the Westminster Confession 
of l-'aith, and with the confessions of the Reformed 
churches of Germany, France, and Switzerland. The 
theology of the Reformed Church is “ Calvinistie,” in 
the moderate sense of that historical term, and it is 
Calvinistie simply because she believes it to be scriptu- 
ral. The liberality with which she'holds her standards 
is sufficiently attested by the very large number both 
of ministers and communicant members whom she has 
received from other evangelical bodies. The Heidel- 
berg Catechism is held in the sense in which it is inter- 
preted by the Synod of Dort. 

V. Church Government. — The government of the 
Church, in common with that of all Reformed churches, 
is strictly Presbyterian. Her constitution recognises 
“ the offices of the Church of Christ to be : 

“ 1. Ministers of the Word. 

“ 2. Teachers of theology. 

“ 3. Elders. 

“ 4. Deacous.” 

1. Ministers of the 1 Vord. — “No person shall be al- 
lowed to exercise the office of a minister without being 
regularly inducted thereto, according to the Word of 
God and the order established by the Church” ( Con- 
stitution , art. ii, § I). Great care is required in the ed- 
ucation of students and in the examinations of candi- 
dates for the holy office by the classes, which have the 
power of licensure, ordination, and installation. The 
candidates for both licensure and ordination are required 
to sign certain ‘'formulas,” pledging themselves to a 
hearty belief and persuasion of the theological standards 
of the Church, and “diligently to teach and faithfully 
to defend the same without either directly or indirectly 
contradicting the same by our public preaching or writ- 
ings.” If difficulties, or doubts, or change of views oc- 
cur respecting doctrine, they engage that they “will 


neither publicly nor privately propose, teach, or defend 
the same, either by preaching or writing, until they 
have first revealed such sentiments to the consistory, 
elassis, or synod, that the same may be there examined ; 
being always ready cheerfully to submit to the judg- 
ment of the consistory, elassis, or synod, under the peu- 
allv of being, in case of refusal, ipso facto suspended 
from office.” Other provisions, however, guard the rights 
of conscience and of individual judgment against any 
harsh or unjust treatment. 

Ministers are regarded as bound to the service of the 
sanctuary for life, and are not at liberty to secularize 
themselves “except for great and important reasons, 
concerning which the elassis shall inquire and deter- 
mine.” Superannuated and disabled ministers may be 
“declared emeriti , and be excused from all further ser- 
vice in the Church during such infirmity.” In the 
case of pastors thus incapacitated and retired, congrega- 
tions are required to provide a reasonable support, with 
the approval of the elassis. 

The parity of the ministry is effectually secured by 
the following article of the constitution : “All ministers 
of the Gospel are equal in rank and authority. All arc 
bishops or overseers in the Church, and all are equal 
stewards of the mysteries of God. No superiority shall 
therefore be ever claimed or acknowledged by one min- 
ister over another, nor shall there be any lords over 
God’s heritage in the Reformed churches” (art. ii, § 10). 

Licentiates and ministers of churches with which the 
Reformed Church holds correspondence are received 
upon the usual certificates of dismission from those 
bodies; unless there be grounds of presumption against 
their doctrines and morals; and then inquiries are to 
be proposed to satisfy the elassis as to the propriety of 
proceeding freely in each case. Foreign ministers must 
present their credentials before the elassis prior to invi- 
tation by any consistory to preach in its church ; and no 
elassis can receive any such minister without strict ob- 
servance of the rules of the Church provided for these 
cases. Ministers coming from non-corresponding bod- 
ies must always be examined respecting their theolog- 
ical views before they can be received. 

I 2. Teachers of theology, or professors in the theologi- 
J cal seminary, are to be appointed only by the General 
1 Synod — the office is for life, or during good behavior — 
“ and to that synod a professor of theology shall always 
be amenable for his doctrine, mode of teaching, and 
moral conduct.” He is also required to sign a constitu- 
tional formula expressing fidelity to the Church and 
her theological standards, etc. And, to complete the 
independence and personal responsibility of the pro- 
, feasor to the General Synod, it is provided (art. iii, § I), 
that “no professor, while in office, shall have the pasto- 
ral charge of any congregation, or be a member of any 
! ecclesiastical assembly or judicatory ; but, as a minister 
of the Gospel, may preach and administer, or assist in 
administering, the sacraments in any congregation, with 
the consent of the minister or consistory.” i>ix months’ 
notice of intention to resign his office must be sent to 
the president of the General Synod before it can be ac- 
cepted by that body. Most of these provisions respect- 
I ing teachers of theology are peeidiar to the Reformed 
I Church. Their practical effect has been excellent. 

3. 4. Elders and deacons. See “ Consistory," below. 

VI. Judicatories. — These are : 

1. The Consistory. 

2. The Clnssis. 

3. The Particular Synod, 

4. The General Synod. 

1. The Consistory / is the primary ecclesiastical body, 
corresponding to the session of the Presbyterian Church. 
It is composed of the minister , tlders. and deacous of a 
Church. To the elders, with the minister, are committed 
the chief spiritual functions of the Church, especially in 
admitting persons to the communion, in maintaining dis- 
cipline, and in choosing delegates to the elassis. To the 
deacons is confided the care of the poor. “ When joined 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 1001 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


together in one board, the elders and deacons have an 
equal voice in whatever relates to the temporalities of 
the Church, to the calling of a minister, or the choice 
of their own successors, in all which they are consid- 
ered the general and joint representatives of the peo- 
ple” (art. vi, § 2). In New York and New Jersey the 
minister, elders, and deacons constituting the consistory 
are the legal trustees of the corporate rights and prop- 
erty and temporal interests of the churches which they 
represent. It is believed that this plan possesses supe- 
rior advantages to that which prevails in the Presby- 
terian churches, which have a separate board of trustees, 
chosen from the congregation, and are often composed 
of men who are not professors of religion. 

In another important respect the consistory of the 
Pc formed Church differs from the session of the Pres- 
byterian Church. In the latter the elders are chosen 
for life, and thus make a permanent body of officers. 
In the Reformed Church elders and deacons are elected 
by the male communicants for two years. The term 
of one half of the consistory expires each year; they 
are eligible for immediate re-election if it is deemed de- 
sirable to retain their services, and this often occurs. 
This principle of rotation in office has its obvious and 
great advantages, harmonizing with our republican sys- 
tem of government in Church and State, bringing grad- 
ually into active service all the best available talent ot 
each congregation, and permitting such changes as may 
be demanded for the welfare of the Church and congre- 
gation without giving needless offence to any who may 
pass out of office. 

Tbe Great Consistory is an advisory body, intermediate 
between the consistory and the classis, and is composed 
of all who have previously been elders and deacons in 
the same Church. This arrangement works admirably 
in cases upon which the acting consistory may need 
counsel; as, for instance, in the settlement of a pastor, 
the erection of Church buildings and parsonages, etc. 
This is an institution peculiar to the Reformed Church 
alone in this country, and has stood the test of the 
whole history of its organization. 

In this way also the Presbyterian principle of “once 
an elder always an elder" is practically preserved, the 
official character of both elders and deacons being recog- 
nised in this body, although they may not be in active 
service in the consistory. Besides this, it often hap- 
pens that persons who have not been acting as elders 
in any given Church for many years are appointed 
and sit as delegates in the Particular and General 
synods. 

2. The Classis is the body next above the consistory, 
and corresponds to the Presbytery of the Presbyterian 
Church in its general organization and functions. It 
is composed of not less than three ministers, and one 
elder from each Church represented, within certain 
limits which are prescribed by the Particular Synod. 
Stated meetings are held twice a year. To the classis 
belongs the right to license, ordain, install, dismiss, sus- 
pend, and depose ministers, to exercise a general super- 
vision over the spiritual interests and concerns of the 
several churches, and to try and decide cases of appeal 
from judicial decisions of consistories, subject also to ap- 
peal to the Particular Synod. For promoting the doc- 
trinal purity, the spiritual interests, and the general wel- 
fare of the churches each consistory is required annual- 
ly, at the spring session of classis, to present a full re- 
port, in writing, with statistical information respecting 
its religious condition. At the same meeting the fol- 
lowing constitutional questions are asked of even' pas- 
tor and elder : 

1. Are the doctrines of the Gospel preached iu yonr 
congregation in their purity, agreeably to the Word of 
God, the Coufession of Faith, aud the Catechisms of onr 
Church? 

2. Is the Heidelberg Catechism regularly explained, 
agreeably to the Constitution of the Reformed Church ? 

3. Are the catechising of the children and the instruc- 
tion of the youth faithfully attended to? 

4. Is family visitatiou faithfully performed? 


5. Is the 5th section, 2d article, 2d chapter of the Con- 
stitution of our Church (which relates to oversight aud 
discipline of Church members) carefully obeyed ? 

0. Is the temporal contract betweeu ministers and peo- 
ple fulfilled in your congregation ? 

The replies are required to be noted in detail in the 
minutes of the classis, and sent up to the Particular 
Synod for inspection. It is now also required to report 
whether the contributions enjoined by the General Syn- 
od for specific benevolent objects have been takeu in 
each church. 

3. The Particular Synod dates back to the year 1794. 
Previous to that time the only ecclesiastical bodies were 
the consistory, classis, and synod, or, as they were de- 
nominated, the Particular and General bodies. These 
met annually. The first synodal assembly was only 
provisional; it possessed and exercised the right to ex- 
amine students of theology for licensure until the year 
1800. This function was afterwards devolved upon the 
classes alone. The Particular Synod is a court of ap- 
peal in judicial cases which are carried up from the 
classes. It has power to form new classes, to transfer 
congregations from one classis to another, and has a 
general supervisory power over its classes. It also con- 
firms the nominations of the classes for delegates to the 
General Synod. It meets annually, and is composed of 
four ministers and four elders from each classis. 

The four Particular synods now existing are those of 
Xew York, organized in 1800, composed of nine classes; 
Albany, organized in 1800, composed of ten classes; 
Chicayo, organized in 1850, composed of five classes; 
Xew Brunswick, organized in 1809, composed of nine 
classes. At the session of the General Synod held in 
1809 the Particular synods were reorganized upon the 
basis of a plan which is intended to increase their pre- 
viously limited powers, and to bring them into more 
systematic and direct contact with the spiritual inter- 
ests and benevolent agencies of the Church. See Min- 
utes of Gen. Synod, 1809, p. 020, 033. 

4. The General Synod. — The long conflict between 
the coetus and conferentie which ended in 1771 resulted 
in an assembly of representatives of both parties, who 
styled themselves “A Reverend Meeting of Ministers 
and Elders.” They organized what were called a “ Gen- 
eral” and five “Particular” bodies, which were subse- 
quently called by the names familiar in Holland, “syn- 
od” and “classis.” The General Body w T as merely a 
provincial and provisional assembly — a sort of ecclesi- 
astical bridge over which the Church passed from her 
dependence upon the mother Church in Holland to her 
condition of real independence and separate American 
organization. At first it was a conventional assembly, 
consisting of all the ministers in the Church, with an 
elder from each separate Church. It met trienniallv. 
In 1800 it was made a delegated body, consisting of 
eight ministers and eight elders from each of the two 
Particular synods of New York and Albany, which were 
constituted in that year, only two ministers and two 
elders being admitted from each classis. In 1809 the 
delegation was increased to three ministers and three 
elders, who are nominated by each classis and con- 
firmed by their respective Particular synods. By the 
present Constitution, each classis having more than fif- 
teen churches is entitled to one additional delegate 
for each additional five churches. In 1812 the ses- 
sions were made annual. This body meets on the 
first Wednesday in June, and it continues in session 
about ten days. It exercises a general supervision over 
the entire Church. It is the court of last resort in ap- 
peals of judicial cases from the lower bodies. It has 
power to form and change the Particular synods. It 
elects professors of theology and has supreme control 
of the theological seminaries. The benevolent boards 
of the Church are its creations. It maintains friendly 
correspondence with various ecclesiastical assemblies of 
other denominations. It has no power to alter or amend 
the Constitution of the Church, but can only recommend 
such changes, which must be submitted, through it, to 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 1002 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


the clashes, and can he adopted only by the votes of a 
majority of these bodies. The General Synod was in- 
corporated in 1818 by an act of the Legislature of the 
State of New York. 

The fiscal concerns of the whole Church are managed 
under this charter by the Board of Direction of Corpo- 
ration, which is elected annually by the General Synod, 
and consists of a president, three directors, and a treas- 
urer. The personal and real estate and all the synods’ 
property are confided to the custody of this board, which 
is thus made the chief fiscal agent of the Church. Its 
affairs arc reported annually to the synod. For more 
than sixty years it has managed its large trust with the 
most exemplary diligence, fidelity, and success, and with 
scarcely the loss of a dollar from all its investments. 
The board reported in 1878 that the assets in the hands 
of the treasurer, June 1, amounted to $451,411.61); this 
was in addition to the large real estate owned by the 
synod at New Brunswick, N. J,, in the buildings and 
grounds of the theological seminary, and in those of 
Hope College, at Holland, Mich. 

VI 1. Usages . — 1. Mode of Worship. — All the lie- 
formed churches of the Continent adopted liturgies for 
the observance of public worship, including the offices 
for the administration of sacraments, the ordination of 
ministers, elders, and deacons, and for the infliction of 
discipline in excommunication, etc. The Scottish lie- 
former John Knox prepared a liturgy for the Church of 
Scotland which was used for some time, but which was 
ultimately swept away by the same anti-ritualistic 
storm in which Puritans and Presbyterians were driven 
to the opposite extreme of bold simplicity in public 
worship. The liturgy of the Reformed Church of Hol- 
land — with the omission only of a prayer in the mar- 
riage service and an article on the consolation of the 
sick is accurately given in the English translation, 
which is now in use in the Reformed Church of America. 
It is “precisely what it was in 1619, and substantially 
as when first adopted in 1568 by the Synod of Wesel.” 
Like all the Reformed liturgies, it is based on that of 
John Calvin. Rut its shape was given chiefly by John 
Alaseo, the popular pastor of the Reformed Church in 
London, which numbered, under his ministry, over three 
thousand members, who were refugees from persecution 
in their native land. This Church still exists. Alaseo 
also prepared a new liturgy, using his old one and that 
of Strasburg, a translation of which, from the French, was 
published by Pollanus, Calvin’s successor, who founded 
a Church at Glastonbury, England. It was written in 
Latin, and then, in 1551. translated into Dutch by John 
Uytenhovc, an elder of the Church in London. The lit- 
urgy of the Reformed Church in the Netherlands was 
prepared by Peter Dathenus, an eminent minister, who. 
when driven from Holland by persecution, settled with 
some of his fellow-exiles in the Palatinate at Franken- 
thal, near Heidelberg. He first translated the Heidel- 
berg Catechism into the Holland language, and also the 
psalms of Beza and Marot from their French originals. 
He dedicated the volume containing these symbols 
(psalms, catechism, and liturgy) “to all the churches 
and ministers of Jesus Christ sitting and mourning 
under the tyranny of antichrist.” Subsequently, the 
“Form for Adult Baptism,” and the “Consolation of the 
Sick and Dying,” and the “Compendium of the Chris- 
tian Religion,” a condensation of the Heidelberg Cate- 
chism — which was in place of another brief catechism — 
for persons who intended to unite with the Church, were 
issued. In 1574 the Synod of Dordrecht directed the 
liturgy to be used in all the churches. For a full ac- 
count see Put aria, or the Presbyterian Liturgies, ch. xi ; 
and Prof. Demarest’s History and Ecclesiastical Char- 
acteristics of the lief. Ch. eh. viii. 

The liturgy is officially declared to be a part of the 
Constitution of the Reformed Church {Minutes nftlen. 
Synod, iv, 425, 426). The offices for the administration 
of baptism and the Lord’s supper, for ordination of min- 
isters, chlor^ and deacons, and those for excommunica- 


tion and for readmitting the excommunicated are also 
declared by the Constitution to be essential, and must be 
used. The forms of prayer, marriage-service, etc., are 
not essential, but simply remain as formulas and speci- 
mens, which may or may not be used, at the option of 
the minister. The prayers were used for a time, but 
always in connection with extempore prayer. Since 
the latter part of the 17th century they have been 
dropped in public worship in Holland. When English 
preaching had been established in the Church of New 
York, three years after Dr. Laidlie's advent, a transla- 
tion of this liturgy into English— which is more accu- 
rate and faithful than elegant in style — was procured 
and introduced by the collegiate consistory. The same 
year also (1767) singing in the English language was 
commenced in that Church. The volume used was an 
amended edition of Brady and Tate’s version, in which 
the old music was retained and the rhyme adapted to 
it. See Psalmody. 

Several attempts have been made to revise thelit- 
nrgy, all of which have failed of final adoption by the 
classes, to whom, under the constitution, they were re- 
ferred for final decision. 

2. Other Customs (essential and non-essential). — In 
1814 the General Synod adopted a report of a commit- 
tee on this subject which is still the law of the Church. 
The essential customs and usages which aro deemed 
necessary to be continued in the Church are expressed 
in the explanatory articles of the constitution; such as 
singing the psalms and hymns approved of and recom- 
mended by the General Synod; preaching from the Hei- 
delberg Catechism; observing the forms in the admin- 
istration of baptism and the Lord’s supper, etc., as con- 
tained in the liturgy, etc. “Other customs and usages 
prevail in the Church which arc deemed non-essential, 
and in many instances arc either wholly dispensed with 
or partially retained in our congregations, according to 
the taste or circumstances of pastors or people; such as 
the arrangements observed in the performance of public 
worship — the number of times of singing psalms and 
hymns; reading sermons and preaching them from 
memory or extemporaneously; sprinkling in baptism 
one or three times; sitting or standing in receiving the 
Lord’s supper; preaching on Ascension-day, Good-l-’ri- 
day, and other days which have long been observed 
both in Holland and America” (Minutes, 1811, p.31,32). 
In the Constitution adopted in 1832, however, “for 
the purpose of uniformity in the order of worship,” 
a directory is set forth which “is to be observed in all 
the churches.” In Holland all the clergy wear the offi- 
cial pulpit dress or gown during their performance of 
public worship. In this country the custom prevails 
chiefly in the cities of Philadelphia. New York, Albany, 
Newark, New Brunswick, etc., and in some of the coun- 
try and village churches. 

YIH. Institutions . — 1. Colleges. — Zeal for the training 
and perpetuation of an educated ministry — which pro- 
duced the unhappy division of the Church in the last 
century — soon led to various plans for the establishment 
of proper schools for that purpose in this country. Few 
ministers came from Holland; and the time, cost, and 
dangers, the difficulties and disappointments, incurred in 
sending youth to be educated in the universities of the 
mother country were too great to furnish a supply from 
this sourec. The number of churches rapidly outgrew 
the pastors. In 1754, in order to defeat the movements 
of the coetus for independence, a plan was adopted, by 
a provision which was inserted in the charter of King’s 
(now Columbia) College, in New York, giving the con- 
sistory of the Church of New York the right to appoint 
a professor of theology in that institution. But, fearing 
that sueh an arrangement would produce an episcopa- 
lian defection, the Rev. Theodore Frelinghuysen, of Al- 
bany, projected an academy or seminary, in which the 
Dutch language only should be used, and which should 
combine the advantages of both the German gymnasia 
and the university system. In 1759 he sailed for Eu- 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 1003 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


rope to urge his project; but he never returned, having 
been lost at sea upon his homeward voyage. The con- 
ference opposed his plan, in a letter to the Classis of 
Amsterdam, and it perished with him. 

Ten years later — in 1770 — and chiefly by the power- 
ful influence of Rev. Dr. Jacob R. Hardenbergh, its first 
president — a charter was obtained from governor Will- 
iam Franklin of New Jersey, then a British province, for 
a college, the object of which is stated to be “ the edu- 
cation of the youth in the learned languages, liberal and 
useful arts and sciences, and especially in divinity, pre- 
paring them for the ministry and other good offices.” 
It was called — in honor of the queen of George III — 
“Queen’s College,” and retained this name until, in 
1825, it was changed — in memory of one of its prin- 
cipal benefactors, Col. Henry Rutgers — to “Rutgers 
College.” It is located at New Brunswick, N. J. This 
institution was suspended during the Revolutionary 
War, and again in 1795, when it was revived, chiefly 
by the efforts of the Rev. Dr. Ira Condict, its vice-pres- 
ident. Dr. John H. Livingston was appointed president 
in 1810. But in 1816 its doors were closed again until, 
in 1825, it resumed its work, which has continued with- 
out interruption since that time. The centennial year 
was celebrated, with appropriate services, at the com- 
mencement held in June, 1870. A large endowment has 
been secured. The course of instruction has been great- 
ly enlarged and the standard of scholarship elevated. 
The faculty is full, and the number of students in 1878- 
79 was 178. In 1864 a scientific school was organized 
in connection with the college, and designated by the 
Legislature of New Jersey “the State College for the 
Benefit of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts,” as pro- 
vided for by an act of the Congress of the United States 
in 1862. It was opened in 1866. The course of study 
embraces mining, metallurgy, agricultural chemistry, 
civil engineering, and mathematics, with other branches 
of scientific education. The college possesses an astro- 
nomical observatory, a museum of natural history, an 
agricultural farm of one hundred acres, and ample facil- 
ities for the illustration of scientific studies. The gram- 
mar-school, which is as old as the college, occupies a 
large and appropriate building opposite the college 
grounds. The college faculty embraces a president, 
vice-president, eleven professors, and an assistant pro- 
fessor. The buildings include the main college edifice ; 
Van Nest Hall, in which are the rooms of the liter- 
ary societies and lecture-rooms; Geological Hall, which 
contains an armon r , the museum of geology, mineral- 
ogy, and natural history, and the chemical laboratory; 
the Kirkpatrick Chapel, a large and handsome Gothic 
building erected in 1873, in which also is the library of 
the college; the Schenck Observatory; and the presi- 
dent’s house. There are no dormitories belonging to 
the college. The library is of great value, although 
not adequate to the wants of the institution. The 
museum is extensive and contains many rare curiosi- 
ties and specimens. Valuable prizes are given at each 
commencement to successful competitors in oratory, 
composition, classics, mathematics, mineralogy, spelling, 
English grammar, modern history, mental and moral 
philosophy, and for the best essay on Christian missions. 

The Vedder Lectureship was founded by Mr. Nicholas 
F.Vedder, of Utica, who gave a fund of $10,000, in 1873, 
on this among other conditions, that the General Synod 
should “every year elect some member of the Reformed 
Church in America to deliver to the students of the 
seminary and of Rutgers College at least five lectures 
on the” present aspects of modern infidelity, including 
its cause and cure.” The following courses of lectures 
have been delivered upon this foundation : 1874, by 
Isaac S. Hartley, D.D., of Utica, on Prayer and Mod- 
ern Criticism; 1875, by Tayler Lewis, LL.D., of Union 
College, on Nature and the Scriptures; 1876, by Talbot 
W. Chambers, D.D., of New York, on The Psalter , a 
Witness to the Divine Origin of the Bible; 1877, by 
William R. Gordon, D.D., of Schraalenberg, N. J., on 


The Science of Revealed Ti uth Impregnable , as shown 
by the A rgumentative Failures of Infidelity and Theoret- 
ical Geology. All of these lectures have been published 
under the general title of The Vedder Lectures. 

“ Hope College,” located at the city of Holland, Mich., 
was chartered in 1866, and grew out of a flourishing 
academy which was started as a civil and parochial 
school in the infancy of the colony of Hollanders, founded 
by the Rev. Dr. Albertus C. Van Raalte, on Black River 
and lake, in that state, in the year 1846-47. This insti- 
tution embraces a preparatory school, collegiate, scien- 
tific, and theological departments, under the ecclesiasti- 
cal supervision of the General Synod, and in the imme- 
diate charge of its council and faculty. It possesses am- 
ple college grounds, good buildings, an endowment of 
funds which are augmenting yearly, a tract of land 
called “the James Suydam farm of Hope College,” after 
a great benefactor, and many appliances for a liberal 
training. The course of instruction is thorough, and 
will be expanded with the demands of the times. The 
faculty consists of a president and five professors, with 
subordinate teachers. The whole number of pupils in 
June, 1878, was 98, of whom 65 were in the preparatory 
department, and 33 in the academic course. 

2. Theological Seminaries. — A professor of theology, 
Dr. John H. Livingston, was chosen in 1784, and at the 
same time Dr. Hermanns Meyer was appointed profess- 
or of languages, and two years later, also, as lector in 
theology. In 1792 Drs. Solomon Froeligh and Dirck 
Romeyn were appointed additional professors of didac- 
tic theology. Other appointments were subsequently 
made — Rev. Drs. John Bassett, Jeremiah Romeyn, and 
John M. Van Harlingen. All of these professors and 
lectors originally taught their students at their own 
places of residence. The seminary proper, under Dr, 
Livingston, was located in 1796 at Flatbush, L. I., and 
in 1804 was transferred to New York, where it remain- 
ed until its final location, in 1810, at New Brunswick, 
N. J. 

These facts substantiate the claim that the Reformed 
Dutch Church in America was the first of all her Prot- 
estant sisters to reduce theological education to a system , 
the first to demand that it be in charge of a professional 
instructor, and the first to appoint a theological pi'ofcss- 
or. But for the outbreak of the Revolutionary war, 
her theological seminary would have been started in 
the year of American independence, 1776. Dr. Liv- 
ingston occupied the professorial chair from 1784 to 
1825; and previous to the removal to New Bruns- 
wick he and his colleagues sent forth 91 students 
into the ministry. After various ineffectual efforts 
to secure a proper endowment, the professorship w r as 
merged in Queen’s College by a covenant between the 
synod and the trustees of that institution. In the year 
1825, the seminary had three resident theological pro- 
fessors, and was fully organized. Additional articles 
of agreement were now entered into with the trustees, 
by which a theological college was organized, and the 
name changed from Queen’s to Rutgers. Three years 
later, a Board of Education was established to care for 
beneficiaries. In 1865 another theological professorship 
was added, and the covenant between the synod and the 
trustees of Rutgers College formally annulled. The fol- 
lowing year, Hope College was organized in Holland, 
Mich., and in a twelvemonth more a theological depart- 
ment in the same place. In the year 1856, Mrs. Anna 
Hertzog, of Philadelphia, donated $30,000 for the erec- 
tion of a suitable edifice for the use of the seminary, upon 
the condition that it should bear the honored name of 
her deceased husband, “the Peter Hertzog Theological 
Hall.” The building was speedily erected — three stories 
in height, 120 feet long — and contains a small chapel, 
double rooms for sleeping and study purposes, to accom- 
modate about sixty students; lecture-rooms for the pro- 
fessors, rector’s residence, and refectory. It stands in the 
midst of seven acres of land, which were also donated for 
the purpose by Messrs. James Xeilson, David Bishop, and 


HEFOIiMEL) (DUTCH) CIIURCII 1004 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


Charles I*. Dayton, and Francis and Wessell Wessclls. 
The site is commanding. Three professors’ houses have 
been built upon it, and another one, directly opposite, 
has been bought and presented to the General Synod by 
Messrs. James Suydarn and Gardner A. Sage, of New 
York, at a cost of $18,01)0. INI rs. llcrtzog also left by 
will $10,000 to be invested, the interest of which is to 
keep the hall in repair. By the munificence of its 
friends the building has been thoroughly refitted and 
furnished in the best manner to make it a pleasant 
Christian home for the students. In 1873 the James 
Snydam Hall was opened for use. This large, substan- 
tial, and costly building, containing a chapel, lecture- 
rooms, museum, and gymnasium, was the gift of the 
late James Suydarn of New York, who laid its corner- 
stone hut did not live to sec it completed. Mr. Suydarn 
also endowed the professorship of didactic and polemic 
theology which bears his name, in the sum of $00,1)00; 
and these, with various gifts and legacies to the theo- 
logical seminary and other spccitic Church purposes, 
amount to more than $’250,000. This was in addition 
to other bequests to the American Bible and Tract 
societies; and the seminary and the Bible Society 
were also made his equal residuary legatees. A bronze 
statue of Mr. Suydarn, somewhat larger than life size, 
the gift of friends, was unveiled on the day of dedica- 
tion of the hall. The Gardner A. Sage library build- 
ing is the gift of the generous founder whose name 
it bears, and who superintended its erection and has 
provided for its maintenance and support. It is per- 
fectly lire-proof, and combines every modern arrange- 
ment for heating, ventilation, light, and security from 
dust and other annoyances. It has room for about 

100.000 volumes. The library at present numbers over 

30.000 volumes, to which additions have been constant- 
ly made by donations, and principally from a fund of 
$53,703, of which a balance of about $15,000 remains 
unexpended. The selection of books is contidcd to a 
competent committee of the General Synod, in co-oper- 
ation with the theological professors. The library has 
a very complete Biblical critical apparatus, including 
fac- similes of the Sinaitic, Vatican, and other MSS.; 
the Acta Sanctorum ( Bollandist ), 00 vols. ; Mignc's 
Patrology, 320 vols., embracing all the fat hers, Greek 
and Latin; and many of the best and rarest editions 
of standard works imported from Europe. 

The permanent endowment of the seminary, which is 
still in progress, now amounts to over $200,000, besides the 
real property held for its uses. There are four professors, 
and thirty-two students now in its classes, while the hall 
is (Hied with other young men of the college and pre- 
paratory school who are on their way to the ministry. 
The course of instruction is thorough, and embraces the 
usual departments of theological study in similar insti- 
tutions, with the addition of those subjects which are 
specially related to the lleformed Church, such as the 
Confession of Faith, Canons of Dort, Heidelberg Cate- 
chism, the. ecclesiastical polity, and the. constitutional 
law of the denomination. The whole number of grad- 
uates from its establishment in 1810 to 1870 is 009. 
The government of the seminary is vested in the 
faculty ami in a Board of .Superintendents, which is 
chosen by the General Synod and meets annually. A 
standing committee of the synod has the charge of its 
temporal allairs. 

The 'rheological Seminary in Hope College” had for 
its first professor Lev. Cornelius K.Crispell, l).l).,who was 
elected by the General Synod in 1807 to the chair of di- 
dactic and polemic theology, and t he other professors in 
Hope College were invited to act as lectors. In 1809 two 
additional professors were elected. There is a Board of 
Superintendents, which consists of the Council of Hope 
College, with duties and prerogatives like those of the 
seminary at New Brunswick. The endowment of this 
institution has been begun. In 1878, on account of 
financial embarrassments, the theological department 
was suspended and the students went to other institu- 


tions. A few young men have gone out from its walls 
to preach the Gospel, two of them as foreign mission- 
aries. 

3. Parochial Schools . — A few of these arc aided bv 
the Board of Education. They are almost exclusively 
confined to the German and Holland Churches. 

-I. Foreign Missions, — From her earliest days, her 
ministers gave special care to the evangelization of the 
heathen Indians. During the existence of the United 
Foreign Missionary Society, she statedly contributed to 
its funds; and when that organization was dissolved, and 
its stations transferred to the American Board of Com- 
missioners for Foreign M issions. she continued her efforts 
in connection with it. In 1832 the General Synod ap- 
pointed its own Board of Foreign 31 issions, proposing to 
organize missions of their own Church to be conducted 
through the medium of its prudential committee. In 
1836 the first band of missionaries went out to seek a 
settlement in Northern India, but subsequently located 
in the island of Borneo. After working a long while 
harmoniously in this relation, prompted by a desire to 
accomplish the utmost that might be gained by an in- 
dependent denominational effort, it was thought most 
desirable to sever the connection existing between their 
society and that of the American Board. This was ac- 
cordingly done in 1858. The number of members is 
twenty -four — one half being laymen, and one third 
elected annually by the General Synod. A number of 
missionaries at several times, under the auspices of the 
board, have been sent out to China, India, and Japan. 
Chief among the servants of the Church in the foreign 
field were the Lev. John Seudder, 31. D., of the 3Iadras 
3Iission: the Bev. David Abed. D.D., the first Ameri- 
can missionary to China; and the Lev. Dr. Cornelius 
V. A. 3'an Dyck, the translator of the Arabic Bible, who, 
although in the employ of the American Board of Com- 
missioners for Foreign 3Iissions, yet retains his relation 
to the lleformed Church, from which he went out as a 
missionary physician. The Mission to the Dyaks in 
Borneo was given up in 1849, some of the missionaries 
having been transferred to Amoy in China, and the 
others returned to America. 

The China 3Iission was organized at Amoy in 1844, 
at the original suggestion ofthe llcv. David Abeel, D.D., 
who visited that city in 1842, just after it had been de- 
clared one of the five open ports. The first missionaries 
were Ucv. 3Iossrs. William J. l’ohlman and Elilui Doty. 
Its prosperity has been wonderful. The 3Iission now 
(1879) consists of seven churches and seventeen sta- 
tions, comprising, according to the. last report, a mem- 
bership of 598 communicants. Over these in Amoy 
and adjacent cities there are now four missionaries and 
four assistants, with three native pastors settled over 
and sustained by two churches in the city of Amoy and 
the Church of Ivang-than and Dpi. The 3Iission em- 
ploys twelve native catechists or preachers and has 
eight students under theological instruction. A build- 
ing for the theological students has been erected at 
Kolongsn, called “the Thomas De Witt Theological 
Hall.” Contributions for religious and benevolent pur- 
poses from the native Christians in 1867 were $940.69 
in gold. 

The Arcot 3Iission in India was organized in 1854, 
being composed ofthe sons ofthe celebrated missionary, 
the Lev. John Seudder, 31.D.,of3Iadras. with their fami- 
lies. The Classis of Arcot was formed in 1854, with the 
clerical missionaries and three native elders. Accord- 
ing to the report of 1877, the classis is composed of 
twenty churches, with a membership of 764 commu- 
nicants. With them are connected forty stations and 
out-stations, the whole number of regtdar attendants 
upon the means of grace being 4398. Contributions 
for religious and benevolent purposes in 1877 amount- 
ed to $368 in gold. There arc six missionaries and 
eight assistants in this important field of labor, with 
two native pastors mid twenty-one catechists, twen- 
ty-six Bible-readers, twenty-eight teachers, and nine- 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 1005 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


teen colporteurs. There are two seminaries for males 
and females, a preparamli school for training native cat- 
echists and pastors, and thirty-eight day schools with 
1233 scholars. The missionaries and native helpers 
make frequent tours into the surrounding country. 
The statistics of this work for 1869 were, G635 sermons 
preached to 156,408 hearers, and hooks and tracts dis- 
tributed 5035. 

The press is used freely to print the Scriptures, cate- 
chisms, and practical, religious, and educational works. 
The hospital and medical dispensary at Arcot has 
received the highest official praise from lord Napier, 
the governor-general, and an increased allowance from 
the government. The number of patients treated in 
1877 was 9673, an average of twenty-six per day, A 
medical class of young natives is connected with it. 
The Gospel is daily preached to all comers, and portions 
of the Scriptures, traets, and good books are offered to 
all who can read. A simple and brief story of Christ’s 
love to fallen man is carried away by every patient on 
the printed ticket given to him on his first application, 
and which he must show at each subsequent visit. 

The Japan Mission originated at a monthly concert 
for prayer for missions held in Feb., 1859, in the South 
Reformed Church, New York, when one elder offered to 
give $800 per year to support a missionary in Japan, 
another made a similar promise, and the Church pledged 
itself for a third like sum. On May 7, 1859, the Board 
of Foreign Missions sent out three missionaries — Rev. 
Samuel R. Brown, M.D. (who had been a missionary in 
China for several years), Rev. Guido F. Verbeck, and 
I). Simmons, M.D., with their wives, and Miss Caroline 
E. Adriance — who reached Kanagawa Nov. 1 of that 
year. Rev. James II. Ballagh was sent out in 1862, 
and Rev. Henry Stout in 1868. Dr. Simmons and w ife 
resigned in 1860, and Miss Adriance went to Amoy, 
where she became an assistant missionary, and died in 
1863. She always bore her own expenses as a volun- 
teer missionary. The missionaries engaged chiefly at 
Yokohama, Nagasaki, and Tokio in teaching the gov- 
ernment schools, translating the Word of God, circu- 
lating the Scriptures, traets, and books in Chinese, and 
instructing inquirers in the way of salvation. Mr. Bal- 
lagh began a Japanese religious service in 1866, the 
average attendance being about twenty persons. The 
first two native converts, Wakasa, a nobleman, and 
Avabe, his younger brother, were baptized by the Rev. 

G. F. Verbeck, May 20, 1866, the day of Pentecost, at his 
residence in Yokohama. Wakasa’s attention was first 
drawn to Christianity by a copy of the New Test, in 
English, which some Japanese picked up out of the 
water in the bay of Nagasaki, and which was prob- 
ably lost overboard from an American or English ship. 
He did not rest until, five or six years after, he pro- 
cured a Chinese translation of it, which he eagerly read. 
Thus this “ bread cast upon the waters” was found 
“after many days” in the soul of the first Japanese 
convert to Christianity. In March, 1872, the first na- 
tive Christian Church was organized by the Rev. James 

H. Ballagh at Yokohama with eleven members. In 
1877 it had 145 communicants. The edifice in which 
it worships cost about $6000, of which the first thou- 
sand was given by the native Christians of Honolulu, 
Sandwich Islands. It seats about 450 persons. In 
January, 1S78, there were fifteen organized churches 
of all Protestant denominations with over 1300 com- 
muning members. Of these, four churches with 201 
communicants belong to the Reformed Chureh in Amer- 
ica. 

The present missionary force of this Church 'in Ja- 
pan consists of six missionaries and eleven assistant 
missionaries, with one native ordained minister and two 
catechists or preachers. There is one academy at Yoko- 
hama, the Isaac Ferris Seminary, for girls, of whom 
there were thirty-seven at latest date. A theological 
class or school of eleven young men is also established, 
under the instructions of the Rev. James L. Amerman. 


Another school for girls is at Nagasaki. The Rev. Dr. 
G. F. Verbeck has been for many years connected with 
the Imperial University at Yeddo, under the auspices 
of the government, and he has also been engaged with 
Drs. Brown, Hepburn, and others in the work of trans- 
lation of English works into Japanese and of Japanese 
works into English. Of the large number of Japanese 
youth who came to this country for education, a score 
or more were students in Rutgers College and its gram- 
mar-school. Several of them have united with Chris- 
tian churches in the United States, and some have gone’ 
baek to Japan to preach the Gospel and to serve Christ 
in other stations. The outlook of this mission work in 
Japan is full of promise. Dr. Brown has long been en- 
gaged with Dr. Hepburn and others in translating the 
Bible into Japanese. 

In addition to these Oriental Missions, the board has 
also co-operated with other missionary boards in the 
plan of Indian agencies under the government of the 
United States. The tribes assigned to it are the Pimas, 
Maricopas, and Papagoes; the Mohaves on the Colorado 
River Reserve ; and the Apaches on the White Mountain 
Reserve, numbering in all about 9000 souls. 

The, Woman's Board of Foreign Missions, an efficient 
anxiliarv to the Synod’s Board, was organized in Feb- 
ruary, 1875. It has between fifty and sixty auxiliaries; 
is devoted to the increase and maintenance of woman’s 
work for women in heathen lands; and contributes lib- 
erally to the general work. Its principal field is Naga- 
saki, Japan, where it has undertaken to establish a fe- 
male seminary ; and it has also begun to labor for China. 
It has published in an elegant volume, with maps and 
many illustrations on wood, a very complete Manual of 
Foreign Missions of the Reformed Dutch Church in 
A merica (8vo, 32G pp.). 

The ordinary appropriations of the Board of For- 
eign Missions "for the year ending June 1, 1879, were 
$55,600. 

5. Home Missions. — The Board of Domestic Missions 
consists of twenty-four members, half of whom are lay- 
men, and one third are elected annually by the General 
Synod. It was reorganized in 1849, with a correspond- 
ing secretary exclusively devoted to its service. Pre- 
vious to this, for a number of years, the duties of that 
office were performed voluntarily by settled pastors. 
All the Reformed churches were on missionary ground 
until the independent organization of the denomination 
was secured in 1771. .Soon after this event, ministers 
and elders were occasionally sent out upon tours of ex- 
ploration among destitute populations to preach the 
Gospel, and to establish mission stations and churches. 
As the result of these labors, a few new churches were 
organized — one in Virginia, six in Kentucky, six in 
Lower Canada, and elsewhere in the regions of the Dela- 
ware and Susquehanna rivers, and Central New York. 
It was then determined to concentrate efforts nearer 
home, and the distant churches — some of which yet live 
in other denominations — were left alone. In 1822 the 
“(Missionary Society of the Reformed Dutch Church” 
was organized in the city of New York. A Northern 
Board, located at Albany, was appointed by the Synod 
in 1828 to act under the society located at New York, 
and a new impetus was given to the work. In 1831 a 
new Board of Missions was constituted for the whole 
Church, all the mission work being confided to its care, 
of which the present board is the lineal successor. It 
was incorporated in 1867, and now holds its own funds. 
The Church Building Fund and the Sabbath-school in- 
terests of the denomination, excepting publications, are 
confided to its care. More than half of the churches 
of the denomination owe their existence to the fostering 
care of this board. In the West, nearly the whole of 
the English churches of the Particular Synod ofChicago 
have grown up under its benign influence. The Hol- 
land churches have been mostly self-sustaining. During 
the year ending June, 1878, this board aided 102 church- 
es, of which fifty-eight were at the East, forty-two in 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 1006 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


the West, anil two in the South. The number of fami- 
lies in the Mission churches was G787 anil 8896 Church 
members, of whom 1010 were received during the year. 
There were 134 Sabbath-schools, with 11,339 scholars. 
The income from all sources for the missionary opera- 
tions was $33,130.32. Since 1832 more than three hun- 
dred churches have been organized — about half of these 
in the single decade of 1850-60 — and many of these un- 
der the auspices of this board. Thousands of Holland- 
ers, most of whom are in this denomination, have settled 
in Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, and adjoining states dur- 
ing the last thirty years. These have formed an impor- 
tant element in the missionary growth and extension 
of the Church in the North-west. Of its nearly 79,000 
members, about 11,000 are Hollanders. 

6. The Board of Education, which was organized as 
a voluntary society in the city of New York in 1828, was 
adopted by the General Synod in 1832. It consists of 
twenty-four members, who are elected for three years 
each, one third of whom are elected annually. It has 
the immediate care of all the beneficiaries and educa- 
tional interests of the Reformed Church, including such 
beneficiaries as receive aid from the Van Bensehoten 
and Knox funds, which are held by the trustees of Rut- 
gers College. Every beneficiary must be a member in 
good and regular standing in the Reformed Church, 
and must also have been a member of some Protestant 
Church for one year previous to making his application 
for aid. He must be recommended to the board by the 
pastor and consistory of the Church, and by the chassis 
to which said Church belongs, after sustaining a satis- 
factory examination as to his need of assistance, and 
physical, mental, and spiritual qualifications for study 
and for the holy ministry. Every precaution is taken 
against the introduction or continuation of improper 
candidates. Repayment of all money received from the 
board is required from those who do not complete their 
course of ministerial preparation, unless they are, in the 
judgment of the board, providentially hindered. The 
board will accept from all beneficiaries after their li- 
censure two years’ service under the care of the Board 
of Domestic Missions, as a full satisfaction for all aid 
rendered to them by the Board of Education. This is 
a wise provision, which has secured many excellent 
young laborers in the home missionary field. All the 
students are considered as under the pastoral care of the 
corresponding secretary. In 1865 the powers of the 
board were enlarged to enable it to co-operate with the 
various classes in the establishment of academies and 
classical schools within their bounds. ' The board be- 
came incorporated in 1870, to enable it to hold legal pos- 
session of its funds and to secure others that may be 
devised to it hv will. In addition to the Knox Fund 
($2000), the Van Bensehoten Fund ($20,313.57), the 
Smock Fund ($500), the Mandcville Fund ($2000), and 
the Voorhecs Fund ($26,000), which are held by the 
trustees of Rutgers College, anil the interest of which is 
paid out to beneficiaries of this board, it holds twenty- 
five scholarships, ranging from $1700 to $10,000, mak- 
ing in all a capital of over $120,000, besides the annual 
Church collections and private donations, amounting in 
1877 78 to $11,299.74— all for the education of young 
men for the ministry. It also holds certain trust funds 
for Hope College, anil receives moneys for parochial 
schools which are under its care. The total income for 
the year ending June 1, 1878, was $33,508, and the to- 
tal number of young men under its care for the same 
period was eighty-three. 

About one third of the present ministry of the Church 
have been aided by this board in their studies for the 
sacred office. Its beneficiaries are not confined to any 
particular literary institution, but must study theology 
in one of the seminaries of the Reformed Church. 

7. The Board of Publication was organized in 1855 
by authority of the General Synod. It consists of 
twelve ministers and twelve laymen, one third of whom 
are elected annually by the Synod. To it are “ intrust- 


ed, with such directions as may from time to time be 
given by the General Synod, the superintendence of all 
the publications of the Reformed Church, and the circu- 
lation of such works pertaining to the history, govern- 
ment, doctrines, and religious literature of said Church 
and of other evangelical denominations as shall be 
properly approved.” It has a corresponding secre- 
tary and general agent, and a depository located in 
the city of New York. Its printing and binding are 
done by contract. It publishes a semi-monthly news- 
paper called the Sower and Gospel Field, which is the 
accredited organ of all the boards of the Church. The 
catalogue of its books and tracts, for denomination- 
al and general uses, is large, and constantly receiving 
new additions. .Sales arc made at a moderate profit. 
Gratuitous distributions and liberal discounts are made 
to weak churches, poor Sunday-schools, and for mis- 
sionary purposes. During the civil war in the United 
States, it sent forth large gratuitous supplies into the 
armies of the Union; and since the cessation of hostili- 
ties it has done a good and large work of benevolent 
circulation in the South, particularly among the freed- 
men. In India it has published the Heidelberg Cate- 
chism in Tamil during the year ending June, 1870; and 
a supply of its elementary books for Sabbath-school and 
general instruction has been asked for and sent to Japan 
for use in the government schools under the care of the 
missionaries of the Reformed Church. The total assets 
of the board, June 1, 1878, were reported to the Synod 
as $12,343.64. Receipts for the year, $9,102.39. 

8. The Widows 1 Fund, or Relief Fund, for disabled 
ministers and the widows and orphaned children of de- 
ceased ministers, was organized in 1837. Its benefits 
are limited to subscribing ministers who may pay $20 
in full, or $10 or $5 annually, and who shall receive, 
pro rata, the annuities which may be due upon personal 
disability, or, at their own deeease, by their families. 
Congregations are urged to secure an interest in the 
fund for their pastors by making the requisite contribu- 
tion yearly. The funds, which are intrusted to the Board 
of Direction of Corporation, are invested in bonds and 
mortgages and in government bonds. One half of the 
annual payments by ministers, and donations, when 
specially directed by the donor, are considered income; 
the other half of the annual payments by ministers, all 
other donations, and church collections, are considered 
as principal, and the interest thereof only is used as in- 
come. The maximum amount to be paid to parties 
interested in the fund are: to a minister disabled by 
sickness or age, $200 per year; to a minister's widow, 
$200; to children of clergymen, both of whose parents 
are deceased, $75 per year each until they are sixteen 
years of age. Other provisions regulate minor pay- 
ments. The amount of each annuity is of course de- 
pendent upon the number of annuitants, and may vary 
yearly. The maximum may be increased when the state 
of the fund shall warrant it. The amount of this fund 
June 1, 1878, was $49,307.99; and the sum paid to an- 

I nuitants during the previous year was $2,259.99. 

9. The Disabled Ministers' Fund, which reaches a class 
who cannot avail themselves of the Widows’, or Relief, 
Fund, was organized in 1855, under the title of the Sus- 
tentation Fund. It is also in trust of the Board of 
Direction of Corporation. Its moneys are to be kept 
invested, and to be “used for the support of disabled 
ministers anil the families of deceased ministers, when 
suck may be in need." Applications for aid are made 
through and recommended by the classes to which the 
applicants belong. Contributions which are donated 
specifically for principal are so used; all other contribu- 
tions go to the yearly disbursements, and any surplus 
that remains is carried to principal and placed at inter- 
est upon first-class securities. Aged and infirm ministers 
are thus assisted, and also the needy families of deceased 
clergymen. The amount of this fund reported June 1, 
1878, was $19,614.85, of which $14,222 was appropriated 
to its beneficiaries. 


REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 1007 REFORMED (DUTCH) CHURCH 


10. The Church-building Fund is held in trust and 
dispensed by the Board of Domestic Missions at its dis- 
cretion. Aid is given from it only to churches which 
shall have no debt after receiving assistance from this 
fund. A first bond and mortgage is taken from such 
church, and the Domestic Board may remit the interest 
thereon ; but the church must then make a yearly con- 
tribution for the fund; and every church aided is to 
pay back the aid received as soon as practicable. The 
receipts for the year ending June l, 1878, were $9,059.80. 

IX. Correspondence. — The General Synod holds official 
correspondence, by interchange of delegates (or by let- 
ter), with the following ecclesiastical bodies: the Synod 
of the Canada Presbyterian Church ; the General Synod 
(triennial) of the (German) Reformed Church in the 
•United States; the General Assembly of the Presbyteri- 
an Church in the United States; the General Synod of 
the Reformed Presbyterian Church ; the Geueral Assem- 
bly of the United Presbyterian Church of North Amer- 
ica ; the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church 
in the United States (South); the General Synod of the 
Evangelical Lutheran Church in the United States; and 
the General Council of the Reformed Episcopal Church. 
With the Reformed Church in South Africa, and the 
Waldenses of Piedmont, occasional correspondence is 
held by letter, and also with the Free Church of Scot- 
land and other ecclesiastical bodies in Europe. The 
spirit of this correspondence is well described by one of 
the Church’s most venerated ministers, in these words, 
respecting her catholic sentiments and action: 

“Our Church has been distinguished by a steady and 
united adherence to her standards and order, and at the 
same time by a kind and friendly relation to other evan- 
gelical denominations. She has enjoyed peace within her 
owu bosom, while agitating questions have troubled, and 
even rent, other churches. She has borne a full propor- 
tionate 6hare in contributions to Christian benevolent 
institutions, such as the American Bible Society, the 
American Tract Society, and others. She is desirous and 
anxious, in a sense of privilege and responsibility, to em- 
ploy greater efforts for increasing the degree and extent 
of her influence iu doing all she cau for the spread of the 
Gospel and the salvation of souls. Her pacific character, 
her freedom from the ultraisms of the day, her evangelical 
principles, the peculiar features of her government and 
order, aud the attitude in which she has been found by 
the side of other evangelical denominations, all tend to 
commend her to the favorable regard of all the friends of 
evangelical truth who desire the ‘peace aud prosperity’ 
of the Church of Christ.” 

X. Statistics . — 1. Numbers and Funds. — From the 
minutes of the General Synod held June, 1878, we de- 
rive the following statistical information : the Reformed 
Church then embraced 4 particular synods, 83 classes, 
505 churches, 542 ministers, G candidates for the minis- 
try, 43,490 families, 78,GGG communicants, of whom were 
received during the previous year 3943 on confession and 
I960 by certificates; baptisms of infants, 3874; of adults, 
1044; catechumens, 24,445; Sabbath - school scholars, 
80,109; contributions for religious and benevolent pur- 
poses, $203,103; for congregational purposes, $788,222. 

2. Periodicals. — The Christian Intelligencer , weekly, 
owned and edited by private individuals; the Sower and 
Gospel Field, semi-monthly paper, organ of the Church 
boards; and The Mission Monthly , published by the 
Board of Foreign Missions. 

XI. Denominational Literature. — The following are 
some of the most important publications : 

1. Theological and Exegetical. — John II. Livingston, 
D.D., late Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology, 
Lectures on Theology; a n Analysis by Rev. A va Neal 
(1 vol. 12mo, out of print) ; James S. Cannon, D.D., Pro- 
fessor of Church History and Government and Pastoral 
Theology, Lectures on Pastoral Theology (1 vol.8vo, GIG 
pp.), an exhaustive work ; Alexander McClelland, D.D., 
Professor of Biblical Criticism and Sacred Languages, 
Canon and Interpretation of Scripture (l vol. 12mo, 336 
pp. ); John T. Demarest, D.D., Commentaries on the 
ls£ and 2 d Epistles of Peter (2 vols. 8vo); John T. 
Demarest, D.D., and William R. Gordon, D.D., Chris- 
tocracy (1 vol. 12mo); other works by W. IL Gordon, 


D.I). : Child's Guide in Reading the Scriptures, 132 pp. ; 
Supreme Godhead of Christ , 188 pp.; Particular Provi- 
dence Illustrated by the Life of Joseph, 492 pp.; A Three- 
fold Test of Modern Spiritualism, 408 pp. ; The Church 
of God and her Sacraments, 208 pp. ; A. R. Van Nest, D.D., 
Life and Letters of George IF. Bethune , D.D. (18G9, 1 vol. 
crown 8vo); Geo. W. Bethune, D.D., Lectures on the 
Heidelberg Catechism (2 vols. crown 8vo) ; other works 
by the same author: Sermons (1 vol.); Orations and 
Addresses (1 vol.); Poems (1 vol.); History of a Penitent, 
being an exposition of Psalm exxx (1 vol.); Early LoJt, 
Early Saved (1 vol.); Fruit of the Spirit (l vol.) ; Rev. 
John Van der Kemp, Sermons on the Heidelberg Cate- 
chism (2 vols. 8vo, out of print) ; The Vedder Lectures, 
1874, 1875, 187G, 1877. Among the American contribu- 
tors to Schaff’s edition of Lange’s Biblical Commentary 
are Prof. Tavler Lewis, LL.D. (Genesis, Job, Ecclesi- 
astes), M. B. Riddle, D.D. (Romans, Galatians, Ephe- 
sians, Colossians), T. W. Chambers, D.D. (Amos, Zecha- 
riah), John Forsyth, D.D., LL.D. (Joel), and C. D. Har- 
tranft, D.D. (Numbers). A critical edition or version 
of the Heidelberg Catechism is now in process of prep- 
aration by a Committee of Synod, of which a tentative 
copy, with a historical introduction, was published in 
Minutes of General Synod, 1878, p. 185-222. See also list 
of works issued by the Board of Publication, including 
three vols. of Tracts and many miscellaneous books illus- 
trating the history, polity, theology, and usages of the Re- 
formed Church. Besides these are a number for general 
circulation, and not denominational. The New Bruns- 
wick Review, edited by the late Prof. John Proudfit, 
D.D., reached only a few numbers; the Evangelical Quar- 
terly Review, edited by Rev. Joseph F. Berg, D.D., late 
professor of didactic and polemic theology, extended over 
about two complete volumes. Both of these reviews are 
valuable contributions to the literature of the Church. 

2. Historical and Biographical. — Brodhead, History 
of New York (2 vols.); Colonial History of New York 
(3 vols.); Documentary History of New York (4 vols.); 
David D. Demarest, D.D., Professor of Church Govern- 
ment and Pastoral Theology, History and Characteris- 
tics of the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church ( 1 vol. 
12mo, 221 pp.) ; Benjamin C. Taylor, D.D ., Annals of the 
Classis and Township of Bergen (1 vol. 12mo, 479 pp.); 
Sprague, Annals of the Reformed Dutch Church, vol. ix, 
with historical introduction; Rev. E. T. Corwin, M annul 
of the Reformed Church in America (1 vol. 8vo; 2d ed. 
revised and enlarged, 1879), an invaluable work; Alex. 
Gunn, D.D., Memoirs of Rev. John IL Livingston, D.D. 
(1 vol. 12 mo) ; Magazine of the Reformed Dutch Church 
(1827, 4 vols.), containing a valuable series of articles 
by the late Rev. John B. Roraeyn, D.D., on the his- 
tory of the Reformed Church in Holland and in this 
country; Rev. John A. Todd, D.D., Memoirs of Rev. 
Peter Labagh, D.D. ( 1 vol. 12mo ) ; E. P. Rogers, 
D.D., Historical Discourses on the Reformed Protestant 
Dutch Church in Albany (1858, 1 vol. 8vo, 120 pp.) ; 
Thomas De Witt, D.D., Reformed Dutch Church in New 
York (1857, 1 vol. 8vo, 100 pp.) ; One Hundred and Fif- 
tieth Anniversary of the Reformed Church in New Bruns- 
wick, N. J., memorial volume, Richard H. Steele, D.D., 
pastor (1867, 1 vol. 8vo, 222 pp.); Francis M. Kip, D.D., 
One Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary of the Reformed 
Church in Fishkill, N. Y. (1866, G4 pp.) ; Minutes of the 
General Synod, 1771-1870; Constitution and Digest of 
A cts of General Synod (revised, 1874) ; articles published 
in the Christian Intelligencer by Thomas De Witt, D.D., 
mostly from original documents procured by loan from 
the Classis of Amsterdam, Holland, and others from John 
R. Brodhead, Esq., the historian of New York; W. Carlos 
Martyn, The Dutch Reformation (Amer. Tract Society, 
N. Y., 1870, 1 vol. 12mo); Eutaxia, or the Presbyterian 
Liturgies , by a Presbyterian Clergyman (New York, 
M. W. Dodd, 1855, 259 pp. ); Rev. George R. William- 
son, Life of David Abeel, D.D. ; Rev. J. B. Water- 
bury, Life of Rev. John Scudder, M.D.; IFor&s of Dr. 
Scudder and Dr. Abeel ; Yon Alpen, History of the Hei- 


REFORMED EPISC. CHURCH 1008 REFORMED EPISC. CHURCH 


delherg Catechism , translated 1>.v Prof. J. F. Berg, D.D. 
(Pliila. 1854, 1 vol. 8vo). Dr. Berg also published sev- 
eral volumes on prophecy, the Second Advent, Church 
and State, etc. ; Centennial Discourses, a series of twenty- 
two sermons delivered in the year 1x76 by order of t lie 
General Synod, intended to set forth the relations of the 
Reformed Church to liberty and to faith and education, 
'and other topics appropriate to the Centennial year of 
the republic Xvo, Gt)l pp.). Quarter-, Millennial Anni- 
versary of the Deformed Protestant Dutch Church of (he 
City of'Xew York , 1628-1878 '(1879, 8vo, 104 pp.). 
(W.J.R.T.) 

Reformed Episcopal Church, the official des- 
ignation of a distinct body of Christians in America and 
Great Britain. 

I. History. — This ecclesiastical organization took its 
rise in the city of New York December 2, 1x73. The 
lit. Rev. George David Cummins, D.D., assistant bishop 
of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the diocese of 
Kentucky, separated from that Church, in a letter to 
presiding bishop Smith dated November 10, 1873. 
Within one month from that date, the Reformed Epis- 
copal Church was organized, with Dr. Cummins as its 
first bishop. Bishop Cummins was born December 11, 
1822. He was related on the maternal side to the 
celebrated bishop Asburv, of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, but was of Episcopal descent on both sides, 
lie was graduated at Dickinson College, Carlisle, in 
1841, in the nineteenth year of his ago. In the year 
1843 he became connected with the Episcopal Church, 
and in 1815 was ordained to the diaconate by bishop 
Alfred Lee, of the diocese of Delaware. After a min- 
istry of great eloquence, power, and success in different 
prominent fields of labor during twelve years, he was 
consecrated to the episcopate as assistant bishop of the 
diocese of Kentucky in 18110. During October, 1873, 
the Evangelical Alliance met in New York city. Bish- 
op Cummins was in attendance, and on the eighth day 
of that month delivered an address on the subject — 
Homan and Deformed Doctrines on the Subject of 
Justification, Contrasted. On the 12th, Sunday, the 
bishop participated in a joint communion in the Pres- 
byterian Church of which Dr. John Hall is the pastor, 
delivering an address and administering the cup. The 
storm of adverse criticism that followed this act served 
to mature and intensify the conviction that had been 
gathering form and volume before in the bishop’s mind, 
that the Church he had loved and served so well had 
fully and finally drifted from its old evangelical and 
catholic position. It was about this time, just at what 
point we do not know', that the thought of a separation 
from the old Communion arose, and ripened into fixed 
purpose. The first outward movement looking towards 
the organization of a separate Communion took plaee 
October 30. An account of the meeting then held is 
here given in the language of a prominent clergyman 
— Rev. Dr. B. B. Leacock — who was present ami par- 
ticipated in its deliberations: 

‘“By invitation of bishop Cummins, five clergymen nml 
five laymen were brought together at the residence of Mr. 
John A. Duke, of New York city. The hishnp startled 
them by announcing his determination of withdrawing 
from the Protestant Episcopal Church. When urged to 
reconsider his decision, he promptly stated that this was 
not debatable ground — that it was a question between 
himself and God, and as such he had settled it, and that 
his determination was unalterable, lie then said that his 
object in calling us together was to advise as to his future. 
There were two propositions before him. lie had been 
invited to go to Mexico, and give himself to the work of 
the organization and building-up oft he Church of Jesus. 
Should he do this? or Should he remain in this country, 
and here exercise his ministry and his episcopal office? 
Those who felt free to speak advised his remaining in this 
country by all means, and then and there he determined 
that this country should be the ‘sphere of labor’ to which 
he would transfer his ‘ work and office.’ Steps were taken 
before the adjournment of this meeting looking towards 
placing in the hands of the printer the hook which the 
bishop’ refers to in his letter of resignation, written Nov. 
10— ‘ I propose to return to that Prayer-book sanctioned 
by William White.’ We may regard this meeting as the 


first movement, outside of bishop Cnmmins himself, tow- 
ards the formation of the Reformed Episcopal Church." 

November 10, the bishop addressed a letter to bishop 
Smith, his superior in the diocese of Kentucky, and the 
presiding bishop of the general Church, resigning his 
position as a bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church. 
On the 12th of November he paid an unannounced visit 
to the Rev. Marshall B, Smith, at Passaic, N. J., seek- 
ing rest and quiet of mind. Mr. Smith had withdrawn 
from the same church, for the same causes, ami con- 
nected himself with the ministry of the “Reformed 
Church of America” in the year 1809. During this 
visit, without any' prearrangement, lie was met by the 
Rev. Mason Gallagher, who had also withdrawn from 
the Protestant Episcopal Church in 1871, and Col. Ben- 
jamin Avcrigg, a prominent layman of that church 
in New Jersey, who had withdrawn October 30, 1873. 
These gentlemen testify that, in the deeply serious and 
interesting interview, which was greatly protracted, there 
was, in the beginning, no foreshadowing of its practical 
issue. They cannot recall the precise point in the con- 
versation where the thought of concerted action took 
shape. Under what they fully believe Divine guidance, 
that thought did rise, take form and body, and grow into 
purpose, until, in the form dictated by the bishop, the 
call for a meeting of clergymen and laymen of like mind 
was written and issued. It was in these words, inserted 
here as important history : 

“New York, Nov. 15 , 1873 . 

“ Df.au Buothf.k,— The Lord has put into the hearts 
of some of his servants who are, or have been, in the 
Protestant Episcopal Church, the purpose of restoring the 
old truths of their fathers, and of returning to the use of 
the Prayer-book of 17S5, set forth by the General Conven- 
tion of that year, under the especial guidance of the vener- 
able William White, D.D., afterwards the first bishop of 
the same church in this country. The chief features of 
that Prayer-book, as distinguished from the one now in 
use, are the following: 1. The word ‘ priest’ does not ap- 
pear in the hook, and there is no countenance whatever 
' to the errors of sacerdotalism. 2. The Baptismal Offices, 

| the Confirmation Office, the Catechism, and the Order for 
the Administration of the Lord's Supper contain no 
! sanction of the errors of baptismal regeneration, the veal 
presence of the body and blood of Christ in the elements 
of the communion and of a sacrifice offered by a priest ill 
that sacred feast. These are the main features that reu- 
der the Prayer-book of 17S5 a thoroughly scriptural litur- 
gy, such as all evangelical Christians who desire liturgical 
worship can use with a good conscience. On Tuesday, the 
second day of December, 1 S73, a meeting will be held in 
Association Hall, corner of Twenty-third street and Fourth 
avenue, in the city of New York, at 10 o’clock A.M., to 
organize an Episcopal Church on the basis of the Prayer- 
book of 17S5-a basis broad enough to embrace all who 
hold ‘the faith once delivered to the saints,’ ns that faith 
is maintained by the Reformed churches of Christendom ; 
with no exclusive and unchurching dogmas towards Chris- 
tian brethren who differ from them in their views of polity 
and Church order. This meeting yon are cordially and af- 
fectionately invited to atteud. The purpose of the meeting 
is to organize, and not to discuss the expediency of or- 
ganizing. A verbatim reprint of the Praver-hook of 17S5 
is in press, and will he issued during the month of Decem- 
ber. May the Lord guide you and us by his Holy Spirit. 

“George David Cummins. ” 

That meeting was field on the day appointed, and 
the “Reformed Episcopal Church” organized with eight 
clergymen and twenty laymen, all of whom were at the 
time, or had been, ministers or laymen in the Protestant 
Episcopal Church and actively identified with the Evan- 
gelical or “Low-Church” party in that Church, no one 
being allowed to vote but those who had signed the call. 
The Rev. Charles Edward Cheney, of Chicago, was elect- 
ed bishop, his consecration to the office taking place later 
in the same month. 

In justification of this action, writers in the interest 
of the Reformed Episcopal Church point to the actual 
state of the Evangelical school or party in the Protes- 
tant Episcopal communion. The errors and excesses 
of the Traetarian school had been in process of devel- 
opment for a period of nearly forty years. Often and 
thoroughly confuted on the ground of scriptural argu- 
ment, they had grown to such widespread influence and 
strength as to be fast absorbing all the vital forces of 


REFORMED EPISC. CHURCH 1009 REFORMED EPISC. CHURCH 


the Church. They had become proscriptive, and, by | 
legislative enactment and judicial trials, were repressing 
evangelical life and energy. Efforts had been made to 
procure the condemnation and expulsion of these errors 
from the Church. The results were of so partial and 
inadequate a character as to encourage rather than 
cheek the reactionary movement towards mediaeval 
error and superstition. Then efforts were made to se- 
cure revision of the Prayer-book, but only with humil- 
iating failure. Petition after petition to the General 
Convention was treated wi^i scarcely concealed con- 
tempt. Even the poor relief of liberty to use alternate 
phrases in the Baptismal Offices was unceremoniously 
denied to a numerously signed petition. In these ef- 
forts to obtain relief many participated who are not as 
yet in the Reformed Episcopal Church, but whose action 
shows how deeply and earnestly men who loved the pure 
truth of the Gospel then felt on the subject. Thus, at a 
meeting in Chicago, June 16 and 17, 1869, among others 
who strongly advocated revision of the Prayer-book was 
Rev. Dr. Andrews, of Virginia, one of the ablest presbyters 
of the Protestant Episcopal Church, and a member of 
the General Convention. Rev. Dr. Richard Newton, the 
present reetor of the Church of the Epiphany, Phila- 
delphia, introduced the following resolutions : 

“ Resolved (as the sense of this Conference), That a care- 
ful revision of the Book of Common Prayer is needful to 
the best interests of the Protestant Episcopal Church.” 

“ Resolved, That all words and phrases seeming to teach 
that the Christian miuistry is a priesthood, or the Lord’s 
supper a sacrifice, or that regeneration is inseparable from 
baptism, should be removed from the Prayer-book.” 

These resolutions were unanimously adopted. But 
neither these nor any other efforts to obtain redress 
were of any avail. An imperious and haughty major- 
ity bound and held every conscience, and the Church 
followed the saeramentarian drift unchecked. Those 
who organized the Reformed Episcopal Church were 
convinced, by a long course of stubborn facts, that the 
cause dear to them, as the cause of the true Gospel of 
Christ, was at stake; that they must either sacrifice the 
truth or go outside of the old organization to defend 
and propagate it. Conviction and conscience led them 
to their action. 

The Church thus taking shape in ecclesiastical his- 
tory', though y r et comparatively' a small body, has, during 
the five y r ears of its existence, grown, it is believed, with 
almost unexampled rapidity. Its apologists emphasize 
certain facts in this growth : 

1. The Extent of Territory it Covers. — Christian de- 
nominations have, for the most part, been local in the 
early stages of their history', as the causes out of which 
they have sprung have been local. The imperative 
need of this Church is shown by the fact that it sprang 
up almost simultaneously' in remote parts of the land, 
as from a soil quite prepared for the seed. Wherever 
the Episcopal Church was in existence, the reaction 
towards mediaeval corruptions in doctrine and ritual 
was more or less pronounced; and the recoil from these 
developments of error equally decided. The Reformed 
Church took immediate and strong hold of many and 
widely separated communities, quickly absorbing all 
the means and ministers which the infant communion I 
could supply'. Within two years from its origin it held 
positions at various points from South Carolina to Van- 
couver’s Island, on the extreme west of the British North 
American possessions. The Church is now planted 
firmly in fifteen states in this country', in the maritime 
provinces and the various larger cities in the Dominion 
of Canada. In May', 1877, the General Council resolved, 
in answer to repeated solicitations, to introduce its work 
into Great Britain and Ireland. Already that work has 
extended into some ten or twelve dioceses. 

2. The Friendliness with which this Church has been 
received by Protestant Christians and Churches. — The 
old Protestant Episcopal Church had met with opposi- 
tion in many places, and the habitual complaint of its 
ministers and missionaries was that the growth of the 

VIII.— S s s 


Church was hindered by the prejudice and unfriendly 
criticism of the people. The Reformed Episcopal Church 
finds no such difficulty'. The people everywhere seem 
willing that it should take its place in the sisterhood of 
churches, and gather from all communities its appropri- 
ate elements. The freedom from assumption in this 
Church thus wins its welcome, and opens for it that path 
of progress which, it is believed, leads on to a great future. 

3. The Overruling Hand of Cod in Harmonizing Inter- 
nal Differences among the Leading and Influential Minds 
in the Church. — It is no easy thing, under the most favor- 
able auspices, for a number of men severing their con- 
nection with an old organization and constructing a new, 
to agree together in anything like a moderate position. 
In this case the difficulty' was enhanced by the circum- 
stances of the separation. The men who left the old 
Church, though actuated by a common opposition to' 
particular errors in that body, held views, in many cases, 
divergent in regard to the positive principles to be in- 
corporated in the new organization. These differences 
have at times appeared so grave that no human wisdom 
could find a path through them along which all could 
travel in harmony. Some conservative by habit of 
mind ; others with an equally strong tendency to reach 
out towards the true ideal of a Church for the age we 
live in; and all men, by the very' necessities of their 
stand, of a somewhat independent tone of mind, it was 
found by' them hard to y'ield individual and personal 
views and preferences far enough to coalesce in a really 
organic structure. In every case of difficulty in the 
councils arising from these causes, however, the Spirit 
of the Lord appeared to lead the way'. His presence 
and agency was at times so manifest as to awaken live- 
ly emotions of wonder and gratitude. Though in this 
Church at present, as in all others where intelligent 
men are free to think and to maintain their views, all 
do not think alike in everything, there is perhaps as 
much harmony as can be found in any, and much more 
than marks most other, communions. In this fact of 
special divine guidance, this Church seems to see the 
pledge of future growth and success in its work. 

II. Doctrines and Usages. — 1. Speaking generally', 
the doctrines of the Reformed Episcopal Church may 
be identified as those of Orthodox and Evangelical 
Protestantism. The men who organized the Church 
were of that class of clergymen and laymen in the old 
Protestant Episcopal Church who had been largely 
associated with the Christians of other Frotestaut 
Churches, and harmonized with them in belief and 
practice. In tlieir choice and adjustment of doctri- 
nal standards, they' could but give expression to this 
agreement. When they' set forth in the “ Declaration 
of Principles” the belief that “ the Holy Scriptures of 
the Old and New Testaments are the Word of God, and 
the sole Rule of faith and practice,” thus making the 
Bible the onlv ultimate fountain of authority in the set- 
tlement of religious questions ; and when they revised 
the old Thirty-nine Articles of the Church of England, 
not changing their substance, but making them more 
distinctive, and adapting them to present phases of life 
and thought, they but put the Church squarely on the 
great platform of Evangelical Christianity'. ThisChnreh, 
if not broader, is somewhat less particular in its doc- 
trinal basis than some of its sister Communions. Thus; 
like the old Episcopal Church, it holds in its bosom, and 
freely tolerates, clergymen of the Calvinistie and Armin- 
ian schools of thought. The eighteenth “Article of Re- 
ligion,” entitled “Of Election, Predestination, and Free 
Will,” runs thus: “While the Scriptures distinctly set 
fortli the election, predestination, and calling of the peo- 
ple of God unto eternal life, as Christ saith, ‘ All that the 
Father giveth me shall come to me,’ they no less posi- 
tively affirm man’s free agency and responsibility', and 
that salvation is freely' offered to all through Christ. 
This Church, accordingly, simply affirms these doc- 
trines as the Word of God sets them forth, and submits 
them to the individual judgment of its members, as 


REFORMED EPI>C. CHURCH 1010 REFORMED EPISC. CHURCH 


taught bv the IT- ly >t irit : Strictly charging them that 
ti**l omraandeth all men even- where 1 1 repent. and that 
we can t>e saved only l y faith in Jesus Christ." 1 hi* is 
the only distinct effort we are aware ol to unite iu one 
article of religion the twc hemispheres tf tnith that lie. 
one on the side of divine sovereignty. the other on the 
si le of man's frc. m an 1 response ility. How far this 
effort has l*<» successful, the judgment of Christian 
men must dec- ae. One rt-sult of it.h ovever. is evi lent. 
The general c- urse of conviction among the clergy of 
this (_ ' urdi runs nearer the line of separation on these 
high ranges t f doctrine than in most other Commuuions. 
The freedem to differ rather constrains to harmony than 
ministers to license. With but little dis]H*sition to cen- 
sc>ri .us criticism, its ministers of either tendency of doc- 
tri' al th night find a fair field for united and harmonious 
action in extending and building up the kingdom of 
Christ. 

In adopting the Xieene Creed as one of its symbols, 
this Church takes its stand on the historical Church 
doctrine of the Trinity, asserting not a mere menial dis- 
tincticn. but an essential, tri-personal distinction in the 
divine nature. Justification by faith, as held and 
taught bv the clergy generally, is not a mere negative 
state of the remission of sin. but positive. resulting from 
the imputation of Christ's righteousness. The doc- 
trines that cluster around these, as in a measure depen- 
dent upon them, are stated in the articles in harmcnious 
and systematic order. 

2. Among the dLrinctive usages of this Church, the 
fol -wing may be specially designated : 

;. ll'i rship . — The Ref*. rmed Episcopal is a Liturgical 
Church. Those who organized and those who. since iu 
orgauizati n. have come into it and helped to form its sys- 
tem and direct its course in history, have been men either 
trained in the ild Protestant Episcopal Church, where 
they had long practical exi»erience of the value of litur- 
gie forms in public worship, or convinced from expe- 
rience, in churches whose worship is purely extemporal, 
of the in portance of a liturgy from the actual lack of it. 
They have lieen convinced that the evils connected with 
liturgie services in the old parent Church are not justly 
char_oa'.le to a liturgy as such, but to certain doctrinal 
corrufi ms retained in those services at the tera of the 
Ref >rmati *n. During the reign «»f Edward VI. rapid 
strides were made in the line * f a th- rough Protestant 
revision of the >orv ice- l>o<*k. Under Man - the reform- 
ing work was undone.and the Romish worship restored. 
Elizal»eth. in the spirit of statecraft, enforced a revision 
that should, if possible, uuite in c- mmon worship both 
the Reformed and the Roman Cath lie classes of her sub- 
jects. The two streams of doctrine were forced into one 
channel of Church liturgy, where they have been con- 
fined in incongruous mixture ever since. Out of the 
stream thus formed, and flowing down through hist >ry. 
the exhalations of saeramentarianism and ritualism in 
this age have risen. In the revision of the Reformed 
Episc -pal Church, it is claimed, these elements of erro- 
neous doctrine have been taken out of the stream. The 
liturgy in this Chun.li embodies the richest and best 
c ntnbuti-ns yielded by the most devout ages <f the 
Church's hist- ry. sh m of the accretions of supersti- 
tion and cm r gathered in the descent. Though it 
•- »e* i t claim to be perfect, it does claim to be l*r*t- 
esta -' tvai gelical. seni u raL As such, its use is made 
obligatory *-n occasions: and. by usage that is almost 
corom .i. taw. is so lom omitted on any occasi-os of reg- 
ular | • w r-l ip. Yet provision is made for free 
prayer. M.-et«* g- 1 r extemj-re prayer are encouraged, 
when the -tat tv -erviees -»f the liturgy are lai 1 a-ide. 
either w h *ty r -rt. Even on occasions of regular 
public worshi th* mi -ter is fne t*> ad 1, extempore, 
i > the preserit* 1 ] raver. Dignity and propriety are 
thus united to that warmth an 1 earnestness winch a 
m*re unstudied way of appr* ach t- t»od is suited to en- 
k : n 'le. Thus the continued use of liturgie forms, with 
their chastening and educating influence, is secured by 


law. and also that lilKTty for times and seasons when, by 
rising out of the limits of prescription, worship can lie 
adapted to all the demands of evangelistic and revival 
work. This, it is believed, is as near an approach as 
can be made to a i*crfect system of worship. 

( b. \ Oocernment . — This is distinctly a Church of Law. 
Neither in the individual membership, n »r in the rela- 
tions of the separate churches, nor yet in the connection 
of the larger ecclesiastical divisions is the Umd of union 
that of mere association, under any proper conception 
of that term. Opinion, wither it refer to doctrine, to 
polity, or to Christian life, finds its legitimate expres- 
si*n in the councils. In this way. in free debate, it 
passes by vote into particular law under the organic 
law expressed in the constitution: and then all. wheth- 
er sections or persons, are bound by the law. The le- 
gal system is a body of canons like the old historical 
episcopal canon law, simply shorn of those arbitrary 
and tyrannical features of the old system derived from 
monarchical institutions in the Mate and autocratic 
episcopal rule in the Church. The application of a 
system of government, whether strong or weak, to ac- 
tual life in a Church is not easy; f«>r there is a constant 
tendency under ecclesiastical rule either to arbitrary 
severity or to the entire relaxation of discipline, accord- 
ing to the temper of persons and times and the class of 
influences that prevail. But it is believed important 
advantages attend this system of government by canon 
law. It is stable government. That system which is 
historical, having stood the test of the ages in the stress 
of human passion and the strife of opinion and interest, 
cannot but be strong and conservative. Canon law 
has ruled nearly all the Christian ages, adjusting itself 
to each age and growing into greater detiuiteness of 
form in each. If. in the purification of the doctrines 
of the Church, wisdom dictates, not the destruction, 
but the cleansing and reforming, of the system, it 
would seem to follow that the same wisdom teaches a 
like course in relation to government. Purify it. take 
away its tyranny : in place of its arbitrary and unequal 
distribution of powers and functions, introduce the 
checks and balances of enlightened statesmanship, and 
you have in the Church a fair analogy to law in the 
Mate, where the principles and forms of the Roman law 
are nor arbitrarily thrown aside, but enlarged, purified, 
developed into that grand system that secures the 
rights of men under the Christian civilization of this 
modem age. Such is the work this Church has sought 
to do. It has purified and adapted the ckl system of 
canon law. not abandoned it. Thu- it has united stead- 
fastness and liberty in its scheme of government. 

This system of government by canon law is a safe- 
guard against the spread of error. Where the church- 
es of an ecclesiastical organization are independent, or 
only connected by certain rules of association having 
no other than moral force, there is apt to be less jeal- 
ousy and less exciting debate in the meetings of asso- 
ciation, because the tendency of opinion and the results 
of controversy cannot crystallize into forms that bind 
under penalty. But this very fact is apt to lead to 
looseness of conviction and a light estimate of the re- 
sponsibility of a teacher. And when error is taught. 
i*ecause the teacher cannot be arraigned tinier 1 inding 
law. be cannot bo hindered from spreading it to the 
full extent of his talents and influence. Under a sys- 
tem of canon law such as gove rns the Refl rmed Epis- 
copal Church, such a result, w ith ordinary faithfulness 
on the part of those appointed to admii i-ter it. is im- 
possible. Not only is dereliction in either dextrine or 
life liable to strict discipline, but the persons bv whom 
and the pr<*eesses in which such discipline is to be ad- 
ministered are prescribed, and the duty actually imposed 
upon the administrator. lt?oundne*sof doctrine can l>e 
enforced and innocenev of life secured in a Church, such 
a system would seem to present the best means to the end. 

' e.‘ Constitution and lit lotions of the Ministry of this 
Church . — In common with the parent Church, the Rc- 


REFORMED EPISC. CHURCH 1)11 REFORMED EPI'C. CHURCH 


firmed retains a three* M. dsrimcrion in the minAtry — 
that of bA* >p*. presbyters, an-i deafices. There is. 
however, t! is ference between the cw ::mmrmt'c.s 
i reman! t the • -tinct**i in yte K— » u In tie Ai 
Church iu A — ecraJiv re-gar- ri a.- a cl- reef -ii I xscin:- 
t.'jnin . v, *. The profaning view ami-.: _* the repre- 
sentative writers :f that Chor:h is char the Chri sti an 
ministry is iivmely eo -t’ ned :c che Jewish, career-*. 
aroi answers, in the re la; ■> :• e New-Test. b. 

to the criers «* high-'re-r. most. sad Levre :Le 
Oli-Test. ec ootny. T •: K«r‘ nn- i f/nur.h rejects thd 
view as unseriptiiral an i «. r_bA" . rioaL The eriso are 
it renar-A as an <-m»: richer chan a h~i_e • fr -. The 
opinion that the hbhop is an apostle in tie scry coral 
njeamar bf that term, and as such tie Cl^mely sr famed 
f .nn rain of Char A aath -ricy and Chcrcd life, ani t_az 
the presbyterate <fe*o <nui* tVm che epA: : :ace in virae 
of this inherent power t rreare it an i t . rocstinuze i: 
as a separate or ier. is rejected by the Be ' cmed E" Ac :- 
pal Church. Looking at the subject hiscer.mSty. it 
Snis the precise -pecsixe at this c> be the true state- 
ment. In the earliest infancy r f the Char: a. tmier 
apoe»:Iie ag^snev. deaeoes an I elder? were jrcainei an I 
their respective fcmeti ns assigneii. About the close 
of the arose otic are. the emergencies :f che nr: wing 
Chnith created a need fr s*perrA;:cL ate merely i 
iodiviioal doeks by che ‘resbyrers as settle! castrrs. 
bat of the reneral Churzh. loth pasers ant lixks. 
This want was supplied • y a gradual prices?. ie ■ tf.fl h 
able and prjminent presbyters were elevated t: a gec- 
eral sapenateodeoee f the churches. Thus they be- 
came - v. re: c. : verseers b y _ re-eminence-. p rest vers in 
o rir. b Ah ■ ps m cy? v. The Re-' tmed E" Ace - al Church 
observes ct_s distinct*, o. Ts episcopate. is in rrim 'ire 
times, is an :ooe jf super - isi-rn. n#« an :rier :* t: ~ .e 
command se-araced from the presbycerace and with in- 
herent coocrol ever it. 

Aeccrdin.: to th-~ scheme, che Irish :p has n* inherent 
and necessary rights and powers above the Legtsfan-e 
control if the Church. He eann c tall oek area es- 
sential- divinely riven, irrespocsi ie authority ay rule. 
HA office an i its functions are. on ier God . wh .y fr .m 
the Charch. so which, there fire. he is. in che entire 
r ane e of hA official pesiti a aai w- rk. re^'oesi Le. 
Episcopal tyranny is well-nigh tmpcsstMe in a system 
like this. Tec che epAc irate is ft Aerated weeanse 
deprive! of the claim to inherent o' vine rr u The 
bisl»ps are .verseers in the true aci wirchy sense. 
They iraw t* themsel - es ate xiiy personal resr ere an i 
reverence f.r their chara«c:ers. bat iuceH'-penc 'dcoiil 
re^arL In :riinati:c mi c: niirmati:<i they are •* e 
chiefs, becaose the Chur.h makes them so. I . the iir- 
tkmlties in parishes their i>vue or. in extreme 'ises. 
their acts : f discipline aoc : niinp t ' can- a law have fall 
farce, an! hv-~e alrealy sectle'i tr.uA-es w .ich. under 
ajK.cher scheme. v;di have been firtniia. e. They 
are evanpeltsts so far as. in che inrarey t che V ~ - 
they can be spare! fr.m parrehial charne^. ani t*us 
become a most impor.ant sepmey in Church excersr r. 

The diac-ooate in this C aarch A i subordinate -rd--r. 
In theory che deacon A che helper .i che presbyter: in 
practice his position is. thus fir. roly a sire :* pre-ara- 
tory sch»>ol f;r the p res', y cerate. Jose what che otare 
will become in the pr» wth ani devekpmenc wi che 
Charoh as it passes farther inc hisc-cy can hardy le 
f.reseeo. Perhaps irs rela la to the peoeral ministry 
will n't differ yearly frrm that which rrevatls in c e 
1! Pr.testanc Episcopal Church. Th.sl.sc rc : f rs- 
try is prized, not becaose of any belief in the v t:-'u t 
an - ap«;etclic success! in the ministry either as l 
d x’trine or a fact, bat partly because che hisexi ele- 
ment in a Church A always imp»j react, since ChrAtim- 
iry itself is a hAc '■ncal rellpixu and partly lecanse che 
peculiar mission of chA Charch A in the i ce i the 
Enplsh Ref rmation. In the vital md hAwcteal coc- 
neo'rioo M is min A cry with that of the English. Ecf.rm- 
exs the Kef.rmed Episcopal Church has the bass f.c its 


fevekcmeci: aaiw .rk. The Tier. Aery t‘ cs cocsamijeL 
tientical with that of the Enrhsh C_ rr. ri - es "he 
Chant' a vancapeernoond where it ran. star -n in 
aoknijwle'ne*' eqaaliry wick che tie® r. v — ^ 
:: A p reded frrm rs -v -s. in.: A dee V re.'* pr.cse *he 
m ‘ :. scry A c' er E _ myeiical Churiaes a= e_ y "i_.i 
with its ' wn. It thus stands in the rap. ne - e- ' ere- 
- . ' re * riureii. between. E is. a. and pTerr.y"eruEi 
-. nrrhe*. It has : .e ministry -f .rch- It nu- _e 
iestxne*! t.' le the meidum .f re*, .cun^ar *n '•etwee r * 
them, as it lies ruse arr-care su-ed mry t j che nee. lal 
A :ks r'clirn the - tier ; ..srly harms. 

:1 f ' 'A . ---A.- -These are f three zni'es. mr~ 
resecciim cs the threef.'l irsMzatiic f the Church. 
— Fir .dial -y:> - ;aL an i * jenenl 

I. The indl - ! loal parAh ls :rparL-aei '.yefar.sr m- 
ier hvl Aw. mi is. in r hat reLari>-o. es* : : - -- i by che 
Law? »;f the scare in which A A siraareii. Bar • its l wn 
internal stru.:ture it A y.mzr*e*i efretmer .rrast r as*, e 
case may *.e. tw; war-Lens. and a certain, somber - 
cry-men. The coatrr . f tie temporal airier- ' the 
•Thurch is in che vestry, as aA. -he Aotce 1 pastor 
in case >f - a:as:y. Bat. A i*lL ;cti ci the vestry. 
pr:vAi;n A maaet'.r "le eLeencc. 1 y the eo mm cants 
exdnsively. :f a ParAa (. ccmctL The mem-lens :f thus 
. xm.nl h:.i an advsory -elatAa t' the past-- are as- 
sociated with him in the reeerci n aai lAmissAn :f 
memler?. ar . share with hum the dory an! resro-osthtl- 
~ ■(' ii-sclr - e. Teas the parish is npirizei :.r coda 
efte temroral ani spincaal snpemsfeiG .f ns interests. 
T: tie jarts-h • - tmo il is nctnm."t:i all the Istinctly 

- Irt-uai w.ri if che ynen ?:nnrepati.c sacst-ie :f che 
“to rs immeliare m-uoy is che she- her 1 :f A e nook. 
It is gossi !e thus :rninizam.c .c "he parAh romtil 
may z x ze permanre: m As present firm, as there is 
seme l.-ersiry :f : Ai.n n che sac dot m the uharch. 
Bat eiider 1 1 hs -resect : rm :r *y rnvesdrn "he wxr- 
i-:ns sr j? wv' e runetrecs u»:w restri:-e*I c* e'e 
oannl elects i *.y y ^ omrr an yarns >: che pansh. "his 
feature :f p«.l cy wu anjcestu-cahiy ceo :me hist : me in 
the Churdr. 

d> T*k Syvi.ih' * 1. vnx-C, A yet m its Lanx-'ent staue. 
as she syn>! has n:c ".has far cakec pnrcoa_ exrstec ie 
n m mere than 'tie :c tw- instances. Pr;— - 
si:a A ma«ie f.-r a certain ru m lor :f canshes t: f.cm 
•hemsetves into a synodical lody under a cAhcc. wh-. 
:h : nd he may le - tcina-o:- ' -% c.le syn:-l must he 
orarrmeii ’ y tlo- ‘jeceral L .anen an 1 held his Lear po- 
sir. :c at :cs wAL As e synods multiply m cumhers. 
and then riehi :f w.rk an-i their immunities he-:*;me 
.leariy lAmiminared in the .general system f the 
-.hart', there wlL se stare! cocci nar as?em.iies at 
wli:h ad LecAA ire mi r:arme baseness cercac^nn ". 
the /urAActi'c cr or-^rs wed .e crmsactei. Fr .a. _y 
che lasts .f rep resec cat; :n will :e s-- m.-drued "hat rc- 
steai :f ag«otncmeccs rrrm the several . urn os. as 

- :w. the syn*:-d.ml n. uncus wpL elect rep rose cratves t*. 
the froceml 'lean *il_ 

A A A Iojo - ' ''’iru'iZ is "he Arir^st representative 
: cdy .f the Church, a i cs vesto-i with surreme luthec- 
iry : z le-pisAtixu It moots, as yen aggnalTv as Its re- 
A:: cs m cue i sae-y -f the Chur.'h are irrec-ly. roc 
mediately. > che parAhes. Alrea-dy. h :wevor. scops 
have boon taken Looking f a : harms in the system f 
rotroso can: a a the eimmiL iocreasAg: its number .f 
msm .ors uni lonuchon it the inrovaA :f moo-nm. 
Even; ally this rooncn wi i" e b-oiieved. moot n:c 
: decor c..arr. if s: :f~en as. .o-.-o in throe Tears, ani : c- 
nne its ieii oraci ns r th:so rocoral tuosti s .c i: c- 
trine ani c- ..:y rhac affect the whole Charch. 

-L There is kemirx ap> thruanh the mists :f che 
roar f cure a re-resercucive issem'-Ano ?£ a srdl v i-ier 
an! » f? c vr -ecsrve l aractor — s.cno-:! :.m lixe an 
•’cuwor- •». .■.wail I is che re* ry.f'hcsi. nro* iu 
tie sc trie *f t:s f.«a-iors. t^ rrosomi in :cgan.r umty. 
uni D.xtec by the linos that -ep unite states ;r nacsecs. 
It A evident, however, char this can only be done by a 


REFORMED EPISC. CHURCH 1012 REFORMED EPISC. CHURCH 


large and liberal allowance for the peculiarities of peo- 
ples living under contrasted systems of civil govern- 
ment, and growing up with tastes and social habits and 
modes of thought of distinct types. The Reformed 
Episcopal Church in America and in England is the 
same Church, yet the streams that flow out of the one 
fountain, as they diverge into these several nationali- 
ties, are immediately moditied by the civil, social, and 
ecclesiastical soil and climate they find. Identical in 
doctrine, spirit, and organic life, they vary somewhat 
in the forms of organization and worship that adapt 
them to their respective spheres. Already a policy is 
taking shape by which each national Church shall en- 
joy a limited independence of legislation, discipline, 
and worship, thus to work out its own history and des- 
tiny. Just what shall constitute the tiexus, the vital 
ligature that shall make the Church, however widely 
extended, a unit, an organic body, cannot yet be iden- 
tified. .Such, however, will undoubtedly be the connec- 
tion that it will embrace provision for the meeting of a 
council within a certain term of years, and having un- 
der its control those wide questions that affect the char- 
acter and interests of the Church as a whole. This 
Church was not organized for a day or for a place, but 
for the world and for time. 

These statements in regard to doctrines, orders, wor- 
ship, discipline, and general usages are little more than 
an expansion of the original declaration of principles 
adopted at the organization of the Church, Dec. 2, 1873, 
which is given as a comprehensive summary: 


I. The. Reformed Episcopal Church, holding “the faith 
once delivered to the saints, ’’declares its beliefin the Iloly 
Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments as the word 
of God, and the sole rule of faith and practice; in the 
creed commonly called the Apostles’ Creed ; in the divine 
institution of the saernmeuts of baptism and the Lord's 
supper; and in the doctrines of grace substantially as 
they are set forth in the Thirty -nine Articles of Re- 
ligion. 

II. This Church recognises and adheres to episcopacy, 
not as of divine right, but as a very ancient and desirable 
form of Church polity. 

III. This Church, retaining a liturgy which shall not be 
imperative or repressive of freedom in prajer, accepts the 
Book of Common Prayer, as it was revised, proposed, and 
recommended for use by the General Convention of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church, A.D. 17S5, reserving full lib- 
erty to alter, abridge, enlarge, and amend the same, as 
may seem most conducive to the edification of the peo- 
ple, “provided that the substance of the faith be kept en- 
tire.” 


IV. This Church condemns and rejects the following 
erroneous and strauge doctrines as contrary to God's 
Word : 

First, That the Church of Christ exists only in one order 
or form of ecclesiastical polity. 

Second, That Christian ministers are “ priests” in anoth- 
er sense than that in which all believers are a “royal 
priesthood.” 

Third, That the Lord’s table is an altar on which an ob- 
lation of the body aud blood of Christ is offered anew to 
the Father. 

Fourth, That the presence of Christ in the Lord's supper 
is a presence in the elements of bread and wine. 

Fifth , That regeneration is inseparably connected with 
baptism. 


111. Statistics.—' The statistics of this Church thus 
early in its history are necessarily few and simple. If, 
however, they are carefully noted, they will, it is be- 
lieved, indicate wider extension and more rapid growth 
than have marked most other ecclesiastical bodies in 
the beginning of their history. 

1. The Number of Clergymen as reported to the last 
council (that of 1878) was eighty-eight, of whom six were 
bishops, sixty-one presbyters, and twenty deacons. Al- 
ready the list has swollen to more than one hundred, and 
is increasing as rapidly as places aud moans of support 
can be provided for those received or ordained ; while the 
number of applicants for orders and for admission from 
the ministry in other churches, against whom the door 
is necessarily closed for want of ability to sustain them, 
is larger than ever before. The tabular report of 
the Committee on the State of the Church, cover- 
ing other items made at the last council. May, 1878, 


was very imperfect, as many of the parishes had failed 
to report, llow far it understates the full strength of 
the Church it is impossible to determine. In its state- 
ment of the number of communicants it is thought to be 
very much below the actual number. It is as follows: 


Communicants (assumed) 10,000 

Sunday scholars 7,814 

Sunday-school teachers 744 

Baptized, i. e. during the year preceding 744 

Continued in said year 615 

Contributions of the parishes for ail objects 

during same year $2S0,7S5 

Value of Chnrch property at time of council 600,031 
Other property for educational purposes 200,000 


Upon this table the committee remark : “This exhibit 
shows an increase of more than 6172,000 over the 
amount reported in 1877, notwithstanding the perhaps 
unparalleled depression of the past year.” 

2. Literary Institutions . — Of these the Reformed Epis- 
copal Church can, as yet, boast but one, and that only 
in the infancy of what it is hoped will, in due time of 
maturity, be a vigorous and influential life. The Uni- 
versity of the West is at present organized substan- 
tially on the plan of the London University. Non-res- 
ident professors prepare questions on which students are 
required to stand rigid examinations by written an- 
swers. In this university scheme, only the Martin 
College of Theology is thus far in organized working 
order. This has taken precedence to meet the wants 
of the Church in the education of its ministry. The 
times demand a ministry not only of thorough scholastic 
attainments, but well taught in theology in connection 
with the peculiarities of the Church they are to labor 
in. The Church seeks to compass this end by subject- 
ing all students in theology to a uniform system of 
questions in all departments of theological learning. 
The present plan may be modified when a sufficient en- 
dowment fund shall have been secured to meet the re- 
quirements of a local institution. Through the munif- 
icent liberality of a gentleman of the State of New 
York, Edward Martin, Esq., the Church is in possession 
of landed estate in the suburbs of Chicago of large pres- 
ent and much larger prospective value. On this prop- 
erty the authorities of the university propose, eventual- 
ly, to erect suitable buildings for the several colleges 
as they shall, from time to time, take form. It is their 
purpose, as the ability of the Church increases, to spare 
no pains to make the institution worthy of the Church 
and of the country. 

3. Church Literature. — The Reformed Episcopal 
Church supports two papers that set forth its principles 
and defend its interests. The Episcopal Recorder, pub- 
lished in Philadelphia, is a weekly paper which has be- 
come historic. It was the oldest weekly issue in the 
Protestant Episcopal Church, in which, during more 
than a half of the century, it advocated those principles 
of ecclesiastical polity and Christian life and doctrine 
that are still emblazoned on its banner. Transferred 
to the Reformed branch of the Church.it but continues 
its old work in new relations, and proves a highly im- 
portant agent in the defence and extension of the truth in 
the newly organized communion. The Appeal is pub- 
lished in Chicago and New York, and issued bi-weekly. 
While aiming specially to meet the needs of the Church 
in tlie great West, it lias extensive circulation in all parts 
of the land; and. though only about three years of age, 
displays much energy and ability. Its editor-in-chief 
is the present presiding bishop, l)r. Samuel Fallows, and 
he is aided bv an efficient staff’ of clergymen of large 
ability and culture. This paper exerts wide influence 
in the Church. So early in its history, and with the 
time and energy of its clergy severely taxed hv initial 
parochial work, this Church has not as yet produced 
literary or theological works of extensive aud standard 
character. Its ephemeral productions, however, from 
the nature of the case largely apologetic, are already 
numerous. Nearly all the prominent clergymen of this 
Church have been forced by attacks, often from the 


REFORMED GERMAN CIIURCII 1013 REFORMED PRESB. CHURCH 


highest sources, to defend both their Church and their 
personal action in conforming to it. These writings 
constitute a body of argument, doctrinal and ecclesias- 
tical, to which the Church points all inquirers with en- 
tire confidence, and the more so since, so far as is known, 
there has been no attempt to confute any single one of 
the many publications in question. 

Such, in brief, are the history and principles of the 
Reformed Episcopal Church — an organization called, 
into existence, its advocates believe, by the providence I 
and spirit of God, and destined to exert a very deep, cx- ! 
tensive, and lasting influence, not only in the country 
of its birth, but in the world. (J. H. S.) 

Reformed German Church. See German 
Reformed Church. 

Reformed Methodist Church, an American 
offspring of the Methodist Episcopal Church, had its 
origin in 1814, and was started by a body of local preach- 
ers and exhorters, the most prominent and influential 
of whom was the Rev. Elijah Bailey, an ordained local 
preacher in the Vermont Conference. They had be- 
come dissatisfied with the polity of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, and especially that part of it which re- 
lates to the powers and prerogatives of the episcopacy. 
They asserted that a leaning towards prelacy as it ex- 
ists in the Roman Catholic hierarchy was developing 
in the Methodist Episcopal Church, and, their fears not 
receiving that general guard for which they prayed, they 
at length concluded to separate themselves from the old 
Church and found a new and reformed body. For the 
purpose of gaining a large number of ready, active la- 
borers for their new organization, they resorted to the 
formation of a community of goods on a farm ■which 
they purchased at Bennington, Vt., and sustained for 
about two years. But the attempt to maintain them- 
selves as a community proved abortive, and the mem- 
bers of it soon scattered to different parts of the states 
of Vermont and New York, and to Upper Canada. In 
the British territory they succeeded in raising up a 
number of Reformed societies. In the States, however, 
their success w'as small. The dispersion of the commu- 
nity above alluded to operated favorably to the interests 
of the Church as a whole, as, after that period, they were 
favored from time to time with gracious revivals of re- 
ligion. Thousands, no doubt, in following years have 
been converted to God through the instrumentality of 
the preachers of this Church. As a denomination, how- 
ever, they did not prosper like other organized ortho- 
dox churches. They suffered much from dissensions in 
their own ranks and important secessions from their 
numbers. About half of their ministers and many of 
their most flourishing societies left them and joined the 
Protestant Methodists; and at one time an entire con- 
ference of Reformed preachers went over to that denom- 
ination. At the time of their greatest prosperity they 
had five annual conferences and about seventy-five min- 
isters and preachers, and from three to four thousand 
members. After the organization of another Methodist- 
ic branch in the United States (the Wesleyan), most of 
the ministers and members of the Reformed Church be- 
came identified with that branch, and finally the body 
was merged into the so-called Methodist Church. 

Doctrines . — In all matters of theology the “Reform- 
ers” are, or were, Methodistic, if 'we except their belief 
in the gift of healing, by which physical maladies 
might be removed through the power of faith. This 
belief had gained for the Reformers the names of fanat- 
ics and enthusiasts; but they have returned the com- 
pliment by accusing their calumniators of scepticism 
and infidelity. 

Church Government — The form of Church govern- 
ment selected by the Reformers was strictly congrega- 
tional, admitting of lay representation in their general 
and annual conferences; the former body not meeting 
periodically, but only at the call of the latter bodies. 
Their general rules are similar to those of the parent 


body, with the addition of some forbidding war, slavery, 
etc. 

The only periodical published under the auspices of 
this Church at any time was the Luminary and Reform- 
er, , edited by Mr. Bailey, a son of the founder of the 
Church. The paper, however, has for years been dis- 
continued. See Methodism (20). 

Reformed Presbyterian Church. This body, 
like many others, is known by different names: its 
members have been designated as Mountain Men, Old 
Dissenters, Cameronians, and Society People ; but their 
most common designation is Covenanters. The name 
of “Mountain Men” w r as given them because they are 
a remnant of those who ■were driven to hills, moors, and 
other uninhabited places by persecution in the reign of 
the Stuarts in Scotland. They are called “ Cameroni- 
ans” from Richard Cameron, one of their leaders during 
that persecution. They were called “ Society People” 
because they were often confined to prayer-meetings in 
private as their only means of social worship when their 
ministers were killed or banished. For the name “ Cov- 
enanters,” sec that article in vol. ii of this work. The 
history of these people has been given well, though 
briefly, under articles Cameron; Covenanters; Pres- 
byterian (Reformed) Church; Scotland, Church 
of. This article is intended to present their peculiar 
characteristics, the leading points in which they differ 
from other Presbyterian bodies. 

1. A prominent feature is their separation from the 
State. In this country, as well as in the British isles, 
they withhold an oath to the government, whether in 
naturalization, in taking office, or anything which im- 
plies full allegiance; nor do they vote for any officer so 
qualified, whether the office be legislative, judicial, or 
executive; neither do they sit on juries under oath. 
This position they occupy, not as the Quakers, who ob- 
ject to an oath entirely as well as to the forcible ex- 
ecution of law. Covenanters in this country approve 
of the representative system, and of a definite constitu- 
tion reduced to writing as a righteous measure, and one 
which should be adopted by every nation under heaven. 
From the beginning they gave their sanction and en- 
couragement to the cause of American independence; 
and they would gladly enjoy the full privileges of citi- 
zenship were it not for the evils connected with the 
government. However they may fail in particular in- 
stances, their design and desire are to promote the influ- 
ence of all the good regulations and laws of the coun- 
try, and to live quiet and peaceable lives in all godli- 
ness and honesty. 

2. They give great prominence to the universal do- 
minion of the Lord Jesus Christ. They hold that as 
king in his Church, he has settled all her institutions 
and ordinances. Other denominations admit this in 
the general, while many claim the right of modifying, 
altering, instituting, or abolishing religions observances. 
With the decreeing of rites and ceremonies Covenant- 
ers have no sympathy. Besides this kingship in his 
Church, they claim for Christ, according to the gift of 
the Father, uncontrolled dominion over all things, out- 
side of the Church as well as within; and that this ex- 
tensive authority is used by him for the benefit of his 
body, the Church ; that he may send his messengers 
into heathen countries; that he may use angelic pow- 
ers at his pleasure ; that he may supply his people with 
temporal support and subdue all their enemies; that he 
may raise the dead and judge the world at the last day 
(Psa. ii, 6 ; lxxxix, 19 ; cx, 3 ; Isa. ix, 6, 7 ; Dan. vii, 14 ; 
Matt, xi, 27 ; xxviii, 18 ; Luke i, 32 ; John iii, 35 ; v, 27 ; 
xvii,2; Rom. xiv,9; Eph. i,20; Heb.ii,8; 1 Pet. iii, 22). 

3. They consider the Church and the State as the 
two leading departments of Christ’s visible kingdom on 
earth, or, as Merle d’Aubigne has designated them, the 
two poles of human society. In this view they labor 
much for the purity and power of the two great ordi- 
nances, the Gospel ministry and the civil magistracy; 
both being equally of God, both being under the sov- 


REFORMED PRESB. CIIURCH 1014 REFORMED PRESB. CIIURCH 


oreignty of Christ, ami each, in its sphere, to be regu- 
lated, in a Christian land, by the written lute. Where 
this law is either entirely disregarded or flagrantly vio- 
lated, they refuse to take any part cither in Church or 
State. 

4. They lay great stress on the witnessing character 
of the Church (Isa. xliii, 10: “Ye are liiv witnesses, 
saith the Lord”). This idea enters largely into the 
constitution of the New-Test, organization— Acts i, 8: 
<! But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Spirit 
is come upon you; and ye shall be witnesses unto me 
both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and 
unto the uttermost part of the earth.” This presents 
the double aspect of the. Church’s work — one, the sal- 
vation of men; one, the glory of Cod; both harmoniz- 
ing in the services of ministers and people together 
(Acts i, 22; ii, 32, 40; iii, 15; iv, 33; v,32; x, 30; xiii, 
31; xx, 21; xxii, 15, 18; xxvi, 1G, 22; xxviii,23; Bcv. 
i, 2, 9 ; vi, 9 ; xi,3-12; xii.11,17; xix, 10). 

This feature is presented often in the epistles, and 
implies three things: («) setting forth the whole truth 
of Cod, keeping nothing back; (5) applying that truth 
to the parties addressed; (c) pointing out the contrary 
evils. Following out this idea, Covenanters have, be- 
sides their Confession (d), a Testimony specifying the 
evils of the time. 

5. Among other things, they bear a practical testimo- 
ny against the moral evils in the Constitution of the 
United States. In one important particular the Con- 
stitution has already been amended — the clauses bear- 
ing on slavery. In this amendment Covenanters re- 
joice, and take courage to labor for further advance. 
In the antislavery conflict they stood among the fore- 
most; they preached, they wrote, they labored in all 
available ways against the slave-holding interest. The 
articles which they still wish to see amended are such 
as the following : 

(1.) In all the Constitution there is no recognition 
of Cod, the Sovereign of the world and Source of all au- 
thority and power. Justice I bayard and other authors 
labor earnestly in offering apologies for this defect; but 
all these apologies are set aside by the Declaration of 
Independence, in the simple fact that the Supreme is re- 
peatedly acknowledged in that memorable document as 
nature’s Cod, as the Creator, as Divine Providence, and 
as the Judge of the world ; as One on whose protection 
the nascent empire could exercise a “firm reliance” 
while struggling for existence. When independence 
was achieved and a prosperous career fairly entered, 
his name is lopped off in the new Constitution; and, al- 
though the document has been repeatedly amended, the 
place for his name is still left a blank. In fact, Benja- 
min Franklin could not succeed in having prayer otter- 
ed in the convention that framed the Federal Constitu- 
tion. We think this is the first nation known to his- 
tory that has set up a government without acknowl- 
edging any deity whatever. True it is that many of 
their deities were not worth the honor, while we as a 
nation have refused to honor “the Cod in whose hand 
our life is, and whose are all our ways.” That he should 
be acknowledged in the Constitution and obeyed in the 
administration is shown by the following, among other 
considerations: (a.) He is not only the Creator of men, 
but lie is the Author of national blessings, lie gave 
the nation its existence at the first, and holds the en- 
tire control of all its destinies. (6.) Civil government 
is one of his institutions for the good of men and for 
his own glory among men. Not only did lie direct the 
people of Israel to set up judges and oflicers, but in the 
New Test, he recognises such officers as his ministers, 
and their power as his ordinance, lie claims obedi- 
ence to them as his representatives, and that honor 
shall be given to them fur his sake, while he tells all 
nations that there is no authority unless it be of Cod 
(Iiom. xiii, 1-7 ; 2 Pet. ii, 13 17 ; Tit. iii, 1). All Chris- 
tians arc agreed that civil government set up on moral 
principles is the “ordinance of Cod." This implies, 


requires even, an acknowledgment of him in the Con- 
stitution as well as elsewhere, (c.) There are many 
very solemn services in the exercise of civil rule. Take 
one of many : A fellow-mortal is charged with mur- 
der, and must be dealt with, whether he be a citizen or 
not. This dealing is a solemn affair in the sight of 
Cod: (i) whether we let him loose on society; (ii) 
whether we hang him up by the neck until he is dead ; 

(iii) whether he is sent to the penitentiary for life; 

(iv) whether lie is found guilty or innocent of the 
charge. In any and all of these cases civil rulers have 
the destiny of that man in their control for life, as well 
as an influence which may reach, for good or for ill, to 
eternity. This responsibility cannot be evaded, and 
it can be properly met in the fear of Cod only. Ho of 
war and peace, where thousands are involved at once. 
So of sanitary regulations. So of license to sell strong 
drink, gunpowder, and poisonous drugs, (d.) He se- 
verely threatens and awfully punishes the nations that 
will not honor and serve him. (e.) He has given abun- 
dant promises to nations who will serve him. (/’.) 
There is the same responsibility on a nation that there 
is on an individual to serve the Lord (Job xxxiv, 29). 
(g.) The United States have received such favors from 
Cod, in quality and quantity, as have never been be- 
stowed on any other nation, not even on the chosen 
family of Israel. Why should we not acknowledge in 
the most solemn and public manner the hand of him 
that gives? 

(2.) The qualifications for rulers are very defective 
in the Constitution of the United States. Some ofli- 
cers are required to be of a certain age, and born in the 
country. It is taken for granted that they will be meu 
of ability. This is right so far as it goes; but if a ruler 
is to be regarded as the minister of Cod, some degree of 
moral character ought to be required, and the Constitu- 
tion is the proper place to begin ; then the people can 
select men of the highest order of Christian morality. 

(3.) The law of Cod as supreme law is formally set 
aside, superseded by three provisions: (a) the will of 
the people as stated in the preamble; (b) the Constitu- 
tion itself as the. expression of that will; (c) laws of 
Congress and treaties with foreign powers in carrying 
out the Constitution, art. vi, § 2. If these provisions 
meant no more than the relation to particular states, it 
would not be objectionable; but there is no allusion to 
a higher law in any part of the document. 

G. Covenanters claim the universal application of the 
divine law to all the institutions of men, and to the 
. man in all his relations — the Church, the family, the 
civil, military, commercial, financial, legislative, judicial, 
social, and all possible connections of man with man. 
They take no stock in street-ear or railroad companies, 
or any institutions which desecrate the Sabbath or oth- 
erwise trench on any of the ten commandments. They 
have always excluded freemasons from their fellowship. 

7. They hold the Old Test, as still the word of God, 
and of equal authority with the New. 

8. In praise they use exclusively the book of Psalms. 
They also disapprove of instrumental music in churches. 

9. They claim that the prayer-meeting, in which min- 
( isters and people stand on the same level, is a divine 

ordinance as much as family worship and public preach- 
ing. On this item they and the Methodists were long 
the only witnesses. For some twenty-five years the 
idea has been spreading, until all respectable bodies 
have their prayer-meetings, to say nothing of irregular 
associations. ’While other denominations regard rath- 
er the utility, propriety, and expediency of these meet- 
1 ings, Beformed Presbyterians stand for their divine in- 
stitution as well, basing their position on such Scriptures 
as the following: Ilcb. x, 25; Col. iii, 1G; Mai. iii, 1G; 
John xx, 19 ; Acts xvi, 13. 

10. Besides their adherence to the Scottish cove- 
nants, they hold that covenanting is an ordinance of the 
New Test, as well as of the Old. This they find held 
forth in prophecy (Isa. xix, 18-21 ; xliv, 5; Ixii, 4 ; Jcr. 


REFUGEE 


REFORMED, TRUE, CHURCH 1015 


1, 5) and exemplified in the apostolic Church (2 Cor. 
viii, 5). 

1 1. They hold strictly close communion , on a doetri- 
nal as well as practical basis, according to Acts ii, 42; 

2 Thess. iii, b'; xiv, 15. (R. II.) 

Reformed, True, Church. See Truk Reformed 
Church. 

Reformed Wesleyans. See Wesleyan s. 

Reformers. See Campbellites. 

Reformers, Wesleyan. See United Free 
Ciiurcii; Methodists. 

Refrigerium. Refreshment is one of the elements 
of happiness which the Church implores for her dead : 
“locum refrigerii,” says the Memento of the Dead of the 
mass canon, “ ut indulgeas deprecam ur.” These words are 
found in the oldest liturgies; we find them in a prayer 
(Ante Sepulturam) of St. Gelasius’s sacramentary (see 
Muratori, Lit. Rom. Vet. i, col. 749) s “ Ut digneris dare 
ei . . . locum refrigerii;” and in a collect of the same li- 
turgical monument (ibid, i, col. 7G0) : “ Dona omnibus 
quorum hie corpora requiescunt refrigerii sedem.” 

I. The word refrigerium is generally employed by the 
sacred and ecclesiastical authors for a meal, or any re- 
freshment of the body by food. In the Book of Wisdom 
(ii, 1) the wicked express thus the idea that death puts 
an end to all material enjoyments: “Non cst refrigeri- 
um in fine hominis.” Paul, speaking of the hospitable 
treatment he had experienced at the hands of Onesipho- 
rus (2 Tim. i, 16), says, “Saepe me refrigeravit.” Ter- 
tullian calls the agape a refreshment given by the rich 
to the poor (Apolog. xxxix): “Inopes refrigerio isto ju- 
vamus.” According to the same author the mitigations 
of the rigor of the fast (De Jejnn. x) are a refreshment 
for the flesh of the Christian (“carnem refrigerare”). In 
several passages of the Acts of St. Perpetua, “refrige- 
rare” is used of those meals which the faithful were 
sometimes allowed to enjoy with the martyrs in their 
jails. “Why,” says Perpetua to the tribune, “do j’ou 
not grant us some refreshments [Quid ntique non per- 
mittis refrigerare]? We are noble convicts — Ca?sar’s 
own convicts — destined to fight on his anniversary. You 
ought to make it a point that we should appear on that 
occasion in good, fleshy condition [si piuguiores illo pro- 
ducamur].” 

Paradise being in the Scriptures, especially in the 
New Test. (Matt, xxii, 2; xxv, 10, etc.; Rev. xix, 7, 
etc.), often compared to a banquet, it was but natural 
that refreshment should be used in a figurative sense for 
the heavenly banquet: “Justus ... si morte prieoecu- 
patus fuerit, in refrigerio erit.” The following passage 
of the Acts (iii, 20) is also understood of the refreshment 
at the Lord’s table: “Cum venerint tempora refrigerii a 
conspectu Domini.” Tertullian ( De Idol, xliii) employs 
the same image in describing the felicity of Lazarus, 
who, driven away, while living, from the table of the 
rich man, sits down, after his death, with Abraham, to 
the eternal banquet :“ Lazarus apud inferos in sinu Abra- 
hae refrigerium consecutus.” This same refrigerium is 
the favor -which the faithful wife implores for her dead 
husband: “Pro anima ejus orat, et refrigerium adpostu- 
lat” (De Monogam. x). St. Perpetua saw her brother 
Dinocrates in that place of refreshment: “YTdeo Dino- 
cratem refrigerantem” (.1 ct. cap. viii). The prayer men- 
tioned above, from the sacramentary of St. Gelasius, and 
which is still recited in the Roman Catholic Church, 
seems literally to request for the faithful soul a seat at 
the heavenly table (“ refrigerii sedem”). 

II. This idea is expressed on a number of Christian 
tombs, the refrigerium being spoken of as enjoyed by 
the saints, or as wished to those from whom it is still 
■withheld in expiation of their sins. With the former 
meaning we find : “ In refrigerio” (Boldetti, p. 418) ; “In 
refrigerio anima tua” (Fabretti, p. 547) ; “In refrigerio 
et in pace” (Gruter, 1057, 10); “In pace et in refrige- 
rio” (.4ct. Sanct. v, 122). In most cases it is a wish 
plainly expressed. The verb may be understood, as in 


“Ob refrigerium” (Fabretti, p. 114, n. 283); or “Dul- 
cissimo Antistheni conjugi suo refrigerium” (Collect, of 
M. Perret [lxi, 5]). But we find the same wish ex- 
pressed in a verbal form : “Y'ietoria refrigereris spiritus 
tuns in bono” (Wiseman, Fabiolu, p. 2); “Augustus in 
bono refrigeres dulcis” (Act. Sanct. v, 80) ; “Refrigera 
cum spirita sancta” (Marangoni, Cose Gent. p. 4G0). The 
same formula is found on a marble of the year 291 
(see Boldetti, p. 87): “Caio Vibio Alexandra et Atisise 
Pompeie refrigeretis” (Perret. v, xlvi. 10). If there were 
any doubt as to the meaning of these formula*, it would 
be removed by a comparison with those inscriptions in 
which the name of God appears, e. g. : “Antonia anima 
dulcis tibi Deus refrigeret” (Boldetti, p. 418); “Dens 
refrigeret spiritum tuum” (Lupi, Sev. Epit. p. 137) ; “ Re- 
frigera Dens animam hom. ...” (Perret, xxvi, n. 115) ; 
“ Spirita vestra Deus refrigeret” (Boldetti, p. 417) ; “ Cu- 
ius spiritum in refrigerium suscipiat Dominus” (Mura- 
tori, Nor. Thesaur. p. 1922, 1). The following was found 
by Marclii on the cemetery of St. Callixtus, in Greek 
characters: “Deus Christus Omnipotens spiritum tuum 
refrigeret.” Sometimes the refreshment is asked for 
the deceased by the intercession of the saints. — Marti- 
gny, Diet, des Antiq. Chretiennes, s. v. 

Refuge. See Asylum; Church. 

REFUGE, Cities of. See City of Refuge. 

Refugee (Fr. refugie), a name given to persons 
who have fled from religious or political persecution in 
their own country and taken refuge in another. The 
term was first applied to those Protestants who found 
an asylum in Britain and elsewhere at two different pe- 
riods, first during the Flemish persecutions under the 
duke of Alva in 1567, and afterwards, in 1685, when 
Louis XIY r of France revoked the Edict of Nantes and 
drove so many of the Huguenots (q. v.) into involun- 
tary exile. Of the numerous French artisans ivho set- 
tled in England on this last occasion, the most part 
Anglicized their names, as by substituting Y'onng for 
“ Le Jeune,” Taylor for “ Tellier,” etc., so that their pos- 
terity can now hardly be recognised as of foreign ori- 
gin. According to Lower (Patronymica Britannica), De 
Preux became Deprose, and “Richard Despair, a poor 
man,” buried at East Grimstead, was, in the orthogra- 
phy of his forefathers, Despartl. There were also refu- 
gee families of a higher class, some of whose descend- 
ants and representatives came to occupy a place in the 
peerage. The Bouveries, earls of Radnor, are descended 
from a French refugee family. The refugee family of 
Elaquiere was raised to the Irish peerage; and Charles 
Shaw Lefevre (lord Eversley) is the representative of a 
family of Irish refugees. The military employment 
offered in Ireland after 1688 maintained a considerable 
number of foreign Protestants. General Frederick Ar- 
i mand de Schomberg w'as raised by William III to the 
peerage, becoming eventually duke of Schomberg. A 
Huguenot officer of hardly less celebrity was llenrv 
Massue (marquis de Ru vignv), created by William III 
earl of Galway. Lord Ligonier was also of a noble 
Huguenot family, and England has had at least one 
refugee bishop in Dr. Majendie, bishop of Chester, and 
afterwards of Bangor. Among other refugees of note 
may be enumerated Sir John Iloublon, lord mayor of 
London in 1695, one branch of whose family was repre- 
sented by the late lord Palmerston ; Elias Bouherau, or 
Boirean, D.I)., whose descendant w-as created a baronet 
as Sir Richard Borough of Baselden Park, Berkshire; as 
well as Martineaus. Bosanqnets, and Papillons, whose 
descendants have attained more or less eminence in 
the country of their adoption. The first French Revo- 
lution brought numerous political refugees to England, 
and Great Britain is noted throughout Europe for af- 
fording a ready asylum to refugees of all classes, both 
political and religious. See Weiss, History of the French 
Protestant Refugees, from the Revocation of the Edict of 
Xantes to the Present Time, translated by Hardman 
(Lond. 1854) ; Burns, History of the French, Walloon, 


REGALE 


1016 


REGENERATION 


Putch, and other Foreign Protestant Refugees settled in 
Englund (Lond. 184G) ; Smiles, The Huguenots , their Set- 
tlements , Industries , etc., in England, Ireland, und Amer- I 
ica (N. Y. 1SG*). — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Regale, the name given to the privilege by which 
the king of France claimed to enjoy the revenues of a ' 
see during its vacancy. See Regalia. 

Regalia (or Keg ale), Right of, is the possession ' 
of certain privileges in ecclesiastical things. As the 
regalia Petri we distinguish the various rights and 
high prerogatives which, according to Romanists, be- 
long to the pope as a kind of universal sovereign and 
king of kings. Under regale, however, is generally 
understood the right which sovereigns claim in virtue 
of their royal prerogative. The question as to the ex- 
tent of these privileges has frequently been the subject 
of controversy between kings and popes. It involved 
several points as to presentation to benefices, most of 
which formed the object, from time to time, of negotia- 
tion by concordat; but the most serious conflict arose 
out of the claim made by the crown to the revenues of 
vacant benefices, especially bishoprics, and the co-ordi- 
nate claim to keep the benefice or the see vacant for an 
indefinite period, in order to appropriate its revenue. 
This plainly abusive claim was one of the main grounds 
of complaint on the part of the popes as to the practice 
of lay investiture (q. v.), and it reached its height in 
England under the first Norman kings, especially Will- 
iam Rufus. The most memorable conflict, however, on 
the subject of the regalia was that of Innocent XI (q. v.) 
with Louis XIV, which was maintained with great per- 
tinacity on both sides for several years, the king extend- 
ing the claim to some of the French provinces which 
had until then been exempt from it, and the pope re- 
fusing to confirm any of the appointments of Louis to 
the sees which became vacant as long as the obnoxious 
claim should be persisted in. The dispute continued 
till after the death of Innocent, Louis XIV having gone 
so far as to seize upon the papal territory of Avignon in 
reprisal; but it was adjusted in the following pontificate, 
the most obnoxious part of the claim being practically 
abandoned, although not formally withdrawn. The con- 
test grew out of the interpretation of French canon law 
which gives the right to the kings of France to enjoy 
the revenues of all bishoprics during their vacancy, and 
also to present to their prebends and all other their 
dignities without cure of souls. Such presentations 
might be made whether the dignity were vacant both 
dejitre and de facto, as by death, or only either de jure, 
as if the incumbent were convicted of a crime or had 
accepted another dignity, or de facto, as if the regale 
should open after the presentation of an incumbent, but 
before he had taken possession. The regale lasted till 
.a new admission to the bishopric was fully completed 
by taking the oath of allegiance, when a mandate was 
issued by the Chambre dcs Comptes to the commissary 
of the regale to restore the revenues. This right had 
one or two singular privileges: it occurred not only on a 
vacancy, but also when a bishop was made a cardinal, and 
lasted till he repeated the oath of allegiance; it lasted 
thirty years as regarded patronage, so that if the king 
should leave a dignity vacant and the new bishop fill 
it up, the king might appoint a fresh incumbent at 
any time within this date; it was absolutely in the 
king’s discretion, and subject to no other constitutions 
whatever. The regale was at different times deprived 
of much of its original extent: certain bishoprics, as 
those of Languedoc, 1 ‘rove nee, anil Dauphine, claimed 
entire exemption; and though a decision of Parliament 
pronounced at one time that the right extended over 
the whole kingdom, this was afterwards quashed, and 
the question remained undecided. Abbeys which were 
formerly subject to the. regale were discharged, and an 
attempt to replace them under it quite failed. Finally 
all right to the revenues was resigned by Louis XIII 
and that of patronage was retained. Sec Commentuire 


de M. Dupug sur le Traite des Liberies de M. Pithon, i, 
14G. See also Sltkemacy, Paiwl. 

Regals (perhaps from rigabello, an instrument used 
prior to the organ in the churches of Italy), a small 
portable finger-organ in use in the lGtli and 17th centu- 
ries, and perhaps earlier. Many representations exist 
of this instrument, including one sculptured on Melrose 
Abbey. The tubes rested on the air-chest, which was 
filled bv the bellows; and the bellows were managed 
with one hand, and the keys with the other. — Cham- 
bers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Re'gem (Ileb. id. friend; Sept. 'Peyip v. r. 
'I 'ay'ffi), the first named of six sons of Jahdai (q. v.), 
apparently of the family of Caleb (1 Chron. ii, 47). 
B.C. post 1G58. 

Re'gem-me'lecli (lleb. Re'gem Meiek, Sin, 
fiend of the king ; Sept. ’Apfteoeip [v. r. ’Apfitaecrip] o 
fiat riXfuc; Vulg. Rogommelech'), the name of a person 
who, in connection with Sherczer, was sent on behalf of 
some of the captivity to make inquiries at the Temple 
concerning fasting (Zech. vii, 2). B.C. cir. 517. In the 
A. V. the subject of the verse appears to be the captive 
Jews in Babylon and Bethel, or “the house of Cod” 
is regarded as the accusative after the verb of motion. 
The Sept, takes “the king’’ as the nominative to the 
verb “sent,” considering the last part of the name Ile- 
gem-melech as an appellative, and not as a proper name. 
What reading the Sept, had it is difficult to conjecture. 
In the Vulgate, Sherezer, llegem-melech, and their men 
are the persons who sent to the house of God. The 
Peshito-Svriac has a curious version of the passage: 
“And he sent to Bethel, to Sharezer and Rab-mag; and 
the king sent and his men to pray for him before the 
Lord;” Sharezer and Rab-mag being associated in Jer. 
xxxix, 3, 13. The Ilexaplar-Svriac, following the Pe- 
shito, has “ Rab-mag.” On referring to Zech. vii, 5, the 
expression “the people of the land” seems to indicate 
that those who sent to the Temple were not the captive 
Jews in Babylon, but those who had returned to their 
own country ; and this being the case, it is probable that 
in ver. 2 “ Bethel” is to be taken as the subject: “and 
Bethel,” i. e. the inhabitants of Bethel. “ sent.” From its 
connection with Sherezer, the name Regem-melech (lit. 
| “ king’s friend,” comp. 1 Chron. xxvii, 33) was probably 
| an Assyrian title of office. — Smith. See Rab-mag. 

Regeneratio, a terra applied to baptism because 
when any one becomes a Christian he enters upon a 
| real and new' spiritual life. See Baptism. 

Regeneration (iraAiyyeveaia, Tit. iii, 5. a being 
born again), that work of the Holy Spirit by which we 
j experience a change of heart. It is expressed in Script- 
ure by being born anew (John iii, 7, “from above”); be- 
ing quickened (Eph. ii, 1); by Christ being found in 
the heart (Gal. iv, 19) ; a new creation (2 Cor. v, 17); a 
renewing of the mind (Rom. xii, 2); the washing, i. e. 
the purifying of regeneration (Tit. iii, 5) ; a resurrec- 
tion from the dead (Eph. ii, 6); a putting off the old 
man, and a putting on the new man (iv, 22-24). And 
the subjects of this change are represented as begotten 
j of God (John i, 13; 1 Pet. i. 3); begotten of the Spirit 
(John iii, 8); begotten of water, even of the Spirit (ver. 
5); new creatures (Gal.vi, 15); and partakers ofthe divine 
nature (2 Pet. i, 4). The efficient cause of regeneration 
is the divine spirit. Man is not the author of t lie regen- 
eration (John i, 12,13; iii, 4; Eph. ii, 8, 10); the instru- 
mental cause is the word of God (James i. IS; 1 Pet. i, 
23; 1 Cor. iv, 15). The change in regeneration con- 
sists in t he recovery of the moral image of God upon 
the heart ; that is, so as to love him supremely and 
serve him ultimately as our highest end. Regenera- 
. tion consists in the implantation of the principle of love 
to God, which obtains the ascendency and habitually 
prevails over its opposite. Although the inspired writ- 
| ers use various terms and modes of speech to describe 
1 this change of mind, styling it conversion, regeneration, 


REGENERATION 


1017 


REGENERATION 


a new creation, etc., yet it is all effected by the word of 
truth or the Gospel of salvation gaining an entrauce 
into the mind through divine teaching, so as to possess 
the understanding, subdue the will, and reign in the af- 
fections. In a word, it is faith working by love that 
constitutes the new creature or regenerate man (Gal. v, 
C; 1 John v, 1-5). Regeneration, then, is the recovery 
of the moral image of God, and consequently of spiritu- 
al life, to a soul previously dead in trespasses and sins. 
It is the work of the Holy Spirit, opening the eyes of 
the mind, and enabling the sincere penitent to believe 
the Gospel and receive Christ as his only Saviour. 
This gracious work is in accordance both with the char- 
acter of the Holy Spirit and with the constitution of 
man ; hence, by it no violence is done to any physical, 
intellectual, or moral law or mode of action in human 
nature. The change is produced in the will, or heart, 
that is, in the moral, and not the natural, faculties of 
the soul. As depravity is wholly in the will and heart, 
the source and seat of all moral action, the divine oper- 
ation consists in renewing the heart, and communicat- 
ing a change of views, with a relish for the things of 
the Spirit. As justification places us in a new relation 
to God, so regeneration produces in us a new state of 
mind. In the case of children dying in infancy, they, 
of course, need regeneration to fit them for the eternal 
world. And there can be no difficulty in conceiving 
that they are regenerated by the Holy Spirit, in virtue 
of Christ’s death, in the same sense in which they are 
depraved, in consequence of Adam’s transgression ; the 
disposition to sin is removed, the disposition to holiness 
is implanted, and thus their salvation is secured. The 
evidences of regeneration are conviction of sin, holy 
sorrow, deep humility, knowledge, faith, repentance, 
love, and devotedness to God’s glory. The properties 
of it are these: 1. It is a receptive work, and herein it 
differs from conversion. In regeneration we receive 
from God ; in conversion we are active and turn to him. 

2. It is a powerful work of God’s grace (Eph. iii, 8). 
8. It is an instantaneous act, for there can be no medi- 
um betweeu life and death; and here it differs from 
sanctification, which is progressive. 4. It is a complete 
act, and perfect in its kind; a change of the whole man 
(2 Cor. v, 17). 5. It is a great and important act, both 

as to its author and effects (Eph. ii, 4, 5). 6. It is an in- 
ternal act, not consisting in bare, outward forms (Ezek. 
xxxvi, 26, 27). 7. Visible as to its effects (1 John iii, 

14). 8. Delightful (1 Pet. i, 8). 9. Necessary (John 

iii, 3). See Conversion ; New Biiith. 

Our Lord in one instance (Matt, xix, 28) uses the 
term regeneration for the resurrection state. Accord- 
ingly, Dr. Campbell translates it “ the renovation,” and 
remarks that the relation is here to the general state 
of things in the future world, where all things will be- 
come new. See New Creation ; Restitution. 

REGENERATION BY WATER. In our Lord’s dis- 
course to Nicodemus (John iii) occurs this remarkable, 
statement : “ Except a man be born of water and of the 
Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.” This 
coupling of water-baptism with spiritual regeneration 
as an essential condition to Christian privilege has oc- 
casioned considerable difficulty to expositors, controver- 
sialists, and pious inquirers. A view of the entire con- 
text is important as a preliminary to the just interpre- 
tation of this passage. 

Nicodemus sought a private interview with Jesns, 
evidently for the sincere purpose of information as to 
the Great Teacher’s doctrine. Waiving all compli- 
mentary prefaces, Jesus at once propounds the one es- 
sential condition of discipleship— namely, the new hirtli. 
Nicodemus finds two difficulties in this— first, in his age, 
and, secondly, in the physical paradox itself. The latter 
perplexity evidently arose from his understanding the 
requirement in a literal sense. It is not so clear wheth- 
er the former difficulty is but the same expressed in 
another form or an entirely different oue — namely, the 
hardship of demanding a religious change in a person 


of such a confirmed standing as himself. In favor of 
the latter view are adduced the traditionary allusions 
to the baptism of proselytes to Judaism (which, how- 
ever, do not very certainly establish that custom, or, at 
least, its special significance), and especially the bap- 
tism by John (which excited no surprise, showing that 
its significance was readily understood); but there is 
little or no evidence that these or any similar Judaic 
lustrations were currently designated by the peculiar 
terms here employed, yti'ia/Sijnai avinStv, horn from 
above, or born again. See Proselyte. But, however 
this may have been, it is plain that Nicodemus was 
chiefly stumbled by the apparent necessity of under- 
standing the words of Jesns in a strictly literal or phys- 
ical sense. Hence our Lord explains that not a fleshly, 
but a spiritual, birth is meant, and he repeats this dis- 
tinction in varied form (the “water” and “Spirit” of 
ver. 5 respectively corresponding to and being further 
interpreted by “flesh” and “Spirit” in ver. 6). This 
serves to show that the expression “born of water” 
( ytvvrj&gvai vearog') has reference, not to a spirit- 
ual purification, but to a physical ablution; that is, to 
personal baptism, such as Nicodemus was already fa- 
miliar with, and such as was to be instituted by Christ 
himself. (We discard as precarious and offensive an 
interpretation which we have heard propounded of 
this expression as referring to the semen virile, based 
upon the alleged use of C“'"2 in that sense in Isa. xlviii, 
1; for that signification is not Avell established any- 
where, even in Hebrew, much less in the Aramaic, 
which it is assumed that Christ here spoke, and certain- 
ly not in the Greek by which the conversation is rep- 
resented.) The only real difficulty to us in the pas- 
sage arises from the conjunction of baptism and regen- 
eration as being both requisite in the case; thus giving 
apparent countenance to the dogma of baptismal regen- 
eration, or, at least, to the doctrine that baptism is es- 
sential to a Christian’s acceptance with God. This 
difficulty is relieved by the following considerations 
drawn from the passage itself and from others parallel 
with it: 

1. The principal stress is laid by Christ upon the sec- 
ond part of the requirement— namely, the spiritual birth. 
This is evident from the omissiou of all reference to 
baptism in vers. 6 and 8. 

2. The language of ver. 5 can, at most, only mean 
that baptism and regeneration are both essential, but 
not necessarily in the same sense or to the same degree; 
certainly not that they are identical, nor that one im- 
plies the other. The phraseology positively forbids 
such a confusion of the two. 

3. The association here of baptism with a spiritual 
change is no more emphatic than in several other pas- 
sages similarly laying down the conditions of Christian- 
ity — e. g. “Teach all nations, baptizing them” (Matt, 
xxviii, 19); “He that believeth and is baptized shall 
be saved” (Mark xvi, 16 ; but note the omission in the 
clause following, “ He that believeth not shall be damn- 
ed”) ; “ Repent and be baptized everyone of you” (Acts 
ii, 38); “Arise and be baptized, and wash away thy 
sins” (xxii, 16). 

4. Our Lord himself dispensed ivith baptism in the 
admission of at least one member into his kingdom, 
namely, the dying thief (Luke xxiii, 42,43). 

5. Christ certainly does mean to attach importance 
to water-baptism as an initiative rite into his Church 
or kingdom. The body of believers exists under two 
aspects, the visible and the invisible — the outward or 
nominal, and the inward or real. Baptism is as imper- 
ative a mark of admission to the former as spiritual 
new birth is to entrance into the latter. In order to 
full recognition as a member of both, the two acts are 
truly essential. This doctrine, which orthodox ecclesi- 
astics have always maintained, is thus strictly in ac- 
cordance with the tenor of the text in question. 

On the dogma of baptismal regeneration, see the Bi- 


REGENSBURG 


1018 


REGIUM DONUM 


lliotheca Sacra, April, 1876; Prof. Episc. Quar. Rev. Oct. 
1860; Moth. Quar. Rev. Oct. 1*54. 

Regensburg. .See IIat is bon. 

Reggio, Isaac Samvel, a Jewish writer, was born 
Aug. 15, 1784, at t.’iirz, in Illyria. As the son of a rabbi, 
lie received a thorough Jewish education, and with his 
brilliant powers he soon became master of Jewish litera- 
ture, and acquired an extraordinary knowledge of He- 
brew. Ilis talents and fame secured for him the ap- 
pointment to the professorship of mathematics at the 
Lyceum when Illyria became a French province. lie 
succeeded his father in the rabbinate of his native place, 
and died Aug. 20, 1855. Of his many writings, we men- 
tion, I'-'i’n ITT a treatise on the in- 

spiration of the Mosaic law, incorporated in the intro- 
duction to the reutatcuch (Vienna, 1818): — r“T 0 
t"i“tbx. colla Trarluzione Ituliana ed un Comento Ebreo, 
an Italian translation of the Pentateuch, with a He- 
brew commentary and a most elaborate introduction, 
in which he gives an account of 148 Hebrew exposi- 
tions of the Pentateuch of various ages (ibid. 1821, 5 
vols. 8vo):— On the Xecessity of haring a Theological 
Seminary in Italy, written in Italian (Venice, 1822); in 
consequence of which the Collegium Rabbinicum was 
opened at Padua in 1820, for which he had drawn up 
the constitution: — fTT", Religion 

and Philosophy (Vienna, 1827) a disquisition, Whether 
Philosophy is in Opposition to Tradition, n*1"il “X 
nrnprrrJX i;:rn (Lei psie, 1840): — 11 Libro d' Isaia, 
Yersione Poetica fatta sulV Originate Testo Ebraico (Vi- 
enna, 1831): — a historico- critical introduction to the 
book of Esther, entitled “TCX - _ ?X H 7*2 - (ibid. 
1*41). Ik-sides these, Heggio wrote numerous treatises 
on various points connected with the Hebrew Script- 
ures and literature in the different Jewish periodicals. 
See Fiirst, Pibl. Jud. iii, 139 142; Stcinschneider, Cata- 
logvs Libr. Jlebr. in Piblioth. Jiodl. col. 2135-2137 ; (iei- 
gcr, Leo da Modena (Breslau. 1856), p. 57-63; id. Xach- 
gelassenc Schriften (Berlin, 1875), ii, 272; .Tost, (iesch. d. 
Judenth. u. s. Secten, iii, 346 ; 1 lessauer, Gesch. d. Israeli- 
ten, p. 531; Zunz, Die. Monatstage des Kalenderjahres 
(Berlin, 1872; English trnnsl. bv the Lev. 15. Pick in 
the Jewish Messenger, X. V. 1874-75). (15. P.) 

Regina Coeli ( Lat. for Queen of heaven), an appel- 
lation often given by the ancient Homans to Juno. 

Region-round-about, tiik (?) irtpix^poc). This 
term had perhaps originally a more precise and inde- 
pendent meaning than it appears to a reader of the A. V. 
to possess. It is used by the Sept, as the equivalent of 
the singular Hebrew word hak-kikkdr (“2 in, literally 
‘•the round”), a word the topographical application of 
which is not clear, but which seems in its earliest oc- 
currences to denote the circle or oasis of cultivation in 
which stood Sodom and (lomorrah and the rest of the 
live “cities of the Ciccur ” ((Jen. xiii, 10-12; xix, 17,25, 
28, 29; Dent, xxxiv, 3). Elsewhere it has a wider 
meaning, though still attached to the Jordan (2 Sam. 
xviii,23; 1 Kings vii, 46; 2 Citron, iv, 17 ; Xeh.iii,22; 
xii. 28). It is in this less restricted sense that irepi- 
yiopoc occurs in the Xew Test. In Matt. iii. 5 and 
Luke iii, 3 it denotes the populous and nourishing re- 
gion which contained the towns of Jericho and its de- 
pendencies in the Jordan valley, enclosed in the amphi- 
theatre of the hills of Quarantana, a densely populated 
region, and important enough to be reckoned as a dis- 
tinct section of Palestine — “Jerusalem, Juda?a, and all 
the arrnndissenn nt of Jordan” (Matt, iii, 5; also Luke 
vii. 17). It is also applied to the district of ( Jennesaret, 
a region which presents certain similarities to that of 
Jericho, being enclosed in the amphitheatre of the hills 
of llattin and bounded in front by the water of the lake, 
as the. other was by the Jordan, and also resembling it 
in being very thickly populated (Matt, xiv, 35; Mark 
vi, 55: Luke vi, 37; vii, 17). — Smith. It is perhaps 


nearly equivalent to the modern Arabic appellation of 
the Ghur. See Topographical Terms. 

Regionarii, one of the three classes of subdeacons 
at Home, appointed in the 11th century, and employed 
in various occupations in the several regiones or districts 
of that city. The other classes were called Palatini 
(q. v.) and Stationarii (q.v.), 

Regis, Jean Haptiste de, a French Jesuit and ge- 
ographer, was born at Istres, in Provence, about 1665, 
and was sent as a missionary to China about 1700. His 
scientific attainments gained him a place at court and 
the favor of the emperor llang-he, who, in 1707, placed 
him at the head of a commission of Jesuits to make a 
survey and draw up a map of the Chinese empire. Ilis 
labors were interrupted in 1724 when the emperor 
Yung-ching proscribed the Christian religion. lie wrote 
a full history of his labors, a condensation of which may 
be found in Du II aide’s Description de la Chine. lie 
translated into Latin the Yih-king, edited by Julius 
Mold (Stuttgart and Tubingen, 1834, 2 vols.). The 
MS. is in the National Library, Paris. 

Registers. Sec Diptyctis. 

Registers op Ordination were first ordered to be 
preserved in 1237 in the bishop's house or in the cathe- 
dral. 

Registers, Parish, were required to be kept as a 
Tccord of baptisms, marriages, and burials in 1538 by 
Cromwell, by the royal injunctions of 1547, and the 70th 
Canon of 1603. 

Regium Donum, a sum of money annually al- 
lowed by government to dissenting ministers. It orig- 
inated in a donation, made in the way of royal bounty, 
by (Jcorgc II, in the year 1723, consisting of £500, to 
be paid out of the treasury, for assisting first of all the 
widows, and afterwards either ministers or their widows, 
who wanted help. The first motion for it was made by 
Mr. Daniel Burgess, who had for some time been secre- 
tary to the princess of Wales, and was approved by lord 
Townshend, secretary of state, and Sir Hubert Walpole, 
chancellor of the exchequer, who entered readily into 
the measure because the Dissenters proved themselves 
very friendly to the house of Brunswick, and he wished 
to reward them for their loyalty. When the money 
was paid, a strict charge was given that the matter 
should he kept very secret. Some few years after, the 
sum was raised to £850 half-yearly; and at present, 
though no longer a regium donum, it is still annually 
granted by Parliament, amounting to about £5000, but 
including the relief granted to “Poor French refugee 
clergy, poor French Protestant laity, and sundry small 
charitable and other allowances to the poor of St. Mar- 
tiu's-in-thc-Fields, and others." — Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

HECiILM DOXUM, Irish, a pecuniary grant, voted 
annually by the British Parliament, out of the national 
exchequer, to aid certain bodies of Presbyterians in Ire- 
land by providing stipends for their ministers. This 
grant, which now amounts to about £40,000 a year, is 
divided among six different bodies of Presbyterians, 
viz.: l.The (iencral Assembly, comprising the two bod- 
ies formerly known as the Synod of I'lstcr and the Synod 
of Seecders. 2. The Secession Synod. 3. The Hemon- 
strants, or Unitarian Synod of Ulster. 4. The Presby- 
tery of Antrim. 5. The Synod of Munster, l nitarian. 
6. The Presbytery of Munster, orthodox. During the 
reign of James I Presbyterianism was introduced into 
Ireland, and under the mild sway of Usher their clergy- 
men became incumbents of parishes, and were permitted 
to enjoy tithes and other emoluments. But after the 
accession of Charles 11 they were wholly dependent upon 
their Hocks. In 1672 the king gave Sir Arthur Forbes 
£600 to be divided among them. William 111 issued 
an order, June 19, 1690, authorizing the payment of 
£1200 to Patrick Adair and six other clergymen. In 
the following year this bounty was removed from the 
customs, and made payable out of the Irish exchequer. 


REGIUS 


1019 


REGIUS 


Such was the origin of the Regium Donum in its pres- I 
cnt permanent character. There was this important 
change made, however: the power of allocating the . 
amount was taken from the trustees and transferred to I 
the lord lieutenant. In 1831 the grant was placed on | 
the Irish miscellaneous estimates, and in 1838 the clas- 
sification principle was abandoned, and £75 Irish cur- 
rency was promised to every minister connected with j 
the Synod of Ulster and the Secession Synod, with the ' 
proviso (1840) that he was to receive at least £85 of 
yearly stipend. The amount required was increasing at 
the rate of £400 a year, to meet the demands of new 
congregations. The Regium Donum was withdrawn by 
the act of 1869, which came into force Jan. 1, 1871, dis- 
endowing the Irish Episcopal Church. — Eadie, Eccles. 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Regius, the Latinized name of Urban Konig, a 
learned theologian, preacher, and writer, and also an in- 
fluential promoter of the Reformation. lie was born in 
1490 of parents in moderate circumstances, and resident 
at Langenargen, near Lake Constance. At the age of 
seventeen he was admitted to the University of Fri- 
bourg as a student of theology, and by his application 
and progress won the favor of his professors; but an 
injudicious defence of the disputations of John Eck, 
later the noted opponent of Luther, led to his suspension 
from the university and to his subsequent removal to 
Basle. After a brief sojourn in Basle, he was called to 
the chair of poetry and oratory in the University of In- 
golstadt, where Eck was likewise employed as professor 
of theology, and where a circle of humanists were then 
striving to bring the classics into honor. Regius dis- 
tinguished himself to such a degree as to receive from 
the hands of the emperor Maximilian a laurel crown in 
recognition of his services, and saw his classes grow 
continually. But his success was interrupted by the 
neglect of patrons to settle bills which he had been 
compelled to assume for their sons who were his pupils, 
so that, in utter discouragement, he became a soldier in 
the imperial army — a situation from which he was fort- 
unately delivered by the interference of Eck, who se- 
cured his discharge from the army and also the pay- 
ment of his debts, as well as an increased salary for the 
future. 

Regius, however, began to dislike the studies in which 
he was engaged, and to manifest a growing predilection 
for theology, lie was especially impressed with the 
influence of the Wittenberg reformatory movements, 
and found greater pleasure in the evangelical doctrines 
taught by Luther and Melancthon than in scholasti- 
cism. The consequence was a growing coolness be- 
tween Eck and himself, which led him to seek a release 
from the university. The influence of John Faber, 
vicar-general of the see of Constance, and a book writ- 
ten by himself, entitled De Dignitute Sacerdotum, recom- 
mended him to bishop Hugo of Constance, and secured 
from that prelate the appointment of episcopal vicar in 
spirit ualibus. A year later he was made doctor of the- 
ology (1520), and appointed preacher at the Augsburg 
cathedral. Ilis evangelical attitude excited the oppo- 
sition of the papal party against him, and compelled 
his removal; but he soon returned, and labored with 
great energy for the extension of the evangelical doc- 
trines, from 1522 to 1530, bv presenting them to the 
people in sermons from the pulpit of St. Ann’s Church, 
and by disputations and controversial writings. Luther 
came to regard him as the principal supporter of evan- 
gelicalism in Suabia, while Eck charged him with black 
ingratitude, and persecuted him with passionate hatred 
and malicious cunning. It was perhaps owing to the 
bitterness of such experiences that he concluded to im- 
itate the example of other Reformers and establish for 
himself the refuge of a home. lie married Anna Weiss- 
brilck, a native of Augsburg, who sustained him faith- 
fully while he lived, and by whom he became the father 
of thirteen children. 

The fame of Regius had in the meantime become«o 


extended that his counsel and aid were frequently sought 
even by distant cities and countries. Duke Ernest of 
Liineberg, surnamed the Confessor, urged him to assist 
in introducing the Reformation into that territory, and 
Regius pledged his services to that end, removing to 
Celle, and assuming the functions of court preacher, 
lie was soon appointed general superintendent over the 
whole duchv, and in that position was enabled, by judi- 
cious counsels and restless activity, to rapidh' advance 
the interests of the Reformation. T wo years were spent 
in superseding the Romish clergy and their services 
with an evangelical ministry and worship, in improving 
the schools and gymnasia of the country, and also in es- 
tablishing the infant Church on a legal foundation, and 
in securing the transfer of the confiscated goods of mon- 
asteries to the use of the Church and of schools. A call 
to return to Augsburg at this time (1532) was declined, 
and his life w r as thenceforward spent in the service of 
the prince and people of the duchy of Liineberg, though 
he took an active part in the introduction and develop- 
ment of Protestantism in other places: e. g. the county 
of Iloya, the cities of HiUlesheim, llanover, Brunswick, 
Minden, and lliirter, the territory of Schaumburg, etc. 
He also responded to the request of count Enno for 
evangelical preachers by sending Martin Ondermark 
and Matthias Giinderich to East Friesland. He ranks, 
accordingly, as one of the leading Reformers in North 
Germany. In 1537 he accompanied duke Ernest to the 
convention at Smalcald, and signed the Smalcald Arti- 
cles; in 1538 he was present at the Convention of Bruns- 
wick, and in 1540 at Ilagenau, where an abortive at- 
tempt at reconciliation between the papal and the evan- 
gelical parties %vas made, and where the king, Ferdinand, 
issued a decree for a religious conference at Worms. 
Physical inability prevented Regius from participating 
in the proceedings of the latter diet. A severe cold in- 
curred on his return from Hagenau resulted in a dan- 
gerous sickness, and on May 23, 1541, he ended his use- 
ful life. The veneration of his contemporaries proved 
his worth. 

In appearance, Regius was a man of medium height 
and spare and delicate figure, easy and yet resolute in 
his bearing, and characterized by an air of intelligence 
and moral earnestness. His writings breathe the same 
Christian spirit which belonged to his personality. They 
number ninety-seven different works, which were pub- 
lished at Nuremberg in 15G2, the German in four parts, 
and the Latin in three. His exegctical works deserve 
attention on account of their practical aim, and the 
thoroughness and skill with which the sense of Script- 
ure is developed in them; and, in addition, the follow- 
ing are worthy of note: Formula queedam caute et citra 
Scandaluni Loquendi de Prcecipuis Christiana Doctrince 
Locis (1535), which has almost reached the position of a 
symbolical book: — Catechismus Minor (1536), and Ca~ 
techismus Major (1537), which are peculiar in that the 
questions are placed in the mouth of the pupil, and the 
answers are assigned to the teacher: — Erkldrung der 
zivolf A rtifeel des christ lichen Glaubens (1523); and 
others, among them several books on Church discipline, 
which have been often reprinted. 

Literature. — The writings of Urban Regius himself 
contain sources respecting his life, as does also the Vita 
Urbani Regii, etc., written by his son Ernest. Comp, 
also Bertram, Ref.- it. Kirchenliist. d. Stadt Liineberg 
(1719); Meier, Ref.-Gesch. d. Stadt Hannover (1730); 
Lauenstcin, Hildesheim Reformationshistoria (1720); 
Gcffken, Dr. l T rb. Regius, seine Wahl zum ersten Ilauib. 
Superintendenten, etc. ; Schlegel, Kirchen - u. Ref.-Gesch. 
v. Xorddeutschl. (Hanover, 1828), vol. ii; Havemann, 
Gesch. d. Lande Braunschweig und Liineburg (Getting. 
1855), vol. ii ; lleimburger, Urbanus Regius, etc. (Harab. 
and Gotha, 1851); Hagen, Deutschlands lit. n. rel. 
Uerhdltnisse im Ref-Zeitalter (Erlangen, 1841-44) ; Uhl- 
horn, Urban Regius im Abendmahlsstreite, in the Juhrb. 
f deutsche Theologie (I860), vol. v, No. 1. — Herzog, 

I Real-Encyklop. s. v. 


REGIUS CODEX 


1020 


REIIOI 


Hegius Codex. See Paris Manuscript. I 

Hegnura, a name for the tiara or diadem of the 
popes, encircled with three crowns. It is (says Innocent 
III. cir. 1200) the imperial crown, representing the pope’s 
power as plenary and absolute over all the faithful. Ac- 
cording to some authors, Ilormisdas first wore a crown 
which had been sent to him as a mark of fealty by the 
emperor Anastasius, to whom Clovis had presented it in 
550, while some refer it to a gift of Constantine to pope 
Sylvester. At the entrance of a church the pope, when 
borne on his litter, laid aside the regnutn and put on a 
precious mitre, but resumed the former when he left 
the building. Paul II made a new regnum, and enriched 
it with precious stones, when its use had long lain dor- 
mant. At first it was a tall round or conical cap. end- 
ing in a round ball, and wreathed with a single gold 
crown, representing regal and temporal power. It is 
mentioned in the 11th century. In the Oth century, on 
mosaics, Nicholas 1 is represented wearing two circles, 
the lower labelled “The crown of the kingdom, from 
Cod’s hand,” and the upper inscribed “ The. crown of 
empire, from St. Peter’s hand.” Boniface VIII (1294- 
1303) added a second or spiritual crown, while Benedict 
All (1331), others say John XII or Urban V, contrib- 
uted the third coronet of sacerdotal sovereignty, and 
about that time the ornament assumed an oval form, and 
was no longer straight-sided. The patriarch of Constan- 
tinople wears two crowns on the tiara. On putting on 
the tiara, the cardinal-deacon says to the pope, “Re- 
ceive the tiara, adorned with three crowns, ami know 
that thou art father of kings and princes, the ruler of 
the world.” The crowns represent the three realms of 
heaven, earth, and purgatory, according to Baur; but as 
Jewel explains it, the three divisions of the earth — 
Europe, Asia, and Africa. Pope Adrian VPs effigy at 
Viterbo has no crowns on the tiara. — "Walcott, Sac. A r- 
clterol. s. v. See Tiara. 

Reg&la Fidei. See Faith, Pule of. 

Regular Canons (Lat. Canonlci Regulares , canons 
bound by rule), the name given, after the reform intro- 
duced into the system of cathedral clergy in the 11th 
century, to the members of those canonical bodies which 
adopted that reform. They were thus distinguished from 
the so-called “secular canons,” who continued exempt 
from rule, and who arc represented down to modern 
times by the canons, prebendaries, and other members 
of cathedral chapters, in those churches in which the 
full cathedral system of the Roman Catholic Church is 
maintained. The rules of the regular canons being va- 
riously modified in different countries and ages, a vari- 
ety of religious orders arose therefrom — August inians, 
Premonstratensians, etc. — Chambers's Kncyclop. s. v. 
See Canons, Regular. 

Regular Clerks are modern religions orders found- 
ed for preaching, medicine, or education. The principal 
are the Theatincs (q. v.), founded by Paul IV, and the 
Oratorians (q. v.), instituted in 1550 by Philip Neri, of 
Florence. 

Regulars or Regulards. I hiring the 4th and 5th 
centuries it was not customary to place monks, as such, 
on an equal footing with the clergy, nor were they re- 
garded as part of the clerical body until the 10th centu- 
ry. Before this they were distinguished by the name 
of religiosi or regal ares, and afterwards a distinction 
was carefully made between clerici steculares, i. e. parish 
priests, and those who were charged with the care of 
souls, and clerici regulares, i. e. those belonging to mo- 
nastic orders. This name was applied to the latter be- 
cause they were houml to live according to certain rules 
( regultr ). — Riddle, Christian Antig. 

Rehabi'ah (Ilcb. Reihabgah' , T'C'ZTj*}, enlarged by 
Jehovah ; also, in the prolonged form, Rechabga’hn, 
1 Chron. xxiv, 21 ; xxvi, 25; Sept.’P aafiid or 
*P aafiiar, v. r. ’I'a^id or ‘P afiiafj), the only son of Eli- 


ezer, son of Moses; himself the father of many sons (1 
Chron. xxiii, 17), of whom the eldest was Isshiah (1 
Chron. xxiv, 21) or Jeshaiah (1 Chron. xxvi, 25). B.C. 
post 1018. 

Rehearse, in the Prayer-book, is understood to im- 
ply distinctness of utterance, in opposition to a low and 
hesitating manner, as in the catechism — “Rehearse the 
articles of the belief." Sometimes the word simply de- 
notes saying or reading, or a recapitulation; as where 
Latimer remarks in a sermon, “ I will therefore make an 
end, without any rehearsal or recital of that which is al- 
ready said.” — Staunton, Did. of the. Church, s. v. 

Rehfuss, Carl, Dr., a Jewish rabbi, was born Fob. 
9, 1792, at Altdorf, in Breisgan. When fifteen years of 
age he went to Yverdun, in Switzerland, to attend the 
lectures at the Pestalozzi Institution there, lie then 
entered the lyceum at Rastatt, and after due preparation 
was enabled to attend the lectures at the Heidelberg 
University, where he was promoted, Aug. 25, 1834, as 
doctor of philosophy. Having completed his studies, 
he was appointed preacher of the Jewish congregation 
at Heidelberg, where he died, Fob. 18, 1842. He trans- 
lated into German the C, a Jewish ritual used 

for the sick, etc. (Frankfort-on-tlie-Main, 1834). Be- 
sides, he published a number of school-books. See Fiirst, 
Bill. Jutl. iii, 142 sq. ; Kavserling, Billiot hek jiidischer 
Kanzelredner, i,35S sq. ; Steinschncidcr, Billing)', lland- 
luch, p. 115; Zunz, Die Monatstage des Kulenderjahres 
(Berlin, 1872; Engl, transl. hv Rev. II. Pick in the Jew- 
ish Messenger , N. Y. 1874-75); AUgemeine Zeitung des 
Judenthums, 1842, p. 248. (B. P.) 

Re'liob (Ilcb. Rechob', -TV? [twice -‘”7, 2 Sam. 
x, 8 ; Nell, x, 1 1 ], a street, from its width ; Sept. ‘Paa/3 
v. r. 'Pot5/3, etc.), the name of two men and also of three 
places in the north of Palestine. 

1. The father of the Hadadezer, king of Zobah,whom 
David smote at the Euphrates (2 Sam. viii, 3, 12). B.C. 
ante 1043. Josephus (.4 mL vii, 5, 1) calls him A rails 
(’Apdoe;), and the old Latin version Arachus . The 
name possibly had some connection with the district 
of Syria called Rehob, or Beth -rehob (2 Sam. x, (5, 8). 

2. A Levite who sealed the covenant with Nehemiah 
(Neh. x, 11). B.C, 410. 

3. The northern limit of the exploration of the spies 
who explored Canaan (Numb, xiii, 21). It is specified 
as being “as men come unto Hamath,” or, as the phrase 
is elsewhere rendered, “at the entrance of Hamath,” 
i. e. at t he commencement of the territory of that name, 
by which in the early books of the Bible the great val- 
ley of Lebanon, the Bika’ah of the prophets, and the 
Buka’a of the modern Arabs, seems to be ronghly des- 
ignated. This, and the consideration of the improba- 
bility that the spies went farther than the upper eml 
of the Jordan valley, seems to fix the position of Reliob 
as not far from Tell el-Ivadv ami Bunins. This is con- 
firmed by the statement of Judg. xviii, 28, that Laish 
or Dan (Tell el-Ivadv) was “ in the valley that is by 
Beth -rehob.” Dr. Robinson ( Later Bib. Res. p. 371) 
proposes to identify it with Ilumn , an ancient fortress 
in the mountains north-west of the plain ofHuleli, the 
upper district of the Jordan valley. But since the names 
Ruheib, of a valley, and Deir-Rabba, of an Arab ruin, are 
found near Banins, Thomson ( Land and Book, i. 391) 
prefers that vicinity. There is no reason to doubt that 
this Rehob or Beth-relmb was identical with the place 
mentioned under botli names in 2 Sam. x, t>, 8, in con- 
nection with Maacali, which was also in the upper dis- 
trict of the Ilulch. See Beth-reiioh. 

4. One of the towns allotted to Asher (Josh, xix, 28), 
and which from the list appears to have been in close 
proximity to Zidon. It is named between Ebron, or Ab- 
don, and Ilammon. Schwarz, from some Jewish writer, 
gives it a position seven and a half miles east of Tyre, 
on the river Leontes; referring, perhaps, to the modern 
village Re z teh or Ilarzigeh. 


REHOBOAM 


1021 


REHOBOAM 


5. Asher contained another Kehob (Josh, xix, 30). 
One of the two was allotted to the Gershonite Levites 
(xxi, 31 ; 1 Chron.vi, 75), and of one its Canaanitish in- 
habitants retained possession (Jiulg. i, 31). The men- 
tion of Aphik in this latter passage may imply that the 
Kehob referred to was that of Josh, xix, 30. This, Eu- 
sebius and Jerome ( Onomasticon , s. v. “Roob”) confound 
with the Itehob of the spies, and place four Roman miles 
from Scythopolis. The place they refer to still survives 
as Rehab, three and a half miles south of Beisan, bnt 
their identification of a town in that position with one in 
the territory of Asher is obviously inaccurate. — Smith. 
The Kehob in question is possibly represented by the 
modern Tell Kurdany . south of the river Belus, near the 
northern base of which is a village with a perennial 
spring (Robinson, Later Bib. Res. p. 104). 

Rehobo'am (Heb. Rechabdm, E^rn, enlarger of 
the people [see Exod. xxxiv, 24, and comp, the name 
Evpvdgpog] ; Sept. 'Pofioap ; Josephus, ‘Po/3oajuoc, 
Ant. viii, 8,1), the only son of Solomon, by the Ammonit- 
ish princess Naamah (1 Kings xiv, 21, 31), and his suc- 
cessor (xi, 43). Rehoboam’s mother is distinguished 
by the title “ the (not 1 an,’ as in the A. Y.) Ammonite.” 
She was therefore one of the foreign women whom Sol- 
omon took into his establishment (xi, I). In the Sept. 
(I Kings xii, 24, answering to xiv, 31 of the Hebrew 
text) she is stated to have been the “ daughter of Ana 
(i. e. Iianun) the son of Nahash.” If this is a transla- 
tion of a statement which once formed part of the He- 
brew text, and may be taken as authentic history, it 
follows that the Ammonitish war into which llanun’s 
insults had provoked David was terminated by a re- 
alliance. Rehoboam was born B.C. 1014, when Solomon 
was but twenty years old, and as yet unanointed to the 
throne. His reign was noted for the great political 
schism which he occasioned. (In the following account 
we chiefly follow that in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible.') 

From the earliest period of Jewish history we per- 
ceive symptoms that the confederation of the tribes was 
but imperfectly cemented. The powerful Ephraim could 
never brook a position of inferiority. Throughout the 
book of Judges (viii, 1; xii, 1) the Ephraimites show a 
spirit of resentful jealousy when any enterprise is un- 
dertaken without their concurrence and active partici- 
pation. From them had sprung Joshua, and afterwards 
(by his place of birth) Samuel might be considered 
theirs; and though the tribe of Benjamin gave to Israel 
its first king, yet it was allied by hereditary ties to the 
house of Joseph, and by geographical position to the 
territory of Ephraim, so that up to David’s accession 
the leadership was practically in the hands of the latter 
tribe. See Ephraim, Tribe of. But Judah always 
threatened to be a formidable rival. During the earlier 
history, partly from the physical structure and situation 
of its territory (Stanley, Syr. and Palest, p. 162), which 
secluded it from Palestine just as Palestine by its geo- 
graphical character was secluded from the world, it had 
stood very much aloof from the nation [see Judah, 
Tribe of], and even after Saul’s death, apparently 
without waiting to consult their brethren, “ the men of 
Judah came and anointed David king over the house 
of Judah” (2 Sam. ii, 4), while the other tribes adhered 
to Saul’s family, thereby anticipating the final disrup- 
tion which was afterwards to rend the nation perma- 
nently into two kingdoms. But after seven years of 
disaster a reconciliation was forced upon the contending 
parties; David was acknowledged as king of Israel, and 
soon after, by fixing his court at Jerusalem and bring- 
ing the tabernacle there, he transferred from Ephraim 
the greatness which had attached to Shechem as the 
ancient capital and to Shiloh as the seat of the national 
worship. In spite of this lie seems to have enjoyed 
great personal popularity among the Ephraimites, and 
to have treated many of them with special favor (1 
Chron. xii, 30; xxvii, 10, 14), yet this roused the 
jealousy of Judah, and probably led to the revolt of 


Absalom (q. v.). Even after that perilous crisis was 
passed, the old rivalry broke out afresh and almost led 
to another insurrection (2 Sam. xx, 1, etc. [comp. Psa. 
lxxviii, 60. 67, etc., in illustration of these remarks]). 
Solomon’s reign, from its severe taxes and other oppres- 
sions, aggravated the discontent, and latterly, from its 
irreligious character, alienated the prophets and pro- 
voked the displeasure of God. When Solomon’s strong 
hand was withdrawn, the crisis came (B.C. 973). Reho- 
boam selected Shechem as the place of his coronation, 
probably as an act of concession to the Ephraimites, and 
perhaps in deference to the suggestions of those old and 
wise counsellors of his father whose advice he after- 
wards unhappily rejected. From the present Hebrew 
text of 1 Kings xii the exact details of the transactions 
at Shechem are involved in a little uncertainty. The 
general facts, indeed, are clear. The people demanded 
a remission of the severe burdens imposed by Solomon, 
and Rehoboam promised them an answer in three days, 
during which time he consulted first his father’s coun- 
sellors, and then the young men “ that were grown up 
with him and which stood before him,” whose answer 
shows how greatly during Solomon’s later years the 
character of the Jewish court had degenerated. Reject- 
ing the advice of the elders to conciliate the people at 
the beginning of his reign, and so make them “his ser- 
vants forever,” he returned as his reply, in the true spirit 
of an Eastern despot, the frantic bravado of his con- 
temporaries, “My little finger shall be thicker than my 
father’s loins. ... I will add to your yoke: my father 
hath chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you 
with scorpions” (i. e. scourges furnished with sharp 
points; so in Latin, scorpio, according to Isidore \Origg. 
v, 27], is “virga nodosa et aenleata, quia arcuato vul- 
nere in corpus infligitur” [Facciolati, s. v. ]). There- 
upon arose the formidable song of insurrection, heard 
once before when the tribes quarrelled after David’s re- 
turn from the war with Absalom : 

“What portion have we in David? 

What inheritance in Jesse’s sou? 

To your tents, O Israel ? 

Now see to thy own house, O David !” 

Rehoboam sent Adoram or Adoniram, who had been 
chief receiver of the tribute during the reigns of his 
father and his grandfather (1 Kings iv, 6; 2 Sam. xx, 
24), to reduce the rebels to reason, bnt he was stoned to 
death by them, whereupon the king and his attendants 
fled in hot haste to Jerusalem. So far all is plain, but 
there is a doubt as to the part which Jeroboam took in 
these transactions. According to 1 Kings xii, 3 he was 
summoned bv the Ephraimites from Egypt (to which 
country he had fled from the anger of Solomon) to be 
their spokesman at Rehoboam’s coronation, and actual- 
ly made the speech in which a remission of burdens was 
requested. There is no real contradiction to this when 
we read in ver. 20 of the same chapter that after the 
success of the insurrection and Rehoboam’s flight, “ when 
all Israel heard that Jeroboam was come again, they 
sent and called him unto the congregation and made 
him king.” We find in the Sept, a long supplement to 
this 12th chapter, possibly ancient, containing fuller de- 
tails of Jeroboam’s biography than the Hebrew. See 
Jeroboam. In this we read that after Solomon’s death 
he returned to his native place, Sarira in Ephraim, 
which he fortified, and lived there quietly, watching the 
turn of events until the long-expected rebellion broke 
out, when the Ephraimites heard (doubtless through his 
own agency) that he had returned, and invited him to 
Shechem to assume the crown. From the same supple- 
mentary narrative of the Sept, we might infer that more 
than a year must liave elapsed between Solomon’s death 
and Rehoboam’s visit to Shechem, for, on receiving the 
news of the former event, Jeroboam requested from the 
king of Egypt leave to return to his native country. 
This the king tried to prevent by giving him his sister- 
in-law in marriage ; but on the birth of his child Abijah, 
Jeroboam renewed his request, which was then granted. 


REIIOBOAM 


1022 


REIIOBOTH 


It is probable that during this year the discontent of 
the northern tribes was making itself more and more 
manifest, and that this led to Rehoboam’s visit and in- 
tended inauguration. The comparative chronology of 
the reigns determines them both as beginning in this 
year. 

On Rehoboam’s return to Jerusalem he assembled an 
army of INil.OUO men from the two faithful tribes of Ju- 
dah and Benjamin (the latter transferred from the side 
of Joseph to that of Judah in consequence of the posi- 
tion of David's capital within its borders), in the hope 
of reconquering Israel. The expedition, however, was 
forbidden by the prophet Shemaiah, who assured them 
that the separation of the kingdoms was in accordance 
with Hud’s will (1 Kings xii, 24). Still, during Relio- 
boam’s lifetime peaceful relations between Israel and 
Judah were never restored (2 Citron, xii, 15; 1 Kings 
xiv, 30). Rehoboam now occupied himself in strength- 
ening the territories which remained to him by build- 
ing a number of fortresses of which the names are given 
in 2 Chron. xi, G-10, forming a girdle of “fenced cities” 
round Jerusalem. The pure worship of Cod was main- 
tained in Judah, and the Levitcs and many pious Israel- 
ites from the North, vexed at the calf-idolatrv intro- 
duced by Jeroboam at Dan and Bethel, in imitation of 
the Egyptian worship of Mnevis, came and settled in 
the southern kingdom and added to its power. Rut 
Rehoboam did not check the introduction of heathen 
abominations into his capital. The lascivious worship 
of Ashtoreth was allowed to exist by the side of the 
true religion (an inheritance of evil doubtless left by 
Solomon), “images” (of Baal and his fellow-divinities) 
were set up, and the worst immoralities were tolerated 
(1 Kings xiv, 22-21). These evils were punished and 
put down by the terrible calamity of an Egyptian inva- 
sion. Shortly before this time a change in the ruling 



I house had occurred in Egypt. The twenty-first dynasty 
| of Tan it es. whose last king, Pisham or Psusenncs, had 
been a close ally of Solomon (iii. 1 ; vii, S; ix, 16; x, 
2b, 29), was succeeded by the twenty-second of Bubas- 
tites, whose first sovereign, Shisliak (Shcshonk, Scson- 
chis, 2iovfTaKifJi), was himself connected, as we have seen, 
with Jeroboam. That be was incited by him to attack 
Jmlah is very probable. At all events, in the fifth year 
of Behoboam’s reign the country was invaded by a host 
of Egyptians and other African nations, numbering 1200 
chariots, 60,000 cavalry, and a vast miscellaneous mul- 
titude of infantry (B.C. 969). The line of fortresses 
which protected Jerusalem to the west and south was 
forced, Jerusalem itself was taken, and Rehoboam had 
to purchase an ignominious peace by delivering up all 
the treasures with which Solomon had adorned the 
Temple and palace, including his golden shields, 200 of 
the larger and 300 of the smaller size (x. 16, 171, which 
were carried before him when he visited the Temple in 
state. We are told that after the Egyptians had re- 
tired, his vain and foolish successor comforted himself 
by substituting shields of brass, which were solemnly 
borne before him in procession by the body-guard, as if 
nothing bad been changed since bis father’s time (Ewald, 
(lesehichle des Yolkes Israel, iii, 34<X, 464). Shishak’s 
success is commemorated by sculptures discovered by 
Champollion on the outside of the great temple at Kar- 

H Vk ^ 

/ v d h m a It 

Hieroglyph of the above. (The final character, read kali, 
denotes n region or country.) 

nak, where among a long list of captured towns and 
provinces occurs the name Judah Malhuh (kingdom of 
Judah). It is said that the features of the captives in 
these sculptures are unmistakably Jewish (Bawlinson, 
Herodotus, ii, 376, and Hampton Lectures, p. 126; Bun- 
sen, Egypt, iii, 242). After this great humiliation the 
moral condition of Judah seems to have improved (2 
Chron. xii, 12), and the rest of Rehoboam’s life to have 
been unmarked by any' events of importance, lie died 
I5.C. 956, after a reign of seventeen years, having as- 
cended the throne at the age of forty-one (l Kings xiv, 
21: 2 Chron. xii, 13). In the addition to the Sept, al- 
ready mentioned (inserted after 1 Kings xii, 24) we read 
that he was sixteen years old at bis accession— a mis- 
statement probably founded on a wrong interpretation 
of 2 Chron. xiii. 7, where be is called “young” (i. c. 
^ new to his work, inexperienced) and “tender-hearted” 
wanting in resolution and spirit), lie had 
eighteen wives, sixty concubines, twenty -eight sons, 
and sixty daughters. The wisest thing recorded of him 
in Scripture is that he refused to waste away his sons’ 
energies in the wretched existence of an Eastern zenana, 
in which we may infer, from his helplessness at the age 
of forty-one, that lie had himself been educated, but dis- 
, persed them in command of the new fortresses which be 
liad built about the country. Of bis wives, Mahalatli, 
Abiliail, and Maachah were all of the royal bouse of 
Jesse. Maachah lie loved best of all, and to her son 
Abijah lie bequeathed his kingdom. Sec Kicsling, Hist, 
llehabeami (Jena, 1753). Sec Judah, Kincdom ok. 

Re'hoboth [many Reho'both ] ( Tick Rcchobofh', 
7'2rr [once r in-, < Jen. X, 1 1 ], wide places, i. e. streets, 
as in I’rov. i, 20, etc.), the name of three places. 

1. Reiiohotii the Well (Sept, trpvyiopta ; Vulg. 
latitudo ), (lie third of the series of wells dug by Isaac 
in the Philistines’ territory (lien, xxvi, 22). lie had 
dug several wells before, but was obliged to abandon 
j them in consequence of the quarrels of the Philis- 
tines. When this one was completed they did not 
strive for it. He celebrated bis triumph and bestowed 
! its name on the well in a fragment of poetry of the 
I same nature as those in which Jacob's wives gave 


REHOBOTII 


1023 


REHOBOTH 


names to his successive children : He called the name 
of it Rehoboth (room) and said, 

‘Because now Jehovah hath made room for ns 
And we shall increase in the laud.’” 

The name was intended to indicate the fact that the 
patriarch had at length got space to rest in. Most of 
the ancient versions translate the word, though it must 
evidently be regarded as a proper name. Isaac had 
left the valley of Gerar and its turbulent inhabitants 
before he dug the well which he thus commemorated 
(v^r. 22). From it he, in time, “ went up” to Beersheba 
(ver. 23)j an expression which is always used of motion 
towards the land of promise. The position of Gerar 
has not been definitely ascertained, but it seems to have 
lain a few miles to the south of Gaza and nearly due 
east of Beersheba. In this direction, therefore, if any- 
where, the wells Sitnali, Esek, and Rehoboth should be 
searched for. The ancient Jewish tradition confined 
the events of this part of Isaac’s life to a much nar- 
rower circle. The wells of the patriarchs were shown 
near Ashkelon in the time of Origen, Antoninus Mar- 
tyr, and Eusebius (Reland, Paliest. p. 58b) ; the Samar- 
itan version identifies Gerar with Ashkelon; Josephus 
(Ant. i, 12, 1) calls it “ Gerar of Palestine ,” i. e. of Phi- 
listia. It is a remarkable fact that the name clings to 
the spot still. In the wilderness of et-Tih, about twen- 
ty-three miles south-west of Beersheba, is a wady called 
er-Ruhaibeli , in which and on the adjoining heights 
are remains of antiquity thus described by Robinson: 
“In the valley itself is the ruin of a small rough build- 
ing with a dome, built in the manner of a mosque. On 
the right of the path is a confused heap of hewn stones, 
the remains of a square building of some size, perhaps 
a tower. On the acclivity of the eastern hill we found 
traces of wells , a deep cistern, or rather cavern, and a 
fine circular threshing-floor, evidently antique. But 
on ascending the hill on the left of the valley we v r ere 
astonished to find ourselves amid the ruins of an an- 
cient city. Here is a level track of ten or twelve acres 
in extent entirely and thickly covered over with con- 
fused heaps of stones, with just enough of their former ! 
order remaining to show the foundations and form of 
the houses, and the course of some of the streets. The 
houses were mostly small, all solidly built of bluish lime- 
stone, squared and often hewn on the exterior surface. 
Many of the dwellings had each its cistern, cut in the 
solid rock; and these still remained quite entire. ... 
Once, as we judged upon the spot, this must have been 
a city of not less than twelve or fifteen thousand inhab- 
itants” (Bib. Res. i, 106). This identification is adopted 
by Rowlands (in Williams, Holy City , i, 465), Van de 
Velde (Memoir, p.343), Stewart (Tent and Khan, 
p.343), and Bonar (Desert of Sinai, p. 316). Dr. Rob- 
inson coidd not find the well itself. Dr. Stewart found 
it “regularly built, twelve feet in circumference,” but 
“ completely filled up.” Mr. Rowlands describes it as 
“ an ancient well of living and good water.” 

2. Rehoboth the City (Heb. Rechoboth' ’ Ir , Pirn 
I* 1 ”, i. e. Rehoboth City ; Sept. 'Pow/3w$ ttoXiq v. r. 
T’oai/3wc; Vulg. platece civitatcs), one of the four cit- 
ies built by Asshur, or by Nimrod in Assliur, according 
as this difficult passage is translated. The four were 
Nineveh, Rehuboth-ir, Calah, and Resen, between Nine- 
veh and Calah (Gen. x, 11). It has been supposed by 
recent commentators that these four constituted one 
great city. They argue that the first name, Xinereh, 
is the chief, and that the other three are subordinate. 

“ He built Nineveh, with (taking 1, not as a copulative, 
but as the sign of subordination) Behoboth-ir, Calah. 
and Resen, between Nineveh and Calah.” From this it 
would follow that the four places formed a large com- 
posite city, or range of towns, to which the general 
name “Nineveh” was given (see Keil and Delitzsch, 
ad loc.). This appears to put too great a strain upon 
the passage; and it is better, because more natural, to 
take them as distinct places. They were most prob- 


ably not far distant from each other; and as Nineveh 
and Calah stood on the Tigris, the others may be looked 
for there also. The Samaritan seems to understand 
Sittace in South Assyria, which was thence called Sit- 
tacenc ( l’tolemy, vi, 1,2), and is different from the 
Mesopotamian Sittace near the Tigris (Xenoph. Anab. 
ii, 4, 13; comp. Mannert, Geogr. v, ii, 333 sq.), on the 
site of the modern Old Bagdad. Ephrem has Adiabene, 
a well-known district of Assyria ; but not, as Michaelis 
supposes ( Spicil . i, 243), also a city. Schulthess (Parad. 
p. 117) refers it to the Euphrates, and considers it the* 
same as Rehoboth Ilan-nahar (No. 3, below). In that 
case we must understand Assyria in a wide sense, as 
the Assyrian empire, which is improbable. Bochart 
gives a far-fetched supposition, resting on conjectural 
etymology (Phaleg, iv, 21). Jerome, both in the Vul- 
gate and in his Qiaestiones ad Genesim (probably from 
Jewish sources), considers Rehoboth-ir as referring to 
Nineveh, and as meaning the “ streets of the city.” 
The readings of the Targums of Jonathan, Jerusalem, 
and rabbi Joseph on Gen. and 1 Chron., viz. Platiah, 
Platiutha, are probably only transcriptions of the Greek 
word 7r\aruai, which, as found in the well-known an- 
cient city Plataea, is the exact equivalent of Rehoboth. 
The name of Rahabeh is still attached to two places in 
the region of the ancient Mesopotamia. They lie, the 
one on the western and the other on the eastern bank 
of the Euphrates, a few miles below the confluence of 
the Khabtir. Both are said to contain extensive an- 
cient remains. That on the eastern bank bears the 
affix of malik, or royal, and this Bunsen ( Bibelwerk ) 
and Kaliseh (Genesis, p. 261) propose as the representa- 
tive of Behohoth. Its distance from Kalah-Sherghat 
and Nimriid (nearly 200 miles) is perhaps an obstacle 
to this identification. Sir H. Rawlinson (Atheneeum, 
April 15, 1854) suggests Selemiyah in the immediate 
neighborhood of Kalah, “where there are still exten- 
sive ruins of the Assyrian period,” but no subsequent 
discoveries appear to have confirmed this suggestion. 

3. Rehoboth by the River (Ueb. Rechoboth' han- 
Xahar \ ^PtSP pis'lYl, i. e. Rechoboth of the River ; 
Sept. 'Pow/Sw^ [ v. r. 'Poi ] i) i -apd Trorapov ; 
Vulg. de flurio Roboth, or Rohohoth, quee juxta amnem 
sita est), the city of a certain Saul or Shaul,one of the 
early kings of the Edomites (Gen. xxxvi, 37 ; I Chron. 
i, 48). The affix “ the river” fixes the situation of Re- 
hoboth as on the Euphrates, emphatically “ the river” 
to the inhabitants of Western Asia (see Gen.xxxi, 21; 
xv, 18; Dent, i, 7; Exod. xxiii, 31). The Targum of 
Onkelos adds, “ Rehoboth, which is on the Phrat .” There 
is no reason to suppose that the limits of Edom ever 
extended to the Euphrates, and therefore the occur- 
rence of the name in the lists of kings of Edom is pos- 
sibly a trace of an Assyrian incursion of the same nature 
as that of Chedorlaomer and Amraphel. At all events, 
the kings of Edom were not all natives of that country. 
Schultens in his note (Index Geogr. in Yit. Salad, s. v. 
“ Raliaba”) identifies it with Rehoboth of Gen. xxxvi, 
37 ; and this is the view of Bochart (Opp. i, 225), Winer, 
Gesenius (Thesaur. p. 1281), and others ; but as the Eu- 
phrates was far distant from the site of Nineveh, there 
is a strong probability against this opinion. Rahabah 
is mentioned by Abulfeda. In liis day there was a 
small village on the site. The name still remains at- 
tached to two spots on the Euphrates — the one, simply 
Rahabeh, on the right bank, eight miles below the junc- 
tion of tlie Khabur, and about three miles west of the 
river; the other four or five miles farther clown on the 
left bank. The latter is said to be called Pahabeh- 
malik, i. e. “royal” (Kaliseh, Kaplan), and is on this 
ground identified by the Jewish commentators with 
the city of Saul. The existence of the second locality, 
however, rests but«on slender foundation. It is shown 
on the map in Bayard's Xinereh and Babylon, and is 
mentioned by the two Jewish authorities named above; 
but it does not appear on the map of colonel Chesney. 


REIIUM 


1024 


REICH EL 


The other locality is unquestionably authentic. Clies- 
ncy says, “Oil the right bank of the Euphrates, at the 
north-western extremity of the plain of Shinar, and 
three and a half miles south-west of the town of Mava- 
din, are extensive ruins around a castle still bearing the 
name of liehoboth” (i, 119 ; ii, 222). 

Re'hum (lleb. and Chald. Rechum’, CWl, com- 
passionate; Sept. 'PfOi'/i, but in Neh. iii, 17 T*itoe/i), 
the name of five men. 

1. One of the “children of the province” who re- 
turned from the Babylonian captivity with Zerubbabel 
(Ezra ii, 7). B.C. 536. In the parallel passage (Neh. 
vii, 7) he is called Nehum. 

2. One of the priests who returned from Babylon at 
the same time (Neh. xii, 3). B.C. 536. In a subse- 
quent verse (ver. 15) lie seems to be called Hakim (q. v.). 

3. A Persian officer in Samaria, joint author with 

Shimsliai of a letter which turned Artaxerxes against 
the building-plans of the Jews (Ezra iv, 8, 9, 17, 23). 
B.C. 535. “lie was perhaps a kind of lieutenant-gov- 
ernor of the province under the king of Persia, holding 
apparently the same office as Tatnai, who is described 
in Ezra v, 6 as taking part in a similar transaction, and 
is there called ‘the governor on this side the river.’ 
The Chaldee title, bltl-teem, literally ‘lord 

of decree,’ is left untranslated in the Sept. BaXr«/f and 
the Yulg. Jieelteem; and the rendering ‘chancellor’ in 
the A. Y. appears to have been derived from Kimclii 
and others, who explain it, in consequence of its con- 
nection with ‘scribe,’ by the Hebrew word which is 
usually rendered ‘recorder.’ This appears to have been 
the view taken by the author of 1 Esdr. ii,25, 6 y pd<piov 
to. 7rpo<T7ri7rrorra, and by Josephus (Ant. xi, 2, 1), 6 
irdvra rd 7rparrbpeva ypdtycov. The former of these 
seems to be a gloss, for the Chaldee title is also repre- 
sented by BttXrfS’^oc” (Smith). 

4. A Levite, son of Bani, and one of the builders of 
the wall of Jerusalem under Nchemiah (Neh. iii, 17). 
B.C. 445. 

5. One of the chief Israelites who signed the cove- 
nant with Nehemiah (Neh. x, 25). B.C. 410. 

Re'l (Hob. llct)', “2^, friendly ; Sept. Tb/f v. r. 
’P »jo7), one of king David’s officers, who refused to rebel 
with Adonijah (1 Kings i, 8). B.C. 1015. “Jerome 
(Qiccest. Jlebr. ad loc.) states that he is the same with 
‘Hiram the Zairite,’ i. e. Ira the Jairite, a priest or 
prince about the person of David. Ewald (Gcsch. iii, 
266, note), dwelling on the occurrence of Sliimoi in the 
same list with Bei, suggests that the two are David's 
only surviving brothers, Bei being identical with B.\i>- 
l » ai. This is ingenious, but there is nothing to support 
it, while there is the great objection to it that the names 
arc in the original extremely dissimilar, Bei containing 
the A in, a letter which is rarely exchanged for any 
other, but apparently never for Daleth (Gesenius, The- 
saur. p. 976)” (Smith). 

Reich, Georg. a German doctor of theology, was 
born in 1813, and died Oct. 1, 1862, as pastor of llcich- 
elsheim, in Hesse. He wrote, Die Aifcrstehung des 
Jierrn a Is J/eilsthatsuche, with special reference to 
Schleicrmaeher (Darmstadt, 1845) : — Die I.ehrfortbil- 
duny in tier ertingelisch - protestantisehen Kirche, auf 
clem Grurul dev auysburyischen Confession (Hamburg 
and Gotha, 1847): — Die evungdiseh - lutherische Kircbe 
im Grossln rzoqthum /lessen (Stuttgart, 1855). See Ziidl- 
old, JiihL Tint, l. ii, 1 043, 1355, 1 309. ( B. I’.) 

Reichaidt, John Christian, a minister of the 
Episcopal Church, was born at Buhrort, on the Bhinc, 
in 1803. lie was educated first at the public school in 
his native place, ami afterwards pursued his studies at 
the gymnasium at Duisburg. Feeling a desire to de- 
vote himself to missionary work, he #vas recommended 
to the missionary society at Barmen, which received 
him, and he was sent by it to the excellent Jiinickc's 
Missionary Institution at Berlin. Jilnicke had no funds 


at command to enable him to send forth missionaries, 
but the ‘missionary societies in England, in Holland, 
and elsewhere were thankful to avail themselves of 
those who had been trained by the venerable pastor in 
Berlin. In the year 1824 the London Society for Prop- 
agating the Gospel among the Jews appointed Mr. 
Keichardt for the mission in Poland, in connection with 
Mr. Becker, a former pupil of father Jiinicke. During 
1825 and 1826 he travelled extensively through Poland ; 
from 1827 to 1830 he was engaged in frequent mission- 
ary journeys in Holland and Bavaria, and in l831he 
was active, together with the late Bcv. M. S. (after- 
wards bishop) Alexander, in preaching the Gospel to 
the Jews in London and the principal towns of Eng- 
land. From that time his permanent residence was at 
London, in prosecution of the missionary work in behalf 
of his society. In October, 1857, 31 r. Beichardt left 
England on a special mission to Jerusalem, where he 
also remained for a time. After his return from Jeru- 
salem, his time and efforts were mainly directed to the 
work of the society in England, with occasional vis- 
its to various missionary stations. llis main work, 
however, was the revision of the text of the Hebrew 
New Test., which was printed and published several 
times, and in correcting for the press multiplied edi- 
tions of the Old Test., which the London Society, as 
well as the British Bible Society, published. He also 
took part in the training of candidates for mission- 
ary employment, and, alter he was permitted to la- 
bor until his death, March 31, 1873. In connection 
with his missionary work, he published a number of 
pamphlets, which have been translated by his fellow- 
laborers into Dutch, French, etc., viz. “jl SVI'I, 

or rroofs that Jesus of Xazareth- is the Son of David 
(Lond. 1851, and often): — n JVSiJ m‘1, or Proofs 
that the Messiah, the Son of David, is also the Son of 
God (ibid. 1851. and often) n V"2'2 

H, The Scriptural Doctrine of the God of Israel 

(ibid. 1851, and often): — TT in TT, The Two 

Covenants, or Mosaism and Christianity (2d ed. ibid. 
1857): — Invest iyation of the Prophet Joel with Special 
Reference to the Coming Crisis (ibid. 1867). See Jeicish 
Intelligencer (Lond.), 1851, p. 427 sq. ; 1867, p. 34 sq. ; 
May, 1873; Dibre Emelh, oder Stimme der Wuhrheit 
(Breslau, 1873), p. 97 sq.; Delitzsch. Saat auf Uoffnvng 
(1873), x, 228 sq. ; Fiirst, Pibl.Jud. iii. 143; Zuchold, 
Jiibl. Theol. ii, 1044. (B. P.) 

Reiche, Johann Georg, a German doctor and pro- 
fessor of theology, was born in the year 1794 at Leese, 
in Hanover. Having completed his studies, lie was 
appointed in 1817 collaborator at the gymnasium in 
Celle, and in 1819 he became Repetent at Gottingen. 
In the year 1821 he travelled extensively, and after his 
return in 1822 he commenced his private lectures at the 
University of Gottingen. In 1827 he was appointed 
extraordinary professor of theology, and in 1835 doctor 
and ordinary professor, which position he occupied till 
his death, Aug. 9. 1863. Beiche is best known as a 
commentator on t he New Test., and as such he pub- 
lished, Authentic Posterioris ad Thessalonienses Kpisto- 
hr Vindicite (Gottingen, 1829) : — 1 'ersuch viner ausfnhr- 
lichen lirkldrung des Brief s Pauli an die Romer (ibid. 
1832, 1834, 2 pts.): — Codicum MSS. X. T. Grcvcorum 
aliquot Insiyniorum in Bibliotheca Regia Parisicnsi A s- 
serratorum A ’ora Descript io et cum Textu Yvlgo Recepto 
Collatio preemissis quibusdam de Xeylecti Codicum MSS. 
X. T. Studii Causes Obserrationibus (ibid. 1817): — Conv- 
mentarius Criticus in X. T.,qno Lora Grariora et Diffi- 
ciliora l.ectionis Dubia • accurate Recenscntur et Kr pli- 
ca ntur (ibid. 1853-62, vol. i-iii):— Gonnnentarii in X. T. 
Critici Specimen (ibid. 1863). See Winer. Ilandbuch der 
theol. /.iteratin', i, 89, 257, 258, 114, 450, 725; Zuchold, 
liibl. Theol. ii, 1044 sq. ; I Ate rarischer J/andieeiser furs 
kathoL Deutschland, 1864, p. 73. (B. I‘.) 

Reichel, John Frederick, a distinguished bishop 


REID 


1025 


REILY 


of the Moravian Church, was born at Leuba, in Alten- 
burg, Germany, May 10, 1731. His father and grandfa- 
ther were botli Protestant clergymen, and the latter was 
expelled from Bohemia on account of his faith. Reichel 
studied theology at the University of Jena, and entered 
the ministry of the Lutheran Church , but after a service 
of only four years he joined the Moravian communion, 
for which he had always had a strong predilection. lie 
labored in various capacities and in various countries 
until 17G9, when he was elected to the executive board 
of the Unitas Fratrum, known as the Unity’s Elders’ 
Conference. In this body he remained for forty years, 
until his death. After his consecration to the episco- 
pacy in 1775, he undertook many official visitations, 
extending them as far as the East Indies and the Cape 
of Good Hope. The most remarkable was that which 
he held in America in the midst of the Revolutionary 
War, from 1778 to 1782. lie visited nearly all the. Mo- 
ravian churches of this country, in many of which the 
war had caused unfortunate agitations and strife, and 
succeeded in restoring peace. He died at Berthelsdorf, 
in Saxony, Nov. 17, 1809. (E. de S.) 

Reid, Adam, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, and 
a native of Scotland, was educated in Glasgow Univer- 
sity, and at the Theological Seminary of the Secession 
Church under Dr. Dick. Having completed his studies 
in 1812, he came to America. He supplied the First 
Presbyterian Church in Amenia, N. Y., about a year 
and a half, when he was called to the Congregational 
Church of Salisbury, Conn. 1 1 is reputation as a preach- 1 
er was very extensive, and he received calls at different 
times to important charges in Baltimore, Boston, Chica- 
go, and Buffalo. His habits were very regular ; he gave 
a part of each evening to the preparation of his sermons, 
which he wrote out with great care and regularly com- 
mitted to memory. As a memoriter preacher lie w’as 
unusually effective. His style was logical and impres- 
sive, being adorned with the choicest diction. He did 
very little pastoral work, but his congregation was 
more than paid by the richness of the intellectual feasts 
which he constantly served. He rvas above the medi- 
um height, slender and straight as an arrow, and very 
clerical in liis appearance, which gained for him the 
sobriquet of “ priest Reid,” by which lie w r as known in 
all the surrounding country. When at home he wrote 
a sermon every week, many of which, however, he never 
preached. When he had passed his seventieth year, his 
congregation reluctantly accepted his resignation and 
appointed him pastor emeritus. He died Nov. 29, 1878. J 
(W. P. S.) 

Reid, John Wilson, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Cabarras Co., N. C., in 1807. He pursued his | 
early studies amid many embarrassing circumstances, 
and his literary and scientific studies chiefly under Dr. 
John Robinson, of North Carolina. In 1S31 he removed , 
to Georgia and opened a classical school, during which | 
time lie studied theology under the direction of S. K. 
Talmage, D.D., of Augusta, Ga., was licensed by Hope- 
well Presbytery in September, 1833, and soon after or- ( 
dained by the same presbytery, and was subsequent- 
lv connected with Olivet, South Liberty, Lincolnton, 
Double Branches, Salem, AVoodstock, Bethany, and Lex- 
ington churches, and also as a general domestic mis- 
sionary agent. He died at his residence in AVoodstock, 
Ga., July 11, 1867. Mr. Reid for about thirty years la- 
boriously followed the occupation of teaching in con- 
nection with the exercise of his ministry. The village 
of AA'oodstock, Oglethorpe Co., Ga., was built up by the 
subject of this sketch and a few other gentlemen of 
wealth and intelligence, for the sake of social, educa- 
tional, and religious privileges. For a few years Mr. 
Reid carried on simply a high-school ; but bis capaci- 
ty, skill, and success in training young men rapidly in- 
creased his reputation: it was thought, therefore, ad- 
visable to secure still greater privileges by establish- 
ing a more regular organization. Conscquentlv. quite 
AT II. — T t t 


a full literary, classical, and scientific curriculum was 
arranged in four divisions, and the school henceforth 
took the name of Philomathean Collegiate Institute. 
The change was made at the suggestion and by the 
aid of the Hon. Alexander H. Stephens, and the or- 
ganization accomplished all that its friends expected. 
See AATlson, Presbyterian Historical Almanac, 1868, p. 
365. (J. L. S.) 

Reid, Joseph, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in 1842, near Romeo,- Mich. He was of Scotch parent- 
age and received a careful religious training. He was 
graduated at the Michigan University and received his 
theological training in Union Seminary. He w’as reg- 
ularly ordained, and went to Kansas to enter the mis- 
sionary field. At a place called Manhattan, and the re- 
gion around, he spent five years of arduous toil, when he 
returned to Michigan, that he might be near his parents 
and comfort them in their feebleness. He remained in 
Michigan, preaching as opportunity permitted, and was 
looking forward to a settlement when he was attacked 
with a disease which ended his life. He died at Romeo 
in 1877, after a ministry of only seven years. (\\ T . P. S.) 

Reid, Thomas, a celebrated Scotch divine and 
metaphysician, was born at Strachan in 1710. He was 
educated at Marischal College, Aberdeen, and became 
its librarian, a position which he resigned in 1736. In 
1737 he was presented by King’s College, Aberdeen, to 
the living of NeAv Machar, Aberdeenshire, and w T as ap- 
pointed professor of moral philosophy in the above- 
named college in 1752. In 1764 he succeeded Adam 
Smith as professor of moral philosophy in the Univer- 
sity of Glasgow, retiring in 1781. lie died Oct. 7, 1796. 
He published, Essays on the Powers of the Human Mind 
(Edinb. 18 1 9, 3 vols. 8vo) : — Inquiry into the Human Mind 
(Edinb. 1763 ; 5th ed. 1801, 8vo). These and numerous 
Essays, etc., were collected and published under the title 
of The ITorA'S of Thomas Reid, D.D., noio fully Col- 
lected, etc. (6tli ed. Edinb. 1863, 2 vols. 8vo). See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. .4 utkors, s. v. See Scot- 
tish Philosophy. 

Reid, William Shields, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born in AA T cst Nottingham, Chester Co., 
Pa., April 21, 1778, and graduated with honor at Prince- 
ton College in 1802. He w r as then for about two years 
assistant teacher in an academy in Georgetown, D. ('., 
afterwards in Shepherdstown, A T a. ; then, about 1804, 
he became professor in Hampden Sidney College, and 
finally president of that college some two years later. 
He was licensed by the Presbyter}' of AATncbester in 
the spring of 1806, and dissolved his connection with 
the college about eighteen months afterwards. In 1808 
he settled at Lynchburg, Campbell Co., A'a., where he 
opened a school for males as a means of support, and 
at the same time labored to build up a Presbyterian 
Church in the village. In this he succeeded, and was 
installed as pastor in 1822. Still, his principal field of 
labor was his school, which after a while became a 
boarding-school for young ladies, and stood first among 
similar institutions in A'irginia. Here his labors for 
the good of his charge were crowned with distinguish- 
ed success. Having become incapacitated for public 
labor, he resigned his charge in 1848, and lived in re- 
tirement till his death, June 23, 1853. — Sprague, Annals 
of the A mer. Pulpit, iv, 38S. 

Reily, James Ross, a minister of the German 
Reformed Church, w’as born in Meyerstov’n, Lebanon 
Co., Pa., Oct. 31, 1788. He began his theological stud- 
ies with Dr. Becker, of Baltimore, Aid., in 1S09, was li- 
censed in 1812, and became pastor of churches in Lv- 
ken’s A’alley, Dauphin Co., Pa. In 1813 he was sent 
as an exploring missionary to North Carolina, after 
which he returned to his charge, lie u r as called to Ha- 
gerstown, Aid., in 1819; resigned in 1825, to accept the 
appointment of agent to go to Europe with a view of 
securing aid from the Reformed churches there for the 
endowment of the Theological Seminar}’ of the German 


KEILY 


102G 


KEISCIIL 


Reformed Church and collecting books for its library. 
In this lie was successful, returning in November. 1x20. 
He became pastor in York, Pa., in 1*27. 1 1 is health 

failing, he resigned in July, 1X31. lie now supported 
himself in a secular calling amid continued ill-health, 
and died March IX, 1X14. Mr. Keily was a man of great 
energy and originality, and withal somewhat eccen- 
tric; in the pulpit he was grave, earnest, and more than 
ordinarilv eloquent. He preached in German and Eng- 
lish. 

Heily, John, a minister in the Reformed Presby- 
terian Church, was born in Ireland about 1770, and came 
to this country when about seventeen. He engaged in 
teaching in Philadelphia and vicinity for several years, 
but studied theology, and was licensed to preach by the 
Special Presbytery at Philadelphia, May 24, 1800. lie 
was taken on trial Aug. 15, 1812, ordained in 1X13, and 
scut as missionary to South Carolina, Kentucky, and 
Ohio. He had not been long in South Carolina before 
he was installed as pastor of the united congregations 
of Reaver Dams and Waterce, where he labored with 
great acceptance and success until his death. August, 
1X20. Mr. Ilcily was a man of childlike simplicity, god- 
ly sincerity, singleness of purpose, and undaunted in- 
trepidity. — Sprague, Annuls of the A mer. Pulpit, ix, GO. 

Reimarus, Hermann Saml'kl, a learned German 
philologist, was born at Hamburg, Dec. 22, 1G94. and 
studied first under his father and afterwards under Wolf 
and I’abricius. He next went to study at Jena, and 
later at Wittenberg. After having travelled over Hol- 
land and England, he was appointed rector at Weimar 
in 1723, and in 1729 was called to Hamburg as teacher 
of Hebrew in the gymnasium, lie died there, March 
1, 17G5. Ills theological writings are a Dissertatio de. 
Assessoribus Synedrii JJagni (llamb. 1751, 4to) : — Die 
vonuhmsten Wahrhciten der nuturlichen Religion (ibid. 
1754), and a few others of less importance. I Ic is espe- 
cially credited with the editorship of the famous Wol- 
fenbiittel Fragments (q. v.). See Iloefer, Xour. Biog. 
Gene rule, s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Reinbeck, Johann Gustav, a German theologian 
and philosopher, was born Jan. 25, 1G83. II is father, 
Andreas, was superintendent at Brunswick, and pub- 
lished two enormous volumes on the Hebrew accents. 
Johann studied theology at Halle, pursuing Hebrew j 
under Michaelis, and philosophy under Wolf. He was 
called in 1709 as preacher to the Fricdrichswerder 
Church in Berlin, and in 1 71 G became pastor of the' 
Church of St. Peter at Cologne, lie was a favorite 
with Frederick William I, and also with Frederick the 
Great. He died Aug. 21, 1741. Reinbeck is the author 
of several Biblical, homilctical, and philosophical works, 
which are enumerated in Iloefer, Four. Biog. Genera le, 
s. v. 

Reineccius, Christian, a Lutheran divine, was 
born Jan. 22, 1GGX, at Grossmilldingcn, in Zerbst, and 
died ( let. IX, 1752, at Weissenfols, where for about thirty 
years he had acted as rector of the academy. Reineccius 
was a voluminous writer, and his Dissertations, which 
he published as rector of Weissenfels, are still very val- 
uable. Besides his edition of Lankisch’s Concordimtw 
Bibliorum Germanico- Hebruico-G near (Lips. 17 IX), and 
of Yet us Testamentum Grivenm ex Yersioue Septiuigintu 
Interprvtvm, unit rum Libris A pocryphis, etc. (ibid. 1730- 
57), he published "I* r 2* i. e. Bibliu 

11 ibruicu, c id Optimorum Codicil m et Editionum Fitkm 
Jleccimta, etc. (ibid. 1725). In the preface we are told, 
as is already indicated in the title-page, that, in editing 
this Bible MSS. have been perused, but their use is no- 
where pointed out. An alphabetical table of the Para- 
shiotli and a table of the Haphtaroth arc given at the 
end. The type is correct. A second edition of the 
Hebrew Bible was published in 1739. which is but a 
reprint of the first, repeating even its mistakes, and 
making still greater ones. A third edition was pub- 


lished in 175G, after Reineccius’s death, by C. G. Pohl, 
who also wrote the preface, in which lie speaks of the 
changes made by him. In 1793, Dbderlein and Meiss- 
ner published Reineccius’s Bible Cum Yariis Lectioni- 
bus ex Ingenti Codicil in Copia a C. Kennicotio et J. B. 
de Rossi Collatorum, which is very valuable. It was 
republished by Knapp (Halle, 1X18). Reineccius also 
wrote, Index Memorialis, quo 1 'ores llebruicie et Chttl- 
ihiicet P. T. Chimes, etc. (Lips. 1723, and often), which 
is appended to some editions of his Hebrew Bible: — 
Manuule Biblieum ex Concordant iis Greeds Adoruutum, 
in quo Fores Gnecee thanes in 1. XX Interprctum 1 "trsione 
Bibliorum Greecei et in A pocryphis F. 7’., nee non in Tex- 
tu Originali Greeco X. T. Occurrentes, etc. (ibid. 1734): 
— Bibliu Sacra Quadrilinguia 1'. T. llebr. giving the He- 
brew, Greek (according to Grabe’s text), the German of 
Luther, and Latin translation of Scb. Schmid, 3 vols., the 
three containing the Apocrypha in Greek, Latin, and 
German (ibid. 1751): — Janua llebruicie Lingua » Y.T. 
etc. (ibid. 1704; last ed. by Rehkopf, 17X8). See Flirst, 
Bill. Jud . iii, 144 sq. ; Rosenmilllcr, 1/andbuch Jlir die 
Literatur, i, 23G sq. ; Winer, Uundbvch der theol. Lite- 
nitur, i, 35, 39, 47, 1 20, 321 , 527, 59 1 ; ii, 726 ; Theol. Cni- 
versal-Lexihon, s. v. ; Carpzov, Critica Sacra (2d cd. 
1748), p. 408, 425; Kit to, Cyclop, s. v. (B. P.) 

Reinhard, Franz Volkmar, an eminent Ger- 
man Frotestant theologian, was born in the duchy of 
Sulzbach in 1753. lie studied with his father, a cler- 
gyman, until he w'as sixteen, w hen he entered the gym- 
nasium of Ratisbou. Here he remained five years, and 
in 1773 removed to the University of Wittenberg. In 
1782 he was appointed professor’ of theology, and in 
1784 preacher to the university and assessor of the con- 
sistory. In 1792 he w r as preacher to the court at Dres- 
den, ecclesiastical counsellor and member of the su- 
preme consistory, and held these positions until his 
death, Sept. G, 1X12. lie published, Sermons (Sulzbach, 
1X11, 3G vols.): — Christian Ethics (5 vols.): — Confes- 
sions, etc. 

Reinhard, Lorenz, a German doctor of theology, 
W'as horn Feb. 22, 1700, at Helliugcn, in Franconia. Af- 
ter the completion of his studies, lie was first tutor and 
afterwards professor at the gymnasium in llildburg- 
hausen. In 1727 he was called as deacon and professor 
of the gymnasium to Weimar, and in 1744 as superin- 
tendent to Buttstsidt. where he died, Nov. 15, 1752. He 
wrote. De Libro Sapientiee non Cunonico, etc. (Wittcnb. 
1719) : — Die Theologie der Patriarchal vor and nach der 
Sihidfluth, etc. (llamb. 1737): — Obsercutioncs Philol.- 
exey, in Evangel. Murci Select issimee (Lips. 1737): — 
Breviur. Controversial \ cum Reformutis, unu cum Bre- 
rietrio Controversial', cum A rminiuuis (Weimar, 1735) : 
— Chronotaxis Cantici Cunticorum Salomonis, etc. (ibid. 
1741): — Commeuiatio de Assupho, etc. (ibid. 1742): — 
Erklurung unil Zergliederungdes Bitches lliob, etc. (Leips. 
1719-50). See Wilier, llanilb. der theol. Literatur, i, 
247, 353; ii, 727 ; Fiirst, Bill. Jud. iii, 147. (B. P.) 

Reins, a name for the kidneys, derived from the Lat- 
in renes, and in our English Bible employed in those 
passages of the Old Test, in which the term for kidneys 
(T'-br, kilaydth ) is used metaphorically, i. e. except 
in the Pentateuch and in Isa. xxx-iv, (5, where this word 
is rendered “kidneys.” In the ancient system of phys- 
iology the kidneys, from the sensitiveness of that part 
of tiic person, were believed to be t lie seat of desire and 
longing, which accounts for their often being coupled 
with the heart (Psa. vii, 9; xxvi, 2; Jer. xi, 20: xvii, 
10, etc.). See Kiunkys. 

The word “reins” is once used (Isa. xi, 5) as the 
equivalent of c halatsayim, elsewhere translated 

“ loins” (q. v.). 

Reisclll, Wiuiki.m Carr, a German Roman Cath- 
olic divine, doctor and professor of theology at Munich, 
was born in that oily Jan. 13, 1X18. Having completed 
bis studies in bis native place, he was made a priest in 


REISER 


1027 


RELAND 


1835, and, after having occupied several positions as 
priest and chaplain, he was promoted in 1842 as doctor 
of theology. For some time he lectured at Munich, but 
in 1845 went to Amberg. occupying the chair of profess- 
or of dogmatics and exegesis. In 1851 he was called to 
Regensburg as professor of Church history and canon 
law, till he was recalled to his native city in 1867 as pro- 
fessor of moral philosophy, where he died, Oct. 4, 1873. 
In connection with others, he published a commentary on 
the Holy Bible, the New-Test, part being his sole work. 
See Literarischer JIandweiser , 1873, p. 494. (B. I J .) 

Reiser, Anton, a German theologian, was born at 
Augsburg, March 7, 1628. lie was first preacher at 
Schemnitz, and in 1659 became pastor of the Lutheran 
church at I’resburg. Having in 1672 espoused Calvin- 
ism, he was thrown into prison and at length banished. 
Eventually, however, he served as rector of the gymna- 
sium at Augsburg, preacher at Oeringen, and after 1678 
as pastor of the Church of St. James at Hamburg, where 
he died, April 27, 1686. He was the author of a num- 
ber of theological treatises, enumerated in Iloefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Reiske, Joiiaxx, a German theologian, was born 
May 25, 1641, and died at 'Volfenbiittel, Feb. 20, 1710. 
He is the author of Exercitatio Philologica de Sadducce- 
is (Jena, 1666): — Theocratia, Respublica sine Exemplo 
(ibid. 1670) : — De Lingua Vernacula Jesu Christi (ibid. 
1670): — Conjectures in Jobum et Prov. Salom. (Lips. 
1679): — De Scriptorum Romanormn Jndaicam circa 
Historiam Falsis Narratinnculis , etc. (Wittenb. 1691): 
— Exercitationes de Vaticin. Sibyll. (Lips. 1688). See 
Fiirst, Bill. Jud. iii, 150 ; Winer, Handb. der theol. Li- 
teratur, i, 137, 557, 562; ii, 728 ; Jocher, Gelehrten-Lex. 
s. v. (B. P.) 

Reissmann, Johann Valentin von, a German 
doctor of theology, and bishop of Wurzburg, was born 
Oct. 12, 1807, at Allersheim, in Lower Franconia. He 
completed his studies at the University of Wiirzburg, 
which honored him w ith the degree of doctor of philos- 
ophy and theology. Towards the end of the year 1830 
he was ordained priest and appointed to Volkach, but 
in 1834 he w T as called to Wiirzburg as ordinary professor 
of exegesis and Oriental languages. This prominent 
position he occupied till Dec. 7, 1846, v r hen he became 
a member of the chapter, and for a number of years he 
stood at the head of the diocesan government. In 1861 
he was made provost of the cathedral ; and when, in 1870, 
his bishop died, he was appointed by the king of Bava- 
ria, Oct. 23, 1870, bishop of Wurzburg, and confirmed 
by the pope in the following year. He occupied the 
episcopal see only a few years, and died Nov. 17, 1876. 
See Literarischer llandiceiser, 1876, p. 53 sq. (B. P.) 

Reiter, Ernst Anton, a Roman Catholic priest, 
was born in 1821 at Arnsberg. He received holy orders 
in 1846, and came in 1854 as missionary to the United 
States. In 1859 he was appointed pastor of the German 
church of the Trinity at Boston, Mass., and died May 5, 
1873, at Erie, Pa. He wrote a very important work on 
the statistics of the Roman Catholic Church of the Unit- 
ed States, entitled Schemed ismus der katholischen deutsch- 
en Geistlichkeit in den Ver. Stouten Nordamerikas (N. Y. 
1869). See Literarischer llandiceiser fur das katholische 
Deutschland, 1869, p. 465 sq. ; 1873, p. 271. (B. P.) 

Reiter, William, a minister of the German Re- 
formed Church, w r as born in Lancaster County, Pa., Sept. 
13, 1799, and spent his youth in Westmoreland Coun- 
ty, Pa. He studied theology privately with several 
ministers successively in Stark County, O., preaching 
meanwhile in the way of missionary tours under their 
direction. He was ordained in 1823, and took charge 
of a number of German Reformed congregations in Tus- 
carawas County, O., in whose service he continued up 
to the time of his death. May 8, 1826, He was a dil- 
igent student, and a minister that had much of the true 
missionary spirit. 


Reithmayr, Franz Xaver. doctor and professor 
of theology, a Roman Catholic divine of Germany, was 
born in 1809 at Illkofen, near Regensburg. In 1832 he 
was made priest; in 1836 the Munich University made 
him doctor of theology; in 1837 he was extraordinary 
professor; in 1841 ordinary professor of the New Test, 
exegesis, and died Jan. 26, 1872. Reithmayr was one 
of the most prominent theologians of the Roman Cath- 
olic Church, and published in 1838 a work on patrology, 
in 1845 a Commentary on the Epistle to the Romeins (Re- 
gensb. 1845). In 1832 he published his Introduction to 
the Canonical Books of the New Testament (ibid.); and 
in 1865 a Commentary on the Epistle to the Galatians. 
His last great w r ork was the edition of a German trans- 
lation of the fathers, which he edited in connection 
with others, and which is still in the course of publi- 
cation at Kempten, under the title Bibliothek der Kir - 
chenvdter. See Zuehold. Bibl. Theol. ii, 977, 1051 ; Lite- 
rarischer Ilandweiser, 1871, p. 52 sq., 106; 1872, p. 142. 

(B.P.) 

Re'kem (Heb. id. variegation, or perhaps i. q. 
Regem), the name of three men, and of a city. 

1. (Sept. 'RoKoy, A. V. Rakem, the name being “in 
pause,” C*^.) Brother of L T lam, and a descendant of 
Machir, the son of Manasseh, by his wife Maachah ; ap- 
parently a son of Sheresh (1 Chron. vii. 16)* B.C, ante 
1619. 

2. (Sept. 'Ponnp v.r. 'Pticop.) One of the five kings 
of the Midianites slain by the Israelites along with Ba- 
laam (Numb, xxxi, 8 ; Josh, xiii, 21). B.C. 1618. 

3. (Sept. 'Po nop, 'Patp, v. r. 'Pticop.) The third 
named of the four sons of Hebron, and father of Sham- 
mai, of the tribe of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 43, 44). B.C. 
post 1618. “In this genealogy it is extremely difficult 
to separate the names of persons from those of places — 
Ziph, Mareshah, Tappuah, Hebron, are all names of 
places, as well as Maon and Belh-zur. In Josh, xviii, 
27, Rekem appears as a town of Benjamin, and perhaps 
this genealogy may be intended to indicate that it was 
founded by a colony from Hebron” (Smith). 

4. (Sept. ‘P sicep.) A city in the territory of Benja- 
min, mentioned between Mozah and Irpeel (Josh, xviii, 
27). Josephus, ii> speaking of the Midianitish kings 
slain by Moses (Ant. iv, vii, 1), mentions a city named 
after Rekem (No. 2, above), which was the chief city 
of all Arabia, and was called ’AptKtpi), A receme, by the 
Arabians, but Petra by the Greeks. This is, of course, 
different from the Rekem of Benjamin. As the latter 
is in the group situated in the south-west quarter of the 
tribe, the site was possibly that of the present ruins 
called Deir Yesin, about three miles w r est of Jerusa- 
lem (Robinson, Researches, ii, 141 ; Badeker, Paldstina, 

p. 288 ). 

Rekesh. See Horse. 

Reland, Adriaan, a celebrated Orientalist, was 
born July 17, 1676, at Rvp, a village in Northern Hol- 
land. where his father was pastor. He early devoted 
himself to the study of Oriental languages under Leus- 
den, with the aid of Henry Sicke. After staying six 
years for this purpose at Utrecht, he went to Leyden 
to finish his theological studies. He was soon after- 
wards offered a professor’s chair at Linigen, but he pre- 
ferred to return to liis aged father. In 1699 he was 
made professor of philosophy and Oriental langnages at 
Harder wvek, and two years afterwards w'as called to 
teach Oriental languages and ecclesiastical antiquities 
at Utrecht, a position which he filled to the end of bis 
days, having in 1713 refused a professor’s chair at Fra- 
neker, and in 1716 another at Leyden. He died of 
small-pox, Feb. 5, 1718. Reland is admitted to have 
been by far the greatest Orientalist of his day, and his 
writings display exhaustive learning, the most pains- 
taking accuracy, and sound judgment. He was also 
not lacking in imagination, as some of his earlier pro- 
lusions show. To these admirable qualities he added 
great affability of manners and a noble sweetness of 


RELIC-CASE 


1028 


RELIGION 


character. Of his numerous writings we here mention 
only the most important: Analecta Rabbinicu (Ultraj. 
17<>2) : — ]Je Reliyione Mohammediea (ibid.l7U5andlater): 
— hissertationes Miscellanea (ibid. I7t>7) : — A ntiqnitates 
\'eterum Jlebraorum (ibid. 1708): — J)e Xvmis Yet. lle- 
bneorum (ibid. 1709) : — J'alastinu ex Monumeniis Yeteri- 
bus Jllustrata (ibid. 1714), a work which in its way can 
never be superseded : — lie Spoliis Tempi i (Traject. 1716): 
— Elenchns Rhiloloyicus (Ultraj. 17011). Sec llocfer, 
Xouv. Eioy. Generate, s. v. ; Herzog, Ileal- Encyklop. s. v. 

Relic-case. See Reliquary. 

Relics. By this term arc usually understood the 
bodies or clothes of saints and martyrs, or the instru- 
ments by which they were put to death or suffered tor- 
ment, which were so revered in the Romish Church as 
to be worshipped and carried about in procession. The 
honoring of the relics of saints, on which the Church 
of Rome afterwards founded her superstitious and lucra- 
tive use of them, as objects of devotion, as a kind of 
charms, or amulets, and as instruments of pretended 
miracles, appears to have originated in a very ancient 
custom that prevailed among Christians, of assembling 
at the cemeteries or burying-places of the martyrs for 
the purpose of commemorating them and of performing 
divine worship. Here they displayed their affection 
for their brethren by such rites as were dictated by fer- 
vent affection and were consistent with the principles 
of religion. In the 4th century the boundary between 
respect and worship was passed. Helena, the mother 
of Constantine, made a journey to Jerusalem and there 
discovered, as she supposed, the wood of the true cross, 
a part of which she gave to the city of Jerusalem, and 
sent the other part to Constantine, who encased it in his 
own statue and regarded it as the palladium of his new 
city. When the profession of Christianity obtained the 
protection of the civil government, under Constantine 
the Great, stately churches were erected over sepulchres, 
and the names and memories of the departed were 
treated with every possible token of affection and re- 
spect. This reverence, however, gradually exceeded all 
reasonable bounds; and those prayers and religious 
services were thought to have a peculiar sanctity and 
virtue which were performed over their tombs; hence 
the practice which afterwards obtained of depositing 
relics of saints and martyrs under the altars in all 
churches. This practice was early thought of such im- 
portance that St. Ambrose, in the 1th century, would 
not consecrate a church because it had no relics; and 
the Council of Constantinople, in Trullo (A.l). 692), or- 
dained that those altars should be demolished under 
which were found no relics. Such was the rage for them 
at one time that even Mabillon, the Benedictine, justly 
complains that the altars were loaded with suspected 
relics, numerous spurious ones being everywhere offered 
to the piety and devotion of the faithful, lie adds, too, 
that bones are often consecrated which, so far from be- 
longing to saints, probably do not belong to Christians. 
From the catacombs of Italy, Sicily, and other places 
which had served as the burial-places of the primitive 
Christians, although the catacombs have both before 
and since been used for other purposes, numerous relics 
have been taken. Even as early as 386 Theodosius 
was obliged to pass a law forbidding the people to dig 
up the bones of martyrs or traffic in their remains. 
The superstition grew until, in the 9th century, these 
relics were not only treated with veneration, but were 
supposed to have the virtue of healing disorders of body 
and mind and defending their possessors against the 
devices and assaults of the devil. Nor was this efficacy 
destroyed or lessened when the relic was distributed in 
fragments. In the 11th century relics were tried by 
lire, and those which did not consume were reckoned 
genuine, and the rest nor. Relic-collecting has been 
carried to great lengths in Kurope, the Italian churches 
especially being full of tictitious relics. The following 
is only a sample of those in the Church of Santa Croce 


de C.erusalemme : three pieces of the true cross, the title 
placed over the cross ; two thorns from the crown of our 
Lord; the sponge extended to our Lord with vinegar 
and gall; a piece of the veil and hair of the Virgin; a 
phial full of the blood of Jesus; some of the manna 
gathered in the desert, etc. 

Relics of saints were regarded as the palladia of cities, 
as St. Martin’s body was carried out to the gates of 
Tours in 845 to repel a siege by the Danes. St. Wer- 
burgh’s relics were borne in procession to quell a lire at 
Chester, and the canons bore them through the diocese 
to invite alms for the erection of Salisbury Cathedral. 
At Lichfield the bells were rung at their departure and 
return. In the 6th century the custom of swearing upon 
relics, as later upon the Gospels, began. Relics were, 
and still are, preserved on the altars whereon mass is 
celebrated, a square hole being made in the middle of 
the altar large enough to receive the hand, and therein 
is deposited the relic, being first wrapped in red silk and 
enclosed in a leaden box. In Catholic countries these 
relics are popularly esteemed the most precious treasures 
of the churches, and in earlier times they had even a 
high marketable value, large sums having been often 
raised by necessitous princes by the sale or mortgage 
of pieces of the “ true cross,” etc. Before the Reforma- 
tion relics were in demand in Scotland, and their sale 
was a fertile source of revenue to the monks. They 
were forbidden to be brought into England by several 
statutes, and justices were empowered to search houses 
for them and to deface and destroy them when found. 
This folly has not been without learned and labored de- 
fence, antiquity and Scripture both having been ap- 
pealed to in its support. Bellarminc cites the following 
passages : Exod. xiii, 19; Dent, xxxiv, 6; 2 Kings xiii, 
21 ; xxiii, 16-18; Isa. xi, 10; Matt, ix, 20-22; Acts v, 
12-15; xix, II, 12. But there is no doubt that the 
worship of relics is an absurdity, without the guarantee 
of Scripture, directly contrary to the practice of the 
primitive Church, and irreconcilable with common-sense. 
Latin monographs upon relics and relic-worship have 
been written by Cellarius (Hclmst. 1656), Jung (Ilanov. 
1783), Kortholt (1680), Morellus (Rome, 1721), Stegcr 
(Leips. 1688), Batti (1655), Riesling, Rambach (Halle, 
1722). See Barnum, Romanism as It Is; Methodist 
Quar. Rer. < let. 1866; Mosheim, Eceles. Hist.; Xeander, 
Hist, of Christian Church. 

Relief Synod (or Church). See Scotland, 
Churches ok. 

Religion (Lat. releyo, reliyo ). This word, accord- 
ing to Cicero (Dir. Jnstit. 4), is derived from, or rather 
compounded of, re and leytre, to read over again, to 
reflect upon or to study the sacred books in which re- 
ligion is delivered. According to Lactantius {l)e Cirif. 
hei, lib. x, c. 3), it comes from re-liyure, to bind back, 
because reliyion is that which furnishes the true ground 
of obligation. 

Religion has been divided into natural and revealed. 
By natural religion is meant that knowledge, venera- 
tion, and love of God, and the practice of those duties 
to him, our fellow -creatures, and ourselves, which arc 
discoverable by the right exercise of our rational facul- 
ties, from considering the nature and perfections of 
God, and our relation to him and to one another. By 
revealed religion is understood that discovery which he 
has made to us of his mind and will in the Holy Script- 
ures. As respects natural religion, some doubt wheth- 
er, properly speaking, there can be any such thing: 
■ since, through the fall, reason is so depraved that man, 
without revelation, is under the greatest darkness and 
misery, as may be easily seen by considering the his- 
i tory of those nations who are destitute of it, and who 
are given up to barbarism, ignorance, cruelty, and evils 
of every kind. So far as this, however, may he ob- 
served, the light of nature can give ns no proper 
ideas of God, nor inform us what worship will be accept- 
able to him. It does not tell us how man became a 


RELIGION 


1029 


RELIGION 


fallen, sinful ereature, as he is. nor how he can be recov- 
ered. It affords us no intelligence as to the immortality 
of the soul, the resurrection of the body, and a future 
state of happiness and misery. The apostle, indeed, ob- 
serves that the Gentiles have the law written on their 
hearts, and are a law unto themselves; yet the greatest 
moralists among them were so blinded as to be guilty of, 
and actually to countenance, the greatest vices. Sueh 
a system, therefore, it is supposed, can hardly be said to 
be religious which leaves man in sueh uncertainty, ig- 
norance, and impiety. See Natural Theology. Re- 
vealed religion forms the correlate of natural religion, 
or the religion of reason. It is not the result of human 
investigation, but being the result of an extraordinary 
communication from God, is therefore infallible ; where- 
as, on the contrary, all processes of human thought are 
more or less subjected to error. lienee we can explain 
why it is that religion gives itself out to be, not a prod- 
uet of the reason merely, not anything wliieh originated 
from human inquiry and study, but a result of a divine 
revelation. The religious feeling is undoubtedly a pro- 
pension of human nature; yet without a divine revela- 
tion the mind would sink in dark and perpetual disor- 
der. Of the whole family of man, existing in all ages, 
and scattered over every quarter of the globe, there is 
not one well-authentieated exception to the faet that, 
moved by an inward impulse, and guided by revelation 
or tradition, man worships something wliieh he believes 
to be endowed with the attributes of a superior being. 
Even the occasional gleamings of truth found in the 
various idolatrous systems are but the traditions of an- 
cient revelations, more or less corrupted, which have 
descended from the first worshippers. Revealed religion 
comprehends, besides the doctrines of natural religion, 
many truths which were beyond the reach of human 
reason, though not contradictory thereto, and for a 
knowledge of which we are indebted directly to the Old 
and New Testaments. While other religions had been 
variously accommodated to the peculiar countries in 
whieh they flourished, Christianity was so framed as to 
be adapted to the whole human family. Ft is the one 
thing needful for the elevation of our race, and is des- 
tined alike to universality and perpetuity. 

In all forms of religion there is one part, whieh may 
be called the doctrine or dogma, which is to be received 
by faith; and the cultus , or worship, whieh is the out- 
ward expression of the religious sentiment. By relig- 
ion is also meant that homage to the Deity in all the 
forms whieh pertain to the spiritual life, in contrast 
with theology, the theory of the divine nature and gov- 
ernment. See Theology. 

RELIGION, Philosophy' ok, the science of religion; 
the application of philosophical principles to the discus- 
sion of its general character, origin, and claims. It 
presents, 1, religion in general; 2, revealed religion; 3, 
the Christian religion ; 4, the Christian Church. This 
subject is discussed by Apelt (1860), Beneke (1840), 
Chateaubriand, Deuzinger (1857), Fichte, llegel ( 1 1 r evke, 
vol. xi), Kant {Religion innerhalb, with Kirehmann’s 
notes), Krug (1819), Morrel ( Philosophy of Religion ; see 
the Methodist Quarterly Review, July, Oct., 1850), Pascal 
{Pensees), Otto Pfleiderer (1869), Heinrich Ritter (1858, 
1859), Arnold Huge (1869), Scldeiermacher ( Monologen ), 
F. X. Sehmid (1857), and Spinoza. See Fleming and 
Krauth, Vocabulary of Philosophy, p. 854. 

RELIGION, Primitive. Far in the distance, behind 
Buddhism, Brahminism, Zoroastrianism, Confucianism, 
and all the ten religious so graphically set forth by Free- 
man Clarke, there lies a primitive faith of great power, 
to whieh our attention is ealled in Heb. xi. 2 : “ For by 
it the ancients obtained a good report.” To this primi- 
tive religion all the later forms of truth, of error, and of 
idolatry, with all the mixtures of good and evil pertain- 
ing to religions now aneient, owe their origin, whether 
we can or cannot trace the genealogy. The faith of all 
the patriarchs anterior to the call of Abraham may be 


reckoned to this early form of the knowledge, fear, love, 
and service of the true God. How it came that de- 
scendants of Shem, of Ham, of Japhet, are soon found 
precipitated in ignoranee, crime, and abominable idola- 
try, we are told in Rom. i, 28: “And even as they did 
not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave 
them over to a reprobate mind.” Thus they lost that 
faith in which they had been instructed by Noah dur- 
ing three centuries after the deluge. Some there were 
who held the truth in part long centuries after others' 
had become utterly apostate. Abraham kept the straight 
course of truth, broadening, deepening, and accumulat- 
ing strength, through Moses, David, Solomon, Ezra, 
John the Baptist, Christ himself, the apostles, Wye- 
liffe, Luther, and the Reformed churches, to the present 
day. Deviations of more or less latitude from this line 
have been found in every age, as well as in our own, 
many of these deviations holding enough of the Gospel 
to seeure for long periods the validity of their elaim to 
a share of the primitive religion, bringing glory to God 
and salvation to men. To delineate briefly the relation 
of these to the main trunk is the objeet of this article. 

I. Egyptian. — When Abraham went to Egypt to es- 
cape the famine (Gen. xii, 10), he found that the Lord 
held intercourse with Pharaoh, and that Pharaoh and 
his men had regard to the Lord’s will, and rendered that 
obedience which is better than sacrifice. This fear of 
the Lord we find very happily developed in the time of 
Joseph, when he had interpreted Pharaoh’s dreams. 
The king of Egypt not only believed the revelation, as 

I from God, but he and bis counsellors went to work to 
| improve their opportunity. “The thing was good in 
j the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants. 
And Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find such a 
one as this is? a man in whom the Spirit of God is?” 
(Gen. xli, 38). It might be well for the nations now 
that are nominally Christian to take lessons from this 
king and his court. Whatever was the form of their 
religion, it is there recognised as valid for the welfare 
of the nation. And when Joseph, at a later date, bought 
up the land for Pharaoh, the land of the priests was re- 
served to them. When Joseph’s father is introduced to 
Pharaoh, the king, after conversing with him, conde- 
scended to receive the blessing of Jacob, when it was 
well understood that “ the less is blessed by the better.” 
It was not until another dynasty took possession of the 
throne — a king that knew not Joseph — that we hear in 
that court the haughty challenge, “ Who is the Lord 
that I should obey his voice? I know not the Lord, 
neither will I let Israel go.” Under this new regime , 
Egypt was transformed into an apostasy, on whieh were 
executed the ten plagues; and, finally, the king and his 
army were precipitated to the bottom of the sea. The 
sphinx of Egypt belongs to this ancient religion, and had 
nothing to do with the grovelling ideas of worshipping 
crocodiles and other crawling things. Even in Joseph’s 
time, and no doubt in Abraham’s, the ancient religion 
had declined, or the Egyptians would not have held 
“every shepherd” in abomination, as Moses was in dan- 
ger of being stoned should he offer sacrifice in their 
land. 

II. Philistine. — Abimeleeh, king of the Philistines, 
had a remnant of the true religion. When Abraham 
came to Gerar, he thought, “Surely the fear of God is 
not in this plaee.” This proved to be a great mistake, 
for God came to Abimeleeh in a dream by night; Abim- 
eleeh heeded the warning, restored Sarah, sought rec- 
onciliation through Abraham’s prayer, and dealt very 
liberally with the patriarch, giving him presents, and 
offering him his choice of the laud. Soon after Abra- 
ham’s return from the Philistine country, Abimeleeh 
and Phicol, the general of his army, made a visit, and 

j entered into a friendly covenant with him at Beersheba. 
Although the friendly feeling was mueh diminished in 
the days of Isaac, the Philistine government entertained 
a high respect for Isaac, not merely as Abraham’s son, 
but as the Blessed of the Lord. Abimeleeh, Ahuzzath, 


RELIGIOX 


1030 


RELIGIOX 


and Phicol the general, came to Isaac and renewed their 
covenant of peace at the same place where they had 
made it with his father. During the time of Jacob we 
find no friendly association with the Philistines. In 
Joshuas time their land was to be given to Israel. Dur- 
ing the period of the Judges we find only hostility, 
civil and religious. The worship of Dagon and other 
idols had now supplanted every vestige of the ancient 
faith. Ucelzebub was the god of Kkron. David burned 
the images that he found in the conquered camp. The 
overthrow of Saul was published in the house of their 
idols, and his armor deposited in the temple of A slit a- 
roth. Their soothsaying is noted by Isaiah (ii, G). The 
illegal associations formed with Ashdod in the days of 
Neliemiah were most damaging to the people of the 
Lord. Goliath defied the God of Israel, and cursed Da- 
vid by his gods. 

III. Canaunitish. — Another illustration of the primi- 
tive religion we have in Melchizedek and his people. 
He was king of Salem, priest of the Most High, and a 
very eminent type of the expected Deliverer. While 
Melchizedek lived, and others of the same faith, in suf- 
ficient numbers to have influence in the nation, it was 
announced to Abraham that the iniquity of the Amorites 
was “ not yet full.” Some four hundred years were yet 
allowed them to improve or misimprove their privileges. 
A very few, like Italiab of Jericho, were willing to obey 
the truth; but the seven nations, as such, bad wholly 
apostatized to the grossest idolatry. It is possible, al- 
most probable, that there was still some regard for the 
true religion among those known as Jebusites, although 
they did not surrender to Joshua. The following con- 
siderations are in their favor: ( a .) They were long 
spared after the other nationalities had been broken up. 
They held their capital till the time of David. (5.) 
This capital was the ancient seat of Melchizekek, where 
we might expect the truth to be kept in families when 
the nation bad given it tip. (e.) Araunali the Jcbusitc 
is honorably noted in the history of David, after their 
capital had surrendered. ((/.) At A ra tin ah's threshing- 
floor the destroying angel suspended his work, (y.) He 
made to David a noble oiler — victims for the sacrifice, 
and wood to burn it from his fanning implements. ( /'.) 
He is living in Jerusalem, not as an idolater, but ap- 
parently like the people around him. (g.) In 2 Sam. 
xxiv, 213, the Hebrew reading is, ‘“All these did king 
Araunah give to the king.” This would indicate that 
he was a lineal descendant of the royal line of Melchiz- 
edek, and was king of the Jebusites Avhen they surren- 
dered to David. At all events, be was possessor of the 
soil, though a conquered subject; and be readily fell in 
with the new religion, although it was an advance on 
that of his ancestors. Tor some such reasons, be read- 
ily sold the old homestead — the floor for fifty shekels 
of silver, the farm for six hundred shekels of gold. 

IV. Mesopotamian. Torah and bis sons, Abram, Xa- 
hor, and llaran, in Cr of the Chaldees, were brought 
up in this primitive religion; but it bad become cor- 
rupted by idolatrous excrescences, and although they 
belonged to the witnessing line, they became involved 
in the idolatry, as we read (Josh. xxiv, 2), “They served 
other gods.” To preserve yet a faithful testimony, 
Ahraham was called out of that land when lie was about 
seventy years old, had the covenant of Coil renewed to 
him, and commenced a renovated service on the basis 
bf the old faith, with new revelations. Abraham, after 
the death of his father, removed to Canaan, leaving a 
residue at llaran, where be had resided live years. 
Thus freed from all family connections, except those 
under his own control, lie carried down the true religion 
in its purity to Isaac and Jacob, with their adherents, 
all living as strangers in a foreign country. The an- 
cient religion still received new developments of the 
coining Deliverer, superadded to all former revelations; 
nor was it a new religion, but a new edition of the old, 
that was given to Moses. Meantime, the old religion 
retained, in the family of Nahor. some at least of the 


old corruptions. The teraphim, for example, Daehel 
wished to introduce into Jacob's family. Laban called 
these bis gods; the Sept, calls them idols. On what 
terms of religious observance Jacob lived in Laban’s 
family we have nothing specific; but after the parting 
we find that each bad bis own distinct religion. Laban 
swears by the < iod of Abraham and the (Iod of Xahor — 
the (iod of their father. Jacob appeals to the (iod of 
Abraham, and the Fear of Jsauc ((ien. xxxi, 42, 53). 
The memorial pillar points to him who is the Lock of 
Ages, while the heap of gathered stones seems to indi- 
cate the Church’s confession of imperishable truths, on 
which we all bold communion with one another and 
with (iod in his ordinances. How long this imperfectly 
organized Church continued in Padan -aram we have 
no indication, but we know that the Aramites were no 
friends to Israel in the days of the kings. A very in- 
teresting item on the religion of liethuel’s family is 
connected with the visit of Abraham’s prime minister. 
The friends of Tiebokah recognise Jehovah, the cove- 
nant God; and they give their farewell blessing in the 
name of the promised Deliverer: “Let thy seed possess 
the gate of those who hate him” Excepting Luther, 
translators have made sad work with this verse (xxiv, 
00 ). 

Perhaps to this connection belongs Ilalaam the sooth- 
sayer; from Aram, from the mountains of the east, from 
the river of his people, from IVthor of Aram-naharaim. 
From some source be bad obtained a profound knowl- 
edge of God and of his ways; yet so perverted was his 
heart that be endeavored to bring all that knowledge 
to effect the destruction of Israel. From the tops of the 
rocks he could see the Deliverer coming, yet so deep 
was his malignity that he could meet death in this 
world and damnation in the next rather than have this 
man rule over him. He furnishes an awful example of 
those who hold the truth in unrighteousness. 

V. M idianihsh, — In those days we have brought up 
a most beautiful example of the ancient faith— Jethro, 
the prince and priest of Midian. It is true that the 
Midianites were descended from Abraham by Keturah; 
but their relations with Isaac and his descendants would 
not have kept up, and did not keep up, the faith of 
Abraham in its advanced stages. All that they re- 
ceived directly from Abraham needed some kind of sup- 
port after they were sent away from Isaac; this support 
could come only from the scattered fragments of primi- 
tive religion floating among their new associations, and 
collected into a focus by such a man as Jethro. So 
soon as lie is otT the stage, superannuated or dead, and 
bis son Ilobab has joined the camp of Moses, we find no 
more faith among the Midianites, nor any friendship for 
the people of the Lord. 

VI. Slagian .- In the court of Persia, as late as the 
captivity, we find traces of the primitive religion. Xot 
only was Cyrus individually called for special service, but 
there was much favor shown to the Jews by native Per- 
sians, while foreign satraps, like Knnballat, Tobiah, and 
Gesliem, used all their craft, as well as their power, to 
frustrate the labors of Xeliemiab in restoring the city. 
How often they obtained a partial success needs not to 
be told here; nor does this invalidate the idea of friendly 
relations when these could have fair play. Writers like 
James Freeman Clarke, after tracing far into antiquity 
the Zoroastriau faith, are unwilling to recognise an an- 
cient faith to which belong the griffin, the serpent, the 
sacred Jire, the sacred tree, and other items, while traces 
of it are found mixed in with later observances. Such 
writers can see any religion only as the philosophical 
outgrowth of the human mind, but not as a divine rev- 
elation. Of a different east is a late writer in the Brit- 
ish and Foreitpi Frangelical IFrieir. the llev. J. Murray 
Mitchell, LL.1L When treating of another, though ad- 
joining, country, he uses the following phraseology: 
““While we can now trace the great religion of India 
without interruption almost up to its fountain-head . . . 
for nearly four thousand years, it is far otherwise with 


RELIGION 


1031 


RELIGION 


the ancient religion of Persia .” See the Methodist Quar- 
terly Review, January, 1879. India itself! Is there not 
enough truth (though seen through a distorted medium) 
to carry us far beyond the period of the Vedas? To 
say nothing of moral precepts, a Creator, a Triad — 
Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva — the Incarnation of Vishnu 
in the ten Avatars, these and other items claim our at- 
tention as remnants of patriarchal revelation. 

However much or little they may have learned from 
the return of Balaam’s retinue, after he was killed in 
battle (Numb, xxxi, 8), certain it is that the primitive 
religion furnished a healthy stock on which to engraft 
the “ Star of Jacob” in Persia and all over the East, 
whence came the Magi to Jerusalem when Christ was 
born in Bethlehem of Judiva. 

VII. Arabian . — Among the very interesting details 
of the ancient religions we find Job and his friends. 
Without going into minute inquiry, let us place him 
somewhere about the period of Terah, the father of 
Abraham, lie is classed with “the sons of the East;” 
yet we cannot locate him in the far East like the Per- 
sian Magi. His own name, and the names of his 
friends, resemble more than any other the names of the 
Seirites, among whom, in later times, Esau and his pos- 
terity intermingled and intermarried. In Gen. xxxvi 
we find the names Temanite, Jobab, Elipliuz, Teman, 
with others not identical, but of the same general cast 
as the names of Job’s associates. The faith of these 
godly men, wherever they may have lived, is of a very 
high order, and their knowledge of God and of his ways 
is of the highest degree. Neither by Job nor by any 
of his friends is there the least allusion to the covenant 
of Abraham. Whatever mistakes they labored under, 
they are recognised as true worshippers, and God deals 
with them as his own. 

VIII. Assyrian. — Late discoveries by Lavard and 
Rawlinson have brought us into contact with the an- 
cient Assyrians in much of their religion, as w T elI as war 
and civil policy. Among the sculptures exhumed, none 
are more interesting than the winged quadrupeds fin- 
ished off with a human head, or the human form with 
eagle’s head and wings. These earry us back to the 
early cherubim, the forms of which must have been 
preserved by Noah and his sons. At first sight these 
Assyrian images may seem no more than mere idols — 
false gods ; but that would not account for their close 
affinity with the living creatures of Ezekiel and the 
riaaapa a of John’s Revelation. While no one of 
the Assyrian sculptures embodies the four principles of 
Ezekiel and John, yet two of them, taken together, do 
embody the four identical principles, and no more. The 
winged lion and the winged ox have the aspect of a 
man, lion, eagle, ox, and nothing besides. The reason 
lbr making them double arose from the difficulty’ of dis- 
tinguishing the body of the ox from that of the lion in 
the same figure. Nor is it impossible that the Assyr- 
ians could have borrowed from Ezekiel; almost equally 
certain that they' did not borrow’ from Moses. This 
leaves us the only course, that of authentic tradition 
from Noah and Shem, as they had the figures dowm from 
the garden of Eden. Whether these winged figures 
w r ere worshipped by r the Assyrians or not. it is of impor- 
tance to notice that they’ were not the highest objects 
of adoration, for they are found bowing themselves be- 
fore the Supreme, the sy r mbol of Supreme Deity being 
a human form sitting in a winged eircle or globe. 
While the races of Shemites occupied one part of Meso- 
potamia and the Hamites another, they’ were sufficiently 
contiguous to afford the opportunity of corrupting one 
another in the matter of worship, as w ell as in the man- 
ner. We have already’ seen that the best family of the 
Shemites — Terah and his sons — had gone into idolatry’ 
in connection with the true worship, and needed refor- 
mation in the days of Abraham ; we may’ safely’ infer 
that other Shemites, as well as the families of Ham, 
w'ere more deeply’ involved, and went still further from 
the truth till the days of Sardanapalus, Nebuchadnez- 


zar, and Belshazzar. Whether in the Abrahamic line 
there was kept any’ physical type of the original cheru- 
bim until renewed by' Moses is nowhere recorded. Yet 
there are some hints w’orthy of our serious considera- 
tion. («.) Rebekah went somewhere to inquire of the 
Lord and received a specific answ r er. May’ not this 
have come from sacred utensils still in the custody’ of 
Abraham? (6.) Before Moses had set up the new tab- 
ernacle there was some kind of tabernacle in use (Exod. 
xxxiii, 7). (c.) A sacred chest belonged to many of 

the ancient idolatries. Was it copied from a true orig- 
inal? (ft.) In the higher rank of families the teraphira 
w’ere long retained in connection with the true religion. 
Not only did Rachel import them from Laban’s house, 
but Michal brought one into David’s; and they are 
classed with recognised symbols in IIos. iii, 4. On the 
other side they’ are elassed with idols, and w r ere used 
by the king of Babylon for idolatrous purposes. May' 
they not have been like the brazen serpent, at first a 
mere memorial of truth, afterwards turned into an ob- 
ject of false worship. See Tekaphisl 

IX. Inferences. — Other ancient religions we must 
pass over here in order to take a survey of the leading 
features of the primitive, from which they are all de- 
rived, and from which they all inherit some features in 
common, while each seems to have dropped other mat- 
ters, according to their various tastes and circumstances 
(see Princeton Rev. July’, 1872 ; Tayler Lewis, The Prim- 
itive Greek Religion). 

On what foundation did the primitive faith rest its 
confidence ? 

1. The knowledge, fear, and reverence which Adam 
retained even after the fall. Let it be fairly’ admitted 
that Adam, by transgression, was lost — lost to all spirit- 
ual good accompany’ing salvation ; that the first of all 
the commandments — love— was completely’ obliterated 
in his heart; that he w’as dead in trespasses and sins. 
Still the apostle tells us that w’here the law of love had 
been written there was still left ro Zpyov too vopov 
ypairrov, the “ work” of the law, which work is still 
written in the heart of even the heathen (Rom. ii, 14, 
15). This work he places largely in the domain of 
knowledge, and even conscience, yet it is not in any 
degree the law of love (i, 32): “Who, knowing the 
judgment of God, that they w ho commit such things 
are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have 
pleasure in them that do them.” This by’ nature is 
our own moral state; y r et, blessed be God, knowledge, 
memory’, reason, conscience, have not been entirely de- 
stroyed, though conscience has been seared, and all the 
faculties greatly’ debilitated. Adam, on leaving the gar- 
den, still retained the sad remembrance of happiness in 
great variety’, now lost, lost ! lost ! ! Lost forever 
through the former channel. With all that he had lost, 
who is there among us that w’ould not travel a long, 
long pilgrimage to hear him tell the beauty of the gar- 
den inside; the perfect satisfaction of everything he 
saw, heard, felt, while innocent; the nature of that ho- 
liness which is only’ now to be regained by incessant la- 
bor, suffering, and watching; unimpeded communion 
with God. Darwin himself, and the modern race of 
improved baboons, might envy’ the intellect which he 
retained even then. Acquaintance with God! Fel- 
lowship of the Spirit! Seeing him as he is! Social 
worship in the holy family! The first Sabbath-day’! 

2. The promise of a Seed, a coming Deliverer, while 
as y f et he had no ehild. Modern theologians can see in 
the first promise a deliveranee, but many of us eannot see 
a personal Deliverer. It was not so with Eve, the 
mother of all living (Gen. iv, 1): “I have obtained a 
man, the Lord.”* What if she w r ere mistaken in the 
time, the individual, and many other material consider- 
ations? What if she were a Millenarian? An Adven- 
tess ? Sueli can be found under brighter skies to-day. 


* The particle TX; here, however, is correctly reudered 
“from” in the English versiou.— Ep, 


RELIGION 


1032 


RELIGION 


She had faith in One who is able to save to the utter- 
most. See Seki> ok Pkojusu. Through all those an- 
cient faiths noted above there are traces of the coining 
One. Some of them retain this idea while they have 
lost many others, and sunk into dark paganism. Wit- 
ness the ten Avatars of Vishnu, as well as the “Desire 
of all nations” (Hag. ii, 7), 

3. The institution of sacrifice. This needs not here 
to be discussed; how early it was observed, how exten- 
sively propagated, however altered and perverted, it 
held a place in all ancient religions, teaching in some 
sense or other the doctrine of atonement by blood, as 
well as of purification by blood and water. See Altaic ; 
Atoxumkxt ; Sachikk i-:, 

4. The cherubim. For the structure and uses of these, 
see the word. For their spiritual meaning, see Living 
( KiiATfitES ; SicitAniiM. Set over against the sword 
of tlame, they were the symbols of mercy to those rec- 
onciled hv the sacrifice. Their place in the ancient re- 
ligions is well known, even after those religions had de- 
parted far from primitive rectitude, both in ritual and 
moral code. 

The sphinx of Babylon and Egypt ; the griffin of 
Assyria, Persia, Egypt, Greece, and Borne; the Serapis 
of Egypt, Greece, and Borne; the apes of Egypt; the 
Moloch of Moab and the Ammonites; the Baals of 
Syria, in all their variety; the ox of Bengal; the live 
buffalo of Calcutta; t he triform idol of Chinn; and hun- 
dreds of other sacred images, including the teraphim — 
these all were derived from the original cherubim at the 
east of Paradise. At first these imitations may have 
been considered as mere memorials of the early devo- 
tion of honored and godly ancestors; but, in process of 
theological improvements, they became associated with 
the sun, moon, stars, fructifying and other general pow- 
ers of nature, as well as with the more spiritual de- 
mands of man's higher nature, till they are seen clothed 
with the attributes of deity, and worshipped and served 
more than the Creator. To the tradition of the early 
cherubim, we think, more than to the inventive genius 
of any priesthood, must be traced these homogeneous 
idols with all their diversities of aspect. The true sym- 
bolism of the cherubim belonged to the universal and 
primal religion; the idolatrous imitations had their di- 
versities from human fancy. This will account for the 
worship of the golden calf, to which the Israelites them- 
selves were so easily seduced. < >f all the depreciated 
forms of the early cherubim the Assyrian quadrupeds 
arc the most complete. Layard passes high encomi- 
um on the skill and judgment of the inventors (?) in 
selecting the four highest forms of mundane life to rep- 
resent the higher sphere of existence, while he utterly 
ignores the divine originals from which they were 
copied. 

The cherubs at the Carden of Eden set over against 
the sword of flame, as well as those seen by Ezekiel 
evolved from a mass of fire, evidently were intended to 
symbolize that mercy which rejoices against judgment 
and delivers from wrath to come. 

5. The darning sword kept before the mind of wor- 
shippers the Justice to he satisfied. Whether we trace 
this to the sword of tlame, the death of the victim, or the 
universal conscience, it is equally a portion of the prim- 
itive religion. The soul that sinneth deserves to die 
(Bom. i, 32). And we know no better symbol that could 
have been introduced to exhibit the wretchedness of 
those who are twice dead. 

6. The tree of life, untouched, waved its laden branch- 
es in the garden long after the expulsion of our first 
parents. While this emblem must of necessity call up 
the feeling of deep regret, it would, at the same time, 
after the door of mercy was opened, call for all the joy 
and all the effort that belong to a well-grounded hope. 
That tree could never lie regained, perhaps not desira- 
ble now that it should be; but another Tree of Life in 
a higher paradise yields its fruit every month (Bev. 
xxii). 


Here it may be proper to observe that each of these 
early emblems of man’s recovery is, from tlie very gate 
of Eden, carried uninterruptedly down the stream of 
revelation till we come to the last chapter of the last 
book; while other emblems have been added as occa- 
sion might demand. The rainbow had an early place, 
and holds its position till the last (Bev. x, 1). 

7. t teeasioual revelations made to such men as Enoch, 
Noah, and perhaps Lamceli, the father of Noah (Hen. v, 
23), were still added to the former stock, and thus were 
all advances made to rest on the word of Hod. Before 
the use of writing, and even after, we find appeals made 
to what had been taught to the ancestors, whether by 
Providence or l>v revelation (Job viii, *; xv, ]<>, IS; 
Deut. iv, 31; xxxii, 7 ; l’sa. xliv. 1). We think that 
none of the revelations that God has made have ever 
been lost. 

X. Features. — Having seen the sure basis of this 
( early religion, it is proper to glance at some of its char- 
acteristics. 

( L It was a universal religion, adapted to man as such 
| in every climate and for all time, having its primary 
relation to eternity. It was the work of evil men then, 
as it is now, to lop off and add to the truth of God till 
they had as many religions as languages throughout 
the world. 

2. It was monotheistic: one Lord, one faith, one Spir- 

it, one Mediator, one God and Father of all. The* ques- 
tion whether the Persians borrowed from the Hebrews 
or the Hebrews from the Persians has no place here; 
the origin of both from one primitive source is sufficient 
to account for all the items of similarity, or even identi- 
ty, in the two religions. So, also, we may reckon of the 
Hebrews and Egyptians, the Hebrews and the Greeks, 
and all affinities of this kind. While the primitive re- 
ligion was monotheistic, there are many indications of 
a plurality of persons, as in Gen. i. 1, where a singular 
verb is joined with as in a thousand other in- 

stances. So, too, cli. i, 24 and iii, 22. 

3. Delight in all that God has revealed of himself — 
the fact, as well as the doctrines, of inspiration. Adam 
was extensively a prophet — a seer. Not merely had 
he the intimation of the Deliverer, but there was given 
to him the future history of the whole race — the stand- 
ing, irrepressible conflict, the numerous progeny, the 
heavy labor, the sore pain, the deep sorrow, all ending 
in the death of the body and its return to dust. On 

I the other hand, the productiveness of the soil for con- 
stant support, acceptance of his service, occasional vic- 
tories over evil, final triumph over sin and Satan in the 
One Seed. The third chapter of Genesis is too little 
studied. If John the Baptist could point to the Lamb 
of (iod, Adam bad the first intimation of his coming, 
whether Adam was born of woman or not. So happily 
and largely are the words of inspiration connected with 
our redemption t hat Christ is pleased to wear the hap- 
py name, the Word of (iod. 

But here, again, while the nations in separating from 
I one another took, each one, some degree of respect for 
the Word revealed, or for some part of it, it was reserved 
to one nation only to preserve it pure and cm ire. “To 
the Jews were committed the oracles of God.” Other 
nations retained a glimmering tradition, a tetragram- 
maton, a holy phrase, of which they knew not the 
meaning and used it merely as a charm — a $v\anriipi- 
or. How the true believer in every age and country 
appreciates tlie iron/, we may learn, if not by happy 
experience, by l'sa. cxix. Under these beams of the 
Sun of Bighteousncss, Enoch walked with God. Light 
and life and love are again restored. If we conic to 
the particular doctrines of this primitive religion, we 
have many scattered hints of, say, acceptance with God, 
in the sacrifice of Abel: a higher life, in the translation 
1 of Enoch; retribution, in the conscience of t’ain: call- 
I ing on the name of the Lord, in the days of Enos; judg- 
I nient combined with mercy, in the deluge and the cities 


RELIGION 


1033 


RELIGIOUS LIBERTY 


of the plain ; intercession, by Abraham ; and from the j 
same source, that the Judge of all the earth will do 
right; family government and instruction; covenant 
with God; precepts given to Noah; and many, very 
many, of the doctrines of Christianity. But what a vac- 
uum we should have just here were it not for the book 
of Job ! Wherever the patriarch may have lived, or in 
whatever age, besides the lesson Of his own biography, 
we have, in the speeches of himself and of his friends, 
a very full development of the patriarchal theology. 
Whether each particular doctrine of Watson’s Institutes 
or Ilodge’s Outlines could be deduced from the book of 
Job, or whether each expression in it is to be relied on 
as correct, we shall not here inquire ; but certain it is 
that each chapter contains a mass of theological thought 
befitting our age as well as that in which it was deliv- 
ered. It opens with the doctrine of holiness, without 
which no man shall see the Lord. Next we have God’s 
blessing on all that Job possessed, as in Fsa. cvii, 38. 
Then his anxiety about his children — their liability to 
sin. We have the atonement in his offering sacrifices; 
particular atonement, “to the number of them all." The 
humblest resignation when all w r as taken from him — 

“ Blessed be the name of the Lord.” The Kinsman — a 
living Redeemer, and his coming to the earth. The 
speciality of providence is iterated and reiterated. But, 
not to dwell on the more common doctrines, we find 
some of those which would be an attainment even in 
our own time. Civil-service reform is taught, or rath- 
er taken for granted, in ch. xxxiv, 17, 18; and national 
reform in all its depth comes in ver. 29, 30 : “ When he 
giveth quietness, who then can give trouble? and when 
he hideth his face, who then can behold him ? whether 
it be done against a nation or against a man only : that 
the hypocrite reign not, lest the people be ensnared.” 
Let any one take np the book of Job under this aspect, 
and he will see how much of the Gospel there is in 
such passages as ch. xxii, 21-30; xxxiii, 14-30. Alto- 
gether, apart from the plot of the poem, there is wrought 
into the speeches a vast amount of the deep knowledge 
of God, not by the inspiration of the several speakers, 
but by their earnestness in using the floating capital 
which belonged to the patriarchal faith. The occasion 
was such as made an extraordinary call on their knowl- 
edge, and on their skill in using ir. 

We must here pass in silence the ancient religions of 
those respective nations which issued in the many gods 
of Greece and Rome, of the Celtic tribes, and the Gothic 
hordes. There was truth underlying them all, but oh, 
how deeply buried in the filth and rubbish of ages! 

It is not to be denied that the worship of mere nat- 
ure furnished the element of these fallen religions. We 
have enough of that in Jer. xliv among the chosen peo- 
ple. But it is never to be admitted that any religion 
was ever originated by man, however it may have been 
manipulated “ bv art and man’s device.” No historian 
can feel that Mohammed, even with the assistance of 
the monk Sergius, originated Islam ; his claim was to 
restore the ancient religion of the world. Mecca was 
a place of pilgrimage ages before he was born. All his 
revelations were ostensibly to restore and improve the 
primitive faith of Adam, of Abratiam, and of Ishmael. 
A large amount of popery, even, is, independent of di- 
vine revelation, brought down from ancient traditions 
much later than the primitive faith. Paul preached at 
Athens the service of God, who made the world and all 
things therein (as the people had been taught by their 
own poets) ; though he was still, in a great measure, the 
Unknown, and the apostle was esteemed a setter-forth 
of strange deities. While we rejoice in the abundance 
of our Scriptures, it is to be remembered that Adam, 
Seth, and Enos did not require so much as we do. They 
were born to a bright inheritance near the throne of 
their heavenly Father. “Adam who was the son of 
God.” Thus, while we have added line upon line as it 
was needed, the true religion is, like its Author, “the 
same yesterday, to-day, and forever.” (R. H.) 


Religidsi, a term applied, until the 10th century, 
to those who led a monastic life, to distinguish them 
from the clergy and laity. They were also called Ca- 
noniei and Rcgulares (q. v.). 

Religious, in a general sense, is something that re- 
lates to religion ; and, in reference to persons, that which 
indicates that the}’' give their attention to religion, and 
are so influenced by it as to differ from the world. It 
was also applied to members of monastic orders. See 
Reltgiosi. 

RELIGIOUS CORPORATIONS. In the United 
States, as there is no civil patronage to the Church, 
societies for public worship are incorporated in accord- 
ance with the statutes of the several states. In most 
of them there is a provision enabling any body of 
persons composing a fixed congregation to constitute 
themselves a corporation, and to elect trustees to hold 
and manage the property in its behalf. Some of the 
older denominations are incorporated under special acts 
and with particular regulations. A convenient digest 
of these legal prescriptions is given in Hunt’s Laics of 
Religious Corporations (N. Y. 1876, 8vo). In many 
states there are likewise general laws for the incorpora- 
tion of most kinds of benevolent, literary, and other 
bodies of a religious and social character. See Church 
and State. 

RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. Both nature and rev- 
elation teach that it is the duty of parents to care for 
the religious education of their children. The mind of 
the child is in a receptive condition, and the first light 
it receives should be light from heaven, the first truths 
those that are eternal and immutable, never to desert 
them. The mind of the child cannot be shut up until 
he is of an age to investigate and determine for him- 
self. It becomes, therefore, a high duty to furnish the 
expanding intellect with truths such as piety cherishes. 
The apostle says, “ Fathers, bring up your children in 
the nurture and admonition of the Lord” (Eph. vi, 4). 
In the education of children several mistakes are to be 
avoided: (1.) That the habits of children only are to 
be regarded, and that, in time, principles will follow of 
course. Habits, without principles of piety, are noth- 
ing better than a citadel ungarrisoned and uncommand- 
ed. (2.) That many of the snbjects of religion are be- 
yond the capacity of children, and that, therefore, to 
instruct them in Christianity is only to load their mem- 
ories with words. Yet we do not defer other kinds 
of instruction till their nature and use can be completely 
understood by the pupil. But, in fact, the principles 
of religion are some of the most simple and intelligible 
which can be proposed to the human mind. (3.) That 
to furnish children with religious ideas is to infuse into 
them prejudices. But we must be careful to discrimi- 
nate between religious ideas and prejudices, for the lat- 
ter is an unexamined opinion. And, further, by this 
very conduct we prejudice him against religion as some- 
thing unworthy his concern, or beyond his comprehen- 
sion. \Ye do not so treat literature, politics, or science. 
(4.) That the child will acquire in school and the public 
institutions of the Gospel an adequate sentiment and 
knowledge of religions truths. But if the love or nat- 
ural interest of the parent in the child does not stimu- 
late him to this duty, can it be expected that it will be 
voluntarily assumed by others? The institution of 
Sunday-schools does not diminish, in the least, the re- 
sponsibility of those having charge of children to train 
them for God. See Pedagogics. 

RELIGIOUS LIBERTY is the absolute freedom of 
religious opinion and worship based upon the fact that 
all men are bound by the laws of God and are responsi- 
ble to him. From this primary and supreme obligation 
the conscience cannot be freed, and hence no human gov- 
ernment has a right to hinder any form of religion, nor 
to support any to the injury of others. This implies the 
equality of all churches, religious associations, or per- 
! suns in the matter of protection or restraint by the civil 


RELIGIOUS SOCIETIES 


1034 


KELL VAN 1TES 


powers. We must not confound religions liberty with 
religious toleration, for the latter is the assumption of 
the right by civil process to regulate religious affairs; 
and to permit implies the right to prevent. This sev- 
erance of spiritual and civil affairs is emphatically 
taught by our Lord: “My kingdom is not of this 
world" (dolm xviii, 3(5). A distinctive American prin- 
ciple of government is that what is reli^kuis is neces- 
sarily, from its very character, beyond th^teontrol of 
the civil government. In the United States, therefore, 
religious liberty is an absolute personal right. All de- 
nominations, churches, and religious faiths are equal 
and free in the eye of the law, none receiving gratuities, 
none subjected to inequalities. There is, thus, an en- 
tire divorce of Church and State. The Constitution of 
the United States contains these two articles: “No re- 
ligious test shall ever he required as a qualification to 
any office or public trust under the United States;” and 
“Congress shall make no law respecting an establish- 
ment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.” 
The state constitutions are equally emphatic, and gener- 
ally more specilic in the expression of their jealousy of 
ecclesiastical ambition and sectarian intolerance. This 
example was set by Rhode Island, which has the honor 
of being the first state in the world to incorporate in its 
organic law. and to practice, absolute religious liberty. 
Under the influence of this American principle of gov- 
ernment much change has been wrought in other coun- 
tries. Toleration is becoming general, and the tenden- 
cy is towards unrestrained liberty of worship. France 
bestows patronage upon several denominations; Ger- 
many, though claiming the management of ecclesiasti- 
cal affairs, interferes but little with the right of worship. 
In Russia, Spain, and Italy there is less of former ex- 
clusiveness, and in the two latter countries different 
forms of faith are entitled to protection. Under Eng- 
lish rule the colonies enjoy perfect religions liberty ; 
the Anglican Church has been disestablished in Ireland, 
and there is in Great Britain no public position, not ec- 
clesiastic, for the tenure of which a particular religious 
belief is required, except the throne and governorship 
of a few colleges. The connection of Church and State 
is increasingly regarded as corrupting to the Church, 
destructive of the purity and spirituality of religion, and 
antagonistic to the rights of men. See Brook, Malory 
of llvliyious Liberty; Johnson, Vnirersal Cyclop.; Mad- 
ison, Memorial and Remonstrance ; Waylami, Discourses. 

RELIGIOUS SOCIETIES, associations for the pro- 
motion of personal piety established among mem- 
bers of the Church of England about 1G78, and which 
existed until the rise of the Methodist. They began 
with a few young men who had been impressed by the 
preaching of Dr. llorneck, preacher at the Savoy, and 
of Mr. Smithies, lecturer at St. Michael's. Coruhill. The 
organization was somewhat similar to the societies of 
St. Vincent de Baul in Baris, or like those of the Col- 
legiants and other pietistic communities in Holland and 
( ierman v. The members met once a week for religions ] 
conference and devotion, the meetings being conducted 
with singing, Scripture reading and exposition, and 
with special preparation for the holy communion. They 
added also practical works of charity, the establishment 
and maintenance of schools, the visitation of the poor, 
and support of missions in America. They were closely 
connected with the Society for the Reformation of Man- 
ners. established in 1G91, and efficient allies to the So- 
ciety for the l’romotion of Christian Knowledge. That 
at Oxford was joined by John and Charles Wesley, and 
hv George Wliiteticld. One of the last of the annual 
meetings of the London religious societies was held at 
Bow Church in 173-S. See Woodward, Rise and Prog- 
ress of Rcliyious Societies; Nelson, .1 ddress to Persons 
of Quality; id. Festivals and Fasts (Preface); Blunt, 
JJist. of Sects, etc,, s. v. 

Reliquary, a vessel for holding relics, and enclos- 
ing, in the 13th century, three grains of incense in honor 



Ancient Portable Reliquaries. 


of the Holy Trinity. It usually took the form of the 
building in which it was kept, as at the Sainte-Chapelle 
in Paris and Xivelles at the end of that century. In 
the 14th century cathedrals adopted for their reliqua- 
ries the form of a church, while in chapels and parish 
churches preference was given to images of gold and 
silver. .Sometimes they take the shape of a coffer, or 
a transparent bier carried by ecclesiastics; a case-like 
cruet, a rose, a quatrefoil, a canister in an angel’s hand; 
horns, as at Canterbury; a triptych, like the triple en- 
trance of a church; a lantern tower and spire, etc. In 
some cases the church hearing the name of a saint has 
his monument, but in other cases the relics only were 
preserved in portable shrines. Sometimes the reliquary 
took the form of some popular saint, a chest, or an altar. 
At Chichester the relic-chest of St. Richard is of oak, 
contains a door which was opened 
when the relics were exposed, and 
a slit for the reception of offerings 
in the cross-bar below it. At first 
the reliquaries were portable, to form 
accessories of a procession. In 715, 
relics and the 
cross were car- 
ried in the Ro- 
gation proces- 
sions in Eng- 
land. At Rome 
the “three rel- 
ies” are exhibit- 
ed on Good-Fri- 
dav — the por- 
tion of the true 
cross, the blade 
of the spear that 
pierced the Re- 
deemer’s side, 
and the veroni- 
ca (q.v.). About 
the beginning of the 13th century the reliquaries upon 
the altar took the form of the limb or bust, called a corset 
(or corselet). They were arranged on groat festivals on 
the rood -beam or retable, above the high -altar. .See 
Walcott, Sacred .4 rcfuvoloyy, s. v. 

Relly. See Kkllyamtks. 



Modern Stationary Reliquaries. 


Rellyanites, or Rii.i.yan Univkrsai.ists. the fol- 
lowers of Mr. James Relly, lie first commenced his min- 
isterial character in connection with 51 r. Whitefield, and 
was received with great popularity. Upon a change of 
lii.s views he encountered reproach, and was pronounced 
by many as an enemy to godliness. He believed that 
Christ as a Mediator was so united to mankind that bis 
actions were theirs, his obedience and sufferings theirs, 
and, consequently, that he has as fully restored the 
whole human race to the divine favor as if all had 
obeyed and suffered in their own persons; and upon this 


JiELY 


1035 


REMIGIUS 


persuasion he preached a finished salvation, called by the 
apostle Jude “ the common salvation.” The Rellyanites 
are not observers ol‘ ordinances such as water baptism 
and the sacrament, but profess to believe only in one bap- 
tism, which they call an immersion of the mind or con- 
science into truth by the teaching of the Spirit of God; 
and by the same Spirit they are enabled to feed on 
Christ as the bread of life, professing that in and with 
Jesus they possess all things. They inculcate and main- 
tain good works for necessary purposes, but contend that 
the principal and only work which ought to be attended 
to is the doing real good without religious ostentation; 
that to relieve the miseries and distresses of mankind 
according to our ability is doing more real good than 
the superstitions observance of religious ceremonies. In 
general they appear to believe that there will be a res- 
urrection to life and a resurrection to condemnation: 
that believers only will be among the former, who as 
first-fruits, and kings and priests, will have part in the 
first resurrection, and shall reign with Christ in his 
kingdom of the millennium; that unbelievers who are 
after raised must wait the manifestation of the Saviour 
of the world under that condemnation of conscience 
which a mind in darkness and wrath must necessarily 
feel ; that believers, called kings and priests, will be 
made the medium of communication to their condemned 
brethren, who, like Joseph to his brethren, though he 
spoke roughly to them, in reality overflowed with affec- 
tion and tenderness; that ultimately every knee shall 
bow and every tongue confess that in the Lord they 
have righteousness and strength; and thus every en- 
emy shall be subdued to the kingdom and glory of the 
Great Mediator. Kelly was succeeded (in 1781) by an 
American preacher, Elhanan Winchester, who had been 
a Calvinistic Baptist, but the congregation in London 
was soon broken up. This movement by Kelly was the 
first attempt to consolidate a sect of which Universal- 
ism should be the leading tenet. A Mr. Murray belong- 
ing to this society emigrated to America, and preaehed 
these sentiments at Boston and elsewhere. Mr. Kelly 
published several works, the principal of which are, 
Union: — The Trial of Spirits: — Christian Liberty : — 
One Baptism: — The Salt of Sacrifice : — Antichrist Re- 
sisted .-—Letters on Unii'ersal Salvation: — The Cheru- 
bimieal Mystery. See Uni versa lists. 

Rely, Jean de, a French preacher, was born about 
1430. He was made doctor of theology at Arras, and 
became successively canon, chancellor, and archdeacon 
of Notre Dame at Paris, and rector of the university. 
In this capacity he drew up in 14GI the Remonstrances 
which the Parliament presented to Louis NI for the 
maintenance of the Pragmatic Sanction, written with 
remarkable energy of style, and often reprinted both 
in French and in Latin. In 1483 he was deputy to 
the States-General of Tours, and presented to Charles 
VIII the result of their deliberations. In 1490 he be- 
came canon of St. Martin of Tours, and in Dec., 1491, 
he was elected bishop of Angers. He accompanied 
Charles VIII to Italy, where he was charged with sev- 
eral duties near pope Alexander VI. Rely died at Sau- 
mnr March 27, 1499. Besides the Breviary of St. Mar- 
tin of Tours, he revised by royal commission the trans- 
lation of the historical books of the Bible by Guyart de 
Moulins (1495, fob). — Ilocfer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Remali'ah ( Heb. Remalyahu, >irV2*2“i, protected 
of Jehovah ; Sept. 'PapeXiog or 'PopeXiog, v. r. 'PopeXia), 
the father of Pekah, king of Israel (2 Kings xv, 25, 27, 
30, 32, 37; xvi, 1, 5; 2 Citron, xxviii, G), probably a 
man whose character was such as to make his name a 
reproach to his descendants (Isa. vii, 4, 5’, viii, 6). B.C. 
ante 756. See Pekaii. 

Rembrandt, commonly called Rembrandt van Rhyn, 
w'as the son of Hermann Gerritsz, and was born in his fa- 
ther’s mill on the banks of the Rhine, between Leyderdorp 
and Koudckerk, near Leyden, June 15, 1G0G (or 1608). 
The former date rests on the authority of Orlers, Desc?~ip- 


tion of Leyden (1641). The latter date rests on the paint- 
er’s marriage certificate, lately discovered, dated June 10, 
1634, in which Rembrandt’s age is stated to be twenty- 
six. He became the pupil of Jacob van Swanenburg,with 
whom he remained three years. He studied also under 
Pieter Lastman at Amsterdam, and Jacob Pinas at Haar- 
lem. He settled at Amsterdam in 1630, and appears to 
have died there, according to Immerzeel, July 19, 1664; 
but no register of his burial has yet been discovered. 
Rembrandt was equally distinguished as an etcher and* 
a painter. His etchings amount to nearly 400, and 
they are dated from 1628 to 1661. The chief char- 
acteristic of his works is forcible light and shade. 
Among his most remarkable historical paintings are 
M oses Destroying the Tables of the Law :—The Sacrifice 
of Abraham: — The Woman Taken in Adultery : — The 
Descent from the Cross: — The Nativity : — Christ in the 
Garden with Mary Magdalene : — and The A donation of 
the Magi. There are 640 of his paintings specified in 
Smith’s Catalogue. The best of them are still owned 
in Holland. He is well represented in the National 
Gallery, and his influence has been more direct upon 
the British school of painters than that of any other 
master. See Immerzeel, Aanteekeningen op de Lofredd 
op Rembrandt , also De Levens en Werken der I/ollandsche 
en Ylaamsche Kunstschihlers, etc. (1843); Bartsch, Le 
Peintre-graveur ; Burnet , Rembr. and his Works (1848); 
Middleton, Etched Work of Rembr. (Lond. 1879). 

Re'meth (Heb. id. height ; Sept. ‘P appaS 

v. r. 'P appag), a city in the territory of Issachar (Josh, 
xix, 21), called, as it seems, Ramoth (q. v.) in 1 Chron. 

vi, 73. As the place is named in the first of the above 
passages next to En-gaunim (Jenin), the site is possi- 
bly represented by a tell with ruins south of Zerin (Jez- 
reel) between Sundela and Mukeibileh. Dr. Porter 
(in Kitto’s Cyclop, s. v.) suggests that the place may be 
identical with the ruined fortress and village called 
Wezar, perched upon the northern rocky face of Mt. 
Gilboa (Robinson, Researches , iii, 157, 160; new ed. iii, 
339). 

Remi. See Remigius. 

Remigius of Auxerre was a learned French Ben- 
edictine monk in the 9th century, and was brought 
up in the abbey of St. Germain, Auxerre. He was ap- 
pointed teacher to the schools belonging to the monas- 
tery, afterwards taught at Kheims, then went to Paris 
and opened the first public school in that city after 
learning had sunk under the ravages of the Normans. 
Ilis works are, Commentarias in Omnes Davidis Psalmos 
(Cologne, 1536) : — Enarrationes in Posteriores XI Mi - 
nores Prophetas (Antwerp, 1545), with the Commen - 
furies of (Ecumenius on the Acts and Epistles, and those 
of Arethas on Revelation : — and Expositio Misses, See 
lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Remigius, or Remi (St.), of Lyons, a celebrated 
French archbishop in the 9th century, and grand almo- 
ner to the emperor Lothaire, succeeded Amolo in the 
above see about the year 853 or 854. It is supposed to 
be this St. Remigius who, in the name of the Church of 
Lyons, wrote an answer to the three letters of Hincmar 
of Rheims, and others, in which he defends St. Augus- 
tine’s doctrine on grace and predestination. This an- 
swer may be found in the Yindicice Predcstinationis et 
Gratia} (1650, 2 vols. 4to), and in the library of the fa- 
thers. lie presided at the Council of Valence in 855, 
and others of the same kind; and, after founding some 
pious institutions, he died Oct. 28, 875. See lloefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Remigius, or Remi (St.), of Rheims, a very cel- 
ebrated French archbishop, was raised to the see of 
Rheims about 460. He distinguished himself bv his 
learning and virtue, converted and baptized king Clovis, 
and died Jan. 13, 533. Some Letters and a Testument 
in the library of the fathers are attributed to him. See 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. ; Herzog, Real-En - 
cyklop. s. v. 


REMIGIUS 


1030 


REMPHAX 


Remigius, or Remi, of Strasbfrg, a bishop 1 
known only lor having rounded the monastery of 
Aschau. lie died in *03. lie is often confounded with 
abbe Remi of Milnster, who died in 7G*. See iloefer. 
Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Reminiscere (remember'), a name sometimes given 
to the second Sunday in Lent, from the first word of the 
Jntroit, “Remember, O Lord, thy tender mereies,” etc. 
(Psa. xxv, 6). 

Remling, Franz Xaver, a Roman Catholic divine, 
was born in 1*03 at Kdcnkoben. In 18*27 he was or- 
dained a priest, and in 1*52 he became a member of the 
chapter. In 1*53 the Academy of Munich appointed 
him as corresponding member, and in 185G the Munich 
University honored him with the degree of doctor of 
philosophy. lie died June 28, 1*73. lie wrote, Das 
Reformat ionsirerk in der Pfalz (Mannheim, 1816): — 
Geschichte der Bischbfe zu Speyer (Main/., 1*52-54, 2 ( 
vols.) : — Urkumtenbuch zur Geschichte der Bischufe v on ' 
Speyer (ibid. 1*52, 1853 sq.). See Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ■ 
ii, 1054; Literarischer JJandtceiser, 18G5, p. 443 sq.: 
1SGG, p. 298 ; 1*73, p. 430. (II. P.) 

Rem'mon (Josh. xix. 7). See Ri.mmon. 

Rem'mon-meth'oar [some Met ho’ dr) (Josh. xix. 
13). See Rimmon. 

Remoboth and Sarabaites, names given to as- 
sociations of hermits in the early Church who refused 
to submit to monastic regulations. The Remoboth, 
whose name originated in Syria, are mentioned as be- 
longing to this class by Jerome ( lip. 1* ad Eustochium, 
De Custodia Virginitatis ). He says that they were more 
numerous than other monks in Syria and Palestine; 
that they lived in the towns in complete independence, 
and in companies of not more than two or three per- 
sons; that they supported themselves by labor, and often 
quarrelled among themselves. A similar class of her- 
mits, living in Egypt, is mentioned in Cassian (Collado, 
xviii,c. 7) under the name Sarabaites, said to have been 
applied to them because they separated themselves from 
the monasteries and personally made provision for their 
needs. — Ilerzog, Reed-Encyklop. s. v. 

Remond (or Raemond ), Florimond de, a French 
historian, who was born about 1540, and died in 1G02, 
is noteworthy here only for his spleen against the. Hu- 
guenots, which he vented especially in his Antichrist . 
He also wrote in refutation of the story of the popcss 
Joan (q. v.),as did likewise his son, abbe Chari.es Re- 
aioni), among other things. See Iloefer, Xouv. Bioy. 
Generate, s. v. 

Remonstrance, a complaint framed by the Com- 
mons of England in 1628, and addressed to Charles 1. 
setting forth the increase of popery in consequence 
of the relaxation of the penal laws; the preferments 
given to papists; and a commission being issued to 
compound for the penalties incurred by popish recu- 
sants. It also described the discouragement shown to 
orthodox preachers and teachers, and the prohibition 
of their books. The king attempted to suppress this 
remonstrance, and afterwards published an answer to 
its allegations. 

Remonstrants, a name given to the Arminians 
(q. v.) by reason of a remonstrance which, in 1*10, they 
made to the States of Holland against the decree of the 
Synod of l)ort. which condemned them as heretics. 
Episcopius and Crotius were at the head of the llemon- 
strants. The Calvinists presented a counter -address, 
and were called Contra-remonstrants. 

Rem'phan ('P fji<pdr v. r. 'l’t^di') is named in 
Acts vii, 43 as an idol worshipped bv the Israelites in 
the desert, in a passage quoted by Stephen front Amos 
v, 2G, where the Sept, has T uapdv (v. r. 'Po p<pa), for 
the Hob. *i r ' :, 2, Chian. (In the following discussion we 
chiefly follow Poole’s article in Smith's Diet. of the Bi- 
ble.) Much difficulty has been occasioned by this cor- 


responding occurrence of two names so wholly different 
in sound. The most reasonable opinion seemed to be 
that Chiun was a Hebrew or Shemitic name, and Rem- 
plian an Egyptian equivalent substituted by the Sept. 
The former, rendered Saturn in the Syriac, was com- 
pared with the Arabic and Persian Kaytcdnf the plan- 
et Saturn,’’ and, according to Kireher, the latter was 
found in Coptic with the same signification; but per- 
haps he had no authority for this, excepting the sup- 
posed meaning of the Hebrew Chinn. They, indeed, 
occur as such in the Coptic-Arabic Lexicon of Kirchc-r 
(Ling. - Egypt. Restit. p. 49; (Edip. yEgypti, i, 3*0) ; but 
Jahlonski has long since shown that this and other 
names of planets in these lexicons are of Creek origin, 
and drawn from the Coptic versions of Amos and the 
Acts (Jablonski, Remphan yEgypdor., in Optisc. ii, 1 
sq.). Egyptology has, moreover, shown that this is 
not the true explanation. Among the foreign divin- 
ities worshipped in Egypt, two, the god Renpu, per- 
haps pronounced Rempu, and the goddess Ken, occur 
together. liefore endeavoring to explain the passages 
in which Chinn and Pemphan are mentioned, it will be 
desirable to speak, on tlie evidence of monuments, of 
the foreign gods worshipped in Egypt, particularly 
| Renpu and Ken, and of the idolatry of the Israelites 
while in that country. 

Besides those divinities represented on the monu- 
ments of Egypt which have Egyptian forms or names, 
or both, others have foreign forms or names, or both. 
Of the latter, some appear to have been introduced at 
a very remote age. This is certainly the case with 
the principal divinity of Memphis, l’tah, the Egyptian 
Hephaestus. The name Ptah is from a Shemitic root, 
for it signifies “open,” and in Ileb. we find the root 
nrs.aml its cognates, “he or it opened,” whereas there 
is no word related to it in Coptic. The figure of this 
divinity is that of a deformed pygmy, or perhaps un- 
born child, and is unlike the usual representations of 
divinities on the monuments. In this case there can 
be no doubt that the introduction took place at an ex- 
tremely early date, as the name of Ptah occurs in very 
old tombs in the necropolis of Memphis, and is found 
throughout the religious records. It is also to he no- 
ticed that this name is not traceable in the mythology 
of neighboring nations, unless, indeed, it corresponds to 
that of the Ilarniicoi or I\a-a<Koi, whose images, ac- 
cording to Herodotus, were the figure-heads of Phoeni- 
cian ships (iii, 37). The foreign divinities that seem 
to lie oflater introduction are not found throughout the 
religious records, but only in single tablets, or are other- 
wise very rarely mentioned, and two out of their four 
names are immediately recognised to be non-Egyptian. 
They are Renpu, and the goddesses Ken, Ant a, and 
Astarta. The first and second of these have foreign 
forms; the third and fourth have Egyptian forms: 
there would therefore seem to be an especially foreign 
character about the former two. (1.) Rcupu, pronounced 
Rempu (?), is represented as an Asiatic, with the full 
beard and apparently the general type of face given on 
t lie monuments to most nations east of Egypt, and to 
tl:e Rebu or Libyans. This type is evidently that of 
the Shemites. His hair is bound with a fillet, which 
is ornamented in front with the head of an antelope. 
(2.) Ken is represented perfectly naked, holding in both 
hands corn, and standing upon a lion. In the last par- 
ticular the figure of a goddess at Malthciyyeh, in As- 
syria, may be compared (Layard, Xinereh, ii, 212). From 
this occurrence of a similar representation, from her be- 
ing naked and carrying corn, ami from her being wor- 
shipped with Khem, we may suppose that Ken corre- 
sponded to the Syrian goddess, at least when the latter 
had the character of Venus. She is also called Kciesh, 
which is the name in hieroglyphics of the great llittile 
town on the t) routes. This in the present ease is prob- 
ably a title, iTlinp : it can scarcely be the name of a 
town where she was worshipped, applied to her as per- 


REMPHAN 


1037 


REMPHAN 


\II1IIJ III liillil 111^111 ill i liaili.iikiuiii.inmjii,ii i'n i, iiitumim, iiimli'ii. .,t :(inm 1 1 ( il.imi.iiTiium .1 u n i 



lmDIiSuiiiilliliiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiii|||i|iaii|||| 1 [||||iiii||iiiiiiiiiii!iiiliiii 1 ,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiJil||iliillili|]|iliii”ini7miiiiiiili|iiijii||iii|ii,iil 



sonifying it. (3.) Anata appears to be 
Anaitis, and her foreign character seems 
almost certain from her being jointly wor- 
shipped with Renpu and Ken. (4.) Astarte 
is of course the Ashtoreth of Canaan. On 
a tablet in the British Museum the prin- 
cipal subject is a group representing Ken, 
having Ivhem on one side and Renpu on 
the other; beneath is an adoration of Ana- 
ta. On the half of another tablet Ken and 
Khem occur, and a dedication to Iienpu 
and Ketesh. 

We have no clue to the exact time of 
the introduction of these divinities into 
Egypt, nor, except in one case, to any 
particular places of their worship. Their 
names occur as early as the period of 
the 18th and l!)th dynasties, and it is 
therefore not improbable that they were 
introduced by the Shepherds. Astarte is 
mentioned in a tablet of Amenoph II, op- 
posite Memphis, which leads to the con- 
jecture that she was the foreign Venus 
there worshipped, in the quarter of the 
Phoenicians of Tyre, according to Herod- 
otus (ii, 112). It is observable that the 
Shepherds worshipped Sutekh, corre- 
sponding to Seth, and also called Bar (that is, Baal), 
and that under king Apepi he was the sole god of the 
foreigners. Sutekh was probably a foreign god, and 
was certainly identified with Baal. The idea that the 
Shepherds introduced the foreign gods is therefore part- 
ly confirmed. As to Renpu and Ken we can only offer 
a conjecture. They occur together, and Ken is a form 
of the Syrian goddess, and also bears some relation to 
the Egyptian god of productiveness, Khem. Their 
similarity to Baal and Ashtoreth seems strong, and per- 
haps it is not unreasonable to suppose that they were 
the divinities of some tribe from the east, not of Phoeni- 
cians or Canaanites, settled in Egypt during the Shep- 
herd period. The naked goddess Ken would suggest | 
such worship as that of the Babylonian Mylitta, but I 
the thoroughly Shemitic appearance of Iienpu is rather 1 
in favor of an Arab source. Although we have not 
discovered a Shemitic origin of either name, the absence 
of the names in the mythologies of Canaan and the 
neighboring countries, as far as they are known to us, 
inclines us to look to Arabia, of which the early my- 
thology is extremely obscure. 

The Israelites in Egypt, after Joseph’s rule, appear 
to have fallen into a general, but doubtless not univer- ] 
sal, practice of idolatry. This is only twice distinctly 
stated and once alluded to (Josh, xxiv, 14 ; Ezek. xx, 
7,8; xxiii, 3), but the indications are perfectly clear. 
The mention of Chinn or Remphan as worshipped in 
the desert shows that this idolatry was, in part at least, 
that of foreigners, and no doubt of those settled in Low- 
er Egypt.. The golden calf, at first sight, would ap- 
pear to be an image of Apis of Memphis, or Mnevis of 
Heliopolis, or some other sacred bull of Egypt; but it 
must be remembered that we read in the Apocrypha 
of "the heifer Baal” (Tob. i, 5), so that it was possibly 
a Phoenician or Cauaanitish idol. The best parallel 
to this idolatry is that of the Phoenician colonies in 
Europe, as seen in the idols discovered in tombs at 
Camirus in Rhodes by M. Salzmann, and those found 
in tombs in the island of Sardinia (of both of which 
there are specimens in the British Museum), and those 
represented on the coins of Melita and the island of 
Ebusus. 

We can now endeavor to explain the passages in 
which Chiun and Remphan occur. The Masoretic text 
of Amos v, 26 reads thus: “But ve bare the tent [or 
“ tabernacle”] of vonr king and Chiun your images, the 
star of your gods [or “ your god”], which ye made for 
yourselves.” In the Sept, we find remarkable differ- 
ences; it reads, Kai araXdfitrf. ti)v gki]vi)v too MoXo^, 


KCli TO IHfTpOV TOV StOV VpoiV 'Pai(f>nV, TOVQ TVTiOVQ 
uvtmv ovq *7rot//trare iavTolg. The Yulg. agrees with 
the Masoretic text in the order of the clauses, though 
omitting Chiun or Remphan. “ Et portastis taber- 
naculum Moloch vestro, et imaginem idolorum vestro- 
rum, sidus dei vestri, qua? fecistis vobis.” The passage 
is cited in the Acts almost in the words of the Sept.: 
“ Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star 
of your god Remphan, figures which ye made to wor- 
ship them” (Kai areXa/itre ti)v gki]v))v tov MoXcy, 

KCtl TO UGTpOV TOV S'fOU Vflutv 'P tpipuv, TO VC TlITTOVg 

ovg kTriHijcraTt irpoaKvvtlp avro'ig). A slight change 
in the Hebrew would enable us to read Moloch (Mal- 
cam or Milcom) instead of “your king.” Beyond this 
it is extremely difficult to explain the differences. The 
substitution of Remphan for Chiun cannot be accounted 
for by verbal criticism. The Hebrew does not seem as 
distinct in meaning as the Sept.; and if we may con- 
jecturallv emend it from the latter, the last clause would 
be “your images which ye made for yourselves;” and 
if we further transpose Chinn to the place of “your 
god Remphan,” in the Sept., 22^*3 “*120 “X would 
correspond to *"" l= “2T12X 22 n 2 rs<; but how can 
we account for such a transposition as would thus be 
supposed, which, be it remembered, is less likely in the 
Hebrew than in a translation of a difficult passage? If 
we compare the Masoretic text and the supposed orig- 
inal, we perceive that in the former C2*’:sb:s , J“P2 cor- 
responds in position to 02* , nbx 02^2, and it does not 
seem an unwarrantable conjecture that *j“l"2 having 
been by mistake written in the place of 22*' 2 by some 
copyist, C2“ l "2bu was also transposed. It appears to 
be more reasonable to read “images which ye made” 
than “gods which ye made,” as the former word occurs. 
Supposing these emendations to be probable, we may 
now examine the meaning of the passage. 

The tent or tabernacle of Moloch is supposed by 
Gesenius ( Thesaur . s. v. r^ZO) to have been an actual 
tent, and he compares the gkijvi) i spa of the Cartha- 
ginians (Diod. Sic. xx, 65). But there is some diffi- 
culty in the idea that the Israelites carried about so 
large an object for the purpose of idolatry, and it seems 
more likely that it was a small model of a larger tent 
or shrine. The reading Moloch appears preferable to 
“your king;” but the mention of the idol of the Am- 
monites as worshipped in the desert stands quite alone. 
It is perhaps worthy of note that there is reason for 


] J EX AISS AX CE 


103S 


liEXAISSAXCE 


supposing that Moloch was a name of the planet Sat- 
urn. and that this planet was evidently supposed by 
the ancient translators to be intended by Chinn and 
Kemphan. The correspondence of Kemphan or Kai- 
phan to Chinn is extremely remarkable, and can, we 
think, only be accounted for by the supposition that 
the Sept, translator or translators of the prophet had 
Egyptian knowledge, and being thus acquainted with 
the ancient joint worship of Ken and Itenpu, substi- 
tuted the latter for the former, as they may have been 
unwilling to repeat the name of a foreign Venus. The 
star of Kemphan, if indeed the passage is to be read so 
as to connect these words, would lie especially appro- 
priate if Kemphan were a planetary god; but the evi- 
dence for this, especially as partly founded upon an 
Arabic or Persian word like Chinn, is no.t sufficiently 
strong to enable us to lay any stress upon the agree- 
ment. In hieroglyphics the sign for a star is one of 
the two composing the word Scb, “ to adore,” and is 
undoubtedly there used in a symbolical as well as a 
phonetic sense, indicating that the ancient Egyptian 
religion was partly derived from a system of star-wor- 
ship; and there are representations on the monuments 
of mythical creatures or men adoring stars (.litroVig 
Egyptians, pi. 30 a). We have, however, no positive 
indication of any figure of a star being used as an idol- 
atrous object of worship. From the manner in which 
it is mentioned, we may conjecture that the star of 
Kemphan was of the same character as the tabernacle 
of Moloch, an object connected with false worship rather 
than an image of a false god. According to the Sept, 
reading of the last clause, it might he thought that 
these objects were actually images of Moloch and Kcm- 
phan; but it must be remembered that we cannot sup- 
pose an image to have had the form of a tent, and that 
the version of the passage in the Acts, as well as the 
Masoretic text, if in the latter case we may change the 
order of the words, gives a clear sense. As to the mean- 
ing of the last clause, it need only he remarked that it 
does not oblige us to infer that the Israelites made the 
images of the false gods, though they may have done 
so, as in the case of the golden calf; it may mean no 
more than that they adopted these gods. 

It. is to be observed that the whole passage does not 
indicate that distinct Egyptian idolatry was practiced 
by the Israelites. It is very remarkable that the only 
false gods mentioned as worshipped bv them in the 
desert should he probably Moloch and Chinn and Kem- 
phan, of which the latter two were foreign divinities 
worshipped in Egypt. From this we may reasonably 
infer that while the Israelites sojourned in Egypt there 
was also a great stranger-population in the Lower Coun- 
try, and therefore that it is probable that then the Shep- 
herds still occupied the land. See Schroder, lie Tuber- 
nac. Molochi et Stella Dei Remph. (Marb. 1745); Mains, 
Dissert, tie Kium et Remphan (17G3); ,/ourn. Sac. Lit. 
Oct. 1852, ]). 1039; Gcscuius, Thesaur. p. GG9, G70. 
See Cuil'N. 

Renaissance (Fr. new birth), a term used alike in 
architecture, sculpture, and ornamental art, to designate 
a revival period or style after the Middle Ages. The 
Kenaissancc had its origin in Italy, where, at best, Goth- 
ic architecture secured but a precarious hold. The dis- 
covery (early in t lie 15th century) of the productions 
of the ancients in statuary and painting, ami the bring- 
ing to light of long-hidden stores of Greek and Latin 
MSS. (as, for instance, Vitruvius on the architecture of 
the ancients), could not fail to bring Knmnn buildings 
into prominent notice, and to predispose the public mind 
in favor of the classic style. A new system was con- 
sequently developed, during the lirst stages of which 
(namely, the Transition period) the elements of Knmnn 
architecture came again into use, although the forms 
which belong to the Latcr-Komnnesqne period as, for 
instance, the division of the window-arches by mullions 
— were not entirely abandoned. Starting in Italy, this i 
new style reached its zenith in that country in the 


course of the same century. Although derived from 
that of Italy, each country had its peculiar Kenaissancc, 
described accordingly as French, German, and English 
Kenaissancc, preserving a general likeness, but each ex- 
hibiting traits exclusively its own. 

1. Italian. — At t lie early epoch of its existence, the 
new style of architecture displays not so much an alter- 
ation in the arrangement of the spaces and of the main 
features of the buildings as in the system of ornamen- 
tation ami in the aspect of the protiles. During the ear- 
ly period the endeavor was maintained to adapt classi- 
cal forms with more or less freedom to modern buildings, 
while later (in the lGth century), a scheme based on an- 
cient architecture was universally prescriptive. Two 
distinct styles belong to this first period, viz. the Early 
Florentine ami the Early Venetian. In the I toman Ke- 
naissanee, the system of the second period, which con- 
fines itself more closely to classical elements, is more 
prevalent. The decoration of the interiors of the build- 
ings of the Kenaissancc is copied from ancient lioman 
architecture. The rooms arc either vaulted or have 
fiat ceilings; but in both cases they are adorned with 
paintings, after the manner of those discovered in the 
Baths of Titus. Ornamented panels were employed in 
large palaces for horizontal ceilings, as also in church- 
es, though in the latter case they were more often ap- 
plied to cupola vaultings, as notably in St. Peter’s. See 
Kome. 


2. French. — France was the first to introduce the new 
style north of the Alps, Fra Giocondo, an Italian artist, 
having been summoned thither by Louis XII. Giocon- 
do erected for cardinal D’Amboise, the minister of that 
monarch, the celebrated Chateau Gaillon. At this time 
the Flamboyant (q. v.) style was still in its vigor, and 
the consequence was that a blending of the two styles 



Central Pavilion of the Tnilcries (as designed by De- 
lorme). 


REN AN AH 


1039 


RENEE 


temporarily prevailed. After the period of Fhilibert 
Delorme, who completed the chapel of the Chateau 
d’Anet in the Renaissance style (1552), the Cothic style 
was, as a rule, abandoned. At the same time, the gen- 
eral arrangement of the Gothic churches was retained, 
and it was only the Renaissance system of decoration 
which was substituted for the Gothic. The ground-plan, 
the proportions, and the whole structure, with its Hy- 
ing buttresses, pinnacles, clustered columns, and deeply 
recessed portals, are borrowed from the pointed style. 
It was only in the details and in the ornamentation that 
the Renaissance was followed. The Tuileries, as built 
for Catherine de Medicis, is a great example of French 
Renaissance when at its best. In its elevation richness 
is perceptible without excess, and symmetry is attained 
without stiffness: in fact, it presents a design in which 
aesthetic laws are fully considered, and the details har- 
moniously, if not magnificently, executed. 

3. German. — The Renaissance style was not employed 
in Germany before the middle of the 16th century, and 
the most noteworthy instances of it are the Belvedere 
of Ferdinand I on the Ilradschin at Prague, and the so- 
called Otto Henry buildings at Heidelberg Castle. In 
Germany, as in other countries, the elements of the pre- 
ceding style are intermingled with those of the Renais- 
sance during the early period of its prevalence. The 
fault of the German Renaissance style is a certain heavi- 
ness— an exuberance, not to say extravagance, in its con- 
structive character and decorative details. 

4. Spanish. — In Spain an Early Renaissance style 
appears, a kind of transitional Renaissance, belonging 
to the first half of the 16th century. It consists of the 
application of Moorish and pointed-arch forms in con- 
junction with those of classical antiquity. In this way 
a conformation was produced which was peculiar to 
Spain, and the style is characterized by hold lightness, 
by luxuriance in decoration, and by a spirit of romance. 
In the reign of Charles Y, this ornate Early Renais- 
sance style gave place to a later one, which, in reality, 
belongs to the Rococo style. Among the Renaissance 
edifices of Spain may be mentioned the upper gallery 
of the cloister of the Convent of Huerta, the town- 
hall of Saragossa and of Seville, and the Alcazar at To- 
ledo. 

5. English. — The Italian Renaissance style was in- 
troduced into England about the middle of the 16th 
century by John of Padua, the architect of Henry VIII. 
English buildings of this style are distinguished by ca- 
pricious treatment of forms, and generally exhibit a de- 
ficiency of that grace and dignity, both in details and 
ensemble, which lend a peculiar charm to Italian struct- 
ures in the same style. Longlcat House, Wiltshire, and 
Wollaton Hall are specimens of this style. See English 
Cyclop, s. v.; Rosengarten, Architectural Styles. See 
Rococo; Romanesque Architecture. 

Renanah. See Peacock. 

Renaudot, Euskbe, a French savant, was born at 
Paris, July 20, 1646. His early studies were carried on 
among the Jesuits, and in the College of Harcourt. On 
their completion he entered the Congregation of the 
Oratory, but without taking orders. Though he re- 
mained but a short time in this institution, the whole 
of his life was passed in similar ones, and w T as devoted 
to his favorite studies of theology and Oriental liter- 
ature. His knowledge of ecclesiastical affairs caused 
him to be employed in many negotiations with foreign 
countries, and his talent made him a favorite at court. 
In 1700 abbe Renaudot went to Rome, and received from 
Clement XI the priory of Frossay, in Brittany. Dur- 
ing his whole career he endeavored to re-establish the 
printing of the Oriental classics, and interested the duke 
of Orleans in the subject, but it was never accomplished. 
He died at Paris, Sept. 1, 1720. Renaudot’s writings 
were numerous, though he published nothing until a few 
years before his death. We mention, Defense de la Per- 
petuite de la Foi, etc. (Paris, 1708) : — Gennadii Patri- ! 


archc e Homilce de Eucharistia , etc. (ibid. 1709): — La 
Perpetuite de la Foi de I'Eglise sur les Sacremcnts , etc. 
(ibid. 1713) : — Historia Patriarcharum Alexandrinorum 
Jacohitarum, etc. (ibid. 1713). This is the most com- 
plete work ever written upon the history of Egyptian 
Christianity. It is based upon the Arabic narrative of 
bishop Severus, and contains a complete list of the Jac- 
obite patriarchs from Cyril to John Touki, who lived 
early in the 18th century : — Liturgium Orientalium Col- 
lectio (ibid. 1715-16): — Anciennes Relations des hides el 
de la Chine, etc. (ibid. 1718). Besides these, he left" 
works on purely literary subjects, and several valuable 
MSS. : — Uistoire de Saladin: — IHstoire des Patriarches 
Syriens et de la Secte Nestorienne, and Traite de VEglise 
d'Ethiopie. See De Beri, 1 list, de I'Acad. des Inscript. 
v; Niceron, Memoires , xii and xx. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Rend is the translation of several lleb. and Gr. 
words in the Bible. The following only are of special 
significance. 

1. The rending (“Tp> pijywjui) of one’s clothes is an 
expression frequently used in Scripture as the token of 
the highest grief. Reuben, to denote his sorrow for Jo- 
seph, rent his clothes (Gen. xxxvii, 29) ; Jacob did the 
like (ver. 34), and Ezra, to express the concern and un- 
easiness of his mind, and the apprehensions he enter- 
tained of the divine displeasure on account of the peo- 
ple’s unlawful marriages, is said to have rent his garments 
and mantle (Ezra ix,3), that is, both his inner and upper 
garment. This action was also an expression of indigna- 
tion and holy zeal; the high-priest rent his clothes, pre- 
tending that our Saviour had spoken blasphemy (Matt, 
xxvi, 65), and so did the apostles when the people in- 
tended to pay them divine honors (Acts xiv, 14). See 
Clothing. 

To rend the garments was in Eastern countries and 
among ancient nations a symbolical action, expressive 
of sorrow, fear, or contrition. (See the monographs on 
the subject in Latin by Griinewold [Hafn. 1708] ; Hilli- 
ger [ Wittenb. 1716] ; Rohrcnsee [ibid. 1668] ; Schroder, 
[Jen. 1716]; and Wickmannshausen [Wittenb. 1716].) 
The passage in Joel (ii, 13), “ Rend your hearts, and not 
your garments,” is in allusion to this practice. But the 
phrase here is a Hebraism, meaning “ Rend your hearts 
rather than your garments,” or “Rend your hearts, and 
not your garments onty ;” for the prophet does not for- 
bid the external appearances of mourning, but he cau- 
tions them against a merely hypocritical show of sorrow, 
and exhorts them to cherish that contrite and broken 
spirit which is acceptable in the sight of God. See 
Burial; Mourning. 

2. In the prophet Jeremiah (iv, 30), when he de- 
nounces the divine judgments upon the people, it is 
said, “Though thou rentest (2^p) thy face with paint- 
ing ;” the Hebrew has, instead of face, “ eyes,” and the 
expression is an allusion to the Eastern practice of paint- 
ing the eyes, which we have explained under the words 
Eve and Paint. 

Rendu, Louis, a French prelate, was born at Meyrin, 
Dec. 19, 1789. He entered the priesthood and spent his 
life in teaching and scientific research. In 1833 he 
published a work entitled De V Influence des Lois sur les 
Mceurs et des Maui's sur les Lois. This gained for the 
author a wide reputation. He was afterwards made 
bishop of Annecy. II is works were entirely scientific — 
on geology, meteorology, chemistry. He died Aug. 18, 
1859. See Mgr. Louis Rendu, by the abbe G.Mermillod. 
— Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Renee d’Este, duchess of Ferrara and princess of 
France, whose career was closely interwoven with the 
history of the Reformation, was the second daughter of 
king Louis XII and Anne of Brittany, and was born at 
Blois, Oct. 29, 1510 (according to some authorities, Oct. 
10 or 25; we follow Bonnet [J.], Lettres de J. Calvin, i, 
43). She was married July 30, 1527, to duke Hercules 


RENEE 


1040 


REN NIG EE 


of Ferrara, and became the mother of five children: 
and in the exercise of her tastes for literature and art 
she made the court of Ferrara a centre of culture which 
emulated that of Florence and the Medici, ller sym- 
pathies. directed no less by personal conviction than by 
the traditions of her family and her early education, 
were with the Reformation. She encouraged Bruceioli 
to prepare an Italian version of the Bible, and allowed 
him to dedicate to her the first edition (I54H, and she 
afforded a refuse to fugitive Protestants. Calvin availed 
himself of this asylum in 1535, and thus began a rela- 
tion which was of great value to the duchess while he 
lived, lie was allowed to pray and expound the Script- 
ures in a chapel which is still shown, until remon- 
strances from Home induced the duke to banish him. 
and with him all the Protestant friends of his consort, 
down to the servants brought with her from France. 
The same influence led to the persecution of Renee in 
person. The relations of Ferrara with France had been 
broken off. and political added to religious prejudices 
aggravated the situation; but beyond restraints ami 
disrespect she suffered little, until in 1545 the Inquisi- 
tion was established in Ferrara and the reconquest of 
the land to Romanism began. The co-operation of 
llenrv II of France was secured; Renee was compelled 
to listen to sermons in denunciation of her principles; 
her husband caused her to be imprisoned with two of 
her women, and placed her daughters Leonora and Lu- 
cretia in a convent. These measures broke her spirit 
and brought her to confession and attendance on the 
mass. She was restored to liberty Dee. 1, 1554, after an 
imprisonment of two and a half months. She had en- 
joyed the counsel of Protestant friends during much of 
her period of trial: Calvin had written frequent letters, 
and had sent Francis Morel (of Collanges) to act as her 
spiritual adviser; and her former secretary. Leon Jamez, 
had also sustained her faithfully; but, in the heat of a 
persecution in which but few stood firm, her resolution 
gave way. The unfaltering fidelity of the whole of her 
subsequent life atoned for that single and temporary 
lapse. The experience of Renee was sufficiently trying 
in other respects as well. Her daughter Anna was 
married, against the earnest protest of her mother, to 
the chief opponent of the Protestant cause, duke Fran- 
cis of liaise (Sept. 29. 1548). Her eldest son, Alphonso. 
quarrelled with his father and tied the country in 1552. 
Her husband died Oct. 3, 1559. after exacting from her 
an oath that she would no longer correspond with Cal- 
vin, from which she was. however, absolved by Calvin. 
Alphonso succeeded his father, and, influenced by pope 
Pius IV. at once compelled his mother to renounce his 
country or her faith. She chose the former alternative, 
and returned to France in September, 1560, leaving her 
children in Ferrara. France was at this period troubled 
with the disputes of Xavarre and Conde with the ( niises. 
and Conde lay in prison awaiting death. Renee did not 
hesitate to censure the disloyal cruelty of the Guises; 
and when their power was broken, on the death of Fran- 
cis 11, she became the open promoter of the Reforma- 
tion. She invited Protestant clergymen into the coun- 
try and caused Protestant worship to be held at her seat 
of Montargis and wherever she might make a tem- 
porary home in other places; but she was none the less 
earnestly engaged in promoting peace between the con- 
ten ling parties. At Montargis she so compromised their 
disputes that they were definitively laid aside. Her 
charities and her counsels were expended upon appli- 
cants of even- class. When her son-in-law, the duke of 
Guise, began the war which during thirty years drench- 
ed France with ' 1 >od. she determined that Montargis 
should be a refuge to all Protestant fugitives. Francis 
of Guise died Feb. 21, 15113, and the peace of Amboise 
was declared in March of the same year; and. as she 
was thereafter forbidden to celebrate the worship of her 
Church in Paris, even in her own house, she retired per- 
manently to Montargis. though she subsequently accom- 
panied Charles IX on his tour through the kingdom. 


She founded a school, enlarged and beautified the town, 
and took a lively interest in the translation of the New- 
Test. into Spanish. At this time she received a last let- 
ter from Calvin, written (April 4, 1564) while he was on 
his death-bed. by the hand of his brother. From this 
period the records of her life become rare. The second 
religious war (Sept.. 1507, to March. 1568) did not dis- 
turb her. She was at the Hotel de Laon in Paris during 
St. Bartholomew’s Night, but was exempted from the 
general massacre, and succeeded in rescuing several 
of her coreligionists, whom she carried to Montargis 
and aided to effect their ultimate escape. She ended 
her noble life June 12. 1575. An eloquent testimony to 
her faith was included in her w ill. Her remains were in- 
terred in the church at Montargis. See M finch [ Ernst], 
Renata con Fste und ikre Tackier (1 S3 1-33, 2 vols.), not 
important and not always trustworthy; Catteau-Calle- 
ville, I7e de lienee de France (Berl. 17SL-83). Brief 
biographies are given in M Crie. Hist, of the lief, in 
Italy; and Denies. Specimen Italia Heformatie ; and a 
more detailed life in Young, Life and Times oJ'Aonio 
Balearic (Lond. I860, 2 vols.); Baylc, La France Pro- 
test ante. viii ; Bonnet [Jules], La 1 'ie d'Olympe Morale ; 
aod Lett ns de Jean Calcin. — Herzog, lital- Encyhlop. 
s. v. 

Renesse, Ludwig Gerard van, a Dutch ascetic 
author, was born at Breda, May 11. 1599. As an evan- 
gelical minister he preached at Maerssen. in the province 
of Utrecht. In 1038 he was called to Breda, where he 
founded a college, of which he was the first director 'and 
professor of theology. The University of Oxford con- 
ferred upon him the degree of doctor of theology. He 
was a fine linguist, and corresponded with the most cel- 
ebrated theologians of his time. His principal works 
are. Painted Jezebel (1054) : — Treatises on the Care. .4 u- 
tkority, and Duty of Elders in the Church (1059-01) : — 
and Meditations on religious subjects. These are all 
written in Flemish.' — lloefer, A our. Bioy. Generate, 
s. v. 

Rennell, Thomas (1), D.D., an English clergy- 
man, was bom in 1754. and was educated at Eton and 
at King’s College, Cambridge. He became curate of 
Barnaek, and prebendary of Winchester (resigned 1797); 
rector of St. Magnus's. London Bridge, in 1792; master 
of the Temple from 1797 to 1827 ; dean of Winchester in 
1*05; rector of Alton, Hants, in 1809; vicar of Barton 
Stacey, Hants, in 1814. lie died in 1840. lie published, 
single Sermons (Lond. 1793-98), and a volume of Dis- 
courses (ibid. 1801). Mr. Pitt styled him “the Demos- 
thenes of the pulpit.” See Alii bone, Did. of Brit, and 
.1 mer. .4 uthors. s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Biblioyr. s. v. 

Rennell, Thomas (2), D.D., a learned English di- 
vine. son of the above, was born at Winchester in 17*7, 
and was educated at Eton and at King’s College, Cam- 
bridge. He became Christian advocate at Cambridge 
and vicar of Kensington in 1816; and master of St. 
Nicholas’s Hospital and prebendary of Salisbury in 1823. 
lie died in 1824. Mr. Rennell was one of the editors of 
and contributors to the (Eton) Miniature and the British 
Critic, and a contributor to the Museum Criticum. He 
published, Palentes Morhi : — .1 nimadversions on the Uni- 
tarian lemon of' the .Wop Test. (1811, Svo): — Remarks 
on Scepticism (1*819. 12mo; 6th ed. 1824); — Proofs of 
Inspiration, etc. (1822. 8vo) : — Sennons (3d ed. Lond. 
1831, Svo). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and .4 mer. .1 u- 
thors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Biblioyr. s. v. 

Renniger, or Rhauger, MtciiAEn, was horn in 
Hampshire, 1529, and was educated at. and a fellow of, 
Magdalen College, Oxford, lie embraced the princi- 
ples of the Reformation, resided chiefly at Strasburg 
during the reign of Mary, and was made chaplain to 
Elizabeth on her accession, lie became prebendary of 
Winchester in 1500, precentor and prebendary of Lincoln 
in 1507, archdeacon of Winchester in 1575, and preben- 
dary of St. Paul’s, in 1583. He died Aug. 20, 1009, and 
was buried in the church of Crawley. He wrote: Car- 


REXOU 


1041 REPAIRS OF CHURCHES 


mina in Mortem Duorum Fratrum (Lond. 1552, 4 to) : — ’ 
De Pii V et Gregorii XIII Furoribus contra Elizabeth- 
am Iieginam Anglia; (1582, 8vo) : — Exhortation to True 
Love, Loyally, and Fidelity to Her Majesty (1587, 8vo): 
— Syntagma Ilortationum ad Jacobum Itegern Anglice 
(1604, 8vo): — Translati/m from Latin of Bishop Poy- 
net's Apology or Defence of Priests' Marriage. See Al- 
ii bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uth. s. v. 

Renou, Jean Baptiste, a French Orientalist, was 
bom at Angers. He entered the Congregation of the 
Oratory, and was superior of the convent of the order 
at Laon, where he died Dec. 26, 1701. Two of his post- 
humous works may be mentioned : Methods pour ap- 
prendre facilement les Langues Ilebraique et Chatdaique 
(Paris, 1708): — and a Dictionnaire Ilebraique (ibid. 
1709). — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Renoult, Jean Baptiste, a French controversial- 
ist, was bom about 1664. After passing four years in 
the order of the Cordeliers, he laid aside his habit, em- 
braced Protestantism, and in 1695 went to London, where 
he openly taught Calvinism. He served the parish of 
Hungerford (1706), then that of the Pyramid (1710), 
and was finally called to Ireland. The date of his death 
is unknown. His works are, Le Yrai Tableau du Pa- 
pisme (Lond. 1698) : — Taxe de la Chancellerie Romaine 
(ibid. 1701) : — Les A ventures de la Madonna et de Fran- 
cois d' Assise (Amst. 1701) : — L'A ntiquite et la Perpetnite 
de la Religion Protest ante (ibid. 1703; Geneva, 1737; 
Nenfchatel, 1821) : — Ilistoire des Variations de I'Eglise 
Gallicane (Amst. 1703). See Haag Brothers, La France 
Protest ante. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Renovation. Those who hold to baptismal re- 
generation make a distinction between renovation and 
regeneration. “ Regeneration,” says Dr. 1 look, “ comes 
only once in or through baptism ; renovation exists be- 
fore, in, and after baptism, and may be often repeated.” 
Renovation takes up the work of regeneration, daily re- 
newing the person in God’s grace. Another difference 
between regeneration and renovation is usually made 
by Calvinistic theologians, that regeneration once given 
can never be totally lost any more than baptism, and 
so can never need to be repeated in the whole ; where- 
as renovation may be totally lost. See Regenera- 
tion. 

Renshaw, Richard, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Manchester, England, April 1, 1776. He re- 
ceived a fair education, which was improved by foreign 
travels, an account of which was published in Manches- 
ter in 1804. He entered the ministry as a Wesleyan, 
and began preaching in 1808 among the New Connec- 
tion Methodists, but afterwards became an Independent. 
He emigrated to America in 1856, and in 1858 was ad- 
mitted as a member of the Iowa Valley Presbytery. 
His extreme age prevented him from taking a Church, 
though he was willing to preach whenever opportunity 
offered. He died Sept. 5, 1859. Mr. Renshaw was a 
man of great decision of character and of undoubted 
piety. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1861, p. 163. 
(J. L. S.) 

Rensselaer, Van. See Van Rensselaer. 

Renunciantes ( renouncers ), a name applied to 
monks, from their formal renunciation of the world and 
all secular employments. Many of them kept their es- 
tates in their own hands, but had no more use of them 
than if they had been transferred to others. 

Renunciation, a form which constitutes a charac- 
teristic portion of the baptismal ceremonial. The per- 
son about to be baptized (or his sponsors, if an infant) 
renounces the works of the devil and of darkness, espe- 
cially idolatry and the vices and follies of the world. 
This renunciation is of very great antiquity, and it was 
probably of apostolic origin. In the Roman Catholic 
Church the question is, “Hast thou renounced Satan, 
and all his works and all his pomps?” The candidate 
is expected to answer in the affirmative, turning to 
VIII.— U u u 


the west as the place of darkness. In the baptismal 
service of the Church of England and of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church the question is asked, “Dost thou re- 
nounce the devil and all his works, the vain pomp and 
glory of the world, with all covetous desires of the same 
and the carnal desires of the flesh, so that thou wilt not 
follow nor be led by them?” The answer is, “I re- 
nounce them alL” 

Renunciatores. See Apotactici. 

Renwick, James, a noted Nonconformist divine, 
was born at Dumfriesshire, Scotland, Feb. 15, 1662. He 
was an uncompromising Covenanter, and was executed 
Feb. 17, 16»8, for “ denying»the king's authority, owning 
the covenants,” etc. He wrote, with Alexander Shields, 
An Informatory Vindication of the Covenanters (Edinb. 
1744, small 8vo) : — A Choice (Collection of Prefaces, Lect- 
ures, and Sermons, etc. ( Glasgow, 1777, 8vo). 

Reordination, the repetition of the sacramental 
ordinance of ordination, has ever been held to be con- 
trary to the true theory of sacraments, and has been 
forbidden by the Church under pain of severe penalties. 
The ground of this prohibition is well expressed by Mo- 
rinus, quoting the Council of Trent i.Sess. xxiii, c. 4): 
“In the sacrament of orders, as in baptism and confirma- 
tion, a character is conferred which cannot be effaced or 
taken away.” The historical evidence as to both the 
doctrine and practice of the Church is full and complete. 
The 68th apostolical canon condemned it, and pro- 
nounced sentence of deposition on the ordainer and the 
ordained. The third Council of Carthage (canon 52) 
forbade it along with rebaptism. Whether the ordina- 
tions of heretics and schismatics are to be held valid, 
and whether those who have received them are on their 
reconciliation to be received in their several orders, is a 
question in respect to which the practice of the Church 
has varied considerably. The Council of Nice decreed 
that those who had been ordained by Meletius should 
be admitted to serve the Church by reordination. The 
68th apostolical canon, while condemning the reordi- 
nation of those once ordained in the Church, allows 
that of those who had only received heretical ordina- 
tion. The second Council of Saragossa (A.D. 592) rati- 
fies the baptism of the Arians, but condemns their ordi- 
nations. In later times the practice of the Roman Cath- 
olic Church has also been very contradictory. Thus the 
ordinations of Formosus were declared null by Stephen 
VT, considered valid by John IX, and again declared 
invalid by Sergius TII. The modem Roman practice 
of reordaining those ordained in the Church of England 
is not based on any decree of the Church, and has not 
been invariable. The custom of the Church of England 
forbids reordination in the case of those ordained within 
the Church, and asserts the indelibility of the ordina- 
tion character. See Aquinas, Summ. pars iil qu. xxxviii, 
art. ii ; Augustine, Coni. Parmen. lib. ii, c. 13 ; Ep. 50 ad 
Bonifac. ii, 661 (ed. Bened.) ; Bingham, Christian A ntiq. 
bk. iv, ch. 7; Courayer, Valid. Angl. Ord. (Oxf. 1844) ; 
Palmer, On the Church, pt. vi, ch. vi; Blunt, Diet, of 
Doct. s. v. See Ordination. 

Repairs of Churches. Canon 85 of the Church 
of England enacts, “The church-wardens or questman 
shall take care and provide that the churches be well 
and sufficiently repaired, and so from time to time kept 
and maintained,” etc., specifying the work upon win- 
I dows, floor, churchyard, walls, and fences. They are 
also to “see that at every meeting of the congregation 
peace be well kept, and that all persons excommuni- 
cated, and so denounced, be kept out of the church.” 
Canon 86 adds, “Even' dean, dean and chapter, arch- 
deacon, and others which have authority to hold ec- 
clesiastical visitations by composition, law, or prescrip- 
tion, shall sun-ey the churches of his or their jurisdic- 
tion once in every three years in his own person, or 
cause the same to be done,” etc. Usually the repair of 
the church belongs to the rector, and that of the nave 
I to the parishioners. 


REPENTANCE 


1042 REPETITIONS IN TIIE LITURGY 


The repairing of the Established churches in Scot- 
land belongs to the heritors, who, if they resolve to build 
a new church, must build it so large as to accommodate 
two thirds of the examinable permanent population, or 
persons above twelve years of age. The presbytery can 
ordain the heritors to make the necessary repairs, can 
appoint a visitation to a decayed church, receive the re- 
port of the tradesmen, ami come to a decision. Un- 
endowed congregations build and repair their own places 
of worship. 

Repentance (-r-2, ptravota) signifies a change 
of the mind from a rebellions and disaffected state to 
that submission and thorough separation from iniquity 
by which converted sinners arc distinguished (Matt, iii, 
2-8). Repentance is sometimes used generally for a 
mere change of sentiment, and an earnest wishing that 
something were undone that has been done. In a sense 
analogous to this, God himself is said to repent; but 
this can only be understood of bis altering bis conduct 
towards bis. creatures, cither in the bestowing of good 
or infliction of evil — which change in the divine con- 
duct is founded on a change in his creatures; and thus, 
speaking after the manner of men, God is said to repent. 
In this generic sense also Esau “found no place of re- 
pentance, though lie sought it carefully with tears;” 
that is, he could not move his father Isaac to repent of 
what he had done, or to recall the blessing from Jacob 
and confer it on himself (lleb. xii, 17; Horn, xi, 29; 2 
Cor. vii, 10). There are various kinds of repentance, 
as (1) a natural repentance, or what is merely the effect 
of natural conscience; (2) a national repentance, such 
as the Jews in Babylon were called unto, to which tem- 
poral blessings were promised (Ezek. xviii, 80) ; (3) an 
external repentance, or an outward humiliation for sin, 
as in the case of Aliab; (4) a hypocritical repentance, 
as represented in Ephraim (Ho*. vii, IG); (5) a legal re- 
pentance, which is a mere work of the law and the ef- 
fect of convictions of sin by it, which in time wear off 
and come to nothing; (G) an evangelical repentance, 
which consists in conviction of sin, accompanied bv sor- 
row for it, confession of it, hatred to it, and renunciation 
of it. A legal and an evangelical repentance arc distin- 
guished tints: I. A legal repentance Hows only from a 
sense of danger and fear of wrath, but an evangelical 
repentance produces a true mourning for sin and an 
earnest desire of deliverance from it. 2. A legal repent- 
ance flows from unbelief, but evangelical is always the 
fruit and consequence of a saving faith. 3. A legal re- 
pentance consists of an aversion to God and to his 
holy law, but an evangelical Hows from love to both. 
4. A legal repentance ordinarily Hows from discourage- 
ment and despondency, but evangelical from encourag- 
ing hope. 5. A legal repentance is temporary, but evan- 
gelical is the daily exercise of the true Christian. G. 
A legal repentance docs at most produce only a partial 
and external reformation, but an evangelical is a total 
change of heart and life. The author as well as object 
of true repentance is God (Acts v, 31). The subjects of 
it are sinners, since none but those who have sinned can 
repent. The means of repentance is the Word and the 
ministers of it ; yet sometimes private consideration, 
.sanctified afllictions, conversation, etc., have been the 
instruments of repentance. The blessings connected 
with repentance are pardon, peace, and everlasting life 
(xi, 18 ). The time of repentance is the present life ( Isa. 
lv-, G; Eccles. ix, 50). The evidences of repentance arc 
faith, humility, prayer, and obedience (Zech. xii, 10). 

'i lie necessity of repentance appears evident from the 
evil of sin; the misery it involves us in here; the com- 
mands given us to repent in God’s Word; the promises 
made to the penitent ; and the absolute incapability of | 
enjoying God hero or hereafter without it. See Dickin- 
son, Letters, let. 9; Owen, On the 130/A I'salm; Gill, 
liody if Divinity, s. v. “ Repentance ;” Ridgloy, Hotly of 
Divinity, quest. 7G; Davies, Sermons, vol. iii, serin. 44; 
Case, Sermons, serin. 4; Wliitclield, Sermons; Saurin, I 


Sermons (Robinson’s transl.), vol. iii ; Scott, Treatise on 
Repentance . See IV. nance ; Penitence. 

Repentlnae, a terra for State holidays. 

Repetition. Our Lord in his sermon on the Mount 
(Matt, vi, 7) cautions his followers against using vain 
repetitions ( /3arro\oyfto ) in prayer. See Prayer, 
Eou.ms ok. It is well to distinguish that this is not di- 
rected against simple repetitions, which may often arise 
in the fervor and urgency of earnest supplication, but 
against the vain repetitions of such as think, whether in 
theory or practice, “ that they shall be heard for their 
much speaking.” The idea that a prevailing merit was 
attached to much speaking in prayer with multitudi- 
nous repetitions has been, and is, found in most of the 
false systems of religion. Perhaps wc find it among 
Baal's worshippers, who “ called upon the name of Baal 
from morning to noon, saying, () Baal, hear ns!” (1 
Kings xviii, 2G). The practice was certainly common 
among the classical heathen, and is noticed by some 
of their more serious writers with disapprobation and 
laughed at by their satirists. If we may judge by the 
hymns of Homer, Orpheus, and Callimachus, we may 
suppose that the pagan prayers were so stuffed up with 
synonymous epithets and prerogatives of the Deity as 
to be justly liable to the censure of “vain repetitions.” 
The Jews adopted this and other bad practices, inso- 
much that it was one of their maxims, “ He that multi- 
plies prayer shall be heard.” The same idea was incul- 
cated with much earnestness by Mohammed, and is at 
this day exhibited in full force among his followers. 
Witness the following from the Mishat-ul- Masabih : 
“ The prophet said, Shall 1 not teach yon an act by 
which you may attain the greatness of those who have 
gone before you, and by which you shall precede your 
posterity, excepting those who do as you do? Then 
they said, Instruct us, (> prophet of God. lie said, Re- 
peat after every prayer Stibium Allah! [O most pure 
God!] eleven times, and. I llaho acber [God is very great] 
eleven times, and Alhamdo lilldhi [praise to God] 
eleven times.” Compare this puerility with the sub- 
lime instructions of our Saviour. But. again: “Who- 
ever savs Stibium Allah and Bihumdihi a hundred times 
in a day, his faults shall be silenced, though they be as 
great as the waves of the sea. Whoever says, morning 
and evening, Subhhu Allah and Iiihamdihi a hundred 
times, no one will bring a bettor deed than his on the 
day of resurrection, except one who should have said 
like him, or added anything thereto.” To these instruc- 
tions the Mohammedans have been most attentive. 
There arc those among Christians, especially Roman 
Catholics, who repeat the Lord’s Prayer and other forms 
a great number of times, and vainly think that the oft- 
encr the prayer is repeated the more ollicacious it is, 
i.e. if repeated two hundred times it will be twice as 
good as if repeated only one hundred times. (See tl e 
literature in Volbcding, Index Progratnmatum, p. 33; 
llase, Leben Jesu, p. 229.) See A vii Maui a; 1’ateh- 
nosteu; Rosary. 

Repetitions in the Liturgy. An objection has 
been made to the Liturgy of the English Church that it 
involves vain repetitions and a useless prolixity. It is 
replied, repetition is one thing, but a rain repetition quite 
another. The repetitions in the Liturgy are principally 
in the cry “Have mercy upon us,” and in the use of 
the Lord’s Prayer twice, or at most thrice, in the long- 
est services, and in the responses in the Litany and the 
Decalogue. Reference is also made to the example of 
our Saviour who prayed thrice in Gctliscmanc, “saving 
the same irords ” (Matt, xxvi, 4 1). Further, the peti- 
tions which we address to Heaven must, for the most 
irt, have the same general drill ; and there can bo no 
[vantage in arranging them in a perpetually changing 
ess, nor will they be the better received 'because of 
cir novelty. — Staunton, Diet, of the t'liurch, s. v. 

Re'phael (Ilcb. RephaeT, bxs“l, healed of Cod; 


REPHAH 


1043 


REPIIAIM, VALLEY OF 


Sept. 'PatpariX), a son of Shemaiah the Levite, of the 
house of Obed-edom, an able-bodied porter in the ser- 
vice of the house of Clod in David’s reign ( 1 Chron. 
xxvi, 7). B.C. cir. 1015. 

Re'pliah ( Heb. Re'phach , ElB 1 !, riches ; Sept. 
'Pa0//),a son of Beriah,of tlie tribe of Ephraim, ances- 
tor of Joshua (1 Chron. vii, 25). B.C. post 1018. 

Rephai'ah (Heb. Rephayah «"P£n, healed of Je- 
hovah ; Sept. 'Pa^ata v. r. 'P atpaia, etc.), the name of 
five Israelites. 

1. The second named of six sons of Tola, head of a 
family in Issachar (1 Chron. vii, 2). B.C. ante 1658. 

2. Son of Binea, and eighth in lineal descent from 
Saul’s son Jonathan (1 Chron. ix, 43). B.C. long post 
1000. He is also called Kapha (I Chron. viii, 37). 

3. Son of Islii, and one of the chieftains of the tribe 
of Simeon, in the reign of Hezekiah, who headed the ex- 
pedition of five hundred men against the Amalekites of 
Mt. Seir and drove them out (l Chron. iv, 42). B.C. 
cir. 725. 

4. Son of Hur, and ruler of “the half” of Jeru- 
salem. He aided in rebuilding the wall (Nell, iii, 9). 
B.C. 445. 

5. Son of Hananiah and father of Arnan, among the 
descendants of Zcrubbabel (1 Chron. iii, 21) ; the same 
with Rhesa (q. v.) of the genealogy of Christ (Luke 
iii, 27). 

Repha'im [many Reph'aim~\ (Heb. usually with 
the art. ha-Rephaim', n^XE'nfl [see below]), a name 
which frequently occurs, and in some remarkable pas- 
sages, as that of a race of unusual stature, who originally 
dwelt in the country east of the Jordan. The earliest 
mention of them is the record of their defeat by Chedor- 
laomer and some allied kings at Ashteroth Karnaim 
(Gen. xiv. 5). They are again mentioned (xv, 20); 
their dispersion recorded (Dent, ii, 10, 20), and Og the 
giant king of Bash an said to be “the only remnant of 
them” (iii, 11 ; Josh, xii, 4; xiii, 12; xvii, 15). Extir- 
pated, however, from the east of Palestine, they long 
found a home in the West; and in connection with the 
Philistines, under whose protection the small remnant 
of them may have lived, they still employed their arms 
against the Hebrews (2 Sam. xxi, 18 sq. ; 1 Chron. xx, 
4). In the latter passage there seems, however, to be 
some confusion between the Rephaim and the sons of 
a particular giant of Gath, named Rapha. Such a name 
may have been conjectured as that of a founder of the 
race, like the names Ion, Dorus, Teut, etc. (Bottcher, De 
Inferis, p. 96, note) ; Rapha occurs also as a proper name 
(1 Chron. vii, 25 ; viii, 2, 37). It is probable that they had 
possessed districts west of the Jordan in early times, since 
the “valley of Rephaim” (tcoiXdg tHjv TtTciroii', 2 Sam. 
v, 18; 1 Chron. xi, 15; Isa. xvii, 5; k. tu>v yiydvriov, 
Joseph. Ant. vii, 4, 1), a rich valley south-west of Jeru- 
salem, derived its name from them. That they were 
not Canaanites is clear from there being no allusion to 
them in Gen. x, 15-19. They were probably one of 
those aboriginal peoples to whose existence the tradi- 
tions of many nations testify, and of whose genealogy 
the Bible gives us no information. The few names re- 
corded have, as Ewald remarks, a Shemitic aspect ( Gesch . 
des Volkes Jsr. i, 311); but from the hatred existing be- 
tween them and both the Canaanites and Hebrews, some 
suppose them to be Japliethites, “ who comprised espe- 
cially the inhabitants of the coasts and islands” (Kalisch, 
on Gen. p. 351). See Canaanite. 

E”X3^) is rendered by the Greek versions very vari- 
ously (Sept. ]P aipaeip, yiyai’Ttg, ypytvtig, Stopaxoi, 
Tirdrtg, and iWpoc [Fsa. lxxxvii, 10; Isa. xxvi, 14, 
where it is confused with E^XbH ; comp. Gen. 1, 2], and 
sometimes veicpoi, reSi'jjicoreg, especially in the later 
versions). In the A. Y. the words used for it are “ Re- 
phaim,” “giants,” and “ the dead.” That it. has the lat- 
ter meaning in many passages is certain (Psa. lxxxviii, 


10; Prov. ii, 18; ix, 18; xxi, 16; Isa. xxvi, 14, 19). The 
question arises, how are these meanings to be reconciled? 
Gesenius gives no derivation for the national name, and 
derives mortal, from X3“', sanavit, and the proper 
name Rapha from an Arabic root signifying “ tall,” thus 
seeming to sever all connection between the meanings 
of the word, which is surely most unlikely. Masius, 
Simon, etc., suppose the second meaning to come from 
the fact that both spectres and giants strike terror (ac- 
cepting the derivation from remisit, “unstrung 

with fear,” R. Bechai, on Dent, ii) ; Vitringa and Ililler 
from the notion of length involved in stretching out a 
corpse, or from the fancy that spirits appear in more 
than human size (Hiller, Syntagm. Ilermen. p. 205; Virg. 
sEn. ii, 772, etc.). J. D. Micliaelis (ad Lotcth S. Poes. 
p. 466) endeavored to prove that the Rephaim, etc., were 
troglodytes, and that hence they came to be identified 
with the dead. Passing over other conjectures, Bottcher 
sees in NS 1 ! and ns 1 ! a double root, and thinks that the 
giants were called E^XS^l ( hmguefacti ) by a euphe- 
mism ; and that the dead were so called by a title which 
will thus exactly parallel the Greek f tapovreg, KtKprjico- 
reg (comp. Buttmann, Lexil. ii, 237 sq.). An attentive 
consideration seems to leave little room for doubt that 
the dead were called Rephaim (as Gesenius also hints) 
from some notion of Shcol being the residence of the 
fallen spirits or buried giants. The passages which 
seem most strongly to prove this are Prov. xxi, 16 
(where obviously something more than mere physical 
death is meant, since that is the common lot of all), 
Isa. xxvi, 14, 19, which are difficult to explain without 
some such supposition, Isa. xiv, 9, where the word 
(Sept, oi dp^avrtg rijg yijc), if taken in its lit- 
eral meaning of goats, may mean evil spirits represented 
in that form (comp. Lew xvii, 7), and especially Job 
xxvi, 5, 6. “ Behold the gyantes (A. V. “ dead things”) 
grown under the waters” (Donav version), where there 
seems to be clear allusion to some subaqueous prison of 
rebellious spirits like that in which (according to the 
Hindu legend) Vishnu the water-god confines a race of 
giants (comp. 7rvXdpxog , as a title of Neptune, Hesiod, 
Theog. 732 ; Nork, Brammin. und Rahh. p. 319 sq.). See 
Giant. Branches of this great unknown people were 
the following - 

1. Emim (E'*E"'X; Sept. ’Oppiv, ’Ippaioi), smitten 
by Chedorlaomer at Shaveh Kiriathaim (Gen. xiv, 5), 
and occupying the country afterwards held by the Mo- 
abites (Deut. ii, 10), who gave them the name E^E^X, 
“terrors.” The word rendered “tall” may perhaps be 
merely “ haughty” (ioxvovrtg'). See Emim. 

2. Anakim (E^pJE). The imbecile terror of the 
spies exaggerated their proportions into something su- 
perhuman (Numb, xiii, 28, 33), and their name became 
proverbial (Deut. ii, 10; ix, 2). See Anakim. 

3. Zuzim (E^T ), whose principal town was Ham 
(Gen. xiv-, 5), and who lived between the Arnon and the 
Jabbok, being a northern tribe of Rephaim. The Am- 
monites who defeated them called them Zamzummim , 
E^ETEt (Deut. ii, 20 sq., which is, however, probably 
an early gloss). — Smith. See Jour. Sac. Lit., Oct. 1851, 
p. 151 sq. ; Jan. 1852, p. 363 sq. ; April, 1852, p. 55 sq. ; 
July, 1852, p. 302 sq.; Oct. 1852, p. 87 sq. ; Jan. 1853, 
p. 279 sq. See Zuzim. 

REPHAIM, Valley of (Ileb. E'melc Rephaim', pE2? 
E”X2“1 ; Sept, i 1 / /coiXdt; rwv Tituviov or Tiyaurwi'; in 
Josh, yp or ’Epeic 'Pa<paiv; in Isa. tpdpayZ ortpea, 
Yulg. vail is Rupluiim or gigantum ,• A. V. “ valley of the 
giants” in Josh, xv, 8; xviii, 16), a valley beginning 
adjacent to the valley of Ilinnom, south-west of Jerusa- 
lem, and stretching away south-west on the right of the 
road to Bethlehem (Josh.xv, 8; xvii, 5; xviii, 6; 2 Sam. 
v, 18, 22). The valley appears to derive its name from 
the ancient nation of the Rephaim. It may be a trace 


1044 


IIEPIIIDDI 


REPHAIM, VALLEY OF 

of an early settlement of theirs, possibly after they were 
driven from their original seats east of the Jordan by 
Chedorlaomer (den. xiv, 5), and before they again mi- 
grated northward to the more secure wooded districts in 
which we find them at the date of the partition of the 
country among the tribes (Josh, xvii, 15 ; A.Y. “giants”). 
In this case it is a parallel to the “mount of the Amal- 
ekites” in the centre of Palestine, and to the towns 
bearing the name of the Zcmaraim, the Avim, the Oph- 
nites, etc., which occur so frequently in Benjamin. 

The valley of Kephaim is first mentioned in the de- 
scription given by Joshua of the northern border of 
Judah. The passage is important: “The border went 
up by the valley of the son of Ilinnom unto the south 
side of the Jcbusitc: the same is Jerusalem; and the 
border went up to the top of the mountain that lieth be- 
fore the valley of Ilinnom westward, which is at the 
end of the valley of the giants northward” (xv,8). The 
last clause in the Hebrew is not quite clear (H^p2 
It may mean that the boundary- 
line was north of the valley, or that the valley was north 
of the boundary. The latter construction is possible; 
but the former is unquestionably the more natural, and 
is supported by the Sept, and the Vulgate, and also by 
most commentators. If this interpretation be admitted, 
the situation of the valley is certain : it lay on the south 
of the hill which enclosed Ilinnom on the west. This 
view is further strengthened by the notice in Josh, xviii, 
10. When David was biding from Saul in the cave of 
Adullam, we arc told that the Philistines, no doubt tak- 
ing advantage of intestine troubles, invaded the moun- 
tain fastnesses of Israel. A band of them pitched in the 
valley of Kephaim, and at the same time seized ami 
garrisoned Bethlehem, David’s native place (2 Sam. 
xxiii, 13, 14). It was then that three of his warriors, to 
gratify a wish of their chief, broke through the enemies’ 
lines and drew water from the well by the gate of Beth- 
lehem. The narrative shows clearly that the valley of 
Iicphaim could not have been far distant from Bethle- 
hem (l Chron. xi, 15-19). The “ hold” (vcr. 14) in which 
David found himself seems (though it is not clear) to 
have been the cave of Adullam, the scene of the com- 
mencement of his freebooting life; but, wherever situ- 
ated, we need not doubt that it was the same fastness 
as that mentioned in 2 Sam. v, 17, since in both cases 
the same word (rn^upn, with the definite article), and 
that not a usual one, is employed. The story shows 
very clearly the predatory nature of these incursions of 
the Philistines. It was in “harvest time” (vor. 13). 
They had come to carry off the ripe crops, for which the 
valley was proverbial (Isa. xvii, 5), just as at Pas-dam- 
mim (1 <’hron. xi, 13) we find them in the parcel of 
ground full of barley, at Lehi in the field of lentiles (2 
.Sam. xxiii, II), or at Kcilali in the threshing-floors (l 
Sam. xxiii, 1). Their animals (fPIl) were scattered 
among the ripe corn receiving their load of plunder. 
The “garrison,” or the officer in charge of the expedi- 
tion, was on the watch in the village of Bethlehem. On 
two other occasions, soon after David was proclaimed 
king, the Philistines invaded the mountains and drew 
up their armies on the same plain; they were at once 
attacked by David’s veterans and routed with great 
slaughter (2 Sam. v, 18, 22; 1 Chron. xiv, 9-13). The 
destruction inflicted on them and on their idols was so 
signal that it gave the place a new name, and impressed 
itself on the popular mind of Israel with such distinct- I 
ness that the prophet Isaiah could employ it, centuries 
after, as a symbol of a tremendous impending judgment 
of Hod — nothing less than the desolation ami destruc- 
tion of the whole earth (Isa. xxviii, 21, 22). Sec Pkha- 
ZIM, Mot "NT, 

But from none of these notices do we learn anything 
of the position of the. valley. Josephus in one place 
(.In/, vii, 4, 1) says that the valley of the giants was 
near Jerusalem ; and in another place (vii, 12, 4), when 
narrating the story of the drawing of water from the 


well at Bethlehem, in which he makes a strange blun- 
der, he says the valley extended from Jerusalem “to the 
city of Bethlehem.” Eusebius and Jerome, on the other 
hand, [dace it on the north of Jerusalem ( Onomast . s. v. 
“ Kaphaim”), and in the territory of Benjamin (ibid. s. v. 
“Emec Kaphaim”). Their notices, however, are brief 
and unsatisfactory (sec Onomast. s. v. “Ccclas Titano- 
rum,” and the excellent note by Bonfrere). A position 
north-west of the city is adopted by Eiirst (// undir. ii, 
383 b), apparently on the ground of the terms of Josh, 
xv, 8, and xviii, 1G, which certainly do leave it doubtful 
whether the valley is on the north of the boundary or 
the boundary on the north of the valley; and Tobler, in 
his last investigations ( Dritte 1 Vanderung. p. 202), con- 
clusively adopts the 11 Wy Iter Jnsin (IE. Mukhrior , on 
Van de Velde’s map), one of the side valleys of the great 
Wady Beit Ilanina, as the valley of Kephaim. This 
position is open to the obvious objection of too great 
distance from both Bethlehem and the cave of Adullam 
(according to any position assignable to the latter) to 
meet the requirements of 2 Sam. xxiii, 13. Since the 
latter part of the 16th century the name has been at- 
tached to the upland plain which stretches south of 
Jerusalem, and is crossed by the road to Bethlehem — 
the Hide ah of the modern Arabs (Tobler, Jerusalem, ii, 
401). Dr. Kobinson says, “As we advanced (towards 
the holy city) we had on the right low bills, and on 
the left the cultivated valley or plain of Kephaim, or the 
‘giants,’ with gentle hills beyond. This plain is broad, 
and descends gradually towards the south-west until it 
| contracts in that direction into a deeper and narrower 
| valley, called Wady el-Werd , which unites farther on 
with Wady Ahmed, and finds its way to the Mediterra- 
nean. The plain of Kephaim extends nearly to the 
city, which, as seen from it, appears to be almost on the 
same level. As we advanced the plain was terminated 
by a slight rocky ridge, forming the brow of the valley of 
Ilinnom” ( Researches , i, 219). It is true that this tract 
has more of the nature of a plateau or plain considera- 
bly elevated than a valley in the ordinary sense. But 
1 on the south-west it does partake more of this charac- 
ter (see Bonar, Land of Promise, p. 177), and possibly 
in designating so wide and open a tract by the name of 
the Kephaim valley there was a sort of play on the giant 
race with which it was associated, as if it, like them, 
must set at naught ordinary dimensions. Smith of 
Mount Zion— the most southern part of the valley of 
(iihon — is called Wady llafaath by the Arabs, which 
corresponds to Pepkaim in Hebrew. Hence Schwarz 
infers that this is the true valley of Kephaim, though 
usually taken for that of the son of Ilinnom ( Palest . 
j p. 240). See Jerusalem. 

Repha'ims, so the Hebrew plural Kephaim (q.v.) 
is incorrectly pluralizcd again in English in the A. V. 

I ((len. xiv, 5; xv, 20). 

Reph'idim (lleb. Pephidim supports , 
j i. c., perhaps, resting-places ; Sept, and Josephus, TV0i- 
civ), a station of the Israelites on their journey through 
the Arabian desert, to which they passed from the Desert 
of Sin ( Exod. xvii, 1 ), situated, according to Numb, 
xxxiii, 14 sq., between Alush and the wilderness of 
I Sinai. Here the Amalekites attacked Israel, but were 
repulsed (Exod. xvii, 8 sq.). Here also Moses struck 
the rock, from which the fountain of water leaped forth; 
i to which the later Jewish traditions added many other 
wonders, as that the rock itself followed the people in 
their journey, supplying water always (seelVettstein and 
Schottgon, on 1 Cor. x, 1 ; Bnxtorf, Kxercit. p. 391 sq.). 
The knowledge of this miraculous gift of water reached 
the Knmans. Tacitus alludes to it (/list, v, 3), and sup- 
| poses that Moses was guided by wild asses, and then by 
the green pasture, to the exact spot where water was 
• concealed (comp., in the (irccian mythology, especially 
, l’ausan. iv, 3G, 5; but the legend of llippocrcne [Ovid, 
Met. v, 256 sq.] has scarcely any points of resemblance). 

I The most definite indication as to the situation of Kcpli- 


llEPHIDIM 


1045 


REPRESENTATION 


idim is incidentally supplied in the Scripture account 
of the above miracle. While encamped at Itephidim, 
“ there was no water for the people to drink,” and they 
murmured against Moses. He was therefore command- 
ed to “go on (1 '2V,pass , i. e. cross the desert shore) be- 
fore the people,” and with his rod to smite “the rock in 
Iloreb,” upon which ( “1S12SI1 bs, the towering cliff 
bounding the range et-Tih) Jehovah stood. (This ad- 
mirably suits the entrance of Wady Hibran, but is utter- 
ly vague and inapt if spoken of the interior.) In con- 
sequence of this, Rephidim was called Massah (“temp- 
tation”) and Meribah (“chiding”). As the Israelites, 
though encamped in Rephidim, were able to draw their 
needful supply of water from “ the rock in Iloreb, ” the 
two places must have been adjacent. Assuming Jebel 
Musa to be Sinai (or Iloreb), and that the Israelites ap- 
proached it by Wady es-Sheik, which is the only prac- 
ticable route for such a multitude coming from Egypt, 
it follows that Rephidim was not more than one march 
— and apparently a short one — distant from the moun- 
tain. Notwithstanding this indication, however, the 
position of Rephidim has created much discussion among 
travellers and sacred geographers. Josephus appears to 
locate it very near to Sinai, and states that the place 
was entirely destitute of water, while in their preceding 
marches the people had met with fountains (.1 nt. iii, 1, 
7, and 5, 1). Eusebius and Jerome say it was near 
Mount Iloreb ( Onomast . s. v. “ Raphidim” ). Cosmas 
places it at the distance of six miles, which agrees pret- 
ty nearly with that of Nebi Saleh (Topographia Chris- 
tiana, v, 207 sq.). Robinson removes it some miles far- 
ther down Wady es-Sheik to a narrow gorge which 
forms a kind of door to the central group of moun- 
tains. He gets over the difficulty in regard to the 
proximity of Iloreb by affirming that that name was 
given, not to a single mountain, but to the w hole group 
(Bib. lies, i, 120). See IIoreb. Mr. Sandie places Reph- 
idira at the extreme end of Wady er-Rahah, and iden- 
tifies it with a Wady Rudhwan. He supposes that the 
Israelites marched from the coast plain of el-Ivaa by 
Wady Daghadah ( Iloreb and Jei'usalem, p. 159). This 
route, however, w'ould scarcely be practicable for such a 
multitude. Lepsius (ed. Bohn, p. 310 sq.), Stew'art (Tent 
and Khan), Ritter (Pal. und Syr. i, 738 sq. ), Stanley 
(Syr. and Pal. p. 40 sq.), and others, locate Rephidim 
in Wady Feiran, near the base of Mount Serbal, especial- 
ly at the oasis of el-Ilesinek or the rock Hesy el-Kliatatin 
(Palmer, Desert of the Exodus, p. 135). The great dis- 
tance from Sinai — twelve hours’ march — and the abun- 
dance of water at Feiran appear to be fatal to this the- 
ory. No spot in the whole peninsula has such a supply 
of water, and Feiran is on this account called “ the par- 
adise of the Bedawin.” The position of Rephidim, it is 
thus seen, largely depends upon the route which the Is- 
raelites may be supposed to have taken from the Desert 
of Sin to Mount Sinai. Murphy ( Comment, on Exod. 
p. 174 sq.) regards that by way of Wady Hibran as be- 
ing out of the question, partly on account of its length 
(whereas it is really little, if any, farther than either of 
the two other practicable ones, especially the northern 
one by way of the Debbet er-Ramleh, which he prefers), 
and partly on account of the narrow and difficult passes 
(especially Nagb Ajameh) along it, which, however, are 
no vmrse than many others in different parts of their 
identified route (see Palmer, Desert of the Exodus 
[Amer. ed.], p. 228). Keil, wlio likewise prefers the 
same northern route for reaching Sinai, observes (Com- 
ment. on Pent. [Clarke's ed.] ii, 75) that Rephidim lay 
at only one day’s distance from Sinai (Exod. xix, 2). 
He therefore locates Rephidim at the point wdiere the 
Wady es-Sheik opens into the plain er-Rahah, al- 
though this would be almost at the foot of Sinai, and 
past several fountains which would have relieved their 
thirst without the need of a miracle. If, on the other 
hand, we should place Rephidim at the other end of the 
Wady es-Sheik, this, according to Keil’s own showing, 


would be about as far from Sinai as the mouth of Wady 
Hibran, which last is, after all, only twenty miles, fol- 
lowing the windings of the valleys. The great objec- 
tion to the access by -way of the Debbet er-Ramleh is 
that although this (as the name signifies) is in the main 
a sandy plain, yet there are not wanting springs at va- 
rious points along its course — one especially, Ain el-Ak- 
dar (i. e. “ the green”), being situated just at its junction 
with Wady es-Sheik (Robinson, Bib. Res. i, 125). By 
the way of the plain el-Kaa and Wady Hibran, on the 
contrary, there is total drought, so that the Israelites, as 
the narrative requires, would have exhausted the stock 
brought probably from Elim, without having been mean- 
while in a region where their scouts could have procured 
water within any reaching distance. For the same rea- 
son, the most natural route of all — by way of Wady Fei- 
ran — must be suspected, which, as already said, is the 
best watered and most fertile of all in that vicinity 
(ibid, i, 126). There is still another route from the Red 
Sea at Ras Abn-Zenimah (where the Israelites evident- 
ly encamped) to Sinai — namely, by way of Sarabet el- 
Khadlm. This, although not so smooth as by wadies 
Feiran and es-Sheik, is nevertheless quite practicable, 
and is often taken by modem travellers. This route is 
advocated by Knobel, Keil, Cook (in his Speaker's Com- 
mentary ), and others, who find the Desert of Sin in Deb- 
bet er-Ramleh, Dophkah in Wady Tih, and perhaps 
Alush in Wady el-Esh. The water supply on this route 
is good, but the presence of a military force of Egyp- 
tians at the mines in Sarabet el-Khadlm is a grave ob- 
jection to its having been followed by the Israelites. 
There are two traditionary spots fixed upon as the scene 
of Moses’ smiting of the rock, and hence called Hajr 
Musa, or “Moses’s Rock.” One is pointed out by the 
Arabs in Wady Feiran, and the other by the monks in 
Wady Lejah. The former is too distant and the latter 
too near for the Biblical account. See Meribah. If 
the Israelites approached Sinai by way of Wady Hibran, 
we should look for Rephidim at the entrance of that 
valley from the plain along the Red Sea, as suggested 
under the article Exode; but if they reached Mount 
Sinai by way of Wady Feiran, as most writers suppose, 
or by way of Sarabet el-Khadim, then we must prob- 
ably look for Rephidim somewhere near the entrance 
from Wady es-Sheik to the plain er-Rahah, perhaps at 
the pass of el-Watiyeh, indicated above by Robinson. 
This defile was visited and described by Burckhardt 
(Syria, etc., p. 488) as at about five hours’ distance from 
where it issues from the plain er-Rahah, narrowing be- 
tween abrupt cliffs of blackened granite to about forty 
feet in width. Here is also the traditional “seat of 
Moses.” Within the pass the valley expands, affording 
ample space for a large camp. The nearest water is in 
Wady Sheb, two miles distant to the south-west (Por- 
ter, Hand-book, p. 65). See Ridgaway, The Lord's 
Land, p. 57 sq. The arguments in favor of the location 
of Rephidim at el-Watiyeh are forcibly presented by 
Mr. Holland in Jerusalem Recovered, p. 420 sq. See 
Sinai. 

Reposoir. 1. A receptacle for the tabernacle in 
the procession of Corpus Cliristi. 2. A chapel and shel- 
ter for travellers on the wayside, common in Italy : one 
of the 13th century is near Fismes. A pilgrim’s chapel 
remains on Lansdown, near Bath. 

Repousse, a French artistic term signifying ham- 
mered work. 

Representation. The theological use of this 
w'ord by English writers of the 16th and 17th centuries 
was, in the strict sense of its Latin original, that of 
“presenting over again" in reality; the subordinate 
idea of “portrayal” as in a picture, being little, if at 
all, in use by them. Thus when bishop Pearson writes, 
“by virtue of his death, perpetually represented to his 
Father, ‘ he destroyeth him that hath the power of 
death,’ ” the word refers to our Lord’s continual plead- 
ing of the sacrifice once offered. It is of importance to 


REPRESENTATION 


1046 


remember this use of the term “ representation,” as 
it is not unfrequently used with reference to the cu- 
charistic saeritiee; and by losing sight of the sense in 
which the word was understood by former writers, 
modern readers have understood “ representation” to 
mean a dramatic or pictorial imitation rather than a 
real and actual making present, and offering over again, 
of that which is present by virtue of the once only of- 
fered sacrifice. — Blunt, Diet, of Theology, s. v. 

Representation, Lav. See Lay Kepresenta- 

TION. 

Representers, or Marrow Men. See Marrow 
Controversy. 

Reproach (usually omtfor;), the act of find- 

ing fault in opprobrious terms, or attempting to expose 
to infamy and disgrace. In whatever cause we engage, 
however disinterested our motives, however laudable 
our designs, reproach is what we must expect. But it 
becomes us not to retaliate, but to bear it patiently; 
and so to live that every charge brought against us 
be groundless. If we be reproached for righteousness’ 
sake, we have no reason to be ashamed, nor to be afraid. 
All good men have thus suffered, Jesus Christ himself 
especially. We have the greatest promises of support. 
Besides, it has a tendency to humble us, detach us from 
the world, and excite in us a desire for that state of 
blessedness where all reproach shall be done away. — 
Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Reprobation is equivalent to rejection ; and by it 
is usually understood the Calvinistic doctrine, that a 
portion of mankind, by the eternal counsel or decree of 
God, has been predestined to eternal death. Condition- 
al reprobation, or rejecting men from the divine mercy, 
because of their impenitence or refusal of salvation, is a 
scriptural doctrine. Against the unconditional, absolute 
reprobation taught by rigid Calvinists, the following 
objections may be urged: 1. It cannot be reconciled to 
the love of God. “God is love.” “lie is loving to 
every man, and his tender mercies are over all his 
works.” 2. Nor to the wisdom of God; for the bring- 
ing into being a vast number of intelligent creatures 
under a necessity of sinning and of being eternally lost, 
teaches no moral lesson to the world; and contradicts 
all those notions of wisdom in the ends and processes 
of government which \vc are taught to look for, not only 
from natural reason, but from the Scriptures. 3. Nor 
to the grace of God, so often magnified in the Scriptures. 
For it does not, certainly, argue superabounding rich- 
ness of grace, when ten thousand have equally offended, 
to pardon one or two of them. 4. Nor to those pas- 
sages of Scripture which represent God as tenderly 
compassionate and pitiful to the worst of his creatures. 
“I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth;” 
“ The Lord is long-suffering to ns ward, not willing 
that any should perish.” 5. Nor to his justice. We 
may affirm that justice and equity in God are what 
they arc taken to be among reasonable men ; and if 
men everywhere would consider it as contrary to jus- 
tice that a sovereign should condemn to death one or 
more of his subjects for not obeying laws which it was 
utterly impossible for them to obey, it is manifestly 
unjust to charge God with acting in precisely the same 
manner. In whatever light the subject be viewed, no 
fault, in any right construction, can be chargeable upon 
the person so punished, or, as we may rather say, de- 
stroyed, since punishment supposes a judicial proceed- 
ing which this act shuts out. Every received notion , 
of justice is thus violated. 6. Nor to the sincerity of 
God in offering salvation by Christ to all who hear the ! 
Gospel, of whom this scheme supposes the majority, or j 
at least great numbers, to be among the reprobate. ' 
That God offers salvation to those who he knows will 
never receive it, is true; but there is here no insincerity, 
for the atonement has been made for their sins. 7. Nor 
with the scriptural declaration, that “God is no re- 
specter of ]>ersons.” To have respect of persons is a 


REQUIEM 


phrase in Scripture which sometimes refers to judicial 
proceedings, and signifies to judge from partiality and 
affection, and not upon the merits of the question. 
“Ufa truth I perceive that God is no respecter of per- 
sons; but in every nation he that feareth him, and 
worketh righteousness, is accepted with him” (Acts x, 
31, 35). But if the doctrine of reprobation be true, 
( then it necessarily follows that there is precisely this 
| kind of respect of persons with God. 8. This doctrine 
; brings with it the repulsive and shocking opinion of 
; the eternal punishment of infants. The escape from 
l this is either by annihilation of those dying in infancy, 
j or by assuming that they are among the elect. 9. This 
I doctrine destroys the end of punitive justice. That 
j end can only be to deter men from offence, and to add 
] strength to the law of God. But if the whole body of 
I the reprobate are left to the intinence of their fallen 
I nature without remedy, they cannot be deterred from 
sin by threats of inevitable punishment; nor can they 
ever submit to the dominion of the law of God: their 
doom is fixed, and threats and examples can avail noth- 
ing. See Watson, Dib. Diet. s. v. Comp. Election. 

Reproof (n"Ts», r~zr, tAfy^oe), blame or repre- 
hension spoken to a person’s face. It is distinguished 
from a reprimand thus: he who reproves another, points 
out his fault, and blames him ; he who reprimands af- 
fects to punish, and mortifies the offender. In giving 
reproof, the following rules may be observed: 1. We 
should not be forward in reproving our elders or su- 
periors, but rather to remonstrate and supplicate for 
redress. What the ministers of God do in this kind, 
they do by special commission as those that must give 
an account (1 Tim. v, 1; Ilcb. xiii, 17). 2. Wc must 

not reprove rashly ; there should be proof before re- 
proof. 3. We should not reprove for slight matters, 
for such faults or defects as proceed from natural frail- 
ty, from inadvertency, or mistake in matters of small 
consequence. 4. We should never reprove unseason- 
ably, as to the time, the place, or the circumstances. 
5. We should reprove mildly and sweetly, in the calm- 
est manner, in the gentlest terms. 6. We should not 
affect to be reprehensive; perhaps there is no one con- 
sidered more troublesome than he who delights in find- 
ing fault with others. In receiving reproof, it may be 
observed, I. That we should not reject it merely be- 
cause it may come from those who are not exactly on 
a level with ourselves. 2. We should consider whether 
the reproof given be not actually deserved; and wheth- 
er, if the reprover knew all, the reproof would not 
be sharper than it is. 3. Whether, if taken humbly 
and patiently, it will not be of great advantage to 
us. 4. That it is nothing but pride to suppose that we 
are never to be the subjects of reproof, since it is hu- 
man to err. — Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 


Reptile, a word not used in the A. V., which des- 
ignates this class of animals by the term “creeping 
thing” (q. v.), but covers thereby a much wider range 
of creatures. The following are the true reptilia men- 
tioned in Scripture. They almost exclusively consist 
of various unknown species of serpents and lizards. ( >f 
course both these classes were unclean to the Hebrews. 


Crocodile 
Frog 


Lizard 


Serpent 


llivyathdn “Leviathan.” 

Jannhn "dragon.” 

batnlcho* “ frog.” 

txephardeii " frog.” 

chvmet “snail.” 

kotieh “ ohamelcou.” 

letaAh “lizard.” 

nemamith “ spider." 

tinxhimeth “ mole.” 

Jx/ib “ tortoise.” 

akshftb “adder." 

axpix “ asp.” 

drakon “dragon.” 

echidna " viper." 

ephih “viper." 

jK'thcn “adder.” 

Hhrj>hiph<'m “ adder.” 

jKepha “ cockatrice.” 


Requiem, a musical mass for the dead in the 


REREDOS 1047 RESENTMENT 



Church of Rome, so called from the words of the In- 
troit, “ Requiem aeternam dona eis, Domine,” Give them 
eternal rest, O Lord, etc. (2 Esdr. ii, 34, 35) ; and the 
antiphon for the psalms in place of the Gloria Patri. 

Reredos (written also lardos, from Fr. Tarriere- 
dos), the wall or screen at the back of an altar, seat, etc. 
It was usually ornamented with panelling, etc., espe- 
cially behind an altar, and sometimes was enriched with 
a profusion of niches, buttresses, pinnacles, statues, and 
other decorations, which were often painted with brill- 
iant colors. Eeredoses of this kind not unfrequently ex- 
tended across the whole breadth of the church, and were 
sometimes carried up nearly to the ceiling, as at St. Al- 
ban’s Abbey, Durham Cathedral, Gloucester Cathedral, 
St. Saviour’s Church, Southwark; Christ Church, Hamp- 
shire, etc. In village churches they were generally sim- 
ple, and appear very frequently to have had no ornaments 
formed in the wall, though sometimes corbels or niches 
were provided to carry images, and sometimes that part 
of the wall immediatelj 7 over the altar was panelled. 

Remains of these, 
more or less injured, 
are to be found in 
many churches, 
particularly at the 
east ends of aisles, 
as at St. Michael’s, 
Oxford ; Han well 
and Enstone, Ox- 
fordshire; Solihull, 
Warwickshire, etc.; 
and against the east 
wall of the transept, 
as in St.Cuthbert’s, 
Wells. It was not 
unusual to decorate 
the wall at the back 
of an altar with 
panellings, etc., in 
wood, or with em- 
broidered hangings 
of tapestry - work, 
to which the name 
of reredos was giv- 
en : it was also ap- 
plied to the screen 
between the nave 
and choir of a 
church. The open 
fire-hearth, fre- 
quently used in 
ancient domestic 
halls, was likewise 
called a reredos. — 

Reredos of Altar, Eustone, cir. 1420. ^ >arli er, Glossary of 
A related, s. v. 




Rescissory Act, an act of the Scottish Parlia- 
ment passed on the restoration of Charles II, annulling 
all acts passed between 1G38 and 1G50 for religion and 
the Reformation; denouncing the Solemn League and 
Covenant and the Glasgow Assembly of 1G38, and de- 
claring that the government of the Church, as an es- 
sential royal prerogative, belongs alone to the crown. — 
Eadie, Eecles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Rescript, or Codex Rescriptus, a manuscript, 
the original writing of which had been virtually wiped 
out, and the works of some saint or father written over 
it. A codex of this class is that called Codex Ephra- 
emi in the Imperial Library of Paris. Several works ; 
of the Syrian father were written on portions both of 
the Old and New Testaments. It has been published 
by Tischcndorf, with a curious fac-simile of the older 
and newer handwriting. By the application of a chem- 
ical tincture, the original writing of a rescript can now j 
be well deciphered. — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. See ! 
Palimpsest, 


Resemblance to God. See Image of God. 

Res'en (Heb. id. ■)!:", a halter , as in Isa. xxx, 20; 
Sept. Aaotp v. r. Aaot]), an ancient town of Assyria, 
described as a great city lying between Nineveh and 
Calalt (Gen. x, 12). Many writers have been inclined 
to identify it with the Rliesina or Rliesana of the Byz- 
antine authors (Amm. Marc, xxiii, 5; Procop. Pell. 
Pers. ii, 19; Steph. Bvz. s. v. 'Piaiva), and of Ptolemy 
( Geoyraph . v, 18), which was near the true source of 
the western Khabour, and which is most probably the 
modern Ras el- A in. There are no grounds, however, 
for this identification except the similarity of name 
(which similarity is perhaps fallacious, since the Sept, 
evidently reads ",C"I for * “p but not the Samar.), while 
it is a fatal objection to the theory that Resama or Re- 
sina was not in Assyria at all, but in Western Mesopo- 
tamia, 200 miles to the west of both the cities between 
which it is said to have lain. Biblical geographers 
have generally been disposed to follow Bocliart ( Phaleg , 
iv, 23) in finding a trace of the Hebrew name in La- 
rissa, which is mentioned by Xenophon (.4 nab. iii, 4. 9) 
as a desolate city on the Tigris, several miles north of 
the Lycus. The resemblance of the names is too faint 
to support the inference of identity; but the situation 
is not irreconcilable with the scriptural intimation. 
Ephrem Syrus ( Comment . ad loc.) says that Rassa, 
which he substitutes for Resen (the Peshito has Ressiii), 
was the same as Rish-Ain (fountain-head); by which 
Assemani understands him to mean, not the place in 
Mesopotamia so called, but another Rish-Ain in Assyria, 
near Saphsaphre, in the province of Marga, which he 
finds noticed in a Syrian monastic history of the Middle 
Ages (Assemani, Biblioth. Orient, iii, 2, p. 709). It is, 
however, still uncertain if Rassa be the same with Rish- 
Ain ; and, whether it be so or not, a name so exceed- 
ingly uncommon (corresponding to the Arabic Ras el- 
Ain) affords a precarious basis for the identification of a 
site so ancient. The Larissa of Xenophon is most cer- 
tainly the modern Nimrud. Resen, or Dasen — which- 
ever may be the true form of the word — must assuredly 
have been in this neighborhood. As. however, the 
Nimrud ruins seem really to represent Calah, while 
those opposite Mosul are the remains of Nineveh, we 
must look for Resen in the tract lying between these 
two sites. Assyrian remains of some considerable ex- 
tent are found in this situation, near the modem village 
of Selamiyeh, and it is perhaps the most probable con- 
jecture that these represent the Resen of Genesis (see 
Rawlinson, Ancient Monarchies, i, 204). No doubt it 
may be said that a “ great city,” such as Resen is de- 
clared to have been (Gen. x, 12), could scarcely have 
intervened between two other large cities which are 
not twenty miles apart ; and the ruins at Selamiyeh, it 
must be admitted, are not very extensive. But perhaps 
we ought to understand the phrase “ a great city” rela- 
tively — 5. e. great, as cities went in early times, or great, 
considering its proximity to two other larger towns. If 
this explanation seem unsatisfactory, we might perhaps 
conjecture that originally Asshur (Kilch-Sherghat) was 
called Calah, and Nimrud Resen ; but that, when the 
seat of empire was removed northwards from the former 
place to the latter, the name Calah was transferred to 
the new capital. Instances of such transfers of name 
are not unfrequent. The later Jews appear to have 
identified Resen with the Kileh-Sherghat ruins. At 
least the Targums of Jonathan and of Jerusalem explain 
Resen by Tel-Asar pobn or “CX^H), “ the mound of 
Asshur.” — Kitto; Smith. See Assyria. 

Resentment, generally used in an ill sense, im- 
plying a determination to return an injury. Dr. John- 
son observes that resentment is a union of sorrow with 
malignity; a combination of a passion which all en- 
deavor to avoid with a passion which all concur to de- 
test. The man who retires to meditate mischief and 
to exasperate his own rage; whose thoughts are em- 


1048 


RESIGNATION 


RESERVATION 


ployed only on means of distress and contrivances of 
min ; whose mind never pauses from the remembrance 
of his own sufferings but to indulge some hope of en- 
joying the calamities of another, may justly be num- 
bered among the most miserable of human beings — 
among those who are guilty, who have neither the 
gladness of prosperity nor the calm of innocence. — Buck, 
Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Reservation, or Restriction, in ethics, is the 
keeping back in the mind ; equivocation, by a phrase 
which means one thing to the users and another to 
those who hear it. It may be distinguished as reul and 
mental. 

1. Real restriction takes place when the words used 
are not true if strictly interpreted, but there is no devi- 
ation from truth if the circumstances be considered. 
One man asks another, Have you dined? and the an- 
swer given is, No. The party giving this answer has 
dined, times without number; but his answer is re- 
stricted by the circumstances, as to-day, and in that 
sense is true. 

2. Mental restriction consists in saying so far what 
is true and to be believed, but adding mentally some 
qualitication which makes it not to be true. A debtor, 
asked by his creditor for payment of his debt, says, “ I 
will certainly pay you to-morrow,” adding to himself, 

“ in part whereas the words audibly uttered referred to 
the whole amount. See Fleming and lvrauth, Vocabu- 
lary of Philosophical Science , s. v. 

Reserve ix Tkaciiinc;. This is the suppression, in ] 
the instruction of the great mass of Christians, of a por- j 
tion of those Gospel doctrines which are most earnestly 
set forth in Scripture, as if they were a sort of eso- 
teric mystery of which ordinary believers are nnwor- ] 
thy, and which should be reserved as a reward for a 
long course of pious submission. The maintainers of 
this system of teaching affect great mystery about the 
highest and most sacred doctrines of Christianity (such 
as the atonement, the divinity of our Lord, etc.) ; they 
regard them as too solemn and divine to be vulgarized by 
being explicitly and prominently put before the Chris- 
tian world at large. They would therefore “ economize” 
the knowledge of such deep doctrines, reserving them for 
communication to those worthy of being initiated, mean- 
while asserting that the ordinary Christian is put in pos- 
session of these truths, and to a certain degree derives 
virtue out of them, by partaking of the sacraments, etc. 
It is on the authority of the fathers that the advocates 
of “ reserve” chiefly dwell as most fully and expressly 
supporting the principle; but they adduce also, in jus- 
tification of the system, the reverence it has a tendency 
to beget for sacred things (as if it were reverence, and 
not superstition, in those who know not what they arc 
reverencing), and allege that doing thus they are act- 
ing a merciful part in keeping those in ignorance who 
would not make a profitable use of knowledge (just as 
if they had the power of discerning spirits). They con- 
tend that they are imitating the most perfect Pattern 
of wisdom and mercy, who thus economizes light and 
knowledge (c. g. concealing the Gospel at lirst under the 
veil of the Mosaic ritual), as if it were a system of phi- 
losophy of their own they undertook to teach, or as if 
they were imitating the Deity in concealing what he 
had revealed. The example of our Lord is appealed to, 
who, they say, taught openly by parables, but privately 
explained the mysteries df his kingdom to his disciples; 
a case quite inapplicable, as our Lord used reserve, not 
to his disciples, but towards wilful unbelievers. The 
system is also vindicated by studiously confounding it 
with the gradual initiation of Christians in the knowl- 
edge of their religion, and the necessity of f/radnal teach- 
ing; and the care requisite to avoid teaching anything 
which, though true in itself, would be falsely understood 
bv the hearers is confounded with the system of with- 
holding a portion of Gospel truths From those able and 
willing to receive it. It is almost needless to add that 


the entire system is opposed to the Word of God, which 
commands ministers not to shun to declare to the peo- 
ple u all the counsel of God,” and that it is calculated to 
throw doubt and uncertainty upon the whole Christian 
religion; for, as in this system of “reserve” there may 
be an indefinite number of degrees, none can ever be 
sure that he has fathomed the system and ascertained 
what is the real inmost doctrine of its advocates. See 
the Rev. Dr. West's Sermon on Reserve in Teaching . — 
Eden, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Reserved Cases, among Roman Catholic casu- 
ists, are certain sins which are to be dealt with by high- 
er ecclesiastics than the mere priest, who may, how- 
ever, bestow absolution if the penitent be at the point 
of death. To this class of sins belong heresy, simony, 
sacrilege, and certain offences against the priesthood. 

Re'sheph (Ileb. id. E d~), Jlame, as often; Sept. 
'P aos<p v. r. one of the descendants of Ephra- 

im, a “son” of Beriah (q. v.) (1 Chron. vii, 25). B.C. 
post 1658. 

Residence. In the early Church there were laws 
regulating the residence of the clergy, and their design 
was to bind them to constant attendance upon their 
duty. The Council of Sardica had several canons relat- 
ing to this matter. The seventh decreed that no bishop 
should go fig <7Tpari>7rtCov, to the emperor’s court, unless 
the emperor by letter called him thither; but if any pe- 
tition was to be preferred to the emperor relating to any 
civil contest, the bishop should depute his apocrisarius , 
or resident at court, to act for him, or send his ceconomus, 
or some other of his clergy, to solicit the cause in his 
name, that the Church might neither receive damage 
by his absence nor be put to unnecessary expenses. An- 
other canon of the Council of Sardica limited the absence 
of a bishop from his church to three weeks, unless it 
were upon some very weighty and urgent occasion. An- 
other allowed the same time for a bishop to collect the 
revenues of his estate, provided he there celebrated di- 
vine service every Lord’s day. By two other canons, 
presbyters and deacons were similarly tied. The Coun- 
cil of Agde made the like order for the French churches, 
decreeing that a presbyter or deacon who was absent 
from his church for three weeks should be three years 
suspended from the communion. By a rule of the fourth 
Council of Carthage, every bishop’s house was to be near 
the church. The fifth council prescribed that every bish- 
op should have his residence near his principal or cathe- 
dral church, ■which he should not leave, to the neglect 
of his cure. 

In Great Britain, at the present time, residence is now 
regulated by 1 and 2 Viet. c. 106. The penalties for it, 
without a license from the bishop, are, one third of the 
annual value of the benefice when the absence exceeds 
three but does not exceed six months; one half of the 
annual value when the absence exceeds six but does not 
exceed eight months; and when it has been for the whole 
year, three fourths of the annual income are forfeited. 
Certain persons arc exempted from the penalties of non- 
residence, as the heads of colleges at Oxford and Cam- 
bridge, the w’arden of Durham University, and the head- 
masters of Eton, Winchester, and Westminster schools. 
Privileges for temporary non-residence are granted to a 
great number of persons who hold offices in cathedrals 
and at the two universities of Oxford and Cambridge. 
See Bingham, Christian A ntiq. bk. vi, ch. iv, p. 7 ; Eadie, 
Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Resignation, a patient, unresisting submission to 
the will of God, acknowledging both his power and right 
to afflict. The obligations to this duty arise from: 1. 
The perfections of God (Dent, xxxij, \). 2. The pur- 
pose of God (Epli. i, 11). 3. The commands of God 

(lleb. xii, 0). 1. The promises of God (1 l’et. v, 7). 5. 

Our own interest (llos. ii, 11, 15). 6. The prospect of 

eternal felicity (Heb. iv, D). See Ratikxck. 

RESIGNATION, Eiclksia.sticai.. The ancient 
Church was very strict in the matter of resignations, 


RESOLUTION ERS 


1049 


RESPONSE 


and yet there were cases in which they were allowed: J 
1. When a bishop, through the obstinacy, hatred, or dis- 
gust of any people, found himself incapable of doing 
them any service, and that the burden was an intoler- 
able oppression to him; in that case, if he desired to 
resign, his resignation was accepted. Thus Gregory 
Nazianzen renounced the see of Constantinople be- 
cause the- people murmured at him as a stranger. 2. 
When in charity a bishop resigned, or showed himself 
willing to resign, to cure some inveterate schism. Thus 
Chrysostom announced his willingness to resign if the 
people had any suspicion that he was a usurper. In 
such cases canonical pensions were sometimes granted. 
The following are the rules that prevail in the Church 
of England: It can be made only to a superior, and it 
must be to such superior as the one from whom it was 
immediately obtained; for example, where institution 
was required, the party having the right to institute is 
the same to whom resignation is to be made ; and in 
the case of donatives, resignation is to be made to the 
patron. Resignation must be made personally, and not 
by proxy: that is, it must be made either by personal 
appearance before the ordinary, or by an instrument 
properly attested and presented to him. It must be 
made without any condition annexed; in the words of 
the instrument, it must be made “absolute et simplici- 
ter,” and it must further be, in the words of the same 
instrument, “sponte et pure.” It must also be made 
voluntarily, and it must not proceed from any corrupt 
inducement. If an incumbent take any pension, sum 
of money, or other benefit, directly or indirectly, for or 
in respect of the resigning of a benefice having cure of 
souls, such a transaction is criminal in the view of the 
law, and both the giver and receiver in it are liable to 
legal penalties. No resignation can be valid till accept- 
ed by the proper ordinary, but the law has provided no 
remedy if the ordinary should refuse to accept. In as 
far as legal decisions have hitherto gone, the ordinary 
is no more compellable to accept a resignation than he 
is to admit persons into holy orders. When a resigna- 
tion has been accepted, notice is to be given to the pa- 
tron, if different from the ordinary; and lapse does not 
begin to run, as against the patson, until notice of the 
vacancy has been properly given to him. A Pres- 
byterian minister resigns to the presbytery in whose 
bounds his charge is. See Bingham, Christian Antiq. 
bk. vi, ch. iv, p. 2 ; Eden. Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Resolutioners, or Resolutionists, were those 
who approved of the answer given by the commission- 
ers of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland 
(which met at Perth in the time of Charles II) to the 
question proposed to them by the Parliament, viz. what 
persons were to be admitted to rise in arms against 
Cromwell. The resolution was, that all persons capable 
of bearing arms were to be admitted, except those of 
bad character, or obstinate enemies to the Covenant. 
Those who supported it were called Resolutioners, while 
those who opposed it were designated Protesters or A nti- 
Resoluiioners. 

Respect of Persons ( 7 rpo<ra> 7 roX/j^<a,Rom . ii, 11 ; 
Eph. vi, 9 ; Col. iii, 25 ; James ii, 1 ; a later Greek word, 
found only in the New Test., and modelled after the use 
of with C’S 3), partiality for individuals. God ap- 
pointed that the judges should pronounce sentence with- 
out respect of persons (Lev. xix, 15 ; Dcut. xvi, 17, 19). 
That they should consider neither the poor nor the rich, 
the weak nor the powerful, but should attend only to 
truth and justice. God has no respect of persons. The 
Jews complimented our Saviour that he told the truth, 
without respect of persons, without fear (Matt, xxii, 16; 
Isa. xxxii, 1-16). Jude (ver. 16), instead of the phrase 
“ to have respect of persons,” has “ to admire persons.” 

Our English term respect seems to imply some kind 
of deference or submission to a party; but this is not al- 
ways the proper meaning to be annexed to it in Script- 
ure. When we read (Exod. ii, 25) “ God had respect to 


the children of Israel,” it can only express his compas- 
sion and sympathy for them ; when God had respect to 
the offering of Abel (Gen. iv, 4), it imports to acceqit fa- 
vorably, to notice with satisfaction. (Comp. 1 Kings 
viii, 28; Numb, xvi, 15.) — Calmet. 

Respond, before the Reformation, was a short an- 
them interrupting the middle of a chapter; when two 
or three verses had been read, the respond was sung, 
after which the chapter proceeded. 

RESPOND, a half-pillar 
or pier, in Middle-age archi- 
tecture, attached to a wall to 
support an arch, etc. Re- 
sponds are very frequently 
used by themselves, as at 
the sides of the entrances of 
chancels, etc., and are also 
generally employed at the 
terminations of ranges of 
pillars, such as those between 
the body and aisles of church- 
es. In these last-mentioned 
situations they usually cor- 
respond in form with the pil- 
lars, but are sometimes dif- 
ferent. The name frequent- 
ly occurs in mediaeval con- 
tracts, and may have its origin 
in the notion of the two pilas- 
ters responding to, i. e. cor- 
responding with, each other. 
Thus the breadth of the nave 
of Eton College chapel “ be- 
tween the responders" was 
directed by the will of king 
Henry VI to be thirty-two 
feet. — Parker, Gloss, of Ar- 
chitect. s. v. 

Respond, Fotheringay, 

North Hants. Responsales were a 

sort of residents in the im- 
perial city in the name of foreign churches and bishops, 
whose office was to negotiate as proctors at the em- 
peror’s court in all ecclesiastical causes wherein their 
principals might be concerned. The institution of the 
office seems to have been in the time of Constantine, 
or not long after, when, the emperors having become 
Christians, foreign churches had more occasion to pro- 
mote their suits at the imperial court than formerly. 
However, we find it established by law in the time of 
Justinian. It does not appear from that law that re- 
sponsales were clergymen, but from other writings we 
may easily collect it. See Bingham, Christian Antiq. 
bk. iii, ch. xiii, p. 6. 

Response. Among the Hebrews the usual response 
by the people to prayer was by the utterance of the 
word .4 men at the close ; and this practice was naturally 
adopted, or rather continued, by Christians likewise. 
This word (‘j^K), literally “firm, true,” was used as a 
substantive, “ that which is true,” “ truth” (Isa. lxv, 16). 
It was employed in strong asseverations, fixing, as it 
were, the stamp of truth upon the assertion which it ac- 
companied, and making it binding as an oath (comp. 
Numb, v, 22). In the Sept, of 1 Chron. xvi, 36 ; Neh. v, 
13; viii, 6, the word appears in the form ’Apt) v, which 
is used throughout the New Test. In other passages 
the Hebrew is rendered by yeroiro, except in Isa. lxv, 
16. The Vulgate adopts the Hebrew word in all cases 
except in the Psalms, where it is translated fat. In 
Deut. xxvii, 15-26, the people were to say “Amen” as 
the Levites pronounced each of the curses upon Mount 
Ebal, signifying by this their assent to the conditions 
under which the curses would be inflicted. In ac- 
cordance with this usage we find that among the rab- 
bins “ Amen” involves the ideas of swearing, accept- 
ance, and truthfulness. The first two are illustrated by 



RESPONSES 


1050 


RESTITUTION 


the passages already quoted, the last by 1 Kings i, 36; 
John iii, 3, 5, 11 (A. V. “verily”), in which the asser- 
tions are made with the solemnity of an oath and then 
strengthened by the repetition of “Amen." “Amen" 
was the proper response of the person to whom an oath 
was administered (Xeh. v, 13; viii, (5; 1 Cliron. xvi, 36; 
Jer. xi, 5, marg.) ; and the Deity, to whom appeal is 
made on such occasions, is called “the God of .1 men" 
(Isa. Ixv, 16), as being a witness to the sincerity of the 
implied compact. With a similar significance Christ is 
called “the A men, the faithful and true witness" (Rev. 
iii, 14; comp. John i, 14; xvi, 6; 2 Cor. i, 20). It is 
matter of tradition that in the Temple the “Amen” was 
not uttered by the people, but that instead, at the con- 
clusion of the priest's prayers, they responded. “ Blessed 
be the name of the glory of his kingdom for ever and 
ever.” Of this a trace is supposed to remain in the con- 
cluding sentence of the Lord's Braver (com]). Ilom. xi, 
36). But in the synagogues and private houses it was 
customary for the people or members of t lie family who 
were present to say “Amen” to the prayers which were 
offered by the minister or the master of the house, and 
the custom remained in the early Christian Church 
(Matt, vi, 13; 1 Cor. xiv, 16). And not only public 
prayers, but those offered in private, and doxologies 
were appropriately concluded with “Amen” (Horn, ix, 
5; xi,36; xv, 33; xvi, 27 ; 2 Cor. xiii, 13, etc.). — Smith. 
See Am ex. 

Responses. Short sentences, so called from their 
being the anstcers of the people to the officiating min- 
ister. The design of responses is, by giving to the peo- 
ple a part in the service, to quicken this devotion and 
engage their attention. It is much to be regretted that 
congregations do not in general join in the parts of the 
service allotted to them, as such neglect is the means 
of making our worship appear to many both cold and 
formal. Anciently all the people were allowed to join 
in psalmody and prayers, and make their proper re- 
sponses. Of the latter there were several. (1.) Amen. 
This, in the phraseology of the Church, is denomina- 
ted orationis signuculum , or devotee concionis responsin, 
and intimates that the prayer of the speaker is heard, 
and approved by him who gives this response. (2.) 
Hallelujah. This was adopted from the Jewish psal- 
mody, particularly from those psalms (cxiii -cxviii) 
which were sung at the Passover, called the Great Ilillel, 
or llallel. The use of this phrase was first adopted by 
the Church at Jerusalem, and from this was received by 
the other churches, and was restricted to the fifty days 
between Easter and Whit-Sunday. In the Greek Church 
it was expressive of grief, sorrow, and penitence, while 
in the Latin it denoted a joyful spirit. (3.) llosanna. 
The Church, both ancient and modern, has ascribed to 
this word a meaning similar to that of hallelujah. The 
true signification is “ Lord save” (l*sa. cxviii, 25). (4.) 
“ () Lord have mercy” — Kvpie iXhjaov. The Council of 
Vaison, A.D. 492, canon 3, ordained that this response 
should be introduced into the morning and evening 
worship, and into the public religious service. Gregory 
the Great introduced a threefold form, “O Lord,” “ Lord 
have mercy,” “ Christ have mercy.” (5.) “Glory, glory 
in the highest,” in use on festive occasions in the 5th 
century, and in general use in the 7th century. (6.) 
“ The Lord be with you ;” “ Peace be with you,” ordained 
by the Council of Braga, A.D. 561, to be the uniform 
salutation of bishops and presbyters when addressing 
the jieople. The last-mentioned salutation alone was in 
use in the Greek Church. See Coleman, Christ. A ntiq. ; 
Eden, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Respousorii Psai.mi mean either the repetition 
of the verses bv the people, or the repetition of the 
last words of the psalm, with the addition of the 
“amen” or the doxology; or that t lie psalms were so 
selected as to correspond to the subject of the lessons 
which had been read — Eadie, Ecdes. Cyclop, s. v. 
“ Psalmody.” 


Ressaunt (probably Fr. ressentir ), 
an old English term for an ogee-mould- 
v) iug. It was also applied to other archi- 
teciural members that had the inflect- 
ed outline of this moulding. — Parker, 
Class, of A rc/tilect. s. v. 

Ressaunt, Red- Rest, or Repose, was enjoined 

cliffe Church, upon the Israelites on the Sabbath 

Bnstol. day j> or tl)e g] orv of (; 0( ] ) j n t] )a t he 

rested after the six days of creation. See Sabbath. 

Rest also signifies a fixed and secure habitation. “ Ye 
shall go before your brethren until the Lord shall give 
rest to your brethren, as well .as to you, and until ye are 
come into the land whither ye are going to possess it” 
( Dent, iii, 20). So also Dent, xii, 9 : “ For ve are not as 
yet come to the rest and to the inheritance which the 
Lord your God giveth you,” i. e. you are not as yet set- 
tled in that land which you are to possess. Xaomi says 
to Ruth, “My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, 
that it may be well with thec?”(Ruth iii, 1) — i.e. I shall 
endeavor to procure you a settlement. David, speaking 
i of the ark of the covenant, which till his time had no 
j fixed place of settlement, says, “Arise, O Lord, into thy 
I rest, thou and the ark of thy strength” (Psa. cxxxii, 8). 
Likewise Eccles. xxxvi, 15; “O be merciful unto Jeru- 
salem, thy holy city, the place of thy rest.” 

Rest has the following figurative meanings: to lean, 
or trust in (2 Cliron. xxxii, 8) ; to continue fixed (Isa. li, 
4); to come to an end (Ezek. xvi, 42; xxi, 17) ; cease 
from war (Josh, xiv, 15). 

Rest, like sleep, is in the Scriptures sometimes used 
as the symbol of death. Thus the patriarch exclaims, 
“For now should I have lain still and been quiet, I 
should have slept; then had I been at rest, with kings 
and counsellors of the earth” (Job iii, 13); and thus a 
charge is given to Daniel: “Go thou thy way till the 
end be: for thou shalt rest, and stand in thy lot at the 
end of the days” (Dan. xii, 13). This phrase also occurs 
in 1 Sam. xxviii, 15; Job xi, 18; Acts ii, 26; Rev. vi, 
9; and is common on Jewish monuments for the dead, 
as “May his rest be in the garden of Eden, with the 
other just men of the world.” “May his soul rest in 
peace till the Comforter come.” “May his rest be in 
the garden of Eden, with other just men. Amen, 
amen, amen, Selah.” 

In a moral and spiritual sense, rest denotes a cessa- 
tion from carnal trouble and sin (Matt, xi, 28, 29). Fi- 
nally, it is used to represent the fixed and permanent 
state of repose enjoyed by the blessed in heaven ; and 
to this Paul makes an application of what is said of the 
settlement of the Israelites in the Land of Promise: “I 
sware to them in my wrath that they should not enter 
j into my rest,” i.e. into the land of Canaan (Psa. xcv, 
11). “Therefore,” says Paul (Ileb. iii, 17-19; iv, 1-3), 
i “as they could not enter therein by reason of their un- 
belief, let us be afraid of imitating their example: for 
we cannot enter but by faith,” etc. See Sabbatism. 

Restitution, a term applied in the A. Y. in two 
very different senses. 

1. Penal to repay, Exod. xx, 1-14, etc.; else- 

where “requite,” etc.; but in Job xx, 18, n“ ? -r>, ex- 
change, as elsewhere rendered), that act of justice by 
which we restore to our neighbor whatever we have un- 
justly deprived him of; a point insisted on under both 
the old and the new covenant (Exod. xxii, 1 ; Luke 
xix, 8). Justice requires that those things which have 
been stolen or unlawfully taken from another should be 
restored to the party aggrieved, and that compensation 
should be made to him by the aggressor. Accordingly 
various tines or pecuniary payments were exacted by 
the Mosaic law: as, (1.) Fines, UTI V, onesh, strictly so 
called, went commonly to the injured party, and were 
of two kinds: fixed, i.e. those of which the amount was 
determined by some statute as, for instance, that of 
Deut. xxii, 19, or xxii. 29; and undetermined, or where 
the amount was left to the decision of the judges (Exod. 


RESTITUTION 


1051 


RESTITUTION 


xxi, 22). (2.) Twofold, fourfold, and even fivefold res- 

titution of things stolen, and restitution of property un- 
justly retained, with twenty per cent, over and above. 
He who, by ignorance, should omit to give to the Tem- 
ple what was appointed by the law — for example, in the 
tithes or first-fruits — was obliged to restore it to the 
priests and to add a fifth part besides, over and above 
which he was bound to offer a ram for his expiation. 
Nehemiah prevailed with all those Israelites to make 
restitution who had taken interest of their brethren 
(Neh. v, 10, 1 1), and Zacchams (Luke xix, 8) promises a 
fourfold restitution to ail from whom he had extorted 
in his office as a publican. The Roman laws condemn- 
ed to a fourfold restitution all who were convicted of 
extortion or fraud. Zacchaeus here imposes that penal- 
ty on himself, to which lie adds the half of his goods, 
which was what the law did not require. (3.) If a man 
killed a beast, he was to make it good, beast for beast 
(Lev. xxiv, 18). If an ox pushed or gored another 
man’s servant to death, his owner was bound to pay for 
the servant thirty shekels of silver (Exod. xxi, 32). In 
the case of one man’s ox pushing the ox of another man 
to death, as it would be very difficult to ascertain which 
of the two had been to blame for the quarrel, the two 
owners were obliged to bear the loss between them; 
the living ox was to be sold, and its price, together with 
the dead beast, was to be equally divided by them. If, 
however, one of the oxen had previously been notorious 
for goring, and the owner had not taken care to confine 
him, in such case he was to give the loser another and 
to take the dead ox himself (ver. 3G). (4.) If a man dug 
a pit and did not cover it, or let an old pit remain open 
and another man’s beast fell into it, the owner of such 
pit was obliged to pay for the beast and had it for the 
payment (vers. 33, 34). (5.) When a fire was kindled 

in the fields and did any damage, he who kindled it was 
to make the damage good (xxii, 6). See Damages. 

Moralists observe respecting restitution: (1.) That 
where it can be made in kind, or the injury can be cer- 
tainly valued, we are to restore the thing or the value. 
(2.) We are bound to restore the thing with the natural 
increase of it, i. e. to satisfy for the loss sustained in the 
meantime and the gain hindered. (3.) Where the thing 
cannot be restored and the value of it is not certain, we 
are to give reasonable satisfaction according to a mid- 
dle estimation. (4.) We are at least to give by way of 
restitution what the law would give, for that is gener- 
ally equal and in most cases rather favorable than rig- 
orous. (5.) A man is not only bound to restitution for 
the injury he did, but for all that directly follows from 
the injurious act ; for the first injury being wilful, we 
are supposed to will all that which follows upon it. 

2. Apocatastasis, a term which, in its Greek form, oc- 
curs but once in the New' Test, in the phrase “restitu- 
tion of all things,” aTroKardoTaoig Travrojy (Acts iii, 
21). As an event, it is in that passage connected with 
the “refreshing (di'dxpi^ig) from the presence of the 
Lord” (ver. 19). The grammatical construction as well 
as exegetical interpretation of the whole passage has 
been greatly disputed by commentators (see Meyer, 
Commentin', ad loc.) ; but Alford ( Greek Test, ad loc.) re- 
gards both these as being decisively settled by the par- 
allel expression of our Saviour — that Elijah “ will re- 
store all things,” cnroKaraoTCiau navra (Matt, xvii, 1 1). 
The principal opinions of interpreters are thus summed 
up by Kuincil ( Comment . ad loc.) : (a) De Dien, Lim- 
bach, Wolf, and others understand by the times of “re- 
freshing” and “restitution” (i. e. the predicted period 
when the due position will be assigned each one), the 
days of the last judgitient, the times of affliction to the 
impious and contumacious, but of relief, quiet, and safe- 
ty to the saints. In support of this view they adduce 
the frequent argument of the sacred writers to induce 
Christians to diligence and hope drawn from the pros- 
pect of the last day (Acts xvii, 30 sq. ; 2 Pet. iii, 7 ; xi, 
13 sq. ; comp, especially the similar language of 2 Thess. 
i, 7 ; ii, IG), and the fact that Jewish writers were ac- 


customed so to speak of it ( Pirke A both, iv, 17). (6) 

Schulz (in his Dissert, de Temporibus rijg draipuZecug, in 
the Biblioth. Hagan, v, 1 19 sq.) understands the time of 
death, the terminus fixed to each man’s life, the future 
rest of the dead in the Lord; a view which Barkey 
(ibid. p. 411) justly opposes by this, among other con- 
siderations, that if this had been Peter’s meaning it is 
strange he had not used clearer and more customary 
phraseology, (c) Kraft (Obss. Saw. fascic. ix, 271 sq.) 
remarks that Peter on this passage derives his argument 
not merely from the hope of pardon, but also from Jhe 
benefits already bestowed by God, and therefore consid- 
ers this “refreshing” to be the liberation afforded by 
Jesus from the ceremonial yoke of bondage of the Jewish 
law, an exposition which is well refuted bv Barkey (Bill. 
Ilag. iii, 119 sq.), who pertinently remarks that Peter 
at this very time was not himself free from legal preju- 
dices. (d) Barkey (ibid, v, 397 sq.) thinks these “times 
of refreshing” are the period of the delay of the divine 
judgment upon the Jews, the time of the divine long- 
suffering, in which the zeal of the Almighty’s vengeance 
was remitted or relaxed. lie regards the expression 
“Jesus Christ” here as put for “the word of Jesus 
Christ,” and so refers the words “ he shall send,” etc., to 
the preaching of the doctrine of Jesus, (e) In the opin- 
ion of Grotius, Hammond, and Bolten, the “ times of re- 
freshing” are the time of the freedom of Christians from 
Jewish persecution and the calamities impending over 
the wicked and refractory Jews (Matt, xxiv, 33; Luke 
xxi, 28) ; while the “times of restitution” are the time of 
the fulfilment of the predictions concerning the overthrow 
of the capital and polity of the Jew’s (comp. Matt, xxiv, 
15, 30). (/') Erncsti (in his Opusc. Theol. p. 477), who 

finds a follower in Doderlein (Institutio Theol. Christ, ii, 
§ 223, obs. 6), interprets the term apocatastasis as mean- 
ing a new, greater, and truer perfection of religion , the 
doctrine of the Gospel clear and free from all shadows 
of figures and rites; first announced by John, then pro- 
mulgated by Jesus among the Jews, and finally propa- 
gated by the apostle everywhere. This view he forti- 
fies by the observation that “times of restitution” is 
equivalent to “ time of reformation” (^top^wme. Heb.ix, 
10). (#) Also Eckermaun ( Theologische Beitrage, I, ii, 

112 sq.) interprets the “apocatastasis of all things” to 
mean the universal emendation of religion by the doc- 
trine of Christ, and the “times of refreshing” to be the 
day of renewal, the times of the Messiah. The same 
writer, however, afterwards (ibid. II, i, 188 sq.) rejects 
this exposition on the ground that the parallel passages 
(Matt, xi, 17 ; Mark ix, 12) speak of Elijah as to precede 
and rectify Jewish faith and morals. He therefore con- 
cludes that Peter was referring to a restoration of the 
Jewish polity in its original splendor. Yet finally (in 
his Erklarung alter dunkeln Stellen des N. T. ii, 184) he 
returns to his original opinion, (h) Rosenmuller, fol- 
lowing Morus, understands the “times of refreshing” to 
denote happy times, not merely the day of the resurrec- 
tion of the dead, but also spiritual benefits of every kind 
which Christians enjoy in this and the future life (Mo- 
rus : the Messianic times), and refers the “times of res- 
titution” (full and perfect fulfilment of prophecy) to the 
consummation of that auspicious period when all ene- 
mies shall be subdued (1 Cor. xx, 25 sq. ; Heb. x, 12, 15 ; 
comp. Psa. cx, 1), and every influence opposing true re- 
ligion removed. Many of these interpretations are ob- 
viously fanciful, and most of them too vague, although 
some contain an element of truth. The word d7rova- 
TaoTamg signifies emendation, restoration to a pristine 
condition, change to a better state. (So Josephus, Ah?. 
xi, 3, 8 ; iv, 6 ; Philo, De Decal, p. 767 b ; De Rcr. Div. Her. 
p. 522 c. Hesychius and Phanorinus likewise explain 
it by reXeiaxrig; but the scholiast in the Cod. Nosq. ad 
loc. renders cvp—\i)pujoig, tKj3amg. In like manner 
aTroKaSarrareiv signifies to complete, bring to a conclu- 
sion ; see the Sept, at Job viii, 6, where it corresponds 
with z\'2 ; so in Gen. xli, 13 ; Jet-, xxii, 8 ; comp. Polyb. 


] iESTOIi ATIOX 


1052 


RESTORATION 


jv, 23, 1 ; Diod. Sic. xx, 34.) Bv the expression “ until ! 
the times of the apocatustasis of all things which Cod 
hath spoken,” etc., Peter means the time when all 
affairs shall be consummated, all the prophetical an- 
nouncements shall be accomplished, including the in- 
auguration of the kingdom of the Messiah and its at- 
tendant events, the full extension of the Gospel, the res- 
urrection, judgment, etc.— in short, the end of the world 
(see Olshausen, l)e Wette. llackett, and most others, 
ad loc.). See Eschatology. 

Restoration, Tin:, a name generally given to the 
return of the Church of England to the previously ap- j 
pointed ecclesiastical polity, and to their allegiance to 
the regular prince, Charles II, which took place in 1GG0. I 
It has been appointed, by authority, that May 29 in 
every year shall be kept with prayer and thanksgiving 1 
to Almighty God for this event. See Hook, Church 
Diet. s. v. 

KESTORATIOX of thk Jkws. This term is ap- 
plied to two very different classes of prophecies relating 
to the Hebrew race. 

1. Their Return from Captivity. — It is maintained by 
Von Bohlen (Genesis, p. cxvi) that the ten tribes inter- 
married so freely with the surrounding population as 
to have become completely absorbed; and it appears to 
be a universal opinion that no one now knows where 
their descendants are. But it is a harsh assumption 
that such intermarriages were commoner with the ten 
tribes than with the two; and certainly, in the apostol- 
ic days, the twelve tribes arc referred to as a well-known 
people, sharply defined from the heathen (Acts xxiv, 7 ; 
James i, 1). Not a trace appears that any repulsive 
principle existed at that time between the Ten and the 
Two. “Ephraim no longer envied Judah, nor Judah 
vexed Ephraim;” but they had become “one nation;” 
though only partially “on the mountains of Israel” (Isa. 
xi, 13; Ezek. xxxvii, 22). It would seem, therefore, 
that one result of the captivity was to blend all the 
tribes together, and produce a national union which had 
never been effected in their own land. If ever there 
was a difference between them as to the books counted 
sacred, that difference entirely vanished; at least, no 
evidence appears of the contrary fact. When, more- 
over, the laws of landed inheritance no longer enforced 
the maintenance of separate tribes and put a ditliculty 
in the way of their intermarriage, an almost inevitable 
result in course of time was the entire obliteration of this 
distinction ; and, as a fact, no modern Jews know to what 
tribe they belong, although vanity always makes them 
choose to say that they are of the two or three, and not 
of the ten tribes. That all Jews now living bave in 
them the blood of all the twelve tribes ought (it seems) 
to be believed, until some better reason than mere as- 
sertion is advanced against it. 

When Cyrus gave permission to the Israelites to re- 
turn to their own country, and restored their sacred 
vessels, it is not wonderful that few persons of the ten 
tribes were eager to take advantage of it. In two cen- 
turies they had become thoroughly naturalized in their 
Eastern settlements; nor had Jerusalem ever been the 
centre of proud aspirations to them. It is perhaps re- 
markable that in Ezra ii, 2, 3G (see also x, IK, 25), the 
word Israel is used to signify what we might call the 
laity as opposed to the priests and Lcvites, which 
might seem as if the writer were anxious to avoid 
asserting that all the families belonged to the two 
tribes. (If this is not the meaning, it at least shows 
that all discriminating force in the words Israel and 
Juilah was already lost. So, too, in the book of Esther, 
the twelve tribes through all parts of the Persian em- 
pire arc called Jews.) Nevertheless, it was to be ex- 
pected that only those would return to Jerusalem whose 
expatriation was very recent, and principally those 
whose parents had dwelt in the holy city or its imme- 
diate neighborhood. The re-migrants, doubtless, con- 
sisted chiefly of the pious and the poor ; and as the lat- 


ter proved docile to their teachers, a totally new spirit 
reigned in the restored nation. Whatever want of zeal 
the anxious Ezra might discern in his comrades, it is 
no slight matter that he could induce them to divorce 
their heathen wives — a measure of harshness which 
Paul would scarcely have sanctioned (l Cor. vii, 12) ; 
and the century which followed was, on the whole, one 
of great religious activity and important permanent re- 
sults on the moral character of the nation. Even the 
I prophetic spirit by no means disappeared for a century 
and a half; although at length both the true and the 
false prophet were supplanted among them by the learn- 
ed and diligent scribe, the anxious commentator, and 
the over-literal or over-ligurativc critic. In place of a 
people prone to go astray after sensible objects of ado- 
ration, and readily admitting heathen customs; attach- 
ed to monarchical power, but inattentive to a hierarchy; 
careless of a written law, and movable by alternate im- 
pulses of apostasy and repentance, we henceforth find 
in them a deep and permanent reverence for Moses and 
the prophets, an aversion to foreigners and foreign cus- 
toms, a profound hatred of idolatry, a great devotion to 
priestly and Eevitical rank, and to all who had an ex- 
terior of piety; in short, a slavish obedience both to the 
law and to its authorized expositors. Now first, so far 
as can be ascertained (observe the particularity of de- 
tail in Nell, viii, 4, etc.), were the synagogues and houses 
of prayer instituted and the law periodically read aloud. 
Now began the close observance of the Passover, the 
Sabbath, and the sabbatical year. Such was the change 
wrought in the guardians of the sacred books that, 
whereas the pious king Josiah had sat eighteen years 
on the throne without knowing of the existence of “ the 
book of the law” (2 Kings xxii, 3, 8), in the later peri- 
od, on the contrary, the text was watched over with a 
scrupulous and fantastic punctiliousness. From this 
aura the civil power was absorbed in that of the priest- 
hood, and the Jewish people affords the singular specta- 
cle of a nation in which the priestly rule came later in 
time than that of hereditary kings. Something anal- 
ogous may, perhaps, be seen in the priestly authority 
at Comana, in Cappadocia, under the Roman sway (Cic- 
ero, Ep. ad Dir. xv, 4, etc.). 

In their habits of life, also, the Jewish nation was 
permanently affected by the first captivity. The love 
of agriculture, which the institutions of Moses had so 
vigorously inspired, had necessarily declined in a for- 
eign land ; and they returned with a taste for com- 
merce, banking, anti retail trade, which was probably 
kept up by constant intercourse with their brethren 
who remained in dispersion. The same intercourse in 
turn propagated towards the rest the moral spirit which 
reigned at Jerusalem. The Egyptian Jews, it would 
seem, had gained little good from the contact of idola- 
try (Jer. xliv, 8); but those who had fallen in with 
the Persian religion, probably about the time of its 
great reform by Zoroaster, had been preserved from 
such temptations, and returned purer than they went. 
Thenceforward it was the honorable function of Jerusa- 
lem to act as a religious metropolis to the whole dis- 
persed nation; and it cannot be doubted that the ten 
tribes, as well as the two, learned to be proud of the 
holy city, as the great and free centre of their name 
and their faith. The same religious influences thus 
diffused themselves through all the twelve tribes of Is- 
rael. — Kitto. See I)isi*kksi-:i>. 

2. Their Future Return to Palestine. — It is a favor- 
ite view with many that the Israeli tish race, nmv scat- 
tered over the face of the earth, will eventually he 
brought back to their own land. To this is generally 
added the belief that they will yet return in a convert- 
ed, i. e. Christian, state. The final ingathering of the 
Jews, no less than of all Gentiles, is certainly taught, 
not only in the Old Test., but likewise in the New (see 
Rom. xi, 11-25). But it appears to be an error to infer 
that, therefore, they will generally be restored to their 
original home. See Swaine, Objections to the Restora- 


RESTORATION ISTS 


1053 


RESURRECTION 


tion of the Jews (3d ed. Lond. 1861); Browne, Restora- 
tion of the Jews (Edinb. 1861) ; Clarke, Restoration of 
the Jews (Lond. 1861). See Millennium. 

Restorationists, the name assumed by a body 
of professing Christians who are to a very great extent 
identical with the Unitarians, on the one hand, and the 
Universalists, on the other. Their peculiar doctrine is, 
that all men will ultimately become holy and happy. 
They maintain that God created men only to bless 
them, and that he sent his Son to “ be for salvation to 
the ends of the earth.” They further teach that man’s 
probation is not confined to this life, but extends through- 
out the mediatorial reign of Christ ; and that, as he died 
for all, all will eventually be saved. They consider that 
punishment is reformatory in its character, and has for 
its object the conversion of the sinner. Although the 
Restorationists, as a separate body, have only existed for a 
few years, their sentiments are by no means new. Some 
of the early fathers — Clemens Alexandrinus, Origen, 
Didymus of Alexandria, Gregory Nvssen, and others— 
believed and advocated the restoration of all fallen in- 
telligences. A branch of the German Baptists, before 
the Reformation, held and propagated the doctrine. In 
Europe many prominent names may be cited as its ad- 
vocates. It was introduced into America about the 
middle of the 18th century, but not much taught until 
about 1775 or 1780, when John Murray and Elhanan 
Winchester became its advocates. Afterwards we find 
Dr. Chauncey, of Boston; Dr. Rush, of Philadelphia; 
Dr. Smith, of New York; and Mr. Foster, of New 
Hampshire, as advocates, although most of them con- 
tinued in the ranks of the various sects. In 1785 a 
convention was organized at Oxford, Mass., under the 
auspices of Messrs. Winchester and Murray; and as all 
who believed in universal salvation believed that the 
effects of sin and the means of grace extended into a 
future life, the terms Restorationist and Unirersalist 
were synonymous, and the convention adopted the lat- 
ter as their distinctive name. In 1818 the Rev. Hosea 
Ballou, of Boston, advanced the doctrine that all retri- 
bution is confined to this world; to which was added 
by others the doctrine of the mortality of the soul, that 
the whole man died a temporal death, and that the res- 
urrection would introduce all men into everlasting hap- 
piness. As a result a distinct sect, by the name of Uni- 
versal Restorationists, was formed at Mendon, Mass., Aug. 
17, 1831 ; but it soon became extinct. The Restoration- 
ists maintain that a just retribution does not take place 
in time; that men are invited to act with reference to a 
future life ; that there are grades of reward and punish- 
ment; that it is not death or the resurrection that intro- 
duces men into heaven. The Restorationists have never 
been numerous; they are found more extensively in Mas- 
sachusetts, although they have a few societies in other 
states. At one time they published a weekly newspaper, 
and had from twenty to thirty ministers, with from two 
to three thousand members. Very many, however, are 
found in the other sects who entertain the peculiar views 
of the Restorationists. See Ballou, A ncient History of 
Universalism ; Belcher, Religious Denominations; Foster, 
Examination of Strong; Hudson, Letter and Reply; 
Chauncey, Salvation of all Men; Hartley, On Man; 
Stonehonse, Universal Retribution; Smith, On Divine 
Government. See Universalism. 

Resurrection ( dvaoraaic ) of the Bonv, the re- 
vivification of the human body after it has been forsaken 
by the soul, or the reunion of the soul hereafter to the 
body which it had occupied in the present world. This is 
one of the essential points in the creed of Christendom. 

I. History of the Doctrine. — It is admitted that there 
are no traces of such a belief in the earlier Hebrew 
Scripture. It is not to be found in the Pentateuch, in 
the historical books, or in the Psalms; for Psa. xlix, 
15 does not relate to this subject; neither does Psa. civ, 
29, 30, although so cited by Theodoret and others. The 
celebrated passage of Job xix, 25 sq. has indeed been 


strongly insisted upon in proof of the early belief in this 
doctrine; but the most learned commentators are agreed, 
and scarcely any one at the present day disputes, that 
such a view of the text arises either from mistranslation 
or misapprehension, and that Job means no more than 
to express a confident conviction that his then diseased 
and dreadfully corrupted body should be restored to its 
former soundness; that he should rise from the depressed 
state in which he lay to his former prosperity; and that 
God would manifestly appear (as was the case) to vindicate 
his uprightness. That no meaning more recondite is to be 
found in the text is agreed by Calvin, Mercier, Grotius, 
Le Clerc, Patrick, Warburton, Durell, Heath, Kcnni- 
cott, Dnderlein, Dathe, Eichhorn, Jahn, De Wette, and 
a host of others. That it alludes to a resurrection is 
disproved thus: 1. The supposition is inconsistent with 
I the design of the poem and the course of the argument, 
since the belief which it has been supposed to express, 
as connected with a future state of retribntion, would in 
a great degree have solved the difficulty on which the 
whole dispute turns, and could not but have been often 
alluded to by the speakers. 2. It is inconsistent with 
the connection of the discourse; the reply of Zophar 
agreeing, not with the popular interpretation, but with 
the other. 3. It is inconsistent with many passages in 
which the same person (Job) longs for death as the end 
of Ids miseries, and not as the introduction to a better 
life (ch. iii; vii, 7, 8; x, 20-22; ch. xiv; xvii, 11-16). 
4. It is not proposed as a topic of consolation by any of 
the friends of Job; nor by Elifan, who acts as a sort of 
umpire; nor by the Almighty himself in the decision 
of the controversy. 5. The later Jews, who eagerly 
sought for every intimation bearing on a future life 
which their Scriptures might contain, never regarded 
this as such ; nor is it once referred to by Christ or his 
apostles. 6. The language, when exactly rendered, con- 
tains no warrant for such an interpretation ; especially 
the phrase “yet in my flesh shall I see God,” which 
should rather be rendered “ out of my flesh.” See Job, 
Book of. 

Isaiah may be regarded as the first Scripture writer 
in whom such an allusion can be traced. He compares 
the restoration of the Jewish people and state to a res- 
urrection from the dead (xxvi, 19, 20); and in this he 
is followed by Ezekiel at the time of the exile (ch. 
xxxvii). From these passages, which are, however, 
not very clear in their intimations, it may seem that in 
this, as in other matters, the twilight of spiritual mani- 
festations brightened as the day-spring from on high 
approached ; and in Dan. xii, 2 we at length arrive at a 
clear and unequivocal declaration that those who lie 
sleeping under the earth shall awake, some to eternal 
life, and others to everlasting shame and contempt. 

In the time of Christ, the belief of a resurrection, in 
connection with a state of future retribution, was held 
by the Pharisees and the great body of the Jewish peo- 
ple, and was only disputed by the Sadducees. Indeed, 
they seem to have regarded the future life as incom- 
plete without the body ; and so intimately were the two 
tilings — the future existence of the soul and the resur- 
rection of the body — connected in their minds that any 
argument which proved the former they considered as 
proving the latter also (see Matt, xxii, 31 ; 1 Cor. xv, 
32). This belief, however, led their coarse minds into 
gross and sensuous conceptions of the future state, al- 
though there were man}' among the Pharisees who 
taught that the future body would be so refined as not 
to need the indulgences which were necessary in the 
present life; and they assented to our Lord’s assertion 
that the risen saints would not marry, but would be as 
the angels of God (Matt, xxii, 30; comp. Luke xx, 39). 
So Paul, in 1 Cor. vi, 13, is conceived to intimate that 
the necessity of food for subsistence will be abolished in 
the world to come. 

In further proof of the commonness of a belief in the 
resurrection among the Jew's of the time of Christ, see 
Matt, xxii; Luke xx; John xi, 24; Acts xxiii, 6-8. 


RESURRECTION 


1054 


RESURRECTION 


Josephus is not to be relied upon in the account which 
he gives of the belief of his countrymen (.4 h/. xviii, 2; , 
ii, 7), as he appears to use terms which might 
suggest one thing to his Jewish readers and another to 
the Greeks and Homans, who scouted die idea of a res- 
urrection. It is clearly taught in the Apocryphal books 
of the Old Test. (Wisd. iii, 1. etc.; iv, 15; 2 Mace, vii, 
14, 23. 2‘J, etc.). Many Jews believed that the wicked 
would not be raised from the dead; but the contrary 
was the more prevailing opinion, in which l’aul once 
took occasion to express his concurrence with the Phar- 
isees (Acts xxiv, 15). 

Put although the doctrine of the resurrection was 
thus prevalent among the Jews in the time of Christ, it 
might still have been doubtful and obscure to us had not 
Christ given to it the sanction of his authority, and de- 
clared it a constituent part of his religion (c. g. Matt, 
xxii ; John v, viii, xi). He and his apostles also u f ere 
careful to correct the erroneous notions which the Jews 
entertained on this head, and to make the subject more 
obvious and intelligible than it had ever been before. 
A special interest is also imparted to the subject from 
the manner in w'hich the New Test, represents Christ 
as the person to whom we are indebted for this benefit, 
which, by every variety of argument and illustration, 
the apostles connect with him, and make to rest upon 
him (Acts iv, 2; xxvi, 3; 1 Cor. xv; 1 Thess. iv, 14, 
etc.). 

II. Scripture Details. — The principal points which 
can be collected from the New Test, on this subject are 
the following : 1. The raising of the dead is everywhere 
ascribed to Christ, and is represented as the last, work 
to he undertaken by him for the salvation of man (John 
v, 21; xi, 25; 1 Cor. xv, 22 sq. ; I Thess. iv, 15; Uev. 
i, 18). 2. All the dead will be raised, without respect to 
age, rank, or character in this world (John v, 28, 29; 
Acts xxiv, 15; 1 Cor. xv, 22). 3. This event is to take 

place not before the end of the world, or the general 
judgment (John v, 21; vi, 39, 40; xi, 24; 1 Cor. xv, 
22-28; 1 Thess. iv,.-15; Uev. xx, 11). 4. The manner 

in which this marvellous change shall be accomplished 
is necessarily beyond our present comprehension, and , 
therefore the Scripture is content to illustrate it by lig- 
urative representations, or by proving the possibility and 
intelligibility of the leading facts. Some of the figura- 
tive descriptions occur in Matt, xxiv; John v; 1 Cor. 
xv, 52; 1 Thess. iv, 16; Phil, iii, 21. The image of a 
trumpet-call, which is repeated in some of these texts, 
is derived from the Jewish custom of convening assem- 
blies by sound of trumpet. 5. The possibility of a res- 
urrection is powerfully argued by Paul in l Cor. xv, 32 
sq., by comparing it with events of common occurrence 
in the natural world. (See also ver. 12-14; and comp. 
Acts iv, 2.) — Kitto. 6. The numerous instances of an 
actual raising of individuals to life by our Lord and his 
apostles, not to speak of a few similar acts bv the Old- 
Test. prophets, and especially the crowning fact of our 
lord's resurrection from the grave, ’afford some light on 
these particulars. (See below.) 7. The fact of the 
general judgment (q. v.) is conclusive as to the literal 
truth of this great doctrine. 

But although this body shall he so raised as to pre- 
serve its identity , it must, yet undergo certain purifying 
changes to fit it for the kingdom of heaven, and to ren- 
der it capable of immortality (1 Cor. xv. 35 sq.), so that 
it. shall become a glorified body like that of Christ (ver. 
49; Bom. vi, 9; Phil, iii, 21) ; and the bodies of those 
whom the last day finds alive will undergo a similar 
change without, tasting death (1 Cor. xv, 51, 53; 2 Cor. 
v, 4; 1 Thess. iv, 15 sq.; Phil, iii, 21). 

Ilf. Theories on the Subject. Whether the soul, be- 
tween the death and the resurrection of the present 
body, exists independent of any envelope, we know not. 
Though it may he that a union of spirit with body is 
the general law of all created spiritual life, still this 
view gives no countenance to the notions of those who 
have attempted to prove, from certain physiological 


opinions respecting the renewal —every few years — of 
the human frame during life, and the final transmission 
of its decomposed elements into other forms of being, 
that the resurrection of the body is impossible. The 
apostle asserts the fact that the “dead shall be raised 
incorruptible, and we shall be changed; for this cor- 
ruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must 
put on immortality” (l Cor. xv, 35-53). While this 
passage affirms the identity of the body before and after 
the resurrection, it by no means affirms the identity of 
the constituent particles of which the body is, at differ- 
ent periods, supposed to be made up. The particles of 
a man’s body may change several times between infancy 
and old age; and yet, according to our ideas of bodily 
identity, the man has had all the time “ the same body.” 
So also all the particles may be changed again between 
the process of death and the resurrection, and the body 
yet retain its identity (see the Bibliotheca Sacra, ii, 
613 sq.). Doubtless the future body will be incorrupti- 
ble, infrangible, and capable of being moved at will to 
any part of the universe. The highest and most length- 
ened exercises of thought and feeling will doubtless not 
occasion exhaustion or languor so as to divert in any 
way the intellect and the affections from the engage- 
ments suited to their strength and perfection (see the 
Brit, and For. Kvany. Iter. April, 18621. But that there 
is no analogy — that the new body will have no connec- 
tion with, and no relation to, the old; and that, in fact, 
the resurrection of the body is not a doctrine of Script- 
ure — does not appear to ns to have been satisfactorily 
proved by the latest writer on the subject (Bush, .1 nas- 
tasis, N. Y. 1815); and we think so highly of his inge- 
nuity and talent as to believe that no one else is likely 
to succeed in an argument in which be has failed. 

Among the speculations propounded as a solution of 
the problem of the resurrection, the most ingenious, per- 
haps, as well as fascinating, is the yerm theory, which 
assumes that the soul at death retains a certain ethereal 
investiture, and that this has, by virtue of the vital force, 
the power of accreting to itself a new body for the ce- 
lestial life. This is substantially the Swedenborgian 
view as advocated by the late Prof. Bush, and lias re- 
cently received the powerful support of Mr. Joseph Cook 
in bis popular lectures. It is thought to be counte- 
nanced especially by Paul’s language (1 Cor. xv) con- 
cerning the “spiritual body” of the future state (ver. 44, 
and his ligure of the renewed grain (ver. 37). This ex- 
planation, however, is beset with many insuperable diffi- 
culties. 

(a.) The apostle’s distinction between the psychical 
natural”) and the pneumaticul (irrfvpaTiKor, 
“spiritual”) in that passage is not of material (fvtwcov, 
physical) as opposed to immaterial or disembodied; for 
both are equally called body (<r ibpa, actual and tangible 
substance), such as we know our Lord’s resurrection 
body was composed of (Luke xxiv, 39). It is merely, 
as the whole context shows (“ corruptible— incorrupti- 
ble,” “ mortal — immortal,” etc.), the difference between 
the feeble, decaying body of this life in its present nor- 
mal state, and the glorious, fadeless frame of the future 
world in its transcendent condition hereafter; in short, 
its aspect as known to us here from natural phenomena, 
and its prospect as revealed to us in Scripture. This 
appears from the contrasted use of these terms in an- 
other part of the same epistle (l Cor. ii, 11, 15) to de- 
note the iinregcnerate as opposed to the regenerate 
heart, the former being its usual or depraved, and the 
latter its transformed or gracious, state. 

(5.) In like maimer the apostle’s figure of grain as 
sown, while it admirably illustrates, in a general way, 
the possibility of changes in the natural world as great 
as that which will take place in the resurrection body, 
yet — like all other metaphors — was never intended to 
teach the precise mode of that transformation, and ac- 
cordingly it fails in several essential particulars to cor- 
respond to the revival of the body from the grave. 1. 
The seed never actually dies, nor any part of it. It is 


INSURRECTION 


1055 


RESURRECTION 


the germ alone that possesses vitality, and this simply 
expands and develops, gathering to itself the material 
of the rest of the seed, which undergoes chemical and 
vital changes fitting it for nutriment until the young 
plant attains roots and leaves wherewith to imbibe 
nourishment from the outer world. This whole process 
is as truly a growth as that anywhere found in nature; 
it is, in fact, essentially the same as takes place in the 
hatching of an egg or the gestation of an animal. 2. 
The real identity of the original plant or seed and its 
successor or the crop is lost in this transmutation, as the 
apostle himself intimates (ver. 37). It is, in fact, the re- 
production of another but similar thing rather than the 
continuation or renewal of the same. The old plant, 
indeed, perishes, but it never revives. The seed is its 
offspring, and thus only represents its parent. Nor is 
the new plant anything more than a lineal descendant 
of the old one. We must not confound the resurrection 
with mere propagation. The young plant may, we ad- 
mit, in one sense be said to be identical with the germ 
sown, notwithstanding the great change which it takes 
on in the process of growth; and this is the precise 
point of the apostle’s simile. But we must not press his 
figure into a literal strictness when comparing things so 
radically different as the burial of a corpse and the 
planting of grain. The principle of life is continuous 
in the latter ; but this is not a distinct substance, like 
the soul ; it is merely a property of matter, and in the 
case of the body must cease with physical dissolution. 

(c.) We would ask those who maintain this theory a 
simple question: Is the so-called germ or “enswathe- 
ment” which is supposed to survive, escape, or be elim- 
inated from the body at death — is it matter or is it 
spirit? We presume all will admit that there are but 
these two essential kinds of substance. Which of these, 
then, is it? It must, of course, belong to the former 
category. Then the body does not actually and entirely 
die! But this contradicts all the known phenomena in 
the case. The whole theory under discussion is not 
only a pure begging of the question really at issue, but 
it is improbable and inconsistent. There is absolutely 
not the slightest particle of scientific or historical evi- 
dence that the body leaves a vital residuum in dissolu- 
tion, or evolves at death an ethereal frame that survives 
it in any physical sense whatever as a representation. 
We remand all such hypotheses to the realm of ghost- 
land and “ spiritualism.” 

(tf.) In the case of the resurrection of the body of 
Jesus, which is the type of the general resurrection, and 
the only definite instance on record, it is certain that 
this theory will not apply. Not only is no countenance 
given to it by the language of Holy Scripture concern- 
ing the agency which effected that resuscitation, viz. the 
direct and miraculous power of the Holy Spirit, but the 
circumstances obviously exclude such a process. There 
was the defunct person, entire except that the spark of 
life had fled. If it be said that there still lingered about 
it some vital germ that was the nucleus around which 
reauimation gathered, what is this but to deny that 
Jesus was truly and effectually dead? Then the whole 
doctrine of the atonement is endangered. In plain Eng- 
lish, he was merely in a swoon, as the Rationalists as- 
sert. It may be replied, indeed, that the revivification 
of our Lord’s body, which had not yet decomposed, of 
course differed in some important respects from that of 
the bodies of the saints whose elements will have dis- 
solved to dust. But on the ordinary view' the two agree 
in the essential point, viz. an actual and full return to 
life after total and absolute extinction of it; whereas 
under the theory in question one main element of this 
position is denied. It matters little how long the bo*dy 
has been dead, or to what extent disorganization has 
taken place — whether but a few hours, as in the case of 
the son of the widow of Nain ; or four days, as in that of 
Lazarus; or thousands of years, as in that of the saints — 
at the final judgment. It is equally a resurrection if life 
have utterly left the physical organism, and not otherwise. 


We conclude, therefore, that there is no scriptural, 
consistent, or intelligible view except the one common- 
ly entertained by Christians on this subject, viz. that the 
pure and immaterial soul alone survives the dissolution 
of the body, and that at the last day almighty power 
will clothe this afresh w ith a corporeal frame suitable to 
its enlarged and completely developed faculties, and 
that the identity of the latter will consist, not so much, 
if at all, in the reassemblage of the individual particles 
of which its old partner was composed, much less of 
some subtle and continuous tertium quid that emerged 
from the decaying substance and reconstructs a new 
physical home for itself, but in the similar combination 
of similar matter, similarly united with the same im- 
mortal spirit, and with it glorified by some such in- 
scrutable change as took place in our Saviour’s body at 
the transfiguration, and as still characterized it when 
preternaturallv beheld by Saul on his way to Damascus. 

IV. Literature. — This is very copious (see a list of 
works on the subject in the appendix to Alger’s Doctrine 
of a Future Life , Nos. 2929-3181). We here mention 
only a few of the most important: Knapp, Christian 
Theology , translated by Leonard Woods, D.D., § 1 51-1 53 ; 
Ilodv, On the Resurrection ; Drew, Essay on the Resur- 
rection of the Human Body ; Burnet, State of the Dead ; 
Schott, Dissert, de Resurrect. Corporis , adv. S. Burnetum 
(1763) ; Teller, Fides Dogmat. de Resurr. Carnis (1766) ; 
Mosheim, De Christ. Resurr. Mort., etc., in Dissertatt. ii, 
526 sq. ; Dassov, Diatr. qua Judceor. de Resurr. Mort. 
Sentent. ex Plur. Rabbinis (1675); Neander, AU. Ge- 
schichte, etc., I, iii, 1088, 1096 ; II. iii, 1404-1410; Zehrt, 
Ueber d. Avferstehung d. Todien (1835) ; Hodgson, Res. 
of Hum. Body (Loud. 1853). See Resurrection of 
Christ. 

RESLTRRECTION of Christ. This great fact, by 
which “ he was declared to be the Son of Cod with pow- 
er,” stands out everywhere prominently on the pages of 
the New Test, as the foundation of the Christian faith 
(Rom. i, 2; Acts xiii. 32, 33; 1 Cor. xv, 3-15). Accord- 
ing to the Scriptures the disciples were assured, by the 
testimony of their senses, that the body of Christ, after 
his resurrection, was the same identical body of human 
flesh and bones which had been crucified and laid in the 
sepulchre (Matt, xvi, 21 ; xxvii, 63; xxviii, 5-18; Mark 
xvi, 6-19; Luke Nxiv, 5-51 ; John xx, 9-26; Acts i, 
1-11). Our Lord himself took special pains to make the 
impression upon the minds of his disciples that in his 
crucified body he was actually raised to life. He ap- 
pealed to the testimony of their own senses: “Behold,” 
says he, “my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; 
handle me, and see; for a spirit bath not flesh and 
bones, as ye see me here.” lie showed them his hands 
and his feet, which the nail-prints attested to be the 
same which had hung upon the cross. Our Lord also 
invited Thomas to thrust his hand into his wounded 
side ; and, to remove the last remaining shadow of doubt 
from the minds of his disciples that it was he himself in 
the same human body, “ he called for food, and he took 
and did eat before them” (Luke xxiv, 39-43; John xx, 
27). The fact also that our Lord continued forty days 
upon earth after his resurrection, in the same human 
body in which lie was crucified, shows plainly that he 
did not rise from the tomb in a glorified body. And the 
evidence is equally strong that he now dwells in heaven 
in a glorified body (Phil, iii, 21 ; Col. iii, 4). 

Since this event, however, independently of its im- 
portance in respect to the internal connection of the 
Christian doctrine, was manifestly a miraculous occur- 
rence, the credibility of the narrative has from the ear- 
liest times been brought into question (Celsns, apud 
Origen. cont. Cels. 5, 2; Woolston, Discourses on the Mir- 
acles, disc, vi ; Chubb, Posth. Woi'/cs, i, 330 ; Morgan, 
The Resurrection Considered [1744]). Others who have 
admitted the facts as recorded to be beyond dispute, yet 
have attempted to show that Christ was not really dead, 
but that, being stunned and palsied, he wmre for a time 
the appearance of death, and was afterwards restored to 


RESURRECTION’ 


105G 


RETRIBUTION 


consciousness by the cool grave and the spices. The 
refutation of these views may be seen in detail in such 
works as Less, Ueber die Relifon, ii, 372; id. Auferste- 
hungsgeschichte, nebst Anhang ( 17'J'J) ; Duderlein, Frag- 
mente und A ntifrugmente (1782). The chief advocates 
of these views are Paulus ( Hist . Resurrect, .its. [1795]), 
and, more recently, llcnncberg ( Philo/..- histor.-krit , 
Comment a r iib. d. tiesch. d. Begrdbn., d. .1 uferstehung u. 
I/imme/fahrt Jesu [1826]). “If the body of Jesus 
Christ,” says Sauriii, “ were not. raised from the dead, it 
must have been stolen away. Hut this theft is incredi- 
ble. Who committed it? The enemies of Jesus Christ? 
Would they have contributed to his glory bv counte- 
nancing a report of his resurrection? Would his disci- 
ples? It is probable they would not, and it is next to 
certain they could not. IIow could they have under- 
taken to remove the body — frail and timorous creat- 
ures, people who fled as soon as they saw him taken into 
custody ? Even Peter, the most courageous, trembled at 
the voice of a servant-girl, and three times denied that 
he knew him. Would people of this character have 
dared to resist the authority of the governor? Would 
they have undertaken to oppose the determination of 
the Sanhedrim, to force a guard, and to elude, or over- 
come soldiers armed and aware of danger? If Jesus 
Christ was not risen again (I speak the language of un- 
believers), he had deceived his disciples with vain hopes 
of his resurrection. I low came the disciples not to dis- 
cover the imposture? Would they have hazarded them- 
selves by undertaking an enterprise so perilous in favor 
of a man who had so cruelly imposed on their credulity? 
Hut were we to grant that they formed the design of 
removing the body, how could they have executed it? 
How could soldiers, armed and on guard, suffer them- | 
selves to be overreached by a few timorous people? 
Either (says St. Augustine) they were asleep or awake; 
if they were awake, why should they suffer the body to 
be taken away? If asleep, how could they know that 
the disciples took it away? IIow dare they then de- 
pose that it was stolen?” 

The testimony of the apostles furnishes us with argu- 
ments, and there are eight considerations which give 
the evidence suflieient weight. 1. The nature of these 
witnesses. They were not men of power, riches, elo- 
quence, credit, to impose upon the world; they were 
poor and mean. 2. The number of these witnesses. (See 
1 Cor. xv; Luke xxiv, 31 : Mark xvi, 14; Matt, xxviii, 
10.) It is not likely that a collusion should have been 
held among so many to support a lie, which would be 
of no utility to them. 3. The facts themselves which 
they avow : not suppositions, distant events, or events 
related by others, but real facts which they saw with 
their own eyes (1 John i). 4. The agreement of their 
evidence : they all deposed the same thing. 5. Observe 
the tribunals before which they gave evidence: Jews 
and heathens, philosophers and rabbins, courtiers and 
lawyers. If they had been impostors, the fraud certainly 
would have been discovered. G. The place in which 
they bore their testimony. Xot at a distance, where 
they might not easily have been detected, if false, but 
at Jerusalem, in the synagogues, in the pnetorium. 7. 
The time of this testimony: not years after, but three 
days after, tiny declared he was risen ; yea, before the 
rage of the Jews was quelled, while Calvary was yet 
dyed with the blood they had spilled. If it had been a 
lraud, it is not likely they would have come forward in 
such broad daylight, amid so much opposition. 8. Last- 
ly, the motives which induced tlieip to publish the res- 
urrection: not to gain fame, riches, glory, profit; no, they 
exposedthemselvesto suffering and death, and proclaimed 
the truth from conviction of its importance ami certaintv. 

Objections have also been raised upon the apparent 
discrepancies of the Gospel narratives of the event. 
These discrepancies were early perceived; and a view 
of what the fathers have done in the attempt to recon- 
cile them has been given by Xicmeyer {he Ecangclista- 
rum in A arrundo Christ i in 1 it uni Reditu Disseusione 


[1824]). They were first collocated with much acute- 
ness by Morgan in the work already cited, and at a later 
date by an anonymous writer, whose fragments were 
edited and supported by Lessing, the object of w'hich 
seems to have been to throw uncertainty and doubt over 
the whole of this portion of Gospel history. A numer- 
ous host of theologians, however, rose to combat and re- 
fute this writer's positions, among whom we find the 
names of Duderlein, Less, Sender, Teller, Maschius, Mi- 
chaelis, Plessing, Eichhorn, Herder, and others. Among 
J those who have more recently attempted to reconcile 
the different accounts is Griesbach, who, in his excellent 
Prolusio de Font ib us unde Evangelists suns de Resurrec- 
tione Domini Xarrationes huuserint (1793), remarks that 
all the discrepancies are trifling, and not of such mo- 
ment as to render the narrative uncertain and suspect- 
ed, or to destroy or even diminish the credibility of the 
evangelists, but serve rather to show how extremely 
studious they were of truth, “and how closely and even 
scrupulously they followed their documents.” Griesbach 
then attempts to show how these discrepancies may 
have arisen, and admits that, although unimportant, 

' they are hard to reconcile, as is indeed evinced by the 
amount of controversy they have excited. The princi- 
pal one of these discrepancies has been discussed under 
Appearance. 

For works on the general subject, besides those re- 
ferred to under the preceding article, see Malcolm, Theo- 
logical Index, s. v.; Darling, Cgdop. Bibliog. (see Index); 
and for monographs on the various points connected 
w ith onr Lord’s resurrection, see those cited by Yolbe- 
ding, Index Programmatum, p. 07 sq. ; and by Ilase, Le- 
ben Jesu, p. 1G0, 221, 225, 227, 230; also the following: 
Clausenitz, l)e Mortuorum Tempore Resurrect, et Chr. 
Resurrectione (Hal. 1741); Kunadius, De Sanctis Redi- 
vivis (Viteb. 1065); Ilobichhont, De Sanctis Resurgente 
Christo Resurgentibus (It os. 1G9G) ; Scluirzraann, De A n- 
astasi A theniensibus pro Dea Habita (Lips. 1708). Xu- 
merous articles on the subject are to be found in religious 
periodicals, among which, as the latest, we name Jount. 
Sac. Lit. Jan. 1853, Oct. 1854; Studien w. Kritiken, 1870, 
i; Zeitsc.hr. f. u'issenchaftl, Theol. 1863; Theol. and Lit. 
j Journal, Oct. 1857, Oct. 1858; Lond. Bib. Rev. April, 
1849; Brit, and For. Ev. Rev. April, 1862; Jiibl. Sacra, 

I June, 1852. Oct. 1860, Oct, 1869; Xeiv-Englander, May, 

: 1857 ; Meth. Qvar. Rev. Oct. 1873, Oct. 1877 ; Christian 
; Qitar. April, 1876; A mer. Presb. and Theol. Rev. July 
! and Oct. 1867 ; South. Presb. Rev. Oct. 1860; Mercersb. 
Rev. April, 1861 ; Danville Rev. March, 1863; Universal - 
ist Quar. April and Oct. 1861. See Jesus Christ. 

Reticulated Work (Lat .opus reticul atum-net- 
work), masonry const ructed w i th diamond-shaped stones, 
or square stones placed diagonally. In the city of 
Home this mode of decorating the surface of a wall is 
generally characteristic of the period of the early em- 
pire; it was frequently imitated in Hornaiicsque work 
in the tympanum of a door-way, especially in Xormau 
work. — Parker, Gloss, of A rchitect. s. v. 

Retribution, Future. That man is a responsible 
being, and that bis responsibility extends into his future 
state of existence, is generally admitted throughout the 
world. The denial of all punishment in a future state, 
rests chiefly upon the two unscriptural and contradicto- 
ry dogmas — the immaculate spirituality and the mortal 
materialism of the human soul. The position believed 
to be taught in the Scriptures is this, that all sinners who 
do not repent and take refuge in the Saviour in the pres- 
ent life shall in the future state suffer everlasting punish- 
ment, as the necessary and just retribution of their sins. 
Tliffi doctrine, however awful it must be acknowledged 
by all to be, appears to be taught in the Scriptures, ami 
has been held by very large portions of the Church in all 
ages. We shall not, however, depend upon this fact as 
a proof, though it affords what logicians call a violent 
presumption, that it was an original part of Christianity. 
We present the following as Scripture proof, and urge, 


liETTBEUG 


1057 


KELT 


1. Those passages which declare that certain sinners 
shall not enter tlie kingdom of heaven (Matt, v, 20 ; vii, 

13, 21-23; xviii, 3; Mark x, 23-27 ; Luke xiii, 24, 2G; 
John iii, 3-5; 1 Cor. vi, 9, 10; Gal. v, 19-21; Eph. v, 
5; Heb. iii, 19; iv, 1, 13). If some men, according to 
the language of these Scriptures, are to be excluded 
from heaven, they must necessarily sink to hell ; for 
the Scriptures give us no intimation of a middle 
state. 

2. Those passages of Scripture which describe the fut- 
ure and final state of men in contrast (Psa. xvii, 14, 15; 
Prov. x, 28; xiv, 35; Dan. xii, 2; Matt, iii, 12; vii, 13, 

14, 21; viii, 11, 12; xiii, 30-43, 47-50; xxiv, 4G-51; 
xxv, 23^46; Mark xvi, 1G; Luke vi, 23, 24, 47-49; John 
iii, 1G; v, 29; Pom. vi, 21-23; ix, 21-23; Gal. vi, 7, 8; 
Phil, iii, 17-21 ; 2 Thess. i, 5-12 ; 2 Tim. ii, 19, 20; Heb. 
vi, 8, 9; 1 Pet. iv, 18). These passages are believed 
to refer to the final state of man because — (1) in sev- 
eral of them the state is expressly called their end. (2) 
The state of the righteous and that of the wicked are 
put in exact opposition to each other; and if one is not 
final, neither is the other. (3) There is a dead silence 
about any succeeding state; and (4) the phraseology of 
some of the passages will admit of no other interpreta- 
tion. 

3. Those passages of Scripture which apply the terms 
“everlasting,” “eternal,” ‘'forever,” and “for ever and 
ever” to this future state (Dan. xii, 2; Matt, xviii, 8; 
xxv, 41-4G; Mark iii, 29; 2 Cor. iv, 18; 2 Thess. i, 9; 
2 Peter ii, 17 ; Jude G, 7, 13 ; Kev. xiv, 10-12 ; xix, 3 ; 
xx, 10). 

4. Those passages which express future punishment 
by phrases which imply its everlasting duration (Matt, 
x, 28; xii, 31, 32; Mark iii, 39; ix, 43-48; Luke ix, 
25; xiv,2G; John iii,3G; viii, 21; xvii, 9; Phil. iii, 10; 
Heb. vi, 2; x, 26, 27 ; James ii, 13; 1 John v, 1G). 

5. Those passages which intimate that a change of 
heart and a preparation for heaven are confined to this 
life (Prov. i, 24-28 ; Isa. Iv, G, 7 ; Matt, xxv, 5-13 ; Luke 
xiii, 24-29 ; John xii, 3G ; 2 Cor. vi, 1, 2; lleb. iii, 1 -10; 
xiii, 15-22; Rev. xxii, 11). 

6. Those passages which foretell the consequences of 
rejecting the Gospel (Psa. ii, 12; Prov. xxix, 1; Acts 
xiii, 40-4G; xx, 26; xxviii, 2G, 27 ; Rom. x, 12; 1 Cor. 
i, 18; 2 Cor. ii, 15, 1G; iv, 3; 1 Thess. v, 3; 2 Thess. i, 
8; ii, 10-12; Heb. ii, 1-3; iv, 1-11; x, 2G-31, 38, 39; 
xxii, 25-29; James ii, 14; 1 Pet. iv, 17, 18; 2 Pet. ii, 
1-21 ; iii, 7). The Gospel being the only way of salva- 
tion for man (Acts iv, 12), its rejection is that of the 
only method of salvation. See Punishment, Ever- 
lasting; Uxiversalism. 

Rettberg, Friedrich Wiliielm, a German theo- 
logian, was born at Celle, Aug. 21, 1805. After teaching 
in several small institutions, he became professor of the- 
ology at Marburg, where he died, April 7, 1849. His 
works are, De Parabolis Jesu Chrisii (Gottingen, 1827) : 
— Cyprianus nach seinem Leben und Wirken (ibid. 1831) : 
— Heilslehren des Christ ent hums nach den Grundsdtzen 
der lutherischen Kirche (Leips. 1838) — Kirchengeschichte 
Deutschlands (Gottingen, 1846-48). — lloefer. Xouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Retz, Henri de Gondi de, a French prelate, was 
born at Paris in 1572. He was canon of Notre Dame, 
and held many rich abbeys. In 159G he became coad- 
jutor of his uncle, cardinal Pierre de Gondi, bishop of 
Paris, with the promise of succeeding to his title. He 
received the cardinal’s hat in 1G18, and, as cardinal de 
Retz, took part in the affairs of State. He published one 
work, Ordonnances Synodales. He was the last bishop 
of Paris. His death occurred at Beziers, Aug. 2, 1622. 
— lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Retz, Jean Francois Paul de Gondi, Cardi- 
nal de, often written Bais, a French prelate, w'as horn at 
Montmirail in Oct. 1G14. By birth he was a Knight 
of Malta, and w’as destined by his father for the Church, 
in the hope that he might succeed bis uncle as arch- 
Vi 11.— X x x 


bishop of Paris. The ecclesiastical life was wholly dis- 
tasteful to him, and his earlier years were spent in prodi- 
gality and excesses of all kinds; but, at the same time, 
he prosecuted his theological studies with great success, 
and received valuable benefices. He was made canon 
of Notre Dame in 1627, and adopted the title of abbe de 
Retz. His ambition and hardihood gained for him the 
friendship of the count de Soissons, and by the conspir- 
acy planned by that nobleman he hoped to be released 
from his ecclesiastical life and enter upon a political 
one, which was more congenial to his intriguing nat- 
ure. After the death of the count, he devoted him- 
self with more regularity to his profession, and succeed- 
ed in gaining so great a popularity that Louis XIII, 
on his death-bed, appointed him coadjutor to his uncle, 
the bishop of Paris. In this position he gained the 
hearts of the people by his charities and great atten- 
tion to all the outward requirements of religion. Dur- 
ing the wars of the Fronde he rendered valuable assist- 
ance to the royal cause ; but finding that he was dis- 
trusted, he finally became the secret leader of the popu- 
lar party, and the greatest opponent of cardinal Mazarin. 
He was made cardinal in 1G52, and received tempting 
offers of a position as ambassador of France to the Holy 
See; but before he had decided to accept this proposi- 
tion, he was arrested by order of Louis XIV, and was 
kept closely confined at Vincennes. On the death of 
his uncle, March 21, 1654, his friends took possession of 
the archbishopric in his name. By resigning his claims, 
he succeeded in gaining a change of residence, and was 
removed to the Chateau of Nantes. He escaped from 
his confinement Ang. 8, 1G54, and after many adventures 
reached Spain, Philip IV offered him an escort, and 
he immediately hastened to Rome, where he declared 
himself archbishop of Paris, the pope having refused to 
acknowledge his resignation. Retz subsequently trav- 
elled through Europe; and having been prohibited by 
Louis XIV from occupying his archbishopric in person, 
he governed it bj’ vicars and subordinates until IG62, 
when he formally resigned all claim to it in considera- 
tion of receiving other valuable benefices. He was rec- 
onciled to the king, and received permission to establish 
himself at Com mercy, where he kept up a petty state, 
and occupied himself in study and works of charity. 
He died at Paris, Aug. 24, 1G79. His writings are chief- 
ly political, and as such are not of interest here. But 
his greatest work is his Memoires, composed during his 
years of retirement. They were first published in 1717, 
and have been translated into several foreign languages. 
See Memoires du Cardinal de Retz; Lettres de Madame 
I de Sevigne ; Voltaire, Siecle de Louis XIV. — lloefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Genei’ule, s. v. 

Retz, Pierre de Gondi de, a French cardinal, was 
born at Lyons in 1533. After entering the ecclesiasti- 
cal life, he received many favors from Catherine de’ Me- 
dici, and advanced rapidly. Fie was made bishop of 
Langres in 15G5,and was transferred to the see of Paris 
in 1570, and became grand -almoner, chancellor, and 
chief of the council of Charles IX. He was several 
times ambassador to the Holy See, and in 1587 was cre- 
ated cardinal. He refused to take the oath of allegiance, 
and explained his reasons in a letter, to which the writ- 
ers of the League replied with passion. In 1592 he was 
sent by Henry IV on an embassy to the pope. He died 
Feb. 17, 1G 16. Retz ivas an honest but parsimonious 
man, and possessed little genuine talent. — Biog. Uni- 
verselle, s. v. 

Re'ii (Heb. Reii', *1 V*}, friend; Sept. 'Pay«5 v. r. 
'Payai', 1 Chron. i, 25), the son of Peleg and father of 
Serug in the Abrahamic ancestry (Gen. xi, 18, 21 ; 1 
Chron. i, 25). B.C. cir. 1950. He is called Ragau in 
Luke iii, 35. He lived 239 years. “ Bunsen ( Bibelwerk ) 
says Reu \sRoha, the Arabic name for Edessa, an asser- 
! tion which, borrowed from Knobel, is utterly destitute 
I of foundation, as will be seen at once on comparing the 
! Hebrew and Arabic words. A closer resemblance might 


REUBEN 


1058 


REUBEN 


be found between Ken and Rita grp, a large town of Me- ' 
dia, especially if the Greek equivalents of the two names 
be taken” (Smith). 

Reu'beil (ITcb. Reuben', -w a non [see be- 

low J; Sept, and New Test. 1 'oe/lz/r), the name of one 
of the Jewish patriarchs and of the tribe descended from 
him. (In the following account we make use in part of 
the article in Smith's Diet, of the liible, s. v.) Sec Jacob. 

1. Reuben was Jacob’s lirst-born child (Gen. xxix, 
32), the son of Leah, apparently an unexpected fruit of 
the marriage (vcr. 31; Josephus, A nt. i, 10, 8). I5.C. 

1010. This is perhaps denoted by the name itself, 
whether we adopt the obvious signification ot its pres- 
ent form — 1 ‘tu’ben, i. e. “behold ye, a son!” ( Gesen. 
Thesunr . p. 1247 b) — or the explanation given in the 
text, which seems to imply that the original form was 
“'Xl, rail b&onyi , “Jehovah hath seen my afflic- 
tion , ,” or that of Josephus, who uniformly presents it as 
Roubel ('Pon/3?/\or, so also in Ant, ii, 3, 1), and explains 
it (.In/, i, 10, 8) as the “pity of God” — i\tov rov Dtoe, 
as it from "*X“ (Fiirst, Ileb. Lex. p. 12G9). The 
Peshito ( Rubii ) and the Arabic version ol Joshua agree 
with this last form. Redslob (Die alt test amentl. Xamen , 
p. 86) maintains that Rcubel is the original form of the 
name, which was corrupted into Reuben, as Bethel into 
the modern Iioitin, and Jezrcel into Zcrin. lie treats 
it as signifying the “flock of Ret,” a deity whose wor- 
ship greatly flourished in the neighboring country of 
JNloab, and who under the name of Nebo had a famous 
sanctuary in the very territory of Reuben. In this case 
it would be a parallel to the title, “ people of Chemosh,” 
which is bestowed on Moab. The alteration of the ob- 
noxious syllable in Ren6(7 would, on this theory, find a 
parallel in the Mcrib&a«( and Eshir/oJ of Saul’s family, 
who became Mephi&os/ie/A and \A\bosheth. But all this 
is evidently fanciful and arbitrary. 

The notices of the patriarch Reuben in the book of 
Genesis and the early Jewish traditional literature are 
unusually frequent, and on the whole give a favorable 
vie>v of his disposition. To him, and him alone, the 
preservation ot Joseph’s life appears to have been due. 
B.C. 1895. Ilis anguish at the disappearance of his 
brother, and the frustration ot his kindly artifice for de- 
livering him (Gen. xxxvii, 22); his recollection ol the 
minute details ol the painful scene many years after- 
wards (xlii, 22); his offer to take the sole responsibility 
of the safety ol the brother who had succeeded to Jo- 
seph’s place in the family (vcr. 87), all testify to a warm 
and (for those rough times) a kindly nature. We are, 
however, to remember that he, as the eldest son, was 
more responsible lor the salctv of Joseph than were the 
others, and it would seem that he eventually acqui- 
esced in the deception practiced upon his father. .Sub- 
sequently Reuben offered to make the lives ol his own 
sons responsible for that of Benjamin, when it was neces- 
sary to prevail on Jacob to let him go down to Egy'pt 
(vers. 37, 38). The fine conduct ot Judah in afterwards 
undertaking the same responsibility is in advantageous 
contrast with this coarse, although well -meant, pro- 
posal. For his adulterous and incestuous conduct in 
the matter of Bilhah, Jacob in his last blessing deprived 
him of the pre-eminence and double portion which be- 
longed to his birthright, assigning the former to Judah 
and the latter to Joseph (xlix, 3, 4; comp. vers. 8-10; 
xlviii, 5). Of this repulsive crime we know' from the 
Scriptures only the fact (xxxv, 22). In the post- Bibli- 
cal traditions it is treated either as not having actually 
occurred (as in the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan), or else 
as the result ol a sudden temptation acting on a hot and 
vigorous nature (as in the Testament of the Twelve 
Patriarchs) — a parallel, in some ol its circumstances, to 
the intrigue of David with Bathsheba. Some severe 
temptation there must surely have been to impel Reu- 
ben to an act which, regarded in its social rather than 
in its moral aspect, would be peculiarly abhorrent to a 


patriarchal society, and which is specially and repeat- 
edly reprobated in the law’ of Moses. The Rabbinical 
version of the occurrence (as given in the Targum 
Pseudo-Jonathan) is very characteristic, and well illus- 
trates the difference between the spirit of early and of 
late Jewish history. “Reuben went and disordered 
the couch of Bilhah, his father’s concubine, which was 
placed right opposite the couch of Leah, and it was 
counted unto him as if he had lain with her. And 
when Israel heard it, it displeased him, and he said, Lo! 
an unworthy person shall proceed from me, as Ishmael 
did from Abraham, and Esau from my father. Ami the 
Holy Spirit answered him and said, All are righteous, 
and there is not one unworthy among them.” Reuben’s 
anxiety to save Joseph is represented as arising from a 
desire to conciliate Jacob, and his absence while Joseph 
was sold, from his sitting alone on the mountains in 
penitent fasting. ’These traits, slight as they are, are 
those of an ardent, impetuous, unbalanced, hut not un- 
generous, nature; not crafty and cruel, as were Simeon 
and Levi, but rather, to use the metaphor of the dying 
patriarch, boiling up (T52, A.V. “unstable,” Gen. xlix, 
4) like a vessel of water over the rapid wood-lire of the 
nomad tent, and as quickly subsiding into apathy when 
the fuel was withdrawn. 

2 . The Tribe of Reuben. — At the time of the migra- 
tion into Egypt (or rather at the time of Jacob’s de- 
cease), Reuben’s sons were four (Gen. xlvi, 9; 1 Chron, 
v. 3). From them sprang the chief families of the tribe 
(Numb, xxvi, 5-11). One of these families — that of 
Pallu — became notorious as producing Eliab, whose sons 
or descendants, Dathan and Abiram, perished with their 
kinsman On in the divine retribution for their conspira- 
cy against Moses (xvi, 1 ; xxvi, 8 -11). The census at 
Mount Sinai (i, 20, 21 : ii, 1 1) shows that at the Exodus 
the numbers of the tribe were 40,500 men above twenty 
years of age, and fit for active warlike service. In point 
of numerical strength, Reuben was then sixth on the 
list, Gad, with 45,050 men, being next below'. On the 
borders of Canaan, after the plague which punished the 
idolatry of Baal-peor, the numbers had fallen slightly', 
and were 43,730; Gad w r as 40,500; and the. position of 
the two in the list is lower than before, Ephraim and 
Simeon being the only two smaller tribes (xxvi, 7, etc.). 
During the journey through the wilderness the position 
of Reuben was on the south side of the Tabernacle. 'The 
“camp” which went under his name was formed of his 
own tribe, that of Simeon (Leah’s second son), and that 
ol Gad (son of Zilpah, Leah’s slave). The standard of 
the camp was a deer with the inscription, “ Hear, <) Is- 
rael ! the Lord tin’ God is one Lord!” and its place in the 
march was second (Targum I’seudo-J onatlian [Numb, ii, 
10 - 10 ]). 

The Keubenites, like their relatives and neighbors on 
the journey', the Gadites, had maintained through the 
march to Canaan the ancient calling of their forefathers. 
The patriarchs were “feeding their flocks” at Shechem 
when Joseph was sold into Egypt. It was as men whose 
“trade hud been about cattle from their youth” that 
they were presented to Fharaoh (Gen. xlvi, 32,344, and 
in the land of Goshen they settled “with their flocks 
and herds and all that they' had” (ver. 32; xlvii, 1). 
Their cattle accompanied them in their flight from 
Egypt (Exod. xii, 38); not a hoof was left behind ; and 
there are frequent allusions to them on the journey 
(xxxiv, 3; Numb. xi. 22; Dent, viii, 13. etc.). But it 
would appear that the tribes who were destined to settle, 
in the confined territory' between the Mediterranean and 
the Jordan had, during the journey' through the wilder- 
ness, fortunately relinquished that taste for the posses- 
sion of cattle which they could not have maintained af- 
ter their settlement at a distance from the wide pastures 
of the wilderness. Thus the cattle had come into the 
hands of Reuben, Gad, and the half of Manasseh (Numb, 
xxxii, 1), and it followed naturally that when the na- 


REUBEN 


1059 


REUBEN 


tion arrived on the open downs east of the Jordan, the 
three tribes just named should prefer a request to their 
leader to be allowed to remain in a place so perfect!;’ 
suited to their requirements. The country east of Jor- 
dan does not appear to have been included in the origi- 
nal land promised to Abraham. That which the spies 
examined was comprised, on the east and west, between 
the “coast of Jordan” and “the sea.” But for the pu- 
sillanimity of the greater number of the tribes it would 
have been entered from the south (xiii, 30), and in that 
case the east of Jordan might never have been peopled 
by Israel at all. Accordingly, when the Reubenites and 
their fellows approach Moses with tlicir request, his 
main objection is that by what they propose they will 
discourage the hearts of the children of Israel from 
going over Jordan into the land which Jehovah had 
given them (xxxii, 7). It is only on their undertaking 
to fulfil their part in the conquest of the western coun- 
try, the land of Canaan proper, and thus satisfying him 
that their proposal was grounded in no selfish desire to 
escape a full share of the difficulties of the conquest, that 
Moses will consent to their proposal. 

The “ blessing” of Reuben by the departing lawgiver 
is a passage which has severely exercised translators and 
commentators. Strictly translated as they stand in the 
received Hebrew text, the words are as follows: 

“Let Reuben live, and not die, 

And let his meu be a [small] unmber.” 

As to the first line there appears to be no doubt, but the 
second line has been interpreted in two exactly opposite 
ways. 1. By the Sept., 

“And let his meu be many in number.” 

This has the disadvantage that “ISC’S is never em- 
ployed elsewhere for a large number, but always for a 
small one (e. g. I Chron. xvi, 19; Job xvi, 22; Isa. x, 
19; Ezek. xii, 16). 2. That of our own A. V., 

“And let not his men be few.” 

Here the negative of the first line is presumed to convey 
its force to the second, though not there expressed. This 
is countenanced by the ancient Syriac version (Pesbito) 
and the translations of Junius and Tremellius, and Schott 
and Winzer. It also has the important support of Ge- 
senius ( Thesaur . p. 968 a, and Pent. Sam. p. 44). It is, 
however, a very violent rendering. 3. A third and very 
ingenious interpretation is that adopted by the Veneto- 
Greek version, and also by Michaelis ( Bibel fur Unge- 
lehrten, Text), which assumes that the vowel-points of 
the word Tnp, “his men,” should be altered to IT^, 
“ his dead” — 

“And let his dead be few” — 

as if in allusion to some recent mortality in the tribe, 
such as that in Simeon after the plague of Baal-peor. 
These interpretations, unless the last should prove to 
be the original reading, originate in the fact that the 
words in their naked sense convey a curse, and not a 
blessing. Fortunately, though differing widely in de- 
tail, they agree in general meaning. The benediction 
of the great leader goes out over the tribe which was 
about to separate itself from its brethren, in a fervent 
aspiration for its welfare through all the risks of that 
remote and trying situation. Both in this and the 
earlier blessing of Jacob, Reuben retains his place at 
the head of the family, and it must not be overlooked 
that the tribe, together with the two who associated 
themselves with it, actually received its inheritance be- 
fore either Judah or Ephraim, to whom the birthright 
which Reuben had forfeited was transferred (1 Chron. 

v, 1). 

From this time it seems as if a bar, not only the ma- 
terial one of distance, and of the intervening river and 
mountain-wall, but also of difference in feeling and hab- 
its, gradually grew up more substantially between the 
Eastern and Western tribes. The first act of the for- 
mer after the completion of the conquest, and after they 


had taken part in the solemn ceremonial in the valley 
between Ebal and Gerizim, shows how wide a gap al- 
ready existed between their ideas and those of the 
Western tribes. The pile of stones v’hich they erected 
on the western bank of the Jordan to mark their boun- 
dary — to testify to after-ages that, though separated by 
the rushing river from their brethren and the country 
in which Jehovah had fixed the place where he would 
be worshipped, they had still a right to return to it for 
his worship — was erected in accordance with the unal- 
terable habits of Bedouin tribes both before and 'since. 
It was an act identical with that in which Laban and 
Jacob engaged at parting, with that which is constant- 
ly performed by the Bedouin of the present day. But 
by the Israelites west of Jordan, who were fast relin- 
quishing their nomad habits and feelings for those of 
more settled permanent life, this act was completely 
misunderstood, and was construed into an attempt to 
set up a rival altar to that of the sacred tent. The in- 
compatibility of the idea to the mind of the Western 
Israelites is shown by the fact that, notwithstanding 
the disclaimer of the two and a half tribes, and not- 
withstanding that disclaimer having proved satisfac- 
tory even to Phinehas, the author of Joshua xxii re- 
tains the name mizbeach for the pile, a word which in- 
volves the idea of sacrifice— i. e. of slaughter (see Ge- 
senius, Thesaur. p. 402)— instead of applying to it the 
term gal, as is done in the case (Gen. xxxi, 46) of the 
precisely similar “heap of witness.” Another Beuben- 
itish erection, which long kept up the memory of the 
presence of the tribe on the west of Jordan, was the 
stone of Bohan ben-Reuben which formed a landmark 
on the boundary between Judah and Benjamin (Josh, 
xv, 6). This was a single stone (Eben), not a pile, and 
it appears to have stood somewhere on the road from 
Bethany to Jericho, not far from the ruined khan so 
well known to travellers. 

The doom, “ Thou shalt not excel,” was exactly ful- 
filled in the destinies of the tribe descended from Reu- 
ben, which makes no figure in the Hebrew history, and 
never produced any eminent person. No judge, no 
prophet, no hero of the tribe of Reuben is handed down 
to ns, unless it be “Adina the Reubenite, a captain of 
the Reubenites, and thirty with him”(l Chron. xi, 42). 
In the dire extremity of their brethren in the north 
under Deborah and Barak, they contented themselves 
with debating the news among the streams (335) of 
the Mishor. The distant distress of his brethren could 
not move Reuben : he lingered among his sheepfolds, 
and preferred the shepherd’s pipe and the bleating of 
the flocks to the clamor of the trumpet and the turmoil 
of battle. His individuality fades more rapidly than 
Gad’s. The eleven valiant Gadites who swam the Jor- 
dan at its highest, to join the son of Jesse in his trouble 
(1 Chron. xii, 8-15); Barzillai ; Elijah the Gileadite; 
the siege of Ramoth-gilead, with its picturesque inci- 
dents — all give a substantial reality to the tribe and 
country of Gad. But no person, no incident, is recorded 
to place Reuben before ns in any distincter form than as 
a member of the community (if community it can be 
called) of “ the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half- 
tribe of Manasseh” (ver. 37). The very towns of his 
inheritance — Heshbon, Aroer, Kirjathaim, Dibon, Baal- 
meon, Sibmah, Jazer — are familiar to us as Moabitish, 
and not as Israelitish, towns. The city life so charac- 
teristic of Moabitish civilization had no hold on the 
Reubenites. They are most in their element when en- 
gaged in continual broils with the children of the des- 
ert, the Bedouin tribes of Hagar, Jetur, Ncphish, No- 
dab; driving off their myriads of cattle, asses, cam- 
els; dwelling in their tents, as if to the manner born 
(v, 10), gradually spreading over the vast wilderness 
which extends from Jordan to the Euphrates (ver. 9), 
and every day receding further and further from any 
community of feeling or of interest with the Western 
tribes. See Moab. Thus remote from the central seat 


REUBEX 


1060 


REBEL 


of the national government and of the national religion, 
it is not to be wondered at that Reuben relinquished 
the faith of Jehovah. ‘‘They went after the gods of 
the people of the land whom God destroyed before 
them,” and we hear little more of them till the time of 
llazael, king of Syria, who ravaged and for a time held 
possession of their country (2 Kings x, 33). The last 
historical notice which we possess of them, while it re- 
cords this fact, records also as its natural consequence, 
that the lleubenites and (Indites and the half-tribe of 
Manassch were carried off by Pul and Tiglath-pilcscr, 
and placed in the districts on and about the river Kha- 
bfir, in the upper part of Mesopotamia— “ in Ilalah, and 
I labor, and llara, and the river tiozan” (I Citron, v, 20). 


The following is a list of all the ISiblical localities in 


the tribe of Reuben, with their probable identifications. 

For the boundaries, see Tkibe. 


Abarim. 

Mountains. 

FA- Delta. 

Almon-diblnthaim. 

Town. 

(N. of Dhiban]? 

Arnon. 

River. 

Mojeb. 

Aroer. 

Town. 

A rair. 

Aslidoth-pisgah. 

Brooks. 

See Ptso ait. 

A tarot h. 

Town. 

A tarns. 

Baalmeon. 

do. 

Main. 

Bajith. 

do. 

See Baai.-meon. 

Bamoth (-baal). 

f Ilill (— Mis- 
( gab ?)• 

| [Jebel 11 ume h] ? 

Beer (-eliin). 

Well. 

[On Seil lladan}? 

Beon. 

Towu. 

See Baai.-meon. 

Betb-baal-ineon. 

do. 

See Baai.-meon. 

Rcth-diblathnitn. 

do. 

See Ai.Mox-mm.ATUAiM. 

Betli-jcsliimoth. 

do. 

Beit-Jismuth T 

Reth-meon. 

do. 

See Baai.-meon. 

Beth-peor. 

Temple. 

[N. W. of Ilesban]? 

Bezer. 

Towu. 

[Bn razin'] ? 

Diboii [orDimonl. 

do. 

Dhiban. 

Elealch. 

do. 

FI- A l. 

Jleshbon. 

do. 

llesban. 

Jahaz. 

do. 

[Khan es-Shib] ? 

Kedemoth. 

do. 

[Ed-Dnkilat]'! 

Kirjathaim. 

do. 

Kureyat ? 

Lash a. 

do. 

See CALununoE. 

Mattanah. 

do. 

[In plain Ard Ramadan]? 

Medeba. 

do. 

Medaba. 

Mephaath. 

do. 

[ Em el - Weled] ? 

Minnith. 

do. 

Minyah . 

Misgab. 

do. 

See B a moth. 

Nahalicl. 

do. 

[N. of Wady Malcb]? 

Nebo. 

Mount. 

Jebel Xeba. 

Nophata. 

Town. 

[ El- Hubei s] ? 

Pisgah. 

Mount. 

Sec Nebo. 

SheJienyShebman, ] 
or Sibmah. ) 

j Towu. 

f Es-Sameh] ? 

Zareth-sliahar. 

do. 

Zara ? 

Zophini. 

Field. 

[IMaiu of Medeba] ? 


The country allotted to the Reubenitos extended on 
the south to the river Arnon, which divided it from the 
Moabites (Josh, xiii, 8, 10); on the east it. touched the 
desert of Arabia; on the west were the Dead Sea and 
the Jordan. The northern border was probably marked 
by a line running eastward from the Jordan through 
AVady II csban (vers. 17-21 ; Numb, xxxii, 37,38). This 
country had originally been conquered and occupied by 
the Moabites; but they were driven out a short time 



Map of the Tribe of Reuben. 


1 before the Exodus by Sihon, king of the Amorites, who 
was in his turn expelled by the Israelites (Deut. ii; 
Numb, xxi, 22-31). Immediately after the captivity 
the Moabites again returned to their old country and 
occupied their old cities. This is the reason why, in 
the later prophets, many of the cities of Reuben are em- 
braced in the curses pronounced upon Moab (Jer. xlviii). 
The territory was divided into sections — the western 
declivities towards the Dead Sea and the Jordan valley, 
which were steep, rugged, and bare, with the little sec- 
tion of the lower plain of Jordan (called in Scripture 
“the plains of Moab” [Numb. xxii. 1]) at their base; 
and the high table-land stretching from the summit of 
the ridge away towards Arabia. The latter, from its 
even surface, as contrasted with the rocky soil of West- 
ern Palestine, received from the accurate sacred writers 
the appropriate name Mishor (q. v.). Under its modern 
name of the Belkci it is still esteemed beyond all others 
by the Arab sheepmasters. It is well watered, covered 
with smooth, short turf, and losing itself gradually in 
those illimitable wastes which have always been, and al- 
ways will be, the favorite resort of pastoral nomad tribes. 
The whole region is now deserted; there is not a single 
settled inhabitant within its borders. Its great cities, 
mostly bearing their ancient names, arc heaps of ruins. 
The wild wandering tribes of the desert visit it period- 
ically to feed their tlocks and herds on its rich pastures, 
and to drink the waters of its fountains and cisterns. 
See Burckhardt, Travels in Syria, p. 3G5 sq. ; Irby and 
Mangles, Travels, p. 4G0 sq. ; Porter, Hand-book for 
Syria, p. 298 sq. 

Reu'benite (lleb. with the art. ha - Jleubeny ' . 

Sept. 'Povfi>)v, occasionally oi uioi 'Por/Stjv 
or *Po vf3qri), a descendant of Reuben (Numb, xxvi, 7, 
etc.). 

Reuclilin, Johann von, an eminent German schol- 
ar, who adopted the. Gneeizcd name of Capnio. was born 
at Pforzheim in 1454. After serving in different politi- 
cal functions, he became, in 1520, professor of Greek and 
Hebrew at Ingolstadt, whence he removed to Tit bin- 
gen, thence to Stuttgart, where he died, Dec. 28, 1521. 
Resides his memorable services in connection with clas- 
sical literature and general culture, he may be regarded 
as the principal promoter of the study of Hebrew in his 
day. lie published a Hebrew grammar and lexicon 
under the title Ad Dionysium Fratrem sutim de Jludi- 
jnentis Ilebraicis Libri III (s. 1. 1506, 4to), of which an 
improved edition, by Seb. Minister, appeared in 1537 
(Basel, fob). Reuclilin wrote also l)e A ccentibns el Ortlio- 
yraphia Ling. lleb. (Ilagenau, 1518, 4to). — Kitto. 

Reu'el (lleb. ReiieT, bit*?*), friend of God; Sept. 
PayovyX ; A. A’. Ilaguel [Numb, x, 29J), the name of 
three or four men. 

1. A son of Esau by Bashcmath (Gen. xxxvi, 4, 10; 
1 Chron. i, 35, 37) ; his four sons (Gen. xxxvi, 13) were 
princes, i. c. chiefs of the Edomites (ver. 17). B.C. post 
19G3. See Esai\ 

2. A Midianitish priest and nomadic herdsman in the 

wilderness, to whom Moses lied from Egypt, and whose 
daughter Zipporah he married (Exod. ii, IG sq.) ; but in 
Exod. iii, 1 ; iv, 18, Jkthko is called father-in-law of 
Moses, and in iii, 1 is made priest and herdsman. \'a- 
rious methods are suggested for meeting the difficulty: 
(I.) Josephus (/I id. ii, 12, 1) considers Reuel anil Jethro 
as two names of one man. So Ecngerke (Kenaan, i, 393) 
and Bertheau (Isr. Gesch. p. 242). (2.) Alien- Ezra, fol- 

lowed by Rosenmilller, understands by father in Exod. 
ii, 18, grandfather. (3.) Ewald (Isr. Gesch. ii, 14) 
thinks “Jethro son of” has fallen out of the text before 
Reuel in Exod. ii, 18. (4.) Ranke (Pentat. ii, 8) under- 

stands the word chothrn', 'rn, rendered father-in-law, 
to mean brother-in-law, and compares the ambiguous 
use of the Greek yagfipoc. We must then suppose 
that Jethro had succeeded to the priesthood and tlocks 
of his deceased father (Exod. iii, 1). (5.) Others find a 


REOTIAII 


10G1 


REVELATION 


double genealogical tradition (Hartmann, Pentat. p. 223 
sq. ; comp. De Wette, Einleit. ins A . T. p. 196). On this 
supposition the “compiler” must have been very care- 
less. The third explanation derives no support from 
the fact that the Sept., in Exod. ii, 16, twice mentions 
Jethro as father of seven daughters. The translators 
might have considered Reuel as the grandfather, and 
this would support No. 2. The fourth supposition is 
forced. If we must decide for any particular view, it 
seems simplest to understand grandfather for father 
(Exod. ii, 18), since Reuel was the father of the house 
until Jethro acquired independence. SeeHoBAB; Ha- 
guel. 

3. Father of Eliasaph, the leader of the tribe of Gad 
at the time of the census at Sinai (Numb, ii, 14). In 
the parallel passages (i, 14 ; vii, 42, 47 ; x, 20) the name 
is given Deuel (q. v.). 

4 . Son of Ibnijah, father of Shephatiah (1 Chron. 
ix, 8), of the tribe of Benjamin. B.C. ante 1618. 

Reii'mah (Heb. Reiimah', elevated [Ge- 

sen.], or pearl [Fiirst] ; Sept. 'Pevpa), a concubine of 
Nalior, Abraham’s brother; and by him mother of Te- 
bah and others (Gen. xxii, 24). B.C. cir. 2040. 

Reuss, Benigxa vox (Countess), a German hvm- 
nist, was born at Ebersdorf Dee. 15, 1695, where she also 
died, Aug. 1, 1751. She was a sister of count Henry 
XXIX of Renss-Ebersdorf, and of the countess Erdmuth 
Dorothea, wife of count von Zinzendorf. She was a 
godly woman, and wrote some hymns, one of which has 
been translated into English : Komm Segen aus der 
Ilohe (Engl, transl. in Sacred Lyrics from the German, 
p. 155, “ Attend, 0 Lord, my daily toii”). (B. P.) 

Reuterdahl, Henrik, a Swedish Protestant di- 
vine, was born in 1795 at Malmo, in Sweden. He stud- 
ied at Lund, and in 1817 commenced lecturing as “pri- 
vat docent” of theology. In 1824 he was made adjunct 
to the theological faculty, in 1826 prefect of the semi- 
nary, in 1827 member of the chapter, in 1838 librarian, 
and in 1844 professor of theology at Lund. In 1852 he 
was appointed state-councillor and head of the depart- 
ment for religious matters, which position he occupied 
till 1855, when he was made bishop of Lund, and in 1856 
archbishop of Upsala. He died in 1870. He wrote, 
On the Study of Theology (Lund, 1834) : — Introduction 
to Theology (ibid. 1S37) : — History of the Swedish Church 
(ibid. 1838-63, 3 vols.). Besides, he also published 
since 1828 the Theologisk Quartalskrift, and continued 
the Apparatus ad Ilistoriam Suedo - Gothicam, com- 
menced by Celse. His De Foniibus Ilistoris Ecclesias- 
tics Eusebians, published in 1826, in 4 pts., is still of 
great value. See Winer, llandbuch der theologischen 
IAteratur, i, 833, 892, ii, 730, Zuchold, Ribl. Tkeol. ii, 
1059 sq. (B. P.) 

Reval-Esthonian Version of the Scriptures. 
This version, which is used by the inhabitants of th’e 
north of Livonia, including the three adjacent islands 
of Oesel, Dagden (or Dagoe), and Mohn, was first print- 
ed at Reval in 1739, and partly published at the expense 
of the celebrated count Zinzendorf. In 1815, through 
the zeal of Dr. Paterson, and the aid afforded by the 
British and Foreign Bible Society, an edition of 10,000 
copies of the New Test, was printed. Prior to 1824 the 
Russian Bible Society published 5100 copies of the Old 
Test., and some recent editions have been issued at 
Dorpat. Of late the American Bible Society has un- 
dertaken the publication of the whole Bible in the Re- 
val-Esthonian, now printing at Berlin, which is proba- 
bly now r ready, having the previous year (1876) issued 
an edition of 20,000 copies of the New Test., with the 
Psalms, in 12mo. We subjoin the Lord’s Prayer in that 
dialect, from Dalton’s Das Gebet des Herrn in den Sprachen 
Russlands, p. 65: “Meie iza, kes sa oled taewas, plihit- 
setud sagu sinu nimi, sinu rik tulgu, sine tahtmine 
sUndigu kui taewas nenda ka ma peal ; meie igapae- 
wane leib anna meile tana-piiew; ja anua andeks meile 


meie wolad, kui ka meie andeks annamc oma wdlglas*' 
tele; ja ara sada meid mitte kiuzatuze sisse, waid peas- 
ta meid ara kurjast; sest sinu piiralt on rik, ja wiigi ja 
an igaweste. Amen.” See Bible of Every Land, p. 
330 sq. ; Dalton, Das Gebet des Herrn in den Sprachen 
Russlands, p. 25 sq., 65; Annual Reports of the Ameri- 
can Bible Society, 1876, 1877. (B. P.) 

Revelation (inroKciXvipig), a disclosure of some- 
thing that was before unknown; and divine revelation 
is the direct communication of truths before unknown 
from God to men. The disclosure may be made- by 
dream, vision, oral communication, or otherwise (Dan. 
ii, 19 ; 1 Cor. xiv, 26; 2 Cor. xii, 1; Gal. i, 12; Rev. i, 1). 
Revelation is not to be confounded with inspiration. 
The former refers to those things only of which the sa- 
cred writers were ignorant before they were divinely 
taught, while the latter has a more general meaning. 
Accordingly revelation may be defined that operation 
of the Holy Spirit by which truths before unknown are 
communicated to men; and inspiration, the operation 
of the Holy Spirit by which not only unknown truths 
are communicated, but by which also men are excited 
to publish truths for the instruction of others, and are 
guarded from all error in doing it. Thus it was revealed 
to the ancient prophets that the Messiah should appear, 
and they were inspired to publish the fact for the bene- 
fit of others. The affecting scenes at the cross of Christ 
were not revealed to John, for he saw them with his 
own eyes (John xix, 35) ; but he was inspired to write 
a history of this event, and by supernatural guidance 
was kept from all error in his record. It is therefore 
true, as the apostle aflirms, that every part of the Bible 
is given by inspiration of God (2 Tim. iii, 16), though 
every part of the Bible is not the result of immediate 
revelation. For convenience’ sake, we call the ■whole 
Bible a revelation from God, because most of the truths 
it contains ■were made known by direct communication 
from God, and could have been discovered in no other 
way; and generally it is only the incidental circum- 
stances attending the communication of these truths 
that would be ascertained by the writers in the ordinary 
modes of obtaining information. 

Concerning a divine revelation, we remark that, 1. 
It is possible. God may, for aught we know, think 
proper to make known to his creatures what they before 
were ignorant of; and, as a Being of infinite power, he 
cannot be at a loss for means of communication. 2. It 
is desirable; for while reason is necessary to examine 
the matter of revelation, it is incapable, unaided, of 
finding out God. 3. It is necessary; for without it we 
can attain to no certain knowledge of God, of Christ, 
and of salvation. 4. Revelation must, to answer its ends, 
be sufficiently marked with internal and external evi- 
dences. These the Bible has. 5. Its contents must 
be agreeable to reason. Not that everything revealed 
must he within the range of reason; but this may be 
true, and yet there be no contradiction. To calm, dis- 
passionate reason there is nothing in doctrine, com- 
mand, ■warning, promises, or threatenings which is op- 
posed thereto. 6. It must be credible; and we find 
the facts of Scripture supported by abundant evidence 
from friend and foe. 7. Revelation also must necessa- 
rily bear the prevailing impress of the circumstances and 
tastes of the times and nations in which it was originally 
given. The Bible, however, though it bears the dis- 
tinct impress of Asiatic manners, as it should do, is most 
remarkable for rising above all local and temporary pe- 
culiarities, and seizing on the great principles common 
to human nature under all circumstances; thus showing 
that as it is intended for universal benefit, so will it be 
made known to all mankind. The language of the Bi- 
ble is the language of men, otherwise it would not be a 
divine revelation to men. It is to be understood by the 
same means and according to the same laws by which 
all other human language is understood. It is addressed 
to the common-sense of men, and common-sense is to be 
consulted in its interpretation 


REVELATION 


10C2 


REVELATION 


In a narrower sense. ‘‘revelation” is used to express the 
manifestation of Jesus Christ to Jews and (Jentiles (Luke 
ii, 32); the manifestation of the glory with which Cod 
will glorify his elect and faithful servants at the last 
judgment (Korn, viii, ID), and the declaration of his 
just judgments in his conduct both towards the elect 
and towards the reprobate (ii, 5-1G). There is a very 
noble application of the word revelation to the con- 
summation of all things, or the revelation of Jesus 
Christ in his future glory (1 Cor. i, 7 ; 1 I'et. i, 13). 
See Drown, Compendium of Natural and Revealed Re- 
ligion; Arehbp. Campbell, On Revelation; Delany, Rev- 
elation Examined ; Ellis, On Divine Things ; Fuller, 
H'orfc; Horne, Introduction ; Leland, Necessity of Rev- 
elation; Vieiv of Deist ical Writers. See Inspiration ; 
Miracles ; Prophecy. 

REVELATION, Dook of. This, the last of the 
books of the New Test., according to their usual ar- 
rangement, is entitled in the A. V. “The Revelation 
(’A7TOK:a\i/4/f£, Apocalypse ) of [St.] John the Divine 
(rou DtoXoyou),” but in Codices Alex., Sinait., and Ephr. 
Reserip. it is simply ' AxoKaXvxptQ ’Iwhppou; and in 
Cod. Vat. it takes the fuller and more explicit form of 
’AiroicdXvxfug ’I loavvov OeoXdy or icai EuayyfXiorof', 
thus clearly identifying the author with the writer of 
the fourth gospel. The true and authoritative title 
of the book, however, is that which it bears in its 
own commencing words, ’ AiroK(i\v\pig ’lyaov Xfnerrov ; 
which has been restored by Tregelles in his critical 
edition of 1844. (The following account is based, in 
the main, upon the condensed and judicious article in 
Smith’s Diet, of the liible.) 

I. Canonical Authority and Authorship. — These two 
points are intimately connected with each other. If it 
can be proved that a book, claiming so distinctly as 
this does the authority of divine inspiration, was actu- 
ally written by John, then no doubt will be entertained 
as to its title to a place in the canon of Scripture. 
Was, then, John the apostle and evangelist the writer 
of the Revelation? This question was first mooted by 
Dionysius of Alexandria (Eusebius, II. E. vii, 25). The 
doubt which he modestly suggested has been confident- 
ly proclaimed in modern times by Luther ( Vorrede anf 
die OJfenbarung, 1522 and 1534), and widely diffused 
through his influence. Liicke ( Einleitung , p. 802), the 
most learned and diligent of modern critics of the Rev- 
elation, agrees with a majority of the eminent scholars 
of Germany in denying that John was the author, 
llut the general belief of the mass of Christians in all 
ages has been in favor of John’s authorship. 

1. Evidence in Favor of the Apostolic Authorship . — 
This consists of the assertions of the author and histor- 
ical tradition. 

(1.) The author’s description of himself in the first 
and twenty-second chapters is certainly equivalent to 
an assertion that he is the apostle, (a) He names him- 
self simply John, without prefix or addition — a name 
which at that period, and iu Asia, must have been taken 
by every Christian as the designation, in the first in- 
stance, of the great apostle who dwelt at Ephesus. 
Doubtless there were other Johns among the Christians 
at that time, but only arrogance or an intention to de- 
ceive could account for the assumption of this simple 
style by any other •writer. lie is also described as (6) 
a servant of Christ, (r) one who had borne testimony as 
an eye-witness of the word of God and of the testimony 
of Christ — terms which were surely designed to identi- 
fy him with the writer of the verses John xix,35; i, 14: 
and 1 John i, 2. lie is (d) in Ratmos for the word of 
God and the testimony of Jesus Christ: it may be easy 
to suppose that other Christians of the same name were 
banished thither, but the apostle is the only John who 
is distinctly named in early history as an exile at Rat- 
mos. lie is also (c) a fellow-sufferer with those whom 
he addresses, and (f) the authorized channel of the 
most direct and important communication that was ever 
made to the seven churches of Asia, of which church- 


' es John the apostle was at that time the spiritual gov- 
ernor and teacher. Lastly (#), the writer was a fellow- 
servant of angels and a brother of prophets — titles 
which are far more suitable to one of the chief apostles, 
and far more likely to have been assigned to him than 
to any other man of less distinction. All these marks 
are found united together in the apostle John, and in 
him alone of all historical persons. We must go out 
of the region of fact into the region of conjecture to 
find such another person. A candid reader of the Rev- 
elation, if previously acquainted with John’s other writ- 
ings and life, must inevitably conclude that the writer 
intended to be identified with John. It is strange to 
see so able a critic as Liicke ( Einleitung , p. 514) meeting 
this conclusion with the conjecture that some Asiatic 
disciple and namesake of the apostle may have written 
the book in the course of some missionary labors or 
some time of sacred retirement in Ratmos. Equally 
unavailing against this conclusion is the objection 
brought by Ewald, Credner, and others, from the fact 
that a promise of the future blessedness of the apostles 
is implied in xviii, 20 and xxi, 14: as if it were incon- 
sistent with the true modesty and humility of an apos- 
tle to record — as Daniel of old did in much plainer terms 
(Dan. xii, 13) — a divine promise of salvation to himself 
personally. Rather those passages may be taken as in- 
stances of the writer quietly accepting as his just due 
such honorable mention as belongs to all the apostolic 
company. Unless we are prepared to give up the ve- 
racity and divine origin of the whole book, and to treat 
the writer’s account of himself as a mere fiction of a 
poet trying to cover his own insignificance with an 
honored name, we must accept that description as a 
plain statement of fact, equally credible with the rest 
of the book, and in harmony with the simple, honest, 
truthful character which is stamped on the lace of the 
whole narrative. 

Besides this direct assertion of John’s authorship, 
there is also an implication of it running through the 
book. Generally, the instinct of single-minded, patient, 
faithful students has led them to discern a connection 
between the Revelation and John’s gospel and epistles, 
and to recognise, not merely the same Spirit as the 
source of this and other books of Holy Scripture, but 
also the same peculiarly formed human instrument em- 
ployed both in producing this book and the fourth gos- 
pel, and in speaking the characteristic words and per- 
forming the characteristic actions recorded of John. 
This evidence is set forth at great length and with 
much force and eloquence by J. R. Lange in his essay 
on the connection between the individuality of the 
apostle John and that of the Apocalypse, 1838 ( 1 ”er- 
misehte Schriften, ii, 173-231). After investigating the 
peculiar features of the apostle’s character and position, 
and (in reply to Liicke) the personal traits shown by the 
writer of the Revelation, he concludes that the book is 
a mysterious but genuine effusion of prophecy under the 
New Test., imbued with the spirit of the Gospel, the 
product of a spiritual gift so peculiar, so great and no- 
ble, that it can be ascribed to the apostle John alone. 
The Revelation requires for its writer John, just as his 
peculiar genius requires for its utterance a revelation. 
This special character of the Apocalypse as an inspired 
production under remarkably vivid circumstances is 
the true key to its diction, which certainly exhibits 
many striking differences as compared with John’s oth- 
er well-accredited writings. At the same time, there 
are not a few marked coincidences in the phraseology. 
Doth of these points have been developed at great 
length by the writers above named and by others in 
their commentaries and introductions, to which we must 
refer the reader for details. Arguments of this nature 
are always inconclusive as to authorship, and we there- 
fore rest the conclusion upon evidence of a more palpa- 
ble character. (See § iii below.) 

(2.) The historical testimonies in favor of John’s 
authorship are singularly distinct and numerous, and 


REVELATION 


1063 


REVELATION 


there is very little to weigh against them, (a.) Justin 
Martyr (cir. A.D. 150) says: “A man among us whose 
name was John, one of the apostles of Christ, in a rev- 
elation which was made to him, prophesied that the 
believers in our Christ shall live a thousand years in 
Jerusalem” ( Tryph . § 81, p. 179, cd. Ben.). ( b .) The au- 
thor of the Muratorian Fragment (cir. A.D. 170) speaks 
of John as the writer of the Apocalypse, and describes 
him as a predecessor of Paul, i. e. as Credncr and Liicke 
candidly interpret it, his predecessor in the office of 
apostle, (c.) Melito of Sardis (cir. A.D. 170) wrote a 
treatise on the Revelation of John. Eusebius (II. E. iv, 
26) mentions this among the books of Melito which 
had come to his knowledge; and as he carefully re- 
cords objections against the apostle’s authorship, it may 
be fairly presumed, notwithstanding the doubts of Ivlen- 
ker and Liicke ( Einleitung , p. 51-4), that Eusebius found 
no doubt as to John’s authorship in the book of this 
ancient Asiatic bishop. (d.) Theophilus, bishop of An- 
tioch (cir. 180), in a controversy with Hermogenes, quotes 
passages out of the Revelation of John (Eusebius, II. E. 
iv, 24). (e.) Iremeus (cir. 195), apparently never having 
heard a suggestion of any other author than the apos- 
tle, often quotes the Revelation as the work of John. 
In iv,20, § 11, he describes John the writer of the Rev- 
elation as the same who was leaning on Jesus’ bosom 
at supper, and asked him who should betray him. The 
testimony of Irenams as to the authorship of Revelation 
is, perhaps, more important than that of any other writ- 
er : it mounts up into the preceding generation, and is 
virtually that of a contemporary of the apostle. For 
in v, 30, § 1, where he vindicates the true reading (666) 
of the number of the Beast, he cites in support of it, 
not only the old correct copies of the book, but also the 
oral testimony of the very persons who themselves had 
seen John face to face. It is obvious that Irenaeus’s 
reference for information on such a point to those con- 
temporaries of John implies his undoubting belief that 
they, in common with himself, viewed John as the writ- 
er of the book. Liicke (p. 574) suggests that this view 
was possibly groundless because it was entertained be- 
fore the learned fathers of Alexandria had set the ex- 
ample of historical criticism ; but his suggestion scarce- 
ly weakens the force of the fact that such was the be- 
lief of Asia, and it appears a strange suggestion when 
we remember that the critical discernment of the Alex- 
andrians, to whom he refers, led them to coincide with 
Irennsus in his view. ( f ) Apollonius (cir. 200) of Eph- 
esus (?), in controversy with the Montanists of Phrygia, 
quoted passages out of the Revelation of John, and nar- 
rated a miracle wrought by John at Ephesus (Euseb. 
II. E. v, 18). ( g.) Clement of Alexandria (cir. 200) quotes 
the book as the Revelation of John ( Stromata , vi, 13, 
p. 667), and as the work of an apostle ( Peed . ii, 12, p. 
207). (/«.) Tertullian (A.D. 207), in at least one place, 

quotes hv name “the apostle John in the Apocalypse” 
(A dv. Marcion. iii, 14). (i.) II ippolytus (cir. 230) is said, 
in the inscription on his statue at Rome, to have com- 
posed an apology for the Apocalypse and Gosple of St. 
John the apostle. He quotes it as the work of John 
(De Antichristo, § 36, p.756, ed. Migne). (J.) Origen 
(cir. 233), in his commentary on John, quoted by Euse- 
bius (II. E.y i, 25), says of the apostle, “he wrote also 
the Revelation.” The testimonies of later writers, in 
the 3d and 4th centuries, in favor of John’s authorship 
of the Revelation are equally distinct and far more nu- 
merous. They may be seen quoted at length in Liicke, 
p. 628-638, or in dean Alford’s Prolegomena (N. T. vol. 
iv, pt. ii). It may suffice here to say that they include 
the names of Victorinus, Methodius, Ephrem Syrus, Epi- 
phanius, Basil, Hilary, Athanasius, Gregory, Didymus, 
Ambrose, Augustine, and Jerome. 

All the foregoing writers, testifying that the book 
came from an apostle, believed that it was a part of 
Holy Scripture. Bnt many whose extant works can- 
not be quoted for testimony to the authorship of the 
book refer to it as possessing canonical authority. Thus 


1 (a) Papias, who is described by Irenaeus as a hearer of 
John «aml friend of Polycarp, is cited, together with 
other writers, by Andreas of Cappadocia, in his com- 
mentary on the Revelation, as a guarantee to later 
ages of the divine inspiration of the book (Routh, Pel. 
Suer, i, 15; Cramer, Catena [Oxford, 1840], p. 176). 
The value of this testimony has not been impaired by 
the controversy to which it has given rise, in which 
Liicke, Bleek, Hengstenberg, and Rettig have taken dif- 
ferent parts. ( b ) In the epistle from the churches of 
Lyons and Vienne, A.D. 177, inserted in Eusebius, II. E. 
v, 1-3, several passages (e. g. i, 5; xiv, 4; xxii, 11) are 
quoted or referred to in the same way as passages of 
books whose canonical authority is unquestioned, (c) 
Cyprian (Epp. 10, 12, 14, 19, ed. Fell) repeatedly quotes 
it as a part of canonical Scripture. Chrysostom makes 
I no distinct allusion to it in any extant writing; but we 
are informed by Suidas that he received it as canonical. 
Although omitted (perhaps as not adapted for public 
reading in church) from the list of canonical books in 
the Council of Laodicea. it was admitted into the list 
of the third Council of Carthage, A.D. 397. 

2. Evidence against John's A uthorship. — Marcion, who 
regarded all the apostles except Paul as corrupters of 
the truth, rejected the Apocalypse and all other books 
of the New Test, which were not written by Paul. The 
Alogi, an obscure sect (cir. A.D. 180), in their zeal against 
Montanism, denied the existence of spiritual gifts in the 
Church, and rejected the Revelation, saying it was the 
work, not of John, but of Cerinthus (Epiphanius, A dv. 
liter. Ii). The Roman presbyter Caius (cir. A.D. 196), 
w ho also wrote against Montanism, is quoted by Euse- 
bius (II. E. iii, 28) as ascribing certain revelations to Ce- 
rinthus; but it is doubted (see Routh, Pel. Sacr. ii, 138) 
whether the Revelation of John is the book to which 
Caius refers. But the testimony which is considered 
the most important of all in ancient times against the 
[ Revelation is contained in a fragment of Dionysius of 
Alexandria (cir. A.D. 240), the most influential, and 
perhaps the ablest, bishop in that age. The passage, 
taken from a book On the Promises, written in reply to 
Nepos, a learned Judaizing Chiliast, is quoted by Euse- 
bius (II. E. vii, 25). The principal points in it are these : 
Dionysius testifies that some writers before him alto- 
1 getlier repudiated the Revelation as a forgery of Cerin- 
thus; many brethren, however, prized it very highly, 
and Dionysius would not venture to reject it, but re- 
ceived it in faith as containing things too deep and too 
sublime for his understanding. (In his Epistle to Her - 
mammon [Euseb. II. E. vii, 10] he quotes it as he would 
quote Holy Scripture.) He accepts as true what is 
stated in the book itself, that it was written by John, 
but he argues that the way in which that name is men- 
tioned, and the general character of the language, are 
unlike what we should expect from John the evangelist 
and apostle; that there were many Johns in that age. 
He would not say that John Mark was the writer, since 
it is not known that he was in Asia. He supposes that 
it must be the work of some John who lived in Asia; 
and he observes that there are said to be two tombs in 
Ephesus, each of which bears the name of John. He 
then points out at length the superiority of the style of 
the Gospel and the First Epistle of John to the style of 
the Apocalypse, and says, in conclusion, that whatever 
1 he may think of the language, he does not deny that 
the writer of the Apocalypse actually saw what he de- 
' scribes, and was endowed with the divine gifts of knowl- 
edge and prophecy. To this extent, and no further, Di- 
I onysius is a witness against John’s authorship. It is 
obvious that he keenly felt the difficulty arising from 
the use made of the contents of this book by certain un- 
sound Christians under his jurisdiction ; that he was 
acquainted with the doubt as to its canonical authority 
, which some of bis predecessors entertained as an infer- 
j ence from the nature of its contents; that he deliberate- 
j ly rejected their doubt and accepted the contents of the 
; book as given by the inspiration of God; that, although 


1064 


REVELATION 


REVELATION 


Fie did not understand how John could write in the style 
in which the Revelation is written, he j’et knew.of no 
authority for attributing it, as he desired to attribute it, 
to some other of the numerous persons who bore the 
name of John. 

A weightier difficulty arises from the fact that the 
Revelation is one of the books which are absent from 
the ancient 1’eshito version, and the only trustworthy 
evidence in favor of its reception by the ancient Syrian 
Church is a single quotation which is adduced from the 
Syriac works (ii, 332 c) of Ephrem Syrus. Eusebius is 
remarkably sparing in his quotations from the »• Revela- 
tion of John,” and the uncertainty of his opinion about 
it is best shown by his statement in II. E. iii, 39, that 
41 it is likely that the Revelation was seen by the second 
John (the Ephesian presbyter), if any one is unwilling 
to believe that it was seen by the apostle.” Sec John 
the 1’rksbvtku. Jerome states (Ay), ad iJardanum. 
etc.) that the Greek churches felt, with respect to the 
Revelation, a similar doubt to that of the Latins respect- 
ing the Epistle to the Hebrews. Neither he nor his 
equally influential contemporary Augustine shared such 
doubts. Cyril of Jerusalem, Chrysostom, Theodore of 
Mopsuestia, and Theodoret abstained from making use 
of the book, sharing, it is possible, the doubts to which 
Jerome refers. Rut they have not gone so far as to ex- 
press a distinct opinion against it. The silence of these 
writers is the latest evidence of any importance that has 
been adduced against the overwhelming weight of the 
testimony in favor of the canonical authority and au- 
thorship of this book. See Canon ok Scripture. 

II. Time and Place of Writing, — The date of the 
Revelation is given by the great majority of critics as 
A.L). 95-97. The weighty testimony of Ireineus is al- 
most sufficient to prevent any other conclusion, lie 
says (/I dr. liter, v. 30, § 3), “It [i. e. the Revelation] 
was seen no very long time ago, but almost in our own 
generation, at the close of Dom it inn's reign.” Stuart’s 
attempt to interpret this of Nero’s reign ( Comment . ad 
loc.) is evidently forced. Eusebius also records as a tra- 
dition which he does not question, that in the persecu- 
tion under Domitian, John the apostle and evangelist, 
being yet alive, W’as banished to the island of I'atmos 
for his testimony of the divine word. Allusions in (dem- 
ent of Alexandria and Origcn point in the same direc- 
tion. There is no mention in any writer of the first 
three centuries of any other time or place. Epiphanius 
(li, 12), obviously by mistake, says that John prophesied 
in the reign of Claudius. Two or three obscure and la- 
ter authorities say that John was banished under Nero. 

Unsupported by any historical evidence, some com- 
mentators have put forth the conjecture that the Reve- 
lation was written as early as the time of Nero. This 
is simply their inference from the style and contents of 
the book. Rut it is difficult to see why John’s old age 
rendered it, as they allege, impossible for him to write 
his inspired message with force and vigor, or why his 
residence in Ephesus must have removed the Hebraistic 
peculiarities of bis Greek. It is difficult to see in the 
passages i, 7; ii, 9; iii, 9; vi, 12, 10; xi, 1, anything 
which would lead necessarily to the conclusion that Je- 
rusalem was in a prosperous condition, and that the pre- 
dictions of its fall had not been fullillcd when those 
verses were written. A more weighty argument in favor 
of an early date might be urged from a modern inter- 
pretation of xvii, 10, if that interpretation could be es- 
tablished. Galba is alleged to be the sixth king, the 
one that “is.” In Nero these interpreters see the beast 
that was wounded (xiii, 3), the beast that was and is 
not, the eighth king (xvii, 11). For some time after 
Nero’s death the Roman populace, believed that he was 
not dead, but had fled into the East, whence he would 
return and regain his throne; and these interpreters 
venture to suggest that the writer of the Revelation shared 
ami meant to express the absurd popular delusion. Even 
the able and learned Rcuss ( Theol . Chret. i, 113), by way 
of supporting this interpretation, advances his untenable 


1 claim to the first discovery of the name of Nero Caesar 
in the number of the beast, GGG. The inconsistency of 
this interpretation with prophetic analogy, with the con- 
text of Revelation, and with the fact that the book is of 
divine origin, is pointed out by 1 Iengstenberg at the end 
of his Commentary on ch. xiii, and by Elliott, I /urte Apoc. 
iv, 517. 

It has been inferred from i, 2, 9, 10, that the Revcla- 
, tion was written in Ephesus, immediately after the apos- 
tle’s return from Patinos. Rut the text is scarcely suf- 
ficient to support this conclusion. The style in which 
the messages to the seven churches arc delivered rather 
suggests the notion that the book was written in Pat- 
mos. Sec John tiik Apostle. 

III. Lauyuaye. — The thought first suggested by 11a- 
renberg. that the Revelation was written in Aramaic, 
has met with little or no reception. The silence of all 
ancient writers as to any Aramaic original is alone a suf- 
ficient answer to the suggestion. Liickc ( Kinloit . p. 441) 
has collected internal evidence to show that the original 
is the Greek of a Jewish Christian. 

LUcke has also (p. 448— 1G4) examined in minute de- 
tail, after the preceding labors of Donker-Curtius, Vogel, 
Winer, Ewald, Kolthoff, and Ilitzig, the peculiarities of 
language which obviously distinguish the Revelation 
from every other book of the New Test. In subsequent 
sections (p.G8U-747) lie urges with great force the differ- 
ence between the Revelation, on one side, and the fourth 
Gospel and first Epistle, on the other, in respect of their 
style and composition and the mental character and at- 
tainments of the writer of each. 1 Iengstenberg, in a 
dissertation appended to his Commentary, maintains that 
they arc by one writer. That the anomalies and pecu- 
liarities of the Revelation have been greatly exaggerated 
by some critics is sufficiently shown by Ilitzig’s plausi- 
ble and ingenious, though unsuccessful, attempt to prove 
the identity of style and diction in the Revelation and 
the Gospel of Mark. It may be admitted that the Rev- 
elation lias many surprising grammatical peculiarities. 
Rut much of this is accounted for by the fact that it was 
probably written down, as it was seen, “in the spirit,” 
while the ideas, in all their novelty and vastness, filled 
the apostle’s mind, and rendered him less capable of at- 
tending to forms of speech. His Gospel and Epistles, 
on the other hand, were composed equally under divine 
influence, but an influence of a gentler, more ordinary 
kind, with much care, after long deliberation, after fre- 
quent recollection and recital of the facts, and deep pon- 
dering of the doctrinal truths which they involve. 

Gebhardt has recently given the coincidences in lan- 
guage between the Gospel and the Revelation of John in 
a most, convincing manner ( Doctrine of the A poculypse, 
etc.; transl. from the German, Edinb. 1878): “There 
are underlying identities of style which demonstrate 
identity of authorship. The subjects, of course, are stu- 
pendously different, and so require even of the same 
writer a stupendous difference of style. In the Apoc- 
alypse the pictorial imagination is perpetually on the 
utmost stretefi ; events and objects are crowding upon 
each other with intense rapidity. The scenery and pic- 
torial material are generally borrowed from the Hebrew 
Scriptures, with immense improvements. More than 
all, the mind of the writer, steeped in Hebraism, is in a 
preternatural state. He who was in his youth a son of 
thunder has all the thunder of his youth preternaturallv 
renewed within him. Rightly, the extraordinary con- 
ditions demand an extraordinary change of style, both 
in thought and language. Vet, underlying all this 
change, the natural style and mind unmistakably dis- 
close themselves. lie who cannot see this was never 
born a critic, and can never be reconstructed into one” 
( Meth . Qiiar. 1878, p.739). See John (( Josjnl and 
Epistles). 

IV. Contents. — A full analysis of the book would in- 
volve much that is disputed as to its interpretation. 
We therefore here content ourselves with a general 
outline, in which the main visions arc specified. 


REVELATION 


10G5 REVELATION 


The first three verses contain the title of the book, 
the description of the writer, and the blessing pro- 
nounced on the readers, which possibly, like the last 
two verses of the fourth gospel, may be an addition by 
the hand of inspired survivors of the writer. John be- 
gins (i, 4) with a salutation of the seven churches of 
Asia. This, coming before the announcement that he 
was in the spirit, looks like a dedication not merely of 
the first vision, but of all the book, to those churches. 
In the next five verses (i, 5-9) he touches the key-note 
of the whole following book, the great fundamental 
ideas on which all our notions of the government of 
the world and the Church arc built— the person of 
Christ; the redemption wrought by him; his second 
coming to judge mankind; the painful, hopeful disci- 
pline of Christians in the midst of this present world; 
thoughts which may well be supposed to have been 
uppermost in the mind of the persecuted and exiled 
apostle even before the divine inspiration came on him. 

a. The first vision (i, 7-iii, 22) shows the Son of Man 
with his injunction, or epistles to the seven churches. 
While the apostle is pondering those great truths and 
the critical condition of his Church which he had left, 
a Divine Person resembling those seen by Ezekiel and 
Daniel, and identified b} T name and by description as 
Jesus, appears to John, and, with the discriminating au- 
thority of a lord and judge, review's the state of those 
churches, pronounces his decision upon their several 
characters, and takes occasion from them to speak to 
all Christians who may deserve similar encouragemeut 
or similar condemnation. Each of these sentences, 
spoken by the Son of Man, is described as said by the 
Spirit. Hitherto the apostle has been speaking pri- 
marily, though not exclusively, to some of his own con- 
temporaries concerning the present events and circum- 
stances. Henceforth he ceases to address them par- 
ticularly. His words are for the ear of the universal 
Church in all ages, and show the significance of things 
•which are present in hope or fear, in sorrow or in joy, 
to Christians everywhere. 

b. In the next vision (iv, 1-viii, 1), Patmos and the 
Divine Person whom he saw are gone. Only the trump- 
et voice is heard again calling him to a change of 
place. He is in the highest court of heaven, and sees 
God sitting on his throne. The seven-sealed book or 
roll is produced, and the slain lamb, the Redeemer, re- 
ceives it amid the sound of universal adoration. As 
the seals are opened in order, the apostle sees (1) a con- 
queror on a white horse ; (2) a red horse, betokening war; 
(3) the black horse of famine ; (4) the pale horse of death ; 
(5) the eager souls of martyrs under the altar; (6) an 
earthquake, with universal commotion and terror. After 
this there is a pause, the course of avenging angels is 
checked while 144,000, the children of Israel, servants 
of God, are sealed, and an innumerable multitude of the 
redeemed of all nations are seen worshipping God. Next 
(7) the seventh seal is opened, and half an hour’s silence 
in heaven ensues. 

c. Then (viii, 2-xi, 19) seven angels appear with 
trumpets, the prayers of saints are offered up, the earth 
is struck with fire from the altar, and the seven trump- 
ets are sounded. (1) The earth, and (2) the sea, and 
(3) the springs of water, and (4) the heavenly bodies 
are successively smitten; (5) a plague of locusts afflicts 
the men who are not sealed (the first woe) ; (6) the third 
part of men are slain (the second woe), but the rest are 
impenitent. Then there is a pause: a mighty angel 
with a book appears and cries out; seven thunders sound, 
but their words are not recorded; the approaching com- 
pletion of the mystery of God is announced ; the angel 
bids the apostle eat the book, and measure the temple 
with its worshippers, and the outer court given up to 
the Gentiles; the two witnesses of God, their martyr- 
dom, resurrection, ascension, are foretold. The approach 
of the third woe is announced, and (7) the seventh trump- 
et is sounded, the reign of Christ is proclaimed, God 
has taken his great power, the time has come for judg- 


ment and for the destruction of the destroyers of the 
earth. 

The three preceding visions are distinct from one an- 
other. Each of the last two, like the longer one which 
follows, has the appearance of a distinct prophecy, reach- 
ing from the prophet’s time to the end of the world. The 
second half of the Revelation (ch. xii-xxii) comprises 
a series of visions which are connected by various links. 
It may be described generally as a prophecy of the as- 
saults of the devil and his agents (i. e. the dragon, the 
ten-horned beast, the two-horned beast or false prophet, 
and the harlot) upon the Church, and their final de- 
struction. It appears to begin with a reference to events 
anterior, not only to those which are predicted in the 
preceding chapter, but also to the time in which it was 
written. It seems hard to interpret the birth of the 
child as a prediction, and not as a retrospective allu- 
sion. 

d. A woman (ch. xii) clothed with the sun is seen in 
heaven, and a great red dragon with seven crowned heads 
stands waiting to devour her offspring; her child is 
caught up unto God, and the mother flees into the wil- 
derness for 12G0 days. The persecution of the woman 
and her seed on earth by the dragon is described as 
the consequence of a war in heaven in which the dragon 
was overcome and cast out upon the earth. 

The Revelator (ch.xiii), standing on the sea-shore, sees 
a beast with seven heads, one wounded, with ten crowned 
horns, rising from the water, the representative of the 
dragon. All the world wonders at and worships him, 
and he attacks the saints and prevails, lie is followed 
by another tw T o-horned beast rising out of the earth, 
who compels men to wear the mark of the beast, whose 
number is GG6. 

Next (ch.xiv) the lamb is seen with 144,000 standing 
on Mount Zion, learning the song of praise of the heav- 
enly host. Three angels fly forth calling men to wor- 
ship God, proclaiming the fall of Babylon, denouncing 
the worshippers of the beast. A blessing is pronounced 
on the faithful dead, and the judgment of the world is 
described under the image of a harvest reaped by angels. 

John (ch. xv, xvi) sees in heaven the saints who had 
overcome the beast, singing the song of Moses and the 
Lamb. Then seven angels come out of the heavenly 
temple having seven vials of wrath, which they pour 
out upon the earth, sea, rivers, sun, the seat of the beast, 
Euphrates, and the air, after which there are a great 
earthquake and a hail-storm. 

One (ch. xvii, xviii) of the last seven angels carries 
John into the wilderness and shows him a harlot, Baby- 
lon, sitting on a scarlet beast with seven heads and ten 
horns. She is explained to be that great city, sitting 
upon seven mountains, reigning over the kings of the 
earth. Afterwards John sees a vision of the destruc- 
tion of Babylon, portrayed as the burning of a great 
city amid the lamentations of worldly meu and the re- 
joicing of saints. 

Afterwards (ch. xix) the worshippers in heaven are 
heard celebrating Babylon’s fall and the approaching 
marriage-supper of the lamb. The Word of God is seen 
going forth to war at the head of the heavenly armies; 
the beast and his false prophet are taken and cast into 
the burning lake, and their worshippers are slain. 

An angel (xx-xxii, 5) hinds the dragon, i.e. the dev- 
il, for one thousand years, while the martyred saints 
who had not worshipped the beast reign with Christ. 
Then the devil is unloosed, gathers a host against the 
camp of the saints, but is overcome by fire from heaven, 
and is cast into the burning lake with the beast and 
false prophet. John then witnesses the process of 
the final judgment, and sees and describes the new 
heaven and the new earth, and the new Jerusalem, 
with its people and their way of life. 

In the last sixteen verses (xxii, 6-21) the angel sol- 
emnly asseverates the truthfulness and importance of 
the foregoing sayings, pronounces a blessing on those 
who keep them exactly, gives warning of his speedy 


REVELATION 


1066 


REVELATION 


coming to judgment, and of the nearness of the time 
when these prophecies shall be fultillcd. 

V. Schemes of Interpretation. — Few, if any, books of 
the Bible have been the sport of so great differences of 
view as this, arising largely from prejudice and the pas- 
sion of the times, Wc can give here but a brief out- 
line of these conflicting opinions, which prevail even to 
the present day. 

1. Historical Review .— The interval between the ap- 
ostolic age and that of Constantine has been called the 
Chiliastic period of Apocalyptic interpretation. The 
visions of John were chiefly regarded as representa- 
tions of general Christian truths, scarcely yet em- 
bodied in actual facts, for the most part to be exem- 
plified or fulfilled in the reign of Antichrist, the com- 
ing of Christ, the millennium, and the day of judgment. 
The fresh hopes of the early Christians, and the severe 
persecution they endured, taught them to live in those 
future events with intense satisfaction and comfort. 
They did not entertain the thought of building up a 
definite consecutive chronological scheme even of those 
symbols which some moderns regard as then already 
fulfilled; although from the beginning a connection be- 
tween liome and Antichrist was universally allowed, 
and parts of the Bcvelation were regarded as the filling- 
up of the great outline sketched by Daniel and Paul. 
The only extant systematic interpretations in this pe- 
riod arc the interpolated commentary on the Bevela- 
tion by the martyr Victorinus, cir. A.l). 270 ( Biblio- 
theca Put rum Maxima , iii, 414, and Migne, Patrologia 
Latina , v, 318; the two editions should be compared), 
and the disputed treatise on Antichrist by llippolytns 
(Migne, Patrologia Greeca, x, 720). But the prevalent 
views of that age are to be gathered also from a pas- 
sage in Justin Martyr ( Trypko , 80, 81), from the later 
books, especially the fifth, of Ircimis, and from various 
scattered passages in Tcrtullian, Origen, and Methodius. 
The general anticipation of the last days of the world 
in Lactantius, vii, 14-25, has little direct reference to 
the Bcvelation. 

Immediately after the triumph of Constantine, the 
Christians, emancipated from oppression and persecu- 
tion, and dominant and prosperous in their turn, began 
to lose their vivid expectation of our Lord's speedy ad- 
vent and their spiritual conception of his kingdom, and 
to look upon the temporal supremacy of Christianity as 
a fulfilment of the promised reign of Christ on earth. 
The Homan empire, become Christian, was regarded no 
longer as the object of prophetic denunciation, but as 
the scene of a millennial development. This view, how- 
ever, was soon met by the figurative interpretation of 
the millennium as the reign of Christ in the hearts of 
all true believers. As the barbarous and heretical in- 
vaders of the falling empire appeared, they were re- 
garded by the suffering Christians as fulfilling the woes 
denounced in the Bcvelation. The beginning of a reg- 
ular chronological interpretation is seen in Berengaud 
(assigned by some critics to the 9th century), who treated 
the Bcvelation as a history of the Church from the be- 
ginning of the world to its end. The original Commen- 
tary of the abbot Joachim is remarkable, not only for a 
further development of that method of interpretation, 
but lbr the scarcely disguised identification of Babylon 
with papal Borne, and of the second beast or Antichrist 
with some iiniversarpontitf. The chief commentaries 
belonging to this period are that which is ascribed to 
Ticlmnius (cir. A.l). 390), printed in the works of Augus- 
tine; Brimnsius of Adrumctnm in Africa (A.l). 550), in 
Migne, Pat rainy in Latina , lxviii, 1403; Andreas of 
Crete (cir. A.l). G50), Arcthas of Cappadocia, and (Kcu- 
menius of Thessaly in the loth century, whoso commen- 
taries were published together in Cramer’s Catena (Oxon. 
1840 ) ; the Kxplanatio A poc . in the works of Bede (A.l ). 
735) ; the F.rpositio of Berengaud, printed in the works 
of Ambrose; the Commentary of Ilavmo (A.l). 853), first 
published at Cologne in 1531; a short treatise on the 
seals by Anselm, bishop of llavilberg (A.D. 1145), 


printed in D'Ach e’rv’s Spicileyium. i. 1G1 ; the F.xpositio 
of abbot Joachim of Calabria (A.D. 1200), printed at 
Venice in 1527. 

In the dawn of the Bcformation, the views to which 
the reputation of abbot Joachim gave currency were 
taken up by the harbingers of the impending change, 
as by Wyclifle and others; and they became the foun- 
dation of that great historical school of interpretation, 
which up to this time seems the most popular of all. 
(For the later commentaries, sec § vi, below.) 

2. Approximate Classification of Modern Interpreta- 
tions . — These arc generally placed in three groat di- 
visions. 

(1.) The Prtrterist expositors, who are of opinion that 
the Bcvelation has been almost, or altogether, fulfilled 
in the time which has passed since it was written; that 
it refers principally to the triumph of Christianity over 
Judaism and paganism, signalized in the downfall of Je- 
rusalem and of Borne. The most eminent expounders 
of this view are Alcasar, Grotius, Hammond, Bossuet, 
Calmet.Wettstcin, Eichhorn, 1 1 ug. Herder, Ewald, Liicke, 
De Wette, Dllstcrdieck, Stuart, Lee, and Maurice. This 
is the favorite interpretation with the critics of Ger- 
many, one of whom goes so far as to state that the 
writer of the Bevelation promised the fulfilment of his 
visions within the space of three years and a half from 
the time in which he wrote. 

Against the Prceterist view it is urged that prophecies 
fulfilled ought to be rendered so perspicuous to the gen- 
eral sense of the Church as to supply an argument 
against infidelity; that the destruction of Jerusalem, 
having occurred twenty- five years previously, could 
not occupy a large space in a prophecy; that the sup- 
posed predictions of the downfall of Jerusalem and of 
Nero appear from the context to refer to one event, but 
are by this scheme separated, and, moreover, placed in 
a wrong order; that the measuring of the Temple and 
the altar, and the death of the two witnesses (cli. xi), 
cannot be explained consistently with the context. 

(2.) The Fntuj'ist expositors, whose views show a 
strong reaction against some extravagances of the pre- 
ceding school. They believe that the whole book, ex- 
cepting perhaps the first three chapters, refers principal- 
ly, if not exclusively, to events which are yet to come. 
This view, which is asserted to be merely a revival 
of the primitive interpretation, has been advocated in 
recent times by l>r. J. 11. Todd, Dr. S. B. Maitland, 
B. Newton, C. Maitland, 1. Williams, Do Burgh, and 
others. 

Against the Futurist it is argued that it is not consist- 
ent with the repeated declarations of a speedy fulfil- 
ment at the beginning and end of the book itself (sec 
i, 3; xxii, G, 7, 12, 20). Christians, to whom it was 
originally addressed, would have derived no special 
comfort from it had its fulfilment been altogether de- 
ferred for so many centuries. The rigidly literal inter- 
pretation of Babylon, the Jewish tribes, and other sym- 
bols which generally forms a part of Futurist schemes, 
presents peculiar difficulties. 

(3.) The Historical or Continuous expositors, in whose 
opinion the Bevelation is a progressive history of the 
fortunes of the Church from the first, century to the end 
of time. The chief supporters of this most interesting 
interpretation are Mede, Sir 1. Newton, Vitringa, Ben- 
gel, Woodhouse, Faber, E. B. Elliott, Wordsworth, I leng- 
stenberg, Ebrard, and others. The recent t'ornmentary 
of dean Alford belongs mainly to this school. 

Against the historical scheme it is urged that its 
advocates differ very widely among themselves; that 
they assume without any authority that the 12G0 days 
are so many years; that several of its ap|4ications — 
e, g. of the symbol of the ten-horned beast to the popes, 
and t he sixth seal to the conversion of Constantine — 
arc inconsistent with the context; that attempts by 
some of this school to predict future events by the help 
of Bcvelation have ended in repeated failures. 

Two methods have been proposed by which the stu- 


REVELATION 


1067 


REVELATION 


dent of the Revelation may escape the incongruities and 
fallacies of the different interpretations, while he may 
derive edification from whatever truth they contain. It 
has been suggested that the book may be regarded as a 
prophetic poem, dealing in general and inexact descrip- 
tions, much of which may be set down as poetic ima- 
gery-mere embellishment. But such a view would be 
difficult to reconcile with the belief that the book is an 
inspired prophecy. A better suggestion is made, or 
rather is revived, by Dr. Arnold in liis sermons On the 
Interpretation of Prophecy: that we should bear in mind 
that predictions have a lower historical sense, as well as 
a higher spiritual sense ; that there may be one, or more 
than one, typical, imperfect, historical fulfilment of a 
prophecy, in each of which the higher spiritual fulfil- 
ment is shadowed forth more or less distinctly. See 
Double Sense. 

In choosing among the various schemes of interpre- 
tation, we are inclined to adopt that which regards the 
first series of prophetical visions proper (ch. iv-xii) as 
indicating the collapse (in part at the time already 
transpired) of the nearest persecuting power, namely, 
Judaism ; the second series (ch. xiii-xix) as denoting 
the eventual downfall of the succeeding persecutor, i. e. 
Rome (first in its pagan and next in its papal form) ; 
and the third series (xx, 1-10) as briefly outlining the 
final overthrow of a last persecutor, some yet future 
power or influence (figuratively represented by a name 
borrowed from Ezekiel). These three opponents of 
Christianity are set forth as successive developments of 
Antichrist, and the symbols employed are cumulative 
and reiterative rather than historical and consecutive. 
For special explanations, see Antichrist; Magog; 
Number of the Beast, etc. 

VI. Commentaries. — Most of the above questions are 
treated in the regular commentaries and introductions, 
and in numerous monographs, published separately or 
in periodicals. The following are the exegetical helps 
solely on the whole book; to the most important we 
prefix an asterisk: St. Anthony, Expositio (in Opp. 
p. G45) ; Victorious, Scholia (in Bibl. Max. Pair, iii, 
414; Galland. Bibl. Pair, iv, 49; also Par. 1549, 1G09, 
8vo) ; Berengaud, Expositio (in Ambrosii Opp. ii, 499) ; 
Trichonius, Expositio (in Augustini Opp. xvi, 617); 
Primasius, Commentarius (in Bibl. Max. Pafr. vol. x) ; 
Andreas Ca?sar, Commentarius (ibid, v, 590) ; Arethas, 
Explanations (ibid, ix, 741 ; also in (Ecumenii Opp. vol. 
ii) ; Bede, Explanatio (in Opp. v, 701 ; also in lEorA-s, i, 
189 ; xii, 337) ; Ambrosius Autpert. In A pocal. (in Bibl. 
Max. Pat)\ xiii, 403); Alcuin, Comment arii (in Mai, 
Script. Vet. ix, 257); Bruno, in Apocal. (in Opp. vol. i) ; 
Hervaeus, Enarrationes (in Anselmi Opp. ed. Picard, 
1G12); Rupert, In Apocal. (in Opp. ii, 450); Anon. 
Glossa (Ups. 1481, 4to) ; Albert, Comment. (Basil. 150G, 
4to; also in Opp. vol. xi) ; Joann. Viterb. Glossa (Colon. 
1507, 8vo); *Joachim. In Apocal. (Ven. 1519, 1527, 4to) ; 
Hnss, Commentarius (ed. Luther, Vitemb. 1528, 8vo); 
Lambert, Exegesis (Marp. 1528 ; Basil. 1539, 8vo) ; Aimo, 
Commentarius (Colon. 1529, 1531, 1534 ; Par. 1540, 8vo) ; 
Melch. Hoffmann, A uslegung (Argent. 1530, 8vo) ; Bul- 
linger, Condones (Basil. 1535, 1570, and often, fol.; also 
in English, Loud. 1573, 4to) ; Thomas of Wales, Exposi- 
tio (Flor. 1549, 8vo; also in Aquinas, Comment. Paris, 
1G41); Bibliander, Commentarius (Basil. 1549, 8vo) ; 
Meyer, Commentarius (Tigur. 1554, 1G03, fob); Fulke, 
Prcelectiones (Lond. 1557, 1573, 4to); Conrad, Commen- 
tarius (Basil. 15G0, 1574, 8vo); Borrhaus, Commentarius , 
(ibid. 1561; Tigur. 1600, fob); Serranns, Commentaria 
(Complut. 1563, fob) ; Chytneus, Commentarius (Vitemb. 
1563, 1571, 1575, 8vo; Rost. 1581, 4to) ; Artopeeus, Ex- 
plicate (Basil. 15G3, 8vo) ; Selnecker, Erhldrung (Jen. 
1567, 15G8, 1608, 4to); Gvfford, Sermons (Lond. 1573, 
4to); M arlorat us, Exposition (from the Latin, ibid. 1574, 
4to); Brocardus, Interpretatio (L. B. 1580, 1590, 8vo; 
also in English, Lond. 1583, 4to); De Fermo [Rom. 
Cath.], Enar ratio (from the Italian, Antw. 1581, 8vo); 
De Melo [Rom. Catlu], Commentarius (Pint. 1584, fob) ; 


Foxe, Prcelectiones (Lond. 1587, fob ; Geneva, 1596, 1618, 
8vo) ; Bulenger [Rom. Cath.], Ecphrasis (Paris, 1589, 
1597, 8vo); Junius, Illustratio (Heidelb. 1591; Basil. 
1599, 8 vo ; and in Opp. vol. i, 1694; also in French, 
Basle, 1592, 1598; in English, Lond. 1592, 1596, 4to; 
1616, 8vo) ; De Ribera [Rom. Cath.], Commentarius 
(Salam. 1591, fob; Lugd. 1593, 4to; Antw. 1603: Duoc. 
1623, 8vo) ; Gallus, Claris (Antw. 1592, 8vo) ; * Napier, 
Interpretation (Edinb. 1593, 1611, 1645. 4to; in French, 
Rupp. 1603, 1607 ; Geneva, 1643, 4to ; in Dutch, Magdeb. 
1618; in German, Leips. 1611 ; Frankf. 1615, 1627, -8vo ; 
Ger. 1661, 4to) ; Funcke, Erhldrung (Fr.-a.-M. 1 596, 4to) ; 
Du Jon, Exposition (from the French, Lond. 1596, 4to) ; 
Foortlie, Revelatio (ibid. 1597, 4to) ; Winckelmann, Com- 
mentarius (Francf. 1600, 1609; Lub. 1615, 8vo) ; De la 
Perie, Paraphrase (French, Geneva, 1600, 1651, 4to); 
Eglin, Epilysis (Tigur. 1601, fob; ITanov. 1611, 4to); 
Viegas [Rom. Cath.], Commentarii ( Ebor. 1601, fob; 
Lugd. 1602, 1606; Ven. 1602, 1608; Colon. 1603, 1607; 
Par. 1606, 1615, 1630, 4to) ; Richter, Die Offenbarung 
(Leips. 1602, 4to) ; Dent, Exposition (Lond. 1603, 1607, 
4to; 1623, 8vo; 1644, 4to); Pererius, Disputationes 
(Lugd. 1606; Ven. 1607, 4to); Brightmann, Scholia 
(Francf. 1609, 4to; 1618; Heidelb. 1612, 8vo ; also in 
English, Amst. 1611, 1615, 4to; Lond. 1616; Leyd. 1644, 
8vo; and in 1 Vorhs, Lond. 1644, 4to) ; Taffin, Exposition 
(French, Fless. 1609; Middelb. 1614, 8vo); Iloe, Com- 
mentarii (Lips. 1609-11, 2 vols.4to; 1671, fob); Brough- 
ton, Revelation (Lond. 1610, 4to ; also in lEorA's, p. 408); 
Bccan, Commentarius (Mogunt. 1612, 12mo): Lucius, 
Notce (Hanov. 1613, 8vo); Forbes. Commentary (Lond. 
1613, fob ; also in Latin, Amst. 1646, 4to); Cottiere, Ex- 
positio (Salm. 1614 ; Sedan, 1625, 4to) ; Alcassar. [Rom. 
Cath.], Investigate (Antw. 1614; Lugd. 1618, fob); 
also 5 additional Libri (Lugd. 1632, fob) ; Graser, Com- 
mentarius (Tigur. 1614, 4to); Cramer, Erhldrung (Stet. 
1618, 4to); Parens, Commentarius (Heidelberg, 1618, 
1622, 4to; also in English, Amst. 1644, fob); Lauten- 
sack, Erhldrung (Frankf. 1619, 4to) ; Cowper, Commen- 
tary (Lond. 1619, 4to; and in IForAvs, p. 811; also in 
Dutch, Amst. 1656, fob; and in German, Leips. 1671, 
8vo); Montacut, Paraphrasis (Lond. 1619, fob); Clu- 
ver, Morgenlicht (Gosl. 1620, 8vo; in Latin, Lub. 1647, 
fob); Wolter, Auslegung (Rost. 1625, 1629, 4to); De 
Dieu, Animadversiones (L. B. 1627, 4to); *Mede, Claris 
(Cambr. 1627, 1629, 1649, 4to; also in English, ibid. 
1632; Lond. 1643, 1650, 4to; 1831, 12mo; "l833, 8vo; 
both with additional notes in JEor&s, vol. ii); Baaz, 
Commentary (in Swedish, Calmar, 1629, 8vo) ; Anon. 
Explication (French, Loyd. 1633, 4to) ; Le Bux, Para- 
phrase (French, Genev. 1641, 4to); Gerhard, Adnota- 
tiones (Jen. 1643, 1645; Lips. 1712, 4to); Gravius, Ta- 
bulce (L. B. 1647, fob); also Auslegung (Hamb. 1657, 
4to); Holland, Exposition (Lond. 1650, 4to); Hartlib, 
Revelation (from the Dutch, ibid. 1651, 8vo); Ferra- 
rius [Rom. Catli.], Commentaria (Mediol. 1G54, 3 vols. 
fob) ; De la Haye [Rom. Cath.], Commentarii (Par. 
1654 sq., 2 vols. fob); Guild, Explanation (Aberdeen, 
1656, 12mo); Fromond [Rom. Cath.], Commentarius 
(Lov. 1657, 4to; also [with other books] Par. 1670, fob); 
Durham, Commentary (Glasg. 165S, fob; 1680, 1764, 
178S, 4to; Edinb. 1680, 4to; Amst. 1G60, 4to; Falkirk, 
1799, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Amyrald, Introduction (French, Hag, 
1658, 4to); Borcles, Elucidate (Par. 1658, 2 vols. fob); 
also Explicate (ibid. 1 659, fob) ; Ivromayer [J.], Commen- 
tarius (Lips. 1662, 1674, 4to); De Sylveira [Rom. Cath.], 
Commentaria (Lugd. 1663, 1669, 1700, 2 vols. fob); 
Diest [A.], Analysis (Arnh. 1663, 4to) ; More, Apocalyp- 
sis (Lond. 1666, 1680, 4to); and Ratio (ibid. 1666, 4to; in 
English, ibid. 1680, 4to; both in his Opp. ibid. 1675, 
fob); Brenius, Verhlaaringe [includ. Joli.] (Amst. 1G66, 
4to); Pegan, Erhldrung (Frankf. 1670, 1676, 12mo); 
Schindler, Delineation (German, Brunsen. 1670, 4to) ; 
Grellot, Prodromus (L. B. 1675, 4to) ; Kircher [Rom. 
Cath.], Explicate (Colon. 1676, 4to) ; Matt. Hoffman, 
Chronotaxis (Jen. 1678, 1687, 4to) ; Hennisch, Synopsis 
(ibid. 1678, 4to); also llauptsehliissel (Schleus. 1684, 4to ; 


REVELATION 


1068 


REVELATION 


Lcips. 1 G97, Svo; and in Latin, Kottcnb. 1084; Lips. 
1098, 4to); Muller, Elucidatio (Hard. 1684, “2 vols. 4tu); 
Ilerve [Horn. Catli.], Explunatio (Lugd. 1684, -I to) ; 
llcidcggcr, Diatribe (L. 15. 1687, 2 vols. -lto) ; Van We- 
st!, Yerklaaring (Ench. 1088, 4to); Lossnet [Ilona. 
Catli.], Explication (French, I’ar. 1689, Svo); Crcsscner, 
Explication (Loud. 1089, 4to); also Demonstration (ibid. 
1690, lto); also Paraphrase (ibid. 1693, 4to) ; Marck, 
Commentarins (Fr.-a.-Hh. 1089, 1 GOO, 4to) ; La ( 'licrlar- 
die [Ilom. Catli.], Explication (French, Par. 1692, 8vo; 
1702, 1708, lto); I’etcrseiiias, Anleitung (Lcips. 1G9G, 
fol.); 15runsmaim, Phosphorus (llafn. 1G9G, 1699, 8vo) ; 
Gcbhard, Isagoge (Gryplisiv. 1G9G, 1G97, 4to) ; I hirer, 
Erkldrung (Ilanov. 1701, 12 mo) ; Hicrmann, Claris (Fr.- 
a.-IIli. 1702, lto); Vitringa, Anacrisis (Francck. 1705 ; 
Amst. 1719; Wcssenf. 1721, lto) ; Whiston, Essay (Cambr. 
170G, 1741, lto); M. Kromayer, Erkldrung (Lcips. 1708, 
4to); Schwcizcr, Er kid rung (dm, 170!), 8vo) ; Grbne- 
wegen, Auslegung (from the Dutch, Frankf. 1711, 4to); 
Kerckerdcrc [ Ilom. Catli.], Systemu (Lov. 1711, 12mo) ; 
Ilrusskcn, Bchlussel (Offenb. 1713, 4to); Maudit [Horn. 
Catli.], Analyse (Par. 1714, 8vo); Weple, Paraphrase 
(Loud. 1715, 4to) ; Boekholt, Yerklauring (Had. 1717, 
4to) ; Driessen, Meditationes (Fr.-a.-Ilh. 1717, 4to); 
Wells, Help (Oxf. 1718, 8vo); *Daubuz, Commentary 
(Loud. 1720, fol.); Abbadic, Ouverture (Amst. 1721, 2 
vols. 12mo; also in Dutch, by Moubach, ibid. 172G, 2 
vols. 4to); IJomblc, Chronotaxis (ibid. 1721, lto); lleiu- 
beck, Erurterung (Berl. 1722, 8vo); Scheuermann, Er- 
kldrung (Lipstad. 1722, 4to) ; Andola, Claris [inelud. 
other passages] (Leon. 172G, 4 to); Dc Dioncus, Essai 
(Amst. 1729, lto) ; Lange [J.], Erkldrung (Ilal. 1730, fol.) ; 
Dimpcl, Einleitung (Lcips. 1730, 8vo) ; Lancaster, Com- 
mentary (Lond. 1730, 4to) ; Hobcrtson, Exposition (Ed- 
inb. 1730, fol.); Lbsecken, Erkldrung (Hal. 1731, 4to); 
Sir I. Newton, Observations (Lond. 1733, 4to; also in 
Latin, Amst. 1737, 4to); Pyle, Paraphrase (Lond. 1735, 

1795, 8vo); Van den Hornet, Dissert at iones (L. B. 173G, 
4to) ; Lowrnan, .Votes (Lond. 1737, 1745, lto ; 1791 , 1807, 
8vo; and since); *Ilcngel, Erkldrung (Stnttg. 1740, 
174G, 8vo; now ed. ibid. 1834, 8vo; in English, Lond. 
1757, 8vo) ; Keinliard, Chronotaxis (Vinar. 1741, 4 to) ; 
Cromer, Commentarius (Zutph. 1757, lto); Ilarcnberg, 
Erkldrung (Brunsw. 1759, 4to); Felir. Anleitung (AI- 
tenb. 1701, 4to) ; Taylor, Essay (Lond. 17G3, 8vo) ; Swe- 
denborg, Perel a do (Amst. 17GG, lto; in English, Lond. 
1832,2 vols. 8 vo) ; (Jill, Exposition (ibid. 177G, lto) ; Mur- 
ray [J.], Sermons (ibid. 1778, 8vo); Header, Remarks (ibid. 
1778, 8vo) ; Ilcrrnschncider, Teutamen (Argent. 1786, 
4to) ; Mrs. Bowdler, Observations (Bath, 1787, 1800, 8vo); 
Pfeiffer, Anleitung (Stnttg. 1788, 8vo); Purves, Obser- 
vations (Edinb. 1789-93, 2 vols. 8vo); *Eichhorn, Com- 
mentarius (< iott. 1791, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Johnstone, Com- 
mentary (Edinb. 1791, 1807, 2 vols. 8vo); Sender, Er- 
kldrung i Lcips. 1791, 1811, 8vo) ; Hagen, Anmerk. (Erl. 

1796, 8 vo) ; Hilbert, Reflections (French, Guernsey, 179G, 
8voJ ; Suoilgrass, Commentary (Paisley, 1799, Svo); Jung, 
Erkldrung (Nil mb. 1799, 1822, 8vo) ; Mitchell, Exposi- 
tion (Lond. 1800, 8vo); J. Galloway, Commentaries (ibid. 
1802, 8 vo) ; Whitaker, Commentary (ibid. 1802, 8vo) ; 
Woodhouse, . Votes (ibid. 1805, 8vo); also Annotations 
(ibid. 1828, 8vo) ; Thruston, Researches (Coventry, 1812, 
2 vols. 8vo); Fuller, Discourses (Lond. 1815, 8vo; also 
in IPnrFs, p. 136); Holmes, Elucidation (ibid. 1815, Svo) ; 
also Fulfilment (ibid. 1819, 8vo) ; *1 leiurielis, Amiotutio 
(( iott. 1818, 1821 , 2 vols. 8vo ; also in Koppe’s Xew Test.) ; 
Culbertson, lectures (Edinb. 1818. Svo); Girdlcstonc 
[C.], Obsecrations (< >xf. 1820, Svo); Herder, Commentary 
(from the German, Lond. 1821, 12mo); Ganntlctt, Ex- 
position (ibid. 1821, and later, Svo); Laiirmauii, Pne- 
lectio (G rouiug. 1822, Svo); Tillocb, Dissertations (Lond. 
1823, Svo); Park, Exposition (ibid. 1823, Svo); also Ex- 
planation (ibid. 1832, 12mo); Murray [ 11.], Introduction 
(Dubl. 1820, Svo); llolzliauscr, Erkldrung (Loips. 1827, 
Svo); Croly, Interpretation (Lond. 1827, 4to ; 1838, Svo); 
*E\vaM, Commentarius (Lips. 1S2S, Svo; in German, 
Gbtt. 18G2, Svo) ; Mattlbii, Erkldrung ((iott. 1828, Svo) ; 


1 Scholz, Erlauterung (Frankf. 1828, 8vo): Allwood, Key 
(Lond. 1829, 2 vols. Svo); * Lord. Exposition (N. V. 1831, 
Svo); Irving, Lectures (Lond. 1831, 4 vols. 12mo); Lb- 
sec ke, Erkldrung (Hal. 1831, 4to); *Lilcko, Einleitung 
(Bonn. 1832, 1852, Svo); Basset, Explication (French, 
Par. 1832-33, 3 vols. Svo); Cooper, Commentary (Lond. 
1833, Svo); Anon. Unveiling (ibid. 1833, 12mo); Hoe, 
Arrangement (Dubl. 1834. 4to); Ashe, .Votes (ibid. 1834, 
Svo); Boost, Erkldrung (Darmst. 1835, Svo); Hutchin- 
son, Guide (Lond. 1835, Svo); Pearson, Consideration 
(Camb. 1835, Svo) ; Jones, Interpreter (Lond. 1836, 12mo) ; 
Vivien, Explication (French, Par. 1837, 12mo); Sander- 
son, Essays (Lond. 1838, 12mo); Lovett, Explanation 
(ibid. 1838, Svo); Anon. Studies (ibid. 1838, 12mo); 
Franz, Bet rachtungen (Qucdlinb. 1838-40, 3 vols. Svo); 
Tinius, Erkldrung (Leips. 1S39, Svo); *Tullig, Erkld- 
rung (ibid. IS 10, 2 vols. Svo); Ilabcrshon, Exposition 
(Lond. 1841, Svo; 1812, 1844,2 vols.); Paulus[H. E. G.], 
Philosophic (Berl. 1843, Svo) ; Govett, Revelation (Lond. 

I 1843, 12mo); *Stuart, Commentary (Andover and Loud. 
1845, 2 vols. 8vo); Clifford, Exposition (Lond. 1815, 4 
vols. Svo) ; Storey, .Votes (ibid. 18 15, 12mo) ; Von Brandt, 
Erkldrung (Leips. 1845, 1847, Svo); Dc Burgh, Exposi- 
tion (Dubl. 1845, and later, 12mo); Galloway [W. B. ], 
Exposition (Lond. IS IG, 2 vols. Svo) ; Newton [B. W.j, 
Thoughts (ibid. 1846, 1853, Svo); Hooper [J.],£>y)/<m//<o« 
(ibid. 1847, Svo) ; Girdlestone [lb], .Votes (ibid. 1847, 
Svo); Rogers, Lectures (ibid. 1847, 12mo); *Du Wette, 
Erkldrung (Leips. 1848, in bis Exeg. llandb.) ; Iloarc, 
Harmony (Lond. 18 18, Svo); Tregelles, Translation (ibid. 
184S, 12mo); Wordsworth, Lectures (ibid. 1848, Svo); 
also Xotes (ibid. 1849, 12mo) ; also Harmony (ibid. 1851, 
4to) ; Kelly, Interpretation (ibid. 1849-51, 2 vols. 12mo) ; 
Cumming, Lectures (ibid. 1849-52, 3 vols. 12mo); also 
Readings (ibid. 1853, 12mo); Griiber, Erkldrung (Hci- 
dclb. 1850, Svo); Erere, Xotes (Lond. 1850, Svo); ♦El- 
liott, Hone Apoe. (English, ibid. 1851, 4 vols. Svo); 
Goodwin, Exposition (ibid. 1851, Svo); Wickes, Exposi- 
tion (ibid. 1851, 8 vo) ; James, Lectures (ibid. 1851, 12mo) ; 
♦Ilengstenberg, Erlauterung (Berl. 1852, 2 vols. Svo; 
in English, Edinb. and N. Y. 1851-53, 2 vols. Svo); 
♦Jcnour, Rationale Apoc. (English, Loud. 1852, 2 vols. 
Svo); Barnes, Xotes (N. Y. 1852, 12mo); Williams, .Votes 
(Loud. 1852, 8vo); *Ebrard, Erkldrung (Kbnigsb. 1853, 
Svo, in Olshanscn’s Commentin' ); Scott, Interpretation 
(Lond. 1853, Svo); *Aubcrlen, OJfenbarung , etc. (Basel, 
1854, 1857, Svo; in English, Edinb. 1856, Svo) ; Graham, 
Readings (Lond. 1854, 12mo); Sutcliffe, Lectures (ibid. 
1851. Kvo); Stern [Hum. Catli.], Commentin' (Scliaffli. 
1854. Svo) ; WaclUler, Predigtcn (Essen. 1851-55, 2 vols. 
Svo); Grieves, Analysis (Lond. 1855, Svo); Desprez, 
Fulfilment (ibid. 1855, Svo); Pollok, Lectures (ibid. 1855- 
58, 2 vols. I2mo) ; Godwin, Translation (ibid. 1S5G, Svo) ; 
Skeen, Lectures (ibid. 1857, Svo); C. Panins, Blicke 
(Stnttg. 1857, 12mo) ; Winslow, Examination (Loud. 1857, 
12mo); lluntingford, Interpretation (ibid. 1858, 12u;o; 
1871, 1873, Svo); Porter, Lectures (Edinb. 1858, Svo); 
♦Diistcrdieck, Handbnch (Gbtt. 1859, Svo, in Meyer's 
Commentin') ; Monk, Interpretation (Loud. 1859, 12mo); 
Galton, Lectures (ibid. 1859, 2 vols. 12mo); Brandt, J«- 
leitung (Amst. I860, 8vo); Kelly [W.]. Lectures (Lond. 
I860, 1871, Svo) ; ( hirzon, Key (ibid, i860, 12mo) ; Bcnno 
[ Horn. Catli.], Erkldrung (Munich, I860, Svo) ; Maurice, 
Lectures (< 'amlir. 1861, Svo); Hooper [ F. B.]. Exposition 
(Lond. 1861, 2 vols. Svo). Harper, Exposition (ibid. 

1861, 2 vols. Svo); Smith, Exposition (ibid. 1861, Svo); 
Luthardt, Erkldrung (Leips. 1861, Svo) ; Williams, Xotes 
(Lond. 1861, 1873, Svo); *Yolkmar, Commentin' (/.Ur. 

1862, Svo); Sahel, Erkldrung (lleidclb. 1862, Svo); 
Tucker, Explanation (Lond. 1862, 12mo) ; Kcmmler, Er- 
Iduterung (Ti'ib. 1S63, Svo); Vaughan, Lectures (Lond. 

1863, 2 vols. Svo); Block, Yorlesnngen (Berl. 1863, Svo; 
in English, Lond. 1S75, Svo); Jessin, Erkldrung (Leips. 
1861, Svo); Blech, Uebersirht (Dantz. 1864, Svo); Pa- 
vilions, Erlauterung (Leips. 1864, Svo); Liimmert, Aus- 
legung (Stnttg. 1864, Svo) ; Clay, Exposition (Loud. 

1864, Svo); Hichtcr, Auslegung (Lcips. 1861, Svo); 


REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 10(39 REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 


Ilirschfeld, Erlauterung (Saarb. 18G5, 8vo); Diedrich, 
Erlauterung (Neu Rupp. 1865, 8vo) ; >Y. A. B., Lectures 
(Dubl. 1865, 8vo) ; De Rougemont, Explication (French, 
Neuchatel, 1866, 8vo) ; Bbhmer, Yersuch (Bresl. 1866, 
8vo) ; Garrett, Commentary (Loud. 1866, 8vo) ; Harvey, 
Exposition (ibid. 1867, 8vo) ; Riemann, Erlauterung 
(Halle, 1868, Svo); Armstrong, Illustration (Bond. 1808, 
8vo); Tomlin, Interpretation (ibid. 1868, Svo); Snell, 
Notes (2d ed. ibid. 1869, 8vo); Seirs, Lectures (ibid. 
I860, Svo) ; Stone, Explanation (ibid. 1869, l2mo) ; 
Vaughan, Lectures (3d ed. ibid. 1870, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Kienlen, Commentaire (Paris, 1870, 8vo); Anon. Com- 
mentary (Lond. 1870, 8vo) ; *Cowles, Notes (X. Y. 1871, 
l2rao); Anon. Exposition (ibid. 1871, Svo); Pond, 
Opening (Edinb. 1871, Svo); Glasgow, Exposition (ibid. 
1872, 8vo) ; Gitrtner, Erklarung (Stuttg. 1872, Svo); 
Harms, Erlauterung (Leips. 1873, 8vo); *KIiefoth, Er- 
klarung (ibid. 1874, 3 vols. Svo) ; Lincoln, Lectures (Lond. 
1874, 12mo); Fuller, Erklarung (Nordl. 1874, 8vo); lien- 
lev, Musings (Lond. 1874, 12mo); Robinson, Exposi- 
tions (ibid. 1876, Svo) ; Baylee, Commentary (ibid. 1877, 
Svo); Wolfe, Exposition (ibid. 1877, 8vo). See New 
Testament. 

The following are exclusively on the epistles to the 
seven churches : Lauren tins, Exposiiio (Amst. 1649, 
4to) ; Ramirez, Commentarius (Lugd. 1652, fob); More, 
Exposition (Lond. 1669, 12mo): Smith, Epistola [topo- 
graphical] (ibid. 1678, Svo); Johnson, Laodicean Age 
(ibid. 1733, 8vo) ; Allen, Improvement (ibid. 1733, 8vo) ; 
Wadsworth, Lectures (Idle, 1825, 12mo); Theime, Com- 
ment at io (L. B. 1827, 4to); Wichelhans, Fredigten (El- 
berf. 1827, 8vo) ; * Arundel, Visit [descriptive] (Lond. 
1828, 8vo) ; Milner [J.], Mentions (ibid. 1830, 8vo) ; INIil- 
ner [T.], History (ibid. 1832, Svo) ; Withy, Lectures (ibid. 
1833, 8vo) ; Hyatt, Sermons (ibid. 1834, l2mo); Muir, 
Se7’mons (ibid. 1835, 12mo) ; *M‘Farlane, Seven Churches 
[descriptive, with etchings] (ibid. 1836, 4to) ; Blunt, 
Exposition (ibid. 1838, 12mo) ; Carr, Sermons (ibid. 1840, : 
l2mo) ; Wallace, Consideration (ibid. 1842, Svo) ; West, 
Discourses (ibid. 1846, 12mo) ; Thompson, Sermons (ibid. 
1848, 8vo) ; Stathan, Lectures (ibid. 1848, 12mo) ; Heub- 
ner, Predigten (Berl. 1850, 8vo) ; Tom, Die sieben Sencl- 
schr. (Bayr. 1850, Svo); Camming, Lectures (Lond. 1850, 
12mo); Parker, Interpretation (ibid. 1852, 12mo) ; Cham- 
berlain, Seven Ages (ibid. 1856, Svo) ; Biber, Sermons 
(ibid. 1857, 12mo); *Trench, Commentary (ibid, and 
N. Y. 1861, 12mo) ; *Svobode, Seven Churches [with 20 
photographs, and Notes by Tristram] (Lond. 1869, 4 to) ; 
*Plumptre, Exposition (ibid. 1877, 12mo) ; Anon. Sym- 
bolic Parables (Edinb. 1877, 12mo). See Asia Minor. 

REVELATIONS, Spurious. The Apocalyptic char- 
acter, which is occupied in describing the future splen- 
dor of the Messianic kingdom and its historical relations, 
presents itself for the first time in the book of Daniel, 
which is thus characteristically distinguished from the 
former prophetical books. In the only prophetical book 
of the New Test., the Apocalypse of John, this idea is 
fully developed, and the several apocryphal revelations 
are mere imitations, more or less happy, of these two 
canonical books, which furnished ideas to a numerous 
class of writers in the first ages of the Christian Church. 
We here consider those especially which profess to be 
of a prophetic character. The principal spurious reve- 
lations extant have been published by Fabricins, in his 
Cod. Pseudep. F. T., and Cod. Apoc. N. T., and their char- 
acter has been still more critically examined in reeent 
times by archbishop Lanrenee (who has added to their 
number), by Nitzsch, Bleek, and others, and especially 
by Dr. Liicke, in his Einleit. in die Offeiibarung Johan, 
und die gesammte apocalyptische Literatur. (See the 
preceding article.) Tischendorf, in his Apocalypses Apoc- 
rypha (Lips. 1866, 8vo), has published the following : 
“Apocalypsis Mosis” (Gr. ed. princeps) ; “Apocalypsis 
Esdrse” (Gr. ed. pr.); “Apocalypsis Pauli” (Gr. ed. pr.); 

“ Apocalypsis Johannis” (Gr. ed. pr.) ; “ Johannis Liber 
de Dominatione Maria;” (Gr.ed.pr.) ; “Translatio Marias" 
(Lat. ed. pr.) ; another “ Translatio Maria;” (Lat.) ; “ Ad- 


ditamenta ad Acta Apost. Apocrypha;” “Ad Acta An- 
drea; et Matthias, ex eodiee uneiali;” “Ad Acta Philip- 
pi, ex codd. Parisiensi et Barocciano;” “Ad Acta Tho- 
ma?, e codd. Moncrensi et Bodleiano;” “Acta Petri et 
Andrea*, in fine mutila, e cod. Barocciano.” For the ac- 
count below we are partly indebted to Kitto’s Cyclop. 
See Apocrypha. 

I. Pseudo-Revelations Purporting to Refer to Hebrew 
Characters. — These are principally the following: 

1, 2. The Apocalypse of Adam and that of Abraham 
are cited by Epiphanius (Hares, xxxi, 8) as Gnostic 
productions. They are now wholly lost. 

3. The Book of Enoch is one of the most curious of 
the spurious revelations, resembling in its outward form 
both the book of Daniel ‘and the Apocalypse; but it is 
uncertain whether this latter work or the book of Enoch 
was first written. See Enoch, Book of. 

4. The Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs is a sim- 
ilar apocryphal production. See Testament of thf 
Twelve Patriarchs. 

5. The Apocalypse of Moses, mentioned by Syncellus 
( Chronog .) and Cedrenns (Comp. Hist.'), fragments of 
which have been published by Fabricins (ut sup.), is 
conjectured by Grotius to have been a forgery of one of 
the ancient Christians. 

In addition to this and the above work published by 
Tischendorf, there has lately been discovered an “As- 
cension” or “ Assumption of Moses, ” in the 

library at Milan, which has been published bv Ceriani 
(Monumenta Sacra [Mediol. 1861]); Ililgenfeld (N.T. 
extra Canonem [Lips. 1866]) ; Volkmar ( Handb . z. d. 
Apokr. [Leips. 1867, vol. iii]); and Mcrx (Archiv f. 
wiss. Erforsch. etc. [ibid. 1867, vol. ii ]). It represents 
an interview between Moses and Joshua just before the 
death of the former, and professes to depict the future 
history of Israel. It seems to have been written by a 
Jew of the early Christian times (Ewald, Jalubucher, 
1852, 1853). See Moses. 

These are different works from the so-called “ Little 
Genesis.” See Jubilees, Book of. 

6. The Ascension and Vision of Isaiah (' Arafiarucbv 
Kai'QpaoiQ 'H oatov), although for a long time lost to 
the world, was a work well known to the ancients, as is 
indicated by the allusions of Justin Martyr, Origcn, 
Tertullian, and Epiphanius. The first of these writers 
(Dial. c. Tryph. ed. Paris, p. 349) refers to the aceount 
therein contained of the death of Isaiah, who “was sawn 
asunder with a wooden saw— a fact,” he adds, “which 
was removed by the Jews from the sacred text.” Ter- 
tullian, also (De Patientia), among other examples from 
Scripture, refers to the same event; and in the next 
(the 3d) century Origen (Epist. ad African.'), after stat- 
ing that the Jews were accustomed to remove many 
things from the knowledge of the people which they 
nevertheless preserved in apocryphal or secret writings, 
adduces as an example the death of Isaiah, “who was 
sawn asunder, as stated in a certain apocryphal writing, 
which the Jews perhaps corrupted in order to throw dis- 
credit on the ■whole.” In his Comm, on Matt, lie refers 
to the same events, observing that if this apocryphal 
work is not of sufficient authority to establish the ac- 
count of the prophet’s martyrdom, it should be believed 
upon the testimony borne to that work by the author 
of the Epistle to the Hebrews (Ileb. xi,37) ; in the same 
manner as the account of the death of Zechariah should 
be credited upon the testimony borne by our Saviour to 
a writing not found in the common and published books 
(koivoiq Kai dtdiiptvfievoiQ (3i(3Aioie;), but probably in 
an apocryphal work. Origen cites a passage from the 
apocryphal account of the martyrdom of Isaiah in one 
of his Homilies (ed. De la Rue, iii, 108). The Apos- 
tolical Constitutions also refer to the apocryphal books 
of Moses, Enoch, Adam, and Isaiah as writings of some 
antiquit}'. 

The first writer, however, who mentions the Ascen- 
sion of Isaiah by name is Epiphanius, in the 4th cen- 
tury, who observes (Hceres. xl.) that the apocryphal As- 


REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS KUO REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 


ccnsion of Isaiah was adduced by the Archonites in sup- 
port of their opinions respecting the seven heavens and 
their archons, or ruling angels, as well as by the Egyp- 
tian Ilieracas and liis followers in confirmation of their 
heretical opinions respecting the Holy Spirit; at the 
same time citing the passage from the 'Arafiarncoi' to 
which they refer (Ascens. of Isaiah ix, 27, 32-36; xi, 
32,33). Jerome also (in Fsai.lxiv, 4) expressly names 
the work, asserting it to be an apocryphal production 
originating in a passage in the New Test. (1 Cor. ii, 9). 
St. Ambrose (Opp. i, 1121) cites a passage contained in 
it, but only as a traditionary report, “plerique ferunt” 
(Ascens. of Isaiah v, 4-8) ; and the author of the Imper- 
fect Work on Matthew , a work of the 5th century erro- 
neously attributed to St. Chrysostom (Chrysost. Opp. 
hom. 1), evidently cites a passage from the same work 
(Ascens. of Isaiah i, 1, etc.). After this period all trace 
of the book is lost until the 1 1th century, when Euthvm- 
ius Zigabenus informs us that the Messalian heretics 
made use of that “abominable pscudepigraphal work 
the r«io» of Isaiah." It was also used (most probably 
in a Latin version) by the Cathari in the West (I‘. Mo- 
neta, .1 dr. Catliaros, ed. liich. p. 218). The Vision of 
Isaiah is also named in a catalogue of canonical and 
apocryphal books in a Paris MS. (No. 1789), after the 
Qneest. el Resp. of Anastasius (Cotelcrius, PI\ A post, i, 
197, 349). Sixtus of Sienna (Bibl. Sand. 15GG) states 
that the Vision of Isaiah, as distinct from the A navasis 
(as he calls it), had been printed at Venice. Referring 
to this last publication, the late archbishop Laurence ob- 
serves that he had hoped to find in some bibliographical 
work a further notice of it, but that he had searched in 
vain; concluding, at the same time, that it must have 
been a publication extracted from the Ascension of Isai- 
ah or a Latin translation of the Vision, as the title of it 
given by Sixtus was “ Visio Admirabilis Esaiaa Prophetic 
in Baptu Mantis, quae Divime Trinitatis Arcana et Lap- 
si Generis llnmani Rcdemptionem continet.” Dr. Lau- 
rence observes also that the mode of Isaiah’s death is 
further in accordance with a Jewish tradition recorded 
in the Talmud ( Yebammoth , iv) ; and he supposes that 
Mohammed may have founded his own journey through 
seven different heavens on this same apocryphal work, 
lie shows, at the same time, by an extract from the Ra- 
both, that the same idea of the precise number of seven 
heavens accorded with the Jewish creed. 

There appeared now to be little hopes of recovering 
the lost Ascension of Isaiah, when Dr. Laurence (then 
regins professor of Hebrew in the University of Oxford) 
had the good fortune to purchase from a bookseller in 
Drury Lane an Ethiopic MS. containing the identical 
book, together with the canonical book of Isaiah ami 
the fourth (called in the Ethiopic the first) book of Es- 
dras. It is entitled the Ascension of the Prophet Isai- 
ah, the first chapters containing the martyrdom, and 
the rest (for it is divided in the MS. into chapters and 
verses) the Ascension, or Vision, of Isaiah. At the end 
of the canonical book are the words, “Here ends the 
prophet Isaiah;” after which follows the Ascension, 
etc.; concluding with the words, “Here ends Isaiah 
the prophet with his Ascension.” Then follows a post- 
script, from which it appears that it was transcribed for 
a priest named Aaron, at the cost of a piece of fine cloth 
twelve measures long and four broad. The Ascension 
of Isaiah was published by Dr. Laurence at Oxford in 
1819, with a new Latin and an English version. This 
discovery was first applied to the illustration of Script- 
ure by Geseuins (Comm, on Isaiah). Some time after- 
wards the indefatigable Dr. Angelo Mai (Mora Col- 
led. Script. Vet. e 1 ’at. Coild. [Rome, 1828 J) published 
two Latin fragments as an appendix to his Sermon. 
A rian. Fragment. A ntiqniss., which lie conjectured to be 
portions of some ancient apocryphal writings. Niebuhr, 
however, perceived them to be fragments of the Ascen- 
sion and Vision of Isaiah; and Dr. Nitzsch (Xaehweis- 
ung zireger Bruchstiicke , etc., in the Theolog. Stud, uml 
Kritik. 1830) was enabled to compare them with the 


two corresponding portions (ii, 14-iii, 12; vii, 1-19) of 
the Ethiopic version. Finally, in consequence of the 
more complete notice of the Venetian edition of the 
Latin version given by Panzer ( Anna l. Typog. viii, 473), 
Dr. Giesclcr had a strict search made for it, which was 
eventually crowned with success, a copy being discov- 
ered in the library at Munich. This work, the date of 
whose impression was 1522, contained also the Gospel 
of Xicodemus and the Letter of Lentulus to the Roman 
Senate. The Latin version contains the Vision only, 
corresponding to the last chapters of the Ethiopic ver- 
sion. 

The subject of the first part is the martyrdom of Isai- 
ah, who is here said to have been sawn asunder in con- 
sequence of the visions which lie related to Ilezekiah, 
in the twenty-sixth year of the reign of that monarch, 
different from those in the canonical book. These 
relate principally to the coming of “Jesus Christ the 
Lord” from the seventh heaven; his being changed 
into the form of a man; the preaching of his twelve 
apostles; his final rejection and suspension on a tree, in 
company with the workers of iniquity, on the day before 
the Sabbath; the spread of the Christian doctrine; the 
last judgment ; and his return to the seventh heaven. 
Before this, however, the arch-fiend Berial is to descend 
on earth in the form of an impious monarch, the murder- 
er of his mother , where, after his image is worshipped 
in every city for three years seven months and twenty- 
seven days, he and his powers are to be dragged into 
Gehenna. 

The second portion of the work gives a prolix account 
of the prophet’s ascent through seven heavens, each 
more resplendent and more glorious than the other. It 
contains distinct prophetical allusions to the miraculous 
birth of Christ of the Virgin Mary at Bethlehem; his 
crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension ; and the worship 
of “ the Father, his beloved Christ, and the Iloly Spirit.” 
The mode of the prophet’s own death is also announced 
to him. “The whole work,” observes its learned trans- 
lator, “is singularly characterized by simplicity of nar- 
ration, by occasional sublimity of description, and by 
richness as well as vigor of imagination.” Dr. Laurence 
conceives that the writer had no design of imposing 
upon the world a spurious production of his own as that 
of the prophet, but rather of composing a work, avow- 
edly fictitious, but accommodated to the character and 
consistent with the prophecies of him to whom it is as- 
cribed. 

As to the age of this work, Dr. Laurence supposes, 
from the obvious reference to Nero and the period of 
three years seven months and twenty-seven days, and 
again of three hundred and thirty- two days, after 
which Berial was to be dragged to Gehenna, that the 
work was written after the death of Nero (which took 
place on June 9, A.I). G8), but before the close of the 
year GO. Liieke, however ( Einleitung ), looks upon 
these numbers as purely arbitrary and apocalyptical, 
and maintains that the dogmatical character of the 
work, the allusion to the corruptions of the Church, the 
absence of all reference to the destruction of Jerusa- 
lem, and the Chiliastic view, all point to a later period. 
All that can be considered as certain respecting its date 
is that the first portion was extant before the time of 
Origen and the whole before Epiphanius. It has been 
doubted whether the work does not consist of two inde- 
pendent productions, which were afterwards united into 
one, as in the Ethiopic version; but this is a question 
impossible to decide in the absence of the original. The 
Latin fragments discovered by Mai correspond literally 
with the Ethiopic; while they not only differ from the 
Venetian edition in single phrases, but the latter con- 
tains passages so striking as to induce the supposition 
that it is derived from a later recension of the original 
text. 

The author was evidently a Jewish Christian, as ap- 
pears from the use made of the Talmudical legend al- 
ready referred to, as well as by his representing the false 


REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 1071 REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 


accuser of Isaiah as a Samaritan. The work also abounds 
in Gnostic, Valenti nian, ami Ophitic notions, such as the 
account of the seven heavens and the presiding angels 
of the first five, the gradual transmutation of Christ un- 
til his envelopment in the human form, and finally the 
docetic conception of his history on earth. All this has 
induced Liicke (ut sup.) to consider the whole to be a 
Gnostic production of the 2d or 3d century, of which, 
however, the martyrdom was first written. Dr. Lau- 
rence finds so strong a resemblance between the account 
of the seven heavens here and in the testament of Levi 
( Twelve Patriarchs'), that he suspects the latter to “ be- 
tray a little plagiarism.” If this learned divine were 
right in his conjecture respecting the early age of this 
production, it would doubtless afford an additional testi- 
mony, if such were wanting, to the antiquity of the be- 
lief in the miraculous conception and the proper deity 
of Jesus, who is here called the Beloved, the Lord, the 
Lord God, and the Lord Christ. In respect, however, to 
another passage, in which the Son and Holy Spirit are 
represented as worshipping God, the learned prelate tru- 
ly observes that this takes place only in the character 
of angels, which they had assumed. 

Dr. Liicke observes that the drapery only of the apoc- 
alyptic element of this work is Jewish, the internal char- 
acter being altogether Christian. But in both form and 
substance there is an evident imitation, if not of the 
Apocalypse of St. John, at least of the book of Daniel 
and of the Sibylline oracles. The use of the canonical 
Apocalypse Liicke (op. cit. § 16) considers to be undeni- 
able in viii, 45. Comp. Rev. vii, 21-23; xix, 10; xxii, 
8, 9. See Isaiah. 

7. The Epistle of Bmmch is given as the “First Book 
of Baruch” in the Paris and London Polyglots in Syriac 
and Latin, the “Second Book of Baruch” being there 
what is commonly known as the apocryphal book of 
Baruch. This letter is also contained in the Syriac 
“Apocalypse of Baruch” noticed below. 

(I.) The Desiyn of this Epistle is to comfort the nine 
tribes and a half who were beyond the river Euphrates, 
by assuring them that the sufferings which they have 
to endure in their captivity, and which are far less than 
they deserve, are but for a season, and are intended to 
atone, for their sins; and that God, whose love towards 
Israel is unchangeable, will speedily deliver them from 
their troubles and requite their oppressors. They are 
therefore not to be distracted by the prosperity of their 
wicked enemies, which is but momentary, but to ob- 
serve the law of Moses, and look forward to the day of 
judgment, when all that is now perplexing will be rec- 
tified. 

(II.) The Method or Plan which the writer adopted 
to carry out the design of this epistle will best be seen 
from a brief analysis of its contents. Being convinced 
of the unchangeable love of God towards his people 
(i, 2), and of the close attachment subsisting between 
all the tribes (ver. 3), Baruch feels constrained to write 
this epistle before he dies (ver. 4) to comfort his cap- 
tive brethren under their sufferings (ver. 5), which are 
far less than they deserve (ver. 6), and are designed to 
atone for (ver. 7, 8), as well as to wean them from, their 
sins (ver. 9), so that God might gather them together 
again. Baruch then informs them, first of all, that Zion 
has been delivered to Nebuchadnezzar because of the 
sins of the children of Israel (ver. 11, 12). That the 
enemy, however, might not boast that he had destroyed 
the sanctuary of the Most High by the strength of his 
own arm, God sent angels from heaven to destroy the 
forts and walls, and also to hide some of the vessels of 
the Temple (ver. 13-16) ; whereupon the enemy carried 
the Jews as captives to Babylon, and left only few in 
Zion (ver. 17), this being the burden of the epistle (ver. 
18, 19). But they are to be comforted (ver. 20), for 
while he was mourning over Zion and praying for mer- 
cy (ver. 21,22) the Lord revealed words of cousolation 
to Baruch that he might comfort his brethren, which is 
the cause of his writing this epistle (ver. 23, 24), viz. 


that the Most High will punish their enemies, and that 
the day of judgment is nigh (ver. 25, 26). The great 
prosperity of the world (ver. 27), its spleudid govern- 
ment (ver. 28), great strength (ver. 29) and glory (ver. 
30), luxurious life (ver. 31), barbarous cruelty (ver. 32), 
and glorious dominion (ver. 33) which the Gentiles now 
enjoy, notwithstanding their wickedness, will speedily 
vanish, for the day of judgment is at hand (ver. 34), 
when every thought and deed will be examined and 
made manifest (ver. 35, 36). The captive Jews are 
therefore not to envy any of the present things, but 
patiently to look forward to the promises of the latter 
days (ver. 37, 38), the fulfilment of which is rapidly ap- 
proaching, and for which they are to prepare them- 
selves, lest, by neglecting this, they might lose both 
this world and the world to come (ver. 39-41). All 
that now happens tends to this truth (ii, 1-7). This 
Baruch sets forth to lead his brethren to virtue (ver. 8), 
and to warn them of God’s judgment before he dies 
(ver. 9), that they may give heed to the words of Mo- 
ses, who, in Dent, iv, 26; xxviii; xxx, 19; xxxi, 28, 
foretold what would befall them for leaving the law 
(ver. 9-12). Baruch also assures them that after they 
have suffered and become obedient they shall receive 
the reward laid up for them (ver. 13, 14), charges them 
to regard this epistle as a testimony between him and 
his brethren that they may be mindful of the law, the 
holy land, their brethren, the covenant of their forefa- 
thers, the solemn feasts and Sabbaths (ver. 15, 16), to 
transmit it, together with the law, to their children (ver. 
17), and to be instant in prayer to God that he may 
pardon their sins and impute unto them the righteous- 
ness of their forefathers (ver. 18. 19), for “unless God 
judges ns according to the multitude of his mercies, 
woe to ns all who are born” (ver. 20). He, moreover, 
assures them that notwithstanding the fact that they 
have now no prophets and holy men in Zion to pray 
for them as in former days, yet if they rightly dispose 
their hearts they will obtain incorruptible treasures for 
their corruptible losses (ver. 21-27), and admonishes 
them constantly to remember these things, and prepare 
themselves, while in possession of this short life, for the 
life that is to come (ver. 28-35), when repentance will 
be impossible, as the judgment pronounced upon every 
one will be final (ver. 36-39) ; and to read the epistle on 
the solemn fast (ver. 40, 41). 

(1H.) The Unity of the Epistle. — The foregoing anal- 
ysis will show that every part of this epistle contributes 
to the development of the main design of the writer, 
thus demonstrating the unity of the whole. This is, 
moreover, corroborated by the uniformity of diction 
which prevails throughout this document. It must, 
however, be admitted that hvpercriticism may find some 
ground for scepticism in the latter part of it, viz. ii, 21- 
41. But even if it could be shown that this is a later 
addition, it would not interfere with the design of the 
whole. 

(IV.) The A uthor, Date, and Canonicity of the Epistle. 
— With the solitary exception of the learned and eccen- 
tric William Whiston (who has translated it in A Col- 
lection of Authentic Records [Lond. 1727]), this epistle 
has been, and still is, regarded by all scholars as pseu- 
depigraphic, and we question whether a critic could be 
found in the present day bold enough to defend its Ba- 
ruchic authorship. aTl that we can gather from the 
document itself is: 1. That it was written by a Jew, as 
is evident (a) from the Hagadic story, mentioned in i, 
13-15, about the destruction of the w alls and forts by 
the angels and the hiding of the holy vessels (comp, 
also 2 Macc. ii, 1-4) ; (6) from the solemn admonition 
strictly to adhere to the law of Moses ; (c) from the 
charge that this epistle be transmitted by the Jews to 
their posterity, together with the law of Moses, and be 
read in their assemblies at their fasts; and 2. That it was 
written most probably about the middle of the 2d cen- 
tury B.C., as appears from the admonition to be patient 
under the sufferings from the Gentiles, and to wait for 


REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 10 

the day of judgment which is close at hand (i, "7-41), 
and the frequent reference to a future life. Ewald 
( Oesck . hr. iv, 233) and Eritzsclie (Exeget. Ifandb. zu 
den Apokr. i, 175) contemptuously dismiss it in a few 
lines, and most unjustly regard it as written “in a pro- 
lix and senseless style” bg a monk. Besides the Lon- 
don and Paris Polyglots, the Syriac is contained in the 
beautiful edition of the Apocrypha just published ( lAbri 
Veleris Testament i A pocrgphi Sgriace, recogn. Paul. 
Anton, do Lagarde, Loud, 1*01), and the Latin may be 
found in Fabrieii Cud. Pseudepigr . 1'. T. ii, 147 sq. See 
Butrcir. 

«. The . I pocalgpse of Baruch was discovered in a 
Syrian manuscript, judged by Cureton to belong to the 
(>th century, and was first published by Cerrain in 1 SGG 
in a close Latin translation (.1/on. Sac.et Prof. I, ii,73- 
its), and in 1S»71 in the original Syriac (ibid. V, ii). 
The last few chapters, however, had long been known 
as the “ Epistle of Baruch” noticed above. 

(1.) Contents . — The composer of this work has, like 
the author of the book of Baruch in the ordinary Apoc- 
rypha of the Old 'Jest., chosen as the fictitious writer 
of his revelations the friend and amanuensis of Jere- 
miah. The scene is laid in or near Jerusalem ; and the 
supposed time is that immediately preceding and fol- 
lowing the destruction of the city and the transporta- 
tion of the people to Babylon. The author professes 
to give the exact year, “ the twenty-fifth of Jechoniah 
of Judah.” Jechoniah must here stand for Jchoiakim, 
and the twenty-fifth year ought to be the eleventh. 
The work divides itself into seven parts, if we treat the 
letter to the nine and a half tribes as a kind of appen- 
dix. Baruch is throughout represented as the speaker, 
referring to himself in the first person, except in the 
opening of ch. i and Ixxviii, which are of the nature of 
a title. 

The first part (ch. i-ix) opens by telling how the 
Word of the Lord came to Baruch, and warned him of 
the destruction impending over Jerusalem on account 
of the wickedness of its inhabitants. The punishment 
should last only for a time, and the ruin of the city 
should not be accomplished by the hands of its enemies. 
The next day the army of the Chahkvans surrounded 
Jerusalem ; and when the sacred vessels had been com- 
mitted to the safe custody of the earth, to be kept till 
the last times, angels overthrew the walls, the enemy 
were admitted, and the people were led captive to Baby- 
lon. Then Baruch and Jeremiah rent their clothes and 
fasted seven days. 

In the second part (ch. x-xii) Jeremiah is sent to 
Babylon, but Baruch is told to remain amid the desola- 
tion of Zion, that Hod may show him what will come 
to pass at the end of days. .So Baruch sits before the 
gates of the Temple and utters a lamentation over the 
fate of Zion, and prophesies vengeance against the vic- 
torious land now so prosperous. Having thus given 
vent to his grief, he again fasts for seven days. 

In the third part(ch. xiii-xx) lie stands upon Mount 
Zion, and is told that he shall be preserved till the end 
of times, that he may bear testimony against the na- 
tions which oppressed his people, lie answers that 
only few shall survive in those days to hear the word 
of the Lord, and complains that those who have not 
walked in vanity like other peoples have derived no ad- 
vantage Ironi their faithfulness. The Lord answers that 
the future world was made on account of the just, “for 
this world is a contest and trouble to them in much 
Libor, and therefore that which is to come is a crown in 
great glory.” In further conversation Baruch is ad- 
vised not to estimate the blessings of life by its length, 
and to look rather to the end than the beginning. "lie 
is then desired to sanctify himself and fast for seven 
days. 

In the fourth part (eh. xxi-xxx) be comes from a 
cave in the valley of Cedron, whither he had with- 
drawn, to the place where Hod spoke with him before. 

It is sunset, and he begins to deplore the bitterness of 


72 REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 

life, and calls upon God to hasten the promised end. In 
reply he is reminded of his ignorance, and told that the 
predetermined number of men must be completed, but 
“that the end is not far distant.” Baruch then says 
that he does not know what will happen to the enemies 
of his people, or at what time God will visit them. 
The signs of the end are accordingly enumerated, the 
last time being divided into twelve parts, each with its 
distinguishing characteristic. These parts, however, 
are to be mixed together and to minister to one an- 
other. The specified signs shall affect the whole earth, 
“and then Messiah will begin to be revealed.” A de- 
scription of the Messianic period follows, on which we 
need not dwell. With this the conversation terminates, 
and though the usual fast is not mentioned, the section 
evidently comes to a close. 

In the fifth part (ch. xxxi-xliii), having consoled the 
people by telling them of the future glory of Zion, he 
goes and sits upon the ruins of the Temple. While he 
laments he falls asleep, and has a vision of a vine and a 
cedar, of which the interpretation is afterwards given 
to him. The vision relates to the triumph of the Mes- 
siah. Baruch then asks, To whom and to how many 
shall these things be, or who shall be worthy to live in 
that time? for many of God’s people have thrown away 
the yoke of the law, but others have left their vanity 
and fled for refuge under God’s wings. God answers 
him, To those who have believed will be the predicted 
blessings, and to those who despise will be the opposite 
of this. Baruch is then commanded to go ami instruct 
the people, and afterwards to fast for seven days, pre- 
paratory to further communications. 

In the sixth part (ch. xliv-xlvii) he calls together 
his first-born son, bis friend Gadelii, and seven of the 
elders of the people, and tells them that he is going to 
his fathers, according to the ways of all the earth, lie 
exhorts them not to depart from the law, and promises 
that they shall see “the consolation of Zion.” lie 
dwells on the rewards and punishments of the future 
world, desires them to advise the people, and assures 
them that, though he must die, “a wise man shall not 
be wanting to Israel, nor a son of the law to the race of 
Jacob.” lie then goes to Hebron, and fasts for seven 
days. 

In the seventh part (ch. xlviii-lxxvi) he prays for 
compassion on this people, the people whom God has 
chosen, and who are unlike all others. He is told that 
the time of tribulation must arise, and many of its cir- 
cumstances are recounted. lie deplores such sad con- 
sequences of the sin of Adam, and in answer to an in- 
quiry he is informed about the resurrection and its re- 
sults. At last he falls asleep and has a vision. As this 
vision (ch. liii) and its interpretation (ch. lvi-lxxiv), 
though they bring ns to no definite date, throw an in- 
teresting light, upon the uncertain methods in which 
history was parcelled out into periods, we may notice 
them at more length than would otherwise be neces- 
sary. A cloud ascended from the great sea, and it was 
full of white and black waters, and a similitude of light- 
ning appeared at its extremity. It passed quickly on 
and covered the whole earth. Afterwards it began to 
discharge its rain; but the waters which descended 
from it were not all alike, for first there were very black 
waters for a time, and afterwards the waters became 
bright, but of these there were not many. Black waters 
succeeded and again gave place to bright, and so on for 
twelve times; but the black waters were always more 
than the bright. At the end of the cloud it rained black 
waters, and these were darker than all that had been be- 
fore, and fire was mingled with them, and they brought 
corruption and ruin. After these things the lightning 
which he had seen in the ext remit y of the cloud flashed 
so that it illumined the whole earth, and it healed those 
regions where the last waters had descended. After this 
twelve rivers ascended from the sea and surrounded that 
lightning, and were made subject to it. At this point 
Baruch awoke through fear. In answer to his prayer 


REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 1073 REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 


for the interpretation of the vision, the angel Ramiel 
was sent to satisfy his request. The cloud symbolized 
“ the length of the age.” The first black waters were 
the sin of Adam, with its consequences, including the 
fall of the angels and the flood. The second— the bright 
waters— were Abraham and his descendants, and those 
who were like them. The third (black) waters were 
the mixture of all the sinners after the death of these 
just men, and the iniquity of the land of Egypt. The 
fourth (bright) waters were the advent of Moses, Aaron, 
Miriam, Joshua, Caleb, and all who were like them, in 
whose time “the lamp of the eternal law shone upon all 
who were sitting in darkness.” The fifth (black) waters 
were the works of the Amorites, and the sins of the Is- 
raelites in the days of the judges. The sixth (bright) 
waters were the time of David and Solomon. The sev- 
enth (black) waters w r ere the perversion of Jeroboam, 
and the sins of his successors, and the time of the cap- 
tivity of the nine and a half tribes. The eighth (bright) 
waters were the righteousness of Ilezekiah. The ninth 
(black) waters were the universal impiety in the days 
of Manasseh. The tenth (bright) w r aters were the 
purity of the generations of Josiab. The eleventh 
(black) waters w r ere the calamity which had just hap- 
pened to Zion. The rest of the interpretation is, of 
course, given in the future tense. “As for the twelfth 
(bright) waters which thou hast seen, this is the world. 
For the time shall come after these things when thy 
people shall fall into calamity, so as to be in danger of 
all perishing together. But nevertheless they shall be 
saved, and their enemies shall fall before them. And 
they shall for some time have much joy. And in that 
time, after a little, Zion shall be again built, and its ob- 
lations shall be again established, and the priests shall 
return to their ministry, and the nations shall again 
come to glorify it, but nevertheless not fully, as in the 
beginning. But it shall come to pass after these things 
that there shall be the ruin of many nations. These 
are the bright waters which thou hast seen.” The oth- 
er w aters, which w’ere blacker than all the rest, after the 
twelfth, belonged to the whole world, and they repre- 
sented times of trouble and conflict, which are described 
at some length ; and all who survived these should be 
delivered into the hands of the Messiah. These last 
black waters are, in the interpretation, succeeded sim- 
ply by bright w’aters, representing the blessedness of 
the Messianic time. Baruch, having heard the words 
of the angel, expressed his wonder at the goodness of 
God. He is informed that, though he must depart from 
the earth, he shall not die. But before his removal he 
must go and instruct the people. 

We are next told (ch. lxxvii) how Baruch went to 
the people and admonished them to be faithful, holding 
out hopes that their brethren might return from the 
captivity. The people promised to remember the good 
that God had done to them, and requested him to write 
a letter before his departure to their brethren in Baby- 
lon. lie promised to do so, and send the epistle by the 
hands of men, and also to forward a letter to the nine 
and a half tribes by means of a bird. Accordingly, he 
sat alone under an oak and wrote two letters. One 
he sent by three men to Babylon, and the other to 
the tribes beyond the Euphrates by an eagle which 
he called. He charged the eagle not to pause till he 
reached his destination, and, to encourage him, remind- 
ed him of Noah’s dove, of Elijah’s ravens, and how 
“Solomon, in the time of his reign, whithersoever he 
wished to send or to seek anything, commanded a bird, ' 
and it obeyed him as he had commanded it.” Then the 
letter is subjoined (ch. lxxvii-lxxxvi). It consists of a 
general exhortation to the captive tribes to be faithful, 
in the hope of being soon restored to a happier lot. The 
last chapter (lxxxvii) relates how he folded and sealed 
the letter, tied it to the eagle’s neck, and despatched it. I 

(II.) Author, Date, etc — The work, according to its 
title in the INIS, in which it has been preserved, was 
“translated from Greek into Svriac.” Notwithstanding 
YIIL— Y*y y 


the Hebraic coloring of its thought and language, it may 
very well have been written origin all} 7 in Greek. There 
can be no doubt that it was written by a non-Christian 
Jew. Though it is rich in Messianic passages, no ex- 
pression betrays a Christian hand. The book is per- 
vaded by the strong and exclusive feeling of a Jew, con- 
fident, amid the most terrible humiliation, in the divine 
election of his race. It bears a strong resemblance in 
general structure, and even in particular thoughts and 
expressions, to the fourth book of Ezra. We must, of 
course, assign it a similar time and authorship to the 
epistle of Baruch above noticed, which Ewald locates in 
the reign of Domitian ( Gesch . Isr. vii, 84 sq.). This is 
confirmed by allusions to the destruction of the Temple 
(ch. xxxix), and the references to Daniel’s “ times” as 
if fulfilled. .See Drummond, The Jewish Messiah (Loud. 
1877), p. 117 sq. See Baruch. 

9. The Fourth Book of Ezra (the first according to 
the Ethiopic and Arabic) is, from its apocalyptic char- 
acter, styled by Nicephorus (Can. iii,4) the Apocalypse 
of Ezra (’ AiroicdXvxpig ’Eadpa). See Esdras, Second 
Book of. 

10. II. The Apocalypse of Zephaniah and that of 
Zechariah are referred to by Jerome (Ep. ad Pammach.), 
and cited as lost apocryphal books in an ancient MS. of 
the Scriptures in the Coislinian Collection (ed. Montfau- 
con, p. 194). 

11. Pseudo- Revelations Purporting to Refer to Chris- 
tian Characters. — Of these the most important are the 
following ■ 

1. The Apyocalypse of St. Peter is mentioned by Eu- 
sebius (Ilist. Ecclcs. iii, 3, 25), and was cited by Clement 
of Alexandria, in his Adumbrations, wow lost (Euseb. loc. 
cit. vi, 14). Some fragments of it have, however, been 
preserved by Clement, in his Selections from the Lost 
Prophecies of Theodotus the Gnostic, and are published 
in Grabe’s Spicilegium (i, 74 sq.). From these we can 
barely collect that this apocalypse contained some mel- 
ancholy prognostications, which seem to be directed 
against the Jews, and to refer to the destruction of their 
ciqv and nation. This work is cited as extant in the 
ancient fragment of the canon published by Muratori, a 
document of the 2d or 3d century, with this proviso, 
that “some of us are unwilling that it be read in the 
Church,” as is perhaps the signification of the ambigu- 
ous passage, “ Apocalypsis Johannis et Petri tantum re- 
cipimus; quam quidam ex nostris legi in ecelesia no- 
lunt.” Eusebius designates it at one time as “ spurious,” 
and at another as “ heretical.” From a circumstance 
mentioned by Sozomen (Ilist. Eccles. vii, 19), viz. that 
it was read in some churches in Palestine on all Fridays 
in the year down to the 5th century, Lheke infers that 
it was a Jewish-Christian production (of the 2d century), 
and of the same family with the Preaching of Peter. It 
is uncertain whether this work is the same that is read 
by the Copts among what they call the apocryphal books 
of Peter. 

There was also a work under the name of the Apoc- 
alypse of Peter by his Disciple Clement, an account of 
which was transmitted to pope Ilonorius bv Jacob, bish- 
op of Acre in the 13th century, w 7 rit ten in the Saracenic 
language; but this has been conjectured to be a later 
work, originating in the time of the Crusades. 

In the ancient Latin stichometrv in Cotelerius (Apos- 
tolic Fathers'), the Apocalypse of St. Peter is said to con- 
tain 2070 stichs, and that of John 1200. It is cited as 
an apocryphal book in the Indiculus Script a varum after 
the Queestiones of Anastasius ofNiciea, together with the 
Apocalypse of Ezra and that of Paul. There is in the 
Bodleian Library a IMS. of an Arabic Apocalypse of St. 
Peter, of which Nicoll has furnished an extract in his 
catalogue, and which may possibly be a translation of 
the Greek apocalypse. See Peter. 

2. The Apocalypse of St. Paul is mentioned by Au- 
gustine (Tract. 98 in Ev. Joan.), who asserts that it 
abounds in fables, and was an invention to which occa- 
sion was furnished by 2 Cor. xii, 2-4. This appears from 


REVENUES 


REVELATIONS, SPURIOUS 1074 


Epiphanius {Hares, xxxviii, 2) to have been an anti- 
Jcwish Gnostic production, and to be identical with the 
’ AvafiariKov of Paul, used only by the anti-Jewisli sect 
of Gnostics called Cainites. It is said by Sozomen {Hist. 
Eccles. vii, 19) to have been held in great esteem. It 
was also known to Theophylact and U^cumenius (on 2 
Cor. xii , 4), and to Nicephorus in the 9th century {Can. 
iii, 4). Whether this is the same work which Dupin 
{Proleg. and Canon ) says is still extant among the Copts 
is rendered more than doubtful by Fabricius {Cod. Apoc. 
ii, 954) and Grabe {Spicileg. i, 85). The Revelation of 
St. Paul , contained in an Oxford JIS., is shown by Grabe 
(loc. cit.) to be a much later work. Theodosius of Al- 
exandria {’Epinn'ipara 7repi wpoaojuiov) says that the 
Apocalypse of St. Paul is not a work of the apostle, but 
of Paul of Samosata, from whom the Paulicians derived 
their name. The Revelation of St. Paul is one of the 
spurious works condemned by pope Gelasius, together 
with the Revelations of St. Thomas and St. Stephen. 

3. There was an apocryphal Revelation of St. John 
extant in the time of Theodosius the Grammarian, the 
only one of the ancients who mentions it, and who calls 
it a pseudepigraphal book. It was not known what hail 
become of it, until the identical work was recently pub- 
lished, from a Vatican as well as a Vienna manuscript, 
by Birch, in his A uctarium, under the title of ‘‘The 
Apocalypse of the lloly Apostle and Evangelist John 
the Divine.” From the silence of the ancients respect- 
ing this work, it could scarcely have been written before 
the 3d or 4th century. Liicke has pointed out other in- 
ternal marks of a later age, as, for instance, the mention 
of incense, which he observes first came into use in the 
Christian Church after the 4th century (although here | 
the author of the spurious book may have taken his idea 
from Itev. v, 8; viii, 3) ; also of images and rich crosses, 
which were not in use before the “4th and 5th centu- 
ries.” The name patriarch, applied here to a dignitary 
in the Church, belongs to the same age. The time in 
which Theodosius himself lived is not certainly known, 1 
but he cannot be placed earlier than the 5th century, 
which Liicke conceives to be the most probable age of 
the work itself. Regarding the object and occasion of 
the work (which is a rather servile imitation of the gen- 
uine Apocalypse), in consequence of the absence of dates 
and of internal characteristics, there are no certain indi- 
cations. Birch’s text, as well as his manuscripts, abounds < 
in errors; but Thilo has collated two Paris manuscripts 
for his intended edition (see his Acta Thomcc, Proleg. p. j 
lxxxiii). Assemani {Ribl. Orient. Ill, i, 282) states that 1 
there is an Arabic version among the Vatican MSS. 

1 1 1. Pseudo- Rerelations hearing Extracanonical Xames. ! 
— Of these the following deserve special notice: 

1. The Prophecies of Ugstaspes were in use among 
the Christians in the 2d century. This was apparently 
a pagan production, but is cited by Justin Martyr, in 
his Apology, as agreeing with the Sibylline oraeies in 
predicting the destruction of the world by tire. Cle- 
mens Alexandrines {Strom, vi) and Lactantius ( Inst it . 
vii, 15) also cite passages from these prophecies, which 
bear a decidedly Christian character. 

2. The ancient romantic fiction entitled the Shepherd 
of Hernias is not without its apocalyptic elements. 
These, however, are confined to book i, 3, 4; but they 
are destitute of signification or originality. See IIick- 
mas. 

3. The Apocalypse of Cerinthus is mentioned by Eu- 
sebius {Hist. Eccles. iii, 28), and by Theodorot (Fab. 
Ihrret. ii, 3). Eusebius describes it as a revelation of 
an earthly and sensual kingdom of Christ, according to 
the heresy of the Chiliasts. Of the Revelations of St. 
Thomas and St. Stephen, we know nothing beyond their 
condemnation by pope Gelasius, except that Sixtus of 
Sienna observes that, according to Serapion. they were 
held in high repute by the Maniohees; but in the' works 
ol Serapion which we now possess there is no allusion 
to this. There is, however, an unpublished MS. of Se- 
rapion in the Hamburg Library, which is supposed to 


contain a more complete copy of his work. See Ce- 

ItlXTllUS. 

4. The Sibylline Oracles is the title of an apochryphal 
work, evidently of Christian origin, of the early centu- 
ries of our iera, written as a sort of parody on the famous 
Roman traditionary books of that name. See Sibyl- 
■ LISE OltACLES. 

Revenge (ST2JT2, tK^iKijmc) means the return of 
injury for injury, or the infliction of pain on another in 
consequence of an injur}’ received from him further than 
the just ends of reparation or punishment require. Re- 
venge differs materially from resentment, which rises in 
the mind immediately on being injured; but revenge is 
a cool and deliberate wickecbiess, and is often executed 
years after the offence is given. By some it is consid- 
ered as a perversion of anger. Anger, it is said, is a 
passion given to man for wise and proper purposes, but 
revenge is the corruption of anger, is unnatural, and 
therefore ought to be suppressed. It is observable that 
the proper object of anger is vice; but the object, in 
general, of revenge, is man. It transfers the haired due 
to the vice to the man, to whom it is not due. It is for- 
bidden by the Scriptures, and is unbecoming the char- 
acter and spirit of a peaceful follower of Jesus Christ. — 
Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. See Anueii. 

Revenues of tiie Chukch. It is clearly taught 
in the New Test, that it is the duty of Christians to give 
temporal support to their teachers. The general principle 
was laid down by our Lord (Luke x, 7) that the laborer 
is worthy of his hire. Raul says, “ Even so hath the Lord 
ordained that they which preach the Gospel should live 
of the Gospel” (1 Cor. xix, 14). The following passages 
treat of the relation which subsists between the minis- 
ters and the Church in this respect : Acts xviii,3 ; xxiv, 
17; 2 Cor. xi, 7, 8 ; xii, 13; Phil, iv, 1G-I8; 1 Tim. vi, 5; 
Titus i, II. So we see that the Church is bound to 
provide for the maintenance of its pastors; but, at the 
same time, the pastor is to act in a liberal spirit, and not 
to make unnecessary demands upon the Church. These 
principles were carried out iu the apostolic times and sub- 
sequently. Fixed stipends were not paid in early times, 
because the Church did not possess property, and there- 
fore the contributions were voluntary. These voluntary 
offerings were of two sorts: I. The weekly or daily ob- 
lations that were made at the altar ; 2. The monthly ob- 
lations that were cast into the treasury of the Church. 
And then arose the custom of dividing up the monthly 
contribution and paying the clergy their share, accord- 
ing to their order. Another sort of revenue was such 
as arose annually from the lands and possessions given 
to the Church, which were greatly increased in the time 
of Constantine, who authorized the bequeathing of prop- 
erty to the Church. A third source of revenue was the 
granting to the clergy an allowance out of the public 
money. Constantine both gave the clergy particular lar- 
gesses, as their occasion required, and also settled upon 
them a standing allowance out of the exchequer. A 
fourth source of revenue was the estates of martyrs and 
confessors dying without heirs, which were settled upon 
the Church by Constantine. Still later rulers (Theodo- 
sius the younger and Valcutinian III) settled upon the 
Church the estates of clergymen dying without heirs, 
j Besides these sources of revenue, there were others, such 
as the donation of heathen temples and sometimes their 
revenues, heretical conventicles and their revenues, the 
temporal estates of clergymen or monks who became 
seculars again. Great care, however, at first was taken 
not to receive estates donated to the Church to the great 
detriment of others. Respecting the ancient way of 
managing and distributing these revenues, we may re- 
mark that the revenues of the whole diocese were in the 
hands of the bishop, and by his care distributed among 
| the clergy. As a safeguard against mismanagement, he 
was obliged to give an account of bis administration in 
a provincial synod; after a while this rule obtained in 
the Western Church. The division was usually into 


REVERENCE 


1075 


REVIVALS 


three or four parts— one to the bishop, a second to the 
rest of the clergy, a third to the poor, and a fourth to 
the necessary uses of the Chnrch. Suspension from 
participation in the revenues was one method of punish- 
ment visited upon the clergy. See Bingham, Christ. 
Antiq. bk. v, eh. vi, p. 1-6. 

Reverence (usually some form of X^, tpofiiopai, 
to fear ), a respectful, submissive disposition of mind 
arising from affection and esteem, from a sense of supe- 
riority in the person reverenced. Hence children rev- 
ereuce their fathers even when their fathers correct 
them by stripes (Heb. xii, 9); hence subjects reverence 
their sovereign (2 Sam. ix, 6) ; hence wives revereuce 
their husbands (Eph. v, 33); and hence all ought to 
reverence God. We reverence the name of God, the 
house of God, the worship of God, etc.; we reverence 
the attributes of God, the commands, dispensations, etc., 
of God ; and we ought to demonstrate our reverence by 
overt acts, such as are suitable and becoming to time, 
place, and circumstances. For though a man may rev- 
erence God in his heart, yet unless he behave reveren- 
tially and give proofs of his reverence by demeanor, con- 
duct,, and obedience, he will not easily persuade his fel- 
low-mortals that his bosom is the residence of this divine 
and heavenly disposition ; for, in fact, a reverence for 
God is not one of those lights which burn under a bush- 
el, but one of those whose sprightly lustre illuminates 
wherever it is admitted. Reverence is, strictly speak- 
ing, perhaps the internal disposition of the mind, <f>n(3og 
(Rom. xiii, 7) ; and honor, npt), the external expression 
of that disposition.— Calmet. 

Reverend, a title prefixed by courtesy to the name 
of any clergyman, though “clerk” ( clericus ) is the legal 
and strictly proper description of clergymen, and is, in 
official documents, placed after (as “ Reverend” is before) 
their names. 

In the Church of England and the Protestant Episco- 
pal and Roman Catholic churches the title is given to 
ecclesiastics of the second and third orders, the bishops 
being styled right reverend. In churches where females 
are ordained to offices of the Church, abbesses and pri- 
oresses are called reverend mothers. 

Revivals of Religion, a phrase commonly used 
to indicate renewed interest in religious subjects, or a 
period of religions awakening. It comes from revive 
(Lat. revivo), to live again , and is often improperly ap- 
plied to excitements which can hardly be called relig- 
ious, because they do not apprehend, or propose to revive, 
the real, inner, spiritual life of the soul, which alone 
constitutes true religion. Setting out with erroneous 
views as to the work to be effected, such excitements 
necessarily fall short of its accomplishment. 

These words are also used to denote the conversion 
of sinners as well as the quickening of believers. This 
arises from the fact that the two events are generally 
(not always) coincident. Sinners, who withstand God 
himself, may resist the Church in her best estate ; and 
they are sometimes converted when the Church, as a 
body, is spiritually asleep. Yet such is the influence of 
spiritual life, and such the usual sanction given by the 
Holy Ghost to its loving endeavors to save men, that a 
real revival of the Church leads directly to the conver- 
sion of others. Therefore “a revival is simply an in- 
crease of the best desires, affections, and exertions of 
persons who are already pious and benevolent, such an 
increase as, by the blessing of Heaven, awakens in the 
ungodly an anxiety for their salvation. . . . When these 
evidences of increased engagedness in the cause of Christ 
are unequivocally manifested anywhere, it is too late 
for an impartial observer to doubt that a genuine revi- 
val of religion has there commenced.” To understand 
this subject in its bearings upon the different classes to 
be benefited, it is necessary to have just conceptions of 
religion itself, the means of its attainment and revival, 
and the evidences by w'hich it is distinguished. These 


points, w'ith some others necessarily involved, are indi- 
cated by the following propositions. 

1. That all men unrenewed by the grace of God are 
sinners. Paul represents them as dead in trespasses 
and in sins, walking according to the course of this 
world, according to the prince of the power of the air, 
having their conversation in the lusts of the flesh, ful- 
filling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and as 
by nature children of wrath. 

2. This being their condition — corrupt in heart, and 
disobedient in practice — they need two important works 
effected in and for them ; namely, the pardon of all their 
sins, exempting them from the penalty of the law, and 
the renewal of their souls in righteousness, conforming 
them to the moral image of God, and thus fitting them 
to do his will from the heart here, and enjoy the holi- 
ness of heaven hereafter. 

3. That the atonement of Christ provided for just 
these results, as may be seen by the following announce- 
ments: “If we confesss our sins, he is faithful and just 
to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all un- 
righteousness" (1 John i, 9). “But ye are washed, but 
ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the uarae of the 
Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God” (1 Cor.vi, 11). 
And to show the absolute necessity of this double work, 
Jesus said to Nicodemus, “ Except a man be boj-n again , 
he cannot see the kingdom of God” (John iii, 3). Re- 
vivals which aim at anything short of this are not revi- 
vals of religion in the proper sense of that word. They 
may arouse the fears of men and improve their habits, 
but they do not save in the Gospel sense, nor will their 
results be satisfactory to the depraved and guilty sin- 
ner, or to any spiritual Church. 

4. Another important fact to be remembered is, that 
this is the work of God. He only can forgive sins, or re- 
new the heart. The object of a true revival is, there- 
fore, not to absolve sinners, but to bring them to God ; 
in other w r ords, to persuade them to accept the terms of 
reconciliation, that he may save them. Pronouncing 
them converted on their avowing a “ desire” or “ pur- 
pose” to seek the Lord is unauthorized, and exceedingly 
dangerous. We should instruct and encourage them to 
wait in the way of duty till God shall do the work, 
w'hen they will need no absolution from man. Many, 
it is to be feared, have been misled right at this point, 
to their eternal sorrow. They have been taught to be- 
lieve that religion is all their own work, a mere change 
of opinion or position ; that they are to convert them- 
selves. It is sometimes called a growth; whereas it is 
first a new creation, a new life, and adoption into the 
family of God by his own sovereign act. Like all other 
acts, it must be done at some specific time — in a moment. 
One must be born again before he can grow. If back- 
slidden, he must repent and be forgiven as at the first, 
and have the old “joy of salvation” restored unto him. 

5. When this work is accomplished, it will be veri- 
fied, first, by the Holy Spirit witnessing to the fact as it 
witnesses in conviction to the sinner’s guilt, condemna- 
tion, and danger; and, secondly, by its fruits, “love, 
joy, peace, long suffering,” etc., and aversion to former 
sins and associations. How does an awakened sinner 
know that he is a sinner? He feels that he is, and this 
is confirmed by the uniform conflict of his life and tem- 
per with the Word of God. How does a real convert know 
that he is converted ? Because he now feels the same as- 
surance in his heart that he is a Christian which he felt 
before that he was a sinner, and he knows that he is living 
a life of obedience ; ivhereas, before, he lived in rebellion. 
He can say from the heart, with Paul, “ Being justified 
by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Je- 
sus Christ, . . . and rejoice in the hope of the glory of 
God” (Rom. v, 1, 2); and, with John, “We know that 
we have passed from death unto life because we love the 
brethren” (1 John iii, 14). Converts who stop short of 
a joyous experience of the love of God will go limping 
through life, if they do not utterly fall away. 

6. The revival of this style of religion is best pro- 


REVIVALS 


107G 


REVIVALS 


moted by the inculcation of the fundamental truths of 
the Gospel, such as human depravity, natural ami ac- 
quired; the sinfulness of men in rebellion against God, 
and in refusing to accept of offered mercy; the certainty 
of their loss of heaven, and the endurance of eternal 
punishment, if they do not repent : the amplitude of the 
atonement for every one who will deny himself, take 
up his cross, and follow Christ, according to the light 
that is in and around him: the ability of sinners, by 
grace, to so repent and believe as to be saved; and the 
blessedness on earth and in heaven which God will be- 
stow upon all who seek him with their whole heart. 

As to the best manner of presenting these truths, 
there is room for difference of opinion. Under ordi- 
nary circumstances, however, where the Word of God is 
freely circulated, their earnest, sympathetic, persuasive 
proclamation is more effective than any attempt to 
prove them. Ill any give intidclitv too much credit, and 
spend their time and strength in defending to the un- , 
derstanding what they ought to preach to the heart. 
They controvert and argue where they should persuade 
and entreat. The people in the circumstances supposed 
generally believe the Gospel as really as their preach- 
ers, but neglect its claims from worldly considerations. 
These obstacles need to be neutralized or removed. 
This can be more successfully done hv showing their 
triviality in comparison with the tremendous interests 
at stake on the side of religion than by the explosion of 
heretical sentiments which their hearers would be glad 
to have true, but in which they have little confidence. 

The most effective suggestion that we can make on 
this point is, perhaps, that the preacher aim to promote 
the revival of his Church and the conversion of sinners. 
Those who fail to do so seldom win souls to Christ. Bc- 
vivals arc not produced by such indifference. Says the 
immortal Richard Baxter to pastors: “If your heart is 
not set on the end of vonr labors, and if you do not long 
to see the conversion and edification of your hearers, 
and study and preach in hope , you are not likely to see 
much success. It is a sign of a false, self-seeking heart 
when a person is contented to be still doing without 
seeing any fruit of his labor. ... lie never had the 
right ends of a preacher in view who is indifferent 
whether he obtains them or not; who is not grieved 
when he misses them, and rejoices when he can see the 
desired issue.” 

With this aim , and a proper understanding of human 
nature and the Gospel, one will not seriously err in the 
selection of subjects. Nor will be preach so much about 
the people as to them. Effective efforts have always 
been characterized by their directness. Said Nathan to 
David, “ Thou art the man;” and Joshua to Israel, 
“Choose you this day whom you will serve.” When 
Peter preached on the day of Pentecost, “ Let the house 
of Israel know assuredly that God hath made that same 
Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ,” 
his hearers were “ pricked in their hearts, and said, 
Men and brethren, what shall we do?” 

But revivals must not be left alone to preachers, or 
preaching. Every talent of the Church should be en- 
listed in all appropriate ways. Testimony as to per- 
sonal experience is a powerful agency, and should be 
largely employed in private, and often in public. The 
same is true of lay instruction, exhortation, and persua- 
sion. When these means fail, the object may be gained 
by a tract or book. The printed page lias won grand 
fields inaccessible to living agencies, and where these 
have toiled in vain. Prayer is another powerful means 
of revivals, which often prevails whore everything else 
fails. Their history glows with the wonders of its 
power, flinging Gospel truths in an impressive manner 
is often effective. It attracts and softens many who 
care little for preaching or prayer. It lias always been 
prominent in this work, but never more successful than 
at the present time. 

7. Revivals are necessary from many considerations. 
First, because, as a matter of fact, most Christians do 


backslide more or less from their first love. The his- 
tory of God’s ancient people is little more than a con- 
secutive account of their backslidings and recoveries. 
The apostolic age was clouded by similar defections, 
and followed by the “ Dark Ages.” The slumbers of 
that long night were unbroken until the revival trump- 
et of Luther was heard from Wittenberg calling for 
reform. Even the Puritans of New England declined. 
Says Mr. Tracy, in speaking of their condition at the 
commencement of the great revival under Edwards, 
Whitetield, and others, “Such had been the downward 
progress in New England that there were many in the 
churches, and even some in the ministry, who were yet 
lingering among the supposed preliminaries to conver- 
sion. The difference between the Church and the world 
was vanishing away, and yet never, perhaps, had the 
expectation of reaching heaven at last been more gen- 
eral or confident.” That revival changed all this for 
the time, but in less than half a century there was an- 
other sad relapse. When the Wesleys and Whitelield 
awoke to the claims of religion in England, the new 
birth was a dead letter, and conversions were scarcely 
known; while drinking, gambling, cock-fighting, and 
every species of popular vice were patronized by the 
Church and many of the clergy. 

In view of these facts, what would have become of 
religion but for revivals? llad Joshua, and David, and 
Josiah, and Ezra, and Luther, and Edwards, the Wes- 
leys, Whitefield, and other revivalists, clung to estab- 
lished customs, and opposed innovations, as some did, 
and as others do now, the name of God would hardly 
have been preserved from oblivion. 

The same tendency is observable in individuals and 
some churches now. They are in close fellowship with 
sin and the world, without God, and without any well- 
grounded hope. 

Revivals are also necessary because there is no other 
cure for the evils to be remedied. Spiritual life can 
j never spring out of the dead, worldly policy which es- 
chews revivals: reason, common-sense, and history arc 
all against it. We may fill the Church with man-made 
converts, who have been coaxed into a profession of re- 
ligion without having the first elements of a Christian 
character; but that is not God’s work, nor is it relig- 
I ions : it is rather an attempt to cover the wolf in sheep’s 
clothing, to be stripped of his false pretence when it is 
j too late to repent and be saved. Nearly all the religion 
of the ages is attributable to revivals. Every device to 
j supersede their necessity has failed. It may be added 
with special emphasis that revivals are necessary to the 
triumph of moral reforms. Experience has taught 
many that they cannot reform without the grace of 
God. Such were their habits of licentiousness, profan- 
ity, intemperance, fraud, sinful amusements, etc., that 
all attempts at reform were fruitless until they came to 
God for salvation. Then they found deliverance, not 
from the habit only, but from all disposition to follow' it. 
This is the only solid basis of reform, when bad appe- 
tites, passions, and habits are fully established. God 
only can save in these extreme cases. 

8. Revival measures require great courage, zeal, and 
' decision in their leaders to make them most effective. 
Because, first, they generally encounter opposition from 
without, and often from professors of religion. It may 
be silent, but still it is real and hurtful. Sometimes it 
takes the form of friendship, as in the case of Nebcmiali 
and Sanballat, and suggests damaging complications, 
which require clear perception and invincible firmness. 
At others it is outspoken and threatening, which is less 
hurtful. But not unfrcquently genuine but misguided 
friends of the work have to be restrained to prevent 
their hindering what they fain would help. To do this 
successfully often requires much decision and tact. But 
it must be done. A few weak and fanatical people have 
sometimes been allowed to neutralize the best efforts. 
But there seems to be little danger from that quarter 
i at the present time. These measures suffer more from 


UEVOCATUS 


1077 


IvEYMOND 


spiritual death than from overaction. And yet with some 
there is so much dread of excitement that they hardly 
dare to light the fires of revival for fear of an explosion. 
These circumstances call for courage to venture. But 
many who wish well to the cause have no faith in God 
or man. They cannot see how success is to be achieved, 
and therefore they hesitate to attempt it. Here is an- 
other call for courage. Many of the great revivals of 
the ages commenced with one man. He alone believed, 
and worked it up; but when it became manifest that 
God was with him, others rallied to his support. In the 
progress of the work this same unbelief, during every 
little reverse, is prompt to predict that it is going to 
stop. This calls for more faith in the leader, who will 
do well to review the book of Nehemiah. Then churches 
sometimes get weary, and want their evenings for rest, 
business, or recreation, and propose to suspend the meet- 
ings. A proper zeal will suggest some little modifica- 
tion of measures, and strike for new achievements. Re- 
vivals have been successfully carried on for years under 
this policy; not so much by holding meetings every 
evening as by making every meeting, whether regular 
or extra, to advance the work. 

Literature. — Thoughts on the Revival of Religion in 
New England [1740] ; to which is prefixed A Narrative 
of the Surprising Work of God in Northampton , Mass. 
[ 1735] (N. Y.) ; Porter, Revivals of Religion, showing 
their Theory , Means , Obstructions , Importance, and Per- 
versions. with the Duty of Christians in regard to them 
(X. Y. and Cincinnati, 1877) ; Finney, Lectures on Re- 
vivals of Religion (Oberlin, 0. 1868) ; Fish, Handbook of 
Revivals, for the Use of Winners of Souls (Boston, 1874). 
See North Brit. Rev. Nov. 1860; Mercersb. Rev. Jan. 
1872. (J. P.) 

Revocatus was a Christian martyr under Severus, 
a catechumen of Carthage, and a slave. On the day 
appointed for the execution, he was led to the amphi- 
theatre, and, having denounced God’s judgment upon 
his persecutors, was ordered to run the gantlet be- 
tween the hunters. He was then destroyed by wild 
beasts, A.D. 205. — Fox, Book of Martyrs. 

Revolution. The name given to that change in 
the civil and ecclesiastical constitution of England 
which took place when James IT had been expelled 
from the throne in the year 1688, and his son-in-law, 
William, prince of Orange, was elected by the voice of 
the people. The immediate occasion of the Revolution 
was a fallacious proclamation issued by James, under 
the pretence of extending toleration; but the true ob- 
ject of which was to place all the offices of trust in the 
hands of the papists, whose hopes had been revived by 
the death of Charles II. Some Protestant Dissenters 
were imposed upon by this specious pretence; but the 
sagacity of the bishops justly apprehending the intend- 
ed consequences, they strenuously contended and pe- 
titioned against the proclamation, and alarmed the fears 
of Protestants throughout the kingdom. 

Revolution Settlement. The settlement of 
the Church of Scotland under William and Mary is so- 
called. It was dictated by policy, and did not restore 
the platform of 1638, but adopted the ratification of 
1592. Its object was to restore peace and order, to put 
an end to agitation, and by the appearance of modera- 
tion to curb extremes, to take away all pretext for vio- 
lence, and induce all classes of the people to exhibit a 
loyal spirit to the new occupants of the British throne. 
See Scotland, Church of. 

Rex Christe, factor omnium, is the beginning of 
a hymn ascribed to Gregory the Great (q. v.). Luther 
is said to have pronounced this to be the best hymn. 
We subjoin the first verse in both Latin and English : 

“Rex Christe, factor omnium, 

Redemptor et credeutium, 

Placare votis supplicum 
Te laudibus coleutium.” 

“O Christ, our king, Creator, Lord, 

Saviour of all who trust thy Word, 


To them who seek thee ever near, 

Now to our praises bend thine ear.” 

This is the translation as given in the Lyra Domestica , 
p. 266. Into German it has been translated by Simrock, 
in his Lauda Sion Salvatorem, p. 91, “Christ, Konig, 
Schopfer alter Welt;” by Rambach, in his Anthology, i, 
113, “ O Christus, Konig aller Welt ;” by Konigsfeid, in 
his ITymnen u. Gesange, i, 72, “Christ, Konig, Schopfer 
aller Welt,” which is also adopted by Biissler, in his 
A uswahl altchristlicher Gesange, p. 67, and by Fortlage, 
in his Gesange christl. Vorzeit, p. 76, “ O Christus, Herr 
der Majestiit.” Besides these translations, Koch enu- 
merates a number of others (Opp. i, 74). (B. P.) 

Rey, Claude, a French prelate, ivas born at Aix, 
Nov. 27, 1773. In 1800 he concluded his theological 
studies at the Seminary of St. Sulpice at Paris, and be- 
came secretary to the vicar-general. In 1816 he was 
titular canon of Aix, and prebend in 1821. In conse- 
quence of the stand he took concerning the new heads 
of the State, not considering it necessary to omit men- 
tioning them in the public prayers of the Church, he 
was obliged to defend his position by a pamphlet. 
Notwithstanding this controversy, he was made capitu- 
lary vicar-general, Nov. 24. 1830. In 1831 he was ap- 
pointed bishop of Dijon. This was the first bishop ap- 
pointed by Louis Philippe, whose claim to the throne 
ivas held by the high clergy to be illegitimate. The 
court of Rome hesitated to confirm the appointment, 
but finally Gregory XVI preconized Rey, and author- 
ized that he should be consecrated by a single bishop, 
assisted by two dignitaries. But such was the feel- 
ing against the proceeding that for a long time no one 
would consent to consecrate him. At last the ceremony 
w r as performed by the bishop of Carthagena. The epis- 
copacy of Rey lasted for six years, and ivas a constant 
contest for the rights of his position. A remonstrance 
was at last issued against his exercising his public func- 
tions, and he was forced to resign. He left Dijon, June 
21,1838, and retired to Aix as canon of the Church of St. 
Denis, where he died, Aug. 17, 1858. 1 1 is writings are, 

Prieres pour la Consecration d'un Eveque (1808) -.—Pre- 
cis Historique de Notre Dame d'A ix (Aix, 1816) : — Re- 
flexions sur les A ffaires Ecclesiastiques du Diocese de 
Dijon, etc. — Hoefer, Nour. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Reyes, Nathan Abbot, a minister of the German 
Reformed Church, was born at Toilton, N. H., Dec. 26, 
1807. He graduated at Dartmouth College with hon- 
or in 1835, and afterwards studied theology at Andover 
and at Lane seminary. Having been appointed by the 
American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions 
as a missionary to Syria, he sailed for Beirut in 1840. 
Political and other disturbances, together with his im- 
paired health, induced him to return, which he did, with 
the approbation of the board, in 1844. He now spent 
some time in ministerial labor in Charlemont and South 
Rovalton, Mass. ; and in the spring of 1847 was called 
to the pastorate of the German Reformed Church in 
Lancaster, Pa., in whose service he continued till 1855, 
when he resigned and took charge of a church in Prince- 
ton, 111., and after one year was called to Griggsville, 
III. Before his removal, however, he was called away 
by death, March 31, 1857. He was a man of fine tal- 
ents, good education, warm zeal, and excellent life. 

Reymond, Henri, a French prelate, was born at 
Vienne, Dauphine, Nov. 21, 1737. lie studied in the 
Jesuit college of his native village, was ordained priest, 
and became vicar of St. George’s at Vienne. At the time 
of the Revolution he embraced the popular ideas, and 
in 1792 was elected bishop of Isere. During the Reign 
of Terror he was arrested and kept in close confinement 
for nearly a year. He took part in the council of 1797, 
and was charged with publishing its acts. In 1802 he 
signed the formula of retraction required by the pope, 
and was consecrated bishop of Dijon. During the em- 
pire he advocated the cause of Napoleon, which caused 
his removal by Louis XVI II, but be afterwards returned 


REYNA 


iors 


UEZIX 


to liis diocese. He died at Dijon, Feb. 20, 1820. 1 1 is 

principal writings are. Droits des (Juris et (Us 1‘uroisses, 
etc. (Paris, 1770): — Droits des Pauvres (ibid. 1781): — 
Observations sur V Enseignement Elementaire de la Reli- 
gion (1801 ) : — a Me moire Just if cat if of his own life, print- 
ed in the Chronique Religieuse. — Iloefcr, Xour. Dbg, 
Oene rale, s. v. 

Reyna, fAssumoito me, a Spanish Hebraist, was 
born at Seville. He embraced the ecclesiastical life, 
but renounced it upon leaving his native country, lie 
established himself in Frankfort and engaged in busi- 
ness, which he abandoned to take charge of a French 
congregation in London. From thence he went to Ant- 
werp, and again lived in Frankfort, where he openly 
avowed his acquiescence in the Confession of Augsburg. 
It is supposed he was living at Basle when his version 
of the Scriptures in Spanish was published. In the 
preface to this work he makes himself appear a ( 'atholic, 
in order to secure a greater sale for the book. The title 
is La Jliblia , que es los Sacros Libros del Y.y X. Testa- 
mento, trasladada eu Espanol (Basle, 1569, 4 to). Beyna 
pretended to have translated directly from the Hebrew, 
but it is said that he never saw any original except the 
Latin version of Pagnini. A new edition was prepared 
by Cyprian dc Valera (Amst. 1596). Another work of 
Ileyna is A nnotationes in Loca Selectiora Ecangelii Jo- 
unnis (Frankfort, 1573). Beyna died at Frankfort, 
March 15, 1591. See Antonio, JJibl. Xova IJispana ; 
Lelong, JJibl. Sacra. — Iloefcr, Xour. lJiog. Generate, 
s. v. 

Reynolds, Edward, D.lX.an English prelate, was 
born in Southampton, November, 1599. In 1615 he be- 
came postmaster of Merton College, and in 1620 proba- 
tioner fellow. He was made preacher at Lincoln’s Inn, 
and rector of Bravnton, in Northamptonshire; but in 
the rebellion of 1642 he sided with the Presbyterians. 
In 1643 he was one of the Westminster Assembly 
divines, and took the covenant. In 1618 he became 
dean of Christ Church and vice-chancellor of the Uni- 
versity of Oxford, lie refused the Engagement (1651) 
and was ejected from his deanery; was vicar of St. 
Lawrence’s, Jewry, London; restored to his deanery in 
1659, and in 1660 was made chaplain to Charles II. 
In the same year he u f as elected warden of Merton Col- 
lege, and made bishop of Norwich. lie died in July 
1667. He published Sermons, Theological Treatises, 
Meditations, etc. 

Reynolds, J osliua (Sir), considered the founder 
of the English school of painting as regards its special 
characteristics, was born at Plvmpton, in Devonshire 
(where his father was rector), July 16, 1723. lie was 
intended for the medical profession, but was induced by 
the perusal of llichardson’s Essays on Painting, etc., to 
take up painting as a profession. A handsome edition 
of these essays was in 1773 dedicated to Sir Joshua by 
Bichardson’s son, comprising The Theory of Painting, 
Essay on the A rt of Criticism , and The Science of a 
Connoisseur. Beynolds’s first master was Hudson, the 
portrait-painter, with whom he was placed in 1741. He 
lirst set up as a portrait-painter at Devonport, but in 
1716 settled in London, in St. Martin’s Lane. In 1719 
lie accompanied Commodore Keppel in the Centurion 
to the Mediterranean, and remained altogether about 
three years in Italy. lie commenced business again 
in London in 1752, and soon became the most prom- 
inent painter of the capital. In 1768, when the ltoyal 
Academy was established, Reynolds was unanimously 
elected president at the lirst meeting of the members, 
Dec. 14 of that year, and he was knighted by George 
III in consequence. In 1781 he succeeded Allan Barn- 
say as principal painter in ordinary to the king; and, 
alter an unrivalled career as a portrait-painter, died at 
his house in Leicester Square, Feb. 23, 1792. lie was 
buried with great pomp in St. Paul’s Cathedral, where 
a line statue by Flaxman is placed immediately below 
the dome, in honor of liis memory. 11 is large fortune, 


j about £80,000, was inherited by his niece, Miss Palmer, 
who became afterwards marchioness of Thomond. II is 
collection of works of art sold for nearly £17,000. Sir 
Joshua Beynolds, notwithstanding bis careless and feeble 
drawing, was indisputably a great painter; some of bis 
portraits are among the first masterpieces of the art, 
whether as simple portraits or as fancy pieces; as, for 
instance, Lord Heathjield, in the National Gallery, of the 
former class, and Mrs. Siddons as (he Tragic Muse, at 
Dulwich, of the latter. 1 1 is pictures are necessarily 
very numerous. Their chief excellence is their natural 
grace, fulness of expression, substantial character, and 
frequently a charming richness of color and light and 
shade. Among the most remarkable arc The Cardinal 
and Christian Virtues. Xutivifg, and Holy Family. His 
eulogium cannot be better expressed than in the words 
of Burke: “He was the first Englishman who added 
the praise of the elegant arts to the other glories of his 
country. . . . The loss of no man of his time can be felt 
with more sincere, general, and unmixed sorrow.” .Sir 
Joshua has bequeathed to posterity, besides his paint- 
ings, fifteen elegant and valuable Itiscourses, of which 
a magnificent edition, edited by John Burnet, was pub- 
lished by James Carpenter in 1842. A later edition 
was published (Hudson, O. 1853, P2rao); and his Ufe. 
and Discourses (N. Y. 1859, 12mo). There is a full 
Life of Reynolds by Northcotc (Loud. 1819,2 vols. 
8vo). 

Reys, Maxoet, nos, a Portuguese Jesuit, was taught 
at Coimbra, and preached with great power and suc- 
cess. He died at Braga, April 21, 1699. His Sermons 
were printed at Evora (1717-24). 

Re'zeph (Ilcb. Re'tseph, a hoi stone, as in 1 
Kings xix, 6; Sept. ‘Pa<TMf>, 'P a(j>eie, v. r. 'P a<ptS), one 
of the places which Sennacherib mentions, in bis taunt- 
ing message to llezekiah, as having been destroyed by 
his predecessor (2 Kings xix, 12; Isa. xxxvii, 12). He 
couples it with Ilaran and other well-known Mesopota- 
mian spots. It is supposed to be the same that Ptolemy 
mentions under the name of Rhesopha (Pi]<nb(f>a) as a 
city of Palmyrene ( Geog . v, 15); and this, again, is pos- 
sibly the same with the Rasapha which Ahulfeda places 
at nearly a day’s journey west of the Euphrates. The 
name is still a common one, Yakut’s Lexicon quoting 
these two and seven other less important towns so called. 
See SliXNACUEUIB. 

Rezi'a (Ileb. Ritsgah'. Z'*, delight ; Sept.' Promt), 
the third named of three sons of Ulla, of the tribe of 
Asher (1 Chron. vii, 39). B.C. perhaps cir. 1618. 

Re'zin (Ilcb. Retsin', firm, perhaps pvince), 
the name of two men. 

1. (Sept. 'Paoiv, 'Paaocwi'.) A king of Damascus, 
contemporary with Pckah in Israel, and with Jotliam 
and Ahaz in Jiuhea. The policy of Bozin seems to have 
been to ally himself closely with the kingdom of Israel, 
and, thus strengthened, to carry on constant war against 
the kings of Judah, lie attacked Jotliam during the 
latter part of Ids reign (2 Kings xv, 37); but his chief 
war was with Ahaz, whose territories he invaded, in 
company with l‘ekah,soon after Ahaz had mounted the 
throne (B.C. cir. 710). The combined army laid siege 
to Jerusalem, where Ahaz was, but u could not. prevail 
against it” (Isa. vii, 1 ; 2 Kings xvi, 5). Bezin, how- 
ever, -recovered Elath to Syria” (vcr. 6); that is, lie 
conquered and held possession of the celebrated town 
of that name at the head of the Clulf of ’Akabah, which 
commanded one of the most important lines of trade in 
the East. Soon after this lie was attacked by Tiglath- 
pileser II, king of Assyria, to whom Aliaz in liis distress 
had made application, liis armies were defeated by 
the Assyrian hosts; his city besieged and taken; his 
people carried away captive inti) Susiana; and he him- 
self slain (ver. 9; comp. Tiglath-pileser’s own inscrip- 
tions, where the defeat of Bezin and the destruction of 
Damascus are distinctly mentioned). This treatment 


REZON 


1079 


REZON 


was probably owing to his being regarded as a rebel, 
since Damascus had been taken and laid under tribute 
by the Assyrians some time previously (Eawlinson, He- 
rodotus, i, 467). — Smith. 

2. The head of one of the families of the Netliinim 
who returned from Babylon (Ezra ii, 48 ; Neh. vii, 50). 
B.C. ante 536. 

Re'zon (Heb. Rezon', prince; Sept. 
v. r. ’Ecrpw/O, the son of Eliadah, a Syrian, who, when 
David defeated Iladadezer, king of Zobah, put himself 
at the head of a band of freebooters and set up a petty 
kingdom at Damascus (1 Kings xi, 23). B.C. post 1043. 
Whether he was an officer of Iladadezer, who, foreseeing 
the destruction which David would inflict, prudently 
escaped with some followers, or whether he gathered 
his band of the remnant of those ■who survived the 
slaughter, does not appear. The latter is more proba- 
ble. The settlement of Eezon at Damascus could not 
have been till some time after the disastrous battle in 
which the power of Hadadezer was broken, for we are 
told that David at the same time defeated the army of 
Damascene Syrians who came to the relief of lladad- 
ezer, and put garrisons in Damascus. From his posi- 
tion at Damascus he harassed the kingdom of Solomon 
during his whole reign. With regard to the statement 
of Nicolaus in the 4th book cf his history, quoted by 
Josephus (.4?tf. vii, 5, 2), there is less difficulty, as there 
seems to be no reason for attributing to it any historical 
authority. lie says that the name of the king of Da- 
mascus whom David defeated was lladad, and that his 
descendants and successors took the same name for ten 
generations. If this be true, Eezon was a usurper, but 
the origin of the story is probably the confused account 
of the Sept. In the Vatican MS. of the Sept, the ac- 
count of Eezon is inserted in ver. 14 in close connection 


with Hadad, and on this Josephns appears to have 
founded his story that Hadad, on leaving Egypt, en- 
deavored without success to excite Idumea to revolt, 
and then went to Syria, where he joined himself with 
Eezon, called by Josephus Raazarvs (VaaZapo^), who, 
at the head of a band of robbers, Avas plundering the 
country (.4 ni. viii, 7, 6). It was Hadad, and not Rezon, 
according to the account in Josephus, who established 
himself king of that part of Syria and made inroads 
upon the Israelites. In 1 Kings xv, 18, Benhadad, king 
of Damascus in the reign of Asa, is described as the 
grandson of Ilezion ; and from the resemblance between 
the names Rezon and Ilezion , when written in Hebrew 
characters, it has been suggested that the latter is a cor- 
rupt reading for the former. For this suggestion, how- 
ever, there does not appear to be sufficient ground, 
though it was adopted by Sir John Marsham ( Chron . 
Can. p. 346) and Sir Isaac Newton ( Chronol . p. 221), as 
well as by some later translators and commentators 
(Junius, Kohler, Datlie, Ewald). Against it are, (a) 
that the number of generations of the Syrian kings 
would then be one less than those of the contemporary 
kings of Judah. But then the reign of Abijam was 
only three years, and, in fact, Jeroboam outlived both 
Eehoboam and his son. ( b ) The statement of Nicolaus 
of Damascus (Josephus, Ant. vii, 5, 2) that from the 
time of David for ten generations the kings of Syria 
were one dynasty, each king taking the name of Hadad, 
“ as did the Ptolemies in Egypt.” But this would ex- 
clude not only Hezion and Tabrimon, but Eezon, unless 
we may interpret the last sentence to mean that the 
official title of Hadad was held in addition to the ordi- 
nary name of the king. Bunsen ( Bibehcerl :, i, 271) 
makes Hezion contemporary with Eehoboam, and prob- 
ably a grandson of Eezon. The name is Aramaic, and 
Ewald compares it with Rezin . — Smith. 



LIST OF ARTICLES IN YOL. VIII. 


Petachia(s).. ..Page SJPetit- Pied, Nicolas Pharaoh’s Daughter, iPhilistiue . ...Pa^e 102lPhos . Pace 1 04 

Petaui , 3i (l) .... .. . Page 4n t.... Page 67 Phillipps 108 Phosphorus.!..... 104 

Petavel 3 Petit-Pied, Nicolas Pharaoh’s Daughter, (Phillips, James 10S Phota 104 

Petaviiis 3 (2) .... 40 2 G7|phi]lips, John 10S Photinians ' 104 

Peter 4 Patosms 40 Pharaoh’s Daughter, [Phillips, Morgan . . los|Photimis 104 

Peter, First Epistle Petra 40 0 ^ - e - --- - 


CT Phillips, Richlird.. loo Photisterion. !!.!!! 164 

DKI 111 C.i nillnl / 1 \ kfk D1 . . . k ! .. . . A. 


ot' 15! Petra, Viceuzo 45 Pharaoh’s Wife.... 67 Phillips, Samuel <'lj 109 

a Petrarch 45 Pharathoui 67 Phillips, Samuel (2) 109 

Petrazzi 40 Phares CSjPhillips, Thomas. . 109 

Petrenis 40 Pharez.l 63 Phillips, William (1) 109 

Petreolo ........... 46 Pharez,2..., 68 Phillips, William(2) 109 

Petri, BartheMnn... 46 Phariru CS'phillips, William 

Petri, Laurent 40 Pharisee 6S| Wirt. 110 

Petri, Olaus-Phase. 47 Pharmacy 76 Phil(l)potts!! !! ! ! !! 110 

Petri, Pietro de’ 47 Pharpar 70 Philo 110 

Petrobrusiaus 47 Pharr 77 Philo Carpathins.! 116 

Petroconns 47 PharvitP 77 ui.ii,. r nc 


Peter, Secoud Epis- 
tle of 21 

Peter of Alcantara. . 27 
Peter of Alexandria 

(1) 27 

Peter of Alexandria 

(2) 

Peter of St. Audre. . 2S 

Peter of Anolo 28 

Peter of Antioch (1) 28 
Peter of Antioch (2) 28 

Peter of Baume 23 

Peter, son of Bechin. 2S 
Peter Bernardiuus.. 29 

Peter of Blois 29 

Peter of Brnys, 

Peter of Cellae 29 

Peter of Chartres. .. 29 
Peter Chrysolanns. 29 
Peter Chrysologus. 29 
Peter Collivacinus. 
Peter the Deacon 

(1) 

Peter the Deacon 

(2) 

Peter of Dresdeu. . . 
Peter of Edessa — 
Peter Exorcista and 

Marcellinus 30 

Peter Fullo 30 

Peter the Hermit. 
Peter of Maillezais. 32 
Peter Martyr (1) . . .. 32 

Peter Martyr (2) 32 

Peter Mongtis 32 

Peter of Narbomie. 33 
Peter of Niconiedia. 33 

Peter Nolasco 33 

Peter the Patrician 

(1) 34 

Peter the Patrician 

(2) 

Peter the Patrician 

(3) 

Peter of Poitiers... 

Peter Regnlato 35 

Peter of Remigius.. 35 
Peter of Sebaste. ... 35 

Peter of Sens 

Peter the Sicilian 
Peter the Singer... 35 
Peter of Tareutaise. 30 

Peter Tudebode 36 

Peter the Venera- 
ble 

Peterffi 36 

Peter-Low 36 

Peter-pence 36 

Peter’s (St.) Day. ... 37 
Peters, Absalom.... 37 

Peters, Charles 37 

Peters, Hugh 37 

Peters, Richard 37 

Peters, Samuel An- 
drew 38 

Peters, William.... 38 


Petro-Johaunites... 4s Phasiielis 77 Philo the Megariau 116 

Petronilla 4S Phaselis 77 Philo the Monk... 116 

Petromus, 1 48jPhasiron 77 Philo the Pythago- 

Petronins, 2 4s Phassaron 78 lean 116 

Petrouius of Bolo- I Phelan 78 Philo the Rhetori- 

gna 48 Phelipeanx 78 cian 110 

Pettengill 4s Pheloninin 7S Philo Senior 117 


Pettibone 49 

Pettigrew 49 

Petto 49 

Petty 49 

Petursson 49 

Petzelians 50 

Pencer 50 

Peulthai 50 

Peutinger 50 

Pevernage 50 

Pew 

PeyiAre 52 

Peyton 52 

Pez, Bernard 52 

Pez, Hieronymus. . . 52 

Pezel 52 

Pezron 52 

Pfaffi Christoph 

Matthaus 53 

Pfaff, Johann Chris- 
toph 53 

Pfanser 53 

Pfefferkorn, Johann 53 
Pfefferkorn, S. Mi- 
chael M 54 

Pfeiffer, Augustus.. 54 
Pfeiffer, Christoph . 54 

Pfeiffer, Ida 55 

Pfeii 55 

Pfeuuiuger 55 

Pflui 


Phelps, Elizabeth (Philo ofTarsns.... 117 

Stuart 78 | Philolaus 117 

Phelps, Joseph T... 78 ( Philologns 117 

Phelps, Servis W... TS Philology 117 

Phelps, Thomas.... 78;Philopatris 122 

Phelypeaux 78 Philoponists 122 

Pherecydes TSPhilopomts 122 

Pheresite 79 Pltilosurcae 123 PiaYenzaT” 176 

Phiala 70 Philosopher 123|Piaggia 179 

Phibionitae 79Philosophists 123 Piales 179 

Phichol.... 79 Philosophy 124 Piane 179 

Philadelphia TO; Philosophy, Greek 127 Piarists 179 


Photius ofConstan- 

tiuople(l) 165 

Photius ofCoustau- 

tinople (2) 165 

Photius ofCoustau- 

tinople (3) 165 

Photius of Tyre. .. 172 

Photizomenoi 

Ptirenology 

Phrontisteriou . . . 

Phrygia 

Phrygians 

Phtha 

Phthartodocetas.. 

Phthartolatrse. 

Plmd 

Phurah 173 

Phut 173 

Phuvah 174 

Phygellus 174 

Phylactery 174 

Phyllobolia 178 

Physician 178 

Physioguomy 179 

Physiology. I7f 


. 172 
. 172 
. 172 
, 173 
. 173 
, 173 
, 173 
. 173 


Philadelphians.... SO'Philosophy, He- 

Philaiethes So brew 137 

Philanthropy SO Philostorgius 142 


Philarches 81 Philostratus 142 

Philaret of Moscow 81 Philotheia 143 

Philaret, Theodo- Philotlieos Ilisto- 

rus Romanoff. . . 82 ria 

Philaster 82 Philotheus (I) 143 

Phileas 82 Philotheus (2) 143 

Philemon 82 Philotheus (3) 143 

Philemon, Epistle IPhilotheus (4) 143 

^ Philoxenus of Bag- 


dad Y. 143 

Philoxenus of Ma- 

143 


Philetus 85 

Philip, 1 85 

Philip, 2 85 

Philip, 3 SOPhilpot 143 

Philip, 4 SG , Philter 144 

Philip (Emperor of Philumeua 144 

, Rome) 86 Phiuees 144 

Phaath-Moab 55 Philip the Apostle. SO Phinehas, 1 144 

Phacareth 55 Philip the Evangel- Phinehas, 2 145 

Phsedo(n) 55 ist 88 Phinehas, 3 145 

Pliaedrus 56 Philip Herod S9 Phinney 145 

Phaenomenon 56 Philip the Tetrarch 89 Phipps 145 

Phseuos 56 Philip Benozzi 89|Phison 146 

Pha^iphauia 56 Philip of Caesarea. S9;PUlegethon 146 

Phaisur 56|Philip ofGortyna.. J *■' 

Phaldaius 50 Philip of Moscow. . 

Phaleas 56 Philip of Opus 

Phalec 57 Philip the Presby- 

Pballus 57 ter 

Phalti 5S Philip of Side 

Plialtiel 5S Philip the Solitary 

Phannias 5S Philip of the Triu- 

Phantasiasts 5S| it- 


90 


Phantasiodocetse... 58 Phiiip, John’.!!!! !. 91 

_ . Phanton 5S Philip, Robert 91 

Petersen 3S Phanuel 58 Philippi 92 

Peterzano 39 Pharaciin 5S Philippian 95 Phocas'. 147 

39 Pharaoh, 1 58 Philippians, Epis- Phocas, John 147 

Pethahiah, 1 39 Pharaoh, 2 G0| tie to the 95 Phcebadius 147 

Pethahiah, 2 39 Pharaoh, 3 61 Philippine Islauds. 99 Phoebe 147 

Pethahiah, 3 39|Pharaoh, 4 62 philippius 100 Phoebus 147 

£ e ^ or : 39 Pharaoh, 5 62 philippists 100 Phoebus, William. . 147 

rethuel... 39|Pharaoli, 6 63 Philipps, Dirk 100 Plioenice 14S 

Petilhamsts 39|Pharaoh, 1 63;philippsohu 101 Phoenicia 148 

• y 39 Pharaoh, 8 64 philips, Edward. . . 101 Phoenix 163 

Petit-Didier 39^ Pharaoh, 9 65jPhilips, Thomas. . . 101 Phouascus 164 

Petitmu 39 Pharaoh, 10 65 Philip’s (St.) Day.. 101 Phorcns 164 

Petitot 39 Pharaoh, 11 66 philistia 101 Phoros 164 


Phlegon 146 

Phlegon, Trallia- 

nns 146 

Phobetor. 146 

Phobus 140 

Phiibus, 1 146 

Phobus, 2 147 


Piastrini ISO 

Piatti ISO 

Piattoli 180 

Piazza, Andrea ISO 

Piazza, Carlo Bar- 
tolomeo 180 

Piazza, Francesco. ISO 
Piazza, Girolamo 

Bartolomeo ISO 

Piazza, Paolo ISO 

Piazzetta ISO 

Piazzi ISO 

Pi-beseth 181 

Pic 1S2 

Picard, Jean (1). .>. . 1S2 

Picard, Jean (2) 1S2 

Picard, Mathurin.. 1S2 

Picardet 1S2 

Picards 182 

Picart, Bernard 1S2 

Picart, Etienne.... 183 

Picctidori 1S3 

Picchiani 183 

Picchianti 1S3 

Piccinardi 183 

Piccini 1S3 

Piccioni 183 

Piccola 1S3 

Piccolomiui, Ales- 
sandro 183 

Piccolomiui, Fran- 
cesco 183 

Picenardi, Carlo (1) 184 


Phobus, 3 147 Picenardi, Carlo (2) 1S4 

Phobus, 4 147 jPichler, Aloys 184 

Phobus, 5 147 Pichler,Veit 184 

Pbobns, 6 147, Pichon, Jean 184 

Phobus, 7 147’Pichou, Thomas- 


Jean 184 

Pick, 1 185 

Pick, 2 1S5 

Pickard, Edward . . 185 
Pickard, John II... 185 
Pickering, George. 1S5 
Pickeriug, Robert. 185 

Pickett 1S6 

Picot, Fran? ois Ed- 
ward 1S6 

Picot, Michel Jo- 
seph Pierre ISC 


1082 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. VIII. 


Picot, Pierre. . Page 
Picot, Victor Maria 
Picqnet, Franyois 

(t) 

Picquet, Franyois 

( 2 ) 

Pictet 

Picture 

Pictures, Worship 

of 

Pie 

Piece of Gold 

Piece of silver — 

Pierce, Edward 

Pierce, George Ed- 
mond 

Pierce, Gershoin. .. 
Pierce, James Ed- 
win 

Pierce, John 

Pierce, John J. .... 
Pierce, Thomas — 
Pierce, Thomas A.. 

Pieri 

Pieritz 

Pierius 

Pierpout,llezekiah 

B 

Pierpont, James. . . 
Pierpont, John.... 

Pierquiu 

Pierre 

Piersou 

Pietas 

Pietism 

Pietosi, 1 

Pietosi, 2 

Pietosi, 3 

Pietro 

Piety 

Riga 

Pigenat 

Pigeon 

Piggott 

Pighius 

Pigneau de Be- 
hai lie 

Pignone 

Piguorius 

Pi-hahiroth 

Pik 

Pike 

Pikoilos 

Pilarik 

Pilate 

Pilate’s Staircase.. 

Pildash 

Pileha 

Pile-tower 

Pilgrim 

Pilgrim Fathers. . . 
Pilgrim (prelate'!.. 
Pilgrim, Johann Ul- 
rich 

Pilgrimage of 

Grace, The 

Pilgrimages 

Pilkington, James 
Pilkingtou, Mat- 
thew 

Pillar 

Pillar offload and 

Fire 

Pillar, Plain of the 

Pillar Saints 

Pilled 

Pil(l)more 

Pillow 

Pillsbury 

Pilot 

Pilsbury 

Pilsen 

Piltai 

Pilzarro 

Pimentel 

Pin 

Pinart 

Pi min It 

Pinchon 

Pinckard 

Pinckney Lectures 

Pinczovians 

Pindar 

Pimler 

Pineda, Juan de (11 
Pineda, Juan de (2) 

Piiiedo 

Pinclli 

Pine-tree 

Pinnacle 


iso Pi non Page 

ls6 Pins 

Pinsker 

ISO Piutelli 

Pinto, Isaac 

IS" Pinto, Josias 

1ST Piuto de Fouseca. 

W Pintnricchio 

Piuy 

1ST Pinytns 

lss Pioinbo 

b'' Pious Workers 

Ins Pipe, Musical 

189 Pipe, Hydraulic. .. 

Pipe, John S 

]S[> Pipher 

189 Piphilcs 

Pipping 

ISP Piqnepuz 

1S9 Piquet 

Is9 Pin 

is«i Piram 

190 Pirathon 

190 Pirathonite 

190 Pirie 

190 Pirit 

Pirke Aboth 

190 Pirklieimcr 

190 Pirking 

190 Pirminius 

191 Piruensiaus 

19 1 Piromalli 

191 Pirot 

191 Pisa(CityaudCoun- 
191 cils of) 

190 Pisa, Bartholomeo 

191 de’ 

190 Pisa, Samuel Cohen 

190 de’ 

190 Pisano, Andrea. . . . 
190 Pisano, Giovanni.. 

190 Pisano, Ginntn 

197 Pisano, Niccola... 

197 Pisant 

197 Piscator 

Pischon 

197 Piscina 

19S Piscis,Piseiculi,and 

198 Vesica Piscis.... 

198 (Pise 

198 Pisgah 

199 Pisidia 

199 Pison 

199 Pispali 

199 Pistis Sophia 

2041 Pistoja, Synod of. . 

204, Pistor 

2<>4 Pistorius, Conrad.. 

204 Pistorius, John (1). 

204 , Pistorius, John (2). 
20-1 Pistorius, Theophi- 
205 1 lus (1) 

Pistorius, Theophi- 

205 Ins (2) 

Pit 

205 Pi taka 

205 Pitcairn 

208 Pitcairue 

Pitch 

20S Pitcher 

209 Pitcher, Edwiu 

Frank 

211 Pithom 

212 Pithon 

2t2|Pithon, Franyois 
2121 and Pierre 

212 Pitkin 

213 Pitman, Charles. . . 
2t3 Pitman, John Bog- 

214 ers 

2l4t Pitri 

214 Pits 

214 Pitt 

214 Pittoni 

214: Pittori 

214 Pity 

214 Pins I 

214 Pins 11 

211 Pins III 

2t5 Pius IV 

215 Pius IV, Creed of.. 

215 Pius V 

215 Pins VI 

2t5, Pius VII 

2 15 Pins VIII. 


Pius IX 

Pius Societies 

Place, Conyers.... 

Place, Enoch 

Place, Jostle de la. 


21 S Placebo Page 

218 Placentia, Councils 

218 of 

219 Placet 

220 Pincette 

22<) Placidus 

22o Plague 

220 Plagues of Egypt.. 

221 Plaifcre 

221 Plain 

221 Plain Song 

222 Plancius 

222 Planck, Gottlieb 

223 Jacob 

223 Planck, Heinrich 

223 Ludwig 

224 Plaue 

224 Planet- worship. . . . 

224 Plank 

224 Plant 

224 Plantavitius 

224 Plauticr 

224 Plantiu 

2-24 Plantsch 

224 Planudes Maximus 

225 Plassmanu 

225 Plaster, Mason’s. . . 
220 Plaster, Medicinal. 

220 Plastic Nature 

220 Plat 

220 Plate 

227 Platel 

227 Platiua 

Plato 

227 Platon 

Platonic Philoso- 

229 phy 

Platt 

229 Platte-Montague. . 

229 Platter 

229 Play 

229 Playfair, James.... 

229 Playfair, John 

230 Pleasure 

230 Pledge 

230 Plegimmd 

230 Pleiades 

Plenarty 

231 Pleroma 

231 Plessing 

232 Plessis 

234 Pletho 

235 Pletz 

230 Plicata 

230 Pliny 

230 Plisson 

237 Ploos van Amstel. 

237 Plotinus 

237 Ploncquet 

237 Plough 

Ploughman 

237i Ploughman's Com- 
plaint, The 

237 Plough-Monday. . . 

237 1 Ploughshare 

23S Plowdcn 

239 Pliiche 

239 Plumb-line 

239 Plumptre 

239 PUinket, Oliver.... 
Plnnket, Thomas. . 

239 Plmikct, Thomas 

240 Span.... 

240 Pluralist 

Pluralities 

240 piuschke 

240 Plutarch 

240) Pluto 

'Plymouth Brcth- 

241 leu 

241 Pneumntology 

241 Pneiimatomachi. . . 

241 Poach 

241 Pobian 

241 Pochard 

241 Pochereth 

242 Pociey 

242 Pockels 

243 Pocklington 

243 Pocock, Edward (1) 

244 Pocock, Edward (2) 

244 Pocoeke 

245 Pocularic? 

240 Poderis or Talaris. 

249 Podico 

249 Podonintie 

252 Poe, Adam 

253 Poe, Daniel 

253 Poelemberg 

253 Poelcubnrg 


254 Pceuitentiale Ro- 

mniiiim Page 

254 Poet 

254 Poetry, Hebrew... 

255 Poggio 

255 Pogoda 

255 Pohlmaii 

258 Poilly 

205 Poimen 

205 Pointed 

207 Pointed Style 

207 Pointer. 

Pointz 

267 Poiret 

Poirey 

207 Poirier 

267 Poison 

20S Poisson 

20S Poissy, Conference 

208 of 

209 Poitier 

270 Poitiers 

27o Poitiers, Councils 

270 of 

270 Poix 

270 Poki 

270 Polak 

271 Polallion 

271 Polanco 

271 Poland, Ecclcsiasti- 
271 cal History of... 
271 Poland, Jewish 

271 Mission in 

272 Pole 

2S2 Pole, Itegiuald 

Pole-axes 

2S2 Pokhnmptou, lieu- 

289 ry Steelman 

280 Po 1 e h am p t on, 
289 Thomas Stedinan 

289 Polemics 

290 Polemics, Jewish.. 

290 Polemins 

290 Polemo, Antonins. 
290 Polemo of Athens 
290 (1) 

290 Polemo of Athens 

231 (2) 

291 Tolemo of Athens 

291 (3) 

291 Poleuz 

291 Pol hem us 

293 Polhill 

293 Poliander 

293 Poll as 

294 Polidoro 

294 Polieia 

294 Polieus 

299|Poliguac 

300 Pol it i, Adriano.... 

300 Politi, Alessandro. 
Politi, Giovanni. .. 

301 Poll Mail 

301 Polity 

301 Poliuchos 

301 Polk 

301 Poll 

301 Pollnjuolo.Aiitouio 
301 Pollajnolo, Simone 

301 Pollard 

301 Pollinctorii 

Pol li o,l 

301 Pollio, 2 

301 Pollio, 3 

302 Pol I ok 

302! Pollux 

302; Pollux. Julius 

304 Polotzk, Synod of. 

IPolus 

305 Polwliele 

306 j Polyandry. 

306 1 Poly carp 

308 Polycarp the Ascet- 

3(»s ic 

30s Polyeuct 

308 Polygamy 

30s Polygamy, Chris- 
309) thin Boct’rincOon- 

309 cerning 

309 Polyglot Bibles 

311 Polv liistor 

311 Polyhymnia 

311, Polynesia 

311 Polyphemus 

311 Polystatirion 

Polytheism 

Pomarancio, Cris- 
toforo Honcalli. . 
Pomarancio,Nicco- 
lo Circiguaui. . . . 


Pomarius Page 3S3 

313 Pome 3S3 

313 Pomegrauate 383 

313 Pomerania 3S4 

32S Pomerins 386 

329 Pomeroy, Beuja- 

329 min 387 

330 Pomeroy, Medad. . 387 
330 Pomeroy, Swan L. . 387 

330 Pomfret 387 

330 Pomis, Christian de 38S 
330 Pomis, David de.. . 3SS 
330 Pommel 3SS 

330 Pom me ray e 388 

331 Pomona 388 

331 Pomoryans 388 

332 Pomp, Nicholas... 388 

333 Pomp, Thomas 3ss 

Pom pa 388 

333 Pompa Circensis.. 388 

334 Pomjnei 3S9 

334 Pompignan 389 

• Pompouazzi 3S9 

334 Pomponia 3S9 

335 Pomponius Lfetns. 390 

335 Pomps of the Devil 390 
335 Ponce 390 

335 Ponce de la Fuente 391 

336 Poncet 392 

Poucher, Etienne.. 392 

336 Poncher, Franfois. 392 
Pond 392 

342 Pond, Enoch 392 

343 Pone luctnm 393 

343 Pongilupus 393 

340 Pongol 393 

Ponfntowa 393 

346 Pons 393 

Ponsard de Gisi . . . 393 

34C]Poutauo 394 

346 Pontanus 394 

347jPontard 394 

348 Poutas 394 

348 Pont - Andeiner, 

| Council of. 395 

34S Pontbriant, Ilenri- 
| Guiilaume Marie, 

349 Du Breil (le 395 

;Pontbriaut, Ileuri- 

349 Marie, Du Breil 
349 de 395 

349 Pontbriant, Rene- 
3491 Francois, Du 

350 Breil de 395 

350 Ponte 395 

350 Pontiauus 395 

350 Pon tier. 395 

350 Pontifex 395 

350 Pontifex Maximus 396 

354 Pontiff 396 

354 Poutiffs,Coufrater- 
354 nities of. 396 

354 Pontifical 396 

355 Pontificalia 396 

357 Pontificate 397 

357 Pontius 397 

357 Pontius, Paul 397 

357 Pontoppidau, Erik 

35S Eriks e n 397 

358 Pontoppidau, Erik 

35s L 397 

358 Pontormo 397 

358 Pontlis 397 

35S Pontyou, Council of 398 
35s Pool 398 

359 Poole 400 

359 Poor 400 

359 Poor, Daniel 403 

359 Pooree 403 

359 Poor Men’s Box... 403 

359 Poor Pilgrims 403 

360 Poor Priests 403 

Pope 403 

363 Pope, Alexander.. 412 

363 Pope, Fielding 413 

363 Poper 413 

Popery 414 

Popish Plot 415 

365 Popish View of 

367 Christianity 415 

368 Popkin 415 

369 Poplar 415 

369 Poplicani 416 

372'Popoftchins 416 

372 Popogano 416 

372 ! Poppic 416 

(Populouia 416 

3S2 Poratha 416 

Porch 416 

3S3!Porcbet 418 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. VIII. 


1083 


Porcq Page 

Pordage 

Pordeuone 

Poree 

Porodakhsta 

Porphyrians 

Porphyry 

Porreta 

Porretani 

Porst 

Port 

Porta, Baccio della 

Porta, Conrad 

Porta, Egidio di... 
Porta, Guglielmo 

della 

Porta, Simon 

Porta-Leone 

Portable Altars.. . . 

Portable Bells 

Portail 

Portal 

Portas vestras seter- 

uales 

Portatile Altare. . . 

Portatives 

Porteoits Mob 

Porter 

Porter, David 

Porter, Ebenezer.. 
Porter, Eliphalet.. 
Porter, George D. . 
Porter, Huntington 
Porter, James C. . . 

Porter, John 

Porter, Lemuel 

Porter, Nathaniel 

( 1 ) 

Porter, Nathaniel 

(2) 

Porter, Samuel. . . . 
Porter, Thomas.. . 

Porter, Walter 

Porter, William 

Henry 

Portesse 

Porteus 

Port liaise 

Portico 

Portier 

Port i fori um 

Portio Canonica.. . 
Portio Cougrua... 

Portion 

Portion (parochial) 

Portiouist 

Portiuncula, the In- 
dulgence of 

Port -Royal, Re- 
cluses of. 

Portugal 

Portuguese Version 

Portumualia 

Portion nns 

Posadas 

Pbschel, Philipp F. 
Pdschel, Thomas.. 

Poseidon 

Poseidonia 

Posen 

Poser 

Posey, Alexander. 
Posey, John Ileu- 

derson 

Posidonius 

Posidonius (Stoic). 
Posi tive Philoso- 
phy 

Positivism 

Posner 

Posselt 

Possessed with 

Devils 

Possevino 

Possidius 

Post (courant) 

Post (stationary) . . 
Post, Christian 

Frederick 

Post, Henry Albert- 
son 

Post, Reuben 

Postel 

Postil 

Post-Millennialists 

Fost-Pridie 

Postulate 

Postulation 

Postures 

fostvorta 


41 S Pot Page 

4ts|Pot, Holy-water. . . 

419 Potamiana 

419 Potamius 

419 Potamo 

419 Potent, Cross 

420 Potential 

424 Potbier 

424 Poth inns 

424 Pothos 

425[Potiphar 

425 Potipherah 

425 Potitii 

42G,Potken 

Potrimpos 

426 Potsherd 

426 Pott, David Julius. 
426 Pott, Joseph Hoi- 

426 den 

426 Pottage 

426 Potter 

420 Potter, Alonzo 

Potter, Barnabas.. 

427 Potter, Christopher 
427 Potter, Francis.... 

427 Potter, Isaiah 

427 Potter, John 

427 Potter, John W 

427 Potter, Robert 

42S Potter's Field 

42S| Potter’s Gate 

428 Pettier 

428 Potts, George 

428 Potts, John 

42S Potts, William Ste- 
42S phens 

Pun de logoi 

42S Pouget, Antoine... 

Pouget, Bertrand 
42S| de 

429 Pouget, Fraufois- 


Aime 

Poniard 

Poulle 

Pound (weight).... 

Pound (money) 

Pounds 

Pourchot 

Poussin 

Ponssines 

Poverty 

Poverty, Monastic. 

Powell, Baden 

Powel(l), David... 
Powell, Edward. . . 
Powel(l), Gabriel . . 

Powell, Griffith 

Powell, Howell... . 
Powell, Thomas. . . 
Powell, Vavasor. . . 
Powell, William 

Samuel 

Power 

435 Power, Francis Her- 

435 ron 

435! Power, John II 

435! Powers of the Mind 

436jPowers, Grant 

436' Powers, Iliram 

436 Powers, Jesse K. . . 
436 Powers, John B... 

436 Powtai 

! Poya 

437 Poydras 

437 Poynet 

437 Pozzi, Giovanni 

I Battista 

437 Pozzi, Stefano 

437 Pozzo 

440 Pracrat 

440 Pracriti 

I Practical Religion. 

440 Practical Theology 

441 Frades 

442 Pradier 

443 Pradjapat 

443 1 Prado 

Pradt 

444! Paeco lies. 

Prsel'atio 

444!PrrefiC0e 

444 Pnelnti 

444|Prailector 

446 Praemunire 

446 Pnepositivus 

44G|Pnepositus 

446 Prsepositns Domus 
446 Prsesanctiflcatio... 

447 ! Presides 

447!Pnestimouia 


447 Prsetorium. ..Page 

44S Pragaladen 

448 Pragmatic Sauc- 

448 tiou 

44S Prague, Council of 

44S Praise 

44S Praise of God 

449, Praise-meeting .... 

449 PraMogla 

449 Pran 

449 Pl an Nathis 

449 Pran zinias 

450 Pra Rasi 

450|Pratensis 

450 Pratilli 

450 Priitorius, Abdias. 

450 Priitorius, Stephen 

Pratt, Albert L 

451, Pratt, Almou Brad- 
451 1 ley 

451 Pratt, Enoch 

452 Pratt, James C. . . . 

453 Pratt, Job 

454 Pratt, John Ben- 

454 nett 

454 Praxeans 

454 Praxedes 

454 Praxidice 

454 Praxiphanes 

454 Pray 

455 Prayer 

455 Prayer, Christian 

455 Attitudes of 

455 Prayer-book 

Prayer of Conse- 

455 oration 

456 Prayer-days 

456; Prayer-test 

Preaching 

456 Preadamite 

Preadamites 

456 Prebend 

457 Prebendary 

457 PrecariumI 

457 Precedence 

457 Precentor 

457 Precept 

457 Preceptories 

457 Precepts, the Six 

45S Hundred and 
45S Thirteen 

458 Preces 

459 Preces Dominicaies 

460 feriales 

460 Prechtl 

460 Precipiano 

460 1 Precisians 

460 1 Precist 

460 Precouization 

460 Predestinatiaus. ... 

| Predestination 

460 Predicable 

460 Pre-eminence of 

Christianity 

Pre-existence of Je- 
sus Christ 

Pre-existents 

Prefaces 

Preissler, Johann 

Jnstinus 

Preissler, Johann 

Martin 

Preiswerk 

463 Prejudice 

463 Prelacy 

[Prelate 

463 Prom are 

463 Prentice 

463 Prentice Sermons. 
463, Premon st rat en- 

463 sinus 

463 Premord 

463 Prenorman Archi- 

464 tectnre 

464;Prentiss, Erastns 
464 1 L 

464 Prentiss, Thomas.. 

465! Preparation 

465 Pre pon 

465 Prerogative Court. 
465jPresburg, Council 

465 of 

466 Presbyter 

466[Presbyterial Coil- 

466 secration 

466 P r esbyterian 

466 Churches 

466 Presbyterianism... 

466 Presbyterians 

4G6jPresbyteriuni 


Presbytery. ..Page 

Presbytia 

Prescience 

Prescription 

Presence 

Presence-money. . . 

Presentation 

Presentation of the 
Virgin, Feast of. 
President. 


461 


President in Choir 
Presiding Eider... 

Press 

Pressly, Ebenezer 

Erskiue 

Pressly, John S. . . . 
Pressly, John T.... 

Pressy 

Preston, John 

Preston, Willard.. . 

Presumption 

Fretas 

Preternatural 

Pretextatus 

Preti 

Prevent 

Prevention 

Prevost, Claude.... 
Prevost, Pierre 

Robert le 

Price, Henry 

Price, John (1).... 

479! Price, John (2) 

480 Price, Jonathan D. 

Price, Richard 

480 Price, Thomas 

4801 Pricked Song 

481 1 Pricket 

482 Prickett 

4S4 Pridden 

492'Pride 

493 Prideaux, Hnm- 
493 phrey 

493 Prideaux, John 

493jPrie 

494jPrie-Dien 

494 Prierias 

494 Priest, Hebrew — 

Priest 

Priestley, Joseph.. 

494 Priestley, Thomas. 

495 Priests, M arriage of 
Priests’ Rooms. . . . 

495 Prileszky 

495 Primacy 

495 Pri mat 

496 Primate 

496 Prime 

496 Prime, Ebenezer.. 

496 Prime, John 

49G Prime, Nathaniel 
502 Scmkler 

Printer, King’s 

502jPriinerose 

IPrimicerius 

502 Primiti®, Prentices 

503 Primitive Chris- 

504 1 tianity 

Primitive Church. . 
505 Primitive Doctrine 
Primitive Method- 
505 ! ist Connection.. 
505 Primitive Wesley- 
505! an Methodist 
506 1 Church of Irc- 

50S laud 

50 S j Pri nt ogeni tn re 

508 Pri mum Mobile... 

509 Prince 

‘Prince, John (1)... 

509 Prince, John (2) ... 

509 Prince, Nathan 

[Prince, Thomas (1) 

509[ Prince, Thomas (2) 
Princeps Saccrdo- 
51 0| turn 

510 Princess 

510 Pringle, Francis... 
510 1 Pringle, Sir John.. 
510 Pringle, William.. 

Prior, Prioress 

510 Prior, Matthew 

510 Priory 

Priscilla 

513, Priscillian 

] Prison 

515 Prison, Ecclesiasti- 

549 cal 

551 1 Prison Reform — 
553iPrisoner 


Pritchard, Martin 
Page 

Pritchard, Samuel. 

Prithu 

Fritz 

Private Baptism.. . 
Private Judgment. 
Privatio Com in tin i- 

onis 

Privation 

Privation, Ecclesi- 
astical 

Privilege 

Privileged Days... 
Privileged Sundays 
560 Privilegiuin Altaris 

560 Privilegium Cano- 

561 11 is..' 

561 Prize 

561‘Proast 

56I;Probabilionists.... 

562 Probabilism 

562 Probable 

562 Probation, Ecclesi- 

562! astical 

562; Probation, Ministc- 
562 rial 

562 Probation, Mouas- 

( tic 

563 Probation, Moral . . 

563 Probationer 

563 Probity 

563 1 Probus 

563 Probus Lector 

563 Procacciui,Camillo 

564 Procaccini, Ercole. 
564 Procaccini, Giulio 

564 Cesare 

565 Procedure, Ecclesi- 

565 [ astical 

565 Process 

Procession 

565 Procession of the 

566 Holy Ghost 

566 Processional 

566 Processional Cross 

566 Processional Path. 

567 Processions 

581 Prochazka 

583 Prochet 

5 S 6 Prochorus 

586 Proclamation 

586 P roel a m a t i o 11 s, 

5 S 6 Royal 

587|Proclianites 

59» Prod 11 s 

590 Proclus, St 

591 Proconsul 

591 Procop 

591 Procopius of Caesa- 


rea. . 


591 Procopius of Gaza. 
591 Procopius, Fried- 
591 rich P 

591 Procrastination. . . . 

592 Proctor 

| Proctor, David C. . 

592 Procuration 

592 Procurator 

592 Prodicinus 

Prodicns 

592 Prodigies 

Prodymua 

Proedri 

[Proedrosia 

594 Proestos 

594 Profane 

594 Professio FideiTri- 

594 deutime 

595 Profession 

595 Professor 

595 Profesti Dies 

595 Profiat Duran 

596 Profit t 

[Prognosticator.... 

596 Pro-Ilegonmenos. . 

596 Priihle 

596 Proistameni 

596 Prokimenon....... 

596 Prokopovitch 

596 Prolocutor 

596 Promise 

597 Promises of God.. 
597 Promotio per sal- 

597 turn 

599 Prompsanlt 

Promulgation 

599 Prouaos 

6(>0 Prone 

601 Prouo ' 


609 

609 

609 

609 

609 

609 

610 
610 


610 

611 

611 

Gil 

611 

611 

612 

612 

615 

615 

616 
616 

616 

616 

616 

620 

620 

621 


626 

626 

627 


1084 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. VIII. 


Pronuba Page C29 Provoost Page 715 Pulse Page 785 Qnanwon ....Page R35 Rnbbah, 3 Page SG5 

Propaganda 629 Provost . . 715 Pulton 7S6 c^uar an tana 835 Kabbah, 4 865 

Propagation of the Pro we 715 Pnmbaditha 786 Quarc iinpedit.... 835Rabbatb of the 

Faith, Associa- Prozymites 715 Pnuchao 7 m’> Quare iueninbravit 835 Children of Am- 

tions for, Roman Prshemishl 715 Pundeka 786 Quare non ndinisit 835 raoii, and of the 

Catholic 630 Prshipegala 715 Piingel 7 s6 Quarrel 835 Ammonites 865 

Proper Names 631 Prnddeii 715 Punishment 787 Quarry 835 Rabbenu Gershom 865 

Proper Psalms 633 Prndenee 715 Punishment, Fat- Qunrtodeciniani... 836 Rabbi 866 

Prophecies 633 Prndentius, St 716 lire 790 Qnnrtus 836 Rabbinic Bibles. . . 867 

Prophecy 633 Prndentius, Aureli- Pnnites 791 Qua s laudes tibi Rabbinical Dialect 869 

Prophecy, .Jewish ns Clemens 716 Punjabi or Sikh nos, Pater, cane- linbbinism 870 

Interpretation of 635 Priming-hook 717 Version 791 mils 830 Kabbith 871 

Prophesyings 636 Prussia 71S Punou 791 Quaser 836 Rabbling 871 

Prophet 637 Prynue 732 Punti Version 791 Quasi inodogeniti . . 836 Rabbling Act S71 

Prophetess 653 Prytaneum 733 Papilla Genii 791 Quatember 836 Knbboni 871 

Prophets, False... 653 Psnlmamiznr 733 Puppet-plays 791 Quaternion 836 Rab-mag 871 

Prophets, Major Psalmister, 734 Parana 79t Quatremere 836 liabsaces 871 

and Minor 653 Psalmod}', Ancient 734 Purasa 793 Qunw S36 Rab-saris, 1 871 

Prophets, Schools Peal mod y, Chris- Purcell 793 Qtiedara Wardon. . 837 Rab-saris, 2 871 

of the 654 tian 738 Purchas, .John 794 Qnedil 837 Kab-shakeh S72 

Propliets, Sons of Psalms, Rook of. . . 746 Purchas, Samuel... 794 Quedlinbtirg, Syn- Rabnias of Edessa. 872 

the 655 Psalter 757 Pnrdmnn 794 oils of 837 Uabtisson 872 

Prophets, Tombs of Psalter of Solomon 757 Purgation 794 Quedu 837 Raca 872 

the 655 Psalterium Maria- Purgatory 794 Queen S37 Hucchei 873 

Propitiation 655; unm 75S Purgatory, Rabbin- Queen of Heaven. 839 Racci 873 

Propitiatory Sncri- Psaltery 75 s jc 70S Queen Anne’s Rac(c)ovian Cnte- 

flees 650 Psathyriaus 760 Purification 799 Bounty S39 chism 873 

Pr o po si tiou e s Psaume 760 Purification in the Qneensferry Dccla- Race 873 

Damnatae 650 Pseudepigrapha. .. 760 Christian Chnrcli S00 ration 839 Rachal S75 

Proproetors 657 Pseiulodoxy 760 Purification - ofler- Queiss 840 Rachel 875 

Prorowit 657 Psendoiatry 760] ings 801 Quelen 840 Rachel’s Tomb s;6 

l’rosar 657 l'seudology and Purification-waters 801 Quenstedt 840 Racine 876 

Proshol 657 Pseudomancy. . . 760 Purittcatorimn S02 Quental S40 Rndbod, St 876 

Prose 657 Psilanthropists.... 760 Ptirim 802 Qn eras S40 Raddai 876 

Proselyte 657 Psych ici and Pueu- Puritans S04 Qnercus, Synod of. 840 Rarieguuda, St 876 

Proselytes 662 matici. 760 Purity 811 Qiicrini S40 ltader >77 

l’roseuclia 663 Psychism 761 Purkhiser 811 Quesnel 841 Radewin 877 

Prosper, St 664 Psychology 761 Pnrmaun 811 Question, Modern. 841 Hadha Vallabhis. . . 877 

Prosperity 665 Psychomanoy 761 Pnrner 811 Questmen S41 Racy S77 

Prosphora 665 Psychometry 701 Purple S12 Qnetif 841 Rafllengheii 877 

Prosser 665 Psychopannychisin 761 Purple Manuscript SI4 Quetzalcoatl S42 Raffles, Thomas 

Prostitute 665 Psyehopnemnoues. 761 Purpose of God... 815 Quevedo y Villegas SI2 Stamford 877 

Protagoras 666 Ptolemrens 761 Parse S15 Quiatri. 842 Raffles, Thomas. . . 877 

Protais anti Get- Ptolemtens, 1 762 Purtenaiice 815 Quiches 842 Ratin 877 

vais, Sts 668 Ptolenueus, 2 762 Pimi 815 Quiclmas 842 Ragan, 1 S78 

Profasof. 60S Ptolenueus, 3 763 Purus 815 (.j nick 843 Ragan, 2 STS 

Protection of the Ptolenueus, 4 763 Purver S15 Quicksands, The. .. 843 Rages 873 

Church 668 Ptolenueus, 5 763 Purvey 815 Quicnnque vult.... 843 Ragged Schools. . . 87S 

Protectores Cardi- Ptolemteus, 6 764 Purveyor 816 (Quiddity 845 Ragstatt 879 

nales 60S Ptoiemajus, 7 766 Puseyism 816 ejniercy. Council of 845 Hague!, 1 S79 

Proterius 60S Ptolenueus, S 766 [Pushtu Version S 18 (quietism 845 Hague], 2 879 

Protestant lipisco- Ptolenueus, 9 766 Pusillanimity 818 Quinisextnm, Con- Kagneneau 879 

pal Church 669 Ptolemteus, 10 766 Puspadanta St S cilium 847 Raluib, 1 879 

Protestant Episco- Ptolemais, 1 766 Pustknchen-Glan- Quinn 847 Rahab, 2 881 

pal Chnrcli of] re- Ptolemais, 2 766 zow 818 Qiiinqnngesiiiin. . .. 847 Kaham S82 

Inml CSS Ptolemaitcs 766 POstrich SIS Qninquarboreus. . . S48 Rahauser 882 

Protestant Episco- Ptolcmee, Ptolo- Puteoli SIS'Quinqunrticulnr Rahel 882 

pal Free-('iinrch nueus, Ptolomee. 766 Putiel 820 Controversy 84S Ralin 882 

Association 690 Ptolemy 766 Putnam, Franklin. S20 Quiuqnatria 848 Rai Dasis 882 

Protestant Union Puab, 1 767 Putnam, George. . . 820 QiiinqnennaHu 848 Rai ford S82 

of Germany 690 I’uah, 2 767 Putnam, Jonathan Qiiiiitillani 848 Raikcs, Henry. . ... 882 

Protestantism 691 Puah,3 767 W 820 Qniuiin Matsys 848 Iiaikes, Richard... 8>3 

Protestants 693 Public Worship. . . 767 Pntslia 820 Qni procedis ab Rai kes, Robert.... 8 S3 

Proteviingelinm... 695 Publican... — 768 Pntshinri S2<» Utroque 848 Raikes, Timothy.. S84 

Prothade, St 695 Publicani 770 Puxis 820 Quii imilia 848 Hail Ion S84 

Prof her 695 Publius 770 Puzza 820 Quirk 848 Rails of the Altar. 884 

Prnthesis 695 Pucci 770 Pyer S2ti Quiroga 848 Raimondi, Giovau- 

I’rothonotary 695 Puccianites 771 Pvgarg S20 Qnisqueja 84 s ni Battista 884 

Proto 695 Pncel le 771 Pygmies of West- Qnissliioii 819 Raimondi, Marc 

Protodiacon 695 Pncbta 771 V.ru Africa S21 Quistorp, Bernhard Antonio 884 

Pro 1 011 otnri us Pudari 771 Pyle 8211 Fr 849 Rain sS5 

Apostolicus 696 Pudas 771 Pynchon 821 Quistorp, Joli aim Rai u Dragon, The. »6 

Protnpnpas 696 Padeus 771 Pyne 822 (1) S49 Rainaltl of Citeaux S>0 

Protopresbyter. . . . 696 Pudeutiaua, St.... 773 Pyramid 822, Quistorp, Jo hall 11 Haiiialdi 886 

Protopsalte* 696 Puilicitin 773 Pyrker 825 (2) S49 Rainbow 886 

Protosyncelliis — 696 Puer naliis in Beth- Pyrlauis 825 Quistorp, Jin an 11 Rainbow, Edward. 8>7 

Protnthriinus 696 lehem 774 Pyrrho S25 Nikolaus 849 Raiue, James 887 

Prototype 696 Pueri 774 Pyrrhus 826 Quitaztli 849 Ruine. Matthew. . . 887 

Proud 697 Pueris Similes 774 Pythagoras 826 Quitman 849 Rainerio 887 

Prondfi t, Alexan- Puffer, Isaac 774 python 830 Quiver 850 Raines N 87 

der Moncrief 097 Puffer, John M.... 774 Pvthonism 831 Quobdns 851 Rain-makers 8>S 

Proud fit, John 697 Puller, Reuben — 774 Pyx 831 Quod permittnt... 851 Raiuold(e)s 883 

Proud tit, Robert... 697, Puget 774 * Quoin 85t Rainor s8s 

Proudhon 697 Pngillaris 775 Quadragesima 831 Quotations, Bibli- Kainssaiit 888 

Provender 698 Pugin 775 Quadrangle 831 cal 851 Raisins 888 

Provenzale 69s Puhite 775 Qunrfrattim 831 Quotidian siiu Raisse 889 

Proverb tills Pui 775 Quadratns SSI Quotidiami Oratio. SCO Rakkath >89 

Proverbs, Book of. 099 Pnl,l 775 Qnmlrio $31 Qwnuti 860 Rakkon s>9 

Providence 707 Pul, 2 776 Quadripartite S31 , Rakshns 889 

Providence, Nuns Pulaha 776 Qnadrisacrameiita- Run S60 Ruknsians. s8<> 

<if 711 Pnlclieria 776 rians 831 Raamah 86ii Ralbag 889 

Province 711 Ptilear 777 Qtindriviuin 831 Raamiah 861 Rale >90 

Province, Ecclesi- Pulgar 777 Quail 832 Rab 861 Raleigh.Waiter,sir 890 

asticai. 712 Ptiiiahs 777 Quaini 834 Rabad 861 Rale(i)gb, Walter. . >91 

Provincial 71*2, Puller 77> Q u a in despectus, Rabardcau. ...... . 862 Ralston Mil 

Provincial Councils 712 Piilleyn 77 s qunm dejectns.. S34 Ratuit 862 Ram (a man), 1 S9t 

Provision 712 Pulling 77s Quaui dilecta taber- Unhandy 862 Rani, 2 891 

Provisor 714 Pulolah 77s nacnln 834 Rabanl 862 Ram, 3 S9I 

Provisors, Statute Pulpit 77S Quandt 835 Kabbah, 1 S62 Ram (an animal) . . 891 

of 714 Pulpit Eloqueuce.. 780 Quauiau Version.. 835, Iiubbnh, 2 8651 Ram, Battering S92 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. VIII. 


Ram, Pierre Fran- 
cois Xavier de 
Page 

Rama 

Rama 

Ramadan 

Ramah 

Kamah of Benja- 
min 

Ramah of Asher.. 
Ramah of Gilead . . 
Ramah ofNaphfali 
Ramah of Samuel. 
Ramah of the Cap- 
tivity 

Rain ah near He- 
bron 

Ramanandis 

Ramathite 

Ramath-lehi 

Ramath-mizpeh. . . 
Ramath-negeb. ... 
Ramathaim-zo- 

p h i m 

Ramathem 

Ramayana 

Rambach, August 

Jakob 

Rambach, Johaun 

Jakob 

Rambour 

Rameau 

Ramenghi 

Raineses 

Ramesse 

Ramiah 

Ramirez 

Ramists 

Rainmohnn Roy... 

Ramoth, 1 

Ramoth, 2 

Ramoth, 3 

Ramoth-gilead.... 

Kampalle 

Rampart 

Rampelogo 

Rampeu 

Ramrayas 

Ram’s Horn 

Rams’ Skius Dyed 

Red 

Rams an er 

Ramsay 

Ramsdell 

Ramsey 

Rannis 

Ranee 

Raneomier 

Rand, Asa 

Rand, William 

Randall 

Randasa 

Rurnlle, Richmond 
Randle, Thomas 

Ware 

Randle, William. .. 
Randolph, Francis. 
Randolph, John... 
Randolph, Samuel 

E 

Randolph, Thomas 

Ranew 

Ranfaing. 

Range, 1 

Range, 2 

Rangier(ns) 

Ranieri, St 

Ranke, Carl Ferdi- 
nand 

Ranke, Friedrich 

Heinrich 

Ran ken 

Rankin 

Ransom 

Ranters 

Raoul de Flaix 

Raoul de St. Trond 
Raoul de Vaucelle. 

Kapaport 

Kaper 

Rapha.l 

Kapha, 2. 

Raphael 

Raphael, St 

Raphael, Sauti 

Raphaim 

Raphall 

Raphel 

Raphon 

Raphu 


[Rappisls Page 

Karatongan Ver- 
S92 sion 

892 Rash ba 

893 Rashbam 

S93|Uashbaz 

893 Rashi 

. Raskolniks 

893 Rasponi, Cesare. . . 

894 Rasponi, Felice... 

894 Rasses, Childreu 
S94 of 

894 Rastall 

Rastenburg, Con- 

894' versation at 

Rastignae, Armand 

594 Anne Auguste 
895! Antonin Sicaire, 

895 de Chapt de 

595 Rastignac, Aymcr- 
S95 1 ic, de Chapt de. . 
S95 Rastignac, Louis 

! Jacques, deChapt 

895 1 de 

893 Ratcliffe 

89S Ratel 

Rates, Church 

S9S Rathbnu 

Riithel 

S99 Ratherius (liathier) 

899 of Liege 

S99 Rathmaun 

S99 Kathmnus 

S99 Ratich 

900 Ratier 

900 Ratification 

900 Rationale 

90ft Rationalism 

901 Ratisbon 

901 Ratramnus of Cor- 
901) bey 

901 Ratte 

902 Rattles 

903 Rattray 

903 Ratze(n)berger 

903 Rail, Christum. ... 

903 Ran, lleribert 

903 Ran, Joachim Jus- 


903 


tus.. 


Rau, Johann Eber- 

903 hard 

903 Ran, Johan u Wil- 

904) helm 

904, Rauch, Christian 

904 1 Daniel 

904'Rauch, Christian 

905 Henry 

905 Ranch, Frederick 

905 Augustus 

905iRancourt 

905 Ranke Haus, The.. 

905 Raul in, Hippolyte. 

900 Ranlin, Jean 

Runnier, Frederic 

906 von 

900 R a n m er, Karl 

906 Georg von 

906 Rau me r, Rudolph 

I von 

906 Rails 

906 Rauscher. 

906 Kautenberg 

906 Rautenstrauch 

906 Ravana 

906 Ravanel 

906 Raven 

907 Raveuna 

Ravenscroft, John 

907 Stark 

Ravenscroft, Ste- 

907; plieus 

907 Ravenscroft, Thom- 

907 as 

908 Ravesteyn 

908 Ravignan 

908 Ravle 

909 Rawlett 

909 Rawley... 

909 Rawl in 

909) Rawlings 

909 Rawlinson, George 
909 Rawlinson, John.. 

909 Rawson, Griiulnl.. 

910 Rawson, Joseph. .. 
910, Ray, Benjamin.... 

911 Ray, John 

911 Ray, Thomas 

911iRaybold 

911|Rayland 

911 1 Raymond, St 


911 'Raymond of Mag- 

nelonne Page 

913! Raymond of Pena- 

913 fort (Saint) 

914 Raymond of Sa- 

914! b’unde 

914 Raymond, Martin. 

915 Raynaud 

910 Razis 

916 Razor 

Rea 

916 Read, Francis II. .. 

917 Read, Henry Clay. 
|Read, Thomas Bu- 

917 ehanan 

Reader 

Reading, Oriental 

Mode of. 

917 Reading, Councils 

of 

917 Reading-desk 

I Reading-in 

Reading, John 

917 Reading, William.. 

017 Keaiah, 1 

917 Reai ah, 2 

917 I.Vaiah, 3 

918 Real Presence 

918 Realino 

Realism 

91S Reanointers 

91s Reaping 

9 IS 1 Reason 

91S Reason, Use of, in 
919) Religion 

919 Reay, Stephen 

919 Reay, William 

919 Reba 

924 Rebaptisin 

Rebecca 

924 Rebekah 

925!Reber 

925 Recanati 

925 Recensions of the 
925 1 Old Testament. . 

925 Recensions of the 
925| New Testament. 

Reception of the 

9251 Holy Ghost. 

Reception, Relig- 

926 ions 

jReceptorium 

926'Receveur 

I Rechab, 1 

920 Rechab, 2 

Rechab, 3 

926 Rechabite 

Rechac 

92ClRecbah 

920 Reche 

927! Recheu berg 

92S Recluse 

928 Recollet 

lteconciliatio Pce- 

92S nitentium 

'Reconciliation 

929.Recordare Sanctie 

Crncis 

929; Recorder 

929 1 Records 

929 Rectitude 

929 Rector 

929 Rectory 

930 ! Keen sail t 

930 Red Sea 

930 Red Sea, Passage 
931 1 of 

[Redditio Symboli. 

932 Redeemer 

(Redemption 

932 1 Redemptorists, Or- 

932 Redenbacher 

933 Red ford 

933 Redman (Red- 

933 1 mayue) 

933 1 Reece. 

933 Reed 

933 Reed, Alanson 

933 Iieed, Alexander.. 
933 Reed, Andrew 

933 Iieed, Caleb 

934 Reed, Fitch 

934) Reed, John (1) 

934 [Reed, John (2) 

934 Reed, Joseph 

9341 Iieed, Nelson 

934 Reed, Sampson 

934 Iieed, Samuel 

934 Iieeluiah 


IReelitis Page 

934 Rees 

Reesaias 

934! Reese, E. Yates. . . 

! Iieese, Levi R.... 

935 Reese, Thomas. . . 

935 Reeve 

935 Reeves 

936 1 Refectory 

936 Refine.... 

936 Reformat io Le- 

937 gnmEcclesiasti- 

937! earuin 

Reformation, The 
937 Reformation, Fes- 

937 tivaiofthe 

iR e f o r m a t i o n 

93S ! Rights 

Reformed Church- 

938 ) es 

93S Reformed (Dutch) 

93S! Church 

939 Reformed Episco- 


pal Church 
Reformed Meth- 
odist Church.. . 
Reformed Presby- 
terian Church. . 

Refrigerium 

940 Refugee 

943 Regale 

943 Regalia, Right of. 

944 Regals 

jRegeni 

944 Regem-melech . . . 

945 Regenerate 

945 Regeneration 

945 Regeneration by 

945 Water 

946 Reggio 

946 Regina Cceli 

946: Region - round- 
946 abont, The 

] Regiouarii 

946 Regis 

Registers of Ordi- 

949 nation 

Registers, Parish. 
953'lieginm Donum.. 

I Iiegin m Donum, 

954) Irish 

954 Regins 

954 Regnum 

954 Regular Canons.. 
954 Regular Clerks. . . 

954 Regulars 

954 liehabiah 

956 Rehearse 

937 1 « eh fuss 

957 Rehob 

957 Iiehob, 1 

957 Rehob, 2 

957 1 Rehob. 3 

Iiehob, 4 

958 Iiehob, 5 

958 Rebobonm 

Rehoboth 

959 Iiehoboth theWell 

959 Iiehoboth the City 

960 Iiehoboth by the 

960 1 liiver 

960, Rehum, 1 

960 Kehum, 2 

960 lieh uin,3 

961 Rehum, 4 

i Rehuni, 5 

964 Iiei 

972 Reich 

972 Reichardt 

972 Reich e 

Jieichel 

973 Reid, Adam 

974 lieid, John Wilson 

974 Reid, Joseph 

[Reid, Thomas. ... 
974| Reid, William 
974 Shields 

974 Reily, James Ross 

976 Reily, Johu 

976 Iiei m urns 

977 Rein beck 

97 5 Reineccius 

978 Reinbard, Franz 

978 Volkmar 

97S Reinhard, Lorenz. 
97S Reins 


Reischl 

Reiser 

Reiske 

lieissraanu., 


1085 

979 ! Reiter, Ernst An- 

979! ton Page 1027 

979 Reiter, William... 1027 

979 Iiei thmayr 10f7 

979 Rekem, 1 1027 

979IRekem, 2 1027 

9Sit Rekem, 3. . . . 1027 

98ft: Rekem, 4 1027 

9S0 Reland 1027 

9S0 Relics 102S 

Religion 1028 

Religion, Philoso- 

981 phyof. 1029 

981 Reliirion, Primi- 

I live 1029 

997 Religiosi 1033 

| Religious 1033 

997 1 Religions Corpo- 
rations 1033 

997 Religions Educa- 

I tion 1033 

997 (Religious Liberty. 1033 
Religions Socie- 

1008 ties 1034 

Reliquary 1034 

1013[Rellyanites 1034 

[Rely 1035 

1013 Remnlinh 1035 

lOlftlRembraudt 1035 

1015 Remeth 1035 

1010[Remigius of Aux- 

1016' erre 1035 

1010;Remigins (St.) of 
1016) Lyons 1035 

1016 Rerbigius (St.) of 

1016] Rheims 1035 

1016:Remigius ofStras- 

) lnirg 1036 

1017 Rcmitiiscere 1036 

1018 liemling 1036 

101S liemoboth and Sa- 

I rabaites 1036 

1018 Remond 1036 

1018 Remonstrance.... 1036 
1018 Remonstrants. ... 1036 

iliempban 1036 

101S Renaissance 3038 

1018 Renaudot 1039 

1018; Rend 1039 

Iiendu 1039 

1018 Renee d’Este 1039 

KH9 Henesse 1040 

1020 Hennell, Thomas 

1020 (1) 1040 

1020 Rennell, Thomas 

1020 (2) 1040 

1020 Reuniger 1040 

102ft Reuoii 1041 

1020 Reuonit 1041 

1020 Renovation 1041 

1020 Renshaw 1041 

1020 lienuuciantes 1041 

1020 Renunciation 1041 

1020 Remvick 1041 

1(>21 Reordination 1041 

1021 [Repairs ofChurch- 

1022 es 1041 

1022 Repentance 1042 

1023)Repentin£e 1042 

Repetition 1042 

1023 Repetitions in the 

1024 1 Liturgy 1042 

1024 Rephael 1042 

1024 Rephah 1043 

1024 Rephaiah, 1 R>43 

1024 Rephaiah, 2 1043 

1024 Rephaiah, 3 1043 

1024 'Rephaiah, 4 1043 

1024 Rephaiah, 5 1043 

1024 Rephaim 1043 

1024 Rephaim, Valley 

1025i of 1043 

1025 Rephaims 1044 

1025 Rephidim 1044 

1025)lieposoir 1045 

I Repousse 1045 

1025 Representation. .. 1045 

1025 Reproach 1046 

1026 Reprobation 1046 

1026 Reproof 1046 

1026 Reptile 1946 

1026 Requiem 1046 

|Reredos 1047 

1026 Rescissory Act. .. 1047 

1026 Rescript 1047 

1026 Resell 1047 

1026 Resentment 1047 

1027 Reservation 1048 

1027 1 Reserve in Teach- 
1027) iug 1049 


list OF ARTICLES IX VOL. VIII. 


1086 

Reserved Cases Rest Page 105f[ Goudi, Cardinal 

I age 104$, Restitution 1050 de p a <*e 1057 

Resheph 104S Restoration, The. 105i Retz, Pierre 3e 

Residence 104$ Restoration 1 " 

Resignation 104$I Jcwh 

Resignation, Ec- Restoratiouists. 

clesiastical 104$i Resurrection . . 

Resolntioners — 1049|Resnrrectiou of I Reubenite" loeoi 

... 1055 Reuchliu 1060 Reveuge 

rk -WIKf'.l Konal 1 in 


nian Version of 
the Scriptures 


Revolution Settle- 
_ meiit Page 1077 


Respect of Per- 


foration, The. 105i Retz, Pierre de I “p " in -. .rage 1077 

!estoratiou of the Gondi de 1057 Revelation 1 ° JJJJ R ? chn ? te « fi,c - 

Jcwh 1052 Reu I.!! 1057 Re vel?Uou ' Rook t'jr oinnium.. .. 1077 

estoratiouists... 1 05.: | Reuben, 1 105$ Q f ’ B k mc<> 5 3 1077 

esurrectiou 105ii Reuben, 2 105$ Revehiion’s ' 0G2 |u2« S "‘i 1077 

esnm-rtion nf m ^. Me ; el ‘ U101IS » opn- Revniond 1077 


Christ.. 


, Spu- Revniond..'."..!.! 107; 

*‘ lous 1009 Reyna ] 0 f$ 

sons. 1040 Reticulated Work'. lti®6! Kinei! l7 ! I ! ! ! ! ! .' ! ioooReSnes'nf' Vh^ 1074 Edward 107$ 

5 es P°“d. 1049 Retribution, Fat- Kenel 2 .... ffl cS 10 -a H ^? , V ld8 » Joshmi 

s? hpon “ ,ea rr 9 ! ure losoiReuei.’s : 1061^^:::::;; ISitngp }JI5 

; ISS “ST 18 'j Sfc::::;:: Ss 

Reuterdahl. ...... lOtfl Revocatu's! ! ! lonlRfn’J 

Reval-Estho- Revolution 1OT7J»S5 .?: Ion 


7 : » UXC 

Response 1049 Rettberg 1057 

Responses 1050 Retz, llenri de 

Responsorii Psal- Gondi de 1057 

mi 1050 Retz, Jean Fran- 

Ressaunt I05u yois Paul de 


END OF VOL. VIII. 


66 5 



• • is: f i <** V> *> * 













□ 



















mrs 











